{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__dawson___mind_and_life_from_atom_to_man.pdf","mytitle":"Mind And Life From Atom To Man","mylang":"de"}
MIND & LIFE
from
ATOM to MAN
DEMONSTRATING THAT MIND IS COEVAL WITH.
AND INSEPARABLE FROM. MATTER AND ENERGY.
WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO MATTER IN
HEREDITY, MENTAL THERAPEUTICS, THE IMME-
DIATE NATURE OF PSYCHIC PHENOMENA IN
SPIRITUALISM, AND TO A POSSIBLE PHYSICAL
LIMIT TO HUMAN INTELLIGENCE
liT
ALBERT DAWSON
LONDON: THE C. W. DANIEL COMPANY
G r a h a m H o u s e , T u d o r S t re e t , E . C . 4
MADE AND PRINTED
IN GREAT BRITAIN
CONTENTS
CllAPTBa PAGB
I INTRODUCTION 19
U PERCEPTIONS: THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 47
Ill MUTUAL ACTIONS •.• 79
IV MIND INSEPARABLE FROM LIFE AND MOVEMENT 98
V MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY 123
VI CoNSCIOUS KIND CONTINUOUS WITH ORGANIC
MIND • • 153
VII ORGANIC MIND CONTINUOUS WITH SUB-ORGANIC
MrnD •• I~
VIII EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION OF INDIVIDUAL
BEING 200
IX STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 224
X MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 250
XI MEMORY, SLEEP, DREAMS 280
XII ~IND IN HEREDITY : THE FUTILE QUEST FOR A
MATERIAL BASIS 30I
XIII INFLUENCE OF MIND IN HEREDITY : EUGENICS 326
XIV MIND IN SPIRITUALISM 348
XV A PHYSICAL LIMIT TO INTELLIGENCE 377
SYNOPSIS
CHAPTER I
INTRODUCTION P4G&
I. Postulates . • I9
2. Positive and negative values . • I9
3· Wide range of support-Empedocles, Anaxagoras,
Democritus, Aristotle, Maxwell, Berkeley,
Bonnet, Fechner, Trendelenburg, Schwarm,
Butler, James, Haeckel, Rutherford.. 20
4· Various paths to truth; Schopenhauer . . 24
5· Futility of metaphysics ; Relativity : " the thing
in itself II 25
6. Continuity ; mind, matter or energy cannot be
defined ; Kelvin 27
7· Einstein: matter and energy; Planck's" quanta
11
particles 28
8. Continuity of phenomena between earth and stellar
systems . • 29
9· Co-ordination of facts; Clerk Maxwell 30
IO. Necessity for change in our conceptions 3I
II. Mind and life . . 3I
12. Origin of life not a rational problem 32
I3. Misleading tenns; inorganic and inanimate 33
I4. Mind and life coeval with matter and energy 34
IS. Energy environment in relation to range of struc-
tures 35
16. Hobbes ; Anax.
agoras ; Mind and movement. 35
I7. Phosphorus and chloroform ; structure and
movement •• 37
I8. Difiering mind impressions evolved by movements
of the same three elements 38
I 9· All fundamental facts beyond human reason . . 40
8 SYNOPSIS
PAGB
20. Brownian movement ; animate, sub-animate, and
sensory movements. 42
2I. " Inanimate , and " animate " are but relative
tenns •• 43
CHAPTER II
PERCEP'I'IONS : THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND
-22. The confusing effect of too many terms for the
one thing 47
23. All terms indicating mind function connote per-
ception . . 47
24. Intelligence and reason synonymous ; all animals
reason •.• 48
25. Modes of perception incomprehensible to man 50
26. Two particles of matter in the depths of space 5I
27. Sir John Herschell; Spmoza; Schopenhauer 53
28. Laws of physical movement must apply to animate
movements 54
29. Movements of light and sound continuous with
mind movements 55
JO. The evolution of conscious mind in man . . 56
JI. Lack of perceptions involves lack of organic and of
conscious mind •. 58
32. An added perception adds vastly to intelligence . . 59
33· Mental condition of deaf and blind children ;
Helen Keller 6o
34· Slow development of conscious mind 62
35· All concepts of subjective presentations have a
basis in objective perceptions.. 63
36. Perception common to all things down to the atom 64
37. Mechanical movements and living movements
must have some common basic relation 65
38. Perceptions of plants; Marcus Hartog; Sir I. T.
Bose, F.R.S. 66
39· Perceptions of atoms and molecules 68
40. Molecules and animals behaving alike under similar
conditions ; Max Verwom 69
4I. Wm. McDougall ; definition of mind ; billiard
ball and guinea pig . . •• 7I
SYNOPSIS
42. The gyroscope ; Andrew Grey
43· Extremes of the continuous..
CHAPTER III
MUTUAL ACTIONS
44· All movements in nature are mutual actions ;
9
PAGB
74
']6
Verwom ; Hume 79
45· Error in considering mind and body apart. . 8o
46. Action and reaction; Newton ; cause and effect.. 8r
47· No mutual action possible without difference in
· movement 86
48. Laws of physical function must apply to animate
function 87
49· Misleading terms 88
50. Incomprehensible movements ; two things in mu-
tual action evolve a something else . . 89
5:1. Isomerism; polymerism ; allottopy 89
52. All phenomena sub-animate or animate due to
differences in movement ; Planck; Einstein 91
53· Human intelligence conditioned by physical move-
ments 94
54· Universal movement conditions universal life 97
CHAPTER IV
MIND INSEPARABLE FROM LIFE AND MOVEMENT
55· Co-ordination of animate with physical movements g8
56. The erroneous belief that mind is not physical.
Butler roo
57· "Life" not an existence-only an abstract noun.. 102
58. Variation in structure gives variation in mind 103
59· Universal perpetual movement 103
6o. What man possessed the greatest mind ? •• 104
6r. Mind values continuous from genius to the atom.. 105
62. The eternal mind energy in the atom 107
63. The " origin of life " not a legitimate problem ro8
64. Chemists are now artificially evolving life from the
sub-animate. Prof. Schafer . . rro
65. The tendency of modem thought towards con-
tinuity . . 113
IO SYNOPSIS
PAGlt
66. Clifford: Leduc; Wohler. Animate movements
in water 114
67. Errors in co-ordination. Spillman; Max Verwom 116
68. No structure creates energy; energy creates struc-
ture •• 118
6g. Prof. Moore. Continuous evolution of the animate
from the sub-animate •• 119
70. Conscious mind, a constantly changing stream of
energy flowing from the brain. . 120
71. Evidences of the physical nature of mind ; effects
of drugs • • •• 121
CHAPTER V
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY
72. Infinitely varying values of mind in man . . 123
73· Sufficient evidence that mind is a mode of energy. . 124
74· All forms of energy correlated; Clerk Maxwell;
D. D. Home 125
75· Mind in man unceasingly changing. . 126
76. Perpetual transformations of mind, matter and
energy movements 127
77. The terms mind, matter and energy must always
be relative 128
78. The relations between mind, heat and electric
energies 129
79· Mind has no definite value, and is not confined to
living things 132
Bo. Food and fuel values; reserves of energy; feeding
with energy . • 132
81. Mind energy and heat energy 134
Bz. Transformations of energy ; gyroscope ; dissipa-
tion of energy . . 136
83. Mind radiates ; energies that are both cause and
effect 138
84. Incomprehensible movements ; all movements of
mutual action simultaneously evolve other
movements 140
85. Immediate mind energy; energy expended must
be balanced by energy ingested 141
SYNOPSIS II
P.\GB
86. Hungry children at school ; organic mind must
first be served with energy 142
87. Expenditure of energy ; surplus energy ; inges-
tion and assimilation . . 143
88. Structural energy ; dominant personality has
unusual assimilation . . I4S
89. Physical and mental dominance. G. Stanley Hall 147
go. Necessity for sleep. Every impression upon cons-
ciousness an expenditure of energy •. 148
91. Organic mind more fundamental than conscious
mind 149
92· Problems where reason is useless to us ISO
93· The infinite variations of function possible to the
elements that structure man . . IS1
CHAPTER VI
CONSCIOUS MIND CONTINUOUS WITH ORGANIC MIND
94· Conscious mind ; organic mind ; consciousness
universal 1S3
95· Multiplicity of terms. Reason and intelligence. . ISS
96. Organic mind has functions beyond the range of
conscious mind. Baudouin.. 1S7
97· Evolution of conscious mind; influences of food 1S9
98. Organic mind constructs the mechanism of cons-
cious mind 16o
99· Organic mind in " regulation " ; intelligent
energy x6r
roo. Continuity between conscious mind and organic
mind 163
IOI. The expenditure of immediate mind energy 166
I02. All forms of energy radiate ; mind radiates I67
103. Perception by organic mind precedes conscious
mind perception 169
I04. Effects of organic mind upon conscious mind 170
105. Organic mind effects in pathology. John Wesley 172
xo6. Organic mind effects in mediums : auto-sugges-
t~ I~
107. Thyroid Glands 176
xo8. Organic mind never tires, never sleeps 177
12 SYNOPSIS
PAGB
CHAPTER VII
ORGANIC MIND CONTINUOUS WITH SUB-ORGANIC MIND
109. Undetectable movements ; undefinable struc-
tures 178
110. Evolution of organic mind ; iron ; carbon diox-
ide ; sulphur . . I79
III. Sub-organic and organic evolution I83
II2. Perpetual evolution and devolution I86
II3. Properties of atoms unalterable . . I87
II4. Universal movement indicates universal intelli-
gence . . I88
IIS. Man's limited range of perceptions I89
II6. Anthropocentric tendencies; origin of the terms
"living" and" dead" Igo
II7. Terms that mislead.. I9I
II8. Volume and intensity of the energies I92
II9. The sum of life in an animate being, the sum of its
atomic life I94
120. The most versatile and energetic of the elements
enter into animate structures 196
I2I. Mind in the atom continuous with, and essentially
the same as, mind in man Ig8
CHAPTER VIII
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION OF INDIVIDUAL BEING
122 All individual being sustained by devouring forms
~lifu .. 200
I23. Tennyson; volume of life always equal to what
is possible 20I
124. Irrational evolution and de-struction of animate-
life 20I
I25. Re-lative values ; the unive-rse ; the earth ; man 203
I26. Nothing is create-d ; nothing destroye-d. Evolu-
tion and devolution must balance •. 204
I27. Change of character of life by changing environ-
ment 204
128. Microscopic units oflife ; communities of units 206
129. Design in nature; natural law 207
SYNOPSIS 13
PAGK
130. Only change of movement gives evidence of exis-
tence 209
13I. Atoms the fundamental units of perceptions 210
132. Infinite variations of mind function possible to
the elements in man 212
133. Influences ofenvironment ; notwo persons alike 213
134. ., Death " only a relative term 215
135. "Individual being" difficult to define precisely 217
136. The " dead " brought back to life 218
137. Minimum and maximum expressions of energy 220
138. Strutt's radium " clock " ; association of move-
ment with life . .. 221
139. Difficulty of determing where individual lifebegins 222
140. The sum of all that is remains constant •.• 222
CHAPTER IX
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION
J4I. Laws of structure and function 224
142. Alteration in energy content an alteration m
structure 225
143. Arts and sciences dependent upon the inviolate
relations between structure and function 226
I44. Effects of drugs upon living functions 228
145. Effects of hormones; insulin; thyroxin.. 230
146. Specific action of drugs ; Darwin, paint weed 230
147. Effects of diet 231
148. Effects of physical environment upon function . . 232
49· Sex gives differences in structure and function . . 234
150. Subtle connection between structure and vision. . 235
151. Wide range in structures and functions of carbon
hydrogen and oxygen compounds . . 236
152. Action of chloroform 237
153. Connection between mental and physical con-
ditions . . •• 238
154. Different foods evolve different immediate mind 239
155. Digestion and assimilation. . 240
156. Universal dependence of function upon structure 240
157. Effect of light and electric energies 242
158. Properties of matter are " functions " of matter. . 242
14 SYNOPSIS
PAGB
159. Living functions and chemical functions. . 243
160. Incomprehensible results of mutual actions 244
161. Instinctive (?) movements.. 245
162. Instincts and affinities 246
:r63. Forms of life not adapted for survival 248
164. Functions exact expressions of structures 248
CHAPTER X
MIND, MATIER AND ENERGY
165. Radiant energy ; slow co-ordination of facts 250
166. Professor Soddy ; repulsive energy of electrons ;
absolute zero; structural energy in water 251
167. Vacuum tube ; radio-activity ; Sir Oliver Lodge 253
168. Mind. matter and energy correlated. " Materia-
lisations " •.• 255
169. Perpetual and ever varying movement evolves
an infinity of presentations. 256
170. Nature of perception cannot be defined; beha-
VIour . . •• 258
171. Incomprehensible perceptions and activities 260
172. Possibilities of the future never fully known 261
173· We cannot place a limit to consciousness 263
174· Erroneous conceptions regarding mind 263
I75· Theories regarding matter ; Berkeley ; Leibnitz;
Boscovich 267
176. Matter may become tired 267
I77· Spencer's and Kelvin's definitions of matter
include energy •. 268
178. The origin of life; Butler; Hzckel; Fechner;
Bergson 270
I79· Matter neither lifeless nor inert ; Benj. Moore ;
iodine . . 272
18o. Changing the environment of atoms cannot alter
their properties 275
181. Changing order of nature •. 276
182. The most animate atoms enter into animate struc-
tures . • 276
183. Continuous evolution and devolution of animate
life. 277
184. Atoms and electrons 278
J
SYNOPSIS IS
P.A.G:B
CHAPTER XI
~ORY,SLEEP, DREAMS
185. Memory not an intellectual faculty 280
1:86. All our five senses subject to memory impressions 281
187. Memory a function of organic mind 283
188. Infinite variations of movement. Effects of heat 284
1:8g. Dominance of organic mind. How memory
comes . . 286
I go. Association of ideas ; the training of organic mind 288
1:91. Molecular instability; Verwom; consciousness
in sleep. . 289
192. Every movement and every thought represented
by molecular movement 291
193. Necessity for sleep. Consciousness expends
energy 291
194. We always dream when asleep, though we may
not remember doing so 296
1:95. Impressions upon organic mind distinct from
impressions upon conscious mind . . 297
xg6. Infinite variety in abnormal conditions ; mediums 297
197. Memory registers the most energetic of conscious
mind impressions ,... . 2g8
1g8. From every direction we come to movement as the
basis of mind . . 299
CHAPTER XII
MIND IN HEREDITY: THE FUTILE QUEST FOR A MATERIAL
BASIS
199. Misdirected effort. Weismann ; material in de-
velopment
zoo. Influence of changing conditions ; tendencies to
301
variation . . 303
201. No traceable beginning to individual character.. 305
202. No child can be ex~ctly like a parent ; influences
of parental differences
zo3. Influence of grandmothers; external and meta-
bolic influences
204. Frogs; beetles; P. C. Mitchell; Professor
Schafer ...
307
308
16 SYNOPSIS
PAG:Z
205. Dr. 0. Kiddie; Dr. Crew; Luther Burbank;
effects of food . . •.• 310
206. Max Verwom; change of species; external in-
fluences affect character •.• 311
207. Doncaster ; erroneous conclusions 312
208. Advancing knowledge regarding influences of
conscious mind upon organic mind ... 31:3
209. Organic mind determines character ; no two
living things alike 314
210. A material basis impossible ; a material medium
nece~ 315
211. Pre-natal influences must operate, or children
from the same parents would be all alike . . 317
212. The wise woman of China . . 318
213. Influence of mothers more potent than influence
of fathers 319
214. Grandmother develops ova of her grandchildren... 320
215. Hereditary value of doing things ; Stephenson ;
Edison; Burbank; Napoleon; Harberton 321
216. Internal evidence of weakness in the 11
material
basis" problem •.• 324-
CHAPTER XIII
I.NFLUENCE OF MI.ND IN HEREDI.TY : EUGENICS
217. Interpretation of organic mind impressions . . •
218. Remarkable influences of iodine ..
219. Changing hereditary values. Instances of pre-
natal influence
220. Coincidences ? Identical twins and ordinary
twins •.
221. Varying physical conditions must evolve varying
331
335
results.
222. Variations in offspring must have a cause
223. Environment, internal and external •.•
337
... 339
340
224. Multiplication of the unfit ; eugenists ; selective
breeding - · •.• 341
225. The 11
dregs" of society. How shall we define
them? •. ... •.. 34-2
SYNOPSIS I7
P.AGZ
226. Professor Dubois ; the morally insane ; the Kai-
ser; Napoleon I 343
227. Metchnikoff ; inadequacy of eugenics 345
228. Hereditary tendencies must be governed by
naturallaw 346
229. Possible happier conditions for future generations 347
CHAPTER XIV
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM
230. Individual "spirit" cannot exist after death of
the individual
231. Immortal mind in the atom
232. Subjective evidence valueless •.
233. Dreams forgotten may appear as actual expe-
nences .. ...
234. Infinitely varying conditions between sleeping
and waking
235. Dual personality
236. When conscious mind rests, organic mind has
fuller play
237. The question of immortality. Mreterlinck and
his lamp
238. Memories of the different senses. Inandi.
Martin Luther. . ••
239. Apparitions ; Nicolai, the Berlin bookseller ;
Sir David Brewster . • . •
240. Communication with persons in extremity,
thousands of miles away
241. Clairvoyance; radiations; prophecy
242. Authorities (?) A. J. Davies ; Sir Oliver Lodge ;
" Thy Son Liveth." •• -
243. Moving of objects; Ectoplasm; Materialisation;
Sir William Crookes ..
244. Abnormal condition of mediums ; mechanical
equivalent of heat
B
348
349
35I
352
355
356
358
359
373
375
I8 SYNOPSIS
PAGB
CHAPTER XV
A PHYSICAL LIMIT TO INTELLIGENCE
245. Instability of brain structure a necessity . • 377
z46. A limit to instability ; there must be orderly
function 378
247. InteTiectual power; Clerk Maxwell; ancient
philosophers . . 380
248. Zoroaster; Hammurabi's laws; the Akkadians 381
249· Man's erudition not a measure of his intellect;
ancient Greeks 383
250. Ancient buildings; Baalbec; Selinus; Fossils . . 385
251. Increasing knowledge of facts increases possibili-
ties 386
252. Evidences from superstitions ; daily press 389
253. Conan Doyle; business advertisements . . 391
254· Connection between structural development and
function •• 392
Z55· Evidence of biometrics in Heredity 393
zs6. Our hope for the future 394
MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM
TOMAN
CHAPTER I
INTRODUCTION
I.-Postulates.
Our object in the following pages is to demonstrate the
troth of the following postulates :-
I. Mind is universal, continuous, and coeval with matter
and energy.
2. Mind is a mode of energy correlated with all other
modes of energy, and is the dominant initiative of
all movement in nature.
3· Mind, matter, and energy are fundamental and
inseparable.
We recognise this to be a heavy task ; not from lack
of evidence that our postulates are true; but owing to the
tenacious grip of so many centuries of erroneous concep-
tions and the apparently ineradicable influences of many
forms of superstition.
2.-Positive and negative values.
We do not enter upon this task for purely academic
reasons. Positive, and also negative, results of value must
follow the establishment of the truth of our postulates.
For, when it is fully recognised that mind is a mode of energy
correlated with the ordinary physical energies; that our
conscious mind is continuous with organic mind (97 et seq.),
and that these two phases of mind are constantly influencing
each other in many wonderful and mysterious ways, the way
is open to great possible advances in the mental and physical
character of some portion, even if a small one, of the race.
We have a broader light thrown upon problems in evolution,
heredity, faith healing, psycho-analysis, auto-suggestion,
19
20 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
hypnotism, regulation in physiology, and the occult hap-
penings at so-called spiritualistic seances. We arrive at
conclusions that throw a clearer light upon the deeper depths
in natural activities, and see a wider field of possible in-
telligent control.
The extremely wide and varied volume of evidence we are
able to adduce in support of our postulates will tend to
release many scientific workers from futile efforts to attain
the impossible. Investigators will never discover
a material basis in heredity-hundreds of students
have wasted years of effort in this futile attempt. We
demonstrate that the dominant factor and basis in heredity
is organic mind (rro). Philosophers need no longer specu-
late upon the problem of the origin of life, for this problem
is involved in the problem of a first cause, and must for ever
be beyond the grasp of human mind (rz).
There is no point or place in the processes of inorganic
evolution where life begins to evolve; but there is position
in the scale of evolution where structures having sub-animate
activities merge into more complex structures having those
more complex activities which we arbitrarily term animate;
for all activities in evolution have been, and are of necessity,
absolutely continuous. In our use of the term " evolution ,.
the reader must distinctly understand that we refer to the
evolution of any individual " thing " or " being," without
reference to any theory of the evolution of species.
Those who are striving to achieve what is termed the
"Spontaneous generation of Life" may cease their labours.
Living substances-substances having living activities-
have long been evolved artificially by chemists, who still,
however, remain in ignorance of the deep significance of
their achievements (64).
3.-Empedocles, Anaxagoras, Democritus, Aristotle, Maxwell,
Berkeley, Bonnet, Fechner, Trendelenburg, Schwann, Butler,
James, Haeckel, Rutherford.
There is a wide range of evidence that original minds in
all ages have had a more or less distinct conception of the
truth of our postulates ; and beyond this, we can scarcely
read any modern scientific work on any subject which
INTRODUCTION 21
does not offer in one direction or another some evidence of
the truth that is in them.
More than two thousand years ago Empedocles stated
that:-
.. As man, animal and plant are composed of the same
elements in different proportions, there is an identity of
nature in them all-they have all sense and under-
standing•II
The modern discovery of the protoplasmic cell as the
beginning of all individual life, whether of plant, animal,
or man, has caused a general recognition of the fact, as stated
by Empedocles, that " there is an identity of nature in them
all."
Anaxagoras taught that mind makes its first appearance
as " motion." Further on the reader will find himself
obliged to admit that mind cannot be differentiated from
motion ; also that the first trace of mind activity that clearly
presents itself in nature expresses itself as movement (17).
Anaxagoras also taught that no one thing in the world is
ever abruptly separated from the rest of things. This in
a manner anticipates the very decided tendency of facts in
modem science towards the absolute continuity of all
natural phenomena.
Democritus taught that atoms are the ultimate material
of all things, including spirit ; that they have existed from
eternity and are in eternal motion. His atomic theory of
perception remarkably anticipates modern theories ; and his
teaching, that sensation is the only source of knowledge, is
practically the teaching of our next chapter-that a percep-
tion is the functional unit of mind.
Aristotle, in his enunciation of the doctrine of the (f Asso-
ciation of Ideas,'' clearly expresses the conception that mind
is conditioned by movements. He commences :-
, When, therefore, we accomplish an act of reminiscence
we pass through a series of precursive movements, until we
arrive at a movement on which the one we are in quest of
is habitually consequent.. . ." (190).
We cannot do other than admit the truth of the statement
made by Clerk Maxwell regarding the intellectual capacity
of the ancients, in his notable article on the atom :-
22 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
" The most ancient philosophers whose speculations are
known to us seem to have discussed the ideas of number
and of continued magnitudes, of time and space, of matter
and motion, with a power of thought which has probably
never been surpassed."
Downthrough the interveningagesmen havecontinuously
repeated the conceptions of the ancient sages, and leaders
of modern thought to-day still hold practically similar views.
Bishop Berkeley, in the seventeenth century, conceived
mind as " the deepest reality ; the prius in both thought and
existence."
Bonnet, in the seventeenth century, said that " all know-
ledge originates in sensations; and that all beings in nature
forp1 a graduated scale from the highest to the lowest."
In the nineteenth century we have a large number of
authoritative writers who have made statements more or
less directly supporting our three postulates.
Fechner, who was one of the pioneers in experimental
psychology, accorded "consciousness to the entire universe
and everything in it."
Sir John Herschel!, in his work" On the Study of Natural
Philosophy," 1830, says :-
, All bodies with which we are acquainted, when raised
into the air and quietly abandoned, descend to the earth's
surface in lines perpendicular to it. They are, therefore,
urged thereto by a force or effort, the direct or indirect
result of a consciousness and a will existing somewhere,
though beyond our power to trace, which force we term
gravity."
Beneke stated that "the formed or perfected mind with
its defined faculties is a development from simple elements."
Trendelenburg taught that :-
" Motion is the fundamental fact common to being and
thought ; the actual motion of the external world has its
counterpart in the constructive motion which is involved
in every instance of perception or thought."
Theodore Schwarm, who, in 1839, introduced his epoch-
making theory of cell structure, looked upon the individual
cell as the seat of those biochemical movements which, en
masse, constitute life. He was of the opinion that the
INTRODUCTION
differences in the properties of the different tissues and organs
of animals and plants depended upon differences of structure
in cells and consequent differences in activity or movements.
This is in full agreement with our conception of the inune-
diate nature of mind (rz).
Samuel Butler, in his "Unconscious Memory," affirms
that there is-
" No mind without matter-No matter without mind."
Haeckel~ in his "Wonders of Life," says: 11
I am con-
vinced that sensation, like movement, is found in all
matter " ; and he formulates the three following proposi-
tions:
I. No matter without force and without sensation.
z. No force without sensation and without matter.
3- No sensation without matter and without force.
But sensation without mind to perceive the sensation is
impossible; and if we substitute for the word'' forre '' the
more usoal term "energy," the three propositions may be
simplified into " Mind, mattn and energy are inseparabk."
This covers our third postulate that " Mind, matter and
energy are fundamental and inseparable." Also our first,
that '' Mind is universal, continuous, and coeval with matter
and energy.''
William James, approaching the question of mind from
the psychologicalpoint of view, in his'' Varieties of Religious
Experience,'' suggests that all mind-infrahuman, super-
human and human is ONE. He offers this suggestion as being
a fteCeS$1lty conception, in order to bring the varioussubcons-
cious and abnormal conditions of mind 'Within the grasp of a
rUI&lmable cat~Se. In his "Psychology" he tells us that:
... The immediate state of consciousness is an activity of
some sort in the cerebral hemispheres...."
., All states of mind, even mere thoughts and feelings,
are motor in their consequences."
Rutherford, who is probably the greatest authority upon
the nature of atoms, recently stated, that as an atom is
naturally the most fundamental structure presented to us,
" its properties must explain the properties of all more
complicated structtu'es, including matter in bulk." The
24 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
profound significance of this remark will be appreciated as
we proceed.
We have not, of course, exhausted the list of writers of
credit who have come to conclusions that in some manner
or other support our three postulates. We have quoted the
above in order to show that we do not claim any originality
in basic conception-except perhaps in our recognition of
mind as a mode of energy correlated with the ordinary
physical energies, expressing itseH in the movements we
tenn sub-animate equally with the movements we term
animate or living.
4.-Various paths to truth ,· Schopenhauer.
It is inevitable that students striving to arrive at truths
in nature should in places cross each other's paths, or even
travel together a little way and then diverge. For there is a
vast amount of knowledge common to all, upon which all
can agree. Theproblemis-towhere does this knowledgelead ?
When we perceive in nature an intelligence that is common to
all things, we are on the same path with Schopenhauer.
But when he refers this universal intelligence to a metaphy-
sical will, he diverges and is utterly lost.
We can only arrive at truth by keeping upon the paths of
the actual. Schopenhauer's claim, that the evidences he
adduces in support of his "Will in Nature," from facts in
physiology, pathology, comparative anatomy, physiology
of plants, etc., prove the truth of his conception, is absolutely
unfounded. They no more prove the existence of his meta-
physical " Will " than they prove the existence of the man
in the moon. No man can prove that a conclusion
he has deduced from a given set of facts is a true conclusion
by proving that the facts he bases his conclusion upon are
true.
All the evidences he quotes can be more reasonably
applied to proving that this universal intelligence is due to
a physical factor, which man has been acquainted with as
long as he has existed, but which, up to the present, has not
been correctly co-ordinated with other presentations in
nature. There is no necessity for the invention of a meta-
physical mystery, whether it be tenned "Will in Nature"
or "Will-o'-the-Wisp."
INTRODUCTION 25
5.-Futility of Metaphysics.
We totally repudiate the possibility that any rational or
practical value can be attached to any metaphysical con-
ception. The range of man's practical and rational
conceptions ceases the moment he goes beyond the physical
and actual. The baseless fabric of the teachings of meta-
physics havel more than any other factor, discounted the
efforts of practical and original minds in their attempts to
discover the methods of nature in its most subtle activities.
This is particularly evident in its effects upon popular con-
ceptions regarding the immediate nature of mind and of
living activities.
When we go beyond the physical and actual, we go far
beyond the range of human reason ; for even the mere
existence of a particle of dust presents a problem that is
beyond human comprehension. Metaphysical speculations
are therefore, at the best, valueless; they only provide a
field for interminable and useless controversy, and attempt
toexplain in words attempted conceptions that no language
is competent to express, and no human brain to visualise.
Century after century they have wrangled over the meaning
that shall be given to the words "time 11
and "space 11
;
yet no man knows anything more about the matter to-day
than did the first metaphysician that ever puzzled his
brain about them. Any shilling dictionary will tell us what
is meant by these terms ; and every man knows better
than the dictionary can tell him-better even than he himself
can express in words--the sense he gives to the words
" time " and " space."
The above remarks are not affected by the theory of
Relativity. The discovery of Jupiter's moons led to the
discovery that it takes time for light to traverse space. If
we look at the sun we are not looking exactly in the direction
where the sun really is, but to where it was about eight
minutes previously. But this does not alter in the slightest
degree our innate and fundamental concepts of time and
space. The theory has no practical value ; it is but a
philosophic toy. The concept of curved space is a delusion ;
and no human brain will ever form a rational concept of any
limitation to the extent of the universe.
26 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
The following fact has as much practical value as rela-
tivity : If a billiard table has a perfectly true plane and is
set truly, then it will require a more powerful stroke
of the cue to send a ball from the centre of the table
to either end, than to send it from that end to the centre.
This is an absolute truth theoretically, because it is "up
hill " from the centre of the table to the ends, and " down
hill " from the ends to the centre. But this fact has no
practical value, because it is impossible to give the top of
the table the exact and infinitesimal curve corresponding
to the curvature of the earth. The theory of relativity bas
a similar value.
Mind is a physical fact, not a metaphysicalconception I All
that is of value in human mind arises from, andisbuiltup by,
perceptions of the actual in nature, and we cannot apply
reasoning to anything that goes beyond the range of those
perceptions. All the knowledge that man possesses, or
ever can possess, evolves, or is yet to evolve, from his five
senses of perception. We make this quite clear in our next
chapter. When man tries to get beyond these data, at-
tempts to explain the physical by an imagined something
beyond the physical, he attempts the impossible ; for there
can be no definite or perceptible data there upon which the
mind may z:eason and form rational conclusions.
Everything that is, is natural-it cannot be otherwise.
Even the abnormal, however abnormal it may be, must yet
be natural. Nothing either supernatural or metaphysical
has any existence.
Nothing can be more incomprehensible than that which
is incomprehensible. The term is absolute. We cannot
comprehend a first cause. Metaphysicians, in their attempts
to get deeper than is possible for human mind to penetrate,
have introduced the expression" the thing in itself," which,
while assuming it to indicate a something which is in-
comprehensible, yet is not a first cause, is really used in a
manner that involves a first cause. "The thing in itself"
is an expression used in the attempt to defme a something
beyond experience or conception, when the mind reaches
depths it cannot fathom, and seeks to connect the known
with the unknowable by attempting an abstract ooncept
INTRODUCTION
which really amounts to an attempt to grasp a concept of a
first cause. No man, however metaphysically gifted (? ),
can farm any conception of any " thing in itseH " ; it is only
a barren verbal invention that makes for confusion and leads
students astray. There is no such " thing in itseli " between
what is possible for man to know and the ever unattainable
first cause ; and the expression should be discarded by all
writers whoattempt to widen the range of human knowledge.
There is a close analogy between superstition and meta-
physics. In both we find man attempting to explain
things that he cannot comprehend, by a reference to a sup-
posed something that is supernatural. The ignorant savage
leans on superstition-a form of metaphysics ; the philoso-
pher out of his depth leans on metaphysics-a form of
superstition; more subtle and refined than that of the
savage, it is true, but the same in essence.
We can point to no practical advance or bettennent in
human conditions that has arisen as a result of the great
labours and ponderous volumes of metaphysicians.
The general impression of practical men of genius is, that
they have done more harm than good. Newton, Clerk
M
axwell, Hehnholtz, and many others have spoken with
more or less contempt of the value of metaphysical specu-
lations.
6.-Contin'fl.ity: Mind, matter, or energy can.
not be defined;
Kelvin.
The very decided tendency in modem thought towards
the absolute continuity of all phenomena in nature results
from the increasing and unmistakable evidences of it that
have arisen of late in various branches of science.
Phenomena thought to be essentially different and un-
connected have been proved to be but varying aspects or
modes of manifestation of the same essential factor, and
link after link has been united in forging an unbroken chain
of continuity running through all phenomena in nature.
Increasing knowledge is still forming other links in the
chain.
Since the declaration of the principle of the conservation
of energy we recognise as a truth that every mode of energy
28 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
is correlated, 2.nd therefore continuous. And it has but
recently become evident that we must accept also as a truth
the correlation and continuity between matter and energy.
For matter has been tracked down to electrons. It is known
that matter radiates into energy } and in every chemical
reaction it has long been known there are transformations
of matter into energy or of energy into matter. So it follows
that all forms of matter and all forms of energy are correlated
and continuous.
From time to time, in the history of science, man has
attempted to define matter, but no satisfactory definition
has Qeen formulated. Lord Kelvin's definition, which is
generally esteemed as the most satisfactory, resolves
matter into energy I We have no knowledge of the existence
of matter apart from energy and mind. It is a something
beyond the range of definition or of comprehension. As a
consequence we find as a natural result that man cannot
define what matter is, and that he sees in a speck of dust an
incomprehensible mystery.
For the same reasons it is impossible to clearly define either
energy or mind.
7.-Einstein; matter and energy#. Planck's "quanta "
particles.
Einstein, in an attempt to arrive at the nature of the
elementary formations that structure an atom, has formu-
lated a mathematical equation showing that three-fourths
of the energy constituting matter is to be ascribed to an
electro-magnetic field, and one-fourth to a gravitational
field. But all the energy in an atom cannot be purely
electro-magnetic or gravitational. There must be another
form of energy expended in the perceptions of nuclei and
electrons by means of which they "behave" in relation to
the movements, distances, and mass of each other. (See note
p. 46). These perceptions indicate operations of mind energy
which have not entered into Einstein's calculations (36).
The deeper we penetrate, the deeper the mystery of exis-
tences recedes away from us. We have tracked down matter
until we have reached the positive nuclei and negative elec-
trons which structure atoms, and we are at a loss to
INTRODUCTION 29
determine what is matter and what is energy. In Planck's
.. quanta " particles, we reach in energy a something which
is neither matter nor energy (52). But the "jumps" of
these particles from one form or pattern of movement to
another are not of necessity evidences of discontinuity-
any more than the " jumps " in chemical actions from one
form of existence or movement to another are evidences of
discontinuity. We are simply unable to trace the connect-
ing mechanism-that is all.
Quantity of matter is estimated by its mass, yet the
velocity of a particle increases its measured mass I
The nucleus of an hydrogen atom has only the same
amount of energy as the electron which revolves about it,
yet it has a far greater mass-or weight I The atom of
hydrogen is the simplest atomic structure that exists, and it
has been studied with more satisfactory results than any
other atom. But even here we see the insuperable difficulty
of differentiating between matter and energy. For if
matter is energy the heavy nucleus in the hydrogen atom
must have far more energy than its one electron.
It is very evident that there is more than energy in the
atom, and various considerations lead us to the conclusion
that it must have matter which cannot be resolved into
energy ; and mind energy for perceptive functioning of its
electrons.
Absolute continuity of all phenomena in nature appears
to us as an inviolable truth. We cannot brush aside the
fact that matter and energy are correlated; or the fact
that mind is correlated with energy (76). And however
much we may doubt the happenings at psychic seances
which have been recorded by persons evidently as
sane and reasonable as ourselves, we cannot a priori
assert that such happenings could not possibly occur.
B.-Continuity of phenomena between the earth and stellar
systems.
As must be the case, if our third postulate is a truth, we
can see evidences of continuity in every direction. Even
the activities in the sun are continuous with the activities of
all animated nature, and even the sub-animate activities
30 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
on the earth. All living things are animated by energy
received from the sun-a few minutes, months, years, or
millions of years ago. The warmth that all living things
directly absorb from sunlight, warmth that increases
chemical and molecular activities, and aids in growth and
development, was energy in the sun less than nine minutes
previously I The energy we derive from the food we eat
was energy in the sun months or years before, according to
the time taken to grow it ; and when we warm ourselves
before a coal fire, we are absorbing energy that left the sun
millions of years ago. We receive a small amount of energy
from the stars, and to that extent there is continuity between
the stars in the depths of space and life upon the earth.
Unusual energy disturbances in the snn affect electric and
magnetic conditions on earth. Statistics show that high
temperatures increase crimes of passion and increased
commitments to jail ; and that, conversely, a cool spell
decreases them.
g.-Co-ordination of facts : Clerk M axweU.
If man, in his attempts to construct a correct presenta-
tion of nature's activities, wrongly co-ordinates two facts,
it becomes impossible to rightly place other related facts.
and progress must be blocked until the wrongly placed
facts are set in their correct position.
It appears quite clear to us that some facts have been
wrongly placed, making it impossible to properly co-ordinate
other facts. This may explain why it was possible for
Clerk Maxwell to say, in his" Remarks on the Classification
of the Physical Sciences," when speaking of the natural
sciences as distinct from the exact :-
" Sciences of this kind are rich in facts, and will be well
occupied for ages to come in the co-ordination of these
facts."
It surely would not be possible for students of natural science
to be occupied for ages to come in the co-ordination of
known facts, if the facts already supposed to be co-ordinated
are really co-ordinated correctly. There must be something
misplaced. Yet, in spite of this apparent block, scientific
investigators are more intent upon the discovery of new facts
INTRODUCTION 31
than in the co-ordination of the host of facts lying
about that we do not know what to do with.
10.-Necessity for change i11 basic concepti011S.
The rapid accumulation of previously unrecognised but
important facts in nature that has taken place in modem
times in regard to the relations between the various modes of
energy, and the relations between matter and energy, to-
gether with theincreasing pressure of many obscure problems
associated with animate organisms, demand some change in
our conceptions, regarding the nature of, and the relations
existing between the three fundamental and causative factors
in nature. If we cannot find a satisfactory basis for the
co-ordination of facts in nature, in two entities only, as
attempted by those physicists, who recognise only two
things in nature-matter and energy-and look upon mind
as being metaphysical, why not use the three factors,
mind, matter, and energy, as a basis for co-ordination?
Evidence that mind is a physical factor is continuously
available and exhibited in the daily activities of ~very human
being.
Do not the facts that we have to eat in order to live, that
the evolution of the highest faculties of mind in man is
conditioned by the chemical action of a secretion from the
thyroid gland, and that a deficient intelligence approaching
to idiocy can be restored by the ingestion of thyroid glands
from sheep, sufficiently indicate that mind is physical ?
Does not the fact that we are now able to artificially produce
a substance-adrenalin-
. that has living properties demons-
trate that man can even now evolve living substances (64) :
and that mind energy, which expresses itself in the activities
we term living, must be included with matter and energy as
a basic factor ?
11.-Mind and Life.
The most notable error in co-ordination is the placing of
mind as subsequent to life. This misplacement has for ages
blocked the construction of the true picture we should see
in natural phenomena. For life is not a " thing " or a
fundamental entity. It is merely a term that we use as
32 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
indicating the more complex and subtle activities in nature.
The range of activities indicated by this term are of the
same essential nature as all other activities of a lower and
less complex order. The more complex movements we
term u living" or 11
animate"; the less complex move-
ments we herein term u sub-animate " or " sub-organic."
There is no life without mind ; no mind without life.
Life does not precede mind ; mind does not precede life.
Like mutual actions (67), mind and life are simultaneous
and continuous phenomena coeval with the universe itself
(26).
Mind is a fundamental factor, a physical fact-not a
metaphysical conception. It did not, and cannot evolve
from life; but all life was, and is to-day, simply the visible
expression of the activities of the mind. Mind is the initia-
tive and intelligent energy in the genesis of all movements
in nature (173). The entire human race is only the ex-
pression of an infinitesimal fraction of universal mind.
Mind never was given to man, or to any other living thing,
for it is a fundamental factor that enters into all things in
the very act of those things emerging from the incompre-
hensible first cause. Trying to conceive that mind was
II given" to man is like trying to conceive that oxygen was
"given " to water, because the existence of water depends
upon oxygen as a factor in its structure. So it is with man ;
his existence depends upon mind as a factor in his structure.
The conception that life came to the earth at some definite
but remote period in inorganic evolution, and that mind has
gradually evolved from that life by processes of organic
evolution, is utterly wrong. How could it have been possible
for the first animate being to evolve from the sub-animate
unless there had been an intelligence-a sub-animate
intelligence at work determining the details of the structure ?
12.-The origin of life not a rational problem.
The fact that the II origin of life " is regarded as a problem
that may possibly be solved, and the many theories that have
been formulated regarding the manner of that origin, evi-
dences how far man is yet astray from a true conception of
the actual in nature. It would be quite as profitable and
INTRODUCTION 33
equally reasonable, to consider the origin of " flying,"
" walking," " swimming," or " eating," as reasonable
problems.
The movements we term sub-animate-which are invio-
lably continuous with and evolve the animate-could not
have originated on earth at some period subsequent to the
earth, but must have evolved simultaneously with the earth,
no matterhow, when, orin whatever form the earth primarily
evolved from the eternal mystery that lies beyond existences
and beyond comprehension.
The origin of life is therefore not a rational problem. We
are, of course, speaking of " life " in the broad philosophic
sense in which the term should be used in this work.
The ordinary and restricted meaning of the term will, of
course, still be retained in ordinary language, but, broadly
speaking, " life " must be taken to embrace all activities,
because they a1e the immediate functions of the same uni-
versal factor-mind. All activities in nature, from the
movements in a brain cell that condition a thought to the
movements in an atom, are absolutely continuous ; there is
no place where a line can be drawn across and we can say
"here the animate ceases" (6o); or, "here consciousness
comes into existence."
13.-Misleading terms : inMganic and inanimate.
The term " inorganic " is misleading, because it implies
a basic difference from that which we term " organic." The
chemist cannot draw a line between " organic , and " in-
organic." The terms are used in chemistry merely as a
convenience, for purposes of classification. "Sub-organic"
is a term that should be substituted for " inorganic " ; it
simply indicates a range of activities less complex than those
we know as " organic." " Inorganic " means having no
organisation in structure ; this is equivalent to having no
organisation in movement. But we know of nothing that
has not some organisation of structUre and movement.
Every one of the atoms of the differing elements is a structure
with a definite system of orderly movement that differs
from the system of structure and movement in other atoms ;
and every differing substance is a differing complex organisa-
c
34 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
tion of moving molecules. An assemblage of differing sub-
organic substances gives us the complexity of structure and
movement that we arbitrarily term " animate " ; but all
forms of activity in the animate must of necessity be the
sum of the activities of the fundamental atoms and molecules
of which it is structured. Here we begin to appreciate
the profound significance of Rutherford' statement regarding
the atom, quoted above (3), that " its properties must explain
the properties of all more complicated structures, including
matter in bulk."
The term " inanimate " means u without animation..,
But if we reduce " animation " to any simpler term, and
try to convey its meaning, we are brought down to some
form of movement that differs only in complexity from any
other form of movement. In an atom, as we know it, there
is an arena of remarkable energy of orderly animation ;
and to every structure of atoms the atoms carry with them
their specific properties, endowing those structures with a
more complex energy of animation. Animate life is,
therefore-strictly speaking-but the sum of the activities
of an aggregate of co-operating atoms ; and " sub-animate "
is a more suitable term than " inanimate " for indicating the ·
activities of atoms, or groups of atoms, having less complex
aggregates than those we arbitrarily term " animate."
14.-Mind and life coeval with matter and energy.
This quite reasonable conception gives us a sub-animate
" life " and " mind " that must be coeval with matter and
energy. For matter as we know it could not have existed
before atoms ; and there cannot be " life " without " mind,"
or " mind " without " life." Life, then, in a wide and pro-
perly generalised sense, must be coeval with matter and
energy. And the emergence of the animate from the sub-
animate marks the point in the continuously ascending scale
of animation which is popularly supposed to give us the
" origin of life."
But it is quite evident that there could be no " origin "
at this point, any more than at any other place in the con-
tinuously growing complexity of structures and movements
that must of necessity have accompanied the continuous
INTRODUCTION 35
production of new substances conditioned by the progressive
lowering of the energy environment on earth.
15.-EnMgy environment in relation to range of structures.
Ever since the earth appeared as a fire mist there has been
a gradual lowering of energy environment, and a continuous
succession of forms of matter have unceasingly been coming
into existence, whose structures and properties were balanced
by existing energy conditions.
Every new form of matter coming into existence gave an
opportunity for the production of more complex structures,
having increased range of properties and functions; and in
this manner the more complex activities of animate move-
ment "grew" from the less complex activities of the sub-
animate by continuous changes in the relations between the
same three fundamental factors-mind, matter, and
energy.
And as every form of movement, sub-animate and
animate, is initiated by some mode of perception that in-
volves an activity of mind (23), both mind and life are
therefore coeval with matter and energy, and neither the
origin of life nor the origin of mind are rational problems
coming within the range of the mind of man, their solution
necessitates a knowledge of a first cause.
It is easy to understand Clerk Maxwell's statement that
science will be well occupied for " ages to come " in the co-
ordination of known facts, if " mind " and " life " are not
given their true relative positions in the " picture " of
nature; also to understand why there are so many facts in
biology that we are unable to reasonably co-ordinate ; and
why in psychic phenomena the inability to explain or co-
ordinate leads to superstitious beliefs.
16.-Hobbes ; Anaxagoras ; Mind and movement.
When Hobbes, who may fairly be termed the most notable
philosopher of the seventeenth century, heard the question
"What is sense? "and, as he tells us, fell to thinking much
over the problem, the truth suddenly occurred to him, that
if bodies and their internal parts were at rest, or always in
the same state of motion, there could be no distinction
36 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
of anything, and consequently, no sense. The cause of
all things must therefore, he considered, be sought in the
diversity of movements.
Here Hobbes re-discovers the truth taught by Anaxagoras
more than two thousand years before-that mind made its
first appearance as motion. For if bodies and their internal
parts" were at rest, or always in the same state of motion,"
we should not be able to " sense " or perceive any motion.
It will help the reader to arrive at a comprehension of the
truth that mind is inseparable from movement if we consider
what happens when he places his body within the circuit
of an electric current. When the circuit is made complete
by contact, he receives a shock, and when contact is broken
he receives a shock-caused by differences in movement-
and he perceives these shocks the more violent the greater
the difference in movement. And, as our perceptions are
the functional units of mind (chap. n), he would have no
mind in relation to this effect of electric energy, were it not
for differences in movement. If the energy movements in an
electric circuit were the same as the energy movements in
the molecules of the body, he would not be able to perceive
anything whatever when included in the circuit.
If he places his hand in water, and the temperature of the
water is higher than that of the surface of his hand, he
feels a sensation of wannth; if the water is colder he has a
perception of cold ; but if the water is the same temperature
as the hand, he perceives neither heat nor cold.
Every alteration in the temperature of the water causes ·
an alteration in the movements of its molecules ; they move
with more energy as temperature increases, with less energy
as temperature decreases. This is a ' well-known physical
fact. And, whether we have any u sense" of heat or cold
depenas upon whether the molecules of water are moving
with greater or less energy than the molecules that structure
the organs of perception in the skin of the hand. If the
molecules of water are moving with greater energy, this
greater energy of movement is commUnicated to the mole-
cules of the sensory organs, and we·.'perceive this greater
energy of movement as wannth or heat ; if the water .is
colder, the sensory organs perceive the reduction of energy
INTRODUCTION 37
movement as " cold , ; if the temperature of hand and water
are equal, we perceive neither heat nor cold, for no altera-
tion in movement takes place in the sensory organs.
The non-scientific reader must clearly understand that
these movements of molecules are well-known and proven
facts in science ; they are for ever in most energetic and
perpetual motion. Every element has molecules that differ
from the molecules of all other elements in the velocity of
their movements. The hydrogen molecule moves with a
velocity of over one mile per second ; all others move more
slowly.
Every one of the infinite number of differing molecules of
substances may differ, either in the number or the character
of the molecules of the elements that structure them, the
manner in which they arrange themselves, the velocity of
their movements, or through the combined effect of these
causes. Every different substance has a fashion or pattern
of molecular movement different from that of every other
substance.
17.-Phosphorus and chloroform ; structure and movement.
It is this difference in character of molecular movement of
different substances that gives them their distinctive pro-
perties and makes the molecules of the same element or
elements eitherharmless or poisonous-as in the two differing
movements in phosphorus, the yellow and the allotropic red.
The movements of molecules of chloroform will check the
movements in the brain that are transformed into thought
and render a man unconscious ; yet the elements that struc-
ture chloroform are present in abundance in the food we eat
at every meal !
Thus it is plainly evident that a character of movement
conditions animate activities, both physical and mental.
An animate being is a system of substances in constant
movement.
A substance is a system of molecules in constant move-
ment.
A molecule is a system of elements in constant move-
ment.
An element is a system of atoms in constant movement.
38 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
An atom is a system of particles or electrons in constant
movement.
Evolution of individual being may be defined as a con-
tinuous building up of complexity in structure and move-
ment from the atom to man-which is inseparable from a
continuous breaking down or devolution from man to atom,
in eternal cycles of existences.
At any point we may choose to make a division across this
continuous process, that which is on one side of the line is of
necessity continuous with that which is on the other. And
in such division we cannot distinguish any difference in the
presentation which appears on each side of the line of divi-
sion. Both are the same.
lB.-Differing mind impf'essions evolved by movements of the
same thf'ee elements.
Facts in chemistry clearly indicate the inseparable relation
between mind and movement. There are very many sub-
stances structured by the same elements which have very
different properties, and which evolve differing perceptions
when in mutual action with our sense organs. And as the
properties of the elements are unalterable, these differing
perceptions can only arise from the differing modes of move-
ment established in the differing substances by differing
modes of combination (51).
If we draw up into the mouth by means of a tube some
oxygen or some hydrogen, or if we place a piece of carbon
upon the tongue, we perceive no sensation of taste; for the
differing electronic movements in these elements do not
cause any difference in the movements normal to the com-
pound molecules that structure the sense organs distributed:
over the surface of the tongue.
Now, if these three elements are united in the proportions
that form sugar, the three differing movements of the ele-
ments are united, and a more complex form or " pattern " of
movement results. If we now place the sugar upon the
tongue, the particular form of molecular movement that it
now possesses causes by contact a change in the molecular
movements of the sense organs, that conditions a pleasant
sensation in them. When this sensation has been trans-
INTRODUCTION 39
mitted to the proper cerebral centres by means of the
sensory nerves it is there transmuted into conscious mind
as a sweet taste.
If we combine the same three elements in the proportions
that form camphor, we get a differing pattern of molecular
movement that causes a different movement in the sense
organs that conditions the taste of camphor. And if we
combine the same three elements in the proportions that
form acetic acid, we get yet another differing pattern of
movement that conditions our perception of acidity.
All perceptive senses are conditioned by movements.
Visual perceptions are conditioned by light waves; auditory
perceptions by air waves; perceptions tangible, olfactory,
and gustatory by molecular movements.
As a perception is a function of mind, we thus see in the
animate organism the transformation of the properties of
atoms into perceptions-mind functions ; for the molecules
of the elements are but associated atoms of the elements.
And as the possible variations or patterns of movement in
the molecules and the aggregates of molecules that may be
structured from the atoms of the sixteen or more elements
that build up the living body are practically infinite in
number, man has that infinite variety of patterns of move-
ment and combinations of patterns that condition the
infinity of perceptions that constitute his mentality. Here
again we see the profound significance of Rutherford's
statement that " atoms must carry their properties with
them into all more complicated structures " (3).
The transformation of molecular movements into per-
ceptions of taste, as tentatively described above, is strictly
analogous to the transformation of etheric movements into
visual perceptions, and air movements into auditory per-
ceptions. All the perceptions of animate beings are con-
ditioned by movements, and differing perceptions arise from
every differing form or pattern of movement. And, as
every perception is a function of mind, and the entire range
of mind in man is built up from perceptions (30), we can
clearly see that energy of movement is in some manner
transformed into energy of mind-just as energy of move-
ment is transformed into electric energy, or the energy of the
40 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
movement of light is transformed into the energy of
heat.
There is-as a matter of necessity-an analogy between
the activities that condition our perceptive senses. Sensa-
tions of taste, sweet and acid, correspond to auditory
sensations-discord and harmony. A tasteless substance
corresponds to a neutral sound. Any single note struck
upon a piano gives out a sound that is neutral between what
is disagreeable and what is pleasant. We may strike three
notes together, and the mutual actions between the differing
air movements may give us a pleasant sensation of harmony,
just as the mutual actions between the differing molecular
movements of three elements upon the tongue give us a
pleasant sensation of sweetness. Or we may strike three
notes together whose differing movements have mutual
actions that give us a disagreeable sense of discord; just as
the mutual actions between the differing movements of the
three elements upon the tongue may give us a disagreeable
sense of acidity. And so on with all variations in taste and
sound.
rg.-AU fundamental facts beyond human reason.
It is impossible, of course, for man to comprehend HOW
the transformation of movement into mind is effected ;
just as it is impossible to comprehend how any form of energy
is transformed into another form of energy. And of all the
phases of knowledge that we have acquired, no.ne is more
mysteriously wonderful than the incomprehensible results of
the chemical union of elements. We may know these things
are so-that is all. Transformations of energy are inces-
santly taking place within us and about us, but the manner
of these transformations is quite beyond the grasp of human
mind.
Every natural fact is, fundamentally, beyond the grasp of
human reason. Much knowledge has been acquired by
experience regarding the conditions that are necessary to the
phenomena of energy transformations, but we cannot grasp
any rational idea as to.why any particular conditions lead
to the effects that follow. Man could never, by reason
alone, have arrived at the knowledge that the union of two
INTRODUCTION 4I
gases would fonn water ; or that the union of nitrate of
potash, sulphur and carbon would form a mixture that would
explode with extreme violence ; and so on throughout the
whole range of chemical actions. We did not get electricity,
electrons, X-rays, radio activity, or gravitation, by rea-
soning ! Such facts have come to us by observation-by
impressions upon our perceptive senses (251).
Crookes did not experiment with vacuum tubes in order
to discover cathode rays, X-rays, or electrons; his" radiant
matter" came to him as a surprise. Rontgen discovered
the X-rays by accident. Becquerel did not discover radiant
activity by reasoning upon the phenomena of fluorescence
in substances after exposure to sunlight. He accidently
came upon the fact by observing that a piece of uranium was
photographed by a photographic plate in complete darkness.
This discovery ultimately led to the extraction by M. and
Mme. Curie of something less than a single grain of radium
salts from a ton of uranium residues. The astounding
properties of these radium salts came as a surprise to the
Curies even as they did to the world of science.
Gravitation is a natural fact that required no effort of
reason to discover. The primitive man who first threw a
stone up in the air knew that it would come down again.
But the correlation of that fact with the fall of the moon
around the earth was a feat in human reason of that rare
and widely comprehensive range we term genius. Still,
even to-day we are quite ignorant as to the cause of
gravitation.
The larger value of the achievements of genius lies in
the rational co-ordination of the irrational in nature.
The fact of consciousness in man is quite irrational.
Consciousness in the atom, as the unit in the evolution of
consciousness in man, is equally irrational ; but if it can be
established as a fact by reasonable co-ordination with other
facts, we have no more reason for rejecting consciousness
in the atom as a truth than we have for rejecting gravitation
as a truth or consciousness in man as a truth. Each is
equally incomprehensible.
If we perceive that certain immediate conditions are
necessary to, and precede, any particular phenomenon,
42 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
we may rationally conclude that those conditions are the
immediate cause of the phenomenon.
20.-Broumian movement,· animate and sub-animate mtnJI·
ment ,· sensory movement.
When Robert Brown, in 1827, first noticed the unceasing
and amazingly energetic movements of some very minute
particles suspended in a drop of water we became aware that
substances which had hitherto been considered as internally
motionl~s were scenes of perpetual and most energetic
animation-the Brownian Movement, so named in honour
of its discoverer.
We are now aware that the pressure exerted upon the
walls of vessels that contain gases is caused by the impact
of the moving molecules of the gases ; that these molecules
are moving perpetually with an almost incredible velocity,
which has been determined both mathematically and by
actual experiment in so many various ways that its actuality
has become unquestionable.
Radio activity has revealed to us that an atom is a verit-
able system of orderly electrons, moving with a perpetual
energy of activity, compared with which the visible animate
movements of individual beings have negligible values.
How can we accept as truths the perpetual activities of
the molecules in liquids and gases, the amazing energy of
orderly movement we find in the structure of an atom, or
the conception that mind, matter and energy are insepar-
able, and yet speak of anything either as "inanimate" or
" inorganic " ? For whether we conceive the atom or the
electron as the fundamental unit of matter, that unit
must still be a " structure " of mind, matter and energy,
with some form of organised association in sub-animate
movements.
The forms of movement that condition our perceptions of
sound can be transformed mechanically into impressions
upon the disc of a gramophone; preserved for any length of
time, and then transformed back again mechanically into the
forms of movement that condition our perception of the
voices that sang, or the music that entertained others, years
before.
INTRODUCTION 43
The forms of movement that condition our visual percep-
tions can be transformed chemically into a permanent
material picture ; and this picture at any time we look at
it transfers back again to our sense of visual perception the
selfsame movements, and we see, exactly as the chemicals
on the photo film saw, months or years before!
Such facts are of the most profound significance ; man has
not yet grasped the depths to which they lead. The move-
ments from both gramophone and photograph bee~
conscious mind when they reach the proper cells in the brain.
The possession of our two senses of sight and hearing are
absolutely essential to maintain man above the intellectual
level of any lower animal (31), and here we see that these two
senses are conditioned in essentially the same manner as
forms of mechanical and chemical movement.
When one speaks of any movement as inanimate, or of any
structure as inorganic, he assumes a knowledge that no man
possesses. We avoid this by using the terms sub-animate
and sub-organic; but always with a clear understanding
that the terms are purely arbitrary; they can never be any
more definite than the thick end and the thin end of an evenly
tapering rod. You may cut it across anywhere and still
have a thick end and a thin one ; and no matter where you
cut it, the faces of the cut would be exactly alike-the face
of one cut represents the face of the other cut. So it is if we
cut across anywhere the phenomena of animate and sub-
animate existences. Cut where we will, the faces are equal.
21.-" Inanimate, and" animate, are but relative terms.
We know of nothing that is really inanimate; everything
in the universe, from stellar systems to electrons, is animated
by movement. Every man, in and upon his own person, has
irrefutable evidences of the inviolable continuity of the
essential activities that condition his mental and physical
animation. The scarf skin which is constantly wearing
away or falling off the surface of the body; the hair upon the
head ; the extremities of finger and toe nails ; the enamel
upon the teeth; are all sub-animate substances that are
intimately connected and continuous with the animate cells
that form, as it were, their roots. The same blood that
44 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
flows through the capillaries of the brain and conditions the
evolution of conscious mind also flows through the capil-
laries of the tissues that condition the evolution of skin,
nails, hair and teeth. At every breath we draw into the
lungs the sub-animate- oxygen molecules in the air are
presented to the capillaries surrounding the air spaces, and
there they instantly exhibit those animate properties which
are essential to our existence. Yet there has been no change
in the oxygen molecules-they cannot change. The tran-
sition from sub-animate matter to~animate matter is merely
the result of change in environment. The molecules of
oxygen would function with molecules of iron outside the
human body when opportunity occurred; and the same
reasoning applies to the properties of every one of the sixteen
or more elements that structure the animate body.
The necessary energy for every thought; for the activities
of every organ, and for every muscular movement, comes
alike from the stream of ingested energy that is constantly
flowing into the system from the digestive track. The
energies there come from food, and the food comes from the
energies of sub-organic matter in soil, air, water, and solar
radiations. There is perfect continuity through it all.
Man is a complex structure of an infinite number of less
complex individual beings, each with an individual life of
its own, but all working· together in co-operative and har-
monious unison of movement; these many millions of less
complex individuals that structure man are themselves
structured of a vast number of less complex individual
molecules, and the molecules are structured of less complex
atoms. As an individual, man has a finite existence that
ends when the co-operation of his structural units ceases ;
and, in ordinary language, we say that the man dies.
But death is only a relative term. Every movement,
every thought, in a living animal is of necessity the cause of
the " death " of some portion of the substance of the living
body; that portion is transformed from animate molecules
into sub-animate molecules, and ejected from the body as
waste matter. Every movement, mental or physical, causes
a molecular movement in cells that unites carbon with oxy-
INTRODUCTION 45
gen, and produces carbon dioxide, from which no further
energy can be derived.
The individual man, animal, or plant ceases to exist or is
.. dead '' in a somewhat similar sense to that in which an
industrial company may be said to be "dead" when co-
operative partnership ceases. The persons who formed the
company are just as alive as ever, and simply tum their
activities into other paths of enterprise. When the indivi-
dual dies it is but the co-operative functions that cease ;
the fundamental activities of the molecules and atoms, whose
co-operative functions conditioned the life of the individual,
are just as much alive as ever ; they cannot die ; they simply
change the scene of their activities to some other cycle of
sub-animate or animate activity (21).
No living thing or being exists to-day which holds not in
its structure, and is animated by, many atoms of matter
that have served the same purpose in some of the incon-
ceivably vast host of individual living things that have
existed during the millions of years since the animate
complex evolved from the less complex sub-animate.
The animation of any molecule of oxygen in the air we
breathe, or of any molecule of carbon in the vegetation of the
earth, must have often been a part of the co-operative
animation in individual life during the millions of years
that countless millions of living things have been successively
passing through their ephemeral cycles of individual e.xis-
tence.
u And this delightful Herb whose tender Green
Fledges the River's Lip on which we lean-
Ah I lean upon it lightly I for who knows
From what once lovely Lip it springs unseen!
A molecule of carbon that animates us to-day and is ex-
haled as carbon dioxide, may be taken up by a plant in our
garden, the plant eaten in a few days, and the selfsame
molecule again do its part in further animating llS-{)r
someone else. The oxygen atoms set free by the absorption
of the carbon from the dioxide by plants is also available to
be breathed again, and its energy of mutual actions with
iron and carbon again utilised by us as a living function.
And thus it is with all the atoms or molecules of atoms and
46 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
substances that enter into the stru.
cture of the food we eat ;
they are all sooner or later expelled from the body, having
given up their structural energy and become of no further
immediate use in the body. They are then free to enter
into the structure of plants that are growing ; there acquire
structural energy ; and thus again become available for
living functions in the more complex animal
The daily ingestion of structural energy sppplies all the
energy which is transformed within us into the living activi-
ties of conscious and organic mind-a continuous cycle of
evolution and devolution within the individual, which con-
stitutes animation.
NoTE (see page 28). Sir Ernest Rutherford recently stated that science
had reached the point of view that the whole material world was a highly
complicated collocation of positive and negative electrons. But it is not
necessary to our purpose in this volume to go deeper than the atom.
CHAPTER II
PERCEPTIONS THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND
I
22.-TM confusing effect of too many tenns for tlae one thing.
Between the apparently narrow meaning of the tenn
" perception " and the broadly embracing sense of the tenn
" mind " there are a large number of tenns in use indicating
various aspects of mind presentations ; and it is very neces-
sary to a lucid comprehension of our subject that the reader
should clearly perceive that all these various tenns cover the
infinitely various modes of activity of but one ultimate
factor-mind ; also, that all these various tenns must
connote " perception," for mind can only be evidenced by
perceptions. We cannot have mind unless we can perceive;
we cannot perceive unless we have mind.
Mind is ONE ; matter is ONE ; energy is ONE-three
inseparable, fundamental and continuous (69) factors. And
as there is infinite variety in the modes of manifestation of
matter and energy, so there must be infinite variety in the
modes of manifestation of mind. Every possible variation
in every thing or structure involves a variation of mind
phenomena (158 et seq.).
23.-AU terms indicating mind function connote perception.
The function " perception " is connoted by all the various
terms now in use denoting activities of this one universal
factor-mind. Sensation, consciousness, instinct, know-
ledge, intelligence, intellect, reason, subconscious mind, sub-
liminal perception, unconscious mind, hope, fear, joy,
anger, and so on. For every phase of mind, no matter by
what term it is indicated, must involve perception ; per-
ception is the basic evidence of mind function. Psychologists
attempt to show that a "sensation" is a something below
.,
48 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
the level of a " perception " ; but no thing or being can have
a sensation unless it perceives that sensation ; every per-
ception involves a sensation.
We cannot have consciousness unless we perceive some-
thing ; if we perceive nothing we are unconscious. And so
by a parity of reasoning we can include all tenns indicating
activities of mind and lead them to perceptions as the basic
units.
24.-Intelligence andt'eason synonymous. AU animals t'eason.
Intelligence and reason are really synonymous terms,
although man attempts to differentiate between them in
order to prop up the erroneous conception that there is a
profound essential difference between his intelligence and the
intelligence of lower animals-that man has reason and
animals have not.
This is untrue ; man has but a wider ra.Bge of intelligence.
When a child toddling about turns aside to avoid an obstacle
in its path, or a fleeing animal swiftly turns aside to avoid
an obstacle in its path which it cannot leap, they evidence an
operation of reason. Both deduce from the conditions that
present themselves that if they continue on their course
without deviation trouble will follow. That is reasoning-
or it is intelligence; you may term it as you please--for
reason cannot be excluded from any act of intelligence. An
unreasonable act cannot be an intelligent act ; an intelligent
act must be a reasonable one.
A child becomes accustomed to seeing lights and fires
before it becomes acquainted with the physical effects of
contact with them ; and will, without fear, poke a finger of
inquiry into the flame of a candle. It thus acquires a know-
ledge of the results of personal contact with flame, and will
afterwards keep its fingers away from it. This knowledge-
evolved by a perceptive sense-develops one of the most
simple exercises of reason. The child has learnt not to
touch a flame because of the unpleasant consequences.
This constitutes reasoning; it is a rational connection of
cause and effect, and this is the basis of all reasoning.
It is a most remarkable fact that persons speaking with
professional authority, whilst admitting that animals have
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 49
intelligence, deny that they can reason. They get out of the
difficulty by saying that such acts of intelligence are due to
" instinct "-a tenn that really only covers ignorance. Any
observant person-if his mind is not already warped by
erroneous misconceptions--cannot watch a cow flicking
flies ofi its body with its tail without perceiving that the
tail is guided by intelligence ; and this exercise of lowly
intelligence must represent a modicum of reason.
We see in the London Times this morning-September
2nd, 1927-the following news item:
" An Alsatian dog was guarding the clothes of some
children who were bathing at Gullane, near North Ber-
wick, when one of the bathers--a girl-got into difficulties
about fifty yards from the shore, and cried for help. The
dog at once swam out, caught hold of the girl's costume
and dragged her ashore. It then barked continuously
to attract attention."
If that dog had been a man who swam out and rescued the
girl, and then called out for assistance, every one would
admit that it was an act of reason. Why should the same
reason be denied to the dog ? Thousands of instances of
animals evidencing a limited faculty of reason could be cited.
It is a matter of degree-not of kind-both in man and
animal.
All animals must possess reasoning powers sufficient for
the necessities and conditions of their manner of existence,
otherwise they could not exist ; and many of them in con-
nection with these necessities exhibit an intelligence beyond
the range of intelligence in man. How is it possible-with
reason-to deny that ants, bees, beavers and other animals
exercise a large measure of intelligence that necessitates
rational co-ordinations of cause and effect ? Some animals
have modes of perception that are impossible to man, and
in the direction of these perceptions have a wider range of
perception, and therefore intelligence, than man himself.
It is but reasonable to assume that the conscious mind of the
honey bee has a genius for doing the wonderful things that
are done in a beehive; that the mind in a crab has a genius
for the reconstruction of a claw that has been torn off. The
mind in a pwnpkin seed has a genius for making pumpkin
D
so MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
vines, but no ability in music or mathematics ; the musical
or mathematical genius has no ability whatever in the
making of pumpkin vines.
25.-·-Modes ofperception incomprehensible to man.
Man cannot comprehend the nature of the perception
which enables moths to discover their mates when at a
distance far beyond the range of human perceptions. He
has no idea of the perception which enables animals to gain
home from a distant place they have never seen before,
under conditions proving that neither memory nor any of
the senses such as are possessed by man can be of any service
in determining the direction to be taken. Man cannot
comprehend the nature of the perceptions which enables
micro-organisms and elemental molecules to perceive the
direction of an electric current; a somnambulist to see
without the use of the eyes; a flower to perceive the position
of the sun ; iron to perceive the direction of magnetic lines of
force; the many varying modes of perception exhibited by
elementary molecules in chemistry and crystallisation; the
perception of light by selenium ; the perception of invisible
light by a photo fihn ; the perception of infinitely weak
electric currents by sensitive galvanometers; the perception
by Rutherford's floating magnets and their orderly ~
sponsive movements to varying energy of electric current ;
or many other such-like evidences of perceptive function.
The possession of our five senses furnishes us with no clue
whatever to the possible nature of other senses of perception ;
nor do our five senses enable us to understand the ultimate
nature of even our own perceptions. We do not know how
we perceive, although we may know of the immediate con-
ditions necessary to our perceptions; and we certainly
do not judge rationally if we limit intelligence in nature to
the limited range possible to the experiences of man's five
senses.
It is now becoming generally recognised that plants can
perceive rays of energy that man cannot perceive. We
have gained this knowledge from the" behaviour, of plants.
To explain (?) this function of mind in plants by stating-as
Sir Oliver Lodge does-that there is possibly a " vegetable
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND SI
detector of invisible rays" seems to us a clear exhibition
of man's undoubted unwillingness to recognise the truth
that there is an intelligence in nature beyond the intelligence
of man. For how can either man or vegetable "detect"
anything whatever unless they perceive it ? This attitude
is typical of the self-centred egotism that has so long delayed
a knowledge of the truth that mind is universal, and extends
its operations far beyond the capacity of our comprehension.
To perceive anything whatever, in however primitive or
feeble a manner, involves at the least some faint knowledge
of that which is perceived ; and from accretions of such
knowledge gained by perceptions arise all values of intelli-
gence up to the highest genius.
The eye perceives a certain range of etheric vibrations,
but cannot perceive others ; the ear perceives the waves of
a given range of air movements, but there are further waves
that it cannot perceive. Other things and other forms of
life have perceptions of movements in nature that cannot be
perceived by man, and have therefore an intelligence re-
garding those movements not possessed by him.
We have but one course to follow in tracking down
evidences of mind activity in nature--we must track down all
evidences of perception, and wherever we find a sufficien~
evidence of perception there we may safely conclude is mind
in operation.
26.-Two particles of matter in the depths of space.
Let us assume an area somewhere in the depths of space,
in such a position that the forces of gravitation around that
area balance each other. Into that area a particle of matter
evolves from the ether. That particle will remain motion-
less.
If now, another particle of matter should evolve at some
distance from the first one, the two particles would im-
mediately commence to move towards each other in
conformity with the laws of gravitation, with an energy
proportionate to mass, and inversely as the square of the
distance between them. And they would move towards
each other in a straight line.
Now, there are an infinity of directions in which the two
52 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
particles are free to move, and if energy alone was concerned
in the movements, they would proceed in any one of that
infinity of directions. But the fact that they move directly
towards each other in a straight line must result from some
mode of perception quite unknown to us that functions in
each of the particles. Gravitation is only a tenn applied to
the phenomena. The law of gravitation is not the cause
of famng bodies, it is merely a statement of facts relating to
the energy and velocity acquired by bodies moving under the
influence of gravity. What we wish to arrive at is the
immediate cause of that which we term gravitation.
When two particles of matter in a balanced gravitational
field move directly towards each other in a straight line,
although there are an infinity of other directions in which
they are free to move, there is no other possible explanation
of their direction of movement than that they, in some
manner incomprehensible to us, perceive each other. The
fact that we cannot conceive the nature of this perception is
no bar whatever to our acceptance of the fact as a truth.
The facts in nature that are incomprehensible to us are
innumerable (Ig), and we have irrefutable evidence that
many modes of perception are at work in nature that are
beyond our comprehension.
The particles could not perceive each other, if mind, in
some one of its infinite modes of manifestation, was not
present to function that perception ; for perception without
mind to perceive is unthinkable. A perception is an act of
consciousness, and consciousness is a condition of mind.
The two particles could not move in any direction what-
ever unless energy was present to make mov~ent possible ;
so that the mere existence of matter involves the existence
of both mind and energy. Neither matter nor energy pos-
sess any power of automatic guidance ; exact and definite
movement, in one particular direction with evidence of
purpose, can only be due to a function of mind.
Further, if there be any precedence to be accorded to either
mind, matter or energy in the genesis of movements, that
precedence must be given to mind. For the movement of
any particles either by attraction or repulsion must of
necessity be preceded by a perception of the exact position,
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS QF MIND 53
and at least of the mass of other particles ; and in all move-
ments of matter in organic and sub-organic evolution per-
ceptions-functions of mind-must have the dominant
initiative. There cannot be perception without movement ;
there cannot be movement without perception.
Mind is therefore universal, and the dominant initiative
of all movement in nature ; for there is nothing that is not in
perpetual movement, and every movement is initiated by
some mode of perception.
27.-Sir ] ohn HeYscheU ; Spinoza ~· Schopenhaue1.
The interpretation we have here given to the phenomena of
gravitation is strictly in accord with the statement made by
Sir John Herschell (3) :-
., All bodies with which we are acquainted, when raised
into the air and quietly abandoned, descend to the earth's
surface in lines perpendicular to it. They are, therefore
urged thereto by a force or efiort, the direct or indirect
result of a consciousness and a wi.U existing somewheYe,
tlwt4gh beyond our POUJeY to trace, which force we term
gravity."
The italics are ours.
Consciousness and wiU connote perceptions; and we may
say that the primary unit of perception-that for mass only
-expresses itself in the movements we attribute to gravity.
Gravitation is universal; mind is therefore universal (26).
The above statement by Herschell was considered by
his critics as being illogical. But the true co-ordination of
any fact may be considered illogical by anyone who cannot
perceive the truth. The movements due to gravitation,
to gyroscopic action (42), to electric, magnetic, heat, or any
other mode of energy, can be co-ordinated with no other
phenomena known to man other than functions of percep-
tions-which are functions of mind.
We may now properly appreciate the intellectual" grip"
of the ancient philosophers of more than two thousand years
ago, who taught that mind makes its first appearance as
Motion.
Nothing whatever in the universe so far as man's know-
ledge extends but is in a state of perpetual movement and
54 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
transformation.· Mind, matter and energy are eternally
changing relations with each other in ip.finite variations of
cyclic movements, determined by an infinite range of modes
of perception, the sum of the three factors remaining eter-
nally the same. What is physical energy associated with
mind and matter one instant is mind energy the next, asso-
ciated with physical energy and matter ; the next instant,
that mind energy is again a physical energy (76).
All states of mind-thoughts and sensations-are "motor
in their origin " and " motor in their consequences." We
can only define mind in terms of behaviour (41), and every
form of behaviour is a movement of some sort. The mole-
cular movements in the neurones of the human brain are
immediately caused by the physical energies carried to them
by the blood stream. The character of the molecular move-
ments within the neurones determines the character of the
mind activities, and the character of those activities deter-
mines the character of the motor consequences.
28.-Laws of physical movement must apply to animate
movements.
As the three factors-mind, matter, and energy-are
essential to all phenomena in nature, all physical laws of
movement must apply equally to biologic movements. In
all living things every activity must have mutual and equal
movement between differing substances ; even as by the
third law of motion the mutual actions between any two
bodies are always equal. The energy of thought is a mutual
action between energies in the brain neurones and energies
in the blood stream. Movements ot thought must have
motor consequences of equal energy ; the more intense the
thought, the more energy required to evolve it and the
greater the energy of the motor consequences. Common
experience of the effects of mental strain confirms this line of
rea.Soning.
The movement in gravitation we have shown to be due to a
mode of perception, and the energy of movement in that
perception must be equal to the energy of gravity movement
We may thus say that the energy of the most simple phase
of mind known to us-perception of mass only-is exactly
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 55
proportioned to the energy of gravitation. The new de-
parture in science-relativity-<lemonstrates that the mass
of a substance is a measure of its energy content ; and we
may tentatively postulate that the energy exhibited by a
body is a measure of its mind energy ; we cannot differen-
tiate between movement and mind (17, 18, 39 et seq.).
The same reasoning applies to every form of perception,
and must apply to all mind functions, for every phase of
mental activity is a complex of perceptions.
29.-Physical movements continuous with mind movements.
The illuminating energy from a source of light varies in-
versely as the square of its distance. This is stated in text-
books as a physical law. But this law is based upon an
activity of mind-visual perception-and might just as
reasonably be termed a law of mental function, thus:-
, The conscious mind energy in visual perception of
illumination trom a source of light is in inverse proportion
to the square of the distance of the source of light irom
the organ of perception."
We may even say it is more appropriate as a law of
perception than as a physical law, for it is the energy of
perception that is really measured-not the light. The
intensity of a light remains the same, whether it be three
inches, three yards, or three miles away from the eye. It is
only its illuminating power upon a constant area that
decreases with the square of the distance.
Sound is a term indicating perceptive energies of the
auditory sense organs-a phenomenon of mind. The air
waves that produce sound are physical phenomena. Here
again we see physical movement continuous with mind
movement. All vibrations of air within the range of our
auditory perceptions are represented in the brain by move-
ments which constitute a consciousness of their volume,
character and intensity ; and the energy of that conscious-
ness must be equal to the energy producing it.
Physical laws of movement must be continued into the
animate ; for the recognition of any physical movement is
itself an animate movement inviolably continuous with the
56 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
physical movement ; and every animate movement is an
expression of mind.
30.-The evolution ofconscious mind in man.
We may easily grasp the conception of perceptions as the
functional units of mind if we study the progress of the
evolution of conscious mind in man.
The first time a child consciously perceives anything marks
the commencement of the conscious life of that child as an
individual. Repeated experiences of perceptions teach it
to refer its perceptions to the immediate cause of them.
Thus perceptions evolve knowledge ; and the knowledge
thus gained increases with experiences, until it becomes
intelligence-or reason.
The new-born child has no conscious mind; it does not
know that it exists. It only possesses organic mind (94 d
seq.). It has its perceptions, but these at first are confined
to perceptions of organic mind ; it does not know what they
are or where they are, and it has no consciousness of anything
external to itself. As the neurones that are evolving the
cerebral centres of the child's five perceptive senses more
definitely differentiate from surrounding tissues as a result
of repeated stimuli received from its five external sense
organs, the organic mind of the child's perceptions is gradu-
ally evolved into the conscious mind of the cerebral centres.
The moment that an organic perception is thus first
transmuted into conscious mind marks the commencement
of the conscious life of the individual.
It must be clearly understood that we do not perceive
by the central neurones of the brain. All perceptions of the
external have their origin in the external sense organs ; it
is organic mind that perceives, and the nature of these per-
ceptions is conditioned by movements extern~ to the
orgamsm.
We see by vibrations of light; we hear by vibrations of
air; we taste, smell and feel by molecular movements (18).
The organic mind of our sensory organs perceives all the
infinitely varied movements that give us a knowledge of
conditions external to ourselves ; but we remain quite
unconscious of these perceptions until the movements that
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 57
condition them are transmitted to the sensory centres in the
brain. and there transmuted into conscious mind. This
interval of the unconscious operation of organic mind is a
measurable quantity that has been estimated experimentally.
It requires a known fraction of a second for an organic
perception to reach the brain and be transformed into a
conscious perception.
A new-born child has all the complete organs of the five
senses, and these organs must respond to stimuli and evolve
organic mind perceptions ; but these perceptions are not
recognised by the child as being due to anything external to
itself. If it is pricked with a pin it feels the discomfort of it,
but has no conscious knowledge of where the discomfort
arises. The evolution of conscious mind is only commencing;
but these organic perceptions of its sense organs are just as
truly operations of mind before a conscious knowledge of
their local nature is evolved as they are after a long series_
of experiences has educated the child to recognise and locate
its five distinctive senses.
The full sense of what is embraced in the term organic
mind is given in our fifth chapter. We may here say that it
is the intelligence within us that controls all the activities
of which we remain unconscious.
It is impossible to say what length ·of time elapses after
birth before a child becomes conscious of its own existepce.
No doubt the time varies with the innate mental possibilities
in the child-justas the time varies before it can walk or talk.
But a considerable time elapses before its conscious existence
becomes what we may term a permanentpart of its individual
existance. Very few persons commence their practical in-
dividual existence until some years after birth, all that
happens before a certain age is quite a blank to the future
existence. We may have some faint recognition of a
connection between ourselves of to-day and the child we
were at three or four years of age in the form of a dim
memory of a something that impressed itself upon our
childish mind; but on the average we may say that the
first three years of our life are blotted out from our conscious
individual existence. We see that perceptions have to be
continually impressed upon the brain for about three years
58 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
before we attain that permanence in consciousness that is
our practical selves. This three years " apprenticeship "
to perceptive influences in order to achieve a permanent
consciousness is deeply suggestive.
All of human conscious mind is built upon or evolves from
our five senses of perception. Simple perceptions give
simple ideas ; complex thoughts are built up from simple
ideas. A geometrical problem involves form, magnitudes
and direction in space; an astronomical problem involves
movement, velocity of light, gravity, distances ; and so on.
Our perceptions furnish the data for the estimation of the
value of all the elements in such problems ; all the data
available in all branches of science and learning are given to
us by the experiences of our senses of perception. These
experiences are constantly operating in the extension of
knowledge, from the day we first attain conscious existence
till we reach our maximum intellectual ability in mental
maturity-a never ceasing influx of an infinity of sense
imp1essions upon the retentive tablets of our brain
cells.
31.-Lack ofperception involves lack ofconscio-us mind.
Within the personal knowledge of every person of average
experience are instances showing actual curtailment of
organic, and therefore of conscious, mind, through lack of one
or more senses of perception. If a person is colour-blind,
there is a lack of intelligence regarding colours. A person
totally colour blind from birth could not be made to under·
stand what was meant by colour; he would be quite mind-
less regarding colours.
The reader must fully appreciate the significance of such
facts. To distinguish colours we must be able to perceive
the differences in the vibrations of light that condition
colours. And as there are an infinite number of vibrations
below and above the range of vibrations that condition light,
whose effects are unknown to man because he cannot perceive
them, it is quite clear that there may be a great variety of
modes of perception possible to other organisms, or even to
abnormal man, of which normal man has neither knowledge
nor possibility of conception.
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 59
)2.-At~ aJlded perception largely increases intelligence.
And only one added sense of perception would add vastly
to the range of man's conscious intelligence-just as the
addition of one to a number vastly increases possible
permutations. The possible permutations in position of
five different things number 120 ; add one more .different
thing and we get 720 permutations. Thus the curtailment
or the increase of the number of modes of perceptions largely
affect the possibilities of conscious mind.
This is made very evident to us by the great advances in
knowledge that have followed the increased range of per-
ceptions acquired by man by the use of instruments that
enable us to perceive phenomena in nature that are imper-
ceptible to us without their aid.
We can now hear the effects of vibrations that before were
never perceived by human mind-as with the microphone
and in wireless telegraphy-and see the effects of vibrations
that were never before seen by human eye-as with the
microscope, and in the photographic presentations of stars
beyond the range of direct perception, even in the most
powaiul telescope.
But these, and all other means of adding to our knowledge,
have value only by reason of our normal perceptive senses.
Such instruments could not have come into existence ifman had
not been able to see and hear.
We know that it is possible for man to lack a normal
sense of perception ; and is it not reasonable to suppose that
some persons may have at times an added sense which gives
them that which is termed an occult, or a " subliminal "
perception ? The addition of one more mode or faculty of
perception to the five we normally possess would add vastly
-in some direction that we cannot anticipate-to the possi-
bilities of knowledge. Does it not seem probable that
under some temporary abnormal conditions of environ-
ment and circumstance man may for a time acquire
an abnormal perceptive sense, giving results which,
because of their incomprehensibility to normal persons,
are deemed supernatural, or due to communication with
spirits?
There are persons who have M lwul for figura ~· such
'
6o MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
persons have a lack of mind of a higher type of intelligence
than those who lack mind for colour. Perceptive functions
in the aged often diminish in consequence of changes in cell
structure to such an extent that they have scarcely more
mind than a lower animal. In a child born deaf all phases of
mind activity associated with sound are absent. No matter
what amount of other knowledge the child may be able to
acquire in later years, he can never have any conception
of sound ; he cannot imagine what it is ; he possesses no
mind regarding sound.
The difference in intellectual capacity between children
born deaf and normal children, when compared before
schooling commences, is very evident. It clearly shows how
the lack of even one perceptive sense lessens the possibilities
in the evolution of conscious mind. Schopenhauer, in his
Four Fold Root, speaking of deaf mutes before they have been
taught and acquired intelligence from others who possess
their normal five senses, says : " they are almost as un-
reasonable as animals." Teachers of deaf mutes have
assured us that this statement is true.
A child born blind, no matter how long it lives or what
knowledge it may acquire, can never have any conception of
what vision means ; it can never possess any mind regarding
vision.
33.-Mental condition of deaf and blind children. HeleJJ
Keller.
Some are born both deaf and blind ; and only those who
have attempted the task know the extreme difficulty of
building up an average intelligence in such cases.
Think of the apparently hopeless task of trying to impart
to one who lives always in absolute silence and absolute
darkness-mindless regarding sound and vision-whose only
connection with conscious existence is limited to the senses
of touch, taste and smell, what is meant by such abstract
ideas as faith, hope, courage, ambition I
Yet such work has been accomplished by an almost in-
credible patience and intuition on the part of the teacher
Tuition is comparatively easy, so long as it is confined to the
tangible ; but when abstract conceptions are reached the
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 6x
difficulties are very great indeed; and nothing more clearly
indicates that the highest faculties of mind are evolved from
and are dependent upon the operations of the perceptive
senses.
The reader must not overlook the fact that the cultivation
of the mind in such deaf and blind children is only made
possible by the aid of the senses of sight and hearing pos-
sessed by others ; and that without such aid their intelli-
gence could never reach the level of even an intelligent dog.
Nothing that we could say would more clearly demonstrate
the dependence of man's intelligence upon his perceptions
than the following words by Helen Keller in her wonderful
book, The World I Live in :
" Before my teacher came to me I did not know that I
am. I lived in a world that was no world. I cannot hope
to describe accurately that unconscious, yet conscious
time of nothingness. I did not know that I knew aught,
or that I lived, or acted, or desired. I had neither will
nor intellect. . . . My inner life then was a blank without
a past, present, or future, without hope or anticipation,
without wonder, or joy, or faith."
Such would be the lifelong condition of all children born
deaf and blind, did not the senses of sight and hearing pos-
sessed by others come to their aid.
If all human beings had been born with the two senses of
sight and hearing absent, and by some means or other had
managed to survive in the struggle for existence, the human
race to-day would not have so much mind or intelligence as
any one of the lower animals having its five senses of per-
ception. The universe would have no existence to such a
race of human beings. There would be no night or day ;
no sun, moon, stars, or heavens above them. They would
feel the alternations of warmth and cold, with alternations
of day and night and changing seasons, but could have no
conception regarding the causes of changing temperatures.
There would be no language, no books, no science or arts, or
industries ; no structures we could call buildings ; nothing
whatever that pertains to what we call civilization could
exist ; and the general condition of such a race of human
beings would be much lower than that of brute animals
62 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
having their five perceptive senses. The entire human
race now existing would quickly fall to that inferior condition
below the status of any animal that can see and hear, if
from to-day all children were born deaf and blind.
All the facts in connection with the intelligence and the
education of children having less than the normal five
perceptive senses give us irrefutable evidence that percep-
tions are the functional units of mind, and that man's
conscious mind and intelligence is built up from his percep-
tions.
A child born with all its five senses of perception absent
could never have any conscious mind more than a tree or a
cabbage ; we could not impart any knowledge to it, and it
could only be kept alive by forced feeding. Even a newly
born child with the structures of its five perceptive organs
fully developed does not-as we have already pointed out-
possess any conscious mind ; it does not know that it exists ;
it cannot consciously either see, hear, feel, taste or smelL
34.-Slow development of conscious mind.
The first indication of a child's dawning consciousness
is when we see it move its eyes to follow the changing
positions of a light. It is only by continued repetitions of
the stimulation of its organic perceptive senses by external
impressions that the child slowly develops a consciousness
of its ability to perceive anything. And how the fond
mother watches this developing power of consciousness in
her child I How she exults in it I Note the thrill of joy
when she says : " See I he notices I "
But this infantile consciousness does not appear to be
part of the mature consciousness of the adult. For if a
child has its normal perceptive faculties up to two or three
years of age and then by accident or disease loses the sense
of sight or hearing, the effects of those early impressions
upon conscious mind rapidly fade out, and all conceptions
regarding the nature of light or of sound are as completely
blotted out as if they had never existed. There is no mind
left regarding sound or regarding vision.
The development of any permanent value of conscious
mind from the experience of the five senses must therefore
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 63
be a comparatively slow process, and perceptions must be
repeated again and again for a considerable time before they
succeed in building up that habit of associated and sequential
movements in the neurones of the brain that condition
normal consciousness and the memory functions necessary
to association of concepts. On an average we may say that
three years elapse before sensory impressions or character
of molecular movements in the cell centres of the cortex
attains a permanence of habit that continues through adult
life, and can be reproduced by organic mind as memory.
The conscious mind mechanism in the growing child deve-
lops by being fed with perceptions ; much in the same way
as its body develops by being fed with food.
35.-All concepts of subjective presentations have a basis in
objective perceptions.
That perceptions are the functional units of mind is also
indicated by the fact that we cannot form any mental
concept or subjective presentation, either when awake or
when dreaming in sleep, however weird, fantastic or physi-
cally impossible, but that every element in the structure
of that concept is a something within the experience of our
senses of perception. We may dream that pigs have wings
and can fiy ; that the ~un is made of ice cream ; that a
shark came along that turned into a cow that ate up the
plough, or any kind of absurdity ; but we find that all the
elements of such dreams are concepts within the experience
of the human senses of perception. We have seen pigs,
we have seen the sun, and ice cream, sharks, cows, and
ploughs ; we have seen things flying. All the spirits,
demons, or gods of savage or pagan imagination are but
magnifications or contortions of animal or human attributes,
all within the range of human perceptive senses. We may
form a mental concept, or dream of a wheelbarrow con-
structed of potatoes, but we can form no mental concept,
nor can we dream of a wheelbarrow constructed of time
or space ; for by no one of our perceptive senses can we
perceive either time or space. They are neither tangible,
visible, nor audible ; we can neither taste nor smell them.
MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
36.-Perception common to all things doum to the atom.
If our postulate that mind, matter and energy are in-
separable be a truth, perception as a primary evidence of
mind must in some form be common to all things. We
should therefore be able to detect evidence of the activities
of perceptions, not only in all animate things, but also
in all fonns and combinations of matter and energy down to
the lowest fundamental trace of matter and energy possible
for man to detect. The fact that we cannot conceive the
nature of any other than our own five senses of perception
lends itseH easily to the erroneous tendency in popular
thought to conclude that there are no other perceptions in
nature from which we may reasonably deduce evidences of
the presence and activity of mind. But our five senses,
and all the knowledge we derive from them, are inadequate
to furnish us any possible data or comprehension of the
nature of any other possible modes of perception ; and it is
really absurd to suppose that our five animal senses of
perception are all the modes of perception that exist and
are necessary in the vast, infinitely varied and complex
operations of sub-organic and organic evolution.
This narrow view, born of ignorance, superstition and
egotism, is flatly contradicted by a weight of evidence that
cannot by reason be rejected or negatived. Movement, as
we have before stated (16), cannot be separated from mind.
There must be something to move-matter. There must
be something to cause movement--energy ; and there must
be something to determine the infinite variety and extent of
purposive movement-mind. We find the primal evidence
of the association of mind and movement in the phenomena
of gravitation (26), for gravity is undoubtedly the immediate
result of some mode of perception. And from this primal
manifestation of mind we can trace mind upwards by means
of its functional units--perceptions-in perfect continuity,
right up to the highest intellectual development in man.
Man acquires a deeper knowledge of nature's activities,
and goes forward in his achievements by the aid of percep-
tions that go beyond the range and powers of his own five
senses. He has intruments that perceive and record move-
ments that he cannot see and sounds that he cannot hear.
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 65
Photo electric cells and wireless valves have perceptions
that go far beyond the capacity of our human senses of
perception. The wonders of wireless communication have
been achieved by the aid of such instruments.
Sir Oliver Lodge has pointed out that the eye is a receiving
instrument that detects radio waves, and that it may be
regarded as the living ancestor of the wireless valve. This
is true enough ; but it is also true that by reason of modes of
perception that go beyond the range of man's perceptions
wireless mechanisms achieve results that are impossible to
man's unaided physical structures. For, not only below
and above the movements in the ether that are perceptible
to man, but also between the lowest and the highest there
are an infinite number of rates of vibration available to
condition yet unknown phenomena.
Weight of evidence has forced man to accept as truths
many things that are incomprehensible to human mind,
and weight of evidence will yet drive home the truth that
atoms have perceptions, and therefore mind. The full
significance of Rutherford's statement (3) that the proper-
ties of the atom u must explain the properties of all more
complicated structures , here comes home to us. For as
atoms are unalterable in their properties, the properties of all
more complex structures must be the balanced sum of the
properties of all the atoms that enter into the structures.
37.-Physical movements and living movements must have
some common basic relation.
We have seen that the same three elements combined in
differing proportions give us differing perceptions (18) ;
that these perceptions are reactions between the molecular
movements of the compound and the molecular move-
ments in the structures of elementary molecules that form
the sensory organs of taste. These movements must have
some relation in essential nature. Mutual actions must be
equal. Yet in the chemical mutual action we term the
action molecular movement ; in sense organ movement,
which is essentially the same, we call it "perception,,_
an activity of organic mind.
We cannot of course explain how movement is thus trans-
E
66 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
muted into mind. We have already pointed out that aD
basic facts are incomprehensible (19). We only know that
it is so ; just as we know that movement may be, and is.
constantly being transmuted into electric energy, and elec-
tric energy into light in economic enterprises, although no
man knows HOW such transmutations are efiected-we only
know the conditions under which they occur.
38.-Perceptions of plants; Marcus Hartog; Sir I. T. Bose.
F.R.S.
Man and the higher animals possess very evident sense
organs for the transmutation of movements into percep-
tions ; but as we go down in the scale of complexity in
animate structures these distinctive organs gradually dis-
appear, and we find living organisms that show most de-
cided evidences of perception, yet have no organs of per-
ception that can be discovered. So it is evident that a
perceptive sense may be present in that which has no evi-
dent mechanism by which a perception may be functioned;
and that we cannot deny the evidence of a perceptive sense
in anything whatever, simply because we are unable to
understand how it does perceive without having some
evident mechanism for the purpose.
Plants, as Marcus Hartog tells us:-
, are able to do many things that can only be accounted
for by ascribing them to a ' psyche ' ; and these
co-ordinated enough to satisfy their needs, and yet
they possess no central organ comparable to the brain ;
no highly specialised nervous system for intercom-
munication."
Plants have perceptions ; therefore plants have mind of a
value proportionate to the range and intensity of their
perceptions.
The delicate tips of the root of a plant will perceive
and grow towards a patch of greater nourishment in the soil
some distance away. The purposive movements of these
tips of plant roots is so evident that some observers have
called them the " brains " of the plant. The tendrils of a
vine will perceive and grow towards a projection that will
furnish it the support it desires. The leaf of a carnivorous
..i
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 67
plant perceives the insect that rests upon it, folds up,
encloses and digests the insect. If we touch ever so lightly
a leaf of the sensitive plant, the plant perceives the touch,
and immediately folds up all the leaves on the branch
touched. Some fiowers evidence their perception of light
by closing when darkness comes and openingin the morning ;
some evidence their perception of sunlight by turning their
heads so as to foflow the direction of the sun. Evidences of
perception in plants that havebeen observed and commented
upon by the many observers who have investigated the
activities of plant life are sufficient to fill a large volume ;
and we may rest assured by the weight of incontrovertible
evidence that plants have perceptions, less complex cer-
tainly, but of the same essential nature as those possessed
by animals and man. The movement of a root towards a
patch of nourishment and its absorption for the good of the
tree organism is a humble but exact parellel to the reaching
out of a hand for food and its ingestion for the good of the
human organism.
Sir I. T. Bose, F.R.S., in his Life Movements in Plaftls
tells us how, by means of his" crescograph," which magni-
fies a minute movement ten million times, he has demon-
strated a wonderfully close analogy between the response
of plants and animals to their perceptions. With his
instrument he has shown that all plants are sensitive plants;
only different in degree of irritability from that commonly
so named ; that they respond to the slightest change in
light, heat and other physical infiuences ; that they have a
nervous impulse travelling with a finite velocity, which
can be influenced by aruesthetics and poisons, and which
gives a prompt response to rough treatment or wounds.
A piece of cabbage on being scalded to death is thrown into
violent convulsions; and, in Bose's own words, "the
ludicrously unsteady character of the response of the plant
under alcohol could be effectively exploited in a temper-
ance lecture." He has also demonstrated that plants have
in one direction an intellengence not possessed by animals
or man; they perceive and respond to "wireless" waves,
which, so far as is known, have no effect upon animals or
man.
68 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
39.-Pet'ceptions ofatoms and molecules.
When we get down to the sub-organic or sub-animate
position in the continuous cycles of evolution (126), we are
still surrounded by evidences of perception, and consequent
evidences of mind. If we drop a piece of silver into some
nitric acid-a compound ofhydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen-
the oxygen and nitrogen perceive the silver, and immediately
proceed to release the hydrogen and embrace the silver ; the
nitric acid thus being transformed into nitrate of silver.
The affinities and repulsions between elementary molecules
are analogous to the affinities and repulsions in living beings.
They are initiated by the same basic influences-percep-
tions-and are simply less complex functions than those
which occur in such a complex structure as man.
If we dissolve some silver nitrate and some sodium chloride
together in water the silver nitrate couple are divorced and
become-say : ,
Mr. Silver and Mrs. Nitrogen.
The sodium chloride couple are divorced and become
Mr. Sodium and Mrs. Chlorine.
Then Mr. Silver marries Mrs. Chlorine
and Mr. Sodium marries Mrs. Nitrogen, and
we then have Silver Chloride and Sodium Nitride-
a mutual divorce and a mutual re-marriage with changed
partners.
We may very reasonably conclude that the cumulative
effect of the molecular differences in the sexes conditions
the powerful influence of sex (149).
This kind of perceptive movement for an evidently definite
purpose occurs in every chemical action. The properties of
atoms and molecules that in chemistry are termed " affini-
ties " are really expressions of perceptions.
Why elements will leave each other and unite with other
elements can only be explained on the basis of some opera-
tions of perceptions inconceivable to man. " Affinity " and
" attraetion " in chemistry are terms that merely indicate
the phenomena-they do not explain. '
The molecules of a salt in solution must have some per·
1
ception of the nature of their surroundings as they arrange /
themselves in the exact positions necessary to fonn a crystal,
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 6g
with its structure symmetrically arranged about a common
3.X1S.
An infinite number of similar phenomena could be cited
from lowly sub-organic activities that are essentially evolved
in the same manner as activities in the animate-perceptions
of smTounding conditions denoting intelligence, and pur-
poseful movements to meet those conditions. And these
movements cannot be reasonably accounted for, other than
by concluding that the perceptions that condition them are
dim and faint expressions of primal mind that operate in all
sub-organic movement ; its operations becoming of necessity
more complex in the rising scale of structural complexity,
till it reaches its maximum in the conscious mind of man, by
the media of the most complex structure that nature has
achieved-the human brain.
40.-Molecules and animals behaving alike under similar
conditions : Max Verworn.
If, under the same conditions of environment, we see that a
living animal and a material molecule perceive the same
influence and act in the same manner as a consequence of that
perception, we have sufficient reason to conclude that the
animal and the molecule, having perceptions in common,
must also have some basic phase of mind in common.
Max Verwom has shown that many of the protozoa-the
lowest forms of animal life--are very sensitive to electric
currents and to temperature. In his work on l"itability he
says:
" When I place a drop of Paramecium culture on a
slide and allow a constant current of about two milliam-
pere to flow through, it will be seen that the infusoria at
room temperature will move toward the negative pole at
a rate averaging r-1.4 millimetre per second. If I
increase the temperature, the movement is increased."
If, through a drop of water in which are a number of the
ciliata. Paramecium and the flagellata Polytoma swimming
about in all directions, we send a weak electric current, and
watch the effect under the microscope, we see the micro-
organisms immediately alter the direc~on of their movement
and swim in an orderly manner in opposite directions ;
70 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
the ciliata to the positive pole, and the fiagellata to the
negative pole, and they cluster about the poles like a crowd
about a theatre waiting for the door to open. If we reverse
the current, both crowds immediately leave their positions,
tum about, swim in the opposite direction, pass each otherin
the centre and attach themselves to the other pole.
Here we have a mode of perception that is beyond the
range of our five senses, giving to some of the most lowly of
animate creatures an intelligence of a nature impossible to
man. For no person swimming in a vessel of water could
detect any direction in a current of electricity sent through
it or perceive any difference in negative and positive poles.
In solutions ofsub-organic salts the sub-animate molecules
are moving about in all directions, just as the ciliata and the
ftagellata were in the drop of water before the electric current
was sent through it. If we send a current of electricity
through the solution, the molecl,Jles of the sub-organic salts
separate and move in an orderly manner ; one kind of mole-
cule to one pole, another kind to the opposite pole. And we
reverse this movement by reversing the direction of the
electric current, just as with the ciliata and the flagellata.
This reversal of movement is the basic fact in the action
of electric energy accumulators, which are so largely used
for various purposes.
In an electrolytic solution of common salt, which is
structured of an equal number of the atoms of sodium and
chlorine, the ions of sodium will move to the negative pole
and the ions of chlorine to the positive pole. Thus the
material atoms of sodium behave exactly as do the living
ciliata ; and the material atoms of chlorine behave exactly
as do the living fiagellata under exactly similar conditions.
All are freely moving in water ; an electric current is sent
through it, all perceive the negative or the positive of the
current and its direction, and all exhibit purposive move-
ment by immediately moving definitely to one of the two
poles.
We cannot deny that the living micro-organisms, in some
manner incomprehensible to us, must perceive the difference
between the negative and positive phases of the electric
current and the exact direction from which they impinge
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 7I
upon their environment. And admitting this as evidence of
perception in the organisms, it would be unreasonable to
deny perception to the molecules of matter, seeing that we
have exactly the same evidence of perception in both cases.
Both beluJve in exactly the same way, and psychologists tell
us that we can only define mind in tenns of behaviour (41).
.p.-Wm. McDougall; definition of mind; billiard ball and
guinea-pig.
Professor W. McDougall, in his work, Psychology (Williams
& Norgate, London, 1918), p. 31, says:
"No one can point to a mind and say: 'That is what
I mean the word mind shall denote.' And, ifit is proposed
to define mind in terms of consciousness, we are in no
better case, but rather worse. For each of us, the con-
sciousness of any other organism than himself is an
inference ; and it is one which is more speculative and
uncertain, the greater the unlikeness of the other organism
tohimseH.
"Further, there is abundant evidence that the be-
haviour of each of us expresses activities of a nature
essentially similar to our conscious activities, of which we
nevertheless remain unconscious. If, then, we cannot be
content to define mind in terms of consciousness, the only
alternative is to define it in terms of behaviour."
This is precisely the view we take. We do not define mind
in terms of consciousness, simply because it is impossible to
do so. Mind extends infinitely beyond the range of man's
consciousness ; consciousness extends infinitely beyond the
range of man's comprehension. It is impossible to define
mind per se, even as it is impossible to define matter or
energy. What we can define with more or less success are
the conditions that evidence expressions of mind ; these
conditions we find in behaviour-every manifestation of a
perception exhibits itself as behaviour. We cannot define
the nature of a perception but we can recognise evidences of
its operation. If you are out hunting with a dog, and are
watching that dog, you know when he perceives game ;
you can determine the act of perception by the dog's "be-
haviour." If one watches a hen with chickens, and is too far
72 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
away to hear her clucking, one can determine the instant the
chicks perceive the mother's call by their "behaviour."
Outside of our personal perceptions we can only determine
perceptions in other people or things by their 11
behaviour."
The '' behaviour '' of man and animals upon which
McDougall attempts to base his definition of mind are pur-
posive activities that must arise from, and are based upon,
perceptions. _For nothing can have a purpose and act in a
definite manner to achieve that purpose unless it perceives it.
On page 20 McDougall compares the mechanical move-
ment of a billiard ball with the movements of a guinea-pig
when taken from its nest and placed upon a grass plot, as
clearly indicating a basic difference between ~~ mechanical "
process and behaviour. But such a comparison is not by any
means a fair one ; for it is difficult to perceive that two
presentations are of the same essential nature, when they are
far apart on the line that connects the highest with the lowest
manifestation of any one of the three ultimate factors (43).
The point of nearest approach to each other of apparently
different things is the place for investigation and comparison ;
for it is there that we may with most certainty detect any
evidence that the apparently dissimilar may be essentially
the same.
The mechanical movements of the molecules of a chemical
salt as they arrange themselves to form a crystal is a form of
movement coming much closer to living movement than the
movement of a billiard ball. The movements of the ions in
an electrolytic solution come nearer still; but we will deal
with McDougall's comparison as it stands.
He tells us that if we take a billiard ball out of the pocket
and place it upon the table " it remains at rest " ; and would
continue to remain so for an indefinitely long time if no force
were applied to it. Push it in any direction, and its move-
ment in that direction persists only until the momentum is
exhausted.
The guinea-pig when placed on the green plot will try to
get back to its nest; if you push it in any other direction
with your hand it will resume its direction towards its
nest.
But he has omitted some important factors in his com-
~H.E FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 73
parison ; and he has made some misstatements that make his
deductions unreliable. In the first place, the billiard ball
when placed on.the table is not "at rest'' ; although it
appears motionless, it is only relatively at rest. We know of
nothing in the universe that is at rest; everything is per-
petually moving, and movement involves activities of
energy. The ball when apparently at rest upon the table is
unceasingly pushing with an energy proportionate to its
unceasing effort to go in the direction in which it is pushing.
If the energy of gravity ceased all things not attached se-
curely enough to the earth's surface would float away into
space--there would be no activity of the energy attaching
them to it, and the billiard ball therefore would leave the
earth at a tangent and float away into space.
If the billiard ball is to be considered at rest because it
does not move in relation to the table that supports it, then
anything that does not move in relation to that which
supports it may be said to be at rest. If McDougall takes
any considerable weight-say a 56lb. dumb-bell-in each
hand, lifts them up and holds them motionless in his hands,
those dumb-bells should be at rest. But he will soon find
they are exerting such an energy to reach the earth that his
living energies can no longer support them, and he is obliged
to drop them-let them have their own way. Every
instant of time man or any other animate being is exerting
energy to balance the energy of gravity. We lie down when
we are tired in order to lessen local intensity of opposing
energy-by distributing it over a larger area.
McDougall tells us that " The manifestation of a purpose
or the striving to achieve an end is the mark of behaviour-
and behaviour is the characteristic of living things." The
billiard ball strives to achieve its end by pressing constantly
upon the billiard table, even when apparently at rest.
The amount of this pressure is the sum of the efforts of the
earth and the ball to approach each other closer than contact
will admit : it is the manifestation of a purpose and the
striving to achieve an end. Thus, according to McDougall's
own definition of behaviour, the billiard ball acts as a living
thing 1
If the table below the billiard ball was removed, and a
74 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
sufficient depth cleared of obstructions, the ball would
travel about 4,000 miles to get to its " nest " ; and, like the
guinea-pig, if you kept repeatedly stopping it, it would
continue its journey towards its objective when the ob-
struction was removed. If you stopped the ball after
travelling some distance and did not remove the obstruction
for twelve hours, it would, when the obstruction was re-
moved, travel in a directly opposite direction in space I For
the relative positions of the ball and the " nest " have in
those twelve hours been reversed-there is no "up" or
" down " in the universe. How could the ball have know-
ledge of this reversed direction and act upon that knowledge
by changing its course and moving in an opposite direction
unless-in some manner incomprehensible to us-it per-
ceived that reversal in direction ?
Both guinea-pig and ball perceive a something in a certain
direction ; both strive to get there, and both will get there
if no obstruction prevents them. Both "behave" in the
same way ; both evidence an activity due to the same basic
cause-an activity due to perception.
42.-TAt gyroscope,· Atulrert~ Grey.
When we study the movements of the gyroscope we are
faced with phenomena that ofier no other possible explana-
tion of theirimmediate nature than that mind and movement
are inseparable in their presentations ; and that the per-
petually changing movement of everything in the universe is
but the expression of the perpetually changing perceptions of
universal mind.
When this mysterious machine is relatively at rest it does
not exhibit any perception as a whole other than that for
mass, and it presses upon that which supports it with an
energy that is proportionate to its mass. But if we cause
it to revolve rapidly it instantly acquires a perception for
direction in space.
If we give the rim a push out of its plane of rotation,
it comes back to that plane. If we have pushed to the right,
it comes back to the left; if we have pushed to the left, it
comes back to the right. It perceives the direction of its
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 75
plane of rotation, and comes back to it after being tem-
porarily diverted by a force external to itself.
If~ by any means of applying energy in order to keep the
gyroscope rapidly revolving for a length of time, yet leaving
it perfectly free, so that its plane of rotation may take any
direction in space, in no matter what direction its plane of
rotation may be when we start it revolving, its axis will
slowly change its direction till it becomes parallel with the
earth's axis and its direction of rotation coincides with the
direction of the earth's rotation I
To achieve this result it is necessary that one particular
end or pole of the axis of the gyroscope shall point to a
given celestial pole. If the other pole of the gyroscope
pointed to that celestial pole, the rotation of the gyroscope
would be in the reverse direction to that of the earth.
So that by imparting energy of motion to a few pieces of
metal the " mere mechanical " movement of them evolves
three modes of perception that are expressed in three modes
of ., behaviour " that go beyond the range of the capacities
of a guinea-pig and even exceed the powers of man's
conscious mind.
xst-perception of direction in space.
2nd- , ,~ the direction of the earth's rotation.
3fd- , , the direction of the earth's axis.
It is true that mathematicians have co-ordinated these
gyroscopic perceptions and behaviour with mathematical
formulas, but, like the mathematics of gravitation, they
throw no light upon the essential nature of the phenomena.
Prof. Andrew Grey in his work on "Gyrostatics," says:
" If an electrically driven gyrostat, with its axis vertical
or nearly so, is mounted on a portable frame and carried
round in azimuth in the direction of the spin, nothing
happens. If, however, it be carried round the other way,
the gyrostat immediately turns upside down on its trun-
nions ; and then it is turning the same way that it is
being carried. If the bearer turns about again, and walks
the other way, the gyrostat responds by jumping over
again so as to tum the other way. The gyrostat behaves
as if it possessed volition-a very decided will of its own.
It cannot bear to be carried around in the direction con-
MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
trary to its rotation, and accommodates itself to
circumstances by turning upside down, so that the two
turning motions are made to agree in direction.''
The "behaviour" of the gyrostat proves that a machine
may have perceptions, and consequent mind. It appears
that we must accept universal mind as a fact, however
incomprehensible and strange it may seem to us at present.
43.-Extremes of the continuous.
The difficulty in the way of grasping the truth that the
so-called " affinities " of the molecules of the elements are
perceptions, or feeble expressions of the same basic factor-
mind-that conditions human intelligence is but the diffi-
culty we experience in many directions when we compare the
extremes of that which reason tells us must be of the same
essential nature.
Any one of the ultimate factors in the inseparable trinity
that conditions all existences may reach such values in
opposite direction-high and low-that we can scarcely
grasp the conception that they are really the same thing.
The movement of rain water running down the gutter, or the
trivial falling of leaves to the ground, are caused by the
same intelligence that guides the sublime and orderly move-
ments of all the systems, stars and worlds in the unfathom-
able depths of space. All result from the energy of
gravitation-that primal and most simple manifestation of
mind, perception for mass only.
The most fiery heat of furnace or of glowing star is quite
the same essential thing as the heat in an iceberg I
Reckoning from absolute zero, ice at freezing point has
270° Cent. of heat. A kettle containing liquid carbonic
acid will boil when placed upon a block of ice, exactly as a
kettle of water will boil when set upon a hot stove. The
ice is so much hotter than the acid.
The structural energies in that which living beings ingest
or absorb as food, in order that they may transform it into
the energies of mind, which expresses itself in living move-
ments, are phases of physical energy that are absolutely
continuous, from the most intense energy of the stars in
I
THE FUNCTIONAL UNITS OF MIND 77
space to a faintness that is below the direct perception of our
senses. long before it reaches down to the theoretic absolute
zero--an absence of energy that has never yet been attained
by any genius in experimental science.
The extremely feeble, hannless, and easily controlled
energy that causes the delicate leaves of an electroscope
to diverge is essentially the same as the terrific lightning
flash that tears to pieces a large tree and scatters its frag-
ments in all directions, or brings sudden death to any living
thing it strikes.
The energy acting within a large gun, causing it to throw
a projectile weighing half-a-ton for ten or twenty miles ;
the energy that has caused so many earthquake catastrophes
and volcanic devastations, is essentially the same as that
which conditions the nutrition of our bodies-the energy of
chemical mutual actions.
And so it is practically with all the extremes of inter-action
between the three basic factors--mind, matter and energy.
It is difficult to conceive that the activities ot two atoms of
iron functioning with three atoms of oxygen in the pro-
duction of iron rust are phenomena of mind activity
essentially the same as that which is necessary to the living
activities of organic mind in our red blood cells ; or that the
molecular activity in any chemical reaction is essentially the
same as the molecular activity necessary to the evolution of a
thought.
A drop of water and the mighty oceans of the earth.
What a difference! But they are the same thing-just
water. The mind of an atom and the mind of a Shakespeare.
What a difference ! But they are the same thing--just mind.
Enough drops of water, and you have the potentials of an
ocean. Enough of the little minds of atoms, and the larger
minds of the many millions of differing molecules and aggre-
gates of molecules into which the atoms may be structured,
and you may have the potentials of a Shakespeare.
There is no greater gulf between the expression of a
minimum and a maximum of mind energy than there is
between the expression of a minimum and a maximum of
heat or of electric energy. And this could have been deduced
apriori from the fact that mind is a mode of energy (73).
78 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
The highest and lowest expressions of mind are no further
apart than a half grain of a monatomic element and the
half grain of radium bromide that will keep Stmtt's radium
" clock " in unceasing movement for more than two thousand
years (138).
A radio-active element may be regarded as a genius from
the viewpoint of atomic intelligence ; and, like genius usually
in man, it nms in a groove from which we cannot move it.
The monatomic elements are the " stupids." Further on
we shall see that the elements that enter into animate
structures are the most tJerSIItile and eneYgetic of the elements.
CHAPTER III
MUTUAL ACTION
I
44.-AU IIIO'Vements in nalur~ Me mutiUU actions#. Vm~~om #.
Hume.
Throughout all nature mutual actions are perpetually
at work evolving those successive changes which are recog-
nised as action and reaction and cause and effect.
But we cannot grasp a true conception of the conditions
leading up to the development of immediate mind in nature
unless we discard the idea of the sequence in time implied
in the statement of those two terms. The idea of a time
interval between " action and reaction " and " cause and
effect" leads us astray in regard to the immediate nature of
all phenomena.
For all movements in nature are mutual actions; equal,
simultaneous and continuous, although they occupy time.
It is the continuity of mutual action which gives us sequence
in time ; gravitation is simultaneous and continuous mutual
action. There are really no such phenomena in nature as
action and reaction, or cause and effect, in the sense that
.. action " or ,. cause " is one phase of movement, and " re-
action " or " effect " another phase of the same movement.
H at any instant of time all movements are reactions
which may be said to have followed actions ; yet, at the very
same instant all movements in nature may be said to be
actions which will cause subsequent reactions, what can be
.. action " and what " reaction " ? At the same instant of
time all movement is both of them I How can we rationally
difierentiate between the two, asif one was " cause " and the
other " efiect " ?
This difficulty in dealing with action and reaction becomes
very evident when we attempt to reach the immediate nature
79
8o MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
of biologic movements. Max Verwom met it in his m-
vestigations (40), and remarks :-
" The interpretation of the unity of being and happen-
ings in accordance with natural law, which is widely
accepted in the scientific world as the only exact one.
implies the assumption of a " causation " according to
which things .are explained by the law of cause and effect_
I have already on various occasions taken the opportunity
to criticise this view and to show the error and confusion
to which it leads."
Hume drew attention to the fact that
" No copula had yet been detected between cause and
effect in physics or in thought."
We find it of some assistance to fill the gap by " mutual
action," although just what occurs in mutual action is
probably for ever beyond human comprehension. No
movement, process, or any kind of phenomenon is possible to
any one factor alone ; every presentation in nature must be
due to mutual action between two or more differing things
or states of existence.
45.-E"01' in considering mind and body apart.
The misleading conceptions that arise from the idea that
there are " actions " and " reactions " combined with the
misconception of soul and body or mind and body as separate
existences have led to an intricate tangle of futile controversy
and theories ; and we have a redundancy of ponderous terms
that ought never to have come into existence. What with
animism, materialism, automatism, realistic·monism, psy-
chical monism, and other isms which we cannot for the
moment remember, the problem of the relations between
mind and body has got into such a hopeless tangle of theories
and words that it becomes quite evident there is basic error
somewhere.
There is error in the very expression-" the relations
between mind and body," for it implies that mind is one
thing and body another ; and this implication leads to
further error.
Each individual living thing is one; not two. Like every
other presentation in nature, a " living thing " is an ever
MUTUAL ACTIONS 8I
varying expression of the ceaseless mutual actions between
the inseparable factors we represent by the arbitrary sym-
bols-mind, matter and energy. Man has no mind that is
distinct from body or from energy ; nor has he any body that
is distinct from mind and energy. Every smallest 'particle
of every living thing is inviolably associated with mind
and with energy. And all the phenomena possible to it
as a living unit, are expressed by the ever-changing mutual
relations between mind, matter and energy.
The mutual actions of the immediate complex-molecules
that structure the brain neurones with the immediate com-
plex molecules in the nutrient fluids surrounding them
give us the " motor origin " of a thought (3). The per-
petually changing nutrient molecules in processes of
anabolism and katabolism give us our nnceasing activities
of mind and body.
The attempt of psychologists to arrive at a deeper know-
ledge of the immediate nature of mind by considering mind
as apart from body in so definite a manner as is implied by
the mere title of such books as The Effect of the Mind upon
the Body must lead to more or less confusion. For the mind
cannot act upon the body unless the body acts equally upon
the mind. There cannot be other than simultaneous, equal,
and mutual action, either mechanically, physiologically or
psychologically.
46.-Action and reaction; Newton; cause and effect.
If we strike a billiard ball that is at rest, relatively to the
table which supports it, the movement of the cue which
strikes the ball is supposed to be the "action" and the
resulting movement of the ball the " re-action," and we
certainly perceive a sequence in these events. But what is
considered the" action "in this case-the movement of the
cue-is a reaction from the movement of the arm, so that
the action of the cue is both reaction and action.
The ball that is struck cannot move without instantly
causing reaction in the air through which it passes, in the
material upon which it moves, and the cushions or anything
else it may strike; thus the reaction of the ball simul-
taneously becomes an action.
,
82 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
The action of the ann which moves the cue is a reaction
from the nutrient elements that animate the ann-and so
on continuously till we reach the first cause, of which we
know nothing.
Thus, as every action is also a reaction, and every reaction
is also an action, we cannot rationally differentiate move-
ment into two such differing phases with a sense of time
interval between them. Sequence in time is evident in the
continuity of mutual action.
The expression " action and reaction " is therefore mis-
chievously misleading, and should be discarded.
If we put some salt into a glass of water, mutual, equal
and simultaneous actions at once commence ; and if the
water is not stirred, this mutual action continues for a long
time, but is nevertheless constantly simultaneous and equal.
And what is " cause " and what is " effect "-{)r what is
" action " or what is " reaction " in the result ? Is the salt
the cause, or the action, that evolves as a result the salty
water; or is water the cause, or the action, that evolves
as a result the watery salt ?
There are unending sequences to all mutual actions. The
infinite variety of mutual actions which condition all existing
phenomena at the present moment are continuous sequences
from mutual actions which extend back to all preceding
phenomena; and they must be continuous with and con-
stitute the cause of the unending sequences of mutual
actions which will condition all future phenomena. The
instant salt and water enter into mutual action with each
other there is a simultaneous alteration in the temperature
of the resulting salty water-it becomes colder. Then there
is mutual action between molecules of water which differ
in temperature ; between the colder water and the glass
which contains it ; and between the whole and the warmer
air which surrounds them. And so on till we reach effects
which are untraceable but still continuous.
When we light a candle, mutual action, equal, simul-
taneous andcontinuous, takes place between the material of
the candle and oxygen in the air, evolving heat and light.
This continues till the candle is consumed. But though the
mutual action between the candle and oxygen is finished
MUTUAL ACTIONS
other mutual action continuous with it is traversing space,
associated with radiation of light. For all mutual action is
an expression of energy ; energy cannot be destroyed ;
whatever amount of energy is represented in mutual action,
it must continue indefinitely in succeeding mutual actions.
The sum of that which constitutes the universe must remain
constant.
The third law of motion as formulated by Newton states
that:-
"To every action there is always an equal and contrary
reaction ; or, the mutual actions of any two bodies are
always equal and oppositely directed."
The two different ways of stating this law are given as
alternative ways of saying the same thing, but serious ob-
jections to both may be perceived by the reader. For
instance, we know of no such thing in nature as " action "
per se; there is nothing but mutual action. All mutual
action is not only equal, it is simultaneous and continuous
also. But " oppositely directed," goes beyond our know-
ledge and beyond the necessities of the statement as a
universal law. This applies also to "contrary reaction."
For in all mutual actions heat movements are factors, and
we cannot say that the movements of heat are oppositely
directed or are " contrary reactions.I& Any universal law
of motion must apply to any form of movement in nature ;
for all movements arise from interactions between the same
three basic .factors-mind, matter and energy. Even
in mere mechanical movements there are transmutations of
the factors which we cannot conceive as either "con-
trary" or " opposite."
If all action had an equal and" contrary 11
reaction, or if all
mutual action was " oppositely directed," all movement in
the universe would instantly cease. For all forces would be
equal and opposing each other ; nothing could happen-
all would be motionless because all would be balanced.
In no chemical movement can we differentiate between
action and reaction, although the terms "chemical
action 11
and" reaction" are universally in use. When two
elements unite chemically there can only be mutual, equal
and simultaneous action between them. The chemist will
84 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
speak of the " action " of an acid upon a metal, but it is
equally an action of the metal upon the acid. He speaks of
the movement caused when acids and alkalies come into
contact as a " reaction " ; but it is the mutual, equal and
simultaneous action between the two substances; also the
simultaneous formation of a neutral salt. The third law of
motion does not cover the important fact that no mutual
action can occur without the simultaneous evolution of
other and differing presentations. These other presentations
then instantly enter into other mutual actions with their
environment, and so on continuously. Thus mutual action
is eternally continuous.
In physics, to separate movements into parts such as
"action "-with a sense of cause; and "reaction "-with
a sense of effect-is misleading and untrue to nature. If we
simultaneously strike two notes upon a piano with a given
interval apart we produce a harmony in sound, but we can-
not reasonably say that one of those two notes represents
the " action " and the other note the " reaction," in the
mutual and simultaneous equal action that the two differing
air movements exert upon each other in the production of
the harmonious effect. The same reasoning applies to all
movements in nature, whether they be movements of planets
or the movements that condition a thought
No one thing per se can be the cause or the effect in
any phenomena. Two things at least there must be in the
mutual a~tion which evolves the presentation of any pheno-
menon ; and two or more things are evolved in every such
presentation. Thus, oxygen and hydrogen are both essen-
tial in the mutual action which evolves water. But water
alone is not evolved ; there is also considerable energy in the
form of heat. The mutual action between the two gases ;
the evolution of water ; and the evolution of heat are
simultaneous phenomena. But mutual action does not
cease. The instant water is evolved it enters into mutual
action with the surrounding air and evolves water vapour ;
the heat instantly enters into mutualaction with its environ·
ment, and so on unceasingly. Mutual actions must be
equal, and must be continuous for they are manifestations
of energy, and energy can neither be created nor destroyed
MUTUAL ACTIONS
Equal and continuous mutual action is a fundamental
necessity to the stability of the universe.
Mutual action proceeds with infinitely varying degrees
of energy, from the mutual action between the elements
of an explosive mixture to the imperceptible mutual
action between the atmosphere and the hardest rocks.
But whether intensely energetic or imperceptibly feeble,
the mutual action must of necessity be always equal and
simultaneous. The mutual molecular actions in living
things, which never cease whilst life continues, evolve the
continuous and sequential activities which characterise
living things. The mutual actions between the elements of a
voltaic cell evolve the continuous movement of the electric
current. The order of nature proceeds in cycles of mutual
action. Each one of the host of animate beings that live and
die, every thought and feeling, each rise and set of the sun,
the movements of celestial bodies, are presentations of the
eternally continuous cycles of mutual action, which are at
once both the cause and effect of all phenomena, and make
possible the eternal and perpetually animate universe.
It should now appear clear to the reader that the ex-
pression " mutual action " has a wider and different sense
than can be attached to the terms "action and reaction."
It conveys a conception of the unceasing movements in
nature, whereby at every instant of time every effect is a
" cause " ; every cause an effect in perpetual continuity.
And it seems desirable that the third law of motion, in order
to make it truly universal, should not go beyond the state-
ment that:-
" All movement in n~ture is mutual action, equal,
simultaneous and continuous."
Every one of the infinite number of modes of perception
(36 et seq.) in animate and sub-animate nature must initiate
some mutual action that is always equal to the energy of
movement in the bodies engaged in that mutual action. But
we cannot say they are "oppositely directed" or "con-
trary " ; we cannot grasp the sense of those terms as applied
to movements of energy which radiate equally in all direc-
tions.
When the chemist adds a drop of something he calls a
86 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
II re-agent " into some liquid in a test tube and sees as a
consequence of the "affinities" or 11
perceptions" of the
elements-a colour develop, or a precipitate fall down, he is
looking upon the effect of a mutual action, equal and simul-
taneous, between some molecules in the liquid in the test
tube and the molecules in the drop he has added to the liquid.
It is quite immaterial whether we term the effect of the
"drop" the" action" or the" reaction," for it is impossible
for us to differentiate between the actions of the molecules
of the drop upon the molecules in the liquid, and the actions
of the molecules in the liquid upon the molecules in the drop.
All that we know, and probably all that can ever be known
about it, is that the actions are mutual and equal. Ex-
pressing this mutual action in two different terms leads
students to think that we possess a knowledge which enables
us to determine, in mutual action, two different kinds of
movement. This is utterly wrong and mischievous.
47.-No mutual action possible without difference in movement.
No mutual action between two bodies can occur unless
there is difference of movement in those bodies. It is this
very difference that makes mutual action possible, and we
have in many cases to determine such difference. But this
i;S only approximately, because we have to admit into our
calculations the subtle effects of perpetual mutual' action
that all things are subject to. The constant mutual action
between all things and heat energy, for instance, necessitates
a given temperature being stated in the measurement of
gases ; in the measurement of distance between two points
by metallic tapes and rods-for their lengths are constantly
changing with changing temperatures ; and in the estimation
of energy movements in chemistry ; and in other instances
where accuracy in results is essential. There must be differ-
ence in movement, or there can be no function of mind, no
sense (16). If on the open ocean we are travelling on a
swiftly moving steamer and we look at the line of horizon
ahead, we cannot perceive that the ship is moving by any
data furnished by that line. It gives us no sense of move-
ment, because it moves ahead exactly as fast as we are
moving towards it-we never get any nearer to it.
MUTUAL ACTIONS
If we strike a note upon a piano, we get a simple sound;
if we strike another note-its third-we get another sound
which differs from the first. If we strike the two notes at
the same time, the simultaneous mutual action between the
two diffe,-ing sounds evolves harmony ; but it is quite evident
that these two differing sounds are -equally necessary to the
production of the harmony. If we strike yet another note-
a fifth-at the same time that we strike the other two, we
get a fuller and more complex harmony from the more com-
plex mutual actions that are evolved by union of the three
differi-ng air movements. This is very illuminative of the
fundamental fact in nature, that complexity in function is
the invariable result of complexity in structure.
48.-Laws ofphysical function must apply to animate function.
As all movements in nature arise automatically from
mutual actions between the same three basic factors, there
must be analogy between all kinds of movement ; and if
we arbitrarily divide them into two classes-mechanical
and molecular-then we may say that mutual actions
between suitably differing air movements evolve harmonious
movements; mutual actions between suitably differing
molecular movements evolve harmonious animate move-
ments. If differing air movements are incompatible, their
mutual actions evolve discord distressing to the ear. If
differing molecular movements are incompatible, their
mutual actions evolve unpleasant effects upon animate
movements-we feel discomfort or pain.
All the varying mutual actions in the evolution of harmony
are simultaneous, and each separate movement is equally
essential to the effect produced. The same reasoning applies
to the mutual actions between sound waves and the mechan-
ism of the ear. We may say that sound is evolved by the
action of air waves upon the molecular movements in the
structure of the ear ; and we might with equal truth reverse
the statement and say that sound is evolved by the action
of the molecular movements in the structure of the ear upon
air waves. But to express the phenomena as rationally as
possible we must say that sound is evolved by the mutual
actions between the two differing movements (37, 55). And
88 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
this is where such reasoning leads us. It leads us to ·see that
any physical laws applicable to air waves must be equally
applicable to the mind function by which we appreciate
sound, and that mind must be a physical energy. For no
physical law can have any relation whatever to anything
that is supposed to be metaphysical.
And so it is with the evolution of all presentations in
nature. Every presentation evolves from mutual actions;
and for every presentation each differing movement that
conditions its evolution is as necessary as any other.
In animate things every movement must be some form of
animate movement. And every substance that is necessary
in the structure of animate beings must have animate
movements or properties that are essential to life ; and
therefore water-for instance-must have animate pro-
perties, for about three-fourths of the substance of all
living things is water. All things that live will die if water
is withheld from them. How, then, can we say tluU water
is inanimate? (64)
49.-Misleading terms.
Students get almost ineradicable erroneous ideas through
the use of terms in generalisation that are misleading. One
day, while talking to an undergraduate, we somehow got
upon the subject of chemistry. In answer to a statement of
ours this young man asserted that all substances containing
carbon were , organic " ; and that it was well known that
organic chemistry was the chemistry of the carbon com-
pounds. In vain we pointed out to him that the division
between organic and inorganic was purely arbitrary, and
that some compounds containing carbon could not possibly
be organic-in the sense in which that word should be ap-
plied. He had been taught that organic chemistry was the
chemistry of the carbon compounds, and he accepted this
statement as true, whereas it is only approximately true.
For there are a host of compounds containing carbon which
are most certainly not organic, in the sense that should be
accorded to that word. Whether he missed any qualifying
statements made by his teacher or whether the teacher
omitted to make any such statements does not alter the
MUTUAL ACTIONS
fact that the student had firmly acquired an erroneous
conception.
And so it is with the expression " action and reaction " ;
it creates in the student's mind a conception of activities
that are not represented in nature. All action is mutual
and simultaneous, and cannot be differentiated into " action
and reaction," with which sequence in time is consciously or
unconsciously associated.
so.-lncomjwehensible movements~· two things in mutual
adion evolve a something else.
The statement by Hobbes (r6) " that if everything was in
the same state of motion, or, if nothing whatever moved,
there could be no distinction between anything, consequently
no sense," is a profound truth.
Expressing this truth in other words, we say that mind is
conditioned by mutual actions between different movements.
It is, of course, incomprehensible to human beings how
difierences in movement evolve mind energy-just as it is
incomprehensible to us how different movements evolve
electric energy, how the mutual action ·between the gases
hydrogen and nitrogen evolves the pungent suffocating gas
ammonia, and the gases hydrogen and oxygen evolve water-
and so on. We can only know that these things are so.
The reader can form no conception whatever as to how
he sees these lines. He may grasp the conception that
vision is conditioned by mutual actions between the retina
and vibrations of light ; but HOW this mutual action becomes
consciousness of what he sees, becomes, in fact, an operation
of mind, is quite another matter. Man does not know HOW
he is conscious ; he does not know HOW he thinks. It is not
necessary that we should be able to understand how a presen-
tation comes into existence before we are justified 1n
accepting it as a truth.
51.-Isomerism; polymerism; allotropy.
We have drawn attention to the fact that the same ele-
ments, when chemically united, form differing substances,
having differing modes of motion (18) ; and that these differ-
ing modes of motion when in mutual action with the taste
go MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
buds upon the tongue. evolve a decidedly differing perception
of taste-a function of mind.
The phenomena of isomerism, polymerism and allotropy
in chemistry. which furnish most conclusive evidence that
the immediate nature of the differing properties of all
differing substances are simply due to modes of motion that
vary in range. pattern or intensity. demonstrate that the
infinitely varied mutual actions which condition all changes
in the perpetual cycles of evolution and devolution are due
to the differing modes of motion in the substances mutually
engaged. The properties of a substance may therefore be
interpreted as the specific modes ofmotion in that substance ;
and the properties of any particular atom may be regarded as
the specific modes of motion of the electrons within that
atom.
In isomerism we find that the same number of molecules
of the same elements evolve differing substances having
differing properties ; the atoms uniting with each other in
different ways forming differing molecules; and the mutual
actions between these differing molecules evolve differing
substances.
There are a large number of isomeric compounds that are
structurally identical yet have different physical properties.
This can only be explained by a difference in the arrangement
of their atoms in space, which, as a consequence, must give
that difference in movement which conditions the difference
in their physical properties. The same reasoning applies
to polymerism and to allotropism.
In polymerism the same proportion of the same elements
will form differing substances-thus :
2 of A. and 2 of B may form one substance,
but 3 , , 3 , will evolve another substance.
The same elements in the same proportion form different
substances.
In allotropy the same element assumes a different physical
nature, yet remains chemically the same element. Carbon
assumes the allotropic form of the diamond, graphite and
charcoal. Sulphur assumes four different allotropic forms,
one of which is a soft, plastic. rubber-like substance ; oxygen
changes into a more chemically active gas-ozone, yet ozone
MUTUAL ACTIONS 91
is chemically nothing but oxygen. Phosphorus, which is
a deadly poison, changes into a dark red powder, which is
not poisonous I Yet chemically it is phosphorus, and
nothing but phosphorus ! The facts in allotropism show
that fundamental conceptions in chemistry are not yet
quite rightly co-ordinated. Chemically the same element
could not· be both poisonous and harmless.
52.-All phenomena, animate or sub-animate, due to differ-
ences in movement.
If we attempt to co-ordinate the facts in isomerism, poly-
merism and allotropy, we cannot avoid being led to the
conclusion that the immediate cause of all differing properties
in the atoms of the elements and in compound structures is
nothing more than differences in character of movement.
This conclusion harmonises with the popular theory that all
the different kinds of elements are structured from one fonn
of ultimate or proto matter ; and that the difference between
the atoms of differing elements is but that of differences in
number and "pattern" of movement of the ultimate par-
ticles or electrons that enter into the structure of the atoms
of each differing element.
When we have the evidence before us in isomerism,
demonstrating that the same number and kind of atoms can
be arranged differently, so as to evolve substances having
distinctly differing properties ; and in polymerism, that the
same jwoportions of the same kind of atoms will also evolve
substances having different properties, it is evident that such
different properties can only be the result of differing forms
of movement of the molecules that structure the substances.
Forthereisnoother possiblecauseofthesedifferencesinproperties.
We know-it is common knowledge-that all structures
are in eternal motion, also that every differing elemental
molecule has a character of movement that differs from that
of every other elemental molecule. Consequently, all
different structures of atoms, or elementary molecules, no
matter how simple or how complex, must each have a
different character of molecular movement ; and these
differences of movement are made evident to our senses of
perception as different properties of matter.
92 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
A specific property in a substance is a specific character
of movement in that substance (17, 18).
The phenomena in allotropism sustain this conclusion ;
for they show that the only known agencies through which
an element may evolve a different physical structure are
modes of energy-movements.
Oxygen, when heated by electric current, by process of
oxidation, by the combustion of ether upon the surface of
red hot platinum, is transformed into owne. Ozone is thus
evolved by the absorption by oxygen of the energy move-
ments of heat.
When phosphorus, excluded from contact with air, is
heated to a temperature of between 240° and 250° Centi-
grade, it changes into its allotropic non-poisonous form, or it
may be so changed by absorption of the energy rays from
radium. Thus, by simply causing an alteration in molecular
movements a totally different properly of the element is
evolved-as is the case with oxygen.
Sulphur is heated, boiled or distilled, in order to produce
the plastic allotropic modification.
The explanation (?) of chemists that allotropy is due to a
difference in the number of atoms of the elements that
structure an elemental molecule is not an explanation of the
phenomena. If it be true that the elementary molecules
acquire an increase in the number of their atoms, it is what
causes such an increase that is explanatory. If we say that
it is due to an increase in the amount of structural energy
associated with the allotropic atoms which gives them
different movements and consequent different functions, we
give an explanation which we can rationally co-ordinate
with the phenomena. For oxygen, plus energy, evolves
ozone; phosphorus, plus energy, evolves the non-poisonous
form; sulphur, plus energy, its differing physical structures.
We see in every chemical action transformations of free
energy into the confined structural energy of matter, or the
converse-the transformation of confined structural energy
into free energy. Thus a very large amount of structural
energy is set free from the molecules of hydrogen and
oxygen when they unite to form water ; and a large amount
of free energy has to be introduced into H.O. before oxygen
MUTUAL ACTIONS 93
and hydrogen can evolve from it again into separate exist-
ences. In all cases of allotropy, energy appears as the active
agent, the inclusion of additional energy making a more
complex structure with consequently altered properties.
In isomerism and polymerism the difference in the physical
character of substances structured by the same number of
atoms of the same elements, or the same proportions of
atoms of the same elements, can only be accounted for by
assuming that differences in modes or energy of motion are
the cause of the different substances evolved-just as it is
now commonly believed that the different properties of the
difierent elements are conditioned by differences in the
character of the movement of the electrons that structure
them.
It is well known that the atoms and molecules of different
elements have different weights, and consequently each has
a different velocity of molecular movement. The average
velocity of a hydrogen molecule exceeds one mile per second ;
the average velocity of an oxygen molecule is only one-fourth
that of hydrogen. And when different elements become
united chemically in the formation of compound substances
there must arise differences of properties in those substances
which correspond to the differences in the energy and modes
of movement evolved by the mutual actions between the
differing movements in the elements that structure them-
just as the infinite phases of harmony in music are evolved
by the mutual actions between differing movements in air
waves.
Facts in connection with radiation of heat led Planck
to his theory of "quanta" particles of energy. Facts in
relation to velocity of light led Einstein to his theory of
relativity. Both these theories lead to the recent conception
of " action " as being fundamental in physics and of more
importance th-an mass or energy.," Action" in this techni-
cal sense is not the same as the " action " or , reaction " in
the third law of motion. It embraces a time interval, and
may be described as what happens in a minimum of time by
the operation of a minimum of energy. And it is noteworthy
that coming from quite a different direction we have arrived
at the conclusion that the third law of motion, as formulated
94 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
by Newton, does not satisfactorily define movements into
which enters a something besides matter and energy.
The recent conception of " action " is easily translated into
our conception of all action being mutual, equal, simul-
taneous and continuous, which expresses our restatement of
the third law of motion (46). For no one thing per se can
have any action ; there can be no action without difference
in movement ; no minimum of energy can, at the same mo-
ment, have difference of movement. All action must be
mutual, equal, simultaneous and continuous ; and it must be
associated with something beyond matter and energy ; a some
thing which initiates the movement and determines its
character.
The influence of the rapid movement of the gyroscope in
evolving" behaviour," which connotes perceptions or func-
tions of mind (42), the influence of rapid movement- of a
particle in increasing its measured mass (7), the simultaneous
evolution of mind, matter and energy as evidenced in the
phenomena of gravitation (26), the conception of curved
space, the transformation of matter into energy in radio-
activity (165), all lead to a conviction that man has reached
the borderland of possible knowledge, and must be content
with an intelligent conception of the immediate nature of
the presentations within that borderland, for it marks the
limitations of his reasoning faculties.
53.-Human intelligence conditioned by physical movements.
It may be of some help towards getting a grip upon the
rationale of the conception that the infinite phases of im-
mediate mind are conditioned by the infinite phases of
molecular movement possible to the infinite number of
varying molecules, if we consider the mind effects that may
be traced-some directly and unmistakably-to differences
in molecular movement.
We have already shown that differing molecular move-
ments in compounds give us differing perceptions of taste
(18). We have demonstrated that perceptions are the
functional units of mind ; that intelligence is evolved from
the infinite variety of concepts that may be structured from
the varied experiences of our five senses (31 et seq.). We
MUTUAL ACTIONS 95
have shown that if all the human race were to be born blind
and deaf they would rapidly degenerate to an intellectual
level beneath that of any lower animal that can see and
hear (33). And-here is the point to the above statement-
that our perceptions by sight and hearing are conditioned by
mutual actions between our sense organs and electro-
magnetic movements and air movements. Thus the in-
telligence of man above that of lower animals depends upon
the possession of these two senses of perception which are
conditioned by physical movements and which are given a
larger intelligent effect by being able to enter into mutual
actions with a more complex brain structure than is pos-
sessed by any other animal.
Still more simply and clearly do we sense the relation
between movement and mind in our tangible perceptions,
and are thus better able to appreciate the truth of Hobbes'
statement that-
,. If bodies and their internal paris were at rest, or were
always in the same state of motion, there could be no dis-
tinction of anything; consequently, no sense,"
when we consider what we " sense " when we place our
hands in water. If we place the hand into water at a higher
temperature than the hand, we feel a sensation of warmth.
If we place the hand into water that is colder, we have a
perception of coldness. But if we place the hand into water
which is of the same temperature as the hand, we perceive
neither coldness nor warmth.
Perception of warmth or coldness is a matter of mutual
action in molecular movements. Water that is warmer than
the hand has greater energy of molecular movement than the
hand. Water that is colder has less energy of molecular
movement. Our perception of warmth and coldness is a
perception of difference in molecular movement. When the
molecular energy of movement in the water is equal to that of
the surface of the hand we cannot perceive either heat or
cold-there is no difference in movement to make such a
perception possible.
In our perception of the slightest touch of any substance
that gives us no impression of either heat or cold we perceive
the difference in molecular movement in our tissues, that are
96 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
subject to the slight pressure caused by the contact ; for
pressure restrains molecular movements; the mutual
actions between these movements and the pressure evolves
heat energy. We can warm our hands when they are cold
by repeatedly squeezing them hard and relaxing the pressure.
An increase in temperature causes more active molecular
movements in the tissues. This involves more active meta-
bolism, which is perceived by the organic mind in the part as
a sensation of warmth, if the increase is within certain limits.
When it rises beyond those limits we perceive a sensation of
burning or scalding, caused by an excessive activity in
katabolism that anabolism cannot keep pace with, and
disintegration of tissue results ; we have movement that
destroys, and perceptions that are intensely painful, but the
movement that destroys is essentially the same as the move-
ment that builds up. The difference is that of degree, not of
kind of movement-a difference that so often misleads to
erroneous conclusions.
We perceive no sensation of movement in a floating vessel,
if it does not pitch or roll, no matter how quickly we may be
travelling, for there is no difference of movement either in the
velocity or direction of ourselves and the vessel that bears us.
Without differences in movement there can be no evidences
of existence ; there could be no phenomena ; nothing could
happen. Stop the blood moving through the brain, and
conscious mind in man ceases to exist. Stop molecular
movements, and all life would vanish from the earth. Stop
the movements of electrons, and the universe itself would
disappear- if the vortex theory in Kelvin's definition of
matter be true.
The primal evidences of mind function-the universal
mutual actions between particles of matter-which demons-
trate that they perceive each other, are expressed by
movement-as seen in gravitation (26). The perceptive
senses of man and animal are conditioned by movements and
made evident by movements (r8). The highest intelligence
in man is structured solely upon the data furnished by his
perception of movements (zg). Functions of mind-even
mere thoughts--originate in movements and are expressed
in movements (3).
MUTUAL ACTIONS 97
Finally, we come to the conclusion that the infinity of
mutual actions that condition all phenomena in nature,
mental and physical, are evolved from the infinite variations
that are possible in the manner of movements in systems of
energy.
We see that there is " action " evolved by the mutual
action between the brain neurones and the perceptive move-
ments transmitted to theJD by sensory and organic nerve
systems. This " action " we tenn conscious mind ; and we
see in this consciousness an energy quite distinct from the
physical energies although it is correlated with them. We
have energy movements in this conscious " action " which
seem apart from the physical because they are intelligent.
In Space, Time and Gravitation, Eddington tells us on page
147 that action is" more fundamental than either mass or
energy." Man knows of no other factor than mind 'Yhich
can possibly be more fundamental than mass or energy.
Do we here find that even the new physics of relativity are
furnishing evidence of the truth of our postulates ?
54.-Universal mind con1Utions universal life.
Universal movement, perpetual and unceasing, expresses
perpetual and unceasing life; and universal mind con9itions
the universal movement. Individual beings have evolved
and devolved in countless millions for countless ages, and are
still evolving and disappearing for ever-as have the infinite
hosts that have preceded them. But the systems of energy
-the atoms-that structured and animated the first indivi-
dual beings that ever existed, are still in existence, quite
unchanged and as animate as ever, and will remain animate,
giving life to an infinite succession of ephemeral individual
beings, so long as the present order of nature remains fun-
damentally the same.
G
CHAPTER IV
MIND INSEPARABLE FROM LIFE AND MOVEMENT
55.-CO-Ot'dination of animate with physical movements.
·All presentations in nature are conditioned by varying
values of mind, matter and energy, the inseparable trinity
which represents the limit, or ultimate depth, to which
human mind may penetrate in co-ordinating the conditions
necessary to any particular phenomena ; therefore all
activities in nature must be subservient to the same natural
laws, whether we arbitrarily term those activities physical,
chemical, mental, animate, or sub-animate.
The physical law that the illuminating power of a light
varies inversely as the square of its distance is equally an
animate law-or a law of mind function, and might be stated
thus:-
" The intensity of mutual action between the energy of
light and the organic energy of the eye, as evidenced by its
impressions upon consciousness, is inversely as the square
of the distance of the source of the light."
It is the perceptive function of the eye that determines
all the knowledge we possess regarding the illuminating
power of a light ; and as every perceptive function is a
function of mind the law of the inversed square is equally a
law of mind function as it is a physical law.
The action of light upon a photographic film is exactly
bal~ced by simultaneous mutual action of the chemical
molecules of the film; and this mutual action gives us the
photographic picture. The same electro-magnetic move-
ments which condition light, and by mutual action with the
elements of the film give us the photograph-a physical
process-enter also into mutual action with the elements
which structure the retina and give us visual perception-
an animate process I
The incomprehensible mysteries we find associated with
LIFE AND MOVEMENT 99
animate life follow, as a natural consequence, from the
incomprehensible nature of atomic properties, which give us
the incomprehensible efiects in chemical mutual actions.
All things that live are animated by energy set free in bio-
chemical mutual actions. Every animate being absorbs, or
ingests, substances having structural energy, the devolution
of which by mutual actions within the living body into
simpler and less complex structures, releases the structural
energy, which is then transformed into energy movements of
mind and body.
In many ways we can co-ordinate animate movements
with physical movements. They are subject to physical
laws equally with the stone which falls to the earth, or the
continuous fall of the earth and the moon towards each other.
The universal application of the law of the inverse square
is one ofthe strongest evidences that all movements in nature
are continuous. Molecular movements condition all the
activities we term living; and these molecular movements
are subject to the law of the inverse square, equally with all
other movements of energy and matter. This surely cannot
be coincidence.
Whether it be mutual action between molecules in the act
of chemical transformations within or external to animate
beings ; between molecules of substances in simple solution
or material bodies in mechanical movement, it is the same-
equal and simultaneous movement, inviolably involving
some transformations of mind, matter and energy, giving
the perpetual cycles of movement that characterise all that
we know of the universe.
It is a necessary condition of any existences that they are
conditioned by other existences. Continuity of mind with
living movements and with all sub-animate phenomena is
absolute. All the movements we term " living , are but the
means whereby mind expresses itseH-organic mind in the
wonderful movements within us, of which we remain un-
conscious ; conscious mind in the movements that condition
thought. Thus mind and life are resolved into mutual
action--equal and simultaneous. No movement without
life; no life without movement. No life without mind;
no mind without life.
100 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
Plants and cold-blooded animals behave alike in relation
to temperature (56 et seq.). · At a low temperature they
ceaseto exhibit any sign of life ; and alike they will die if not
constantly supplied with the animating energies in atoms of
oxygen. Thus living activities are continuous with physical
energies, and with the sub-animate elements. William James
tells us that "The immediate state of consciousness is an
activity of some sort in the cerebral hemispheres'' (3). An
"activity" is a movement having energy. A metaphysical
nothing cannot move and have energy. W. McDougall tells
us that we cannot define mind in terms of conscidusness t and
that the only alternative is to define it in terms of behaviour
(41).
But " behaviour " is action-movement ; all movement is
physical mutual action. And as mutual action has been
unceasingly continuous from the mutual action of the first
two particles of matter that came into existence down to the
mutual action necessary to write these lines, mind must be
physical, continuous and coeval with matter and energy;
and it must evolve into consciousness in man and animal as
one of the simultaneous factors which evolve-in some in-
comprehensible manner in all mutual actions between bodies
(46)-when the properties of the atoms in the blood stream
come into mutual action with the properties of the atoms
which structure the brain neurones. And as the blood,
whilst life endures in the individual, never ceases to flow
through the brain, so consciousness never entirely ceases. In
sleep we are never absolutely unconscious (191).
Conscious mind in man, therefore, appears as a constant
current of intelligent energy flowing from the brain, as a
result of the continuous mutual actions that unceasingly
operate between the brain structures and the blood con-
stantly flowing through them.
56.-The e"oneous belief that mind is not physical. Butler.
It is a prevalent but erroneous belief that mind is not
physical. Physicists tell us that there are but two things in
the universe-matter and energy-and that consciousness is
not physical.
Samuel Butler very effectively reasons against the con·
LIFE AND MOVEMENT IOI
ception of Mind as a metaphysical entity, in his work,
U'tleonscious Memory, page 68, where he says :-
" If I am asked a question and reply to it, the material
process which the nerve fibre conveys from the organ of
hearing to the brain must travel through my brain as an
actual and material process before it can reach the nerves
which will act upon my organs of speech.
" It cannot, after reaching a given place in the brain,
change then and there into an immaterial something and
turn up some time afterwards in another part of the brain
as a material process.••
The fact that the movements of living things are so
evidently and unmistakably purposive and dominant over
the matter and energy in their structure clearly indicates the
existence of a something that has both energy and intelli-
gence, and which cannot be either matter per se or energy
per se. or any combination of those two factors alone. For
neither matter nor energy. either singly or combined, can
possess any power of automatic guidance. The dominant
factor in movements of matter and energy must be another
factor-mind. This gives us a factor in nature which is
included in our postulate that mind, matter and energy are
coeval and inseparable. It does not seem rational for
physicists to say that there are only two things in the
umverse.
All presentations in nature have mind. The imaginary
line which has been arbitrarily drawn between the living and
the non-living is but where, in the rising complexity of
structures, mind value rises so as to be more definitely and
objectively evident to our senses by more perceptively
evident purposive movements. Below that arbitrary point
mind values are so feeble that man has been erroneously
led to believe that they did not exist. Everything in nature
that is must be physical-it cannot be otherwise. The
fact that we cannot comprehend the physical nature of
consciousness or of mind is no reason why we should dub
it metaphysical. It is quite as irrational to consider mind
as metaphysical, because we cannot comprehend the physi-
cal nature of it, as it is for savages to consider thunder and
lightning as due to the supernatural because they cannot
roz MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
comprehend the nature of these phenomena. Metaphysical
is only a more refined or civilised supernatural.
And, if mind is not continuous, physical, and a mode of
energy, what becomes of the matter and energy we daily
ingest in order to keep going our constant output of mental
and physical energy ? Does that also become metaphysical
as it is transformed into mind energy, and therefore become
nothing?
If so, every living thing is constantly transforming matter
and energy into nothing I Destroying matter and energy
all the while that science is teaching in every university in
the world that matter and energy can never be destroyed!
And what becomes of the principles of the conservation of
matter and energy ; or, as we should now put it-of the sum
of matter and energy ?
57.-" Life" not an existence-only an abstract noun.
Life is not an existence ; it is simply an abstract noun
expressing or indicating activities of mind-animate move-
ments-and we may consider " universal life " as indicating
the simultaneous activities that result from the unceasing
mutual actions and transformations of mind, matter and
energy. If any animate being, or any part of that animate
being, moves, that movement is determined by mind-
organic or conscious. If these two phases of mind are
absent, if there be no movement, there can be no animate
being-there is only then sub-animate existence, that ex-
presses itself in sub-animate movements, such as we find in
mutual actions between what is termed " dead " matter-
the effects of gravitation, electro-magnetic movements,
chemical affinities and repulsions, and so on ; and these
sub-animate movements are determined by sub-organic
mind {IIO). Universal mind gives us universal perpetual
movement. Every movement in nature is concurrent with
an activity or expression of mind--conscious, organic, or
sub-organic ; no matter by what term we denote that
movement; every movement is initiated by a perception-
a function of mind (30) ; and every differing mode of per-
ception shows clearly as a distinct phase of mind function
which we cannot connect with any other phase, except upon
the basic conception of difference in movement (26).
LIFE AND MOVEMENT IOJ
ss.-vt&rieioft. ill stfucturl gives fJtJriation in miu.
Further, ch.aracter of mind must always be dependent
upon the character of the mutual actions in the structures
from which it arises ; must vary with every variation in
structure (144) ; and must increase in value by the increasing
varieties of combinations that become possible by increasing
complexity in structures. And the mutual actions in such
structures must depend upon the character of the ultimate
atoms that form the structures. Thus we arrive at the
truth, that character of mind is primarily determined by the
character of the atoms in the structures, whose mutual
actions are simultaneously transformed into mind energy.
Atoms carry their properties with them into all more com-
plex structures (3).
If we compare the character of mind exhibited by man
with and without the presence of alcohol, opium, Indian
hemp, or other drugs, in the mutual actions in the brain
cells from which conscious mind evolves (97), or if we consider
the wide difference in the character of our perceptive senses-
functions of mind-caused by difierences in the structure
of our perceptive organs, this truth comes home to us. Our
eyes can see, but they cannot hear; our ears can hear, but
they cannot see ;-difference in structure causes difierence
in mind function.
59.- Universal perpetual movement.
Everything in the universe is in a state of perpetual
motion in mutual actions. All movement is initiated by
some mode of perception-an activity of mind (30). Ani-
mate and sub-animate, organic and sub-organic, living and
dead(?) matter are but extremes of phases of this universal
and perpetual movement.
THE MUTUAL ACTIONS BETWEEN-
I. All particles of matter in the universe evolve gravita-
tion.
2. Varying numbers and movements of electrons evolve
atoms.
J. Different atoms evolve different substances.
4· Different substances evolve organic substances.
104 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
5· Different organic substances evolve organic struc-
tures
6. Differing organic structures evolve organic mind.
7· Organic mind and brain neurones evolve con-
conscious mind.
8. The differing elements in a voltaic cell evolve electric
energy.
9· The same elements in a test tube evolve heat energy.
-and so on.
Every phenomenon in nature is a mutual action of some
kind ; and the character of mutual action must have infinite
variety. corresponding to the infinite variety of combinations
possible to the primary atoms that structure everything.
And through all mutual action runs the initiative dominance
and continuity of universal mind, as indicated by behaviour
(41), and evidenced by perceptions (38 et seq.).
6o.-What man possessed the greatest mind;
If the civilised world was asked to decide who of all men
who have ever lived should be credited with having the
greatest mind, no satisfactory decision could be arrived at.
Religion, sentiment, and other influences would vary de-
cisions ; and even if these factors could be eliminated, the
difficulties in the way of a true decision would be insuperable.
For instance, how could one possibly determine a choice
between such men as Thales, Aristotle, Archimedes, Newton,
Clerk Maxwell, Lord Kelvin and other men of natural
genius? If Maxwell had lived to a ripe old age, as did
Newton, what might he not have accomplished? If Archi-
medes had possessed the accumulation of acquired knowledge
that was available to Kelvin, what might not he have accom-
plished ? For, with all his limitations, he so advanced
science in some directions that nearly two thousand years
elapsed before his methods were improved upon.
The difficulty of deciding who of all men should be credited
with having the greatest mind is insuperable; because it is
impossible to determine the comparative value of achieve-
ments under differing values of acquired knowledge. Given
to Aristotle the knowledge of facts that accumulated between
his day and Newton's, it is quite possible that Newton and
LIFE AND MOVEMENT 105
others would have been deprived of some of their oppor-
tunities. Every new fact, principle or law discovered lessens
the possibilities of further discoveries to future generations
of seekers after truth. It is not open now to any original
investigator to discover the composite nature of light, the
velocity of light, the laws of motion and gravitation, the
conservation of matter and energy, the advanced methods of
mathematicians, the mechanical equivalent of heat, radio-
activity, the breaking down of the atom, wireless
communication, or any other of the achievements of modem
times. Further, it is quite possible that history does not
record the name of the man who possessed the greatest mind.
He may have lived prior to authentic history ; or accident
or some untoward circumstance may have left us no record
of his having existed. It may have been Thales, who first
calculated and predicted an eclipse of the sun; or, for aught
we know to the contrary, it may have been the genius who
first made a fish-hook out of a flint splinter thousands of
years before history began.
H. G. Wells was recently asked who, in his opinion, were
the six greatest men in history. He decided upon Jesus,
Buddha, Aristotle, Asoka, Roger Bacon and Lincoln.
A vast majority of well-read persons would substitute
other names for some of the above six ; thousands would
not include one of them.
And if it is impossible to determine who of all men had the
greatest mind, how much further from possibility would it
be to determine the second in order of merit I Possible can-
didates for first honour might be counted in tens; possible
candidates for second honour would have to be counted in
thousands ; and for third place, millions. When we get
down to those who are just a little above the average in
ability the number would be countless millions. And this
downward grade continues with no perceptible break in
continuity to the lowest manifestation of human conscious
mind in absolute idiocy.
6z.-Mind values continuous from genius to the atom.
At no place on that downward grade can we draw a line
across and perceive any difference whatever between the quality
xo6 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
of mind touching the line on one side •nil tM qualuy of wiwl
touching the line on the other side.
We can clearly see from this absolute continuity in
function, from genius down to its nearest approach to zero in
the idiot, that human conscious mind does not differ in the
slightest in its essential or ultimate nature, but only in
range or quality of function. Exactly as heat or electric
energy, from the highest possible intensity down to the
imperceptible, does not differ in the slightest in essential
nature, but only in range or intensity of function.
Consider also the infinitely varied directions that may be
open or closed to the perceptive faculties of different persons.
A mathematical genius may have no comprehension of
music ; a musical genius may have no comprehension of
mathematics. The musical genius, regarding the mathe-
matician from the purely musical point of view, could quite
reasonably class the mathematician as almost idiotic because
he had no appreciation of music ; and the mathematician
could reasonably regard the musician as of feeble intellect
because he could not comprehend mathematics. And so on
in an infinite number of ways with persons having differences
in value of given perceptions.
In the descending scale of mind function we do not stop
within the narrow limits of human conscious mind ; for mind
is universal and has its influence everywhere. We can
track down the continuity of mind to much lower depths.
Any intelligent animal-for instance, a dog, horse, chim-
panzee or elephant-has at least as much conscious mind as
the human absolute idiot ; and we can trace mind down in
animals by evidences of their intelligence by such imper-
ceptibly diminishing values that no difference can be
appreciated at any point on that downward grade, right
down to the lowest animal life in the protozoa or single
celled animals.
From this we can still follow the diminishing evidences of
mind through the prot£sta-a lowly form of life having
characters both animal and vegetal-into the more lowly
animate organisms-the bacteria, till living organisms
become too small to be detected by the most powerful micro-
scope and disappear by merging into the sub-organic,
LIFE AND MOVEMENT I07
where the animate and sub-animate, are still united in
continuity.
If it were possible for man to watch the movements of
individual molecules in the structures of substances from the
simplest sub-organic to the most complex in a brain cell,
we should find the increase in complexity of structure and
movement so sequentially even that the question regarding
the starting point of animate movements would still remain
just as arbitrary a point as the arbitrary distinction
between the organic and sub-organic, and the living and the
non-living.
It is quite customary to-day in pathology to attribute an
obscure effect to some organism too minute to discover by the
microscope. Any reasonable view of evolution must make
the chain of events and existences continuous, and cannot
admit any missing link between the living and the non-
living. The expert chemist of to-day will tell you that the
distinction between organic and sub-organic has now no
place in his science, except for purposes of classification.
So that from the highest human mind down to what we
tenn sub-animate matter, and right down to the atom, there
is a continuous connection of evidences of mind manifesta-
tion of gradually diminishing range or intensity, and we
cannot draw a line across anywhere and detect any difference
whatever between the essential nature of the mind on the
one side of the line and that of the mind on the other side.
And all along the line, from genius to the atom, we deduce
evidence of mind from the "behaviou," of the subject; we
see that material atoms and micro-organisms behave in an
exactly similar way under exactly similar conditions actuated
by perceptions (40), and we cannot rationally dissociate that
behaviour from the influence of the same fundamental
factor-mind.
62.-The eternal mind ene'gy in the atom.
We can only perceive the character of "behaviour"
directly when it comes within the range of our conscious
perceptions; when it goes below that range we can only
follow it by reasoning upon other experiences. For instance,
we are quite unconscious of that intelligence within us which,
108 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
alike in summer heat and in winter's cold, regulates our
molecular activities so as to keep our bodies at a uniform
temperature of about g8 .5° Fah. We have no direct
perception of this intelligent control, but we must conclude
that it is evidence of the activity of a phase of mind that is
beyond our comprehension. The immediate cause of all
the intelligent activities within us of which we remain un-
conscious-the beating of the heart, the elaboration of the
digestive juices, the secretions of the ductless glands, the
evolution of physical and mental energies, the repair of
injuries, the removal of waste matter, and the like activities
in all other living organisms, animal and vegetal, are all
evidences of that which we herein term organic mind (94).
We are ignorant of the nature of the molecular activities
that form a crystal or that cause such wonderful transforma-
tions in chemical mutual actions. The immediate cause of
the lower forms of intelligent molecular activity in the sub-
organic we term sub-animate mind (110 et seq.). For whether
it be in the cells of the brain, the cells of our internal organs,
the cells in a plant, the substances in a solution that form a
crystal, or the elements in a test tube, the ultimate physical
cause that conditions all expressions of mind is the eternal
mind energy within the atom. Wherever mind expresses
itself we find it expressed in molecular movements ; and
molecular movements arise from the inviolable properties
of atoms. These being the most fundamental things pre-
sented to us, their properties "must explain the properties
of all more complicated structures" (3). All this is in
harmony with the findings of psychologists, that mind is
motor in its origin, and motor in its consequences (3), and thus
we arrive at the unavoidable conclusion that mind is in-
separable from movement-life.
63.-The" origin of life" not a legitimate problem.
The foregoing conclusion leads to a view of what is meant
by the term life very different to that entertained in popular
thought. For life is not a thing or an entity; it is only a
term-an abstract noun-that denotes those animate activi-
ties that are expressions of mind. Mind expresses itself
in the activities we term living. Life has no more definite
LIFE AND MOVEMENT 109
basic meaning than walking, swimming, or fiying. Ac-
tivities that are expressions of mind reach down to the
activities of atoms, so that life in the same sense in which it
is applied to animate movements really extends to all move-
ments in nature, and we may reasonably speak of the" sub-
animate life " in the movements of any substance. ThtS
runs parallel with the acknowledged arbitrary division
between the organic and the inorganic ; the division between
animate and sub-animate is equally arbitrary. Animate
movements are simply more complex than sub-animate
movements ; that is the only difference. Complexity of
movement arises from complexity of structure, and there is
an unbroken chain of continuously developing complexity
from the atom to the brain neurone, which determines that
all movement must have the same fundamental origin.
The reader may now clearly see the futility of the many
theories and speculations regarding the " origin of life," as
being a something that came into existence long subsequent
to the origin of the earth. For mind is inseparable from
matter and energy, and evidenced its presence in the first
particles of matter that came into existence (26) by move-
ments due to the primal perception for mass ; consequently
sub-organic mind and sub-organic life must have existed
from the beginning.
In the progress of evolution organic mind and organic
movements evolved by increasing complexity in structures
from sub-organic mind and sub-organic movements; then
animate mind and animate movements by still increasing
complexity in structures evolved from organic mind and
organic movements. But all is of necessity perfectly con-
tinuous, from the present condition back to the fire mist or
the incomprehensible first cause out of which the universe
evolved. We cannot discover the origin of life, nor even
conceive its origin, any more than we can discover the origin
of mind, matter or energy ; nor can we even imagine the
ultimate something out of which they evolved.
We have no theories or speculations regarding the origin
of mind, matter or energy, such as we have regarding the
" origin of life " ; yet all are involved in the same unfathom-
able problem of existence; and the fact that many scientists
110 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
to-day are attempting to demonstrate experimentally the
beginnings of life indicates how far man is yet astray in his
conceptions of the truth regarding it. For life-the sub-
animate life of molecular movement-already exists in the
very substances they are experimenting with; they are
looking for that which is all the time under their noses !
64.-Chemists a,e noTtJ arlificially evolving life from the
sub-animate. p,of. Schafe,,
Chemists to-day are manufacturing synthetically from
sub-animate elements substances that have animate mole-
cular movements that are necessary to human existence ;
and so are really, and artificially evolving animate life from
the sub-animate, but have not yet become conscious of the
fact that the problem of the immediate evolution of living
activities has been solved by them. Adrenalin, for instance,
is the active substance that is secreted by the suprarenal
glands. It possesses a living function. Dise.ase, or removal
of the glands, by stopping the flow of this substance into the
blood stream causes death. Chemists are now making this
living substance that has animate properties. But this
making of animate substance is not gene,ating life, it is only
adding or mixing together molecules already having the
necessary sub-animate life in such a manner that the life
existing in them cumulates in the greater energy of ex-
pression, which is termed 11
animate."
If we accept as true the statement made in the Medical
Research Council's Report for 1925-26 that chloresterol,
when exposed to sunlight, will evolve vitamin D, we have
actually reached a knowledge of the immediate conditions
which, in one particular direction, are necessary to the evolu-
tion of the animate from the sub-animate.
Chloresterol is a solid alcohol which has functions below the
arbitrary and indefinite value we term animate. Yet on
exposure to sunlight it evolves by mutual action with the
energy of that light a vitamin, a substance having the en-
hanced and more complex functions of that which we
arbitrarily term " living." In ordinary language a II dead "
substance is transformed into a living substance by the
influence of sunlight.
LIFE AND MOVEMENT III
But this is only getting a more particular and exact know-
ledge of the transformations taking place at the earth's
surface where the energy of the sun is perpetually building
up living things by mutual action with the sub-animate soil,
water and air.
Every substance and every element that is essential to a
living organism must have at least sub-animate properties
or functions, or it could not be essential to the existence
of that organism. And whether such substances or elements
be within a living organism or external to it, they still must
possess those sub-animate properties. The fact that the
properties of atoms are unalterable and the further fact that
the relations between structure and function are inviolable-
as we demonstrate in Chapter IX-enables us to perceive in
the foregoing statement an a priori truth.
We anticipate a popular and energetic denial to this
conclusion ; but we venture to predict that not many years
will pass before it becomes generally recognised as a funda-
mental truth within common knowledge.
Each substance or element essential to a living thing will,
by mutual actions and co-operative association with all the
other substances and elements which are also necessary to the
structure of that living thing, condition and evolve that
degree of animate function which we arbitrarily term
" living.,
Prof. Schafer, in his presidential address to the British
Association at Dundee, 1912, referring to theories regarding
the coming of life to the earth from other worlds, remarked:
" The acceptance ofsuch theories ofthe arrival oflife 01J the
earlh does not bring us any nearer to a conception of its
llctual mode of origin,· on the contrary, it merely serves to
banish the investigation of the question to some conveniently
inaccessible corner of the universe, and leaves us in the
unsatisfactory position of affirming not only that we have no
knowledge as to the mode of the origin of life-which is
unfortunately true-but that we can never acquire such
knowledge, which, it is hoped, is not true."
The irrational idea that the earth was in some way in-
oculated with life from another planet ; the fact that the
origin of life is looked upon as a problem that man may in
rrz MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
due time solve ; and the fact that to-day many are en-
deavouring experimentally to demonstrate the spontaneous
generation of life after the manner of Bastian, by the action
of light upon weak metastable colloid solutions, or the
manner of Leduc by means of osmotic pressure and diffu-
sion, shows the wide gap that exists between popular
conceptions of the problem and the actual truth.
Such efforts cannot bring us any nearer to any conception
of the ultimate origin of life ; this involves a conception of a
first cause that is utterly beyond comprehension. Whatever
results such efforts bring about can only be looked upon as
evidences of the sub-organic life already existing in the
substances they are experimenting with. No matter what
results may be achieved by such labours in synthetic chemis-
try, by collodial or crystalline solutions, diffusion, osmosis
or any other means, the question of the origin of life
would remain unanswered.
It is as though they were endeavouring to determine one
definite point only upon an infinite length of tapered rod as
the only place it could be cut into two lengths, so as to give
a thick tapered rod and a thin one.
For the rod could be cut anywhere and give this result;
and wherever it was cut there would be no difference in
value of the dimensions of the faces cut. And so it must be
with the line of continuity that connects the molecular
movements in the animate with the movements in the sub-
animate. We may cut across anywhere we please, but the
animate value of molecular movements will be equal on each
side of the cut.
Life-which must be readasconnotingexpressionsofmind
-must be evolving continuously in varying phases with
every change in physical structure that evolves increased
complexity ; it is an immediate attendant, evolving or de-
volving with every phase of sub-organic or organic evolu-
tion and devolution.
The chemist who in his laboratory evolves a chemical
reaction that has never before occurred in nature has in
truth evolved a new perception-a new phase of mind. And
this new phase of mind is in truth a new phase of living
activity. It may be only a humble phase of sub-animate
LIFE AND MOVEMENT II3
life. but life it is, and essentially the same as the more com-
plex animate life. And as many hundreds of substances
have been evolved by chemists that never were-so far as is
known-produced under purely natural conditions, it fol-
lows that man has already succeeded in artificially evolving
life in his laboratory.
Even if it were possible for man to see atoms and molecules
and follow their inconceivably rapid movements in animal
cell. plant cell and chemical test tubes, the point separating
an mate movement from sub-animate movement would still
be an arbitrary point having no actual existence; for he
would see the movements unbrokenly continuous from the
most simple in the sub-animate to the most complex in the
animate. And so long as man conceives that a definite
dividing line exists between the animate and the sub-animate
so long will that supposed line be an arbitrary position which
man may foolishly speculate upon and wrangle about.
65.-The tendency of modern thought towards continuity.
The general tendency of modem thought towards the
continuity of all phenomena in nature is a prominent feature
in the notable advances made in knowledge during recent
years.
In geology we formerly had distinct and separate
" periods " marked out by the character of the stra~a
deposited. Now we know that there are no such distinct
periods, but that all merge continuously one into the other.
Chemistry, Physics, Biology and other branches of
science are continuous ; at various points one branch of
science merges into the other. Biology merges into chemis-
try, chemistry into physics, physics into astronomy.
In chemistry all the different elements were supposed to
differ from each other in their ultimate nature. Now we
have evidence sufficient to warrant the assertion that all
known elements are structures of electrons.
In physics we have varied forms of energy; these were
considered to be all different things. Now we know that all
forms of energy are transformable or correlated ; also that
matter and energy are correlated.
Only a few years ago it was esteemed a scientific truth that
B
114 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
matter and energy were two different fundamental entities
that were each conserved, that the totals of matter and
energy were fixed and unalterable quantities. Now we
know that each is transformable into the other, and we have
to postulate that the sum of matter and energy is constant.
Our investigations into the ultimate nature of mind takes
us deeper still ; for we find that mind is a factor correlated
with matter and energy, and we must now postulate that it
is the sum of mind, matter and energy that is constant.
For the very fact that all living things have to ingest matter
and energy in the form of food in order that they may live
and evolve the organic and conscious mind that conditions
living movements, proves that mind, matter and energy
are correlated fundamental factors, and that mind exists in
matter and energy, just as energy exists in matter, and
matter exists in energy.
In biology a sharp line was drawn between the animal
and vegetal kingdoms. Now we know that there is no line of
separation between the two; that they are intimately
connected by numerous forms of life that have the functions
of both animal and vegetal organisms and belong definitely
to neither-the protista. We have the carnivorous plants
that catch, enclose and digest living animals. We also
know that the physiological unit of all life-man or worm,
tree or grass-is the protoplasmic cell.
66.-Clifford ,· Leduc,· WOhler.
Formerly a sharp line was drawn separating the organic
from the sub-organic. Now we know that the sub-organic
merges imperceptibly into the organic ; that a perfect
continuity of evolutionary phases connects them. As
Clifford many years ago said :-
"The line dividing organic matter from inorganic, if
drawn to-day, must be moved to another place to-morrow ;
and the chemist will tell you that the distinction has now
no place in his science except in a technical sense, for the
convenience of studying the carbon compounds by
themselves."
And as Leduc says to-day in his Mechanism of Life:-
,.All forms and phenomena of nature are united by
LIFE AND MOVEMENT II5
insensible transition ; it is impossible to separate them ;
and in the distinction between living and non-living things
we must content ourselves with relative definitions which
are far from being precise.''
Less than a century ago it was considered impossible to
artificially produce any form whatever of organic matter,
such as is produced by living animal or vegetal metabolism ;
for to do so would, of course, be to do something which was
then considered possible only to the living-would be pro-
ducing a living function. Yet in I828 Wohler discovered a
reaction between potassium cyanate and ammonium sul-
phate that produced urea I
To-day the production of organic compounds is a common
fact that causes no surprise. Numbers of artificially pro-
duced organic compounds are now manufactured; we have
industries that are built and thrive upon the economic
production of them.
The acceptance of Wohler's production of urea as the first
organic substance produced artificially very clearly shows
how slow man has been to realise the indications of continuity
in nature. Carbon dioxide is a product of living metabolism,
the result of a living function ; but it was produced artifi-
cially when a fire was lighted for the first time by a human
being!
Anyone now sitting in his study reading these lines is
exhaling carbon atoms that entered into the structure of
food now providing the mental energy he is expending.
These carbon atoms--associated in the structure of the
carbon dioxide molecules exhaled-diffuse through the air of
the study, pass out of window or door into garden or or-
chard, are absorbed by edible plants or fruit trees, and,
in conjunction with other elements and with energy from the
sun, are built up again into carbohydrate molecules that may
again furnish my reader-or others-with the necessary
energy for continuing the flow of animate energy that, whilst
life lasts, never ceases flowing through living organisms.
Continuity of mind, matter and energy appears to us so
evident that it seems almost a waste of time co-ordinating
the evidences of it.
In the suspension for an indefinite time of animate
116 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
activities in living things by desiccation and the
restoration of those animate activities simply by the appli-
cation of moisture we have conclusive evidence that the
arbitrary point where the so-called dead (?) matter merges
into the animate may be covered by a molecule of water!
(135). Does not this prove that water has an animate
movement or function ? Does not the fact that we are
able to produce artificially a substance that is produced
by a living organism and is essential to the life of that
organism prove that we can produce a living substance
artificially? And if we can produce artificially from sub-
organic elements one living function, does not that prove
that there is a continuity between living activities and sub-
organic molecular movements? There is no other possible
conclusion to which we can rationally come.
67.-
.Errors in co-ordination~· SpiUman; Max Verworn.
If error in co-ordination is present in conceptions regarding
basic phenomena, resulting phenomena that are conditioned
by and follow the basic phenomena cannot be satisfactorily
co-ordinated-they cannot be made to "fit, properly.
Nowhere is this more evident than in " Heredity " and in
other problems in biology. Spillman, in his work, The
Present Status ofthe Genetic Problem, says :-
"Just at present we have more facts of a ce1'tain kind
than we know what to do with. We need someone to put
a meaning into those facts. We are in the position of a
man lost in the wilde1'ness. What he needs to find is a
road."
These remarks of Spillman accentuate Clerk Maxwen·s
statement that " Sciences of this kind will be occupied for
ages to come in the co-ordination of these facts, (g). But
they never can be truly co-ordinated so long as basic co-
ordination remains in error.
Max Verwom seems to have had a suspicion of basic
error when, on reviewing the barren results of so many years
study of life, he asked :-
"Are we on a false track? Do we ask our questions of
nature amiss, or do we not read her answers aright ? "
We may answer these questions by saying:-
LIFE AND MOVEMENT 117
.. You conceive ' mind • as a something superposed upon
' life ' ; that life is a something from which mind evolves ;
whereas life is but the expression of mind ; the basis of
life is mind ; all phenomena of life are modes of expression
of mind. You have conceived the relations of mind and
life upside down, and the result of your studies is barren ;
you have striven to co-ordinate biological facts with 'life'
instead of ' mind •-hence failure.
.. It is true that conscious mind evolves from the brain;
and this fact has undoubtedly led you and others astray.
But the conscious mind of man is only a very small and
humble phase of one great and universal mind. What of the
organic mind that constructs the brain? What of the
organic mind that exists in everyone of the countless millions
of cells that structure our bodies, of whose organic percep-
tions we remain wholly unconscious, and whose activities
are referred to by such terms as ' unconscious mind,'
'supernormal perceptions,' 'subliminal mind,' and 'un-
conscious cerebration ' ; whose activities ' regulate ' our
functions and keep us alive whilst conscious mind is ' dead •
in sleep?
"Does it not seem reasonable to conclude that the quality
and powers of mind that are adequate and competent to do
these things must be more subtle and extensive than the
functions of the brain which it brings into being ?
" Biologists and psychologists do not yet grasp the im-
mediate nature of or the wonderful possibilities of organic
mind ; but psycho-therapeutists are making some slight
acquaintance with them.
'' Your basic conceptions of the relations between mind
and life being erroneous, no amount of study can lead to
satisfactory results ; your labour must be barren. If your
basic data had been properly co-ordinated, you would have
had no cause to complain of results. The very fact that the
results you have achieved from such prolonged investigation
are so very unsatisfactory is surely sufficient indication that
there has been error in the data upon which your studies
have been based."
It is sad to think of the wasted efforts of those who have
given-and are still giving-so much labour and study in
118 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
the attempt to track down a material basis in heredity. All
must fail, for the simple reason that there can be no such
material basis-except in a sense foreign to their efforts.
They try to build upon erroneous data regarding the relation.s
between mind and life. Darwin's" gemules"; Weismann~s
" Theory of the germ plasm " ; various theories regarding
chromosomes and " determinants " ; chemical and other
theories have been laboriously investigated with barren
results, so far as a physical basis in heredity is concerned.
When the basic nature of mind and its universal activities
are correctly appreciated and co-ordinated ; when it becomes
general knowledge that mind is the dominant factor in
heredity, we may look for some decided advance in rational
comprehension of facts in heredity, and results of great but
as yet unknown value are possible.
68.-No structure creates energy •· energy creates structure.
A Morse telegraphic instrument or an electric motor is
moved by an energy. It does not create that energy; nor
did the energy come into existence as a consequence of the
coming into existence of telegraphic instruments or electric
motors. The movements in such machines are expressions
of electric energy.
Exactly so with living things. They do not create the
mind energy by which they move ; nor did the energy come
into existence as a consequence of the coming into existence
of living things. The movements in such living things are
expressions of mind energy.
The essential nature of the difference between differing
modes of energy is a difference in the character of the move-
ments of the infinitely tenuous matter associated with
every mode of energy. The properties of atoms which
condition all structures and perceptions are differences in
character of movement (so et seq.).
The energy which makes a watch and winds it up is the
energy that keeps it moving ; that energy did not come
into existence as a consequence of the making of watches.
The energy that makes living things and keeps them " wound
up " by feeding is the energy that keeps them moving-
mind energy. This mind energy did not come into existence
LIFE AND MOVEMENT II9
as a consequence of living things coming into existence.
Living things came into existence as a consequence of mind
energy. The mind energy which animates us is immortal;
individual beings or structures are ephemeral. The atom is
immortal.
f>9.-Prof. Moore ; continuous evolution of the animate from
the sub-animate.
Prof. Benjamin Moore in his work, The O'igin and Natu'e
of Life-an admirable little book, despite its title-states
that:-
.,Traces ofevidence are lately beginning to come into view
which are highly suggestive of continuous p'esent day
creation (?) of matter at the inorganic level, and of the
creation (?) of life from inorganic materials at the organic
level."
This is but one of the many indications of the tendency
in science to absolute continuity. We think, however, that
the term evolution would be more suitable in the above
statement than creation.
Again, upon the last page in the book, he says :-
,. Here then we stand at the end ofour 'eview ofinorganic
tnUl organic evolution, and of the origin and natu'e of life.
There is continuity and consistency in it aU."
Every effect must of necessity be a phenomenon con-
tinuous with the cause of that efiect, and the physical
conditions of the universe from the present moment back ·
to the beginning must at every moment of time have been
of necessity continuous with preceding conditions and with
the conditions that followed.
From the waters of the ocean the energy of the su~ is
constantly raising water vapour; the vapour is constantly
condensing into clouds of microscopic particles of water ;
the particles are being constantly aggregated into drops that
fall upon the earth as rain. The energy of the sun never
ceases pouring upon the earth ; the falling of rain never
ceases. The rain moistens the soil and takes up in solution
molecules of organic and sub-organic elements, which by
mutual actions with solar energy evolves the structural
energy in vqetation that provides energy for animate
120 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
structures. The surplus rain runs down rivers to the sea,
carrying down organic matter it holds in solution, and thus
provides food, from which all things that live in the sea are
directly or indirectly evolved.
Man eats the food so provided, and he transforms the
structural energy in that food into mental and muscular
energies. Every structure exhibiting these energies we
term animate, and it cannot live, cannot be animate, unless it
is supplied with the energies of food. No structure can
evolve energy, either mental or physical, out of nothing.
If a man ingests nothing for about ten days, his animate
movements gradually weaken as his reserves of energy are
used up, his temperature falls about 30° Fah. ; the living
movements in him then cease; he is no longer animate;
he ceases to exist as an individual, and the elements in his
structure devolve back to elemental molecules and become
available again for entry into another cycle of individual
existence.
Thus there is a perfectly continuous chain of movement
between the phenomena of mind and life and the food we
eat; the soil that grows the food; the rain that moistens
the soil ; the clouds that form the rain ; the vapour that
forms the clouds; the oceans that give up the vapour; and
the sun whose energy causes the vapour to rise. Every link
in this chain of continuity is a movement that is continuous
with the movement that caused it and the movement that
follows it, giving us perpetual and continuous cycles of
evolution and devolution in the infinite number of genera-
tions after generations of the countless millions of living
things on earth, and the absolute continuity of mind and
life from the beginning of things down to the present
moment.
70.-Conscious mind a constantly changing stream ofenergy.
Conscious mind is not a fixed something residing in the
brain, a metaphysical something, aloof and distinct from the
physical, but is part of the stream of intelligent energy (99)
that continuously flows through the individual living or-
ganism ; supplied by the food daily ingested, carried to
every part of the structure by the blood stream, and con-
LIFE AND MOVEMENT I2I
tinuously expended in conscious, organic and muscular
movements. The mind of the reader reading this page is
not the same mind with which he read the previous page-
in exactly the same sense that the water running under a
bridge at one moment is not the same water that ran under
it a moment before. The structure of water is constantly
varying in a mechanical sense-from limpid in fine weather
to muddy in flood times-and the percentage of organic
matter in it varies.
Mind is a constantly changing stream of intelligent
energy that is continuously flowing through animate beings,
and it is most definitely and unmistakably correlated with
the physical energies from which it evolves and into which it
devolves.
The character of mind constantly varies through differ-
ences in blood structure, and may be changed in an infinite
variety of ways by the introduction of different substances
into the blood stream. No single thought can be reproduced
by the same mind. No ripple in a stream of running water
can ever be reproduced by the same water-it is gone for ever.
Other very like ripples and other very like thoughts may be
reproduced by other mind or other water in the same con-
tinuous stream. The current of mind energy in the brain
is changing every instant of time; but so long as the mole-
cular structures of the brain remain relatively constant and
the molecular structure of the blood remains relatively
constant the character of the constantly changing mind
stream remains relatively the same.
71.-Evidences ofthe physical nature ofmind ; effects ofdrugs.
In pathology we meet with some striking facts which we
give here as evidences of the physical nature of mind and its
continuity with material substances and with the physical
energtes.
The effects of alcohol are well known.
The inhalation of ancesthetics will cause the evolution of
conscious mind in the individual to cease-complete un-
consciousness ensues, and for the duration of the period of
unconsciousness, conscious mind is as completely blotted out
as if the individual had ceased to exist.
122 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
A single grain of the substance str
_
ophanthin introduced
into the blood stream causes the evolution of all conscious
and all organic mind in man to cease, bringing his individual
existence to a close.
Half a grain of the extract of cannabis indica will make a
person laugh and smile and be pleased with everything ;
he will have none but pleasant ideas, and for a time he will
be more witty in speech.
No matter how excellent may have been the normal
character of a person who has acquired a habit of constantly
dosing himseH with morphine, he gradually loses all sense of
right or wrong-" he will lie and thieve in the most
degrading way~~pecially if his desire is to obtain the drug-
and absolutely no statement that he makes can be trustedu
The thyroid gland secretes an active substance that
functions in a specific manner in the evolution of conscious
mind. When a patient, as a consequence of an abnormal
condition of the thyroid, degenerates in intelligence to a
condition approaching insanity he may regain nonnal
intelligence by ingesting an extract of thyroid glands from
sheep.
These various effects by material substances upon the
evolution and upon the character of conscious mind could
not possibly take place if consciousness were metaphysical;
they could not possibly occur if consciousness were not
continuous with the energies of the elementary molecules
in the drugs introduced into the blood stream.
Atoms are of necessity coeval with matter and energy ;
and as consciousness-mind-is continuous with the energies
of elementary molecules, the sub-animate activities in sub-
organic structures that are commonly termed physical and
chemical phenomena are evidences of a lowly animation
that is strictly continuous with that which we term animate.
There are other evidences of the continuity of mind, life
and movement, but as they are perhaps more serviceable in
support of our postulate that mind is a mode of energy,
correlated with the physical energies, we shall introduce
them in our next chapter.
CHAPTER V
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY
72.-Infinitely varying values ofmind in man.
We have in our last chapter shown that mind in man has
infinitely varying values. Therefore the faculty of reason
must have infinitely varying values and cannot be a definite
and special faculty confined to man alone. Values of mind,
and therefore of reason, are as infinite in number as are the
values of any one of the physical energies. We have as
many values of heat or of electric potential as we care to
divide their presentations into; and we have as many
values of reason between genius and idiocy as we care to
divide the gap between them into. And as these con-
tinuously decreasing values of reason in man are not broken
when we bridge across to lower fonns of life (61), mind or
reason cannot be anything that is the exclusive attribute of
man.
We have evidence coming from all directions, of error in
three popular conceptions :
First: that each individual has a mind strictly confined
to himself-a something apart from every other
individual mind.
Second : that mind is a special gift to man, differentiating
him from the lower animals.
Third : that mind is a metaphysical something apart
from the physical.
Man certainly appears to have "a mind of his own," for
he cannot perceive the subtle effects of mind radiations from
other persons (83). The individual mind in everyone is
influenced by radiations from others; and in those who
have less than average intelligence the mind is usually little
more than a reflex of the mind in others. We can all easily
recognise in other than ourselves the dominance of powerful
minds over weaker ones.
123
124 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
A dog has a wider range of mind-or intelligence-than
a duck ; but no one claims that dogs have received a u spe-
cial gift " differentiating them from ducks. By a parity of
reasoning each of the values of intelligence in man above that
which is of lower value may be said to be a "special gift."
Man has a wider range of intelligence than a dog; a dog a
wider range than a duck-that is the only difference. The
essential nature of mind is the same in man, or dog, or duck.
Everything that is must be physical. The metaphysical
is not an existence. Mind is ; it is an existence, therefore it
must be physical (5).
73.-Sujficient evidence that mind is a mode of energy.
If we reasonably admit that the existence and reality of
mind energy may be determined by a weight of evidence,
which is considered amply sufficient to demonstrate the
existence and reality of other modes of energy, we find that
mind is just as certainly a mode of energy.
We tum the handle of a frictional machine or we rub a
piece of amber, and we obtain evidence that the effect of
friction in these cases is to evolve electric energy. We
consider this evidence quite satisfactory, as demonstrating
that the energy of mechanical movement in friction can be
transformed into electric energy, although we are utterly
unable to comprehend H0 W this frictional movement is so
transformed.
We place solutions of metallic salts into voltaic cells, and
we obtain evidence which is considered quite conclusive
and satisfactory that chemical energy may also be trans-
formed into electric energy, although we are utterly unable to
comprehend H0 W chemical energy can be so transformed into
electric energy.
Man ingests the structural energy of food and evolves
mind energy. And we have no more reason to doubt that
the structural energy of food is so transformed into mind
energy than we have to doubt that frictional energy or
chemical energy may be transformed into electric energy,
although we are utterly unable to comprehend HOW food
energy is so transformed into mind energy ; for all basic
facts in nature are incomprehensible (19).
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY 125
74.-AU forms of eneYgy correlated; Clerk MaXUJell,· D. D.
Home.
At the close of the nineteenth century it was universally
held as a truth that the sum of energy in the universe was
conserved-it could not be increased or decreased. Clerk
Maxwell stated the principle of the conservation of energy
thus:
" The total energy of any body or system of bodies is
a quantity which can neither be increased nor diminished
by any action of those bodies, though it may be trans-
formed into any one of the forms of which energy is suscep-
tible."
Thus the infinite variety of differing character in the
stream of mind energy flowing from man must be evolved
from the structural energy ingested as food by mutual actions
within the organism. For even mind energy cannot come
into existence out of nothing. The mind can be made
more acutely conscious and witty ; or duller and more
stupid down to idiocy or to unconsciousness (71) by the
ingestion of drugs, which undeniably produce these effects.
These variations in mind values in response to the presen-
tations of differing substances to the neurones that evolve
conscious mind (18, 30) are quite conclusive as proof that
the immediate nature of conscious mind is evolved from or
is conditioned by mutual actions between molecular ener-
gies. For, as energy is indestructible, yet transformable,
the movements of physical energy in that which is ingested
must be transformed into the mind energy, organic and
conscious, which is unceasingly expended. Thus we see the
truth of the conception of psychologists, that mind is
motor in its origin and motor in its consequences. It is
difficult to determine where this truth may lead us.
For instance, it is believed by many that the " medium "
D. D. Home could hold a red hot coal in his hand without
being burnt. Sir William Crookes saw him do it, and was
satisfied with the genuine character of the demonstration.
But most persons-a priori-stoutly maintain that such a
thing is impossible. But why should they ? The heat in a
red hot coal is but molecular movement. The band is covered
by an intricate network of nerve fibres that can transform
126 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
physical energy movements into the mind movements of
sensation (29, 51) ; and we have no a prio,i certainty that
the marvellous intelligence and functions of organic mind
may not, in some persons of unusual structure or personality,
be so influenced by conscious mind as to function an energy
of movement that directly cancels the movements of heat
in some manner analogous to the known manner of canceJJing
two rays of light, by causing the waves in each to directly
oppose each other-the energy of light being transformed
into another mode of energy.
We are unable to comprehend how the structural energy
in a crust of bread may be transformed into that wonderful
intelligent energy we term mind, yet such transformations
of energy are unceasing in all directions with all forms of
energy through every kind of phenomenon in nature. It is
such a common every day happening that we have lost the
full sense of the incomprehensible mystery ofit all.
The current of mind energy now flowing from the writer
of these words and expressing the thoughts now being penned
was, not long ago, energy in the sun. Some oranges we had
for breakfast did not exist a year ago. Within that time
the sun's energy was absorbed by the tree that grew them,
and there transformed into the structural energies of the
nutrient substances in the oranges. Having eaten the
oranges, their structural energies are now being transformed
into all the modes of energy that animate the writer. The
same reasoning applies to all the food that man ingests.
If you sit in the sun enjoying its warmth and absorbing
its energy, you may then say that some part of your mind
energy was energy in the sun less than nine minutes pre-
viously. If you are enjoying the warmth of a coal fire, you
are absorbing structural energy in the coal that left the sun
millions of years ago.
75.-Mind in man unceasingly changing.
The immediate mind energy flowing through any in-
dividual brain at any moment of time is never the same as
that of a moment before or a moment later. From birth
till death the immediate character of both organic and con-
scious mind is constantly changing, as the result of the ever-
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY I'.l.7
varying character of the structural energy in the blood
stream caused by varying character of food and the slow
but constant changes in the character of the physiological
structures that enter into mutual action with the fluids
circulating through the body.
']6.-Perpetual transformalions of mind, matter and energy
movements.
Every form of matter has a large amount of energy in its
structure, and as all things are in perpetual movement,
structural energy in matter is being constantly transformed
into mind energy and physical energy. And conversely,
mind energy and physical energy are being constantly
transformed into the structural energies in matter (87).
Such transformations occur in all chemical actions, whether
within or external to the body. In molecular and mechani-
cal movements there are perpetual transformations.
The movement of a hammer suddenly stopped is trans-
formed into heat energy. Vibrations of light waves when
stopped and absorbed by our bodies or any material sub-
stance are transformed into heat energy. The molecular
movements which, in an electrolytic solution, are trans-
formed into electric energy are, in a chemical test tube,
transformed into heat energy. The movements of the
elementary molecules in the mutual actions within our
bodies, which are unceasing while life exists, are transformed
into those energies, mental and physical, which are charac-
teristic of every form of living thing. If we solder together
two bars of different metals so as to form a circuit and
apply heat to any part of it, the difference in temperature
at the places where the two metals are joined causes an
evolution of ~ectric energy; and a current will flow around
the circuit. Thus by the mere difference in molecular
movements of the two metals when heat passes through the
places where they join, heat energy is transformed into
electric energy. The immense masses of snow and ice at
the poles of the earth are perpetually forming and melting
away as the result of transformations of matter into energy,
or of energy into matter ; water is transformed into radiant
energy and ice; ice combines with radiant energy and is
transformed back again into water.
128 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
77.-The terms "mind," "matter" and "energy" must
always be relative.
As the three ultimate factors are inseparable and corre-
lated, the terms mind, matter and energy must always be
relative; and we can only distinguish between presentations
in nature by the immediate prominence of the part played
at any moment by any one of the factors, and by naming the
presentation by the term indicating that factor. When
matter is most evident we term the presentation matter ;
when physical energy is most evident we term it energy :
when intelligence is most evident we term it mind.
If one walks, runs or works quickly, we consider it an
exhibition of unusual physical energy ; but in all such cases
there is an equivalent exhibition of mind energy.
If one does an unusual amount of mental work, one
exhibits an unusual activity of mind ; but this can never
occur without an unusual expenditure of physical mole-
cular energy. ·
The immediate prominence of any one factor is a con-
stantly varying value, and may even be but momentary.
There are unceasing cycles of transformations by mutual
actions that are every moment changing the relative values
of the three factors. What is matter at one moment may
be physical energy the next ; what is physical energy at one
moment may be mind energy the next ; what is a movement
of light waves at one moment may be molecular movements
of heat the next ; what is organic mind movement at one
moment may be conscious mind movement the next ;
and conversely, what is conscious mind energy at one
moment may be organic mind energy the next. If we had
but one line of evidence available in support of our postulate,
that mind is a mode of energy-the line that connects the
structural energy in food with organic mind and organic
mind with conscious mind-that evidence is as amply·
sufficient as is the evidence of any generally acceptednatural
fact. But we have other weighty evidence.
The stupendous energy of gravitatwn is initiated by an
intelligent perception (26, 27) ; energy from the sun is
perpetually being transformed into the structural energies
that condition the mental and physical activities of every
\
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY 129
being that lives (8). Every movement, every phenomenon
observable by man in nature, evolves from mutual actions
between and consequent transformations of the three basic
factors.
Mind energy, being correlated with and inseparable from
the physical energies, plays the dominant part in these
perpetual cycles of transformations, for all movement is
initiated by some mode of perception (36). Just as mag-
netic and electric energies, and as heat and light, and all
other movements in nature are correlated, and are mutually
both cause and effect, making possible the unending cycles
of natural phenomena, so mutual movements of the three
basic factors are mutually both cause and effect, and con-
dition all phenomena in nature.
This is the nearest approach we can make to a compre-
hension of the ultimate nature of anything whatever.
78.-The relations between mind, heat and electric energies.
The relations between mind energy, heat energy and
electric energy are very suggestive. At every beat of the
heart there are differences in electric potential. When two·
points on the human body, a sufficient distance apart, are
included in an electric circuit connected with a delicate
galvanometer constructed of a fine thread of quartz or
platinum suspended between magnets, the thread will bend
from side to side with each beat of the heart. The galvano-
meter may be a thousand yards or more away from the
subject, and still the thread will sway from side to side with
each beat of the heart.
There are other delicate instruments which show the
correlation between mind energy and the physical energies.
The dynamometer and the aerthesiometer will both register
operations of mind. In such instances the explanation (?)
is given in the statement that these instruments register
nervous energy. But what is nervous energy? That is the
question.
Every one of the infinite modes of perception which ini-
tiate the perpetually varying movements in sub-animate and
animate nature must of necessity have energy of motion
equal to the energy of motionin thatfrom which theyevolve.
I
130 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
But we cannot in accordance with the third law of motion
say that they are "contrary" or., oppositely directed" for
we cannot comprehensively apply such tenns to movements
of energy which radiate equally in all directions. Therefore
mind itself, whatever may be its ultimate nature, must, in
its immediate nature, be a movement of energy. For the
physical energy which is transformed into mind cannot be
destroyed ; it must exist as mind energy. And the physical
energy into which functions of mind are transformed and
visibly demonstrated by the movements of the delicate
instruments we have mentioned, cannot becreated during the
mutual actions which condition mind ; it must therefore
condition its immediate nature.
The electric resistance of the skin varies with the mental
emotions. An electric impulse will traverse a nerve and
cause muscular contraction-living movement. An electric
current is largely used for diagnosis in pathology. In
experimental investigations into the manner of the conduc-
tion of a nerve impulse, electric energy takes the place of
mind energy.
A very important fact has come to light in these investiga-
tions. It is of immense prospective value in physical
theraphy, and it also strongly indicates the biochemical
nature of the mutual actions which condition what we
term nervous energy. It is that the minimum of stimulation
which will induce a nerve impulse is quite as effective as
any greater degree of stimulation. We may interpret this
as proving that the mutual action-biochemical-that
conditions a nerve impulse has a value that cannot be
altered by any difference in the degree of stimulus which
starts it, because it is the immediate molecular structure of
the nerve that conditions the energy of a nerve impulse-
just as a minute point of heat will produce exactly the same
effect upon an explosive chemical compound as any greater
intensity of heat. (The heat here is regarded as the
stimulus to the explosion).
Ferrier, in 1874, determined the motor areas of various
parts of the cortex of the brain by applying electric energy
to them. The animate energies of some fishes are partly
transformed into electric energy, stored in special organs
\I
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY 131
adapted for the purpose by the intelligence of organ]ic mind ;
and may be discharged with sufficient energy to give to
other animals a paralysing shock. There are insects, plants,
animalsand micro-organisms whose living energies arepartly
transformed into light. And as all living activities are
expressions of mind, we see that mind energy may lbe trans-
formed into physical energies-the converse of the transfor-
mation of the structural energies of food into mind energy.
Thus we have ample proof that mind is a mode 01f energy
correlated with the physical energies.
The energies of living organisms are now universally
recognised as being due to biochemical actions. The
chemist will tell you that light, heat, electric or meechanical
energy may be produced or consumed in chemical changes.
Bothchemist and physicistwill tell you that physicalchanges
are always accompanied by transformations of energy.
The transformation of the food we eat into the tissues and
organs of the body, into the osseous framework which
supports it, and into the organic and conscious mind energy
which animates it, is a continuous process of biochemical
actions, which, outside the human body, evolve continuously
changing phases of sub-organic mind, and all ]phases of
energy movements-heat, light, electric and mechanical
energy. Therefore inside the body the same results must
occur, and the combined activities constitute the animate.
For the properties of atoms are .unalterable, and these
properties must be carried forward with them into all
structures of which they form a part (3). Electric energy
evolves living movements ; living movements evolve
electric energy. Food energy is evolved fromt atoms;
electric energy is evolved from atoms. Animate energy
must be physical energy. Every time a gardener manures
his flowers, a farmer his crops, or an animal ing4ests food,
illustrates the fact that mind-which expresses itself in the
activities we term animate-is a mode of energy. The
amount of energy which can be expended by plant, animal,
man or machine is exactly balanced by the amount of energy
which is supplied to them from external sources. Neither
plant, animal, man nor mechanical engine can give out a
particle more of energy than is put into it.
132 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
79.-Mind has no definite value and is not confined to living
things.
Mind, therefore, in the individual cannot be a something
to which we can attach any definite or constant value or that
is confined to man. It is of a necessity a factor that ~
universal. It cannot have any stability, either in form or
expression ; it must be a continuously changing manifes-
tation of intelligent energy, operating as the initiative in the
continuously changing conditions in natural phenomena.
We could not compare it with a lake of water, for instance;
this has some constancy in outline and some stability in
mass ; it has a closer analogy with a river, which never
ceases changing its form and its energy of motion.
Thus, phenomena of mind as a mode of energy take us
far beyond the range of human conscious mind. We see
that the mind of man, although it may have a wider range
than any other form of individual being, must be but an
infinitesimal fraction of universal mind, and that we must
include as phenomena of mind a host of facts in nature that
are now not recognised as having any connection with
expressions of mind.
Phenomena of electric energy alone in relation to the
living energies are sufficient and conclusive in themselves
as proof that mind is an energy correlated with the physical
energtes.
The continuous molecular and intermolecular movements
occurring in every part of our bodies in anabolism and kata-
bolism-that building up and breaking down of animate
molecules referred to generally as metabolism, and covering
all that is meant by biochemical actions-give us all that we
have of mental and physical energy. In the bones, muscles.
tissues and organs of the bodily structure the sum of these
movements conditions and constitutes organic mind ; in the
neurones of the brain they condition and evolve conscious
mind (30).
8o.-Food and fuel values; reserves of energy; feeding fl1itiJ
energy.
As the structural energy in fuel is set free in the furnace
and is transformed by molecular movements into the energy
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY 1-33
that drives the steam engine, so the structural energy in the
food we eat, by molecular movements of the same essential
nature which occur in the furnace, is transformed into the
stream of energy that is constantly flowing through the
living organism.
The carbon of the fuel in the furnace unites with the
oxygen in the air, evolving energy and carbon dioxide; the
carbon in the food we eat unites with the oxygen in the air
we breathe and evolves energy and carbon dioxide.
Food values are now universallyestimated by the amount
of heat energy they will evolve when they are burnt-or
united with oxygen-exactly as fuel values for steam or oil
engines are estimated. This one fact alone is practically
proof that living energies are correlated with the physical
energies. When the supply of food or fuel ceases the living
machine or the primary motor ceases working-it becomes
dead.
All living things have some reserves of energy in their
structure. If a seed is kept so that it can absorb no energy
from its environment, it lives on till its rese.rves of energy
are exhausted, then it dies ; it will not germinate when
sown in the ground. The animate movements in a living
seed are probably the most feeble known to man; some
will live for years upon the minute store of energy they
contain.
Broadly speaking, the higher in the scale of animate life
we go, the sooner the reserves of energy are used up, and
individual existence ceases by breaking down into its sub-
animate elements. Many lower animals will live for months
without food. Man lives only about ten days, if he ingests
nothing. The delicate mechanisms that condition his con-
scious mind as well as his grosser structure devolve back
again into the sub-animate forms of existence fr.om which
they evolved. As an individual he becomes extinct ; but
the elements of which he was structured still live their sub-
animate life-they are immortal-and dissociated from one
individual existence, they are available to enter into another
individual existence and again contribute their quota of
energy to the eternal cycles of evolution and devolution
of individual existences.
134 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
Every machine that expends energy in mechanical
movements and every living thing that expends energy
in animate movements must be fed with energy, or they will
cease to move. And whatever form of energy be expended
by any living thing, whether it be the energy that evolves a
poem, solves a mathematical problem, or evolves a blade
of grass or a tree, there is no other source from which that
energy can be immediately derived than the food that
sustains that living thing, the ultimate sources of energy in
the food being the sun and the atom.
81.-Mind energy and heat energy.
Heat energy is very evidently correlated with mind
energy. In the laboratory the mutual action between sub-
animate substances will, other things being equal, evolve
about double the amount of change per second for every rise
of I0° C. in temperature; and conversely. Bio-chemical
actions, equally with the actions in the chemist's laboratory,
are increased by increased temperature and lowered by
lower temperature. In the fevers of pathology the increased
temperature causes such an intense organic mind activity
in katabolism, that the individual often Q.ies as a result of
the exhaustion of reserves of energy. The supply of energy
by ingestion and anabolism not being adequate to supply the
energy consumed by the fever, and the medical attendant
not being able to keep the temperature sufficiently low. the
patient may be said to die by a rapid process of starvation,
due to an abnormal expenditure of energy.
In death by exposure to cold the rate of metabolism is
very much lowered by the lack of heat energy ; the evolu-
tion of organic mind energy thus becomes so feeble that an
effort is necessary to support consciousness ; the sufferer
wishes to lie down and sleep ; and if not prevented, lies down
and sleeps for ever. Conscious mind fails because heat
fails. When help is at hand from stronger companions,
what appears to be brutal treatment is often resorted to in
the attempt to rouse and save the sufferer. Here the energy
radiated from the body into space is greater than the
energy evolved by the failing reserves of ingested structural
energy.
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY 135
There are many intimate correlations between heat energy
and mind energy. Heat energy radiated from living things
is always associated with mind energy, organic and conscious.
A whole volume could be devoted to this interesting fact,
and its influences in the personal attributes we term " vim,"
••individuality," "magnetic personality," and so on, as
applied to those who have unusually strong mind radiations.
We can see evidences of this something other than heat
that is radiated from living things, even in the lower animals.
We cannot keep puppies or kittens properly warm by apply-
ing artificial warmth to them before they open their eyes some
days after birth. Only the radiations from the mother's
body can do this. And with chickens, the warmth we give
them in artificial incubators is not so vitalising as the wannth
from the mother hen. There is a something missing that
man with all his inventive skill cannot supply.
And there is something which is deeply suggestive in the
fact that it is only young animals that are born blind-like
kittens and puppies-which cannot maintain the normal
temperature of the parent, except by radiations from the
parent. All animals that can open their eyes at birth can
maintain the temperature of the parent. Kittens and
puppies can only do so after they open their eyes (150).
The parallelism between temperatures of animate things
and intensity in expression of living activities, between the
range of varying temperatures livin.
g things may be subject
to, and the range of mind energy in those things, and also the
physical effect of temperatures in accelerating chemical
actions, are all evidences of the correlation of mind energy
with heat energy.
The most intelligent and active of living things are the
warm blooded animals; the least intelligent and least
active are the cold blooded animals. The warm blooded
animal can only live within a very narrow range of bodily
temperature. Some micro-organisms may be frozen and
some may be boiled in water-and yet retain life.
The intellect of man is influenced by the temperature of
his body. It is no use trying to reason clearly, deeply and
sequentially if you are either feverish or shivering with cold.
Some cannot work mentally to their satisfaction if the feet
136 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
be cold. And nothing is more conducive to cold feet in
those who have not a very vigorous circulation than steady
mental effort. The mental effort draws energy from the
rest of the body ; the head becomes warmer, the feet colder_
Mental effort induces fatigue and hunger equally with
muscular effort; this could not possibly be so if mental
energy was not correlated with the structural energies in
food. Hunger is really an expression of organic mind-a
demand for a further supply of energy.
We could not possibly get fagged, mentally weary or
broken down by any amount of mental application if mind
were metaphysical. How could any imaginary something,
apart from and above the physical, get tired? Even light
energy-which is physical and can be measured-trots
around the universe with unceasing energy at a pace of some
186,ooo miles per second, and we have as yet had no hint of
its getting tired I
82.-Transjormations ofenergy.
We know that under all conditions and circumstances
available to the test of experience energy is conserved ; and
this conservation must be a factor in the problem of the
immediate nature of mind. The transformation of one kind
of energy into another without increasing or diminishing its
amount is one of the most widely evident facts in nature ;
it is a basic practical fact in all structural and industrial
activities. We transform the potential energies in coal, oil
and wood into the kinetic energies of electricity, light, heat
and mechanical movements ; we transform mechanical
movements into light, heat and electricity. And in all such
transformations there is no loss of energy when radiations
are correctly accounted for.
Clouds, wind, rain, storms, earthquakes, volcanic activity,
radio-activity, chemical actions and living movements, all
alike are due to transformations of one kind of energy into
another; and we have not a shadow of reason-unless our
ignorance of any exact laws regardfug the immediate nature
of mind may be taken as a reason-for excluding energy of
mind from laws that universally apply to other modes of
energy.
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY 137
It has taken us more than two thousand years to learn
what we know to-day about the conditions that operate in
the evolution and in the transformations of electric energy,
the results of which we see in the electric wonders of to-day.
When man perceives that mind is universal, that it is a mode
of energy, and begins in earnest to investigate its immediate
nature from correct premises, we may hope to learn much
more than we know to-day about its evolution from physical
energy and its devolution back again into physical energy.
The phenomena attending the movements of the gyros-
cope (42) give us a rather notable series of energy trans-
fonnations. If the experimenter himself turns the handle
of the electric machine which he employs to keep the gyros-
cope in motion we have :
Ist The structural energy in the food eaten by the
operator transformed into conscious mind.
md The energy of conscious mind transfolllled into the
energy of muscular movement.
yd The muscular movement transformed into the
mechanical movement of the electric machine.
4th The mechanical movement of the machine into
electric energy.
5th The electric energy into the mechanical movement of
the gyroscope.
6th The mechanical movement of the gyroscope into
perceptions of position in space-functions of mind.
7th The various movements of gyroscope and operator
into heat energy, which radiates away into the air;
energy which becomes available for transformation
into the energies that are assimilated in the
structural evolution of such food as started the
cycle of operations in the experimenter. And so
long as the operator keeps turning his machine
these transformations by mutual actions are equal,
simultaneous and continuous phenomena.
All activities in nature form parts of perpetual and
continuous cycles of transformations of energies, and within
these cycles we are, by force of facts and by simple reason,
obliged to include the energy of mind. And if there be a
basis in fact for Kelvin's theory of the dissipation of energy
138 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
these cycles of energy movement will continue to that far
distant period when all energy becomes so evenly balanced
that all forms of movement in the universe will cease, be-
cause then there can be no differences in movement-the
universe and all in it will be dead.
But this theory of the dissipation of energy is based upon
the further theory that heat is the primary and dominant
energy of the universe. Yet we have seen in our considera-
tion of the possible behaviour of the two first particles of
matter (26) that the movements of the greatest magnitude
in the universe-the movements due to gravity-may be
attributed to a mode of energy-mind-dominating heat
or any other mode of energy. And we certainly have not a
scrap of evidence that the total of mind energy is lessened
by any form of radiation.
The energies in operation, when a star suddenly appears
where no star was before visible, may be the result of
activities of universal mind that may keep the cycles of
energy movements in the universe going on for ever.
83.-Mind Yadiates.
Mind, as a mode of energy, correlated with other modes of
energy, must radiate. If we attempt to form some concep-
tion as to what form of radiations conscious mind assumes
as the stream of mental concepts flow from the brain, we
come to some interesting conclusions. We know that
during operations of consciousness some energy is trans-
formed into heat; the temperature of the brain rises with
intense thought; and we have reason for assuming that
mind radiations bear a similar relation to mind that heat
radiations have to light. There is an intimate correlation
between heat energy and mind energy (81).
We have the fact in physics that radiations of light, when
they strike any substance, are, to a variable extent, absorbed
by that -substance as heat. If the radiations fall perpen-
dicularly upon the surface of a dull black object, the
mutual action arising as a consequence between the object
and the light instantaneously transforms practically all the
light energy into heat energy. The object, when thus
heated by light, in turn radiates away its heat energy ; but
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY 139
'the instant the heat rays leave the object they are re-
t:ransfonned back again into radiations of light. Thus, heat
and light are mutually both cause and effect.
We cannot conceive that mind radiations can be less
subtle than light radiations ; and the energy movements
which condition a thoyght must radiate in all directions in
the very act of thinking the thought. And whatever be the
nature of those radiations, when they are absorbed by
another person who is in what may be termed a suitable
receptive condition, or sympathetic mood, they are re-
transfonned back again into the same thought that origi-
nated the vibrations-just as heat vibrations are re-trans-
formed back again into the light vibrations which originated
them. And the recipient of that thought remains uncon-
scious of the manner of its entry into his mind ; for it is
organic mind-not conscious mind-which perceives.
Conscious mind cannot trace the origin of that which
merges into consciousness (30).
The fact that mind does radiate and that the concepts in
the brain of one person may be transferred to the brain of
another person in the manner we have tentatively outlined
is very evident in the phenomenon known as hypnotism.
Man, by suitably delicate mechanism of his own contri-
vance, can indirectly perceive and measure the infinitesimal
heat we receive from a star that is an immeasurable distance
away ; and it would be contrary to the known subtle opera-
tions of organic mind in man to contend that its mechanism
is inferior in perceptive range to any mechanical devices he
may be able to fashion. Thus we may with reason conclude
that many occult phenomena now thought to be due to super-
natural causes are simply physical phenomena. For it is
quite reasonable to assume that mind vibrations may tra-
verse space as rapidly as do the physical vibrations of light,
and may impress themselves under some rare combinations
of conditions upon some other mind a few yards or even
thousands of miles away at practically the same instant of
time.
140 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
84.-lncomjwehensible movements; all movemeftts i• mutul
action simultaneously evolve other movements.
A first cause is beyond the grasp of reason. We have to
take the existence of the primal factors-mind, matter and
energy-asthe starting point of ourefforts to acquire further
knowledge regarding the existing order and sequence of
activities in nature; and the fact that these three factors
are coeval in time, correlated and inviolably inseparable.
must fonn the basis of our edifice of knowledge, however
extensive that edifice may become.
Every step in the evolution of conscious mind is physical ;
every step is a movement of energy. No phenomenon of any
kind is possible, except by some differences in movement
between two or more things which simultaneously evolve
some other phenomenon. We term walking, riding or any
other muscular exercises physical activities ; but we cannot
do these things without a simultaneous exercise and expen-
diture of mind energy. Reading and studying we term
mental application or activities of mind ; but we cannot do
these things without simultaneous transformation of the
structural energy in food into the energy of mind. Even
the profoundly mysterious energy of gravitation is invio-
lably associated with mind and matter (26). Psychologists
express such truths when they say that the immediate state
of consciousness is ~~an activity of some sort," and that all
states of mind, even mere thoughts and feelings, " are
motor in their origin and motor in their consequences " (3).
The mutual action of two differing movements in the cortex
of the brain evolves a third movement-that ~~ activity of
some sort '' which constitutes consciousness. We have got
down to the fact that immediate mind cannot be differen-
tiated from movement (18), Every thought and every
movement of any part of the body is conditioned by mole-
cular movements. If we could see and follow the rapid
molecular movements in a neurone, we should be able to
record the moving picture of a thought, see the differing
movements which shape differing thoughts, and recognise
them by merely looking at the movements-even as we
recognise the subject of a portrait by the differing move-
ments of light waves which condition vision, and just as
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY 141
•• living " presentations are shown at picture shows by the
rapid movement of non-living presentations.
The evolution of the qualities of movement which condi-
tion conscious mind is not a whit more incomprehensible
than is the evolution of the quality of movement that con-
stitutes crystals of common salt, which evolve from the
united specific movements of the atoms of the green, noxious
poisonous gas, chlorine, and the atoms of the metal sodium ;
or, more incomprehensible than that, the simple difference
of molecular movements in different metals, when soldered
together in a circuit, will cause heat energy to evolve into
electric energy as it passes from one quality of molecular
movement in one metal to another quality of movement in
the other metal (75).
In both the above instances we see three different presen-
tations in nature as one simultaneous phenomenon-two
differing movements of energy simultaneously evolving a
third movement of energy ; just as differing movements in
the n~urones of the brain simultaneously evolve a third
movement-mind energy.
All such fundamental natural facts are beyond our com-
prehension (19) ; but we can see that all movements must
have the same essential nature, originating, as they all do,
from the same three inseparable factors ; and the move-
ments of that which we arbitrarily term " mind II must be
as definitely physical in their immediate nature as any of
the movements of what we arbitrarily term ~~ energy II or
" matter II in the chemical or physical laboratory.
Bs.-Immediate mind energy: energy expended must be
balanced by energy ingested.
At any given moment of time every thing or being that is
animate, whether plant, animal or man, is expending in
some manner a definite amount of energy. And although
it is impossible to state the exact amount in any given
instance, the fact that this must be so is of service in reason-
ing out the conditions that must accompany activities of
mind. We tenn this definite amount the immediate mind
energy.
Every thing or being that is animate has a temperature
142 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
that differs more or less from that of its environment ; and
the more animate the thing or being, the more constant is
that temperature, despite differences in temperature of the
environment. Even plants and trees have a temperature.
This is maintained by the breaking down into energy and
less complex structures the more complex structures of the
food, which, in some form or another, is ingested as an
inviolable necessity to all animation. For energy can neither
be created nor destroyed ; whatever the amount of imme-
diate energy expended at any instant of time, that energy
must of necessity arise from transformations of the struc-
tural energies of food ingested.
So long as we remain animate we cannot stay the output
of immediate mind energy ; we cannot stop thinking ; the
activities of organic mind cannot cease. But we may in
various ways to some extent control the total of immediate
mind energy expended. Yet, whatever the amount may
be, it must be supplied from sources external to the organism.
Those who have a large expenditure of immediate mind
energy must ingest largely the structural energy of food.
Dominance in the individual is invariably associated with
assimilative capacity. Other things being equal, the one who
can assimilate themostfood will dominate theonewho assimi-
lates less. Also the man who weighs x6o pounds will
dominate the man who weighs only 150 pounds, other
things being equal. For the heavier man must have a
larger volume of organic mind. This is in full agreement
with Einstein's mathematical deduction that the mass of a
body is the measure of its energy content !
86.-Hungry children at school ; organic mind must first be
served with energy.
Educational authorities have only recently learned by
experience that a large waste of effort occurs in attempting
to teach underfed children. Pure reason ages ago should
have taught us this as an a priori truth. The little things
have no organic mind energy to spare for transformation
into conscious mind efforts ; the insufficient energy they
derive from their insufficient food is all required for the
animation of the basic organic movements of life. The
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY 143
most fundamental animate movements have always to be
first served with any energy that is available. This fact is
very evident in pathology.
A coincidence. After writing the above (1925) welaiddown
the pen for a rest, and picking up the daily paper, we read :
.. London, October 2oth. Dr. Savage, Surgeon of St.
Bartholomew's Hospital, declared that a child of five
years was too young to commence school, as the brain
was not in a condition to learn until a child was seven
years old. He would refuse to allow a child to attend
school until seven years of age, even if the authorities
fixed the age at five years."
The attitude of Dr. Savage is very reasonable. The
development of the structure that evolves conscious mind
energy is the work of organic mind. If the energy of organic
mind is diverted abnormally into conscious mind efforts
before a certain development of the brain is reached, there is
insufficient energy left for its proper and full development.
Consequently, the ultimate intelligent possibilities in the
child are lowered by the less complete development of the
organ of conscious mind. In the case of hungry children,
structw-es already developed lack immediate energy for full
function; in the case of children too young, abnormal use
of immediate energy prevents normal development.
8';.-Expenditu'fe of ene-rgy~· su'fplus ene-rgy~· ingestion and
assimilation.
Expenditure of energy is constant; we never cease
expending energy from the moment we are born till the
moment we die. The amount so expended constantly
varies, although at any instant of time that amount is some
exact quantity. Ingestion of energy is not constant, either
in quantity or in time ; and the body is provided with the
means of storing away part of the energy ingested when it
exceeds the immediate expenditure.
Shortly after a hearty meal there is a larger flow of struc-
tural energy (88) into the blood stream from the digestive
track than is immediately required ; this is stored up in the
body till the flow of structural energy from the digestive
track falls below the level of immediate requirements ; then
1-44 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
the stored supplies are drawn upon ; and normally, when the
stored energy that is easily available becomes exhausted we
feel the sensation of hunger.
Hunger is an expression of organic mind, which is cor-
rectly interpreted by conscious mind as a demand for more
energy in the form of food. The whole process of storing
away surplus energy and bringing it forward when required
is the work of organic mind (96)-that wonderful intelli-
gence of which we remain unconscious and about which we
have so much to learn. These operations of organic mind are
referred to by physiologists as" regulation !"
In man the liver acts as a store room for surplus energy
flowing into the blood stream ; when the amount to be
stored is beyond the capacity of the liver the excess is
usually deposited in the intercellular tissues as fat. Hunger
first draws upon the stores of energy in the liver; when these
are exhausted and no further supplies are ingested, then the
fat deposited in the tissues is drawn upon. When we are
drawing upon the reserves of glycogen in the livet, our
operations of mind are functions of energy that are trans-
formations of the structural energy in olycogen ; when we
are drawing upon our reserves of fat, our operations of
mind are transformations of the structural energy in fat.
We may be allowed to remark incidentally that the
modem habit of eating too frequently debars the liver from
exercising one of its most important natural functions, i.e.
feeding the blood stream by discharging its stores of struc-
tural energy; it is kept constantly stuffed with useless
supplies of energy-hence congested and sluggish livers and
the many diseases that this too constant condition leads to.
The prevalent idea that" little and often" is a good habit
is an erroneous one. Such a course certainly keeps the
system quietly and evenly running within a restricted
range of activity. But it ultimately leads to restricted
function and lack of reserve energy. In any machine, or
in any organism, if range of movement is habitually res-
tricted, the power of full movement is gradually but surely
lost. In human beings it is a habit that must prematurely
lessen animate function and resistive power against the
ills that flesh is heir to. The effect is analogous to that
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY Lt!S
produced by restricted movements _
in those who labour too
long in some particular manner-they get muscle bound.
Animals that live upon food that contains but little
nourishment--eows and horses, for instance--may eat grass
all day long and remain healthy; their physical structure is
adapted to it.
Man may live for weeks without ingesting anything except
water ; many animals may live for months, some have been
known to exist for years, without ingesting anything what-
ever-in the sense in which the term ingest is used. This
appears contradictory to our statement that all living things
must ingest in some form all the energy they expend in
animate functions, whether of mind or of body. Animals
that go for long periods without food are comparatively life-
less during those periods, and the very feeble expenditure of
energy is fully met by a store of energy within the system.
An animal that is being hunted by a natural enemy and
fleeing for its very life is drawing largely upon its reserves
of energy ; and if it escapes, its animate activities will
remain enfeebled until its reserves of energy are restored by
the ingestion of more energy than is expended.
88.-St,-uctu,-al eneYgy ,· dominant pe,-sonality has unuSual
assimilative capacity.
The expression " ingestion of energy " is quite correct.
We eat structural energy. We should ingest the carbon,
oxygen and hydrogen that structure carbohydrates and fats
if we drank water and ate charcoal. But we should not
ingest the st,-uctu,-al enet'gy that is added to these three
elements when they are united chemically in starches,
sugars and fats during the growth of the plants or animals
that evolve them. This also applies to all proteids. We eat
for the very purpose of obtaining this structural energy from
the food we eat; and to say that we eat or that we ingest
energy, quite correctly expresses the essential nature of the
act of eating or ingesting food.
Actors or orators who expend energy mentally, and
athletes, who expend energy bodily, who are centres of
attraction to large audiences for short periods of time, very
often expend more energy in those periods than they do in
It
146 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
all the rest of the twenty-four hours. Consequently, such
persons have invariably a physical vigour and a digestive
capacity above the average. Every observant person will
have noticed that the dominant energetic personality carries
with it a commensurate nutritive energy.
Other things being equal, the person who assimilates the
most structural energy in the fonn of food will dominate the
person who cannot assimilate an equal amount. This may
be stated as a law to which there can be no possible excep-
tions.
It will perhaps save trouble to some superficial readers
if we draw attention to the words " assimilate ,. and " assi-
milates,. in.the above statement. A man cannot increase
his assimilative capacity by eating more food than he can
assimilate. We do not, as a matter of fact, assimilate all
that we eat.
Expenditure and radiation of energy, mental and organic,
is the key to the mystery of the influence exercised by what
is termed a "strong personality." The dominant person
cannot expend or radiate energy in larger amount unless he
ac;similates energy in larger amount. It is common know-
ledge in chemistry that no change in the chemical com-
position of a substance, no change in the mutual actions
between differing molecules, can occur without the trans-
formation of some fonn of structural energy into heat or
electric energy. It is common knowledge that we eat to
obtain further energy to replace the continuous output of
energy by our mental and physical activities ; and that the
energy so ingested is utilised in the renovation of structure-
anabolism, and in the breaking down of structure-kata-
bolism. This furnishes the sum of immediate organic mind
energy and conscious mind energy which is available to
sustain the current of animate energy that is constantly
passing through and from the body as mental and physical
phfnom£na.
Except the energy that is absorbed in the building up of
the physical system in the development of the adult, all
the energy we assimilated from food must be emitted from
the _
body as energy of movement, energy of heat or energy
of mind-for although energy may be transformed, it can
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY :r47
neither be created nor destroyed. The volume and the
character of this radiation of energy from the body deter-
mine the degree of influence we have upon others.
8g.-Physical and mental dominance.
There are many phases of dominance. Sheer physical
bulk, with its accompanying bulk of organic mind, may
dominate over a smaller person with less organic mind, but
with a more active conscious mind. Or one physically small
may dominate a much larger person by reason of a more
acute conscious mind.
A man with a good digestion and a sixteen collar can
easily get into parliament-if he can talk-even if his
intellect does not rise above the average, whilst a man with
an intellect above the average may fail because he has not
the power to assimilate energy sufficient for the expenditure
required to adequately impress his hearers. For mind
energy-both organic and conscious-radiates even as do
all other modes of energy, and these radiations unconsciously
infiuence an audience. In public life assimilative powers
above the average are essential to success in II getting there"
and keeping there ; intellect above the average is not so
essential-hence the well-known character of the average
politician. But when by good fortune, assimilative and
intellectual powers above the average are combined in the
one individual, then we get the man who makes history ;
all the rest pass unknown into oblivion.
G. Stanley Hall in his Life and Confessions of a Psycholo-
gist, tells us that the world's best work has been done in
moments of superb health; he cites Goethe, Napoleon,
Gladstone, Bismarck, Helmholtz, Burbank, Rockfeller and
Edison. To succeed, says Mr. Hall, II one must first of all
be a good animal."
The above list of names could be very largely extended.
Being a good animal simply means being able to ingest and
transform an adequate amount of structural energy in the
form of food into the abundant stream of mental and
physical energy that continuously flows from those who
have supernormal health.
And, as Hall remarks, although invalids have at times
1_.8 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
accomplished wonders (by unusual concentration of their
limited energies upon a single purpose), the fact remains
that the great original minds who have been supernormal in
health far outnumber those who have been subnormal.
Every popular public entertainer who engages the atten-
tion of large audiences must have a supernormal flow of
organic mind energy to support his large expenditure of
conscious mind energy, and a corresponding supernormal
nutritive energy. Energy cannot evolve from nothing.
go.-Necessityfor sleep ; every impression upon conscioust~eSS
is an expenditure of energy.
The universal necessity for recurring periods of sleep in
all the higher animals, and particularly so in man, results
from a lowering of the available energy supply below the
level of the combined expenditure of conscious and organic
mind-expenditure exceeds income ; and we have to sleep
in order to accumulate reserves of energy sufficient to carry
us through another period of conscious activity. We can
stay the expenditure of energy by .conscious mind-by
sleeping.
These are most significant facts. They show that physical
energy is necessary to evolve conscious mind ; that con-
scious mind evolves from physical energy ; that mind
itself must be a mode of energy correlated with the physical
energies ; that conscious mind must be continuous with
organic mind (96}, and that organic mind must be funda-
mental to conscious mind.
We also learn from the above facts that every impression
upon the conscious mind involves an expenditure of energy ;
and we can more clearly understand why the room is dar-
kened, why we must not make a noise, and why the street is
strewn with straw or tan to deaden sound in cases of severe
illness. Also why the quiet of the country is so favourable to
recuperation of the run-down worker in the city.
Looking at a flower, hearing someone talking, feeling a
sensation of heat or cold, thinking about anything, whatever
requires the attention of conscious mind, causes an expendi-
ture of energy. And if professional nurses of the sick had
sufficient intellectual grip to put this item of knowledge
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY 149
into full practical application, thousands of lives might be
saved annually-if only by a more rational use of fomenta-
tions and poultices. These are much too frequently applied
so hot as to demand an unnecessary expenditure of energy
on the part of the patient just when conservation of energy
is most important. But so long as blistering does not ensue,
it is wrongly thought that all has been done properly.
As expenditure of energy in the animate movements of
sensation must be greater in amount when the intensity of
sensation is greater (193), it is a very serious mistake to apply
heat in therapeutics at a higher temperature than is abso-
lutely necessary. Volume of warmth, as evenly continuous
as possible, which gives a sensation of comfort is what is
required ; not intensity of heat which has to be resisted.
All living movements must be mutual actions, equal and
simultaneous, and must operate within the laws of the
physical energies. If we exclude fractions, a temperature of
II8 is twice as hot as a temperature of 108 in relation to
blood temperature, and will require an expenditure of fO'Ur
times the amount of animate energy in mutual action. The
operations of our senses of perception are mutual actions
that are equal to the energy in that which we perceive.
The animate energy that acts mutually with external
energies must be equal to that external energy. And as all
energies are subject to the law of the inverse square, if we
halve the intensity of a light, or a noise, or a hot application.
only one quarter the amount of animate energy is drawn
upon in the functioning of a perception. Hence the value
of the dim light and freedom from noise in the sick room.
91.-0rganic mind more fundamental than conscious mind.
In pathology there are many evidences of the fact that
organic mind is more fundamental than conscious mind.
We can see that in the evolution and devolution of the
individual, organic mind is the first to appear and the last to
disappear. Conscious mind is always absent at birth (30)
and it always departs before organic mind, when the indi-
vidual ceases to exist. In normal death, in senility, the
individual grows weaker as the normal supply of energy
grows less~ as a consequence of enfeebled metabolism due to
150 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
degeneration of structures, and this continues up to a certain
point, when unconsciousness supervenes, because there is
not an inflow of energy sufficient to support the expenditure
of both conscious and organic mind. The position is analo-
gous to that when we fall asleep (193). But the organic
mind still carries on with the reduced income, and conscious-
ness may even return after an interval, just as it returns to
normal persons after sleep, because the inflow of energy
when consciousness has not to be supported accumulates
sufficiently to support another period of consciousness.
After the last flicker of consciousness has died away the
conscious life of the individual may be said to cease; but
organic mind and organic life may continue for some time
after. Death cannot be considered to have occurred till
these organic activities cease; and the body becomes cold
because the physical biochemical actions have ceased
evolving the energy that is necessary to individual existence.
Conscious mind always dies before organic mind. The
organic mind in an animal may still be observed to be active
hours after the animal has been cut to pieces. This may be
seen in the movements of the heart muscles. By being kept
in suitable media at a proper temperature, the organic mind
and life of a part of an individual may be continued even
years after the rest of the individual has died and been
buried.
When we ponder over such facts and realize that conscious
mind, from genius downwards, is essentially the same thing
and continuous with organic mind, and that organic mind
evolves from the physical energies, we begin to see clearly
that all phases of mind cannot be other than modes of energy
correlated with the physical energies. Conscious mind
energy evolves from organic mind energy ; organic mind
energy evolves from food energy ; and the structural energy
in food evolves from the energies in the sub-organic.
92.-Problems where reason is useless to us.
We cannot achieve any satisfactory concept regarding
the fundamental nature of the activities starting from the
perpetual energy of the atom, that lead continuously upwards
to the activities of conscious mind in man. But we can see
MIND AS A MODE OF ENERGY I5I
that in some manner the movements in this continuous
chain of mutual actions are inviolably associated with, and
conditioned by, the degree of complexity in structure of the
infinitely varied substances that are evolved from varying
combinations of atoms. For throughout all nature increas-
ing range in mind function runs parallel with increasing com-
plexity in structure.
The fundamental units of mind as represented by the
varied perceptions of the atoms (36) are all carried forward
into the structures of which they form a part ; and the more
complex a structure becomes, the more complex and the
more varied as a necessity must become the perceptions and
consequent range of mind function.
When we observe and reflect upon the incomprehensible
results of differences in structure and function that follow
the joining of atoms together in chemical union (18, 19), we
cannot help seeing that our reason is useless to us in the
direction of understanding how the coming together of
different elements and substances results in the revolution
of mind energy; but we have no difficulty in perceiving the
fact that it does so, or in perceiving that we must accept
that fact as a natural truth, although it is incomprehensible
to us-even as we accept the results of chemical actions as
natural truths, although they are equally incomprehensible
to us.
The truth that the range of perceptions or functions in the
sub-animate increases with complexity in structure and
continues increasing while structures still increase in com-
plexity, and so pass in unbroken sequence into the animate,
is as adequately proven by observation as are the truths
regarding the results of the chemical union of the elements.
And it is needless for any sceptical reader to ask : •' How
can such a thing be possible?" We cannot possibly know
HOW; no man will ever know this. We can only draw
attention to the many observed facts that prove it to be so.
93.-The infinite vaYiations offunction possible to the elements
that stYuduye man.
There is no substance, thing or being, that can functionin
any manner except as conditioned and by virtue of that
152 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
which is innate in it. Every different element has an atom
or elementary molecule that differs in structure from those of
every other element. These differences in structure have of
necessity differences in function (144). There are at least
sixteen different elements known to be present in the
structure of the human body, and the number of possible
variations in structure and function of the differing primary
molecules and the aggregates of molecules that may be
evolved from them are infinite in number.
The number of elements that are actually present in the
human body is really unknown. There may be twenty or
more-it is well recognised as very probable that elements
may be present in the human body in amounts too minute
to be·detected. This makes it possible, and even probable,
that no two human beings in the countless millions that have
existed have ever been exactly alike. It also makes possible
that infinity of variation in the expressions of conscious mind
in man that begets our wonder and admiration.
Included in the sixteen different elements that are always
present in man's structure are those that are capable of the
most definite allotropic modifications ; those that are the
most versatile in their affinities or functions; and those that
are the most energetic in their mutual actions (120). These
exceptional elements amongst the ninety or more known to
us, have not come together to form the crown of evolutionary
development by pure chance only. They are there because
of their versatility and energy ; because only the most
accomplished of the elements could evolve, by the versatility
and energyof their atomic functions, nature's highest achieve-
ment in evolution-that complexity in structure and that
range and subtilty in function found in the physical mecha-
nism that conditions the energy of conscious mind in man-
the hrain.
CHAPTER VI
CONSCIOUS MIND CONTINUOUS WITH ORGANIC MIND
94.-Conscious mind#. organic mind#. conscsousness
universal.
As mind is continuous from its highest manifestation in
man to its lowest in the monatomic elements, its varying
values must be infinite in number ; just as the gap between
the highest and lowest manifestation of any other mode
of energy may be divided into an infinite number of parts.
It is not possible, therefore, for language to furnish distinc-
tive tenns indicating each separate value of mind.
The many varied terms that have come into common use
as indicating varying_
phases or values of nlind energy are too
indefinite or vague in meaning for our purpose in this volume.
And since there have as yet been no definite terms intro-
duced, indicating the distinctive ranges of mind energy we
have to refer to, we have perforce to introduce two new
term8--{)rganic mind and sub-organic mind.
Thus, we divide mind into its three most distinctive ranges
.of activity :-
I. Conscious mind-In man and the higher animals.
2. Organic mind-In all that lives-man, animal, or plant.
3· Sub-organic mind-In all matter sub-animate.
The sense or meaning we give to these three arbitrary
divisions of mind is precisely that which we give to the three
arbitrary divisions we commonly use in relation to values
of temperature--cold, wann, hot. Heat is essentially the
same thing, no matter how high or how low be its value.
Mind is the same thing, no matter how high or how low be
its value.
Universally man is credited with having mind, no matter
to how low a value that mind may reach. The great gap
between genius and the lowest intelligence in man is bridged
153
154 MIND AND LIFE FROM·. ATOM TO MAN
by continuous and imperceptibly diminishing values ; and
we have no evidence whatever that diminishing mind values
cease at the lowest exhibited by man. On the contrary, we
have abundant evidence that they still further decrease,
that no movement or presentation in nature is possible
without the functioning of some value of mind (26).
In thus making conscious mind in man one of the three
arbitrary divisions of universal mind, it must be clearly
understood that we do not withhold the attribute of cons-
ciousness from the other two divisions of universal mind.
If mind is universal, consciousness must also of necessity be
universal, and all values of mind must have a conscious-
ness that is proportionate in vividness to the intensity of
mind energy.
We make the conscious mind in man and the higher
animals one of the three divisions because it is so evidently
the range of mind activity that he is most intimately ac-
quainted with and is the most important personally and
philosophically; and we hereinafter refer to it for the sake of
brevity as "conscious mind." We have no reason of au-
thority whatever to limit conscious mind to man and the
higher animals, except that we cannot comprehend the
nature of the existence or the manner of consciousness in
the organic; or in the feebly animate and the deeper sub-
animate.
If' we limit that which is possible to within the range of
human comprehension a host of accepted truths must be
denied because we cannot comprehend them. We cannot
comprehend the ultimate nature of conscious mind, of
matter, energy, electricity, magnetism, gravitation or even
the nature of the organic mind activities within our own
bodies by reason of which we live. It were as unreasonable
to deny that we live because we cannot comprehend the
ultimate nature of living activities as to deny other than our
own consciousness because we cannot conceive the manner
of consciousness in other things than ourselves.
Facts within common knowledge show that there exist,
even in man, phases of consciousness that his own conscious
mind cannot conceive the nature of. A person born blind
cannot conceive the nature of the consciousness we term
CONSCIOUS MIND AND ORGANIC MIND 155
sight ; a person born deaf cannot conceive the nature of the
consciousness we term sound.
It is impossible for us to place any limit to range of
consciousness ; and we can only apply to our investigations
into the immediate causes of manifestations of mind such
reasoning upon facts within common experiences and know-
ledge as we apply to other facts in nature. And if true
reasoning upon such facts indicatesa universal consciousness,
we must accept that universal consciousness as we do the
many other phenomena in nature, whose ultimate natures
are beyond our comprehension. Such a course leads us to the
conclusion that every one thing in nature, animate or sub-
animate, possesses an intelligence and a consciousness of a
value sufficient for the necessities and conditions of its
existence ; otherwise it could not exist ; and the lowest
values of such consciousness must be, in a sense, analogous
to the low heat values in such substances as will boil away
into vapour by absorbing the heat in a block of ice (43).
95.-Multiplicity of terms. InteUigence and t'eason.
Amultiplicity of terms of an indefinite nature applied to
activities of the same essential thing, however useful they
may be in imaginative literature, tend, in basic problems, to
obscure the truth. The very proper use of a term is to
indicate a something as definitely as possible ; and when a
large number of terms, each of which is assumed to define a
something definite, are applied to that which is one and in
its very nature indefinable, a chaos of impressions, rather
than intelligent conception, must result.
Conscious mind in man is indicated by the terms percep-
tion, sensation, consciousness, imagination, memory,
thought, sense, intelligence, will, intellect, reason, joy,
sorrow, and many others. Not one of these phases of mind
activity are possible without conscious mind. We cannot
separate sensation or perception from consciousness ; we
cannot differentiate between sense, intelligence, intellect
and reason. We cannot even draw a definite line between
reason and unreason. What one reasonable man thinks
reasonable, another reasonable man .thinks unreasonable.
Alienists differ as to where sanity and insanity meet. Even
156 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
in idiocy the subject must have a reason for what he does,
although his reason may be an idiotic one. And, for aught
we know to the contrary, any one of the phases of conscious
mind which are indicated by the many terms above men-
tioned may be experienced in some manner of varying
intensity of mind, in both the animate and the sub-animate
When organic mind is distressed during sleep by the presence
of unsuitable food it is usually expressed by the modicum
of conscious mind-which is always present, even during the
soundest sleep-in unpleasant dreams in which feat' is the
factor. This is a very strong indication that organic mind
has not only a consciousness of its own, but an intelligence.
It really seems as if the organic cells were afraid for their
lives because of the character of the food pabulum supplied
to them. Intensity of organic mind function is transformed
into an unpleas~nt intensity of conscious mind.
It is generally admitted that animals have some intelli-
gence; it is also generally assumed that animals cannot
reason. But one cannot have any intelligence unless one has
a modicum of reason. And if animals have intelligence,
they must certainly possess some power of reasoning. If
any act of an animal evidences intelligence, that act must of
necessity be a reasonable one ; for if it were not a reasonable
act it could not be an intelligent one.
Reason nas an infinity of values. Mathematicians can
reason out truths that cannot be comprehended by pe.rsons
of lower mind capacity. Yet, no matter how low a value of
reason any man possesses, he is credited with having a divine
capacity that elevates him above the level of the lower
animals. But this difference between the highest and lowest
value of reason in man is greater than the difference between
the lowest in man and an intelligent animal (6o). And we
should have equal warrant in asserting that the most in-
telligent men had a divine gift of reason that placed them in a
creation apart from human beings with a lower value of
reasoning capacity.
CONSCIOUS MIND AND ORGANIC MIND 157
g6.--&ganic mind has functions beyond the range ofconscicn.s
mind.
Contemporary psychologists are now fully aware that
operations of mind extend beyond the range of conscious
mind in man ; that mind cannot be defined in terms of
consciousness, but must be defined in terms of" behaviour"
(41). "Behaviour •• in psychology is continuous with
.. regulation •• in physiology ; both are evidences of the
operations of mind of which we remain entirely unconscious.
In our three arbitrary divisions of universal mind these
manifestations of the activities of mind in living organisms
that are beyond the grasp of our conscious mind are included
in the term organic mind.
The inviolable continuity existing between conscious mind
and organic mind is a fact of supreme practical importance ;
and when properly appreciated may lead to developments
in the betterment of conditions of life such as would seem
incredible to us to-day. For organic mind has a host of
accomplishments and functions that are impossible to
conscious mind ; and it has a wide range of intelligence that
is beyond the range of comprehension ; yet conscious mind
may be so brought to influence it that we may indirectly,
through conscious mind, determine that organic mind shall
do that which is impossible for conscious mind to do directly.
The mutual influence of mind upon body and body upon
mind has long been recognised, especially in pathology ; but
no systematic and particular study has been devoted to the
immediate nature of the simultaneous mutual action that is
unceasingly operating and influencing the functional values
of conscious and organic mind.
In auto-suggestion such influences upon organic mind are
referred to as being due to sub-conscious mind ; in medical
practice they are vaguely alluded to as evidences of the
influence of mind upon the body. or the influence of mind in
disease. In faith cure they are referred to the supernatural;
and at spiritualistic s~ances effects traceable to the influences
of mind upon mind are referred to spirits of the dead.
Organic mind covers such terms as-unconscious mind,
subconscious mind, unconscious cerebration, dreams, super-
normal perception, subliminal perception, unconscious mem-
158 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
ory (Butler), biotic energy (Moore), intuition (Bergson),
psychic force in spiritualism, regulation in physiology. It
has a range of activity far deeper in scope than the conscious
mind of man, and an intelligence and a consciousness of a
quality that man cannot comprehend.
The difficulty in grasping the conception that there are
phases of conscious intelligence within us of which we always
remain unconscious is really no greater than we experience
if we attempt to conceive why our eyes are unconscious of
what we hear, and our ears unconscious of what we see.
Baudouin, in his Suggestion and Auto-suggestion, speaking
of the subconscious says:-
"The sub-conscious (the term does not mean an
inferior or subordinate consciousness, but a ' hidd~n cons-
ciousness ' ,· a consciousness that lies at a lower level than
the familiar consciousness of everyday life) is comparable
-to use Pierre Janet's simile-' to the deeper geological
strata; those covered by the superficial and visible
stratum to which latter our ordinary consciousness may
be compared. The subconscious is a storehouse of the
memories that have lapsed from the ordinary conscious-
ness, of the wishes and sentiments that have been
repressed, of the impressions of a distant past. But it
is very far from being inert, for it contains in addition the
subsoil waters which are unceasingly at work; it contains
the suggestions that will well up into the open after ~eir
hidden passage.' This is all imagery, but it serves,
better than pure abstractions, to convey some notion of
the complex reality we have come to recognise in the
subconscious.''
What Baudouin here refers to as subconscious mind is our
organic mind. In one sense it is " at a lower level " than the
familiar consciousness of everyday life, for it is the founda-
tion upon which the conscious mind of man is structured.
In another sense it is above that level, for it has the in-
telligence necessary to evolve that physical mechanism which
alone makes conscious mind in man possible. Conscious
mind does not, and cannot, construct the brain; that is the
work of organic mind. The newly-born child is a complex
of living organs, all evolved by organic mind, yet it possesses
CONSCIOUS MIND AND ORGANIC MIND 159
no conscious mind-except that unknown quality of cons-
cious inherent in the organic of the existence of which
it never becomes conscious.
97.-Evolution ofconscious mind,· influences infood.
Our conscious mind evolves from the mutual action that is
constantly proceeding between the movements of organic
molecules in the blood stream and the movements of organic
molecules in the brain cells that function conscious mind.
At any given moment of time conscious mind and organic
mind have a certain combined character of intensity and
volume, the sum of which we term the immediate mind (85) ;
and this immediate mind is always changing in value; a
slow and constant change during growth and decay of the
physical mechanism ; quicker and more irregular changes
through altered blood structure, due to differences in diet.
Every person doing mental work requiring intense con-
centration knows quite well that certain articles of food are
incompatible with good work. The diet that suits one best
is one that produces a blood structure which functions most
perfectly and energetically with the physiological units of
body and brain. Most persons who write and study much
soon discover the kind of diet that the best results can be
evolved from. The athlete or the prize-fighter diets himself
so as to evolve the largest possible flow of organic mind-
physical energy. But it is from organic mind that conscious
mind evolves ; so that even in mental work, dietetic " train-
ing " will give the best results.
Such facts prove that the character of immediate mind
in normal persons arises from the physical-the immediate
elemental structure of the blood. How widely known is the
common fact that the introduction of a little wine into the
blood stream at once alters the character of immediate
. d'
nun .
When thestructure of the brain is sub-normal-as in idiocy
-the mutual action between blood and brain cannot evolve
rational conscious mind.
How could sucll things be, if mind, as is so commonly
believed, were a something apart and distinct from the
physical?
x6o MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
98.-0rganic mind constructs the mechanism ofconscious miflll.
Organic mind came into existence millions of years before
man's conscious mind. It came into existence at that
moment in evolution when the more complex structures of
elements that we term animate evolved from the less complex
structures of elements that we term sub-animate; and a
vast period of time then elapsed in nature's laboratory
before the progress of evolution evolved the individual
conscious mind of the higher animals.
Man's conscious mind originally evolved from organic
mind; it continuously evolves from organic mind to-day.
The marvellous and subtle intelligence of organic mind is
indicated by the fact that it actually constructs the won-
drously complex physical mechanism in man that functions
consciousness-the brain. Every part of every individual
that lives is evolved under the guidance of organic mind.
The conscious mind of the greatest living genius cannot
construct a single living cell ; man cannot even imagine
HOW he thinks; he cannot comprehend the nature of the
activities within his own body, by virtue of which he exists.
All such things come within the range of the activities and
intelligence of organic mind. Man's conscious mind. his
intelligence, his reason, and all the activities these express,
depend upon, are conditioned by, and evolved from, organic
mind.
The range of mind activities that come within the meaning
of organic mind embraces all the varied activities that control
the physiological units-the cells, and all the varied animate
organs structured by the cells, whose co-operative activities
evolve the stream of energy that conditions individual life.
Thus organic mind is the dominant energy in the evolution
of the individual and of the hereditary tendencies of the
individual. And all these wonderful powers of organic
mind may be guided and influenced by conscious mind to an
extent yet unknown. The inviolable continuity between
conscious and organic mind makes this possible ; and we
have overwhelming evidence that such an influence is in
unceasing operation in every conscious individual.
Practical results are being obtained to-day of the possi-
bilities of this influence in auto-suggestion and in faith
CONSCIOUS MIND AND ORGANIC MIND :r6t
healing ; but we are only just beginning to be dimly aware
of the extent and value of the services it may render ; we
are yet far from an adequate knowledge of the conditions
necessary to fully secure those services. This is very evident
in the lack of pre-natal control over hereditary character.
Our knowledge in this direction may take centuries to in-
aease largely-even as it has taken over two thousand years
since the discovery of electric energy to acquire a knowledge
of the conditions necessary to make so full a practical use of
it as we do to-day. When organic mind becomes fully
recognised as an energy that may be infiuenced and even
directed under certain conditions by conscious mind ; when
this natural fact draws as much attention from original
investigators as was devoted to electric phenomena, we shall
no doubt have some astonishing developments. A great bar
to progress is presented by the fact that we have no means as
yet to measure intensity or volume of mind energy, such as
we have to measure other modes of energy. We can only
hope that somehow this difficulty may be overcome.
CJ9.-0rganic mind in" regulation"; intelligent enMgy.
An exhaustive study of the activities of organic mind
would fill a large volume. Within our own bodies it is
continuously doing things that are beyond the possibility
of achievement by man's conscious intelligence. If we are
heated from within, we are cooled from without ; if we are
cooled from without, we are heated from within ; thus
maintaining the constant temperature that is necessary to
our well-being. If we cut ourselves or break a bone an
unusual activity and a re-arrangement of material at the
injured part follows till the injury is repaired. If a poison
finds entrance into man or animal, organic mind immediately
commences to produce substances to neutralise that poison.
If a dog is fed upon starchy food it will produce digestive
juices that are rich in enzyms that digest starch; if you
change its diet to meat, it will produce juices rich in proteid
digestives. If we ascend from low levels to higher altitudes,
the air becomes more tenuous, and less oxygen is supplied
to the lungs ; but organic mind at once proceeds to produce
more red blood cells, in order to provide the system with the
L
x6z MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
necessary oxygen. If we rise but a hundred feet, organic
mind will evolve about ten thousand more red cells per
cubic millimetre of blood.
It is impossible for man to check the operations of organic
mind or stay its functions of intelligence; he is obliged to
see-if his eyes are open-the activity is beyond his control
And it is the same with what are tenned instincts in animals
-a term invented to cover ignorance. They are movements
of organic mind intelligence that must occur just as they do
occur, and cannot occur otherwise. Just as we see when our
eyes are open just what we see--and cannot see otherwise.
Amongst lower organisms we meet with some remarkable
instances of the wonderful powers of organic mind. If we
cut a polyp into two, the organic mind in each separate
half sets to work and builds up a complete individual, and
we have two where we only had one. If the head of an
earth worm is cut off, the organic mind of the worm will
construct a new head complete in all details. Cut the tail or
a leg off a salamander, and a new leg or a new tail will be
produced. There are fresh water worms that cut themselves
into two as a natural process, and the head part grows a new
tail, and the tail part a new head. We may cut the root,
branches and leaves of some plants into hundreds of pieces,
and the organic mind in each piece will evolve a complete
plant.
If a clerk with his soft hands leaves his desk and takes to
farm work with spade and hoe, the organic minds in the
animate units-the epithelial cells forming the skin which
covers the palms of his hands-perceive at once that they
require more protection from external influences, and
immediately commence to thicken the outer horny layer that
protects them. The clerk develops a hard horny layer on
the palms of his hands many times thicker than ever grew
there before. This is the work of organic mind. The co~
cious mind of the clerk cannot do it ; he does not understand
anything about the matter. All the science in the world
cannot explain the essential nature of such operations ; but
we can plainly see that they are determined by an intelligent
energy.
If reason does not accompany other activities of mind
CONSCIOUS MIND AND ORGANIC MIND 163
than those within the arbitrary and narrow range we term
conscious mind, how then does a wonn that is cut into two
know how to grow a new head upon one half and a new tail
upon the other ? The same question could be put regarding
an infinite number of problems in evolution and reproduc-
tion. How does a cow know how to produce a calf ? It is
certainly not by conscious mind. To say such things are
" natural " is to say nothing ; for everything that is, is
natural. Is it not self-evident that there must be a conscious
intelligence guiding these wonderful activities; and is it not
self-evident that this conscious intelligence goes beyond the
range of the possibilities of that conscious mind with which
we are so well acquainted?
The above-mentioned phenomena of organic mind, and
many others that could be mentioned, are indicated in
physiology by the term 11
regulation," the immediate nature
of which is considered one of the most difficult of problems.
But, if we view the phenomena from the position we take
regarding the continuity of mind, we see mind to be what it
really is, a universal intelligent factor, expressing itself as
conscious mind, organic mind and sub-organic mind; then
the way is open to a luminous conception of the basic nature
of " regulation."
Investigators are more and more impressing upon us facts
which could not be except upon the conditions of continuity
between organic mind and conscious mind. We read of the
" education of oysters " (Prof. Gardiner) ; of 11
cells that
are teachable" (Dr. Albert) ; and of microbes 11
acquiring a
capacity" (Dr. Topley). In the acquisition of knowledge
nothing exceeds in value a true conception of the ultimate
factors to be reckoned with in any phenomenon we are
studying.
xoo.--Continuity between conscious mind and organic mind.
The continuity between conscious mind and organic
mind may be most definitely recognised and studied in
man where we find conclusive evidence showing that, whilst
life continues in the individual, conscious mind is constantly
under the influence of, and modified by, organic mind, and
164 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
organic mind is constantly influenced and modified by
conscious mind.
In the structure of man and the higher animals there are
two distinct systems of nerves and two distinct systems of
muscles. One system of muscles is controlled by conscious
mind; we may use them or not as we please. The other
system of muscles is controlled by organic mind; we are
unconscious of their movements, and have no direct control
over them. Such movements include the beating of the
heart and other vaso-motor movements of the circulatory
system, peristaltic movements, muscular movements within
the eye, etc.
One system of nerves-the sensory or afferent-transmit
to the brain, where they appear as conscious presentations,
those organic mind impressions or movements that condition
perceptions (18). The other system of nerves-the organic
or efferent-convey energy impulses of which we are un-
conscious to the organic muscles, causing movements of
which we remain quite unconscious.
Thus the very structure of our bodies is adapted to the
activities of our two arbitrary yet distinctive phases of mind,
conscious mind and organic mind ; and that they are con-
tinuous and influence each other is shown in many ways.
The conscious mind energy involved in the attention
necessary to hearing a question and replying to it must of
necessity be continuous with the organic mind operations
that occur on the lines of communication between the ear
and the brain and between the brain and the tongue. The
conscious mind involved in deciding that we will take a
walk cannot be otherwise than continuous with the organic
mind energy that comes into play as we step out.
All the fibres of both sensory and organic nerve systems
lead to and ultimately meet in the brain, in an inextricably
complex network of cells and nerve fibrils ; and thus the
brain becomes the " central exchange " for messages to and
from all conscious and all organic mind activities in the body.
The brain is therefore an organ of unconscious or organic
mind, equally as it is an organ of conscious mind. And here
in the brain must occur that continuous transfonnation of
organic into conscious, and conscious into organic mind,
CONSCIOUS MIND AND ORGANIC MIND 165
which, both under normal conditions and under abnormal
conditions, cause the many mysterious phenomena in
regulation and in psychism that puzzle u~ to-day.
When we expose ourselves to severe cold, we lmow nothing
of the bustle of activities in the intelligence and executive
departments of our organic mind system in consequence of
the imperative demand for an increase in the production of
heat. We cannot understand or imagine the maze of inter-
communications between, or the range and subtilty of
organic mind exercised by the millions of our organic cells
whose co-operative activities convert the food we eat into
the energies of organic and conscious mind.
Take a slice of bread in your hand. Look at it. Think
about it-deeply. Can you, by any operations of your
intelligence or reason, evolve courage, resolution or ambition
out of it ? Can you by any effort of conscious mind trans-
fonn that piece of bread into the mind energy necessary to
solve a problem, play a game of golf or make a mental
calculation? All the science and intellect in the world
cannot do it. But eat it--eat it-and the organic
minds in the cells of your organs of nutrition and assimila-
tion, co-operating with the organic minds in your brain cells,
will transform it into the mind energy necessary to do any
one of these things. We cannot admit the marvellous
activities of organic mind without being impressed with the
utter incongruity of associating such intelligence with un-
consciousness. Organic mind must have a consciousness
and an intelligence that, in its own range, goes far beyond
our conscious intelligence. If one lung is destroyed by
disease, the remaining one, if it be sound, will commence to
do double duty. If one kidney is removed, the one left will
take upon itself the work of two, and rapidly increase in
size. If three-fourths of the thyroid glands be removed,
the remaining portion will avert the death that would follow
entire removal. White blood corpuscles-the phagocytes
of Metcbnikoff---defend our bodies from the intrusion of
harmful fonns of life by killing and eating them. When
flesh is cut or a bone broken, the phagocytes gather about the
cut or break and prevent any intrusion of micro-organisms
that would cause injury and prevent healing. There is an
166 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
organic intelligence in our bodies that is constantly working
to keep us healthy, even though we consciously do things
that are prejudicial to health. In every way possible for
anything animate to demonstrate the possession of cons-
ciousness and intelligence organic mind so demonstrates
their possession. It is really ridiculous in man to think
that he alone possesses all of the conscious intelligence that
exists or is necessary in the infinitely vast, varied and in-
comprehensible activities in nature. This appears especially
so when we consider that he does not even know how he
thinks. The entire human race and all that has or ever will
happen to it are but infinitely trivial and momentary in-
cidents in relation to the immensity and duration of the
universe. And that universe must have infinite re-
sources of all the energies and attributes that condition all
existences.
ror.-The expenditure of immediate mind enet'gy.
The total of immediate mind energy in any animate
being is the sum of its immediate conscious and organic mind
energies (97). Conscious mind cannot function except upon
organic mind as a basis for its evolution and expression.
At every moment of time we have a definite amount of
immediate mind energy. When we feel lazy after indulgence
at the dinner table it is because the organic mind energy
necessary for digestion draws largely from that immediate
energy, leaving less available for the activities of conscious
mind. When we cannot eat on account of mental excite-
ment, it is because the immediate mind energy is so largely
drawn upon by consciousness that we feel we cannot supply
the necessary organic mind energy for digestion.
The physical mechanism of the heart is controlled by
organic mind, and we cannot by mere conscious effort alter
the rate or energy of its beat; yet unusual effects upon
conscious mind are transformed into effects upon the organic
mind controlling the heart, and excitement may cause the
heart to beat quicker or stronger, or mental shock may
cause it to cease beating.
The breathing mechanism of the lungs is normally con-
trolled by organic mind, but we can modify its activity by
CONSCIOUS MIND AND ORGANIC MIND 167
act of conscious mind; we can breathe faster or slower,
deeply or more shallowly, or even stop breathing for a short
time. We have thus proof that conscious mind may in-
fluence functions of organic mind.
The act of deglutition is performed by conscious mind,
and that conscious mind movement is absolutely and of
necessity continuous with the unconscious organic mind
activity that carries the food through the digestive
track-the peristaltic movement.
We cannot, normally, by exercise of conscious mind so
influence the organic mind of the structure of the stomach
as to eject its contents; yet the conscious mind effect of an
unusual sight, such as a ghastly wound, will so influence it
that its contents may be promptly ejected.
The young lady cannot consciously control the calibre
of the capillaries in her cheeks ; that is determined by
organic mind; yet effects upon the conscious mind may
cause them to contract or dilate, and she pales or blushes.
She cannot consciously produce tears ; but the conscious
mind may be led into channels of thought that will influence
organic mind to produce them.
In pathology we meet with many instances that prove.the
mutual influences that organic and conscious mind exert
upon each other. The numerous cases of " shock " during
the great war, when all kinds of abnormal mental conditions
resulted from physical causes, make this truth very evident.
It gives much trouble at times to the physician in diagnosis,
particularly in the hydra-headed activities of hysteria.
Such influences also give the very substantial basis, in fact,
for the results obtained by the Christian Scientists, who
believe in " faith cure " ; for the sometimes most remarkable
results obtained by physicians who utilise the condition of
hypnosis for making useful impressions upon organic mind ;
and for the results of auto-suggestion as practised by Cou~
and his followers.
102.-Allforms ofenergy ,-adiate ; mind ,-adiates.
All modes of physical energy radiate ; and we may a
priori deduce that mind, being a mode of energy, must
radiate (83). The facts in hypnotism prove that this is so.
168 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
Mind radiates even as heat, light, or electric energies radiate :
and we are but just beginning to learn how to tum this fact
to advantage.
The operator in hypnosis may act directly through the
organic mind of his subjects without consciousness on the
part of the subject regarding what. the operator may be
trying to do with him. The co~ious will of the operator
is transformed into the unconscious will of the subject; or,
in other words, conscious mind in the operator is transformed
into organic mind in the subject. It is being done every day
by physicians, who induce hypnosis for curative purposes ;
and also by entertainers, who do it to amuse an audience.
The facts in hypnosis demonstrate that mind radiates
and is continuous between individuals-although there is
no consciousness of such a connection; that no person's
mind can be strictly individual ; and that every person's
mind is continuously and unconsciously intermingled more
or less with radiations from other minds in proximity.
We thus get a grasp upon a reasonable foundation for the
cause of '' panic '' in crowds ; for the savagery of normally
peaceful men during the excitement of war ; the rapid spread
of absurd crazes in habits and cults ; herding instinct ;
·and for an understanding of the cause that leads us to the
recognition in some persons of that power of attraction which
we term ., personality" or ., personal magnetism." The
strongest minds radiate the strongest influence, but 'they
affect us in no perceptibly consciousmanner ; the effect is too
subtle to be defined. That this is so agrees with what we
have already stated-that perceptions are functions of
organic mind, and that we have no conscious knowledge of
what we touch or see until the organic mind impression of
the sense organ has been transmitted to the brain, and
there transformed into consciousness (30). As we cannot
possibly be conscious of the conscious mind in others, the
only manner in which mind impressions from other persons
can reach our own consciousness is by means of our own
organic mind ; and, as a consequence, it cannot be differen-
tiated from the mind that originates within ourselves.
Fear, in disease, is a fonn of auto-suggestion that can act
with direful effect, retarding recovery, and even leading to a
CONSCIOUS MIND AND ORGANIC MIND 169
fatal issue. Epidemics are more widely spread by fear of
contagion. In India the high mortality from snake bite is
largely due to fear. A savage when told by his medicine
man that an enemy has stolen his heart will almost assuredly
die. Pointing a bone at his enemy is one of the most dread-
ful things an Australian ~borigine can think of in the way of
revenge. In the South Sea Islands it is not uncommon for
a robust man, as a consequence of some deep vexation, to
lie down and say he will die, and he does die ; sometimes
on the very day he has decided that he will die !
All such instances as the foregoing demonstrate the in-
fluence of conscious mind upon organic mind, made possible
by the inviolable continuity that conditions all phases of
mind activity.
IOJ.-Pet"cejJtion by Df'gan.Jc mind precedes conscious mind
peyception.
We do not see or hear by conscious mind. The cerebral
centres in the brain transform into conscious mind the
organic mind perceptions of our five senses. If the optic
nerves that connect the eyes with the optic lobes in the brain
were cut across, blindness would instantly result, although
the eyes and optic lobes remained uninjured. The eyes
themselves, we cannot help concluding, would continue to
see so long as they remained structurally normal, but there
would be no consciousness of what the eyes saw. Organic
mind perceives before we are conscious of perceptions, for
it takes time for the movements that condition a perception
to be transmitted to the brain centres and there transmuted
into a conscious phenomenon ; even as it takes time for an
electric movement to travel along a metal wire.
Organic mind from a portion of the body may be cut off
by accident or disease from communication with the brain;
and consciousness is lost in relation to that portion, although
organic mind still remains active in the portion so cut off.
A person may be quite unconscious that.he possesses feet or
hands so far as any conscious sensations from them are
concerned. By injury to the spine he may be quite un-
conscious of the .existence of the lower half of his body ; yet
organic mind in the parts affected will continue to receive
170 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
the same impressions of touch and environment, although it
is impossible for them to reach the brain and be transmuted
into conscious mind impressions.
By concussion of the brain a person may temporarily
lose all consciousness of existence ; yet organic mind will
keep the living mechanism in order until connection with the
brain again becomes normal and he awakes to conscious life
again. All such well-known facts indicate that the two dis-
tinctive phases of animate mind have distinctive physical
structures as a basis. This distinction of structure that
accompanies each distinctive phase of mind function is a
fact of some importance, to which we shall have occas1on
to refer further on.
104.-EJ!ects of01ganic mind upon conscious mind.
Equally with evidence of the effects of conscious mind
upon organic mind we have evidences of the effects of organic
mind upon conscious mind. The organic mind in the cells
of a disordered liver expresses its feelings through the cons-
cious mind by sensations of depression or ill humour. The
cells of the whole body, when supplied with a little alcohol,
express their feelings through the conscious mind by a sense
of exhilaration ; any abnormal condition of any part of the
body gives an abnormal character to the organic mind of
that part; and this must have its influence upon conscious
mind. It cannot be otherwise, since the basis of conscious
mind is organic mind. It is well known to-day that an
organic disease in the brain of the notorious Lenin was the
primary cause of the death of thousands of Russians.
H. Addington Bruce, in his Psychology and Parenthood,
quotes authentic instances where the moral character in
growing youths was entirely altered by the removal of ab-
cessed and impacted teeth. Trivial physical defects,
adenoids, enlarged glands, eye and ear troubles, will cause
children to be morally and mentally backward. The
diseased organic mind of the diseased organs exerts an
influence that depresses the evolution of healthy conscious
mind.
When an animal upon a hot day strolls to the shelter from
the sun afforded by some convenient tree, it is obeying the
CONSCIOUS MIND AND ORGANIC MIND 171
desires of its millions of organic cells--they will be more
comfortable in the shade. When a man eats in response to
his conscious sensations of hunger, he is obeying a call from
the organic mind in his communities of cells for a fresh supply
of energy. The conscious mind in both cases interprets the
perceptions of organic mind, just as it interprets in terms of
consciousness the perceptions of our five senses.
The prospective mother, at times, receives impressions
from organic mind that are wondrously subtle. She has to
provide nutrition for both herself and the rapidly developing
child. Her assimilative resources are taxed to the utmost.
For the proper development of the child certain definite
quantities of a number of definite elements are absolutely
necessary. If, in her average dietary scale, one of these
elements is lacking in quantity, she first begins to feel
unsatisfied with her food, and longs for something, but
does not know what it is. Soon, however her organic mind,
by its insistent impression upon her conscious mind, indicates
what it is she requires. Thinking over this and that, trying
to arrive at some dish that will relieve her unsatisfied
longing, she suddenly and most surely knows what it is.
And it does not matter how unsuitable it may appear to be
for a person in her condition, it almost invariably turns out
to be just the right thing. The only rational explanation
in such cases is that the conscious mind correctly interprets
the messages that organic mind impresses upon the brain
(218}.
Coindet, of Geneva, reflecting upon the fact that persons
suffering from goitre got into a habit of eating the ashes of
sea sponges, was led to use iodine in such cases-and with
good results. Earth ea~ing, or geophagia, and the habit
cows acquire of chewing bones, point to impressions made
upon conscious mind by organic mind, indicating substances
containing molecules that are lacking in quantity in the
daily food.
In certain forms of so-called " nervous disorders " there is
a lack of normal correlation between conscious mind and
organic mind. In hypochondria the subject often shows a
distinct inability to transform conscious mind into the
organic mind energy of muscular effort. In hysteria we see
172 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
conscious mind transformed into organic movements in a
manner uncontrollable by the subject. In such cases it
seems quite clear that a persistence of some duration in a
divergence from normal healthy habits of mind and body
have caused derangement in the very citadel of the living
mechanism.
All this leads us to a recognition of the fact that each one
of the individual organic cells in the complex animal or-
ganism has a consciousness and an intelligence of its own.
We have a large number of cells in our bodies that differ in
structure and function ; and each differing cell requires some
difference in the nature of the nutrient molecules which it
absorbs to furnish the energy for its specific activities. For
instance, the cells of the liver must require a pabulum that
differs from the pabulum required by the cells of the brain ;
the cells of the pancreas require a pabulum that will not
satisfy the thyroid. When the food ingested lacks a
sufficiency of the particular nutrient molecules necessary to
any particular organ, we can conceive the individual cells
in that organ expressing their dissatisfaction by a lowered
or an abnormal function. And as all of conscious mind
arises by transmutations of organic mind, it must in some
degree be affected by any difference in the character of the
organic mind from which it arises. The individual cells in
the complaining organ know what it is they require; for
millions of years such cells have normally been supplied
with and utilised a sufficient proportion of the nutrient
molecules now lacking ; and the manner in which they
indicate to conscious mind the particular food that contains
an abundance of the required molecules is but one of the
incomprehensible wonders of organic mind.
105.-0rganic mind effects in pathology. John Wesley.
In pathology many striking instances are seen of this
amazing organic mind intelligence. Patients sometimes
have an intense longing for some particular food that the
medical attendant has prohibited as harmful ; but the
patient cannot resist the temptation to eat it when oppor-
tunity offers--result, immediate improvement I How the
organ involved managed to indicate to conscious mind just
CONSCIOUS MIND AND ORGANIC MIND 173
the particular food that contained a sufficiency of the needed
nutrient molecules, it is impossible to say; we can only
rationally connect the result with an activity of organic
mind.
A gentleman, seventy years of age, became seriously ill.
He refused to see a doctor, being strongly prejudiced against
average medical practice. But his sufferings became so
severe and he was such a trouble to his family that he at last
consented to be taken to a sanitorium. The medical officer
in charge examined him, and stated that there was a large
internal growth ; that he had sought assistance much too
late ; that no treatment could be of any service ; and that
it was very doubtful if an operation would be of any use.
He could stay at the sanitorium if he pleased as a guest,
but that he would be given no treatment, as it would be
useless. Asked if it was a malignant growth, the medico
would not say, but was of the opinion, considering the old
gentleman's age, condition and symptoms, that it was so.
The next day the old gentleman sought further advice
from a specialist, who, after a physical. examination, told
him that he had a large growth involving all the principal
internal organs, originating probably in the pancreas ; that
an operation would be useless ; that he " considered it his
duty lo infQTm him that he had not long to live," and advised
him to set his affairs in order as soon as possible.
The old gentleman then took the case into his own hands,
and had nothing more to do with doctors. He decided he
would go to a seaside resort, where he could indulge ad lib. in
a diet consisting mainly of fish, oysters, and oranges-these
being three items of food for which he had a decided craving.
He reasoned that, as cancer-like rheumatism-occurs
more frequently as age advances, it was very probable that-
like rheumatism-cancer was a nutritive disorder.
That is now five years ago, and the old gentleman to-day
has no evidence of disease about him, and is as healthy and
vigorous as most men of his age. No sort of a crisis <><:curred
during recovery ; he slowly and imperceptibly got well.
That old gentleman is now writing these lines, and the
growth above mentioned delayed the publication of this
volume more than three years.
174 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
Here again we see evidence of the intelligence of organic
mind as impressed upon and correctly interpreted by cons-
cious mind. There are many complex activities of organic
mind intelligence constantly operating within the body of
which we always remain directly unconscious. The organic
mind of the body elaborates its own " drugs "-the hormones
-stores them, and liberates them in definite places as re-
quired. If these honnones are, from some cause, deficient
or improperly distributed, diseases of a serious nature result.
But this does not happen without some alteration of the
impressions that organic mind is constantly making in-
directly upon conscious mind. If we can correctly interpret
such impressions, all the better; but if we cannot, we may
still powerfully influence by auto-suggestion any attempt
by organic mind to return to normal function.
John Wesley, the founder of the Wesleyan Church, wrote
a small book on Primitive Physic. In that work he gives an
account of what happened to a fanner who was supposed to
be dying of dropsy, which is well worth noting here. The
farmer was, by medical authority, restricted to a small
amount of liquid daily, his normal drink being " home
brewed," which was forbidden. His medical attendant at
last gave up all hopes of his recovery, and told the wife she
might as well let him have anything he wanted to eat or
drink, as there was no hope of saving him. When the wife
told her husband he could have anything he wanted, he
immediately called for a quart of home brewed-and another
-and another. He got drunk on good beer, and recovered I
We have not in this case any direct evidence that there
was a distinct organic mind impression upon conscious
mind regarding any particular desire. But the immediate
demand for beer points to this conclusion. It is reason-
able to suppose that the beer provided correct molecular
movements necessary to put the organic cell activities to
rights and so cured the dropsy. We would not have quoted
this incident upon a less authority than that of the famous
John Wesley.
CONSCIOUS MIND AND ORGANIC MIND 175
1o6.--01ganic mind effects in mediums. Auto-suggestion.
It is when organic mind is more than usually dominant,
as a consequence of the semi-conscious or very faintly
conscious condition of mediums, when practically all of the
immediate mind energy is available for its operations,
that the many mysterious happenings occur that have led to
the popular belief in spirits. As the medium of any
unusual exhibition of its powers is quite unconscious of its
activities--which often range beyond the powers of the
medium's conscious mind (102)-witnesses of the pheno-
mena, seeing and hearing evidences of things for which they
can ascribe no reasonable cause, are easily led to believe
them due to some supernatural agency.
The fact that we have no conscious perception of the
functions of organic mind or of the influences that conscious
mind exerts upon it also leads Christian Scientists into the
delusion that it is faith in their religious dogmas that cures
the sick. In the cases we have mentioned of abnormal
organic function being brought back to normal by the
influence brought to bear upon it by conscious mind thexe is
not a scrap of evidence of any supernatural agency.
In the remarkable results obtained in auto-suggestion a
religious faith in anything supernatural is quite unnecessary.
The practice of auto-suggestion simply expresses a more
practical and definite appreciation of the facts, so long dimly
and vaguely known to physicians, that the mental condition
has an influence upon the physical condition and the physi-
cal condition has an influence upon the mental condition.
Louis R~nan, after a most careful and exhaustive investi-
gation of the results of differing treatments for tuberculosis,
formulated the following statement as a truth :-
u Every new method for the treatment of chronic
tuberculosis, provided that it is harmless, will give satis-
factory results."
Any new treatment gives the patient renewed hope, and
this effect upon conscious mind is sufficient to cause an im-
provement in the organic mind activities concerned in the
disorder. It is the failure of organic mind energy in the
cells upon which the dreaded bacillus thrives that permits
176 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
it so to thrive. With normal organic energy they could not
exist. Millions of persons every day draw tubercular bacilli
into their lungs and are never any the worse for it ; the nor-
mal and healthy micro-organisms that structure the lungs
will not allow the invaders to live and thrive.
IO'].-Th~oid glands.
Probably the most convincing example of the correlation
between organic mind and conscious mind is furnished by
the nature of the activities of the thyroid glands and their
influence upon conscious mind in man. We are not cons-
cious even of the existence of these glands within our bodies,
yet if by disease the thyroid secretion becomes insufficient,
the normal intelligent activity of conscious mind may be
reduced to a state of dullness or torpor approaching idiocy.
But we can restore the intelligent activity of conscious mind
by the administration of pills made from an extract of
thyroid glands of sheep, or by eating the glands themselves.
Organic mind in sheep may be transformed into human
conscious mind I Sir William Osler, speaking of the results
of thyroid treatment, says :-
" We can to-day rescue children otherwise doomed to
helpless idiocy ; we can restore to life the hopeless victims
of myxoedema, a triumph of experimental medicine, for
which we are largely indebted to Sir Victor Horsley and
to his pupil Murray.... unparalleled by anything in the
whole range of curative measures. Within six weeks, a
poor feeble-minded toad-like caricature of humanity
may be restored to mental and bodily health."
Gley, a prominent French observer, remarks that the
results show that :-
'' The genesis and the e~ercise of the highest faculties
in man are conditioned by the simple chemical action of
a product of secretion, a fact which should be bom in
mind by psychologists."
We are indebted to Prof. Benjamin Moore's Origin aflfl
Nature of Life for the above quotation.
Thus we are led to the unavoidable conclusion that the
organic mind in the thyroid glands of a sheep has the same
essential nature as the organic mind in the thyroid glands
CONSCIOUS MIND AND ORGANIC MIND 177
in man For organic mind in sheep may be transformed into
man's conscious mind-intelligence and reason; indicating
to that extent, at least, the truth of our postulate that all
mind is one and continuous.
ro8.-0rganic mind never tires, never sleeps.
So far as our knowledge of the immediate nature of mind
extends, it appears that organic mind never tires, never
sleeps, but is for ever incessantly at work in the individual
organism. In the individual the supply of immediate
energy must first be drawn upon for the purposes of the basic
organic mind that keeps the organism alive. Conscious
mind is more or less vigorous in proportion to the excess of
immediateenergy available in the organism above that which
is necessary for the activities of organic mind. During our
waking periods we expend energy by conscious and by
organic mind activities at a rate a little in excess of the rate
at which our metabolic activities evolve it; and when the
reserves of energy acquired during the previous period of
recuperation in sleep become exhausted we require another
period of sleep in order to again acquire a reserve of imme-
diate energy to support conscious mind through another
period of wakeful activity.
Although conscious mind requires periods of rest in sleep,
it appears, even in the deepest sleep, never wholly to cease
to function. The mother who will sleep soundly through
much louder sounds will awaken at her baby's faintest cry;
the engineer of a ship at sea will wake up instantly if his
engines cease running. The ever wakeful organic mind
keeps some little comers of conscious mind always awake.
Memory is a function of the unceasing activities of organic
mind, and enters largely into dreams ; further on we devote
a chapter to these phenomena.
CHAPTER VII
ORGANIC MIND CONTINUOUS WITH SUB-oRGANIC KIND
1og.-Undetectable movements; indefinable structures.
All forms of energy, whatever their nature, extend from a
maximum that cannot be defined to a minimum that cannot
be defined. The minimum is not only below direct percep-
tion by our senses, it is also below indirect perception
by means of any instrument of delicacy yet produced.
We can indirectly perceive radiations of such a feeble nature
that the amount of energy involved is insufficient to enable
the mind to function a definite concept of the amount ;
just as in the opposite direction we deal with distances and
magnitudes so vast that it is impossible for human mind to
grasp definite concepts of them. No human mind can grasp
a definite concept of the vast abyss that is bridged by the
"light year" of the astronomer. We cannot gra"p a
definite concept of the amount of energy we receive from a
star that comes to us across that vast abyss. But we have
instruments that can measure it, and the physical mecha-
nism of our eyes can enter into equal energy of mutual
action with it and give us a consciousness of its existence.
So with mind energy ; its most feeble manifestations are
movements of a value so minute that we cannot form any
definite concepts of them. All physicists to-day are quite
certain that radiations of energy so feeble as to be beyond
detection by the most delicate instruments are ever at work
and exerting an influence upon the grosser material in
nature. Animate individual structures diminish in size till
we cannot perceive them directly with our unaided senses;
we have to enlarge them with the microscope before we can
see them ; but even then we cannot reach the limit in
minuteness of living things. We are quite certain that
living individual structures exist that cannot be objectively
X78
CONSCIOUS MIND AND SUB-ORGANIC MIND 179
perceived by any means yet known. Pathologists often
refer to effects produced by ultra microscopic organisms.
There are many of these germs that no man has ever seen-
individual living things so small that they can pass through
filters designed to prevent micro-organisms from passing
through.
If animate organisms exist so small as to be beyond our
powers of definite conception, how inconceivably minute and
weak must be the humble organic mind that animates such
organisms? Yet the organic mind that does so animate
them must be inviolably continuous with the organic mind
mman.
Down among these invisible organisms and among the
many remarkable substances that have animate properties
and are essential to living activities, the hormones, opsonins
and vitamins., one at least of which the chemist can now
make artificially (64) from non-living or sub-animate ele-
ments. we are actually within that indefinable region of
molecular activity where the complexity of animate structure
evolves without break in continuity from the molecular
activities of less complex sub-organic structures ; the
difference being merely one in the range and character of
mutualaction between differing elementary molecules.
uo.-Evolution of organic mind; iron.· carbon dioxide;
sulphur.
It is self-evident that in a very complex structure of
atoms such as an organic proteid molecule, which contains
more than a thousand atoms, the sum of organic mind
energy and the range of organic mind function must be
greater if we increase the number and variety of the atoms
that structure it; for we must have in every molecule a
cumulative effect of the specific properties of all the varied
atoms which enter into its structure. Atoms and sub-
organic molecules have perceptions (36. 39). and consequent
sub-animate movements ; these build up the proteid mole-
cule, which has that wider range of perception and function
which we term organic mind. Thus mind is perfectly con-
tinuous from the atom to the organic mind in living sub-
stance.
r8o MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
The animation in a sub-organic molecule, or in the ani-
mate organic molecule, is not directly evident to our senses
of perception ; it lies far below the range of the most power-
ful microscope. But we can see the effects of their move-
ments when they are assembled together in the large num-
bers that are necessary to the structure of the smallest visible
animate organism ; and we term this cumulative activity
of a mass of sub-organic molecules living movement, i.e.,
life.
If we expose a bright surface of iron to the influence of the
atmosphere a mutual action between the metal and oxygen
immediately commences upon every part of the bright
surface. This movement cannot be seen, either directly or
indirectly ; but it is continuous movement, and after some
time has elapsed we can directly perceive the cumulative
effect of the movement in the dulled surface of the metal ; it
is covered by a film of oxide of iron. Here again we see
how mutual action, equal, simultaneous and continuous,
merges into cause and effect ; the mutual action between the
oxygen and the metal is the cause of the effect of dullness
on the metallic surface. This continuous process of oxida-
tion, this sub-animate movement which is beyond our powers
of perception, and which we know of only by its results, is of
essentially the same nature as the living movements within
our bodies from which we derive the energy necessary for
our mental and physical activities ; and, equally with the
rusting iron, we only know of these movements by the
results of the continuous and imperceptible mutual actions
going on incessantly within us.
Oxidation is a slower process, but it is of the same essen-
tial nature as burning ; hence the energy value of food is,
estimated exactly in the same manner as the energy value of
fuel for a furnace ; it is determined by the amount of heat
evolved by burning. A grain of iron that slowly rusts into
oxide evolves exactly as much heat as a grain of iron that
bums quickly, and with such intense heat and brilliance, in
oxygen gas. And a grain of fat that is dropped into the fire
evolves exactly as much energy as is evolved from it within
our bodies in the bio-chemical processes of nutrition.
The properties of the atom being fundamental and unal~
CONSCIOUS MIND AND SUB-ORGANIC MIND 181
terable, it follows that the mutual actions upon each other
of the atoms in the organic molecules which structure the
body must be the same in essential nature as the mutual
actions upon each other of similar atoms outside the body,
and that living functions and activities are essentially the
same genetically as the functions and activities of elemen-
tary molecules in the laboratory of chemist or physicist.
Hence it is possible to-day for the chemist to manufacture
substances having exactly the same properties as living
substances within the living body (64). When the iron in
the red blood corpuscles absorbs oxygen from the air in the
lungs it is doing exactly what it would do in a chemist's
test tube, if it could be placed there under similar
conditions.
Carbon dioxide is produced in the tissues by the oxidation
of the fuel we ingest as food, exactly as it is produced by a
lighted candle or in a furnace, as a means of evolving light
energy or heat energy. When the blood, in its movement
through the body, encounters the molecules of carbon
dioxide in the fluids and tissues, it picks up these molecules
-from which no further energy can be derived-and carries
them to the lungs to be expelled from the system.
Every elementary and every compound molecule within a
living body contributes its own quota of specific animate
energy to the sum, which constitutes the whole of the
animate energies, mental and physical, of that body ; and
the lack of any one of the physical properties of the mole-
cules would result in the death of the individual. If iron
would not rust, ifcarbon would not burn, ifhydrogen did not
have an affinity for oxygen, not a living thing known to
man could exist on the earth to-day. We see that man's
very existence and the existence of all other living things is
conditioned by mutual actions between fundamental ele-
ments that are essentially activities of sub-animate life.
We are obliged to conclude that all activities in nature have a
common genetic basis ; that the organic is continuous with
the sub-organic; that so-called "dead" matter is con-
tinuous with living matter.
We can now fully appreciate the profound significance of
Rutherford's statement that " the properties of the atom
182 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
must explain the properties of all more complicated struc-
tures " ; for it involves the conception that mind and life
evolve from the fundamental mind and life in the atom.
An atom is the unit of mind and life in the sub-animate ;
the living cell, a complex structure of atoms, is the unit of
mind and life in the animate.
The properties of elementary molecules being unalterable,
the mutual actions between carbon and oxygen, between
oxygen and iron, or between any other two or more ele-
ments, whether they occur in a living body or in a chemical
test tube, must be exactly the same in essential nature.
Sulphur is one of the elements that is always present in the
structure of the human organism ; present because it has
properties which are necessary to human existence. This
element has a keen perception or affinity for the element
hydrogen. One molecule of sulphur unites with two
molecules of hydrogen and evolves a molecule of the gas
hydrogen sulphide. This gas is valuable to the chemist by
reason of its wide capacity for mutual action with other
elements. It has an offensive smell like rotten eggs; it is
poisonous when inhaled or absorbed into the system. It
occurs free in nature, in volcanic gases, in certain medicinal
waters, and is evolved by the putrefaction of animal matter.
It also occurs in the intestines of unhealthy persons, espe-
cially after eating eggs or cheese, giving the dejecta a most
offensive odour. If sulphur is applied to the skin externally,
hydrogen sulphide is evolved ; if the skin is tom or cut, and
the sulphur comes in contact with the raw flesh, a mutual
action may occur with the evolution of sulphurous and
sulphuric acids, and these may cause severe irritation.
In the formation of hydrogen sulphide in the intestines
and in the formation of sulphurous and sulphuric acids by
mere contact with the flesh, we have animate" behaviour"
of the sulphur that is exactly the same as the" behaviour"
of sulphur in the chemist's test tubes. It mutually acts with
other elements, or" behaves" in the same way, whether in
association with animate or with sub-animate matter. And
as we can only detennine an activity of mind in terms of
"behaviour" (41), if mind is the actuating energy in the one
case, it must be so in the other case. When the unalterable
CONSCIOUS MIND AND SUB-ORGANIC MIND 183
mutual actions of the elements occur in our bodies they are
termed animate or living functions ; when they occur outside
the living body, they are termed inanimate or material func-
tions I Why ? An infinite variety of mutual actions occur
within the living body amongst the sixteen or more different
atoms of the elements that enter into its structure; and the
sum of the energy of these mutual actions constitutes the
life of the individual. But they must be essentially of the
same nature as those that occur between the same elements
outside of the body ; and if they are living activities inside
the body, they must be living activities outside the body.
III.-Sub-cwganic and o-rganic evolution.
A more intelligent conception of the continuity between
organic and sub-organic mind may be grasped if we take a
brief survey of the probable course of events that must have
followed each other during sub-organic and organic evolution
andwe may thus attain a more comprehensiveview-point. We
see to-day in the heavens that systems, suns, and worlds
evolve from nebula or fire mists. These, cooling down
through zons of time, gradually assume more definite and
solid forms. In the process of cooling the earth's fire mist
slowly devolved and simultaneously slowly evolved ; first,
into the varying forms of the elements ; second, into aggre-
gations of elements ; third, into liquids ; fourth, into solid
matter. All that we term evolution is equally and simul-
taneously devolution ; no form of existence can appear or
be evolved unless there is an equal disappearance or devolu-
tion of some other form of existence. The sum of mind,
matter and energy remains constant, and the existence of
the universe eternal.
As the various atoms of matter appeared, they mingled
and united with each other, impelled by that sub-organic
mind which is inherent in their structure (26), and evidenced
by their perceptions, which are commonly referred to as their
" affinities" or their "properties." Thus different sub-
stances came into existence.
During the infinitely slow and continuous cooling through
immense periods of time the continuously lowering energy
environment constantly offered opportunity for the evolu-
184 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
tion and existence of new fonns of substances, having
structural energy which balanced the immediate energy of
their environment ; and these, by union wherever possible
with those previously existing, evolved other substances,
thus continuously extending the possible variety, complexity
and functions of substances in nature.
Intensity of energy environment on earth has, from the
beginning, been slowly but constantly lowering, and is
certainly still getting lower. It is very probable that
elements existed in the beginning which have since disap-
peared from the earth, because the energy tension in their
structure made them unstable in the much lower energy
environment that in course of time followed that in which
they were evolved. Even to-day elements are slowly de-
volving and evolving simultaneously into other elements
having less energy content; they are" bursting," as it were,
with their own structural energy because the energy environ-
ment of to-day is much lower than it was when the radio-
active elements were first evolved; they have become
· unstable under a low external energy pressure. Many
elements to-day must be disappearing whose radiations
cannot, or have not yet, been detected; other unknown
elements are probably coming into existence that could not
evolve under an energy environment greater than exists to-
day. But these movements are of necessity so infinitely
slow, and the quantities involved so infinitely small, that we
cannot yet obtain any objective evidence of their existence.
Our conclusions here are in perfect agreement with
the fact that the atoms of the radio-active elements are the
heaviest of all known atoms, and with Einstein's conclusion
that the mass of a substance is the measure of its energy
content.
Vacuum tube phenomena are the exact converse of radio
phenomena. Radio activity is a phenomenon of devolution
-matter is resolved into energy and matter. In the vacuum
tube we have evolution-matter is evolved from energy and
matter. Radio-activity is a slow continuous process; but
in the mutual actions of the elements in the chemist's
laboratory there always occur rapid transformations of
energy into matter, or of matter into energy. But these
CONSCIOUS MIND AND SUB-ORGANIC MIND 185
incomprehensible transformations have always been hidden
under the expressions "evolution of heat," or "absorption
of heat., When oxygen unites with hydrogen there is a
large amount of atomic energy instantly set free.
When the crust of the earth became sufficiently cooled,
water made its first appearance on earth ; and when, after
probably a long interval of time, it came to a sufficiently low
temperature, it became possible for the more complex ani-
mate activities to evolve from the less complex activities of
the sub-animate ; for water is the most versatile substance
known to the chemist ; it has a wider range of activities,
physical, chemical and electrical, than any other known
substance, and it has the greatest capacity for specific heat
of any known substance ; it is the highest genius amongst
sub-animate substances, and is therefore the very substance
best adapted to continue the movements of the sub-animate
into unbroken connection with movements of the animate,
and to fonn, as it does, about three fourths of the weight of
all that lives.
But all these changes through all the vast periods of time
were of necessity continuous ; every order of nature at any
period in evolution presents a set of conditions which are the
effect of, and continuous with, previous conditions ; and the
cause of, and continuous with, succeeding conditions. The
movements we term animate must of necessity have evolved
from and been continuous with the movements we term
sub-animate ; and it is quite evident that the basic nature
of the first animate activities would be continuous with, and
of essentially the same nature as, the sub-animate activities
from which they evolved, any difference being but a change
in degree-not any change in nature.
That this is so is evidenced by the evolution of the animate
from the sub-animat.e, that continues unceasingly in the
countless millions of living things to-day, in the eternal
cycles of the evolution and devolution of individual being.
Animate vegetation is to-day constantly evolving from the
sub-animate-or sub-organic-soil, air, water and solar
energy ; man and other animals are continuously evolving
from the vegetation.
186 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
IIZ.-Perpetual evolution and devolution.
Assuming the universe to be eternal all phenomena in
nature must be embraced in the unceasing, mutual equal and
simultaneous activities of evolution and devolution. Every
action in evolution must be balanced by an equal action in
devolution. The universe appears as an infinitely vast
cycle of continuous and unceasing evolution and devolution,
which embraces an infinite number of lesser cycles-from
solar systems covering ~ns of time down to the ephemeral
cycles of lowly living things of a few hours duration.
In our own bodies there is an unceasing evolution and
devolution; our energies, mental and physical, all arise
from the devolution of the structures we ingest as food ; our
metabolic processes break down these structures and we use
up in evolutionary activities the structural energy thus set
free. Our finger and toe nails, the external !ayer of the epi-
dermis, that is constantly peeling off the surface of our
bodies, the enamel on our teeth, the hair that we shave off the
chin and the barber cuts from our heads, are all dead {?}
matter, intimately connected by continuous intermediate
states with the actively living cells that produce them ;
evolution and devolution, mutual actions, equal, simul-
taneous and continuous, connect the living and the non-
living.
Oyster shells grOUJ from small shells into large ones,
equally with the animate oysters within them. The struc-
ture of shell and oyster is continuous. The molecular
movements which condition the growth of both are con-
tinuous. But we cannot, within the common meaning of the
term, say that an oyster shell is "animate." Where then
does the" animate" cease, if oyster and shell are continuous
in movement and structure ?
These instances alone are sufficient evidence in support of
our postulate that animate and sub-animate, organic mind
and sub-organic mind are essentially the same, difiering
only in degree of animation actuating their movements.
For the atoms that structure the dead {?} portions of nails,
skin, hair, or shell are all as lively and active as before they
were assimilated into animate function. They have only
CONSCIOUS MIND AND SUB-ORGANIC MIND 187
ceased to co-operate in function; their properties are
unalterable, their activities are perpetual.
That " all life comes from previous life " is a truth, but
not in the sense commonly attached to this expression, as
though all animate life came from animate life ; as though
life was a fundamental existence, and not a mere term,
indicating the more complex activities we term animate;
but in the sense that all animate life comes from sub-
animate life in the sub-organic ; from the immortal life and
activities in the atom. And as living activities are but
expressions of mind, the differing values in our three arbi-
trary divisions of mind : conscious mind, organic mind,
sub-organic mind, are absolutely continuous ; the sub-
organic being represented by the fundamental and specific
activities within the atom, each distinctive atom having
distinctive and specific values of the three inseparable fac-
\Ors, mind, matter and energy.
113.-Properties of atoms unaUerable.
We cannot by any means known to science alter in the
slightest degree the fundamental nature of any atom. This
is so well recognised that the discovery of radio-activity has
not in the least affected the permanence of the atom as the
basic fact upon which the science of chemistry securely
rests. The fact that the heaviest of the atoms are slowly
breaking down into energy and other atoms of less energy
content and of lower atomic weight, does not affect the
fundamental nature of the atom itself. So long as an atom
exists its properties are unchangeable. Radio-activity is a
property of atoms.
If we take atoms of an element from a piece of ore that has
lain for millions of years a thousand feet below the surface
of the earth, atoms of the same element from a meteorite
that has fallen to the earth after existing for unknown mil-
lions of years in the depths of space, or atoms of the same
element from a cell in the human brain, we find those atoms
and their properties are exactly alike and undistinguishable
one from the other. All atoms, except the stupid and inert
monatomic, may be induced by the chemist to enter into a
large variety of compounds ; may be subjected to the most
x88 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
intense heat and passed through any form of violent treat-
ment that man may conceive for as long as he pleases, yet
they all will maintain their integrity of structure and their
properties unaltered. The monatomic gases may be subjected
to the same treatment without any result, the chemist
cannot combine them with other elements. These elements
have but one phase of sub-organic mind-the perception for
mass only-and are therefore the least intelligent things in
nature.
Every different kind of atom, except the inert monatomic,
has perceptive functions that differ, and consequent ., be-
haviour " that differs, from that of all other atoms ; and
these lowly functions of sub-organic mind are carried forward
with every atom that enters into a compound molecule, and
must of necessity give those molecules a wider range of sub-
organic mind activity-they must be more intelligent. But
the nature of this intelligence must of necessity be of the
same essential nature as that of the more simple intelligence
in the individual atoms of which it is structured.
I 14.-Universalmovement indicates univet<sal inteUigence.
As compound molecules increase in complexity with
increasing number and variety of the atoms that structure it,
the intelligence in the compounds, as exhibited by their
"behaviour" in movements acquires a wider range than
that in the less complex compounds, but still the essential
nature of this intelligence cannot be in any manner altered ;
it is only a difference in degree, not in kind. And this
increasing intelligence keeps pace with increasing complexity
in structure ; until its expressions of activity become visible
as animate movements and we have demonstration of the
fact that mind expresses itseH as movement (r6). But this
expression of mind energy made visible by movement is
absolutely the same in essential nature and is continuous
with the expressions of mind in the sub-organic, which have
movements below visibility. The sub-organic, electro-
magnetic movementsthatconditionlight, airmovements that
condition sound, molecular movements that condition heat,
movements that constitute oHactory and gustatory percep-
tions (x8), electronic movements that condition electric
CONSCIOUS MIND AND SUB-ORGANIC MIND 189
energy, are all invisible movements. By the mutual actions
that occur as a necessary consequence of these movements
impinging upon the animate body more complex movements
come into play, as the perceptions of our sensory organs.
These sensory movements and perceptions are strictly analo-
gous to the simultaneous third factors that evolve in the
mutual actions between sub-animate elements. Common
salt is the simultaneous third factor evolved in the mutual
action between sodium and chlorine. And just as the mole-
cular movements in common salt are continuous with the
molecular movements in sodium and chlorine, so movements
of perception in the animate are continuous with movements
in the sub-animate. The division between the living and
non-living is purely arbitrary ; it has no actual existence.
It may be placed anywhere in a long sequence of substances
that are continuously increasing in complexity and range of
movement. All that has movement has animation.
Everything in the universe is in contact, directly or indi-
rectly, with everything else, and everything in the universe
is in perpetual movement in mutual actions. The earth is
in contact with the sun through the streams of solar energy
and gravitational energies that connect them, and thus
movements in the sun have a constant influence upon move-
ments on the earth. The same is true, to a less extent, in
relation to every star in space. As everything is in move-
ment, and as everything is in contact, all things exert an
influence upon each other. Universal movement is univer-
sally continuous ; animate movements must be continuous
with sub-animate movements; universal movement indi-
cates universal animation-life.
us.-Man's limited range ofperceptions.
It would be unreasonable to suppose that man, with his
very limited range of perceptive senses, should be able to
conceive the infinite variety of perceptions that must result
from the infinitely varied character of the possible fortuitous
contacts and consequent mutual actions that occur in
nature.
Man can only be conscious of a small number of sensations
that occur in the infinitely varied mutual actions that are
xgo MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
incessantly occurring in his own body. His range of con-
scious perception is limited by his five senses; and his range
of comprehension is limited to concepts that he can build up
from the experiences of those five senses (35). There are an
infinite number of organic perceptions within him of which
he remains for ever unconscious.
When we reflect upon the facts that every conscious mind
perception evolves in the brain from simultaneous mutual
action (rg, 29) ; that everything in nature is in perpetual
mutual action, and that every movement must be initiated
by some mode of perception (59), we cannot do other than
conclude that there is a phase of perception in all mutual
action, and therefore a consciousness in nature beyond our
comprehension. For that consciousness cannot come within
the range of the experiences of our five senses, and we cannot
therefore build up any conception regarding its nature
(33-35).
II6.-Anthropocentric tendencies ,· origin of the terms " liv-
ing " and " dead."
It is the very impossibility for man to comprehend any
consciousness other than his own that has so easily led him
to the egotistical and anthropocentric conclusion that the
things which he in ignorance arbitrarily terms " inanimate "
or "inorganic" cannot possibly have perceptions, and
consequent consciousness-mind.
If the structure of the eye can see, but not hear or taste ;
if the structure of the ear can hear, but not see or taste; if
the structure of the taste buds can taste, but neither see
nor hear; what is more obvious and rational than to assume
a priori that amongst an infinite number of different struc-
tures in the host of animate and sub-animate things there
must be many other modes of perception of the nature of
which we can form no conception ; and that all forms
of structure must have some mode of perception and con-
sciousness unknown to man ?
Difference in intensity of expression of mind energy in
movement has given us the terms " animate " and " in-
animate." When one could see a thing move, it lived; it
was alive ; it was animate ; when the thing did not move, it
CONSCIOUS MIND AND SUB-ORGANIC MIND rgr
was dead-inanimate. The range of one sense of perception
-human vision-put a limit on the possibilities of living
activities I And the terms " animate " and " inanimate "
are kept in use, just as though it was a proper and correct
thing to limit the range of nature's activities to within the
range of our limited perceptive senses I It is absurd for
man to confine activities in nature either to those within
the range of human comprehension or within any arbitrary
divisions of his own invention. If he does so it will be for
ever impossible to correctly co-ordinate many of the most
common and familiar phenomena in nature.
II7.-Terms that mislead.
The average mind becomes warped in its conceptions by
the use of terms that express untru~s, and is led uncon-
sciously to accept as ·facts, concepts that have no existence
in reality. We say that a vessel is empty; it is full of air.
We speak of a vacuum; it is filled with an electro-magnetic
and a gravitational field of energy. We speak of still water;
it is in inconceivably rapid and perpetual movement. We
speak of the inanimate ; we know of nothing that is in-
animate. We speak of life as though it had a concrete exis-
tence ; it has no concrete existence. We speak of death ;
but nothing really dies ; it is but the individual being that
ceases to be individual. The " company " of molecules of
the elements, operating as a co-operative individual being,
dissolve the partnership. The individual elements that
formed the company cannot die, cannot lose their individual
existence. They all live on, every one of them, as intensely
alive as ever, and after dissolving partnership in one indi-
vidual being they are ready and available for taking a share
in the living activities of another individual being. For the
atom is a veritable organised system of mind, matter and
energy that expresses itself in an amazing and continuous
activity.
The effect upon the mind, from childhood upwards, of
terms that mislead in basic meaning must have a retarding
influence upon the realisation of true conceptions when
maturing intelligence attempts to grasp fundamental reali-
ties. We speak of "up" and "down" ; yet there is
192 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
neither up nor doWn in the universe. The fact that man
formerly believed that up and down were actual in universal
direction probably long delayed a true conception of the
movements in the solar system. For it was supposed that
the result-if the world turned completely round on its axis
every day-would be that man and all things on the earth's
surface would be turned with the earth, upside down ; and
everybody and everything would fall down, down-.
Therefore the authorities(?) agreed that the earth could not
possibly revolve. And Galileo was imprisoned for saying
that it did so I
118.-Volume and intensity ofthe enef'gies.
With mind energy, as with the physical energieS, we have
infinite variation, both in volume and in intensity. We
may have large volume with small intensity; small volume
with great intensity ; or any number of intermediate values.
If we add one volume of water at 30o temperature to an
equal volume at the same temperature, we get twice the
volume of water and twice the volume of heat ; but the
intensity of heat energy in the water remains the same-
30o.
If we attach one battery cell to another in the manner
termed "parallel," we merely add to the volume of electric
energy evolved; we do not add to its intensity. But if we
attach the two cells in the manner termed" series," we get
no increase in volume, but we get twice the intensity of elec-
tric energy.
In like manner, we get increased volume of atomic mind
when atoms are brought together mechanically ~· and in-
creased intensity when they are brought together chemically.
This analogy appears the more significant when we
consider how closely the nature of electric energy approaches
to that of mind energy (78). Every different kind of atom
added by chemical union to any other atom or atoms in-
creases the range or intensity of mind functions in the
structure evolved ; and it is thus that structures, by in-
crease in the number of different atoms that condition them,
rise up from the sub-animate and merge without break in
continuity into the activities we term animate.
CONSCIOUS MIND AND SUB-ORGANIC MIND 193
No matter what the quantity of the same substance may
be, its intensity or range of mind function remains the same.
A ton of water has no greater range of affinities or percep-
tions than a single drop ; but the volume of these activities
is immensely greater. And so it is with a grain of iron, and a
ton of iron, or of any other element or substance. No
matter how minute the quantity of any element or substance,
it has exactly the same intensity of perceptions, or affinities,
as any larger quantity. The smallest particle visible to the
eye may have millions of elementary atoms in so complexly
organised a structure that it functions with a mind intensity
greater than is possessed by a bulky animal. This helps us
to understand how the wonderful intelligence in ants and
bees may evolve from their microscopic brains. The chemist
to-day makes practical use of the fact that the smallest
possible quantity of any substance has the same qualities of
function as any larger quantity; and by the evidences of
these activities he can determine the presence of an infinitely
small portion of an element when diffused through a large
quantity of other substances. Many a criminal has been
made to suffer for his crime by evidence based upon the
unalterable nature and intensity of sub-organic mind func-
tions in the atom. A very minute quantity of arsenic, for
instance, may cause death. This minute quantity may
remain for years buried and spread abroad in the dead body ;
but no change whatever occurs in the atoms of the poison.
The expert chemist can collect it again from the decomposed
body.
The whole of mind in the energy of universal gravitation
is infinitely greater in volume than the mind .
in a drop of
water; but the mind in that drop has a wider range. For
the energy in gravitation has but one perception-that for
mass only (26); the drop of water not only has perception
for mass ; it has a very wide range of other perceptions.
Thus the drop of water may be said to have more intelli-
gence than the immeasurable volume ofuniversalgravitation.
The sum of the perceptions of the elements oxygen and
hydrogen is very small, compared to the wonderful range of
perceptions that give to water its incomparable value.
And so it is with other elements. The mutual action between
N
194 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
any two elements involves the simultaneous evolution of a
third something (5o), that has a range of perceptions exceed-
ing the sum of the perceptions of the elements from which it
evolved. This is why we find mind values in all living
things, invariably increasing with increased complexity in
elemental structure ; it is a matter of necessity-it cannot
be otherwise.
Three fourths, approximately, of all the living things that
exist, is water. Water has a host of animate properties-
living functions-which are evolved by the union of the
sub-organic mind in atoms of oxygen and hydrogen. Che-
mists can evolve these living functions by synthetically
evolving water from the two gases-they can artificially
manufacture a substance having properties of life, and to
that extent at least they manufacture life. Yet the multi-
tude to-day look upon the problem of the immediate nature
of life as unsolved, and unsolvable I It is "mind" that
remains an unsolvable mystery ; there is no such " thing "
as " life " (57).
Naturally, it will of course be obiected that water pet' se
is only a medium; that it does not possess life, but is an
instrument, as it were, employed by some mysterious vital
entity. But there is nothing really rational in such an
objection. It is on a par with the ridiculous idea that life
was brought to this earth from some other worlds in space.
There is no necessity whatever for referring the evolution of
life either to anything extraneous to our planet or to any
mysterious vital principle-unless we assume mind to be this
mysterious thing.
119.-The sum of life in an animaU being, the sum of its
atomic life. .
The sum of life in any animate being is the sum of the
organic life in its many differing organic structures; and the
sum of life in every one of these differing structures is the
aggregate of the sub-organic properties or functions of the
atoms that are essential to these structures. Take away
any one kind of these atoms, and the existence of that
animate being ceases. If we take away either oxygen,
hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon, phosphorus, sulphur, calcium,
CONSCIOUS MIND AND SUB-ORGANIC MIND 195
potassium, iodine or any other kind of elementary atom
necessary to the human organism, man would cease to exist.
And as animate individual life would cease as a consequence
of the withdrawal of the atoms of any one of the elements
essential to its evolution, those atoms must all have animate
functions ; and we cannot give to any particular element a
place of honour as a primary and mysterious immediate
cause of life.
There is really nothing mysterious about the immediate
cause of life. It is quite plainly to be seen that it is imme-
diately evolved as the cumulative effect of the continuous
mutual actions between a large number of different sub-
stances ; the sixteen or more of elements of which those
substances are structured, ·and the infinitely varying phases
of energy evolved as third factors in those mutual actions.
The sweetness of sugar is essentially a form or pattern of
molecular movement conditioned by the chemical union of
atoms of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen (17). These move-
ments impressed upon the molecular movements of the
taste buds upon the tongue give us the sensation of sweet-
ness-a distinct function of mind, for we are conscious of
it, and consciousness is undoubtedly a function of mind.
Sweetness is a property or function that comes into existence
simultaneously with sugar in the mutual actions between
oxygen, hydrogen and carbon when chemically united. As
with the various elements whose mutual actions evolve
varying phases of mind, we cannot with sweetness ascribe
its evolution to any one of the three elements in the structure
of the substance that functions it ; all contribute a something
that is necessary. Neither carbon, oxygen nor hydrogen are
sweet; in fact, they have no taste at all; yet when they are
united in proper proportions they give us sugar with its
sweetness I This is no less remarkable, no less mysterious,
than that the mutual actions between a larger number of
elements·give us mind with its intelligence.
The sub-organic movements in sugar are expressions of
sub-organic mind. When impressed upon the animate
structure of the tongue they are transformed into organic
mind ; and then, by the further mutual action of organic
mind with brain neurones, are further transformed into
r¢ MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
conscious mind as sweetness. The sub-organic mind that
conditions the molecular movements in sugar as it does in all
other substances, increases in range and value as atoms are
added together in chemical union ; and grows into the more
complex organic mind. Organic mind in organised sub-
stances increases in range and value as substances are added
together in the rising scale of animate structures and grows
into conscious mind. There is no mystery in it any deeper
than the mystery in every mutual action, for every mutual
action gives a result that is incomprehensible to human
mind ; there is no rational connection between mutual action
and that which simultaneously appears as a consequence ;
there is no necessity for the conception of any mysterious
vital principle, other than universal mind. The basic
mystery is the ultimate nature of mind itself ; and this is
no more incomprehensible than the ultimate nature of
matter or of energy.
rzo.-The most versatile and energetic ofthe elements enm into
animate structures.
We could, a priori, deduce from facts within common
knowledge that in the "fortuitous interplay of chemical
forces ., from which arose the structures of sub-organic,
organic and animate life in a continuous and ascending
scale of complexity in structure and function, the most
versatile and the most energetic of the elements would be
found in the most versatile and energetic of animate struc-
tures.
Of the eighty or more elements that are available to enter
into structures, only about sixteen are known to be always
present in the human body-carbon, hydrogen, oxygen,
nitrogen, sulphur, phosphorus, chlorine, sodium, potassium,
calcium, magnesium, iodine, silicon, fluorine, manganese and
rron.
No other sixteen atoms of matter out of the ninety or
more known to exist, have so wide a range of activities as
those which structure animate beings; and no five have a
wider range than carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen and
fluorine. No other five atoms of matter have the energy of
activity possessed by atoms of fluorine, potassium, sodium,
CONSCIOUS MIND AND SUB-ORGANIC MIND 197
calcium or magnesium. Fluorine appears in both the
foregoing groups because it not only has such a wide range
of activity, but is also the most intensely active chemically of
all known elements.
The most widely-used and popular vegetable-the potato
--o>ntains an unusual amount of potassium. The most
popular condiment--common salt--contains more than three
sevenths of sodium. Tpe most popular spa waters contain
sodium, magnesium, calcium, carbon, iron, sulphur. The
most popular and common medicine is magnesium sulphate.
The prominence of four of the most energetic elements
known to exist-potassium, sodium, calcium, magnesium-
in the most popular food, condiment and medicine cannot be
simple coincidence.
Iron has the most energetic magnetic properties of any
known element. Phosphorus, sulphur and carbon stand out
distinctively from all other elements because of the qualities
they possess of assuming different forms of physical exis-
tence-allotropism. The melting point of phosphorus is
worthy of noting, as it exactly coincides with the limit to
which human temperature may rise without fatal results-
- 1100 Fah. This may be a coincidence--it probably is not.
Thus, no less than thirteen of the sixteen elements known
to be present in the human body are not only dominant in
executive ability in the chemist1
s laboratory and in sub-
organic nature generally, they also " play" in the drama of
the evolution and devolution of mind and life distinctly
"leading characters" in energy and versatility; they are the
most capable of the eighty or more "characters" that the
"manager" Nature might choose from.
Water, a product of two of these elements, is a substance
which constitutes, on an average, about three fourths of the
mass or weight of all things living ; it has an immense
dielectric constant, also a capacity for specific heat greater
than any other known substance. Take one pound, or
any other equal weight of water, lead and mercury at the
same temperature. The water will give out, or will absorb,
thirty times more heat than mercury, and more than thirty
times more heat than lead, in falling or in rising one degree
Fahrenheit in temperature I The human body is approxi-
198 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
mately three fourths water ; water is the result of the
union of the two elements oxygen and hydrogen. The
importance of the capacity of water for specific heat can be
grasped when we consider the importance of keeping the
body at a constant temperature of about g8.6° Fahrenheit ;
for normal function becomes deranged when the temperature
of the body rises above or falls below that temperature.
Further, taking the surface of the earth, to which man is
of necessity confined, of the twelve most plentiful forms of
matter not less than ten are always found in human tissues.
Thus, in order of plentitude we have oxygen, silicon, alumi-
niwn, iron, calcium, sodium, potassium, magnesium, hydro-
gen, titanium, chlorine and carbon, only two of which-
aluminium and titanium-are not found in our bodily
structure.
Such facts cannot, as we remarked above, be all coinci-
dences. In evolution there are no coincidences ; there are
only mutual action and the third something that evolves
simultaneously (so). The facts are evidences of a basic
necessity in evolution. They show what we might have
concluded a priori from our postulate, that mind is con-
tinuous and evolves from the sub-organic. For in the
evolution of the animate individual, the most energetic and
versatile of the sub-organic elements would naturally play
the leading parts ; the most energetic and versatile structures
would of necessity evolve from the most versatile and ener-
getic elements.
121.-Mind in the atom continuous with and essentially t1se
same as mind in man.
Atoms, being the most fundamental structures presented
to us, must carry their properties with them into all more
complex structures (3). Mind, being universal and con-
tinuous, must continue from atom to man (61). Percep-
tions being the functional units of mind, atoms must have
mind, for atoms perceive (36). These perceptions the
atoms carry with them into all compounds of atoms. All
the different atoms that enter into compounds have differing
modes of perception-differing phases of sub-organic mind.
Any two atoms uniting to form a compound must carry with
CONSCIOUS MIND AND SUB-ORGANIC MIND 199
them into that compound their two distinctive characters
and capacities of sub-organic mind.
Atomic movements are invisible to man, and where no
movement is visible man originally concluded there was no
life. The erroneous conception of " dead " matter came into
man's thought thousands of years before he acquired the
knowledge that the molecules of the atoms were in perpe-
tual movement. When the elemental molecules, in count-
less millions, become aggregated together in the processes of
evolution by continuous mutual actions, the sum of the
invisible movements of the immense multitude of individual
molecules becomes large enough to be objectively visible to
the unaided eye ; the multitude is termed an individual
being, a living thing, because it can be seen moving. But
there cannot be any essential difference between this visible
living movement and the invisible movement of the elemen-
tal molecules, the sum of whose activities constitutes the
movements of the living.
We demonstrated in the previous chapter that organic
mind was continuous with conscious mind. Thus, finally
seeing that organic mind is continuous with sub-organic
mind, we perceive that the mind in an atom is continuous
with and essentially the same thing as the conscious mind in
man. We also perceive that mind is universal; one, and
inseparable from matter and energy, and that it is a mode
of ceaseless energy-movement, dominating all other move-
ments of energy in nature.
CHAPTER VIII
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION OF INDIVIDUAL
BEING
122.-AU individual being sustained by devouring forms of
life.
In the evolution and devolution of individual being we
obtain much evidence, more or less direct, of the truth of all
our postulates; evidence that strengthens and sustains all
that we have advanced in the previous chapters. And to
grasp the full value of this evidence it is necessary that we
should take a broad survey of the conditions and environ-
ment under which living things come into existence and
disappear in the continuous cycles of individual being.
For we cannot otherwise acquire a proper sense of propor-
tion in value of the immediate causative factors that lead
to the perpetual stream of evolving and devolving animate
life. Familiarity with commonplace facts of profound sig-
nificance causes us to lose the sense of their relative impor-
tanc~.
Has any writer ever yet with sufficient weight of purpose
called attention to the fact that the evolution of all animate
beings has taken place and is still taking place almost wholly
by the absorption of the structural energies from other
animate beings in processes of devolution ? That ever
since individual beings have existed they have lived by
eating other individual beings ? All individual beings that
now exist or are in process of evolution are so existing and
evolving at the expense of other living things in process of
devolution. Even the inoffensive herbivora consume the
living herbs and grasses, and in turn become food for the
omnivorous and the carnivorous, and the herbs and grasses
live by absorbing forms of sub-animate life.
The struggle for existence amongst living things is, and
200
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION zor
always has been, an unspeakably cruel and brutal necessity.
Every day, for hundreds of thousands of years and down
to this present day, countless millions of living animals and
countless millions of living embryos are eaten alive by other
animals ; and the victims, by their devolution, furnish the
necessary sub-animate molecules for the evolution and
sustenance of other individual life. These perpetual cycles
furnish us With a most impressive example of the continuity
of mutual action-mutual action between that which ingests
and that which is ingested.
123.-Tennyson ; volume of life always equal to what is
possible.
Nature is, as Tennyson expresses it in his" In Memoriam,"
"red in tooth and claw."
Since animate life was possible on this earth of ours its
volume has always maintained an average value that has
run parallel with the range of conditions possible to life.
Wherever animate life has been possible that lifehas comeinto
being and increased until the means available for the suste-
nance of further animate life became exhausted. The fact
that mind is universal in perpetual movement permeating
all that exist as animate or sub-animate, and expressing
itself in the activities we term sub-animate as well as in the
movements we term animate (110, 121) necessitates this
continuous balance between animate life and the sub-animate
possibilities of that life. Land, sea and air are crowded with
all the animate life that they can sustain.
124.-lrrational evolution and devoltttion of animate life.
As physical conditions in the subanimate are, and always-
have been, changing, a host of living creatures that evolved
when conditions were more than usually favourable have
always had to die when physical conditions became adverse.
Not a year has ever passed since animate life became estab-
lished on earth that has not seen its host of living things die
as a result of changing conditions. To-day we could count
the yearly victims to droughts and floods by the million.
Never a year passes but that on some part of the earth there
is a drought that starves to death domestic and other forms
202 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
of life, and in other parts floods that drown them. And
famines are not unknown that starve thousands of human
beings to death.
A further irrational destruction of life is seen in the
devolution of at least nine thousand nine hundred and ninety
nine out of every ten thousand ova and germs that are
evolved by living things and beings. Not one in ten
thousand of ova or germs that are produced by nature arrive
at mature or adult life.
Tennyson (ibid.), speaking of nature, says : " Of fifty
seeds she often brings but one to bear." But he must have
used the word" fifty" as a poetic necessity, for he very much
under-estimates. Any fair-sized willow tree will evolve a
million seeds in one season, and if only one in the million
grew to maturity the earth would soon be overrun with
them. An average cod fish may evolve five millions of ova.
One female has been known to have produced eight millions.
If one in fifty thousand of the ova of cod fish survived to
maturity, the oceans of the world would in a few years not
be able to find room for them. Every female child that is
born has an average of about two hundred thousand human
ova in its ovaries. If we reckon the average family as
four, only one in fifty thousand evolves into a human being.
Not one in many millions of the spermatozoa evolved by man
becomes part of another human being. In some cases a pair
of animals produce ten millions of offspring, out of which
only two, on the average, survive in the struggle for exis-
tence-one in five millions I (E. Ray Lankester.) If all the
descendants of a single green fly survived and multiplied for
a few seasons the whole earth would be covered by them.
And if one oyster's progeny all survived and multiplied for
four generations there would be no room anywhere on earth,
where oysters could live, for the existence of any other living
thing I
Of microscopic diatoms alone there are more than four
thousand different forms, and they multiply with incredible
rapidity. It has been estimated that a single one would
produce a thousand millions in a month I If every diatom
lived its normal span of life, all the waters of the earth would
soon become -solid with them.
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION 203
125.-Relative values; the unive1'se; the earth; man.
Reflect a few moments upon the infinitesimally small
relative value of the whole earth and everything upon it in
relation to the universe. If the universe within the range
of telescope and camera were reduced to the size of the
earth, and the earth itself reduced in like proportion, a
scientist, if he could have stepped aside into space before the
reduction, would not be able to perceive the earth with his
most powerful microscope. If he piled hundreds of such
worlds in a heap upon his microscopic slide he would be able
to see nothing-the heap of worlds would be too small to be
visible I And when we further consider the evidence fur-
nished by the spectroscope, that suns in space have material
elements similar to those on earth, and that millions of
worlds exist, a large proportion of which must be in a
physical condition somewhat similar to that on earth, and
capable of supporting life, of what value or consequence
can we possibly estimate this insignificant world of ours, or
the infinitesimally small moving particles we call living
things that crawl over its surface, killing and eating each
other?
After such reflection, how can one possibly believe that
the universe came into existence because it was necessary to
the earth, or to any thing or being that has evolved upon it ;
or believe that man is a special creation, and that other
forms of life were evolved for his use and benefit? He has
been evolving and devolving, concurrently with an infinite
number of other forms of life, for many thousands of years ;
and, like any other animal, he has killed and eaten every
other animal he could get hold of and digest. Sometimes,
on account of adverse conditions, but generally because he
has enjoyed doing so, he has killed and eaten countless
millions of his fellow men. The natural conditions of indi-
vidual being have always been, and still are, of such a
nature that it is impossible to conceive that any intelligent
or beneficent providence cares for or exerts any kindly
influence upon the conditions of any living thing. So we are
perforce obliged to conclude that all individual being evolves
and devolves by the fortuitous interplay of the lowly intelli-
gence that gives sub-animate life movements to the various
204 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
elements that constitute matter. We are also obliged to
leave the problem of the ultimate nature of this lowly intelli-
gence, or sub-animate mind, involved in the inscrutable
mystery of a first cause.
126.-Nothing is created, nothing destroyed. Evolution and
devolution must balance.
In the continuous cycles of evolution and devolution of
individual being nothing is created, nothing is destroyed.
Therefore all activities and developments in evolution and
devolution can be nothing beyond mutual actions that are
equal, simultaneous and unceasing between the fundamental
factors which evolve by transformations the infinite variety
of presentations in nature (44). And every movement in
what we term evolution must be balanced by an equal move-
ment which we contradistinguish by the use of the term
devolution. All activities in nature must therefore be con-
tinuous, from a volcanic upheaval to a poetic effusion ;
from the movement of a comet to the fall of a raindrop (8,
59) ; for all arise essentially from the mutual actions that
are unceasingly and fortuitously operating between the
eternal primal factors. The departure in evolution-or we
should say, the supposed departure-from sub-animate
movements to animate movements, which are purely arbi-
trary distinctions of man's own invention, was not an act
of creation. This would not be consistent with the recog-
nised truth that under the existing order of the universe
nothing can either be created or destroyed. The transition
from what we herein term the sub-animate to the animate
was simply an extension of that continuous development in
complexity of structure which is now indicated by the
distinctive term evolution. Animate evolution of individual
being arose as a necessity from the less complex movements
of the sub-animate, when mutual actions between sub-
animate structures became sufficiently complex (64, 164).
127.-Change of character of life by changing environment.
There are more than a million differing species of animal
life existing on earth, to-day. It is of course, impossible to
state other than an approximate number. Along with
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION 205
these there are the unnumbered different species of plants.
And as both plant and animal are animate we must include
them both within the meaning of the term living things.
We have evidence in palreontology that many forms of
individual being have become extinct. To-day we have
approximately one thousand eight hundred species of
snakes, ten thousand different species of birds, eighty
thousand different species of beetles-and so on. New
species of living things are not only being discovered to-day,
there are also new species being evolved. Ever since
animate life first appeared on earth there has been a con-
tinuous evolution and devolution, not only of individual
being, but also of type of being, as a consequence of con-
stantly changing physical environment, and it cannot be
possible that evolution, either of species or type, has ceased.·
This changing of the character of life by changing environ-
ment can be demonstrated in the laboratory (206). And so
long as physical conditions on earth keep on slowly changing,
this changing of the character of life on earth will continue,
as it has done in the past, to cause the disappearance of type
and species and the evolution of new type and species, so
long as conditions continue to allow the existence of any
animate life.
There has been a gradual reduction in the percentage of
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere since life appeared on the
earth. The wonderful vegetal growth that produced the
enormous coal deposits, so useful to man to-day, could not
have evolved so luxuriously, had there been but the small
percentage of carbon dioxide that exists in our atmosphere
to-day ; and we may safely conclude that the earth does not
evolve so much animate life as it did during the period that
evolved the prehistoric monsters and the dense vegetation
which evolved our coal beds. Carbon dioxide is most
readily absorbed by plants when the proportion in the atmos-
phere is about nine per cent. This is about two hundred
and seventy times more than we find in the atmosphere
to-day ! The growth of plant life, the volume of individual
mind and being evolved and devolved in a given time,
depends on the percentage of carbon dioxide in the atmos-
phere-a gas that will not support animal life I As volcanic
zo6 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
discharge of carbon dioxide and the burning of fuel gradually
lessens, the earth will evolve less animate life.
IZB.-Microscopic units oflife; communities of units.
Man and animal, down to the protozoa, are structured of
the micro-organisms which are termed " physiological units."
These units-or cells-are themselves individual existences ;
each has a life of its own. Thus, every such individual man
or animal above the level of the protozoan is a community
of microscopic individual existences, bound together and
working together in mutual agreement for the good of the
co-operative individual being. The micro-organisms are
structured by compound organic molecules having thousands
of atoms; compound organic molecules are structured of
single organic molecules having hundreds of atoms; single
organic molecules are structured of elementary molecules,
the most of which have only two atoms. The evolution of
living things from atoms is unceasing and continuous, and
reaches in volume to the full extent the present physical
conditions on earth will allow. And the reverse processes
in devolution have of necessity the same volume and the
same unceasing continuity. Human skill or influence can
but momentarily restrict this volume of life from pouring
forth in some form; if checked in one direction, it will break
out in another. This is why new forms of micro-organisms,
pathogenic and otherwise, are at times recognised ; why
new and strange disorders break out amongst living things.
Every year we hear of new pests that trouble the agricul-
turalist, and new diseases that puzzle medical authorities.
The volume of micro-organic life is forced into existence by
forces beyond man's power of control. The epidemic of
Encephalitis Lethargica-sleepy sickness-in Sheffield in
1924 was apparently a disease of such a nature. And of this
we may be quite certain if changing environment is but just
beginning to show its effects upon man, there will be an
extremely slow but constantly increasing succession of
outbreaks of previously unknown diseases that all human
effort will be powerless to avert. All animate life is at the
mercy of the sub-animate environment which conditions it.
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION 207
129.-Design in nature; natural law.
Our postulates cannot be true if there is design in nature;
if there is purpose in the existence of man, or any definite
end to be achieved. For they involve universal fortuitous
mutual actions between the fundamental factors that cannot
occur otherwise than as they do. And this necessity to act
just so and in no other way is the result of natural laws.
The mutual actions between any two similar things. under
similar conditions must always produce the same results
(141). All research and investigation in every branch of
human knowledge is based upon the fact that similar things
under similar conditions must function in a similar manner.
And if it is advanced that natural laws are the result of
purpose or design the case is not bettered; for natural laws
and purpose or design are incompatible in the sense in which
those terms are used to account for natural things. If a
woodpecker's long bill was designed for the purpose of
enabling it to reach insects in the cracks in thebarkoftrees,
then that long bill could not have evolved naturally as the
result of the fortuitous mutual actions that occur under
natural laws, for design would then run counter to natural
laws. The long bill of the woodpecker came into existence
at an infinitely long periorl of time subsequent to the establish-
ment of natural laws, for these laws must have existed from
the very beginning of things. To give validity to the con-
ception that the woodpecker's bill arose by design, we have
to prove that some intelligence superior to and more domi-
nant than that which is assumed to have designed natural
laws interfered with the natural sequence of events in nature
in order to destroy the insects it had already designed !
That is quite an unanswerable position against the assump-
tion of intelligent design in nature. It is sheer nonsense,
for instance, to conceive that antelopes were designed to be
fleet of foot in order to escape the carnivora, and then be
obliged to conceive that the carnivora were designed so as
to be able to destroy the antelopes despite their fleetness l
If we admit design, we must admit that the cat was designed
to eat the mouse and the mouse designed to feed the cat;
that birds were designed to eat worms, and worms designed
to feed the birds. And when a shark bites a man in two we
208 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
should admire its powerful jaws and its adequate arrange-
ment of sharp cutting teeth, designed by nature for the
purpose, rather than refer to it as a " horrible monster "
If there is design in nature, the shark was designed to live,
and it has as much right naturally to eat man as man has to
eat shark or any other fish. There is no more reason for
calling a shark a " horrible monster " because he eats man
than there is for calling man a " horrible monster " because
he eats fish.
Natural laws either do or do not determine the course
of events in nature, for a natural law is absolute ; nothing
can alter or interfere with it. And if it is objected that
fortuitous mutual actions are not compatible with natural
law, we may say that such objection has no validity. When
accidents occur-say a railway collision-the extent of
destruction and damage that ensues when the trains collide
is governed by the law which states that the energy of
momentum is proportionate to the square of the velocity.
When gamblers throw dice, the fortuitous movements of
the squares of ivory are governed by the laws of motion and
gravitation equally with the planets that revolve about the
sun.
To say that natural laws came into existence by design
is no more rational than to say they came into existence
because they did so. For it remains a matter of no conse-
quence how those laws came into existence-the effect is the
same. The cruel, useless and senseless operations under
natural law are still matters of fact and still continue (I22-4).
We cannot make abominable conditions into beautiful con-
ditions by simply imagining a beneficent and all-wise cause.
After at least a hundred thousand years have elapsed
since man came into existence, men to-day still kill and eat
each other ; the mode of reproduction of man and the course
of evolution and devolution are still the same as that of the
brute beast; feeble micro-organisms still attack man and
conquer him in the struggle for existence ; and the most
cultured nations still periodically shed the veneer of civili-
sation, and slaughter each other in as fiendish a manner as
ever did primitive savages. Only a few years ago the most
civilised nations on earth commenced slaughtering each other
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION 209
and killed men, women and children by weapons of war and
poison gas, by disease and starvation, at an average death
rate of over five thousand human beings per day over a
period of more than four years !
There is not a shadow of rational evidence in any direc-
tion of any glorious purpose or design in the existence
of the human race, after many thousands of years of travail ;
and we are justified in doubting the existence of any such
purpose or design, especially when we consider how easily,
on the one hand, such a conception could arise in man's
anthropocentric egotism, and on the other hand, see how
senselessly cruel such design appears under the "eat or be
eaten" conditions that prevail throughout all nature. If
I
we say that nature designed cats to eat mice; to be con-
sistent, we must admit that mice were designed to feed cats.
But, then, if mice had not been designed, would it have been
necessary to design cats ? And so ad infinitum.
130.-0nly change of movement gives evidence of existences.
We have seen that mind is conditioned by movement;
that there could be no perceptions, and consequently no
mind, if there were not differences in direction or intensity
of movement (16). And as all of living activities are expres-
sions of mind, all activities in the evolution and devolution
of individual being are conditioned by mind. Matter,
actuated by energy, could move for ever in uniform motion
without any evidence of the existence of mind. It is only
when movement changes that we have any evidence of its
existence. Hence the statements made by psychologists
to-day, that " the immediate state of consciousness is an
activity of some sort" ; "that all states of mind, even mere
thoughts and feelings, are motor in their origin and motor
in their consequences II (3) ; and that wo must " define mind
in terms of behaviour" (41).
"Activity" and "behaviour 11
of any kind are move-
ments ; and we find it impossible to avoid the conclusion that
mind can only reveal itself as a movement which simul-
taneously evolves from a mutual action, just as har-
mony reveals itself by combining the differences in move-
ment of different notes in music. Every thou~ht is a mental
0
210 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
picture, evolved by differing molecular movements in the
physical mechanism· of the brain, just as everything we
see, is a picture evolved by the differing movements of light
waves upon the physical mechanism of our eyes.
Thus, the evidence of the existence of each of the three
basic factors is mutually dependent upon the existence of
movement.
Energy cannot evidence its existence unless there is
matter to move.
Matter cannot evidence its existence unless~ there is energy
to move it.
Mind cannot evidence its existence unless there is matter
to perceive, and energy to move the matter.
And this universal continuous movement expresses itself
in the unceasing cycles of evolution and devolution of
animate and sub-animate existences. Evolution and de-
volution are mutual, equal and simultaneous activities (126).
131.-Atoms, the fundamental units of perceptions.
In tentatively following the path of nature in the evolu-
tion and devolution of individual mind and being, we com-
mence with atoms as the most fundamental structures
known to us, in which we have certain evidence o1 u11its of
mind-perceptions (26). We might go deeper still and
commence with electrons, as probably having units of
perception, but we prefer to start on the more substantial
basis of the atom.
The atoms of the differing elements of matter have each a
form or pattern of movement that differs from that of the
atoms of all other elements ; and these differences in move-
ment condition and make possible the range and nature of
their perceptions. Even in the solid bodies oi the metals
we have undoubtedevidence that the moleculesarein a state
of perpetual movement. If a block of pure gold be placed in
contact with a block of pure lead, and the blocks are exa-
mined from time to time, traces of one metal will presently
be found throughout the other. Gold molecules will travel
through lead ; lead molecules will travel through gold (Prof.
John Cox). The monatomic elements of the argon group of
gases have as yet btJt one kn9wn mode of perception-that
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION 211
for mass only. All other atoms and molecules of atoms have
perceptions more or less numerous. They perceive both
mass and variation of character in mass and evidence these
perceptions by simultaneous mutual actions which simul-
taneously evolve substances that are combinations of diffe-
rent atoms. But the substances have a physical character
that we cannot rationally connect with the character of the
elements which evolved them. They have acquired in some
mysterious manner a different and more complex range of
movements, and a consequent different and more complex
range of perceptions. These mutual actions between ele-
mentary molecules are considered by the chemist as due to
" affinitive " or " attractive " properties in the elements.
These terms indicate nothing more than an attempt to de-
fine the nature of the phenomena. But if elementary mole-
cules attract each other and move in a very definite and
purposeful manner as a consequence of that attraction, it is
quite evident that in some manner unknown to us they
have a perception and a consciousness of the presence of
each other-just as in the case of the two particles of matter
in space that move towards each other (26). For even in
masses of elements or substances the molecules are at a
relatively great distance apart, and all of chemical mutual
action is simply a rearrangement of molecules in space.
Not only are the unalterable properties or functions of the
elementary molecules carried with them into the structures
of which they form a part ; for the mutual action in chemi-
cal union between different molecules evolves other func-
tions not possible to the individual molecules. As we have
already pointed out, from every mutual action there must
simultaneously evolve a presentation which we cannot
rationally connect with the factors in the mutual action-
we only know that it is so. And the result of such mutual
action in chemical union is an extension of function which
widens out as complexity of structure increases, until the
range of function we term animate arises from the sub-
animate. If this were not so, the functions of four differing
elements, when united in every possible way, would only
number twenty-four.
212 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
132.-Infinite variation of mind function possible to the
elements in man.
With four different numbers the number of possible per-
mutations is only twenty-four. Yet the number of different
substances, each with its distinctive functions, that have
been evolved from the four elements, oxygen, hydrogen,
carbon and nitrogen, runs into thousands and new substances
are still being evolved by the chemist I The possible permu-
tations with figures is a fixed quantity that is easily calcu-
lated, but it cannot be exceeded. If the sixteen elements
that enter into the structure of the human body were mere
numbers the total possible permutations would reach a sum
so large as to be practically sufficient to furnish a different
functional movement for every possible mental concept for
it runs into more than twenty millions of millions.
So it can be easily seen that the vast number of possible
different substances that may be evolved from the sixteen
primary elements that structure the human body reaches
such a number that the variations of movement possible
to them become practically infinite and more than sufficient
to furnish differing modes of movement and combinations of
modes of movement for every possible condition, intensity,
direction or manner of mind function in the animate being.
The importance of a recognition of these infinite possibilities
will be more fully appreciated when we come to consider the
phenomena of sleep, dreams and memory.
The critical reader will no doubt perceive an apparent
disagreement between our concepts of "patterns" or
" modes " of molecular movement and the evidently erratic
movements of molecules of water, as seen in the" Brownian
movement" (20). But we have so much evidence of
orderly movement in other directions that we are warranted
in assuming that even in the movement of water molecules
there is an order which has not yet been determined. The
differences in the specific heat of different elements and
substances indicate that there must be specific forms of
molecular movement in them all. The popular conception
of the structure of matter-whorls or vortices of energy-
involves forms of movement. The popular conception of
the structure of an atom, which is compared to a miniature
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION 213
solar system, with electrons revolving about a centre in a
systematic order, indicates varying patterns of movement
for every differing atom. The stars in space are moving in
an apparently erratic manner in all directions, yet each one
is considered the centre of an orderly system of movement
comparable with our own solar system.
I33.-/njluences of environment. No two persons alike.
The influences of environment can never be exactly the
same upon the processes of evolution in any two individuals.
Consequently no two persons can be exactly alike. This
applies not merely to outward appearance; it applies equally
to internal structures; no two persons have exactly the
same character of physiological structure, and this difference
may vary to a considerable extent. This explains the reason
of the saying that " one man's meat is another man's poison";
also why certain drugs act so differently upon different indi-
viduals, and have at times caused serious trouble. In this
connection we see evidence of the fact that any alteration in
structure must cause an alteration in function (141).
The expression used above-" the influence of environ-
ment "-must be taken in its broadest sense. Thus, the
food we eat is environment until it is absorbed-it is the
environment of the digestive track. The mother is "en-
vironment " for the developing young. Sunlight and
meteorological conditions are environment.
A person born of parents whose principal protein food was
beef will not have exactly the same relative quantities of the
sixteen structural elements in the constitution of his physio-
logic structures as a person born of parents whose principal
protein food was bacon (147). And a person whose parents
were vegetarians will differ in some respect in physical
structure from both of the above. And, other things being
equal, a person born on the warm and sunny side of a street
will have a physical structure different from a person born
on the cool and shady side of the same street. Also, other
things being equal, a person born of parents who are keenly
interested in scientific matters will have a keener interest in
science than a person born of parents who are more interested
in pictures.
214 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
The influences of the sub-organic environment impress
themselves strongly upon organic development {148).
These structural differences are constitutional ; all condi-
tions in after life are more or less affected by them. When
departure from average normal structure is very decided
we get a decided " idiosyncrasy." Most persons, if they
have no such decided idiosyncrasy themselves, are ac-
quainted with someone who has. We have had personal
acquaintance with many. One could not take milk in any
form ; another could not eat any kind of fish without being
seriously ill ; one big robust man, who could enjoy bacon
pie, dare not eat a piece of cake if an egg had been used in
its making ; and a niece of ours would always get a dis-
agreeable red flush on one side of her face if she ate an apple
at dessert I Such instances could be quoted indefinitely.
And as the possibilities of variation in the sixteen or more
elementary sub-animate molecules and the immense number
of compound molecules that evolve from them and structure
the body are sufficient to furnish that infinite variety in
individual character of structure with which we are so
familiar, so they are sufficient to furnish the infinite varia-
tions of movement that condition the infinite variations of
organic mind function. Every operation of mind "is an
activity of some sort "(3). The operations of sub-organic
movement run with absolute continuity into the operations
of organic movement. Organic mind and sub-organic mind
are continuous.
Man cannot go beyond the depth of immediate causes.
He cannot comprehend how grass is evolved into feathers,
conscious mind and geese ; or into wool, conscious mind and
sheep; any more than he can comprehend how the food he
eats is evolved into himself and his own conscious
mind ; but he can easily comprehend that food and the
energies that environ him are the immediate causes of these
manifestations in the evolution of individual being. And
he has not a shred of rational cause to imagine that there
is any ultimate difference in the evolutionary processes
that evolve geese, sheep, man and all other forms of animate
being.
All things that live must evolve by the same natural laws
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION 2IS
from their environment; they are at the mercy of the sub-
animate.
I34.-Death only a f'elative tef'm.
The cycle of evolution and devolution in the individual
includes the time occupied and the activities that occur
between the evolution of the germ from elementary mole-
cules and the devolution of the individual so evolved back
again into the elementary molecules that commenced its
structure. Volume of living structure and activity slowly
increases in evolution from elementary molecules upwards,
and slowly decreases in devolution down to elementary
molecules. There is no place in nature where what we term
" death " occurs, using this term in the sense which denotes
a cessation of the activities which condition sub-animate life.
There is no death at all in a strictly scientific sense-there
is only dissolution of partnership. In exactly the same
sense, science says that nothing can be destroyed-there is
only ·change in the form of existence. There is nothing
destroyed when a candle bums away and disappears as an
individual structure ; the elementary molecules that struc-
tured the candle still exist, every one of them unaltered ;
they have only entered into other partnerships-transferred
their sub-animate activities into other kinds of elementary
and compound molecules.
If oranges were so small that one orange alone could not
be seen, and hundreds of them heaped together were neces-
sary in order to be visible, we should see such a heap as a
yellow individual object. The mutual actions between the
ray of light coming from the heap and the mechanism of the
eye would evolve the perception of a yellow individual
object.
If now comes along a breeze that disperses the oranges so
that no two remain together, the object ceases to exist.
But the invisible individual oranges would still exist ; and
if they were again gathered together the individual yellow
object would again come into existence. The oranges would
not " die " simply because they were dispersed. The same
thing happens in the devolution of the individual, which we
term '"' death " ; nothing dies. Although the individual
216 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
ceases to exist, the sub-animate elementary molecules that
structured the individual all exist quite unaltered, and just
as animate as ever; they have simply ceased to co-operate
together in the organic structures of a particular individual
By and by they will enter into partnership again and
contribute their mite to the animation of some other indi-
vidual being. Nothing is lost; nothing destroyed.
Devolution of the individual is a reversal of the process
of evolution ; and in all forms of life the process takes place
more or less slowly, so that one or more parts may disappear
into the sub-animate, whilst others remain in the animate.
The whole cycle of evolution and devolution may occupy
only a few days-as in some of the lower organisms ; extend
to a hundred years-as with man and other animals; or
may reach to over a thousand years-as with some trees.
What is termed the " death " of the individual occurs when
the co-operative activities of the countless millions of
individual organic molecules that structure the individual
cease. But the total and absolute devolution of this
co-operative individual existence does not occur until the
animate organic molecules have devolved back again into the
elementary sub-animate molecules that structured and
animated it.
Thus the term "death" has but a very vague and in-
definite meaning; for " life," in a strictly scientific and
fundamental sense, is perpetual ; the animation in the
elementary molecules is unalterable and indestructible.
In the poisoning of man and the higher animals by
strychnine, for instance, the heart continues to beat after
breathing has ceased, and it is wrongly stated in textbooks
that "the heart continu& to beat after death."
This is manifestly impossible. Death of the individual is
not an event that happens of necessity when one portion
ceases to co-operate with the rest, and cannot in any event
happen in a moment of time. Nor can it in any case be
possible to determine the precise moment of what is termed
"death," as there is no known definite line separating the
animate from the sub-animate. The individual is only
partly extinct so long as any mutual and co-operative action
continues between any of the millions of individual cells
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION 217
that constitute the individual. The beat of the heart is an
animate movement ; ·if it beats, it is alive. Every one of
the individual cells in the animate body remains alive until
the mutual actions between its organic molecules cease, and
the cell breaks down into the less complex sub-animate com-
pound and elementary molecules that conditioned its
structure.
Many persons have been buried alive after all the usual
evidences of animation have ceased. Many have recovered
after the heart has ceased to beat and breathing could not
be detected. Only a few days ago Prince Matsukata of
Japan, after heart action and respiration had ceased, was
pronounced dead by his medical attendants; a few days
after he was able to take nourishment. The prince was
over ninety years of age.
The fact that activities of organic mind still continue
after all ordinary evidences of individual life have ceased
should cause a proper appreciation of the fact that activi-
ties of mind which condition living movements occur far
below the level of perception, either direct or aided by the
microscope.
135.-" Individual being" difficuU to define precisely.
We are led to question what meaning is to be attached to
the term "individual being" as applied to co-operative life
by the many things that happen in pathology. A portion
of an individual may be dead and buried whilst the rest of
the individual lives for many years afterwards ; this hap-
pens in most cases of amputation. Or, on the other hand,
the individual may be dead and buried and portions of that
individual may remain alive for months or years after.
Grafting one animate individual being upon another has
been a common practice for ages in the evolution of better
kinds of fruit ; and grafting one part of an animal upon
another has also been successfully accomplished. To-day
all kinds of living tissues from animal and man can be kept
alive for some time, and made even to grow after being cut
from the individuals of which they formed a part. This
class of work, although practicallyin its infancy, is showing a
great extension of possibilities. Blood, which is a living
218 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
part of an individual, may be transfused into and become
part of another individual. The celebrated John Hunter,
about I6o years ago, successfully grafted a human tooth
upon the comb of a cock; and also grafted the spurs of a
young cock upon a young pullet.
Organs have been removed from individuals and grafted
into the bodies of other individuals, giving the new posses-
sors a fresh lease of life. Dr. Alexis Carrell has succeeded in
transplanting from one cat to another the two kidneys with
their adjacent tissues. He has also successfully transplanted
a leg from one dog upon another dog. Years ago he placed
a portion of the heart of a chicken into suitable media that
furnished the necessary nourishment, and kept refreshing or
changing the media at regular intervals. From the last
reports we hear that this part of the chicken is still alive and
has even grown although the chicken it came from died.
and was buried, twelve years ago I Other workers are
emulating Carrell, and it has been amply demonstrated that
practically any organ or part of an organ may be cut from
either a recently dead or a living individual and kept alive
in a suitable environment for an indefinite period of time.
IJ6.-The "dead" lffought back to life.
Individuals may be actually dead-in the common sense
of that term-and yet be restored to life. It is on record
that after a fatal (?) operation a child of eleven months died ;
its heart ceased to beat, and its respiration ceased ; but the
child was restored to life by an injection of adrenalin.
Some animals may be cooled down to near freezing point
and kept so for hours, until all evidence of life has ceased ;
yet when gently warmed, they come to life again.
There are micro-organisms and visible animals and plants
which may be desiccated and kept dry for years without
showing the slightest evidence of life, yet will become ani-
mate when subject t<> a little moisture.
In the British Museum a snail in its shell was gummed to
a board for four years. It was brought back to animate life
by a careful supply of moisture and lived for two years after-
wards. Seeds that have remained dead for a hundred years
have become animate and produced plants when the sub-
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION 219
animate molecular movements of water have come into
mutual action with the sub-animate molecular movements in
the seeds.
Such cases as above are not cases of suspended animation.
They are cases on the borderland between the animate and
the sub-animate. They are " dead " in the sense with
which the term '' dead '' is commonly used. If we drained
all the blood from a man all the authorities in the world
would say he was a dead man. But suppose we could keep
that man in exactly the same physical condition, without the
slightest decay or alteration in structure of tissues and organs
as Carrell did with the heart of a chicken (135), for a month
or a year, and then a sufficiency of healthy blood was infused
into him from a number of volunteers, the man would cer-
tainly commence living again I
This is precisely analogous to the animals and seeds that
have been "killed" (?) by desiccation; the tissues and
organs cannot change because no moisture is present, no
diffusive or osmotic action takes place. When moisture is
added, the one kind of molecule that is necessary to raise the
structure in complexity from the sub-animate to the animate
is added, and the animal or plant lives again as an animate
individual. The addition of the molecules of water gives an
extended range to molecular movement, and it rises in value
from non-living to living movement.
The re-animation of desiccated animals and plants by
application of moisture furnishes us with the most significant
evidence of the immediate nature of those evolutionary and
devolutionary processes in individual beings which we term
"life."
The evidence we presented above regarding parts of
individuals being dead whilst the individual lives, and parts
of the individual being living whilst the individual is dead,
shows that the term " individual " has a very wide and
indefinite significance and that we cannot use that term with
exact meaning.
Man, animal or plant may be cut up into hundreds of
pieces, and each piece can live an independent existence as
an animate community of individual cells.
The foregoing facts are sufficient evidence that both the
220 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
co-operative sub-animate and animate activities of individual
existences all evolve from the atom. But we are so accus-
tomed to confine the sense of terms to the most evident
presentations of that which we indicate by a term that it
seems strange to us--or even absurd-to apply the same
term to the most feeble presentations of any form of energy
although we are well aware that all forms of energy reach
from an unknown maximum down to a minimum that is
imperceptible.
137.-Minimum and maximum expressions ofenergy.
Many persons would think it absurd to speak of the heal
in a block of ice ; yet the amount of heat in a block of ice at
freezing point is nearly as great as that in the human body.
Reckoning from absolute zero, the human body has 310
degrees of heat ; ice at freezing point has 273 degrees
of heat-a difference only of about one eighth.
Electric energy will instantly kill any living thing; yet
electric energy is constantly present in all that lives, although
we cannot perceive it with our unaided senses. Sub-
animate energies, essentially the same as living energies,
are universally present in all the things and substances we
term "dead" matter; but we do not yet recognise these
sub-animate energies as being fundamentally the same as the
energies we term animate. For instance, we do not recog-
nise heat as animate energy ; yet there is probably no fact
in nature more s~lf-evident than the fact that the heat of our
bodies is animate energy ; for if a third part of this heat is
withdrawn from them we shall surely die ; and a divergence
of even one degree from normal temperature indicates some
abnormality in animate function.
The rounded pebble by the roadside, apparently lifeless
and inert, is not so in reality. It perceives the influences of
the physical elements and enters into mutual actions with
them, that will gradually and imperceptibly cause its ulti-
mate disintegration into the soil that mothers vegetation ;
and these acts of perception involve activities of sub-animate
mind. This is not a whit mote mysterious or in any sense
further from our ability to comprehend than other acknow-
ledged evidences of nature's profound depths in activity.
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION 221:
IJ8.-Strutt's radium " clock " ~· association of movemenl
withlife.
A radium " clock " has been made by R. J. Strutt, using
as a motive power thirty milligrams of radium bromide, a
quantity equalin weight to about one half of a drop of water.
This, with appropriate mechanisms, is sealed into a glass
tube. The energy radiated from this small amount of
radium bromide causes two suspended gold leaves to swing
apart from each other. When the divergence reaches a
given angle, the energy is discharged by a contact and the
leaves fall together and again diverge as before. This is
repeated continuously about once a minute, and time can
be measured by it with accuracy. The " clock " will keep
going for more than two thousand years to come if no
accident happens to it. Thus, a weight of matter about the
weight of half a drop of water can cause continuous move-
ment visible to the eye for a period of over two thousand
years I How can we rationally say that this wonderful
manifestation of energy comes from "dead" or "lifeless"
matter?
It is universally habitual to connect movement with living
activities ; if a thing has no movement, we say it is dead.
When the doctor comes to examine the victim of a serious
accident, he detennines by the presence or absence of per-
ceptible movement whether he shall say or not say that the
victim is dead. He feels the pulse to determine if the heart
beats ; he notes if there are any movements that denote
respiration. Even wild animals appreciate the significance
of movement. If you stand quite still a wild creature will
come to within a few yards of you, if you are to leeward.
Give a loud yell-without moving-and it will raise its head,
prick up its ears, and look around, then start quietly grazing
again. But if you turn your head, raise an arm, or move a
step, it will run for its life. How can it be possible for
dead matter to move? Yet we are compelled, if restricted
to such arbitrary terms as "animate" and ., inanimate,"
"living" and ''dead," to term radium bromide "inani-
mate " or " dead " matter, although so minute a portion
will give visible animation to a mechanism for a period of
time that covers many generations of the longest lived of
222 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
human beings. The very nature of man's consciousness
makes it difficult for him to clearly see the truth that every
form of movement involves some mode of perception ; and
perceptions are fundamental units of mind (23).
139.-Di.fficulty of determining where individual life begim.
We have pointed out how difficult it is to determine where
individual being ceases to exist ; it is equally difficult-«
impossible-to determine where individual life begins. Our
individual conscious mind does not come into existence till
some time after birth. But the individual organic life
existed prior to conception in two separate individuals, in
ovum and sperm, long before they came together, and unit-
ing, formed the individual The half part thatcame from the
mother existed in the ovaries of that mother when that
mother was born, and was evolved by the grandmother.
Thus, one part of each human being came into objective
existence in the womb of the grandmother (214) l We do
not know what length of time the organic male hall of the
future individual being existed before it joined the mother
half. We know that the male germs are not evolved until
puberty is reached ; but whether they are weeks, months
or years old when they enter an ovum is not certain, although
the diverse characters of some ordinary twins indicate that
the two fertilising germs may have been evolved with some
effective interval of time between them.
140.-The sum ofall that is, remains constanl.
The energies of animate and sub-animate, in individual
being, are as extensive, as universal and conserved as
matter and energy. We cannot create movement, we cannot
destroy it ; every mode of movement is a transformation
from some other mode of movement. The movements that
condition animate individualbeing or sub-animate individual
substance always existed and will continue to exist when the
individual combinations devolve and cease to exist. Every
atom that enters into associated existence with other atoms
in the evolution of individual beings has the same percep-
tions, energies and functions, the same essentials of living
movements after entering into association as it had before ;
EVOLUTION AND DEVOLUTION 223
and it will have the same essentials of living movement
after the devolution of the individual being. All this points
unerringly to the conclusion that complex individual being
evolves from the sub-animation of atoms; and that in the
evolution and devolution of all co-operative individual exis-
tences, from man downwards, the ultimate, and strictly
definable individual existence, does not appear till the atom
is reached. No vestige of animate energy has ever been
lost since the first two particles of matter united in evolving
a sub-animate substance. The evolution and devolution
of individual mind and being are inviolably equal, simul-
taneous and continuous processes of mutual action. And as
neither mind, matter nor energy can be created or destroyed,
the evolution of anything whatever must be accompanied
by an equal and simultaneous devolution of that from which
it evolves.
From the grass at his feet to man himself ; from the rocks
that are slowly crumbling away to the rocks that are slowly
forming under ocean beds ; from the unceasing dance of
invisible molecules to the sublime movements of revolving
systems in space ; from suns that are dying to suns that are
evolving from nebulz of incandescent gases ; all is perpetual
movement and change in eternal cycles of evolution and
devolution.. And this eternally changing permanence is
due to the continuity of mutual, equal and simultaneous
action ; so that the sum of all that is, remains constant.
CHAPTER IX
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION
I4I.-Laws ofstructure atUJ function.
We have in the previous pages more than once drawn
attention to the fact that range of mind function in evolution
runs parallel with complexity in structure.
This could not be so if the material structural units-
atoms-were not the dominant factors conditioning the
character of structures. Thus, the continuously ascending
scale in value of mind function in the continuously ascending
scale in evolutionary complexity, from the most simple
compound of two elements to the most complex of many
elements in the brain of man, is, per se, sufficient evidence of
the truth of our postulates.
No hypothesis regarding the immediate nature of mind can
be true unless it is in harmony with the postulate that
identity in structure involves identity of function ; and we
propose in this chapter to give evidence demonstrating that
the dependency of function upon structure is an inviolable
law throughout all presentations in nature.
In all phenomena we have the simultaneous evolu-
tion of presentations which widely differ in an irrational
manner from the physical character of the presentations out
of which they evolved. And we have learnt by experience
that under the same conditions the same factors in a mutual
action will inviolably and simultaneously evolve the same
irrational results. If the elements chlorine and sodium are
the factors in mutual action, the irrational results are com-
mon salt and transformations of matter and energy. Every
movement in nature, whether it be in the animate or the
sub-animate, is a part of some process of mutual action
between the three inseparable basic factors-mind, matter
and energy-each plays a part
22.f
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 225
Thus we are able to extend the laws of motion into the
animate beyond the three laws of mechanical movement,
and we tentatively advance the four following postulates :-
I. Every similar element, compound or structure under
similar conditions will move or function in a similar
manner.
2. Any alteration in structure causes an alteration in
function; and any alteration in function denotes
an alteration in structure.
3· Increase of mass increases volume, but not complexity
of function.
4· Increase of complexity in structure increases com-
plexity, but not volume, of function.
Subject to some possible variation in the statement of
them, these postulates, we believe, will be found to be basic
truths without any possible exceptions.
In " isotopes "-which are elements having the same
atomic number, the same spectra, and, as far as is known,
the same chemical properties, we seem to have an exception
to these laws of structure and function. But such isotopes
have differing structure. This is indicated by a difference
in function of gravity and a difference in function of radio-
activity. And it is still possible-or even probable-that
some further subtle difference in function may yet be
discovered that will distinguish one isotope from its " twin."
142.-AUeration in energy content an alteration in structure.
We must, of course, give the broadest meaning to the
terms "structure" and "function." Thus, as energy
enters into thestructure of all matter (626), any alteration in
temperature becomes an alteration in structure ; increase
in temperature lessens density ; added heat causes altera-
tion in structure and function. Man and animal alike think
more slowly if body temperature is reduced. Other things
being equal, every rise of I0° Cent. in temperature doubles
approximately the amount of material change chemically,
and conversely.
Thelaw of constant heat summation shows that the intro-
duction of heat energy as an " element " in structures is as
exact as to quantity as is any physical element. Exactly
p
226 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
so much heat and no more is required to produce stable
equilibrium in any substance. Thus, an exact amount of
heat is necessary to transform ice into water or water into
its constituent gases (21, 52, 85, 88).
Every star and planet in space is subject to influences in
its environment. Gravity is a function of matter. Bodies
in space move under the influence of gravity within a gravita-
tional field which is a perpetually changing environment,
and the constant mutual action between them is constantly
changing the value of their functions of movemP.nt.
We must also take into account functions that, to us, are
imperceptible, and which we only know of by the evidences
of their effects. So far as human knowledge extends, we
know of nothing whatever that is not in unceasing function-
ing with its environment. Structures that appear to us
unalterable are slowly and imperceptibly undergoing
changes-functioning with that which environs them.
We have evidence of this in the vast masses of metamorphic
rocks in the earth's strata. Even granite will continuously
function with the elements until it ultimately devolves into
its structural units. In pathology the photographic film
will give evidence of alteration in the structure of the skin
before it can be perceived, either objectively or subjectively,
by the nonnal senses. This has been demonstrated in the
diagnosing of incipient measles.
143.-Arls and sciences dependent upon the inviolate relati<ms
between structJ"e and function.
We see evidences of the truth of the dependence of function
upon structure in all branches of science, art and manu-
facture. All of original investigators' work is dominated by
the basic truth that identity of structure involves identity
of function. The science of chemistry, without the existence
of this basic truth, would be nothing more than a bewildering
chaos. When a chemist puts a drop of some reagent into a
test tube, and watches· for a change in colour, a cloudy
appearance or the falling of a deposit, he is looking for that
change of function which follows the change in structure of
the liquid he is testing, caused by the intermixture of the
reagent-the change in structure that must follow all mutual
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 227
action. The law of physical properties states that "the
specific physical properties of a substance are constant in all
specimens." The term" physical properties" may be read
as" physical functions." Consequently, difference in physi-
cal function must indicate difference in structure.
Lord Rayleigh, in r8gz, was led to the discovery of the
remarkable group of monatomic gases by the fact that the
functions of nitrogen obtained from the air differed from the
functions of nitrogen obtained from ammonia. The function
of gravity of nitrogen extracted from air exceeded that of
nitrogen obtained from ammonia in the ratio of 251 to zso.
This slight difference in function indicated a difference in
structure ; and the following up of this clue led Ramsay
and Rayleigh to the discovery of the gases argon, neon,
krypton, and xenon.
By differences in the functions of light, as exhibited by
the spectroscope, we may determine the presence of ele-
ments that enter into the structure of the sun, or the struc-
ture of stars that are away in the unfathomable depths of
space. The existence of the gas helium was thus discovered
in the sun before it was discovered on the earth I The metal
sodium is so universally diffused over the earth that it is
almost impossible to obtain any substance that does not
show evidence of its presence in the spectrum. Yet the
quantity so diffused is so relatively minute that chemical
analysis cannot detect it. The tinge of orange colour in the
flame of candle, lamp or gas is due to the presence of sodium.
Every movement is a function of mutual action, for no one
thing in nature-by itself-can evidence movement (16, 47).
Differences in the movement of the planet Uranus, caused by
mutual action between it and an energy from something
unknown external to it, led to the discovery of the planet
Neptune. By differences in function alone, indicating
difference in structure, was it possible for Mme. Curieto track
down the element radium. Every discovery and advance
in practical knowledge has arisen through a recognition
that difference in function necessitates difference in structure
-and the converse. An infinite number of instances of
this truth in the physical sciences could be given, but we
shall confine ourselves mainly to biologic phenomena, as
228 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
being more directly related to the object of this volume-
i.e., to demonstrate the immediate nature of mind and to
point out the practical value of a recognition of that know-
ledge.
144.-EJJects of drugs upon living functions.
It is common knowledge what a great difference in the
functions of living organisms can be produced if the structure
of the blood is altered by the administration of minute
quantities of many drugs; yet the deep significance of this
knowledge fails to impress us as it should do, because of our
easy familiarity with it. For here we are in actual touch
with the relations existing between molecular movemen~
and mind.
One single grain of Strophanthin introduced into the
blood stream enters into mutual actions with it, and produces
a molecular movement that cannot function organic mind
in man, and certain death of the entire organism follows.
Strophanthin is the active agent of an equatorial West
African arrow poison. And it is significant that it does not
matter in the least how great an intellect a person may have,
the poison is just as quickly effective. It must also be noted
that the elements which structure this deadly substance
constitute by far the larger part of the material of the human
body and the larger part of the food that man eats every day.
It is not the presence of some unusual element in the blood
that of necessity causes the effects produced upon the
evolution of organic and conscious mind which may reach
to an extinction of life. It is the presence of unusual
combinations of elements that are always there. A very
large number of violent poisons are combinations of the
elements carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen, which are
always present in abundance in all our tissues, in the blood
stream, and in the food we eat at every meal. And it is
quite evident that neither the elements carbon, oxygen,
hydrogen and nitrogen, by themselves, nor the molecular
movements of these four elements in the structures of normal
food, can be poisonous-for if so, any kind of food we daily
eat would instantly kill us. It can therefore only be the
specific character of the molecular movements in these
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 229
poisons that kill-the poisonous properties are properties of
motion (18).
The elements which structure healthy food may be so
arranged that the structure will function sub-animate move-
ments that are incompatible with animate movements.
Every change in structure involves change in function, and
this is shown nowhere more convincingly and definitely
than in the effects of drugs and poisons, which are structured
of the same elements as the food we eat.
All this runs parallel with the fact that our perceptions-
functions of mind-are conditioned by movements (r8) ; and
that no function of mind-conscious mind, organic mind or
sub-organic mind-can be differentiated from movement
(16, 26).
Derangement of mind function approaching insanity is
caused by an insufficient supply of the nonnal secretion
from the thyroid glands. This can be cured by the ingestion
of thyroid glands from sheep, or the administration of the
active principle-thyroxin I Only a few hours prior to
presenting our script of this chapter to the typist, we read
in the press that after five years of research, Dr. C. E.
Harrington, of the University College Hospital ?ledical
School, has produced synthetically this thyroid hormone
from coal tar products and iodine I Thus we have an ani-
mate substance which conditions intelligence and conscious
mind in man manufactured artificially from so-called
"dead" matter. No stronger proof of the truths we are
striving to establish in this volume could be conceived.
No matter how good may have been the nonnal character
of a person who suffers from chronic morphine poisoning, he
loses all sense of right and wrong; "he will lie and thieve
in a most degrading way, especially in his desire to obtain
the drug ; and absolutely no statement that he makes can
be trusted." Morphine is an active principle obtained from
the white poppy plant. Yet the minute quantities of the
substance that produces such startling effects are structured
of elements that we eat at every meal with our food I Such
facts not only show that function depends on structure ;
they prove that conscious mind energy is physical, and
230 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
evolves from the physical. Such great alterations in the
character of conscious mind could not otherwise be con-
ditioned by simple difierences in the molecular movements of
physical structures.
145.-EjJects of h01'mones ; insulin,· thyroxin.
Without the assistance. of insulin, an active principle
secreted by the pancreas, the body cannot make use of the
sugar that pours into the blood stream from the digestive
track ; it is not u burnt " up and transformed into animate
energy, but accumulates in the blood stream, and has to be
abnormally excreted by the kidneys, causing the fatal
disease diabetes. Dr. Banting succeeded in isolating this
active principle from the organs of animals slaughtered for
food, and it was stated to have a beneficent influence upon
the diseased condition.
The pituitary gland, a little thing normally not larger
than a pea, situated in the brain, secretes active principles
that have a subtle influence upon the organic mind concerned
in growth and development. Hypertrophy of this gland
causes the abnormal growth of the giants that are exhibited
at shows; and normally, it stimulates the secretions of other
organs. Yet there is no other element present in the pitui-
tary than is present in our daily food-it is a matter of
differing structure evolving differing function.
These active principles secreted by the glands-termed
hormones-are of a most complex structure, which is in
perfect harmony with the invariable rule in nature, that
complexity in structure runs parallel with complexity in
function. The compound molecules in these hormones are
structured of many thousands of elementary molecules. The
production of thyroxin synthetically was a marvellous
performance, for it actually is the artificial production of a
substance having definite living properties (64).
146.-Specijic action of drugs ; Dat1Mn, paint weed.
In any textbook on pharmacy and therapeutics we find
separate lists of drugs which act specially on various parts of
the body; drugs acting on the blood, on the white corpus-
cles ; drugs that alter its coagulability ; drugs that directly
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 231
or indirectly influence the heart; drugs that act locally on
blood vessels, on the skin, on the urinary system, on the
bodily heat, on respiration, on the digestive track, on the
salivary glands-and so on. But no two persons respond
exactly alike to these drugs, which shows that no two persons
are exactly alike physically. There are an infinite number of
variations in the structure of the protein substances in
animate beings, and no two persons can possibly be e~actly
alike, either in feature and outward form or in character of
internal structure. For every difference in external shape
or colour, every idiosyncrasy in habit or diet, all variations
in physical and mental aptitude, and the differing effect of
certain drugs upon different persons, indicate differences
in structure and consequent differences in function. Scien-
tists agree in estimating the probable intellectual capacity
of pre-historic men by the structure of their fossil skulls.
In his o.,igin of Species, Darwin refers to a district in
Virginia where all the pigs are black. Originally they were
the usual admixture of black and white. But a weed grew
in that district called " paint weed," which the pigs ate.
This caused a disease in the white pigs ; their bones turned a
pink colour, their hoofs dropped off, and they consequently
died out. The black pigs were not at all affected by the
plant. This shows that even the colour of an animal
indicates some profound difference in structure.
147.-EjJects ofdiet.
There is a constantly accumulating weight of evidence
that the ingestion of too much of a kind of food with a certain
molecular structure is responsible for the prevalence of
cancer, and that the remedy is easy. Sir Robert Bell, in his
Conquest of Cancer, tells us that in every instance cancer is
the direct result of a faulty mode of life. Dr. Josiah Oldfield
says that in cases of cancer, under no consideration should
any form of flesh food or meat extracts be allowed. Many
others have written to the same effect.
Prof. F. S.. Lee, in his Scientific Features of Modern Medi-
cine, p. 119, referring to cancer, says : " The conditions of
the growth of cancers are probably very delicately balanced
. . .. and will not grow in the bodies of human beings unless
232 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
the nutritive conditions for such growth are exactly right " ;
and he cites the fact. demonstrated by experiments upon
mice in Berlin and Oslo, that a tumour which is very
virulent for mice fed chiefly upon protein and fat will not
grow in mice fed on carbohydrates.
In cases of physical injury, when it is of importance to
keep down inflammatory action, the medical attendant will
usually prohibit the eating of meat. Dogs that are well
behaved and quiet when fed on vegetable food become more
aggressive when fed on raw meat. The nations that domin-
ate over other nations are meat eaters. Any difference
whatever in the average character of diet must produce some
difference in the structure and functions of the living or-
ganism, although such difference may not be perceptible or
definable (133).
The more numerous and serious departures from health
are probably caused by the cumulative effect of but com-
paratively slight error in diet continued for years ; and the
subject becomes suddenly aware of some serious liver or
kidney disease. It is a long way from perfect health to
perceptible disease ; and one may be far along that way
without noticing anything that seems seriously wrong.
148.-E:ffects of physical environment upon function.
It is well known that the structure of air alters as we ascend
to higher altitudes-it becomes more tenuous; the mole-
cules of the gases of which it is composed move further
apart with the lessening pressure, and the " orbits " in which
they move are extended. This alteration in structure causes
a weakening of its mutual action upon the blood in the lungs
of air breathing animals. The more tenuous the air, the
less the amount of oxygen per cubic inch ; so that in breath-
ing, the quantity admitted to the lungs decreases, and thus
causes an alteration in energy of function.
To meet this decreased supply, the innate and wonderful
intelligence of the organic mind of the individual causes
an increase of the oxygen carriers-the red blood cells-
so that the necessary amount of oxygen may be absorbed
from the decreased amount of air inhaled by breathing. In
human beings the normal number of red blood cells at sea
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 233
level is about five millions to the cubic millimetre. As we
ascend to higher altitudes the number increases about ten
thousand per cubic millimetre for every one hundred feet in
elevation. At one thousand feet altitude, the number of
red blood cells is three hundred thousand per cubic milli-
metre more than the normal number at sea level. The
stimulus given to organic mind in this, and in other ways, is
one of the basic reasons why persons in weak health derive
so much good at times from a" change of air," which usually
involves some change in altitude.
The amount of light in the environment of children and
young animals has an important influence upon health and
development. Children living on the sunny side of a
street are healthier and better developed on the average
than children living on the shady side-hence the saying
" where the sun does not enter, the doctor will." If we
lower young tadpoles to the bottom of a stream, confined in
a cage constructed so as to keep out light, yet allow a free
circulation of water, and pull the cage up and examine them
when other tadpoles of the same age, living normally in the
stream, have developed into frogs, we shall find that those
who have been excluded from light are still tadpoles-
but abnormally large ones I The absence of light has
retarded the evolution into the frog and extended the func-
tion of growth in the tadpole ; the difference of structure in
environment has caused a profound difference in function.
The histologist, when he stains an object upon his micro-
scopic slide, so that one portion of the structure which he
wishes to examine shall be coloured so as to be objectively
visible and distinct from the rest of the structure, clearly
establishes the fact that even in the most minute parts of a
living organism there are differences in structure and conse-
quent differences in function. For the fact that the stain
will be absorbed by one part of a microscopic structure, and
with less effect", or not at all, by another part shows a differ-
ence in function-<>r mutual action-that must of necessity
be referred to difference in structure. Thus, the smallest
particle in a living structure must exist in an arena of con-
stantly changing energy conditions, which could not be
possible if the surrounding particles were structured simi-
234 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
larly to itself ; and we again reach the conclusion that
living activities are due to the mutual actions of the differing
molecules of the elements and the infinitely variable sub-
stances formable by them (47}. The immediate energy,
mental and physical, in any living being is the sum of the
energy of the mutual actions between the differing elemen-
tary and compound molecules in its structure.
Prof. Paul Ehrlich, in searching for a remedy for syphilis,
tried experiment after experiment, 6o6 times, before he found
a stain that would be absorbed by the micro-organism
'' troponema palladium," but not absorbed by the surround-
ing tissues, and at the same time carry with it a toxin for
the micro-organism. He thus discovered the drug " 6o6 "
known as salvarsan, the complex structure of which is
indicated by its chemical name-dioxy-diamido-arseno-
bensol-which acts as a specific poison to the micro-
organism, yet is claimed to be harmless to the tissues sur-
rounding it.
149.-Sex gives differences in structure and function.
There are an infinity of variations in the structure of
the substances that constitute the living body, and every
minute difference in structure must give some difference in
function. The sense of taste in women for bitters, sweets,
acid or alkalies is more acute than in men in the proportion
of eleven to nine. The sense of taste for common salt is less
acute in women than in men in the proportion of nineteen
to twenty-two (Lloyd Morgan).
These differences in functions of taste are indications of
some subtle differences in the structures that condition
gustation, and these differences must indicate still deeper
and more fundamental differences in structure of the differing
sexes.
Some time ago we read in the press that a Dr. Isaac Fried
was reported to have discovered a method of determining
the sex of a child four months before it is born by means of
an analysis of the mother's blood. We do not know if this
report has been confirmed, but, as at four months before
birth the sex of the fretus has been physically determined
for about three months, we can understand that it may be
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 235
possible to so determine the sex if a sufficiently delicate
analysis can be obtained.
150.-Subtle connection between sh'ucture and vision.
A subtle connection between structure and function may
be noticed in relation to conditions of the eye at birth.
If the temperature of a newly-born puppy be taken when in
the act of suckling, it will be found to be nearly equal to
that of the mother. But if removed from the mother its
temperature steadily falls, until, in the course of three or
four hours, it may fall thirty degrees. The same phenome-
non occurs with kittens and young rabbits ; all are born
blind.
The fall in temperature cannot be due to lack of food, for
it commences as soon as separation takes place. If we take
the temperature of the pup each day, we find the drop in
temperature upon separation from the mother gradually gets
less, until, in about a fortnight, when the eyes are opened,
separation from the mother causes no fall in temperature.
Mammals born with the eyes open do not suffer this
diminution of temperature when separated from the mother
for the same length of time. Young guinea pigs maintain
the same temperature, whether in contact with the mother or
not. Mammals born with the eyes shut cannot maintain
their temperature when separated from the mother, even
though they are supplied with an artificial covering; mam-
mals born with the eyes open can do so.
Thus the function of vision, though having no known
connection with the production of animal heat, must have
relations with an internal structure influencing that func-
tion. And the fact that providing an artificial covering for
the blind young does not prevent, but only retards, the
great reduction in temperature, shows that something more
than simple heat is transferred from the mother to the
young. This may explain why the incubator at its best and
in the most experienced hands will not evolve chickens at
so many per cent. from the same number of eggs, or so strong,
as will the mother hen, if the eggs used in the incubator are
of the same age as the eggs the hen sits upon. It is only
when eggs not more than four days old are used in an incu-
236 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
bator that its effectiveness in evolving chickens approaches
that of the natural method of the hen. The hen will raise
healthy chicks from eggs two or three weeks old amongst the
clutch when she commences to " sit " ; the artificial incu-
bator cannot do this.
zsz.-Wide range in structures and functions of carbon,
hydrogen, and oxygen compounds.
If we put a piece of charcoal into a glass of water we
have within that glass all the elements that are required to
structure many hundreds of different substances. The
charcoal-or carbon atom-has a wider range of atomic
perceptions than the atom of any other element ; it presents
itself in three different allotropic forms; it is the " key"
atom of a greater number of structures than any other
atom ; and it enters into the structure of everything that
lives. . The association of these facts cannot be coincidences.
As we have previously observed, there are no coincidences
in evolution-only mutual action. The wide functions of
carbon are a necessary condition to the wide functions of
living things. Out of the carbon and the water in the glass
may be constructed alcohol, sugar, starch, fat, glycerine,
lactic acid, acetic acid, tannic acid, camphor, gum, maltose,
dextrin, cellulose, tartaric acid, citric acid, oxalic acid and
hundreds of other less known solids, liquids and gases.
This is one of the wonders of structure and function-how
such a large number of differing substances, all having
differing functions, can be built up out ol only three elemen-
tary molecules-hydrogen, oxygen and carbon. There is
no other possible explanation of this than that which we
have already pointed out, viz. that every differing arrange-
ment of the same elements in space gives a differing "pat-
tern " of molecular movement, and that these differing move-
ments condition our differing perceptions (18).
The multiplicity of differing functional activities that are
possible with structures of these three elementary molecules
in their so called " non-living " or " chemical " activities,
is some help towards comprehending the range and variety
of their " living " functions in the organic cells of which they
always form structural units. And does it not seem un-
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 237
reasonable to credit these structures of cells with " living ••
movements and to deny " living " movements to essentially
the same movements in structures outside of the cells ? The
translations and movements of energy in the mutual actions
between atoms, which are termed "chemical reactions,"
cannot be other than the same movements of energy in the
mutual actions between the same atoms in biochemical
phenomena-for the properties of atoms are unalterable.
152.-Action ofchlo-roform.
A man takes into his system in the form of food all the
various atoms whose energies are required for the evolution
of living activities, and transforms the structural energy (88)
of the food into movements that condition the evolution of
the conscious mind energy that evolves a poem, or solves a
mathematical problem, and the organic mind energy that
" regulates " and gives the animation of physical move-
ments. Among these necessary atoms are those of the
elements carbon, hydrogen and chlorine. Yet we can
cause the evolution of conscious mind to cease by the intro-
duction of chloroform into the blood stream. Chloroform
is structured from these three elements, carbon, hydrogen
and chlorine, that are present in the food we eat at every
meal! So that it is not the elements themselves that bring
about unconsciousness, but the specific character of the
structure of chloroform, and the specific molecular move-
ments that determine the specific character of chloroform.
Carbon, hydrogen and chlorine, when associated with the
food substances of which they form a part, have properties
of movement that condition consciousness. But these three
elements when structured as chloroform, have movements
that counteract conscious movements ; and when it is
administered, consciousness ceases. If the amount adminis-
tered passes a given quantity, not only conscious mind
ceases, but organic mind also, and the subject dies-dies
from the ingestion of a far less quantity of the elements
carbon, hydrogen and chlorine than every healthy person
eats three times a day !
If mind was metaphysical, a something apart from
the material structure of the body, chloroform could not
z38 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
possibly act as it does ; nor could man evolve intelligence in
larger volume from sheep's glands than from mutton chops.
But if mind is evolved as a consequence of the continuous
mutual actions between differing molecular movements in
blood s rue ure and differing molecular movements in brain
neurones, then the action of chloroform has a very evident
and reasonable connection with those mutual actions, and
we are able to understand why the immediate nature of mind
alters when alcohol and other abnormal substances are added
to the blood stream (144).
153.-Connection between mental and physical conditions.
In our everyday experiences are many minor facts that
point indubitably to the inviolate nature of the connection
between structure and function. Nearly every person
must have some knowledge, and more or less experience, of
the connection between physical condition and mental
condition. A sluggish liver, for instance, is inducive of
mental dullness and a tendency to pessimism ; a healthy
active liver is associated with mental brightness and opti-
.
mtsm.
The after effects upon physical structure in a proportion
of cases of children who have suffered from sleepy sickness
entirely changes the moral character. They become
destructive and develop an extraordinary power of annoying
their families. Some have been known to try and throw
the baby in the tire; some are subject to ungovernable fits
of temper. Such abnormal functioning can only be due to
some subtle change in structure caused by the disease.
We are yet far from appreciating the difference that may
be caused in the immediate nature of mind by the ingestion
of the different kinds of food, and we know practically
nothing of their therapeutic value. We know and admit
that certain drugs will powerfully alter the nature of imme-
diate mind; and it must be true that different foods will
have a different effect in the evolution of it. For difference
in food structure must cause difference in blood structure,
and any alteration whatever in blood structure, however
slight, will alter the character ofits functions and cause some
change in the immediate conscious mind and the immediate
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 239
organic mind. The fact ·cannot be too strongly insisted
upon, that all our activities, mental and physical, are evolved
from the food we eat, and must of necessity vary in energy
or Character of function with every variation in the character
of the food ingested.
As the protein molecule has infinite variations in structure
made possible by the large number of atoms it contains-
the average molecule having about 2,2oo-all animals not
only have molecules differing from those of other animals,
but also difiering molecules in all the various organs and
tissues of the body.
154.-
.Differmt foods evolve different immediate mind.
If you have e.
ggs for breakfast, the mind that is evolved
from those eggs will not be the same as would have been
evolved if you had eaten the breast of a fowl instead of the
eggs. If you had sheep's tongue for breakfast, the mind
that is evolved from that sheep's tongue will not be the same .
as would have been evolved had you eaten mutton chops.
Wecannot definewhat the difference would be-that would,
in any case, depend largely on the particular structure of
your own protein molecules, or your constitutional idiosyny-
crasies--but in every case, without possible exception,
there would be some slight difference in mentality. When
the character of the food has a wide divergence the effect is
more pronounced, and a definite difference can be perceived
and stated. Probably many a writer has discovered for
himself that after eating certain food he can do better work
than he could have done had he eaten some other kind.
A diet with certain items of food in excess-not excess
in bulk, but excess in proportion-will induce a decided
tendency to pessimism ; whilst another dietary scale may
have a decided effect towards optimism. The pessimistic
tendency is usually associated with the ingestion of more
proteid food than the system requires ; or protein of an
unsuitable molecular structure. Observations covering half
a century have convinced us that the larger portion of the
misery in the world is caused by the pessimistic tendency
induced by eating foods whose structure is not readily trans-
formable into mind energy. And we would undertake to
240 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
make a normal person pessimistic in a few days by the use of
foods that are popularly considered easily digested, nourish-
ing and harmless. Every alteration in structure of food
ingested causes an alteration in the character of immediate
mind.
xss.-Digestion and assimilation.
The question is not one of digestion, but of assimilation,
which is a very different matter. Digestive trouble comes
soon after eating; assimilative trouble comes after the
digested products have entered the blood stream, and may
be felt the next day, not in the stomach, but by the mind.
And it is due to the wide difference between digestion and
assimilation, together with the fact that no two persons are
structurally alike and therefore function differently, that
causes so much confusion and the many contradictory opi-
nions in regard to diet. A food may be easily digested but
difficult to assimilate-eggs for example ; or may be difficult
to digest and easyto assimilate-lean porkchops for example.
One can easily discover what is difficult to digest ; it is
much more difficult to determine what is most easily a..~mi­
lated. Many persons eat eggs because they are easily
digested, who would obtain more energy from some other
form of proteid less easily digested. The term " easily
digested" is very misleading. The value of bran in brown
bread depends almost entirely upon the fact that the
human stomach cannot digest it I
156.-Universal dependence offunction upon structure.
The cause of any movement or function in nature is
fundamentally the same, whether we term that function
mechanical, chemical, mental or physical. Its basis is a
phase of movements in mutual action between the three
inseparable factors ; and each of the infinite and continuous
series of movements conditions one of the infinite variety
of presentations in nature. Alteration of molecular move-
ment in any substance involves alteration in the properties
and functions of that substance. Alter the structure of
blood, brain or any sub-animate substance, in however
slight a manner and alteration of function must inevitably
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 24X
follow. This is as certainly true as any mathematical
equation.
The character of the structure of even a sub-animate
machine most surely indicates the character and extent of
its functions. A clock that strikes the hours must certainly
have a more complex structure than one that only indicates
the time by the movement of its hands. And if two such
different clocks were run down and inactive, a clock maker,
by merely looking at the structure of each, could easily
determine which clock would strike the hours and which
clock would not when they were set going. A mechanician,
by examining the respective structures of a foot power
printing press and a modem newspa~r printing machine,
could determine, without putting the machines into motion,
what extended range of function the one machine had
beyond the capacity of the other by simply considering the
complexity of its structure.
Throughout all phenomena in nature function is related
to structure in the same necessary manner. It is proven in
industrial operations, in medicine, pathology, chemistry,
physics and astronomy. The washerwoman knows that
hot water functions differently from cold water-it cleans
clothing better. The cook knows she cannot cook potatoes
with cold water. The functions of water always change
when its structure is altered by the addition or subtraction of
heat ; its molecules move with greater energy and in a larger
area with the addition of heat ; its solvent functions increase
with every rise in temperature. The structure and functions
of the air we breathe are altered by differing temperature.
Warm air will hold more water vapour than cold air ; when a
current of cold air meets warm moist air, clouds are formed;
if the clouds drift into a wanner air, they disappear again.
Thus, because of unceasing differences of temperature in the
atmosphere, the clouds are perpetually forming and disap-
pearing.
The functions of growing plants are altered by changes in
the structure of the air. The carbon in the structure of
plants is absorbed from the air. If the structure of the air
is altered by an artificial increase of the amount of carbon
dioxide, the plants grow more rapidly ; and this increase in
g
242 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
the intensity of function rises with increasing proportion
of carbon dioxide, till about two hundred and seventy times
the normal proportion in the atmosphere is reached.
I57·-Effect of light and electric energies.
Practically all substances are known to be more or less
affected in their functions by light ; all living movements
are affected by it ; therefore the structure of all possible
forms of matter-animate or sub-animate-is altered by
any alteration in intensity of light. The functions of the
photographic film are very sensitive to differences in intensity
of light. So are the functions of the eye.
A bar of iron functions differently, if we send a current
of electricity around it, for the structure of the iron is then
changed from that of simple molecules of iron to that of a
combined structure of iron molecules and magnetic energy.
And it now possesses the added function of being able to draw
other pieces of iron to itself in opposition to the energy of
gravity-it has become a magnet. Electro-magnets
attached to powerful cranes are in common use for moving
heavy pieces of iron and steel, and are largely used for many
other purposes. In metallurgy the manufacturer of steel
knows the economic value of a minute alteration in the struc-
ture of steel ; he gives it more durable, tenacious or resis-
tant functions by the addition of relatively small amounts
of ferro-manganese, speigel, vanadium, ferro-silicon, tungs-
ten or nickel, and by other means that are, for very evident
reasons, kept secret.
158.-Properties ofmatter are "functions " of matter.
We tend to confuse ourselves by using different terms to
indicate what is really the same thing. There is no reason
why the behaviour of matter in the physical or chemical
laboratory should be classed as the" properties" of matter,
and the same behaviour within living organisms, as "func-
tions" or "living functions." Why not "functions" of
matter, instead of "properties" of matter, since atoms of
matter must always "function" the same under given
conditions ? The affinity of carbon for oxygen in the
laboratory is called a " property " of carbon ; the same
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 243
affinity in our tissues is a " function "-a " living func-
tion I"
And why should water be termed an inorganic compound,
when more than three fourths of organic living things is
water? We cannot in the slightest degree alter the func-
tions of water. Although under thousands of differing
conditions water will function in thousands of differing ways
in an exact and inviolable manner to meet those differing
conditions, no power of man can in any way alter this. At
sea level, and under the average atmospheric load, water will
boil at I00° Cent., and freeze into ice at any temperature
below 0° Cent. If the atmospheric load is increased or
decreased, or if artificial means are taken to alter the pres-
sure. this gives a different structure to the water, and it
will freeze or boil at a differing temperature. Nothing
known to man can change these natural" habits,"" proper-
ties," or" functions" of water. It is not possible that the
functions of water in physics and chemistry can differ from
its functions in animate activities. - It is so absolutely
a necessity in all animate being that we might fitly term
water the mother of life.
159.-Living functions and chemical functions.
Every element has atoms that differ in weight from the
atoms of all other elements, and must therefore have its
own specific structure and its own specific functions. The
truth of this is demonstrated every day in every chemical
laboratory. The functions of these atoms are inviolate.
Under ahy definite conditions every atom and every mole-
cule of atoms will function in a certain exact manner to meet
those conditions, and in no other manner, whether this
function occurs in the tissues of the living or in a chemical
test tube.
The functions of albumen or of protoplasm are altered
by altering the amount of water that may be present in the
structure. Original investigators into the physical difference
between normal and exhausted nerve tissue could find no
difference whatever, except that the exhausted nerve con-
tained less water !
Living protoplasm is different from dead protoplasm,
244 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
even before any physical sign of disintegration is perceptible.
Carmine will not colour living protoplasm, but will bril-
liantly stain dead protoplasm; this is because certain
molecular energies have left the protoplasm and altered its
structure. If the albumen of an egg be subjected to a rising
temperature till it reaches 65° Cent., we perceive no change
in it except the rise in temperature. Yet if we raise the
temperature to 75° Cent., the albumen becomes a white
solid, and also becomes insoluble in water I If we subject
gelatine-a substance closely related to albumen-to the
influence of heat, we produce quite different results, for the
gelatine will soften and become more soluble in water.
16o.-Incomprehensible resuUs ofmutual actions.
We must keep clearly in mind the fact that the terms we
use to indicate phases of basic activity in nature cover our
absolute ignorance of the essential nature of those activities.
The terms "chemical affinity" and "chemical reactions,"
equally with "consciousness" or "mind," are quite
meaningless to us as regards the essential nature of the
activities we indicate by those terms. We say that chlorine
and sodium have an affinity for each other ; and we know
that the mutual action between these two elements, which
arises as a consequence of this affinity, causes the simul-
taneous appearance or evolution of common salt ~nd a
large amount of heat. But the nature of that mutual action
which causes a white opaque metal and a greenish yellow,
poisonous and most disagreeable smelling gas to combine
together so as to form white transparent crystals, so totally
different physically from the two elements that structure
them, also to evolve a large amount of energy, is an abso-
lute mystery to human mind. Such wonderful transforma-
tions of matter as occur when various atoms are mixed
together in chemical combinations constitutes one of the
most baffiing mysteries presented to us in nature. The
equally inexplicable wide transformations of function which
follow such changes in structure are· equally wonderful,
mysterious and incomprehensible ; and the only manner
in which we may even faintly conjecture their ultimate
nature is by co-ordinating them as effects of atomic mind.
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 245
A person may swallow an ounce of mercury with no ill
effect. John Wesley, the founder of the Wesleyan sect of
religion, wrote a book on p,imitive Physic, and amongst his
cures for a certain ailment he gives : " Take an ounce of
quicksilver." But if we add to that ounce of mercury less
than one third of an ounce of chlorine-one of the elements
of common salt-the chemical union of the mercury with the
chlorine, by mutual action, evolves that violent poison
, "corrosive sublimate," or mercuric chloride; and the
ounce of mercury thus becomes a poison sufficient to kill
several hundreds of people 1 If we add to that ounce of
mercury only half the chlorine that is necessary to produce
"corrosive sublimate," we produce "calomel," or mercu-
rous chloride, which is largely used in infants' soothing
powders, and is a popular remedy with orthodox physicians
for infantile disorders I
The air we breathe is more than three fourths the gas
nitrogen; hydrogen is one of the two gases that form water;
but if the two gases nitrogen and hydrogen are united
chemically, we obtain the pungent suffocating gas ammonia I
The water we drink is a chemical mixture of two gases, but
how two gases can, by uniting, form a liquid, is unknown to
human mind. We perceive the wide and astounding
differences in function ~used by the changes in structure
that follow the mutual actions between differing atoms ;
but we have no clue, no conception whatever, regarding the
nature of the activities that cause such unreasonable
changes. And we have no more reason for denying the
incomprehensible truths regarding the evolution of mind
than we have for denying that a mutual action between two
invisible gases with unalterable properties will evolve a
visible liquid. Both facts are incomprehensible, and
incomprehensibility is absolute.
I6I.-lnstinctive (?)movements.
The laws of structure and function which we formulated
above (144) give us a means of grasping some idea of the
immediate nature of the many activities that are termed
instinctive. Thus, similar organisms will, under similar
conditions, always behave in a simjlar manner.
246 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
In man conscious mind is more dominant in the control
of animation than it is in lower animals. As we go do\fll in
the scale of evolution the effects of conscious mind become
less evident, and the effects of organic mind more evident;
until we reach the lowest forms of life, where organic mind
dominates what must be a feeble state of consciousness,
intermediate between human consciousness and the lowest
expression of consciousness in the monatomic elements.
We see evidences of this increasing dominance of organic
mind as we go down in the scale of complexity in structure,
in the tenacity with which lowly forms hold on to life, and in
their capacity to repair injury. A worm can grow a new
head if"
its head is cut off; a plant may be cut into a hundred
pieces, and each piece will grow into a new plant. Man
cannot do such things. Innumerable instances could be
given of lower forms of life bearing, without evident injury,
treatment that would kill any of the higher animals.
We also see, as a result of the relatively increasing domi-
nance of organic mind, that as we go down in the scale of
complexity in structure the less divergence there is from
average type amongst the members of any particular
species. The offspring of negroes vary less from parent
type than do the children of white races; the offspring of
lower animals vary less than negroes ; and so on to the
lowest forms of life, where we cannot distinguish one indi-
vidual from another. Nor can we distinguish any difierence
in their animate movements ; they all behave in the same
manner, as though they had no individual intelligence, but
acted " blindly " in some mysterious manner which is termed
instinctive.
162.-Instincts and affinities.
It is a mathematical truth that with a less number of
differing factors less variations in function are possible ;
and with organisms, as we descend in the scale of complexity
in structure, the less the number of factors there are present
to give possible variations in function.
And in the lowest forms of life, structural limitations to
function so reduce range of movement that it becomes
scarcely distinguishable from the sub-organic mutual activi-
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 247
ties in chemistry, where precisely the same movements al-
ways follow contact of the same two elements under similar
conditions. In both cases they cannot behave otherwise.
In the former case the term instinct is applied to them, in
the latter case the activity is attributed to affinity. It is
evident that all the so-called instinctive activities of both
the highest and lowest forms of life are simply movements
due to organic mind perceptions, over which the animal has
no conscious control and no more power to resist than the
chemical element has when conditions cause it to mutually
combine with another element; or the human eye has to
resist seeing that which it sees.
There are insects which kill their prey in a certain fashion,
as though they had a perfect knowledge of the anatomy
of their victim ; and this is ascribed to some wonderful and
mysterious" jnstinct." But the insect only acts as it must-
as its organic mind makes it act-if we exclude any possible
influence from its conscious mind. Yet its organic mind
may be quite as conscious of what it is doing as we are
conscious of what we are doing. Organic mind must have
consciousness, for mind cannot exist apart from conscious-
ness. It is simply impossible for anything to have any
vestige of mind unless it has consciousness. The insect
structure, as with all other structures, can only act or
function in a certain manner under given conditions ; and
every animate structure that survives in the struggle for
existence, which is so remorseless and unceasing on the
earth, does so survive simply because it has some specific
functions which enable it to continue its existence and
procreate its kind.
When giraffes first appeared on earth they survived
because they could eat the leaves off trees, and so sustain
life. When the woodpecker first appeared he survived be-
cause he could live by extracting insects with his strong bill
from crevices in the bark of trees. Nature did not design
the woodpecker's bill for the purpose. If we assume that
nature designed the woodpecker's bill we must also assume
she designed the insects to live in the crevices of the bark;
also the bark and the trees to accommodate the insects-
and so on ad absurdum.
248 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
163.-Forms oflife not adapted for survival.
There exist to-day many millions of varied forms of
animal and vegetal life, including forms of almost every
conceivable shape. All these represent forms of life that
possessed features of structure which enabled them to ·sustain
the struggle for existence. Of the much larger number of
living things that nature evolved during the millions of years
since living things first existed on earth and of which no
trace remains, we do not give sufficient consideration in our
popular theories of evolution. At the present time not a day
passes without some form of life being evolved so abnormal
or monstrous that it cannot live ; or if it lives, cannot repro-
duce its kind. And if we take a million years as the length
of time that animate life has existed on earth, even this
conservative estimate would give us 365 millions of futile
forms of life which have disappeared because they had a
structure unsuited to any function which would enable them
to survive.
That an insect should kill its prey in a fashion that seems
to endow that insect with a mysterious knowledge of the
anatomy of its victim does not seem quite so hopeless a
problem when we consider that there are now living more
than two hundred thousand different species of insect, in
each of which there is a something specific in structure and
function which has enabled it to exist ; and that an infinite
number of different insects must have perished, leaving no
trace of their having existed, because they did not fit their
environment sufficiently well to prosper ; because they did
not have a structure that fitted exactly in function to some
means of continuing their existence. We must remember
that only one of each such types could have existed, and the
chances are infinite that no specimens of these prehistoric
monstrosities or failures of nature's fortuitous activities
have ever been discovered-or if discovered, recognised to
be what they really were.
164.-Functions exact expressions of structures.
Why nature's laws operate in the evolution and devolution
of individual being ; why they or anything else came into
existence, present problems that are beyond the scope of
STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION 249
man's reason ; and we cannot take seriously any metaphy-
sical speculations regarding them. But from whatever
direction we approach phenomena in nature, seeking a
knowledge of their immediate cause, we cannot avoid the
conclusion that all movements, functions, mutual actions,
all phenomena that may be classed under the tenn activity,
whether in the realm of the organic or the suborganic, are
inviolable and exact expressions of some definite structure.
And in tracking down the evidences of mind in its universal
and unceasing activities, and its infinite variety of phases,
we are greatly assisted in our efforts to arrive at the truth
by a confident reliance upon the law that every one of the
infinitely varying functions in nature is an unalterable ex-
pression of one definite form of structure amongst the infinite
number of variations in structure possible to the physical
elements.
CHAPTER X
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY
I6S.-Radiant energy,· slow co-ordination offacts.
In this chapter we propose to survey some aspects of the
relation between mind, matter and energy which do not
come within the scope of other chapters, yet which have a
value of their own in support of our various postulates.
Previous conceptions regarding the ultimate nature of
matter were considerably modified in 1878, when Crookes
produced the kathode-rays in his vacuum tubes, and
rightly claimed that he had discovered a previously unknown
condition of matter, which he termed" radiant matter."
The principles of the conservation of matter and energy
as originally formulated were not strictly true in the sense
in which they were first accepted by the scientific world.
We now know, that although the sum of matter and energy
may be constant, the individual amounts of matter and
energy in all existences must be eternally fluctuating in
cycles of evolution and devolution-energy evolves from the
devolution of matter; matter evolves from the devolution
of energy.
Just as we cannot place a definite dividing line between
organic and sub-organic, or place a line definitely separating
that which we term " living " from that which we term
"dead" (134), so we cannot place a dividing line between
that which we term matter and that which we term energy.
We reach a point in "radiant matter" where we are at a
loss to determine whether we should refer to it as matter or
as energy; we reach matter that has no weight,· it has an
energy that opposes or inhibits the energy of gravitation.
This, as the reader will perceive, is in perfect harmony with
the postulate that all phenomena in nature must of necessity
be continuous. In radiant energy we seem to have reached
2JO
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 251
the arbitrary dividing line between our conceptions of
matter and energy; energy with its inseparable minimum
of matter; matter associated with its maximum of energy.
This correlation between matter and energy was for
a long time prior to the discovery of radiant matter
clearly indicated by the transformations of matter and
energy which occur in nature, in physics, and in chemistry
-ice in melting takes up heat energy, and the water that
evolves has more energy in its structure than ice. And the
converse is true; ice has less energy in its structure than the
water from which it devolves. Liquids devolve into solids
by loss of energy. Solids evolve into liquids by the addition
of energy. Much energy of structure is set free when we
add water to strong sulphuric acid. In the process of solu-
tion of crystals energy is absorbed ; and in the formation
of them energy is set free. Every mutual action in chemistry
is associated with transformation of matter into energy or
of energy into matter. The term "latent heat" which is
applied to such disappearances and reappearances of heat
energy is a misnomer. The heat is gone; it is transformed
into structural energy, just as energy from the sun is trans-
formed into the structural energy of plants and fruits. It is
only comparatively recently that it has become accepted as
an unquestionable fact in science that matter and energy are
correlated.
x66.-Profess0f' Soddy ,· repulsive energy of electrons ,·
absolute zero; structural energy in water.
But because matter and energy are inseparable the
correlations between them can never be absolute under the
present order of nature. It is not possible to transform any
portion of matter entirely into energy, for energy is always,
and of necessity, associated with some value of matter.
Professor Soddy has made a calculation which indicates the
inconceivably minute amount of matter which may repre-
sent the irreducible minimum which is inseparable from
energy. He finds that if we took as many electrons as there
are atoms in one gram of hydrogen, place one such quantity
at the North Pole, and another such quantity at the South
Pole, they would repel each other with an energy that would
252 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
require a steel cable capable of sustaining a strain of thirty-
five tons to keep them from moving farther apart I No
material bond could hold them a short distance apart ; they
would burst into fragments the strongest structure that man
could devise I And all this with a weight of matter less than
the weight of water a teaspoon would hold I (Matter and
Energy, by Professor Soddy.) Nor is it possible to trans-
form any measure of energy entirely into matter, for energy
is always, and of necessity, associated with some value of
matter. Physicists have not been able to reach zero in the
scale of absolute temperature; some value of energy must
always remain in the matter from which they are striving
to abstract all heat. We learn from the press that a degree
of cold about four-fifths of a degree Centigrade from absolute
zero has been reached by Professor Ormes of Leyden. If-
matter and energy were not inseparable, would it not
seem strange that 272.82° C. could be reached, but not-
2730 C.? To obtain absolute zero it appears evident to us
that we should have to take from the electron its irreducible
minimum of matter. But electrons-as Sir Oliver
Lodge tells us-" appear to be the ultimate foundation
stones of which the material cosmos is built''; and if this is
so, to separate energy from matter and so obtain absolute
zero, it would be necessary to remove conditionswhich make
all existences possible. At zero, matter would disappear into
nothing, so far as our senses or any technique in science
could determine. For without ordinary matter heat could
not exist. Light from the sun is not heat ; put yourself far
enough away from the radiation of heat from the earth, and
you will freeze to death in a few minutes, although you are
exposed to the full glare of the unclouded sun. The incon-
ceivably rapid movements of light waves are transmuted into
heat when they are stopped by ponderable matter-in an
essentially similar manner as the movement of a hammer is
transformed into heat when it is stopped by an anvil.
Light may be transformed into matter. Sunlight, falling
upon snow and ice in arctic regions, is transformed into
heat; the heat becomes incorporate with the snow and
ice, and then becomes water, which may thus be considered
as a structure of solar energy associated with ice or snow.
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 253
An infinite number of forms of structural energy in matter
occur in the evolution of the substances of growing vegeta-
tion, which is eaten, and which in its devolution furnishes
the energy which animates us, and all other living things-
directly or indirectly.
167.-Vacuum tube,· radio-activity,· Ramsey and CoUie ,·
Sir Oliver Lodge.
The phenomena of the vacuum tube is the converse of the
phenomena of radio-activity. The one is an activity in
evolution, the other an activity in devolution. In the
vacuum tube, matter is evolved by energy-it is a building
up ; in radio-activity energy devolves from matter-it is a
breaking down. The emanation of the A, BandY rays in
radio-activity is accompanied by the devolution of a large
amount of energy, which is discharged from the radiating
elements originally evolved by primary evolutionary acti-
vities. The A, BandY rays from radio-active elements are
identical with the canal rays, cathode rays, and X-rays of the
vacuum tube. To produce the rays of the vacuum tube we
have to apply a current of intense energy, and the more
intense this energy is, the greater the energy of the resulting
rays. If the rays from radio elements are energy and
particles of atoms broken away from the most complex of
atoms, the rays of the vacuum tube must be energy and
particles of atoms evolved as a consequence of the intense
energy introduced ; and the phenomenon is the exact reverse
of radio-active phenomena-the one absorbing energy, the
others emitting it. It has been demonstrated that by long
continued action of the X-ray bulbs the gases helium and
neon appear. Thus man has undoubtedly succeeded in
producing or manufacturing matter from energy and proto-
matter!
The devolution of energy from matter in the breaking
down of the atom in radio-activity indicates that the evolu-
tion of the atoms of the radio-active elements occurred in an
environment of energy tension far more intense than that
which exists under present conditions in nature.
It does not necessarily follow that because the atoms of
the radio-active elements have such a relatively large amount
254 MIND AND UFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
of energy in their structure that other atoms have equal
energy. which may possibly become of economic importance.
In the successive appearance of differing atoms in sub-
organic evolution the constantly lowering energy of environ-
ment would. of necessity, give lowering energy content to
atoms. The fact that the heaviest of atoms are radio-active.
and Einstein's statement that the mass of a substance is the
measure of its energy content both point to the above con-
clusions.
Every mutual action in chemistry deals with the energy of
the atom. The union of hydrogen with oxygen, for instance,
releases a large amount of energy ; but the infinite number
of experiments that have been made-naturally in nature,
and artificially by the chemist-with all the known elements,
practically demonstrate that no possibilities exist that any
serviceable energy may be derived from any atomic activities
that it is possible for man to determine or control. For all
such mutual actions amongst atoms balance each other-
there is no surplus. The exact amount of energy set free in
a chemical union of atoms must be returned to those atoms
before it is possible to separate them again.
Man has no influence or power at his command that will
in the slightest degree ·affect the energy of radio-activity.
He has no more influence over the radiant energy than he has
over the radiation of energy from the sun ; and the prospects
of exploiting the energy of the atom for economic use are
feeble to vanishing point. It is probably well for the human
race that this is so. Statements such as have been made by
Sir Oliver Lodge that :
"Atomic energy wiU be the futuYe fwincipal sout'ce of
pOUJeY--instead of buYning one thousand tons of coal,
they wiU take the eneYgy out of an ounce o,- two of mattet'/"
have not even the shadow of a reasonable foundation.
We may perhaps be able to balance the energy of radiation
by an opposing energy, and so apparently stop it. But it
still will be exerting the same amount of energy in balancing
that opposing energy. To take the energy out of an" ounce
or two of matter., we shall always have to expend as much
energy in doing so as we get out of that ounce or two of
matter. We do not take energy from radio-active elements
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 255-
-it comes out. The problem is exactly equal to the prob-
lem of burning water. Water is composed of two gases,
oxygen and hydrogen, which will bum together and evolve
an intense energy. But to get this atomic energy from
water we have to expend exactly the same amount in trans-
forming the water into the two gases. Of surplus energy we
get none. The energy derived from radio-active elements
became a part of those elements when they evolved, thou-
sands or millions of years ago, in a more intense energy
environment than exists to-day. This energy is now, as it
were, slowly evaporating away under a less intense energy
pressure, just as water will evaporate more readily into
energy and vapour under a lower atmospheric pressure-
which is actually an energy pressure. Radiant energy is
energy which has been conserved as structural energy in the
radiant atom, somewhat as the energy we get from
coal is the conserved structural energy of vegetation that
grew millions of years ago.
168.-Mind, matter and energy correlated,· "materialisa-
ticms.''
The undoubted correlation of matter and energy, and the
fact that mind is demonstrably a mode of energy correlated
with the ordinary physical energies (So) lead us to the pro-
found and somewhat startling truth, that the three basic
factors-mind, matter and energy-are not only coeval and
inseparable, but also correlated. We see by the phenomena
of the vacuum tube that energy may be transformed inte
matter ; we see from the phenomena of radio-activity that
matter may be transformed into energy. That matter may
be transformed into mind we each of us demonstrate every
time we sit down to eat the food that is necessary to keep up
our output of mental and physical energy-to keep us,
individually, in existence.
It now becomes evident that we cannot, a priori, or
rationally deny the possibility of what are termed " mate-
rialisations" at so-called spiritualistic seances. Here we
have, on the authority of many reliable investigators,
objective presentations coming into existence apparently
out of nothing. Yet science can demonstrate that matter
256 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
evolves from energy ; and beyond the fact that such
phenomena are unusual, we know of no reason why the
radiations ·of energy coming from a circle of sitters whose
radiant vibrations have been brought into approximate
unison by the procedure usually adopted at such seances,
should not aggregate together in mutual activities with
environment, so as to transform more or less of this radiant
energy into matter. We go further into this in Chapter
XIV. •
I6g.-PMpetual and evM-varying movement evolves an infinity
ofjwesentations. ·
Although every atom of matter and the whole bulk of
matter in the universe is in constant movement in associa-
tion with mind and energy, so that we only know of mind
and energy as a consequence of that movement, in every
system there are perpetual variations of movement caused
by the never ceasing transformations of the three basic
factors that give us perpetual cycles of evolution and devo-
lution ; so that any system may be associated with an
infinity of variations. For variations in value, extending
from the minimum to the possible maximum quantity of
each factor, are infinite; and thus present the possibilities
for that infinite variety of presentations we find in nature.
But no maximum of one factor can reach up to a total exclu-
sion of the other two; and no minimum can reach zero, for
each entity is a necessary condition for the existence of the
other two (130).
We encounter difficulties in our attempt to present a true
picture of the immediate nature of phenomena through a
common use of terms which do not express any real meaning;
also by the inadequacy of any language to picture the
depths to which mind may penetrate.
The term " latent " heat is applied to the heat which
disappears when ice is melted into water, or water into
steam ; but the heat which so disappears has ceased to be
heat; it is not heat, it has been transformed into matter.
All forms of matter may be regarded as having structural
energy-energy in the form of material structure. At the
level of energy environment in the present order of nature,
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 257
there are universal and unceasing reciprocal transformations
of matter and energy. This is most evident in such sub-
stances as easily oscillate between solid and liquid, or between
liquid and gaseous. Add sufficient energy, and the earth
would revert to the fire mist from which it evolved.
Radiant heat, light, electro-magnetic vibrations indicate
the same thing. Vibrations of light, when retarded, are
transformed into heat ; radiations of heat are transformed
back again into light. All forms of matter and energy are
universally in constant states of transformation, from the
imperceptible changes in apparently imperishable rocks and
metals to the sudden transformations of explosive com-
pounds into energy ; from the thousands of years it takes to
transform a grain of a radium salt into energy and other
forms of matter, to the few hours it takes man to transform
the structural energy in a crust of bread into the energy of
mind; all things are in a state of perpetual transformations.
But only a small fraction of what occurs in the infinite
variety of phenomena presented by these transformations
can be indicated with any exactness by any terms in any
language; the deeper activities can never find expression or
definition in words.
When we attempt to express the nature of the immediate
activities of mind we feel to the full the limitations of
language. The rush of the tide of deeper knowledge which
has occurred in recent years by the light of which we must
readjust our conceptions regarding the immediate nature of
mind and the relations between matter and energy neces-
sitates a wider scope of meaning for many terms in common
use.
Just as every form of matter has three states-solid,
liquid, and gaseous-yet remains the same matter, plus or
minus some energy ; and as every definite volume of space
has three dimensions, each one equally essential to the other
two, so there are three basic factors to every presentation in
nature, each one equally essential to the other two. And all
presentations which we term mind, or matter or energy
represent one of these factors, plus some measure of the
other two. We may say that mind has a minimum of
matter and an unknown measure of energy; matter, a
R ,
258 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
minimum of mind and a partly known measure of energy ;
enef'gy an unknown measure of mind and a partly known
measure of matter.
The conclusions we have arrived at are not based upon a
few isolated facts, which might be ruled out as evidence when
opposed to other facts. They are based upon the many
facts which we have taken from practically all branches of
science, and upon a host of facts within the common know-
ledge and experience of every person. And they all point
more or less directly to the same conclusion, forming a
cumulative weight of evidence which cannot with reason be
resisted.
As a broad generalisation it may now be stated that all
things-animate and sub-animate-have mind, matter and
energy values proportionate to the necessities of the nature
and conditions of their existence. The more stable the
existence, the lower the mind value necessary to continue
that existence ; the less stable the existence, the greater the
mind values necessary to continue it. This agrees perfectly
with the fact that mind values increase with increased com-
plexity-and consequent increased instability in structure;
and it may be stated as a universal generalisation that mind
values in structures increase in direct proportion with degree
of instability. The human brain appears to have reached
the possible limits of complexity and instability of structure
consistent with the rational functioning of conscious mind;
and it is the arena of the most constant and complex trans-
formations of the three factors. Further instability results
in insanity, and thus has arisen the common saying that
genius is akin to madness.
170.-Nature ofperception cannot be defined~· behaviour.
The perpetually varying phenomena in nature flow from
the perpetually changing relations between mind, matter
and energy initiated by the perpetually active perceptions of
the elemental molecules and aggregates of molecules which
exhibit themselves as movements. But we cannot con-
ceive the basic nature of these perceptions, which keep the
universe in perpetual movement. We cannot conceive even
the nature of our own perceptions, although we have been
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 259
using them constantly all our lives. We can only make
blind guesses regarding the phenomena that occur in our
tissues in the act of transforming th~ varied nature of our
environment into perceptions of organic mind ; and, by
further mutual action with neurones in the brain, into
conscious mind. We perceive vibrations in the air as
sound by a physical effect produced ·upon the mechanism of
our ears ; we see, by the physical effects vibrations of light
produced upon the retina. Our sense of touch is an effect
caused by physical pressure upon the peripheral nerves ; but
no explanation (?) of such facts can ever reveal the basic
nature of any mode of perception. But we do know-and
must hold fast to that knowledge-that tq perceive there
must be movement (r6); that if there is movement there
must be energy ; and, given perception and energy, these
would be useless unless there was something that moved- _
matter. And we cannot define or explain what a percep-
tion is in terms of mind or in terms of consciousness. Here
anguage fails us. A perception is an expression of mind ;
it is also an expression of consciousness and of intelligence.
No explanation or definition of anything can be given in
terms of itself. We cannot define matter in terms of matter ;
energy in terms of energy; or mind in terms of perception,
knowledge, consciousness, understanding, intelligence or
anv other terms that are used to denote activities of mind.
There is only one possible way in which we may rationally
deduce evidence of the manifestation of mind, and that is
by observation of the "behaviour" of anything that moves
(41). But the range of human observation is limited to the
limited range of human modes of perception-so that it is
impossible for man to detect by direct observation many
modes of behaviour in the infinite range of movements in
nature which would indicate the operation of perceptive
activities. Man is thus led to unduly value, in a relative
sense, his own qualities of mind, and to minimize, or
altogether deny, the operations of mind in other things than
himseH. He is the victim of his limited senses of perception
-five-upon the evidences of which all of his intelligence is
structured (26, 59).
26o MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
I7I.-lncomprehensible perceptions and activities.
No matter how much we may learn regarding the imme-
diate conditions that are necessary to the exhibition of any
mode of perception, we can never really comprehend its
ultimate essential nature. Persons born deaf cannot be
made to comprehend what sound is; and it is not possible
for persons born blind to form a conception of what " seeing "
really means (31).
But though we cannot comprehend an ultimate cause, we
can recognise the evidences of perception in the character of
the movements we see, in the behaviour of things in rela-
tions to each other; and thus we may detennine the
immediate causes of differing presentations-as we deter-
mine the immediate cause of gravitation to be due to a
mode of perception that is incomprehensible to us (26).
All the evidences we possess of the existence of the energy
of gravitation, or of mind, or of any other form of energy,
or presentation in nature have come to us by means of our
five senses of perception, by considering the behaviour of
things. Behaviour is the response in movements to per-
ceptions, whatever be the mode or nature of the movements
or whatever be the mode or nature of the perceptions which
initiate the movements. Human knowledge is but know-
ledge of that which lies on the surface of basic mysteries.
We can co-ordinate cause with effect, but we know abso-
lutely nothing of the mutual, continuous, simultaneous
activities which connect them. And it is of the first impor-
tance that we should give adequate weight to the un-
doubted existence of the many modes of perception in
nature other than the few we ourselves possess (36). The
fact that we cannot comprehend the nature of these other
perceptions and the consequent movements and evidences of
activities of mind in what is usually, but incorrectly, termed
inorganic or inanimate matter, is no bar whatever to an
acceptance of the truth that they do exist. If evidence and
reason point to that conclusion, we must accept it, as we do
so many conclusions in science, that are, in the ultimate,
beyond human comprehension.
We know, and admit as a truth, that rubbing amber with a
silk cloth will evolve electric energy; and we may term the
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 26r
rubbing the cause and the electric phenomenon the effect.
But we are quite unable to understand the nature of the
activities which transform our rubbing movement into
electric movement. It is just as incomprehensible to us as
is the transformation of molecular movements into mind
energy. We know, and we admit as a truth, that water will
run along a gutter because we have undoubted evidence that
it does so; yet we cannot comprehend the cause. We may
think we explain (?) the fact by saying that water always
will run ~~down hill," and will find its level under the com-
pulsion of the energy of gravity. But there is no such
direction as "down hill" ; there is really neither" up" nor
" down " in nature ; what is " down hill " at any moment is
" up hill " in a few hours ; and this relative direction is
constantly changing. We have evidence, equally as clear
as that water will run " down hill" (?}, that there are an
infinite number of varied perceptions in nature other than
those of our five senses ; and we must admit the evidence
of these perceptions, even though we cannot comprehend
their nature. And as all forms and phases of matter and
energy show evidences of perception, and have conse-
quently some lowly form of mind activity by which they
perceive (39), but which is beyond the grasp of our compre-
hension, mind, matter; and energy are thus inseparable
through all presentations in nature; and mind presents
itseH as a fundamental physical factor in the same sense that
matter and energy so present themselves.
172.-Possibilities of the future never fully known.
The first man in prehistoric times who succeeded in firmly
fixing a stone into the fork of a small branch from a tree, and
so evolved a more powerful weapon for attack and defence
than man had ever before seen, was no doubt considered by
his contemporaries as a man of wonderful intelligence.
The man who first made a fish-hook out of a piece of flint
was most certainly a gifted man; and his contemporaries
must have considered that he had about reached the limit of
human ingenuity.
At all periods in history men have estimated acquired
knowledge in the same relative manner as we do to-day.
z6z MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
Future generations will be able to point out the errors of
to-day. There is abundant evidence in the previous pages
that present day conceptions regarding the relations between
mind, matter and energy are not consistent with known facts.
There are heaps that require removing and gaps that have
to be filled in. We may, in some directions, see possibilities
of further achievement ; but what is possible to the future
can never be fully known. No man, however gifted, could
by reason have foreseen many of the achievements we are
familiar with to-day, and the same position is present now
as it has been in every age. The future holds possibilities
that man cannot anticipate.
You, my reader, are intelligent, or you would not be
reading these lines. You have mind; but if you have
sufficient "intellectual grip," you are quite sure that you
do not know what mind is-in exactly the same sense as that
conveyed by the statement that no man knows what matter
or what energy is. You think ; and you know quite well
that you do not know how you think, any more than a tree
knows how it grows, or a piece of iron knows how it rusts.
You know that you are conscious ; but you can only infey
that other people about you are conscious; you may also
infer from its behaviour that a dog or any other animal is
conscious. But your inferences regarding the presence of
consciousness in other people, or in other things or animals,
are based solely on their behaviour. If they were perfectly
motionless you could not infer that they were conscious-for
consciousness can only exhibit itself as movement ; yet it
may be acutely present and have movement that cannot be
perceived by our senses. Man has no attribute that is not
shared by lower animals. Kings have fought for supremacy
and power over the people they led ; the males in herds of
animals will fight to the death for supremacy and power over
the herd they lead. The ultimate nature of the impulse is
the same in both cases. Male animals will plume and preen
themselves at mating time to attract the attention of
females; just as the human male tries to show himseli to
the best advantage.
\fiND, MATTER AND ENERGY 263
173.-We cannot place a limit to consciousness.
If you try, by considering and studying the behaviour of
low and still lower forms of animate and sub-animate exis-
tences, to determine how deep in nature consciousness
extends, you will soon discover that you cannot place a
limit to consciousness. You will get to a point in your
observations where animate things and sub-animate things ·
behave exactly alike in exhibiting their consciousness of the
nature of the immediate conditions surrounding them (40);
and your final conclusion should be that consciousness
extends to everything in nature, animate and sub-animate;
that consciousness and mind are expressions of the same
ultimate factor-universal mind-and that everything which
applies to mind equally and of necessity applies to conscious-
ness. We· may be allowed, with as near an approach to
ultimate truth as is possible to human mind and so far as the
inadequacy of language will permit, to define the term
" mind " in terms inclicating :
that tlltimate inteUigent energy which is associated with all
movement, in simultaneous, continuous mutual actions; and
which is perpetuaUy changing in character andenergy ofmove-
ment, by the perpetual transformations occurring in correla-
tion with its coeval and inseparable associates--matter and
energy.
174.-Erroneous conceptions regarding mind.
It is commonly believed by many that mind is a " mere
function of one part of the body, i.e., the brain " (Schopen-
hauer). This is utterly and fundamentally wrong. It is
the body that is a " mere function " of mind. It is mind
that expresses itself in the movements we term living {II).
The body is an effect of mind ; an effect of that organic mind
which initiates and controls its evolution. The body is
ephemeral ; it dies ; it passes out of co-operative existence ;
but the minds of the fundamental elements that animated it
live on ; they cannot die.
Of those who think that mind is but a function of one part
of the body-the brain-we would ask : " What of the mind
which animates every part of the body the-organic mind,
upon which every difiering structure and function of the
264 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
body, including conscious mind, and the very brain itseH,
depends, and whose activities initiate all animate movements
in nature ?"
Many are still of the opinion that mind is a metaphysical
something, a special creation peculiar to man and quite apart
in its basic nature to his physical system-as Kant taught.
But this Kantian conception is shown to lack any founda-
tion in fact or reason, if we attempt to determine when,
where or how this immaterial metaphysical something be-
comes associated with the material and physical body.
A child shows not the slightest evidence of conscious mind
when it is born ; we cannot therefore conclude that indi-
vidual consciousness entered the child before it was born
(30). What is definitely certain is that we can see the
evidences of the evolution of individual conscious mind in
the developing child ; we see it grow from zero to a full con-
sciousness of itself as apart from its environment. This
consciousness evolves from the activities of organic mind,
which has greater energy at the time of birth than at any
subsequent period in the life history of the individual. At
no period in after life does the body double its weight so
rapidly as at the first time after birth. It has then a most
vigorous organic mind-but so has a kitten or a cabbage
(6o). Kant, the great man in futile metaphysics, had no
conception of such a thing as organic mind-that mysterious
intelligence and consciousness within us, of which our con-
scious minds remain for ever unconscious, which keeps our
complex mechanism going, and in perfect order, whilst our
conscious mind sleeps, and does all those subtle things within
us also when we are awake, because our conscious mind is
incapable of understanding how to do them, and cannot be
taught to understand, because they are beyond the capacity
of the comprehension of human mind.
How futile it must always be for man to attempt to
understand the mystery of that control of organic mind
over matter and energy which keeps the human body at a
constant temperature of about 98.6° Fah. ; which causes an
increase in the production of heat when the weather is cold,
and lessens the production when the weather is warm I
Watching the development of the child.. we see by the
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 265
evidences of its behaviour that its conscious mind slowly
evolves by the repeated influences of the external world
upon its perceptive senses; see it evolving hand in hand
with physical development in such a manner that the con-
clusion is unavoidable that conscious mind is connected
genetically with the physical system through the medium
of organic mind (97).
We can easily understand, from the evidence we have
already presented, in regard to the continuity of mind (61),
its activities as a mode of energy (73), its coeval existence
and inseparable union with matter and energy (77), and the
similar behaviour of atoms, molecules and micro-organisms
under similar conditions, why students in various directions
have arrived at a " dead end " where all further progress was
blocked, because of an inability to co-ordinate results, and
to grasp what gave Verworn cause to inquire, " Do we ask our
questions of nature aright?" (67), why Spillman, speaking
of students of heredity says, they are "like men lost in a
wilderness, seeking to find a road"; why psychologists find a
difficulty in defining the foundations of their science because
they cannot define it in terms of consciousness (41) ; and
why investigators in physiology, when they reach the
phenomena of " regulation " in an organism, ask, as one
writer (Jennings) does: "How does it know what to do?"
It is quite evident to observers that the organism knows
what to do, whether it be producing more heat, when ex-
posed to cold, or more red blood cells, when it climbs a
mountain ; whether it be a worm growing a new head to
replace one that has been cut off, or a crab growing a new
claw. And the neglect of, or the inability to recognise, a
very evident and sufficient reason or cause in this connection
is but one more remarkable instance of the curious slowness
or reluctance that man has so often shown to perceive and
accept that which afterwards appears to be an easy and
self-evident solution of a problem. For if an animal
evidences in" regulation'' that it knows what to do-and
it jsquite evident that it does so-it must haveintelligence in
order to be able to know. All processes in" regulation" are
simply activities of the organic mind in the organism ;
activities of a phase of mind which is beyond the range of
266 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
conscious mind, although it may have a consciousness of its
own, just as our eyes have a consciousness of which our ears
are unconsciOus, and our ears have a consciousness of which
our eyes are unconscious. An organ has an organic mind,
and it knows just as we know-because it has intelligence ;
because everything that exists must have intelligence, i.e.,
mind, to meet the necessities of its conditions of existence
(24, 25).
Up to the present day practically all scientific thought
andinvestigationhave beenbased upon theerroneous assump-
tion that phenomena of mind and physical phenomena of
matter and energy are quite distinct and separate things.
All co-ordinations of physical phenomena have excluded
mind as not being an essential and fundamental factor.
From this error arises the totally unwarranted limitation of
the facu1ty of perception to man and animals, the faculty of
reason to man, and the conception of mind as a compara-
tively recent addition to life.
The conception of life as a thing and its activities as
preceding and evolving mind has a most confusing and
baulking effect. Persons who would at once see the incon-
gruity of speaking of the origin of crawling, walking, flying
or swimming, see no incongruity in speaking of the origin
of life. Yet all living activities, the sum of which constitute
that which we term~~ life," are just as tru1y functions of some
dominant factor in the organism as are 11
walking" and
" swimming." And that dominant factor is mind. Mind
expresses itseH through the medium of matter and of energy
and in all the activities we term life-crawling, walking,
thinking, flying, and so on. .
This is not a mere quibbling about terms, for it involves
a profound fundamental difference in our conceptions of the
ultimate nature of mind. The structures of things animate
or sub-animate do not provide a basis for the origin or the
evolution of mind ; they are only mediums for its expression.
For activities of mind evolve·all physical structures, animate
and sub-animate. Every atom of matter has at least one
mode of perception; it perceives, therefore it has mind;
and this is of sufficient intelligence for the necessities of its
existence; the activities of the lowly yet immortal minds in
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 267
atoms are the fundamental causes of all activities in nature,
mental and physical, animate and sub-animate.
175.-Theories regarding matter ; Berkeley ; Leibnitz ;
Boscovich.
Bishop Berkeley's hypothesis regarding the constitution of
matter commences with : •• Matter apart from perception has
no existence.'' Our postulates involve the converse of this--
perception apart from matter has no existence.
The hypothesis of Leibnitz endows matter with u uncon-
cious perceptions ... and with something ofthe nature ofdesire
and sentiment." But the expression " unconscious percep-
tions " is a contradiction in terms, for the act of perceiving
involves the presence of consciousness. We can neither
be conscious without perceiving, nor perceive without being
conscious. Leibnitz·here exhibits that universal narrow and
arbitrary assumption that the condition of consciousness is
limited to the impressions that are evolved from the five
senses of man and the higher animals-as though no other
senses of perception or consciousness existed, or were neces-
sary, in the infinite variety of activities in nature that go
beyond the range of human comprehension.
Boscovich's hypothesis invests matter with ''spheres of
attracttve and repu.lsive force."
These and many other attempts to define matter show
clearly how man has ever perceived in matter something of
essentially the same nature as intelligence or mind ; and how
curiously and unnecessarily reluctant-or incapable-he has
been to co-ordinate this intelligence with the other evidences
of the operations of mind in nature, and thus to demonstrate
the existence of a universal mind or entity pervading all
presentations. If matter has spheres of attractive and repul-
siveforces, these spheres must exert a perceptible effect upon
each other, or how could they possibly attract or repel?
176.-Matter may become tired.
Whatever may be the ultimate nature of matter per se,
it is quite evident that as it exists to-day there is a something
in it that is not consistent with the popular conception of it
as being " dead " and inanimate. There is, as a matter of
268 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
fact, a something in its complex structure that perceitJes, a
something that we cannot express in words except by such
terms as sub-animate or sub-organic mind. And we have
but recently acquired a knowledge that this sub-animate
mind in matter may get tired with too much labour, even as
our conscious mind may do. Every experienced barber
has amongst his razors one that takes a keener edge, and
keeps it longer than any of the others. Of course, he makes
the most use of this, and he finds that after a long spell of
duty the razor gradually loses its superior quality ; it be-
comes tired, and will not keep its fine edge as usual. So he
puts it aside for a rest, and after a while it recovers its quality
again. Engineers to-day are much concerned regarding
fatigue in metals. They have found that metals, like human
beings, get tired after prolonged exertion. Many large and
important structures are causing uneasiness in this respect;
testing for fatigue has become necessary, and it has been
found that a metal which has been fatigued with constant
vibration will recover its tone if it is allowed to rest for a
time. This is quite comprehensible when we consider that
the orderly molecular movements in a metal-movements
which are conditioned by its lowly sub-organic wiU or mind
to move in a given manner-are, by the strain put upon its
molecular structure by the load that it carries, bound to
move in the normal ordinary manner in opposition to the
energy of the strain that is put upon them; and an undue
prolongation of this strain gradually impairs the strength
of the molecular mind; its normal structure alters; the
metal weakens and ultimately breaks. Many serious
accidents have resulted from exhausted energy in metal;
particularly by the breaking of exhausted railway carriage
axles, where the strain is the more severe because it changes
from pressure to extension with every revolution of the axle.
177.-Spencer's and Kelvin's definitions of matter include
energy.
Of the many classic attempts to define matter, not one
that is fully satisfactory appears. The two most notable of
modem definitions-those of Spencer and Kelvin-inchule
energy. Spencer's hypothesis includes the following expres-
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 269
sion : " .... elementary atoms identical in nature and diffw-
ing only in position, arrangement and motion.''
Kelvin's hypothesis runs : " The rotary parts of an inert,
perfect fluid, whose motion is absolutely continuous, which
fills aU space, but which is, when not rotating, absolutely unper-
ceived by our senses."
This hypothesis of Kelvin clearly indicates that matter is
energy, and that energy is matter; for if the rotation-that
is, the movement of energy-ceases, matter also ceases to
exist ; the matter and the energy both disappear from exis-
tence-so far as man is concerned.
The phenomena in radio-activity have practically demon-
strated that matter and energy are inseparable and corre-
lated; matter may radiate away as energy, energy may be
congealed into matter (167). Wherever there is energy
there is matter ; wherever there is matter there is energy.
We demonstrated in our fourth chapter that mind is a mode
of energy associated and correlated with the ordinary physi-
cal energies. Every time we sit down to eat the " fuel "
which keeps our mental and physical energies going we
demonstrate that matter and energy are transformable into
mind--conscious mind and organic mind. Every time we
will to and execute any physical movement we demonstrate
that conscious mind is transformable into orcl.mary physical
energy; and every beat of our hearts transforms organic
mind into physical energy. Thus we see that mind, matter
and energy are not only coeval and inseparable, they are
also correlated; and this opens up possibilities of achieve-
ments to the human race of a nature far in advance of any-
thing that man has yet conceived. And we venture to
predict that when science shall have given two thousand
years to the study and development of the possibilities in
the energy of mind- such years as it has given to the study
and development of electric energy-results will have been
attained such as we cannot to-day even imagine. And some
of these results will probably evolve from some yet unknown
methods of controlling and determining hereditary influences
through the continuity between conscious and organic mind
{zoo).
270 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
178.-The origin of life~· Butler~· Heeckel; Fechner;
Bergson.
Samuel Butler's statement, that there is " no mind UJi.thout
matter, no matter without mind," may, in the light of recent
knowledge, be extended to--no mind without matter and
energy, no matter and energy without mind. Hreckel's
conviction that there is " no substance without sensation and
force," and Fechner's accordance of consciousness to the
entire universe and everything in it (3), reveal true concep-
tions regarding the immediate nature of natural pheno-
mena.
We can now easily understand why all attempts to
discover the origin of life subsequent to the existence of
matter and energy, and all speculations regarding the first
appearance of life on earth, are absolutely futile. For life
or living activities are but expressions of mind (174). To
discover the origin of life, involves the discovery of the
origin of mind, matter and energy ; this brings the problem
practically to an explanation of a first cause-a task beyond
the grasp of human mind. The sum of 'all the labour in
science and philosophy, from prehistoric man to the present
day, may be stated and limited by the fo!Jowing sentence :
There are three coeval, inseparable and correlated factors in
existence-mind, matter and energy ; and all phenomena in
nature are due to perpetual mutual actions and transforma-
tions of varying values of these three factors.
The problem of the origin of living activities-" life"-
has attracted the attention of the thoughtful and philosophic
mind in all ages ; but no fully satisfying theory or explana-
tion has ever been arrived at, for the simple reason that all
conceptions of its basic nature have been erroneous.
For thousands of years the belief was generally held that
" pneuma " or spirits were the cause of life. These pneuma
were conceived as being matter in an extremely tenuous con-
dition, which permeated the body and directed its living acti-
vities. About two hundred years ago the doctrine of" vita-
lism " became prominent-a hypothesis that all living
activities are manifestations of a specific energy, differing
from ordinary energies and peculiar to living things. This
belief is still strongly held by a large section of students,
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 271
amongst whom is Bergson, who in his Creative Evolution
refers the activities of life to what he terms an" elan vital."
But all conceptions regarding the ultimate nature of
" life" or living activities, no matter what terms are invented
to express them, are inadequate if they are confined to the
movements of what we arbitrarily term living things. For
the movements of the animate cannot be differentiated from
the activities of the sub-animate. Any true conception of
the essential nature of living activities, or of life, must be
capable of reconciliation with the fact that we cannot
differentiate between movement and mind (37); the fact as
stated by Rutherford that atoms, being the most funda-
mental things presented to us, must carry their properties
with them into all more complicated structures (3) ; and
with the fact that the first particles of matter which came
into existence must have had the same fundamental structure
as living things of to-day-were organised particles of mind,
matter and energy; they perceived, therefore had mind.
And having mind, they must have had some lowly phase of
sub-organic life {III}. Our postulate, that mind, matter
and energy are three coeval, inseparable and correlated
factors in the evolution of all presentations in nature-
meets all these varied requirements.
Bergson has been extremely popular with a certain section
of the public, and for that reason we have mentioned his
''elan vital." The very title of Bergson's Creative Evolution
is a subtle phrase that vastly pleases some people, because
Bergson is supposed to have deeper and truer ideas of evolu-
tion than Darwin had. But all evolution is creative, the
converse is devolution. The difference between the ~· pneu-
ma" of the ancients and Bergson's" elan vital" is really
only a matter of terms. The ancients did not know exactly
what ti!ey meant by " pneu~a." Bergson evidently does
not know-or anyone else for that matter-exactly what he
means by the term'' elan vital.'' There are passages in this
work of which not even Bergson himself could give a
rational interpretation. They would disgrace any of the
lesser lights in ancient philosophy. His philosophy is retro-
gressive, not progressive.
The great advances made in modern times in physics and
272 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
in biochemistry are to-day constantly disclosing the weak-
ness of the conception of " vitalism " or of " elan vital," as
covering the phenomena of living activities; and investiga-
tors in growing numbers are now turning their attention to
chemical and physical phenomena, in which they are begin-
ning to recognise attributes of life ; and with this new
departure we are getting nearer the truth. It is an easy
step from the movements we term animate down to the
movements of the sub-animate ; easy to comprehend that
the movements we term animate are essentially the same,
and are evolved from activities of the same three basic
factors as all the other forms of movement which have been
termed inanimate, but which we prefer to term sub-animate.
But here is the wonder of it. In all the maze of specula-
tions regarding the origin of living activities, there is no hint
whatever of the possibility of mind being the potential basic
factor I Good reason indeed, had Verworn to inquire :
" Do we ask our questions ofnature aright ?" And well might
Spillman describe students of heredity as being " like men
lost in a wilderness seeking to find a road " (67).
179.-Matter neither lifeless nor inerl.
Man's extreme slowness in extending the limits of know-
ledge is largely due to the use of terms which merely cover
ignorance; terms within whose arbitrary boundaries of
meaning men have always tended to restrict phenomena that
are continuous and have no boundary. Matter, for instance,
is termed lifeless and inert. But every atom of matter has
activities of a relative and perpetual intensity beyond our
comprehension; every possible system, from the atom
upwards, is the arena of perpetual change and movement.
And beyond the perpetual movement of the atom as a
whole-movement compared with which a bullet shot from a
rifle only crawls along-it is internally a scene of the most
intense activity and energy ; its electrons are revolving
about each other with an animation compared with which
our own bodily movements, our living activities, are com-
paratively dead. So that matter, instead of being dead, has
an intensely vivid and perpetual energy of movement, a
vitality with not an attribute of deadness about it.
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 273
All the countless millions of atoms of matter in your body,
my dear reader, possess this marvellous vitality. They
possessed it millions of years before you came into existence ;
they will still possess it millions of years after you cease to
exist. The properties of the atom are as enduring as the
atom itself. All animate things are built up or evolved
from and owe all their energies, mental and physical, to the
eternal energy in so-called lifeless matter.
Ask any person if a piece of iron is living or dead matter,
and he will answer" dead matter," with perfect confidence
that, in the popular meaning of the words, he is quite
correct. But the term living is comparative ; a man lives,
so does a fish, a micro-organism, or a blade of grass ; and it
cannot be determined where life ends. Is it not going
beyond actual knowledge to say that anything is dead, when
it cannot be determined what is living? (6r). Dead is
absolute; but nothing exists that does not show evidence
of animation. There is iron in your blood ; your very life
depends upon the specific activities in the atoms of that
iron. Can that iron, then, be dead?
The "radium clock" ingeniously constructed by Strutt
(138) with a motive power of only thirty milligrams of radium
bromide-less than the weight of half a drop of water-
radiates sufficient energy to keep the "clock" going for
more than two thousand years I Is it reasonable to con-
\ sider that particle of radium bromide dead matter?
In modern science we have ·accumulating evidence that
there is a dim but widening comprehension of the truth,
that nothing can be absolutely dead. Thus Benjamin
Moore, in his" Origin and Nature of Life," remarks: '
" The atom is really characterised by the amount ofenergy
it contains, and it is not to be looked upo1J as a dead mass
withfixed motionless structure."
What we have stated in regard to iron applies equally to
every elementary atom that is necessary to living activities ;
to every physical element in every physical structure. The
chemist of to-day builds up substances having properties
which we term animate (64) from elements having the
simpler activities and functions which we term sub-animate.
He transforms the sub-organic into the organic simply by
s
274 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
adding to complexity of structure. Every step upwards that
the chemist achieves in complexity of structure in sub-
organic compounds is an approach to that complexity of
structure and consequent complexity of function that
constitutes animation in living things. Every step in this
process is continuous with the one below and with the other
above it. The chemist to-day is really manufacturing ani-
mate substances (64) ; but he does not create life, for that
already exists in all the things he manipulates. The city
of Rochester, in the State of New York, acting upon the
generally accepted fact that goitre is largely due to a lack of
iodine in the system, is adding one part of a solution of
sodium iodide to every fifty millions of the public water
supply, in order to reduce a prevalence of goitre-a disease
of the thyroid-that is troubling the city. To water is being
added a more animate function.
The cumulative effects of the varied specific properties of
atoms, as they gradually evolve into more and still more
complex molecules, thus building up batteries of atoms in
seried connection (just as we build up a battery of electric
cells in seried connection by adding cell to cell (118), each
addition giving increased electric energy), ultimately fur-
nishes or evolves the mind in all individual structures, sub-
animate or animate. The practical truth of this conception
is demonstrated when the biochemist builds up the large
complex molecules containing thousands of atoms which
constitute the substance thyroxin, which has the potential
energies and functions of a living substance that is essential
to the individual existence of man.
Those modem investigators, who have turned their
attention to chemical and physical phenomena as involving
the genesis of individual living things, must ultimately come
to see that the difference between objective living activities
in the individual, which become less and less evident to our
senses as we descend in the scale of structure, till they merge
into the imperceptible in the sub-organic, the activities of
sub-organic radiations, and the mutual actions between
elements or substances, is simply one of difference in mode or
complexity of movement-not one of difference in essential
nature. And that the radio-activities of an element, the
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 275
translation of energy into matter in a vacuum tube (167), an
osmotic growth, a mutual action in a test tube, the develop-
ment of a crystal, the movements of a micro-organism, a
growing plant, or those of a higher animal, are all modes of
living activity, of varied intensity, quality or range, initiated
and controlled by universal mind, conditioned solely by
differences in complexity of structures of atoms, which are
the fundamental units of all presentations in nature.
r8o.-Changing the environment of atoms cannot alter their
properties.
There are sixteen or more different kinds of atoms known
to be always present in the human body. But how can it be
possible for these atoms of matter, which are unchangeable in
their properties and functions and which constitute our whole
being, to be dead matter outside of the body, and vividly
living matter when structured into an individual ? Changing
the environment of atoms cannot alter their properties,
cannot make them living if they are dead ! If a structure is
built up of dead matter, it cannot be a living structure, any
more than a house built of wood can be a marble structure.
If atoms had no mind energy or life, it would not signify how
many billions were aggregated together in any structure,
there could lie no mind or life in that structure. There is
something beyond environment ; and that something is the
innate and primal life in the atom itself-sub-animate life-
universal and imn;
10rtallife; and the sum of the sub-animate
life in the many millions of complex molecular structures of
atoms that build up the animate constitutes the life of the
individual, mental and physical, from the individual mole-
cule to the individual bacterium; from grass to man; from
protozoon to whale.
The deeper we penetrate into the immediate nature of any
phenomena presented to us, the more obvious it becomes that
the three factors, mind, matter and energy, are inseparable
and continuous under the existing order of nature. At the
depth of the electrons we are doubtful what of energy and
what of matter we are dealing with. In pathology we have
presentations so illusive-in hormones and in opsonins, for
instance-that we are doubtful whether or not we should
276 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
term them animate or sub-animate matter. And in nutri-
tion, having got down to vitamins, we appear to have got
down to the molecules that merge the sub-ani.
mate into the
animate.
181.-Changing order of Nature.
The expression " existing order of nature " in the above
paragraph should not be understood as meaning conditions
of existence which are stationary, or that have remained
unaltered for any period of time; for such conditions are
impossible. The order of nature is unceasingly altering, but
so inconceivably slowly that one is led to think and speak of
"the existing order" as though it had stability in time. The
air we breathe seems the same to us year after year ; yet
it is slowly congealing into solids under the influence of
lessening energy environment. The atmosphere was far
more extensive in space before the coal period than it is
to-day. The extraction of nitrogen from the air for com-
mercial purposes and the oxidation of iron and other ele-
ments are hastening the day when the air will not support
animate life as we now know it.
182.-The most attimate atoms enter into animate structures.
In the evolution of the animate from the sub-animate the
most versatile and energetic of the sub-animate elements
would, as a matter of course, play the leading parts.
Structures having notable and continuous energetic
activities, such as are associated with the animate. could
not evolve from atoms with restricted perceptions, and
consequent low range of activities. They must-and they
do-naturally evolve from those atoms having large range
or intensity of perceptions (rzo), and consequent large range
and intensity of activities.
The activities of the animate individual are the activities of
the atoms of which it is structured. Every mode of energy.
every mode of activity or function the atom possesses outside
of the living organism are available to the necessities of that
living organism when within it. But only such activities as
are necessary to the nom1al activities within the organism
are called into action; and then only just to the extent
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 277
necessary to its well being. The influences of the other
various atoms in the molecular combinations in the im-
mediate environment prevent any degree of activity that is
injurious coming into play-except under abnormal con-
ditions in disease.
For instance, the atoms hydrogen, oxygen and sulphur
are not called upon to form sulphuric acid ; nor are the
atoms potassium, carbon and nitrogen allowed to form potas-
sium cyanide. Hydrogen and chlorine are called upon to a
limited extent to furnish the hydrochloric acid present in the
gastric secretions-and so on.
During the millions of years that animate life has been
evolving from the sub-animate any animate structure in the
process of evolution which evolved inimical combinations
would consequently cease to exist ; and only such structures
which evolved what we may term" normal" mutual actions
would survive. The molecules of atoms in the food we
eat are naturally free from toxic combinations, and this
freedom continues in the re-assemblage of molecules pre-
sented for assimilation.
The atoms of potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium
carry with them into the organism their unusual capacity
for intense activity; they are all metallic atoms, and their
intense activities in chemical reactions outside the body are
with elements that are present in the living tissues.
Thus, their unusual energies are available for living func-
tions to the extent that such animate functions may demand.
Animals-men included-are but atoms in bulk, and the
animation of the animal is but the cumulative effect of the
atoms of which that bulkis structured.
183.--Continuous evolution and devol11-tion of animate life.
We have demonstrated in Chapter V that mind is a mode
of energy ; in Chapter VI that conscious mind is continuous
with organic mind ; in Chapter VII that organic mind is
continuous with atomic mind ; that there is no break in this
continuity a~d that it is essential to any reasonable con-
ception of evolution. Thus we are led to a relatively easy
conception of the transformation of the sub-animate life in
the atom into the animate life of the individual.
278 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
Throughout all phenomena in nature there is a perfectly
continuous scale of activity, from the most simple and feeble
to the most complex and energetic ; we term the higher
phases of activity" living or animate"; the lower phases
"sub-animate" or "dead." But these tenns are only
arbitrary ; there is no essential basic difference between the
two. The sub-animate is continuously evolving into the
animate, and the animate is continuously devolving back
again into the sub-animate. For millions of years countless
millions ot living things have every day evolved from the
sub-animate ; and every day countless millions of animate
beings have devolved back again into the sub-animate.
184.-Atoms and electrons.
The latest achievements in science have determined that
the units of which atoms of matter are structured-electrons
-are the smallest fundamental and indivisible units
which buildup the universe ; but, as Rutherford remarks:-
" We may reserve in our mind the possibility that furlheT
inquiry may some day show that these units are complex and
divisible into even more fundamental entities."
Yet again the electron may be the structural unit of the
inseparable trinity of mind, matter and energy, and thus
impossible to be further divided under the existing order of
nature.
That electrons have mind is determined by their " be-
haviour," and by behaviour alone can we determine activity
of mind (41). Our very limited consciousness is useless for
the determination of mind function, for we have abundant
evidence that operations of mind extend far beyond the
popular sense of what is included in the word consciousness.
For we may fairly assume some phase of consciousness to be
present wherever behaviour indicates perceptive function.
In an atom the electrons move in regular balanced orbits
about a central dominant electron; their behaviour in-
dicates that they have perception for position relative to each
other and to the dominant centre ; and such faculties of
perception are undoubtedly faculties of mind, for nothing
can perceive unless it has m.ind to perceive. Electrons have
MIND, MATTER AND ENERGY 279
units of perception; perceptions are the functional units of
man's conscious mind.
All activities of mind, however simple or complex, are
evidenced by perceptions, as we demonstrated in our second
chapter. These evidences in things sub-animate are referred
to in various terms, i.e., attraction, repulsion, affinity; but
these are merely terms that cover our ignorance of the basic
nature of the phenomena indicated. Electrons could not
perceive anything unless they had mind to perceive; nor
could man perceive anything unless he had mind to perceive;
and mind must be universally limited in any individual
thing or individual to the range of perceptions in that thing
or individual. In the atom it is comparatively small,
because its range of perception is small; in man, it is wider,
because his range of perceptions is wider. But all mind is
essentially the same in all things, animate or sub-animate-
just as all kinds of matter and all modes of energy are every-
where essentially the same.
CHAPTER XI
MEMORY, SLEEP, DREAMS
185.-Memory not an intellectual JacuUy. Buxton; Blind
Tom; Inandi.
We obtain further evidence of the truth of our conclusions
by a study of the phenomena of mind in connection with
memory, sleep and dreams.
Memory cannot be regarded as an intellectual faculty,
without an undue extension of the sense of that term as
popularly used. Mind has an infinity of phases or modes,
which, although continuous with each other, are distinct in
quality of effect. Just as with cool, warm, hot, in tempera-
ture; the varying velocities in movement; varying in-
tensities and qualities of sound; and the varying effects of
electric energy.
Memory is the mind function which simply reproduces
previous mental impressions of all kinds. Intellectual
faculties originate abstract mental impressions. Dogs,
horses and other animals have very good memories; but we
do not consider them" intellectual," although we may admit
that they have some modicum of reason. If memory were
an intellectual faculty, what intellectual beings some animals
would be I
A person may have a good memory, yet be below the
average in intellectual ability; or have a bad memory and
be above the average intellectually. Yet this does not
nullify the great advantage that a good memory gives to a
man of intellect; it enables him to make a fuller practical
use of that intellect than he could have achieved with but a
poor memory. And, on the other hand, a good memory
enables many a man with an inferior intellect to pass scholas-
tic examinations with greater credit than his betters, and
gives us too many " professors " with insufficient ability
for the position they occupy in our educational institutions.
aSo
MEMORY, SLEEP, DREAMS
There are many recorded instances of remarkable
memories-particularly for figures, and for music-arith-
metical prodigies and musical prodigies. Buxton, for
instance, for figures; "Blind Tom" for music; but with no
corresponding development in intellectual faculties. A
genius, having an extraordinary memory in one particular
direction as the basis of that genius, may be below the
average in general intelligence.
These facts indicate that memory is a function of organic,
not of conscious, mind. ]acques Inandi, the most recent
calculating genius, stated that figures came to his mind as a
matter of course-he made no effort. That reminds one of
the fact so commonly known as a matter of personal ex-
perience. We sometimes cannot think of a word or of a
name that is quite familiar to us. No conscious effort to
remember will bring to our consciousness that word or name.
But whilst we are thinking of something else some time
afterwards, and have for the time quite forgotten our effort
to remember, the word or name flashes unsought into our
consciousness without effort--we remember. This well-
known fact has a most important and profound bearing
upon the immediate nature of organic mind. It demonstrates
that within the brain there are continuous movements of which
we are quite unconscious that represent mental concepts, and
that we only become conscious of them when they intrude into
the part of the brain which functions the immediate conscious-
ness.
186.-All our five senses subject to memory impressions.
One particular fact regarding Inandi is that he had a
remarkable aural memory. He informed a commission of
the Academy of Sciences of France that when he tried to
recall to memory a series of numbers that had been given
him as a problem he heard them repeated aloud in the tones of
his own voice, and that he could hear them for the greater
part of the day. Yet Inandi at that time was unable to
read or write. This remarkable aural memory has an ex-
treme significance when we consider such " visions " as
those of the Berlin bookseller (239). Both aural memories
and visual memories must be evolved from similar modes of
282 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
molecular movements to those that evolved the original
perception ; and if, in Inandi, aural vibrations could be
reproduced by memory " aloud in the tones of his own
voice,'' th.
ere can be no reason to doubt that visual memories
may also arise sufficiently distinct as to take the form of
actual experiences. When Inandi made his statement he
could not possibly have known that it might possibly be co-
ordinated with the subjective visual memory impressions
which evolve the apparitions or ghosts seen by visionaries.
One single genuine instance of a subjective memory percep-
tion by any one of our five senses most certainly indicates
that each one of our five senses may be subject to such il-
lusive impressions. We may see (?) the ghost of a dead
person; hear (?) a person speak who is dead or a hundred
miles away; taste(?) a something that is not in the mouth;
smell (?) a something that is not in the air; or feel (?) a
something that is nowhere near us. And, as a matter of
fact, all kinds of such sense memory impressions come
directly or indirectly within the experience of nearly every
person. Most persons have felt a sensation of heat or cold
on some part of the body when they well knew that neither
heat nor cold were really there. Such illusive impressions
are organic memories of the sense of feeling. Illusive im-
pressions of smelling and tasting are quite common; illusive
impressions of sight and hearing are more rare.
All such perceptions are memories of organic mind. In
some manner which we cannot determine, the molecular
movements in the organs of perception take the same
character that condition normal objective perceptions (x8) ;
and when these movements reach the area of consciousness
in the brain by means of the sensory nerves they appear to
our consciousness as real objective impressions, although
they are but organic memories.
Such memories play strange freaks.
Hoffman said: "When I compose, I sit down to the piaM,
shut my eyes, and play what I hear.''
Mozart stated that his compositions came" involuntarily,
like dreams." ·
Goethe stated that his "Werther" was written "som~­
wluU unconsciously like a sleep UJalker."
MEMORY, SLEEP, DREAMS
Tartini dreamt that the devil took up his violin and played
a sonata. He wrote it out from memory when he awoke.
It is known to-day as" The Devil's Sonata."
187.-!rfem01'y aJunction oforganic mind.
The connection of such instances with memory becomes
evident when we consider that every organic mind impression
that merges into conscious mind when we are asleep or when
we are awake is a memory or a structure of memories of
previous actual impressions upon our senses (30).
We have seen that a perception is a mode of motion (r8),
that movement is inseparable from mind (r6), that mind is a
mode of energy, and must therefore have movement (77),
and that molecules of substances are incessantly in iii-
conceivably rapid movement. The neurones of the brain
that constitute the physical basis of the transformation of
organic mind movements into conscious mind movements
are structured of elementary molecules that are in unceasing
movement in an infinity of directions in forms or patterns of
movement exceedingly complex, but every instant changing.
Every differing movement gives a differing mental concept,
and every differing sequence in movement gives a differing
sequence in thought.
These two movements from differing sources constitute
our actual consciousness when awake. And the more
concentrated is our consciousness upon the direct organic
movements from our sense organs the less we perceive of the
intrusive organic memory impressions. But when we sleep,
and the direct movements from our sensory organs are almost
entirely inhibited, then organic memory impressions exert
an almost complete influence, and we have, uncontrolled by
conscious intelligence, those confused and disconnected
organic mind memory impressions which we term dreams.
Differing combinations of electric magnetic movements
give us a consciousness of the infinite variety in all that we
see ; differing air movements give us the consciousness of
the infinite variations in all that we hear (29) ; all of cons-
cious mind in man is built up from the impressions he has
received from the differing organic movements of his five
senses of perception (30), and must therefore be builtup from
284 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
movements ; and it is a very pertinent fact that the two
senses from which man's intelligence is almost exclusively
evolved-the senses of sight and hearing-are so easily and
conclusively referred to, and co-ordinated with, phases of
physical movement external to the organism.
x88.-Infinite variations ofmovement: effect of heat.
In the structure of the smallest particle of matter visible
to the eye there are many millions of atoms, and the varied
forms and patterns of movement possible to the millions of
cells in the brain, structured as they are of an infinite variety
of molecules built up from sixteen or more differing atoms,
must be infinite in number and extend far beyond the
possible perceptible variations of states of consciousness.
There are other factors than mere numbers of elementary
molecules that give possibilities to variation of movement
Although the average temperature of the human body, as a
whole, may be about 98.6° Fah., yet the phenomena of heat
in chemical reactions indicate that within any animate
organism there must be always some areas where the mutual
actions which are both the cause and effect of mind pre-
sentations involve alterations in local temperature not
registered by the thermometer, which must cause alteration
in mutual actions. These local variations will give asso-
ciated varying organic mind movements. Directing
conscious attention to any part of the body will cause some
alteration of organic mind function in that part ; and any
alteration in function must be associated with some change
in temperature, just as any change in temperature involves a
change in structure (142).
· Not all the heat added to a substance is utilised in adding
to the temperature of that substance. Some may be
transformed into differences of movement of its molecules
in relation to each other-" wobble energy " ; some may be
transformed into " spin energy." These transformations
of heat into molecular movement are well known to the
modern physicist. There is a change in mutual action,
adjustments of movements, and consequent change in mind
presentation, in every substance with every variation in
temperature.
MEMORY, SLEEP, DREAMS
Water, as we have already noted, absorbs more of heat
which does not raise its temperature than any other sub-
stance (244) ; this heat, therefore, must be transformed into
differing molecular movements in animate beings with every
slightest variation in temperature. Thus we get delirium,
or abnormal activity in the movements which condition
consciousness, with blood temperature a few degrees above
normal. This large capacity for what is termed " specific
heat u is not a coincidence in relation to the large percentage
of water in living things ; it is a fundamental necessity to
their animate movements.
Such a wide latitude for change is possible in the character
of the movements of the molecules that structure the brain
that if an individual could perceive a differing mental
presentation every second of time, from the moment he
commenced individual existence until he died-even though
he lived a hundred years-the number of possible differing
presentations would be far from being exhausted. Hence
the apparently limitless variety in forms of thought and
mental character, and the infinite variety-fantastic,
weird, and otherwise-of the presentations of organic mind
impressions in dreams.
Differences of molecular movement in the brain neurones,
and also in every organic unit in our bodies, with consequent
variation in character of organic and conscious mind, is
demonstrated by the well-known effect of the introduction
of the alcoholic molecule, whose specific character of move-
ment influences the normal movements in the immediate
mutual actions which condition consciousness. The specific
molecular movements in many drugs and substances used
in medicine (71) alte1 the specific movements that condition
the immediate nature of consciousness in many various
ways; and observers are even beginning to acquire a
knowledge of substances which, when introduced into the
system, have a specific influence upon the character of
dreams.
We read of a Dr. Finley, who gave a patient a grain per
day of an extract from a mucous swab, with the effect that,
after a few days, her terrifying dreams gave place to bright
and cheerful ones. Upon' altering the treatment to the
286 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
administration of adrenalin-another glandular secretion-
the dreams changed, and were filled with quarrels. Insulin,
if administered in excess, at once causes feelings of fear to
possess the patient, who trembles and ultimately collapses
with dread.
According to Dr. E. A. Slosson, of Washington, some day,
instead of going to a theatre for excitement or pleasure,
we shall go to a chemist for a shilling's worth of pleasant
dreams, and be able to banish nightmare by merely taking
a synthetic compound manufactured for the purpose. We
may discount such statements as much as we please, but the
solid fact remains that they rest upon a sound basis of easily
demonstrated truths.
189.-Dominance oforganic mind. HOUJ memory comes.
When we are awake we are continuously receiving in the
area of consciousness in the brain direct impressions of the
movements which arise in our organs of perception. But we
are also continuously receiving organic mind movements,
repeating previous direct impressions-memories. These
organic memories are beyond our direct control ; they struc-
ture our dreams when we sleep, they intrude when we are
awake and our conscious mind is engaged with direct
impressions. We may be thinking or speaking, when a
thought of something quite foreign to what is engaging our
attention will be forced upon us by the unceasing urge of
organic mind, which, it seems, never forgets. When we try
to remember something, we are practically calling in the
assistance of organic mind.
Thoughts arise in the brain without conscious effort, but
we may consciously lead organic mind to reproduce thoughts
in any desired direction. This requires couscious effort in the
control. When that effort weakens, vagrant thoughts in-
trude that represent the particular form of molecular move-
ment organic mind may be evolving at the moment in the
brain neurones. This movement is unceasing ; we cannot
stop it ; we may partly control its character by effort of
conscious mind, and the more perfect this control, the better
we are able to concentrate the mind at will upon any subject
-we have a well-trained mind. The power of concentration
MEMORY, SLEEP, DREAMS
is practically the power of conscious mind to call the energy
of organic mind to its assistance, instead of its playing about
outside and interrupting thought with its vagrant activities ;
and, be it noted, we have as yet but a feeble conception of
the range and powers of organic mind (96). We see erratic
evidences of these powers in hypnotism and in psychic
phenomena at seances, when it becomes dominant over the
dimly conscious mind of the medium-just as it is dominant
in our dreams.
When we try to recall something to our memory what
happens may be represented somewhat as follows :-
We may suppose an infinity of definite forms and se-
quences of molecular movements to be incessantly changing
amongst the countless millions of molecules in the infinitely
complex structures of neurones and nerve fibrils that con-
stitute the cortex of the brain. The tendency of these forms
and sequences of movements have all been impressed upon
the molecules by the movements of previous operations of
perceptions; and the more frequently, or the more vividly,
any of these perceptions have been repeated during life,
the greater the ease and the tendency they acquire, by habit,
in recurring back to consciousness, and thus reproducing a
mental picture-a memory-of any perception that was
impressed upon it, days, months or years before ; very much
after the manner of a gramophone : when the needle runs in
the same groove that a previous movement has impressed
upon it days or years before, the groove will faithfully re-
produce the impression-the memory-of every word, note
or sound. And it will do this as often as we please, till the
record becomes imperfect through deterioration ; just as
man may continue to call an incident to memory as often as
he pleases, until memory becomes imperfect through de-
terioration of the cortex of the brain-senile decay.
When we try to remember and cannot, the " needle " of
consciousness is vainly groping about to find the required
record. And as the records cannot cease operating, the
sought for record, sooner or later, by habit comes under the
needle of its own accord, and, like a flash, we remember.
These " habits " of organic mind, when well trained by
such influences of conscious mind as we are able to impress
288 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
upon it during the evolution of the full powers of conscious
mind from childhood to mental maturity, determine the
value of the well-balanced mind during the after years of
full and influential mental activity. Hence the importance
of good early training.
Organic mind apparently never sleeps, never tires, never
ceases its wonderful activities, so long as the organism
remains normal; and sooner or later, if any record that has
once been impressed upon the brain has not become ob-
literated by more recent and vivid impressions, organic mind
will present to conscious mind the movements that record it
as a memory. When we advance in years we may be for
months unable to recall a particular word or name; yet it
will, suddenly and unsought for, be presentedto our con-
sciousness as memory almost as vividly as ever it was.
rgo.-Association of ideas; the t,.aining of o,-ganic mind.
The influence of association of ideas upon the facility of
bringing to consciousness the memory of some temporarily
forgotten word or incident has been known for thousands of
years, and we need but briefi.y refer to it here.
The molecular movements, also the constant changing of
actual structure in the brain neurones, caused by the mutual
actions between them and the blood supplying them with
energy, are constant activities of purely organic mind, just
as the normal beat of the heart, or the secretion of digestive
juices in the stomach, are activities of purely organic mind.
And " habits " of molecular movement throughout all the
varied activities of the individual are acquired by organic
mind. Habits of physical movement in co-ordination are
acquired by the organic mind of voluntary muscles,.so that
when certain movements are commenced in obedience to
conscious mind certain other movements in regular sequence
are sure to follow, controlled by organic mind. Physically,
such necessary co-ordination and sequence in movement is
termed "automatic." We maintain our balance when
walking in an automatic manner, without any conscious
effort. But the young child cannot do this; it has to
patiently and consciously train the organic mind of the
muscles concerned until it can attend to the business of co-
MEMORY, SLEEP, DREAMS
ordination in walking without conscious effort coming to its
assistance.
We see evidence of this training of organic mind quite
definitely in the pianist when any piece of music has been
memorised. It would be difficult for most players to start
anywhere in the middle of a bar at any place in that piece ;
it would require a decided effort of conscious mind ; but
start at the beginning, and the piece is played through
faultlessly, with scarcely a consciousness of the moving
fingers-they move automatically by organic mind influence.
Any one can easily repeat the letters of the alphabet, be-
ginning with " A " ; but very few can repeat them beginning
with" Z," and continue the sequence correctly to" A."
The same thing occurs in the presentations of organic
mind to conscious mind-memories. One thought in-
variably leads to another that has become associated with it
by habit of conscious mind; or, in other words, a certain
fonn of molecular movement, representing a mental concept,
is invariably followed by another particular movement,
which represents another mental concept associated with the
preceding one. This is the physical basis of memory. We
make use of this habit of organic sequential molecular
movement when we try to remember a word. We cons-
ciously start thinking of something we dimly remember to
be associated with that word. The molecular movements
in the brain cells, being brought into that particular move-
ment, then initiate a train of associated movements that
lead to the movements representing the word sought after-
and we remember. This is the basis of memory cultivation
schemes.
191.-Molecular instability ; Verwom ; consciousness in
sleep.
" Every living system alters as long as it exists, although
this alteration is very gradual. The progressive alteration
of the system is such that every state of living substance
conditions another by which it is followed. No state can
permanently exist as such."-Max Verwom.
This constant transition in molecular structure is expressed
physiologically by the term " molecular instability " ;
T
290 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
and this very instability is the essential necessity to all
phases of organic and conscious mind ; it is the reason why
we cannot stop thinking whilst we are awake nor stop
dreaming when we sleep, and the reason why unbidden
thoughts are constantly presenting themselves to our
consciousness.
In sleep the presentations of organic mind continue, but
they are then nearly totally unchecked by the conscious
mind, and thus arises the phantasmagoria of dream concepts.
They are the irresponsible effects of the molecular move-
ments of organic mind in the absence of the steadying in-
fluence of a sufficient consciousness-for even in sleep
absolute unconsciousness is never attained.
When we are awake, sitting quietly, thinking of nothing
definitely or particularly-day dreaming-all sorts of
thoughts will rise unbidden to the mind, sent up by organic
mind. This condition seems to be midway between sleeping
and waking. But even when consciously occupied in earnest
thought upon some definite subject, in some corner of the
brain the unceasing molecular movements of organic mind
will force a thought upon the attention quite foreign to the
subject we were thinking about.
Besides the consta;nt inftuence of the flow of impressions
upon conscious mind, brought to the brain by the complex
network of nerves connecting it with every part of the body,
the changing movement in brain substance is affected by the
function of assimilation. The unceasing flow of the blood
stream carries to the brain an unceasing supply of structural
energy (88) derived from the food we eat. This structural
energy, in mutual action with the brain neurones in the
processes of assimilation, evolves free mind energy, which is
constantly being expended in mental functions and in the
evolution of heat energy, which is radiated away. And as
this assimilation of structural energy by the brain cells
cannot entirely cease, even during the deepest sleep, we can
never be absolutely unconscious, although such absolute
unconsciousness may be induced by the inftuence of drugs,
which temporarily inhibit assimilation. So that within a
brain cell we have unceasing movement and change of
structural substance whilst life exists; a constant stream of
MEMORY, SLEEP, DREAMS
structural energy flows into it, which is in unceasing mutual
action with the elements of the cell ; and the product of this
mutual movement is mind energy, which gives unceasing
presentations of both organic mind and conscious mind,
both when awake and when asleep.
xg2.-Every movement and every thought represented by mole-
ctJar movement.
Every definite and exact muscular movement represents a
definite and exact range and energy of molecular movement ;
and every varied thought or memory just as certainly
represents an equally definite and exact range of molecular
movetnent. For the essential nature of all movements in a
living organism must be the same.
Physical scientists to-day are practically unanimous that
the differences between the various atoms are simply
differences in the number and modes of motion of the elec-
trons that structure them. Properties of atoms thus become
modes of movement. Consequently all substances formed
by combinations of atoms must simply represent differences
in the modes of movement of those atoms. And, naturally,
the more complex the substance, the more complex must be
the movements. An abstract thought must be represented
by the most complex movements of the most complex
substance so far evolved by nature-the substance of the
human brain. But, as we have previously remarked, we
cannot comprehend how these movements can evolve mind
energy, any more than we can comprehend how the mutual
movements of silk and amber upon each other can evolve
electric energy. Every basic fact in nature has a cause
incomprehensible to man (rg).
193.-Necessityfor sleep; consciousness expends energy.
During our waking hours we normally expend on the
average more energy than we evolve. At every instant of
time the immediate energy evolved is, on the average, less
than the immediate energy we are expending. This is why
it is a universal necessity for all the higher animals and to
some extent lower organisms, and even plants, to have
regular periods of repose from the more active conditions of
292 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
full consciousness. During sleep we accumulate that reserve
fund of energy which rouses us to the waking condition when
our " batteries " are fully charged ; and which enables us to
sustain the following conscious period of excess in the
expenditure of energy.
And we not only have a general rest for the whole body
during sleep ; various parts have, at varying intervals,
periods of rest necessary to their particular functions. The
heart rests between each beat. There is a short period of
rest in normal breathing after every expiration of a breath.
The glands oj the stomach rest from their work of secretion
when the stomach is empty. The muscles of the limbs rest
when we are not using them, and so on. But notwith-
standing these periods of rest of parts, the system as a whole
loses energy during the day, and sleep is necessary during
the night.
The very fact of our being awake, even if we are sitting
still and apparently doing nothing, self-evidently demands a
greater expenditure of animate energy than is necessary
when we sleep, for all impressions upon consciousness-
simply looking at something, being spoken to, thinking of
anything, hearing a noise, feeling heat or cold, a pinch by
fingers, the prick of a pin ; anything whatever that we are
conscious of or that attracts our attention demands an
expenditure of energy ; and the more vivid or intense such
impressions are, the greater the expenditure. For the
animate energy expended in the mutual actions within our
organs of perception, when they encounter the energies that
environ them, such as the impact of light energy upon the
eyes and the impact of air movements upon the ear, must of
necessity be equal to the energy of those movements. The
stronger the light, or the louder the noise, the more of
animate energy is expended in merely seeing and hearing.
For the same reason, many repeated sights and sounds take
more energy from us than a lesser number. This explains
why, when persons from the quiet of the country and the
usual surroundings to which they have become so accus-
tomed that they attract but a minimum of attention, visit a
busy town, they usually become very tired before the day is
out; because the vividness of their conscious attention to
MEMORY, SLEEP, DREAMS 293
what is about them is so much greater in the busy streets-
not because they have had any more than usual physical
exercise; very often they may have had less.
The condition of consciousness per se involves an expendi-
ture of energy. This is particularly evident in pathology.
When we are in normal health the usual sights and sounds
about us do not trouble us ; but when the reserves of energy
are low, as in a serious illness, we do not allow a bright light
to fall upon the eyes of the patient ; members of the house-
hold are cautioned not to make a noise ; and in some cases
even the street is covered with tan bark or other soft mater-
ial, so as to prevent all sound that can be avoided from
reaching the ears of the patient. The object is to attain,
as nearly as possible, the rest that consciousness gets when
we sleep. Noises that pass unheeded when we are in good
health irritate us when we are " out of sorts."
Every physician appreciates the recuperative value of
normal sleep as a rest from consciousness; this clearly
indicates the expenditure of energy by the mere state of
consciousness, andincidentally demonstrates the truth of our
postulates that mind is a mode of energy.
All this agrees quite well with the fact that during sleep
the brain becomes anremic ; less blood flows through it, less
structural energy is thus supplied to it, and less energy, as a
consequence, can be expended by the activities of conscious-
ness, and a reserve of energy accumulates in the body as a
whole. When we awake from sleep, a stronger current of
blood-and therefore energy-flows through the brain,
giving it the sufficient output of energy demanded by the
state of consciousness. And even when we are awake, if we
concentrate our thoughts in mental effort, a still larger flow
of blood to the brain supports the greater output of conscious
energy. The relation of the blood supply to the brain, to the
activities of that organ, is thus simply proportional to the
conscious energy expended.
Sleep is not a total extinction of consciousness. In the
deepest sleep there always remains some modicum of
consciousness. The young mother will wake from the
soundest sleep at the faintest cry of her child, though many
much louder noises would not disturb her rest sufficiently
294 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
to rouse her to full consciousness. The engineer of a
steamer will usually wake up instantly if his engines stop
running, although the much greater ordinary tremors and
movements of the ship disturb him not at all. Some
persons can pre-detennine that they shall wake from sleep at
a certain hour, and when the clock strikes that hour they
most certainly wake up. Such facts indicate that some
degree of consciousness, too feeble to stay the recuperative
powers of sleep, is always present and that during sleep we
aTA never wholly unconscious.
From the deepest sleep to full conscious wakefulness there
are an infinity of intermediate conditions, many of which
present phenomena that are apparently beyond reasonable
comprehension, and thus give rise to superstitious beliefs.
The relations between conscious mind and organic mind (100)
as experienced in dreams, in somnambulism, hypnotism and
at psychic seances, have the same essential basis in fact, and
are not evidences of anything supernatural.
We always have some consciousness of the presentations of
our organic mind from the perceptive organs when asleep
and dreaming. A loud noise may awaken us, but when we
awake we have no clear consciousness of having heard a
noise ; or the noise may be instantly woven into the texture
of a dream. The impression of a touch, or a pressure
upon any part of the body may be transferred to a
happening in a dream. Everyone has had experiences of
such transferences of actual impressions upon consciousness
into the realm of dreamland.
The influence of the impressions from the organic mind of
our sense organs upon the modicum of conscious mind that
remains during sleep varies in a very subtle manner. You
may make a noise with a given intensity without waking
a person from sleep, but if a" noise" with similar intensity
gives utterance to the person's christian name it will wake
him.
We remember a most significant instance of this. Our
mother was subject to attacks of nightmare, which terrified
us children ; and on our first experience, we shouted
" Mother " repeatedly with no effect. We were told after-
wards that we must not call out" Mother," but" Martha,"
MEMORY, SLEEP, DREAMS 295
because, although she could hear us calling " Mother," she
could not waken ; but when we called " Martha," she could
wake up at once. And always afterwards we called
,. Martha" with satisfactory results.
This is a noteworthy instance of the effect of " habit "
upon the evolution of conscious mind. During development
from childhood to maturity she had been trained to promptly
obey a call for "Martha." Her conscious mind got the
u habit " of responding quickly to the impression produced
by the authoritative call for " Martha." And this habit
continued into later years, so that it enabled her to wake up
when no other word could do so.
From the deepest sleep to full conscious wakefulness there
are an infinity of intermediate conditions. We are conscious
of presentations of organic mind from our senses of percep-
tion when we are asleep and dreaming, but we may also have
such distinct impressions of organic mind memories when
apparently wide awake, that such subjective impressions
affect us as if they were realities-and we have hallucinations
(237-8) which present phenomena that are apparently
beyond reasonable comprehension, and thus give rise to
superstitious beliefs.
The relations between conscious mind and organic mind
(Ioo), as experienced in dreams, in somnambulism, hypno-
tism and at psychic seances, have the same essential basis
in fact, and are no more evidences of a supernatural agency
than toothache or rheumatism ; they are simply unusual, or
abnormal, natural phenomena of organic mind, just as tooth-
ache and rheumatism are.
All of consciousness in the conscious mind of man, from
the almost imperceptible in deepest sleep to the most ener-
getic in our waking hours, is inseparably associated with the
operations of organic mind. Conscious mind, of any phase
or degree, is absolutely impossible without the source of
origin from which it arises, i.e., the sustaining basis of or-
ganic mind, and exactly in the same sense as that it is im-
possible for a steam engine to work when the steam is cut off.
2g6 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
194.-We always dream when asleep, though we may 1101
remember doing so.
When we have dreams that produce a vivid impression
and we remember them distinctly for a long time after we
awake, there is more than usual of conscious mind still
functioning in our sleep. Such consciousness in a dream
may be so vivid that we may be deceived when awake to the
extent of believing that the dream was an actual waking
experience (233). Dreams that impress us less vividly
occur when less of conscious mind is active in our sleep.
Dreams that we can remember for a few brief moments after
we awake, but can never call to memory again, occur when
there is approximately a minimum of conscious mind evolv-
ing in our sleep. So do dreams that we do not remember
when we awake, but which are brought momentarily into
our consciousness a short time after by some incident of
thought or memory. A still more feeble conscious mind
may be present in dreams that we never remember at all
when we awake. We are thus led to the conclusion that we
always dream, but that sometimesthey impress the conscious
mind so feebly that we cannot remember that we have
dreamt. We may arrive at this conclusion a priari as a
natural consequence of its being physically impossible for
the brain neurones or any part of them to absolutely cease
their molecular movements. We cannot differentiate be-
tween conscious mind and molecular movements (16).
We find this conclusion sustained-we might even say
demonstrated-by the facts in somnambulism, where what
is dreamt is acted. In this abnormal condition persons
will do things that are impossible to be so done in the absence
of some conscious mode of perception; yet when they awake
to normal life they have no recollection of anything that
happened when in the somnambulistic condition, though in
some cases there is a faint memory as of an elusive dream.
The operations of the neurones of the brain that function
conscious mind seem to be totally suspended in most cases,
yet the consciousness of organic mind is most conspicuously
evident.
The somnambulist can see without the act of seeing pro-
ducing any perceptible impression upon conscious mind.
MEMORY, SLEEP, DREAMS 297
His organic mind sees ; and the organic mind controlling
his muscular movements responds intelligently to what his
organic mind sees, without the usual intervention of cons-
cious mind.
I.9S.-lmpressions upon organic mind distinct from impres-
sions upon conscious mind.
We know that, physiologically, we do not consciously see
with our eyes ; nor consciously feel the touch of anything
with the finger tips. The impressions upon the organic mind
of these sensory organs have to be transmitted to the brain
before we become conscious of the impressions made upon
them. The length of time that elapses between the impres-
sion of a perception upon the organic mind of a sensory
organ and its arrival and transformation in the brain into a
conscious mind impression has been approximately . de-
termined ; and the velocity of an impression or an impulse
along the nerves has been stated-just as physicists state
the velocity of the transmission of an electric impulse along
a Wire.
No proper comprehension of mind phenomena in abnormal
conditions can be attained unless it is thoroughly understood
that impressions upon organic mind and impressions upon
conscious mind are physiologically distinct phenomena, and
that these two modes of perception being continuous (roo),
each may merge into and take upon itself the character and
functions of the other. A movement in one direction may
transform organic into conscious mind ; one in the opposite
direction may transform conscious into organic mind.
Organic mind moving towards the central nervous system is
there transformed into conscious mind ; conscious mind
moving from the central nervous system towards the peri-
phery is transformed into the organic mind of the voluntary
muscles ; and when it moves back to the organs ofperception
it produces those illusions of the senses which give rise to
beliefs in the supernatural.
r¢.-Infinite variety in abnormal conditions; mediums.
There are an infinity of abnormal mental and physical
conditions during sleep, from somnambulism to hypnotism
298 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
and trance, where an infinity of presentations occur as
irrational and incomprehensible as the presentations in the
dreams of normal sleep; yet, strange to say, these incompre-
hensible phenomena, so closely allied and continuous with
the phenomena normal to sleep, are by many believed to be
due to supernatural intervention. Many persons make a
profession of falling into these abnormal conditions, and
publicly exhibit the weird phenomena associated with the
conscious mind and the organic or " dream mind," as we
may term it. And, since the varied effects possible to the
association and correlation between the conscious mind
and the dream mind are practically inexhaustible, the
entertainment they afford ~~ believers " is usually interesting.
And these effects are broadened and made more mysteriously
complex by the radiations of mind energy exchanged between
the~~ medium" and the sitters. We deal with these matters
in another chapter.
197.-Memory registers the most energetic of conscious mind
impressions.
From what we have previously said in regard to the in-
separable association of organic molecular movements with
memory (189), it is evident that for such movements to
appear to us rational they must represent in definite
sequence such concepts as will appear to our conscious mind
as rational sequences. But it is very evident that memory
does not register en bloc all the details of our waking experi-
ences, but almost exclusively the prominent factors in those
experiences as individual concepts ; and the daily additions
to the stores of memory add either to the strength of in-
dividual factors already there or increase their number
without any regular reference to sequence.
For, as individual concepts come to us in our dreams,
usually in an irregular and unconnected manner, so we may
assume concepts are thus stored in the memory. When we
are fully awake we consciously sort out the irregular pre-
sentations of organic mind and place such as will fit in an
orderly and rational manner. That this is the case is evident
from the fact that any event noted by memory is ~~ punc-
tuated," as it were, with the most impressive factors therein.
MEMORY, SLEEP, DREAMS 299
Just as a person almost speechless with excitement about a
tragic event will gasp out : " Man drowning ! River-boat
upset," stating events in a reversed sequence, so does organic
mind register as memory, not the whole factors of an event,
but the main features of that event without reference to
sequence, but as they strike most forcibly upon conscious
mind; and thus the last factor in actual sequence may be
most easily remembered and come to memory the first when
the event is recalled, because it produced the strongest effect
upon consciousness. Thus we have irrational sequences of
concepts in our dreams.
In photography it is the brightest spot in that which
the camera looks upon which is perceptible first upon
the photographic film, and the lesser bright spots in se-
quential order. Thus it is easy to comprehend the irregular
nature of the memory impressions given out by organic
mind during sleep when we are dreaming, or in any of the
many varied conditions from sleep to trance. The irra-
tionality of these memory impressions in our dreams is
carried yet further by the influence of the functions of the
immediate structure of the blood, which is always a factor
in the mutual actions within the brain neurones, which
condition presentations of mind. w .e perceive this in the
nightmare effects of certain foods, which profoundly affect,
directly and indirectly, all the molecular movements of
animation.
198.-From every direction we come to movement as the basis of
mind.
No matter from what direction we attempt to get down to
the immediate nature of mind, we sooner or later come to
movement. We find that mind is not an isolated something
of which we can but attempt to form a metaphysical con-
ception, but a universal movement, having energy of a
nature peculiar to itself, which is exhibited in all the move-
ments, mental and physical, which we term ~~ living " ;
and equally so in the molecular movements in that which is
erroneously termed ~~dead" matter. We find that cons-
cious mind in man is a constant stream of ever-changing
movem.
ent flowing through the brain, the necessary energy
300 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
for which is supplied by the structural energy in the food
ingested. The ever-changing stream of movement con-
ditions the ever-changing stream of our thoughts, and
memories are but recurrences of previous phases of
movement.
We take photographs of scenes and objects with a camera ;
the photos produced represent the varied electro-magnetic
movements that fall upon the sensitive film. We register
impressions of scenes and objects in the brain ; these im-
pressions represent the same electro-magnetic movements
impressed upon the brain neurones by impressions received
from the eyes. When we look at a photograph we look upon
a reproduction of the same kind of electro-magnetic move-
ments which evolved the original photograph. When we
mentally remember anything whatever we are mentally
looking upon the reproduction of the original molecular
movements which registered the impression or perception.
That differing movements do so evolve differing sensory
impressions is amply proven by the facts of polymerism,
isomerism and allotropism in chemistry (51); by the fact
that the two senses of perception which are absolutely
essential to man's mental predominance in nature are
conditioned by movements (29) ; and by the well-known fact
that many drugs, and even foods have molecular structures
with movements which influence in a most evident manner
the character of conscious mind by the effect they produce
upon organic mind.
We know of no other manner by which the immediate
nature of mind can be satisfactorily explained in all its
infinite phases, normal and abnormal, in memory, sleep and
dreams, than by admitting as a truth that mind is condi-
tioned by movement, and is therefore a mode of energy
correlated with every other mode of energy.
·-·
, . '
.- f;-. ':I
I - •
J.: . . : 1'1
\ . - - • ': fl
~
CHAPTER XII
MIND IN HEREDITY ; THE FUTILE QUEST FOR A
MATERIAL (?) BASIS
zgg.-Misdirected efforl #. Weismann#. material in develop-
ment.
Probably the most notable instance of misdirected efiort
resulting from basic misconceptions is the quest after a
material objective basis in heredity, in the elemental struc-
tures within the fertilised ovum. For this is, a priori, a
something which cannot exist ; because, no matter how soon
in the embryonic individual any physical structure may
indicate any hereditary trait in the individual or the sex of
it., that sex or trait is already determined. The basis of
trait or sex is that which determines the primary physical
evidences of it. And that which determines what form the
first physical evidence shall be cannot be other than that
intelligent energy which we term organic mind in the mole-
cules of the substances available, prior to any definite form
of structure being evolved. And, although the moment of
fertilisation is the moment that commences full individual
life, yet that moment is neither the commencement nor the
conclusion of the influences which operate to form any
individual character or to determine its sex. The matter
of sex is made a prominent feature by investigators, because
it is supposed to be more easily determined and definite in
connection with hereditary influences.
Weismann-whom we quote because he is popularly
esteemed as a great authority-was of the opinion that the
influence of sex was the most potent in the production of
variations. If this were so, there would be in the human
species but slight variation prior to the determination of
sex, which in man is not definitely decided till about the
ninth week after conception. At this stage of development
301
302 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
the Miillerian ducts and the Wollfian bodies become differ-
entiated in the embryo into male or female organs. Prior
to this the embryo has no sex, but an almost evenly balanced
tendency towards either sex. Weismann is twice wrong in
the above opinion. For sex itself is the result of the same
essential dominance that also determines variations ; sex
per se cannot be dominant as an influence in variations. If
it were so, most variations would arise after the embryo
was two months old. We show further on that the most
fundamental differences in character are determined before
the individual being comes into existence at the moment of
fertilisation; before the chromosomes, which have been so
laboriously investigated in the futile search for a material
basis, have even made their appearance.
To get down to the basis in heredity, we must go deeper
than anything visible can take us. It becomes a question of
pure deduction from all the known facts surrounding the
evolution of individual being. Results in heredity arise
from the most complex aggregate of influences that it is
possible to conceive-influences that have been operating for
thousands of years, mingled with influences which are operat-
ing at the present moment, whose values are impossible to
estimate except in a most vague and unsatisfactory manner.
For instance, the character of the material immediately
available to developing sperm, ovum or embryo is dependent
upon what the parent eats. There are instances in low forms
of life where character of food not only influences .character
of sex, but actually alters species (204-6) ; and if character
of food can do this, how can it/ be possible to discover a
material basis in the structures within a fertilised ovum?
For it must be possible for similar influences to vary charac-
ter in higher forms of life. In the development of sperm,
ova, or even embryo, only low forms of life have as yet
been evolved; and it may be that many of the monstrosities
which come into existence amongst the higher animals and
man are the results of abnormal nutrition during their
development. The functions of organic mind, whose activi-
ties are evolving these foundations of individual being,
must of necessity change when the material available for
development changes; for from this material organic mind
MIND IN HEREDITY
itself evolves, and all alteration in structure inviolably
causes alteration in function.
200.-Injluence of changing conditions#. tendencies to varia-
tion.
We can see, broadly, how the character of most living
things on earth has been constantly changing for millions of
years as a consequence ofslowly changing physical conditions
and environment. Changes that occur in a few generations
are too slight to be noticeable. We can only say that in-
dividual character is detennined by all the influences that
operated upon ancestors, immediate and remote; and we
can only attempt to estimate upon a basis of known facts
how far the influences of the immediate parents may go in
determining variation from the mean of the influences
which would otherwise be impressed upon it by its more
remote ancestors.
Speaking generally, offspring are more or less like parents,
because like influences have operated upon the evolution of
both. In any part of the world the influences of environ-
ment and of habit and customs are practically constant for
generation after generation ; and the operation of like
influences produce like results. Departure from type or
divergence in mental or physical character in a positive
direction cannot occur unless there is sufficient divergence
in influencing factors, strong enough not only to stay the
usual tendencies, but strong enough to impress their in-
fluence upon the subject after they have expended the energy
necessary to stay the usual tendencies; otherwise there
would be but a stay in development-a something lacking in
the individual. An influence, to be effective as a positive
departure from the ancestral mean, must be strong enough
to cancel, and yet have energy enough left to build afresh in a
new manner. It is therefore but rarely that such influences
are of a nature sufficiently intense, or sufficiently persistent,
to cause perceptible positive variation from ancestral
qualities.
If we place a pound weight upon one pan of a pair of
scales, and an ounce weight in the opposite pan, the ounce
weight has a tendency to lift the pound weight ; but it does
304 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
not move it. If we add another ounce weight to the first,
the tendency to lift the pound weight is twice as strong-but
does not move it. As we add ounce after ounce the tendency
grows stronger, and when we have placed sixteen ounce
weights in the pan the pound weight is balanced ; the sixteen
ounces negative the pound. If we add another ounce to the
sixteen, the pound weight loses its dominance in the function
of gravity and the seventeen ounces become dominant.
Any number less than sixteen ounces would remain definitely
inactive ; nothing would happen, although the tendency toa
happening would be constantly present.
It is the same with hereditary character. A tendency to
some definite mental or physical variation may exist for an
indefinite period, yet never show a sign of its existence.
But when conditions are such that the tendency grows
stronger, and a certain value of potency is reached, then a
variation appears; the tendency is resolved into actual
variation.
And it is with variations in heredity, as it is with the
weights in the pan, the addition of the last small weight
causes the lifting of the large one; but it only does so with
the assistance of the other small weights previously added.
And in hereditary variation the cause of them may be
undetected in the many small influences that may have
tended in the one direction. The cumulative effect of such
small pre-natal influences upon parents is indicated as the
cause of the differences in children from the same two
parents; and these differences appear to have no immediate
cause. Yet if the immediate nature of parents was not
constantly changing their offspring would all have the same
character.
Sometimes it happens that a powerful immediate influence
of short duration will cause a variation of character or struc-
ture in a most definite manner. We give instances of this
in the following chapter.
The effects with weights above alluded to are in line with
the necessary stimulus required for .a motor impulse along
the nerves to the heart or the skeletal muscles-the " all 01
none" law Every stimulus applied to these nerves pro-
duces the maximum contraction possible at the moment,or-
MIND IN HEREDITY
nothing at all. So with the weights ; either the maximum
weight-the pound in this case-must be lifted or-nothing
at all.
20r..-No traceable beginning to individual charactef'.
The properties of atoms are unalterable; they must be
the same in the organic molecule as in the chemicalmolecule ;
and the changing of hereditary values by changes in organic
molecules must have the same essential factors of causation
as the appearance of the different physical properties in the
substance that evolves from the mutual action of elements in
a test tube. When H 2 encounters 0, it is "all or none" ;
all three must disappear in water or nothing happens.
It would be but a tedious waste of labour to the writer,
and an unnecessary infliction upon the reader, to critically
survey the confused mass of hypotheses and arguments
published on the subject of a physical basis in heredity; or
even more than mention Weismann and his theories super-
posed upon theories regarding germ plasm, body plasm,
idants, ids, biophores, determinants, unit factors, linkage,
and germinal variation. Anyone may read the works of
authorities (?) on the subject and see for himself abundant
internal evidence that the whole problem is riddled with their
contradictions and useless theories. They are-as Spillman
puts it-" like men lost in a wilderness, seeking to find a
road" (67). We shall merely state the facts from which we
may logically deduce that hereditary influences come from
beyond the purely material, and that organic mind i~ the
dominant initiative.
There is no traceable beginning to individual character
and structure unless we reach down to the properties of
atoms. Remote influences reach back indefinitely, more or
less modified by influences impressed upon the immediate
progenitors by conditions of environment and by experiences
acting upon both the conscious mind and the organic mind
of both parents; but more particularly the dominant in-
fluences affecting the mother from the moment of fertiliza-
timi of the ovum to the day of birth. For, other things
being equal, the more recent any influence affecting the
embryo, the more immediately evident that influence will be.
u
3o6 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
Developing ovum and sperm are organically connected.
each with its parent, and moving molecularly in unison and
sympathy with all the rest of the cells throughout the body
of every parent ; and any possible influence affecting mind or
body of parent must have some influence upon developing
progeny. Whatever variations may appear objectively
under the microscope, in the structures or activities within
the fertilized ovum are equally results and causes, as all
mutual actions inviolably must be, and any feature that
might be proven to indicate with certainty any particular
character in the offspring would simply prove that that
particular character was already determined.
202.-No child can be exactly like a parent #. injluenu of
parental differences.
Mutual actions in biology are strictly analogous to mutual
actions in physics (48). Every mutual action evolves a
something that is different in character to the factors from
which it arises ; therefore mutual action between ovum and
sperm must of necessity evolve something that differs in some
respect from either of them. It is impossible for any indi-
vidual to be alike in every part and in all respects to either
one of its parents. It may be " alike as two peas " to either
one, but there must of necessity be some difference. No
two things in nature can act mutuaUy upon each other and
evolve a something not differing in structure from both.
No two persons are exactly alike ; their structures differ ;
the spermatozoa and ova they evolve differ. The sperma-
tozoon cannot enter in to mutual action with the OVlUll with-
out evolving a structure differing from both ; and the more
divergent in character they are-within the same species-
the more energetic the mutual action will be and the greater
the physical energy and difference in structure they evolve.
This explains why, in man, the tall and short, the dark and
the fair, the vivacious and the sedate, so generally pair;
why near relations, when paired, have offspring on the
average below the normal-there is less difference in struc-
ture and less energy of mutual action within the fertilized
ovum; and why the union of persons of different countries,
English with French, Irish with German, and so on, have
MIND IN HEREDITY 3<>7
offspring on the average above the normal-there is a wider
difference in structure and more energy in the mutual action
each upon the other of sperm and ovum.
Incidentally, it is interesting here to note that the same
basic influences operate amongst the elements in chemistry.
Too closely related elements do not unite in mutual action
upon each other. The elements from the monatomic to
the radio-active, as they rise in molecular weight, form at
regular intervals "families" of elements having closely
related properties-the so-called Periodic System. The
elements sodium and potassium are closely related members
of the same family of elements, and they will not unite in
mutual action to form a chemical compound-they are too
alike in structure-although they will associate with each
other as an alloy. But they both will enter into mutual
action and evolve chemical compounds \\.ith other elements
outside their own particular family. The same inability to
form chemical compounds by mutual action marks other
. members of other families of elements. And from the
viewpoint that energy in mutual action is proportionate to
difference in structure, we may yet find data for a satis-
factory explanation of the problem presented by the Periodic
Law of the elements.
203.-lnjluence of grandmothers. External and metabolic
influences.
As we demonstrate in our eighth chapter, the evolution
and devolution of the individual constitutes a continuously
repeated cycle. Every individual unit of the millions of
generations of living things that preceded those of to-day has
been a complete cycle of individual life; and not one of all
preceding generations but has an influence still active in the
present generation. There cannot be any definite material
point of commencement of the hereditary traits of any
individual. Even the ovum which evolves into a human
being makes its first objective appearance in the grand-
mother-not the mother (214). And from this fact we
might reasonably deduce that mothers have a more potent
influence than fathers in heredity. We do know that many
eminent men have attributed their qualities to the good
308 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
influences impressed upon them by mothers of exceptional
intellectual and moral strength. All individual life and
character is a cyclic phenomenon, having no definite or con-
ceivable beginning or ending, for atoms never die. The
energies of the atoms are the genetic energies of the indivi-
dual (62).
204.-Frogs ~· beetles; P. C. MitcheU; Professor Schafer.
There are accumulating and irrefutable evidences of
infiuences external to the organism that affect developing
life from germ to fretus to an extent that may cause variation
in structure, sex, and in mental character. In the case of
many animals it is known that staleness of the ova causes
alteration of the sex ratio, usually by increasing the propor-
tion of males. Delay in the fertilization of frogs' ova causes
a preponderance of male offspring ; so that we can with
certainty say that the direction of the wind at a certain time
of the year will determine the sex of a number of frogs ! A
low temperature of pond or stream produced by a cold wind
will retard the fertilization of the ova and cause a prepon-
derance of males. If a factor so apparently remote as the
direction of the wind can determine the sex of an animal,
what possible value can we attach to any mere theory of
" determinants," ., gemmules," ~~germ plasm," " body
plasm," ~~ idants," ~~ids," or ~~ biophores ?" And does not
this alteration in the sex by external influences point directly
to the fact that determination does, and must, precede any
structure or physical basis in heredity ?
It is now admitted that metabolism is a factor that has a
decided influence in heredity. It has been found that there
are important metabolic differences between the sexes that
may be determined by chemical reactions; and the belief
is gaining ground that the fundamental difference between
the sexes is really a difference in metabolism. It has recently
been announced that Dr. Isaac Fried has discovered a means
of ascertaining the sex of a child four months before it is
born by an analysis of a little blood drawn from the mother.
Whether this announcement be substantiated or not, we
may, a priori, deduce from the laws of structure and func-
tion that there must be a difference in the metabolism of the
MIND IN HEREDITY 309
sexes. Miss Helen Keller in her book, The World I Live In,
tells us that in children there is a difference in the "scent"
of the sexes that she can distinguish. This would not be
possible unless there were difierences in metabolism. The
structures of the sexes are different, and this of necessity
gives difference in function and metabolism. Medical
men can now determine the sex of a child a month before
it is born by the rate of its heart beat.
In the instance of frogs' ova given above, the fertilization
is delayed by a lower temperature, and slower biochemical or
metabolic changes result. All chemical reactions vary in
energy by variation of temperature ; and the biochemical are
equally subject to its influence. In the publications of the
Carnegie Institute, Washington, Towers tells us that in
nature he found about one variation in six thousand speci-
mens of chrysomelid beetles. When bred in captivity the
variations were more frequent. If full-grown beetles were
exposed to extremes of heat and humidity during the
maturation of the eggs, the offspring included a much larger
proportion of variations-up to 8o per cent. Here we have
direct proof-not theory-that pre-natal influences upoa the
parent during the development of ova will increase the ratio
of definite variation from I, to 4,8oo in 6,ooo I This is not
an isolated fact. Other instances could be quoted quite as
definite in results. So with human character, the ova that
are forming within .the grandmother may be affected by
influences that will modify the character of her grand-
children (214). It will be seen that neither education of
parents nor acquired character in parents are questions that
touch this large amount of variation in beetles ; nor do
they touch the increasing number of males in frogs above
alluded to. The cause is external-variation of energy in
environment.
"Nonnal female ova have been induced to develop, not
by the entrance of a spermatozoon, but by artificial
stimulation with a chemical salt. . . As growth proceeds
the external is constantly becoming the internal ; the
results of influences, which were in one stage part of the
environment, are in the next and subsequent stages, part
of the embryo." (P. C. Mitchell-Heredity.)
310 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
Professor Schafer stated in an address that the scientist
may presently create a living thing. He is winning a
wonderful mastery of life.
" He can take the female germ of a starfish, and develop
it without the aid of a male germ. He can tamper with
the embryo of a jelly fish, and make it take the most weird
and wonderful forms. He can so act on the germs of
butterflies as to change the colour of the species. He
can make the sea-anemone grow a new mouth, and eat at
itsside.,
205.-Dr. 0. Kiddle ~· Dr. Crew#. Luther BurbatJk; effects of
food.
Dr. 0. Kiddie, of the Carnegie Experimental Hospital, at
a meeting of the American Society of Zoologists, after giving
an account of the changing of a female dove into a male, as a
result of tuberculosis infection, stated that he thought it
probable that all hereditary characteristics of every organism
were capable of reversal and modification by scientists.
We may not go quite so far as Dr. Kiddie, but his statement
is impressive, as indicating that the extent of control that
may be exercised upon developing animal character is far
wider and of vaster importance than is generally supposed.
lf the reproductive organs are removed from a young male
rat and the ovaries of a young female rat are grafted into the
abdomen in their place, that young male grows up into a
creature resembling the female, not only in size and form,
but also in instincts. Dr. Crew demonstrated before the
British Association that a female frog could become male
enough to be father of a family of female frogs. We may
reasonably take the marvellous achievements of Luther
Burbank with plants as forerunning what progress may yet
be made in the determination of animal character. For we
must bear in mind that all individual life-animal and
vegetal-is continuous, and has its immediate origin in the
protoplasmic cell.
Panam, in Berlin, 1860, and Dareste in Paris, 1877, pro-
duced
"monstrosities artificially in birds eggs by varying the
temperature in the hatching oven."
MIND IN HEREDITY 311
The carefully cultivated Lop-eared English Rabbit
" will not breed true, except if housed in warm, damp
hutches."
Amongst the p~otozoa, when sex first appears,
"there are all kinds of varied asexual, hermaphrodite,
and sexual development.''
In higher animals good nourishment is potent in evolving
males in some instances, in other instances it is potent in
evolving females.
Starved moths produce males ; well-fed ones produce
females. When feed is poor, sheep will have up to twenty
per cent. more female lambs ; when feed is good, males are
more numerous ; and with man, more males are born
amongst the poor when food is dear.
2o6.-Max Vmvorn ~· change of species ; external influences
affect character.
Max Verwom demonstrated that if " amreba limax " bred
in a hay infusion are stimulated by adding a faint trace of a
diluted solution of caustic potash, they first contract in
length, assuming the shape of a ball, and then after a time
stretch out long pointed pseudopods, which give them the
characteristic form of '' amreba radiosa.'' They remain
permanently in this form so long as the solution of caustic
potash is contained in the solution. If they are transferred
again to pure water, the "amreba radiosa" are retrans-
formed into the 1imax form.
The same fact was demonstrated by Verwom in regard
to the'' atemia salina,'' which, on being placed in fresh water,
changes into " branchipus stagnalis " ; and when put back
again into sea water becomes once more " artemia salina."
In these cases it is evident that the presence or the absence
of certain sub-organic molecules-dead (?) matter-may
even determine a variation in species I
We have in fact overwhelming evidence that influences
external to the organism impress effects upon the character
of offspring, producing variations of structure and deter-
mining sex. And if in any case where some feature of
structure would evolve a normal offspring or a given sex,
external infiuences operate to divert that offspring to a
312 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
variation from normal or to the opposite St:x, then it cannot
be said that any material structure in ovum or embryo is
primarily a determinant of either structure or sex. Such
determination must a priori operate before such structure or
sex has any physical existence. Hence the futility of the
labours if those who have striven, and are yet striving, to
discover a material basis in heredity.
ZO'J.-Doncaster ; erroneow conclusions.
A large amount of evidence(?) has been published regard-
ing the influence of parents in heredity that has no value
whatever ; and erroneous conclusions have been based upon
it. L. Doncaster in his Heredity in the Light of Recent
Research (Cambridge University Press), reviews the effects of
environment and habits of parents. He also refers to Gal-
ton's observation that identical twins remain alike during
life, despite differences in environment. He concludes from
the evidence that
"the habits of the parents are relatively unimportant,
compared with the nature of the stock, in determining
the character of the children."
Neither Galton nor anyone else can say that identical
twins, living in different environments, remain alike during
life. Difference must arise from differing environment,
although that difference may only be a tendency (zoo), and
we are not able to perceive it. It is foolish to expect a
definite perceptible variationtobe effected by some slight var-
iation in environment, especially in identical twins. For
everyone has some influence in determining their environ-
ment ; and identical twins, having the same propensities,
would naturally exertwhat influence they had in an identical
manner upon the character of their environment, and
thusleaditto have at leastsome resemblance.
But even if the environment were widely different in the
two cases, we should not look for perceptible effects in the
twins themselves, but in their progeny-if it was possible
to make enquiry into a sufficiently large number of cases,
which is very improbable.
On page 114 Doncaster quotes, in support of his conclu-
sions:
MIND IN HEREDITY 313
" From a study of over seventy thousand school chil-
dren, classified according to the employment or non-
employment of their mothers in work outside the home,
it was found that the relation of their height and weight
to the employment or non·employment of the mother was
almost negligible, compared with the relation between the
physical characters of the mother and child."
In this case also there is no proper data upon which to
base any conclusion regarding hereditary effects. There is
not sufficient difference between employment at home and
employment outside the home to cause any appreciable
physical difference in one generation. If those seventy
thousand children had been examined as to their aptness to
understand and employ themselves at the work upon which
their mothers had been engaged outside their homes ; and
the results compared with seventy thousand other children
in the same social scale, born of mothers who were only
engaged in household duties, some definite and reliable data
in hereditary influences might have been discovered.
208.-Advance in knowledge 1'ega1'ding the influence of con-
scious mind upon organic mind.
We have ample and convincing evidence that conscious
mind is continuous with and has influence upon organic
mind (xoo); organic mind that does the wonderful things
within our bodies that are beyond the grasp of conscious
mind, and which possesses that mysterious energy and
intelligence by which alone individual existence is possible.
And herein lies the supreme value of a deeper knowledge of
the relations between mind, energy and matter. For
organic mind energy is the genetic initiative of every move-
ment, sensation or impulse within all living things ; and the
influence that may be exerted upon its activities by con-
scious mind opens a vista of possibilities that is most en-
couraging to contemplate. What we have to learn is how to
use conscious mind so that we may obtain a maximum of
good by its effects upon organic mind.
We are learning something in this direction by the atten-
tion now being given in disease to the effects of auto--
suggestion, which are simply the effects of conscious mind
314 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
upon organic mind. These effects indicate what may
possibly be accomplished by conscious mind upon the
developing embryo, whose organic mind is in such close
touch and sympathy with the organic mind of the mother.
They also indicate that something could be done to improve
the character even of the ova and sperm before the ap-
pearance of the embryo.
We are probably also learning something of which no
practical use has yet been made, from the mysterious
happenings of psychic phenomena at H seances,Jl where the
massed effect of a nmnber of conscious minds influences the
mysterious powers of organic mind in the " medium," and
things happen which are ignorantly believed to be super-
natural.
It will be noted that in the investigations above referred
to (2<>7) there is no mention of "mind" as a factor of in-
fluence. It is practically the same in all works upon here-
dity. They all deal mainly with physical appearance and
activities within the fertilised ovum-a method of procedure
in attacking problems in heredity that is absolutely futile.
And if in such works abnormal character in offspring is
referred to, it is explained(?) as coincidence, and not corre-
lated with definite prenatal influence.
20C).-Organic mind determines structure ; no two living things
alike.
If we look upon a heap of bricks intended for use in a
structure we do not see in any individual brick a " determi-
nant " that indicates the character of the intended structure.
The architect who planned the structure "determined"
that it should be of brick, and not of stone ; he " deter-
mined " also the general form and character the structure
should take. So it is with hereditary influences ; it is
organic mind, the architect of all living things, that deter-
mines, under all given conditions, what the character of the
living structure shall be. All physical appearances and
activities within the fertilised ovum are the results of the de-
terminations of organic mind. Any material unit visible un-
der the microscope no more " determines " the particulars of
the finished structure than does any individual brick " deter-
MIND IN HEREDITY
mine" whether the wall it enters shall be long or short, or
what thickness or shape it shall have. And even as the
architect is influenced in his" determination" regarding the
character any structure shall assume by the person for whom
he designs, so organic mind is influenced.in its " determina-
tions " by the conscious mind with which it is associated
in such an intimate manner.
Heredity is probably the most important, complex and
subtle problem presented to philosophy and science. We
have to include in the factors of influence the differences in
basic structure, not only of opposite sex in the same species,
but also differences in the same sex and species. There is
some subtle difference in structure in every individual,
which distinguishes him from every other individual; no
two living things are structurally alike. Many animals can
distinguish one individual from another by scent alone.
Practical use has been made of this fact in the tracking down
of criminals by means of bloodhounds. And this difference
in individuals of the same sex and species can only be in the
structure of the physiological units just as is the case in the
difference between the sexes. But the difference in structure
between opposite sexes will be greater than that between
individuals of the same sex.
These differences involve some differences in the phases of
the organic mind which conditions them ; also some diffe-
rences in the phases of the conscious mind that evolves from
organic mind and is inviolably continuous with it; and so
must produce an infinity of variations in offspring. We see
that the genesis of hereditary influences is beyond the range
of the histologist. The biological chemist will find it in•
volved in the mystery of universal mind and incapable of
being differentiated from the varied affinities and properties
of atoms as exhibited by their"behaviour"in mutualactions.
210.-A material basis impossible ; a material medium
necessary.
Yet a certain section of writers and investigators. still
adhere to the conception of a material basis in heredity;
and even take Weismann seriously. Doncaster, the writer
above quoted, says that :
316 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
" Modem work seems to support Weismann's hypothesis
that the chromosomesarethephysic:al basisof inheritance."
Chromosomes, whatever variations may appear in struc-
ture, movement or number, are merely a part of the neces-
sary physical medium of inheritance ; they are the result of a
determination that has already been exercised. There is a
wide difference between a physical batsis of inheritance and a
physical medium. There must be a physical medium, but
there cannot be a physical basis in hc~redity.
The physical medium transmits the immediate character
of the organic mind energy of the parents ; the sperm is the
physical medium of the father, the ovum that of the mother.
And it is organic mind energy which determines the charac-
ter and variation in sperm and ovum. Organic mind
dominates the structure of all things that live. And when
we speak of organic mind dominating the activities within
·the ovum, we do so well knowing tbat our conscious mind
cannot grasp the mystery that is involved in any phas~ of
mind activity.
We have been thinking all our lives; but we do not
know how we think. Mothers have been bearing drildren
for unknown thousands of years, bu1t no mother knows how
she constructs her child. These thi1
ngs are, and that is the
extent of our knowledge. We must accept organic mind as
the dominant factor in heredity, if facts and reason demand
that conclusion, even as we accept gravitation, chemical
affinity, electricity, radio-activity amd electrons, although
the ultimate nature of these activiti'es are incomprehensible
to us. What we have learned of the laws and modes of mani-
festation of these incomprehensible activities has been of
great service to humanity; and what we may yet learn regard-
ing modes of activity of incomprehensible organic mind may
benefit us to an immensely larger extent.
All the molecules of substances that enter into the struc-
ture of a fertilised ovum must of necessity carry with them a
changing character, impressed upon their co-operative
activities by the varying conditions of the parent ; dominant
units to-day may not be dominant units to-morrow. There
is no necessity to study the ovum under a microscope to
arrive at this conclusion. One cann()t see any reason for the
MIND IN HEREDITY
hypothesis that chromosomes are the physical basis of
inheritance.
It is self-evident that sperm and ovum, with all the physio-
· logical units they contain, are the only possible medium of
inheritance. It would be as reasonable to conclude that
metallic wires were the phyical basis of electricity because
they are mediums for its transmission ; asit is to suppose that
chromosomes are the physical basis of inheritance because
they are simply mediums for its transmission. Every mode
of energy must have a medium through which it can evidence
its existence. The energy of hereditary influence must have
a medium through which it can express itself; otherwise we
should be ignorant of its existence. And when we reflect
upon the wonderful activities within the fertilised ovum, the
evolution of the chromosomes from the nuclei, and their
orderly and systematic behaviour, it is not possible to
believe that the phenomena are " controlled " by any one
objective element of structure within the ovum. Nothing
can be clearer to the thoughtful observer than that there is
some unseen influence at work ; and that influence cannot
be other than organic mind-that wonderful intelligent
energy about which we have yet all to learn.
211.-Pf'e-natal influences must opef'ate, Of' childf'en from the
same pa.,ents would be aU alike.
The immediate physical mediums of inheritance in
spenn, ovum, chromosome, embryo and fretus are constantly
changing in value of potential by influences affecting the
organic mind that evolves the varying structures ; and the
result of these influences causes the children of the same two
parents i:'J vary considerably in mental and physical charac-
ter. Were it not for the influences affecting the organic
mind of the parents, and consequently the organic mind in
the immediate physical medium of inheritance, all the
childf'en f1'om the same two pa.,ents would be as much alike as
identical twins. We press this self-evident truth upon the
attention of the reader. As conscious mind has normally a
constant influence upon organic mind, we have thus a means
of pre-determining to an extent yet unknown the mental and
physical character of offspring. It is not the education that
318 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
father or mother has received that influences the mental
character of offspring; it is how the father and mother are
using their mental faculties at the time sperm, ovum,
embryo or fretus are developing. And this much may al-
ready be said with certainty-we can exert more influence
upon a child's character before it is born than we ever can
afterwards ; and we may also probably pre-determine itssex.
212.-The " wsse " woman of China.
We are reminded here of a custom in China, where most
towns and villages have their "wise woman," to whom the
young wife goes immediately she becomes aware she has
conceived, and asks if it be a boy or girl. The wise woman
tells her-and she is nearly always right ! But she cannot
possibly have any physical data upon which to base her
decision, and is probably as much mystified as the pros-
pective mother herself as to the source of her apparent
knowledge. But in the light of our knowledge of the
influence of conscious mind upon organic mind, the wise
worqan's success is easily understood.
A human embryo has no objective indications of sex until
about the eighth or ninth week, and it is possible for the
mother's conscious mind to so influence the embryo as to
determine what sex it shall be. Most mothers may, about
four weeks after, know that they have conceived, and they
have still four or five weeks-sometimes longer-to go before
the sex is finally determined. And as the birth of a child is
the most important event personally that ever engaged her
attention, the mother's mind is almost constantly engaged in
thinking about and picturingher baby as of the sex in<licated
by the " wise " woman. The result of this constant trend of
her conscious mind for a period of about five weeks influences
the organic mind of the sexless embryo to evolve into the
sex she had already imagined it to possess, exactly as
in auto-suggestion, when conscious mind influenc-es the
organic mind in an unhealthy organ, so as to cause it to
become healthy. Normal influences·upon the mother are
nearly balanced for or against boy or girl ; this is evident
from the fact that the total number of the two sexes are
nearly balanced. And it is quite evident that, understand·
MIND IN HEREDITY
ing the nature of the influences upon the mother that deter-
mines the sex of the child, we could quite easily pre-deter-
mine the sex we wished, for but a slight influence is neces-
sary-if ofa correct kind.
But we have yet to learn the precise nature of such in-
fluence. Simply wishing for a boy or a girl we know is not a
sufficient influence.. But we have some evidence that the
picture of a naked boy, so hung that the prospective mother
can look at it from her pillow night and morning, also the
washing and dressing of a boy during the first two months
after conception have an influence in the desired direction.
We have direct evidence in some cases (219) that looking with
unusual intentness at anything has a powerful influence
upon prenatal development; and frequent observance of the
mental concept, or the actual picture, of such a concept-
boy or girl-must have some influence in the determination
of sex during the first two months. No doubt most of the
young mothers who visit the wise woman firmly believe in
her powers; and this very belief helps the prediction to
become true, for the prospective mother will then con-
stantly picture a boy in her mind. The rationale is exactly
the same as in the many cases of the influence of conscious
mind upon organic mind mentioned in oursixth chapter.
2IJ.-lnjluence of mothers more potent than influence of
fathers.
Basing our reasoning upon the postulates that mind is
the dominant factor in heredity, and that conscious mind is
continuous with organic mind, we are led to conclude that
the influence of mothers is more potent, on the average, than
the influence of fathers in the determination of hereditary
character. The influence of the father is only direct during
the time he is evolving, and to some extent during its stay
within him, of the spermatozoon that ultimately becomes a
part of the embryo. Even during this interval the
man's varying physical condition must have some effect, for
every cell within the body varies to some extent with
variation in the physical condition of the individual, this
physical condition being but the general expression of the
physiological units that constitute the individual. The
320 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
strength of the organic mind impulses of the heart, for
instance, vary with the varying conditions of bodily health.
Thus the mental and physical condition of the father
immediately prior to conception may have a most important
effect upon his offspring and be a dominant factor of his
potency in influencing the differences in character between
children of the same two parents•
214.--Gt'andmothet- develops ova ofheY gt'andchild,.en.
On the other hand, grandmothers evolve the potential ova
that ultimately develop into their grandchildren ; for in the
female child, when it is born, the ova of its future children
are already in physical evidence within its ovaries-usually
about two hundred thousand of them ; and these are weeded
out, as it were, by a process analogous to the survival of the
fittest ; until when she reaches puberty there remain only
about seventy thousand of them. The direct influence of
immediate mothers thus embraces two generations. We
have seen eyes of the grandfather on the mother's side un-
mistakably evident in the granddaughter. In this case we
have irrefutable evidence that the character of the child's
eyes were determined in the ova that evolved in the grand-
mother, and that no influence in father or mother operated
to counteract that influence. One single undoubted instance
of this nature is sufficient to prove that any characteristic
trait or even the sex of a child may be determined before it
begins its individual existence at conception, when other
influences are not sufficient to cause alteration. The eyes of
the child above alluded to were unlike those of either father
or mother,in colour, form, or expression, and the similarity
to the maternal grandfather's was exact in these respects.
The hereditary character of children thus depends to an
important extent upon the manner in which both the grand-
mother and the mother are reared to the age of puberty ;
the more vigorously healthy the training of girls from
childhood upwards, the more likely they are to bear vigo-
rous children. We can also see that the manner of the
mother's mental development by education must have an
effect upon the mental tendencies of her offspring. If her
education is made as pleasant as possible, her children are
MIND IN HEREDITY 321
more likely to take kindly to their lessons than they would
have done liad the education of the mother been a harsh and
unhappy process.
When the influence of the mother has dominant potency
over the inlluence of the father, the intellectual pleasure she
may take in any subject will most certainly be an intellec-
tual, and yet more pronounced characteristic of her child.
And the value of this potency will be proportionate to her
healthy and vigorous physical condition. The dominant
influence of mothers during gestation explains why such a
number of noted men and women have had mothers of an
exceptional character.
215.-Injluence of education of parents has no perceptible
effect. Hereditary value ofdoing things.
Most writers on the subject of heredity have come to the
conclusion that we can do nothing in improving the mental
character of offspring by the influences of education upon
the parents. The children of succeeding generations of
educated parents have to start at the beginning on the same
level as the children of uneducated parents. Doncaster
states (207) the position thus
"The father may educate his children because he himself
was educated, but the mental powers ofhis children will be
the same, whether he had a good education or not."
This pessimistic note is misleading; for it apparently
makes it final that nothing can be done pre-natally to
improve mental character. It is quite true that education
in the sense implied by Doncaster and other writers has no
appreciable influence upon the mental capacity of children ;
for such education is largely a process which exercises the
memory ; and memory, as we have already pointed out
(r8s), is not an intellectual faculty. Learning the alphabet
and to read ; learning grammar, geography, history, botany,
and so on, are mainly exercises of memory. Intellectual
capacity is inborn, and cannot be taught. We have per-
sonally known those who could neither read nor write who
had more than average intellectual capacity ; and there are
many '' professors " in our schools of learning who, to put the
t I. v
$-
322 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
best face upon the matter, are not above the average in
" intellectual grip." Education, together with a good
memory, enables those born with unusual intellectual powers
to make the best practical use of those powers.
The parents must be mentally exercising their minds upon
something unusual, or upon something that has acquired an
unusual interest for them, in order to be able to unusually
atiect the organic mind, when sperm, ovum or embryo are
evolving. And the keener the interest and pleasure in so doing
the more effective their influence will be, no matter whether
they are educated persons or are unable to read or write.
Experience has shown that education, as represented by
mere book learning, has no appreciable effect in raising the
" intellectual grip " in progeny ; but the doing of things, or
the making of things, rnay have such an effect.
If a boy with his toy tool chest, or a man with his kit of
tools, attempts to do something or to make something he
never did before, the first attempt is usually more or less of
a failure. The first clock, the first sewing machine, type-
writer, or locomotive engine, were very crude attempts com-
pared with later achievements. The faculty of causation is
vigorously exercised in trying to arrive at the exact reasons
why the result is not equal to the preconceived idea of the
thing intended. When, satisfied that the cause of failure is
understood, a second attempt is made, something more like
just the thing required is produced.
The point of value in all practical work is that the faculty
of causation, the noblest faculty of human mind, the faculty
that determines the strength of that " intellectual grip "
which cannot be taught, is being constantly exercised.
Practically nothing of this occurs in the mere reading and
memorising of lessons or of facts in textbooks. These may
add to the list of facts we have already stored in the brain,
but they are useless unless they are made practical use of-
they merely lumber the brain. To make a practical and
proper use of facts we require intellectual grip ; a healthy
and vigorous activity of the faculty of causation ; and
nothing equals doing things with our own hands for stimu-
lating the development of this faculty.
As illustrating just what we wish to convey to the reader
MIND IN HEREDITY 323
in this connection we may draw attention to the fact that
the three men who have had probably the most influence
upon the conditions of modem life-George Stephenson,
Thomas Alva Edison, and Luther Burbank-were born of
poor parents, and were not " educated " in the sense given
to the word by writers upon heredity.
They were all doing things when they ought, in popular
opinion, to have been at school: Stephenson working in a
coal pit, Edison selling newspapers in street and train ;
Burbank as a young man worked in a factory, and did things
in a back garden. The inborn intellectual grip that these
men inherited from their parents-who also did things-
could not be kept from evidencing itself. If they had been
obliged to muddle their brains in a school from the age of
five till fourteen by lessons in grammar, geography, history
and so on, stunting the natural bent of their minds by
wearisome tasks of memory, the world to-day might have
been the poorer for it.
It is a notable fact that George Stephenson had a son-
Robert-during the time in his twenty-fourth year when his
hands and his brains were busy devising the traveiling engine
for use on the tramroad between the Killingsworth colliery
and the shipping port. This son Robert became a famous
engineer, the inventor and constructor of tubular bridges;
became president of the Institute of Civil Engineers ; was
decorated by several royalties, and was honoured by burial
in Westminster Abbey. We may reasonably attribute
Robert's skill to an hereditary effect of the immediate in-
fluence of his father's conscious mind upon developing sperm.
Some effect may also have been added by the mother during
gestation by the immediate effect of conscious pride and
interest in her husband's ability and work.
It is also a notable fact that the first Napoleon's mother
followed his father through army camp life during years of
war prior to the birth of Napoleon. She must have been
much attached to her husband, and no doubt followed the
strategy of the engagements he took part in with an intense
interest. Here we have years of an accumulating weight of
tendency. We know the result.
Sufficient weight is not given in our educational systems
324 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
to the value of doing things. Lord Harberton in his homer
rous, but serious and deeply suggestive work, How to Leng-
then ou1 Ea1s, clearly indicates this failing. On page 10
he remarks :-
"For all practical purposes it has been established by
the law of England that not to know where Blenheim is,
and who won it, is ignorance; but not to know how tore-
pair a pneumatic tyre, or mend a gaspipe, is not ignorance.
. . . Hence Blenheim is made compulsory from the age of
five to fourteen; while gaspipe mending is, between those
ages, an offence at law during school hours; at other hours
if done for money, it is a crime visited by heavy penalties
on all concerned. Consequently anything practical, or
likely to be of use, in other words, manual labour, stands
condemned as something low, and better omitted, and
rather resembling sin, which we may be well left to pick up
for ourselves, when and how we can."
zx6.-lnternal evidence of weakness in the "material basis"
problem.
There is scarcely a page in the many volumes dealing with
a material basis in heredity, with the phenomena of fertilisa-
tion, and the physical structure and movements of.chromo-
somes, but contains some internal evidence that no
such thing as a definite material basis can have any existence
as the ultimate factor in heredity. The seekers after this
" will-o'-the-wisp " are indeed " like men lost in a wilder-
ness" (67). Please consider the following paragraph in
Doncaster's review above quoted (207) :
" Evidence of this kind, while not proving that the
chromosomes are directly concerned in the transmission of
inherited characters, makes such an hypothesis very
plausible. Much unnecessary confusion, however, has
arisen, from stating the hypothesis in the form-the
chromosomes are probably the bearers of inherited charac-
ters. Evidence has been adduced that cytoplasm plays
some part in determining these characters, and it has
therefore been maintained that the statement is disproved.
No one, however, would suppose that the chromosomes
could act alone ; they must act in and by their relation
MIND IN HEREDITY 325
with the cytoplasm, and if the cytoplasm is that of a
different species, the total effect must necessarily be
different."
Average readers will probably better appreciate the value
of such language if we paraphrase it in relation to things
they are better acquainted with-thus :
" Evidence of this kind, while not proving that rivers
are directly concerned in the transmission of water, makes
such an hypothesis very plausible. Much unnecessary
confusion, however, has arisen from stating the hypothesis
in the form, ' the rivers are probably the bearers of water.'
Evidence has been adduced that the banks of rivers play
some part in determining the waters, and it has therefore
been maintained that the statement is disproved. No
one, however, would suppose that the rivers could act
alone; they must act in and by their relation with the
banks, and if the banks are of different material the total
effect must necessarily be different ! "
No breeder of animals or cultivator of plants has ever yet
been in the slightest degree assisted in improving type or
in developing new species by any knowledge acquired from
character or behaviour of chromosomes. All the knowledge
we possess in regard to means whereby we may modify
the character of animal or plant, or develop new species,
has been derived from observing and comparing the charac-
ter of offspring with the character of parents-not from
microscopic examination of the activities within the ferti-
lised ovum.
Mendel did not know that chromosomes existed. Luther
Burbank, " the wizard of the garden," who has made his
name immortal by his unique and wonderful work in the
development of improved varieties and new species of plants
of immense economic value, never looked for guidance to
the structure and activit1es of chromosomes.
From the time of their discovery to the present day
chromosomes have been studied with unceasing attention
from every possible point of view, in the vain hope of finding
a physical basis in heredity; but up to the present time all
this labour has resulted in what might have been determined
apriori-nothing.
CHAPTER XIII
INFLUENCE OF 'MIND IN HEREDITY ; EUGENICS
217.-1nterpretation ofMgani.c mindimpressions.
On the outset of any investigation into the infiuences of
mind in heredity we are met with the incomprehensible
mystery of presentations which are both cause and effect.
The very facts-that all forms of energy are correlated, and
may take any form which energy is capable of assuming;
that nothing can be created or destroyed; that the sum of
all that is remains constant; that these facts are necessary
conditions to the permanence of the universe-prove that
all presentations in nature must have an inviolable dual
function as cause and effect, and that every presentation
must of necessity be perfectly continuous with that which
precedes it and with that which follows it.
In man, organic mind and conscious mind are so con-
tinuous, and present activities having this dual character of
cause and effect. Organic mind mergesinto conscious mind ;
conscious mind into organic mind-just as heat merges into
light, light into heat ; electric into magnetic energy, mag-
netic into electric energy. But we cannot follow the trans-
formations of mind energy movements in a living body as we
do the transformations of other modes of energy in the
chemical or physical laboratory. Consequently there are
effects of mind activities which seem apart from natural
activities, and have been explained by or attributed
to metaphysical or supernatural cause.
All of conscious mindin man arises from andis conditioned
by the mutual actions which occur in brain cells between
the molecular movements in those cells, and the molecular
movements which come to them from the organs of the five
senses and from the various organic structures of the body.
These movements, which are continuously arriving at the
centres of consciousness in the brain, are conditioned by
326
INFLUENCE OF MIND IN HEREDITY 327
organic mind movements, of which we remain unconscious
until the mutual action in the brain cells transforms them
into consciousness. Our consciousness of being well or ill,
every thought and mental operation, everything we see, hear
or feel, whether it be normal or abnormal, real or imaginary,
is first of all organic mind, of which we are unconscious.
And as a consequence of the continuity of all mind processes
and the mutual influences which organic and conscious
mind exert upon each other, it is possible to correctly inter-
pret the impressions organic mind makes upon the conscious
mind.
We usually and correctly interpret the most familiar
impressions of hunger and thirst as a demand of our organic
cells for a further supply of food or liquid, and we eat or
drinkin response to them.
In pathological conditions organic mind is &Qmetimes dis-
tressed because, in the limited supply of energy presented as
food, there are lacking some molecules of a structure that is
essential to an improvement of the condition of the body;
and the only means of making the fact known to the patient
is by medium of the influence of organic mind upon conscious
mind.
Patients sometimes long for an article of food or a kind of
drink prohibited by the medical attendant ; obtain it with-
out his knowledge, and enjoy it with very evident advantage.
It is a matter of common knowledge how physicians used
to misinterpret the impressions of organic mind upon the
conscious mind of fever patients, and prohibited them from
having the refreshing drink of water which they longed for.
The sick person cannot possibly have a conscious know-
. ledge that the particular food or drink he longs for contains
certain molecules of a structure that would benefit his
nutrition and cause him to gain strength ; he simply and
only knows that he would like some of that particular food or
drink. This longing is an impression of organic mind,
. translated by his consciousness into a desire for that parti-
cular food, just as the normal impression, when immediate
supplies of entrgy are running low, is translated by conscious
mind into the sensation of hunger and a general desire for
foOd.
328 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
Organic mind knows by experience, which it never forgets,
what class of food or liquid contains molecules of the struc-
ture it requires; it communicates this ·knowledge to the
conscious mind cells of the brain, which transfonn it into a
conscious desire for the particular food or liquid indicated.
In heredity, all effects must be co-ordinated with mutual
action between conscious, organic and sub-organic mind, as
causes. If a prospective mother, in consequence of the lack of
some particular molecular element in her diet necessary to the
vigorous growth of the developing child, longs for a particular
item of food, and that longing is not satisfied, the child, when
born, is likely to be restless and unsatisfied until it gets a little
of the food the mother longed for. Such cases are known,
directly or indirectly, to nearly every mother. The follow-
ing instance the writer can personally vouch for:
Shortly before the birth of ·her child a mother longed for
lobster, which was not procurable, and her longing went
unsatisfied. The child immediately after birth commenced
and kept up a constant feeble, miserable whimpering-not a
real cry-which continued for several days, and nothing the
mother could do would stop it. At last the mother men-
tioned to her husband the fact that she had been longing for
lobster, and suggested that it might be the cause of the
child's whimpering. The husband at once saddled his horse,
rode to a store about ten miles away, and procured a can of
tinned lobster. The mother, when the tin had been opened,
placed a finger in the liquid in the tin and allowed a couple of
drops to fall into the child's mouth. The whimpering imme-
diately ceased and the child throve well.
We could reasonably conclude, a priori, that such cases
were possible and probable, from the fact that the mother
and fretus are one; and that, consequently, the organic
activities in the fretus must be influenced in the same manner
as the organic activities in the mother. The conscious mind
of the mother was influenced by her organic mind in the
definite choice of the particular food she longed for. Only
the organic mind of the mother could know that lobster
contained some necessary elementary or compound mole-
cules that her daily food was deficient in. What the mother
wanted was translated from organic mind into conscious
INFLUENCE OF MIND IN HEREDITY 329
mind as lobster. In common language it would be said that
the mother instinctively felt that she wanted it, but we avoid
that tenn, because it is used so largely to cover ignorance.
The organic mind of the fretus, equally with the rest of the
organic mind in the mother, wanted those particular mole-
cules which were necessary to more satisfactory nourish-
ment ; the organic mind of the child still wanted them,
because the longing of the mother had not been satisfied ;
and, lacking conscious mind (34) through which to interpret
its wants, its organic mind expressed them in a miserable
whimper, which immediately ceased when it got what its
organism required. It is a reasonable result following from a
reasonable cause.
218.-Remarkable influences ofiodine.
A known fact is a sound foundation upon which to theorise,
and there are many facts which point in the direction we
have taken in this matter.
The thyroid glands, situated on each side of " Adam's
apple " in the neck, produce a secretion that has a marvellous
power over growth and development. A failure of this
secretion at birth, due to ·defective glands, results in a re-
tardation of both mental and bodily development and the
evolution of the dwarfed and feeble-minded cretin. We
now know the exact chemical composition of the thyroid
secretion, and we know that it is rich in iodine. If there is
any lack of necessary elements in the blood supply of the
mother and developing child, no part of the body is so likely
to feel that want as the thyroid gland, the secretion from
which has so dominant an influence upon growth and
development. And as the thyroid requires for this dominant
influence an unusual percentage of iodine, we can readily
conceive that a shortage of iodine in the blood supply might
cause ·a longing in the mother for some kind of food rich in
iodine. Although " rich " in iodine relatively, the actual
quantity of iodine in the thyroid secretion is an extremely
·minute quantity. The powerful influences exerted in
biology by infinitesimal quantities are as yet practically a
blank in our knowledge.
Now, sea water is rich in iodine; all iodine comes, directly
330 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
or indirectly, from sea water, from ashes of burnt seaweed, oc
from deposits of salt left by the sea. Lobster is evolved in
sea water, and we know that in the evolution of individual
being, vegetal or animal, any element required for develop-
ment, that is in quantity, sufficient or in excess, in the food,
soil, or medium upon or in which that being evolves, is made
use of fully to the extent required.
Iodine is very likely to be deficient in land grown plants,
and more deficient in some places than others ; and animals
bred on this land, or cereals or vegetables grown upon it,
will have insufficient in their tissues. In such places, dis-
orders of the thyroid are prevalent ; but a deficiency in-
sufficient to produce objective evidence of disease might
affect the organic mind in a prospective mother to the extent
of making her long for some food rich in iodine. We re-
cently read in the press of a town in America where diseases
of the thyroid are unusually prevalent, that the authorities
are placing a minute amount of iodine in the general water
supply of the town (179).
Recent developments in knowledge of facts increasingly
impress upon us the possibility of infinitesimally minute
quantities of substances which may defy quantitative analy-
sis, yet have a profound influence upon living organisms.
It is now recognised as a fact that cretinism is due to a
lack of sufficient iodine in the soil which grows the food eaten
in the districts where cretinism is prevalent. Many in-
stances in pathology could be cited where exceeding minute
quantities causeprofound effects.
Until quite recently the minute quantities of inorganic
salts, such as iodine, manganese, and fluorine, of which only
mere traces are found in living things, were thought to be
accidentally present, but they are now coming to be regarded
as essential. ·
" In fact, the ' chemistry of traces ' both in organic and
inorganic chemistry is assuming a position of the first
importance."-(" Chemistry of grasses," The Times, Aug. 2'].
1927.)
So we may reasonably formulate the theory that in the
case mentioned the mother's longing for lobster was due to a
lack of iodine in her food. The astounding intelligence of
INFLUENCE OF MIND IN HEREDITY 331
organic mind, to which we have so often called the reader's
attention, knew it wanted iodine, and instructed the cons-
cious mind of the mother to ~t lobster (104).
If the longing of a prospective mother for a particular kind
of food can be transferred to the organic mind of the child-
and wehave abundant evidence that this is so, for even in the
smallestvillage you may find some mother who can give first-
hand information regarding the fact-is it not equally
possible that a mother's appreciation in music, poetry,
pictures, history, if actively and pleasantly exercised, may be
transferred to her unborn child, and be the means of ul-
timately leading that child to be a musician, poet, artist, or
historian ? If the influence of conscious mind can operate
upon the organic mind controlling the beat of the heart, the
secretion of the digestive juices, the very'' brain'' of organic
mind in the vasomotor centre-as evidenced in the simple
act of blushing ; and upon weakened health in disease by
auto-suggestion (roo)-can it not also operate upon the
organic mind in embryo or fretus, and cause variation in
development and character of hereditary traits? For, as
Baudouin correctly observes(¢):-
,' There is no radical difference between the action of
suggestion, when its results are purely functional, and its
action when its results are organic."
All activities of mind are phases of movement, whether
they be such as condition a growing organ or such as con-
dition the functions of the developed organ.
219.-Changing hef-editary valfles ; instances of pre--natal
influences.
We see from facts in many directions that hereditary
values must always be changing, or subject to change, right
up to the moment of birth. And even after birth there
is evidence that the ultimate values of hereditary influences
are not definitely fixed ; that they still remain mobile, and
may be strengthened or depressed to some variable extent
from childhood right up to full physical development. For,
so long as basic structure is evolving, immediate mind must
have an influence.
We often hear such remarks as " he grows more like his
332 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
father every day." When this is spoken seriously, it is in
cases where the more immediate influences of the mother are
giving way to more dominant influences from the father.
There are in some cases definite changes in character be-
tween youth and middle age, due to ancestral influences
outcropping as a result of contributing tendencies derived
from immediate parents (200).
Many striking instances of the influence of pre-natal con-
ditions have been published by various writers, and probably
a much larger number have not been so noticed. We shall
mention only five. In the first two cases we have personally
obtained the evidence trom the mothers and have seen the
children. In the third case, the evidence came from a
person who was acquainted with the mother and had seen
the child. The fourth is quoted by Baudouin, in his work
on Auto-Suggestion. The fifth case is from evidence given
at an inquest in England upon a man who had committed
suicide.
Case I.-Mrs. E. I. Godwin, when a young married
woman about two months pregnant, went out one day with
her brother, who wished to get a platypus--omithorhynchus-
to send to a doctor, to whom he had promised a specimen.
By the side of a stream the woman sat down to fish, whilst
her brother went after the platypus. He saw one in a
pool a little above where the woman sat, fired at it, wounded,
but did not kill it. It floated down stream, and the man
jumped in, caught it, and threw it out upon the bank near
where his sister was sitting. The platypus in its struggles
at last sprang fairly into the woman's lap; and she was
terrified lest it should wound her with its sharp spurs,
which are believed to be highly poisonous. The platypus
has a perforated spur connected with a secreting gland on
each side of its hind legs, and it has webbed feet. She was
afraid to touch it on account of its spurs, and it struggled
some time in the hollow of her lap, she looking at it the
while with fearful intensity; till her brother, coming out of
the stream, relieved her of her trouble~
When the woman's child was born its toes and the four
fingers on each hand were webbed together, the thumbs
short of natural length, and a small extra finger was at-
INFLUENCE OF MIND IN HEREDITY 333
tached, like a spur, to the outer finger of each hand. He
had six toes on each foot-two big toes-and the outer big
toe on each foot projected inwards like a spur, so widely
apart from the other toes that he could not get ordinary
boots or shoes on his feet. Up to the time we saw him,
when about sixteen years old, he had never worn boots.
There were gaps a little more than an inch across between
the extremities of his two big toes and the two second ones.
Case 2.-Mrs. Bancroft, when about five months preg-
nant, saw an Angora goat eating young fruit trees which
her husband had planted, and wishing to save the trees,
she approached to drive him away, but the goat charged
at her. She caught him by the horns, and a severe struggle
ensued; eventually she managed to secure him with the
lash of a stockwhip, and fastened him to a stump. By this
time Mrs. Bancroft was nearly exhausted, and commenced
to wring her hands-probably verging on the hysterical.
The boy that was afterwards hom had a deformed left
hand. Development of the hand is normal as far as the
knuckles ; these are absent, and the tips of the fingers are
on the part where the knuckles should be, each tip being
about the size of a garden pea. The boy is bright and
otherwise normal.
Case 3.-Mrs. Fred. Wells, newly married, and whose
husband was a butcher, sometimes went to see him when
at work. One day when he was dressing a sheep, and his
wife was near and behind him, he threw the sheep's II pluck "
over his shoulder, towards a corner where he usually threw
the offal. The II pluck " struck the wife behind the head
and neck. She uttered a horrified scream as the thing fell
down at her feet, and looked at it as if fascinated. The
child when born had a mass of loose fleshy tissue attached
to the back of its head and neck ; the mass used to hang
over the mother's arm as she nursed it. The child lived
about two years and was apparently idiotic.
Case 4.-Recorded by Artault ; quoted by Baudouin.
II During the second month of her pregnancy a young
woman was visited by a friend of her husband. She
had never seen the man before (your readers are so scepti-
cal, that I must be precise on this point). She was·
334 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
greatly struck by a malformation of the nail in his left
forefinger. The nail was thick and curved, so that it
was like a lion's claw. The deformity was the sequel of
an ordinary accident, in which the terminal phalanx
of the forefinger had been crushed. The young woman's
mind became obsessed by this deformity. The friend
was staying in the neighbourhood for several months,
and every time he came to dinner the expectant mother
was unable to take her eyes off the finger, for she was terri-
fied lest her child should be born with a similar finger
nail. She was haunted by the fear to such an extent,
that her husband in the end begged his friend to wear
a glove when his wife was present. But, alas, the im-
pression on the fretus had already been made, and when
the baby was born at term (once more I am precise),
the left index finger had a claw like that of the unlucky
visitor.
" The child was a girl, whom I see very often. When-
ever I look at her clawed finger, I compare it mentally
with that of the model, whom I have also seen. Before
the experimental certainty of this instance of maternal
impressions, which is on quite a different plane from
old wives' tales of birth-marks, I smile at systematised
incredulity. I am unable to explain the occurrence, but
I record it."
Case 5.-From evidence at an inquest-we quote from
memory-an English soldier during the great war was
wounded severely in the back, injuring the spine. After he
recovered a scarred depression that might be termed a
" hole " was left in his back, also some spinal weakness. A
daughter was afterwards born to him, who had an exactly
similar depression in the same place, also a serious weakness
there. The trouble caused by this affliction of his daughter,
and probably other troubles, caused the man to take his
own life. This case is unique, in that it evidences the
possibility of the father having in his own person a means of
pre-determining to some extent abnormality in the character
of his offspring.
In case No. 4 it is reasonably certain that it was the
unusual attention which the mother paid to the deformity
INFLUENCE OF MIND IN HEREDITY 335
on the finger that caused the same deformity to appear on
the child. She looked at it too much, and thought about it
too much. Under similar circumstances many mothers
would have caused no malformation on the child.
Because many prospective mothers see unusual sights, and
no related pre-natal effects are seen on the children, is no
argument that such things do not occur sometimes. The
mother must be either peculiarly susceptible to such in-
fluences or she must purposely look long, earnestly and
often; also think much about it, in order to make pre-natal
influence become apparent.
220.-Coincidences i Identical twins and ordinary twins.
To say that such instances, connecting malformations
with pre-natal influences, are coincidences is not reasonable.
They cannot be admitted as such by the law of probabilities.
Yet L. Doncaster (207) thus sums the authoritative attitude :
" In the light ofrecent research, the beliefin bodily marks
or malformations being due to corresponding injury to
mother, or to her attention being strongly attracted to that
pari, is almost certainly based upon coincidence."
We see by the evidence in the above cases, and in many
other authentic cases recorded by various writers that pre-
natal influence affecting parents is an important and power-
ful factor in determining the character of offspring. It
cannot be other than this influence which causes the wide
differences in the character of children born of the same two
parents (2rr). We see evidence of the correctness of this
conclusion also in the notable difference there is in the
character between identical twins and ordinary twins.
Identical twins are so much alike that acquaintances and
friends sometimes cannot distinguish one from the other ;
only the mother can do this with certainty. Ordinary twins
vary as much in character as children born singly-or
nearly so. They may differin sex and differ widely in mental
and physical character. We are personally acquainted with
twins, one of them a well-built man, six feet five inches in
height; the other, a sister, a small woman below the average
in height and weight I
The similarity of identical twins and the dissimi1ar
336 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
character of ordinary twins is explained as follows : Identi-
cal twins evolve from a single ovum, fertilised by a single
spermatozoon. At the first division of the fertilised ovum
the two cells, instead of remaining together and forming one
embryo, as is usual, separate, and each of them is evolvedinto
an embryo. Thus both of the identical twins are evolved
from the same identical ovum and the same identical spenna-
tozoon, and they cannot be other than identical in mental
and physical character, excepting in such minute differences
as enables the mother to distinguish one from the other.
These minute differences are accounted for by the fact that
the two embryos cannot possibly occupy the same place
at one time in the uterus ; and these differences in position
make some slight differences in the process of development-
possibly by slight differences in local pressure affecting
circulation.
In the case of ordinary twins, two ova are fertilised by
two spennatozoa, and as the male in sexual intercourse
discharges millions of them, it is very unlikely that the two
were evolved in the male at the same time. He may have
been engaged, mentally and physically, in quite a different
manner when one was evolved than he was when the other
was evolved. And in any case, there must have been some
difference, for constant change is a fundamental attribute of
living things. The hereditary qualities of the two sperm
would consequently differ, and cause that difference to the
extent of their dominant potency in the mental and physical
character of the twins, making them vary as do children born
singly.
The mother, too, discharges many ova each month prior to
conception, and these, too, vary in hereditary values with
the variations in the immediate conditions that operated on
the mother when they were developing or ripening. And
thus arise the differences in mental and physical character
of ordinary twins; they vary as widely as children born
singly, because they evolve from differing ova and sperm, as
do children born singly. And identical twins are identical
because they both evolve from the one ovum and the one
sperm, and thus are impressed with the same hereditary
values.
INFLUENCE OF MIND IN HEREDITY 337
We thus see that the immediate manner of life of father
and mother when ova and sperm are evolving has a pre-
natal influence upon offspring of a value and range that far
exceeds anything that may be impressed upon them after
birth. And we are led to think that the first fourteen years
of a girl's life, when the two hundred thousand ova that she
was born with are being culled out after the manner of the
survival of the fittest, until only about seventy thousand
are left at puberty, must be an important period in relation
to the effect of pre-natal influences possible to the future
mother.
There are thousands of mothers to-day who can see in one
of their children some effects of an unhappy period that
affected them before those children were born. And any
intelligent observer of the children of families may often see
and determine from the expression and behaviour of a child
that the mother was unhappy when bearing it.
22I.-Varying physical conditions must evolve varying resuUs.
Similar forces acting upon similar things produce similar
results. This is as absolutely true as any mathematical
equation. And in the study of any problem in heredity, if
we start with a full recognition of this truth, and at once
refer differences in hereditary effect to constantly varying
mental and physical conditions in parents, we sh~ arrive at
the truth without introducing a multiplicity of useless
hypotheses regarding the functions of chromosomes. If
we consider the results in the development and ripening of
fruit upon a tree or a vine, we see, and we can taste, that the
fruit are not all alike. But we know that the conditions
operating are not alike for each fruit. There are differences
in the amount of sunlight they receive, differences in the
circulation of air about them. The roots that supply the
sap to one part of the tree may be in a richer patch of earth,
or earth of a different physical character than other roots.
In some cases quite distinct flavours can be detected in
fruit from the same vine. But it is quite certain that tf an
entire tree or vine with similar parts could be kept in similar
conditions during fruit bearing, we should not be -able to
distinguish one fruit from another. And if any two parents
w
338 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
could possibly keep themselves in the same mental and
physical conditions during the reproductive period, the
children from those parents would resemble each other as
closely as identical twins.
The more complex the structure and functions of a living
being, the more variation is possible as a result of immediate
influences. The variations in character of the same quite
normal person are much greater than we are aware of from
day to day, or even from hour to b.our. We can see differen-
ces in immediate temperament, such as between bad and
good humour, quiet or lively, lazy or energetic, but everyone
hides as much as possible the subjective experiences that
would lower one in the estimation of others. Dual personali-
ties, unknown to each other, may occur in the one individual,
and even multiple personalities are possible (235). These
distinct personalities in the one individual are due to some
temporary difference in structure-usually pathological-
and consequent differences in function of cerebral neurones.
A man drunk has a different personality from the same man
sober, more or less distinct, for it is a common experience
for the sober man to have no knowledge of the things he
did when drunk. The cause in such cases is quite evident-
it is the introduction of alcohol molecules into the brain
neurones, causing difference in structure and consequent
difference in function.
However moral a man may be, his thoughts may at times
take a direction such as he would not on any account dis-
close to his friends. Whilst he is in that mood, that mood is
an active factor in his immediate character, and that factor
may be impressed upon a germ then evolving, and carried
onwards as a hereditary trait. At another time, his thoughts
may take a direction and a tone such as he would enjoy
recounting to his friends, and this mood is then a factor in
his immediate character, and may be impressed upon an
evolving germ.
If both these genns fertilised two ova at the same time,
two ordinary twins would result, who would differ in
characteras widely as the two differing moocls-if the father's
hereditary traits at this time were dominant. Or if each
Qne of such two germs fertilise each an ovum, giving single
INFLUENCE OF MIND IN HEREDITY 339
births a year or two apart, under like conditions of potency,
the two children will differ mentally in the same manner.
This gives us the rationale of the wide difference sometimes
seen between the character of a child and either of its parents
which makes one wonder how such parents could have such a
child. It is the result of a mental mood in one of the parents
such as is not detectable in any manner of outward beha-
VIour.
222.-Variations in.offspring must have a cause. Manitoba
wheat.
The cases of departure from normal, such as we have
instanced (219), and all other such departures must have
been caused by pre-natal influences unless we ~dmit the
unthinkable possibility that an effect can be produced with-
out a cause. We are bound to admit that abnormalities
are due to some cause. Will any disciple of Weismann
kindly inform us what other rational cause there could be,
other than a pre-natal one? Abnormalities are developed
before birth-not after it-therefore the influences deter-
mining them must be pre-natal ; and they cannot operate
otherwise than through the medium of the parents. When
the unusual or abnormal appear in any other connection
than in heredity, do we not look for a cause in the condi-
tions that preceded their appearance? If there is a varia-
tion, or abnormality, in a child at birth, what more reason-
able than to attribute it to some unusual or abnormal
parental condition or experience? We have such abundant
evidence of the constant influence of conscious mind upon
organic mind that we cannot think it to be ineffective during
gestation. So strong is this influence that purely mental
effects upon the mother may cause the death of the child
by premature birth. We cannot find any rational explana-
tion in any other direction. The idea that something physi-
cal in the chromosomes determines the character of the
individual is simply absurd.
Mantitoba wheat is famous for its high percentage of
gluten. Bakers will pay a higher price for it because they
can make more bread from it than from an equal quantity
340 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
of any other kind of flour. It has come into existence by
growing ordinary wheat upon soils rich in nitrogen. Plant
it in soil poor in nitrogen, and its high percentage of gluten
will gradually disappear. Changed environment changes the
plant; the plant changes its germs.
223.-Environment; internal and external.
Food is internal environment in relation to living things,
just as air is external environment. The external skin is
perfectly continuous with the internal mucus membrane
which covers the internal channel of the nutritive track;
both are structured of epithelial cells. The food passing
through it is not a part of the body; it is practically the
environment of the internal mucus membrane, just as air is
the environment of the external skin. The internal surface
is in constant mutual action with the food we ingest, just as
the external surface is in constant mutual action with the air
it is in contact with. Organic mind in living processes can
only operate upon the material that is immediately available
to the organism; and the character of the contents of the
digestive track is the character of the material that is
immediately available for living functions-the internal
environment which is absorbed into and becomes an actual
part of the living being.
Feed a dog that has been accustomed to vegetable food
on raw meat, and you alter the functions of both its organic
and its conscious mind-it becomes more savage. Every-
where throughout the world of living things we find that
alterations in the conditions under which they live alter
in some way the functions and character of them. And
any alteration of function in any living thing must perforce
carry with it some modification of the germs or ova that are
being developed in that living thing; and the character of the
individual developed from them must likewise be modified.
In the evolution of hereditary qualities the organic mind
of the individual that is being evolved is perforce obliged
to work upon the material presented to it, and be influenced
by the mind of the parent from which it is evolving. And as
variations in food provide a constantly changing energy
environment, as influences operate upon parents in all sorts
INFLUENCE OF MIND IN HEREDITY 341
of conceivable and inconceivable ways affecting nutrition,
and as the unceasing effects of the ever varying conscious
mind of parents are always operating upon organic mind,
there must arise at times, as a result of rare combinations of
influencing factors, i:Gdividuals, on the one hand, much
superior or inferior intellectually to ancestral type, or, on
the other hand, of superior physique or grotesquely debased.
Thus arise infant prodigies, idiots, geniuses, two-headed
calves, armless men, pig-headed ladies, Siamese twins, and
so on.
224.-Multiplication of the unfit ; Eugenists ; selective
!weeding.
In seeking to develop happier conditions for the human
race it is not necessary to strive after anything which does
not now exist in human character. It will be sufficient to
eliminate that which is bad and hold to the good which
already exists. And, above all, it is necessary to put some
check upon the multiplication of the unfit. This, more than
any other factor, is the cause of so much misery in the
world. Good men and good women, bad men and bad
women, are existing facts; it is not necessary to create any-
thing new. It is not necessary to know whether chromo-
somes are structures of " determinants " or not ; for such
knowledge would be useless if acquired-we should still
require the knowledge of that which determines the deter-
minants. We only require the conviction that character
of germ and ovum may be modified pie-natally and act upon
that knowledge. That this is so is admitted by all seekers
after a material basis-even by Weismann-by the admis-
sion of the fact of germinal variation I
Our reference to the question of the multiplication of the
unfit brings us into touch with the efforts of eugenists.
But however laudable the intentions of these good people,
who are trying to improve the race by selective breeding, we
cannot shut our eyes to the fact that they cannot reach the
desired effect by the means they advocate. The means are
not practicable, and do not cover the necessities, even if
they were so. They postulate that permanent progress is a
question of breeding, not of pedagogics or of training ; that
3~2 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
no degenerate or feeble stock will ever be converted into
sound and healthy stock by the accumulated effects of
education, good laws and sanitary surroundings ; that
whatever environment may do for the individual, its effects
are not embodied as part and parcel of the heritage of the
progeny ; that we cannot elevate the character of progeny
by these influences upon parents; and they proposed to do
so by selective breeding.
It is very evident that the conclusions we have already
arrived at do not harmonise with the postulates of the euge-
nists thus laid down, which are undoubtedly based upon
conclusions drawn from observations, statistics and experi-
ments that did not touch the real nature of the influences at
work which cause variation in progeny. Did these good
people never know of a debased moral character in the
progeny of moral parents ? Are they of opinion that one of
Shakespeare's immediate ancestors had equal poetic genius?
Can they be aware that children from the same two parents
widely differ ? The good child in a family of degenerate
children; the bad child in a family of good children, the
genius or the idiot in a family of ordinary children, the
dwarfs, giants and monstrosities the progeny of normal
parents-did these arise from selective breeding ?
225.-The "dregs" ofsociety. How shall we define tMm?
There is one phase of eugenics which appeals at once to
our sense of the fitness of things and about which there would
seem to be no question regarding the advisability of bringing
it into operation, no matter what views one may have upon
the subject of heredity. It is that the dregs of society
should be prevented from propagating their kind. The
only trouble about this preventative method arises in the
difficulty of defining the " dregs."
Professor Thomson, a eugenic authority, lays down the
following eugenic rules :
"That the best general constitutions should be mated,
is the first rule ofgood breeding.
That a markedly good constitution should not be
paired with a markedly bad one, is a second rule, a dis-
regard of which means wanton wastage.
INFLUENCE OF MIND IN HEREDITY 343
A third rule is that a person exhibiting a bias towards
a certain specific disease should not marry another with
the same bias."
These rules are admirable enough as regards physical
conditions, but how can they be made operative ? It is
impossible that laws could be enacted that would be prac-
tically operative in preventing such persons from marrying ;
and the sex impulse is so irresistible that constitutional
character or tendencies will not, when outward form and
mental character harmonise, prevent young persons from
marrying. Such rules might influence exceptionally cold
blooded, cautious and far-seeing young folks, but these
exGeptions would be rare. And even so, such pairing
would not be desirable. We do not love such cold, calculat-
ing creatures. They do not tend to happiness, as do the
wann-hearted.
Despite the undoubted harm which results from injudi-
cious mating it appears that selective breeding offers a much
narrower scope for improvement in the human race than is
presented by making it physically impossible for the con-
firmed criminal and the morally unfit to propagate their
kind, added to the good results that must follow a general
knowledge of the possibilities of yet unknown extent 'that
are available in pre-natal influences.
It must be noted that Professor Thomson•s first rule of
good breeding says not a word about moral and intellectual
character ; yet it is a very open question whether these
qualities should not be regarded as more important than
physical qualities.
226.-Projessor Dubois ; the moraUy insam ,· the Kaise' ,·
Napoleon I.
As Professor Dubois so well puts it (Influence ofMind upon
the Body):
., Much more often than we think, the most brilliant
gifts of intelligence are united to a total absence of moral
sense. The morally insane, or rather the morally deficient
is a real type. He can dominate by the brightness of his
cold intelligence, by his indomitable energy, by his imper-
turbable sangfroid ; but his intelligence is partial, frag-
344 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
menta.
ry, it will not allow him to see the difference between
good and evil. In spite of all education, these notions are
strange to him. As there are persons entirely destitute of
all musical feeling, for whom music is only a most dis-
agreeable noise, there are also beings who have never felt
the impulse of goodness, whose heart has never beaten
with a noble idea."
It is just this type of man, whose moral deficiencies exhibit
themselves as an intense selfishness, who mostly succeeds
in that struggle to "get on'' in the world, which marks
industrial and professional competition. They care not a jot
as to the means or the methods they use to rise ; they do
things which more conscientious men would not do; they
have no scruple whatever about the misery they cause to
others; they have the keen intelligence which keeps them
within the letter of the law and outside the prison walls,
whilst doing deeds causing more misery and suffering to
others than is caused by thousands of others of less intelli-
gence, who break the law and suffer ignominy in prison.
Persons with such moral deficiencies may not show evidences
of it in their features, or in social behaviour, and eugenists
would select such men because of their physical vigour, as
well suited for the propagation of their damnable species !
We had personal knowledge of one such notable character
-that of a man who rose to be the highest legal authority in
his country, yet who did things in his progress upwards that
would be equal to anything done by a burglar or a garrotter.
A man of good physique-physically fit for " selection "
for breeding purposes, who was prominent in the civic life of
the colonies, was recently convicted of bribery and corrup-
tion. The president at the commission of inquiry into the
case-Mr. Lamb, K.C.-in delivering judgment, said :
" The evidence discloses that Alderman Walker is a man
with no regard for the sanctity of an oath, atul is entirely
without scruple in money matters."
Such men should not be allowed to propagate their
kind after their character becomes known. Selection for
that purpose by eugenists would have an opposite effect to
that which is desired.
Take the case of the man who some years ago loomed more
INFLUENCE OF MIND IN HEREDITY 345
largely in the world's eye than any other man-the late
Kaiser of Germany. Would such a man~onsidering him
to be physically sound-possessed as he was of such dominant
selfishness, vanity and aggressiveness-would eugenists
account him as being amongst the "dregs of society" and
unfit to propagate his species? Would they place Napoleon
the First amongst the" dregs," who, when his attention was
called by Count Metternich to the waste of human life caused
by his wars, exclaimed: "Human life be damned, what's
human life to me ?"
227.-Metchnikoff; inadequacy of eugenics.
Take another instance, more subtle, but reasonably
debatable. Professor Metchnikoff, speaking "ex cathedra,"
as the world's greatest authority, from his position as
director of the Pasteur Institute, states in his work on
Human Nature, that in order to retain health we "should
not eat any raw fruits or vegetables !" If we estimate a man's
unfitness to propagate his kind by the amount of harm he
does in the world, we may fairly question whether Metchni-
koff should have been allowed to do so after publishing the
above statement. For we cannot estimate the amount of
disease and suffering that must have resulted. directly or
indirectly, from that authoritative utterance, coming from
the highest living authority (?) on bacteria.
On the other hand, there are many who have lived, and
many now living, although physically unfit, from the
eugenists' view-point, whose lives have been, and whose
lives to-day are, a benefit to their kind. Should we not
allow such to marry, and by means of pre-natal influences
and physical therapy learn how to train their constitutional
weakness into constitutional health?
The present aims of eugenists do not reach far enough in
the form they have been presented to us; but we have
reason to hope that their worthy efforts may be modified, so
that good and definite results may follow them. It is very
probable that moral and intellectual qualities may be found
more important in heredity than physical qualities. It is
certain that moral and intellectual strength will be more
effective in the influence that conscious mind may exert
3~6 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
upon the operations of organic mind, with intent to cancel
any physical weakness; and the practical results might
very reasonably have greater value than could be achievect
by the limited practicability of selective breeding.
228.-Heredita'Y tende11eies must be govemetl by natural
law.
Hereditary character is the average of the results of all
influences that have impressed themselves upon ancestors;
and as the average influences operating continue from genera-
tion to generation indefinitely, with but infinitely small
difference in value, so generation after generation of indi-
viduals evolve that have no perceptible difference in average
character. Hum.an nature is the same to-day as it was
thousands of years ago. Yet probably no individual comes
into existence that has not some tendency to variation, due
to immediate pre-natal influence. It requires something
forcibly unusual, or less forcible, but prolonged effect upon
immediate influence, before the deeply rooted hereditary
tendencies impressed by many generations can be altered in
a manner that is notable. But when some quite unusual
influence does so operate--as often happens by accident or
otherwise-we are told by authorities (?) that this distinctive
departure from ordinary hereditary character is a coinci-
dence I and not the result of the immediate pre-natal in-
fluence to which it may reasonably be referred. This con-
clusion is really absurd, when we consider the great number ·
of cases where some unusual trait in a child can be traced to
a known unusual cause that operated during gestation.
Every observant and experienced mother has knowledge,
direct or indirect, of such cases ; and to class them all as
coincidences, because certain futile inquiries have been made,
such as we have mentioned above (207), and erroneous·con-
clusions drawn from them by persons evidently quite astray
regarding the true nature of hereditary genesis, is decidedly
moving in the wrong direction. For even if one case only
out of a large number of departures from average ancestral
influences that have occurred and are constantly occurring,
can be determined to be due to immediate pre-natal in-
INFLUENCE OF MIND IN HEREDITY 347
fluence, then such influence is a proven fact, no matter how
many coincidences (?) occur.
W.e cannot do other than regard it as a fixed law in nature
that all variations in hereditary character are impressed
upon the influences of ancestral values by the immediate
influences upon sperm and ovum from the moment the first
two molecules in their structure come together; and upon
embryo and fretus during every moment of their progress in
evolution. Nothing can be more certain than that condi-
tions in the parents influence the character of their progeny.
As we have already pointed out, the varying character of
children born of the same two parents is irrefutable evidence
of the influence of pre-natal conditions upon hereditary
character.
22g.-Possible happier conditions for future generations.
The knowledge that organic mind is inviolably continuous
with conscious mind, that no impression can be made upon
any part of an individual without its having an influence
upon both conscious and organic mind, that organic mind is
the genetic factor in the evolution of all organised beings,
and that parents can exercise an influence of inestimable
value through the influence of conscious mind upon the
organic mind of children yet unborn, clearly shows the way
to the evolution of possibly happier conditions for future
generations.
Instead of being pessimistic regarding the non-value in
heredity of mere routine education, we have reason to be
grandly optimistic regarding the value of the pre-natal
influence of conscious mind. We must acquire a wider
knowledge of the conditions that determine its influence
upon organic mind, and make use of it with understanding.
CHAPTER XIV
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM
230.-Individual " spirit " cannot exist after death of the
individual.
The belief that spirits of the dead exist and are somewhere
moving about in space ; that they can communicate with,
counsel and direct the living, and impart a knowledge of
conditions of existence in another ~~sphere," is but a con-
tinuation into modem life of the beliefs or the superstitions
of ancient and prehistoric man. And the very wide and
popular continuance of such belief down to the present day
arises from the fact that man has not advanced in " intel-
lectual grip" in any perceptible degree beyond that enjoyed
by the ancients of thousands of years ago. We give good
reasons for this statement in the following chapter.
Average intelligence is to-day-as it always has been-
of a much lower value than is commonly believed, and as
one is led to imagine from the utterances of those anthro-
pocentric writers and orators who are so popular with the
multitude. Their estimates of man's intelligence are
greedily absorbed-they are a subtle and satisfying form of
flattery, a mutual self-admiration. The average man is
thus easily led into the error of believing himself vastly
superior in intelligence to the people of ancient times. He
is also led astray by the mistake, so easily made, of confusing
~~ knowledge" with~~ intellectu-al grip," which is" inborn, and
cannot be taught." The average man to-day, when con-
fronted with phenomena he cannot comprehend, will as
readily refer the cause to " spirits " as did his ancestors
thousands of years ago. It is true that we do not now refer
thunder and lightning to the activities of spirits or demons;
but that is because of slowly acquired extension of knowledge
-not because of greater intellectual capacity; the extreme
348
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM 349
slowness of this acquisition of knowledge is well illustrated
by the fact that it has taken man more than two thousand
years to acquire the knowledge of facts he possesses to-day
regarding the immediate nature of electricity.
We have seen that mind is continuous and conserved, just
as matter and energy are ; that mind is coeval with and
inseparable from matter and energy ; that mind cannot be
created or destroyed in the same sense that energy cannot
be created or destroyed ; that mind is a mode of energy, and
is correlated with other modes of energy-convertible, as
other energies are, into any form that energy is capable of
assumtng.
We have seen that mind in the individual being-mind,
or spirit, or soul, call it what you will-is evolved from those
immense co-operative communities of millions of millions of
living units-cells-which we term man or animal; and
that it cannot possibly continue to exist when those com-
munities are dispersed and cease to co-operate as a result
of the conditions which follow those changes which we term
death (70).
Death of the living being results in the dispersion of the
molecular mind units whose co-operative activities con-
ditioned the individual conscious and organic mind of that
living being. The total of the mind units that existed in
that being still exist in the scattered remnants of its struc-
ture; but they have ceased those elaborate and complex
co-operative functions which alone condition the existence
of every living thing and every expression of mind in that
living thing. Each remnant unit still retains the same
mind powers undiminished that previously operated in
the mind of the individual during its presence in the orga-
nism, and it is now available to join again into co-operative
activity with other units in any other living thing that is
being evolved.
23~.-Immortal mind in the atom.
The only mind that has continued existence, and which
survives the living organic being, is the mind of the smallest
irreducible entity of substance that man has a sufficient
knowledge of to warrant its use as a basis in organic evolu-
350 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
tion-the atom. The atom cannot be destroyed or changed
in any manner whatever, by any force or means at the
command of man ; therefore, whatever be the value of mind
energy attached to the unit, it lives continuously through the
ages, remaining the same through all possible changes in
environment. We cannot differentiate between an atom-
or molecule-of hydrogen taken from a living being, from
that taken from a meteorite, or from the depths of a coal
mine. The breaking down in radio-activity of the three
heaviest known atoms: uranium, thorium and radium,
neither of which enter into the necessary structure of living
things, is evidently a faint survival of the general nature of
activities in a long past order of nature, widely differing
from the present ; and the ultimate cause of tllls constantly
changing order of nature is involved in the unfathomable
first cause.
But the compound mind of a compound body. as found
in living things-man, animal or plant-is quite a diflerent
matter to a basic elemental unit of mind. It is quite
evident that the flow of mind energy resulting from the
co-operative activities of a highly complex organisation
cannot continue to flow (70), and must cease to exist as a
complex individual mind effect when the co-operative
structures which condition it cease to act in co-operative
association and are scattered abroad. And if it ceases to
exist, it is evident that it cannot be even a spirit or a ghost.
If we scrap a battleship, take it all to pieces, and disperse
it as so ~uch steel plate, copper tubing, brass fittings,
engines, boilers, and other things, we cannot, after the ship
has been so reduced to its structural units) say that the
ghost or spirit of the material battleship still exists ; we
cannot say that those dispersed structural writs still func-
tion as does a battleship. But they still function as units,
exactly as they did before the battleship came into existence,
and they are available to enter into the structure of anothe ·
ship, or any other structure that is in course of being
evolved.
And it is precisely the same with a complex living organ-
ii.ID. Its individual mind functions are only made possible
by its complex structure. When the organism dies and is
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM 351
"scrapped" into its structural units, its complex individual
mind has passed out of existence, although. as in the case
of the " scrapped" battleship, the structural units that
conditioned the organism still exist. We have no more
reason to conclude that a dead person has a spirit than to
conclude that a broken up battleship has a spirit.
The conditions which accompany the evolution and
devolution of the individual, as outlined in our eighth
chapter, exclude the possibility that there can be any
"spirit" of an individual organism existing after that
individual organism ceases to exist ; and we may without
further argument conclude that, whatever may happen under
any circumstances at spiritualistic seances or anywhere
else, nothing can be put down to the agency of spirits of the
dead ; and as there cannot be anything supernatural, it
. must therefore be possible to co-ordinate all authentic
phenomena to the agency or influence of the living and to
actual forces in nature.
232.-Subjective evidence valueless.
In entering upon a study of psychic phenomena-or so-
called spiritualism-we must draw attention to the fact that
.the vast amount of matter published regarding subjective
evidence obtained at seances and from other sources, and
which is believed by so many to be proof of supernatural
influence, is so closely related to phenomena that occur
naturally, under conditions that cannot be differentiated
from the normal, and to well-known phenomena that occur
in certain pathological conditions, that such subjective
evidence becomes valueless as a proof of actuality.
For even in the normal condition of sleep there are psychic
phenomena as truly marvellous and incomprehensible as
any subjective experiences of a medium during a seance.
We are so habitually familiar with these phenomena, that
the deep mystery in them has ceased to impress the mind.
And, from the normal conditions during sleep to talking in
one's sleep, which is slightly abnormal, to walking and
doing things during sleep, somnambulism, which is to a
greater degree abnormal, and so on to the hypnotic and the
trance conditions, there is a perfect continuity in essential
352 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
nature. All such phenomena must be classed as manifesta-
tions of but differing phases of the same genetic factor, i.e.
variation in mind function, organic and conscious.
It would consequently serve no purpose to enter into much
detail regarding the mass of subjective evidences obtained
at " seances " or " sittings." The conviction of so many,
that such evidence indicates a supernatural power, or that
the phenomena must be due to spirits, is mainly due to a
lack of knowledge or of a true relative value regarding what
is already known of the psychic possibilities in normal
conditions and in abnormal pathologic conditions, where
there is no question of interference by the supernatural
And we need but briefly refer to some of the phenomena
that occur naturally, under both normal and abnormal
conditions, to convince anyone who approaches the subject
with appropriate mental detachment, that the subjective
evidences (?) of activities of the supernatural at seances are
practically valueless as evidences of anything beyond
natural phenomena.
233.-Dreams forgotten may appear as actual experiences.
Apparently normal persons are sometimes unable to dis-
tinguish a dream from an actual occurrence. Sleeping and
dreaming are normal conditions; when we sleep, we always
dream; but often we do not remember when we awake that
we have dreamt (194). We may dream and not know it,
yet afterwards believe that the incidents in the dream were
actual events of our waking hours. We can vouch for the
following two instances, and, as the matter is important, we
give full details.
A person we are well acquainted with-sensible, practical,
and a good business man-bought from the Forestry Depart-
ment of New South ·Wales all the cedar standing and fallen
upon a reserve of about six square miles in area. Timber
had been fallen and drawn to saw mills for many years off
this area ; our friend and others knew its features well, and
it was intersected in all directions with timber truck tracks.
He walked through and about it for weeks, locating standing
cedar trees and fallen cedar logs. One day(?) he came upon
a splendid log about three feet in diameter, which had been
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM 353
cut into four lengths of twelve feet each, ready to be drawn
out by a bullock team. They lay on the level fiat of a
depression, which opened out from a well-worn track, near a
spot well known to all timber getters. He told several
persons about his find, and wondered greatly how it came
about that it should have been left there in a place so easy to
draw away from, as the value of the logs on the spot was
about thirty pounds.
When his teams came on to the reserve to draw the timber
away, he told one of the drivers to go to this spot and haul
away the four logs. The man went, but returned saying no
such logs were there-or ever had been-for there was no
stump anywhere near from which such a tree couldhavebeen
cut. Our friend thought the man must have gone to the
wrong place, so he simply said : " Come along, I'll show you
where they are." But when he got to the place where he
believed he had seen the logs, no logs were there, and it was
very evident no such logs had ever been there.
Our friend frankly confessed to us afterwards that he
must have dreamt he had seen them-that was the only way
he could explain the matter. He had remembered as an
actual waking experience that which had occurred in a
dream that was forgotten.
When speaking of it afterwards, he said he would have
taken an oath upon the Bible that he really had seen those
logs, and that the logs were there. And it is quite evident
that if in that dream he had seen a person who had been
dead for years-which is very usual in dreams-he would
have been equally convinced he had seen a spirit, and
nothing could have altered that belief-because it could
not possibly have been proved that he had not seen a spirit.
In this case the delusion was easily and most certainly
proven ; but there must be many such cases where the
character of the dreams afford no means of determining that
they are not realities.
The above incident was much discussed locally, and in the
course of conversation led to a confession from a well-to-do
farmer, who owns about twelve hundred acres, that he had
seen (?) a cow of his stuck fast in a boggy place and sent a
hired man to help it out, but the man came back and said he
X
354 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
had seen the cow grazing as usual and quite clean about the
legs; that it had never been in the bog, for there were no
marks or tracks showing that any of the cattle had been
stuck. The farmer could not understand how this could be,
so he went and examined the place where he had seen the
cow bogged, and went also to where the cow was grazing,
and examined it. And he was forced to conclude that he
must have only dreamt he saw the cow bogged.
It is but rarely that such forgotten dreams as are after-
wards thought to be actual waking experiences can be jwoveft
to have been but dreams. In every case where a forgotten
dream of a dead person is afterwards remembered as though
it was an actual waking experience, there is no possibility of
proving it was not actual. And it is very probable that such
illusions occur much more frequently than we are aware.
There is in common use the scornful and derisive expression :
"You must have dreamt it," which deters one from making
such experiences known. And we have no doubt that there
are persons so constituted that they frequently consider as
an actual event in their waking hours that which they have
dreamt in sleep, or in some degree of hypnosis; and thus
innocently acquire a notorious character for untruthfulness.
or, as is more probable, fame as a medium.
Within our own experience we can call to mind two young
girls who became notorious amongst their acquaintances
because of their frequent untruthful statements regarding
persons and incidents. One of these girls was a full cousin
to the writer; ~e other in no m.
anner related. There was
usually no apparent reason for these statements, no evident
intention or purpose to be served ; and, considering these
two cases after the lapse of many years and under the light
of our wider knowledge of psychic conditions, we now feel
convinced that both these girls were abnonnal in mind
activities, and not infrequently were unable to distinguish a
dream from a waking experience--a condition indicated by
Irish people by the term" Aisling "-waking vision.
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM 35S
234.-lnjinitely varying conditions between sleeping and
fiJaking.
Another point we must consider is, that between sleeping
and waking there are an infinite number of degrees of con-
sciousness, so that persons may be actually dreaming, when
to an observer they are apparently awake. Even in sleep
there is always a modicum of consciousness; and in mere
drowsiness thereis a modicum ofsleep and dreaminess.
The conditions of normal sleepers when dreaming, of
somnambulists and of mediums in hypnotic or in trance
conditions, are all of the same essential nature, i.e. variations
in the relative degrees of conscious mind and organic mind
affecting differing centres of activity. The reader here must
not forget that organic mind has a consciousness of its own,
of which we remain unconscious (94). In any mental centre
where consciousness is below normal, organic mind is domi-
nant and abnormal ; where conscious mind is full, organic
mind ceases to be dominant.
The average medium may be regarded as one who is
dreaming. Such persons have a sufficient consciousness for
the character of their performances, and their dreams are
influenced in character by minctradiations from persons pre-
sent (83). If it were possible to speak of volume in regard
to mind, we should say that the organic mind in the organism
has greater volume than conscious mind. Since every
particle of living tissue has appropriate organic mind,
whether it be of man, animal or plant, it is quite evident
that an elephant, for instance, has a much larger volume
of organic mind than a man; and as its brain is smaller
than that of a man, it has a lessvolume or range of conscious
mind. Einstein has demonstrated mathematically that the
mass-or weight-of a body is the measure of its energy
content. And as we have many reasons for believing that
it is organic mind which influences the conscious mind in
obscure and startling psychic phenomena, we have thus a
means of explaining why animals sometimes figure as being
cognisant of supernatural (?) phenomena, and referred to as
proof of its occurrence.
The organic mind, radiated by the circle of sitters at a
seance, influences the organic mind of the medium ; and
356 KIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
since conscious mind is evo'ved from the activities of
organic mind, thoughts and conceptions arise in the mind of
the medium that really originate in some person or persons
about her.
As there must be a complexity of radiating influences from
a number of sitters, the utterances of the medium are often
broken and disjointed, so that it is impossible to make any
sense of them. But when one person present happens to be
sufficiently dominant in influence above the others, we get
clear and coherent results, and it becomes possible for
mediums, at times, to make a clear statement of facts or
incidents they know nothing whatever about in their normal
state, and of which the dominant person is truly sure that no
one in the world but himself had any knowledge.
Spirits of the dead are then called upon to explain these per-
fectly natural but abnormal and mysterious happenings.
235.-Dual personality.
A medium should be regarded as a person who, under given
conditions, can pass into a state which is practically one of
a dual personality. In pathologic cases abnormal conditions
may endure in time to the extent of presenting well-defined
dual personalities. Dual personalities are facts, not theories.
Many authentic instances are on record, and other cases
continue appearing, of persons who, in some mysterious
manner, completely lose their personality and become a
stranger to their real selves. They wander aimlessly about,
not knowing their own names, or where they liv~ and
sometimes the whole of their previous existence, prior to the
change that came upon them, is blotted out from their
consciousness.
A case of multiple personality is recordedin theProceedings
of the Society for Psychical Research, Vol. XVIII, 1903-4, by
Dr. Albert Wilson.
The subject in this case was a girl of twelve and a half
years, and her unique abnormal conditions commenced as a
sequel to an attack of influenza. During the nine years
following she exhibited not less than ten distinct personali-
ties, the first of which was mania, accompanied by convulsive
seizures and catalepsy. For three years after the child first
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM 357
became abnormal the ten different characters frequently
changed from one to another. Then followed six years
of more stable conditions, usually in the personality
that occurred sixth in the series, and in which she had to be
re-taught how to read, write and spell. This sixth character
ultimately became apparently the permanent character.
During all these years a most extraordinary series occurred
·of changing psychic and changing pathological conditions.
The case is probably the most remarkable of its kind on
record. Dr. Wilson refers all these psychic and pathological
changes to variations in local arterial circulation, due to
pathologic conditions-there is no question whatever of
anything supernatural.
We have temporary dual personality even in trivial
departures from the normal. A person may talk in his sleep
at times and intelligently answer a question put to him ; yet,
on waking, he will say he did not dream, and does not
remember that he talked and answered a question. The
fact that he did answer proves that he had at least a degree of
consciousness sufficient to answer just as a normal waking
individual. Yet when he fully awakes he has no knowledge
of what his other self had done when he himself seemed
asleep.
The somnambulist may rise from his bed and do things
intelligently-even to solving problems that have eluded
him when awake; yet, when he wakes up he has no know-
ledge of what his other self had done while his ordinary self
had been asleep 1 Further, he can see quite well, although
he cannot possibly use his eyes for the purpose 1 This is an
evidence of the mysterious powers of organic mind, which
we should always remember when considering any of the
wonders of this mysterious and conscious intelligence which
is beyond the range of perception by the conscious mind of
man.
All these dual or multiple personalities, equally with the
mysterious personalities of mediums at seances, have the
same essential or ultimate physical basis ; they all arise
from differences between the range and modes of activity
and intelligence of the conscious and organic mind of the
subject; and these are conditioned by variations in the
358 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
mutual actions of the elements in metabolism in the struc-
tures of the nervous system.
This rationale coincides with Dr. Wilson's conclusions
given above, if we introduce one word, " changing," to make
it more exact. Thus : " Dr Wilson refers aJJ, these psychie
ana pathological changes to variations in local arleruu circul~Jr
tion due to • changing ' pathologic conditions."
Changing pathologic conditions are impossible without
changing metabolic conditions, and changing metabolic
conditions are simply changes in the mutual actions between
the elements within the physiological units-the cells.
236.-When conscious mind rests, organic mind has ftdlu
play.
When conscious mind is at rest, organic mind has fuller
play; our dreams are evidence of this. When conscious-
ness is concentrated upon any problem or subject which
deeply interests us, immediate mind (85) is largely drawn
upon for its evolution; less is available for direct organic
activities. A condition approaching sleep may affect one
or more of the sensory organs, and we gradually become less
and less conscious of our environment. The clock may
strike the hour, but we do not hear it; we become oblivious
to all ordinary sounds about us. Under such conditions of
intense mental activity we are drawing so largely by con-
scious mind upon the immediate mind available, that there
is not sufficient left for normal expenditure by the purely
organic functions of organic life ; and if the mental strain is
of some duration, we become momentarily "run down."
Thus there is no possibility under such conditions for organic
mind to express itself in any dominant or unusual manner,
either in a " medium " or in auto-suggestion. To do this the
expenditure of immediate mind by conscious mind must be
less than normal, so that organic mind may have a full and
free supply.
The semi-conscious condition is the one that practitioners
in auto-suggestion choose as the most effective for the pur-
pose of influencing organic mind activities ; mediums usually
pass into a condition of unconsciousness, more or less com-
plete. And as the total ofimmediate mind energy is at every
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM 359
moment a fixed quantity, if we shut off a portion of the
expenditure by consciousness, the more there remains for
organic mind activities.
There is practically no limit to the number of mysterious
and differing psychic conditions that are possible--from mere
dreaming to the most extraordinary in pathologic and hyp-
notic conditions--and they are as continuous with each
other in basic nature as degrees of heat or variations in
velocity of a moving body.
237.-The question of immortality,· Malerlinck and his
lamp.
The question of spirits of the dead, of course, involves the
question of immortality, and it is really astonishing what an
amount of valueless matter has been written on the subject.
Mreterlinck in his essay on "Immortality" in the volume
Life and Flowers says, in discussing this problem :
" Here stands my lamp on my table. It contains no
mystery; it is the oldest, the best known and familiar
object in the house. I see in it oil, a wick, a glass chimney,
and all of this forms light. The riddle begins only when I
ask myself what this light is, whence it comes when I call
it ; where it goes when I extinguish it."
Here we have a mass of wrong and confused ideas, due to a
lack of differentiation between immediate nature and
ultimate nature. He says there is " no mystery " in his
lamp. But the mere existence of that lamp is an un-
fathomable mystery. There is no mystery about the imme-
diate nature of the light. The mystery appears when we
try to comprehend how the elements hydrogen and carbon
in the oil, when in mutual action with the oxygen in the air,
can evolve light in the evolution of carbon dioxide. This is
the ultimate nature of the mystery-exactly as the mutual
actions of elements with other elements within living things
cover the mystery of the ultimate nature of the mind they
evolve. Every particle of substance in the lamp, the oil,
wick and glass, is a profound ultimate mystery. But neither
the glass nor the wick are essential in the production of
light ; only the hydrogen and carbon of the oil and oxygen
in the air are needed, acting mutually upon each other. The
36o MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
light does not come when he calls it ; it only comes when the
oil in the moistened wick is heated to flame temperature by
another light. It does not go anywhere when he extinguishes
it ; it only goes when it exists-when it is alight, it goes
radiating away into space, and is transformed into other
modes of energy. When the light is extinguished. or the oil
supply is exhausted, it ceases to exist, it ceases going any-
where. Exactly asindividual mind energy radiates from the
individual living thing in mental and physical movements. so
long as that individual is burning up the " fuel " supplied as
food, and ceases radiating when "fuel" ceases to be avail-
able; so with the oil lamp, the radiations do not go any-
where when the individual " goes out "-they simply cease
to exist, and for exactly the same reason. There is neither
ghost nor spirit left to either the extinguished light or the
extinguished individual.
238.-Memories of the different senses. Inandi; Marti"
Ltdhu.
Besides the delusive nature of dreams, which sometimes
makes it impossible to distinguish between what is real and
what is imaginary, we have the cases of hallucination. where
spectral figures in human shape, not existing to normal
sense, are presented to the mind with a vividness sufficient
to create a belief in their reality. That such apparitions
are but freaks of memory there can be no doubt, however
difficult it may be to co-ordinate psychic and physical facts
in such a manner as to prove the truth of ourstatement.
In dreams we have visual memories presented by organic
mind-usually in a jumble of presentations, because there is
not conscious mind sufficient to control them. Some persons
have an astounding memory for certain things only ; there
is a distinct memory faculty for every phase of perceptive
sense. There is memory for faces, for dates and names, for
character of sound, for anything that is read, for anything
that is seen, for any words that are heard, for anything felt
or tasted, and a good memory for some things may be asso-
ciated with a bad memory for other things.
Inandi, the latest arithmetical prodigy, has an abnormal
aural memory for figures. Blind Tom, the musical genius,
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM 361
had an abnormal memory for sounds. The Admirable
Crichton must have had an astounding memory for what he
read. Those leaders of men who never forgot a face must,
of course, have had wonderful memories for faces. In
fact, any kind of human genius must be gifted with an
unusual memory for the essential facts that condition the
genius.
Now, when visual memory under any kind of abnormal
conditions reaches a certain degree of intensity, images may
be presented so vividly that they appear to be real. And
sometimes this abnormal visual memory is associated with
an abnormal aural memory.
It is well known that Martin Luther believed that he many
times taked with the devil I In this case the origin of the
hallucination no doubt originated in dreams, not remem-
bered, that afterwards merged into consciousness as memo-
ries of actual experiences. The plainest of common sense
decides that Luther never did talk with the devil ; yet if his
hallucination had taken the form of the spectre of some dead
person it would have been held unquestionably by spiritua-
lists that Luther had had communion with a spirit.
239.-Apparitions ~· Nicolai, the Berlin bookseller; Sir
David Brewster.
We have also the classic case of Nicolai, the Berlin book-
seller, which was investigated by the Academy of Berlin.
His apparitions were many, and took the form of his friends
and acquaintances still living I His case is a singular one in
this respect-he knew that the apparitions were only illu-
sions, and they irritated him by their frequent appearance.
He saw his friends and acquaintances in their usual habits of
dress so vividly as to create illusions of reality-recurrences
of visual experiences by an abnormal visual memory.
Sir David Brewster, after a practical examination of visual
impressions, said :
" When the eye is not exposed to the impressions of
external objects, or when it is insensibleto these objects in
consequence of being engrossed with its own operations,
any object of mental contemplation, which has either been
called up by the memory, or created by the imagination,
362 KIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
will be seen as distinctly as if it had been formed from the
vision of a real object."
We need not continue with further instances of hallucina-
tion; the matter is not controverted even by spiritualists.
But consideration must be given to the phenomena, because
they add weight to the cumulative mass of evidence we
adduce against the existence of spirits.
Another fact that we oppose to the existence of spirits is
that some cases supposed to be absolutely conclusive evi-
dences of their existence are not at all conclusive. We here
allude to those cases where a supposed spirit has appeared
to some person when another person has been dying some
long distance away. Some such cases are so well authenti-
cated that we must assume that some at least must be true ;
and it must be possible to construct a coherent rationale for
theirappearance.
First of all we must note that such apparitions occur very
rarely. In not one case in a million of people that die does
any person, at any distance away, perceive any apparition of
the dying person. If every person that died had a" spirit"
that could travel in any direction it chose and communicate
with whom it chose, it is not in the least probable that not one
in a million of spirits should take advantage of that possi-
bility. .
This fact alone is sufficient to determine that "spirits n
do not exist, and that such " visions " of dying persons,
although purely subjective, must be due to radiationsof mind
energy under very exceptional conditions from the yet liviffg.
The present writer has lived for seventy-five years; and quite
a host of his friends and acquaintances have died, but never
a one has" reported" to him in spirit form the moment or
the manner of death. Hundreds of millions of adult persons
now living can vouch for a similar lack of any such expe-
rience.
But we have such an amount of reliable evidence from
many persons and from all directions that mind energy
vibrations may be transferred from one person to another,
and reproduce the same mental concept that originated
them, that we may fairly assume the phenomena to be a fact.
The origin of the concept so transferred is unknown to the
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM
recipient ; it enters into his consciousness in the manner of
memory concepts-we do not know how, by means of
organic mind movements-just as in the reverse movements
by auto-suggestion in pathology, where our own conscious
movements enter into and influence the organic mind-we
do not know how.
240.-Communication with persons in extremity thousands of
miles away.
In those rare and strange cases where, when persons are
dying-which is of course prior to the coming into existence
of an imaginary " spirit "-a conscious perception of
something affecting the dying one is perceived by another
person any distance away; we have room for dealing with
the case, as being a matter not concerned with spirits, but
with a still living person. Yet it must of -necessity be a
combination of conditions extremely rare that render such
a phenomenon possible. And as any rationale of the
immediate cause must be a physical one, we shall first point
out the facts that make such an explanation possible.
I. In all cases considered authentic the subjective expe-
rience extends to one person only.
2. Mind is a mode of energy conditioned by changes in
movement, and is as physical in its nature as any
other mode of energy (73-4).
3· All modes of energy are transformable into other modes
of energy.
4· Mind energy is so nearly akin to electric energy, that
the latter may replace the former in physiological
research andin pathological diagnosis (78).
5· Radiations of light are movements which traverse
space with a speed of x86,ooo miles per second;
in any ponderable matter which stops them they
are transformed into heat energy.
6. When heat energy radiates away, it is re-tra.nsfonned
into light energy-electro-magnetic movements.
7· In the scale of energy vibrations there are large gaps
of unknown vibrations, one of which may be
occupied by mind energy vibrations.
In some cases of persons dying under unusual conditions,
364 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
there must be intense mental activity, abnormal tempera-
ture, and consequent abnormal energy radiation. This
radiation, as it cannot be less subtle than heat-for we can-
not differentiate between them-must traverse space with a
velocity equal to light. And being perceived by the organic
mind of a person in" tune" with its wave length, who is at
any distance on the earth away, it is, at practically the same
instant in time, retransformed back again by the conscious
mind of the recipient into the movements that conditioned
the conscious thoughts of the dying person-just as light
vibrations, when stopped, are re-transformed into the heat
energy which originated them-and he receives a " message "
from, or a., vision" of, the one in extremity.
One person can now actually speak to another person
thousands of miles away by" wireless" by just such trans-
formations of energy movements ; in both cases there are
absolutely continuous movements between sender and
recipient; we can do intentionally, by artificial means, what
nature sometimes does spontaneously. And it would be
absurd, knowing so little as we do of the mysterious powers
of organic mind, to contend that man can do artificially
that which nature cannot do, when conditions ofier her
favourable opportunity. Wireless communication, in the
light of our knowledge regarding the correlations between
mind, energy and matter, actually demonstrates that it is
possible, by movements that are continuous, for the mind of
one person to influence the mind of another at the greatest
possible distance away on earth within an interval of less
than a second in time. But it is not a " spirit " of a dead
person that doe5 this; it is the mind of one in extremity, who
may be dead a few minutes or hours afterwards.
In attempting tentatively to co-ordinate the psychic
activities of persons dying with the psychic presentations
affecting another person thousands of miles away, we have
to deal ahnost exclusively with those electro-magnetic
vibrations which not only condition light, heat, magnetic
and electric phenomena, but which also condition mind
movements (29). All etheric vibrations are movements of
energy. A gap exists between electric andlight waves ; and
a gap between light rays and X-rays. Nothing is known of
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM
any vibrations beyond X-rays. It is very suggestive that
the gap near the centre of the known scale of energy vibra-
tions should be between electric and heat vibrations. For
mind energy comes closer in nature and in association with
these modes of energy than to any other. And as mind
energy cannot be less subtle than any other mode of energy,
we are entitled to conclude that mind energy vibrations have
at least equal velocity with those of heat, light or electricity ;
and thus must travel in space with such speed that any mind
radiations occurring under exceptional conditions in a person
that is dying may produce conscious effects upon another
person at the farthest distance apart that is possible on the
earth's surface in the same second of time in which they
leave the source of origin. Etheric vibrations per se are
imperceptible by man. He can only feel or see the effects
of them. If one directs the eyes to an object, he sees that
object by means of the vibrations of light that are reflected
from it. But he is quite unconscious of the existence of
the vibrations which make his knowledge of the existence
of the object possible. And when one sees a 11
vision" of
something a great distance away he is quite unconscious
of the actual physical means which make the yision possible.
We can to-day communicate with persons thousands of
miles away 11
without contact," in the sense in which those
words were used some years ago, in objection to the possi-
bility of certain stated phenm:nena. The only 11
contact "
between two operators using " wireless " is the ether of
space, which conveys vibrations at the velocity of 186,ooo
miles per second, and by means of which they can speak
to each other. And if we go deeply enough into this matter,
we find there is a perfect continuity of movement from
psychic to physical, and back from physical to psychic,
between the minds of two persons speaking by wireless
telephone; and the actual effect is essentially the same as if
the two were sitting in th'e same room talking to each other.
And in wireless, as in " vision," the recipient is perfectly
unconscious of the vibrations per se which make communi-
cation possible, although he may be fully informed as to the
theory of the matter. '
Every mental concept, every thought or emotion, is
366 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
motor in its origin and motor in its consequences. Say the
concept " tlange.- " arises in the mind of the sender of a
wireless message ; the vibrations in the neurones of the
cortex which conditions the concept are conveyed to and
transformed by his hand into the symbols whose vibrations
represent the wireless for "danger." These symbols are
transformed by electric energy into equally definite repre-
sentative etheric vibrations; and in the same second the
same process is reversed thousands of miles away, and in
the brain neurones of the recipient arises the concept
'' danger.''
It would be unreasonable, a JwiMi, to say definitely that
mind energy could not, under some rare abnormal condi-
tions, do the same thing without the artificial aid of electric
energy. Man's conscious intelligence cannot transform
mind energy into electric energy, but organic mind is con-
stantly doing so. At every beat of the heart there is a
change in electric potential.
Still further evidence of the possibility of the trans-
mission of mind radiations-particularly from those dying
under unusual conditions-is afforded by the fact that
mind energy functions are conditioned, just as are all other
modes of energy, by changing movement (18).
Between persons closely related structurally, either by
birth or coincidence, there must exist a more than usual
efiect of radiant mind energy, by which one infiuences the
other; but there is no conscious evidence of its existence-
just as we cannot determine whether our own conscious
thoughts arise from our own organic mind or to what extent
we derive them from organic mind radiations from others.
If we connect ourselves within an electric circuit of a few
milliamperes, we feel a distinct impression or shock at the
moment of contact ; then we feel nothing, or at the most a
slight sensation of warmth. If the current is shut off, we
again feel a shock, and we feel these shocks every time con-
tact is made or broken. Electric energy is closely allied to
mind energy (78) ; it can produce effects upon consciousness
at distances as far apart as the earth will permit. And we
may reasonably assume that an unconscious connection by
radiations between two minds, no matter what distance
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM
apart, may be " shocked " into consciousness by that
sudden change in the character of vibrations which must
follow the very unusual conditions that precede death of a
violent or unusual nature. And this consciousness may
resolve itself into a vision of the exact conditions preceding
death. Just as the " shock " of a " wireless " vibration
reproduces the ~xact conditions which caused it.
Now, in the best authenticated cases of dying persons
producing impressions upon the consciousness of others a
long distance away there is an unusual or violent manner
of death ; and there must also be unprecedented and rapid
chang-ing movements within, and radiations from, the physio-
logical units of the nervous system. We may assume
that these unusual changes of movement are sufficient to
produce a conscious " shock " in some particular person
at any distance away whom the dying person was thinking .
of. Just as changing movements universally give rise to
impressions that are proportionate in intensity to the differ-
ences in the changes.
If one kind of vibrations can traverse some I86,ooo miles
per second, and progress in space year after year for hun-
dreds of years, as do vibrations of light, and still produce a
conscious effect upon living things countless millions of
miles away; and if by wireless, one person can speak to
another thousands of miles away by means of vibrations,
we have not a shadow of a pt'iori reason for denying that it
is possible for mind energy vibrations-the most subtle
known to man-to influence, under rare conditions, a
conscious mind thousands of miles away.
241. Clairvoyance ; t'adiations ,· p,.ophecy.
The same agency gives also a rationale for the phenomena
of clairvoyance. And, as in the case of all effects from
radiations, it is by means of organic mind, of which we are
unconscious, that these radiations are received. All our
senses of perception, upon which our intelligence wholly
depends, are functions of organic mind, and do not become
conscious perceptions till their movements have reached the
cortex of the brain by means of the nerves connecting it
with the physical mechanism of our sensory organs (103).
368 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
Thus the radiations in clairvoyance enter unperceived into
the mind of the subject and become consciousness in such a
manner that he has not the slightest idea as to hOfl1 he saw
the things that appeared or the incidents that were taking
place at the same moment far beyond the powers of normal
vision.
All such visions have a sound basis of possibility in the
known facts in physics, physiology and pathology ; and
there is no need to call in the agency of " spirits," as
as did many of our ignorant ancestors, to account for aD
phenomena which they could not understand.
Man has but recently discovered that matter evolves an
energy that radiates through space, and can even pass in a
direct line through cast iron. It has taken him all the
thousands of years he has existed to do this. And if sub-
animate or " dead " matter can do this, surely it is un-
reasonable even to think that animate matt-er cannot radiate
energy. The fact recently made public by Professor
A. V. Hill, that effects upon the emotions in a person in-
cluded within an electric circuit can be registered by an
instrument that measures electric resistance, and other
instances in pathology and in physiological investigations,
where electric movements are influenced by living energies
and living energies are influenced by electric movements,
all point to the hypothesis thatliving organismsradiate an un-
known mode of energy, although we have not yet been able
to differentiate this radiation from that of electricity or of
heat, with both of which it is so intimately correlated.
" Spirits," as the agents in clairvoyance, unfortunately
lead to the belief in the foretelling of future events, a serious
departure in the wrong direction. For it is impossible, in
the very nature of things, that any one ever did or ever will
truly foretell future events. By which we mean the predict-
ingof an event which has no rational connection with present
conditions. One may think it will be wet to-morrow, and
say that it will be wet. If it happens to be wet, it is not the
fulfilment of a prophecy; it is the confirmation of a judg-
ment founded upon appearances. Or one may scan the
political horizon; and think from what he sees that war will
break out within a year. And he may have the courage to
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM
back up his thoughts by saying so. And if war does happen
to break out within a year, it is not fulfilment of a prophecy ;
it is a confirmation of his judgment. Any statement, to be
prophetic, must go beyond a mere opinion founded upon the
probable trend of events; and it is belief in just such impos-
sible statements that a belief in the agency of spirits fosters
and lessens our respect for human intelligence.
242.-Autlwritus (?),· A. ]. Davis; Si' Oliver Lodge~·
.. Thy Son Liveth."
Of the mass of literature upon the subject of Spiritualism
very little indeed is worthy of serious attention. Through
all there runs an abundant stream of internal evidence of its
utter unreliability. We shall refer to only two writers-
Andrew Jackson Davis, who turned out about thirty volumes
of astonishing nonsense, yet was accounted in his time as the
most gifted seer, and whose influence amongst spiritualists
was probably greater than any otherwriter-and the anony-
mou~ writer of an up-to-date work entitled Thy Son Liveth.
We shall quott' but briefly-a vuy little is sufficient for our
purpose
Davis in his work, The G,eat Harmonia, gives an account
of the death by hanging and the resurrection of a murderer,
Dr. Webster, in which the following statements appear:
" It took him seven and a half hours to be born into
the other sphere. This was done without his conscious-
ness of having any existence. The soul centre of the head
-which became as a star-ascended about four miles
above the streets ; at an angle of about thirty degrees. . .
His consciousness was somewhat between sensation and
thought; that is, he had neither thought nor sensation;
his state was just between joy and sorrow, heat and
cold, harmony and discord. . . . There were five spirit
persons attending him. By their kindly offices, he was
carried to the Spirit Home. . . . He was eight days and a
half in that semi-conscious condition. Every day, at
eleven o'clock, I walked to the retirement of Mount
Auburn, in order to witness that beautiful spectacle
beyond the Milky Way.... As he roused and opened his
new organs, I saw upon him certain expressions of agita-
Y
370 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
tion, alarm, wonder, somewhat of gratification. He made
an effort at memory-What ! is this Boston ? Is this a
dream ? Have I been asleep? I was hung. No ! this
is not Boston I Thus he was awakened by music to a
knowledge of his future work."
In his volume, The Temple, Davis gives quite a different
account of the spirit leaving the body of a dying person, and
uses such terms as :
" ' A golden magnetic halo ' . . . . ' a throbbing almost
seHconscious atmosphere ' . . . . ' the psychic emanation
contains some proportion of every principle composing
the soul-motion, life, sensation, ethers, essences, vital
magnetism, vital electricity, instincts' .... ' the brain
cells, the corpus callosum, the medulla, and the spinal
cord and ganglia are ablaze with contractive and expansive
energies, which gently pulsate, and seem to direct and
govern themselves by a kind of automatic self-conscious-
ness.' ' A thought laden love thread tranquilly draws
the new born higher up ' . . . . ' Rapidly the celestial
gravitation attracts the new body obliquely through the
higher atmosphere. Arrived at its own place in Summer-
land, the sleeping one is surrounded by an assemblage of
beautiful welcoming citizens of that locality.' "
It is a depressing thought that millions of persons, sup-
posed to be capable of reasoning, actually believe such
rubbish to be reliable evidence. 1
Another volume of this man Davis, called A Stella,. Key to
lhe Summerland, is a sort of guidebook to travellers in
heaven r He gives the names of many islands and springs,
tells about " teacher physicians," " spirit physicians," " an
island where resided spirits from the planets Mercury and
Venus, and another island inhabited by young persons from
earth who died as orphans I " The influence of this man
Davis operates to-day. "Summerland" has become quite
a fashionable resort since he invented the place. Sir Oliver
Lodge, in Raym~, tells us that his son-through the me-
dium Mrs. Leonard and her " controls "-states that he was
" living in the third sphere, and that it is called ' Summer-
land.' ,
We selected the above particular incidents from Davis'
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM 37I
works, not because he speaks more unreasonably than usual,
but because he deals with the death and resurrection of a
man who died a violent death; and he purposely, in a hyp-
notic condition witnessed (?) them, in order to obtain a
knowledge of how long it took after the man died before
he appeared again in the next sphere. It took Webster
seven and a half hours to be born again ; and eight and a
half days to become conscious I
But " Bob," in Thy Son Liveth, also died a violent death,
and he did not know he had been killed ; he did not even
lose consciousness I He was instantly alive in the next
sphere, and did not know that anything had happened to
him I He tells us that after they went out to charge the
enemy:
"I was one minute in the thick of things, with my
company, and the next minute Lieutenant Wells touched
me on the arm and said, ' Our command has crossed.
Let's go.' I thought he meant the river, and I followed
him under the cross fire barrage the Tommies made, up
to a hillside I had not noticed before-a clear spot, not
blackened by guns. Lots of fellows I knew were there,
and strange troops. I glanced down at myself. I was
olive drab alright. But my uniform was not khaki. It
seemed to be a fabric of some tenuous kind. I had no
gun. I overtook Wells. What the deuce is the matter
with me-with us all ? He said, ' Bob, we're dead.' I
didn't believe it at first. I felt alright, etc., etc."
" Bob " did not know he was dead. After he was killed he
followed Wells under the cross fire barrage the Tommies
made. But he does not explain how it was that Wells
knew he was dead. Dr. Webster, according to Davis, was
eight and a half hours unconscious after he was dead. Then
he was awakened by music, and remembered," I was hung."
He was kindly attended to by five spirit persons; and it
seems, according to Davis, that murderers by poison are more
considerately treated than they have a right to expect in the
" other sphere."
Further on the dead "Bob" tells his mother that he is
" using an abandoned apparatus in the trench to-day,
373 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
we are assigned to duty here for the present. . . . Just
now we are engaged in relief work. . . I have just come
in from duty, and Jack Wells is with us in immediate
command of our company. Also there are a number of
dogs with us. I am plugging away at wireless. Love and
marriage are certainly in bud and fiower here. I can see
this fact with my own eyes."
So it seems that " Bob " is as lively, as substantial, and
durable and in as good fighting trim as when he was alive !
And there are dogs in heaven I I Who are the brutish un-
believers who say that dogs have no soul, and that in
heaven there is neither marriage nor giving in marriage?
" Bob " must be reliable, for he tells these things direct to
his mother. He does not believe in go-betweens ; he cau-
tions his mother not to go to mediums! Sir Oliver Lodge
acquired his information regarding Raymond most sus-
piciously indirectly. A supposed coloured "guide" tells a
supposed "Feda"; the supposed "Feda" tells Mrs_
Leonard ; Mrs. Leonard tells Sir Oliver ! Yet the only real
authority (?) we have are the subjective phantasms of a
neurotic woman in an unreliable mental condition !
So it is with the medium " Peters." Raymond tells
" Moonstone " ; Moonstone tells Peters ; and Peters tells
Sir Oliver!
The earlier " seers ,. had no " controls." But they created
such an interest and following that " business " in Spiritual-
ism developed and created further opportunity for the
exploitation of weakly reasoning and superstitious persons
by the introduction of " guides " and " controls " to compli-
cate matters and deepen the mystery. These" guides" and
" controls ,. offer easy means of escape from the results of
misstatements by mediums-" blaming the other fellow."
Quite a good business move: Amerir.an inventions of course.
The statement of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle that " Spiri-
tualism unites real science and real religion, each supporting
the other," is a most mischievious and misleading statement.
It strongly tends to keep down the low average value of
human intelligence.
And according to the great American authority upon
matters spiritual-Professor Hyslop-a man is "eitJJR
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM 373
igfwranJ or a moral cOUJartl," if he does not "accept the
existence of discarnate spirit and the proofs(?) of it I"
The whole of the matter in spiritualistic literature is full
of such gross internal evidences of unreliability, and any
person who cannot appreciate the negative value of the little
we have quoted must be like unto those who believe the
world is flat--no evidence will convince them of their error.
And we may here be allowed incidentally to draw attention
to the fact that keen observers of the results of Spiritualism
warn those who may possibly inherit a tendency to nervous
disorders to have nothing to do with practical inquiries;
for these sometimes lead to insanity in the predisposed.
Among others, this is the opinion of Dr. G. M. Robertson,
Superintendent of the Royal Asylum of Morningside, Edin-
burgh.
243.-Moving of objects ,· ectoplasm ; materialization ; Si,.
William Crookes.
Regarding the moving of material objects, the reality of
ectoplasm, and of materializations, it is impossible to say
how much may be true or only imaginary in the great mass of
literature available. But we can say with confidence that
no objective phenomena can occur at any seance whose
immediate nature cannot be accounted for by physical
natural causes. We believe that the conclusion arrived at
by the first committee officially appointed by the first
Psychological Society in Great Britain to inquire into the
truths of the reported happenings at Spiritualistic seances
and of which Mr. William, afterwards Sir William, Crookes,
was a member, put the matter in a true light when they
reported:
"that they had witnessed the manifestations of a force
with which mankind was not yet acquainted, but that
' spirits ' had nothing to do with them."
It is interesting here to note that Mr. Crookes, in trying
to track down this unknown force, came upon his discovery
of that wonderful little mechanism-the radiometer-which
constantly revolves under the influence of daylight or the
electric light ; also that he was the first man who acquired a
knowledge of " radiant matter "-a fourth state of matter.
314 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
He demonstrated its existence in a series of brilliant experi-
ments before the British Association in 1878. And it is
mainly by the demonstrable existence of " radiant matter.''
which of necessity involves radiant energy, that any authen-
tic happenings at seances can be explained, as to their
immediate cause, in terms physical.
Crookes' discovery of radiant matter and its associated
fluorescent phenomena ultimately led to the discovery of
X-rays, and on to the investigation of fluorescent minerals,
which resulted in the discovery of radio-activity by Bec-
querel, in r8g6, and later to the discovety of radium by M.
and Mme. Curie.
Thus, the recognition by Mr. Crookes of the existence of
an unknown mode of energy through knowledge obtained
of the activities of this energy at so-called Spiritualistic sean-
ces,-a mode of energy now aptly termed " psychic "-led
to the discovery of the radiometer, and had its influence in
leading up to the discovery of radio-activity and to the now
general belief that not only all forms of energy, but also all
forms of matter, radiate.
The reason man remains so ignorant about the immediate
nature of psychic energy is that he has never yet been able to
measure its intensity in the exact manner that is possible
with other modes of energy. It may have been determined
in some exceptional cases what amount of physical energy
could be recorded upon a spring balance by psychic energy ;
but any such cases are open to objection so long as it remains
impossible for any scientist to measure it under ordinary
conditions, as he would measure degrees of heat. The world
is waiting for a means to do this. When mind energy be-
comes generally known as a physical fact we may hope for
greater knowledge of its immediate nature.
We are as well acquainted with the fact that when energy
is not supplied to the brain the evolution of conscious mind
energy ceases as we are with the fact that when energy ceases
to be supplied to the revolving dynamo the evolution of
electric energy ceases. The immediate nature of both
electric energy and mind energy are to this extent the
same-both are evolved from other forms of energy, and
both are transformable back again into other modes of
MIND IN SPIRITUALISM 375
energy. And as we are now fully aware that matter may be
resolved into energy, and energy into matter, we cannot a
priori determine that, under the abnormal conditions usually
present at seances, it is not possible for visible presentations
to be evolved from the energy radiated from the persons
present-a radiant energy more subtle than any yet known
to science.
244.-Almm'mal condition of meliums ~· mechanical equiv•
lent ofheat.
Mediums usually fall into an abnormal condition ; their
extremities become cold, and a clinical thermometer will
show a reduction in temperature ; and by the sitters present
it is often observed that a coldness is felt which chills the
hands. This is a very definite sensation; Sir William
Crookes has compared it with that which is felt " when the
hand has been within a few inches of frozen mercury."
The human body is mostly water. A person of average
weight will have about one hundred pounds of water in his
body. Water has a greater amount of specific heat than
any other known substance. The amount of heat necessary
to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree is
sufficient to raise the temperature of more than thirty
pounds of lead to the same extent.
If an average person loses one degree Fah. in temperature,
he has radiated away as much energy as would be sufficient
to raise one hundred pounds in weight to a height of 772 feet.
This is sufficient energy to lift a large circle of sitters and all
the furniture in the room to the ceiling I Or, if transformed
into matter, to evolve a tenuous materialised form.
This does not necessitate the introduction of any new or
fantastic theory. It is one of the common facts in physical
science that the mechanical equivalent of heat-the amount
of energy represented in the raising of one pound of water
one degree Fah.-is equal to 772 foot pounds. It is a com-
mon fact in chemistry that energy is transformed into
material structures, and that material structures can in part
be resolved into energy.
Through all this there is no attempt to reach beyond the
immediate nature of mind Its ultimate nature, as with
376 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
every fundamental natural fact, is beyond the scope of man's
abilities. Just as we know the immediate nature of electric
activities, without knowing what electricity per se is, so we
may yet know more of the immediate nature of mind
activities without ever knowing what mind P• se is.
CHAPTER XV
A PHYSICAL UMIT TO INTELUGENCB
245.-lnstability ofbrain structuye a necessily.
Just what is meant by the heading to this chapter will not
be readily perceived unless the reasons for so expl'e$ing it
have been explained.
There is, in one sense, a physical limit to intelligence, in
that every basic physical fact presents a limit to our intelli-
gence, beyQnd which we cannot pass. Mind, matter,
energy, the mere existence of anything whatever, the
unknown phenomena between cause and effect, which we
find everywhere in chemistry, physics and biology, all
present, in one sense, a physicallimit to our intelligence.
But it is not to such facts we refer. We refer to the
possible physical limits in the structure of the brain and
nervous system in man which function organic and conscious
mind. For, as all mind functions throughout nature in-
creasein range with every rise in the complexity of structure
of these physical or physiological systems, it follows that the
limit of intellectual power depends upon possible limits to
complexity in structure.
We might have expressed the problem as" A physiological
limit to intelligence," but that would have excluded the
fact that even in the physical, sub-organic intelligence is also
governed by structure.
So, although we in this chapter deal only with intelligence
in man, our postulate is universally applicable ; and we have
chosen the expression "A physical limit to intelligence"
as broadly embracing a universal meaning.
We demonstrated in our ninth chapter that all function
in nature is inviolably conditioned by structure. And as
intelligence in animals runs parallel with increasing com·
plexity in the structure of the brain and nervous system,
377
378 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
and reaches its maximum expression in man, the question
naturally presents itself-is it physically possible that the
structure of the human brain can become more complex ?
We have to consider the fact that the functions of the
brain are conditioned by the physical instability of its
structure; its very instability is an essential necessity to its
functions, and a further advance in complexity would invoN8
a greater degree of instability. So the problem resolves itself
into-Can the brain acquire a still greater complexity in
structure and yet retain a sufficient stability for an ex-
tension of intelligent function-i>r, would such a reduction
in stability result in a derangement of function ?
In the structure of all living things the dominant necessity
is instability, for such structures are changing every instant
of time-breaking down and building up ; it is the constant
changing which conditions that which is termed vitality-
life.
246.-..f limillo instability.· thef-e mus# bl orderly funaitm.
Yet living things must function in some manner of order;
the instability of structure must be controlled and kept
within certain limits, and these limits mark the boundary of
possible evolutionary development.
It has so often been observed that genius is akin to mad-
ness, that it seems to us as if any further extension of
complexity in brain structure, beyond such as may have
conditioned the intellects of our pioneers in knowledge
during the last few thousand years, would result in an
instability that would make intelligent function weaker.
For the molecular movements that constitute intelligent
thought must have an orderliness sufficient for intelligence:
a too unstable structure would give uncontrollable or dis-
orderly movemet;1ts-just as the increased instability of mole-
cular movements in the brain of a fever patient causes deli-
rium-genius would degenerate into lunacy.
The records of the past show that species of animals have
evolved, attained their maximum development, endured for
a time, and then become extinct. Within the memory of
persons now living the aboriginal Tasmanian has become
extinct. It is highly improbable that any race of men ever
A PHYSICAL LIMIT TO INTELLIGENCE 379
existed having keener powers of observation than the
aboriginal Australians. That race also will soon become
extinct, and with them will go what we may term the
maximum possible physical limit of complexity in structure
of the mechanism which constitutes human powers of
observation.
Has man attained his possible maximum physical limit in
the evolution of the physical basis of mind? Has he not
yet reached it, or has he passed it?
In his complex structure there are sixteen or more different
elements of matter. We may assume that during the many
thousands of years he has existed these elements have
attained in the human brain the limit of complexity that is
possible to them. And we may assume that no other
element of matter is likely to enter permanently into its
structure, and so make fer greater complexity. For, from
the nature of the properties of matter, its attractions, affini-
ties and repulsions, matter will naturally successively
assume all the forms of which it is capable. Although
alcohol and various drug molecules which cause alteration
in mind function are so often presented to the brain structure,
it refuses to adopt any such molecules as permanent factors
in its structure. It does not seem capable of any permanent
addition to its complexity. All other elements and mole-
cules than those now in operation must have been rejected
as possible co-operators in man's proteid molecules countless
millions of times, in untold myriads of individuals during
past ages. And from this point of view he has reached the
physical limit of intelligence.
By thislimit we indicate the ma:dmum possible complexity
in the physical basis 'of the greatest of human minds. The
average mental development is, in every age, very much
below this. Ifsuch a limit has been reached, then it remains
possible only to raise the average of human intelligence in
the manner tentatively indicated in our chapters on " Here-
dity." We cannot extend the intellectual power of genius
any further than has already been accomplished by natural
processes in evolution.
38o MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
247.-lntellectual power; Clerk MaxuJelL· Ancienl Philoso-
phers.
Intellectual power may be defined as the capacity to
comprehend the relations existing between differing facts or
presentations in nature. Knowledge of facts is acquired
by simple observation and experience. It requires no
conscious exercise of intellect to have a knowledge of the
fact that a ripe apple parting from its twig will fall to the
ground. But it did require an exercise of intellect amount-
ing to genius to connect the fall of the apple with the fall of
the moon towards the earth. To acquire a wide knowledge
of facts only requires a few textbooks and a good memory.
And memory is not a phase of mind requiring intellectual
power. The deductions of the alchemists were as reasonable
as the deductions of modem chemists in relation to the
facts known in their day. Any modem chemist of to-day,
with but the knowledge of facts known to the alchemists,
would have thought as they thought. The difierence be-
tween them is not at all a matter of intellectual power, it is
purely a difference in knowledge of facts.
If we compare the intellectual power of philosophers who
lived thousands of years ago with those of modem times,
and give due consideration to modem advantage in the vast
accumulation of physical facts not known to the ancients,
we find there is no evidence whatever of any increase in
intellectual power, although we have, in the meantime,
acquired a much wider range of knowledge. We can see
clearly that if those ancient philosophers and scientists had
lived in our own times, with the knowledge of facts which
we have to work upon, no man of science or philosophy in
modem times could surpass them in mental and physical
achievements.
Even the brilliant genius of Clerk Maxwell was bound to
recognise that
" The most ancient philosophers whose speculations
are known to us seem to hav&discussed the ideas of number
and of continued magnitudes, of time and space, of matter
and motion, with a power of thought which has probably
never been surpassed "(3).
If, in the space of time covered by the records of philoso-
A PHYSICAL LIMIT TO INTELLIGENCE 38I
phic and scientific speculation, the power of thought in
man has shown no advancement, it is extremely probable
that it never will, and we may reasonably assume that the
physical basis of mind in man has attained its limit of
complexity and instability in structure.
248.-Zoroaster; Hammurabi's laws; the Akkadians.
For this period goes back, at the least, about eight thou-
sand years. Aristotle places the date of Zoroaster at
approximately that early period. Zoroaster established a
new religion and a philosophy that has its adherents at the
present day. He taught that all things have two extremes
or poles-polarity : light and darkness, good and evil, heat
and cold, and so on. The fact that he established a new
religion indicates that prior to his time other religions had
existed, and probably also other philosophies.
The oldest known code of laws, that of the Babylonian
king, Hammurabi, dates back about four thousand years ;
yet although the whole of them translated into English do
not occupy a tenth part of the space in this volume, he
contrives to get into that small compass definite and precise
laws which practically cover the whole range of modem
legislation-an example in brevity and simplicity that might
well serve to-day as a guide to modem law makers.
His laws cover : false evidence in law, faulty decisions
by judges, the.
ft, trading with minors without consent of
elders, lost property, traffic in slaves, burglary, brigandage,
outbreaks of fire, duties of soldiers, administration of dead
soldiers' property, protection of the property of a soldier
taken prisoner, leases of land, responsibility of tenants,
breaches of contract, usury, irrigation, agistment, trespass,
gardens and orchards, landlord and tenant, act of God,
negligence, wine selling, meetings of rebels, distraint for
rent, storage of com, deposits of value, libel, rape, adultery,
concubines, divorce, wasteful and careless wives, inheritance
of property, marriage settlements, adoption of infants,
damages for assault, doctors' fees and fines for hannful
treatment, builders' fees and penalties for faulty work, pay-
ments for boat building and penalties for faulty work, hire
of boats and responsibility of boatmen, hire of oxen and
382 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
penalties for ill use of them, goring by ox or bull, hire of
workmen, hire of cattle wagons and drivers, payments per
day to hired tradesmen-potters, tailors, m.
asons, carpenters,
rope makers, builders.
Throughout the whole of the two hundred and fifty sec-
tions of these laws of Hammurabi we find no internal evi-
dence of an average intelligence inferior to that of to-day.
We cannot conceive that our modem law makers, had they
existed under the conditions that obtained in Hammnrabi's
day, would have enacted more comprehensive, concise or
better laws.
But this evidence of an intelligent capacity four thousand
years ago, equal to that of the present day, foUowed a pre-
ceding civilisation which may be traced back two or three
thousand years further. Its language, in Hammurabi's
day, had become a "dead" language-the "Akkadian,"
which was studied and taught, even as we study and teach
" dead " languages to-day.
Of the intellectual range in the Akkadian culture that
preceded the Semitic Babylonian of Hammurabi's time we
have but meagre details, but we know, from the clay tablets
exhumed from the ancient libraries in temples and palaces of
Chaldrea, that the Akkadians in the time of Sargon I, whose
date is fixed at about 3,8oo B.c., or about five thousand
seven hundred years ago, were a civilised people, well versed
in astronomy. Some of the tablets recovered were from the
royal library of Sargon I.
We cannot think of a people who established libraries and
were well versed in astronomy as being other than intel-
lectual. Clay tablets in those days served the purpose that
books do now; and it was a practice to place tablets under
the foundation stones of notable buildings for the informa-
tion of the people of the future, just as we to-day sometimes
place coins and printed matter under foundation stones for
the same purpose.
The labour necessary for making and writing upon tablets,
conjoined with the limited space afforded, w()uld act as a
brake upon the acquisition and extension of knowledge,
compared with our facilities in writing and printing. Trivial
phenomena would find no place upon clay tablets, yet things
A PHYSICAL LIMIT TO INTELLIGENCE 383
that appear trivial have often been the genns of important
discoveries. To the facility in recording facts and con·
serving them in printed books that are easily read and
transmitted to future generations is due the immense
advance in knowledge that haS been achieved in modern
times. But that advance in knowledge does not of necessity
involve any advance in power of mind. Had paper and
printing books become common in the time of the Akkadians,
the standard of knowledge of the Ancient Greeks might have
equalled the standard of knowledge of to-day.
249· M.an's erudition nol a measu" of his inlelltd;
ancient Greeks.
When we attempt to measure the intellectual capacity of
men who lived at different periods in the world's history,
our first consideration should be that of the state of know-
ledge obtaining at the time the men lived. Unless this is
done, no conclusion of any value can be arrived at. Man's
erudition is not a measure of his intellect.
We get a more definite idea of the intellectual power of
the ancients when we advance from the Akkadians and the
Semitic Babylonians down to the ancient Greeks of from
two thousand to two thousand five hundred years ago.
Thales, six hundred years B.c., calculated and pre-
dicted the date on which an eclipse of the sun occurred-
May 28th, 585 B.c.,-a.nd we cannot properly appreciate
this feat unless we give fair consideration to the fact that
he had no telescope or any of the intruments of precision
which assist the astronomer of to-day.
In the time of Thales there were observatories in the
large cities in the valley of the Euphrates.
Ptolemy carried the exposition of plane and spherical
trigonometry to so perfect a form that it was not surpassed
until the sixteenth century.
Nearly two thousand years elapsed before human genius
advanced beyond the point attained by Archimedes in
mathematics.
We have evidence also that contemporary with the
ancient Greeks there existed in other parts of the earth
an advanced state of knowledge and intelligence. We have
384 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
reliable astronomical data from the Chinese, dating back
four thousand years.
Archelaus taught the mind was mingled with matter.
To-day we find that matter and mind are inseparable.
Aristotle seems to have been at least equal in power of
mind to any man who ever lived. He laid the foundations
of the sciences of natural philosophy, mechanics, physiology,
and natural history, and for many centuries was the leading
intellectual light of the world.
In reasoning upon memory, he associates mental opera-
tions with movement. He is still quoted at times by modern
men of science. He first recorded the singular phenomenon
in the reproduction of cuttle fish, " Cephalopeda," two
thousand years before it was discovered{?) again by modern
science in z8so I
We can only do justice to the intellectual greatness of
Aristotle by imagining what he could have accomplished,
had he had the foundation of knowledge to build upon that
is available to us to-day-the astronomical knowledge,-
the laws of gravitation, the conservation of matter and
energy, and the general knowledge available to physicist
and chemist ; and that with this knowledge he also pos-
sessed the invaluable instruments of delicacy, precision
and observation that to-day so largely extend the range
of our senses of perception.
Epicurus taught that all that exists is corporeal ; the
intangible is non-existent. Things exist which our senses
are not subtle enough to detect ; and atoms differ only
in size, figure and weight, and are perpetually moving at
a rate far surpassing our conceptions.
One cannot but marvel at the intellectual grip of this
man, who lived more than two thousand two hundred
years ago, and yet could reason down so correctly to the
nature of atoms upon the very limited knowledge of definite
physical data then available.
It is only quite recently that the actual velocity of atoms
has been mathematically computed. The rate of move-
ment of the hydrogen molecule, according to Clerk Max-
well, exceeds six thousand feet per second.
' The opinion of Epicurus that all that exists is corporeal
A PHYSICAL LIMIT TO INTELLIGENCE 385
is well backed up by the inclusion by modem scientists of
light, heat and electricity into the domain of physics ; by
the recognition of the electron as a physical unit in electri-
city, and the discovery that energy has mass.
We have previously referred to Empedocles, Anaxagoras,
and Democritus (3), who anticipated modem knowledge.
Homer, Socrates, Hipparchus, Euclid, Aristophanes and
others could be included in evidence of the intellectual
greatness of the ancients ; but we think sufficient has been
offered to show that we have no evidence whatever that
the intellectual power of man has any greater value to-day
than it had at least tw~ thousand five hundred years ago:
250. Ancient buildings : Baalbec: Selinus : fossils.
There were intellectual giants thousands of years ago,
.just as there are intellectual giants to-day ; there were
' childishly superstitious and unreasonably ignorant people
thousands of years ago, just as there are such people to-day.
Euclid is still taught in our schools ; yet he lived and
reasoned out his problems more than two thousand years
ago ; problems that require more mind power for the solution
of some of them than is possessed by probably more than
three fourths of the human race- of to-day. If further
evidence is required, we have the material evidence of the
wonderful structures erected by the ancients, of which we do
not even know when or by whom some of them were built :
and we have the evidence of fossil :r;emains.
In the walls and the columns of the temple at Baalbec
are stones of dimensions and weight that would tax the
.capacity of modem man to place in· position. This struc-
ture had fifty-four columns about sixty-two feet high,
many of them formed of only three blocks fitted together
without mortar, but with strong iron dowels. The weight
of these blocks would average about thirteen tons, and the
top ones would have to be lifted to about forty feet above
the floor of the temple to be placed in position upon the two
bottom ones. These gigantic columns were topped with
richly wrought Corinthian capitals, which, in turn, sup-
ported a proportionately gigantic entablature. In the
foundations of this temple may be seen to-day many huge
z
386 MIND AND LIFE FROM. ATOM TO KAN
stones accurately fitted, weighing more than a hunched
tons; but there are at least three of them, each one of
which weighs more than two hundred tons !
In the moving and in the placing into exact position of
these immense blocks a degree of skill and an intelligence
would be required equal at least to that required for any
modem structure, however much more complicated its
mere details might be. And the engineer who directed the
work must have been a man who, even to-day, would be
regarded as a man of powerful intellect-a man of genius.
For in mechanical manipulation we have to exercise the
highest mental faculty in man-that of causation.
The ruins of Selinus in Sicily show that two thousand
five hundred years ago the art of sculpture was highly
developed. The sculptured metopes of the temples in
these ruins are of extraordinary beauty. Many evidences
of this nature might be quoted.
Fossil remnants of man have been found in Great Britain,
some dating back at least twenty thousand years. that
were of modem type in all essential features. According
to Prof. Elliot Smith : " They were, if anything. both
mentally and physically superior to the average present
day inhabitants of Europe."
251. Increasing knowledge of facts inausts possWlluies.
There is no man living to-day who could construct a
modem locomotive, given only the knowledge of facts that
were available a hundred years ago. Every mechanical
and physical marvel of t<Hlay has been a gradual develop-
ment, made possible by a knowledge of facts acquired by
the experiences of many generations. Her<> of Alexandria,
one hundred and thirty years B.c., constructed a steam
engine on the continuous rotary principle, and the man who
to-day designs a modem locomotive is indebted to all inter-
mediate mechanical genius from their day to his.
No man living to-day could construct a wireless tele-
graphic serivce, given only the facts available fifty years
ago. Marconi could not have done what he did without the
aid of the accretions to knowledge furnished by thousands
of scientists who preceded him-from Thales onwards.
A PHYSICAL LIMIT TO INTELLIGENCE 387
They provided the data that made "wireless" possible.
We see from such facts that it is the gradual additions to
knowledge, and not of necessity any accretion of mind
power, that are responsible for the great extension of
technical possibilities that are in evidence to-day. The
invention of the steam engine made possible the invention
of the locomotive ; the invention of the internal combustion
engine made possible the invention of flying machines. And
thus it has always been-one thing leads to another. The
more man needs, the more he invents. The ancients invented
less, because their needs were less, and their knowledge of
facts less wide; not because they were intellectually inferior.
When Columbus discovered America there was no need
for the mammoth palatial steamers which are now running
every day across the Atlantic; nor had man acquired the
knowledge of facts which enables him now to construct
sueh vessels. There is a need and a demand for them
to-day, and acquired knowledge of facts has enabled us to
meet that demand. It is not because we are intellectually
superior to those who lived when Columbus made his
famous voyage.
It is impossible to define exactly the difference between
knowledge and intellect, for they are but differing values of
mind, and continuous with each other. But there is a real
and important distinction, and we will try in the following
instances to make this difference clearly evident.
No human genius could ever have acquired by the exercise
of intellect alone, a knowledge of the fact that a body at
the surface of the earth will fall a distance of sixteen and
one tenth feet in one second of time. The fact became
known from practical experiments, through the simple evi-
dence of our senses of perception, and it could never have
been made known to us in any other manner.
When the fact of the distance fallen in one second was
established, then it became possible for intellect alone to
extend a priori our range of knowledge. For it had always
been known as a fact that the higher the point is from which
a weight drops on your toes, the more it hurts. So reason
had already taught us that a falling body has a uniformly
accelerating motion. And, given a uniformly accelerating
388 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
motion, a body starting from zero and falling sixteen feet
in one second must have a velocity at the end of the second
equal to thirty-two feet per second. Thus from a fact not
made known by intellect or reason, but by the evidences
of our senses of perception, we may by operation of intellect
determine how far a body will fall in two, three, four or any
number of seconds.
Sir Isaac Newton, knowing that there is no " up " or
"down" in the universe, recognised that the fall of a body
to the ground must be due to an energy which attracted it.
He was also aware that the intensity of an energy varied
inversely as the square of its distance-as with light energy.
Thus he was led to form the theory that the departure of
the moon from a straight line-amounting to a small frac-
tion of an inch per mile-was due to the same attractive
energy which causes a stone to fall to the earth again if we
throw it up in the air. He firmly established the truth of
his theory by proving that a stone at the distance of the
moon away would fall to the earth in one second exactly as
far as the moon is deflected from a straight line in one
second.
Thus we got the law of universal gravitation by the
exercise of intellect, as the result of the acquisition of the
knowledge of a fact not made known by any unusual efiort
of intellect, but by simple experience. And the law of
gravitation and all the further knowledge we have gained
from it would be unknown even to-day. had not the distance
a body falls in a given time been demonstrated by experi-
ment and the evidences of our senses of perception. It is
thus that extended knowledge of facts makes possible man's
achievements to-day beyond those possible to previous ages,
although he may not have advanced in intellectual powers.
So it happened with the discovery of the velocity of light.
No man, by reason or intellect alone, could have demon-
strated that Jupiter has a number of moons revolving about
him. The fact was discovered by Galileo when he pointed
the first telescope to look at Jupiter. He saw that it had
a number of moons ; he could not help seeing them ; it
required no intellectual effort to do so. When the periods
and sequences of the revolutions of the moons about Jupiter
A PHYSICAL LIMIT TO INTELLIGENCE 38<)
were determined and a "time table" was made indicating the
dates and times of future revolutions, it was found that the
moons did not revolve according to the times calculated.
This was something unexpected ; the observers were not
looking for it, but they could not help seeing that it was so ;
it required no intellectual effort. But it did require some
intellectual effort to arrive at the conclusion that the appar-
ent irregularity in the moons' revolutions about Jupiter
was due to time occupied by the movement of light from
those moons to the earth, as a consequence of the lengthen-
ing or shortening of the distance between them. For prior
to this it was universally believed that light travelled in-
stantly to any distance. They came by intellectual effort
to the conclusion that light travelled 186,ooo miles per
second. This conclusion has been demonstrated by practi-
cal experiments to be a truth. And it has had an important
influence upon our conceptions regarding the physical
structure of the universe, culminating in the new science of
., relativity."
But it is quite evident that this advance in knowledge
could not have happened if the fact of the existence of
Jupiter's moons had not been made known by someone
simply seeing them ; or if the fact of their apparent irre-
gularity in revolution had not been discovered by someone
who simply noticed it. So that our knowledge of
"relativity, to-day has arisen from two facts discovered
without any effort of intellect ; the existence of which facts
reason or intellect alone could never have discovered.
252. Evidence from superstitions; daily press.
In one direction the ancients evidence a decided superior-
ity in intelligence. In the ancient Greek classics there is
far less evidence of prevailing superstition than is present
in the Teutonic classics. And as the superstitions of a
people have a very close relation to mind power, they form
a very fair basis for a judgment of the average intelligence
of that people. We find to-day, even in the most civilised
nations, evidences of widespread superstition, which are
not compatible with the notion that man en masse possesses
the degree of intelligence that he is popularly credited with.
390 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
If we include within the tenn "modem" a period of
about two hundred and fifty years-a reasonable estimate,
when we go back about thirty times that length of time to
.. ancient "-we must include in our evidence that : Sir
Matthew Hale condemned two witches to death in 1:664 ;
that several others were convicted at a later date--Jane
Wenham in I7I2; that the last execution for witchcraft in
Scotland was in 1772; that penalties for witchcraft .in
Ireland were not repealed till 1820; that John Napier, the
inventor of logaritluns, believed in magic; that Kepler,
the famous astronomer, believed in astrology; that Henry
More, Glanvil, Bodin the great French publicist, Sir Thomas
Brown and John Wesley believed that disease and death
could be caused by malevolent apparitions.
The belief in the power of an " evil eye " still exists.
The writer once heard a woman angrily declare to her
husband, who was incapacitated by a disease of the spine.:
" Someone has had an evil eye on ye, or ye would'na .be
sae baq as ye are.''
We distinctly remember a trial in Ireland some years
ago when a man and some of his friends were convicted of
causing the death of a woman by burning. The man's
wife was ill, and it was believed that her illness was caused
by an evil spirit, which had taken possession of her. So he
got some friends to assist him to place the woman seated
upon the fire, in order to roast the evil spirit out of her!
There are a vast number of people in the world, civilised
and otherwise, who have no higher range of intelligence;
yet they are aU included in the hwnan race, which is credited
with having the" divine gift" of reason.
The daily press furnishes us with a continuous stream of
evidences of low intelligence and superstition; some of
the most recent are :
The passing of a law by the State Legislature of Tennes-
see, making it unlawful for any pupil of any school or uni~
versity of Tennessee to receive teaching about Evolution.
The sailing from Sydney of Bishop (?) Leadbeater with a
retinue of fifty followers on board the Oronsay, bound for
Adyar, India, in order to be present at the Messiah's Second
Coming.
A PHYSICAL LIMIT TO INTELLIGENCE 391
The demand of the synod of a church in Amsterdam that
Dr. Geelkerken shall sign a belief that the conversation with
Eve and the serpent really happened.
The trialin Paris of twelve women, members of the order of
,. Notre Dame des Pleurs" (Our Lady of Tears), for flogging
the Abbe Desnoyers of Bombon, near Melun. The accused
declared that the Abbe was the embodiment of Satan, and
the most formidable wizard of modern times ; that he had
cast an .evil spell on a large number of people at Bordeaux ;
that as the Abbe had sold his soul to Satan, the Devil had
to be .driven out by flogging.
The London and North Eastern Railway is abolishing the
number 13 on its sleeping cars. Many persons refuse to
occupy that berth when it has been reserved for them. And
they .~re not uneducated people who usually make use of
sleeping berths.
Six leading members of the Mexican Catholic Episcopate
have been ordered to leave the country. President Calles
says that the Episcopate is the main cause of religious war,
which is dividing the nation, and has been directing the
revolution and inspiring such outrages as the recent terrible
butchery of railway passengers at Limon.
253. Sir A. Conan Doyle : business advertisements.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's statement in September, 1925,
that he had
11
made no plans for future work. My guide has
warned me to hold myself in readiness for a great event ;
a catastrophe in nature that is overtaking the world.
Lady Conan Doyle has had messages from the other
Side, foretelling a world catastrophe. I get all my
spiritualistic messages from my wife, who receives them
from my guide, and passes them on to me. I have been
getting similar messages for a long time. Each one
indicates the nearer approach of a catastrophe, and
confinnations have been received by sixty mediums in
all parts of the world."
In a pamphlet circulated gratis as an advertisement for a
business venture we find the following :
11
Ancients had a firm belief that the date of their
. .
392 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
birth determined to an extent one's character and fortune.
The scientists of to-day, especially the astronomers.
have proved that the ancients were right in that belief.
According to the teachings of these men, the position of
the stars and planets at the hour of our birth permit
us to foresee important events in our lives. This booklet
gives you a horoscope for each month of the ye:u:' etc.
When trash of this kind is acceptable amongst the mass
of a people--and business advertisers have a very keen
scent for what will interest possible customers--what a
low average of intelligence must exist among them t
In the advertisement spaces of cheap novels that are sold
by the million, published by a finn whose head was knighted
for services rendered to the English nation, you will find
information regarding persons who can foretell your future,
interpret your dreams, draw your horoscope, and so on-
if you post them a shilling in stamps ! But what can you
expect when the most revered book-nominally at least-
in civilised countries has its books of prophets, its condemna-
tion ot witches to death, and its casting out of evil spirits ?
254- Connectjcm between structu,.al development tmd
function.
When we consider that this widespread intellectual
weakness continues after the efforts of nobler minds
in all ages down to the present day to elevate the intelli-
gence of the masses above the degradation of superstition,
we cannot rationally conclude that the average intelligence
of the human race has improved in any perceptible manner
during thousands of years. And as mind function and
power depend upon and are conditioned by structure,
there is apparently some physical limit beyond which man
cannot pass.
We see throughout the whole range of living things a
most definite connection between structural development
and the range of living functions. In animals with a defined
central nervous system we see a definite connection between
the development of that nervous system and the range of
mind activities ; we know that the advance in structural
development is concurrent with increased complexity,
A PHYSICAL LIMIT TO INTELLIGENCE 393
delicacy of balance, and instability ; and it is evident that
to this instability there must be a physical limit. This is
indicated by the close approach of genius to insanity,
which has been so often noted ; the limits of instability in
genius having reached its possible limits for rational func-
tion, it hovers on the brink of that abnormal instability
which functions insanity.
255.-Evidence of biometrics in Heredity.
That there is some physical limit in evolution is also clearly
indicated by the results of the biometrical study of heredity
by eugenists such as Sir Francis Galton, Professor Karl
Pearson and Professor Walden. The biometric facts show
that not only the physical system, but the nervous system
also, has some limit beyond which it cannot pass under the
existing conditions in nature. The average height of sons
whose father is above the average is lower than that of the
father. Sons of a father below the average height have an
average height above that of the father. And the same
holds good in regard to intellectual development. The sons
of a father who has an intellect above the average have an
average intellect below that of the father. And the sons of
a father who has an intelligence below the average will have a
highet- average intelligence than the father. If we consider
mothers as well as fathers, the same tendency must appear in
offspring towards that average development, which restrains
every species of living being within a limited range.
Thus, if both father and mother are above the normal
average range mentally or physically, or if they are above
the normal average range both mentally and physically, the
average development of their offspring must be lower than
that of the parents. Every one who looks about him may
see instances of the truth of this.
It must be clearly understood that we are speaking of
average results. Even so, these results are indeed very
suggestive. It is quite true that a father with an intelligence
above the average may have a son with a still higher intelli-
gence. And one of the first reasons for the appearance
of this volume is to determine that the average of intelligence
may be raised-even if we cannot go beyond the maximum-
394 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
if we can acquire a definite understanding of the immediate
conditions that operate in evolving a child that develops into
a more intelligent being than either of its parents. No
education of parents-in the ordinary sense of the term-
will accomplish this ; the only means is by some pre-natal
influences operating upon ovum, sperm, embryo and fretus-
as indicated in our chapters on heredity.
Everything that lives is bound by existing physical con-
ditions in nature to develop to such an extent, and no further
-except by artificial alterations in those physical conditions.
Man has lived under such conditions for thousands of
years. Indeed, artificiality at the present day has run to an
excess that breeds degeneration, and we hear an insistent
call, " Come back to nature." Giants do not produce
giants ; dwarfs do not produce dwarfs ; nor does genius
produce genius. When development has, by reason of some
unusual or accidental conditions, gone beyond the average
mentally or physically, it promptly comes down again, and
tends towards the average that average environment allows
to be comparitively permanent.
The undefined conditions in nature which confine each
species of living thing to a certain range in evolutionary
development-the size and intelligence of a micro-organism,
a mouse, a dog, a sheep, an elephant or a whale-most
certainly indicate that there is some physical limit to the
development of every specific form of life; and man himseH
cannot be an exception, even though he happens to be the
most intelligent.
Increased instability in structure is the necessary funda-
mental condition which differentiates the animate from the
sub-animate ; and the brain and nervous system of men
of the highest intellect appear to have reached the
limit of instability consistent with functional stability.
256.-0u1 hope for the future.
We cannot deny the evidences of continuous change in the
character of animate life on earth during the period of its
evolution, caused by the continuously changing character of
environment-using this term in its widest sense (222-3).
We cannot deny that children born of the same two
A PHYSICAL LIMIT TO INTELLIGENCE 395
parents may differ widely in hereditary traits; and we
cannot deny that these differences must to some extent be
due to varying conditions of potency in both father and
mother before conception occurs ; and, probably to a larger
extent, by varying conditions in the mother during gesta-
tion. ·
These differences cannot be other than due to changing
moods, and to the inftuences of environment upon the
parents. Therefore the cause of differences in children of
the same parents must be pre-natal ; it cannot be other-
wise ; and pre-natal influence must have a most important
potential value.
We cannot deny the abundant evidences of the perfect
continuity and correlation between conscious and organic
mind which are so clearly indicated in·many various ways in
both nonnal and abnonnalconditions (98 et seq.), and we can
see that it is quite possible to raise the average intelligence
and character of man, even although it may be impossible to
raise the maximum limit to which man has already attained.
The present average is due to average influences. If those
influences are appreciably raised in character as a conse-
quence of increasing knowledge of the possibilities in
pre-natal influences then average intelligence will be raised
in character as a necessary consequence.
As the individual evolution of man in embryo and fretus
proceeds in time according to his evolution as a species, the
mechanism of his highest functions is evolved last of
all. And it is during the evolution of the cortex of the
brain that the mother's influence is all important. If a
prospective mother exercises her intellect, trying to do things
or make things, or trying to reason out problems-doing
anything which unusually exercises her cerebral centres of
causation, it will certainly add to the intelligence of her
child. In exactly the same way as do the cells upon the
palm of the hand develop additional strength of structure
by doing hard work (99), so will the cells of the physical
mechanism of reason in the fretus develop more strongly
through exercise, by virtue of the intimate sympathy
existing between the conscious mind of the mother and the
organic mindof the child within her.
396 MIND AND LIFE FROM ATOM TO MAN
But such purposive exercises of the mother must be en-
tered upon in a proper mood. They must not appear as an
arduous task or as something disagreeable that ought to be
done. A careful selection should be made regarding what is
likely to be interesting or even amusing, and there is in
mostcasesa sufficient latitude in this direction.
We have no need yet to be pessimistic about the future of
the human race ; the way is open to developments which
will largely increase the pleasures of human existence.
And the way to these developments is by learning more
regarding the influences conscious mind may exert pre-
natally upon organic mind, and the conditions which are
necessary to make those influences the most effective in the
direction we wish to go.
THE END.
Printed by The Stanhope Press, Limited, Rochester.
