{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__dallas___leaves_from_a_psychic_note-book.pdf","mytitle":"Leaves From A Psychic Note-book","mylang":"de"}
LEAVES FROM A
PSYCHIC NOTE-BOOK
BY
H. A. DALLAS
HONORARY ASSOCIATE OF TH;E SOCIETY FOR
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
London: R I D E R & C 0.
PATERNOSTER HOUSE, E.C. 4.
/
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
l wish to thank the Editors of the follow-
ing Journals for permission to use articles
contributed to ''The Quest'', ''The Empire
Review", "The Occult Review" , and
' ' Light''.
PREFATORY NOTE
My friend, Miss H. A. Dallas, well known for her
reasonable and thoughtful books on the relation
between religious belief and the facts studied in
psychical research, has now collected some essays
of hers that have appeared from time to time on
kindred topics ; and I commend them all to the
attention of readers and inquirers who wish for sane
and helpful guidance in thinking over these some-
what difficult and controversial matters.
Those who are troubled with religious difficulties,
as well as those persons in responsible authority
who are consulted by others, and indeed all who
feel doubtful about the wisdom of entertaining or
countenancing the increasing testimony to the truth
of these ancient experiences that the modern world
is now beginning to accumulate , will be helped by
these sober and sensible writings; for the author's
own experience and long acquaintance with the work
of the leaders in psychical investigations, and with
the standard treatises on the subject, enable her to
write with clearness and with some authority. It
will be found that the author regards the facts as-
not only entirely consistent with religious faith in
general, but as specially strengthening and con-
firming her lifelong belief in the essentials of
Christianity.
OLIVER LODGE.
March, 1927.
"Learn above all to separate Head-learning from
Soul-wisdom . . . even ignorance is better than
Head-learning with no Soul-wisdom to illuminate
and guide it. . . . Seek, beginner, to blend the
Mind and Soul! . . . Have patience . . . as
one who fears no failure, courts no success. Fix
thy soul's gaze upon the Star, whose ray ·thou art,
the flaming Star that shines within the lightless
depths of ever-being, the boundless fields of the
Unknown. Have perseverance as one that doth for
.ever endure. "
From "The Two Paths" .
..
-
Contents
! . MY PSYCHIC REMINISCENCES
II . THE BEARING OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
ON SCIENCE AND RELIGION
III. THE UNFOLDING OF A PLAN
JV. THEY FOUND NOT THE BODY
V. DEATH IN THE LIGHT OF SCIENCE AND
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
VI. VISIONS OF DYING IN THE NINTH AND
NINETEENTH CENTURIES.
VII . SOME PROBLEMS IN PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
PAGE
l
23
39
74
81
(SUGGESTED BY THE BOOK "RAYMOND") 94
VIII . THE BEARING OF SPIRITUALISM ON THE
DEEPER LIFE OF HUMANITY
IX. DEMONIACAL POSSESSION •
X. CHRIST AND THE INDIVIDUAL
105
130
145
. ',·
LEAVES FROM A
PSYCHIC NOTE-BOOK
I
MY PSYCHIC REMINISCENCES
My excuse for writing the following reminiscences is
that I have been asked what led me to take up the
study of Psychical Research, and I think my experi-
ences may be helpful to, other students who are at
the outset of this line of research.
My first attempt to get information about the work
of the Society for Psychical Research was not
encouraging. I was then about twenty-three years
of age. When I asked a friend if she knew anything
about its work, she replied that she understood that
the testimony to apparitions of the departed obtained
by the Society was never first-hand testimony. This
erroneous statement sufficed to check my interest at
the time and for long after. Looking back on my life
I can see that it was better so. I had not yet learned
enough of other subjects to be able to cope with this
study. It would have disturbed me, and in so far
as it did so, it would have hindered my develop-
ment, and my fulfilment of the many duties which
claimed me. I am thankful that my way in that
direction was temporarily blocked. In.order to form
a balanced estimate of the facts and problem involved
B
2 Leaves From a Psychic Note-Book
in the term Psychical Research, it is important to
have made careful studies along other lines.
About twelve years later, the Vicar of a neighbour-
ing parish, who was a member of the S. P.R., gave
me such an interesting account of the volume of
Proceedings which he had JUSt read, that I decided
to become an Associate myself. That was about the
year 1893.
I did not approach the subject, as many have done,
in order to discover whether man survives bodily
death. I valued the Christian faith deeply and I
had, by careful study, taken trouble to assure myself
that its.historical basis is valid. Among many books
which I read with close attention were Lord Balfour's
"Foundations of Belief" and Dr. Salmon's work on
the authenticity of the New Testament. I had
travelled mentally along a difficult but educative
way, which gradually led me out of the rather narrow
(though devout) theology which I had passively
accepted in my girlhood, and placed "my feet in
a large room", where reason and intuition could work
in harmony, and the eternal truths which underlie
many crude expressions of doctrine discover them-
selves. I owe much to such teachers as Frederick
Robertson, F. Denison Maurice, and· many others,
whose writings led me to realize that the character
of God, as revealed in Jesus Christ, is the standard
by which alt theological doctrines must be tested,
and that doctrines inconsistent with the Nature of
God, as a Father of infinite love and wisdom could
not be true.
Having reached this standpoint I was ready for
fresh discoveries; nevertheless, my introduction to
Psychical Research was somewhat of a mental shock.
My Psychic Reminiscences 3
It obliged me to make room in my mind for so many
new facts and ideas; and at first I did not see how
to accommodate these without displacing other facts
and ideas which experience had taught me to value.
The result was mental perplexity. I have since
learned to realize that mental perplexity is often
the herald of clearer vision, but at that time I was
not assured of this. One of the first volumes of the
Society for Psychical Research Proceedings which I
studied was the issue in which F. W. H. Myers dealt
with the mediumship of Stainton Moses. The facts
were startling to a novice to whom these supernormal
phenomena were quite new. My diary shows how
bewildering I found them to be. I was confronted
with evidence which I recognized as thoroughly sound,
but I was puzzled as to how to interpret the
phenomena. I see from the comments which I jotted
down that I tried to bring the new knowledge to the
test of experience. A few lines will illustrate my
meaning.
"Jan. 15th, 1894. I have been reading care-
fully Mr. Myers' s papers on the Subliminal
Consciousness. He says: 'The Self manifests
through the organism but there is always some
part of the Self unmanifested' . As I read, my
mind asked, how can these things be ? And I
felt at the same time that thoughts were latent
within me, but that I could not make the upper
Self grasp them. It needed an effort, which I
felt might not be successful, to think the thought
out. This feeling is to me evidence of the truth
of what he says. We are only aware of a certain
part of ourselves. This seems to me essentially
4 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
true. We may become aware of more by exercise
perLaps. Often I have felt the presence of latent
thought-felt that I must bring it somehow
into the field of mental vision, but I feel that
the instrument I am working with in order to
do this may not be adequate to the underta~ing."
I make this quotation to show how I tried to deal
with new ideas. With regard - to the physical
phenomena which occurred with Stainton M9ses and
others, however, I had no personal experiences which
could assist my interpretation. In 1860 a scientific
man wrote of Pasteur's discoveries : "The world
into which you wish to take us is really too fantastic".*
I felt like that abput these new facts.
At this . stage I owe a debt of gratitude to
Mr. Edward Bennett, who was then Secretary of the
S. P.R. He lent me books from the library and
helped me to select them. I remember standing
before the bookcase in the office and saying: "Please
do not give m~ anything to read which does not
cont.in good evidence. " I felt that I must first
discover what facts were actually so well attested
as to be practically assured, before I could form
any opinion about other asserted facts which might
be true. I found it difficult enough to assimilate
the former, and I did not want to get bewildered
by the latter. Mr. Bennett forwarded one of my
letters to Mr. F. W. H. Myers in which I mentioned
a small experiment by which I had tried to test a
psychometrist. This brought me a kind and encourag-
ing letter from Mr. Myers. It was one of several in
which he gave me good advice. I was particularly
" "Science and Scientists of the Nineteenth Century", p. 241 •
/
My Psychic Reminjscences 5
grateful for the considerate way in which he encouraged
me; although my attempts to interpret the phenomena
were obviously crude, he did not make me at once
feel how worthless they were, but tactfully guided ·
me into closer "attention to the canons of evidence".
I have always remembered his kindness gratefully at
a time when a smaller mind might, with justice,
have treated with indifference my efforts to under-
stand. F. W. H. Myers was himself learning · all
the time, and therefore was ready to encourage
others who were at the outset of this study; I ven-
tured to write to him several times.
I was slow in gaining my convictions; I dreaded
the mental shock of discovering that I had given
credence too readily; I preferred to advance slowly
rather than risk having to retrace my steps. I can
see that this method of approach, with all its doubts
and difficulties and prolonged uncertainty, has enabled
me to understand and help others who have sought
the same kind of assurance and have experienced
similar perplexity, so I do not regret it; at the same
time I recognize that this very cautious attitude
involves some serious disadvantages. I look back
upon lost opportunities and realize my slowness to
apprehend the significance of experiences. With
quicker insight I should have harvested richer gains,
and I cannot but regret these losses, for which I have
only myself to blame.
In 1898 I read Dr. Richard Hodgson' s report on
Mrs. Piper (published that year) . * After the first
reading I determined to put myself, so to speak, into
a jury-box and re-read it, trying to .form a fair
estimate of each case, with the result that I was
*S .P.R. Proceedings. Part XXXIII.
6 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
finally convinced that the Spiritualist hypothesis
was the only one that could account for the bulk of
the facts. This being so I joined the London
Spiritualist Alliance, that I might reap the benefit
of its meetings and library; and I received kind
and valuable advice from time to time from
Mr. Edmund Dawson Rogers, who was President of
the Alliance.
I remember the diffidence with which I ventured
to send my first articles to "Light ", which I signed
with initials only. I felt that my knowledge of the
subject was not mature enough or wide enough to
enable me to estimate the worth of the ideas I expressed
in these early articles, and I disliked the notion
that I might be offering worthless matter. Mr. Dawson
Rogers, the editor, kindly encouraged me; and I
told him, later, that this experience had taught me
how to write. I became a frequent contributor from
1898 onwards. I still have some articles I contributed
in 1899 and 1900 on the subject of the Resurrection
of Christ and the empty tomb; and a reply by
"V. C. Desertis", i.e., Mr. Stanley De Brath, to a
question I had raised on that subject.
In my diary I find the following note. "April 24,
1900. Mr. Rogers remarked that clairvoyants see
emanations from both the physical and psychic
organisms. " This started a train of thought which
I will condense and simplify as follows:-
What do we mean by emanations from the psychic
organism ? I assume that we mean vibrations in the
ether started in the psychic body (which is probably
ethereal) . My theory is that these vibrations might
persist even after death-after the withdrawal from
the physical organism of the ego and its psychic or
My Psychic Reminiscences 7
spirit body, and that · these vibrations, or emana-
tions, act as an opposing force, preventing organic
compounds (which are, of course, unstable) from
immediately disintegrating, and that if these vibra-
tions ceased suddenly the physical form would
collapse. Also I suggest that spirits discarnate
may be able voluntarily .to attract to themselves
the "bound ether" which is still vibrating in unison
with their psychic organisms, and by so doing may
hasten the disintegration of the physical body.
This theory which I find in my diary and which
I have re-cast in clearer language, is perhaps inac-
curately expressed, but the main idea is consistent
with the vision of Andrew Jackson Davis in which
he described the process he saw at a death-bed. He
mentions a vital electrical element which by its
presence in the corpse "prevented immediate decom-
position". It is also in harmony with the teaching
of Kapila, an Eastern Seer, who is said to have
originated the Sankhya system of philosophy some
centuries before our era. This sage asserted clearly
the existence of "akasha " or ether, as an imponder-
able fluid filling all space; and he taught that the
soul at death is invested with a subtle body called
the "linga ", that it also has a grosser vehicle attached
to it which he calls the ''.linga sharira ", and that
this vehicle enables the soul as long as it exists in
a material life to sustain its connection with matter,
even after it has divested itself of its earthly body. *
This also seems to be in agreement with some passages
in Sir Oliver Lodge's book, "Ether and Reality ".
He asks: "How do we ourselves act on matter? . . .
* My authority for this statement will be found in a note by
Cockburn Thomson in his translation of the ' 'Bhagavad Gita ''.
8 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
What do we mean by contact?" His reply is that
when we touch or move any objec! "we touch it only
through the Ether. . . . I wish to make the
hypothesis, " he writes, "that it is the Ether that
is really animated, and that this animated Ether
interacts with matter; I suggest that the true vehicle
of life and mind is Ether and not matter at all. "
The Seeress of Prevost also spoke of an instrument
by which the soul could operate in the external world,
and said that this substance accompanies .the soul
at death: "By the aid of this substance they can
make themselves seen, heard, and felt by man; they
can excite sounds in the atmosphere of earth. "*
As the spirit progresses it frees itself from this
substance.
It seems worth while to compare these statements
from different sources and to consider their import.
In an article $ent to "Light ", I said:
We know of one occurrence of unparalleled
importance and far-reaching results in the history
of Christendom in which such a sudden dis-
sipation of a human organism seems to have
taken place. . . . Perhaps the science of this
plane correlated to the science of the other may
yet solve that problem for us, and enable us to
understand how, without contravening any laws
of His Father's Universe, but merely by adapting
them . . . this Archetypal Man robbed death
and the grave of their illusive terrors and revealed
· to His brethren their true life and destiny.
-
To these remarks Mr. De Brath replied at some
*"Guardian Spirits", -quoted in "From Matter to Spirit"
by Mrs . de Morgan, p. 132.
lY,Cy Psychic Reminiscences 9
length, pointing out that whether or not an opposing
force exists which may hinder decomposition, can be
determined by experiment alone. He added that it
is "rash to assume that we know more than the
merest fringe of the laws which connect matter and
ether. It may well be that the phenotnena of the
first Easter morni.ng are readily capable of explana-
tion by the dissolution of the material into the
ethereal". I pursued this question further in a long
article published fourteen years later (]une 27th, 1914),
and included in this volume.
In 1899 I had my first experience with a professional
medium, Mrs. Bliss. I must have been a difficult
sitter. She said my aura offered an opposing wall,
and I understand, now, that it must have done so.
I believed that communication from the other side
was possible; but I did not feel at all sure that it
was coming to me-I felt uncomfortable and incredu-
lous. I had two sittings with her; re-reading my
scanty notes I see that she was interesting and very
correct in the statements she made, and I might
have got much more if I had been more receptive.
On the first occasion she spoke of a male influence
with me which she thought was my grandfather,*
and on the second occasion she gave a description
which might well have been a description of him,·
and added that he would write through me. I now
think it highly probable that my writings on religious
subjects were influenced by him. Only on one other
occasion was my grandfather mentioned by a medium
I visited. Mr. Vango told me that he was interested
in a lecture I was soon to give. I saw no particular
* His name was Rev. Alexander R. C. Dallas, for forty years
Rector of Wonston, Rants.
ro Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
·reason why this lecture should interest him; but
I was met at the station by Miss Ward, who had
arranged the lecture, and when driving to the lecture
hall she told me that her father was my grandfather's
godson. I know that my grandfather would be likely
never to forget his godchildren, so I understood the
appropriateness of the previous communication.
Among other things, Mrs. Bliss said I should write
a book, and added, "five books". When she came
out of trance I told her what she had said, and I
remarked that this was unlikely. If I omit the trans-
lation of M. Delanne' s book, which I published under
the title "Evidence for a Future Life ", and "The
Nurseries of Heaven", to which I contributed a few
pages only, her statement is correc-
1?: I have written
five books. The two on the subjects of the Creed
and the New Testament I wrote under a strong sense
of obligation. The title of the first was, "The Victory
that Overcometh ". If it has been useful, as I am
told it has, I owe this to my teachers and helpers
in the Seen and the Unseen life. Archdeacon Basil
Wilberforce read it in type and kindly commende"d
it. The second book I wrote with more difficulty,
"Gospel Records interpreted by Human Experience ".
It deals more particularly with the bearing of
Psychical Studies on the Gospels. Both these books
are out of print.
Later, I published a series of articles in "Light "
on, "Objections to Spiritualism ". This series I
wrote in response to the request of a friend whose
objections I had tried to .meet. It was subsequently
published by the L. S. A. , a second edition was issued
by Bell & Sons, and an abbreviated third edition is
to be published soon by the L. S. A. I have a
My Psychic Reminiscences II
kind letter from Dr. Richard Hodgson, in which
he expresses his emphatic agreement with most of
the contents of this book.
The most difficult bit of work I have had to do
as an author is the little book "Mars Janua Vitre?"
The publisher has told me that the title greatly
interfered with the sale, as the Latin words are not
intelligibie to everyone. It was difficult, because I
attempted to present some of the complex evidence
by which F. W. H. Myers sought to prove to his
colleagues, still incarnate, not only that he survived
bodily death but that he retained his memory of the
literature he formerly loved and, in fact, that his
faculties were intact. This complex evidence is
known as "Cross-correspondence". I had to abbre-
viate the verbatim records in the volumes of the
S.P.R. Proceedings and at the same time to convey
as forcibly as possible the quality and cogency of
the evidence of identity which these communications
contained. When I read one particularly difficult
chapter to a friend, whose opinion I greatly valued,
I was disappointed to find that she found it hard to
follow, and therefore dull. I was in despair, and
thought I must give up the task altogether. But
when I awoke next morning I remembered a sentence
which I had heard clearly in a dream. It was this :
"Do not hesitate or be discouraged about any work
you have undertaken. " I regarded this as a message,
and resolved to re-write the chapter and persist in
my attempt.
A few weeks later I joined a cin;Je at a private
house; we had some rather disjointed communica-
tions through table-tilting. The letters F. R. E.
were spelt out twice, and when I subsequently asked
12 Leaves From a Psychic_Note -Book
the lady who was acting as medium to take a pencil,
the following was written for me:- "We shall be
with you in the work you are going to undertake
. . . we want you to have more light. " This was
followed by M. Y. and a scrawl which was illegible.
In my note-book I find t}:iis additional . remark:
"N.B.-Now, some hours later, I am surprised to
recognize that this may be a message- from Myers
for me about the book concerning which I have been
discouraged. " The lady who acted as medium was
a stranger to me; whether she knew that I was
writing a book I cannot say, but she could not know
that I had been discouraged. It is quite possible
that this was an attempt to cheer me in the work
by which I was trying to make the evidence for the
survival of Mi. Myers more widely known. This
is one of a class of experiences which cannot be
regarded as "evidential", but which may be that"
which, taken at its face value, it seems to be. If,
as we have good reason to believe, mental contact
between those -in the other life and in this life is
frequent and. natural, it is unreasonable to expect
that to every wave of thought they will attach
evidence of identity. When they are trying to prove
identity, we may of course ask for, and expect,
such evidence, but communication of mind with
mind, if it is' real intercourse, ought not to be tram-
melled always by the effort tq meet the demands of
doubting Thomases
I was too often-in that attitude for my own comfort
and my own incredulity helps me to understand the
doubts of others. Also it has helped me to realize
that experiences which have been personally very
convincing and very cheering to myself are not always
My Psychic Reminiscences r3
suitable for passing on to others. There is a personal
element-a personal touch, I might say-in some of
these experiences which carry their own evidence
and significance to one who participates in them,
but which cannot have the same effect when recounted
to 2.nother who is simply looking for proof, and for
whom they were not originally intended. Having
made the mistake of not realizing this several times,
I have now learned to be more discriminating in the
kind of episodes I speak of, and to keep for myself
alone some intimate experiences which are not
transferable.
The little book was published. Before it had been
definitely accepted for publication I happened to
have an interview with a medium (Nurse Graham)
on May nth, r909. She mentioned someone called
Robert, and said he was interested in my literary
work; she referred to some work ·I "was doing",
and said the first step would be taken in July ; she
gave number 7 in this connection. My great grand-
father was the author of several books; his name
was Robert, and it is not unlikely that he would
be interested in the literary work of his great-grand-
daughter. He was a man with unusually strong
family affections. The letter which I received from
Mr. Shirley definitely undertaking on behalf of
- Messrs. Rider & Sons to publish "Mors J anua Vitre? ",
was dated July 7th, r909.
My fifth book, '!Across the Barrier", is a record
of experiences with a gifted medium, the mother of
a sweet child called Monica. I published the record
because it seemed to me that some of it carried
undeniable evidence of the supernormal, and, more-
over, the evidence for real communication from those
14 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
who have passed on was very strong. There were
many other experiences which do not appear in this
book; some of those which were too private for print
were among the most personally convincing to me.
I did not claim that the record was evidential through-
out. I tried to make it as complete as I could whilst
limiting myself in many ways. Others have had as
remarkable experiences with this medium as I have.
She has now passed out of her very tried and troubled
life into happier conditions, in which I trust that
her brave and loving spirit will find a satisfaction
she never found in this life.
Before leaving the subject of my books I will refer
to the book of prayers called "Communion and
Fellowship", which I compiled (by request). Having
failed to find a publisher willing to bear the cost,
I had put the MS. aside, but the following circum-
stances led to its publication in 192r. At an interview
with Mrs. Osborne Leonard, Freda described some-
one to me with careful details and gave his initial
W ., adding that he would remove material limita-
tions (in some way .I could not comprehend). She
then spoke of a new effort to help and a new book.
Shortly after this I saw a request in "Light" for a
prayer to be used for those who have died, and I
wrote offering to lend my MS. to anyone who applied
for it. Among others I received a letter, signed
Walter Jones*, from a geptleman who offered to bear
the cost of publication and to take the risks. When
I saw him I recognized that his appearance corre-
sponded in detail to the description given to me by
* Owing to an oversight when correcting the proof, this name is
erroneously noted as a ''pseudonym'' in Proceedings Vol . XXXVI,
p. 316 .
My Psychic Reminiscences 15
Mrs. Leonard a few weeks before. The book has
justified the venture.
During the first decade of this century I attended
sittings with materializing mediums and witnessed
interesting physical phenomena, sometimes under
excellent conditions. I also had many personal
sittings with clairvoyants and obtained very satis-
factory evidence. Particularly fruitful were my
sittings with Mr. Otto von Bourg. In "Objections
to Spiritualism Answered", I have given a detailed
account of one excellent test I received through him
at a time when I was specially seeking evidence that
would exclude telepathy. I had many other interest-
ing sittings with this gifted medium. On one occasion
he said to me: "You doubt. " I replied: "I am
sorry-I do. " He answered: "You cannot help it;
I doubt when I go to other mediums. But presently
you will be convinced; then you will do good. "
I have also had very good experiences with Miss
Maccreadie, Miss Bacon, Mr. J. J. Vango, Mrs.
Brittain, Mrs. Osborne Leonard, Mrs. .Elliott (Miss
V. Ortner), Mr. Peters, andothers, and more recently
I have had very valuable written communications
through my friend Miss Bazett. The letter I received
from a friend through her mediumship is the most
striking of the kind that I have ever had. The appro-
priate allusions could only be appreciated by one
who knew her as intimately as I did. Miss Bazett
had never seen her and knew very little about her.
The War brought me into contact with many
bereaved persons. At such a time one realized that
any knowledge and assurance concerning the life
beyond which had been gained was a trust, to be
used, if possible, as opportunity offered for the
r6 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
comfort of broken hearts. It was with this object
that I wrote a little pamphlet called; "The Bridge
of Death".
The knowledge and conviction which by that time
I possessed had 'come to me in many ways- partly
by personal experi~nce, partly by study and partly
by the work I undertook for twenty months as
Secretary for -the English edition of "Annales
Psychiques ".
The French edition, under the auspices of Professor
Richet, was ably edited by M. Caesar de Vesme,
who I had the pleasure of meeting in Paris and
introducing to the Professor. My task in connection
with the English edition was not only to examine
the proofs but also to translate many of the articles,
and to write short notices of some of the books sent
to the English effi.ce for review. I have since realized
how much knowledge I gained in this way of the
Psychical Research work on the Continent which I
should not have had otherwise. It enabled me to
help inquirers with firmer assurance and wider under-
standing, and I am very glad to have had the
experience.
My first public lecture was delivered to the members
of the L. S. A. about the year rgn. Up to that time
I shrank very much from so formidable a task.
Perhaps it will help beginners who are as disposed
to be nervous as I was, if I say what helped me most
to overcome self-conscious nervousness. It occurred
to me shortly before I gave my lecture that, provided
I honestly d~a the best I could, it did not really
signify much whether my lecture was a failure or
whether it was not. Of course, it would be a pity
if the audience was disapp~inted, but the universe
My Psychic Reminiscences 17
is too big to be affected by so small an incident.
I looked at the stars and I said to myself: "If I fail
it really does not matter. I will do my very best
not to fail altogether, but if I do so, the result will
not make any practical difference to the universe. "
Whether this was sound philosophy or not, I cannot
say, but it enabled me to read my lecture without
the nervous terrors which, on a previous occasion,
when I had to make quite a short speech at a public
meeting, had set my heart beating violently. After
this I delivered many lectures, not without some
nervousness but with growing confidence, and after
a time I made notes only and talked to my audiences
instead of reading a paper. The questions that
followed often occupied a considerable time, and
were perhaps the most useful part _
of the proceeding.
The work to which I have felt most urgently drawn
is that of helping others to believe that those they think
they have lost are not really out of reach. This has
brought a rich reward, in so far as I have been able
to direct them into channels which have revealed
the truth to them. One vicar has repeatedly invited
me to speak in his house ; another arranged for me
to address a gathering of clergy, with a rural dean
in the chair. It is only right that I should mention
this because the clergy are often blamed, sometimes
with justice, for their indifference to this subject. On
another occasion I was invited by the Rev. Dr. Cobb to
speak in the parish room at St. Ethelburga' s, Bishops-
gate, on the subject of "The Resurrection in the
Light of Psychical Research". The palmist "Cheiro"
told me that I could speak in public long -before I
had either the inclination or the courage to do so.
I have never sought advice on material matters
c
18 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
through mediums. On one occasion such advice was
voluntarily offered and influenced my action. It
came unsought and I weighed it as I would the advice
of a friend on earth; as it seemed to me to be wise,
I took it, and had no cause afterwards to regret
having done so. On another occasion a medium,
having shown that she had correctly sensed my
conditions, offered advice which I at once recognized
as based on a misapprehension. The experience was
valuable as an object-lesson. It was easy to perceive
that although her insight was correct up to a certain
point, her mind had involuntarily drawn a false
conclusion from a true premise. This was obvious
to me, but if it had not been so I might have been
seriously misled. I am sure that it is not wise to
take advice that comes in this way with blind accept-
ance. It should always be examined on its merits;
we are not right if we surrender our judgement. It
is better to make mistakes on our own responsibility
and learn from them, than to let ourselves be led
simply because we think we have had a message
from the Other Side. Even if that be so, our unseen
friends are not infallible, and the wisest of them
would wish us to make our own decisions. On two
other occasions unsought advice was given to me
which may have, subconsciously; influenced my
decision, although I was not aware that it did so.
On August 15th, 1903, I attended a circle at Mr. Von
Bourg' s flat at which the experiment was tried of
each person writing a question on a piece of paper,
folding it, and handing it to the medium to answer
(unread). I wrote: "Will the publisher who now
has my translation [M. Delanne's book, 'Evidence
for a Future Life'] undertake to publish it ?" When
My Psychic Reminiscences 19
he took my paper he put it to his forehead and said:
"Granny [his control] says, 'Will not!' Do you
understand? " I replied, "Yes, unfortunately, I
do. " He then continued : "You will have a dis-
appointment with this, for I feel as if I went down.
It will come all right, but not as you expect. · It
will be in October, you will be able to put it off
your mind. It will be all right. " [This proved to
be correct. The publisher's first letter led me to
think that the MS. would be returned, but it was
off my mind by October, a satisfactory agreement
having been made.] Mr. Von Bourg continued:
"There will be a meeting of importance for you in
about a month. [I think he connected this with my
writing in some way.] It will be good for you. You
will be going out of Town, but you must put off for
a day or two on this account. You must accept it
when it comes. " I made a note of this on my return
home and thought little more of it when I found ·
that I did not have any meeting with the publisher,
as I supposed the prediction applied to this. On
September 13th, however, I added the following
note in my book: "I have only to-day noted the
fulfilment of a statement made to me on this occasion,
A few days ago I had a note from Canon C--, a
stranger to me, who had been reading, 'The Victory
that Overcometh', saying he hoped to call and see
me in October. [He was an old friend of my grand-
father*.] . I replied that I had intended to leave
London on the 6th September, but would postpone
to.the 9th in order to meet him. To-day I received
his reply. . . . Only then did I recall what had
·• Already referred to in connection with my first experience
with a medium.
20 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
been said by V. B. The meeting is being arranged
just a month after he said this. "
Something of importance did eventually ensue,
for the Canon introduced me to a friend of his who
had suffered a severe bereavement, and I was able
to help him by leading him to study psychical works;
it was "good for me", too, for I gained a lasting
friendship. This experience is a good example of the
confusion which may arise through the blending of
impressions which refer to different episodes.
In 1913 ·I received an invitation to pay a visit in
Holland which with reluctance I felt I must decline.
It was posted on the 9th of October. On the 15th I
received a note saying that a short message through
little Monica's mother had come for me ·about the
roth; it was, ''.Don't go. " The writer added, "we
do not know what it means. " It was impossible that
the message could be understood by the senders. It
confirmed my belief that I had 1!1ade a wise decision.
As I write,- the memory of many to whose friend-
ship I owe so !UUCh crowds in upon me-men whose
important work might well- have excused them from
attending to smaller claims have yet found time to
extend to me 'the privilege of their friendship and
help in this difficult study ; for the help and kindness
I have received from them the ~mly return I can make
is that of constant gratitude and unfailing remem-
brance. This world offers (lls Sir Oliver Lodge has
said) rich opportunities for making friends. And
in the larger -liie such contacts will, I hope and
believe, abide and become a more extended fellow-
ship in knowledge and sympathy and senrice under
conditions beyond anything of which we can at
present conceive.
My Psychic Reminiscences 21
What effect have my psychic studies had on my
faith as a Christian? This is a question which may
interest some readers.
I cannot give a full answer in a few words but
I can affirm that these studies have greatly
strengthened my belief in the New Testament as a
faithful record of events that really happened. Of
course, one must recognize that the writers were
subject to the limitations of other fallible men and
to the errors of memory to which even eye-witnesses
are liable; but the so-called miracles of the Gospels
are in general not more difficult to accept than many
well-attested psychic phenomena which are of com-
paratively recent occurrence. More- particularly I
can now whole-heartedly accept at their face value
those important records of the appearances of ~hrist
after death. The modern critic's tendency to explain
away incidents which lie at the foundation of the faith
of Christendom, because they seem miraculous,
seems to me a grievol1s error resulting from the
fact that they will not examine the evidence for
experiences alleged by Spiritualists, and that prejudice
closes their minds to what may be called a new
science or a new revelation, according to .the view-
point from which it is approached. I am profoundly
thankful that these avenues to knowledge were
opened to me, and that the main facts of the faith
of my childhood have thus become more firmly
established in my convictions. Particularly, these
studies have confirmed a belief which I had arrived
at many years before I knew anything of Spiritualism,
namely, tJ:-.& belief that the resurrection of the .body
occurs at the hour of death, that it is then that _
the
spirit's new body emerges, the husk of matter being
22 Leaves From ·a Psychic Note-Book
left behind for ever. This idea, which dawned upon
my mind in a moment of perplexed meditation more
than forty years ago, has found abundant support
in my study of psychical research and spiritualism.
This research, moreover, has proved a valuable
education, demanding the exercise of patient thought
and impartial judgement, revealing a wider spiritual
horizon, changing the aspect of life and death and
involving an altered scale of values.
I have merely skimmed the surface of my reminis-
cences, and ·I have given no account of numerous
seances at which /I have witnessed various phases of
physical phenomena, the most evidential being
an experience in our own home with Mrs. Corner
(nee Florence Cook) during which a materialization
occurred, visible to all present, by the light of the
lamp which was burning all the time. What I saw
myself was not, however, more convincing to me
than the record which Sir William Crookes published
of his wonderful experiences with the same medium.
No one who reads that record with an open mind
can doubt the reality of this phenomenon.
The intimate experiences which cannot be passed
on to others, or scientifically proven, are often those
which contain the most convincing and consoling
facts, as anyone can testify who has been in contact
with this subject for many years. Like other great
subjects it should be approached reverently and with
caution. There are pitfalls for the careless and
unwary, but there are treasures for those who seek
prayerfully, provided they ne\\er cease to use their
judgement and are willing to be guided by pioneers
who have already blazed the trail.
II
THE BEARING OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
ON SCIENCE AND RELIGION
Some years ago I was talking to a Doctor of Science
about psychical phenomena. He said, in effect : "If
we are to believe in these phenomena, we shall be
back in the age of superstition, in Bedlam !-a
condition in which there is no order in the
universe. "
I replied: "Not at all: these occurrences are ·as
much under law as normal phenomena; only we do
·not yet understand what are the laws that govern
them." He responded more favourably. I think he
saw that from this point of view the recognition of
the supernormal phenomena for which Psychical
Research has accumulated evidence, does not invol~e
anything inconsistent with the evidence for the
Orderliness of the Universe amassed by the patient
research of faithful students of Nature.
The first question to be determined is: Are these
things so? Js, the evidence for the Supernormal
strong enough to justify men of science in examining
it? So long, however, as men of science imagine
the phenomena are incompatible with the principle
· of an ordered universe, so long as their recognition
of them seems to imply the discrediting of reason
or the abolition of law (i.e., a rational sequence
23
24 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
of cause and effect), so long will they hesitate to
consider even the possibility that the phenomena
may be genuine.
Scientific men- are, of course, quite right to be
cautious, to "guard the purity of our belief with a
very fanaticism of jealous care, lest at any time it
rest on anything unworthy" (Clifford). At the same
time, those who nave had the courage to 'become
pioneers in this fieJd of research, have a right to ask of
men of science that they should be true to their
own principle, that they should "follow fearlessly
wherever truth may lead ",
Sir William Crookes has said: "Having once
satisfied himself that he is on the track of a new
truth" (and this can be done _
only by an unbiased
study of the evidence), "that single object should
animate (the man of science) to pursue it, without
regarding whether the facts which occur before his
eyes are naturalfy possible or impossible. "
It was this loyalty to truth which led many of the
scientific experts of the last century to surrender
some of their former convictions and most cherished
hopes. I may cite two examples.
Professor George Romanes completely gave up his
belief in God and in human ~urvival, because it
seemed to him that the conclusions he had reached
as the result of his scientific studies, demanded this
surrender. He wrote :
I am not ashaJ:!'.led to confess that with this virtual nega-
tion of God the universe has to me lost its soul of loveli-
ness. . . . Wilen I think of the appalling contrast between
the hallowed glory of that creed which once was mine, and
the lonely mystery -of existence as now I find it-at such
times I shall ever feel it impossible to avoid the sharpest
pang of which my nature is susceptible.
Psychical Research 25
This was written about the year 1876. It is good
to know that before his death, faith and hope were
restored. ("Thoughts on Religion", by Romanes,
edited by Dr. Gore.)
The other instance is F. W. H. Myers, who stated
that it was a bitter sacrifice to surrender his faith
in God and a spiritual world; but that he made
that sacrifice in loyalty to what he then held to be
the truth. .This, which he called "disillusion", came
to him, he says, from increased knowledge .of history
and science: "Sad it was and slow; a recognition
of insufficiency of evidence fraught with growing
pain. " He wrote in his autobiography:
I have been one of the central group concerned in a great
endeavour to pierce by scientific methods the world-old,
never-penetrated veil, . . . to learn the actual truth as to
the destiny of man. . . . No one more unreservedly than
myself has staked his a ll upon that distant and growing hope .
Faith and hope were i;estored to him also; and
assurance and joy renewed. Why? Because these
candid souls f aced f acts and were utterly loyal to
truth.
Guard thou the Fact, though clouds of doubt
Down on thy watch-tower stoop,
Though thou should 'st see thy heart's desire
Borne from thee by their swoop.
Absolute loyalty to truth brings its own great
reward. If men and women will be courageous and
loyal, and will keep, as Sir William Crookes has
said, "a mind to let", new fields will open to them
of unimagined interest and significance. Students
of Psychical Research have nothing to fear from
honest inquiry. We do not ask the acceptance of any
hypothesis that is not amply justified by proven facts.
26 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
The facts fall into two classes : I. Material
phenomena; z. Mental phenomena. The former
have engaged the attention more particularly of the
Italian, French and German groups of Psychical
Researchers; the latter of the English group.
But already in this country quite fifty years ago
Sir William Crookes was a pioneer in the first branch
of the subject, when he faced the risk to his reputation
and the scorn of his colleagues by publishing the
result of his experiences and experiments with the
medium Florence Cook. Very wonderful were the
results obtained in his own house, and tested repeatedly
with accurate scientific care. He affirmed that again
and again he saw, touched, and talked with a being
who was not the medium, and who vanished as
mysteriously as she appeared. He saw her and the
medium side by side; he photographed her; he felt
her pulse and registered her heart-beats. The account
was published in r874. Twenty-five years later
Professor Charles Richet, referring to this publica-
tion, said:·
In my servile respect for the classic tradit ion I mocked at
what was called Spiritism; and .aft~r reading the astounding
statements which Mr. Crook~s had published, I a llowed
myself-and here do I publicly beg his pardon for it-to
laugh at them as heartily as almost everyone else was doing .
But now . . . I beat my breast and cry Pater, peccavi I
How could I suppose that the savant who has discovered
thallium and the radiometer and foreshadowed the Rontgen
rays, could commit gross and inexplicable blunders, or a llow
himself to be duped for years by tricks v.hich a child could
have exposed. (Proc . S.P.R ., July, 1899 .)
Later, before the British Association, Sir William
Crookes reaffirmed his testimony, and said that he
had nothing to retract.
Since that time many others have had similar
Psychical Research 27
experiences. It is chiefly on the Continent, however,
that these experiments have been carried out by
scientific men with proper scientific tests. In our
country the S. P.R. has, as we have already said,
confined its attention almost entirely to the study of
mental phenomena.
Before I attempt to illustrate these two phases of
the subject by a few concrete instances, let us con-
sider briefly what has been the trend of both lines of ·
study, and the conclusion to which they both have
led. It may be summed up in the words of Sir William
Barrett:
I.wL~h to emphasize the fact that the paramount importance
of Psychical Research lies in its demonstration of the fact that
the physical plane is not the whole of Nature, nor the outer
conscious Self the whole of our Human Personality.
Again he says:
There is undeniable evidence that the human spirit can
escape from the barrier of the brain and make its presence
known to friends at a distance.
So also Dr. Gustave Geley, who devoted his
attention mainly to the physical phenomena, wrote:
Supernormal facts prove that . . . psychic action ·may
be developed outside the brain.
In 1894, F. W. H. Myers wrote:
I think that, if the testimony which points in this direction
continues to fl.ow in, . . . it will soon become a rare
exception for a student who attaches importance to any part
of our evidence, to refuse to admit the occasional occurrence
of various forms of posthumous communication.
Here then we find three tremendous conclusions
28 Leaves From a Psychic ~ote -Book
to which Psychical Research leads serious and carefu1
students:
(I) An enlarged conception of the scope of Nature
and of Human Personality. '
(2) That the Human Ego can escape from physical
limitations (both before and after death), and act
indep~ndently of the organism.
(3) That under suitable conditions intelligent
communication may be received from those who
have finally quitted the physical body.
With the first of these conclusions I do not propose
to deal; not because I do not appreciate its great
importance, but because in the limited space at my
disposal it is impossible effectively to cover all the
ground. I propose only to attempt, very inadequately
I know, to give some typical experiences which will
illustrate the kind of evidence on which conclusions
(2) and (3) are ba:Sed. I will ask the reader to bear
in mind that, just because the evidence is abundant
and its effect is cumulative, it is extremely difficult,
even impossible, to_do it justice in a few paragraphs.
G. K. Chesterton has truly said : "The more
converging reasons [a man] finds-pointing to (a) con-
viction, the more. he is bewildered if asked suddenly
to sum them up. " I am not, however, going to
attempt to sum them up; my aim is more modest
and limited-namely, to attempt to indicate the
nature of the evidence by citing a few typiGal cases.
"There is undeniable evidence, ,,- says Sir William
Barrett, "that the Human Ego can escape from the
barrier of the brain and make its presence known to
friends at a distance. " .
More than thirty years ago a case illustrative of
- this affirmation w
a;;_published by leading members
Psychical Research 29
of the S.P.R. in a large work called "Phantasms of
the Living". I quote verbatim from the account
given by the agent in the following experience. The
percipient was Mr. Stainton Moses. This case interests
me particularly because I have within the last ten
years become personally acquainted with the agent
and heard the account again from her own lips.
One evening early I resolved to appear to Z. (i.e., Mr. S.
Moses). I did not inform him beforehand of the intended
experiment, but retired to rest shortly before midnight with
thoughts intently fixed on Z., with whose rooms and sur-
roundings, however, I was unacquainted. I soon fell asleep
and awoke next morning unconscious of anything having
taken place. On seeing Z. a few days afterwards. I inquired,
''Did anything happen at your rooms on Saturday night?''
"Yes," he replied, "a great deal happened . I had been
sitting over the fire with M. . . . smoking and chatting.
About 12.30 a.m. he rose to leave, and I let him out myself.
I returned to the fire to finish my pipe, when I saw-you sitting
in the chair just vacated by him. I looked intently at you,
and then took up a newspaper to assure myself that I was
not dreaming , but on laying it down I saw you still there.
While I gazed without speaking, you faded away. Though
I imagined you must be fast asleep at that hour, yet you
appeared dressed in your ordinary garments, such as you
usually wear every day !''
"Then my experiment seems to have succeeded," I said.
"Next time I come ask me what I want , as I had on my mind
certain questions I intended to ask you, but I was probably
waiting for an invitation to speak.•'
A few weeks later the experiment was repeated with equal
success; I, as before, not informing Z. when it was to be
made. On this occasion he not only questioned me on the
subject that was at the time under very warm discussion
between us , but detained me by the exercise of his will some
time after I had intimated a desire to leave . This fact, when
it came to be communicated to me, seemed to account for
the violent and somewhat peculiar headache which marked
the morning following the experiment; at least I remarked
at the time that there was. no apparent cause for the unusual
headache, and, as on -the former occasion, no recollection
remained of the event, or seeming event, of the preceding
night. ·
My friend added, when confirming this story, that
30 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
Mr. Stainton Moses advised her not to attempt a
similar experiment again, as possibly it might be
injurious to her health. I can affirm that my friend;
the recorder, is a conscientious truthful person, and
her word can be relied upon; moreover her story
was confirmed by Mr. Stainton Moses himself to the
authors of the volume in which it was reported. ·
Here is another case, recorded in "Light" some
years ago and entitled "A Vision Experience".
My youngest brother had been in bed for many weeks, and
was so seriously ill that the medical men who had been attend-
ing him held out little or no hope of his recovery . At the
commencement of his illness I nursed him for some weeks,
and, of course, did all that I could in the way of making him
as comfortable as possible; but he became so ill and weak
that it was necessary for him to have a nurse in the daytime .
On the night of January 1st, after having seen that he had
all he 'wanted, I said ''Good night '' to him and went upstairs
to bed ; but, late though it was, I felt that sleep was not
coming to me, and I was still wide awake when the clocks
were striking tweIve. Presently, when all was quiet, my
bedroom door opened slowly and noiselessly; I was lying
looking towards the door, and quietly half-raised myself to
see who was coming in, and my brother appeared-the one
who was then lying ill in bed on the floor below. He walked
on slowly, right into the room, and turning slightly towards
me, he spoke these words to me quite clearly and distinctly:
"I a:m going soon now, Maisie dear, and I have come to say
good-bye and to thank you for nursing me.'' I was greatly
surprised to see him in my room, knowing that he was utterly
incapable of climbing the stairs, and, fearing disastrous
consequences from over-exertion, I could only say ''Oh I
Frank I'' He however walked further into the room, and,
acting_on my first impulse to help him back to bed as quickly
as possible, I told him to "wait a moment", and tbrew
back the bedclothes in order to get up, when I ·found that
he had gone. Then it was that I knew-but not until that
moment did I realize that it was my dear brother's spirit
that came to tell me of his approaching departure for ''the
other side''. I felt that he had also visited my mother and
my other brother., who were in the house, although they had not
been conscious of his presence . I remained awake for some
time afterwards pondering over what I had seen, and a feeling
of great peace came over me; for it seemed to speak.-ef the
future safety and happiness that my brother was_shortly to
/
Psychical Research 31
enjoy. I then saw what I can only imperfectly describe as
white filmy clouds rolling one over another, and this strange
phenomenon lasted quite half an hour. I watched it care-
fully, thinking and hoping that I might be shown still mcire.
But in an hour's time I heard the clocks strike four, and shortly
afterwards I dropped into a quiet sleep . My dear brother
did not leave us for "the other side" until the nth of the
month, ten days after the vision appeared to me.
Yours, etc .,
M.W.O.
Cases of this sort might be abundantly multiplied;
but we will pass to another class of experience-
namely communications after death. I am selecting
instances which are not likely to be well known.
I quote, therefore, the following from a pamphlet,
now out of print, which I wrote during the Great
War. The incident is taken from the "Annals of
Psychical Science" (vol. iii, p. 398), which was
published simultaneously in Paris and London in 1906.
The case is particularly well authenticated. The
narrator, a magistrate, records matters that he
received direct from Dr. and Mrs. Speakman, who
were personally present when the communication
came. He addresses his letter to Professor Charles
Richet, telling him at the outset that he (the narrator)
approached the subject in a cautious and, at first,
incredulous state of mind. The real names of the
persons concerned were given to Professor Richet in
confidence. The facts are as follows:
Mme. Laney died on April 4th, 1906, a month after
the birth of a child. Four days later, at a place fifty-
eight miles distant from the place of her death,
Dr. and Mrs. Speakman and two ladies,- called
respectively Miss McCance and Miss Dobson, were
together. Dr. and Mrs. Speakman knew Mme. Laney
and had corresponded with her, but they had not
32 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
seen her since r9or. The other -two ladies had not
personally known her.
Miss McCance and Miss Dobson placed their hands
on the ouija-board and waited for communications,
whilst Mrs. Speakman sat by and asked questions,
taking notes of w
n at occurred. These notes were
handed to the narrator, who sent to Professor E.ichet
the foilowing ext:act :
• Q. Can Sara Laney come or send tid ings of herself?
A. Hold always to your present faith.
Q. Give your name .
A . You called me ; I am now free from pain .
Q. Are you Sara L'ancy ?
A . Yes.
Q. Give us a message for your husband .
A : I will soon come and ,..peak to h im; tell him that from
his little Sara.
Q. What is your child's name ?
A . My own; but to me she will always be my little ''Well:
beloved ' •:
Q. Give us some proof of your identity-for your husband .
A. I will keep -my promise to him. H e will understand .
Q. Try to give him a pro"f of your identity; ment ion some-
thing known only to yo.u and him .
A . (After a long silence) Remind him of my dream .
Q. A recent dream?
A . Yes.
Q. Where did you have the dream ?
A. In my mother 's house.
Q. Since the bj rtb of your baby ?
A . No , before .
Q. Of whom c:lid you dream ?
A . Of myself .
Q. Give -some details for a proof .
A. All is much easier to underst and now than it seemed to
me in. my dream . The ~eparation was-quite a false idea .
.Q. Are you sti11 speaking of your dream ?
A.. Yes, but the idea that we would be separat ed was quite
false . -
.The communication suddenly ceased. All four
persons signed an a1testation testifying to the accuracy
of the above notes, made, be it observed, at the time.
The message was sent to M. Laney, and a reply was
/
Psychical Research 33
received by return of post (April roth, 1906), as
follows:
My kind friends, I have just received your letter and my
emotion is very great. . . . . .. On my return from a
two days' absence, Sara said to me: "I had last night a
frightful, a most horrible dream, a fearful nightmare. Oh
how I suffered ! I dreamt that I was for ever separated from
you; it seemed as if there was a vast gulf, an immense void,
I know not wh~t, between us, which was separating us for
ever. Do not go away again, tell me you will not leave me
again; I am too terrified; I have a dread of misfortune."
You may imagine my emotion on reading your letter.
[Later he added:] "I i was the day before the birth of the
child that she told me her dream."
Here are the facts recorded by a magistrate, who
received them directly from the person concerned,
whose "perfect honour and sincerity" he guarantees.
They are worthy of very thoughtful consideration.
The communication carries with it a test of identity
of a specially intimate kind, and it conveys an
assurance full of consolation.
When Sara Laney "awakened from the dream of
life", she discovered that the notion that ·death
"separates" those who love was an illusion. We live
in the midst of illusions. The physical environment,
the phenomenal world, is a school in which we
gradually learn to recognize the difference between
illusion and fact. For centuries men believed that
· the sun moved round the earth, that the earth was
a fiat plain, etc. ; science has dissipated these illu-
sions. But the mental environment is also illusory;
things are not what they seem, and mental concepts
need to be reconstrueted as we gain further insight
into truth; values also must ·be readjusted. Our
conceptions of death are changing. The idea that it
separates spirits that have been united is "quite
false".
. D
34 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
The bridge of death spans a narrow interval between
two states of being; not only can thoughts traverse
it easily but that more subtle energy that we call
"influence ", can make itself powerfully felt. The
spiritua~ conditions of our friends affect us, they can
make us partakers of their influence, and our con-
ditions probably affect them in a similar way, in
proportion to the closeness of the tie that binds one
soul to another; it is profoundly true that "they
without us shall not be made perfect". This fact
lays upon us an urgent obligation to allow no morbid
influence, no exaggerated melancholy, no preoccupa-
tion with the physical circumstances of their passing
out of the body, to take possession of our minds.
If we desire that those we love should pursue high
aims and do noble service in their new surroundings,
we must not drag them down to a lower level by
contact with our depression.
The final example which I will quote belongs both
to the class of physical phenomena and also of mental
phenomena. The record is by Dr. Joseph Venzano,
who is said to have been a distinguished doctor in
Genoa, and is described by Professor Morselli as "an
excellent observer ". He writes as follows: ·
In spite of the dimness of the light I could distinctly see
Mme. Pa.Jadino [the medium] and my fellow-sitters . Suddenly
I perceived that behind me was a form_
, fair ly tall , which
was leaning its head on my left shoulder and sobbing violently,
so that those present could hear its sobs : it kissed me
repeatedly . I clearly perceived .the outlines of this face,
which touched my own , and I felt the very fine and abundant
hair in contact with my left cheek , so that I could be quite
sure that it was a woman . The t able then began to. move,
and by typtology, gave the name of a family connection who
was known to no one present except myself . She had died
some time before, an d on account of incompatibility of temper~
. ament there had been serious disagreements with her.
I was so far from expecti ng this typtologica l response that
Psychical Research 35
I at first thought that this was a case of coincidence of name.
But while I was mentally forming this reflection, I felt a
mouth with warm breath touch my left ear and whisper in
a low voice in Genoese dialect, a succession of sentences, the
murmur of which was audible to the sitters. These sentences
were broken by bursts of weeping, and their gist was repeatedly
to implore pardon for injuries done to me, with a fullness of
detail connected with family affairs which could only be
known to the person in question. [The medium was a
Neapolitan .]
The phenomenon seemed so real that I felt compelled to
reply to the excuses offered me with expressions of affection,
and to ask pardon in my turn if my resentment of the wrongs
referred to had been excessive. But I had scarcely uttered
the first syllables when two hands, with exquisite delicacy,
applied themselves to my lips and prevented my continuing.
The form then said to me, ''Thank you,'' embraced me,
kissed me and disappeared.
I should state at .this point that this extraordinary
phenomenon did not for a moment rob me of calmness of
observation, which was more than ever necessary under these
circumstances, and that I did not cease to watch ·the medium,
who was quite awake and visible to all, and remained motionless
through the whole course of the phenomenon. (''Annals of
Psychical Science, vol. vi, p. 164.)
I know that first-hand testimony is of value, so I
will here repeat that I have myself seen materializa-
tions, and that on one occasion this occurred in our own
drawing-room, in which a lamp was alight, the sitters
being my family and acquaintances of my family.
The medium, who was firmly tied to her chair, at
her own desire, was the lady with whom Sir William
Crookes had his notable experiences. Although she
was then much older, and the results obtained were
slight in comparison with his, a materialized form
appeared and spoke; and the conditions under which
this occurred were such as to leave no room for doubt
in my mind as to the genuine character of the -
phenomenon. ·
A student of this subject (Mr. Dennis Taylor)
wrote years ago :
Should these materializations be finally established as
geuui11e in tlle minds of many scientific meµ . . . Cthere
36 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
will ensue] a radical revolution in biology and in the theory
of variations in Evolution. . . The reign of creative
intelligence and· of final causes . . . will be restored in
our scheme of Nature to the discomfiture of the .grosser
materialism.
This sentence indicates very clearly the bearing of
the subject on science and also on religion. Professor
McBride, . a biologist, in an article contributed
recently to "The Modern Churchman", pointed
out that when young men leave their homes
and launch out into the world, they frequently lose
faith in the spiritual order and in religion. He
says that,- in his opinion, if this process continues,
not only may religion become practically extinct
in the course of afew generations, but the founda-
tions of morality also will be seriously shaken. He
suggests the importance of seeking for evidence of
survival of bodily death by studying human per-
sonality and alleged communications received from
the "dead".
What mankind supremely needs is conviction that
purpose appertains to the whole scheme of the universe,
and that this purpose is beneficent. If. men are
assured, without reasonable doubt, that the Source
of all the mighty scheme is infinite Wisdom, Justice,
and Love, and that the whole is directed by a worthy
purpose, then the mystery of "this unfathomable
world", even with all its apparent tragedy, is not
only endurable,_but becomes ..an incentive to pro-
gress. If, in our efforts to right the wrong, to increase
knowledge and to develop character, we are workers
together with One who can be trusted, and if He is
using us as His agents for the fulfilment of a far-
reaching purpose of unimaginable good, then indeed
life is worth living i and no ·effort is too great1 ·and
Psychical Research 37
no burden too heavy; and even seeming disaster
cannot break our courage or quench our aspirations.
But if man himself becomes,_
extinct when his body
dies, the purpose of the universe cannot concern us
greatly; for in our secret hearts we feel that;.we are
betrayed; desires, affections, loyalties have been
awakened in us to be disappointed and wasted. God
and_the universe have failed us.
One wonderful "Spirit" came among us proclaiming
that he had come to bear witness to the Truth, to
assure mankind of our true relation to our Source
and to the universe of spiritual beings. He bore
this witness before death; he manifested after death
to bear the same witness. Those who saw him were
assured that God is Love and that death is only an
incident in an endless and glorious existence. But
that happened nearly 2, ooo years ago; and Science
has trained us to seek in observable facts of the
present for corroborative evidence of past occurrences.
For instance, we corroborate the statements of
geologists as t,0 the manner in which this planet has
been formed, by observing changes in the elevation
of land and water, denudation of rocks, effects of
ice, etc. We confirm the discoveries of the manner
of evolution of animal life, by studying biology and
the _development of the embryo in the perfectly
formed creature. Students who appreciate the impor-
tance of such evidence, have a right to ask: Are
there any events occurring now which similarly
corroborate the records of the New Testament, and
justify us in believing that the witnesses were not
dreaming, when they declared that they had seen
and touched and conversed with Jesus after His
death on the cross ?
38 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
We can affirm that there is such evidence; and
that it strongly supports our faith in the witness
borne by the first disciples of Christ. Now, as then,
there are some who mock; but we are bound to go
on testifying to the Facts which we have known and
seen. Great responsibility rests on those who know
that these things are so; and great responsibility
also rests upon those who might gain a similar assur-
ance, but who refuse to examine the matter, and
allow prejudice to blind their judgement.
On absolute loyalty to Truth the progress of
humanity depends; but such loyalty is mere difficult
of attainment than is commonly realized. .We should,
therefore, greatly honour those men of science who
have risked their scientific reputation and faced the
unfavourable opinion of their .colleagues rather than
"let a truth slip".
III
THE UNFOLDING OF A PLAN
I have chosen as my title "The Unfolding of
a Plan", and I hope to justify this choice.
Mr. . Gladstone said emphatically to Lord Balfour
(then Mr. Balfour, and a member of the S. P.R.)
that although he could not himself devote attention
to this matter he regarded it as "the most important
subject".
Many persons approach this subject from an entirely
personal standpoint. Sometimes recent bereavement
impels them to seek in some way to renew inter-
course with those they love; sometimes disquieting
doubts urge them to seek some reasons for belief in
survival; sometimes less worthy motives, although
legitimate ones, attract them to this study : -they
are urged by curiosity to witness phenomena which
cannot be explained by known laws. These and other
motives induce many to join the groups of Psychical
Researchers or Spiritualists. Others are deterred
from taking interest in the subject for reasons very
different, but not less personal than those mentioned.
They do not desire to get communication from those
who have died; the possibilities of seeing apparitions
is to them uncanny, or even alarming, or they may
regard it as irreverent; they do not like physical
manifestations; they would rather not think that
39
40 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
they occur, they dislike the subject; they find it
disturbing to their opinions.
I want you to approach the subject from a
different angle. Let us try to put aside the personal
point of view whether it favours this Research or
the reverse, and let us consider it impersonally. We
may have to return to the personal standpoint before
we close, simply because we are parts of the Great
Whole and any event, or phenomenon, which affects
the Universe, affects every member of it, and there-
fore our personal attitude is a factor of real import-
ance.
I want to consider the subject from the point of
view of the development and progress of the Human
Race.
If the faculties with which the student of Psychical
Research deals are real human faculties, and if inter-
course between those in the flesh and disc.
arnate
spirits are actualities, they must have been ·latent
faculties and possibilities in the race from the start.
And if they were latent we should expect to find
indications of this all through the history of human
evolution. The question also arises: Were they
equally conspicuous before the present time? and
if not, why are they more so now? These questions
we will consider presently.
All students_
of histOry know that there have been
indications of the existence of what we now call
psychic faculties, all down the centuries. We can
hardly suppose that the Delphic oracle and other
similar beliefs could have prevailed if there had been
no substratum of truth in the alleged pheno~ena.
This subject is tj.ealt with by F. W. H. Myers in his
volume of Classical Essays. With reference ~to one
The Unfolding of a Plan 41
of these oracles he says that the only intelligence
to which the priestess could, "on any hypothesis,
fairly lay claim, would be of the kind commonly
described as 'second sight', a problem with which
ethnologists have already to deal all over the world,
from the Hebrides to the Coppermine River" (p. 41).
In Andrew Lang's interesting book, "The Making
of Religion ", we find instances of these faculties
occurring among primitive tribes in Africa and else-
where. The Zulus have a poetic term for clairvoyance;
they speak of "opening the gates of distance". It
is needless to enlarge on this point.
, Among early Christians the whole gamut of what
are now called mediumistic, or psychic, faculties are
reported to have occurred. Sometimes they were
associated with demonology and paganism, and then
they were forbidden; but under Christian conditions
they were encouraged and reverenced as Divine gifts.
In his book, "The Expansion of Christianity",
Professor Harnack writes :
The amplest evidence for all these traits is to be found in
the pages of early Christian literature, from its earliest record
down to Irenaeus. The apologists allude to them as a familiar
and admitted fact, and it is quite obvious that they were of
primary importance for the mission and propaganda of the
Christian religion. (Vol. I, p. 253.)
These facts he enumerates. Among the chief are
the following:
God speaks in visions and dreams and ecstasy, revealing
matters of moment, also trifles. Visions of dead martyrs
appearing to their friends.
Some are inspired to explain and interpret and foretell.
Others are filled with the spirit and lose consciousness [a
. trance state, apparently]. .
Others not merely speak but write .
42 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
The sick are healed.
Others perceive the presence of the Spirit with every sense;
they see its brilliant light, they hear its voice, they smell
the fragrance of immortality. They see celestial persons and
hear them; they peer into what is hidden and distant, or to
come; they are even rapt into the world to come.
When we turn to the Middle Ages we find, of
course, abundant testimony to supernormal occur-
rences and the active exercise of psychic faculties.
These centuries are called the age of faith, but
they might with equal truth be called the age of
credulity and superstition. What is the difference
between faith and superstition? How shall we define
superstition? I should define it as belief based on
insufficient reasons. According to this definition
there was an immense amount of superstition in the
Middle Ages: that is to say, persons accepted as
facts allegea occurrences for which there was no
reasonable evidence.
But there was also real faith: that is to say, faith
based on experience. For instance, Joan of Arc
believed in her mission and in its sacred origin
because she had experience. ··She had heard voices
and seen visions and these afforded her reasons for
trust sufficient to sustain her in her troubled life and
martyr death. Moreover, these were proved reliable
by the event: she actually freed France from foreign
domination. There were also many intimate inner
experiences, due to pressure of the Divine Spirit
upon the human soul which to the recipient justified
faith. . .
It would be untrue and unjust to speak of the
Middle Ages only as a period of credulity, and to
ignore the real faith which was tli.e spring of many
noble lives and much splendid self-sacrificing work.
The Unfolding of a Plan 43
We must bear in mind, however, that mankind
as a whole had little or no knowledge of the order
and law of the universe. It was comparahvely easy
to believe in the occurrence of miracles, because the
familiar phenomena of Nature ~ere so little under-
stood that the notion of an inexplicable breach in
tlie occurrence of these phenomena presented no
particular difficulty.
It ·was not until the study of science had taught
mankind to see in Nature an orderly sequence of
Cause and effect that the occurrence of what was
called. a "miracle" began to offer difficulty to the
mind and prompted doubt.
Theri began another age in human development-
the age of Science and the age of doubt. In the
eighteenth century scepticism became rife: in the
nineteenth century it reached its zenith. The philo-
sophy of the latter half of the nineteenth century
was materialistic; earlier beliefs were shaken to
their foundations; and in throwing over credulity
and superstition, truths of great value were also
thrown aside; the baby was thrown away with the·
bath-water!
The scepticism of the eighteenth century may be
represented by a few quotations from David Hume
whose history was a standard work in schools, sowing
in the minds of the young principles which for intelli-
gent and thoughtful students could only lead to
profound scepticism. One or two quotations must
suffice. Apropos of miracles, Hume wrote:
"No human testimony can have suc4 force as to
prove a miracle, " and he wrote: "In all the incidents
of life we ought to preserve our scepticism. " (Treatise
I, iv, 7.)
44 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
And further :
''We may conclude that the Christian Religion was not
only at first ltttended with miracles , but even at this day
cannot be believed by any reasonablr, person without one . . .
whoever is moved by faith to assent to it is conscious of a
continual miracle in his own person which subverts all the
principles of the understanding and gives him a determination
to believe what-is most contrary to custom and experience."
(See Maurice, "Metaphysical Philosophy ", p . 575, Vol.II.)
This treatment of Religion as contrary to reason
could but tend to the rejection of Religion.
The youth of that generation being educated in
the principle that occurrences called "miracles"
were contrary to Nature and to human reason were
not slow to reach the conviction that they must
choose between the use of reason and the acceptance
of any Religion that claimed to be associated with
miracles. Modern Scientific discoveries and theories
tended to confirm this conviction, and about the
middle of the nineteenth century we know that the
tide of scepticism rose very high and remained at
its _
full for a long time, producing the atrophy of
many lofty hopes and ideals, resulting in widespread
materLalism and practically destroying belief in a
future life and in spiritual causation.
The position may be summed up in the words of
Professor Haeckel, published 1899 :
''The monism of the cosmos which we establish . . .
proclaims the absolute dominion of the great eternal iron
laws throughout the universe . It thus shatters at the same
time the three central dogmas . . . the personality of God,
the immertality of tb.e soul, and the freedom of the will."
("The Riddle of the Universe".)
This was the trend of thought; but many earnest
thinkers were unabie to accept this conclusion with
The Unfolding of a Plan 45
the satisfaction which Haeckel seems to have felt.
To F. W. H. Myers it brought a sense of terfible
loss:
"Sad it was and slow, " he wrote, "a recognition
of insufficiency of evidence fraught with growing
pain."
If this materialistic philosophy is not true-if
there is a Spiritual World of beings who care for
mankind; if there is a Divine Creative Spirit guiding
Human Evolution, it is reasonable to expect that
under such conditions as these something would be
done to check the human race from drifting into
sheer materialism and despair, and losing hold on
fundamental truths which lie at the base of all
religions.
In a recent article, Professor E. W. MacBride,
F. R. S., wrote:
' 'We are brought to the dilemma that science seems to have
undermined and destroyed the basis of our religious belief ,
and yet that religious belief forms a cement without which
no form of society can long endure . ''
(The l'Vlodern Chiirchman, December, 1924 .}
"The most stupendous benefits, " he writes, "which
could be conferred on this nation would be a readjust-
ment of its religious beliefs. " In the same artide
he points out that deeply ingrained ideas of right
and duty are connected with religious beliefs, and
if the very foundations of religion are undermined
the social morality of the race is imperilled.
F. W. H. Myers, in his very candid Autobiography,
wrote concerning the period when he lost all faith
in the spiritual and hope of survival- "The effect
of agnosticism upon me was wholly evil. · During
this phase only can I remember anything of deadness
46 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
and bitterness-of scorn of human life, of anger
at destiny, of deliberate preference of the pleasures
of the passing hour. "
No doubt there are exceptional men who could
retain their high ideals under such conditions, but
the logical outcome of materialistic _
philosophy is,
Might is Right.
Now let us take a flight of imagination. - Let us
imagine that we have died, and that we have not
only discovered that after what we called death we
are alive, but tha.t all our faculties are intact and
that we are conscious of the human race, and can
watch its development. Let us suppose that we see
it drifting into materialism and losing hold on ideals
that make for progress. In these circumstances what
would be the desire of all who love mankind and
who in our earthly lives have worked for the human
race ? Should we not be eager to serve our fellows by
convincing them that they are not merely material
beings, but that they have spiritual natures and will
survive bodily death?
Joseph Mazzini said :
"Prove to mankind that the earthly duties to be
fulfilled here below are an essential portion of . . .
Immortal Life, and all the calculations of the Present
will vanish before the grandeur of the Future. "
I imagine that we should realize this and, if it
were possible, we should direct our efforts towards
giving mankind -proof of our survival. We should
seek to. co-operate with all spirits willing to serve
mankind in this way. Our aim would be-to appeal
to all sorts and conditions of men in the way in which
they were most accessible. To those entangled in
a mechanical theory of the Universe appeal must
The Unfolding of a Plan 47
be made through their physical organs of sense; no
other mode of approach would be likely to be effective:
raps, apparitions, voices, etc., and other manifesta-
tions would be tried, and in all the phenomena we
might produce we should seek to exhibit the activity
of independent intelligences.
Having taken this flight of fancy let us return to
facts, and consider how far they justify the opinion
that there is intelligent purpose in the abundant and
varied phenomena which have occurred during
the last 60 or 70 years, and which are still
occurring.
It is comm011ly supposed that modern Spiritualism
originated with the rappings which occurred in
Hydesville, U.S.A., in 1848, which brought the Fox
sisters into notoriety. It is true that these rappings
attracted much attention; but raps of an intelligent
kind had occurred before that. It is noteworthy
that one of the earliest apparent attempts to attract
attention to this subject was in connection with a
great religious revivalist, John Wesley. The full
account of the repeated rapping which occurred in
his family will be found in a little book called, "The
Epworth Phenomena ", by Dudley Wright.
Until Science had developed its own methods of
examining phenomena, such occurrences were ngt
likely . to produce much effect; Psychical Research
was hardly possible: but with the development of
Science it became not only possible, but an urgent
duty to examine the alleged phenomena of what is
called Spiritualism.
What are these phenomena?
Raps, lights, movement of objects without contact,
recognized appearances, voices, communications given
48 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
by persons in deep trance, and so forth. But are
these .well authenticated? And do they show clear
indications of the activity of independent intelli-
gences?
If human testimony is worth anything, .then surely
the answer to both these questions should be in the
affirmative. It is impossible to do more than touch
oh this testimony. I must limit myself to pointing
out certain important features in the development of
these phenomena.
To begin with, it is noteworthy that about the
same period as the Rochester rappings in the Fox
family which attracted so much attention in 1848,
several remarkable men and women manifested extra-
ordinary faculties. The manifestations which occurred
with them generally began with, or were accompanied
by, raps; but other more startling and impressive
phenomena followed.
We note, also, 'that if these remarkable psychics
had n:ot been brought into contact with men of influence
in the world they would have remained in com-
parative obscurity. · For instance, the wonderful
manifestations that occurred with D. D. Home would
have been to a great extent wasted if he had not
come into contact with Sir William Crookes (then
Professor Crookes), one of the greatest scientific
men of the age and not less -distinguished for his
courage and loyalty in the pursuit of truth at all
costs.
Of the rappings which occurred in D. D. Home's
presence Sir William Crookes has said: "With a
full knowledge of the numerous theories which have
be~n started . . . to explain these sounds I have
t~sted them in every way that I could devise, until
The Unfolding of a Plan 49
there has been no escape from the conviction that
they were true objective occurrences not produced
by trickery or mechanical means. "
Of the supernormal lights he has given the following
record: "Under the strictest test conditions I have
seen . . . luminous points of light darting about
and settling on the heads of different persons; I
have had questions answered by flashing of a bright
light a desired number of times in front of my face.
. . . In the light I have seen a luminous cloud
hover over a heliotrope on a side-table, brush a sprig
off and carry the sprig to a lady; and on some
occasions I have seen a similar luminous cloud visibly
condense ·to the form of a hand and carry small
objects about. "
. Of David Dunglas Home himself Sir William
Crookes has said that he was one of the "most lovable
and upright of men who insisted on every precaution
being taken to avoid deception. "
When phenomena appear spontaneously it is obvious
that they cannot usually be scientifically tested; the
use of organized physical mediumship lies in the
fact that apparitions in seances can be thus tested;
and to convince a sceptical mind such tests are
necessary.
Some persons may think that all these common
physical phenomena are unworthy of departed spirits
who ought to have more dignified and spiritual
occupations.. Did not Browning express a true
principle when he wrote:
''All service ranks the same with God.''
Anything that is done in the true spirit of. service
~
50 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
is honourable action. A well-known poet has
said:
''There lives
No faculty within us which the soul
Can spare; and humblest earthly weal demands
Zealous co-operation of all means
Given or acquired, to raise us from the mire .
And liberate our hearts from low pursuits . "
Although not intentionally referring to this subject,
of course, Wordsworth has embodied in these lines
the aim of psychical research, an aim with which
some of us are convinced that unseen workers are
co-operating. That aim is to engage all human
faculties, _j.ncluding the psychical faculties which have
been so long latent, and to use all means, however
lowly, with "zealous co-operation" to promote the
true "weal" of mankind and lift life to a higher and
more spiritual level.
As to the reality of the materialized forms that
appear in the seance room with genuine mediums,
testimony is overwhelmingly strong. There are some
who will not believe unless they have had personal
experience, but there are others who are more capable
of estimating the value of testimony, who will find
in the published records of such men as Sir William
Crookes, Professor Richet, Professor Lombroso, and
others (too numerous to name) evidence for the facts
which is quite irresistible.
In his valuable work, "Researches in Spiritualism",
Sir William Crookes relates some of his numerous
experiences with D. D. Home and Florence Cook
from which I will extract one incident, in which he
describes the apparition called "Katie King".
''I went cautiously into the room, it being dark, and felt
aPO'\lt for lv!iss Cooji:. I fo1m\l P,er on tb.e floor , K~~elin~ down
The Unfolding of a Plan 51
I let air into the ·lamp , and by its light I saw the young lady
dressed in black velvet, as she had been in the early part
of the evening, and to all appearances perfectly senseless;
she did not move when I took her hand and held the light
quite close to her face, but continued quietly breathing.
Raising the lamp I looked round and saw Katie standing
close .to Miss Cook. She was robed in fl.owing white drapery
as we had seen her previously during the seance. Holding
one of Miss Cook's hands in mine, and still kneeling, I passed
the lamp up and down so as to illuminate Katie's whole
figure, and satisfy myself thoroughly that I was really looking
at the veritable Katie. . . . She did not speak but moved
her head and smiled in recognition.
''Three separate times did I carefully examine Miss Cook
. . . to be sure that the hand I held was that of a living
woman and three separate times did I turn the lamp to Katie
and examine her with steadfast scrutiny until I had no doubt
whatever of her objective reality. . . . " pp. ro6 and 107.
This was in 1874. In 1898, before the British
Association, he referred to this record and said:
"I have nothing to retract. I adhere to my already
published statements. Indeed, I might add much
thereto. "
In the book from which I have abstracted this
account Crookes states that five complete sets of
photographic apparatus. were brought to bear upon
the form of Katie.
''I have forty-five negatives,'' [he writes], ''some inferior.
some indifferent, and some excellent. . . . One of the most
interesting of the pictures is one in which I am standing by
the side of Katie. . . . Afterwards I dressed Miss Cook
like Katie, placed h.er and myself in exactly the same position,
and we were photographed by the· same camera; placed
exactly as in the other experiment and illuminated by the
same light. When these two photographs were placed over
each other the two photographs of myself coincided exactly
as regards stature, etc., but Katie is half a head taller than
Miss Cook and looks a b.ig woman in comparison with her
. .. .. and the photographs show several other points of
difference. . . . I have the most absolute certainty that
- . Miss Cook and Katie are two separate individuals as far as
their bodies are concerned. '' (''Researches in Spiritua!ism' ',
pp. 109 and no.)
·52 Leave· From a Psychic Note -Book
And in 1916 he wrote with reference to investiga-
tions in Psychical Research :
''They point to the existence of another order of human
life continuous with this, and demonstrate the possibility in
certain circumstances of communication between this world
and the next . ' '
Professor Hans Driesch, M. D. , and LL. D., also
Professor of·Philosophy in the University of Leipsic,
wrote in ''.The Quest", July, 1924:
''The actuality of psychical phenomena is doubted to-day
only by the incorrigible dogmatist."
There are distinguished names, constituting a
catena of evidence from 1850 to 1924.
Another notable psychic, a contemporary of Home,
was Stainton Moses, a lecturer at University College,
tondon. In his case also the effect of his remarkable
experiences would, to some extent, have been wasted
if he had not been brought into touch with F. W. H.
Myers, a man whose influence would carry weight
in a wide circle.
Although Stainton Moses' s experiences had pro-
foundly changed his own conceptions of life, he was
not in a position to influence so wide a circle as that
which Frederic Myers has reached. Are we not
justified in believing that it was no mere coincidence
that brought these two men together? Myers
writes that "it may be that by such experiences
as those of Stainton Moses our race is being obscurely
guided into an avenue of eternal hope, " and he adds:
"who of mortals need ask for better than to be made,
whether by chance or merit, a landmark on such a
way."
The Unfolding of a Plan 53
In his case as in that of D. D. Home physical
phenomena occurred startlingly at the outset, but
the tokens of intelligent agency were obvious, and
the physical experiences were accompanied by intel-
lectual phenomena of a very impressive kind. The
raps, levitations, lights, etc., were apparently
intended only to convince him and his friends of the
objective reality of the agencies who undertook to
instruct him. Stainton Moses' s effect upon Myers
was to make him a veritable prophet. His literary
gift made him able to reach and impress thousands,
his grasp of the rationale of the subject and his zeal
in spreading the knowledge he had gained fitted him
to be an apostle in the field. He was one of the most
active founders of the Society for Psychical Research.
The phenomena, which as I .have already pointed
out have occurred at intervals in all ages, have of
late become much more abundant, and have been
of a character adapte to the present time. Now
that there is no danger of psychics being burnt as
witches (although they are subject to other forms
of persecution) many develop their faculties who
would not have dared to do so in former times. It
has been interesting to observe the enlarged scope
of the movement through the past quarter of a century,
and to note that doctors of science and medicine,
archreologists,. artists, literary men, and all sorts of
professional men, even journalists and t_!ie clergy,
are being drawn into it. I might mention photo-
graphers, for what is called "psychic photography" ·
has lately ·attracted much attention.
On the subject of psychic photography Sir William·
Barrett published a statement in "Proceedings",
December, 1924. "With regard to the so-called
54 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
'spirit photographs', I have been extremely sceptical
of their genuineness until quite lately. Recently,
however, experiments conducted by my friend,
Mr. De Brath, in one of which he kindly allowed
me to take part, appear to afford indubitable evidence
of supernormal photography. This conclusion con-
firms the opinion held by some expert and critical
experimenters who have discussed their results with
me."
Spiritualists have been the pioneers who blazed
a trail which is now thronged by a constantly increas-
ing number of students. Those who have hesitated to
endorse their conclusions have yet borne testimony
to their courage and to the importance of the facts
they have attested. ·
Professor De Morgan said half a century ago:
"The Spiritualists beyond a doubt are on the
track that leads to all advancement in spiritual
science; they have the spirit and the method of the
grand time when paths had to be cut through the
uncleared forest in which it is now the daily routine
to walk. Their spirit was that of universal exam,ina-
tion, wholly unchecked by fear of being discovered
in the investigation of non'sense. "
It should be clearly understood that the physical
phenomena have been entirely subsidiary to the most
important phases of experience, i.e., to the mental
phenomena. These have always been t}J.e most
important feature in the movement and it was
apparent that the physical occurrenc.es were organized
in order to attract attention, as means to an end,
not at all as an end in themselves. It is the com-
munications which have accompanied these occur-
rences which have led to the conviction that they
The Unfolding of a Plan 55
are the work of intelligent agents, and to the recogni-
tion that these agents are human, and in some cases
can be identified, as those who once lived on earth.
The implications involved in this fact are
tremendous, and it is, of course, only right that the
evidence for its genuineness should be thoroughly
examined and sifted. It is those who have devoted
the most earnest care to so doing who have become
absolutely convinced both that survival is proven
and that under certain circumstances communication
after death actually occurs.
To this general statement there are some exceptions.
Professor Charles Richet says he is still unconvinced
as to human survival; he cannot believe in human
existence without a physical brain; and yet he has
said (I quote his printed words):
''However improbable it may appear at first sight it is
possible, without plunging into absurdities, to conceive of
an intelligence which has not a brain as a substratum . . . .
The material substratum is the habitual phenomenon, it is ,,,
not the necessary phenomenon, and there is nothing to indi-
cate that it is so. When the time comes for the reverse to be
proved true-and why should it not come ?-it will be regarded
as surprising that we should ever have denied the existence
of an order of things different from the common order, not ·
contradicting it, but in juxtaposition with it." ("Should
Spiritism be Seriously Studied?'' pp. 9 and ro .)
.The International Metaphysical Institute in Paris,
of which Professor Richet is the Hon. President, has
been founded solely for the study of Psychical
Phenomena. Its committee includes names of dis-
tinguished men, and its most active memberwas the
late Dr. Gustave Geley, laureate of the French
medical faculty, recently killed when travelling by
air. Summing up the result of his investigations
Dr. Geley. wrote: that the facts necessitate "the
56 Leaves From a Psychic Note-Book
complete overthrow of materialistic philosophy";
and that "the materialistic conception of the universe
and of the individual is false, and cannot be reconciled
with our present biological knowledge."
In Dr. Geley, as well as in Myers, we have the
constructive, philosophic mind-a most important
element towards the understanding and co-ordination
of psychical phenomena. -
Professor. Herschel wrote in r785, in connection
with scientific discoveries:
"If we add observation to observation without attempting
to draw condusions, and also conjectural views from them,
we offend against the very end for which only observations
ought to be made.''
Dr. Geley was not guilty of this offence. He
deduced from his prolonged ·and careful scientific
study of these phenomena that human beings consist
of:
rst. Immanent Intelligences in close contact with
the vast Immanent Intelligence in Nature.
2ndly. A .S01:!~-energy with both physical and
mental c;tspects.
3rdly. A representation of these in material form.
As the pioneers in this Research have passed one
by one to the great majority; manifestations have
occurreg.., not ·only in greater abundanc_
e, but with
novel characteristics; they seem to indicate intelligent
devices wi~h the purpose of eliminating the various
hypotheses with which ~nvestig11.tors have tried to
explain the phenomena by ~interpretations which
might exclude dfscarnate ·agency. Cross-correspon-
dence is one of these devices ; the book test is another.
It often happens that very-little attention is paid_
The Unfolding of a Plan 57
to the mass of evidence which has accumulated during
the last 70 years, until some personal event occurs
which arouses interest. Those who have an unbroken
home circle and find the joys and the work of life
engrossing are apt to put aside a study which forces
upon the mind the consideration of death and what
comes after death. But when the angel of death
breaks in upon the security of the home life then
the subject gains new importance.
The question : "If a man die shall he live again? "
clamours for an answer. In proportion to the earnest-
ness and honesty of the questioner will be his care
in examining the evidence; he will not be contented
to trust it because it meets his desire; rather will
the keenness of his desires make him the more inclined
to sift the evidence so that he may know the truth
at all costs.
When we encounter startling and unusual facts we
must not, like children, just wonder and pass on,
we must meditate on them until their relation to
history past and present becomes manifest to us and
they are seen as part of the whole unfolding will of
God in relation to the Race. .Unless they are under-
stood in connection with life as a whole they- will
seem meaningless and purposeless. In order to under-
stand thus, "not merely the intellect, but also the
will has to come into play in the process of know-
ledge," so .says Professor Ramsay,- an~ he adds:
''The moral quality is at least as important as the intellec-
·tual in the making of the true scholar. He must struggle
from stage to stage. . . . At every step in the path of
knowledge one eliminates and does away the old and remakes
one's vision of the world . . . one sees facts in a new
correlation: something of what had been dark in the world
around becomes illuminated and clear. '' _(''The Teaching
of St. Paul in Terms of the Present Day", pp. 234, 244.)
58 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
In order thus to understand the evolutionary pro- ~
cess we need intuition, what Professor Ramsay calls
"sympathetic insight" and "the operation of the
Divine element in man grasping the Divine unity
and plan that rules in the world. "
The undermining of materialism as a philosophy
seems to be a part of the Divine Purpose and plan
in this development ; and another very important
part seems to be the enlargement of the scope of
Human capacity for fellowship and co-operation.
Frorn the amceba· up to Man evolution has tended
in this direction. The struggle for individual sur-
vival has been one factor in the scheme, but it is not
the only factor, not even the principal factor. The
other factor is Co-operation; without co-operation
and mutual assistance the higher forms of living
creatures could not have existed. It is a conspicuous
feature in the development of both floral and animal
life. It is entirely in line with the evolutionary
process that the event of death should widen the
capacity for such fellowship and afford further scope
for co-operation.
It Seems unthinkable that in a rational Universe
the inevitable experience of death should stultify
for every single individual the obvious trend
and . apparent purpose of the whole process of
becoming.
We are therefore led to anticipate that when we
enter upon the next stage we shali have extended
opportunities for interaction with our fellows and
increased faculties for responding to our environ-
ment. The communications that purport to come
from the Other Side of death bear out this
antfoipation.
The Unfolding of a Plan 59
No one apprehended this aspect of the subject
more- clearly than did Frederic Myers.
· "This new scientific temper," [he wrote] , "is not confined ,
as I believe, to the denizens of earth . The spiritual world
meets it , as I think our evidence has shown , with eager and
strenuous response. But that response is made and must be
I made along the lines of our normal evolution . . . . We
have no longer t o deal with some isolated series of events . ..
but rather with a world-wide and actual condit ion of things .
recognizable every year in greater clearness . '' (•'Human
Personality ", Vol. II, p . 284 .)
And further as the outcome of this study, he says:
" Evolution will no longer appear as a truncated process,
an ever arrested movement upon an unknown goal . •' {Ibid. ,
P· 290 .)
So entirely had his profound study convinced him
of the reality of the co-operation between the two
states that he says:
"lt is not we who are in reality the discoverers here . The
experiments which are being made are not the work of earthly
skill . . . . The true discoverers . however , show no wish
to be thus sharply distinguished from ourselves. Their aim is
a collaboration with us, as close as may be possible . "
(Ibid .. p. 27r.)
The prospect is a glorious one, but we must never
forget that the individual human will is an important
element in the scheme. We may co-operate with
higher intelligences in carrying out the Divine Purpose,
but there is no compulsion so to do. It is not the
incident of death, so obviously a part of the scheme
of things, which can hinder the fulfilment of Human
Destiny. But it may be hindered by wilful blindness
to facts and obstinate self-seeking. Egotism of this
kind is a cosmic crime, since it opposes the funda-
60 Leaves From a Psychic Note-Book
mental principle of the Universe, the principle ·of
Fellowship-apart from which it would not be a
Uni-verse at all.
-Blind, of course, we all are more or less, but men
of goodwill wh.o wish to se~ the Truth and to
co-operate, will be used to further the Purpose of
God whether they apprehend the significance of life
or whether they do not.
Marcus Aurelius has said truly:
"All people work in some measure towards the
ends of Providence-some with knowledge and design,
while others are not sensible of it. . . . The grand
design is carried on by different hands and different
means." -.
/
IV
THEY FOUND NOT THE BODY
Some persons object to the statement, "I believe
in the resurrection of the body, " which they con-
sider affirms merely the resuscitation of the flesh.
It_is true that for the most part those who framed
the Apostles' Creed and those who have used it have
understood the words in this material sense; but
behind the materialistic ideas of an unscientific age
lies a fundamentally true principle, a principle to
which the affirmation, "I believe in the resurrection
of the body, " has borne witness throughout the
Christian era, and to which it still bears witness,
however crudely it may be interpreted.
That principle is the essential nature of man as
an embodied spirit. Those who speak of "disembodied
spirits·,,, implying the possibility of the survival of
the human spirit in an altogether bodiless condition,
are- employ ing language for which they can find no
support in Nature or in Scripture. Nowhere in the
Universe have we any examples of disembodied
existence; it is a gratuitous assumption. For what
is a body? It is an instrument whereby intelligent
beings are _
able to manifest themselves and to relate
themselves with their environment, and it is incon-
ceivable. that in any individualized state of existence
spirits should be without some such organ of
61
62 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
expression. The more developed the spirit the finer we
should expect the organ of expression to be; but we
cannot conceive of a spirit entirely without a body
of any sort.
M. Gabriel Delanne in his interesting book,
"L' ame est immortelle ", * has pointed out that many
of the early Fathers of the Church recognized that
spirits are never bodiless. St. Paul's statement that
man has another body not made of flesh is familiar
to us all. "There is a natural body and there is a
spiritual body" (I Cor. xv. 44); but it is not so well
known that Origen and other Fathers of the School
of Alexandria held that the bodies of the elect are
incorruptible.
In an interesting article by Mr. G. R. S. Mead
in "The Quest " he makes the following quotation
from Origen, who, he says, called those who held a
materialistic interpretation of the resurrection "flesh-
lovers":
Another body, a spiritual and ethereal one, is promised
us ; a body which is not subject to physical touch , nor seen
by physical eyes, nor burdened with weight , and which shall
be metamorphosed according to the variety of regions in which
it shall be.
Origen calls this body the seminarium, or "seed-
plot ", and, as Mr. Mead suggests, he seems to regard
it as being not so much "a body in immediate sequence
with the physical body" as "the source of every
possibility of embodiment-the germ-ground, or
seminariitm, from which all such bodies could .be
produced. " Mr. Mead also states that the term
"light emanation" was used symbolically by Gnostic
* Translated by myself under the title ''Evidence for a Fut~re
Life". (Rider & Sons.)
They Found Not the Body 63
schools for the germ of the spiritual man; and that
the literal translation of the term spiniherismos, used
symbolically in Greek for the spermatic principle, ·
would be "emission of sparks". The whole of this
interesting article deserves careful attention. ("The
Quest", January, r9ro.)
St. Hilary says that there is nothing in the creation,
visible or invisible, which is disembodied, that souls
possess a corporal substance inherent in their nature.
St. Cyril taught that God alone is without body.
St. Bernard said that God's nature alone requires
"neither for its own sake nor that of others, the
assistance of a bodily instrument. " St. Ambrose of
Milan spoke in a similar manner: We must not
suppose that any being is wholly immaterial in its
composition, with One only exception. " Tertullian
and St. Augustine believed that angels have bodies.
("Evidence for a Future Life", pp. 15, r6.) All
these statements seem to imply that death makes
no break in the continuity of embodied existence.
There are facts which justify us in taking another
-step and venturing to speculate further as to the
nature of the body which will be our future instru-
ment. These facts are too ·numerous .to be quoted
fully, but a few examples may be given. They seem
to indicate that our future bodies will be luminous.
Perhaps science will eventually confirm this, and
the beautiful idea set forth in the Kabbalah will be
actually verified. There we are told that just as the
soul, when sent to earth, "puts on an earthly garment
to preserve herself here, so she receives above a shining
garment in order to be able to look without injury
into the mirror whose light proceeds from the Lord of
light" (Sohar r, 65). Here the idea is clothed in the
64 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
language of poetry; but it is well to remember that
poetry need not be mere fancy, it may be prophetic
intuition. Science can ·be poetry, too, and the
mysteries it reveals are wonderfyl enough to warrant
the loftiest imaginations and the most splendid hopes.
All matter, we are told, is built up of electrons
and is electrical in _
origin. It is therefore in line with
what we know of the constructive forces of Nature
to surmise that the new body will be electrical also
in its origin, that the forces which will manifest in
bodily form .when this "earthly tabernacle is dis-
solved" are latent within us and that their luminous
effects are arrested only by the materiality of our
present organism. Dr. Ochorowicz' s experiments led
him to conclude that the forces ·of his medium, which
were used to effect materializations, were the same
forces which at other times -manifested as light,
and that this is why he did not obtain luminous
phenomena and materializations simultaneously.
The· traditional representation of saints with
aureoles has probably some foundation in psychic
manifestations. .The following interesting account,
given by a sensitive of her own experience in a night
vision, has been corroborated by other experiences.
I thought myself to be suspended in the air without material
form, but all vapour and all light . . . . Then gradually
that light which I felt to be myself approached the corpse,
entered it as I recovered my senses, exhausted as after a long,
trying magnetic sleep. ("Evidence for a Future Life", by
Gabriel Delanne, p. 38.)
Here is another .experience:
At every pass you make I see .little columns of fire-dust
emanate from '.he tips of your fingers and incorporate them-
selves in me . . ·. I am almost surrounded by an atmosp):i.ere
glowip.g, with this same fire-dust.
The writer from whom the above ·is quoted also
They Found Not the Body
reports the statements made by the same somnam-
bulist as to an experience during natural sleep :
As to myself I appear like a luminous vapour; and I feel
myself thinking apart from the body; in this condition I
understand and I see many things as in somnambulism, when
the thinking faculty is operating without my being separated
from my organism; but after a few minutes have passed, a
quarter of an hour or more, the luminous vapour approaches
to my body nearer and nearer; I lose consciousness and the
ecstatic state is over. (Ibid., p. 37.)
Colonel de Rochas' s experiments corroborate the
conclqsions we may draw from these quotations. He
has said that the emanations given off from the body
of his subject "spread themselves in a manner
analogous to light ". He recounts an experiment in
which he employed a clairvoyante to observe the
condition of a mesmerized subject. She was able to
perceive round this subject a luminous enswathement
before she was mesmerized, and from the moment
when her normal sensibility began to disappear this
seemed to dissolve into the atmosphere, then
reappeared at the end of a short time as a light mist
which little by little condensed, becoming more and
more brilliant until it definitely took "the appearance
of a very thin layer following, at the distance of three
or four inches from the skin, all the contours of the
body. "-Quoted in "Evidence for a Future Life",
p. 137.
Let us now consider the bearing of the above
remarks on the events recorded in the Gospels con-
nected with the Resurrection. In Mr. Theobald's
book, "Spirit Workers in the Home Circle" (now
out of print), he relates the following conversation
which took place with Mrs. Everitt, a gifted medium
(not professional), whilst she was in a state of
F
66 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
trance, the "control" speaking with the direct
voice.
Question. Was it true that Christ died?
Answer. His body died.
Q. Then I suppose the body He rose with was a different
one-it could do as you do and come through material sub-
stance?
A. Matter is nothing to us. ·
Q. But what became of the body?
. A. Part of His material body-the grosser part-evaporated
on the Cross; the remnant when the linen cloths were left in
the sepulchre. The body He rose with was entirely spiritual.
Q. Then during those three days a change went on, which
in our case will t ake many years to accomplish?
A. Yes; it was an acceleration of chemical power (p. 50).
With this it is interesting to compare a .description
by Andrew Jackson Davis of what he saw clair-
voyantly at a d~athbed. After describing a bright
stream of "vital electricity" which seemed to play
energetically between the feet of the elevated spirit
body and the head of the prostrate physical form
he adds:
Here I perceived what I had never before obtained a know-
ledge of, that a small portion of this vital electrical element
returned to the deserted body immediately subsequent to the
separation of the umbilical thread (i.e., this electrical current);
and that that portion of this element which passed back into
the earthly organism instantly diffused itself through the
entire structure and thus prevented immediate decomposition.
(See ''The Philosophy of Death'', by Andrew Jackson Davis . .
The italics are my own.)
In this description we may, perhaps, find a clue
to the immediate cause of the acceleration of chemical
processes referred to by Mrs. Everitt' s spirit control.
If it is a fact that the subtle forces radiating from
the physical body form a connecting link between
~t and the finer spirit body, and if it is also true that,
They Found Not the Body 67
under ordinary circumstances, some portion of this
subtle force lingers in the corpse after the spirit has
quitted it and by so doing prevents immediate decom-
position, then it seems obvious that if, under extra-
ordinary circumstances the whole of this force were
to be withdrawn rapidly (although perhaps gradually)
the result would be a very speedy disintegration of
the body. If this is what occurred in the case of the
Lord Jesus we can understand why the grave clothes
lay apparently undisturbed, and yet had completely
collapsed, and why the disciples "found not the
body".
Certain experiences and researches give support
to this hypothesis, but before considering these more
in detail the questions may be asked: Is there any
reason to believe that the withdrawal of psychic
force from the body of the Lord Jesus would be
exceptionally complete? And are we justified in
supposing that this complete withdrawal might be
effected by will power alone ? We will consider the
questions in rotation.
In relation to the first question, we must bear in
mind that Christ purposed to manifest to His disciples
in a material manner and to continue and repeat
these manifestations during a considerable period of
time, and under very various conditions; it seems
quite reasonable to conclude that for this prolonged
and complete materialization it would be necessary
to concentrate all the psychic force available. The
account of the manifestation towards the close of
the forty days seems to show that this force was
almost spent; the appearance seems to have been
more shadowy. We are told that "when they saw
Him they worshipped Him, but some doubted ". The
68 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
form was not as unmistakably objective as at first,
when seeing Him brought immediate conviction.
If we admit that there were good reasons for the
withdrawal of the whole of the force which otherwise
would have remained in the body and would have
hindered, for -a while, the process of decomposition,
we still want to know whether this withdrawal could
have _
been effected by will power or whether we must
suppose some other unknown agency was at work. *
In Mr. Hereward Carrington' s recent work,
"Problems of Psychical Research", when discussing
Dr. Ochorowicz' s experiments with Mlle. Tomczyk
and the photographs taken by means of the radia-
tions from her body, he says: "These rays may be
centred and -concentrated by the action of the will
of the subject" (page 57).
There is plenty of evidence to substantiate this
statement. It is, therefore, an experimentally
attested fact that these radiations are controllable by
jhe wilt; and it is reasonable to assume that, without
any contravention of the laws which govern human -
development, He whose whole life on earth had been
a victory of spirit over matter, He who overcame
the world and the flesh by the power of a will attuned
to God, could exert this same will power over the
psychic forces attached to His physical body.
The late Dr. Paul Gibier (director of the Bacterio-
logical Institute in New York), a man who had the
courage of his opinions, and who satisfied himself by
* ''Matter it m_
ay be said is an illusive term. There may be
nothing of the sort, but only forces; " Substances " may be a
congeries of centres of attraction. Volition may be a force of
higher order. A supreme volition might disperse these coherent
centres of force , and when they flew apar _ what would become
of the substance then?" ("The Risen Master'', p. 25, Dr. Latham,
ublished 1901 .)
They Found Not the Body 69
investigation that materializations and other psychical
phenomena are facts, has expressed the following
opinion in a book called "Psychism ", published
towards the close of last century. After referring to
an apparition coincident with a death, he says :
We will endeavour to explain how manifestations like the
one just related occur, more especially at the time of death.
According to the theory which we deduce from our observa -
tions, it is because the intelligence may dispose immediately
after death of a certain amount of free animic energy, which
abandons the body little by little after what we have termed
the intellectual secession. ("Psychism", p. 247.)
Earlier in this work he wrote that he believed th at,
at death:
a certain part of the animic energy is dissipated and in a
gradual way re-enters the common storehouse of universal
energy. Another part of this force remains bound to the
spirit . . . but it is later that the animic force definitely
leaves the body, provided it (the body) has not been destroyed
by fire or any other destructive cause immediately after death
(p. 233).
He further goes on to state that he thinks it probable
that the "animic energy" lingering in the cells of
the physical body is gradually attracted again to the
spirit.
One wishes that Dr. Paul Gibier had explained
more fully what were the observations which led him
to this opinion; it is clear, however, that his views
were the result of his studies. What he calls "animic
energy" is evidently the same force which is used for
materialization, and this again seems to be identical
with the radiations observed by Dr. Ochorowicz in his
experiments with Mlle. Tomczyk; by these rays,
sometimes visible and sometimes invisible, he obtained
photographs. He states that he could not obtain
70 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
materialization phenomena and the lights simul-
taneously, and he attributed this to the fact that
the force could not be used for both manifestations
at once. We are justified in assuming that the "vital
electrical element" described by Andrew Jackson
Davis was a manifestation of the same force. ·
On the basis of these experiences we may pro-
visionally formulate the following hypothesis.
A force radiates from all human bodies, of which
under ordinary circumstances the greater part is
liberated at death; if the whole were liberated at
once the physical form would immediately and
rapidly disintegrate, the residuum lingering in the
cells of the body for a while opposes the action of
chemical forces which would otherwise come at once
into operation.
This force when radiated can be used to produce
materializations, if it is sufficiently concentrated and
circumstances are favourable.
Very reverently we may apply this hypothesis to
the events recorded in the Gospels. He whose will
was potent over His own body during His earthly
life was able to withdraw the whole of the psychic force
from the physical form He had quitted and to control
and concentrate it in order to manifest materially to
His disciples and thus to convince them of His
triumph over death. These proofs He continued to
give during forty days, during which period He was
Himself, probably, passing through a process of
ascension and progressive exaltation, His spiritual
body becoming perfectly adapted to His exalted
state, If we accept the Scriptural teaching that He
was in "all things made like unto His brethren"
gradual progress rather than sudden transformation
They Found Not the Body 71
must have beeri His experience, as it is ours. It was,
apparently; during this transition stage that He used
the quasi-material force which seems to serve as the
nexus between earthly matter and spiritual substance.
Dr. Werner, pastor of Becklesberg, has recorded a
series of discourses between himself and a "sensitive"
in which there occurs a passage of interest in this
connection. It is quoted in "From Matter to Spirit",
a book by Mrs. De Morgan, now out of print. He
was told that "there is an exceedingly fine substance"
which "pervades the body in all parts", and this is
"the soul' s instrument for operating in the external
world. And when the soul parts from the body this
fine substance accompanies it; for it is as well a
part of the soul as of the body. " It is destined at
last, as to "what is more gross and corporeal, to be
entirely removed, and the soul to assume the nature
of the eternal light of the spirit. " Further he was
told that by aid of this substance spirits can make
themselves seen, heard, and felt by man, "they can
excite sounds in the atmosphere of earth". ( "From
Matter to Spirit", page 132. Dr. Werner's book
was written in 1847.)*
The Seeress of Prevorst, also quoted in Mrs. De
Morgan's book, said that by means of this "nervous
principle of vitality the soul was united with the
body and the body with the world." It enables
spirits to "make themselves heard and felt by man" ;
spirits to whom this force is no longer attached
appear no more on earth.
With this it is interesting to compare an account
* Souls quite earthly wrap themselves gladly in it and give
thereby the characteristic form to their spirits . By the aid of this
substance they can make themselves seen, heard, or felt by man-
they can excite sounds in the atmosphere of earth (Ibid.) .
72 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
of the teachings of Kapila, already referred
to as a philosopher who lived in India some
centuries B. c. He proclaimed the existence
of a universal medium pervading all space. This
prophetic insight has been corroborated by the
discoveries of modern science, and the medium is
called "the ether of space". - He also declared that the
soul is accompanied by a subtle body, called the
linga sharira, which it only: abandons at its final
emancipation; and he said that this subtle body
enables the soul to maintain its connection with
matter, even~wh~n divested of a gross body. "It is
material, although imperceptible. " Modern research
has done something to verify Kapila's teaching con-
cerning this also. ·
Since writing the above I have read an arficle by
Mr. Hereward Carrington in the June issue of "The
Occult Review", in which he discusses some experi-
ments conducted by Drs. L. Clarac and B. Llaquet,
of Bordeaux, with a Madame X. These experiments
were reported in "Annales Psychiques ". They
show that Madame X . is able, by extending her
hands over dead plants and animals, to arrest decom-
position. Mr. Carrington says:
The facts they present are most startling, and the con-
clusions they are driven to accept remarkable. Life, they say,
may be preserved in animals and plants, and they may be
prevented from decomposing in the regular manner by means
of the human "fluid", which is said to exist in all of us in
a more or less marked degree . . . decomposition has been
prevented-a fact of extreme scientific interest, if true. The
doctors who issue this report are well-known and cautious
observers·who have only published the results of their experi-
ments after months of patient work.
Further on Mr. Hereward Carrington asks:
ls there a vital fluid within th.e body, preserving it during
life, as that of Madame X . seemed to preserve inanimate
They Found Not the Body 73
objects? Is it because of this that we do not disintegrate
during life ? It would seem so.
The bearing of these more recent experiments on
the subject of this paper will readily be appreciated.
If the force radiated by Mme. X. can be concentrated
so as to prevent decomposition we have here demon-
strative evidence of the existence of the "vital element "
clairvoyantly seen by Andrew Jackson Davis which
he said hindered the decomposition of the body, and
we are justified in assuming that if this force were
entirely abstracted disintegration would be rapid.
The result of such abstraction might be just such
a collapse of the grave clothes as we are told the
disciples observed when they visited the tomb of
their Master and "found not the body".
I shall be very sorry if the above suggestions seem
to be merely ingenious; ingenuity is often misleading,
and in connection with so sacred a subject would
be most unfitting. I have made the suggestions with
the hope that they may help some others, as they have
helped me, to discern in the life of Christ as presented in
theNewTestament, the "workingofimmutablepsychic
law which stretches all through the ages", and that
this discernment may support the convictions of those
who believe that in the experience of Christ we have a
supreme example of the power of spirit over forces
physical and psychical, and at the same time of the
fact that God never contradicts His own order; that
He "over-rules it and diverts it from its original
direction, but never breaks the proper sequence of
cause and effect" (see Dr. Sanday' s reply to Bishop
Gore's Open Letter, p. 23).
v
DEATH IN . THE LIGHT OF SCIENCE AND
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
We live in a world in which we are being trained to
apprehend Reality. The process is slow; the desire
to know the Truth is instinctive in all thoughtfu1
persons, but at present we are, for the most part,
subject to illusions. Illusions are not delusions. To
be subject to delusions indicates an unsound mind;
but to live in the midst of illusion is no token of
insanity. It only implies that we have not yet
realized that things are not what they seem to be.
Mankind has had to learn through illusions; it is
not desirable to be rid of all illusions until the lessons
have been learned which the illusions of our present
state are meant to teach; only gradually by study,
reasoning and experiern~e may we learn the Truth
which liberates, and thus obtain relative freedom
from illusions. For instance, the notion that the
sun moves round the earth is an illusion, not a delu-
sibn; it was a reasonable deduction from experience,
until further study proved it to be incorrect. The
impression that atoms of matter are in immediate
contact is another reasonable deduction from experi-
ence. Science teaches, however, that this also is
an illusion, that no atom absolutely touches another,
It remains true relative to our senses and for all
74
Death in the Li~ht of Science 75
practical purpose; but mentally we know that it
is an illusion.
Lord Balfour, referring to experiences through our
physical senses, has said:
What are we to say about these same experiences when we
discover not only that they may be wholly false, but that
they are never wholly ·true?
Absolute freedom from illusion is impossible of
attainment in this life, and it would be unreasonable
to imagine that there will be no illusions in the life
Beyond. Illusions are due to imperfect interpreta-
tion of experience; it isunlikelythat interpretationwill
be perfect in the next stage to this. Sir Oliver Lodge
says:
A nerve centre interprets or presents to the mind each
stimulus in the specific way to which it has become accus-
tomed. . . . So, it may be (immediately after death), we
shall be unable to interpret things save in a more or less
customary manner .*
In a general way, however, it is true that the mind
corrects illusions of the senses. This is a fact in this
world and will no doubt be true in another world.
But when we are convinced that sense impressions
are misleading they still hold sway over our imagina-
tion. We must bear this in mind when we consider
the event of death.
What does Science teach us about death? In the
first place it teaches that death is a natural event,
as natural as birth; it is part of the order of Nature.
Biology teaches that death is not a necessity for all
livingbeings, however. There are unicellular organisms
which, if not interfered with, do not die. They
* "Raymond Revised ", p. 19I.
-
76 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
experience neither death nor birth, they propagate
by subdivision. Why are higher organisms subject
to this apparent catastrophe from which the lower
are immune? Fer what reason was death introduced
into the scheme of the Universe? We may surmise
that it was introduced because mortality is service-
able to evolution, a benefit to the Universe; and
had it not be~n introduced the various forms of
higher life would- have been impossible, the lower
would have filled all available space. The Universe
would be full of immortal amceba ! In a book called
"The Death in Evolution" the,writer (Mr. Newman
Smith) says: . -
"Death enters, as far as is known, in connection
with alternations between two methods of repro-
duction . . . it occurs naturally in the course of
the change from the a-sexual method of simple cell-
division, to the method of fertilization. " It is this
latter method-which gives to Nature variety, richness,
and the plastic power of adaptation to different
environments; - with the entrance of the new method,
"for the enrichment of life through sex, enters also
the law of decay _and death. " Further he adds:
"Biology furnishes- thus to philosophy a suggestion
of profound truth and of far-reaching significance.
. . . It means tl).at death, in the course of Nature,
is not to be regarded as a disaster . . . Death
. . . in the -Divine economy of Nature is intro-
duced as a means of life, of ever-increasing and
happier life" (p. 32).
The fact that death is a benefit to the race does
not solve the pr:oblem of its effect on the individual.
Tennyson has voiced the question which has tor-
mented many when he asks :
Death in the Light of Science 77
"Are God and Nature then at strife,
That Nature lends such evil dreams?''
-''In Memoriam''.
Of course it is radically impossible that God and
~ature can be at strife. If we believe in a Creative
Spirit at all we must believe that Nature is a part
of His self-manifestation. And if there is a higher
manifestation than the material universe we must
expect to find traces of One and the Same Mind in
both, and to find that the various manifestations
help us to interpret the whole. The fact that death
serves a beneficent purpose in the scheme of evolution
takes us a step further towards the solution of the
mystery of death for the individual as well as for the
race. It looks like disaster, but science emphatically
negatives that conclusion as far as the race is con-
cerned; this supplies us with grounds for hope that
the same principle may apply to the individual, and
that the apparently disastrous character of death may
prove to be an illusion in both cases. Some instinct
within us (not an unreasonable one, surely) rebels
against the conclusion that the welfare of the Race
as a whole is won at the cost of catastrophe for every
single individual that builds up the Race. In order
to ascertain whether this apparent disharmony is an
illusion, and whether the impulse to reject it is
justifiable, we must turn to other sources of know-
ledge, and include in our survey a wider range of
experiences; but before we do so there is one other
illusion connected with death which medical science
com~~cts. What is called the last "agony" is obviously
misnamed. There are, no doubt, painful diseases
which cause suffering as long as there is conscious-
ness, but medical men assure us that the struggle
78 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
with which life quits the body is not, under normal
conditions, painf:ul to the dying, however distressing
it' may be to the watcher; the dying person is usually
unconscious and does not suffer. Archbishop Tait
remarked when dying: "I did not know that dying
was so pleasant. "
What light does Psychical Research shed on this
event? It is impossible in so limited a space to do
more than indicate briefly what should be the answer
to that question. The lines of study are many, but
a general conclusion may be arrived at by careful
consideration of the various aspects of the subject.
The general conclusion to which they point is that
the incident of death is not a terminus, but a "covered
way" to further experiences, "that there is no dis-
continuity at death. " (See "Report on the Census
Proceedings S.P.R. ", Vol. X, p. 4or.)
A very momentous consideration is involved in
the quoted words: "No discontinuity "-implies that
the dying person carries into changed conditions all
that has become an integral part1of his individuality.
His affections, his aspirations, his hopes, and,
perchance, his fears (if he has them), his character,
in fact, as it has been moulded on the wheel of life.
In 1894 the Society for Psychical Research pub-
lished a census of cases, carefully sifted and verified,
of spontaneous appearances at and after death, the
percipient being in some cases unaware of the death -
of the person seen; since that date a vast number
of corroborative instances have been published. One
example drawn from this census may here be briefly
summarized, although it thus necessarily loses some
of its value and should be studied with full details
in the volume itself, or in F. W. H. Myers' s book,
Death in the Light of Science 79
"Human Personality'', where it will also be found
(Vol. II, p. 21). Certain points in this narrative
are particularly well adapted to illustrate the deduc-
tions which may be fairly made from these kind of
experiences in general.
The recorder is Mr. E. Mamtchitch, a Russian
gentleman; he had befriended the sister of a friend
of his, an orphan girl, called "Palladia". She was
very delicate in health and, at the age of 15, she
died suddenly, whilst M. Mamtchitch was reading
aloud to her and her sister. About two years later
he was experimenting in his own room to find out
by repeating the alphabet whether he could get
intelligent raps; Palladia' s name was indicated.
This startled and almost frightened him. He asked
if she had anything to say to him. The response
was, "Replace the angel, it is falling. " He did not
for a momerit know to what this might refer. He
had not seen her grave and did not know what kind
of monument had been erected on it. Early the
next morning he went to the cemetery and searched
for her grave, which he found surmounted by an angel
and a cross; the monument had slipped and was
standing quite crooked. The impression this experi-
ence made on him was very great, and gave him the
conviction of the reality of another life.
A year later he saw her whilst he was playing the
piano in his room; a friend was working in the
same apartment whom he at once informed of what
he had seen and who testified to the fact, but did
not himself see any figure. Three years later she
again appeared to him at 9 p.m. when he was busy
finishing some work. She appeared to be seated in
an arm-chair in front of him, her elbow on the table
80 Leaves From. a Psychic Note -Book ·
and her head resting on her hand. Although startled
he soon recovered his presence ~of mind and, taking
up his watch, steadily observed the movement of
the seconds-hand; then, assured that he was in full
possession of his senses, he leoked up, noting that
Palladia was in the same position. She returned
his gaze calmly and joyously; then he resolved to
speak to her. "Que sentez-vous apresent?" he asked.
(How do you feel now?) He saw no movement of
her lips, but he distinctly heard a voice reply :
"Quietude" (tranquillity). He replied: "I under-
stand. " "At that moment, " he wrote, "I did under-
stand all the significance which she had put into
that word. " Once more he looked at his watch,
and noted the motion of the hands, and when he
again raised his eyes the image of Palladia was
fading. "If I had thought of noting immediately
the significance - of the word Quietude I should
have remembered, " he said, "all the new strange
meaning of it. · But as soon as I had quitted the
table to go upstairs and join my friend I could relate
nothing further than I have now stated. " Nine
years later he saw her again, and heard her speak.
The occasion was a memorable one. He had met,
for the first time, a lady who subsequently became
his wife; at that time, however, he had not any such
idea in view. She was paJ-ing a visit to his parents
with whom J:\e was then residing. Shortly after her
arrival, having awaked at an early hour, he saw
Palladia at a distance of about five feet from his
bed; she was looking at him with a happy smile,
and he heard a voice say: "]' ai ete et j' ai vu. "
(I have been, and I have seen.) He did not under-
stand what these words might mean. A setter was
Death in the Li~ht of Science 81
in his bedroom ; when Palladia appeared the dog's
hair stood on end and he sprang upon his bed; the
creature looked towards Palladia; he did not bark
but pressed close against his master, as if for pro-
tection. Mr. Mamtchitch said nothing about the
experience, but that evening the young lady visitor
told him that she had had a strange experience.
Having awaked early she felt as if someone was
standing at the head of her bed and she distinctly
heard a voice say: ''.Do not fear me, I am kind and
loving"; turning to see the speaker, she saw no one.
Five years later his child, then two years old, was
standing near his chair when Palladia again appeared.
Turning to his father, he pointed at her with his
little finger and said: "Auntie". This occurred
eighteen years after her death.
Certain points in this .narrative suggest an answer
to questions often raised in connection with the
subject of survival. The question is asked: If com-
munication after death is possible why do the com-
municators so often speak of trifles? The fact that
the monument on Palladia' s grave had fallen on one
side was a mere trifle. It could not be important
to her, but it was very impqrtant from the point of
view of convincing M. Mamtchitch that an intelli-
gence, independent of his own mind, was in corre-
spondence with him. Again it is asked : Do they
know after death what befalls their friends on earth?
The answer to that question is' very explicitly con-
veyed in this narrative. Surprise is often expressed
that they do not tell us more concerning their present
condition. We note that when M. Mamtchitch passed
out of the condition in which Palladia was visible
and audible to him, he ceased to retain the real
G
82 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
significance of the word he remembered to have
heard; it became more or less unintelligible; he
knew that a sense had been conveyed to his mind
which, when it was again in its normal contact with
the material environment, he could no longer grasp.
In this circumstance we may find the clue to the
fact that we are told so little about the conditions
of life in the Beyond ; the ordinary use of words
cannot at all adequately express those conditions;
probably it is only in some transcendental mood
that those still in these clay bodies can apprehend
them; not by words, but by some direct action of
spirit on spirit it may be possible for some, at rare
moments, to ~pprehend partially a state of being
which is super-material.
Although this narrative is unusual in the frequency
of the appearances, the conciusions to which it leads
are corroborated by innumerable other cases, some
published and some unpublished, which very clearly
indicate that the so-called Dead are very much alive
in their faithful affections and interest in their
friends, and that they know more about us than
we kno'w about them;, that, although the conditions
and environment in which they live are different
from ours, they are unchanged in character, and hold
those they love in constant remembrance. Fellow-
ship which is an essential ingredient in all pro-
gressive life on earth is no less essentially a part of
life Beyond.
Death has been represented as a lonely experience,
and one in which separation is the main factor,
separation from friends, and separation from the
body; this isolation is an appalling thought, for
loneliness is an abnormal condition, we were born
Death in the Light of Science 83
for fellowship. If the very numerous instances of
visions of the dying and of watchers by the bed of
death are rightly understood, death is robbed of this
dread; the notion that lit is a lonely process is an
illusion; there is no break in fellowship for those
who have already enjoyed fellowship.
It must not be assumed, however, that death will
be an equally happy event for everyone. The com-
munications which claim to have come from the
Other Side of death show that this is not so. We
are citizens of a just universe in which cause and
effect are inevitably linked. Selfishness is an isolating
process; those who have lived for self may be terribly
lonely in a condition in which they may not have
made friends. "Make to yourselves friends, " said
Jesus Christ, "that they may receive you into the
eternal tabernacles. " (St. Luke xvi. 9.) Friends
can only be made in one way, that is by being friendly;
we create our future by what we are more than by
what we do. "Though I bestow all my goods to
feed the poor . . . and have not love it profiteth
me nothing. " (I Corinth. xiii. 3.)
Those whose interests are exclusively connected
with material wealth and earthly ambitions, cannot
be otherwise than impoverished when they lose these
mundane things. The event of dying is the entry
into open conditions in which there is "nothing secret
but it shall come to light ". In that fact lies a veritable
judgement day; only sincere souls will desire to be
known as they really are, to others the fact that
"there is nothing hid that shall not be known" is
terrible.
But God' s judgement days are meant to be salutary;
the light of truth is also the light of love. There
84 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
are infinite possibilities of progress in the infinite
Spirit Universe of which our present condition is a
tiny fragment.
There is yet another point on which both physical
science and psychical science throw some light.
Death seems to deprive the spirit of a body; most
persons shrink from the prospect of being bodiless.
But is not this idea also an illusion ?
There is no scientific man who has devoted more
time to the study of the ether of space than Sir Oliver
Lodge. In a recent work he says:
The Ether is now believed to be a very substantial sub-
stance, far more substantial* than any form of matter...•
Not only is there a matter body there is also an Ether body;
the two are co-existent.
This he states as a scientific conclusion of which
he is personally _
convinced, and he continues:
"We may be sure the Ether _
body does not wear
out : that is contrary to all we know about the Ether
and its properties. " He adds that when life quits
the material body it may cease to animate the ether
body. "It may, we cannot assert either way; it is
a question of fact, and the fact is not yet certainly
known. " ("The Ether of Space", pp. r55, r62.)
This cautious statement of a man of science should
be carefully considered with all its implications. The
assertion that there is an Ether body which is not
liable to wear out harmonizes with the inspired
utterance of St. Paul when he says: "There is a
natural body and there is a spiritual body. " (I Corinth.
xv. 44.) And again, "I know that if this earthly
tent of mine iS taken down I get a home from God,
* It should be noted that the word substantial as used in science
does not signify material.
Death in the Light of Science 85
made by no human hands, eternal in the heavens.
It makes me sigh indeed, this yearning to be under
the cover of my heavenly habitation since I am sure
that once being covered I shall not be naked at the
hour of death ... not that I want to be stripped
-no, but to be under the cover of the other, to have
my mortal element absorbed by life. I am prepared
for this change by God. " (II Corinth. v. 1-5, Dr.
Moffat' s Translation.)
The intuitions of philosophers have apprehended
the same truth. Johannes Scotus, a Celtic meta-
physician of the ninth century, taught that "the
form of the body, i_
ts primary spiritual constitution
is . . . to remain amidst all the changes that it
has undergone from its connection with matter, and
-from subjection to the accidents of matter. Its
outward material vesture will fall off, and be mixed
with the elements out of which it is formed. But
the true native form, the proper body, will be pre-
served, and recover its relation to the soul which
inhabits it. " (See "Metaphysical Philosophy", by
Frederick Maurice, Vol. I, pp. 495, 496.)
This teaching is in harmony with messages which
claim to come from the Departed, affirming that
they are not bodiless. They say that they possess a
more subtle organism when they quit the material
body. If we believe this, and realize that death is
not the entrance into a bodiless state (a condition
unimaginable), but rather that it is a fresh adventure
upon which we enter duly equipped with a body
adapted to our new condition, and companioned by
those who love us, who wait to welcome us, then
death loses its horror, and we may surely "greet
the Unseen with a cheer".
86 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
This was the attitude of Christ in the presence of
death. His sympathy moved Him to tears for those
who, subject to illusion, were blind to the Truth,
but He was fully aware that so-called death is "a
step onwards to the fullness of immortality". This .
fullness can, indeed, be only gradually attained;
but on the upward way, He assured His friends,
that there are many "abodes" in which they would
find that their coming was prepared for and that
there was no cause to let their "he<lirts be troubled"
at the prospect, either for themselves, or for those
they love.
After His own death He gave again the same ·
assurance of "Peace" and pledged Himself to be
actively sharing in their work on earth, companioning
with them "all the days" until their time came to
be with Him in the fuller condition of life Beyond.
VI
VISIONS OF DYING IN THE NINTH AND
NINETEENTH CENTURIES
It is commonly supposed that it is "orthodox" to
speak of "disembodied spirits", in other words to
assume that after death the soul has no body, but
awaits the restoration of the embodied state at some
future day. But this was not the belief of some of
the great saints whose "orthodoxy" has never been
questioned. In the "Life of Anskar ", the great
"apostle of the north", who faced hardships and perils
in the fulfilment of his mission to Denmark and
Sweden in the ninth century, we may read the account
of a vision granted to him at the season of Pentecost.
In this vision he seemed to be about to encounter
sudden death, and, as his soul was in the act of leaving
his body, it was ''.taking to itself another and very
beautiful kind of body which was no longer subject
to deatlf and from which all disquiet was absent. "
( "Anskar ", translated by Charles H. Robinson, D.D.,
p. 30.) The vision continues, "As his soul left his
body he seemed to be surrounded by an unending
light which filled the whole world. " He was then
gently led into purgatorial darkness, and after brief
suffering-although it seemed long to him at the
t~me-he was again led "through great and ineffable
87
88 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
brightness, progressing without motion and by no
material path. " Further we are told:
In the East , where the light rises, was a marvellous bright-
ness, an unapproachable light of unlimited and excessive
brilliance , in which was included every splendid colour and
everything delightful to the eye . All the ranks of the saints
who stood round rejoicing derived their happiness therefrom.
The brightness was of so great extent that I could see neither
beginning nor end thereof. When I was able to look round
both far and near amidst the unending light, I could not see
what was within, but saw only the outer edge ; nevertheless
I believed that H e was there concerning whom St . Peter-
said, " on whom the angels desire to look. " From Him
proceeded unlimited brightness wl:lereby the saints far and
near were illuminat ed. H e, t oo, was , in a sense , in .all of
them, and they in Him . H e surrounded everything from out-
side. H e controlled and met the needs of a ll ; H e protected
them from above and sustained them from beneath. . . .
There was nothing material there, nothing possessed any
body, although there was an appearance as of a body which
I cannot describe. The beautiful light round those who were
sitting proceeded .from God Himself and extended like a rain-
bow. . . . Although I seem t o have told something of the
great est of all delights, I confess that the pen can in no way
express all of which the mind is conscious. Nor is the mind
conscious of what actually existed, for that was revealed to
me which eye hath not seen , nor ear heard, nor hath it entered
into the heart of 111an.
It is interestiifg to note that Anskar was fully
aware that what he. "saw" in this visionwassymbolic,
not that which "actually existed ", but that never-
theless Truth was revealed to him, Reality was
revealed to him thus; and it is also interesting to
note his effort to convey the dual fact that no
"material" body was possessed by the beings in that
state, and yet that he and they truly manifested
through "a very beautiful kind of body".
If we compare this-vision with the vivid experience
of the process of -dying recorded by D. D. Home
in his autobiography, we shall find some strikingly
analogous points. He, also, passed through an
Visions of Dying
experience of dense darkness and fear, and (like
Anskar) he realized the presence of unseen helpers,
and fountl that "surrounding the obscurity lay an
ocean of silver-toned light". Then he saw the whole
of his nervous system "as it were composed of thou-
sands of electrical scintillations, " then "the finer
membranes surrounding the brain became as it were
glowing, and, " he says, "I felt that thought and
action were no longer connected with the earthly
tenement, but that they were in a spirit body, in
every respect similar to the body which I knew to
have been mine."
The message which he heard at this point was beautiful.
but it told him that his lack~ of faith had caused the experience
of darkness . After this it seemed to him that he awoke "from
a dream of darkness to a sense of light; but such a glorious
light. Never did earthly sun shed such rays, strong in beauty,
soft in love, warm in life-giving glow, and as my last idea
of earthly light had been the reflex of my own body, so now
this heavenly light came from those I saw standing about
me. Yet the light was not of their creating, but was shed
on them from a higher and purer source, which only seemed
the more adorably beautiful in the invisibility of its holy
love and mercy-thus to shower every blessing on the creatures
of its creation; and now I was bathed in light, and about
me were those for whom I sorrowed, for although I well
knew that they existed, and loved, and cared for me, never-
theless their earthly presence was not visible . "
("Incidents in My Life", by D. D. Home, pp. 45, 46.)
Anskar says-at the close of his vision that a voice
bade him: "Go and return to Me crowned with
martyrdom, " and that after hearing the Voice he
"became sad" because he was "compelled to return
'to earth". (After this he hoped for martyrdom, but
he was not actually put to death, although he endured
many sufferings, and; as his friend and biographer
says, "his whole life was like a martyrdom. ")
D. D. Home also heard a voice which bade him,
90 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
"Return to earth, love your fellow creatures, and in
so doing you will serve the God of Infinite Love, who
careth for and loveth all." He adds, "Nothing could
ever convince me that this [vision] was an illusion
or delusion, and the remembrance of those hours is
as fresh in my mind now, as at the moment they
took place. "
For convenience I have been obliged to omit many
interesting details in both visions; what has been
quoted, however, shows that both these servants of
God were prepared for their life's work early in their
career by very similar visions. The story of Anskar' s
visions and life was recorded by a disciple, Rimbert
by name, and was then lost for 500 years. The trans-
lation by Dr. Charles Robinson was made in 192r.
It .is a beautiful record. D. D. Home's autobiography
is a valuable record of pioneer work of a different
nature, but both have served their generation by
bearing witness to the supreme value of the spirit
over the flesh, and used their gifts for the benefit
of mankind. They found by experience the truth of
the saying of Phillips Brooks, "Happiness is a great
love and much serving. "
In this connection the following incidents are worth
recording. Referring to the death of a cousin,
a friend wrote to me as follows :
"My cousin became very ill and, being a Roman
Catholic, a Priest was sent for, and he came and
administered 'extreme unction' and the sacrament.
She was all the time unconscious, and when she
recovered consciousness asked what had been happen-
ing and was surprised to hear she had been given
the Sacrament while unconscious and said it ought
not to have been done. Both Doctor and Priest
Visions of Dyin~ gr
considered she could not live through the night and
were astonished next morning to find her alive. Her
body had become quite cold and her breathing
extremely feeble. But then she seemed to be having
a quiet natural sleep and when she woke up seemed
better. She could hardly speak but asked to be given
food to make her stronger so that she could speak,
as she had something she wanted very much to say.
This was done and she was able to tell her sister
first and then her daughter that she had been dead;
she said she felt herself gradually drawing away
from her body and coming out at her feet. Then
she stood at the foot of the bed and looked down
on her body and saw her heart inside like a tiny
flickering little flame. She felt herself like a shining
light, like an electric lamp. She felt strong and
very happy and knew that everything was 'quite
all right' and they must not cry and sob about her, .
for she was so glad to be released, and soon they
would all be happy together again.
"One curious thing she said: that things were
not measured by time but by light. She wanted to
impress upon them (she said the same things over
again to her daughter afterwards) _that it was she-
herself who was out of her body not a part of her'--
she repeated several times: 'It was just me-myself,
my own character, just me.' She said she knew every-
thing would be all right for her daughter who she
was leaving alone (a parish nurse). She then said:
'Tell everybody-I want everybody to know' -and
she said she would like what she had told the rn to
be published.
"She lived for about twenty-four hours afterwards
and talked about their affairs. "
92 Leaves From a Psyehic Note -Book
There are many records of visions seen by the
dying, but experiences like those of Anskar and
D. D. Home are rarer. There are also fewer incidents
on record of the visions observed by watchers by
dying beds. · The following account was given to me
personally by i friend who at my request wrote it
down for me some years ago :
"On March 6th, r88r, my mother, who had
been ill, was sitting by her bed, when she asked
me and a friend to assist her into bed. We did
so, when suddenly a bright light came upon her
face, so intense that for a moment I had to cover
my eyes. The friend said: 'Your mother is
going.' We watched her a few minutes, then
she repeated slowly : 'They shall hunger no
more,' etc. (Rev. vii. 15-16); then large tears .
rolled down her cheeks and she said: 'Oh, this
going back to earth again.' The light gradually
faded but had not quite passed from her face
until some time during the night, wheri, for the
first time, she opened her eyes. She then told
me she remembered our helping her into bed,
when a form seemed to guide her up until she
saw into Heaven, and upon looking at the many
people she saw there she repeated the verses we
had. heard; she also said she saw much she
could not tell me, and then she came back to
earth again. I may say, she died after a week
of most terrible suffering, but she never failed
to realize, as she so often said, that. 'under-
neath are the everlasting arms'. "
(Signed) M. A. PETHER.
There is a beautiful account of the passing of the
Visions of Dying 93
wife of William Makepeace Thac~eray, written by
her daughter Anne Thackeray Ritchie, and published
in a volume by Hester Ritchie. She writes:
My dearest mother did not suffer ; she was speaking of
Billy and his school when she fainted. They carried her to
her room and she rallied for a very little and then became
once more unconscious. She did not know me when I got
there, but I could sit by her bed and hold her hand, and feel
it was her and me still .
And in the morning after that long strange night, something
came into her face, something great and wise and beautiful
beyond words or even remembrance. I thought the sun had
broken through the clouds, but when I looked a t the window
it was dull twilight , and this great distinct light and beauty
was in her face .
It is by comparing these spontaneous experiences
of diverse but concordant nature that we may gain
some glimpse of the process of death in its true
spiritual aspect. Sir William Barrett's last book
"Deathbed Visions" (Methuen & Co.), should be
read by t?ose who wish to study this subject further.
VII
SOME PROBLEMS IN PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
(SUGGESTED BY THE BOOK "RAYMOND")
It is too soon to estimate what will be the permanent
effect of the publication of Sir Oliver Lodge's book
"Raymond", but we may already take account of
the immediate effect. It is not too much to say that
no book on psychical matters has ever had such a
wide influence in so short a time. · It has arrested
the attention of many who have hitherto passed the
subject by; it has broken down doubts which yielded
to no other evidence; it has comforted sorrowful
hearts; it has strengthened conviction among the
· already convinced; it has encouraged to fresh efforts
those who have been striving for years in an unpopular
cause. To have accomplished this is a privilege for
which, we may be sure, the author of the book
willingly pays the price-a heavy one, for the first
item was the sacrifice of a dearly loved son; the
smaller items, doubtless, being many vexatiOll;S cir-
cumstances and petty criticisms.
There is, of course, another side to· the matter.
The book has caused perplexity and, perhaps, some
distress. The opposition with which it has been met
in some quarters is not always and wholly factious.
Those who are prepared to admit the evidential
94
Some Problems 95
value of many incidents recorded, who would gladly
welcome the conclusion to which these incidents
lead, are set back by some details which, in their
opinion, lower their conception of a future life. For
readers who feel thus one should have much sympathy.
They do not know how to estimate the relative value
of the "verifiable" and "unverifiable" matter; if
the former justifies the belief that Raymond Lodge
was actually in communication they do not quite
see why Sir Oliver Lodge should seem so uncertain
about the value of the unverifiable statements.
He explains his reason for so doing on p. 192; but
it is probably only those who have given some study
to the subject of mediumship and the difficulties of
communication who will understand altogether what
he means by the phrase "some statements are pecu-
liarly liable .to unintentional sophistication by the
medium. " Footnotes on pp. 196 and 199 show that
he does not accept at their face value many things
which Feda, the "control", says; and it is probably
just these things which offer the greatest stumbling
block to an untrained reader, who hesitates to commit
himself to the conclusion to which the evidential
incidents point because he thinks that to accept
these may involve the acceptance of other state-
ments which repel him and which seem to him deroga~
tory and absurd.
To a student, of course, the matter presents itself
in a different aspect. For he has learned to under'-
stand that communication through a medium is a
more complex matter than the inexperienced often
suppose, that it is not an easy mode of intercourse,
but subject to all sorts of impediments. To begin
with, the communicator is thinking, not talking.
96 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
One who communicated througli Mrs. Piper (in trance)
said: "I cannot tell just how you hear me. . . .
How do you hear me speak when we speak by thought
only? " Sometimes a word is exactly conveyed, but
more often it is the idea which reaches the mind of
the medium, or the_ "control", and there takes shape
in any language which the medium finds easiest.
The idea may be misunderstood, mistranslated, so
to speak, and the conditions in another life being
unfamiliar to the medium, these ideas may be
expressed-in language suited only to material things.
Therefore -such descriptions are very likely to be
misleading and no great value can be attached to
them, and any attempt to treat them as authoritative
and accurate is likely, as Sir Oliver Lodge has said,
"to retard the development of the subject in the
minds of critical persons" (p. 192).
In a helpful book (now unfortunately out of print)
"From Matter to Spirit", by Mrs. De Morgan, the
following communication is quoted:
' '.Heaven has its couches, its rests, its coverings, its comforts;
none need mourn for those of earth; but attempt to name them
with the, equivalent of earth the resemblance dies away . . .
the words fail as well as the ideas'' (p. 204) .
Similarly, Mrs. Underwood, in a book called
"Automatic Writing", tells us that, in answer to a
question put by her husband, "What can you tell
us as to the lqcality of your sphere? " this reply was
received, "There are no words in your language which
we can make useful. Verbal words of expression are
inadequate to express that of which there is no
equivalent on your plane. " These and other comnm-
nications of the same nature seem quite reasonable,
Some Problems 97
but those who have not studied other writings on
this subject have no means of making comparisons
which assist interpretation.
Another cause of confusion with which students
of Psychical Research are familiar is that marginal
thoughts are liable to intervene, that is to say,
thoughts present in the mind of the medium, or
fugitive thoughts in the mind of the communicating
intelligence. In one of the communications received
by that careful investigator, Professor Hyslop, this
sentence occurs: "It is almost impossible · to let
nothing but the pure present expression come. Try
it yourself in the ordinary conversation of life and
see how the fugitive drops in and is constantly bring-
ing misunderstanding of the idea you are trying to
express."*
It may be· impossible to correct mistakes made in
this way, for the communicator may not even be
aware of how much of his message has reached, or
in what form it was transmitted. Moreover, in
many cases only fragments of the idea sent really
reach; we must allow for the fact that the untrans-
mitted-portions might elucidate the· messages. In
a communication claiming to come from Frederic
Myers (through Mrs. Holland, well known to Psychical
Researchers) he says: "Then we feel as if only one
sentence reached of twenty we try to send. " (S. P.R.
Pro., Part LV, p. 248.)
To these and other causes of confusion must be
added the questions asked by the friend who is waiting
for a message and who is perhaps eager to get a reply
*Some of the points here discussed will be found fully dealt
with in papers by Professor J ames H . Hyslop in the U.S.A .
Journal of Psychical Research , Jan. and Feb ., 1917 .
H
98 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
on some particular point. We have to picture to our-
selves the unseen intelligence striving to concentrate
thought so that it may reach the incarnate mind
and be clearly received, and then we shall easily
see that questions may introduce a very disturbing
element. Professor Hyslop tells us that, "Every
question may more or less disturb the equilibrium
established by the communicator. " One of these
communicators expresses the difficulty thus:
"Every word from another sets a train of thought
in motion. " That train of thought may be started
in the mind of the medium with the result that
passivity is lost and the message from the unseen
is not received at all, or it may start the imagination
of the "control", or it may prevent concentration
on the part of the communicating mind. Some-
times it may be desirable to risk all this for
a purpose. Both Sir Oliver, Lodge and Professor
Hyslop occasionally ask questions quite deliberately;
but we must reckon with the disturbance likely to
ensue and discount the answers to that extent.
George Pelham, one of the clearest communicators
through Mrs. Piper, evidently found interruptions
very trying. He says:
"Why do you confuse me so, why don't you let me
go on and tell you what she says, without interrupting
me so often ?"
It may be only by concentration that the one who
sends the message can keep in touch, or keep "hold ",
on the receiving medium. Loss of contact is referred
to by communicators as an explanation of confusion,
thus: "Then I began to lose my ~asp of the light. "*
*A medium is called a "light" by some of those who communi-
cate.
Some Problems 99
"I lost my hold on the light, that is where the trouble
began." When concentration flags wandering thoughts
and fancies are liable to intervene; and thoughts from
other minds may intrude and be received by the
medium. What occurs at a telephone when bits of
other conversations are intercepted may illustrate
this cause of confusion in mediumistic experiences.
These considerations should make it clear why any-
one who has made no study of mediumship will find
stumbling-blocks where, with more, experience, a
student can pick his way.
This does not imply that we are justified in dis-
carding wholesale such descriptions as we find in
"Raymond" and other books concerning conditions
on the other side of death. We should be careful
not to "throw away the baby with the bath-water".
There must be an originating impulse, or stimulus,
for the elaborate details which are given in "Raymond"
and elsewhere. The stimulus may be of mundane
ongm. Sir Oliver Lodge intimates that he thinks
so when he writes, "I confess I think that Feda may
have got a great deal of this, perhaps all of it, from
people who have read or written some of the books
referred to in my introductory remarks" (p. 198).
And again: "I have not traced the source of all this
supposed information" (p. 199).
But when there are evidential tokens of contact
with Raymond in the same interview we must admit
that it is at least possible that the stimulus came
from him, that the descriptive talk contains certain
ideas which he wished to convey, although in trans-
mission they may have become much altered and
distorted.
By what method can we discriminate between the
roo Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
true idea and the fictitious or misleading setting?
First we should seek to discover the idea underlying
the discursive descriptions and, if we think we have
recognized it, then we should compare it with other
statements coming through mediumistic channels,
not excluding those which seem at first sight contra-
dictory; these may perhaps supply some illuminating
clue. If we find that these ideas, on the whole,
corroborate one another we should further consider
the matter in the light of analogies in our own
experience. For the oneness of the universe is mani-
fested most emphatically in the universality of the
principles or laws. which govern it. We have no
reason to suppose that the event of death makes a
real break in the continuity of life, so that the same
fundamental-principles whi!2h govern life and mind
on earth no longer govern life and mind in another state
of existence. To illustrate · this point I will take
one of the paragraphs which have proved most
difficult and even repelling_ in "Rayrnond ". I refer
to p. r97.
Bearing ill mind the considerations set forth in
the preceding pages, let us examine the statements
made on the subject of physical cravings felt and
satisfied in the next life, and- discover what are the
main ideas-which these statements seem intended to
convey.
- "Feda" (Mrs. Leonarµ - "control ") says, "He
(Raymond) says he does not want to eat now, but
he sees some who do; he says they have to be given
something which has all the appearance of an earth
food. People here try to provide everything that is
wanted. A chap came over the other day would have
a cigar. " After stating that all sorts of things can
Some Problems IOI
be manufactured, Feda continues: "It's not the
same as on the earth plane, but they were able to
manufacture what looked like a cigar. . . . But
when he began to smoke it, he didn'.t think so
much of it; he had four altogether, and now he ,,,
does not look at one. They don't seem to get the
same satisfaction out of it, so graaually it seems
to drop from them. But when they first come they_
do want things. . . . He wants people to realize
that it's just as natural as on the earth plane. "
The main idea lies in the last sentence, "No sudden
Heaven or hell" waits man on the other side of death.
Life seems natural over there, because the same prin-
ciples which govern life here prevail and control con-
ditions there also; this surely is implied in the fact
Raymond is so anxious to impress that "it's just
as natural as on the earth plane. "
One of the principles which we find at work in this
life is the power of habit. It is a dominating principle
in all evolution; it is by habit that creatures climb
or fall in the scale of being. A British Tommy shot
out of his earthly body, .is not instantaneously
liberated from this principle. Perhaps he passed
over with his pipe in his mouth, and if he was the
slave of the tobacco habit, is it likely that he would
suddenly lose all desire for "a smoke" ? There is
no reason to expect this miracle to happen; it is
contrary to all experience. Comparison with other
mediumistic statements abundantly corroborates the
belief that habits formed in this life continue until
the spirit learns to ~ast them off.
That this is true of mental habits would probably
be readily admitted; the puzzle is, how can it apply
after death to physical habits? This is conceivable
ro2 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
when we remember that science teaches us that
physical sensations are really, in the last resort,
mental experiences. It is the mind that' is conscious
of sensations, not the molecules of the body, not even
the nerves, which are merely the channels through
which vibrations are transmitted to the brain, there
to produce changes which, in some inexplicable way,
are interpreted by the mind, as sensations.
When we have grasped the fact that it is the mind,
not the body, which experiences pleasure or pain
we should find no difficulty in believing that minister-
ing spirits can, if need be, produce sensations in
those under their care who have passed out of the
body.
George Herbert, realizing the power of thought,
wrote:
There is a rare outlandish root,
Which when I could not get, I thought it here;
That apprehension cured so well my foot,
That I can walk to Heaven well near.
Experience and science fully endorse !he idea here
expressed. But still the question remains: Why
should ministering spirits pander to these earthly
desires? An analogy may suggest the answer. In
homes for the cure of inebriates it is, I believe,
customary to provide a harmles:; beverage to adminis-
ter when the alcohol craving comes on. After the
habit has been broken off the patient may be subject
to this craving from time to time, and as a help
in such moments of trial the method is obviously
wise. Thus patients are gradually assisted, as by a
crutch, until they can dispense with the support.
There must be very many who, when they enter the
new life, need to be gradually weaned from the
Some Problems I03
cravings of physical sensations. Comparison with
other mediumistic statements abundantly corro-
borates the view that those who, up to the hour of
death, have identified their conscious life with the
physical body and its environment, after death still
feel as if they were possessed of a physical body, and
their thoughts naturally turn to physical things.
An analogous experience frequently occurs when a
limb has been amputated; the man who has lost
his leg still feels as if he had it. A sudden shock
may amputate (so to speak) the whole physical
organism and yet the man may still feel as if he had
it because he retains sensation~ which have become
a mental habit. It ought to comfort us to believe
that tender sympathy is at hand to supply the needs
of a spirit when under such conditions, and that he
is cared for not less wisely and skilfully than he
would be in a convalescent home on earth, and is
gradually weaned from things physical, the severance
being made as easy as may be.
Feda says, "When he began to smoke it, he did not
think so much of it. " It seems that thought concentra-
tion on the araving was diverted by the supply of
the desired sensation. "They don't seem to get the
same satisfaction out of it, so gradually it drops
from them. But when they first come they do want
things. " The naturalness and com_!llon sense in this
remark are obvious.
I do not wish to intimate that the effect is only
produced by mental suggestion, the record distinctly
implies that means are used which are as real and
objective for those in that life as external objects are
to us in this. One might say a good deal on that point,
but it is sufficient for my present purpose to illustrate
ro4 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
the general principle . of interpretation by this
single instance. I cannot, however, leave this illustra-
tion without pointing out its ethical bearings. If it is
true that physical habits and sensations become part
of our mental make-up and have a persistence which
may last after the physical body has been left for ever,
how careful everyone should be to be master of all
habits, to be able to break with them at will. It is
a matter of practice; it is only those who .have
become the slave of habits in -this life, and who have
identified their consciousness with the body and its
physical environment who will be still earth-bound
in thought and sensation when the door of the next
worId opens to them and they .are called to pass in.
The ideal condition for those who wish to claim
self-possession and the freedom of spiritual beings
has hardly been better expressed than by the slave-
philosopher, Epictetus. .
"We also are His offspring. Every one of us may
call himself a son of God. Just as our bodies are
linked to the material universe, subject while we
live to the same forces, resolved.when we die into
the same elements, so by virtue of reason our souls
are linked and continuous with Him, being in reality
parts and offshoots of Him. . . . If we realize
this kinship no mean or unworthy thought of our-
selves can enter our souls. The sense of it forms a
rule and standard for our lives. . . . He has given
us freedom of will; there is no power in Heaven or
earth that can bar our freedom. . . . We are God's
athletes to whom He has given au. opportunity to
show of what stuff we are made. "
VIII
THE BEARING OF SPIRITUALISM ON THE
DEEPER LIFE OF HUMANITY
The purpose in the following chapter is to consider
the bearings of the truths proclaimed by Spiritualists
upon life.
Assuming that what they assert is true, in what
way should these truths affect our aims and conduct?
As the Editor of "Light" has said: "Spiritualism
in its small phenomenal aspects should lead to
Spiritualism in its high forms of a truly spiritual
life and vision. " ("Light", April lst, 1916.)
A short time ago I heard an able speaker maintain
that the first test to be applied to alleged facts is:
Are they helpful? I do not agree that this is the first
question to be asked. The first question, surely, is: Is
this true? ls it afact at all? But the second question may
well be: Is it helpful? What is its relation to life?
If we cannot discover its helpfulness it does not
follow that it is not true, or that its helpfulness may
not be discoverable. But if we can discover its
helpfulness, we are better able to appreciate its
importance and value. This question is undoubtedly
one that ought to be put, not as a test of truth, but
as a means of appreciating its value. Facts are
dry and sterile until they are related to life and
practice.
xos
106 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
First, then, let us ask what should be the imme-
diate bearing of the fact of survival of bodily death
upon our aims and practice.
To begin with we must realize that that which
survives is this "I ", this "Ego ". There is no escape
from self, the character we are building up now is
the character we shall bear when we pass out of our
physical bodies. Are we contented to have this
companionship ? Shall we be happy in our own
society?
If we are convinced that death will not miracu-
lously change us although it may open to us fresh
opportunities, it must concern us very much to know
what sort of characters we are building up. Character
is formed by thoughts, and habits; that which we
habitually think and do is making us to become,
from moment to moment, that which we are.
When men and women really believe this the
fundamental values of life are changed. Everything
that tends to emich our characters, everything that
helps to form them on lines which we wish to persist,
is held to be of primary value. And those circum•
stances which do not have this effect are unimportant.
I said habits make character. Let us come down to
details. The worrying habit, gloominess, discontent,
the readiness to look on the dark side, suspicion of
others, self-centredness, the tendency to make our
likes and dislikes take a foremost place in our estimate
of ideas, or of things, or of men-all these habits
tend to ossify, i.e., they become, if indulged, a fixed
part in our characters. And when we leave the body
we carry these habits with us: I do not say that
they may not be broken off after death; but the
only way to break a habit is by effort, and the longer
The Bearing of Spiritualism 107
the habit has been indulged the more painful and
difficult is the effort.
The habit of shutting our eyes to truth in novel
forms is one which may produce spiritual blindness.
Swedenborg relates that in one of his visionary states
he saw some people in a room in which all blinds
were drawn and, asking why they lived thus in semi-
darkness, they told him that the light blinded them
so that they could not see. Which things are a
parable! We may imagine that the truth itself is
depriving us of vision. If the light itself is mistaken
for darkness how terribly unprogressive our state
will be.
If the formation of character is really of primary
importance can we understand why spiritual beings are
enclosed in a material environment, in flesh bodies,
shut in, as it seems to us, under conditions in which
difficulty encounters us continually? If Spirit is
really the Self why are we compelled to devote our
attention constantly to Matter? Most of our time
is spent in providing for our material bodies, or
making the material environment better fitted to
supply bodily needs; even the intellectual and
spiritual members of our race are compelled either
to attend to these things themselves, or to hire
others to do so for them. Can we apprehend why
this should be?
If we grasp the truth that we are Spirits and that
Spirits are related to the Eternal Spirit, that we are
His offspring, then we know that we are brough'.'
forth in His image, and that we are destined to
realize that image in ourselves- "we shall be like
Him". He is the macrocosm, the Infinite Creator
and Ruler, we are the microcosm; we, too, are
ro8 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
capable of creating and ruling; but this Divine
capacity is latent in us, and it has to be developed.
It is for this, I think, that the Divine Wisdom
has sent us forth into Matter, embodied in flesh,
surrounded by difficulties, which test us at every
moment. Development of latent powers is only possi-
ble by overcoming, by effort. We have to learn
to create and to rule: we are destined for this in
the future. A_hint of this was given by Christ when
He said to His friends : "Ye shall sit on thrones" ;
that was symbolic language implying dominion.
But before we can create, or rule, we must learn to
control, first Matter, then Thought, or perhaps I
should say, matter by thought.
Frederic Mye1·s once said that by studying the
difficulty which Spirits seem to have in communica-
ting by controlling the organisms of mediums we can
understand in some degree the difficulty which we
(who are Spirits) have in controlling each his own
body. It is easier to control inorganic substances;
such as metal, clay, etc. ; it is easier, even, to bring
under control mechanical forces, than to control
organic matter and the forces in our own bodies,
and because this is the most difficult experience
therefore we Spirits have become incarnate. We are
to learn in relation to our own material bodies, how
to create, to re-create, to control, to subdue, to rule,
and to use matter and force.
When we realize this purpose in our incarnation
we shall not be daunted by difficulties, for we shall -
recognize that if the task were not difficult, it would
fail to serve for our education. We have to become
not only characters that can persist without shame
in the Eternal Light, but masters of faculty, creative
The Bearin~ of Spiritualism ro9
artists, and rulers of matter, or whatever we may
call the substance which will be our environment
and instrument in future conditions of being.
When we look at the multitudes of mankind we
see that human misery is in the main due to lack
of control, primarily to lack of self-control. And
we see that the lack of control is in large measure
due to wrong thought, -Or to uncontrolled minds.
Spirits are beings endowed with capacity to direct
and control thought by will power. Evil spiritsa re
beings whose thoughts are misdirected because
their wills are misdirected. And persons whose wills
are weak are liable to be directed by other personali-
ties incarnate or discarnate whose wills are stronger.
Weak-willed persons are in danger whether they
practise spiritualism or whether they avoid such
practices, because thoughts are constantly passing
between Spirits both in the flesh and discarnate, and
if anyone does not cultivate will power which enables
a man or woman to direct their thoughts in healthy
channels, then other minds may become the directing
forces, and theweak-willed personmay becomeob.
sessed.
A materialist who does not believe in spirit is as
liable to this danger as anyone else; there are various
degrees of obsession from the individual who is easily
influenced to the individual who loses all self-deter-
mination.
When we realize that we are here to acquire com-
plete self-control, we have learned a most important
fact both in relation to our own lives and in relation
to our social aims.
It shows us what should be the fundamental
principle and aim of social legislation. It is often
said that it is impossible to make persons ~ood by
no Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
right laws; that is true, but right laws may either
foster self-control in the community or the reverse.
Legal enactments may make self-control easier or
more difficult. Here is a test whereby we may try
the efficacy of legal measures on social conditions.
In applying it we must remember the object for which
self-control is to be fostered, namely, to make the
individual strong in chara'cter. Legal enactments
may promote abstinence from crime and enforce good
habits by making certain kinds of wrong-doing
impossible, but this is hardly the best way to
strengthen the character. Our social work even here
is creative; we have to take our part in re-creating
society by working to bring into force such laws as
will both encourage the development of the best in
individual characters and assist individualself-control.
The creative faculty which belongs to us as spirits
has a distinct bearing on the question of disease and
health. For by this faculty it is possible to re-create
the tissues of the body and to control its functions.
Can we form any hypothesis as to how this re-creation
may be effected, as to methods? -
We are told by scientific men that a jet of water
moving very rapidly becomes so solid that it cannot
be cut with a sword. The effect of solidity is produced
by the rate of vibration. Ether in vortex motion
(that is the theory) becomes what we call matter.
Atoms of matter are in constant movement: the
vibration and motion of the atoms in our own bodies
are not under the complete control of the individual
mind possessing this organism. If the control were
complete there would be no disease. This is .one
ca.
use of dis-ease-dis-harmony, in the body, viz.,
the fact that its atoms and molecules are not under
The Bearing of Spiritualism III
the perfect control of the mind and will. Another
cause may be found in the action of other individuals,
who are similarly unable to control the molecular
movements in their bodies. Disturbing vibrations
are often set up by other embodied personalities.
For Humanity is closely bound in one, and being
really a unity the various members of the Human
Race necessarily feel the effects of the imperfect
control of each and all. Moreover, Heredity is a
fact: our bodies are largely the product of our
ancestry; ancestors who, like ourselves, did not
have complete control over their material organisms.
We inherit, therefore, bodies which are not altogether
our own. What then should be our aim in connection
with our bodies? Everyone should strive to gain
by thought, directed by will, the mastery over the
body; and should realize that it is possible to alter
the vibration-of its molecules and so to produce a
greater harmony in the body by right direction 0£
thought. It may in some cases be very difficult;
and perfect control may not be attainable in this life.
I am not one who believes that it is possible for
everyone to be in perfect health under present material
conditions; but I believe that much may be done
towards the cure of disease by this method.
I also believe that the conditions which make this
conquest over matter so difficult are not unnecessary,
they are a part of our education, they are the factors
by which our Characters may become truly God-
like: "To him that overcometh, " said Christ, "will
I grant to sit with Me on My throne. " That implies
that dominion and mastery over the lower elements
in the Universe and in ourselves can only be attained by
effort, by encountering obstacles and overcoming them.
n2 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
By overcoming the ascendency of Spirit over all
phenomenal conditions becomes manifest. Our
struggle here in the lower planes of the Universe is
an education for Spirits of higher degrees; they
watch and assist us in our warfare; they realize
better than we do how much is involved for the
Spiritual Universe, how its denizens may be affected
by the issue of our struggle; their interest is probably
intense. The writer of ·the Epistle to the Hebrews
was not indulging in fancy, but spoke the literal
truth when he said that we are "compassed about
with a great cloud of witnesses" and when he urged
us therefore to run "the race set before us" stimu-
lated by the recognized presence of the multitudes
of spectators, and looking continually towards our
great Forerunner whose heroism and faith should be
our inspiration. "They apart from us shall not be
made perfect. "
Professor W-illiam James has expressed this fact in
his own way. He says:
"For my part I do not know what the sweat and blood
and tragedy of this life means if they mean anything short of
this. If this life be not a real fight, in which something is
eternally gained for the universe by success, it is no better
than a game of private theatricals from which one may
withdraw atwill. But it feels like a real fight-as if there were
something really wild in the Universe which we with all our
idea lities and faithfulnesses were needed to redeem, and first
of a ll to redeem our own hearts from atheism and fears . For
such a half-wild , half-saved universe our nature is adapted.''
-("The Will to Believe" .)
And because our nature is adapted to this task we
are set here to do it-we, Spirits, are incarnated and
are born with animal instincts and inherited tendencies
which impel us either to fight or to surrender, neu-
trality is impossible.
The Bearing of Spiritualism n3
The communicator whose messages are recorded in
"Letters from the Other Side", says:
''Human experience is a most valuable spiritual training.
No one should wish to leave the school of life before due time.
I see from here how sadly people undervalue this opportunity
of education offered by the resistance of matter, and the
strength engendered by the force necessary to overcome it ."
-(p . I.)
C_
omplete control of spirit over matter would mean
freedom from disease and sin, for it will not be
possible to gain perfect control over the physical
molecules except by directing the thought and will
in harmony with the Divine Mind and Will; to
antagonize that Will involves ultimate failure. We
can only work effectually in accordance with the
laws of life, and that means in accordance with the
Purpose of God for His offspring and the Universe.
When we are thus workers together with God the
Power of the Highest flows into us, and His strength
is perfected in our imperfection.
Let us not be discouraged by the fear that we
cannot gain complete control-approximate control
and ever-increasing control should be our present
aim; for (r) our previous wrong mental vibration
may have so disturbed the relations of mind and
body as to make adjustment very hard; (2) other
people's vibrations may increase this difficulty;
(3) and we may have inherited an organism enfeebled
by the faulty thoughts and actions of ancestors.
But even if entire success is out of our reach results
may follow the action of our Wills in mental direc-
tions which may largely improve conditions, and it
is our bounden duty to improve them both for our-
selves and others. We are each centres of force and
I
n4 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
we may radiate healthy forces or the reverse, harmony
or disharmony.
If we have begun to create harmony in ou~ own
bodies we may also produce harmony in others; and
this is surely the rationale of mental healing. It is
mental and it is Spiritual, for Spirit acts by mind
on matter. ·
When reading a book on the subject of the Siege
of the Legations at Peking during the Boxer move-
ment I came upon two passages which illustrate the
subject we have been considering. The author of
the book was chaplain to the British Legation. He
speaks of the mental relief afforded by the library,
accessible to the besieged who were confined in this
congested. area, and adds :
''No one was idle for want of something to do, or melancholy
for want of something to think about. This was probably
not one of the weakest of the causes which t ended to preserve us
from disease, a preservation so remarkable under the circum-
stances, that when every possible cause has been allowed
full weight it can only be accounted for as the work of God's
Good Providence.''
God works through His laws: it was not less the
operation of His "Good Providence", because it is
possible to attribute the freedom from disease under
very unhealthy conditions to the fact that the thoughts
of the besieged were directed in ·such a manner as
conduces to health. Morbidity, sadness, anxiety,
set up wrong inharmonious conditions in the physical
organism, and had these conditions prevailed there
would have been greater distress in that sorely tried
community.
The other passage in this book which I should
like to quote brings us back to the point at which
we started, namely, that the training of the mind
The Bearing of Spiritualism n5
and character here and now determines its bent when
we pass out of the body.
The writer says:
''It is a most unpleasant truth, but one to which all history
_ bears witness that imminent danger of death does not in
any way lessen a man's desire to grasp at the possessions
and joys of this world, unless he has previously trained his
mind to hold them lightly. "-(p. 184.)
This statement was prompted by what he observed
in Peking; he noted the desire for loot was not
arrested by the immediate fact that death, from the
Chinese assailants, was imminent and the probability
that the besieged might all be massacred, . before
relief could come. If the danger of death has so little
effect why should we suppose that the event of death
would rob a man of desires which have dominated
him up to that moment ? There are no short cuts
to the heavenly goal. If we aspire to attain union
with that Divine Beauty and Perfection whom we
call God there is no other way than by self-mastery; and
thoughts and aims directed and controlled by the .
will in accordance with the law of our being, which
is the Will of God. This is the most urgent and imme-
diate consequence of belief in the main truth for
which Spiritualists stand.
Man is a Spirit, a member of a Spiritual Universe,
capable of endless progress, and destined, if he follows
the light vouchsafed to him, to attain to the realiza-
tion of Divine capacities, as creative, directive, and
ruling minister of the Eternal God, Who is both
over all and in all.
This is the ideal for us to keep in view. It has
b.een well said: "Ideals are the very soul of life.
The vision of the Ideal guards monotony of work
from becoming monotony of Life. " (Westcott.)
rr6 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
There are other aspects of Spiritualism which have
important bearings on human -development; let us
consider some of these. The value of the
material body is both lessened and enhanced
by the light thus thrown on our relation to it.
In so far as we recognize that it is not the Self,
we set less value upon it, bu:t its value is enhanced
when we realize that it is not merely a husk, but a
seed, containing_within itself the potentiality of Body;
that is to say, the potentiar embodiment of spirit
in its future existen-
ce. Seeds are precious. To injure
a seed may involve crippling the future manifestation
of life. This is true, whether the kind of life to be
manifested is plant life, or animal life, or the life
of the spirit of man. The quality of the manifesta-
tion will depend on the care taken of the seed.
Christ taught His disciples to honour the body as
a sanctuary in which the Divine Spirit is at work,
and as the seea of a more glorious Body. This has
been ignored and misunderstood, but it is the teaching
of the New Testament, which Spiritualistic records
strongly endorse.
The recognition that the body is a seed should
rob death of terror; the incident of death is the
cracking of the husk to liberate the vital essence in
a new and better form. Mankind ·in general has
been too sense-bound to understand this; therefore
death has been constantly represented as a penalty
for sin, an awful experience, which people speak
of with bated breath. This is not consistent with
the belief that death has "lost its sting". St. Paul
said that the body "is sown a natural body, and is
raised a spiritual body. " What does this imply?
Surely he was hot alluding to the detail of burial,
The Bearing of Spiritualism n7
which does not always occur? No, we were sown in
matter when the infant ego became incarnate. Here
and now the natural body, the seed, is developing
in the soil of earth substance. This seed-body grows
and matures until the age of about thirty years,
when it begins to decay, until, at death, the husk
breaks away and is cast off, and a new body clothes
the living spirit, rising at death into a different
environment. "As the outward man perishes, the
inward man is renewed day by day." This has been
supposed to refer only to spiritual character. But
why so? Man is a threefold being: spirit, the Divine
essence; soul, with its manifest faculties; and body,
the organ of manifestation. It is unwarrantable to
assume that this tri-unity is to be broken up by the
incident of death, or that spirit and soul can ever
dispense with an organ for manifestation. We know
Spirit here as it manifests through form. The Eternal
Spirit uses the physical universe for the purpose of
manifesting Divine Power and Beauty. We may
use our imagination as much as we can, but we shall
never succeed in realizing pure spirit, entirely
unembodied and without any form or organ for
manifestation. The reason for this inability is that
the human mind is not constituted so as to be capable
of realizing that which is not in any sense a reality
or similar to reality. If unembodied spirit is non-
existent it will not be possible to imagine it. The
conception eludes us because there is no such existence.
Even the Divine Spirit manifests through the created
universe and through humanity. God, indeed, is
infinite, and His manifestations are necessarily
finite, but He who is above all, is also through all,
and in all.
n8 Leaves From a ?sychic Note -Book
'' Know thou thyself: as thou hast learned of Me:
I made thee three in one and one in three-
Spirit and Mind and Form, immortal Whole,
Divine and undivided Trinity.
Seek not to break the triple bond assigned.
Mind sees by Spirit: Body moves by Mind.''
Thus wrote James Rhoades.
Psychical Research and Spiritualism have changed
the aspect of death for many. We no longer think
of our friends as bodiless phantoms, or believe that
at our own deaths we shall become formless. We
believe that we shall have bodies fitted to whatever
environment we may be in. St. Paui did not wish
to be unclothed at death but clothed upon, and our
studies lead us to the happy assurance that just as
the plant form is more elaborate and beautiful than the
seed, so will our new bodies excel those we at present
possess. But we must bear in mind that the analogy
may hold in other respects also. It may be possible
to hurt or cripple the spiritual body, not by mere
external damage to the husk of matter, but by wrong
thinking and by any feelings that can injure the
inner self.
Dr. Geley' s psychic studies have led him to the
conclusion that there are three factors in all living
things. (r) There is matter. (2) This is moulded
into shape by an invisible force which gives it
coherence and persistence. (3) Over and above this
psychic force there is what he calls 'TIdee directrice ".
This directing idea is the most important factor of
all, for it is this which guides the psychic force and
co-ordinates various kinds of matter to function in
accordance with the purpose to be fulfilled. It is this
highest factor which, no doubt, will determine our
future embodiment. Are we not right in identifying
The Bearing of Spiritualism n9
this "Idee directrice JI with the Spirit, the Spirit
operative in all nature, but supremely manifest in
the human conscious Self ?
Our study of this subject has shown us that
this Self is now making character, and that the
character it is making will be carried over into the
next life. The bodies which will be formed by this
Self, this "Idee directrice JI, will inevitably express
our character. We must realize now that we are
making or marring our future embodiments. In this
life our bodies are largely affected by character, but
also they are largely not our own, but the product
of heredity. How far heredity may affect our future
bodies we cannot, of course, say with certainty;
but it seems likely that we shall escape from this
handicap, or advantage (as the case may be), and
that we shall have reached a stage at which indi-
vidual responsibility will dominate our conditions.
Tennyson reminds us that now is our opportunity to
gain ascendency:
"Hold the sceptre, human soul, and rule thy province of the
brute."
The extent to which we succeed will decide whether
or not we shall be able to say in the future:
"I hear no yelp of the beast, and the man is quiet at last,
As he stands on the heights of his life, with a glimpse of the heights
that are higher.''
Another important factor in preparation for ·the
future is the fact that we are accumulating memories.
One of the best attested facts in psychology is
that memory is continuous. Although it may not
be possible to recall at a specific moment some
rzo Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
particular incident that we require, everything that
befalls us is really recoverable. Nothing is absolutely
obliterated. In moments of crisis details of the past
are sometimes recalled with astounding vividness.
Our larger consciousness retains the memories of the
past. What sort of memories ate we storing in that
great reservoir? Are they such as we wish to live
with in a future state?
It seems probable that many cases of haunting
are due to vivid memories associated with certain
places. These vivid memories produce effects-
au~itory, tactile, or visual-on minds capable of
receiving them. It is easy to see that memory may
supply the just penalty for wrong-doing, and may
also have a purifying effect. I do not doubt that
painful or evil- mem,_ories may be ~controlled and put
away (not obliterated) by Wills which have become
strong under the ,healing influences of ministering
spirits, which have thus been brought into harmony
with the Supreme Divine Will;- but until this direc-
tion has been given to the will, there may be many
memory -pictures in the minds of discamate spirits
which they desire to rid themselves of, but cannot.
It is in our power here and now to store up memories
of beauty and joy, of service and sacrifice, of friend-
ship, and love, and generous forgiveness, which will
abide with us continually.
Let us examine the matter of_memory more closely.
Psychologists tell us that they are able to effect
cures in their patients by tracking the trouble to
its source, and under hypnosis, or by some other
method, causing the memory to give up its secrets.
When this is done .the troubled mind throws off its
burden, and is free. Here we nave a clue to the
The Bearing of Spiritualism r2r
comfort which may be derived in certain cases from
private confession and absolution. It would be a
terrible nightmare, indeed, if we were compelled to
believe that painful memories must for ever be
present, even in the life beyond. No! Man is not
intended to be for ever looking back on sins and
sorrows which are past. That would be a morbid
condition. Salvation means health, and morbidity
is a form of disease. A man or woman may have
to . look back until the lesson of the past has been
learned, but as soon as the will is in harmony with
Right, and is loyal to Truth and Love, that is, to
God, evil memories will have no further use. They
will become latent; that is to say, they may still
be recoverable, but unless there is any object in
recovering them they will probably be forgotten.
The healed and freed spirit will "forget the things
that are behind, and reach forth to the things that
are before. " I want to make this very clearJ because,
whilst I believe that the memories which we are
storing now may make for us a future environment
of joy or sorrow, may be our paradise or our purgatory,
I think it would be most misleading to give the
impression that these memories are not, like other
faculties, subject to the control of the will. In
measure as our wills attain to the God-like supremacy
which is our ordained destiny, that control will be
complete, and sorrowful experiences wilC haunt us
no more, or if recalled at all, will be remembered
only as factors in our education. Thus ·sorrow will
be "turned into joy".
If those who love us have carried into their present
life beautiful memories of affection and work done
together, of stimulating, dear companionship, it is
r22 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
our part so to live that these happy memories may
not be clouded for them or for us. A man once asked :
"Do you think the departed may see and know our
doings? " On being answered in the affirmative,
he sighed, and said, "I kept straight as long-as my
mother lived. " It is easy to understand what was
in his mind. He knew that he had marred the memories
which the mother he loved had carried with her into
the unseen life.
Here is one of the incentives to high thinking arid
high living which we find in the teachings of
Spiritualism. Loyalty to our friends unseen, to those
who love us and are loved by us, demands of us
effort and striving towards the pure, the true, and
the beautiful. The loyalty of those unseen helpers
and lovers towards us is immeasurable, but how poor
and weak, sometimes, is our loyalty towards them !
It is often nothing more than self-centred sentiment,
and shows more regard for our own feelings than
for their well-being. If we were to consecrate our-
selves for their sakes to the highest life we can reach,
resolving that neither life nor death, things present
n0r things to come, should cause us to swerve from
our fidelity to the best memories we have shared
together, our sense of fellowship with them would
become increasingly real, and the benediction of
their gratitude would cheer and hallow our lives.
A correspondent who, through great sorrow, has
come to the realization of the livingness of those
who are called "the Dead", now writes : "I am an
entirely different woman. I very often lapse into
petty thinking when people say unkind things, as
they are apt to do; but then the knowledge that
my darling knows my thoughts quickly alters my
The Bearing of Spiritualism r23
trend of thought." Thus may we uplift our unseen
friends as they may uplift us.
Much has been written concerning conditions which
await us after death. Those conditions will doubtless
vary enormously, and descriptions which may con-
vey some impression of the experiences and environ-
ment of one spirit may be wholly inapplicable to
another. I must confess that descriptions of the
Other Side do not greatly interest me, partly for the
reason just stated, and partly because I think that
the inevitable necessity to translate the unknown in
terms of the known militates against any clear know-
ledge being conveyed of the actual environment of
discarnate spirits, and may lead us to form very
erroneous impressions. Moreover, it seems to me
that much allowance should be made for the opera-
tion of the imagination and preconceptions of the
mind of the medium through whom these descriptions
are given.
The following sonnet, obtained by "influenced"
writing and attributed to the inspiration of
F. W. H. Myers, may be :fittingly quoted here:
To all who wait blindfolded by the flesh,
Upon the stammered promise that we give,
Tangling ourselves in the material mesh
A moment, while we tell you that we live,
Greeting, and reassurance; never doubt
That the slow tidings of our joyful state,
So hardly given, so haltingly made out,
_Are but the creaking hinges of the gate .
Beyond, the garden lies; and as we turn,
Wond'ring how much you hear, how much you guess,
Once more the roses of glad service burn
With hues of loving thought and thankfulness;
Once more we move among them, strong and free,
Marvelling yet in our felicity.
There is, however, a question of far greater
124 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
importance than that concerning environme:q.t, and
that is : How can we best equip ourselves for fullness
of life when we pass out of the present state? If we
are equipped for a full life, we may be sure that our
environment will be of a kind to enable us to make
full use of our faculties. It is a recognized principle
in evolution that faculty and environment correspond.
We find this exemplifiec;l in the universe as we know
it here and now. The developed eye finds exercise
by means of the environing ether waves; the ear,
by air waves, and so forth. The physical universe
never fails of adjustment to the growing faculties of
man; environment and faculty are correlated. The
faithfulness of our Father, God, may be relied upon
to supply our need far beyond our uttermost expecta-
tions.
As · development of faculty and discovery of the
powers of the environment are gradual here, so should
we expect them to be gradual in the next stage.
Those who have passed on are at a higher point on
the great spiral of evolution. They are doubtless
as eager to explore the universe as we are here, and
it is more than likely that many of our discoveries
are made in co-operation with them, and that as
they receive fresh knowledge they impart it to those
on earth who have the open mind and the ready will.
There is another consideration to which attention
should be called. As we study the trend of evolution
we cannot fail to note that it has been largely by
means of social relations in groups that advance has
been made. The lower creatures are entirely indi-
vidualistic. As the higher orders appear, however,
the individual becomes subordinate to the group or
herd. In some cases the individual seems to be
The Bearing of Spiritualism r25
actually merged in the swarm or group; but in the
higher types ~we find the balance is better main-
tained between the individualistic and the social life.
When man appears on earth, his relation to the
family or tribe is for many ages the dominant factor;
but as he develops the individual gradually becomes
more prominent, and the claims of the individual
assert themselves more strongly. We have riow
reached a stage at which we recognize that if humanity
is to continue to exist on this earth at all, the value
of both these factors in evolution must be better
appreciated, and the cultivation of a growing sense
of social obligation, together with increased regard
for the rights of the individual, is imperative. This
ideal is prompted by common sense. It is also the
ideal set forth in the New Testament. Christianity
and common sense are more closely related than is
ordinarily realized. When faced with the disaster
of the Great War, Bernard Shaw is reported to have
said: "Why not try Christianity? " Why not?
Because it can only be successfully tried by men and
women who are convinced that they are spiritual
beings., related to one Divine Parent Spirit, essen-
tially one in nature, and destined to survive bodily
death. This conviction will lead to the recognition
that the good of the individual is inextricably bound
up with the welfare of the whole of humanity and
vice versa. _
So we come back to this: (r) Our task, if we are
convinced of the fundamental truth of Spiritualism,
is to establish that truth on an indisputable basis
of facts. We cannot have too many really well-
evidenced facts. We shall never cease to need the
testimony of facts so long as there remains anyone
126 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
who rejects belief in the Spirit Universe; and (2) we
must seek to prepare both ourselves and others for
participation in the fuller life of the next stage by
loyalty to the claims both of individuals and of
society in the groups in which we now find ourselves.
These groups are largely the result of circumstances.
We belong to a nation, a Church, a town, or a family,
without any necessary affinity. The affinity may exist or
it may not; but the claims most surely exist. In measure
as we respond to these claims shall we fit ourselves for
the larger group to which we belong by affinity, and in
which we shall find our place .when we leave this earth
life. As spirits we belong now to this larger group.
Communications received from the Other Side con-
stantly allude to Ban<ls, or Groups, and indicate
tha~ everyone belongs by affinity to such a group.
One of these communications says: "Bonds of sym-
pathetic being are stronger than relationship over
here. . . . True lines of being are drawn over
here. Blood relations are often hurtful, but soul
relations will ever assert themselves and give joy
when recognized. " The recipient of this message,
Sara Underwood, was told that the association of
spirits in groups accounts sometimes for the intro-
duction of celebrated names into communications.
This does not necessarily imply that the person
named is the sender of the message, but that it comes
from the group in which that person is a leading
influence. The same person received another message
bearing on this group idea. It was given in connection
with the name of Jacob Boehme (the German mystic),
a name she did not recognize, as she had never read
his works. In this communication she was told that
"when what mankind calls death comes ... all
The Bearing of Spiritualism 127
circumscribed relations to banded universalities
become clear". Obscure language _
is characteristic
of Jacob Boehme, but the term is suggestive. The
word "banded" suggests a limited group, while
"universality" suggests that every group exists in a
larger relation with the universal whole.
When we realize that there is an orderly law by
which all spirits gravitate to their own group, we
have a fresh incentive to higher aspiration and effort.
It rests with ourselves to determine in what group
we shall fl.rid ourselves. Not arbitrary choice, but
what we are, our qualities and our affinities-our
characters, in fact-will determine our associations.
In this sense every one of us must go to his own
place, as we are told Judas Iscariot went to hiS
place.
The working out of this law may give us joy, but
it need not necessarily do so. That will depend on
the group to which we gravitate. It does not follow
that this association is fixed unalterably. Progress
is always insisted upon as possible in the future
state; and progress will bring us into higher fellow-
ships as we become fitted for them. Sara _
Underwood
tells us in her book that the one thing necessary to
spiritual development is "ignoring the self-mind".
In reply to the qugstion whether the "beastly warring
tendency" would be outgrown as the spirit advances,
she was told: "Crucifixion of animal nature is
the test of spiritual evolution, and growth towards
the light. " She then asked: "Is it not true that
men may outgrow the more brute-like qualities, and
yet be hard and harsh, mercenary and resthetically
selfish? " The reply was: "Surely, you do not under-
stand what animalism means, or spirituality. To
128 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
forgo merely ·beastly enjoyments does not by any
means show the power of spiritual progress. The
innate spiritual man shown through selfish yet
resthetic tests, only panders to the animalism that
is yet rampant within. "*
The communicators whose messages are recorded
in this very interesting book constantly insist that
"the only short cut towards the highest, is the way
of Love and desire for truth. " , "Slay not your spiritual
opportunity by carping self-conceit. " "Love towards
all, even the meanest of your kind, is the highest
truth. " These are some of their pithy remarks.
But we must not suppose that to cultivate Love is
sufficient and th51-t 'we may without loss neglect the
cultivation of the. intellectual and artistic faculties.
That is not so. The realization that we are members
of a group whose _fellowship is in the unseen as well
as in the seen world, and which is not limited by
age, or condition, or time, should impel us to culti-
vate our powers to-the utmost, so that we may con-
tribute to the group our share-of .enriching knowledge
and experience, just as the group contributes to the
enrichment of the whole. That whole is the Eternal
City, the Kingdom of God. As we believe that
individuality will not be completely merged in the
perfection of that Unity, so . we may also believe
that neither will groups be obliterated, but that the
affinities which are manifested in all nature, even
among the atomic elements, will still be potent
factors of lif_
e, and increase the variations without
which unity would become uniformity. The members
of a group, w·e may suppose, will know each other
*"Automatic or Spirit Writing ", by Sara Underwood, p . 161,
1]2.
The Bearing of Spiritualism 129
in a more intimate degree than they will know others.
"The dead shall look me through and through, "
wrote Tennyson in "In Memoriam". In that future
state we shall know each other and be known. This
thought may well prompt the prayer of Plato: "Give
me beauty in my inward soul, and may the outward
and the inward man be at one. "
!{
IX
DEMONIACAL POSSESSION
The subject of this chapter is one which presents
great difficulties. There are those who hold that at the
time of Christ a quite exceptional manifestation of
evil powers occurred, that the "possession" referred
to in the Gospels by which men became the victims
of "dremons" is unlike anything which has since
been observed. This view leaves it unexplained
why there should have been such an exceptional
outbreak of evil at that period; we can only surmise
that Christ's advent to earth may have stimulated
His spiritual adversaries to greater activity.
Another opinion is that neither then nor at any
other time did-· "dremons" really "possess" human
beings, but that -Christ found the belief that they
did so already prevalent, and simply adopted the
language of His contemporaries when dealing with
the malady, accommodating His speech to the ideas
which already prevailed in the minds of the sufferers.
Although this explanation may not be quite
inadmissible, it is not satisfactory, since there is
certainly no hint in the Gospels that Christ did not
Himself share the current belief.
A third view remains to be considered, viz., that
demoniacal possession actually occurred as recorded,
and that it was-not a phenomenon confined wholly
130
Demoniacal Possession I3I
to that period of history, but that both antecedently
to and since that time there have been similar cases.
It would not be possible within the limits of
this chapter to prove the correctness of this view.
To do so exhaustively would require a separate
volume and the knowledge of an expert. All that
can be attempted is to show the reasonableness of
this interpretation-that it harmonizes both with
the Gospel records and with facts of experience.
It will be well at the outset to indicate the meaning
we attach to the two terms "dremon" and "possession".
The word oaiµ6vwv (dremon) occurs frequently
in the New Testament, and, as there used, almost
exclusively denotes evil-spirits. In Deut. xxxii. r7
the sentence occurs, "they sacrificed to dremons,
and not to God, to gods whom they knew not " ;
and in I Cor. x. 20 St. Paul brings the same charge
against the Gentiles; this shows that a quasi-divine
character was attributed to them in the popular
belief of Jews and Gentiles, or, at least, that they
were regarded as superhuman powers to be pro-
pitiated.
Hesiod uses the term oalµwv* to denote the
benignant souls of heroes. Plato uses it for an evil
apparition, and the Greek tragedians for gloomy
genii of misfortune, often attached to families and
individuals. The word omµ6vwv, as used by Philo,
represents intermediary things between God and the
world, "some blessed, and others profane, incorporeal
souls, hoverfug in the air, which was full of them,
some of them, however, descending into bodies, so
becoming impure." Josephus speaks of them as
*The word in this form occurs once only in the New Testament,
in the account of the healing of the ·Gerasi;:ne ,
132 Leaves From a Psychic Note ~Book
spirits of the wicked dead. Epictetus held that all
things were full of gods and dremons. *
The great Socrates claimed that he was guided
by a dremon. Xenophon, in the "Memorabilia",
says of him: "He sacrificed constantly, and obviously
used the art of divination; for it was matter of
notoriety that Socrates said that the Divine Provi-
dence gave him indications; and this indeed was the
principal reason for accusing him of introducing
new gods."
In an essay on these indications of supernormal
phenomena, the late Mr. F. W. H. Myers says that
"the warning voice gave proof of a sagacity at least
equal to that of the waking Socrates, and decides
him to action, or to abstention from action, which he
professes always to have recognized as right and wise. "t
It is evident, therefore, that the .word "dremon"
is not used universally as an equivalent to the word
"demon" in our language, but that it is used to denote
discarnate spirits both of good and bad character.
Assuming, for the sake {)f argument, that such
dremons, or discarnate spirits, exist, whether they
be men who have lived on earth and passed out of
the body or intelligences who never were incarnated
at all, what connection between them and men still
in the flesh is implied by the term "possession" ?
This term does not necessarily imply anything
more than mental influence of a very strong kind.
We have abundant opportunities in everyday life
of observing the kind of possession which one mind
will assume of another. We know that by suggestion
*See article on ' 'Demoniacal Possession " in the "Encyclopredia
Biblica' ' , from which the above references are derived.
tSee an article entitled ••The D remon of Socrates'', •'Pro-
~eedings of the Society for Psychical Research'', Part xix.
Demoniacal Possession 133
a strong personality can attain ascendency, and
even despotic control, over a weaker one. The. power
may be used for good or for evil, but its existence is
no longer open to dispute. It is not necessary to
have recourse to hypnotism in order to exercise this
extraordinary power. It can be gained by mental
suggestion acting from one mind to another.
Although this sort of mental influence is not to
be confounded with the condition denoted by the
term "possession"' as if it were identical with it,
yet it is by the operation of this law of mental
influence that "possession" becomes possible. · For
if the influence of suggestion becomes irresistible,
and the recipient can no longer use his own judge-
ment upon the· suggestion, but feels impelled to
involuntary obedience, then the term "possession"
may be fairly applied to his case. If, however,
this is only a temporary state, and self-possession
is speedily restored, it may be harmless, or even in
certain cases beneficial.
As, for instance, when a wise physician or parent
exercises this suggestive influence to remedy some
unhealthy or defective condition, or in order to
strengthen a weak will for right purposes. In this
case. the will is not overridden, but strengthened
at its roots, and though the result may be an auto-
matic obedience to suggestion, it is an obedience
to which the moral assent of the will has previously
b~en gained.*
*See an interesting article, " What is H ypnotism?" by Dr.
Milne Bramwell, published in the ''Proceedings of the Society for
Psychical Research " , Part xxxi . (20 , Hanover Square,'"' ·)·
Dr. Bramwell contends that hypnotic suggestion, as he uses it,
does not override the will, but strengthens it . H e believes, in
common with other experts, that suggestions which are in direct
opposition to the will of the subject do not take effect.
134 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
This power should always be used with caution,
however. It can never be healthy for anyone to
become permanently and habitually dependent, thus
automatically, on the mental suggestions of other
mind_
s. A crutch may be a necessity at times, but
it betokens disease, and should be dispensed with
as soon as possible.
We are all open fo suggestion, though some minds
are more pervious to it than others. Socrates is an
instance of a man who was psychically open to
suggestion, but his obedience was voluntary. He
was not dominated and possessed by the directing
intelligence.
It is alleged by experts in spiritistic investigations
that the higher spirits always respect the individual
freedom of those they would influence. And, indeed,
experience in this life teaches us to expect that they
should do so. For friendship of the noblest kind
precludes all domination of one mind over another;
the integrity of the will and iI_ldividual liberty of
self-realization are matters of first importance. How-
ever superior Qne mind may be to another, the
fofluence of the higher over the lower would weaken,
not strengthen, would retard, not hasten, its develop-
ment, if it became a domination, habitually usurping
possession of the springs of will and action. We
are incarnated in this strange vortex of earthly life
in order that we may each develop self-conscious
individuality; for this end we are placed amid
circumstances often extremely difficult, and demand-
ing the most strenuous self-control, that we may
work out our own salvation,* and experimentally
*''Salvation'', we would remind the reader, is here used in its
original sense of ' 'whoi.tiness.•'.
Demoniacal Possession 135
gain a complete grip of ourselves, that we may
possess ourselves, physically, mentally, and spiritu-
ally.* Whilst it is a great mistake to suppose that
we have already attained to this complete self-
possession, it is an even more fatal mistake to imagine
that it is unattainable. This is a mistake frequently
made in dealing both with ourselves ap.d_ others.
We often allow oursefves to regard Ia.ck of self-
control as a light and unavoidable offence. We do
not recognize that to fail in this respect' is to miss
one of the main purposes for which we are sent into
this life; therefore that to condone slackness in this
particular is to act both foolishly and culpably.
It cannot be too often or too earnestly insisted
upon that the acquirement of entire self-possession
is essential to the establishment of our complete
individuality. It is only possible to realize this
completeness, this becoming in actual experience
that which potentially and in God's idea we ARE,
by repeated struggles and through many failures.
These failures, either in ourselves or in others, should
never surprise or discourage us, but on the other
hand we should never permit ourselves to regard
them as of no consequence, and as if self-command
*"This is an absurd position for a man, the heir of a ll the
ages, to be in: hag-ridden by the flimsy creation of his own
brain.... It should be as easy to expel an obnoxious thought
from your mind as it is to shake a stone out of your shoe; and
until a man can do that it is just nonsense to talk about his
ascendency over nature .... Naturally the art requires practice,
... and it is worth practice. It may, indeed, fairly l,Je said that
life only begins when this art has been acquired. For obviously,
when, instead of being ruled b y individual thoughts, the whole
flock of them in their immense multitude and variety and capacity
is ours to direct and despatch and employ where we list, life
becomes a thing so vast and grand compared with what it was
before that its former condition may well appear almost ante-
natal'.' ("A Visit to a Gnani", by Mr. Edwards} . ·.
136 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
were unattainable. This attitude towards failure in
the matter of self-control tends to weaken character,
and to postpone indefinitely the achievement of
one of the main purposes of our earthly sojourn,
namely, the gain of that entire self-possession-which
is essential to progress both here and hereafter.
Our theory _
of "possession " is this. We consider
every spiritual ·being in the undeveloped stage of
this incarnate existence as in a state which we may
describe as one of unstable equilibrium. The spirit,
whilst incarnate in a physical organism and associated
with an animal nature, has only a tentative and
precarious hold over the faculties appertaining to
this lower organism and life.* It is quite in line
with the course of evolution that this should be so.
The most recently evolved faculties in the race are
necessarily, on that account, the least firmly estab-
lished. The mental faculties are more liable to
* Those who care to think out these ideas ·under scientific
terms may be interested in the following hypothesis. Sir Oliver
Lodge and other scientists tell us that what we call matter is simply
the all-pervading ether which has, to our senses, the attribute of
solidarity because it has been impressed into vortex motion.
''The modern theory of the elementary atom put forward by high
authority in the scientific world as the most probable one is of a
ring of impalpable ether which becomes perceptible to the senses
by its motion. Some of this ether is entangled, as it were, in the
atoms of matter, and is , so to speak, 'bound' up with it"
("Psychic Philosophy", by V. C. Desertis, p . 152).· The ether
which is thus "bound" is not perceptible by us as a solid, but
its presence is attested by the fact that light can travel through
solid bodies, light being a vibration in the ether. From this we
may deduce the following hypothesis :-The psychic organism
(called by St. Paul the "spiritual body") may be composed of
this ''bound ether•• , and if it is vibrating at a different rate from
the ether, which appears to ourselves as solid by virtue of its vortex
motion, we may have here a scientific explanation of the unstable
.
equilibrium of the relation between the psyche and the physical
organism, since each is vibrating at a different rate. It must
not be supposed that the scientific men to whom I have referred
are responsible for the suggestion I have here ventured to make.
Demoniacal Possession I37
disturbance, more sensitive to shock, than the more
automatic processes, whose orderly operations have
become established by long ages of prehuman evolu-
tion. This applies also to the evolution of the yet
higher spiritual faculties of the Ego, and of their
relation to the lower physical nature. If we believe
that the manifestation of spirit faculties is .the latest
product of the evolutionary process, we shall expect
to find that the adjustment between these and the
physical nature is subtle and delicate, and liable to
be easily dislocated .
Any physical derangement would tend-and, as
a matter of experience, we know it does tend-to
disturb this adjustment between the controlling
spirit and the organism through which it expresses
itself. The instrument _
then becomes out of tune,
and the music is jarred; it becomes much more
difficult for the spirit to possess and rule the physical
nature. The derangement may be in the physical
body, or in the psychical constitution, or in both,
the result being psychical nervous disorder.
In such a condition the organism with its physical
forces might be peculiarly liable to be invaded by
suggestions emanating from entities other than its
own spirit, and it might become impossible for the
rightful owner to-evict these foreign suggestions and
prevent their operating; self-control would in this
case pass out of the power of the Ego. No blame
ought, under these circumstances, to attach to the
spirit who thus becomes dissociated from the organism
it should govern, except in so far as it may have
been responsible for producing the diseased condition
which leads to this result. · · In cases of delirium
tremens, for instance, although in that condition
r38 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
the spirit is no longer capable of self-control or
responsible for what may be said or done, it may
have been entirely responsible for contracting the
habits which led to this condition.
The hypothesis which seems to offer the best
interpretation of the facts in general, and of par-
ticular cases which otherwise are extremely per-
plexing, is that when through sudden shock, through
physical weakness, or through lack of the habit of
self-control, the _~pirit has become partially dis-
sociated from the physical sld.e of its dual nature,
the brain-centres which govern the nervous system
ate liable to be invaded by suggestions from other
spirits, with the result that things foreign to usual
behaviour and to the desire of the rightful possessor
are said and done through his organism. It is
a common expression to say, "This person is not
himself!" It is in all probability the literal
truth.
The following recently-expressed opm10n of a
medical man who is also a student of psychic pheno-
mena is worthy of careful consideration, because
it is the result of the persona! observation of one
whose profession would naturally incline him to
hold a more physical theory:*
"While studying dreams and the disturbances of the
diseased mind, I have often had a vivid impression that in
some instances they could only be the result of evil influences
working from the outside, like d;:emons with diabolical scheming
and provision.-
•'It must hav:e struck every observer how often it appears
as if a wicked spirit takes advantage of the weak and ill-
balanced condition of a human mind to assail it with all sorts
of dreadful, g-
rotesque, or weird ideas or fantasies."
*Dr. F. van Eeden, an M.D. of Bossum, Holland, and member
of the S.P.R. See "Proceedings", June , 1902, Part xliv.
Demoniacal Possession 139
Dr. Nevius, for forty years a missionary in China,
in a work entitled "Demon Possession and Allied
Themes", argues that Chinese demonism corresponds
point to point with that described in the Bible.
He differentiates demon -possession from all other
diseases in three particulars.
(r) The automatic presentation and consistent
acting out of a new personality.
(2) The evidence afforded of knowledge and
intellectual powers not possessed by the subject,
the most striking being the ability to speak
languages unknown to the subject in the normal >
state.
(3) With the change of personality there is a
complete change of moral character.
It is not necessary, however, to have recourse to
China to find cases which to all appearance are analo-
gous to the demon-possessions of the New Testament.
Any student of psychism knows that the characteris-
tics which Dr. Nevius associates with "posses-
sion" are by no means limited to the Chinese
race.
A reviewer
Dr. Nevius's
remark:-
(Mr. Newbold),
work, * makes
commenting on
the following
"It must be remembered that the infection is psychic·
It is not a concrete micro-organism limited in its activity
by time and space. It consists of ideas which are planted ·in
the patient's mind or in his subconsciousness, which sooner
or later , therefore , invade or supplant the upper con-
sciousness .' '
* Mr . Newbold opposes the spiritistic theory of ''possession''.
Nevertheless, his remarks appear to the present writer rather to
support than to invalidate it. His article bears the same title
as Dr. Nevius's book, and was published _
in the New World, i897.
140 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
Mr. Newbold says that these "ideas" are not "limited
in their activity by time and space". .If they are not
limited in their activity either by time or space,
there is absolutely no reason why they should not
emanate from the discarnate. When we are once
assured that a mind can be invaded by suggestions
from other minds, and are also convinced that dis-
carnate intelligences are in close mental contact with
those in the flesh, there is no logical reason for pre-
cluding discarnate minds from thus operating; and
the hypothesis concerning "possession" here pro-
pounded has a reasonable claim to a fair hearing;
that hypothesis is briefly: That "possession" is the
result of an usurped control over the organism (more
particularly over the brain-centres) produced by mental
suggestions emanating both from incarnate and dis-
carnate beings.
If the entity who thus governs by suggestion is
foolish, he prompts to folly; if wicked, he prompts
to wickedness;, if neither foolish nor wicked, but
simply ignorant, he may be persuaded to realize
that his control is injurious, and to relinquish it.
If the spirit is malicious, a stronger will alone can
evict him. Christ released men from bondage to
evil dremons (or spirits) by the force of His will;
and by the virtue that went out of Him He reinforced
the will and the power of self-control of those He had
delivered. But we observe that He did not suffer
the liberated man from whom He had evicted "the
legion of spirits" to cling permanently to His bodily
presence. He urged him rather to stand on his own
feet. He refused to usurp the function of the man's
own will; it was in order to set it free and restore
it to health, not to supersede it, that He exercised
I
Demoniacal Possession
His power.* When the man begged to be allowed
to be with Him, feeling doubtless as if he could not
rule himself in His absence, Jesus "suffered him
not". t
Who, then, may these discarnate intelligences
be, who thus act upon men's minds? And what
object can they have in so doing?
When we remember that at every tick of the
clock some soul is passing into the discarnate state,
and that a large number of these are morally, as
well as mentally, very undeveloped, with characters
unformed, or perverted by evil purposes, or without
purpose at all, with low instincts and earthly desires,
it is not difficult to surmise whence some, at least,
of the suggestions may emanate which produce such
unhealthy effect ; neither is it hard to understand
that spirits of this description may find a certain
advantage of their own in exercising tyrannical
control over the minds of those still embodied,
and that they may gain thereby contact with the
conditions they have just quitted which may afford
them some satisfaction. Those who care to tyrannize
in this life (and how many they are !) will not be
cured of the-propensity by the act of dying. The
• In the Platonic dialogue of Theages, Aristeides thus describes
the magnetic effect which the influence of Socrates had upon him
when he was in his immediate physical neighbourhood. •'I never
learnt from you anything at all; you yourself well know this .
But I always made progress when I was along with you, even if
I were in the same house, but not in the same room; yet most
when I got in the same room; and even in the same room I got on
better if I looked at you when you were speaking than if I looked
anywhere else. But I got on far the best when :r was sitting near
you and holding or touching you. But now," said he, "a!l my
then character has dribbled out of me.'' (Quoted by Mr. F . W. H.
Myers in an article on the ''Dremon .of Socrates'', ''Proceedings
of Society for Psychical Research", Part xiv.)
t St. Mark v. l9.
142 Leaves From a Psychi~ Note -Book
love of power for its own sake is a widespread
ambition. Those who have entertained it are hourly
passing into the unseen sphere, carrying with them
the instincts and habits which they have built into
their natures here. There are also many who .are
simply foolish and thoughtless, who do not consider
the welfare of others, or the possible consequences
of their actions, sufficiently to abstain from exerting
the power of control which they possess. Perhaps,
just as children often play the "willing-game"
thoughtlessly in this life, meaning no particular
harm, many thoughtless souls exert the same "willing"
power in the unseeµ. It is also probable that in some
cases the "possessing" spirit is unaware of the effect
produced on the organism through his contact with
the mind he controls. *
The practical bearing of all this is obvious. If we
are thus compassed about by spirits-not only of
the pure and good. whose blessed influence helps
and raises us, but by those less advanced in spirituality
- than ourselves-by the many who have passed out
of the body still lpving the earth, and ~till seeking
contact with it, not for service, but for pleasure or
mischief, our responsibility is profound ·and wide.
The duty of self-COJ!trol is a duty not only to ourselves
and to those still in the flesh; it is a duty
to those in the unseen also.. By gripping our-
selves, by resisting evil suggestions as they arise in
the mind, we are exerting an influence which radiates
to all minds in connection with us in the unseen
sphere as well as in the seen.. An evil sugg~stion
repelled, a noble aspiration breathed. forth, may be
*This statement is based upon facts known to the writer which
strongly suggest that there is sometimes ignorance on the part of
the unseen intelligence of the effect his suggestions produce.
Demoniacal Possession 143
the means of untold blessing to these discarnate
beings. They, too, are open to suggestion; and we,
here and now, are spirits capable of exercising, by
suggestion, spiritual influence.
The . spirit-universe is a unity vibrating with
thought. Just as in the physical atmosphere each
spoken word creates a sound-wave which must act
and react, modifying in some incalculably minute
degree the condition of the whole atmosphere; so a
thought propelled into the mental atmosphere of
the spirit-world cannot be lost. It impinges as a
suggestion upon other minds, affecting them for good
or for evil, helping or hindering their evolution,
and becomes a factor (although, perhaps, a minute
one) in the great cosmic struggle through which the
eternal purpose of the ages is striving to realize
itself. That purpose, as far as we can discern it,
seems to be the evolution- of spirits who shall be
individually mirrors of the Divine character, who,
having known good and evil, shall have learned to
choose the good by voluntary preference, and to
hold it in eternal and conscious self-possession.
In this struggle our thoughts are factors. "He
that is not with Me, " says our Lord, "is against
Me. He that gathereth not with Me scattereth. "
NOTE
In the above chapter it was stated that higher spirits never
seek to usurp dominion over the will and so to ''possess' ' the
organism of anyone . But there is a possible misconception of
this statement which must be guarded against . There is a clear
distinction between usurping control over the will and controlling
the organism with the consent of the will . When a patient submits
to medical treatment by a hypnotist, he consents to temporary
control, and thei:e is no unjust usurpation involved. His action
is voluntary; he makes a sort of temporary loan of his brain
centres.
144 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
Similarly, when a "sensitive" voluntarily submits to be
entranced and allows other intelligences to speak and write through
him, this again is not an usurpation, but a temporary loan for a
purpose . ·
The conditions should, of course, be carefully guarded . Study,
experience, watchfulness, and prayer, should accompany all such
experiments. They shouId never be heedlessly and lightly entered
upon. But the condition of trance is one which ought certainly
not to be confounded with the unhealthy and mischievous over-
riding of the will which is denoted by the term "possession".
Of the value of spirit-control, in the state of trance, Mr . F. W. H
Myers wrote, not long before his decease , as follows :-*
"I claim that this substitution of personality or spirit-control,
or possession, or pneumaturgy, is a normal step forward in the
evolution of the race. I claim that a spirit exists in man, and
that it is healthy and desirable that this spirit should be thus
capable of partial or temporary dissociation from the organism;
-itself then enjoying an increased freedom and vision, and also
thereby allowing some departed spirit to make use of the partially
vacated organism for the sake of communication with other spirits
still incarnate on earth. I claim that much knowledge has already
been acquired, while much more is likely to follow . '' '
• See ''Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Researc')J.' ',
published June, 1902, vol. xvii.
x
CHRIST AND THE INDIVIDUAL
Professor William James, in an essay on "Human
Immortality", has pointed out that one of the
obstacles which hinder belief in man's immortality
lies in the inability of the human mind to grasp so
vast a conception.
"Having myself," (he says,) "as a recipient of modern
scientific culture, gone through a subjective experience like
this, I feel sure that it must have been the experience of
many.'.'
He then proceeds to expose the "tremendous
fallacy" which he believes to lie at the base of the
sense of difficulty.
"It is absurd to suppose, simply because our private power
of sympathetic vibration with other lives gives out so soon,
that in the heart of Infinite Being itself there can be such a
thing as plethora, or glut, or supersaturation. . . . He
(God) can never faint or grow weary as we should under the
increasing supply. . . . His scale is infinite in all things .
. . . The heart of Being can have no exclusions akin to those
which our little hearts set up. The inner significance of other
lives exceeds all our powers of sympathy and insight.'' *
The same obstacle to which Professor James refers
hampers the mind in _
more than one direction. Our
consciousness of limitation makes it wellnigh impos-
sible to conceive a state of being in which no such
limitation exists. . When ·we contemplate Nature, we
*"Two Essays on Human Immortality", by Professor W . .
James.
145
L
146 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
are overwhelmed by a sense of its profusion, and we
are tempted to lose consciousness of the value of the
individual in the presence of the prodigality of living
energy displayed in all directions. When we appre-
ciate most profoundly the marvellous exuberance of
this living energy, then we are often saddened by
feeling that individuals are as nothing, being merged
and lost in the-great whole. This is a subjective
experience which daunts the imagination and blunts
feeling. It is perceived rather than reasoned about.
A state of being in which universality of operation
can co-exist with purposeful consciousness of every
fractional energy and every bre-
athing individuality
in this vast palpitating c;osinos, is a conception which
eludes our grasp. Yef we recognize with Professor
James that it is folly to suppose that our capacities
of apprehension set any limit to the possibilities of
the Infinite Life. Indeed, our reason, when we
apply it, recognizes that an_"Infinite Being must fill
all things, and that He must be conscious at every
part of His Being. "*
If we turn- to Nature herself for some hint which
may assist our apprehension, we find that attentive
* The following quotation from a correspondent will be read
with interest in this connection:-'' If you have any difficulty in
conceiving of that (i. e ., the relation of an Infinite Being with
every creature to which He gives being), it is because you don't
make Him infinite enough in your conception of Him. You
think He is not large enough for this enormous detail. You
stagger at a thought &.o stupendous as infinitude. It is a staggering
thought , but it is the only conceivable one! An Infinite Being
must fill a ll things, and He must be conscious at every part of His
Being. · We cannot conceive of Him as being otherwise. The idea
of 'blind force' is wh<:>lly inadequate to cover the ground. If
anyone were to try to live on a belief in blind force, and apply
it throughout a lifetime of thought to the problems of experience,
he would soon find it would not cover the facts. He would have
to think out for himself a Being who could be the origin of spirits,
and he would see that it would have to be a spirit, and an infinite
one: a force indeed,.:_the force in fact,-but anything and every-
thing that is not.blind."
Christ and the Individual r47
observation reveals indications which confirm the
conclusion to which reason would lead us. For we
trace in the evolutionary process an ever-increasing
care for the individual. As life evolves from lower
to higher forms, it assumes more individual characters,
and there is a marked tendency towards specialization
and towards the development of individual pre-
ferences and affections. *
When the process reaches the human stage, this
individualizing tendency becomes more emphatically
pronounced; and among human races the most
progressive nations are characterized by having the
largest recognition of individual rights, and affording
the widest scope for the self-realization of each mei:n-
ber of the community.t Moreover, the noblest types of
men are always those in whom the personal affections
and the individualizing tendencies predominate.
This intimation Naturet gives to the student who
considers the evoiutionary process as a great whole,
the teleological significance of which can only be
understood as interpreted by its Jater stages.§ Any
*See a little volume, "Through Nature to God", by J. Fiske,
in which this point is ably worked out.
t In this connection we may contrast the estimate put upon
infant life among the Greeks and Romans, and the legislation
which has been carried out during the reign of Queen Victoria
for the protection of the young.
! Including in the term "Nature", Nature's highest <
product,
mankind. ·
§ "What comes first in science comes last in metaphysics.
It is in the higher and subsequent that the explanation of the
lower and anterior is to be sought. And instead of being simpler
and more susceptible of explanation, the lower stages of the
process are really the obscurer and more unintel]jgible, because
they do not so clearly exhibit the drift of the process. Hence their
explanation comes last just because in the historical process they
came first. . . . The basis, in other words, for a teleological
interpretation of Nature will not be found in sciences like physics
and mechanics, but in sciences like sociology and ethics''(' 'Riddles
of the Sphinx: A Study in the Philosophy of Evolution'', by
/\..Troglodyte, P.P· 20~. 206).
- 148 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
other way of interpreting Nature is as unfair as it
would be to pass judgement on the moral tendency
of a literary work after mere disconnected perusal
of certain chapters.
.. If anyone desires to gain a glimpse of the Divine
purpose in the great drama of life which we call
Nature, he can only hope to do so by patiently and
reverently contemplating the process as a great unity
and seeking to discern the ends towards which the
process is moving. If we can discern this, we shall
surely discover the desire and will of God Himself.
And the desire and will of God must reveal His
essential character.
Now, the evolutionary process culminates in thEI
d·evelopment of individuality, and in an ever-
increasing consciousness of the value of the indi-
vidual, and this object in which the process ultimates
finds its largest expression in the personality of the
noblest specimen of the race, "the Man Christ Jesus".
"For how many so ever be the promises of God"
(written in the evolutionary process), "in Him is
the yea; ·wherefore also through Him is the Amen. "
The mission of Christ introduced into the world
a further revelation of the value of the individual,
bringing to us a fuller manifestation of the nature
and character of the Infinite Spirit. He, in whose
all-embracing consciousness our personal fragmentary
consciousnesses exist, would have us know our
individual preciousness to the heart of Being. · And
since we find it hard to conceive of an Infinite Being
as having individual knowledge of us and individual
care for us, He limits Himself to reveal it. He
incarnates Himself to reveal it, so that we may be
~ble to say: "That which W!l-S from the begin11ing1
Christ and the Individual r49
we have seen with our eyes: we beheld, and our
hands have handled. "
In Jesus, as the Gospels portray Him, there is no
difficulty in recognizing the individualizing char,acter
which we find to be a constituent of the most highly
developed natures. He knew men and women with a
personal and 'discriminating knowledge. We never
feel in His treatment of His friends that they belong
to a c;lass. They are very distinct entities; He
Himself says that, He calls His own by name. "I
know Mine own, and Mine own know Me, as the
Father knoweth Me, and I know the Father. "
In the revelation in Christ some, however, il;re
conscious of being confronted by the same sort of
difficulty-the difficulty, that is, of realizing how
One who has passed beyond the limitations of earthly
existence can yet maintain the perso~al relations
with individual souls which He so markedly exercised
whilst in the flesh, and by which He brought within
our grasp the individual love of the Universal Spirit.
The difficulty may be stated in some such way
as this: "Granted, that the _
universal operation of
the Infinite Soul has come under limitations, and
become manifest and conceivable in the tender human
sympathies of jesus of Nazareth, is not this advantage
lost to us by Chdst' s Ascension? Since Jesus is now
no longer under the limitations of His Incarnation,
has He not passed into a condition as inconce~vable
in its universality as that of the Eternal l;'ather?"
Let us consider this point. It is true.that the Son
of man has put off the limitations of the flesh, .. but
we should bear in mind that He has not put off the
human nature which His title, "Son of man",
denotes.
r50 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
He is "Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, to-day,
and for ever. " This being so, we may still interpret
His relation with us by the principle which we have
applied to the words and actions of His earthly life
as recorded in the Gospels; that is to say, we may
interpret it in the terms of human experience. In
doing so we are conceiving of Him still under limita-
tions-not the limitations of flesh, but the limitations
of human nature. - This we are abundantly justified
in doing, for the very purpose of God in giving us
this human image of Himself is that we may gain
under limitations such a conception as is possible to
us of the God who must otherwise remain incon-
ceivable.*
It is inconceivable that the glorification of the
Son of man can be in any sense a loss to the race with
which He is identified; yet it must surely-be a serious
loss if His Ascension should necessitate our being
unable to conceive of His relg.tions with individuals
as still as definitely human and personal as they
were when He walked in Galilee. Are there, then,
any facts of human experience which ' can throw
light for us on the present relation of our unseen
Lord with His friends and disciples on earth? There
are: all through the centuries there have not been
lacking those who, like St. Paul, Ananias, St. John,
and St. Stephen, have claimed to have seen or heard
or felt His personal Presence.
And these manifestations seem-to be closely related
to certain facts which have in recent years come under
scientific observation. They are not new facts: they
have always been incidental to human history so
· *In 1 Cor . xv .' 24-28 we have a hint given that in the con-
summation, the reign of the Son, i.e., the revelation under limita-
tions, will come to an end, its purpose having been accomplished,
Christ and the .Individual rsr
far as it can be traced; but until lately they have
not been scientifically observed and recorded. They
afford us the "experience" by which we may realize
how Christ, now ascended to .the Right Hand .of
Power, communicates His thoughts and manifests
His Presence to those who love Him and who are
still imprisoned in the flesh.
The law which governs these facts is at present
but little understood, but it is a law inherent in
the human nature which He shares with us, and .in
its operation we may recognize, without intellectual
confusion, that the exaltation of Jesus offers no
obstacle to Hjs immediate personal communication
with His own, that the individuality of His inter-
course with His brethren is not only unhindered, but
is enlarged by the perfect development of His humanity
to which He has attained.
The facts to which I refer have been grouped
under the name of telepathy-a term which, although
of recent introduction into our language, is already
widely understood as denoting a faculty, inherent in
human nature, ·by which thought can pass from one
mind to another without the intermediary of words
or any known agency. This thought-transference is
a fact for which there is so much evidence that many
scientific men accept it as proven, although at present
they are unable to explain by what means this mental
impact takes place. The facts show that persons
locally apart are sometimds aware, even in detail,
of events which befall each other; and that thoughts
in the mind of one individual become known to
another with no recognized means of transit.
Thoughts, images, even words and sentences, may
be thus transmitted. Sometimes these images are
152 Leaves From a Psychic Note -Book
so apparently solid as to be taken for physical objects;
sometimes they are vivid mental impressions of a
peculiarly arresting character; sometimes they are
apprehended as audible words; sometimes events
present to the consciousness of the agent are revealed
in sleep to the recipient.
If spirits still trammelled by physical limitations
can thus manifest by apparently non-physical methods
-methods which seem to ignore the normal limita-
tions of time and space-what may not the spiritual
faculties effect when freed from these limitations?
In a more ethereal condition, where no hindrance
obstructs the psychic powers, what shall prevent
the instantaneous operation of mind upon mind?
The one condition needful seems to be that two
minds shall be in mental rapport, i.e., attuned
to each other. It is quite conceivable that as our
faculties expand, and pbints of contact with other
minds multiply, everyone will become capable of
exercising this telepathic power at will; that as the
soul becomes more intimately united to the Source
of all power, its mental and spiritual capacities will
increasingly reflect the infinite Divine Nature in
whose image man is made, with which human nature
claims kinship ; and that the em-
ancipated soul, when
able to enter into its true heritage, will have the power
to flash into self-manifestation in any direction
according to the promptings of a perfected will.
If so, in a spirit which is perfected, the only limit
to the effectual operation of this faculty would be
found in the condition of the recipient to whom the
spirit's thought is directed.
For whilst the capacity to communicate telepathi-
cally may be fully developed, the communication
Christ .and the Individual r53
requires for its recognition a mind attuned to
perceive it.
The Son of man, by whom all human powers are
fully possessed, must be capable of this universal
self-manifestation, yet He says: "Behold.
. I stand
at the door and knock: if any man hear My: voi.ce
and open the door, I will come in. "
Our capacity to receive sets limits to His mani-
festation of Himself. The condition of each soul
will dete~mine the degree and character of the mani-
festation received. With one He may communicate
by visions, as He did with ·st. John in Patmos, or
by a voice or a sense of physical touch; with another
by inward . perception and guidance without
phenomenal expression.
The essential condition seems to be that there
should be the open door-that a true rapport
should exist between minds which are to commu-
nicate telepathically. In view of this fact, we appre-
hend more profoundly the significance of certain
injunctions of Christ and His apostles. We remember
that He said: "If ye abide in Me, and My words
abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall
be done unto you; " that the one ordinance He
enjoined upon His disciples was an act by which
their thought should be focused upon Him : "Do
this in remembrance of Me"; also that the apostles
urged their converts to do all things "in His Name".
God forbid that anyone should limit the operations
of the Universal Father, or deny His effectual working
through all kinds of channels. He is the God of the
Buddhist and the Mohammedan, of the Hindu and the
Fijian. Those to whom Jesus Christ is unknown are
accessible to . the Spirit which filled Him without
154 Leaves From a Psychic Note ·Book
measure-that Spirit lighteneth every man coming
into the world; but in the Humanity of Jesus we
are given an inestimable benefit, through which, as
our spirits become attuned to His, we may enjoy
a_
ccess to God by a "new and living way",* which--
is opened up through our telepathic rapport with
the Elder Brother in whom God's fullness dwells.
THE END
•Heb. x. z~; compare St. John xvii. z3.
