{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__dupotet___magnetism_and_magic.pdf","mytitle":"Magnetism And Magic","mylang":"de"}
MAGNETISM AND
MAGIC
BY
BARON DU POTET DE SENNEVOY
EDITED AND TRANSLATED
BY
A. H. E. LEE
LONDON
GEORGE ALLEN & UNWIN LTD.
MUSEUM STREET
.... t, n
B
,6-~' ~Ln
n
.Accession
no. ' 0
....Eirst published in 2927
Accesson no .........
(All rights reserved)
3,F
Printed in Great Britain by
Unwin Brothers, Ltd., Woking
" Si quis habet AURES audiendi, audiat."
Sleep, sleep on I forget thy pain.
My hand is on thy brow,
My spirit on thy brain,
My pity on thy heart, poor friend;
And from my fingers flow
The powers of life, and, like a sign,
Seal thee from thine hour of woe,
And brood on thee, but may not blend
With thine.
SHELLEY, 1822.
All I believed is true !
I am able yet
All I want, to get
By a method as strange as new:
Dare I trust the same to you ?
BROWNING, 1855.
CONTENTS
rAGB
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY . . ...... II
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE . . . . . . . 45
I. EXPERIMENTS . . . ....... 59
II. HISTORICAL RESEARCHES . . . . . . 96
III. PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS . .. . . IO6
IV. COROLLARIES . . . . . .
. . . . I3
BIBLIOGRAPHY . . . . . . . . I39
APPENDICES . ....... . 14I
INDEX . . . . . . . . . . 153
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY
THERE are certain controversial subjects which seem
to die away in one generation only to be reborn,
under new names, in the next, and not the least
interesting of these is the question of what has come
to be known popularly as Mesmer's " invisible fluid "
or Animal Magnetism. Official science attempted (in
its own opinion successfully) to banish all such ideas
from the realm of "ascertained " knowledge. Yet
the air to-day is filled with discussion of Mental
Healing, Psycho-therapeutics, Christian Science,
"New " Thought, and Spiritual Healing. The smoke
of one fire no sooner disperses than fresh sparks spring
up elsewhere. Most of the latest discoveries-such
as those of Radium and Relativity---are destroying,
not the old dogmas of mysticism, but the hastily
formed dogmas of Victorian science. "The atom,"
as G. K. Chesterton says, "has been smashed into
atoms. The agnostics have been driven back on
agnosticism, and find themselves in a really unknown
world, which is more mystical, at least more myste-
rious." The cosmic pattern is changing, almost under
our eyes. And of all the old hard-shell materialisms
perhaps the medical type is affected most directly.
Christian Science is already avenging the wrongs of
Mesmer and Elliotson: while the well-known case
of Sir Herbert Barker recalls the dry observation of
Bergasse during the Paris controversy about Mesmer's
cures: " It looks as if the Art of Medicine and the
Art of Healing are two quite distinct things with
no necessary connection between them."
12 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
The purpose of this volume is to present to English
readers an abbreviated translation of a book by a
remarkable Frenchman whose strange exploits were
for a period the talk of Paris. Du Potet, indeed,
when he died in 188i, might well claim to be the
" Grand Old Man " of French Magnetism. He is an
isolated figure; he flamed like a comet and, in a
sense, survived his own celebrity. Apparently he
left no school of disciples behind, and has suffered
the fate of most of the champions of Animal Magnetism
in being officially regarded as an idle dreamer of
dreams. To-day, however, miracles and magic are
no longer the monstrosities they appeared to be in
the Huxley-Tyndall period. We cannot rule out the
old marvels as impossible in face of the new marvels
which we have to admit as possible. Du Potet's
recorded phenomena, indeed, at first seem to lead
nowhere, and he admits that he is only a pioneer.
Yet for the reader who comes properly prepared, such
facts may be shown to point towards regions of which
he and his adversaries scarcely dreamed. As the
controversy has largely centred round the question
of Magnetic cures, it will be simplest to use this avenue
in approaching the true " Subject-Matter" of his
writings.
Hippocrates observed long ago that Nature herself
often cured disease : and in his opinion the best physi-
cians were those who watched her in her more subtle
workings. There seems to be hardly any malady from
which the patient does not sometimes recover without
the aid of ordinary medical remedies, i.e. by the
simple unhindered operation of the Vital Principle.
Doctors, confronted by this phenomenon, attribute
it to the " Vis Medicatrix Naturze "--which they do
not further explain: nor, indeed, can they, on those
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 13
materialistic assumptions which are still associated
with what is called a " scientific basis of knowledge."
For no one can test this "Vis Medicatrix " in a
laboratory, and therefore it does not officially exist,
and is accordingly left to "the superstitious, the
mystics, and the occultists," who are despised and
rejected by Harley Street.
What is the "Vis Medicatrix Naturme" ? It is
universal, invisible, intangible, imponderable. It can
perform feats which the doctor cannot rival, and it
escapes round the corner before its presence has even
been guessed. It is like the luminiferous ether which
tantalizes our scientists, all-pervading, yet subtly
elusive of every attempt to capture it. Indeed, there
seems only one clue to its identity. It is an aspect,
or a mode, or an effect-whichever the reader may
choose--of the " Universal Subject " or " First Matter"
of ancient Alchemy: the substrate of life centrally
subsisting in all that circumferentially exists from it.
A common name for it was the " Sophic Mercury "--
i.e. Wise Men's Mercury, to distinguish it from common
quicksilver. Yet it has received so many names that
it is really unnameable, though not unknowable.
A certain thing is found in the world
Which is also in every thing and in every place:
It is not earth, nor fire, nor air, nor water,
Albeit it wants neither of these things. . .
It contains in itself all Life ;
Of it is made the medicine that will preserve you from
all maladies.
"Lucerna Salis."
It is, indeed, one of the most ancient of all beliefs that
there is a fluid or vitalizing principle permeating the
whole universe and latent in the air we breathe--
a quality in the atmosphere which is a secret food
14 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
of life. This One Element, insisted on by the
alchemists as their " Sola Res," has naturally been
derided by most modern scientists, yet its existence
has been granted by such chemists as Homberg,
Boerhaave, Boyle and others, and by such master-
minds as Newton. This diffused substance (or fluid)
is sensible only in its mixed forms: yet it is the only
pure and active source of all things, binding the
natural elements, vitalizing bodies: the fontal Spirit
of Nature, apart from manifestation, and as distinct
from that elementary ignition with which our senses
are familiar.
This invisible" Fire," " Stone," or " Ether," became
known to certain sages through its masculine and
feminine, or attractive and repelling, effects or aspects,
and was noticed especially through the analogy of the
magnet. From very early times it was observed that
the. magnet appeared to possess a certain curative
power: and the idea dawned that the human body
possessed magnetic properties. Paracelsus held that
all animated beings are endowed with an occult power
analogous to mineral magnetism. This, he thought,
was derived from the stars: he called it " Magnale,"
and said that by its virtue the magnetism of healthy
persons attracts the enfeebled magnetism of the sick.
He is said to have personally used the magnet with
his patients. His chief medicinal "medium" he
called " Mumia," the life-essence contained (invisibly)
in some physical vehicle, such as part of a human
animal, or vegetable body : which even when separated
from its parental organism retains for a period its
vital power.' Robert Fludd, who attained some
• The usual method of securing it was to cut off a limb from
the recently suspended corpse of some (preferably young) criminal,
See Appendix A, p. 141.
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 15
distinction in the middle of the seventeenth century
as a "Rosicrucian " writer, gives a fairly succinct
view of the magnetic theory. " Man containeth in
himself his heavens, circles, poles, and stars even as
the great world outside. These particular (i.e. micro-
cosmic) heavens ordinarily govern themselves accord-
ing to the harmony of the superior motions (i.e. in
the outer heavens). Sick persons by the persuasion
of their proper heaven have wandered from the
motion of the universal heaven, and through the
disharmony they feel more keenly the changes of
seasons, etc. When man was made in the Divine
likeness he was able to effect all things by his mere
beck or will, but this magical power now sleeps in
him because of the Fall."-(" Mosaicall Philosophy.")
Maxwell, a Scottish physician of the same period,
writes: " From the stars, the human body, and all
substances in the universe there radiate forth beams
which reciprocally affect all other bodies: but the
starry influence is original and predominant. Every
astral influence in creation doth by a natural inclina-
tion, and that sympathetically, aspect the Star or
celestial Fountain whence it sprang. Likewise the
Star in heaven by a paternal respect doth send down
his iifluence to feed and nourish his like filial force
and fire in creation here below. The stars bind the
vital spirit to its proper body by light and heat and
pour it into the same by the same means."-(" De
Medicina Magnetica.") Fludd and Maxwell mean that
these rays or beams are of inconceivable tenuity,
but are only the vehicle of the indwelling spirit
which directs their operation and gives them their
virtue. Fludd continues: "The Ethersical Sperm
or Astrallical influences are of a far subtler con-
dition than the vehicle of visible light .... Yea,
z6 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
they are so thin and mobile, penetrating and lively
... that they continually penetrate even unto the
centre or universal bosom of the earth, where they
generate metals of sundry kinds. It is not the starry
light which penetrateth or deeply or operateth or
universally, but the Eternal Central Spirit." All
things emit these beams: it is thus that medicines
send forth their healing influence. Man holds within
himself a secret mystery, the centre or miracle of the
world. Fludd describes the spiritual " mumia," which
has its seat in the blood, thus agreeing with the
alchemical teaching that the universal principles of
attraction, repulsion, and circulation are in their
natural generation unequally composed in the vital
spirit of the arterial blood: or that, the repulsive
force predominating over the interior attraction, the
total circulating life is expulsive and is drawn away
in a weakened consciousness from its First Cause.
Johann Baptist van Helmont (1597-1644), an
eminent Belgian chemist who established the present
scientific sense of the word " gas," was another
practising disciple of Paracelsus. Material nature,
he declared, draws her forms through constant
magnetism from above, and implores for them the
favour of heaven: and as heaven, likewise, draws
something invisible from below, a free and mutual
intercourse is established, and the whole is (micro-
cosmically) contained in an individual person. Magnet-
ism contains nothing new but its name. Man is a
magnet and contains his own "poles " or points of
reciprocal attraction and repulsion, corresponding
to the opposites of light and darkness, centripetal
and centrifugal action, male and female, etc. The
medium by which his influence is conveyed is a subtle
and vital essence, pervading all bodies, establishing
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 17
a correspondence between all the different parts of
the world, and regulating their forces. This essence
Van Helmont called " Magnale magnum ": but he
did not connect it specially with the stars. "The
stars of our intelligence are far above the stars of
heaven." All magical power lies dormant in man
and it requires to be excited. Will is the first of all
powers, for by volition motion is impressed on all
objects: the will existing in man is the principle of all
his actions, and the will can direct the subtle " Magnale
magnum." No patient is in a favourable condition
unless his internal imagination abandons itself entirely
to the impression the physician wishes to produce
upon him: or if he possesses more energy than he
who operates. If the patient be well disposed, or
weak, he readily yields to the magnetic influence of
the operator through the medium of his imagination.
Thus Van Helmont seems to have anticipated the
modern schools led by Charcot and others with their
endless insistence upon suggestion and imagination
and the subjective factor in the patient. He claimed
to have cured thousands of patients yearly " without
any diminution of his medicine." So astounding were
his cures that he was actually accused of magic and
thrown into prison, whence, fortunately, his friends
rescued him. He left two medical treatises on
magnetic healing.
Up to the end of the eighteenth century the Magnetic
system was, broadly speaking, based on a spiritual
philosophy: and in practice religion and healing
without drugs were interdependent on each other.
In the eyes of such men as Fludd, Maxwell, Van
Helmont, and others it was the link between heaven
and earth which operated vitally. Man could only
obtain complete mastery and use of his latent (or
B
18 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
occult) powers by assimilating his will to the Divine
Will. In some writers, such as Paracelsus and Maxwell,
greater stress might be laid on the visible operations
of the subtle element (Magnale magnum), but they
never lost sight of the mystical aspect and basis of
the whole matter. When religion and healing of this
kind parted company, the result was disastrous to
both: medical science began to grow materialistic,
and Du Potet (not altogether unjustly) complains of
the doctors of hisday being little else than " mechanics,"
who had lost sight of Nature's more subtle workings.
While, on the other hand, Christian Science has gone
to the opposite extreme, and denies the reality or
potency of any medical material at all. There can
be no real reconciliation until we recognize that the
spirit and matter which God has joined together must
not be put asunder by our theories.
The man who, unwittingly and innocently, began
this disastrous process was Anton Mesmer (1733-1815),
the Viennese physician who came to Paris and
published his "discovery" of the subtle fluid in
1775. In his system the spiritual aspect practially
disappears. For him "Animal Magnetism "-as it
began to be called--was purely a question of matter
and motion. Probably he presented his theories in
this manner, as being better calculated to appeal to
Paris doctors in the "Age of Reason," for France
was already trembling on the verge of revolution.
In any case, Mesmer only revived an old doctrine or
philosophy, shorn of its deeper aspects, and gave it
a new name : he secularized a mystery, and his explana-
tions suggest it as the mechanical operation of an
indifferent non-moral force. It is, however, only
fair to remember that he came to Paris, not primarily
as a healer, but as the exponent of what he sincerely
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 19
believed to be a " new" physical fluid : to demonstrate
which, being a doctor, he practised healing. He was
personally benevolent and treated his poor patients
gratis, giving them the same care that he bestowed
on the wealthy. Whether he became a greedy
charlatan, as his enemies asserted, is doubtful:
certainly he spent the last years of his life still
practising magnetic cures gratuitously for the poor.
Mesmerism has never been proved to have caused any
patient's death,' or even injury, though its strongest
adherents never claimed that it could save every
patient's life. One of his remarks deserves mention
as it will command assent from many who have
scarcely heard of the Mesmeric system: " Nothing
proves decisively that either doctors or medicine
heal sickness."
Mesmer did not really add anything to the principles
of his spiritual predecessors, some examples of which
have been quoted, and the twenty-seven articles of
his creed may be found in any good book on the
subject. It will suffice, therefore, to quote a summary
of his ideas from an able English advocate of his
system: " Animal Magnetism is that organic suscepti-
bility which renders the nervous system of one individual
capable of being affected, in various ways, by particular
acts and processes 2 performed by another, especially
when accompanied with faith, or some degree of
abandonment in the patient, and with an energetic
volition on the part of the operator. The same
name is also employed to designate the processes
2 Mesmeric anesthesia has this great superiority, that no injury
has ever resulted to the patient from its use: the recoveries
in Dr. Esdaile's hospital were far beyond the average success.--
J. Braid, " Magic, Witchcraft, Animal Magnetism, etc.," I852, p. 80.
" For a description of Mesmer's " passes," see Appendix B,
P. 144.
20 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
themselves which are used to produce a cure by
means of this susceptibility." '
Bitterly opposed as he was by his professional
brethren, Mesmer became the vogue; in one year
he and Dr. Deslon, his lieutenant, are said to have
treated 8,ooo patients. The logic of M. Bailly and
his Commission (condemning Mesmer's theory) was
doubtless incontrovertible to the official mind. A
" force," intangible, invisible, imponderable, was to
them a sort of infernal trinity and could not possibly
be admitted to exist. Yet patients, having escaped
ordinary medical treatment, went on being cured
by a "non-existent" force. To say, as Mesmer's
opponents were wont, that such cures were merely
the result of a change of treatment, was a rather
dangerous admission for doctors to make. If it be,
indeed, the purpose of a physician to heal, the sceptical
Commissioners might have discovered that even a
thing " which does not exist " (for the official mind)
may yet be of some use. A second Commission,
appointed by the Academy of Medicine after five
years' investigation, presented in 1831 a report in
which, rather grudgingly and of necessity, the existence
of Animal Magnetism was allowed to exist. Though
"in the majority of cases the results are negative or
insufficient, some results depend solely on magnetism,
and cannot be produced without it. These are
physiological phenomena and well established thera-
peutically."
Y J.C. Colquhoun, " Isis Revelata," I836, i. 59.
Mesmer would probably have agreed with the American, Dr.
John Bovee Dods, that medicine produces a physical impression
on the system, but never directly cures, the curative power in
the patient himself doing this, when summoned by mental impres-
sions to the right spot, so as to enable it to perform its work. The
well-known efficacy of bread pills and coloured water as medicine
shows that medicines often act as mechanical " suggestives."
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 21
MM. Binet and F6r6 say that the magnetizers
made so much of this Report that the Academy
did not venture to print 1 it. Mr. J. C. Colquhoun
published an English translation in 1833. In 1823
Alexandre Bertrand, a young Paris physician, antici-
pated Braid in discovering the important part played
by suggestion in the phenomena of induced trance,
maintaining that the cures and symptoms formerly
attributed to Animal Magnetism resulted from the
suggestions of the operator acting on the imagination
of the patient, whose suggestibility was greatly
increased. Bertrand, however, admitted that his own
somnambule testified to the reality of the subtle
fluid.
As early as 1829 Mesmerism was introduced into
England. Its leading champion, Dr. John Elliotson,
gave public demonstrations in the University College
Hospital. But he, like Mesmer, seemed to his col-
leagues to be a setter-forth of strange gods, and was
opposed so unscrupulously that his private practice
was seriously injured. The "Zoist," 2 founded and
edited by him, ran for fourteen years (1842-56),
and contains full details of numerous magnetic cures,
notably the remarkable operations of Esdaile on
Hindu patients :3 while the hierarchs of medicine
(with a few honourable exceptions like Simpson)
boycotted all such evidence, and never allowed any
record of his painless operations to appear in any
official medical journal such as the " Lancet." Into
the long and bitter controversy it is not necessary to
enter. At length James Braid, a Manchester surgeon,
" Animal Magnetism," 1887, p. 39.
"Zoo," a Greek word, indicating in the New Testament the more
subtle and spiritual, as " Bios," indicates the natural, life.
3 Mesmeric anaesthesia had long been known to Hindu fakirs
as " jar-phoonka" (stroke-breathing).
22 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
found that by constraining his subjects to fatigue the
levator muscles of the eyelids by a prolonged upward
gaze, he could obtain a complete trance with the
attendant phenomena, usually attributed to Animal
Magnetism : rigidity of limbs, exaltation of the senses,
etc. Denying in toto the existence of Mesmer's
"fluid," Braid not only admitted the genuineness
of the magnetic sleep, but used it freely for therapeutic
purposes: and maintained that he could teach any
intelligent medical man to do what he himself did.
It has, of course, been the custom for many years
to praise him for picking the one jewel of truth out
of a heap of Mesmeric rubbish, and this in spite
of the glaring fact that the British Association
in 1842 refused Braid's proffered paper on hyp-
notic phenomena; while after his death in 1861
the whole subject was "suspect" until Libbault,
Charcot, and others took it up. In our own
country, with the exception of Dr. Kingsbury's
book and some translations, little further notice
was taken of it until the publication of Dr. Bramwell's
book in 1903.
The widely circulated theories of the Salpetrire
school, led by Charcot, depend upon a studious dis-
regard of all facts, however well attested, that do
not square with their own. MM. Binet and F6re,
in their "Animal Magnetism" (p. 94), refer to
"manoeuvres which formerly led to the belief that
it was possible to magnetize (a subject) from a
distance." This belief is then disposed of by the
gratuitous supposition that in every such case the
subject had been already told to expect such an
effect at such and such a time. All, therefore, can
be explained by Suggestion (a word as scientifically
" blessed " as the old lady's " Mesopotamia") in the
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 23
waking state.' Anyone who will look into the older
Mesmeric literature will find plenty of cases illustrating
magnetic influence successfully exerted from a distance
on persons quite unprepared to expect it.z Another
curious assumption of MM. Binet and Frd6 is that
" as far as its mode of production is concerned hypnotic
sleep does not essentially differ from natural sleep,
of which it is, in fact, only a modification, and all
the causes which produce fatigue are capable of pro-
ducing hypnosis in those who are subject to it. ...
Sensorial excitements produce hypnosis in two ways-
when they are strong and abrupt, or when they are
faint and continued for a prolonged period " (p. 88).
Now if one thing is only a "modification " of another,
there can hardly be any essential difference. According
to our authors, therefore, there is no essential dif-
ference between ordinary sleep and the sleep of the
patient whose leg was amputated in 1842 by Mr.
Ward, surgeon of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, the
patient being in a completely unconscious state,
having been mesmerized by Mr. Topham, a barrister:
or the sleep of the mesmerized patients on whom
Esdaile performed capital operations painlessly I If
this be so, the obvious inference is that doctors should
abandon anaesthetics and treat their patients as soon as
the latter have fallen asleep at night. Again, who can
tell us of ordinary sleepers who converse freely (with
people wide-awake) on recondite and difficult subjects
quite unknown to them in their normal waking
condition? 3 What MM. Binet and F6r6 might have
: Although Dr. Bramwell distinctly denies that Suggestion
per se can explain hypnosis and its phenomena (" Proceedings,"
Society for Psychical Research, vol. xii, p. 224).
See " Zoist," vol. x, p. xI,
article by W. Gregory, Professor
of Chemistry in Edinburgh University.
3 For an example of a remarkable communication on the lucid
state see Appendix C, p. 146,
24 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
said (with proper modesty and caution) was: " In
the narrow phase of magnetic or mesmeric conditions
with which we are here concerned-and until more is
known-there is some analogy between what we term
'hypnosis' and ordinary sleep "-asthere is, poetically,
between " death and his brother sleep " I As F. W. H.
Myers said, "Not one sleep in a million is really
hypnosis: not one suggestion in a million reaches
or influences the subliminal self. If the theories of
Bernheim (of Nancy) in their extreme form were
true, there would by this time have been no sufferers
to heal." x Modern writers on the subject seem to
differ from one another, almost as much as they differ
from Mesmer and his disciples. Moreover, Charcot
" queered the pitch" from the therapeutic point of
view, by teaching that the hypnotic condition was
a "morbid " one and allied to hysteria: a theory
which, naturally enough, created a prejudice against
the practice for therapeutic purposes. Pierre Janet
went further by saying that all suggestibility implies
a departure from perfect sanity! After which we
cannot wonder that M. Richet, savant and sceptic, in
his latest volume, accuses the whole civilized world
of insanity. "A mad world, my masters!" said
Shakespeare-but some of us will prefer the divine
" mania " of Plato to the frenzied neuroses which
seems the only reality left to the mentality of ultra-
sceptical scientists.
The real mesmeric or somnambulic sleep is not a
sleep in the sense of an alternative and opposite state
to the waking state. The old phrase " sleep-waking,"
though now abandoned, is not entirely incorrect.
For the condition described is one which partakes of
some of the characteristics of both sleeping and waking.
t " Human Personality," 19o3, vol. i, p. 161.
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 25
The outer or normal senses are put to sleep: while
subsequently or simultaneously certain inner senses
(sight, hearing, touch, etc.) emerge into activity.
The complete arousal of such senses causes perfect
lucidity. In former days this activity, exercised
independently of the outer senses, was called "the
power of the soul." But when scientific men began
to doubt whether they had souls, belief in any such
phenomena was considered superstitious. The soul
has been carefully separated from the body and-so
far as it exists-relegated to religion to do what it
likes with it. The physiologist concentrates on the
body. The result has not been happy, for both
religion and science are confronted by problems to
which there seems no answer. The fact is that even
when religion and science have each carried off their
portion, a mysterious "tertium quid" in the human
being remains, which neither of them is anxious to
claim, because they have nowhere to " place" it,
no means of explaining it, and consequently do not
know what to do with it. Yet ultimately neither can
do without this residue. It is distinct both from the
body with which physiologists occupy themselves and
the spirit which has been the special concern of theolo-
gians. Nor can there be a bridge between modern
Physics and Metaphysics without some compre-
hension of the phenomena of sleep-waking or som-
nambulism.
In view of the spread of Magnetic cures, the doctors
clamoured for a monopoly of the right to magnetize
or hypnotize: and in most European countries they
succeeded in getting it, unencumbered by any obliga-
tion to either study or practise the method, or to prove
their competence. It is true that Mesmer and other
medical magnetizers declared that only doctors should
26 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
magnetize, and were supported by some lay magne-
tizers such as Puysegur. But their demand was that
a knowledge of Animal Magnetism should form part
of the training and equipment of every physician:
that only a person who understood both Magnetism
and the ordinary knowledge of medicine, and could use
either, should be allowed to practise as a doctor.
They certainly did not mean that members of a
profession ignorant of, and opposed to, Magnetism,
should monopolize its employment. The effect of such
a monopoly, along with other facts to be mentioned
presently, was disastrous to Magnetism, which ob-
viously needed further exploration and study. Medical
men who employed it used it empirically, as they did
their drugs, or explained its action by some superficial
hypothesis: and deprecated its use for any other
purpose than the cure of disease. Like Sir Oliver
Lodge's "higher man of to-day," they were not
" worrying over sins," and were more anxious that
patients should " rise up and walk " than that their
minds should be clarified from those sick and feverish
mental concepts which so frequently accompany
sin. Even the daring and successful Dr. Esdaile
thought it wrong to induce the higher phenomena
solely for the purpose of scientific investigation. So
far as he meant to discourage idle curiosity, he was
perfectly right ; but he failed to see that Mesmerism,
if applied only towards bodily cure, is at best only a
half-way house.
The result was that only in France and the United
States, where such a monopoly was refused, were
new developments in Magnetism possible., Such
iIn
France by the " Schools" of Nancy and the Salpetribre,
and the researches of de Rochas, Boirac, and Baraduc; in the
U.S.A. by certain pioneers such as Fahnstock, Laroy Sunderland,
the " Electro-biologists," and the Quimby-Eddy movement,
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 27
developments have been more and more on the
psychological side. By reason of their education and
conservative reliance on drugs and medicine, doctors
are less qualified to deal with this aspect than laymen
who have been chiefly responsible for such advance
as has been made. Hypnotism, as understood and
practised by Braid, was principally physical in regard
both to causes and to effects. Braid's discovery was
the one that operated chiefly against the Magnetizers,
because it seemed to take the wind out of their sails.
Hence Mesmerism in England to-day is much where
it was half a century ago. But Braid himself was an
isolated figure, and after his death in 1861 not much
serious notice was taken in this country of his theories
or practice until the publication of Dr. Milne Bramwell's
book in 1903.
Yet, though the opponents of the Magnetic theory
barred its entrance into the realm of official science,
they did not finally destroy, but only succeeded in
side-tracking, it. Braid, unconsciously, was blazing
a trail for Mrs. Eddy and Christian Science. The
Mesmerism that he condemned as unproved supersti-
tion she, by some strange mental kink, called
"Malicious Animal Magnetism," and identified with
the Red Dragon of the Apocalypse. Quimby him-
self, from whom she learnt her fundamental thesis,
started as a Mesmeric lecturer and evolved into a
" Mental Healer." And so the ancient half-perceived
truths, which Mesmer had tried to revive in a secular
form, became lost in a blind battle in the mist between
rash magnetizers, sceptical doctors, and uncompro-
mising Christian Scientists.
Added to this, the discovery of anaesthetic ether
and chloroform gas (about the year 1847) steadily
diverted public attention away from the Mesmeric
28 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
method. 'It was easier and shorter--though perhaps
not so natural or safe--to bludgeon patients by
nitrous oxide into unconsciousness than to spend a
considerable time in making the mesmeric "passes."
Still another disintegrating factor was at work in the
Mesmeric camp. Many of them drifted into the new
Spirit-rapping movement, especially in America, where
the tendency was to identify such phenomena with
those connected with the mesmeric fluid. Entranced
patients began to describe beings whom they them-
selves, and usually their audience, identified as angels or
departed human spirits.I The " Hydesville knockings "
and the influence of Andrew Jackson Davis, the
famous seer of Poughkeepsie, attracted inquirers into
the marvellous away from the older traditions into
that peculiar mentality which Mr. Waite calls a
"Masque of Anarchy." The spirit of the age was
one of desolation in matters of faith. Except perhaps
Browning (who had not then gained many readers),
no great mind condescended even to consider the phe-
nomena of Mesmerism and mediumship : and popular
interest drifted steadily towards the deeps instead of
the heights.
Between the years 1850-60, about the time when
Du Potet's book first came into circulation, the
Mesmerists found themselves at the crossroads. Two
courses lay before them: one was the broad and
easy path leading to the sentimental trivialities of
the " Summerland" et hoc genus omne. This, being
the line of least resistence, was the line generally
taken. What of the other? In 1839 the Rev.
Chauncy Townshend, a practising Mesmerist, published
x Notably L. A. Cahagnet's somnambule, Bruno, who gave a
vivid description of the Archangel Gabriel (Podmore, " Mesmerism
and Christian Science," 190gog9,
p. 201).
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 29
"'Facts in Mesmerism," an ingenious and eloquent
plea for a reconciliation between his fellow-believers
and their enemies. He treats with contempt the
"imagination " theory. "A thousand times I have
seen mesmeric patients placed under circumstances
where the action of imagination was plainly impossible."
He points out that the French savants who rejected
Mesmer's theory really conceded the main point at
issue as far as cures were concerned: indeed, they
went even further than the Magnetizers in attributing
power to mind. Even apart from the debated " fluid "
man can act on man by striking his imagination:
and such action may be reduced to an art and con-
ducted methodically when exercised on patients with
faith. Townshend suggested, as a working hypothesis,
some " elastic ether " (as yet unidentified), modified
by the nerves, its operation depending on their
condition: which ether can be thrown into vibration,
mediately by the mind and immediately by the
nervous system: which latter may produce mental
effects through the unusual stimulation of brain and
nerves. Through such 'a medium the thought and
will of other persons can be transferred to the
sensorium and brain of the patient, whose sense-
organs are in temporary abeyance. Townshend further
called attention to the frequency of unconscious
quasi-mesmeric action in everyday life; e.g. the sleep
of the infant rocked by the beating of the mother's
heart, the attraction of an unknown face, falling in
love at first sight, being tickled, and the curious
fascination of the eye :-
He holds him with his glittering eye,
The wedding-guest stands still.
Townshend seems to have been one of the first to
observe the " community of sensation," or " psychic
30 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
link," set up invisibly between operator and subject,I
and showed by his own experience and that of Dr.
Chapelain of Paris that it is not the mere mental
strength of the mesmerizer, but the proportion between
the respective strength of agent and patient, which
ensures success: less or more on either side would
prevent the result desired. To ascertain more of this
relationship was a task which the Mesmeric movement,
unfortunately, did not survive long enough even to
undertake. As a clergyman, Townshend was deeply
interested in the fact that the mesmeric sleep normally
will tend to elevate the patient's moral nature.
Separated so peculiarly from the senses, the mind
appears to gain juster notions: to experience a new
sense of spiritual things and to be lifted nearer to
the fountain of all goodness and truth.2 Patients
passing into the mesmeric state often spoke of an
internal light: which (the present writer suggests)
may be distantly connected with what the ancient
Hebrews called "Shekinah," and the mediaeval
Schoolmen " Lumen Glorise." 3
Townshend's book went into a second edition, but
no one seems to have worked upon his few hints,
such as they were. In fact only one other person
then living in England was able to point out the true
path for the Mesmerists: this was Mary Anne South
(afterwards Mrs. Atwood), who published in 1846 a
thin octavo volume entitled " Early Magnetism," and,
four years later, "A Suggestive Enquiry into the
Hermetic Mystery," suppressed by its authoress
immediately after its actual appearance in printed
Some analogy to this may be found in the "transference"
process familiar to modern psycho-analysts.
:A phenomenon either entirely absent from, or ignored in, the
modern hypnotic experiments in the Salpetrikre and Nancy schools.
3 See Appendix D, p. 147.
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 31
form, and republished under the able editorship of
W. L. Wilmshurst in i918.' It will be best to give,
in the gifted authoress's own words, her suggestion of
the " other path " which the champions of Mesmerism
might have chosen :-
" The ordinary effects of Animal Magnetism are now
familiarly known . . . thus it is.true we can lull the
senses, cure the sick, etc.: and it is a glorious step
in progress. But are we to halt here always, or how
long ? The phenomena of lucidity, prevision, com-
munity of sense, will and thought, might have insti-
gated to more important discovery: but the years
have passed, and the Science has not grown, but re-
trograded rather in interest and power, since Puys6gur,
Colquhoun, Elliotson, Townshend, Du Potet, and the
rest, faithful spirits, first set their fellow-men on the
road of inquiry.
" But the best effects of Mesmerism, if we connect
it with the ancients' Sacred Art, appear as trifles in
comparison: the Supreme Wisdom they investigated,
the Self-Knowledge and perfection of life and immor-
tality promised and said to be bestowed on those
initiated in the higher Mysteries ! What has Mesmerism
to do with these things ? What is its philosophy,
or has it yet made an attempt even to investigate
the subject-being,2 the cause of its own effects ? In
common arts, the ingenuity is set to work how it
may advance and adapt them to the best advantage;
new capabilities are discovered which, put in action,
often prove the fruitful source of more; whereas
Mesmerism, dwelling altogether in the practice (the
same which, from the first, unfolded nature as far
t William Tait, Marlborough Park North, Belfast; J. M. Watkins,
21, Cecil Court, Charing Cross Road, London.
Si.e. the " One Thing" of the Alchemists, which is invisibly
in all and is the substrate of all
32 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
as it was able), continues to run on with her in the
same commonplace round. Our sleep-wakers ' are little
better than dreamers, and resemble children born into
a new world, without a guide, unable of themselves
to educate their latent faculties, or discriminate truth
from falsehood in their revelation. And, as respects
the Universal Medium,' they even, who believe in
such a thing, take it as it presents itself naturally,
having no knowledge of the capabilities or means of
improvement, whether it is able to ascend or descend,
or what is its right determination. The few experi-
mental tests 3that have been instituted hitherto prove
nothing but to identify the same 'Imponderable'
through all: and if we make trial of the Spirit's
instincts, asking for revelations of prophecy and
distant scenes or journeyings through the air-and
they follow us, those patients of our will-we then
go out from them to philosophize, or wonder, or to
think no more about it, as the case may be : repeating
the same mechanical operations and witnessing their
effects until at length the enthusiasm which raised
expectation has generally and naturally died away.
" Now this, according to our gatherings, was not
the sort of investigation that the ancients followed
in their Mysteries: although working in the same
materials and with similar instruments, on the same
ground, yet their practice was different: for it was
conducted upon established principles and with a truly
philosophic as well as benevolent aim. Theurgists,
indeed, condemn the Spirit of the natural life as
degraded and incapable of true intelligence, nor did
they therefore value the revelations of its first included
t I.e. somnambules, or mesmerized patients.
2 The " One Thing."
3 Such as Reichenbach's of the " Od " or " Odic " force.
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 33
sphere;' but proceeded at once, passing these, as
it appears, in the Lesser Mysteries, to dissolve the
medium more entirely; and, as they knew how, to
segregate the Vital Spirit away from those defilements
and imaginative impressures which, by the birth into
natural sense, had become implanted there, obscuring
its intelligence and that divine eye which, as Plato
says, is better worth than ten thousand corporeal
eyes; for by looking through this alone, when it is
purified and strengthened by appropriate aids, the
truth pertaining to all beings is perceived. . . . And
in what the disease. of the spirit consists, and from
what cause it falsifies and is dulled, and how it becomes
clarified and defecated, and restored to its innate
simplicity, may be learned in part from their philo-
sophy, for by the lustrations in the Mysteries, as they
describe, the soul becomes liberated and passes into
a divine condition of being." 2
Now Mrs. Atwood shows very clearly that the
normal action of Mesmerism is an external picture
and outer " key " of that separation which Paracelsus
I Cp. the " revelations " of angels and the dead through common
trance-mediums.
a " Suggestive Inquiry," rgi8, pp. 186-88.
Another contemporary writer says: "The Magnetists have
found an element--its laws, its results, some of its original sources;
but they still lack the revelation. They have not yet open vision
or the Key of the Oracle. Accidents have revealed spells which
thrill the wires. Touch has answered touch, but the system is
undiscovered by man. The Magnetic Man is a Spirit. What
they call magnetism is the casualty which has jarred the wires of
the Holy Catholic Church. Influence, Grace, is a fluid element
invisibly pervading the Universe, full of ducts. The law is that
the touch of hands shall lead and rule and fasten the fibres, threads,
etc., of this element in men and things.
"An ecstatic said to a mesmerizer who spoke in Greek: 'It
was your thought that I understood, not your language.' Now
there the thought was in his mind first in the form of his own
tongue---then she knew it before it went into a strange phrase "
(Rev. R. S. Hawker, " Stones Broken from the Rocks," x922).
C
34 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
declared to be " the greatest miracle in philosophy,
and effected by a most singular magic : very excellent
for quickness of penetration and swiftness of operation,
the like whereof Nature knows not." This" Hermetic
Separation " was made on "water," i.e. the fluid,
volatile medium-life which ever subtly flows through
and from everyone, and can never be seized or analysed
by any visible instrument. In this " Separation,"
the Mind, co-operating with the Divine Mind, is the
true separating instrument: nor must any foreign
admixture, i.e. false idea or illusion, be allowed to
enter the work. That life-essence, which acts sensu-
ously through the blood, must be assumed into the
Will: it dies to live : a new "life-spin" is born
from the reversal or death of the old normal life.
As Townshend and others had observed, if you
magnetize a person he is lifted for the time into a
purer sphere: the sensuous medium once put aside
or dissolved, the consciousness is aware of the Divine
Life, in a much deeper way than is possible in the
normal sense-life. The mesmeric passes loosen the
outermost chain which links the spirit to its corporeal
dwelling-place: and at such a time a trained clair-
voyant might clearly perceive the true atmosphere of
the patient's spirit, the brightness or blackness which
are its " ethers." This atmosphere is called by
Easterns the " Akashic record," containing all the
imaged ambitions, desires, passions, etc., of the patient's
life. It was from the observation of this atmosphere
or etheric aura that painters drew the halo or aureole
round the heads of saints.
Now the position of the Magnetists in the mid-
Victorian age was this. Mesmer had, as it were,
half-opened a forgotten door, grimy with ages of
neglect, yet ever capable of giving access, if the true
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 35
key be applied, to an inner sanctuary of infinitely
greater worth. But, owing partly to the secularism
of his method, and still more to the materialistic
sceptism of his age, those who availed themselves of
his discovery were " unprepared " : and therefore were
too soon deceived by the vague and flickering shadows
which hang about that portal. Eneas ' needs the
" golden bough " before passing into that " Avernus "
(or subconscious) which lies open night and day.
In other words, those who experiment and launch
out into the great deeps of Nature must remember
the old warnings against the illusions, images, and
shells of the first or " Hades" state of consciousness
induced by such a venture. The true secrets of
Isis are not revealed by her janitor or " inner guard."
Her temple contains veil within veil. All the masters
of contemplation teach that its only perfect form
is without exercise of imagery: Plato's cave of
shadows is the simplest and profoundest contrast
of the relation between the natural and spiritual
life: shadows cannot finally satisfy. Therefore the
"visions," "revelations" of the "
lucides," somnam-
bules, and trance-mediums of the nineteenth century
are mostly worthless: and the welter of psychic
literature has produced no single work that even
approaches neo-Platonic wisdom, nor an utterance
that can be compared with those of the leading lights
of Christian (or Oriental) Mysticism. The reason is
simple, though hardly popular: it lies in the lack
of that " katharsis " 2 or purgation, the need of which
was known both to Neo-platonists and to Christian
saints: but no such need was dreamed of by the
Walpurgis-night revellers in the circles of American
and other spiritualists. Only by the "Turned Eye"
a Virgil's " Eneid," Book vi. * See Plato's " Phaedo."
36 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
of Boehme can we discern Truth from her substitutes :
but it is less trouble to turn tables.
From a different. angle modem 'psycho-analysis
also approaches the mystery half revealed by Animal
Magnetism: but many analysts of to-day apparently
are not even theists, and have, we venture to say,
no true metaphysical ground from which to move
and direct their own or their patients' "libido" (to
use the hideous modern jargon) : the result is much
dabbling in the somewhat murky regions of primitive
sex-desire, yet with no sure certainty of success in
the attempt at " sublimation." Nor can it be expected
while God is dismissed as a "father-complex," or
until a wider investigation has been attempted of
the " latent content" in dreams.'
Properly regarded, Magnetism is the necessary
bond between spirit and matter--Hermes, the mes-
senger, passing invisibly and connecting two worlds.
In itself it is neither spirit nor body. As Du Potet
(amongst others) shows, it operates in disentangling
soul from the enlacements of the flesh: and accom-
panies the immortal spirit on its journeys, acting as
its cortege until that spirit is recalled to God. Even
after death it seeks, as long as may be, to protect
the " deserted house" from corruption. Those who
knew its secret and how to operate therewith could
perform "miracles," and the wise among them have
ever regarded this as a Sacred Science. Through the
ages it has been sometimes honoured, sometimes
degraded, usually ignored--according to the mentality
and morals of its users. Its history may be compared
to that of those strange Pacific islands which appear
,Perhaps the best effort so far in this direction is Silberer's
" Problems of Mysticism and its Symbolism " (trans. S. E. Jelliffe ;
Moffat, Yard & Co., New York, igx7).
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 37
and disappear at intervals. It has been discovered,
lost, and rediscovered, only to be lost once more until
some fresh Columbus is born: yet each new investi-
gator of this " No-man's Land" only finds what
others have known before: though he often imagines
that, like the Ancient Mariner,
We were the first that ever burst
Into that silent sea.
Thus it has swayed and oscillated between fools,
rogues, and a few wise men. Qui capit, ille sapit.
The subtler operations of Nature continually escape
our obtuser senses, though they need not escape our
understanding. Others, like Paracelsus, have found
and declared that he who believes in Nature r receives
from Nature everything in proportion to his faith.
Things are affected by their similars: like comes to
like. " With the holy Thou shalt be holy, with the
froward Thou shalt be froward" is the spiritual
analogy of the law of " survival of the fittest." That
which is gross affects the outer senses: that which
is mental, the inner, and so on to the final " projection"
of the Reason towards Intelligibles, by which we are
magnetized back, or re-ligated, to the super-substantial
source of all. The power of the magnetizer's will in
changing his patient's fluid disposition is a true,
though feeble, type of the renovating power-" Vis
Medicatrix Caelestis "-of that all-pervading Vital
Spirit called Wisdom by the Ancients: and of whom,
for Christians, the crowning revelation walked on earth
in the great Magnetizer of the Gospels.
As He was despised and rejected of men, so also
2 And does not utter such pompous and unproven dogmas as
" No one can ever know anything of the mysteries on the other
side of death."
38 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
through the centuries has been neglected and ignored
the true Subject-matter, which once more fitfully
emerged into the purview of Mesmer, Reichenbach,
Du Potet, and the rest, but was even by them seen
only through a glass darkly. For, as the old Adepts
said, this Subject-matter is "a thing indifferent,
abject, and exposed on all hands, moving here below
in shadowy manifestation, invisibly and unconsciously
converted to every will and use. It is what the world
cares not for, but disesteems it : it hath it in its sight,
carries it in its hands, yet is ignorant thereof: for
it passeth away with a sudden pace without being
known ; yet he who knows the Art and the expressions,
and hath the medium, will be richer than any other."
Truly the light shineth in the darkness: and the
darkness apprehends it not.
The unexplored storehouse of Nature ever lies open
to research by magnetist, medical man, and mystic
alike. But she can teach only those who have faith
in her dumbly eloquent logic. She cannot speak
through lectures and learned periodicals: she can
only make signals and point. She cannot of herself
initiate the work of dissolution leading on to purgation
and so to final regeneration. As Vaughan pointed
out, she has no hands. Only the being created in
his Maker's image possesses those instruments, so
vitally necessary for spiritual and material activity.
As Christ sits enthroned at the Father's " Right
Hand " above, being the Divine Regenerator of man,
and of nature through man, invisibly drawing His
'" God is the great, positive Magnet of the Universe, and what-
ever, in the Universe, aspires to approach Him must assume the
negative, the feminine or passive and receptive aspect." Thy
Maker is thy Husband is one of the chief teachings of the Old
Testament.-Coventry Patmore, " Rod, Root, and Flower," p. i 8.
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 39
members to Himself, so man is the divinely appointed
executive agent below : and his task is to use his visible
and invisible hands in magnetizing Nature and himself
out of mere wild fecund generation into perfection
by Art. Hence, as the old Adepts said, the "manual
work" was the employment of the Hand with
ingenuity, i.e. with spiritual discernment, towards
a mechanic trituration, as it were, for obliterating the
defects of soul and body alike. "The Hand," said
Van Helmont, "is the instrument of instruments which
the soul likewise useth and whereby it bears its image
into operation." Mens (Mind), Manas (Soul), and
Manus (Hand) must co-operate in the true work of
men's hands, referred to often in Scripture. Indeed,
some of the old writers purposely used the phrase
"obstetric hand," meaning that by such tractive
action the hidden fire of Nature can be elicited and
drawn forth into visibility: so that the ordinary pro-
cesses of childbirth are a rough pattern of the mystery
called the New Birth, whereby "unto us a child is
born," i.e. we ourselves enter into a higher and truer
life-process and evolution. Nature, in her normal
condition, ever circulating monotonously out of and
into herself, is, as it were, "magically bound " and
cannot bring forth her secret agent. Man, like Lazarus
of Bethany, has also sunk into the magical and false
sleep of blind materialism. Yet he can be roused
by the voice of the true Magnetizer--" Lazarus, come
forth ": and when he emerges from the sepulchre
"bound hand and foot" it is the common duty of
the Church and Science to " loose him and let him go."
Neither of them during the last two centuries
has quite understood or obeyed this counsel. As
Colquhoun wrote in 1836: " The medical faculty have
always been peculiarly unfortunate in their crusade
4o MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
against heretical remedies. In 1566 the Paris Faculty
of Medicine issued a mandate prohibiting the use of
antimony and this mandate was confirmed by Parlia-
ment. Paumier, of Caen, a celebrated Paris physician
and chemist, having disregarded this mandate, was
degraded. The Quinquina, or Peruvian bark, was
imported into Europe in 1640, and Jesuits, nine years
afterwards, distributed a great quantity of it in Rome,
curing intermittent fevers with it, as if by enchantment.
The physicians declared war against this efficacious
remedy." I So it was not surprising that they con-
demned Mesmer in 1784. To-day the genuineness of
" faith " or " spiritual " healing is occasionally, though
somewhat grudgingly, admitted: but the tendency
is still towards dissuading the public from admitting
any "supernatural " explanation. Any definition of
the exact boundary between " natural " and " super-
natural " in these matters is still wanting.
Undeniable cures (such as those of Lourdes)
are attributed to "suggestion," "mono-ideism,"
"sympathetic environment," and similar useful
phrases. The old prejudice against the theories of
Mesmer and Reichenbach lives on under new forms.
All through the nineteenth century the extraordinary
power of soul, mind, and imagination over body was,
seemingly, ignored by medical orthodoxy : " Christian
Science " is a natural (though very extreme) swing
of the pendulum in the direction most opposed to
materialism. Now the minds of those who breathe
only the atmosphere of their own brain-begotten
theories tend to fall asleep: they lose touch with
those principles which operate unmistakably (sometimes
in the most amazing way), yet cannot be reduced to
the formulas of the latest medical fashion, which
1 "Isis Revelata," p. 228.
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 4I
itself constantly changes. An unconscious soul exerts
no more influence than an unconscious body: it
ignores Causal Truth and wanders in the dreary desert
of such substitutes for God as the sex-complex.
On the other hand, the Church-timidly enough--
is showing some signs of a revival of Spiritual Healing,
but there are still many forgotten gems waiting to
be brought by wise householders out of her treasury.
She still uses the Psalmist's prayer, " Prosper Thou
our handiwork," and she preserves the " manual acts"
of her ministry, but without much apparent intuition
of their significance. The laying-on-of-hands is a
custom pervading the whole of Bible and Church
history from Jacob blessing his sons down to the
regular consecration of bishops, priests, and deacons,
confirmation, joining of hands in matrimony and
unction of the sick. Yet still our Nonconformists,
asking why episcopal imposition of hands is necessary
for a "valid " ministry, only receive some such
answer as " Because it was (virtually) ordained by
Christ and has been the unbroken custom of the Catholic
Church," which answer, though possibly true in itself,
does not somehow convince the other side. " Apostolic
Succession " appears little more than a superstition
of past ages, unless we boldly couple with it the idea
of a chain of Divinely magnetic influence continuing
from age to age, and always invisibly linking "that
which is above " to " that which is below." Reunion
of the Churches will never come by an attempt to
water down their respective beliefs. Either the
Church is a Body supernaturally " magnetized " (and
therefore surviving all the follies and weaknesses of her
members) or she is merely a human and temporal
association of good people. While the Church assented
to the full her Charismatic Ministries such as healing
42 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
the sick and expelling demons, she was strong. The
moment she seemed awed and cowed before the
dogmatic assertions of modern agnostic scientists men
began to despise her. The path to Reunion between
the sundered branches of the Christian Body, like the
reconciliation between Faith and Knowledge, lies in the
re-discovery of those secrets and mysteries which are
only hidden from stupidity and sloth. We must
imitate Columbus and bring in a "new world" to
redress the balance of the old.
There are no formal Magnetic schools to-day: yet
the passeurs, masseurs, masseuses, osteopaths, etc.,
are merely carrying on the old " manual woik,"
without perceiving its inner significance. Massage is
Animal Magnetism in blinkers. Scores of little books
on Mental Cure issue yearly from the press, many
containing some account of the electro-magnetic
forces and advice as to their direction in healing.
Their phraseology is hardly as profound as that of
Paracelsus, Van Helmont, and Mesmer, but their
message is substantially the same. Terms change-
ideas continue-from one age to another. F. W. H.
Myers admitted that his researches seemed to lead
him back to the psychology ofthe Stone Age. Magnetic
research will bring us towards the psychology of the
wise adepts of old: and not the least of its services
will be a clarifying of the old Christian orthodoxy.
Christ is the Hope of the World-but a present and
not merely a future Hope. His magistery and lord-
ship depend not primarily on credal beliefs held by
His disciples (though these are perfectly true), but on
His power to make separation, upon our psychic,
fluidic nature between the vital and deathly ethers
of the personality. He comes-as the creed says--
, See Appendix F, p. i5o,
INTRODUCTORY ESSAY 43
" to judge the quick and the dead "; and by such
mighty magnetism is " able to subdue all things to
Himself." Here and now-not merely in some future
post-mortem state-the mysterious Primal Seed, fluidic
medium, in us may be raised or sublimated from
corruption to incorruption. Here and now, this
mortal may put on immortality, which is not the
prolongation of life in a " line " but the achievement
of the circular life in eternity. The Christian Creed
is only narrowed if-as so often happens-its historic
aspect is emphasized at the expense of every other.
The much-talked-of " reconciliation " of the Church
with modern Science can only be achieved when both
admit the promise and potency of the Hermetic Art
which, older than either, contradicts neither and in
many ways fulfils both. So will their mutual energies
blend into that Great Work whereby human life is
clarified and conjoined to its Primal Source: and
humanity reintegrated into Divinity.
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE
JULES-DENIs, Baron Du Potet de Sennevoy, was born
on April 12, 1796, at the little village of La
Chapelle, in the Commune of Yonne, Department
of Sennevoy. His family belonged to the old
nobility of Burgundy, and Dijon still commemorates
their name in the Rue du Grand-Potet. His
early years were those of a child revelling in Nature:
he spent his time in rambling by wood, meadow, and
stream. When he was fourteen the reproaches of his
parents goaded him into study, but he frankly con-
fesses that he preferred the songs of birds and waters
to Latin and other tongues. He was not destined
to be a great light in the Academies : his own accounts
show that he could not fully grasp the relationship
between his own remarkable achievements in magic
and the records.and writings of ancient sages. Eliphas
L6vi considered Du Potet's work as "the most re-
markable of all products of pure intuition," which
intuition we may trace to his early and much-cherished
communion with Nature. From her he attracted and
absorbed those subtle magnetic potencies upon which
he afterwards drew freely in his years of activity in Paris.
In i815 his attention was drawn to the Mesmeric
School, and for five years he studied under Deleuze,
Puys6gur, and the Abb6 Faria. In 182o he performed
certain experiments on the sick in the presence of
many incredulous doctors at the Hotel Dieu, an account
of which is given on pp. 37-43 of his " Introduction
to the Study of Animal Magnetism." After passing
through many interior struggles caused by the " insolent
incredulity" of the savants, and perhaps by the birth-
46 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
pangs of the strange power developing within himself,
he now began to leave his early instructors far behind.
He discovered that, without using Mesmer's elaborate
preparations and methods, he himself could obtain
the same positive results. In 1826 he opened a free
school for instruction in Magnetism, and before long
nearly a hundred people, a fair proportion of whom
were medical men, attended his demonstrations. For
these, as for his later magical experiments, conducted
on Sunday mornings, he never took payment. His
pamphlet "Experiments at the Hotel Dieu" went
through four editions. In x827 he started " The
Propagator of Magnetism "; six years later he
published a " Course of Instruction in Seven Lessons,"
a second edition appearing at Besan9on in 1840, to
which he added a lengthy Report by M. Husson, of
the Academy of Medicine, expressing the favourable
opinions of the Commission sitting between 1825 and
183
I .
About the year 1838 Du Potet visited this country
for a short time. Through the influence of Dr.
Elliotson he was enabled to treat certain patients at
the North London Hospital, and some account of his
experiments appears in his " Introduction to the Study
of Animal Magnetism." a Owing to the opposition of
the Managing Committee he was prevented from
further work at the hospital, and afterwards treated
patients at his own residence, 20o, Wigmore Street.
His " Introduction " contains nothing of any special
importance: he freely admits that animal magnetism
does not suffice to cure certain acute diseases without
medicines, and desires a sound medical treatise on the
subject, proposing himself to supply such a work,
which, however, does not seem to have appeared. The
' Saunders & Ottley, Conduit Street, London.
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE 47
experiences of one of his English patients will be found
in Appendix E.x
Returning to his native country he lectured at
Rheims, Bordeaux, Montpellier, and B6ziers : in 1844
appeared his " Magnetism contrasted with Medicine,"
and, four years later, " An Essay on the Philosophical
Significance of Magnetism," and, simultaneously, a
" Manual for Students of the Magnetic Science," which
went through three editions. He was also editing the
"Journal of Magnetism" which had commenced in
1841. By the time " La Magie Devoilee " was first
published (1852) the Baron had become notorious, and
it will be worth while to notice the opinions of some
contemporary observers.
Alexandre Erdan dedicated his " La France
Mystique" (1855) to Voltaire, and describes among
other "superstitions " of the day the " rare and in-
constant psychological curiosity" known as Animal
Magnetism. After admitting that, "though most of
its phenomena are due to imposture, yet there seems
to remain a residuum inexplicable by all known laws,"
Erdan continues : " M. Du Potet is its real high priest-
the fourth pontiff of the animal ' fluid.' He has some-
thing of Mesmer's nature without his ability : in fact,
Puysegur and Deleuze have left no real successors.
However, Du Potet has made Magnetism an institution.
He holds public seances at the Provenyal Brothers'
Restaurant, close to the Palais Royal, and one hears
of strange marvels occurring there. He boasts of his
miracles in numerous publications-notably in 'La
Magie Devoilde,' a work issued only for buyers who
will consent to certain conditions imposed by the
author, a singular method of dealing with the public!
He is, of course, an evoker of spirits. I have not seen
= P. 148.
48 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
him perform any remarkable feat, though I did once
attend one of his demonstrations." Erdan devotes
two or three pages to some lesser phenomena, and,
without impugning Du Potet's own sincerity and
honesty, insinuates that the " entranced subject"
was really a well-trained actress.
We pass on to a more friendly critic, and one whose
writings are considered by Mr. A. E. Waite to be
" the most arresting, entertaining, and brilliant of all
studies on this subject with which I am acquainted."
Eliphas Levi x declares: " Baron Du Potet is of an
exceptional and highly intuitive nature. Like all our
contemporaries he knows nothing of the Kabalah
and its mysteries, but magnetism has notwithstanding
revealed to him the science of Magic, and he has
concealed that which he has found.... We shall
reserve his secret out of respect for the convictions of
a hierophant. We do not regard his book as dangerous
because the writer indicates forces without being precise
as to their use. He is aware that we can do good or
evil, can destroy or save by means of magnetic
processes, but the nature of these is not clearly and
practically put forward, on which we offer him our
felicitations .... He establishes triumphantly the
existence of that universal light wherein ' lucides'
perceive all images and all reflections of thought. He
assists the vital projection of this light by means of an
absorbent apparatus which he calls the Magic Mirror
-a circle or square covered with powdered charcoal,
finely sifted. In this negative space the combined
light projected by the magnetic subject and operator
soon tinges and realizes the forms corresponding to
their nervous impressions. The somnambulist sees
, Nom de plume of Alphonse Louis Constant (? I8I-75) ;
" History of Magic," trans. A. E. Waite, i9i3, P. 471.
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE 49
manifested therein all the dreams of opium and
hashish, and, if he were not distracted from the
spectacle, convulsions would follow.
" The phenomena are analogous to those of hydro-
mancy as practised by Cagliostro; the process of
staring at water dazzles and troubles the sight; the
fatigue of the eye, in its turn, favours hallucinations
of the brain. Cagliostro sought to secure for his
experiments virgin subjects in a state of perfect
innocence, so as to set aside interference due to nervous
divagations occasioned by erotic reminiscences. Du
Potet's Magic Mirror is perhaps more fatiguing for
the nervous system as a whole, but the dazzlements
of hydromancy would have a more dangerous effect
upon the brain. . . . M. Du Potet is one of those
men with deep convictions who suffer bravely the
disdain of science, repeating beneath his breath the
profession of secret faith cherished by Galileo: E Pur
Si muove."
Mr. A. E. Waite,' our chief living exponent of the
Western occult and mystical schools of initiation,
has delivered his judgment of our author as follows:
"As regards France, there was in the field one man
whose success was not less marvellous, not less well
attested, and much more varied than Esdaile's.' He,
as an original genius in his own field of experience, is
of a different order to Elliotson,z and he had no less
tenacity, no less courage, possibly because he had
less to lose and had lost it less. This was Baron Du
Potet. It was scarcely possible to place him among
charlatans, and it was scarcely possible to ignore
him. He filled all Paris with the noise and excite-
a Whose successful mesmeric operations on Hindu patients are
recorded in the " Zoist."
Founder and editor of the " Zoist," r843-56.
D
So MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
ment of his experiences, his s6ances, his discoveries,
his sensational claims. He was not a man of scientific
attainments, but for all who had eyes to see he was
in possession of an instrument by which he worked
what passed for prodigies, and though the Academy
of Medicine and the Academy of Sciences were pledged
to possess no sight in the direction of such occurrences,
it was much to be feared that the world would not
long consent to be permanently blind or hoodwinked.
Some at least {of the elementary secrets previously
reserved in the occult sanctuaries had been placed by
him within the hands of the ordinary observer, and he
directed the mind of research towards the hidden
sciences of the past, as he held that all the phenomena
of transcendentalism were to be explained by his
particular art." t "Du Potet was perhaps the most
successful operator who had yet appeared in France.
Indeed, from Mesmer to Puys6gur, from Puys6gur to
Deleuze, and from Deleuze to Du Potet there are three
epochs, in so far as France is concerned, of that art
which was said by the most devoted of its followers
to have done more towards the explanation of man
and the universe than any other discovery of the
century to which it belongs." 2
It may be admitted frankly that Du Potet was
neither a profound nor original thinker : but the flam-
boyance of his prose need not blind us to the fact of
his remarkable psychic achievements or to such light
on nature's occult forces as we may gain from them.
He himself is like some Moses, nearing the summit of
Pisgah, yet still so beclouded by the materialism of
the Egypt he has felt behind, that his eyes with diffi-
culty discern the Promised Land below. Yet he sees
it, even if, like Newton, he feels he is only picking
a "Studies inMysticism," 9go6, p. 197. * Ibid., p. 90.
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE 51
up pebbles on the shore of the vast unknown. He is
like a brilliant and daring scout, pushing far ahead of
the rest of the Magnetists, and yet timid of imparting
the strange knowledge he had acquired lest it should
be misused by knaves. He is one of " those who know,
yet know not what they know ": and his pages have
therefore been illustrated by quotations from Mrs.
Atwood's treatise: and if the magic marvels of our
self-assertive author induce readers to a study of
the more sober and " per-scrutinating" " Suggestive
Inquiry," the translation of his book will not have
been made in vain.
Du Potet was an idealist and a bold experimenter ;
the Danton of Magnetism. It has been remarked that
but for him Magnetism would have been forgotten
after Mesmer as it was after Van Helmont. Puys6gur
considered that magnetizers would never be able to
do more than " turn the handle," i.e. use the unknown
" machine " mechanically and more or less ignorantly.
Du Potet believed that he could to some extent
understand and regulate the " machine." He could,
and did, perform all that other magnetizers had
accomplished: but he also, as the following pages
show, produced effects quite different from any that
they obtained: effects, indeed, which no hypnotist of
the modern schools would dream of attempting, or
believe possible. He did not consider it possible in
his day to attempt strictly scientific explanations to
Animal Magnetism. "Science knows the agents it
employs; we do not know those we use. But our
creations, the phenomena we produce, are facts."
He did not regard the " magnetic sleep " as necessary
for cure, the magnetic medium itself containing curative
virtue. Although he could, and did, perform cures, he
was less interested in this side of the work than in his
52 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
experiments with the tremendous and as yet unknown
power. Many of the phenomena he produced would
now be labelled "hypnotic " : but the real interest of
his book lies in the peculiar explanation he gave of them.
"The agent (Magnetism) employed has its inherent
properties: left to itself, i.e. when not impregnated
with the properties added to it by the soul or spirit,
it acts conformably to the laws of physics, and presents
analogies with the magnet. We have to learn, first,
what are its natural and fixed properties; secondly, to
understand those that we can impart to it by our will."
The mechanical means (making " passes " or fixing
the eye, etc.) used by ordinary magnetizers produced
results according to the natural, fixed properties of
the agent. But when the soul or spirit of the operator
was infused into the Magnetism, Du Potet considered
that almost any desired result might be obtained;
not so much by the operation of the will as by another
set of laws which govern the manifestation of the
magnetic agent when it becomes magical.
His method of magnetizing seemed extremely
simple, for he considered the complicated manipu-
lations used by most magnetizers quite unnecessary.
He used "passes " freely, regarding them as the
mechanical equivalent to the will in directing the
fluid. He noticed that the emission of the fluid was
not even, and therefore rested now and again to allow
his forces to recuperate. Occasionally he found it
difficult to de-magnetize his subject, though the sleep
produced by him does not seem to have been deeper
than that produced by other magnetizers. During
his magical operations he experienced (though he
describes it vaguely) a curious sensation, referred to
several times in the following pages.
" By an act of my understanding I separate from
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE 53
myself a force--real, though invisible. Deposited upon
anything, it fixes itself there as an essence: soon it
influences its surroundings: magic begins: that is
to say, extraordinary phenomena occur." x
By this "magic telegraph" (as he called it) Du
Potet could produce either physical or mental effects,
and some description of these will be found in Part I.
A common. experiment practised by Du Potet and
other magnetizers was to make some "passes " over
one of several similar chairs in the absence of the
subject: the latter, when called into the room, fell
asleep when he came to the magnetized chair, the others
producing no effect. Du Potet regarded this " putting
magnetism into a chair" as a magical operation:
a modern psychologist could scarcely explain it except
by attributing it to mental suggestion. Du Potet,
however, did not consider such phenomena as examples
of the subject merely believing that he was seeing or
hearing one thing, when he was in reality seeing or
hearing something else. Du Potet held that the
subject really experiences such sensations: but in a
peculiar or " magical " way. The subject actually saw
or heard by using the operator'ssense-organs. When
such a subject was in complete rapportwith himself, Du
Potet claimed that he had " installed himself " in the
subject, and could transform such an one, at will,
into any personality he pleased. Dr. Charles Richet
would probably call this " objectivation of types."
Du Potet further practised what is now called
"verbal suggestion," but usually associated it with
some physical act or object, which, on his theory,
became a vehicle for the transmission of magnetic
influence, the connecting link between soul and body,
indeed the very agent by which soul acts on body.
' P. 78.
54 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
Those who donot believe in " soul " will be incredulous,
but such a theory goes some way in explaining the
enigma of " psycho-physical parallelism," I which Du
Bois Reymond and so many others find insoluble.
Du Potet belived that a material sign can become a
vehicle conveying magical power. Thus the sign of
the cross or holy water may convey a real blessing,
but only if the soul or spirit of the priest giving the
benediction genuinely animates such objects. When
priests lose this magical or magnetic knowledge and
practice, their official acts become merely perfunctory
and conventional expressions of good will scarcely
distinguishable from secular salutations. Perhaps the
present Bishop of Birmingham may unconsciously
(and unwillingly) be the means of the revival of this
forgotten " magic."
On p. 90 Du Potet says : " Itake a man wide-awake,
full of health and strength, put a cane into his hand
and say, 'In a minute you will be drunk and behave
like a drunken man.' He smiles incredulously, but
hardly a minute passes before he staggers, his eyes
grow bloodshot," etc.
To restore him, the believer in Suggestion would tell
him he was quite sober again. But Du Potet, having
in his own and his subject's mind associated the
drunkennesswith the physical actof holding the cane, had
merely to remove the cane from the man's hand, and
the latter became sober. So also, by some arbitrarily
chosen talisman or " sign," he could turn his subjects
into old people with every mark of decrepitude.
"'The sum of our knowledge of the connection of mind and body
is this-that the mental modifications are dependent on certain
corporeal conditions; but of the nature of these conditions we
know nothing.... Whether the senses be instruments, media,
or whether they be only partial outlets to the mind incarcerated
in the body--on all this we can only conjecture" (Hamilton,
"Metaphysics," vol. ii, p. 128).
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE 55
"Suggestion," like "Telepathy," is an extremely
elastic word: neither of them is yet fully under-
stood: and Du Potet's experiments, backed by the
later work of Colonel de Rochas and Dr. Baraduc,
seem to show that he was often contacting some ex-
traneous force, the nature and extent of which are
still unknown. This "living force," he maintained,
could be wielded and used by the soul or mental power
of man. Such a "living force" will set in operation
the " dead " (or merely mechanical) forces such as
electricity and magnetism as known to orthodox
science : but these are only two of an unknown number
of forces which the soul can (presumably) set going;
and the effects of such operations remain to be experi-
mentally studied. Such was the " Higher Magnetism "
which Du Potet regarded as having been known
to the ancients and (later on) to men like Paracelsus
and Mesmer. Again and again he claims that he has
-at any rate, in part-rediscovered the mysterious
force with which the ancient Magic worked and
concerning which the Alchemists wove their strange
parables. It would be very much against the grain
of modern science to countenance such conceptions;
they would be regarded as mere " animism " : for they
attribute life to everything and regard the soul of man
as having the ability to imbue the "brute" forces
of Nature with a vitality sufficient for the carrying
out of certain purposes. To study botany only in a
herbarium is a different matter from approaching
Nature's secrets by the living and growing plant.
Vitalism and Creative Evolution are, however, slowly
displacing the older Darwinism and "circumstantial
selection." The future of Science belongs to those
who agree with Lorenz Oken that the Holy Ghost
is the most wonderful of all the hard facts of life.
56 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
Mesmer considered that the magnetizer puts in
motion currents of the ether or universal medium,
which he then directs and distributes according to
his ability. By repeated passes the fluid or flame
spreads like a spark, setting fire to combustible
material.I With a single match a whole city might
be burned : even so the will or soul" igniting " certain
natural forces may do either great good or great
mischief. When a natural force is thus set going,
psychically instead of physically, the soul imparts
to it a kind of intelligence. No further effort is
required: but the operator must be always ready to
control or arrest it, or the result may be disaster.
The " magic" of Du Potet lay entirely in the strong,
unwavering, clearly conceived intention: a weapon as
yet unknown to official Science. The mechanical
methods of Science generate these forces by persuasion :
Du Potet's method might be called that of compulsion..
We talk of taming and harnessing the forces of Nature,
but it requires constant exertion, and we tend to regard
them as entirely non-moral and unresponsive to any-
thing but mechanical pressure: the idea that the
human soul, apart from intellect, could constrain them,
is treated as a chimaera.
Modern Science is now concentrating on what may
prove to be Nature's greatest secret. Sir Ernest
Rutherford, regarding the atom as a kind of minute
solar system, is attempting to upset the balance between
the positive nucleus and the outer negative electrons,
and by so doing to release the electrical energy locked
therein. Sir Oliver Lodge, in "Atoms and Rays,"
suggests that this energy is already being used to
= Thus Magnetism may be described as an effect rather than as
a substance; and were Mesmer living now, he would probably
describe his operation as causing magnetic "vibrations " in the
universal ether.
BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE 57
maintain the heat of the sun and other stars, though
it is not yet tractable by any human device. At
present an electrical or "alpha" particle discharged
into an atom would be just as unlikely to hit its
nucleus as a huge projectile hurled into the solar system
would be to hit a planet or the sun. Sir Oliver hopes
that we shall not discover too many secrets of this
kind before our knowledge and wisdom have increased
sufficiently to guard against the inherent danger.
Perhaps the next great advance in this direction will
only come when some researcher can combine the
untiring industry of a Rutherford with the magical
intention of a Du Potet. No one by searching into
his own will alone can find out the Almighty to perfec-
tion: yet by obedience to the Divine Will man may
recover the Divine Science and Sacred Art so long
buried in oblivion.
" La Magie Devoil6e, ou Principes de Science
Occulte," was first published in 1852 by the Imprimerie
de Pommeret et Moreau, 17, Quai des Augustins, at
the price of Ioo francs, with the following warning:
" Cet ouvrage n'est ddlivrd que sur un engagement
pris envers l'auteur." This condition would seem to
have been exacted until the author's death; after
which it seems to have been published in the ordinary
way, passing in 1893 into a third, in 1907 into its
fourth and present edition, its publishers being Vigot
Freres, 23, Place de l' cole de Medecine. An English
translation was announced by Mr. J. S. Farmer in
1886, but did not appear. In the present volume per-
haps nearly one-half of the original has been omitted,
to spare readers Du Potet's numerous reflections and
reveries, which lead nowhere, and his denunciations
of sceptical scientists: for all these things distract
attention from the true subject,
58 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
The "Journal du Magn6tisme" ran on till 1861,
and is a treasury of well-collated facts and curious
occult experiments. Through Du Potet's magnetized
subjects were evolved clairvoyance, trance-speaking,
stigmata, elevation of somnambules in the air, and
insensibility to fire, injury, or touch. Sometimes the
" lucides " described scenes in the spirit-world, found
lost property, or spoke in foreign tongues. In
December I86x Du Potet announces the cessation of
the " Journal " and of his public demonstrations, but
is about to publish " La Therapeutique Magn6tique"
-- of which, if it appeared, the British Museum Library
does not contain a copy. Being now sixty-five years
old he looked for a younger man to take up the work.
In 1879 the "
Theosophist " notes the birth of a new
journal, " La Chaine Magndtique," and remarks that,
in spite of his eighty-four years, the Baron's intellect
is as clear and his devotion to Magnetism as ardent as
when he vindicated it in 1826 before the Academy of
Medicine. In the same year he had a fall on a stair-
case, which must have caused some internal injury;
in 188o he went to Nice, and, in spite of his own con-
dition, performed some remarkable cures. Returning
to Paris in April 1881,his condition grew worse, and
on July Ist he passed peacefully away at his house
in the Rue du Dragon. On July 3rd he was buried at
Montmartre.
The editor of Larousse's "Grand Dictionnaire
Universel du XIX Siecle" cannot see in Du Potet
anything more than " one who abandoned himself to
reveries and fancied he was reviving occult science."
This is the kind of epitaph often written by the children
of Time on those of Eternity; the reader must judge
for himself whether it be correct.
MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
I
EXPERIMENTS
[Du Potet begins with the usual warnings against
rashness and imprudence. No one is to be magnetized
against his will. The author is dealing with facts, not
fancies. He leaves Deleuze and Puys6gur behind.
Nature alone has been his teacher.]
WHAT is the Somnambulic Sleep ? An effect of
magical power. What is Magnetism at a distance,
i.e. as exercised by thought without (physical) contact,
unless it be a secret power similar to that exercised
by lovers, magicians, and others ? Such effects can
be produced upon animals as well as on men. What
is it which causes those attractions, sudden impulses,
antipathies, and convulsive crises which can become
so lasting and perilous, if it be not the same principle
at work, the Agent known to men of past time ?
What is now known as the nervous fluid, magnetism,
somnambulism, or ecstasy was called by the ancients
the occult power of the soul, subjection (of one soul
by another), and magical charm. The Agent is the
same in all these phenomena, useful or hurtful, just
as it is the same sun which destroys or gives life.
But the sun's power is blind and unconscious, whereas
ours obeys our will and can be used to elevate or
degrade man.x
= Terrestrial Mercury, or Astral Light, is fatal to those who
excite, without knowing how to direct. The experiments of the
6o MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
Electricity under all its variations remains the
me: so also does the action of the loadstone. But
Thought fixes itself according to our will; it is a jet
of invisible flame, subtler than any aroma, traversing
space with unimpeded action, bearing our desire and
even the rudiments of our being. How assimilate
this magical element with other natural faculties
revealed to man ? What has it in common with them ?
At first we can only co-relate them in words, and our
language is imperfect : but we shall presently give
Animal Magnetism its due.
Ancient Mythology covered magical operations
with a dense veil. Harmonious but enigmatic poetry
was used to describe all the labours of " the Wise"
and the assistance of the gods in ensuring their success.
We, children of a later day, no longer understand
the ancient truths whereby men beheld the mysteries
of creation. Time has destroyed a vast edifice: only
patience can enable our descendants to reconstruct
it . . let my readers therefore try and grasp the
principle underlying the phenomena to be described:
the rules are not yet fully known.
I proceed to transcribe certain experiments already
published in the " Journal du Magn6tisme," 1846-48;
they were performed on six persons in the presence of
Nancy 'and Paris Schools of hypnotic and mesmeric direction are
unrighteous : because unless the operator knows the whole process
-how to unseal, how to close, how the whole is arranged, how to
arrange and place (each whole or body) in the same exact order--
he is breaking the superfice as a burglar and not as a doctor who
knows how things were and how they should be. Hermetic Sealing
is a special process and exact knowledge is requisite. Mesmerism
can be and is an Art of arts, divine and Christlike or deadly and
devilish. The deep trance is a sacred sleep, and the utmost care
and knowledge should be used lest the sin of the " passive " should
be passed to the " active." (From private notes by M. A. Atwood,
many of which it is inexpedient to publish owing to the possibility
of abuse by experimenters who fail to appreciate the sanctity and
perils of the subject.)
EXPERIMENTS 61
numerous audiences, and are recorded in the chrono-
logical order of discovery. Such facts could be
multiplied, but would add nothing to the value of
what is here recorded.
MAGIC LINES :
FirstExperiment.
Two lines are traced in chalk on the floor with
magnetic intention 2 :-
These lines represent a crooked road, AB, separated
by a space, C, beyond which is the conventional
figure of a precipice, D.
A young and robust male patient is placed, wide-
awake, at point A, one foot on each line. Du Potet
has ascertained him to be a " sensitive," but does
not magnetize him. He is left free to obey or resist
such impulses as he may feel. He resists. Soon there
is a convulsive trembling in his limbs: his eyes become
glassy and fixed: his movements jerky. He shows
impatience, begins to walk along the lines, and
cannot leave them. An indescribable expression
appears in his features. Some fascinating power
draws him to the end of the fatal road, where the
magnetizer has willed a precipice to exist. It is only
: " The signs published in Du Potet's ' La Magie D6voil6e ' are,
in analogy, if not absolutely identical, with pretended diabolical
signatures found in old editions of the Grand Grimoire" (E!iphas
L6vi, " History of Magic," trans. by A. E. Waite, 9z13, P. I30).
3 I.e. by Du Potet's magical operation.
62 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
an idea, a desire magnetically formulated, yet it is
so powerful that, as he approaches the " abyss," he
crouches at point B, with despair in his face. His
breathing becomes stertorous, he trembles as with
vertigo. Many of the audience, while staring at him,
seem to share his feelings. He utters agonized cries.
Du Potet now puts an end to this drama of " imitative
magic" by lifting the patient up and releasing him
from his terror, which he speedily forgets.
Second Experiment.
Two lines are drawn with chalk similar to those in
the first experiment, but of a more sinuous nature,
on the floor :-
A c
the apex of triangle E pointing to one end.
Again the subject is young, robust, and awake.
His feet are placed between the two lines starting
from the left. The space between is wide enough
for him to walk between without touching them, yet
he is drawn from one side to the other, as it were,
against walls which he cannot pass. He reaches A,
tries to continue, but is unable, and swerves across
to B, is again arrested, swerves again to C, finally
reaches D, and in vain tries to pass to E. Despair
and fear are shown by his involuntary movements:
he is fixed to the ground.
Four other persons, placed in the same condition, obey
in the same manner, with a difference of intensity only.
EXPERIMENTS 63
The difference between these phenomena and those
of ordinary magnetism lies in the fact that the
magnetizer himself remains inactive; herein magic
begins. Something more than mere inertia must be
overcome to release the subjects from their labyrinth.
Several persons must assist to " unsolder" them: and
they still gravitate towards the lines until removed
from their vicinity. On recovering their senses they
retain no exact knowledge of their ordeal. The feet
are tired, and there is a sense of heat and attraction,
as if all the leg muscles had been strained. It is
impossible to describe precisely the abnormal element
in these occurrences.
Third Experiment.
Du Potet, with chalk in one hand and carbon in
the other, traces on the floor two parallel straight
lines, one white, AB, the other black, CD, at a distance
of just over three feet in width. No one else is aware
of his scheme, or plan.
A 8IB
," h
"
The triangle N, the serpent S, and the two five-pointed
stars XO are drawn without magnetic intention, at
an equal distance from the two lines. Du Potet
proposes to investigate whether there are, as
ancient philosophers believed, two opposite principles
governing us-one inciting to good, the other to evil.
64 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
What will be the path of the human traveller placed
between these symbols? On the black line Du Potet
has impressed, by will-power, everything characteristic
of evil: on the white, everything characteristic of
virtue. Their respective influence is to be tried on
persons sensitive to magnetism, but not actually
magnetized. Du Potet himself will remain passive
during the experiment.
A young man of twenty-four, with robust and
decided nature, never hitherto magnetized, is placed
on the star X. His will is free: no one sees any,
change in his demeanour, he smiles and is sceptical
about the issue of this experiment. Du Potet stands
at the opposite star, O. Everyone is asked to keep
silence. A violent movement agitates the patient,
he becomes restless, fixes his eyes alternately on
either line and never looks away. After more shocks
he advances a step towards the black line, returns
to his first position, turns again in the same direction
as at first. He touches the black line with his toes
at E, quits it, but again something draws him and his
body moves laterally towards it. This continues till
he reaches point G, near the end of the road. Here
he turns a little upon himself, his body so bent as
almost to form a semi-circle, his head inclined to the
white line. In this curved position he advances
laterally towards the extremity D, showing anxiety
about its end. His eyes seem to dart fire: every
movement is jerky: the muscles of his face illustrate
the battle in his soul. His chest expands: he pants.
All hesitation vanishes and he turns to the serpent
symbol and leans over the ominous sign, stretching
out his hands as if to grasp it. He is now firmly
withdrawn from this cruel position: unconscious and
perspiring, he comes slowly to his senses. When
EXPERIMENTS 65
questioned about his sensations he can only recall his
first movements: his first three steps were accom-
panied by some indefinable pleasure: then came
despair, and he heard an interior voice saying, " Where
are you going ? Retrace your steps." After that he
remembers nothing of where he was led. He is
certain that at first he believed in no such influence,
and was resolved to resist it with all his might.
On the spectators each movement of this patient
produced an effect as it were of an electric shock, a
sort of vibrant contagion: their breasts swelled, and
as the patient bent towards the symbol of evil their
mouths opened as if to protest.
When all is quiet another patient is placed upon
the star X: also a vigorous man, wide-awake, and
confident of being able to resist the influence. But
before two minutes have passed convulsive move-
ments appear: he hesitates, bends first to the right,
then to the left, at length takes his first step towards
the white line AB. Then he throws himself back to
the point E, where the previous patient had touched,
advances forward to point H : tears come into his
eyes. Desperately he turns away and touches point
I (on the white line) with his foot: quits it, and in a
kind of rapture reaches the star 0, where Du Potet
receives him in his arms, bathed in tears.
Thus each patient seems to be dominated by the
two forces--one pushing towards the abyss, the other
trying to check such action.
A third patient is placed on the star X. Soon an
agitation appears in his limbs, his face changes, he
starts. Suddenly a door violently opens and chairs
are overturned. A medical student, hitherto un-
noticed, strides rapidly to the lines, upsetting every-
thing in his way. He reaches them: his eyes are
It
66 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
haggard, arms extended and fingers clenched. He
seems to wish to take the place of the patient: the
assembly rise in panic. Du Potet approaches, passes
his hand over the intruder's forehead, and the latter
becomes calm. When conducted to another room he
explains that some unseen power compelled him to
act thus. Some of the audience also assert that
they felt some abnormal influence while gazing at or
approaching the symbols.
Du Potet now requests the audience not to draw
any hasty conclusions. In this case Matter, more
obedient than Spirit, has been overcome by the vital
essences of life. The soul, finding its organs paralysed,
could not put forth all its powers. Such experiments
should only be repeated with great reserve, and with
clear understanding and confidence. "Be astonished
at nothing." Should the Magnetizer feel any strong
emotion, or let himself be perturbed by such facts,
the result will be disorder. " Only by a sequence of
this type of experiment can we throw light on the
Magnetic method and art. We must progress from
known to unknown, never forgetting practical rules
or losing sight of the properties of the Magnetic agent."
FourthExperiment.
Du Potet traces on the floor three circles, each about
a foot in diameter :-
A B C
EXPERIMENTS 67
The intention here is not to try and influence the
morals of the patient, but to investigate the physical
effect of the Magnetic principle, when the latter is
linked with these three circular lines: to see if the
fluid could be felt and its action determined by a
series of nervous effects worth examination. A strong,
thick-set man of twenty-four is placed in circle A,
and told to resist any influence trying to displace him.
He smiles at this: but we soon notice a shakiness in
his voice: in speaking to anyone he turns as if on a
pivot: presently, dominated by the influence, he
begins to spin round like a top. Suddenly his move-
ment is arrested by an order to be still: but he still
remains pirouetting for some ten minutes, compelled
-to obey by a power he despises but cannot control.
Meanwhile another youth has been placed in circle B,
after which the Magnetizer withdraws to a little
distance. The eyes of this second subject soon close:
his head begins to turn round, more and more rapidly,
his feet remaining fixed to the centre. The whole of his
body is soon affected, and, as he is about to lose
his centre of gravity, Du Potet asks someone to support
him. Nevertheless, he falls, and when carried off
remembers nothing of what has happened in the circle.
These experiments having been performed on young
people only, Du Potet requests the aged Comte de
Beaumont T to stand in the third circle, C. After
about a minute the Comte's lower limbs become
agitated and begin to lurch. His whole body is
affected : ready to sink, he cries, " Oh ! Oh ! "--
and is released from the circle. Far from complaining,
he seems transported: a sweet warmth penetrated
him, and his arm, hitherto stiff from rheumatism, is
now free from all pain.
' An acquaintance of Mesmer and Marie Antoinette.
68 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
During all these experiments Du Potet has remained
entirely passive, lest the imagination of the patient
should be credited with the motive power which is
due to the Magnetic agent.
Fifth Experiment.
Du Potet traces a circle with two parallel lines,
one, AB, drawn from, the other, CD, drawn to, the
circle X.
X
A
Both lines and circle are magnetic: Du Potet's will
and desire are expressed powerfully on the tracings,
with a force capable of influencing any person placed
between the lines.
Three persons in succession are placed at the centre
of the circle X. Wandering and turning from side
to side, they quickly touch the lines. The lower side,
AB; strongly attracts them to the circle: the upper,
CD, as strongly repels them from it. The body
inclines towards the line. AB : their feet have not left
the two lines. At length they reach again the centre
of the circle, all apparently in some sort of suffocation.
Du Potet points out that, in tracing the lines, he
did not start from the same point--one line being
drawn to the circle, from a point C, outside to point D ;
the other from point A in the circle outwardly to B.
Hence the contrary movements exhibited by the
EXPERIMENTS 69
patient. The Magnetic agent employed contains its
own properties, and acts freely. When not invested
with qualities impressed upon it by the soul or spirit,
it conforms to its physical nature, and is analogous to
the loadstone. The Magnetic art consists in recog-
nizing and adapting these unalterable qualities by
impressing the human will upon them. This particular
experiment will help us to understand phenomena to
be mentioned later.
Sixth Experiment.
Du Potet requests two persons (patients in previous
experiments) to stand on a straight line
A B,
one remaining motionless just beyond B, the other
at A. The latter is to start from A, attracted by the
Magnetic agent, though nothing at B is apparent to
the spectator. As soon, however, as the attraction
begins to operate and the subject begins to approach B,
the person stationed near B shows a nervous trembling.
When they touch one another, the power is so strong
that they cannot separate themselves: others must
do it for them. From which we recognize the more
lively action of one person on another, and the power-
ful atmosphere apparent in those who are drawn to
penetrate the nerve-system of those stationed in the
sphere of (magnetic) activity.
THE MAGIC MIRROR
[Du Potet insists that a fact common to many beliefs,
found in many places, and testified by many historians,
cannot be dismissed by mere denial. . . . The pheno-
mena displayed by the following experiments are the
result of a single cause.]
70 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
FirstExperiment.
With a piece of live coal we trace a circular disc on
the floor, taking care that it is entirely blackened.
Our magnetic intention is fully and unhesitatingly
formulated, and we will that the animal spirits be
fixed and enclosed within this little space : while others,
of a similar kind, are attracted thither, so that com-
munication may be established between them, and
an "alliance " result between the animal spirits in
the " Mirror " and those in the human subject gazing
into it. By this means he will behold
things and events which concern him,
as if he were in an ecstasy or in the
somnambulic sleep. He must be free
and untrammelled in mind and body.
The operator keeps at a distance, pas-
sive. The experiment needs silence
and attention on the part of the audience. The
floor has not been specially prepared, nor anything
laid on it. The coal used for tracing the disc is placed
on the chimney-piece for inspection by anyone. No
perfume or words are necessary. The work of actual
tracing takes about four minutes, during which the
operator concentrates the rays of his intelligence,
helped by others, so as to form an invisible but real
focus. In doing so his whole being trembles strangely
and he loses some vital force.
We now pass to the actual experiment.
A man of twenty-five, full of self-confidence, and
entirely sceptical about magic, approaches and ob-
serves the disc. Noticing its lines, for it is unevenly
drawn, he looks up for a moment at the audience,
then down to his feet. The process begins. He
lowers his head further, becomes restless, looks all
EXPERIMENTS 7
round the black circle, never losing sight of it. He
bends still further, raises himself, retreats a few
steps, advances again, puckers his eyelids, becomes
melancholy, and breathes loudly. He is beginning
to see images in the "Mirror." His emotions, in-
imitable movements, sighs, tears, despair, and fury
all depict the agitation in his soul. Before him are
unfolded a series of events represented figuratively
by the marks he notices. Sadness and joy follow one
another in proportion as some part of the future
passes before his eyes. Soon he becomes almost
delirious with transport ; he tries to seize the " Mirror,"
fixing a terrified look upon it, then kicks it with his
feet until the dust rises. The operator rises to put
an end to the scene: the subject seizes him forcibly
by the head, but a few affectionate words, with
magnetic passes, appease and pacify him: the dis-
ordered vital forces return to their proper place. In
a neighbouring room he comes to his senses. For
some time he feels a heaviness in the upper part of
the head, which passes away in half an hour. He is
still vague, preoccupied, and can remember nothing.
Numerous questions elicit no revelation.
Second Experiment.
The black circle, having been partially effaced, is
restored. The operator looks round for an apt
" sensitive " to the occult influence of the "Mirror."
A young man of twenty who has been watching him
steps forward. Silent and pale he approaches--
contemplates the " Mirror "--steps back--then leans
forward again. What does he see? He laughs
sardonically, becomes serious, trembles all over, calms
down. Not anger (as in the previous subject) but
curiosity seems to dominate him: his look is fixed
72 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
on the Mirror. His gestures become indescribable:
the audience seem to share his emotions. He remains
thus for some ten minutes, murmuring to himself.
Now the operator intervenes and with some difficulty
draws him away. As in the former case he retains
no memory of what has occured.
So the priests of Isis were not mere impostors,
they understood the magnetic principle and used it in
their initiations, but wisely attributed to the gods
that which proceeds from man himself, and so were
able to sway the multitudes by fear. The Academies
of Science have still to learn that hashish, opium, and
ether by themselves will not reveal what God has
hidden in our own being.
MAGIC ATTRACTION
FirstExperiment.
Operator and subject stand face to face, a few feet
apart. The former turns slowly round. The latter,
instead of being drawn into the operator's sphere of
activity and following him, makes a similar movement,
but in the reverse direction: they resemble two
cylinders, one turning the other. At first they move
with equal speed: but soon the subject ceases his
rotatory motion and begins to deviate, as if describing
a curve.
Second Experiment.
The purpose is to confirm the first. Two Mag-
netizers, being placed respectively at the points A
Du Potet quotes a letter (unsigned) from a scientific member
of the audience to the effect that these phenomena had convinced
him of a similar rotation in the planetary system. See " La Magie
Dvoil6e," p. 96,
EXPERIMENTS 73
and B, endeavour to attract with equal intensity
(as far as possible) the subject placed at point C.
Lured by these two "perpendicular" influences, the
subject starting from C reels, totters, and finally
escapes, diagonally, to point D. Should either Mag-
B
%
A
netizer operate with greater power than the other,
the subject will only reach point A or B by describing
a curve.
MAGIC SYMPATHIES AND ANTIPATHIES
What is the secret of attraction and repulsion, as
manifested between human beings? Where neither
judgment nor reason can answer these questions
Magnetism may afford some explanation.
[Du Potet here enlarges on the universality of " sym-
pathy " and " antipathy " and their occult nature.]
The " philosophes sympathistes" I maintain that this
influence emanates incessantly from the corpuscles
of the whole body: that these corpuscles contact our
organs and cause brain-impressions, sympathetic or
the opposite, as the case may be.
Now from the principles we have already established
' Du Potet does not mention any names.
74 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
we deduce that fluid-currents enter and leave every
person, and that, by affinities whose nature is still
unknown, these very fluids, even when undirected
by thought, intention or will, yet pass out as if with
intelligence, and alight on the organism (of some other
person) of their choosing: and, having reached it,
cause a series of good or evil happenings. Let us try
to grasp this law. Nature works according to rule.
"Chance" is a word invented by ignorance to assist
fools.
FirstExperiment.
If I trace two parallel lines, AB and A' B' starting
from the same point, the subjects who follow them
A B D C
A' Bz
exhibit no change of course, and neither elbow nor
clash with each other. No sympathy or antipathy
occurs. But if I trace a third line from the opposite
direction, C to D, and if two persons walk simul-
taneously, one on the line AB, and the other on CD,
so as to meet, a curious antagonism and antipathy
occurs. On reaching BD they look at each other,
become excited, grow pale or red, then delirious:
threats follow disdain, and, like athletes, they prepare
to fight. It is then time to separate them: yet an
hour before they regarded one another with indifference.
I maintain, further, that given a natural and pre-
existent sympathy (between the two subjects) the
result would be the same, as we have ascertained on
several occasions in experimenting.
EXPERIMENTS 75
Second Experiment.
An equally curious result follows from the arrange-
ment of these lines. Place someone at the extremity
of one of them, say B, and let him stand still. A
second person traversing the line from A will show
every sign of sympathy for the person on his path
(at B)--his gestures will be full of tenderness. Pre-
sently, however, seeing no response and finding the
other cold, he withdraws brusquely and disdainfully
and shrugs his shoulders. No description can ade-
quately render these phenomena. The pen cannot
translate movements of the soul. All these results
are caused by a power operating by contrary currents.
MAGIC ARROW
If the direction in which the lines are traced
influences the result of the experiment; if the method
of drawing them has a bearing on what follows; then
indeed we have made some progress. New lines must
be drawn, and, to avoid any doubt in the matter, let
them all start from a given point.
A figure is drawn in which every line from A,
C B
converging at B, is prolonged to C, where lines D
and E likewise meet. Here we shall find two distinct
influences--one drawing subjects from A to C, the
other hindering their passage from C to A.
76 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
FirstExperiment.
A subject is asked to stand at point B and to analyse
his feelings as calmly as possible. Presently he shows
signs of weakness. Something seems to draw his
strength through his feet. "My head feels empty,"
he says. Unable to retain a vertical position, he has
to be supported. His whole being seems crushed.
He seems about to swoon : his breathing is short and
scarcely perceptible. We lift and place him at point
C; vitality at once returns and his weakness vanishes.
He distinctly feels the fluidic currents passing from
the arrow-point into his being. His sensations have
completely changed, he is delighted, and would like
to remain for some time in his present position.
Second Experiment.
To prevent anyone explaining this as being merely
due to imagination, Du Potet selects a young man
who has just arrived and knows nothing of what has
happened, or of the purpose of the experiment.
Placed on point C, he breathes strongly and exhibits
signs of a feverish excitement: his eyes glitter and
he is full of life. Asked to advance, he takes one
step on the tracing and can go no further. His
muscles swell, he grows angry, his efforts are inde-
scribable. We urge him on, but some immovable
force repels him. In anger he lowers his head and
tries to advance. It is useless: he cannot go half
the length of the arrow-head. He is like a man
standing on smooth glass, tied to a post with skates
on his feet, and trying to move on. He perspires
freely, and, after bending down numbers of times
without falling, he asks to be released. He complains
EXPERIMENTS 77
of sensations like those of his predecessor. A fluid
passed through his body causing a vigorous arousing
of his vitality, noticed by all, at first. He felt as if
the intensity of his life were doubled, without knowing
why. Yet a few minutes after the end of the experi-
ment his arms and feet felt as weary as those of a man
after a long struggle.'
Third Experiment.
This was less convincing, being a repetition with
less potency of the preceding experiments. Possibly
the power was less, on account of the third subject
not being so sensitive, and because the lines were
becoming effaced. Perhaps they should be retraced,
with magnetic intention, after each trial.
To sum up. These phenomena are related to
Mesmer's theory of the polarity of the human body.
The effects produced through his instruments, the
"Baquet" and the iron wands, were sometimes
positive, sometimes negative. The convulsive crises
which he induced in his patients were the results of
misdirected magnetization. Convinced as we are of
the magnetic origin of these marvels, it is unnecessary
to attribute them to either diabolic or divine inter-
vention. . . . But Reason itself can accomplish little
so far as it is only supported by abstractions, and has
no power zto command belief. . .. Nature, if we
question her, will answer our queries as to this
mysterious principle that ever eludes the senses:
but we do not understand her language.
' The influence converging from A narrows down at B, and
chokes the vital force of the patient placed on B in the first experi-
ment. Placed on C, he receives a fresh influx of the " A to C"
current. The subject placed on C in the second experiment seems
to be facing towards A, and thus is opposed by the full blast of
the " A to C " current.
* Magnetic.
MAGNETISM AND MAGIC:
SUPPLEMENTARY OPERATIONS
By an intellectual act I disengage and emit an
influence from myself. I could make it felt by an
expression which will be intelligible to every reader.
This influence (or force) is actual though not yet
visible. Lighting upon and entering some body, it
soon begins to show signs of its presence in the locality.
Magic begins: that is to say, surprising and unex-
pected results occur. In the Magnetic sleep i all the
vital forces are drawn to the nerve-centres : no sensi-
bility remains on the surface. The body is as it were
abandoned and breath comes by the labour of the
soul, thrown back on itself. Communication with the
outer world cannot take place without rappor : and
such rapport must be induced from outside. In this
the magnetizer is the principal agent ; the patient
cannot act by himself.
Nothing of all this occurs in our method of working.
The vital forces are summoned to the periphery,
there is no isolation, extreme sensibility, or brain
excitation. The eyes remaihr open and shining, the
face does not assume the corpse-like appearance of
sleep: the heart beats vigorously. There can be no
mistaking the one state for the other.
Under our method of working the subject shows
a new aspect of human nature: a kind of luminous
incandescence, as of tle ecstatics or prophets under
inspiration. The oc rrences of these sdances are
singularly fascinating1 though no one has yet been
able to find terms in ;hich to express them. There
is no monotony, they differ one from another. Leave
the soul to itself and it will reveal its characteristics
and surprise you when you see what the ordinary con-
a Of Puysigur and his school.
EXPERIMENTS 79
ventions of life hide. Nature speaks through the organs.
The animal spirits.are loosed ; the members ofthe body,
so far from being weighed down, as in the case of
intoxication by wine, taove easily and freely, even the
weight of the body seems considerably lessened.
(Du Potet here expatiates on various mysterious
fofces known to exist, and speculates on ,the possibility
of one day rendering visible true picture's of bodies no
longer in existence.]
The' following is a quotation from the Journaldu
Magndtisme,. 1849-51 -
MAGIC MIRROR
I tracepza disc with charcoal on the floor, with
,magneftic:intention, It must be covered over until
proceedings are ready to commence. Smells and
other.-sensations must, be avoided. The operator
should e pr6rmpt, alert, and ready for emergencies;
he should :.lso avoid contact, with. strangers. The
subject:should, be left. plenty of space. An opaque
lid or cover should be at hand for placing over the
Symbol (the disc in this case), if the emotions aroused
are too violent. The seer will not always behold
pleasant visions, and the operator must be calm and
self-contained.
FirstExperiment.
All these precautions being taken, things 'now take
their course. The seer begins to lose consciousness.
His eyes never leave the magic circle. A whirlwind
seems to seize him: the light of the immortals pene-
trates his soul. He feels rude shocks. These correspond
to the allegorical combats of ancient fable. Hitherto
there' have only been movements. A subterranean
80 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
fire is disturbing the rocks and crevasses of his nature.
Now, like the Pythoness of old, he will begin to 'speak
in oracles. He weeps--he has seen his mother: he
is transported-he has felt her embrace, and heard
her voice. The shadow smiles and seems to beckon
him by look and sign. But at this point I break the
link ,forming between the living and the dead, and
all is gone.
Whether it were dream or vision matters not : it
is my secret. The seer perspires freely, and all his
body shakes and trembles. Removed some distance
from the Symbol, he still gazes yearningly after it
and exclaims, " How happy I felt " I He complains
that we have withdrawn him and still longs for the
vision of his mother. At length his impressions fade,
and he wonders where he is and why he is here.
Second Experiment.
During my absence two members of the audience
have been impressed by the Symbol. They rise at
first with an effort, then more easily, and approach it.
Face to face they look at each other curiously. Each
desires to contemplate, alone, the images becoming
visible in the "mirror." My assistant approaches to
prevent a quarrel. He is repelled several paces by a
movement of the arms of one of them which seems to
exhibit no violence, yet its force astonishes' us. I
myself intervene, and the seers are pacified. One of
them kneels down and gazes at the Symbol, his head
swaying from side to side. He laughs weirdly. He
sees tiny fairies dancing in a circle, arms enlaced and
inviting him to join their dance. He gets up laughing
and saying, " How small they are " I Soon he begins
to dance, slowly at first, then, warming up to it, he
dances furiously, laughing all the time. - His mirth
EXPERIMENTS 8!
is infectious; the audience begin to laugh too, and I
have never seen joy passing so quickly from one person
to another.
Third Experiment.
All this time the other seer has not been laughing,
but gazing seriously on the symbol. He moves con-
vulsively, he sees the hideous head of a human monster
rising gradually: he is terrified, his teeth chatter, he
recoils: but, still attracted, he approaches again:
his fears were not purely imaginary.
I restore both seers to quiet. A vague memory
remains to them, and the audience settle down as
before. I have only recorded the more startling facts;
it is impossible to describe the soul-expression on
their faces and the finesse of their movements in
mere words.
Everything happens in full daylight and without
the help of opium or drugs. Nor were the subjects
sickly or feverish, or addicted to occult ideas and
practices. Nor were their visions in my thought
beforehand : in fact, I was as astonished as my
assistants at the results. We have constructed mirrors
to reflect the outer body: why cannot we also do'the
same for souls and spirits ? Has not everybody of
mature age had some presentiment or vision ?
FourthExperiment.
The magic symbol is uncovered. Immunediately a:
young girl, who has not before assisted at any of my
seances, is seized with a twitching of the limbs, and
is drawn to the magnetic centre. She makes tremen-
£ Though, of course, the fifth and sixth experiments (with dust
from the Druidic tomb) might be explained by telepathy-if that
be an explanation.
F
82 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
dous efforts to resist: in vain. Trembling, she bends
forward, shudders, cries, laughs, laments. Seeing that
she is weary, I place a chair for her. Without turning
she sits on it, and then turns quickly, whilst still
seated: the chair, a kind of solid wooden cube, turns
with her: and this movement is not caused by ordi-
nary strength or agility. ,When withdrawn, she bursts
into convulsive laughter, but refuses to say what she
saw. " I will.never tell you; it is too funny," and at
each recollection she repeats, " How funny I Oh, how
funny I"
Fifth Experiment.
Wishing for further proofs, and covering the Magic
symbol from View, I reduced to fine powder some earth
I had taken from a Druidic tomb some years before:
the tomb held some human bones at least two thousand
years old. I had preserved the earth without any
preconceived idea, and at the time of the experiment
I did not attach any importance to it. I used it as
one might use any cinders or wood-ash. Some days
before the experiment I laid it on the mirror. No one
was privy to the fact, and I did not speak of it in
conversation.
On this particular day, after' some experiments in
ordinary magnetism, I uncovered the magic sign with
the powder in question on it before my audience.
The result was speedy and partly terrible. A, man of
thirty, employed at the National Printing Works, an
entire stranger to magnetic research, was present for
the first time. He looked carefully at the yellow dust.
Soon he became agitated, rose, approached trembling,
and cried, "I see blood--corpses--with the entrails
torn out i" He tried to escape, but a secret force
restrained him. At once we took him away: he
EXPERIMENTS 83
became unconscious for several minutes. Restored to
his senses, he remembered nothing.
Sixth Experiment.
A young woman is attracted. Terrified in the same
way at the sight of blood, she beheld the entrails as in
a kind of tub; the corpses swayed before her. She
became ill and we bore her away unconscious. She,
likewise, could remember nothing of what she had
seen. NOTE: The Druidic tomb, whence the earth
was taken, held five skeletons: one of the seers saw
five corpses. No one, except myself, knew this, nor,
so far as I was concerned, had this dust any special
quality or power.
RtsuMt
The reader will note that I insist on none of those
auxiliary methods in my experiments which were
considered necessary in ancient times: the silence of
subterranean passages, the cave of Trophonius, x
forest gloom, the sound of wind and storm, thunder-
claps, sepulchral lamps-nothing, in short, calculated
artificially to increase the sensitivity or activity of
the soul. I use no grimoire, consecrated emblems,
vervain, or magic wand. I do not make invocations,
or prayer. My room contains no human relics, or
"hand of glory," drug or perfume. Those who use
such instruments, in my opinion, are learned in words,
but not in realities, and can only influence people
with diseased imaginations. Nor am I served by
familiar spirits-though one magnetizer has gratui-
tously made the suggestion. I have never made any
aSee Pausanias, "Description of Greece," ix. 39. x-z4. For a
modern interpretation of such places, see Rudolf Otto, " Idea of
the Holy/' "p.131.
84 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
such claim; if there were any truth in such a state-
ment I would confess it. I do, undoubtedly, feel a
certain shock xthroughout all my being'.: I experience
an unusual sensation. When these experiments are
succeeding I share somehow in the process: my
organism seems under some restraint. No doubt this
is essential and even indispensable for the operations
of magnetic magic. That is all. As for the rest, all
depends on the previous preparations. I banish
from my mind everything not related to my subject,
and have only the end in view--a matter needing
great prudence and attention.
Thus I voluntarily become an instrument and seek
only its perfection as far as may be. Finding what a
human machine can produce under certain conditions,
I try to fulfil them. I know very little, but, had I
been better instructed at the start, I should have been
the first of all magnetizers. Reader, pardon my
self-esteem I As I am introducing a new art to you,
I must make you understand me: I claim to be a
sorcerer, a magician. Have I a secret ? Certainly,
but I am not bound to reveal it at the start. Besides,
how could I give a name to that which is nameless.
I can only suggest it by figures and comparisons.3 . . .
The hall where my experiments are made is not
large enough to hold my audiences. The part reserved
"tbranlement." " Organisation."
3 "Magic is the connection of natural Agents and Patients,
answerable each to other, wrought by a Wise man to the bringing
forth of such effects as are wonderful to those who know not their
causes. Paracelsus called it a most secret and hidden science of
supernatural things in the earth, that whatsoever is impossible
to be found out by man's Reason may be found out by this Art.
It is in itself most pure and undefiled by ceremonies or conjuration,
such as Necromancy. The philosopher strengthens the seeds of
Nature and quickens them. so that they hasten the work of
generation "-(Elias Ashmole, " Theatrum Chemicum Britannicum,"
P.
445).
EXPERIMENTS 85
for my operations measures about ten square feet.
The diameter of the magic sign, which varies according
to circumstances, measures some five inches. Covered
over beforehand, it does not attract attention till the
cover is withdrawn. When this is done, every eye
is drawn to it. Everyone asks wherein lies its potency:
some doubt if it has any. But magical potency is
independent of belief. Meanwhile I withdraw, keeping
on the alert. It is easy to see whom the charm affects.
Faces alter: there is restlessness, distraction: eyes
brighten: heads and bodies bend and tremble. As a
rule after three or four minutes those under the in-
fluence lean forward, rise, bend almost down to the
mirror. Sometimes even, by a quick motion, they
throw themselves on the ground and clasp the cir-
cumference of the sign with their arms.
The fact of their vision is shown by their pantomimic
expressions. A kind of interior monologue goes on.
Dumb at first, they soon begin to utter disjointed
remarks. Thus during one experiment we caught the
words, "The stain" . . . "You are wrong" . . .
"Not signed." I asked, " What do you mean ? " A
journalist answered, "It is-it is in his desk: he
receives an anonymous letter: a shameful accusation,
etc." Another seer beholds a man and a girl playing
music. The song ends: he grows impatient. We are
astonished at hearing him singing with a superb voice
a song quite unknown to any of us, to which the singer
believed he had just listened. Again he listens:
nothing happens. He exclaims eagerly, " Sing again,
sing again." But, as all is silent, he repeats his own
performance and quite ravishes us, for he possesses a
voice of great compass and perfect intonation: its
effect is almost superhuman. Another sees, and
scrutinizes for some time in silence, a young woman.
86 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
He grows impatient, "I cannot see her foot." He
turns, leans forward, gazes this way and that, but the
foot of the fair apparition remains invisible, and he
kicks the floor in his vexation.
[Du Potet speculates on the subjective or objective
origin of these visions, on the potential affinity between
these "spiritual essences " and the subtler parts of our
own souls; and confesses his inability to solve these
problems.]
I behold extraordinary phenomena; they are the
result of a force or agent emerging from my own
personality. Does not the power of beings that have
life and force emerge from. the same source ? Life
gives life: what matters it which organ is used'? Is
nature restricted to one method or channel ?
Here I am verging on the secrets of magic: and
my readers must " divine" where I cannot speak
openly. The vital principle which animates us--has
it no body of its own ? Though invisible, is not its
form very real ? Does not the oak exist unseen in
the acorn ? Must we only believe what we can see
with the eyes ? Are we not influenced every moment
by imperceptible agents ? That which ever escapes
our sight is exactly that which makes us what we are :
life is extended throughout all Nature, but we are only
conscious of its more material aspects.'
Do we understand the reason of sudden panic terrors ?
I have watched animals disturbed without any apparent
a"The Matter of all things is One and proved simple in the
experience; throughout all her various manifestations-as agent,
patient, hot, cold, dry, moist; by whatever colour, quality, or
species designated-whether singular or plural in manifestation,
Nature remains one and the same Unknown Identity through
all. . . . Nature eludes all tests except those of her own ethereally
wise construction " (M. A. Atwood, " Suggestive Inquiry into the
Hermetic Mystery," 1918 ed., pp. 404, 4o5).
XPERIM NT
87
cause I have seen their fur rise, while they fly or
cower between the legs of their owners, and this not
behind closed doors, but in the open air wherein they
seem to smell the approach of some enemy.
[Du Potet here enlarges on records of supernormal
appearances, of the dead, of angels, of spirits, of genies,
and argues that all these beliefs cannot be baseless.]
It is man's task to lift the veil of Nature and copy
her operations. The elements of the material world
are under his control. But these are trifling compared
with their correspondences in the spiritual order.
Magnetism proves the error of sceptical savants: it
links us with the infinite by its affinity with pure
essences.
I do not love the marvellous for its own sake:
Magnetism contains too much of it, but one cannot
ignore these amazing facts. No atheism can destroy
that light which is immortal and hidden. Here is
another case. A strong-minded lady, present at some
of our proceedings, remained incredulous. I felt that
she looked upon me as a dupe. Placed near a window,
she suddenly became agitated and began to push her
way through the audience. Her brother-in-law, not
understanding, tried to prevent her and received two
sharp blows delivered with extraordinary smartness.
Rushing forward and hurting three other people who
were already' gazing at the magic sign, she fixed
burning eyes upon it, but did not describe what she
saw. With difficulty we brought her to a neighbouring
room, whence she still ardently wished to return to
the hall: once she did so, but her disordered nerves
prevented our submitting her to further experiments.
Thus was incredulity overcome. I had paid no
attention to this lady, and did not even suspect her
88 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
sensitiveness. This is no exceptional occurrence:
hence magnetizers should attend to, and try to com-
prehend, the agents at work in their service. It is
waste of time to try and overcome the invincible
stupidity of " savants."
MAGIC HARMONIES
The following is a report drawn up by M. Chocarne,
who has regularly attended my weekly s6ances :-
"In these experiments we are not concerned with
the inferior (magnetic) influence which acts on the
material and organic part of the body and produces
attraction, repulsion, insensibility, paralysis of the
senses, and other physical phenomena. We propose
to illustrate the psychic links existing between Operator
and subject, i.e. those resulting from the Operator's
will strongly directing the action of the magnetic
agent on the will of another person, ruling and guiding
it and communicating thoughts and feelings thereto.
FirstExperiment.
"M. Du Potet proposed to awaken, or rather bring
to birth, in the heart of one subject antipathy and
anger against another. Placing them about six feet
apart from one another: Du Potet seated himself in
the middle of the Hall and gazed steadily on the
principal subject, a young man of twenty, with a
sensitive personality. The latter gradually became
animated and lively. Du Potet then transferred his
gaze to the other subject. At once the former subject
began to stare alternately at the Operator and the
second subject. His nostrils dilated with contempt
and he showed every sign of a furious outburst. Du
Potet now invited the second subject to pretend to
EXPERIMENTS 89
threaten him ' with a cane. At once the other, in a
transport of rage, started up to attack the adversary.
Two men stationed beside him had to use all their
strength to restrain him: his whole bearing was that
of a ferocious beast seizing his prey. With difficulty
the Operator dissolved the spell and restored the young
man to his normal condition.
"It is to be noted that no 'passes' were made,
and the principal subject was most active when the
Operator was not looking at him, nor was he, at the
commencement, influenced by any such feelings as
those which developed later. It seems as if by this
strange expansive power one man can intrude forcibly
into the soul of another, fix himself therein, and
impress, according to his wish, any of those human
passions which are most opposed, such as benevolence
and anger. Further, he can change that personality
into another and cause him to resemble Caesar,
Napoleon, or a young modest girl.z
Second Experiment.
"This was of quite a different kind: it was merry
and unimpassioned. The Mesmeric magic only touched
the organs of motion. Soul and senses showed no signs
of perception. Nevertheless, the soul was dominated
by mesmeric power, but only for the purpose of some
simple movements. Other faculties remained dormant.
= I.e. Du Potet.
S"' Suppose I have a will that wishes to loosen your will, or
rather the will that binds your individuality. I throw its purpose
into your mind, and so ferment the whole including spirit of your
life that it, the former, opens, corrupts, dissolves, and so lets
loose the light of which the latter was begot, i.e. the light which
comes into every soul born into the world. When this light is
let loose, it shines forth with a sudden coruscation feeding on the
surrounding ether which constitutes the atmosphere of the life,
as is described in the 'midnight sun' seen by Apuleius when he
was initiated by the Goddess Isis (M.A. Atwood, op. cit., p. 587)."
go MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
"A young man, very sensitive to magnetic action,
was placed upright before the Operator. Gazing for
a few moments at the latter, he then imitated all the
latter's movements, such as kicking, lifting his arms,
posing as a pugilist, waving one arm over the other.
So quick was his action, that sometimes we could hardly
tell which of the two moved first, or whether both were
not following a higher agent. After a little the Operator
extended his arms horizontally and began to walk
round and round. His subject followed suit. Another
youth, attracted by the mesmeric irradiation, started
up, stepped between the other two, and exactly
imitated all their steps, gestures, and movements.
Their identity of action formed a living equilateral
triangle : it might be compared to a kaleidoscope
which, by means of two mirrors, duplicates and tripli-
cates a simple picture, or to the electric telegraph. .. .
"In man's natural state (we cannot say his normal
state, for that only belongs perhaps to the pure soul,
stripped cif its material cover) the soul is aware of
all phases of sensitivity, all forms of understanding,
all will-power.. Consciousness bears witness that here
we find the base of our internal life, made up of thought,
feeling, and will. But in the peculiar phenomena now
under consideration all these principles are shaken
and new facts become the necessary elements of a
new synthesis."
MAGIC INTOXICATION
I now proceed to a further series of my records.
First Example.
I take a thoroughly healthy man, full of vigour,
fully awake, put a cane (not my own) into his hand,
EXPERIMENTS 91
and say to him: "In a moment you will become
intoxicated and you will show every symptom of
your condition." He smiles, doubting, not my
sincerity, but my power. Yet after a minute his
face changes, his eyes are clouded, he begins to stagger :
his limbs cannot sustain him, he looks ridiculous:
he talks wildly, sometimes merrily, sometimes gravely.
It is obvious that he is under a spell. He grows worse,
becomes angry, waves the cane, and is in a pugnacious
mood. His metamorphosis is beyond all power of
irritation. I remove the cane: the spell ceases, the
drunkenness vanishes, reason returns to the brain so
upset by-wine ?
Second Example.
A blonde young man who had enjoyed this scene is
also infected in the same way. He cries, laughs, sings,
walks hesitatingly, tries to. pull out his handkerchief
and cannot: starts a drinking-song, tries to pick up
a notebook which he has dropped, talks disconnectedly,
tumbles down and rises.
The first subject was sad and morose. The second
one is merry. His hiccup warns me that it is time to
bring him to his senses. The audience is not prepared
for a further display of such power: nor can my pen
describe such scenes.
MAGICAL OLD AGE
The object is to produce the weakness of senile
decay in a vigorous subject.
FirstExample.
Here is a lively and frisky youth. At the sound
of my voice his spine becomes bent, his voice weak,
92 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
his brow wrinkled and his eyes dim. He leans on the
cane given to him. His talk is that of a sprightly
greybeard. His mouth gapes, his nose drips. He
seems ripe for the grave. But stay! He thinks
himself still young and darts killing glances--vain
fellow !-at a young lady. I must revive his youth.
What amuses the audience saddens me, and I dare
not rob him of the spring-time of life. Have I indeed
a fairy wand wherewith to perform the feats of Circe
and other enchantresses ? Nature works slowly: Art
accelerates her operations.
Second Example.
Will a child, scarcely twelve years old, submit to
the same metamorphosis? I place it in the midst of
the hall, as in the first case, it becomes bent, it
resembles the dwarf Stanislas in his thirties. In a
minute it succumbs to the weight of years. Poor
child I! I remove the spell: it would be inhuman tp
continue such an artifice. Man must not interfere
with the Creator's work.. What will man do when
this magnetic power is better known by him ?
Is life merely electricity mingled with that uncreated
force which the ancients called "astral spirit "? Is
this a pure light or flame able to affect and give shape
to matter ? I cannot yet fathom these mysteries.'
Life enters us by a more or less active ray, bearing
with it the rudiments of the being whence it emerged.
Thus separated, free and independent, it rules the
domain it has created. The vital force can be divorced
from its fleshly shell in several ways: in the way of
nature, i.e. by disease, poison, etc. But there is
=The fire of the natural life entering into and fermenting the
natural fire--the same life in another-opens the last, and develops
and excites and sets free the celestial Life and Light (M. A. Atwood,
op. cit., p. 567).
EXPERIMENTS 93
another mode which I will try to describe. By magic,
in utter simplicity, by certain signs and a certain
"traction,"' I can isolate and dislodge this vital
force from its human abode. Everyone can see this
peculiar operation: but it will terrify those who do
not know how things can be re-integrated into their
primal condition. Ebb and flow ? Tides rise and fall
by a twofold power. Attraction, repulsion, sympathy,
and antipathy-explain it as you will. Nor am I
anxious to explain it for you.
I trace with coal on the floor the following magic
sign :-2
On this figure 3 I place a young, healthy man, fully
awake and decidedly sceptical. The spectators are
warned not to interfere, whatever happens. In two
minutes his face begins to change, he feels a throbbing
in his forehead, his ears tingle, his eyes close, he grows
giddy. His limbs begin to give way, his head isbowed,
for his muscles cannot hold it up. Another minute
and his body will be an inert mass. All present,
himself included, foresee this. His movements show an
a " Quelques traits."
* This and the following figure are taken from the first (1852)
edition. The figures in later editions are different in certain
respects.
3 Precisely on which part of the figure our author (intentionally ?)
does not say, and the reader must be left to guess.
94 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
agony which points to syncope. A cold sweat breaks
out over him. It is done: he is succumbing. We
lift his body while it is still warm. Instinctively his
terrified parent approaches: step by step he has
followed this weird experiment: but his courage
saves him from losing self-control. I am absolute
master of his son's life: another moment and my
power of imitating Nature's dread operation will have
dissipated the last spark of life.
Quickly changing the young man's position we lift
him on to a new figure different from the first :-
Slowly he revives : but I cannot describe the character-
istics of this "resurrection." It is enough to say he
is no longer sceptical. Let me assure my readers that
only to a " double" of myself would I submit myself
to such an ordeal. I only run risks when I know that
I risk nothing.
And now, what is this peculiar power of whose
operation I have given a specimen.? I breathe on
a candle-I 'extinguish it : the fact is plain enough.
But I breathe a thought, and it will extinguish what-
ever (thoughts or forces) are contrary and opposed
to it, in spite of the resistance of a being like myself.
I rule his life: it is no longer his, but mine. Poor
human race! I could laugh at your ignorance, yet
it is you who scorn me and my power.'
= Eliphas L6vi attributes Du Potet's extraordinary feat to the
fact that life can be destroyed by the sudden congestion or with.
drawal of the " Astral Light " (" History of Magic," igr3, p. 71).
EXPERIMENTS 95
The following quotation will show why the genuine Alchemists
were, naturally enough, severely reticent and obscure in their
references to " Philosophic " Separation :-
" In the Philosophical Dissolution the body, soul, and spirit are
separate: the body lies without any breath: the other two are
united to it as by a thread, and this continues until the re-fixation
takes place. Through every stage of the process of regeneration,
through every stage of progress, the same principles are maintained
in operation until the assimilation is perfected and the Divine
Will is all (r Corinthians, xv. 54). There is no defection then:
the selfhood has nothing to deface, nothing to deform " (M. A.
Atwood, op. cit., p. 576). " Alchemy is the transmutation of
Life ; that which is the medium between soul and body is changed,
and the soul freed from the chains of corporeity, while the body
is left as a mere husk. These people put on their bodies as coats :
the principle of body is preserved in what they call the ashes or
Caput mortuum, and that one principle being saved, the whole
life is restored from it " (ibid., p. 564). Elsewhere Mrs. Atwood
suggests that the Hermetic process is as if someone beginning
at the top of an artificial edifice should decompose it, stone by
stone, setting aside the dirt and rubbish, and at last coming to
the earth at the foundation--and then should rebuild the edifice
anew.
II
HISTORICAL RESEARCHES
THE term "Magic " designates an attractive force or
energy bringing into operation the supernatural or
natural or sub-natural: a hidden power acting on
spirits or bodies and consequently also on every " stra-
turn " of air from the most energetic (andmost subtle)
to the least subtle and heaviest kind. " Mages" or
" Magi " were known to Persia, Egypt, and the Orient
in general. The Latin "i-mago" derives its origin
thus, suggesting the prophetic or oracular " images,"
created by Magi.
Magic is of five kinds :--() The holy and divine
" tractive " force of the Word of God, working through
Faith and purely spiritual: " I, if I be lifted up from
the earth, will draw all men unto me " 2; (2) Natural
and physical magic : the reciprocal attraction of
bodies to one another in accordance with Isaac
Newton's calculations 3; (3)Carnal magic, deriving
t
" Couches." a St. John xii. 32.
3 " Let me add a few words respecting a very subtle spirit
pervading and indwelling solid bodies: by its power and action
the particles of bodies mutually attract each other at very slight
distances, and, becoming contiguous, cohere : and electrical bodies
act at longer distances, both repelling and attracting the neigh-
bouring small bodies : it is emitted from these, is reflected, repelled,
inflected, and it heats bodies : every kind of sensation is aroused :
and the voluntary movement of animals' limbs is produced by
the vibrations of this subtle spirit propagated through the solid
fibrils of the nerves from the external sense-organs to the brain
and from the brain to the muscles. However, a few words cannot
suffice to explain this subject: nor are we as yet in possession of
sufficient data to determine and demonstrate precisely the laws
governing this subtle spirit " (Isaac Newton, " Principia," con-
cluding sentences).
HISTORICAL RESEARCHES 97
from the lower appetites and passions of humanity;
(4) Angelic magic, holy and spotless; (5) Diabolic
magic, the cause of countless human blood-
sacrifices.
The result of the Fall, according to Christian phil-
osophers, was that man, losing the Divine Spirit,
blindly and hungrily descended into his inferior faculties
(imagination, memory, the senses), and substituted
union with them for his previous union with the Divine.
The Divine light, being lost, was replaced by a less
pure and subtle fire called astral spirit or fire, in
analogy with starlight : a quintessence of fire corre-
sponding to material fire, but very inferior to the
Divine Flame. This astral spirit, however, is at all
times superior to what is called the spirit of nature,
and possesses all the powers, virtues, and correspond-
ences of the latter. And herein lies the principle of
magical workings.
[Du Potet proceeds to quote the opinions of Stoics,
Pythagoreans, Orpheus, Cicero, St., Augustine, St. John
Evangelist, Zoroaster, Simon Magus, Phcenician theolo-
gists, Hermes Trismegistus, Manes, Iamblichus, to the
general effect of distinguishing Divine from common
light or fire. He then emphasizes the secrecy enjoined
by these sages with regard to such mysteries; his own
fears lest they should be betrayed to the unworthy; and
indulges in some general reflections.]
Thus there exists around us in space an agent differing
from all known forces, whose properties and qualities
have little in common with the " dead" forces dis-
covered by our scientists. This agent provides the
substance of our life, sustains it for a time and receives
it back again when disengaged from its material shell.
We gain from it our inspiration, knowledge, and
G
98 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
understanding. It has a constant attraction for us,
yet is an unknown ally, and we have ceased to use
it. This, and no other, is the magic element used
by thaumaturgists. Hence came the genies which
have been imagined as filling space. An illusion
arising from heated imagination ? Yes, often. Men
have attributed to God and the genies what was caused
by regular laws. The Wise have allowed the foolish
to continue ignorant. He who first magnetized the
point of a knife, and attracted steel needles with it,
passed for a sorcerer. But magic ever remains the
same: and I defy any modern sorcerer to grasp the
true meaning of those figures and emblems which
fill grimoires. The key may be lost: but from the
extant facts the ancient science can be reconstructed.
"Seek and ye shall find: ask and it shall be given:
knock and it shall be opened to you." Everywhere
and at all times an unknown element tosses men about,
as the wind sways the reed. This truth has been
demonstrated clearly to myself. I havefelt the strokes t
of this formidable agent. One day in a crowd of
people I made some experiments to obtain news on
a matter of personal concern. The force evoked shook
the whole of my being: I seemed to be in a void,
surrounded by a kind of light vapour. My sense-
activity seemed doubled, my feet bent in a painful
manner, my body seemed enclosed in a whirlwind
and, in spite of myself, had to bow and submit. Other
vigorous persons intruding on the sphere of my magical
operation received violent shocks and fell down and
struggled as if for life. Thus the bond and pact were
consummated: an occult power was conjoined to
me, welding itself with my own strength, and I was
allowed to behold the light. This was, of course, only
t " Atteintes."
HISTORICAL RESEARCHES 99
my starting-point.' To make 'progress in magic
demands a strong soul and an unshakable determina-
tion. One must wrestle with the unknown force,
break every fetter, restrain one's passions and move
in a supernormal world. This is the first degree of
initiation, and here some time should be spent, before
going further.
Now science has some inkling of these mysterious
workings, but only according to the physical order:
and only arrives at her results by destroying the affinity
between bodies and separating their elements: by
seizing this one or that, she interferes with Nature's
law in a few instants.z. Thus science is in danger of
becoming " the blind leading the blind (forces)."
It may be true that she understands her agents better
than we understand ours. Yet our phenomena are
real and cannot be explained by " imagination." I
know that I have gone beyond the limits of official
Felix qui potuit rerum cognoscere causas,
Atque metus omnes et inexorabile fatum
Subjecit pedibus, strepitumque Acherontis avari I
VIRGIL, Georgic ii.
Du Potet tells us little about this vital point in his magical
development, but it seems as if he succeeded, somewhat spas-
modically, in accomplishing the work called by Alchemists "vola-
tilizing the fixed (soul-coherence)." Mrs. Atwood calls it " dis-
solution of the first medial life," and declares that nothing previously
can be done radically to meliorate the Vital Spirit (op. cit., p. 294).
The whirlwind (" tourbillon ") which appeared to enclose Du Potet
at the moment is called" strepitus Acherontis " by Virgil; while
Thomas Vaughan describes it in further detail in his "Letter
from the Brothers of R.C." (" Lumen de Lumine," 1g9o ed., p. 26).
The "light " Du Potet mentions is Ldvi's " Astral Light,"
" Universal Agent," " Aour," " Great Arcanum," and has other
names. -
2 Meaning that by such violence scientists lose sight of the
very secret which Nature has suggested through the cohering of
these elements. " Every attempt of the unassisted reason ter-
minates negatively, as the Subject Identity slides ever more behind
the regardant mind: it is only able, therefore, to maintain a
counter ground, whereby to prove the shifting evidence of its
own and other earthly phenomena " (M. A. Atwood, op. cit., p. x65).
Ioo00 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
science and move in regions she never knew, unbounded
save by God and Infinity. Science inoculates everyone
with doubts, sophisms, contempt for truth and false
morals, and so clears the path for the tyrant. This
is also magic-of an evil kind, for it turns God's handi-
work into something unrecognizable and base. The
transformations we see going on before our eyes do not
spring from matter and dead forces: spirits and in-
telligences are the real agents: matter assumes passively
the shape imposed upon it and is not the cause of our
troubles and woes.
We cannot see the flame that emanates from our
eyes and directs our own passions to other folk. We
cannot see our thoughts : or how, after silently forming
themselves, they are revealed to other minds. Nature
has her secrets and God leaves their unveiling to our
penetration.
[Du Potet further criticizes science for seeking the
living among the dead ; mentions some of the darker
forms of magic; and invokes the true Magi who were
enabled to distinguish phantasy from reality.]
The Magi obeyed none of the baser instincts: they
purged their souls from the alloys deposited by.Nature:
sifted the " gold" from " copper " and " a'senic":
and thus pure light shone in the void left by the ex-
pulsion of the lower agents. Their gifts, thus acquired,
included power to foretell events, a sound knowledge
of humanity, a calm interior life, "detachment,"
disdain of death, memory of the past; nor could any
secret be hid from them. Further privileges allowed
to them included the power to influerice everyone, the
reduction of material needs to a minimum quite im-
possible for the rest of us: ability to walk on water
and break steel as if it had no cohesion : to heal the
HISTORICAL RESEARCHES ZOI
most terrible diseases; and lastly, co-operation with
God, and the privilege of becoming His living image.
[Further quotations are added from Zoroaster, Pytha-
goras, Avicenna, Pomponatius, Tertullian, and a lengthy
quotation from an unnamed source.]
The true magic agent is--the -soulI You can only
grasp it because it is welded to matter: AND IT IS
ONLY SO THAT THE NATURAL LIFE ENERGIZES SUPER-
NATURALLY. AND BECOMES AN ANIMATED INVISIBLE.x
Learn to understand the operations proper to it, and
you will do well to remember that all this contains
a sacred mystery which must not be revealed to the
first casual inquirer.2
ANCIENT WISDOM
The soul of man consists of understanding, reason,
and imagination. The first illumines the second, the
second operates on the third. If the second is not
illumined by the first, it is fallible : but understanding
itself can only give, if it also receive, light from the
Father of lights. When this happens, reason becomes
truly rational, and light can enter into thought. When
reason can so light up the image-making faculty of
" Imperceptibilit6 mouvante."
2" It is, says the ancient book of Synesius, a clear Light, which
fills with true virtue every mind that has once perceived it; it is
the nucleus and bond of all the elements which are contained
in it, and the spirit nourishing all things, and by means of which
Nature operates universally; it is the virtue, true beginning, and
end of the whole world; in plain terms, the quintessence is no
other than our viscous celestial and glorious soul drawn from its
minera by our magistery. Nature alone engenders it; it is not
possible to make it by art: for to create is proper to God alone;
but to make things that are not perceived, but which lie in the
shadow, to appear, and to take from them their veil, is granted
to an intelligent philosopher by God, through Nature " (M. A.
Atwood, op. cit., pp. 89, go).
z02 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
soul it does not corporealize the latter: but when the
latter passes into the ethereal soul-vehicle it begins
at that point to become corporeal: but is not sensibly
manifested till it passes into the elementary body,
whether the latter be merely aerial or composite.
Thus the Chaldean philosophers have said much of
soul-potency ; the soul fixating itself with all its strength
on Divinity, and, being filled with light therefrom,
can extend such rays through each of the media down
into the shadowy and mortal body of natural man,
surround him with brilliant star-like radiance, and
even transport him from one place to another as in
the case of Philip the Evangelist (Acts viii. 39) and
others. Such power is latent in all, but varies according
to the divine natures of men. Whoever is aware of
the secret can unite his imaginative power to that
universal force which Alchindus, Bacon, and William
of Paris called "the sense of nature," Virgil "the
ethereal sense," and Plato " the sense of watchful-
ness." Such knowledge will become the more powerful
in proportion as it penetrates that ethereal and supreme
Virtue which can fortify and expand scientific per-
ceptions and enable the user to enter into the souls
and aspirations of other men far away. Such gifts
are not for all..,. The faces of Moses, Socrates,
and Zoroaster shone as if transfigured. Enoch
"walked with God ": Elijah ascended to heaven
accompanied by a chariot of fire: S. Paul was trans-
ported to the third heaven. That our bodies might
so be ravished and shine like the sun or moon was the
belief of Avicebron, Avicenna, Hippocrates, and the
Chaldeans. Such power belongs not only to man,
but also to the animal creation; for Providence has
placed the (higher) understanding above Fate, so that
it is subject neither to the influence of heavenly bodies
HISTORICAL RESEARCHES zo3
nor to that of natural qualities. Religion only can
move it. But the soul's image-making faculty is
under the domination which Fate exercises over that
nature which links body and soul. Hence it is subject
to change.
The image-making faculty of the soul gives life to,
and rules, bodies. From it derive the senses the soul
displays, those sense-forms, which it experiences bodily
as bodily objects, by which it moves the body, which
it rules and feeds, as one body within another. Two
powerful faculties predominate in the image-making
faculty : the first is called " phantasy " or imaginative
energy, mentioned in connection with soul-passions:
the second is called " the sense of nature," mentioned
in connection with soothsaying. Man, as far as his
natural body is concerned, is ruled by Fate. Man's
soul (through its image-making faculty) moves Nature
in Fate: but by her (higher) understanding is above
Fate in the Providential order: hence is free and in-
dependent. By reason she ascends to the (higher)
understanding and is filled with divine light: some-
times she descends to her image-making faculty and is
influenced by the heavenly bodies and qualities of
natural objects: sometimes she descends by reason
seeking certain things mentally or meditating onherself.
Finally, reason has only her own realm, and this means
that every time anything is presented, either to the
(higher) understanding or to the image-making faculty,
or to nature, or to the body, it cannot reach the soul
without the cognizance of reason. Thus the soul
cannot be in touch with the external senses of sight,
hearing, etc., until reason first conceives and is aware,
and reason, in order to conceive, must be unoccupied
with aught else. Neither higher influences nor natural
affections, nor passions, nor any sensiblefobject, can
zo4 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
operate on the soul without passing reason's judgment-
bar. Hence the spirit can only be reached and troubled
by its own act, and not by mere outward violence (done
to the body). Thus when Anasarchus, the philosopher
of Abdera, was thrown into the hollow of a rock by
order of the King of Cyprus and beaten with an iron
hammer, he felt no pain and said, " Strike the poor
vehicle of Anasarchus as much as you like, you cannot
terrify the real man." When the tyrant commanded
his tongue to be cut out, the philosopher severed it
with his own teeth and spat it into his face.
Democritus, Orpheus, and other Pythagoreans de-
clared that everything was full of "the gods." To
them "the gods " were the divine "Virtues" scattered
through all things. Zoroaster called them "virtues,"
" attracting powers," Synesius " allurements ": others
called them " lives," others " souls," or a "matter
thrown by the over-soul on others." Thus a man
who extends his (higher) understanding over intellig-
ibles and his imagination over things imaged can pass
in soul from one being to another, and help or hinder
their doings. The soul is the primary mobile thing:
it can act and move of itself and by itself at will: it
can move the body whose matter is unfit and unable
to move of itself. As if by bodily means the soul can
join itself to the body, and so is formed the world-soul
in that milieu called the " quintessence ": the latter
does not spring from the four elements but is a kind
of fifth element, beyond them, but subsisting in them.
By its means heavenly souls can descend and communi-
cate wonderful qualities to gross bodies. As Our
souls spiritually communicate energy to our bodily
members, so does the world-soul extend over all things
by this " quintessence," since nothing entirely lacks
its rays or force. But it influences more powerfully
HISTORICAL RESEARCHES 1o5
those bodies which have received more of and are
more harmonious with the " quintessence," especially
by the beams emanating from stars. By this "quint-
essence" magical qualities inhere in herbs, stones,
metals, and animals, through the influence of sun,
moon, and the nearer or further stars. The quintessence
will be useful to us in proportion to our knowledge
of how it may be separated from other elements: for
it is all-powerful in producing and engendering itself.
[The section entitled " Ancient Wisdom" is selected
from a lengthy Appendix to "La Magie D6voil6e"
(pp. 307-315), and has been placed here as it seems
more appropriate to this part of Du Potet's work. It
is evidently a quotation, but no authority is named.]
III
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS
I SHALL now explain principles upon which I have
so far kept silence: I shall reveal the mechanism of
all magical working.'
Every magnetic sign is also magical, for it contains
within itself a germ which can bring light to others.
Every magnetic sleep is magical: but nowadays
those who can cause it do not know its real meaning.
Indeed, we ought to substitute the word " Magism " for
" Magnetism." 2 The presence of magic can soon be
detected. During experiments we have only to notice
the results of the first rapports set up between two
nervous systems; it is clear that thoughts have begun
to travel and can bear commands invisibly through
clothes and flesh, and traverse walls and spaces. All
healing without the usual medicines is due to a quick-
ening force acting on matter: its mechanism has
already been described. The discovery during sleep
(or in the waking state, when magically aroused) of
hidden objects is a result of the same power possessed
by the soul acting from an external impulse. Seeing
through opaque bodies or at a long distance can only
be achieved by momentarily ,breaking the close re-
lationship of spirit and matter: magical operation.
Insensibility (to pain, etc.) is in the same category;
a The reader must accept this with the usual grain of salt.
* There is the same difficulty to-day as when Du Potet wrote.
The word " Mesmerism" has been replaced by " Hypnotism,"
which does not cover the true ground. " Magnetism " does not
fully express the mystery. "Magism" is the best word, but is
"G9aviare to the general,"
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS 107
produced magnetically, it differs entirely from
anesthesia (caused by drugs or other :material).
Thought transference, so far as it is known, belongs
to Magic. Many magnetizers used Magic uncon-
sciously. Freemasonry contains this knowledge, but
is powerless, retaining nothing but the words, and so
is ineffective.' There are other " magicians" who are
mere ignoramuses, perhaps rogues as well: their
confections of white of eggs, toads, etc., are useless.
Our famous philosophers understand only the spoken
word, whereas the first condition of magical operation
is silence.2 Our priesthoods can perform no miracle,
though they believe in God: they can pray, and
that is all. Doctors, similarly, cannot ensure the
efficacy of drugs: they can produce no sleep save by
drugs. Those of ancient days were diviners and seers
those of to-day are mechanics. Nature cannot answer
those who do not know how to summon her.
[Similar judgment is passed on governors, magistrates,
professors, etc.]
And, for myself, I feel like a wandering traveller:
I ask for, but no one except Nature can point out,
the true path. But Nature has no mouth: her only
language is to be found in the significance of her works.3
"The outward form of Masonry is too absurd to be perpetuated,
were it not for a certain secret response of common sense to the
original mystery ; so with the acceptance of all religious systems:
it is based on faith, and faith looks to the invisible. The Initiated
moved one another on by words of power. The Masons have
lost the Magic Key to open the door into the Hermetic " Garden " :
the true words can only be found by seeking them in the subjective,
fundamental life. The true tools may also be found on the way
in : they will be given as they are wanted, i.e. the double Triangle,
triple Tau, etc." (M. A. Atwood, op. cit., pp. 578, 579).
a
While the word is held in the thought, it is like the Unity
(the indivisible point, or Hebrew Yod): when it passes outside
(into speech) it is like the Binary (second principle, or line).
3 " Nature is not moved but by sagacious Handicraft and
human assistance" (Thomas Vaughan, " Ccelum Terrae ").
zo8 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
She places her fire in a pebble and leaves it to rest there
until some unforeseen shock reveals its presence.
She gives to another stone a kind of animation, of
sympathy and repulsion: we call it the loadstone.
Every one of her products is endowed with a peculiar
and significant quality. But we are here only con-
cerned with human faculties.
The human eye not only receives light from without,
but in its turn emits light, of another sort, which
sometimes penetrates by a glance the soul of the person
on whom it is cast. Sometimes when two people look
at each other simultaneously the two rays clash, and
a warning may be thus conveyed.
The human hand, extended and pointed to another's
face, covers it entirely with the light, as would a
mirror reflecting sunlight on some surface. Sunlight
can be seen with the eye. The presence of the other
light can only be detected by the phenomena which
it causes, and has no connection with heat-rays.
Whenever two human beings draw near one another
their atmospheres I sensibly interpenetrate : each feels
his own strength relatively to that of the other. This
is demonstrated most clearly in magnetism, for then
each can operate more freely and powerfully, and feel
himself unlimited by walls or distance. We are
astonished when someone expresses a thought we
were just about to utter. " Presentiments" spring
from the same source: we feel somehow on entering
a street that we shall meet such-and-such a person
before it happens. Why ? What is it that vibrates
" Nature cannot of herself enter into the dissolution because she
has no Hands " (" Filum Ariadne "). " The preparation of the
Philosophic Subject is performed by the operation of the Hands,
that some real effect may be produced " (Basil Valentine, " The
Triumphant Chariot of Antimony ").
1 The present day expression is " Aura."
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS zog
a certain cord of my being? How explain the old
saying, " Speak of an angel and you will see his wings ?"
[Dlu Potet enlarges on the manner in which men can
inoculate others with their own faith or emotion, e.g.
the military commander, the duellist, the actor, etc.]
Thought is wrapped up in some (occult) power
which causes these phenomena. Body and spirit are
alike affected: the latter commands the former:
before reason takes any part. Sympathy and anti-
pathy clearly indicate this. I knew a lucky tradesman
who owed his fortune to this intuition latent in his
wife who unvaryingly was able to tell an honest man
from a rascal : in other respects she was an ordinary
woman. Such cases are frequent, but unexplained.
So far I have dealt with the material aspect of magic,
that which works unconsciously and independently
of the will. The soul is only moved by her own forces.
We pass on to more important facts. We shall see a
soul dominating a body not its own: a soul pene-
tratingand subduingor forming an alliance with another
soul, whence will emerge a spiritual offspring, belonging
to both, and gifted with a certain power. We all
know the ordinary marriage contracted before a
registrar and producing children as the result of union.
But in the other case the result will be felt, not seen:
and its nourishment will be, not matter, but life
itself. Herein is high magic indeed: but shall I be
able to make my readers understand ?
SOUL IDENTIFICATION
Let us deal first with, magic telegraphy. I am
thinking in the presence of a sleeper: he understands
and repeats the words I utter internally. He expresses
: " Identification Animiques."
zIO MAGNETISM AND 'MAGIC
my idea, he has seen its formulating itself and the
process is repeated in himself. I make a sign or
gesture, he repeats it with precision often so rapidly
that we seem spontaneous. I drink, he drinks: I
sing, he sings in the same tone and time. I cough
and spit, he does likewise. I suffer some pain, he
suffers In the same way and complains in the same
words. I have seen a magnetized woman in contact
with another who was enceinte, experiencing the same
symptoms: the abdomen swelled enormously in a
few minutes, and fastenings were broken: hardly
believing my eyes, I touched, to make sure I was
not deceived. This artificial swelling lasted as long
as the two were in contact-about three-quarters bf
an hour-and only gradually disappeared. Present-
day magnetizers find no difficulty in depriving their
subjects of hearing, touch, and sight by merely willing
it, using no words. We can communicate to the
dreamer the oddest visions, such as headless beings
or beings with bears' heads, etc., and he is convinced
of their reality.
SPIRITUAL CREATIONS
I take a glass of water. I will it to be no longer
water, but wine, eau-de-vie, or even medicine, and it
will produce the same effects as any of these agents
would. Alas ! one can poison people thus. Let evil-
minded magnetists be warned that we know all they
can do. Need the magnetized person sleep for the
production of these results ? Not at all: he may be
wide-awake, in possession of his reason, and yet unable
to resist this creation which people call " imaginary."
I light a fire, and make a cold object hot, or make my
subject hold a hot coal in his hands without any harm :
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS III
or, if I wish, I cause a cold object to burn him, and all
the while he appears in full possession of his senses.
He shivers if I think of ice: will be seasick if I take
him, mentally, on the sea. The effects of powerful
magnetism will often last for several days in spite of
the magnetizer's 'efforts to the contrary. Truly this
is a marvellous and dangerous matter. It is easy to
bring evil passions to birth (magically): there is no
necessity for love-philtres. It cannot be done, perhaps,
at the first attempt. But so many people are sensitive
and easily influenced to receive effluvia that we can-
not be too careful.' No one is safe because he is a
"strong" character, or possesses intelligence and
culture. We only ascertain after trial who will yield
and who will resist: all depends on the soul. The
matter is worth study.
THOUGHT POTENCY 2
The, power which we are describing acts of itself
like Nature or God. It can plant the germs of its
influence in bodies and say to them: " You will only
develop under certain conditions, you will appear at
such-and-such a day or time." A human thought,
more subtle than flower-pollen, but implanted in the
same way, in a metal or pebble, will remain enclosed
therein until the proper time, and will then make
itself felt as the operating thinker has decided. Hence
the origin of amulets and blessed tokens. Talismans,
ancient figures, Druidic stones, altars dedicated to
gods, everything of this kind, depend on this mysterious
fact, which has been forgotten: but were not imposture
or priestcraft.
A reference to those " obsessions " familiar to many advanced
psychologists.
' " Virtualit6 de pensde."
n2 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
I write the word " God " on a piece of paper.' My
thought pictures the Lord of the Universe, and those
who read grasp the same idea. There is no miracle
here; a conventional sign translates my thought.
But if mentally I trace some characters on the first
object to hand, will it not be as potent in transmitting
my feeling ? You think this impossible I Well, my
spirit conceives a certain thing, my thoughts dwell
for a moment on this still spiritual creation: immedi-
ately, invested with a semi-material " envelope,"
my thoughts are borne to the tips of my hand by the
unknown fluid passing from the brain, and transporting
those thoughts as a messenger bears a letter. They
arrive and are faithfully delivered according to order.
You are astonished: yet all your muscular efforts,
your locomotion are the result of the same occult
power. The same serving-agent carries the order, and
the whole machine obeys. A kind of electricity, if
you like, follows its leader and carries the news. This
force is one and the same: it is living. It moves
the dial-plate of ideas and marks the sign which
the soul must seize. We do not fully understand:
but even an ignorant magnetist knows this much.
He takes a glass plate or a coin, no matter what,
and says mentally, while handling it: " I will that
such-and-such a person shall fall asleep at such-and-
such an hour "-and so it happens, when the object
is presented to that person. One chair amongst
others is magnetized ; a sensitive will sit and fall asleep
only on that chair. So 'with a glass of water or a
coin.
[Reflections follow on holy water, gifts or relics of the
departed, and the grains of corn lying two thousand
years in a mummy-case in Egypt, which prove that
time cannot destroy the thought of nature.]
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS 113
OPERATIVE METHODS
So far we have studied the Magnetic agent operating
without losing the spiritual and physical rudiments
which were present at its birth. Like a babe still
attached by the umbilical cord to its mother it drew
nourishment and strength from our own flesh: it
was our "double." Let us now see it completely
abandoned and left "in the air." What will it do,
then ? Mentally we purify it, so that, like essence
divided from flower, it may become spiritual. The
ancients considered purgation ' the natural path to
transcendental knowledge, and that only by this means
could Nature's highest secrets be found. Perhaps I
gained such truth as I have found by being poor,
simple, and unprejudiced: and I am still only a
traveller on the path.
Now instead of leaving the magic agent free, we
will partially fix it. Saltpetre and charcoal, spread
over a sparkling surface, emit spaiks; so also, fire
remains imprisoned until we set it free. When I
trace the following figure with chalk or coal, a fire
or light appears at once fixed therein :-
This fire, emerging from myself, spreads quickly along
the tracing and writes itself through my fingers with
the substance used. At first it is inactive, but soon
=Aristotle's " Katharsis."
H
X14 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
it attracts, fascinates, and sends to sleep anyone who
comes near. In vain will he try to break from the
circle, a magic power forces him to remain: his will
and his limbs become passive: in a few moments he
succumbs, sobbing. Yet I did not order him to do
so: the cause is to be found in the cabalistic tracing.
In vain will anyone try to tear him away : a mysterious
power prevents his escape. Every new subject fur-
nishes me with additional evidence, for he is not
aware of previous experiments.' Everyone exhibited
terror, haggard eyes, downcast faces, tongues cleaving
to palates, perspiration rolling off them. What they
saw, who knows ? Something of another world, or
perhaps dreams.
Presently our subject seems to breathe an un-
accustomed air and to be suffocated: his soul seems
about to depart. I destroy the magic circle: but its
effects do not disappear at once: the subject retains
traces of his dread experiences. More rarely, the
visions are pleasant and tranquillizing, and sometimes
are followed by fits of a peculiar laughter, as if new
muscles were called into operation. Nothing like it
is to be seen in normal life: it differs from common
frenzy as night from day. One can see how belief
in the devil originated.
I now trace a perfectly straight line:
and the same fire-element fixes itself therein. I place
the subject at the point whence I started to trace it,
and his feet grow hot: he becomes nervous, pants,
.* Our author's enthusiasm occasionally outruns his judgment.
These s6ances were public, and " expectant attention " would
account for a proportion of these phenomena.
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS IIs
and advances towards the further end of the line.
Now, if at that end I trace the following figure,--
he halts and can go no further, and sinks, exhausted.
You must then scatter the chalk or coal and rub out
every trace of it, unless you wish to see a strange
drama. If you draw a crooked instead of a straight
line the subject will follow every curve, without the
slightest deviation. If, after drawing a.,:straight line,
you compel the subject to remain at its stwrting-point,
after a few moments his life seems to be flowing away
along it and to be in its power. He is nearing death,
his pulse scarcely beats: and he must be taken at
once to the other end of the line and stationed there.
Life and animation then return. Sometimes a circle
or line will attract several people spontaneously:
and a curious complication follows: my own mind
has sometimes recoiled when I realized these pheno-
mena. And if "imagination," as science would
maintain, causes them, why not investigate it, in view
of its stupendous powers ? But imagination does not
cause them, any more than it helps the electric fluid
running through a metal line to produce shocks in
any opposing body.
PREPARATION OF THE MIRROR
Not in the glass, nor in its metallic cover, does the
soul perceive '"the invisibles ": nor in the clear water
:r16 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
contained in a crystal vessel transparent as daylight.
This peculiar vision in no way resembles common
seeing. Eyes are as useless here as in dreaming-
and yetwe see. Magnetized subjects and somnambules
do not see as ordinary people see: they are conscious
of reality of quite another kind: a fact which has
often misled their magnetizers. Serious complaints '
(" affections ") sometimes develop this interior vision,
and the pit of the stomach, nape of the neck, and other
parts function as eyes: while objects are perceived
with wonderful clarity.' It would seem as if all the
senses cand:serve as sentinels for the soul and convey
messages instantaneously ; but the soul is independent
of them and can rectify their mistakes. At a great
crisis all her palace-doors lie open and she emerges,
radiant and majestic: and the senses no longer
function.2 We use "enchantment" to gain this
vision, because our own will is powerless: it must be
shaken and wounded by our magic agent, even as fire
reflected on our eyelids wakes us with a start. Some-
thing is needed to draw the will from its stagnation.
Though I knew where to look for the agent, I have
often been unskilful in my search for it. Yet those
who have failed to follow me so far will scarcely grasp
what cannot be put into words. Let them remember
the cases already quoted of magnetized objects
things in themselves helpless, and yet-in a moment-
~t'vested with amazing properties. Why ? Because
Ithe soul has concurred with these acts. Increase this
wondrous " fire," extend its rays across a wider surface,
i' See 'u Prel, " Philosophy of Mysticism," I889, 1. v. " Dream
'Physician."
: " The wonderful part of the process is that the spirit becoming
freed from the body carries on the perfection and purification of
her own vehicle-the soul : and works by her own law." " Azoth
and fire suffice thee " (M. A. Atwood, oP.cit.,
pp. 562, 588).
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS Iz7
multiply its jets as you would those of electricity,
or as if you were charging a Leyden jar. You will
see nothing, but persevere. Doubt not your success:
you will accomplish nothing if your soul and hands
are " cold." And, before all, something must happen
in your mental intention.' A bell cannot sound unless
it is struck: a sponge does not drop water unless it
be squeezed. Scrutinize what happens when a man's
boiling passion is about to surge out, though no super-
ficial signs appear. He burns, freezes or quivers,
all is tumult within, the internal energy reaches his
skin,},while the heart beats like a drum. A volcano
erupts over the human landscape, as if it were emitting
lava and sulphur. Did the Pythoness of Delphi
remain unmoved on her prophetic tripod ? She was
in an ecstasy, and in that condition became a seer.
Trace a disc, three or four inches wide, with a piece
of soft coal. It need not be perfectly formed, but
must be well spread and blackened. Do not draw it
mechanically or absent-mindedly: do not relax for
a moment the (internal) " fire." Three minutes should
suffice. Think of stagnant water warmed by the sun :
it will exhale poisonous miasma which may kill 'you.
Think of ground disturbed by the spade, which may
let loose some subtle pestilence into the atmosphere.
A labourer's senses will often tell you more than
medical science can. Your " Mirror " prepared, you
will see nothing, but a genuine force soon germinates
therein. It could not lift a bit of straw: but it can
upset and torture the human frame and shake it
z " That which in the hands of fools is nothing, in those of a
philosopher becomes to be all in all; all depends on the willing
and intention : the end depends and hangs on the beginning.
The difficulty is to find the intention: for the rational ferment,
the pure aurific seed of Light, is hidden in our common life"
(M. A. Atwood, op. cit., p. 566).
138 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
irresistibly like a banner in the wind. In a frenzy
the subject will stamp on the disc before he faints. Is
this caused by a purely spiritual being? The old
Alchemists I thought so, and, without fully accepting
their ideas, I admit I have felt a "void " in myself,
a weakness utterly unlike that which is due to ordinary
causes.
VISIONS
Our subjects are now round the Magic Mirror.
Are their souls merely the victims of illusion ? I
would I could think so. Shadow and light mingle,
images false and true are presented to them : they can
read the history of the past therein, and the future
inspires cold fear. What they see troubles them and
their souls wish to flee, for they think they see the
immortals. While they can only learn these things
by slow degrees, do not leave their souls too long in
this liberated condition : shake and seize them, wrench
them (from their clairvoyance) while there is yet time :
then destroy all trace of the " Mirror." Only madness
would venture further: though such an experiment
could be continued: but everyone would regret such
rashness. Many would-be magicians failed, not under-
standing that everything is caused by magical force :
Nature does not choose the means, but follows an
unchanging law. When Jesus said, " Who touched
me ? for I perceive that virtue has gone out of me ? "
was it not implied that that " virtue" was a force ?
By it those miracles were effected.z To seek elsewhere
than in the way so prescribed for an agent equally
powerful would be to copy the Alchemists who thought
i Of whom our author does not display any special or intimate
knowledge.
' St. Luke viii. 46. The Greek word translated as " virtue"
is " dunamis " (= force, or energy).
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS II9
they could change the laws of Nature :to suit their
caprices. Have we not discovered the secret of the
ancient initiations ? Candidates were submitted to
rigorous tests, for the strength of their souls had to
be ascertained ere it was safe to entrust the " fire of
Prometheus " to their hands.
I see clearly now that magnetism is the necessary
link between the soul and matter; the transmitting
agent between one and the other. It moves the soul
and causes impulses in the body: yet it is neither
soul nor matter, and must scatter itself so as to return
what it has borrowed from electricity and to restore
to Nature in her entirety her fairest and best gifts.
It can disentangle the soul from bodily limitations
by a double movement : it accompanies the immortal
spirit on the latter's travels, and is a compulsory escort
until the time when God recalls the heavenly flame
to Himself. Even then it guards the material part
for a long time; is attached to the body and seeks
to preserve it from the inevitable corruption. In
magnetizing a corpse it seems possible to save some
remnant of life, for some sensible movement can still
be perceived, and sometimes even hope is aroused.
Alas ! two can do nothing without the third: and the
third does not respond.' Yet in some cases a true
resurrection can be achieved and life can be restored,
not miraculously but by natural law. Some day,
in cases where death is not absolutely certain, mag-
netism will be the touchstone used: it is perhaps the
only method of rebinding what has been loosed, and
of recalling by a final effort soul to body.
[Reflections follow on the folly of excessive grief at
a death; it is not mourners, but blind scientists, who
should weep.]
' The "two " would seem to be the physical body and the
magnetic fluid or force; the third, the immortal spirit.
20 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
Such a digression casts some shadow over the
picture I have shown you : it is a material and painful
reality by the side of a psychic and consoling truth.
How brightly this truth shines on us when we picture
the soul lighting up bodies and giving them this trans-
parence I Let us see what they include. By fire I
cause a change in the condition of cold metal: it
becomes liquid, its component molecules are disunited,
it is no longer like itself. The human body will under-
go nearly the same transformation when submitted
to the action of that " fire " which Nature gives me.
The soul will be forced to reveal herself, for I shall have
disunited the fibres which hold her back,r and shall
have made all her tissues transparent. She will be
visible and she will behold herself through her disguise.
If this be not magic, let someone tell me what is.
PREPARATION
Put aside all prejudice, be firm and resolute.. Choose
a space wide enough for quick and sudden movements :
a road or a lawn is better than a closed room. I have
experimented in the open country with complete
success.
THE VISIBLE CIRCLE AND MIRROR
The Ancients sometimes called their " Mirror" the
"Mystic Sea," sometimes it was a circle, or a circle
enclosing a triangle.
Draw a circle about four or five feet wide without
any pause or hesitation, yet slowly and reflectively,
so as to afford time for your nervous influence to flow
forth into it: therein lies the first link of your work.
Then trace another and smaller circle about the size
t The alchemical phrase was " dissolving the fixed."
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS 121
of a plate in the centre of the first with the same pre-
cautions. Take in your right hand some earth or
crushed charcoal (preferably of a deep colour). Hold
it for some moments and give all your being a sort
of vibration which I can only compare to what one
observes, without understanding it, in an animal at
the moment when it is trying to get rid of superfluous
electricity. Then lay the dust or charcoal in the
centre of the smaller circle: pass your hand several
times lineally over this surface: finger the dust so
as to extend and unify it. Withdraw: and let your
subject pass over the outer circle without breaking it.
Tell him to gaze fixedly at the inner circle, watch him
yourself\ at the same time having an eye on that circle.
When he shows the least sign of nervous disturbance,
be ready to support him, yet leaving him freedom to
move, and only assisting him thus. Listen to what he
says, remember his words, interrogate him: but if
he falls, as almost always happens, break both circles
with your feet and hands, unless you want to see him
nearly die. Five or six minutes should suffice: the
operation begins and the precursory signs of the crisis
appear: I can only describe what happens in this
way. If the first subject fails to show any sign,
try another. If you have followed the directions given,
nothing more is needed to provide you with a genuine
and living image of true magic.
I cannot think that God has spoken to men in any
other tongue than that which Nature uses to teach us.
Nature speaks to our senses, God to our intellect. To
suppose that God has a mouth (like ours) would be
absurd. No ear has heard the sound of the divine
Voice: our watching soul, lifted as it were by deep
slumber, always formulates a language of her own.
During visions, when we have placed a person on
xs MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
the threshold of the unseen, his body becomes like a
lyre exposed to the breeze whose strings vibrate. But
it is not sound-waves, but surrounding spirits, which
play noiselessly on the chords of the soul. She listens,
understands, and perceives: but to translate her im-
pressions she must use her organism. When we do
not grasp this wonderful mechanism we blunder.
In magic, things are quite different: the senses can
retain their activity; sometimes it is even increased.
Apparitions taking form become visible and tangible,
not only to the subject of the experiment, but even
occasionally to other spectators present. This is the
most advanced form of magical working and the
strongest proof possible of its reality. Suppose, for
example, that chance sends me a man whose life is
set down in the book of Fate and who is destined for
a tragic end: suppose I place him for a moment in
a condition enabling him to foresee coming events,
his assassin or poisoner: he will recognize him unmis-
takably if he has already come into touch with him.
If not, he will be able to describe him accurately, for
the person beheld will perform an exact phantasy of
what is to happen. His clothes and his weapon will
be visible. If the victim js to die, the funeral and
the sorrow of his friends (genuine or pretended) will
appear.
No, it is no dream. Unassisted Nature often causes
such magic for us, as if she wished to give us warning,
and those heedless folk who disregard such favours
go blindly to their doom. Everyone knows of " pre-
sentiments," and what are they but the beginning of
such warnings, an interior sight ? Now by Art magic
these things are rendered perceptible because their
germs hatch out and receive form and design, so that
the soul grasps them at once. I mean that beings
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS 123
appear, not in flesh and blood, nor yet in mere images,
but in some indescribable manner. Conceive a sort
of " double," a copy of beings no longer existing,
impalpable, intangible, and yet very real, forms.
Suppose a shadow detaches itself from ourselves and
acts independently, coming and going, as if some
living breath animated it, as if it were the reflection
of our own soul. That is not far from the truth.
We can grasp this nameless thing: mysteriously
summoned, it will appear and depart by enchantment.
In this case it is not the mingled influence 2 of which
we have already spoken, potent even towards its
creator and parent: but something gentler and more
peaceful, a kind of spiritual reflection of the embodi-
ment of beings.z
Such marvels cannot possibly be seen in the glare
of daylight. The latter is necessary for magnetic
physical phenomena, and even for such magic as is
connected with mirrors and lines: but the higher
phenomena require the shaded tints and colours of
twilight, gentle and subdued, for these only will permit
vision, and will not obliterate the shadow projected
by this kind of spectre which in turn mirrors itself,
as if it had some corporaltsolidity. Yet it has none.
Suppose that instead of actors successively stepping
to their places and remaining motionless on the stage
you have active and mobile shadows changing position
and exhibiting all their feelings to the spectators-
that is something like what actually happens.3 In
one you have an optical effect or the combination of
colour and light, in the other you have tombs, open
: I.e. the spirits of Operator and Subject.
" Corpor6it6 des 6tres."
3 Perhaps a physical analogy may be found in the cinemato-
graphic film.
124 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
sepulchres, and ghosts. And, as if this were not enough
to surprise and crush reason, you can take part in a
drama by no means imaginary, but one which, through
the terror it inspires, might make you ask if you your-
self were not a shadow. Samuel's ghost proved the
witch's power, through her charms, over the dead. x
I know it will be difficult for anyone to follow my
meaning-and I myself am marching through the
night ; I can only make signals.
All sorts of nations have experienced and believed
in such apparitions. Either magnetism is a lie, or
these things happen. What gives the subject in his
"crisis" 2 the power of clairvoyantly seeing things
happening far away? How is it that he can behold
in our thoughts something which only exists as a germ
therein ? And I have seen still more wonderful
things. What means that condition in the magnetic
sleep when we foresee the death of the flesh, and
often the momentary exile of the soul ? A somnambule
said to the magnetizer, "I see so-and-so writing to
me to tell me such-and-such a thing.--I see myself
falling down on such-and-such a day.--I see that I
shall go to Italy and visit Florence "-though this
person in the normal waking state had no intention of
doing any such thing. A capable army officer foretold
in his sleep that he would be pierced by a bullet, with
details as to the exact place and the circumstances--
several years after, this occurred as described, in the
Italian War: and so forth. Everything points to a
mysterious agency ever near and within us, able to
operate and assume a shape, coming and going at
i
1 Samuel xxviii. 8-14.
2" Crisiaque," a favourite, expression in the earlier years of
the movement, meaning the patient at the height of mesmeric
power and ecstasy, artificially and purposely induced. Later on
this practice was more or less abandoned.
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS Y25
will. May there not be living beings in a drop of
water ?
" Death" is a meaningless word. Nothing is
destroyed. The matter of our physical form is no
sooner demobilized, than it begins to re-integrate in
other bodies: our understanding, our very soul
(which the savants call "nothing") re-vives after
another manner, but without disintegrating: wander-
ing through space, more subtle than light, passing
through various bodies and influencing them en route.
I think the .so-called " dead " can see and hear dis-
tinctly what goes on around them: it is a kind of
advanced somnambulism, but without the possibility
of returning into flesh and blood. Hence the common
notion that graveyards are haunted by ghosts, and
the instinctive dread of approaching the resting-place
of a corpse, the fear and awe inspired by such spots,
and by battlefields where the cries of the dying seem
still audible.
Everyone has at one time or another stumbled
across some strange and incomprehensible fact.z
Yes, there is a life-spirit passing and re-passing from
one to another and forming an indissoluble link. My
magnet attracts all the filings near it: cannot such a
quality exist in the spirit and soul ? Why may not
the soul magnetize things of her own kind and cause
them to become visible by reclothing them with the
covering which she herself still retains ? Do I not
experience my own soul magically invading another's
body and compelling both his soul and body to do
my will ?
" Which of those who say they disbelieve,
Your clever people, but has dreamed his dream,
Caught his coincidence, stumbled on his fact
He can't explain? "-GERALD MASSEY.
z26 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
THE SECRET CIRCLE AND MIRROR
In magical operations, never choose a time when
the soul is preoccupied with other interests--or indolent
from excess of eating and drinking and the consequent
benumbing of the body. Your whole being must be
vitally energetic and alive and zealous, your thought
free and untrammelled and having your object clearly
in view: you must be fully awake in every sense.
A fire, a kind of uprising, must be aroused in you,r
enabling you to send out a brain-utterance from your
personality. Your Hand must conduct this animated
essence, the living magnet moving over a chosen
surface: and it must at once form a spiritual rapport,
"tractive " according to its nature. No sexual organ
can receive such an essence, nor is it gathered like the
perfume of flowers by air and wind, but by subtler and
more potent elements than those perceived by the
senses. And this offspring of your magic working,
invisible as yet, will recognize his potency, just as the
infant Hercules knew his. His heels will be winged,
like those of Mercury: he will be elusive and move
as he will, he can flee away, except from a circle
magically arranged to confine him : h can use his
strength against you, destroy your own powers, make
you his plaything, and finally depart as the soul from
a dying man, without leaving a trace of his route.
2" The fire of life in us is capable of burning erect, it becomes
a magnet I Wonderful I If, in us, the Divine line were stronger
than the transverse line, we should be no longer in sense. The
Divine or celestial life would be established over it in us, and we.
should be conscious in it, and placed in a transcendental relation.
As the sky appears to us concave and, when cloudless, blue in
colour, or the Upper Ether, where the Ideas are, appears to the
exalted spirit, i.e. in the medial life, as its azure sky. N.B.--The
brain is to this outward life what the spiritual head is to the spirit"
(M. A. Atwood, op. cit., p. 563).
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS X27
Sometimes he can be imprisoned and held fast in a
crystal. Thence he can bring about clairvoyant.
vision: like a messenger, he can summon the dead
or the living at your command and compel them to
appear.
Magnetizers have some inkling of these things:
but they do not guess the secret mechanism Which
assists and fructifies their wishes : they cannot perceive
all that happens in the body of the somnambule as it
were externally to the latter and his magnetizer.'
They think their magnetization a simple and natural
matter, entirely physical. If the more subtle-minded
of them would study more carefully they would under-
stand the true basis behind all the scaffolding. They
would know that they possess a key capable of opening
every lock in Nature's workshop. I cannot make the
matter any plainer, for I have no better words to
express the mystery.2
THE CONTROL OF DESTINY
Every human being (by this means) can foresee
his future, in a moment: yet so rapidly does the
tableau appear and fade that his mind can only grasp
See Appendix C.
a This section (" La Magie D6voil6e," pp. 253, 254) is in many
ways the high-water mark of Du Potet's own vision. Amidst
much useless verbiage he here reaches the heart of his " matter."
What he calls the " offspring of magic working," and likens to
the infant Hercules and winged Mercury, is indeed the Vital Spirit
or Subject Identity known to all the genuine Alchemists and the
" sola Res " or " One Thing" of their Art. Du Potet resembles
a child who, having accidentally, as it were, stumbled on a piece
of shining gold, would use it as a plaything. Mrs. Atwood, who
also, intellectually, and it would seem experimentally as well,
knew this " gold," knew as well its real purpose. Where Du Potet,
by his own confession, is a mere apprentice, she is something of
a Master. Hence the frequent quotations in this volume from
the last and greatest modern English exposition of the Hermetic
Art, the " Suggestive Inquiry."
128 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
the principal features. The electric telegraph could
not transcribe what the spirit perceives. Memory
may retainsome fragments, but they are weak and pass
like a dream. Yet the impressions at the time may
be forcible enough: the agitated body, the voice,
the working of the facial muscles are clear indications.
Alas I the most joyful impressions are the least
numerous and most fleeting. Even so, the results
of such vision are not absolutely lost ; we sometimes
remember that this or that event was foreknown by us.
We often seek to recall it, but in vain; the light is
extinguished, the crack made in our living tomb has
closed again, and only death reopens it.' Usually
people cannot believe such predictions at the time,
because they seem incredible. The time itself is but
a moment, yet it suffices to carve or engrave such ideas
(as come in visions), on returning to the normal
condition, by a powerful impression of the Will on
the brain. But what we do in the case of fused metal
we cannot always do here, and life might become
unbearable to some people by such knowledge. Man-
kind seems to be weighed down by unconquerable
Fate. God only can teach its purpose. To understand
it we must transcend the lower reason and cherish
that mysterious lamp 2 whose rays will at last grow
sufficiently bright to enable us to discern Him.
* " I think that the soul comes into this body with the dream
of its whole after-life presented to it. That is its destiny. This
would involve us in a fatalism, if it were not that we may rise
above this evestrum, as Paracelsus calls it. The will is always
above it, but then it influences the will that does not see beyond
it, by giving that will motive; we are moved very often by it,
nay, seldom pass beyond it, unless moved by God's grace (the
Divine evestrum, relatively to man), and so are enabled to over-
come it. The real mystery is so very wonderful, great and close,
that one cannot venture to speak of it in ordinary language"
(M. A. Atwood, op. cit., p. 569).
2 The symbol of which was carried by the Kerux (herald) before
the candidate in the ancient Mysteries. Cp. St. John i. 5-7.
PRINCIPLES AND SECRETS 129
VIRGINAL VISIONS
Alchemical Sages were wont to say: " One and one
make one: then one and one make three." A hard
saying, but entirely true.' For two beings, reciprocat-
ing and absorbing one another, can so mutually
"identify," that they end by being only one. And
such an union, without too narrow an identification,
can result in the formation of a third. Magnetizers
can easily follow this reasoning, concealed by ancient
initiates in :-sacred oracles. For such truths, like
virginity, must not be profaned by an idle passer-by
or sensualist: men who only seek truth to stain and
debauch her by their hate, and, if rejected, will threaten
outrage. It is easy to see why the ancients often chose
for their instruments children of tender years, whose
vision was not spoilt by vice, and whose finer senses
were not blunted. Even to-day let him beware who
would lift the veil of mystery before the common
crowd.z Moral truths cannot be sold for precious
metals; they re given to the deserving. Traffic in
things di e should never be tolerated.
However surprising these visions in the magic mirror
may appear, they are not really more wonderful than
those in dreams. Nature tries to enlighten us in a
a " The Proto-chemic artifice is completely comprehended in
three terms-Solution, Sublimation, Fixation; but these processes
must be reiterated many times" (M. A. Atwood, op. cit., p. 366).
See also pp. 383-85.
* " So this science must ever secret be,
The cause whereof is this, as ye rnar see,
If one evil man had hereof all his will
All Christian peade he might easily spill,
And with his hands he might pull down
Rightful kings and princes of renown,
Whereof the sentence of peril and jeopardy
Upon the teacher resteth dreadfully."
Norton's " Ordinall of Alchymie."
I30 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
thousand divers ways, sometimes by strange presenti-
ments, sometimes by objects' which awaken our
speculative thought and supply a sort of pre-vision;
in certain diseases this is not possible, but sound health
never prevents it. The secret,messenger can reach us
by unknown doors or channels. We are, indeed, the
toys of unseen intelligence. Our body is an inn where
many a traveller stops or halts for a brief space: the
inn is full of tumult, even night brings no peace; one
rouses another and we confuse cause and effect: we
are stricken, we die, or we kill. Magic ever operates
in and round us, and yet people deny its existence.
Forward, then ! for we shall discover things that no
savanthas ever known.
IV
COROLLARIES
RE-BIRTH
CERTAIN philosophers x of preceding centuries per-
formed the following curious experiments. Taking a
flower or plant in full bloom, they burned it entire
and collected all the ashes. These they placed in a
transparent vessel and, when they so willed, the
phantasm of the flower or plant appeared in all its
former glow of colour, and lasted for a certain time.
I do not know their secret, but am convinced that
such a feat is possible. So also is the appearance of a
dead person, for here we have not an empty illusion
or image, but something more real--a moving figure
that can be recognized, as in the case of Samuel when
evoked at Endor. This is why such a magical operation
is dangerous : for the shadow so evoked can fasten
itself upon us, haunt us, and otherwise influence us till
we appease it. Hence the ancient custom of appeasing
the " Manes" (souls of the dead). ,
A drop of water, evaporated by the sun and carried
off by the breeze, returns in due time. Nothing
perishes. Everything reproduces itself according to
its form: but material elements only operate on
matter: the soul of everything that has lived pre-
serves its own mould. TIe earth of to-day probably
contains no more beings than it contiined ten thou-
sand years ago. The ,sites which now bear flourishing
a Not named, but'probably Paracelsus and Cornelius Agrippa.
' Usually byfsacrifice at the tomb.
132 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
cities were once the haunt of foul beasts. Perhaps
this will be the ultimate fate of our own beloved city.
Some day historians may have forgotten our very
existence. Everything dies, to be reborn.
To compel the dead to appear, to, disturb their
condition, is perhaps a crime.' He who undertakes it
feels instinctively its evil character, and a violation
of Nature's law cannot pass without punishment. It
resembles that of cutting short anyone's life by our
own hands and will.
That which robs man of heavenly vision and soul-
energy is his inward corruption.2 So blunted has his
interior faculty become, that he sees only with' the
eyes of an animal. Instead of looking upwards he
concentrates only on the body's nourishment, ignoring
that of the soul. Ranking himself amongst the beasts,
he yet lacks their more primitive instincts. (as safe-
guards) and supplies the deficiency by certain instru-
ments (such as the microscope) : an artificial superi-
ority of which he boasts. Yet the tiniest insect at
liberty is, in its way, happier than man. . . . ,
Place saits in dissolution in a vase; and by a reactive
you can obtain crystals. No human eye could detect
this .operation before seeing it. We human beings
possess a still more potent reactive which can act on
the spirits of the body and instantaneously separate
them from it. This invisible (reactive) can produce
a true image of the being, its form without its matter.
We act on a mere shred of that which formerly
integrated such a being in his living condition. We
know already our resources : the mingled self-operating
a See F. Huntley's " The Great Psychological Crime" (Indo-
American Book Co., Chicago, 1915).
S" The defilements and imaginative impressures, which by the
birth into sense have become implanted in the Vital Spirit, obscuring
its intelligence " (M. A. Atwood, op. cit., p. I88).
COROLLARIES 133
power which attracts the spirit of a body towards
itself. However time may alter human beings, they
still retain the rudimentary fire which animates them:
A leaf long since separated from its branch still retains
some essence characteristic of the mother tree. I
fancy the Whole earth lives,' and that the air contains
essences capable of spontaneous creations over the
whole globe-surface. Nature herself evokes and
summons every past species to return: she would
eternalize what appears to us transitory. Her law is
visible in each being, whose growth, change and every
metamorphosis 2 she foresees. Art can discover some
of her. secrets: can say to the dead man ".Arise,"
just as we carl mentally command a living, walking
person, " Turn round," and he will obey, feeling our
summons within himself. So also the remnant of
vitality in a corpse will attempt to break its bonds
and become visible to us. Yet it is not enough in
this case to command and will, as we do in order to
make living people obey. The rays of the soul must
be concentrated by a powerful energizing of the spirit 3
and directed towards those of the being whose re-
appearance is desired. The " evoker" must feel
within. himself that his own vitality is passing out,
and following where his thought leads it so as to form a
secret rafport which will unite the two substances.4
In return for the vitality he has -lent the " evoker"
will experience a freezing coldness. It is only a passing
sensation, necessary to make the operation successful.
In one word, there must be union, for a moment ; it
= This theory was entertained by Kepler the astronomer; and
is ably stated in G. T. Fechner's little treatise " On Life after
Death " (Kegan Paul, x9o6).
1 I.e. of the Vital Principle.
3 " Rassembl6es par une grande contention de l'esprit."
4 Le. the soul-rays of " evoker " and " evoked."
134 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
may be termed a marriage or rather a rape of Nature:
but without this causal connection nothing will
happen. The ceremonials, sacrifices, circles, etc., of
the magicians and necromancers were only of secondary
importance: their aim was so to prepare body and
spirit as to rouse the soul, and gain therefrom the
assistance that would ensure success. At the critical
moment the magician himself altered in appearance,
his features became agitated, he became deathly. He
had yielded at least half of his vital strength to the
dead person who, on his part, filled up the void. Even
afterwards the magician was for some time stupefied
and feeble.'
The knowledge on which all this is based is the
science of the ancients, and it is the final grade of
Initiation. But all men are by no means ready for
it--it would mean madness for many of them. Nor
did the sages consider such knowledge safe in certain
hands. A kind of semi-initiation was given to the
strong-minded and ambitious, even to atheists : though
knowledge, fully conferred, makes men believers and
resigned to their lot. Moreover, it is so long in coming,
that the more impetuous kind of man will not wait-
and yet they consider themselves quite capable of
ruling a nation. Whether it is better so, who can say ?
Magic, at any rate, is not for all, and only a few will
understand me.
SPIRITS
Belief in the reality of incorporeal beings, or spirits,
is not only rational but is confirmed by JEsus CHRIST,
who teaches us their divers character and their influence
2Further information on this subject may be gathered from
A. E. Waite's translation of the works of Eliphas L6vi.
COROLLARIES 135
on man. We give a summary of Gospel references
to the subject :-
[Du Potet quotes at length the following passages:
St. Mark i. 23-26; St. Luke viii. 2, 3, 54, 55; St. John
iii. 7, 8; viii. 43, 44, 47, 58; cv. 27 ; xvii. 6.]
The more notable feats of Magnetism have, unfortun-
ately, caused many weak-minded folk to imagine that
they had secured the key to all mysteries, and could
build their paradise instanter. Some of its practi-
tioners preached a sort of new Church. The base is
real enough, but such an edifice is quite fantastic.
Control is impossible when facts come from heaven:
one can only believe and wonder. And as there is
something divinely true (in Magnetism), a beginning
of detachment from the world, people imagine that
error is impossible. I ican neither approve nor share
in such blind faith. Our seers x undoubtedly behold
a limitless horizon: but why do not their accounts
agree, and why are they so changeable? 2
Now with magical creations this is not the case. .. .
There exists in us a force as powerful as it is in-
telligent, and entirely independent of matter: it is
the veil thrown over the angel or demon. And as
we can compel certain animals to leave their hole or
shell, so Art can compel this spirit to leave its cover
and appear bare and stripped. It will not alter in
conduct, will be vain, proud, etc.: but if you know
the Art, yoiU will have the whip-hand. You have
sealed fast its dwelling-place: it cannot enter without
your leave. You are armed by the flesh: it has no
such protection. Before it is aware of itself or its
t And somnambules.
a As pointed out in the Introduction, Spiritualism developed
from visions beheld by certain somnambules.
136 ,MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
power over you, you have plenty of time to gain
certain services from it. But you must have no fear.
DEATH
It was believed by the ancients that the approach
of a murderer to the body of his victim caused a
curious result-: the wounds re-opened and blood
flowed forth.' Nothing of the sort happened if an
innocent person came near. " Manes" of the 'dead
were thought to linger near the tomb, sometimes
becoming visible, as if they had not completed their
earthly pilgrimage: like a sword without a scabbard,
they were seeking to recover their body.
[Reflections follow on certain degrading effects of
modern civilization and the lowering of man's soul-life.]
Alas ! we can no longer behold man as God created
him, resplendent in glorious light, vitalizing his sur-
roundings by his very gaze, shooting forth a mysterious
flame into other bodies, as a fire emits sparks-a
furnace blazing continually with Nature's most com-
plete handicraft: capable by his power and will of
giving forth life like his Creator : his very look imposing
respect on all that is animal: crushing, by a sort of
electricity, everything that hinders his progress. He
needed no doctor to protect his health, or priest to
point the way to heaven. He himself possessed
'-Cp. Genesis iv. Io. When the blood of an animal has been
freshly shed on the ground, any other member of the herd passing
over the fatal spot will be arrested and entranced, seemingly by
some exhalation from the vital fluid. The animal stares, with a
rapt and distracted expression, moaning and pawing the ground,-
as if in remonstrance, though apparently " more in sorrow than
in anger." Any noise or intrusion, that would ordinarily call
attention, will break the spell.
COROLLARIES 137
all the knowledge necessary. With such remnants
of these primitive faculties as remain we shall try to
convince man that he is not a lonely unit in an in-
comprehensible world, that his life is not utterly lost
at death, that by spiritual intermediaries I he may get
into touch with higher powers and so reforge the link
that bound him to God.z This, at least, is our hope.
[A quotation from an unnamed source follows, con-
cerning the supersensual language of spirits and daemons,
in particular that of the daemon of Socrates.]
SORCERY
Sorcery is a bond or charm passing from the
sorcerer's spirit through the eyes of the victim to his
soul: the instrument used is a pure, shining, subtle
vapour emanating from the blood engendered by the
heart's warmth: itself reflecting perpetually similar
rays through the eyes. These rays convey a vapour,
and the vapour conveys the blood. In the case of
people with bleared or red eyes the ray carries this
vapour of corrupt blood and tends to infect others
with, the complaint. To quote from Apuleius:
" Your eyes entering by my own into my personality
arouse a mighty conflagration at the foundation of
my physical body and into the very marrow of my
bones." Hence passionate love can arise through a
single glance.3 The spirit and blood of the lover is
a Not, of course, the souls of the dead.
A
Re-ligion implies the binding back to its primal Source of
that which has been broken off. The " ligamentum " (bandage)
of natural generation binds man to thelsense-life commencing at
birth. Re-generation is the application of a new " ligamentum "
to connect him with the original spirit-life. The processes of
physical birth are analogies or types of the-" new birth."
3 Cp. the " Look" and " Isolde's Magic " themes in "Tristan
und Isolde," Prelude to Act I.
:38 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
wounded as in sorcery (though not in such a
sinister way).
[This last paragraph is a quotation from some unnamed
source.]
CONCLUSION
Of the reality of magic my own achievements,
not those of others, have convinced me. I am still an
apprentice: but not one of those who think they can
perform the Great Work apart from Nature, apart from
the principle of life. This is the essential-all else is
secondary. You cannot be deceived if you follow
this path. I fix no boundaries. I have written all
that it is necessary to know at starting. But I inust
confess I have not unveiled some of the mysteries
which Nature hides: to do so would be beyond my
power. Every discovery of these days is incomplete
without that of Which I have spoken. What is this
material electricity, of which science is so proud,
compared with the pure essence whose existence I have
demonstrated ? Electricity cannot pass beyond our
atmosphere: the more perfect agent of Magnetism
opens infinity to the view: one obeys, the other
orders. The first is death, the second life. Yet as all
can be of use in man's service, electricity can carry
its fiery rays from end to end of the world. Our
" fire " will act on all intelligences, and increase their
power, a power that can surpass the miracles of old.
Man will then have all forces at his disposal : the scales
balancing them will finally reach an equilibrium:
and the point where the needle halts will be
GOD.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
THE following is a selection from the very extensive
literature on the subject :-
ENGLISH
J. C. COLQUHOUN: " Isis Revelata," 1836.
-EDwIN LEE : Report on the Phenomena of Clairvoyance
or Lucid Somnambulism, 1843.
" Zoist," 1843-1856.
J. ESDAILE : " Mesmerism in India," 1842.
C. H. TOWNSHEND, "'Facts in Mesmerism," I844-
W. GREGORY : " Letters on Animal Magnetism," i85I.
J. ASHBURNER : " Philosophy of Animal Magnetism," 1867.
G. C. KINGSBURY : "Practice of Hypnotic Suggestion,"
1891.
J. BRAID : "Neurypnology " (ed. A. E. Waite), 1899.
A. P. SINNETT : " Rationale of Mesmerism," 1902.
J. MILNE BRAMWELL : " Hypnotism," 1903.
R. HARTE : " Hypnotism and the Doctors," 1903.
F. PODMORE : " Mesmerism and Christian Science," 190o9.
M. A. ATWOOD: " Suggestive Inquiry into the Hermetic
Mystery " (ed. W. L. Wilmshurst), 1918.
FRENCH
F. A. MESMER: " Pricis historique des faits relative au
Magn6tisme Animal," 1781.
DE PUYStGUR: " Mmoires h
l'histoire du Magn6tisme
Animal," 1784.
" Recherches, etc., sur l'homme dans l'6tat de Som-
nambulisme naturel," 18II.
J. P. F. DELEUZE: "Histoire Critique du Magnetisme
Animal," 1819.
A. BERTRAND : " Du Magnetisme Animal en France," 1828.
A. GAUTIER : " Introduction au Magn6tisme," 1840.
"Histoire du Somnambulisme," 1842.
14o MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
Du POTET: "An Introduction to the Study of Animal
Magnetism" (London), 1838.
" Cours de Magndtisme en sept legons," Paris, 1840.
" Le Magn6tisme oppos6 h
la Mddecin," Paris, 1840.
"Essai sur l'enseignement philosophique du Magnd-
tisme," Paris, 1845.
" Manuel de l'dtudiant Magnitiseur," Paris, 185o.
" La Magie Ddvoil6e " (first edition), Paris, 1852.
"Trait6 complet de Magn6tisme Animal," Paris, 1856.
"Journal du Magndtisme," Paris, 1845-1860.
"Th6rapeutique magnetique," Paris, 1863.
J. J. A. RICARD: " Trait6 thdorique et physique du
Magn6tisme Animal," 1841.
A. BINET and C. FIkR ,: "Animal Magnetism," London, 1887.
DR. BARETZ: " Le Magndtisme Animal etudi6 sous le
nom de Force Neurique," Paris, 1887.
DE ROCHAs : " L'Exteriorisation de le Sensibilit6," Paris,
1895.
L. MOUTIN: " Le Magnetisme Humain," Paris, 1907.
H. BARADUC: "The Human Soul," London, 1913.
G. DURVILLE : " Le Sommeil Provoqu6 et les causes qui
le determinent," Paris, 1913.
H. DURVILLE: "Histoire Raisonnde du Magn6tisme,"
Paris, 1914.
EMILE BOIRAC: " Psychic Science," London, 1918.
"The Quest," January, 1927 : " How I experience the
Functioning of my Clairvoyance," by Raoul de
Fleuriere, translated from an address printed in
full in " La Revue Metapsychique," July-August,
1926.
GERMAN
C. VON REICHENBACH: " Physico-Physiological Researches
on the Dynamics of Magnetism, etc.," 1846.
"Letters on Od and Magnetism," 1853 (trans. F. D.
Byrne, 1926).
C. DU PREL: " Philosophy of Mysticism," 1885 (trans.
C. C. Massey, z vols., 1889).
APPENDIX A
THE "HAND OF GLORY "
" THE hand of glory is cut off from a dead man hanged
for murder and dried very nice in the smoke of juniper
wood " (Scott, " The Antiquary ").
The quality of directly curing diseases and of protection
has long been attributed to a cadaver. Tumours, erup-
tions, and gout are thought to be dispelled if the afflicted
member be stroked with a dead hand. Toothache is
removed by contact with the finger of a dead child.
Burns, carbuncles, and other skin complaints are cured by
contact with some part of a corpse. In Pomerania the
" cold corpse hand" is a protection against fire, and
Russian peasants believe that a dead hand protects from
steel or bullet wounds.
It was once the custom to lead sufferers in mind as well
as body to the Old Bailey scaffold, when, after the
execution, the executioner (for a small fee) stroked the
affected part with the dead man's hands backwards and
forwards for several minutes. Thomas Hardy uses this
theme in "The Withered Arm " (Wessex Tales). The
" Folk-Lore Record" recently quoted the practice of
stroking by the hand of a suicide nine times from east
to west and then nine times from west to east.
TOUCHING TO HEAL
The power to heal attributed to the gods was afterwards
associated with kings who ruled as viceroys of the King
of Heaven. As Edward the Confessor lay dying, sufferers
from scrofula or tuberculous glands were brought to him
to be touched. The practice is mentioned by Peter of
.Blois in the twelfth century, and it was perpetuated by
Henry III and the three Edwards. Sir John Fortescue,
142 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
in his defence of the house of Lancaster against that of
York, argues that the crown could not descend to a female,
because the queen is not qualified by the form of anointing
her, used at the coronation, to cure the disease called
" the King's Evil." Aubrey refers to "the king's evill,
from the king curing of it with his touch." This miraculous
gift was almost reserved for the Stuarts to claim. Dr.
Ralph Bathurst, one of the chaplains to King Charles I,
"no superstitious man," says Aubrey, protested to him
that "the curing of the king's evill by the touch of the
king doth puzzle his philosophie; for when they were
of the House of Yorke or Lancaster, it did." The solemn
words, "I touch, but God healeth," were always pro-
nounced by the sovereign when he " touched " or adminis-
tered " the sovereign salve," as Bulwer calls it. Then
we read of vervain root and baked toads being worn in
silken bags around the neck, as charms for the evil. The
practice of touching was at its height in the reign of
Charles II ; and in the first four years after his restoration
he "touched " nearly twenty-four thousand persons.
Pepys, in his "Diary," June 23, 1666, records how he
waited at Whitehall "to see the king touch people for
the king's evil. He did not come, but kept the poor
persons waiting all the morning in the rain in the garden:
afterward he touched them in the banqueting-house."
The practice was continued by Charles's successors. The
Hon. Daines Barrington tells of an old man who was
witness in a cause, and averred that when Queen Anne
was at, Oxford, she touched him, then a child, for the
evil: the old man added, that he did not believe himself
to have had the evil, but " his parents were poor, and he
had no objection to a bit of gold." Again, Dr. Johnson,
when a boy, was taken by his father from Lichfield to
London, to be touched for the evil by Queen Anne, in
1712. Mrs. Bray speaks of a " Queen Anne's farthing"
being a charm for curing the king's evil in Devonshire.
At a late period, the use of certain coins was in common
vogue, which, being touched by the king, were supposed
APPENDICES 143
to have the power, and were called Royal Touch-pieces,
several of which are preserved in the British Museum.
The practice was supposed to have expired with the
Stuarts; but, the point being disputed, reference was
made to the library of the Duke of Sussex, and four
several Oxford editions of the Book of Common Prayer
were found, all printed after the accession of the House
of Hanover, and all containing as an integral part of the
service " the office for the healing."
APPENDIX B
METHOD OF MAKING MAGNETIC PASSES
I. MESMER.-The Agent places his hands on the
Patient's shoulders, brings them down the arms to the
extremities of the fingers, and holds the thumbs for a
moment. The process is repeated two or three times.
He also touches the seat of the pain with fingers or palm
of hand, following as far as possible the direction of the
nerves.
2. ESDAILE.--The Patient, in bed and in a darkened
room, is directed to close his eyes and try to sleep. The
Agent makes passes without contact over the whole
body; and from time to time breathes gently on the
head and eyes. The process continues usually for an
hour, after which many patients were able to undergo
painless operations.
3. Du POTET.-The Patient sits at a little distance.
The Agent places four fingers of both hands on his
shoulders, runs his thumbs along the inside of the shoulder-
blades, letting his fingers follow loosely. The thumbs
rest a moment or two under the edge of the scapula,
about one inch from the end. When the Patient falls
back, the Agent reverses the passes. The Patient sits
with knees uncovered, right hand on knee and left hand
holding a disc at which he must gaze steadily.
4. For the method of Braid, Liebeault, and Bernheim,
see, Milne Bramwell's " Hypnotism," 1903.
5. "Another method of producing sleepiness is the use
of monotonous rhythmical passes with or without contact.
We may smoothe the forehead at a definite slow rate,
or, again, we may make passes down the subject's body
without any contact. This latter method was much used
APPENDICES 145
by Mesmer and seems to have a peculiar effect in certain
cases. I have met with patients who resisted other
methods, but were readily hypnotized by this method"
(William Brown, " Suggestion and Mental Analysis," 1923,
p. 95).
Kc
APPENDIX C
J. J. A. RICARD'S "'sensitive," Addle Lefrey, when
magnetized, paid to him in a singular tone: "You are
asleep while I am awake." (Ricard protested that, on
the contrary, he himself was fully awake and was holding
her in command by magnetic influence.) "You do not
understand, monsieur. I am as completely awake as
we shall all be some day in the future. All that you see
is gross, material; you distinguish apparent forms: the
real beauties escape you. Your spirit is cramped, obscured
by the exterior impressions that your material senses
give you. It can only reach out feebly, while my cor-
poreal sensations are actually annihilated, while my soul
is almost disintegrated from its ordinary fetters. I see
what is invisible to your eyes. I hear what your ears
cannot hear, I understand what for you is invisible, For
example, you do not see what emanates from yourself
and comes to me when you magnetize me: I, on the
contrary, see it very clearly: at each pass you direct
towards me, I see a little column of fiery dust which
comes from the end of your fingers and seems to incor-
porate itself in me. Then, when you isolate me, I seem
surrounded by an atmosphere of this fiery dust, which is
often the reason why objects of which I seek to distinguish
the forms take a ruddy tinge for me. I hear, when I
desire it, a sound made at a distance, sounds which may
arise a hundred leagues away. I am not obliged to wait
till things come to me, I can go to them wherever they
are, and appreciate them more correctly than anyone
could who is not in a similar state to that in which I
find myself i (" Trait6 theorique et pratique du Magn6tisme
Animal," 1841).
APPENDIX D
(From Iamblichus, " On the Mysteries," Pt. iii, Sect. ii.)
IT is usual for the divinations of which you speak to
occur in dreams of human origin, in those set in action
from the soul, or by some of our thoughts, or such as
arise from phantasies, or certain daily cares. These,
indeed, are sometimes true and sometimes false.
But the dreams which we call God-sent do not originate
thus; but, either when sleep is leaving us and we are
just beginning to awake, it is permitted to hear a brief
utterance indicating things about to, be done; or the
voices are heard during the period between waking and
complete repose, or when we have become entirely awake.
Sometimes also an unseen and unbodied spirit comes
round the recumbent individuals in a circle, so as not to
be present to the sight, but to come into consciousness
by the other associate senses and results; making a
rustling noise when entering, and diffusing itself about
in every direction without any feeling of contact, and
accomplishing wonderful results in the way of deliverance
from the passions both of soul and body. Sometimes,
.however, a light beaming forth, bright and gentle, the
sight of the eyes is restrained and remains so, when before
that they had been wide open. But the other senses
continue watchful, and in some way are conscious of the
light in which the gods are becoming visible: and the
individuals hear, what they say and know by diligent
attention what they are doing. More perfectly, however,
is this witnessed when the sight beholds and the captivated
mind understands what is being done, and the beholders
act in full co-operation.
These are like no dreams usually occurring to human
beings.
APPENDIX E
EXPERIENCES OF MR. WRIGHT
APART from paralysis of the face I am in good health.
When the Baron Du Potet magnetized me for the first
time, I felt physically affected by a stream of coldness
as soon as his "passes " commenced. Having seen the
effects produced on other patients, I was fully prepared
to experience the same results, to which I attached notions
of pleasure rather than apprehension. The real effect
was completely different from What I expected. The
passes do not induce any feeling of ennui. The first
marked physical sensation is an irritation of the diseased
muscles of the face, and, almost at the same time, a
convulsive closing of the eyes. Nearly the same results
follow when my feet are magnetized. During the operation
an influence independent of all such " passes" seems to
sensibly affect me. The coldness previously mentioned
quickly operates to the expulsion of heat from the interior :
after being magnetized .for some time, and everything
being quiet, this heat is accompanied by great perspiration
at all the extremities, such as hands and feet. I am
nearly as conscious of my surroundings as a man usually
is with his. eyes closed. I cannot speak. Once or twice
my consciousness has been largely confined to myself
and the magnetizer, being abstracted from all other
objects. I can for the most part see, though dimly, the
magnetizer's hand, this sight being rather that of feeling.
I am not sensible of any intellectual exaltation. I am
quieted, and the longer the influence is continued the
calmer I become. When the Baron magnetizes me at a
distance of six to twelve feet, or through a screen, the
effect produced is equal in intensity to that which I
experience at close quarters with him. I cannot speak,
nor when very powerfully influenced, can I move: this
APPENDICES 149
is due to the physical influence. Intellectually, I do not
feel the magnetizer more powerful than myself. Morally
or emotionally, I am conscious of a sympathetic peaceful-
ness being controlled, but not forcefully. An involuntary
assent to the propriety of a suggestion, if transferred
from the intellectual to the physical or to the moral,
perhaps describes the kind of power exerted by the
magnetizer. There is a physical and moral passivity to
a physical and moral actor. Fascination aptly describes
the magnetizer's influence; with myself it is not intel-
lectual but only physical and moral fascination. I have,
on occasion, tried by a determined effort of will to resist
the operation. The result was very painful, a great
exhaustion and prostration of the energies. The breathing
was painfully affected; a clammy sweat, quite different
from normal perspiration, ejected from the extremities;
I felt considerable agitation and loss of self-control. I
have been magnetized about sixteen times. The influence
perceptibly increases, affecting me now more radically,
while at first my face was really pained by external con-
tortions. The muscles are now more moved, but less
apparently on the surface. I am not sensible of any
difference in my general health: my friends have remarked
a degree of nervous irritation, not altogether natural to
me. Apparently the magnetic treatment has made but
little difference in the paralytic affection of my face. I
seem to think there is a little more vitality in it. After
the operation I am usually affected with a most comfort-
able perspiration. I am pleased to be magnetized rather
than otherwise.
(Communicated by a doctor who submitted a
number of questions to Mr. Wright, and printed,
without alteration, by Du Potet in his " Introduction
to Animal Magnetism," pp. 52-57.)
APPENDIX F
SOME MODERN TESTIMONY
(a) "I Do not know if mental suggestion exists; for my
part I have never succeeded in provoking this phenomenon,
except under the form of sending to sleep and awaking
by a simple mental command; but if mental suggestion
exists, it is not a phenomenon of suggestion, it is a
phenomenon of magnetism."
"We believe with Durand de Gros that Suggestion
and Mesmerism are two distinct agents, equally real, each
existing independently of the other:- each can take the
other's place and counterfeit it, as they can also combine
for the production of common effects. We may have
Suggestion without Mesmerism and Mesmerism without
Suggestion: better still, we can have a pseudo-suggestion
which is only Mesmerism and a pseudo-Mesmerism which
is only Suggestion; finally, we can have, simultaneously
and indivisibly, Mesmerism and Suggestion, Suggestive
Mesmerism, or, if we prefer the term, Mesmeric Sugges-
tion" ("Psychic Science," by Emile Boirac, Rector of
Dijon Academy, English trans., 1918, pp. 192, 218).
In Chapter VII of the same book Dr. Boirac gives a
careful account of the personal experiment in 1893 which
convinced him of the actual existence of "
Magnetic or
Nervous Radiation," and maintains that anyone who
experiments as he did, and exercises a little patience, can
verify this for himself. The following sentences (p. i71)
are worth quoting : " The misfortune of such facts, which
are almost impossible to reproduce experimentally, is
that we prefer to imagine anything rather than believe
in their reality and admit the consequences they imply.
A few hours after seeing them we doubt the evidence of our
senses and memory."
(b)
" I have proved to my entire satisfaction that all of
APPENDICES X5I
us emanate rays beside the caloric ones: I had written
and spoken of this long before Blondlot proved it scienti-
fically. The vital question remains, Do these rays possess
curative powers ? It is boldly claimed by many intelligent
people outside the (medical) profession that the 'laying
on of hands ' is as potent now as ever it was. . . . I
have found the practice of 'Magnetism' a useful adjunct
in the so-called 'suggestion' treatment " (J. Stenson
Hooker, M.D., " The Trend of Modern Medicine," 1905).
(c) Referring to Animal Magnetism, Prof. Pierre Janet
says: " Methods of treatment based on the utilization of
mysterious remedies have not quite lost their vogue. It
is extremely probable that part, at least, of the admitted
efficacy of electrical treatment, treatment by radium, and
even serum treatment, may be the outcome of kindred
psychological phenomena.. Consider, for instance, what
is known as osteopathy, a therapeutic method widely
celebrated in the United States. The mechanism of the
method resembles that of treatment by animal mag-
netism .... Whatever the cause of these cures or
apparent cures, it is improbable that the massage of the
spinal column has much to do with the matter. We may
presume that here, likewise, forces are at work of which
both the patient and osteopath are unaware. The prestige
of anatomical science plays its part, just as the prestige
of astronomy functioned in Mesmer's practice, and just as
the prestige of the physical science of electricity functioned
in magnetic treatment. Despite the claim of osteopathy
to be scientific, we have to do with one of these methods
of treatment which belong to the realm of magic. Its
success shows that magic still plays a part in medicine."
(" Psychological Healing," 1925, i. pp. 41-43.)
INDEX
Akashic record, 34
Alchemy, 13, 74, 55
Ancient Wisdom, 31, 6o,
Arrow, Magic, 75 ff.
Ashmole, 84 n,.
Astrallical Influence, 15
Attraction, Magic, 72
Atwood, 30-33, 6o n.,
89 n., 92
zn., 95 n.,
o x ff.
.86 n.,
99 n.,
IoI n., o07 n., I16 n., I17n.,
126 n., I27 n., I28 n., I29 n.,
1329n.
Aura, 34, Io8
Bailly, 20
Baraduc, 55
Bertrand, 2 i
Binet & F6r6, 21, 22, 23
Blood, 136
Braid, 19, 21, 22, 27
Bramwell, 22, 23
Cagliostro, 49
Cahagnet, 28
Charcot, 17, 22, 24
Charismatic Ministry, 41
Christ, 37, 38, 41, I18, 134
Christian Science, 27, 40
Circles, Magic, 66, i20, 726
Colquhoun, 20, 21, 39
Control of Destiny, 126
Creation, Spiritual, I o
Death, 736
Deleuze, 45, 47, 50
De Rochas, 55
Dods, 20
Eddy, 27
Eliphas L6vi, 45, 48, 6 it., 95 .,,
134 n.
I
Elliotson, 2 , 46, 49
Erdan, 47
Esdaile, 2z, 23, 26, 49
Fludd, I4 ft.
Freemasonry, o07 n.
Hand, 39, 47
Hand of Glory, 141
Harmonies, Magic, 88
Hawker, 33n.
Healing, Spiritual, 4
Ignition, 56
I-mago, g6, 0o3
India, Mesmerism in, 27
Intoxication, Magic, go
Janet, 24, I5I
" Journal of Magnetism," 47,
57, 6o, 79
" Katharsis," 35, 113
L6vi, see Eliphas L6vi.
Li6bault, 22
Lines, Magic, 6x ff.
Lodge, Sir Oliver, 26, 56
Machine, Mesmeric, 51
Magism, 96, zo6
" Magnale magnum," 14, 17
Manual Work, 39
Maxwell, 15
Mesmer, I8--20, 25, 34, 38, 47,
50, 51, 55
Mirror, Magic, 48 ff., 6c fr., 79 fr.,
115, 120, I26
Mumia, 14
Myers, 24, 42
154 MAGNETISM AND MAGIC
Nancy School, 6o n.
Neo-Platonists, 35
Newton, 96 n.
Oken, 55
Old Age, Magical, 91 ff.
Operative methods, 113
Paracelsus, 14, 33, 37, 55
Plato, 24, 33, oz0
Preparations, 120
Psycho-analysis, 36
Psycho-physical parallelism, 54
Puys6gur, 45, 50, 78 n.
Quimby, 27
Re-birth, 131 ff.
Reichenbach, 38
Resurrection, 43, 94
Richet, 24, 53
Rutherford, Sir Ernest, 56, 57
" Separation, Hermetic," 34, 95
Sleep, somnambulic, 24, 59
Sorcery, 137
Soul identification, og9 f.
Spirit-Rapping, 28
Spiritual Creatures, xTo
Suggestion, 22, 53, 54
Sympathies and Antipathies,
Magic, 73
Telegraph, Magic, 53
Thought potency, II1
Townshend, 28 ff.
Valentine, Basil, zo8 n.
Van Helmont, i6, 17, 39, 51
Vaughan, Thomas, 38, 99 n.,
107 n.
Virgil, 35, 99 n., 1o2
Virginal Visions, I29
"Vis Medicatrix Naturae," It,
13
Visions, I18
Waite, A. E., 28, 48, 49
Wilmshurst, W. L., 31
" Zoist," 21, 23
GEORGE ALLEN &UNWIN LTD.
LONDON: 40 MUSEU STREET, W.C.I
CAPE TOWN: 73 ST. GEORGE'S STREET
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: WYNYARD SQUARE
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: 4 WILLIS STRZET
Psychological Healing
BY PIERRE JANET
TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH BY EDEN AND CEDAR PAUL
Medium 8vo. In Two rols. £2 as.
" The book is an almost exhaustive account of what has hitherto been
accomplished, and a testimony to the crying need for future research."-
The Times LiterarySupflement.
Principles of Psychotherapy
BY PIERRE JANET
TRANSLATED BY H. M. AND E. R. GUTHRIE
Demy 8vo. ios. 6d.
" As a descriptive psychopathologist Janet is unrivalled. ... The book
is full of shrewd observation."-Lancet.
How Natives Think
By PROF. LUCIEN LJVY-BRUHL
Demy 8vo. TRANSLATED BY LILIAN A. CLARE I2s. 6d.
"The facts which he has collected are of the greatest value."-New
Statesman.
Thought Transference
Speculations upon Psychology and Religion
BY T. STACEY WILSON, M.D., B.Sc., F.R.C.P., F.G.S.
Cr. 8vo. 5s.
"A remarkable book."--Public Opinion.
THE "CNEW PSYCHOLOGY" HANDBOOKS
Or. 8vo. 3s. 6d.each
(I) The Practice of Autosuggestion
By the Method of EMILE COUE. By, C. HARRY
BROOKS. Foreword by EMILE COUE. Fifty-ninth
Thousand.
(2)The Machinery of the Mind
By VIOLET M. FIRTH. Foreword by A. G. TANSLEY
F.R.S. Third Impression.
(3)Recent Psychology and the Christian
Religion
Some Points of Contact and Divergence. By REV.
CYRIL E. HUDSON, M.A.
(4)Christianity and Autosuggestion
By C. HARRY BROOKS and the REv. ERNEST
CHARLES. Tenth Thousand.
(5)The Power Within Us
By CHARLES BAUDOUIN, Author of "Suggestion and
Auto-suggestion."
(6) Cou6 for Children
By GERTRUDE MAYO. With Preface by EMILE
COUE.
(7)Mind as a Force
By CHARLES F. HARFORD, M.A., M.D. (Cantab.).
(8) Auto-Suggestion for Mothers
By R. C. WATERS.
(9)The Brain and the Mind
By PAUL SUNNER. Translated by C. HARRY BROOKS.
(i o) The Inner Discipline
By CHARLES BAUDOUIN and A. LESTCHINSKY.
The Hindu View of Life
BY S. RADHAKRISHNAN
Cr. 8vo. Upton Lectures, Oxford, 1926 gs.
" The matter of the lectures, on the philosophy of Hinduism, was pro-
foundly important and interesting, and they were delivered with a
command of the subject matter and a power of exposition which greatly
impressed all who heard them. Hinduism, as expounded by Professor
Radhakrishnan, may be said to have illustrated the principles of Man-
chester College on a scale of which those acquainted only with Western
Religion have no knowledge. The lectures were as eloquent as they
were profound."-Extract from the Annual Report of Manchester College,
Oxford, 1926.
Light from the East
Being Letters on Gfianam, the Divine Knowledge
EDrrITED BY EDWARD CARPENTER
Cr. 8So. With Two Portraitsin Photogravure 6s.
These letters were written by the Hon. P. Arunachalam (late of the
Legislative Council of Ceylon) to his friend Edward Carpenter, on the
subject of Gilanam (the divine knowledge) and contain much information
about the esoteric life and lore of Ceylon, as well as some account of
various customs connected with the religion of the people-the whole
supplemented by articles on kindred subjects from the pen of Mr.
Carpenter himself.
The Kingdom of Happiness
BY J. KRISHNAMURTI
Fcap.8ea. With Photograph 3s. 6d.
This book is eagerly awaited by many thousands of thoughtful people
in every land, who look to its author as to one who bears a unique
message to the whole world in its hour of sore need. The camp-fire talks
are remarkable for their simplicity and poetic beauty. " If you would do
great things, if you would create greatly and live nobly, you must enter
that kingdom. And to do that each one must find himself,and until he has
found himself there can be no peace, no tranquillity, no contentment, but
a hundred terrors driving him to his goal. Like the mountain, so full of
united strength, so full of power, so full of dignity and that sense of
majesty, so is the man who has found himself, who has created his own
ideal, who has his own goal to follow."
The Decline of the West
BY OSWALD SPENGLER
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN BY MAJOR C. F. ATKINSON
Royal 8 ro. Second Impression 2 S;
"Highly original and backed by much learning.... Will doubtless
excite a considerable interest in England."-ManchesterGuardian.
"The most remarkable book that has appeared in my time."-
J. MIDDLETON MURRY in the Adelphi.
Bolshevist Russia
BY ANTON KARLGREN
Demny So. TRANSLATED B- ANNA BARWELL I2s. 6d.
Anton Karlgren, Professor of Slav at the University of Copenhagen, is
recognized in Scandinavia as the writer most conversant with Russian
affairs. This book, distinguished as it is by the exactitude and ability
of a scientist, combined with the keen power of observation and vivid
style of a skilled journalist, is characterized by the Northern Press as a
standard work on the new Russia.
In it, the author, who, at first, viewed Bolshevism with distinct favour,
gives the results of his exhaustive study of Bolshevist Russia and the
conclusions that seem the inevitable outcome of such study.
The Struggle for the Rhine
BY HERMAN STEGEMANN
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN BY G. CHATTERTON HILL
Demy 8vo. r2t. 6d.
The magic of the Rhine, the glamour and vicissitudes of its past make
a spell all nations feel, and Herr Stegemann, by the loving care of his
descriptions, makes his book a splendid epic as well as a valuable contri-
bution to universal history. He traces through fourteen chapters the
struggles for possession of the Rhine from pre-Roman days. There are
chapters on the Rise of the Carolingians and the Downfall of the Hohen-
stauffens, the Wars of Religion, and the Problems of the Rhine, and after
dealing with the influence of the Franco-British world rivalry, the author
has brought the book down to the present day.
The Peasant War in Germany
BY FRIEDRICH ENGELS
INTRODUCTION BY D. RIAZANOV
Or. 8vo. 4s. 6d.
In this graphic treatment of a neglected phase of German history, the
author analyses the social and economic forces which brought about the
peasant revolts, and their relation to the Reformation. The contrasting
figures of Thomas Muenzer, the rebel leader, and Martin Luther, who
first expounded the cause of the peasants, but later turned against them
and joined the princes, are vividly portrayed. The lessons drawn from
this work throw a revealing light upon present-day restlessness among
the farming and peasant classes in various parts of the world.
Napoleon
BY EMIL LUDWIG
THNSLATED FROM THE GERMAN BY EDEN AND CEDAR PAUL
Royal 8vo. llustrated 2xs.
Ludwig is not a historian; he is a master in the art of delineating
character. He does not attempt to write either the objective history of a
man or the objective history of an epoch. His " Napoleon "
is the INNER
history of a man, projected against the background of a tumultuous epoch
-which the man did so much to make tumultuous I The result has been
a book more true to life than most histories, and more interesting and
readable and vivid than most novels. Those who read it will not only
gain a better understanding of Napoleon and his epoch; many of them
will gain a clearer understanding of themselves and our own time.
Napoleon and His Women Friends
BY GERTRUDE ARETZ
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN BY EDEN AND CEDAR PAUL
Demy 8ro. With Seventeen Illustrations I8S.
Napoleon is of perennial interest, and the man's private life is no less
interesting than are the political activities of the statesman and the cam-
paigns of the military commander. In the present work we have a
subtle analysis of the way in which the great Napoleon reacted towards
the women who came into his orbit-not, indeed, "his sisters, and his
cousins, and his aunts," but all the others of note. In large measure,
therefore, it is the story of his love affairs; but it deals also with his
attitude towards women with whom he never even flirted, such as Queen
Louise of Prussia and Madame de Stall. The information here collected is
scattered through the thirty-two bulky volumes of Napoleon's correspon-
dance and through hundreds of memoirs and monographs.
Family Views of Tolstoy
EDITED BY AYLMER MAUDE
TRNSLATED BY LOUISE AND AYLMER MAUDE
Demy 8 o. Iros. 6d.
" Mr. Maude is admittedly the greatest Tolstoyan student in England,
and he knew Tolstoy intimately."-Daily Express.
All prices are net.
LONDON: GEORGE ALLEN AND UNWIN LTD.
RUSKIN HOUSE, 4 MUSEUM STREET, W.C.
