{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__haanel___you.pdf","mytitle":"You","mylang":"de"}
YOU
tBy Charles F. Haanel
Founder of the
Master Key System
A uthor of
The New Psychology
Mental Chemistry
Social Science
M em ber of
The A m erican Society for Psychical Research
The Science League of A m erica
The A u th or’s League of A m erica
CHARLES F. HAANEL
St. Louis, M o. 1927
Copyright 1927
By CH ARLES F. H AAN EL
Printed in the United States of Am erica
K
CH ARLES F. H AAN EL
SE C T IO N O N E
SE C T IO N O N E
At birth you received a certain vibration
consisting of the combination of ethereal vibra­
tions existing at the moment. This vibration
was impressed upon you very much as a note
from an orchestra may be transmitted by the
stylus of a phonograph to the sensitive wax
receiver with every single note and every shade
of tone intact.
Thus the time of birth determined the nature
and intensity of the vibrations which are appar­
ent in your mental, moral, spiritual and physical
characteristics, and these in turn indicate the
character, environment and opportunities which
will come to you.
This does not mean that you are to flounder
in a morass of destructive fatalism, on the con­
trary, it is simply indicative of the opportunities
which will be presented or the temptations which
will come; there is no denial of self-determination
or free will. You may use the characteristics
given to you at birth, or change them as you will.
The particular nature of the vibrations which
you received at birth, are but the tools of the
8 YOU
workman, and the one who becomes the “ruler
of his stars” is the one who does not complain,
because he was given a violin rather than a
harp, for each piece is necessary in the grand
symphony of life.
But because there is that within you by which
you may transcend environment and heredity, is
this any reason for witholding from you the
nature of the implements upon which you must
depend, would you not rather have the most
complete information possible concerning the
tools with which you must carve out the destiny
which is yours? Will the one who knows nothing
of the dangers and pitfalls which lie before him,
have a better opportunity than the one who has
a map with each of these dangers carefully
charted?
It requires superior wisdom to be the custodian
of wisdom, and your ability to obtain is condi­
tioned upon your ability to attain. Fear becomes
the parent of superstition, the insurmountable
barrier to realization.
SECTION ONE 9
When the Sun is in major aspect with any
planet, the individual nature and quality of such
planet is conjoined with the terrestrial magne­
tism, hence the Zodiac, the space in which the
various planets move, holds in solution every
element of which your body is composed.
The Sun is the distributor of all life; it there­
fore contains the essence of which all of the
planets are composed, each of which expresses
one of the factors evolved from the cosmic
system.
As the vibrations from the Sun reach the
planets each one appropriates and embodies one
dominant ray, and while the particular ray which
is differentiated by each planet is again sent out
to all of the signs of the Zodiac, it is focused in
the particular sign over which the planet rules.
Then each planet acts as a reflector for one of
the seven dominant rays of the Sun. After their
cycle of differentiation and accomplishment has
been completed, they are again gathered up and
united in the one great white light.
10 YOU
The Sun is the creative center, it contains the
primal germ of mind, it is the unmanifest, during
time inconceivable this unmanifest has been
manifesting, and that which has become mani­
fest is the planetary system or Divine Creation.
The Sun, therefore, contains within itself the
essence of all the planets and they themselves are
but the medium through which and by which the
forces of the Sun are differentiated. Manifesta­
tion in the objective proceeds through the opera­
tion of the principles of construction and
differentiation. Life is the process by which the
ethereal substance which scintillates from the
center of the molecule, manifests in form.
The vibrations received from the Sun repre­
sent the principle of immortality. They are pure
Being or life itself.
The vibrations received from the Moon, rep­
resent the mortal or all that comprise the
personality, all that is mortal, thus the vibra­
tions from the Sun and Moon manifest as Spirit
and Matter, Soul and Body.
The vibrations from Mercury manifest as in­
tellect or mind, from Venus as love and emotion,
SECTION ONE 11
from Mars, as energy and force, from Jupiter as
sympathy and devotion, from Saturn, as perser-
verance and tenacity, from Uranus as renewal
and change, from Neptune, as religion and mys­
ticism, from the Earth as materialism and
disintegration.
The ancients knew the Moon as Isis, the Queen
of Heaven, it represents the mother or the
female principle of life, and is essentially femi­
nine. It may be termed the giver of form.
The influence of the Moon upon tides, planting
and upon all unborn life has been known to the
world for countless ages. Its peculiar influence
upon women is well known, yet seldom connect­
ed with the fact. And physicians are beginning
to realize that most diseases have certain cycles
of periodicity which may be directly attributed
to the Moon’s motion. That fact was familiar
to the wise men of all past ages.
Its rapid transit through the heavens brings to
a focus the many aspects good and bad found in
every person, dormant perhaps until an angle is
12 YOU
formed which sets in motion vibrations beyond
human control. Thus we have the sudden acci­
dents, the flare of ungoverned temper, and like­
wise the never-to-be forgotten moments of
ecstacy.
The rays of the Sun are differentiated through
the spleen. The altered conditions of the Sun’s
rays become vitality; it is a force downward. In
the same way the mind is an elemental essence
which is pouring down into manifestation, and
as ft passes through our brain, we specialize or
educate it, moulding it by our will into the
thought-forms which constitute thought and
lead finally to action.
Every body attracts every other body in pro­
portion to its mass, and inversely in accordance
with the distance. For this reason the Sun has
a greater influence upon Mercury than upon
Mars, more influence upon Venus than upon the
Earth, more upon Mars than upon Jupiter and
more upon Saturn than upon Uranus.
To meet this situation the planets which lie
nearer the Sun must revolve more rapidly. We,
SECTION ONE 13
therefore, find Mercury moving in its orbit at
the rate of thirty-five miles per second, Venus
twenty-two miles per second, the Earth eighteen
miles per second, Mars at fourteen miles per
second, Jupiter at eight miles, Uranus at four
and Neptune at three.
Light, heat, sound, color, power, electricity,
vegetation, health, sickness, all physical pheno­
mena, the tides, wireless and the radio, are but
manifestations of vibration and the various
planets are immense masses of metal, gases and
chemicals which cause vibrations to which we
respond, in much the same way as the loop
aerial of the radio picks up the various stations.
As these planets change their relative position
from time to time, the ratio of their vibrations
changes, and certain vibrations grow stronger
while others decrease.
For this reason, with the first breath that you
took, every fibre in your being became impreg­
nated with magnetic influences, and that person­
ality is stamped upon you indelibly for all time,
14 YOU
subtle vibrations always manifesting in exact
accordance with the location of the various
planets and the consequent vibrations existing
in the ether at the moment of birth.
Thus, it is that the scientist knowing the exact
hour of birth, the location and the date, is able
to calculate with an amount of accuracy limited
only by his personal knowledge and experience,
the exact positions of the planets and give a
judgment therefrom.
As all change is the result of motion, there are
three movements to be considered.
First, the revolution of the Earth around the
Sun. This is completed in one year.
Second, the revolution of the Moon around
the Earth. This is completed in one month.
Third, the rotation of the Earth upon its axis.
This is completed in one day.
The cycle of the revolution of the Earth
around the Sun is its Zodiac, in this cycle then
are four seasons, as the Earth enters the four
SECTION ONE 15
Cardinal Signs, Aries about March 21st, Cancer
about June 21st, Libra about September 21st,
and Capricorn about December 21st.
The four points of sunrise, noon, sunset and
midnight are positions of marked change, be­
cause they indicate when one influence, or com­
bination of influence ends and another begins.
Day begins at sunrise, so that the sign or con­
stellation which is on the ascendant or first zone
at the commencement of your life, has within
it all of the possibilities which can be subse­
quently manifested, just as the future course of
a stone is determined by the'amount of energy
imparted to it by the hand, when it is thrown
into the air.
The next critical point is noon, here the sun
has attained its highest position, the energy
which began at sunrise has reached its culmi­
nation, this position, at birth represents power,
achievement, authority, dignity, elevation, pub­
licity, fame and honor.
The third division is sunset, which represents
the polar opposite of sunrise. These two points
16 YOU
are a pair of balanced opposites and represent
similar conditions. The fourth point is midnight,
it represents seclusion, rest, the time when psychic
and astral influences are strongest.
Astronomically the mass of the Sun is stated
as about 700 times that of all its planets put
together.
The Zodiac with all its infinite possibilities
is the path of the Sun as seen from our earth;
and the planets are specialized centres of that
energy of which the Sun is the source and
fountain head.
The Solar fluid is the etheral atmosphere, or
the ether, and is limited to the solar system; it
is the medium for the transmission of the poten­
cies distributed by the various planets, and holds
in solution the basic elements of all life and
thought.
This ether is the only possible fluid which is
sufficiently subtle to carry the delicate vibra­
tions which are constantly being broadcasted
over the radio, and which penetrate iron, wood,
SECTION ONE 17
steel and every other barrier, and which are not
limited by either time or space.
Thus, we find that not only the Sun, but
Venus, Mars, Saturn, the Moon and all of the
other planets radiate their own peculiar char­
acteristics. This influence in turn is reflected in
the character of those who come under the in­
fluence of these vibrations.
As the nature of the energy which the Sun
radiates is in accordance with its intrinsic
nature, so the nature of vibrations sent out by
the planets are in accordance with their intrin­
sic natures.
Venus has long been regarded as the God of
Love, consequently the characteristics of those
coming under her influence are affectionate,
sympathetic, refined and contented. Mars has
long been known as the God of War, and his
influence is therefore courageous, venturesome,
aggressive and fearless; the influence of the
moon is reflective, receptive and productive;
of Mercury, intellectual, accomplished, skillful
18 YOU
and clever; of Jupiter, generous, philanthropic,
moral, charitable and sincere; of Saturn, pru­
dent, cautious, patient and reserved; of Uranus,
original, ingenious, talented and intuitive; of
Neptune, idealistic, mystical, inspirational and
Each planet has its own rate of vibration and
its influence upon the earth depends upon the
angle which it forms, certain angles causing the
vibrations to be accelerated or diminished, mag­
nified or retarded.
These angles of planetary influence have been
found to produce effects just as certain and
definite as the various angles in chemistry.
Thus the seven planets give the seven rays or
vibrations or tunes, and the earth is the organ
upon which these notes are played, and the
harmony or inharmony resulting therefrom is
the influence which we call good or evil, as the
effect is pleasing or the reverse.
There are seven nerve plexi located at inter­
vals along the spinal cord, the plexi correspond
SECTION ONE 19
and act as service stations for the Seven Norms.
They are,—the sacral—Saturn, prostatic—Jupi­
ter, episgastic or solar—Mars, cardiac—Sun,
pharyngeal—Venus, laryngeal—Mercury, and
cavernous—Moon.
These are the media for the diffusion of the
astral essences, from which they are transmitted
by the Sympathetic nervous system to the vari­
ous cells of the body for transmutation and
assimilation.
A celestial impingement, therefore, never fails
to express itself in the mental and physical
plane of the ego.
The solar orb is the principle of life, it radi­
ates pure being only, it is therefore Unity. Unity
proceeds to diversity by a definite geometrical
process.
As the planets revolve around the Sun, they
radiate magnetism, the kind and character de­
pending upon the nature of the planet. This
magnetism in turn produces chemical and
20 YOU
spiritual changes in accordance with the various
combinations which are formed as the planets
move in their accustomed orbits in the Zodiac.
The combination of zinc and copper does not
create electricity, they only bring to a point of
individualism that which exists everywhere,
likewise the planets are merely gigantic batter­
ies moving in space. __
Therefore, when Jupiter, which represents the
principle of tin, comes into aspect with Venus,
which represents the principle of copper, the
vibrations which are produced in the celestial
magnetism will be in accordance with the polari­
ties which these planets possess at the time of
such combination; or when Saturn, which rep­
resents the principle of lead, and is therefore
cold and negative, comes into a correlative as­
pect with the Sun, which represents the prin­
ciple of Gold and is, therefore, dynamic and
hot; there will be a vast disturbance in the
vibratory influence and this inharmony will
affect the life force of all who come under the
influence of either of these heavenly bodies.
SECTION ONE 21
All impulses which manifest, and many more
which do not manifest through the senses find
their original stimulus and direction in planetary
vibrations. Life as we know it, originates, exists
and manifests through vibrations.
As the planets transit along their orbits
through the Zodiac they form vibratory aspects
to which we respond, each person responding,
according to his ability.
As planetary vibrations of varying character
are continually exerting influence which is taken
up by our sensory nerves, by night and by day,
of which we may be either conscious or uncon­
scious, with the resulting bodily reactions, men­
tal attitudes and moods, we give the faculty
of feeling the place of first importance.
We find planetary action giving direction to
metabolism, expanding, contracting and other­
wise changing the quality of bodily feelings
which induce attitudes of mind—the attitude
determining the course or character of our acts,
which in turn make up our environment.
22 YOU
It must be remembered that we are not con­
scious of all our bodily reactions to stimuli;
nor is every stimulus transformed into conscious
thought, in fact, most of our bodily reactions
are performed unconsciously.
There is a direct relation between mind and
matter. The higher branches of thought have
their origin in the higher organs of the brain,
and these are allied to the planets, fartherest
from the Sun; while the lower branches of
thought, as of facts and things, domestic affairs,
money matters, etc., have their origin in the
base of the brain and these are allied to the
planets nearest the Sim.
For the nearer the Sun we get, the more
active the planets are, and those persons who
are influenced by them are correspondingly
more active.
Whether we deal with Venus as a celestial
body or as the unifying principle of Love, of
Saturn as the essence of form or the sponsor of
fear, of Mars as the element of energy or as
the dynamic principle of courage, we must
SECTION ONE 23
recognize the identity of specific conditions, and
grasp the comprehensive statement that the
Universal Mind though synthetic in essence, is
manifested in infinite and complex form.
Light is good in whatever
lamp it is burning.
A rose is beautiful in whatever
garden it may bloom.
A star has the same radiance if
it shine from the East or West.
ABDUL BAHA.
SE C TIO N T W O
SE C T IO N T W O
In Revelations we are told, “ And there were
seven lamps of fire burning before the throne,
which are the seven spirits of God.” These
lamps, burning before the throne, are the seven
planets of our solar system.
These seven spirits are eternally involving
and evolving the seven active Principles of the
Universe.
Each planet has its own particular individual
physical force and this physical force exerts a
spiritual influence in accordance with the nature
of the individuality in the family of planets.
Saturn radiates substance or form, Jupiter ra­
diates power or expression, Mars radiates energy
or courage. Venus radiates harmony or love,
Mercury radiates intelligence or mind, Uranus
radiates genius or intuition, Neptune radiates
spiritual causation or inspiration.
Here then are seven immense power houses
generating and radiating all that is, all that ever
was or ever can be. With the seven basic notes
or tones every posible combination of music
28 YOU
can be made, so with these seven primal forces
every possible combination can be brought about.
Your ability to express, is therefore, simply
your ability to absorb.
You can give only in proportion as you are
enabled to receive, no more, no less.
You can draw forth that which you have the
capacity to discern.
You can adjust your self to those planes of
existence only, of which you are conscious.
This is true upon all planes of existence,
physical, mental, moral or spiritual.
Your physical sensations depend upon your
degree of sensitiveness.
Your sympathies go to those who can appre­
ciate your motives.
You are in harmony with those only who are
upon your plane of intellectual comprehension.
You appreciate the morale of others only
as your own understanding has been awakened.
SECTION TWO 29
*
The principle of Saturn is manifest in scholars,
philosophers, priests, hermits, all such melan­
choly and reserved persons who lead a solitary
and retired life and are more disposed to contem­
plation than to action, but as contemplation pre­
cedes action and as thought precedes speech, so
the merchant, the manufacturer, the banker are
all dependent upon the contemplation of the in­
ventor, the artisan and the architect, likewiÉe-
the statesman and the orator receive their ideas
and policies from the philosopher, the one find­
ing and the other executing.
By virtue of their organic structure the planet­
ary orbs are gigantic batteries through which
spiritual energies seek manifestation. They
represent principles which co-exist throughout
all forms of material expression.
The same mind which incites the planet in its
mutation to form certain aspects, affects every
action in a corersponding ratio, because every
atom is a concrete expression of spiritual energy
and is endowed with magnetic responsiveness in
30 YOU
perfect accord with certain activities which con­
stitute its Divine harmony, the planetary com­
plexion of the heavens at birth may therefore
be accepted as the correct measurement of your
psychical value in the Universal economy.
For this reason, your ego, upon the moment
of birth, attracted those influences only which
are in harmony with your spiritual requirements.
This does not necessarily imply fatalism or
predestination because, you partake of the na­
ture of the whole, and are consequently poten­
tially limitless, for this reason if you have a
clear knowledge of the astral conditions which
surround you, you may relate with those which
are constructive and desirable and repulse those
which might bring about adverse conditions;
while on the other hand if you have no know­
ledge of the conditions which the celestial orbits
are providing, you will drift blindly and conse­
quently may be entirely unprepared to success­
fully cope with conditions when they arrive.
As the various celestial bodies are constantly
sending forth emanations which must necessarily
SECTION TWO 31
correspond with their character, all space holds
in suspension not only all of these characteristics,
but the new characteristics born of the chemical
changes caused by the combination and absorp­
tion of the emanation of two or more bodies.
Thus the influences which reach you and to
which you respond are magnetic influences
caused by the various combinations of the celes­
tial bodies as they pass and repass in their vari­
ous orbits.
The Cosmos, contains the sum and substance
of the essence of all the celestial bodies, and
this essence contains the totality of Being, and
as a part cannot disassociate itself from the
whole; every individual must necessarily par­
take of these characteristics.
Saturn represents the formative principle.
Jupiter represents the spiritual principle.
Mars represents the aggressive principle.
Sun represents the vital principle.
Venus represents the love principle.
Mercury represents the intellectual principle.
Moon represents the emotional principle.
32 YOU
These are the seven norms which are active
in every impulse and which constitute the Divine
essence which enters into and becomes the vir­
tues as well as the faults, and graces as well as
the perversions of all organic life; they are re­
sponsible for every manifestation of form
throughout the mineral, the vegetable or the
animal kingdom.
At birth you were a drop out of the ocean of
the universe, and, as such, are chemically iden­
tical with that ocean at the time of extraction.
As every atom in the universe is a concrete
expression of spiritual energy and is endowed
with a magnetic responsiveness to the activities
which constitute Divine harmony, the vital
moment is the psychic key by which you may
ascertain the exact relationship which you bear
to the whole.
From iron to steel and then to gold is the
stairway you must climb. Life is progress, life
is earnest, life is real and you must either refine
your life or delay your progress.
SECTION TWO 33
The Earth turns on its axis once in twenty-
four hours, it is clear, then, that it will pass the
whole circle of the Zodiac once each day. This
circle of the Zodiac through which the Earth
passes each day has been divided into twelve
zones.
These zones represent the limitations or op­
portunities appertaining to your daily life, while
the celestial signs relate to the sum total of your
experiences. The planets, represent the causes
which alternately remove or establish conditions
and experiences.
The first zone governs your environment, your
disposition and your self-interests—in a word,
your personality.
The second zone governs your financial affairs
and monetary prospects.
The third zone, your relatives, travel and the
general state of your objective mind.
The fourth zone, your residence, your home
life, your parents, and the conditions at the
close of life.
34 YOU
The fifth zone, your social affairs, your love
affairs and your children.
The sixth zone, your health, your employes
and your psychic tendencies.
The seventh zone, your marriage or business
partner, and your individual qualities—in a
word, your individuality.
The eighth zone, wills, legacies in which you
may be interested.
The ninth zone, long journeys, foreign affairs
and the general state of your subjective mind.
The tenth zone, your profession, honors and
ambitions, and mental and moral conditions
generally.
The eleventh zone, your ability to make
friends and acquaintances.
The twelfth zone, unseen troubles and misfor­
tunes, emotional tendencies.
So far as the physical plane is concerned, the
twelve divisions of the ecliptic called zones may
be regarded as powers brought into activity by
SECTION TWO 35
the influence of the Sun upon the Earth. They
are all differentiations of cosmic force acting in
the earth’s aura and kept active by the vibra­
tions set in motion by the Sun and differentiated
by the various planets as shown in the following
table:
Metal Color Control Manifests as
Sun Gold Orange Heart Spirit
Moon Silver Green Brain Soul
Mercury Quick-
Silver
Violet Lungs Intellect
Venus Copper Yellow Reins Love
Mars Iron Red Gall Energy
Jupiter Tin Indigo Liver Judgment
Saturn Lead Blue Spleen Memory
It will be seen why the rays of the Sun are
capable of refraction into the seven prismatic
colors.
The principle of Venus is the same, be it
expressed as love in the human emotions, or as
the active basis of copper in the metallic king-
36 YOU
dom, or as the color yellow in the plant kingdom,
it will always respond to kindred vibrations.
The principle of Mercury is intelligence or
mind, as the luminiferous ether is impregnated
by the archetypal ideas, so does Mercury enter
into and quicken the sulphurous property of the
material principal in you, which is significant
of the intellect—the restless reaching out for
the unattainable, the unfoldment of the aspira­
tions of your soul.
The influence of Jupiter makes you magna­
nimous, generous, fond of learning, a lover of
out door sports.
If Venus is the impinging force, you will be
loving, kind and possibly sensual; all depending
upon the dignity of the planet at the time of
nativity.
If Saturn is your ruling planet you will be
patient, reserved and economical.
The characteristics which the vibrations from
the planets stimulate may be summarized as
follows:—
SECTION TWO 37
Mars, impulsive, courageous, aggresive, active,
perceptive, impatient and contentious.
Venus, loving, amiable, affectionate, charit­
able, sensuous, fond of pleasure, artistic and
sociable.
Mercury, imaginative, studious, sharp, witty,
persuasive, logical and oratorical.
Sun, noble, generous, faithful and sincere,
ambitious and proud.
Moon, receptive, mutable, impressionable,
changeable, yet refined and ingenious.
Jupiter, generous, noble and sincere, com­
passionate and religious, courteous, just, honor­
able, prudent, and faithful.
Saturn, perceptive, apprehensive, economical,
reserved, constant and patient, laborious, re­
flective and innately chaste.
Uranus, original, abrupt, erratic, romantic,
bohemian, of a metaphysical turn of mind and
antiquarian tastes.
38 YOU
Neptune, psychic, emotional, romantic, plas­
tic, dreamy, innately mystical and indifferent
to worldly matters.
It is apparent that your temperament, dispo­
sition and personality will depend upon in which
of the zones your ruling planet is found.
You may wonder why the Sun in the first
zone at birth will bring long life, honor and
vitality; or Mercury in the second zone, brings
success in literary and scientific pursuits; why
should Mars in the first zone, endow one with
a distinguished appearance and Martial bearing;
why should Venus in the tenth zone indicate a
brilliant and successful marriage; why should
Jupiter in the fourth zone indicate success in
real estate operations; and why should Saturn
in the same zone indicate loss in the same
business?
The reply is, why if the brain be disturbed
in a certain zone, will the memory be affected;
if it be disturbed in another zone, why will the
sense of sight be affected; in still another, why
will the ability to reason be destroyed?
SECTION TWO 39
The brain consists of a large number of nerve
fibres and power does not consist in their num­
ber or size only, but in their length, just as the
tone and character of a musical note, does not
depend upon the number and size of the strings
alone, but upon the length; and so the character
of the vibrations which we receive from the
stellar activities depends upon the wave length
of the vibration, and this wave length depends
upon the station or zone from which it is broad­
casted.
And finally, it must never be forgotten, that
Science is empirical, results depend upon ex­
perimentation. A physician will not tell one
that by cutting away a certain part of the brain
the memory will be destroyed, until this has
been found to be true by actual experimentation,
and likewise, statements concerning the result­
ant activities of the planets in the various
Zones, are not theories or guess work, but
the result of actual knowledge derived by ob­
servation through thousands and thousands of
experiences which have taken hundreds of years
40 YOU
to secure and classify, and what is still more
interesting, such information may be verified by
any one at any time, for you may easily secure a
natal chart and watch the effects of the planets
as they transit the zones. If you do this, you
will never again doubt the effect of Jupiter on
your financial affairs, or of Venus upon your
social and love affairs.
The greater the difficulty,
The more glory in surmounting it;
Skillful pilots gain their reputation,
From storms and tempests.
—EPICURUS.
SE C T IO N T H R E E
SE C T IO N T H R E E
Energy reveals itself in manifold phases,
according to the media through which it mani­
fests. The energy is one and identical, but it
becomes diversified as it penetrates different
substances or organisms. Infinite energy is
Ether in motion, or rhythmic vibration. Con­
sciousness, then, is the registration of the Uni­
versal Energy within a vital organism.
When the Earth is turned toward the Sun,
the direct rays agitate the nerve cells of the
body, this agitation or vibration results in
what we term consciousness.
All nerve cells possess dendrites which touch
each other and by means of which nerve cur­
rents are transmitted from one cell to another.
These currents are necessary for consciousness
and when the dendrites no longer contact these
direct rays or currents, they spontaneously grow
shorter so that they no longer come in contact
with one another and sleep results. The neurons
44 YOU
simply draw in their processes at night. To use
a popular phase, they “hang up the receiver.”
The sensory stimuli which reach us during
sleep, are not of a nature or of an intensity to
arouse conscious vibrations, but they often give
rise to dreams. Dreams of this type are illusions
pure and simple, such as are not unusual in
normal life and which are so common in many
of the neuroses. They are simply the erroneous
interpretation of actual stimuli.
The universe is regarded as composed of sev­
eral regions or planes, of which our visible
physical plane is one. The Earth and everything
are not distant globes removed from us by space,
in it, with the Sun, Moon and planets, are
situated on the physical plane. The other planes
ancient times of naming them after the states
but are situated in the “within” of space, every­
where surrounding and interpenetrating the
planes we know.
To distinguish these interior planes the ex­
pedient seems to have been accepted from very
SECTION THKEE 45
of matter with which we are familiar, earth,
water or air.
These three forms of consciousness, correspond
to the three relative rates of motion, the Sun,
the Moon and the Earth. The Earth turns upon
its axis in one day, during this time it contacts
all twelve of the great constellations, remaining
in each one for a period of two hours. We thus
receive every celestial vibration, and consequen­
tial state of consciousness.
Every human being is essentially a spark of
the “Divine Light”, the light that lighteth every
man that cometh into the world, the Divine
spark can reach the matrix of matter only by
coming into contact with the physical plane or
denser region of the material world. The unit
of consciousness, is a seed placed in the material
world, which is constantly turning and in a day of
twenty-four hours comes under the influence of
all the constellations. In Taurus the sense of
smell is developed, in Gemini the sense of touch
is developed, in Cancer the sense of taste is
developed, in Leo the sense of sight is devel-
46 YOU
oped, in Virgo and Libra the internal organs of
the brain are developed and in Scorpio the
generative forces are quickened.
Having now acquired all of his physical
senses man turns to Sagitarius where he is im­
bued with the qualities of love and devotion, he
is then carried to Capricorn, the symbol of action
and service, next comes Acquarius from which
he receives reason and intuition, and finally he^
is placed under the influence of Pisces where
he is given wisdom and understanding. ,_
Mind is a phase of transformed energy in
every form of organic matter. It is in the mole­
cule as well as in the cell. This energy, imping­
ing on the elements that compose the substances
of earth is transformed into the molecular
energy that maintains and organizes physical
substances, namely adhesion and cohesion. This
is mind in a germinal form, for the office of
molecular energy is creative and to that extent
implies a reaction in the molecule that is the
basis of thought and feeling.
SECTION THREE 47
The evolution of life from organic materials
is only one state more mysterious than the
evolution of any form of matter from another,
for in fact it is of that type, and the new changes
are little more startling than those which occur
at other levels in the chain of creation.
Every human being is a microcosmos within
himself. He is a universe of cells, each with its
individual intelligence. Within his universe,
these cells, countless in number are dying by
millions almost momentarily. The cast off phy­
sical bodies of the cells are thrown out of the
human system in waste. The life spark in each
cell immediately reincarnates and does so over
and over again as long as the human system
lasts. The intelligence of all the cells makes
up the sum total of the intelligence of the human
system.
Man has been deficient in understanding be­
cause his brain receiver did not vibrate to certain
subtle influences; the dynamic cell in gray
matter of nerve was not finely attuned and did
not respond.
48 YOU
The situation may be illustrated by a tuning
fork, which may be taken to represent indivi­
dual or personal consciousness. The fork is in
tune B flat. Place it on the piano and run the
scales up and down without sounding B flat,
and the tuning fork is unresponsive. Let the
B flat be sounded, to which the tuning fork is in
harmony, and immediately the fork vibrates.
All the notes on the piano are non-existent to
the tuning fork except the one with which it
is in accord.
Call the tones sounded by the piano sugges­
tions. The only suggestion that has any influ­
ence over the tuning fork is the one with which
its own pitch is in accord. It is not the piano,
but the pitch of the tuning fork, which deter­
mines whether or not the tuning fork shall vi­
brate. Nor does the tuning fork vibrate because
it hapens to be near some particular piano and
is affected by that piano’s peculiarities. Let the
B flat be sounded on a violin, or on a tin pan
for that matter, and the tuning fork will vibrate
just as readily. The power given to the sugges-
SECTION THREE 49
tion is not in the instrument, but in the pitch of
the tuning fork.
Suppose that some one should desire to destroy
the susceptibility of the tuning fork to the pitch
of B flat, seeing that the tuning fork vibrates
when B flat is struck on the piano—what would
be more natural than for him to conclude that
the piano alone is responsible for the behavior
of the tuning fork, and from this premise to
reason that by taking away the piano or remov­
ing the tuning fork from the sphere of the
piano’s influence, the desired end will be accom­
plished and the tuning fork, will no longer be
affected by B flat.
Nothing would be accomplished by such pro­
cedures, for the reasoning is from an erroneous
premise. The susceptibility of the tuning fork
to B flat has nothing to do with the environ­
ment, and no manipulation of environment can
have any effect. There is just one way to make
the tuning fork unresponsive to B flat, and that
is to change its pitch.
50 YOU
Personal consciousness is like the tuning fork.
It has a certain pitch. This pitch is given at the
moment of birth and the elements that go to
make up its peculiar nature, determine its points
of susceptibility to suggestion. The great range
of possible suggestions under the classifications
of heredity and environment, personality, or
race, will mean nothing to the personal con­
sciousness unless the elements or qualities are
presented which appeal to this particular con­
sciousness as real. Then personal sense will re­
spond by accepting the suggestion and manifest­
ing the characteristics of the suggestion.
There is a plane of thought constituting the
animal plane. Here are actions and interactions
which animals respond to, yet men know
nothing of. Then we have the conscious thought
plane. Here are almost limitless planes of
thought to which we may be responsive. It is
strictly the nature of our thinking that determines
to which plane we shall respond. On this plane,
we have the thoughts of the ignorant, the wise,
the poor and so on. The number of thought
SECTION THREE 51
planes is infinite, but the point is that when we
think on a definite plane, we are responsive to
thoughts on that plane, and the effect of the
reaction is apparent in our environment.
Consciousness is positive, active, changeful
and outgoing; and activity, will in action, voli­
tion, and connation are terms applicable to it.
In many cases it is only a reaction on the part
of the environment; for instance food is part
of the environment, and its rejection is a re­
action against the environment. This is some­
times called will, but it is not the same as the
metaphysical will, which is controlled from
within, uninfluenced by attractions and repul­
sions in the environment.
Relation, therefore, is the essence of this as­
pect of consciousness; and just as action may be
of two kinds, to separate and to bring together;
and just as feelings may be of two kinds, agree­
able and disagreeable; so there may be two
kinds of relation, those of similarity and dissimi­
larity.
52 YOU
It is evident that actions that separate, feel­
ings that are disagreeable, and relations of dis­
similarity are all obviously separative, indivi­
dualizing and correspond to the downward arc;
while actions that unite, feelings that are agree­
able and relations that are of similarity are
integrative and upbuilding.
Around you, as the center of it, the world
without revolves. Organized life, people,
thoughts, sounds, light, the universe itself with
its numberless millions of phenomena are sending
out vibrations toward you, vibrations of love, of
hate, thoughts good and bad, wise and unwise,
true and untrue.
These vibrations are directed toward you—by
the smallest, as well as by the greatest, the
farthest and the nearest. A few of them reach
you but the rest pass by, and as far as you
are concerned are lost.
Some of these vibrations are esential to your
health, your power, your success, your happi­
ness. How is it that they pass you?
SECTION THREE 53
Luther Burbank said: “We are just beginning
to realize what a wonderful machine is the
human brain. We are at the threshold of know­
ledge, but until yesterday we were outside. The
human race has been broadcasting and receiv­
ing, perhaps millions of years’ without knowing,
but suffering all the while from bad thoughts
sent. The radio, while but a very simple in­
strument as compared with the brain, is helping
us to understand what the brain has always
been doing.
“Those who are familiar with the radio know
what jamming means—the crowding into a
narrow wave-belt of a great many sending
stations, all operating at once. Since we are all
transmitting every time we think, it is obvious
that the jamming in wave-length belts used by
radio transmitters is as nothing compared with
the din made by a billion and a half human
brains. Din may seem to be a strange word to
use in connection with the ether over a quiet
meadow, for instance, but those who know how
to operate radio receiving sets will understand.
54 YOU
No matter how much jamming is going on, a
radio receiving set is as the grave until it is
adjusted and made resonant by establishing
harmony within it. The silence may then change
into what may seem to be almost screaming.
“With everybody broadcasting at once it fol­
lows that the ether must be the sounding cham­
ber into which is crowded every kind of human
thought. As we do not broadcast with the same
intensity, it follows that the weaker vibrations
must be drowned out by the stronger ones. Weak
thoughts must soon fall flat, while strong ones
may go to the ends of the earth. But it seems
logical to believe that thoughts, held in common
by millions may, because of their identical na­
ture, swell into a tremendous chorus, even
though the human transmitters may not indi­
vidually be very strong senders.”
We easily recognize three phases of con­
sciousness, between each of which there are
enormous differences.
1. Simple Consciousness, which all animals
possess in common. It is the sense of existence,
SECTION THEEE 55
by which we recognize that “we are,” and “that
we are where we are” and by which we per­
ceive the various objects and varied scenes and
conditions.
2. Self-consciousness, possessed by all man­
kind, except infants, and the mentally deficient.
This gives the power of self contemplation, the
effect of the world without upon our world with­
in. “Self contemplates self.” Amongst many
other results, language has thus come into
existence, each word being a symbol for a
thought or an idea.
3. Cosmic-consciousness, this form of con­
sciousness is as much above self-consciousness
as self-consciousness is above simple conscious­
ness. It is as different from either as sight is
different from hearing or touch.
Neither by simple consciousness nor by self-
consciousness can one get any notion of cosmic­
consciousness. It is not like either of them, any
more than sight is like hearing. A deaf man can
never learn of the value of music by means of his
sense of sight or touch.
56 YOU
Cosmic-consciousness is all forms of conscious­
ness. It overrides time and space, for apart
from the body and the world of matter, these
do not exist.
The immutable law of consciousness is : that in
the degree that the consciousness is developed
so is the development of power in the subjective
and its consequent manifestation in the ob­
jective.
Cosmic-consciousness is the result of the crea­
tion of the necessary conditions, so that the
Universal Mind may function in the direction
desired.
If you do not seem to grasp the application of
the law of vibration in the thought world. If
you do not know how to change the rate of
vibration. Remember that every thought changes
the rate of vibration. As you think greater,
deeper, higher and more forceful thoughts, the
brain cells are refined, they become more power­
ful and they are enabled to receive finer vi­
brations-.
SECTION THBEE 57
This is true not only in the mental world but
in the physical world. As the ear becomes train­
ed in music, it is enabled to receive finer vibra­
tions, until the trained musician can hear har­
monies of sound of which the ordinary person
is entirely unaware.
Planetary vibrations act chiefly upon the
nervous system, which is governed by, or re­
sponsive to the planet of Mercury. The nervous
system is the messenger of the mind and through
the mind is transmitted the intelligent impulses
which know how to direct the actions of the
various organs of the body so as to bring about
appropriate responses in the organs selected and
the functions involved.
If you wish to be strong, the subconscious
mind acts upon the tendency indicated and you
will unconsciousnly do those things which will
manifest strength. Every thought finds expres­
sion in the degree of its monopoly, hence, if
you very much want and desire strength you
must give the thoughts of strength form, purpose
58 YOU
and power—You must give the thought of
strength a monopoly.
The general principle by which an idea is
preserved is vibratory like all other phenomena
of nature. Every thought causes a vibration
that will continue to expand and contract in
wave circles, like the waves started by a stone
dropped in a pool of water. Waves from other
thoughts may counteract it, or it may finally
succumb of it own inanition.
Subconscious thought is received by any organ
of the body affected, and think of the mechanism
with which you are provided and which can and
does objectify the thought received. First the
millions of cell chemists ready and waiting to
carry out all instructions received. Next the
complete system of communication, consisting of
the vast sympathetic nervous system reaching
every fibre of the being and ready to respond
to the slightest emotion of joy or fear, of hope
or despair, of courage or impotence.
Next the complete manufacturing plant con­
sisting of the series of glands wherein are manu-
SECTION THREE 59
factured all the secretions necessary for the use
of the chemists in carrying out the instructions
which are given.
Then the complete digestive tract wherein
food, water and air are converted into blood,
bone skin, hair and nails.
Finally the supply department which con­
stantly sends a supply of Oxygen, Nitrogen and
Ether into every part of the being, and the
wonder of it all is that this Ether holds in solu­
tion everything necessary for the use of the
chemist, for the Ether holds in pure form, and
food, water, and air in secondary form every
element necessary for thé production of a per­
fect individual.
You are also provided with a complete equip­
ment for the elimination of waste and useless
material as well as a complete repair depart­
ment. In addition to this You have a complete
system of wireless whereby You are connected
with every other subconscious entity in existence.
60 YOU
You are not usually conscious of the opera­
tion of this wireless, but the same thing is true
concerning the operation of the Marconi System.
There may be music of every kind in the air,
but unless you make use of the amplifier, you
receive no message, and so with your subcon­
scious wireless. Unless you try to co-ordinate
the conscious and subconscious you fail to
realize that the subconscious is constantly re­
ceiving messages of some kind and just as con­
stantly objectifying the message in your life
and environment.
Try the following exercise:
Lie down quietly, relax completely, mind and
body. Breathe naturally. If the mind is at all
tense or strained results cannot be obtained.
The mind must relax for the flow of inspiration.
Sooner or later there will be a warm, magnetic
sensation throughtout the body. As you progress
you will lose the sense of the body altogether.
SECTION THREE 61
The breathing will grow less in volume. Finally
the conscious breath will cease.
You will be in the Silence; can go where you
please and return at will, you may roam in mind
through the subjective world of thought.
You will be in tune with cosmic consciousness.
You wil be in tune with the Infinite.
YOU
You are whole, perfect, strong and powerful.
You are unfettered, unbound, triumphant, free.
You are flawless, fearless, courageous, undaunted and
victorious!
You are youthful, vigorous, smiling, bouyant and
splendid.
You are active, energetic, lively, independent and
sagacious.
You are loyal, tactful, alert, contented and considerate.
You are renewed, regenerated, recreated, inspired and
transformed.
You are refreshed, invigorated, loving, harmonious and
happy—yes, wondrously happy.
You have found the elixir of life—the philosopher's
stone—the life abundant—the fountain of youth.
SE C T IO N F O U R
SE C T IO N F O U R
The only important theory which has ever
been advanced to explain the properties of
electricity is that of Faraday; which theory is
that the region surrounding charged bodies is
traversed by lines of force, the ends of which
are rigidly attached to bodies charged with elec­
tricity of opposite polarities.
Lodge regards the electron as a point charge
of disembodied electricity and nothing else,
the vibrating corpuscle being a constituent of the
atom but itself possessing no material nucleus.
He is responsible for the theory that all matter
is electrical in nature, and there are now no
physical scientists who doubt the truth of the
constitution of matter in accordance with this
theory.
The earth is a huge magnet electrified by the
sun, and the impulse, sensations, and varied
states of consciousness of every living thing
depend upon the vibrations which are constantly
being received from the planets. The planets
66 YOU
too are huge magnets, but of varying sizes and
of different constitutions, each of which is like­
wise electrified by the sun.
If a copper wire be wound spirally around a
bar of soft iron and an electric current passed
through the wire, the bar of iron will, for
the time being, be converted into a magnet. If
the bar with its spirally wound wire be balanced
on a point or hung horizontally on a thread so
that it can swing around, it will point north
and south like a permanent magnet or a mag­
netic needle.
An empty spiral of wire, one with no bar
passing through it, will behave in exactly the
same way if an electric current is sent along
the wire and it is balanced so that it can swing.
It will point north and south as long as the
current passes, and the end that points south
will be the one at which the current is travelling
around the spiral in the same direction as the
hands of a watch.
In magnetism like poles repel each other and
unlike poles attract. The north pole of a magnet
SECTION FOUK 67
will repel the north pole of a magnetic needle,
but will attract the south pole of the needle.
Because the needle is a permanent magnet,
the obvious inference from the fact of its point­
ing north and south is that the magnetism at
the north pole of the earth must be similar in
its nature and in the direction of its electric
currents to that at the south-pointing end of the
needle or of a bar magnet. Magnetic attraction
implies opposites; therefore the magnetism at
the north pole of the earth must be opposite in
nature to that of the north-pointing end of the
magnet. In fact, the earth behaves as if a great
bar magnet were thrust through its axis; the
south pole of the magnet being at the north pole
of the earth.
It follows from this that electric currents are
travelling spirally around the earth from pole
to pole. If we could look down upon the north
pole of the earth and could see these currents,
they would appear to move in the same direc­
tion as the hands of a watch; that is to say,
68 YOU
they would behave just as do the sun, moon
and planets—rise in the east, pass across the
meridian, and set in the west.
All electrical energy has its source in the
Sun, which is the center of all life, force and
energy, and represents the Positive and primal
fount of all existence. In the Sun are contained
all the colors of the solar spectrum. Every
form of existence manifesting in the solar sys­
tem is bathed in these rays from which is drawn
the life that is at the center of its existence.
The Moon represents the Negative influence,
her light being that which is borrowed from the
Sun, she having no light of her own except that
which she collects as a reflector.
We may think of the Sun as the symbol of
spirit, and the Moon of matter, the two acting
in unison as spirit-matter, or life and form.
The planets nearest the Sun are the most
active in motion. Making their revolutions
around the sun in the shortest length of time,
SECTION FOUR 69
they travel through space at the greatest rate
of speed. As we recede from the Sun toward
the orbit of Neptune, this activity of the planets
becomes gradually less. Thus mercury travels
through space at the rate of 29.3 miles per
second and accomplishes a revolution around the
Sun in about eighty-seven days; while Neptune,
the farthest removed of the planets, has a ve­
locity of about three and one-half miles a sec­
ond and requires about 165 years to make a
revolution around the Sun. Our Earth travels
at the rate of nineteen miles a second, or seventy-
five times faster than a cannon-ball.
Mercury is about 3000 miles in diameter, or
approximately three-eighths the diameter of the
Earth. Its mean distance from the Sun is
35.393.000 miles. Its orbit is the most elliptical
of all the planets, sometimes approaching within
28.153.000 miles of the Sun and at other times
removed 42,669,000 miles.
It is by nature convertible, being affected by
the planet with which it is in conjunction. When
70 YOU
apart from any other influence, Mercury is a
changeable, cold, dry and “mercurial” planet.
Those who are born under its influence are
extremely sensitive to the rise and fall in at­
mospheric pressure. The body is easily affected
by environment, and is therefore liable to feel­
ings of comfort and discomfort according to
circumstances. Physically, Mercury governs the
brain, nerves, bowels, arms and hands, mouth,
tongue and lungs. The temperament is excitable,
very quick and active, rather changeable, and
sometimes highly nervous.
Mercury has been termed “the Messenger of
the Gods,” and he seems to have the special
office of being the messenger of every other
planet to the Sun. He is the great mental ruler,
for without Mercury’s influence we should be
devoid of memory and probably of speech, and
also all other power of expression.
Mercury is therefore the great actor in life’s
drama.
The orbit of Venus, like that of Mercury, lies
within the orbit of the Earth; and, like Mer-
SECTION FOUR 71
cury, she is sometimes an evening and sometimes
a morning star. Her orbit is larger than that of
Mercury, but it never recedes more than 48 de­
grees from the Sun.
Venus accomplishes one sidereal revolution in
about 225 days. The diameter of Venus is 7510
miles; its distance from the Sun is 66,586,000
miles.
Venus is the most beautiful planet in the solar
system. Her influence is for pleasure, cheerful­
ness and affection.
Venus is decidedly a feminine planet, presid­
ing over all affairs which concern females, and
the clinging preserving, nourishing and sustain­
ing element; therefore she has the greatest in­
fluence in feminine affairs. She brings out all
of the artistic, idealistic, and musical faculties;
she presides over the higher emotions and refined
desires, as well as over the sensuous feelings.
Sentiment and pleasurable desires govern the
Venus nature, and wherever mirth, pleasure and
72 YOU
joy are found the vibrations from Venus will
be in control. Whilst the planet Venus has a
decided influence of her own, she is also affected
by the aspects from other planets, the feelings
and emotions being depressed or expanded ac­
cording to the nature of the planet with which
she is in aspect.
The typical Venus woman is well developed
in every way, of medium stature and beautiful
skin. The complexion is clear and attractive,
the eyes very bright and sparkling, inclined
to be dark blue or hazel, and full of feeling. The
color of the eyes and hair is affected by the
planets aspecting Venus. The face is smiling
and pleasant, the voice soft and sweet. The pure
Venus type of woman is irresistible in charm,
and she seems destined to draw out all the love
and affection of those around her.
Physically Venus confers beauty of form,
clearness of skin, fine hair, and firm flesh, which
is usually healthy.
Mentally she confers an appreciation of the
fine arts, but gives very little inclination for
SECTION FOUR 73
study or intellectual pursuits, those born under
her influence being guided more by their feelings
than by thought or reason. The moral qualities
are sometimes rather latent, the Venus tempera­
ment preferring to obtain its desires quickly and
easily by the most convenient methods and strict
morality, or sometimes even reason, is often dis­
regarded where these desires are in question.
The Venus disposition is cheerful, merry,
generous, light-hearted, and sometimes very
witty. Males born under Venus are affable,
courteous, kind and sympathetic, though some­
times rather effeminate. Venus governs the feel­
ing and emotions only, and these feelings and
emotions will be affected by the planets aspect-
ing or influencing Venus at the time of birth.
Mars is the first of the superior planets; and
by superior is meant that its orbit lies outside
the orbit of the Earth.
Mars rotates on its axis in twenty-four hours
and thirty-seven minutes, and accomplishes a
74 YOU
revolution around the Sun in about six weeks
less than two years.
The planet Mars is by nature hot and expan­
sive, his influence being entirely different from
that of Venus. The latter governs all that is
gentle, soft and feeling, whilst Mars governs all
that is forceful, harsh, and often unfeeling. This
planet is freer too from the influence of the
other planets, and distributes a more definite
influence of his own, Mars being representative
of the masculine sex in the same way that Venus
is representative of the feminine sex. The Mars
man is of medium height and stature, having a
round face and ruddy complexion, sharp, bright
eyes, often hazel, a good constitution and healthy
body, and a splendid masculine system.
Physically Mars governs the external genera­
tive system, the muscular system, as well as
everything in the body connected with move­
ment and action.
Mentally Mars presides over all. adventure,
enterprise and heroism. The influence of Mars
SECTION FOUB 75
is daring, combative, fearless and venturesome.
In everything where pluck, force and energy
are required the Mars man will be foremost;
always ready to defend, he will not hesitate to
attack when the situation seems to require
action.
The disposition of Mars men is generous, con­
fident and assertive; quickly angered, often act­
ing rashly and ever inclined to be headstrong,
they are first in any act of bravery, frequently
regardless of consequences.
The next planet beyond the orbit of Mars is
Jupiter.
To the naked eye Jupiter appears as a star
of the first magnitude. Its light is constant and
scintillates but rarely. This giant planet is over
85,000 miles in diameter, or about 1300 times
larger than the Earth.
The circumference of Jupiter is 268,000 miles
or more than ten times the circumference of
our Earth.
76 YOU
Jupiter is universally known as the planet of
good fortune. Every vibration of this planet is
harmonious; and all those who have entered fully
into the conditions of Jupiter are the essence of
peace, morality and justice, which last is com­
bined with sympathy and compassion. All per­
sons who come under the influence of this benefic
planet are hopeful, joyous, sincere, truthful and
genuinely warm-hearted. Jupiterian individuals
are marked by their sober, sincere, honest and
commanding appearance. They are of full stat­
ure, high forehead, and possess a luxuriant
growth of hair. There is usually a display of
true pride and dignity, which is never scornful
or arrogant, but goes well with a nature that
is benevolent and generous, anxious to do good
and to benefit others.
The influence of Jupiter is manifested in pru­
dent ambitions, in magnanimous action, and in
sympathetic feelings for the good of humanity.
The genuine Jupiterian is the most soft and
gentle, and at the same time the most manly
and noble of all dispositions. The most desirable
SECTION FOUR 77
virtues are to be found in this disposition; a
noble nature, always acting honorably, ever
grateful and genuinely courteous to all, high or
low, one which is always happy, peaceful and
sincere.
Jupiter is the “ greater fortune,” the most
benefic of planets. Without his influence there
would be no real joy. The vibrations of Jupiter
bring bliss and a desire to be helpful.
Yet farther removed from the Sun is Saturn.
Saturn is a planet differing in every way from
any of the four we have so far considered. By
nature this planet is cold, limiting, restricting
and binding. Physically, Saturn presides over
the bony structure. Those born under the in­
fluence of Saturn are usually lean, of middle
stature, narrow forehead, small eyes and pale
complexion. The hair is usually very dark and
sometimes black.
Mentally, Saturn governs the thoughtful, med­
itative tendencies, and makes the mind slow,
78 YOU
careful, methodical, patient, contemplative, re­
served and studious.
Morally, Saturn gives justice and he favors
all who are chaste, ascetic, pure-minded, frugal
and prudent.
In disposition, Saturnine persons are grave
and sober, inclined to little speech, but giving
expression to words of great weight when neces­
sary. There is a tendency toward doubt and
apprehension; but the disposition is inclined to
be faithful and constant, reliable, industrious
and perservering.
Saturn turns on its axis in ten and one-half
hours and requires nearly thirty years to com­
plete a revolution around the Sun. The mean
diameter of Saturn is about 70,100 miles, or
746 times larger than the Earth. It is 872,-
137,000 miles away, and shines as a star of the
first magnitude.
The planet Uranus strikes the highest octave
to which we of the present are capable of
SECTION FOUR 79
responding. In fact, there are a great number
of human beings who, as yet, are incapable of
answering to the Uranus vibration. Its power is
illustrated by those who today are thinking
ahead of their race, and who are not limited by
conventional laws, but who maintain their own
ideas free from personal bias and public opinion.
Physically, Uranus acts upon the nerves and
the magnetic conditions. Surrounding everyone
there is what is called an aura, which is the
magnetic field. Uranus governs that aura.
Intellectually, Uranus governs the inventive
and ingenious faculties, and favors the romantic,
bohemian and uncommon side of life, and all
qualities that are unique and original, such as
genius and intuition. This planet inclines to­
ward metaphysical studies, or those principally
concerned with the higher mind and the sub­
jective part of nature.
The disposition of those under Uranian in­
fluence is somewhat abrupt, inclined to be my-
80 y o u
stical, profound and gravely thoughtful, delight­
ing in difficult problems, ancient mysteries and
occult sciences.
After Uranus had been discovered for some
time, it was found that upon taking all known
causes into account there was still something
affecting its motion. It was suggested that this
something was another planet, more distant from
the Sun than Uranus itself; and the question
was, “Where was the planet if it existed?”
We need not be surprised that two minds,
who felt themselves competent to solve the
problem, should have independently undertaken
to find the unknown world. As far back as July
1841, we find Mr. Adams determined to investi­
gate the irregularities of Uranus. Early in Sep­
tember, 1846, the new planet had been fairly
grappled. We find Sir John Herschel remarking,
“ We see it as Columbus saw America from the
shores of Spain. Its movements have been felt
trembling along the far reaching line of our
analysis with a certainty hardly inferior to oc-
cular demonstration.”
SECTION TOUR 81
On the 29th of July, 1846, the large telescope
of the Cambridge observatory was first employed
to search for the planet in the place where
Professor Adams’ calculations had assigned it.
M. Le Yerrier in September wrote to the Berlin
observers, stating the place where his calcula­
tions led him to believe it would be found, his
theoretical place and Professor Adams’ being
not a degree apart. At Berlin, thanks to their
star maps, which had not yet been published,
Dr. Gallac found the planet very near the
position assigned by both astronomers.
The intuitive faculty and the telepathic sense,
as well as genius, are frequently of a nature
which might be directly ascribed to the planet
Neptune. Hence it would appear to be in the
nature of Neptune to augment and specialize
these faculties.
We must not, however, forget that the planets,
according to their several natures, always act in
terms of ourselves and our environment. A man
who is listless and without ambition will not
82 YOU
make bold or successful enterprises under the
transit of Mars. A man of small ideas will
account himself lucky on the receipt of an un­
expected dole. Great achievements can come
only from great minds and high endeavors.
Mars always exacts the penalty of a risk. Sat­
urn demands time in which to mature his bene­
fits. Jupiter is a planet of “ great expectations,”
and oftentimes of little performance. Neptune
dearly loves a plot or intrigue, and Uranus can
make or break, according as a man is himself
disposed to be constructive or destructive. Man
is an embodied universe. The planets are all
compounded in his being. It is that which makes
him responsive to their action.
The seven planets are the indicators of the
seven Principles which constitute the universe.
Just as the Zodiac is complete within itself,
with twelve divisions, so are the planets a com­
plete whole in the aura of the Sun, with seven
divisions.
As one ray coming from the Sun is broken up
into seven rays through the planets, so is each
SECTION FOUR 83
of the seven again broken up into millions of
separate rays, each one forming the nucleus for
a separate form of matter.
Thus all life is manifested by combining and
compounding these planetary influences.
The story of the formation of the Earth and
man, has been likened to a mighty wheel ever
slowly and inevitably turning, ever pressing on­
ward, each revolution being called an Age. As
this Wheel of life turns it carries both humanity
and the Earth through the various changes and
states of unfoldment of their interwoven yet
individual destinies.
When the physical body is conceived, it is
under the prevailing lunar influence. At the
time of “ quickening” Mars animates the body,
and the particular planet which is in the as­
cendant at the moment governs the brain and
nervous system.
When a child draws its first breath, it draws
into its system a wave of ether charged with
84 YOU
certain vibrations coming from the planetary-
spheres.
Every human being is essentially a seed of
the Divine Life, and the unfoldment of the
spiritual life within is the one aim of human
destiny.
All planetary forces reaching our globe af­
fect us physically, emotionally and intellectual­
ly, through our physical, emotional and mental
bodies. The principles of the planetary influences
as they affect humanity are neither virtues nor
vices; they are qualities common to all who
attune themselves to them. They are latent in
every human being.
The principle of Mercury is reason; of Venus
affection; of Mars energy; of Saturn endurance;
of Jupiter preservation; of Uranus constructive­
ness; and of Neptune mysticism.
The Zodiac holds in solution the various quali­
ties of matter in all its manifold forms. The
qualities are indicated by the nature of the
SECTION FOUR 85
signs, and the signs have a definite relation to
the constellations. The relationship is, how­
ever, not dependent upon the position of the
constellations any more than the nature of the
radio music is dependent upon the location of
the broadcasting station.
The human body possesses innumerable sen­
sory nerves, each of which has an “ end-organ,”
whose office is to receive stimuli from without,
transmit the vibrations to nerve centers, where
in turn they are forwarded by means of the
sympathetic system to those organs which are
responsive to each particular incoming stimulus,
causing chemical changes to take place which
give rise to sensation. Sensation produces
thoughts in kind. Thoughts determines acts.
Acts determine environment.
Before one is conscious of a sensation a
chemical change has taken place, a stimulating
vibration has been received which gave the
chemical situation an urge and a direction,
according to the character of the vibration. The
86 YOU
vibrations of Mars are positive, exciting, in­
flammatory; those of Venus are soothing, paci­
fying, cheering, the vibrations of each planet
having its own particular influence.
The influence of Mars is expansive, impulsive
and ever moving. It contains the essence of
energy, strength and motion. It is not an in­
fluence to be suppressed but rather one to be
controlled, refined and directed.
There is not a stone but has a spark of the
Martial ray in it, not a plant but feels its ani­
mating influence, not an animal that is not
moved by its energy, not a human being uncon­
trolled by its power.
The principle of Venus is love. Love in this
sense is not a mere sentimental abstraction; it
denotes rather the principle of cohesion operative
throughout the universe, the accretive faculty
that attracts whatever is in accordance with its
nature, whether it be construction or destruc­
tion. Nothing is ever lost, for in the Divine
SECTION FOUR 87
Economy creation consists in nothing but re­
creation— an exchange of the old for the new.
The influence of Jupiter is mainly social, chari­
table and religious. Jupiter is the preserving
influence of that which manifests as the objective
influence of Saturn. Saturn and Jupiter govern
the physical conditions, Mars and Venus the
emotional nature, and Mercury the mental na­
ture of the human being. The influence of Jupi­
ter is expansive; it favors expression by decora­
tion and adornment, it develops the talent for
organization, it influences the unfolding of seeds
and buds and creates a fitting environment for
the life within them. Jupiter, therefore, brings
out all that is sociable, co-operative and har­
monizing.
Every force, whether magnetic, sympathetic,
dynamic or mechanical, is a planetary vibration,
and as Jupiter is fourteen hundred times as
large as the Earth the vibrations which he im­
parts and the force which he exerts is lofty and
grand. His influence is for harmony, grandeur
and physical excellence.
88 YOU
Perhaps the most individualistic trait of the
Saturnian type is the quality of slowness or
inertia. The three qualities inherent in matter
are inertia, activity and mobility. These three
qualities are combined in varying proportions
in all types of planetary influence, but in the
case of Saturn inertia preponderates.
Those who belong to this type are slow to
move, but steadfast and unchanging in action.
They are faithful, enduring, unyielding and fixed.
This peculiarity of inertia makes the individual
slow to accept new ideas and makes him adhere
to old thoughts and methods with great tenacity.
One consequence of this type of character is that
it keeps what it gets. This is true in terms of
ideas, feelings, habits or actual property. An­
other consequence is the development of the
qualities of concrete exactitude and particulari­
zation. Saturn thus favors the expression of the
mind through form in sculpture, architecture
and physical science.
There is in Saturn the property of contem­
plation, which is traced to an innate desire for
SECTION POUR 89
all arcane wisdom and deep science. This is the
secret of Saturn’s influence as the Master Build­
er of character and destiny.
Thus we find Saturn ever willing to accept
responsibility, to accentuate it, and to trans­
mute it through the regenerating influence of
meditation and contemplation. In a like manner
the influence of Mars is frequently transmuted
into devotion, and of Mercury into wisdom.
Saturn thus ever tends to isolation and separa­
tiveness; his influence is steadily contractive,
ever tending to shape in detail by forming a
series of limitations binding the individual to
concrete principles.
On the contrary, all that is unlimited and
unbound comes under the influence of Uranus.
All metaphysical thought and advanced views
find in him a leader; in fact his influence is so
marked and romantic that once it is felt it never
can be forgotten.
90 YOU
If the philosopher who draws his influences
from Saturn is slow to think, then how much
slower is he who draws his influences from Nep­
tune, which is twice as far removed! If one wishes
to receive inspiration he must be very quiet and
for a long time. It will be recalled that when
Saint John received the Revelation he was put
off on the island of Patmos, where he would be
undisturbed. He was placed there by his ene­
mies, of course, but they could not have done him
a greater good, for here he could let his spirit
soar without being molested. It takes time to
receive inspiration, but there have been a few
men who have been willing to fast forty days in
order to be able to reap such reward.
Man is a compound of all the elements. In
his early stages the animal instinct is uppermost,
and he is conscious only of objects which appeal
of his senses. Later he learns to be conscious of
a force within, which appeals to his reason.
Finally he becomes conscious of his unity with
the entire universe. He thus passes from the
animal to the human, and finally to the divine.
SECTION FOUR 91
Solar Science is then the spiral stairway which
is destined to lead to a glorious future, for in­
stead of simply believing in authority we can
have our faith confirmed by knowledge and our
intuition supported by reason.
There comes sometimes into the field of Conscious­
ness a power of spiritual seeking, understanding and
knowing that pales all previous experiences within the
memory of the particular individual to whom it comes.
These experiences are not common, but are as old
as the Human Race; and there is no Sacred Book of
Earth’s People but that contains allusions to this
Rare State of human consciousness—which, eventually,
will become the common heritage of an advanced race.
SE C T IO N FIVE
SE C T IO N FIV E
It is the attitude that we assume toward in­
coming stimuli that suggests and determines the
direction and kind of motor discharges or bodily
reactions of all kinds. The individual who acts
upon impulse is simply following the tendency of
the stimulus; hence he often has occasion to
afterwards regret that he has done so.
“The stars incline, they do not compel.” Dur­
ing the spring quarter nature brings forth new
growth, but we may choose not to plant anything,
and it is easy to predict that with no planting
there will be a shortage of food during the fol­
lowing winter.
The wise man does not rule his stars, he rules
himself and acts in co-operation with the duly
timed operations of nature, the results proving
the wisdom of his choice.
On the other hand, we are most apt, under
adverse aspects, to feel inharmonious and to act
96 YOU
likewise, and thus bring displeasure and opposi­
tion, which produce obstacles, limitations and
difficulties.
The word “ aspect” is the term which has been
adopted to indicate the position of the planets
relative to each other, and their consequent in­
fluence upon the Earth and its inhabitants.
It will readily be seen that if Jupiter gets be­
tween Saturn and the Earth the influence of
Saturn is nullified, his vibrations do not reach
us. It will thus be seen that the planets are con­
tinually forming angles, by which they amplify
or nullify the effect which might be expected.
An aspect will find response only in those who
are attuned to receive that aspect, just as the
wireless telegraph receiver is attuned only to the
vibration of correspondingly tuned transmitters.
Hence one person may sense the working of an
aspect while his own brother may not. The phy­
sical process of the effect of an aspect is a change
in the chemical constituents of the human body
SECTION FIVE 97
so that some of the fluids are overcome, depleted
or diminished, while others may be increased.
The corresponding change in cell structure
draws the attention of the mind to a recognition
of disturbance in the body, by means of aches,
pains, sickness and weakness.
In the realm of the mind an adverse aspect of
Sun and Saturn tend to mental depression, the
extreme effect of which is melancholy, sarcasm
and resentment at apparent restraint and limita­
tions, or lack of opportunities. It also inclines
to timidity, fear, and a tendency to retrench,
quit, back down and give up the struggle. For
it is a struggle to those who are thus affected,
and many who are ill succumb because of a
preponderance of these feelings, while those who
are not strong in a business way feel that
the obstacles are too great, and so they fail
where stimulating encouragement and kindly as­
sistance from those who understand these aspects
would tide them over the period of its influence
until normal conditions again prevailed.
98 YOU
The Zodiac has been divided into twelve parts,
each division possessing a distinction of its own.
It is in these divisions of the Zodiac that the
essence radiated by the Sun is incorporated with
the gravities characteristic of the particular
position of the Zodiac through which they pass,
and every physical manifestation in the universe,
be it mineral, vegetable or animal, will express
in its nature the character of the particular divi­
sion of the Zodiac to which it is attuned.
At the moment of birth, when the child draws
its first independent breath, filling the lungs and
oxygenizing its blood with the elements of the
atmosphere which at that moment prevail, ac­
cording to the nature of the particular planetary
aspects operating at that time and place, it re­
ceives impresses or tendencies to which it is
always afterward responsive whenever like con­
ditions re-occur among the vibratory influences
of Zodiacal aspects. People respond to those
vibrations or aspects to which they are attuned
and they are immune to others.
SECTION PIVE 99
The sign which is rising at the moment of
birth is considered the natural indicator of
character, and this will give twelve distinct
types, briefly summarized as follows:
Aries. Frank and outspoken, combative, gen­
erous, assertive and impulsive, intuitive, yet
fond of reason and argument.
Taurus. Dogmatic and obstinate, fearless and
strong-willed, patient and determined; affec­
tionate.
Gemini. Dualistic and restless, intellectual
and sensational, nervous and irritable; yet kind
and generous.
Cancer. Reserved and sensitive, sympathetic
and tenacious, impatient yet persistent, impres­
sionable and emotional.
Leo. Firm and self-controlled, perservering
and ambitious; faithful, noble and generous.
Virgo. Retiring and discriminative, yet in­
genious; active, thoughtful and speculative.
100 YOU
Libra. Refined, intuitive, perceptive, ambi­
tious, artistic, sensitive and just.
Scorpio. Reserved, determined, tenacious, se­
cretive, wise, discreet, firm, proud and resentful
of injuries.
Sagittarious. Active, enterprising, frank, hon­
est, generous, sincere, impressionable, introspec­
tive and demonstrative.
Capricorn. Ambitious, penetrative, receptive,
persistent, steady, inspirational and politically
inclined.
Aquarius. Intellectual, retentive, studious,
thoughtful, diffusive, versatile, ingenious and ar­
tistic.
Pisces. Emotional, secretive, patient, medi­
tative, kind, generous, imitative, receptive, pa­
tient, and peace-loving.
Aries is the first sign of the Zodiac. The
planet Mars is the ruler of this sign; the mental
and martial instincts are here keenly alive, the
objective and formative external world being
more attractive and fascinating than the sub­
jective, internal or reflective. It is the first sign
of the intellectual trinity.
SECTION FIVE 101
Those born between March the twenty-first
and April the twenty-first are very frank, out­
spoken, venturesome, self-assertive, ambitious,
sensitive, intellectual, enterprising and enter­
taining, but are much given to over-estimate, to
imagine things to be greater—either better or
worse—than they are.
The virtue of this sign may be found in the
loyalty of those born under it, and, in their
love of truth and all that is frank, free, inde­
pendent, generous and expressive. Mentally they
are very ambitious and always full of enter­
prise, new schemes and ideas. They are remark­
able for their ability to plan and map out the
future, but they rarely develop their own ideas
fully themselves.
Taurus is the second sign of the Zodiac. All
persons born between April twenty-first and
May twenty-first, when the Sun occupies the
sign Taurus, are solid, reserved, practical, mat­
ter-of-fact, stubborn, determined, patient, plod­
ding and conservative. They are reliable, hon­
est and careful in speech and action, and com-
102 YOU
petent to hold positions where dignity and
self-reliance are necessary; hence they usually
obtain some government appointment or re­
sponsible post in which custom prevails and
where authority is well established.
This sign contains the potent energies of the
will and the desires, often concealed and sup­
pressed until great provocation releases them,
when the pent-up energies of Taurus escape
with the force of an explosion.
There is a peculiar psychic side to the prac­
tical Taurus nature, which is often developed
through the feelings becoming very deeply
moved by some exceptional experience. Thought
and feeling are very much blended and it is
difficult to tell which will be uppermost; for
Will and Desire are one in this sign, and those
who are morally developed are very intuitive,
seeking, to control the desire nature and to
purify the emotions.
Mentally, they have great power, but desire
is often stronger than the will, and we then find
SECTION FIVE 103
them expressing their mentality in a matter-of
fact manner, as they seem to delight in being
what they term “practical.” In other words,
they are more objective. They possess much
concentration and fixity of purpose, but it is
difficult to get them to energize their mind, as
they seem to love to take things easily and
often rely on their intuition more than their
reason.
All persons born within the period from May
twenty-first to June twentieth will partake more
or less of the solar influence expressing itself
through the sign Gemini. This is the third sign
of the Zodiac and the first of the airy triplicity.
It is mutable in quality, signifying duality, like
the parts of the body which Gemini governs,
such as the lungs, hands, arms, eyes and ears;
being the expressor, or vehicle and medium for
carrying out that which is active and latent
in the two foregoing signs, Aries and Taurus.
This causes all those born under its influence
to have the capacity to engage in two pursuits
at the same time, giving a love of change and
104 YOU
diversity and the special ability to adapt them­
selves to the requirements of the moment.
The stars Castor and Pollux are so close that
they have always been considered twins. They
are the most brilliant stars in the celestial sign
Gemini. For this reason Gemini is a dual sign,
ruled by the “ Twins”, and we find that the
most frequent trait of character expressed is
that of duality.
There are three chief constellations in the
celestial sign Gemini. The first, Auriga, signifies
driving power and mechanical ingenuity. The
second, Hyades, gives sympathy, which is always
associated with a watery sign. The third, Orion,
denotes curiosity for research, a disposition to
triumph over obstacles, and a love for the
beautiful. Thus the Gemini temperament will
be either practical, sympathetic or artistic, de­
pending upon the particular constellation with
which he is in tune.
Another characteristic Gemini complex is the
artistic, which expresses as a love of ornament
SECTION FIVE 105
and individuality in drawing and painting. The
Pisces sign also produces many artists, but in
that sign the talent is developed laboriously,
through an innate tendency; while the Gemini
artist, more restless and less persistent, and not
always so succesful, develops because of a love
for color and a desire for expression. The prac­
tical tendency of the Gemini also tends to di­
minish the practice of art, in spite of his artis­
tic disposition and temperament.
Gemini people are more or less inclined to­
ward intellectual pursuits, and are deeply inter­
ested in all educational work, and live more in
the mind than in the feelings. In fact, they
strive all through life to overcome feeling, en­
deavoring to reason away their sensations. This
causes them to be somewhat materialistic, ever
hovering between belief and scepticism. They
often feel that they want to be in two places
at the same time, and are not content to re­
main in one place for any length of time. More­
over, they seldom finish one thing before com­
mencing another, and this causes them to be
106 YOU
somewhat unreliable and indecisive. They have
many dual experiences, two courses of action
coming prominently into their lives, in respect
to which they have to make a choice. They are
always more or less nervous, restless and irrit­
able, which frequently causes them to worry
and become diffusive and less concentrated than
ever.
When morally developed they aspire toward a
worthy aim, and have the opportunity to live
on a plane that is neither wholely objective nor
wholely subjective, possessing the ability to see
between both modes of manifestation. But when
undeveloped morally, mind is everything and
then they require to be convinced that there
is any state of existence other than the material.
Cancer, which is in power from June twenty-
first to July twenty-first is the fourth sign of
the Zodiac, a watery cardinal sign, and the first
of the maternal trinity. This is the sign in which
feeling and emotion are stirred into activity by
external means. All persons born when the Sun
SECTION FIVE 107
occupies this sign are sensitive, timid and retir­
ing, yet tenacious. They are peculiar to them­
selves, having more noticeable and distinctive
characteristics than any other of the signs, the
principal being their conventional, yet at the
same time attractive, idiosyncracies. They love
to be noticed, but appear to be unassuming and
not eager to come forward. They are economi­
cal, conservative, retentive, romantic, psychic
and imaginative, and until understood appear
to be contrary without the least intention of
being so. Cancer persons who are morally un­
developed are mere bundles of moods and incon­
sistencies, ever wavering and hesitating where
feeling and sensation are concerned. But when
morally developed these moods unite in forming
a tenacious will or a persistent desire which car­
ries them forward to their goal either by the
exercise of tact or by persistent persuasion. They
are fond of relics, antiquities and curios and all
things associated with memories of the past.
The sign Leo, covering the period from July
twenty-first, is the fifth sign of the Zodiac, fiery,
108 YOU
fixed and royal. All persons born when the Sun
was in this sign are powerful, commanding, self-
controlled, determined, generous, ambitious and
faithful, having deep emotions. When morally
developed they are attractive and sympathetic;
but when undeveloped they are passionate and
hasty, being far too easily led by their feelings.
The main feature of this sign is faith, and
those born in it are every trustful, believing all
to be good and pure until found to be otherwise,
when they feel most keenly the realization of
their misplaced trust.
Leo individuals always aim high, and conse­
quently their ideals are rarely realized. In some
cases they are quite utopian, seeking perfection
in all things. They are rarely, if ever, secretive,
preferring frank and open dealing, even should
it entail painful consequences. When much de­
ceived or wronged they are likely to be proud
and contemptuous, but are still magnanimous
and forgiving.
The Sun placed in the sign of Leo at birth
promises much success in life through personal
SECTION FIVE 109
magnetism and power to adapt oneself to cir­
cumstances. The more self-control is developed
the greater will be the success, for then the
natural gift of intuition will act freely. Leo
people always want to be at the head of things,
as they are in possession of good organizing
power, being well able to assume authority and
command. They rule by a peculiar inner feeling
of which they are in possession and which is not
common to others, so that in this they in a
measure have the advantage over most people.
They learn much through the emotional side of
their nature, which is powerful and very deep.
The celestial sign Virgo, extending from Au­
gust twenty-second to September twenty-first,
is the sixth sign of the Zodiac, an earthy, mutu-
able sign. All persons born when the Sun is in
Virgo are practical, discriminative, critical,
methodical, industrious and intelligent. This is
the sign for the business man, the individual
who is keenly alive on the physical plane; who
does not doubt the existence of the spiritual,
but who wastes no time in dreaming or speculat-
no YOU
ing on the unseen, endeavoring to bring all things
down to the sensible matter-of-fact everyday-
world. Those born in this sign are self-possessed,
cool, careful, painstaking, cautious, and at the
same time active, tactful, alert and ingenious,
with an eye ever open to the “main chance.”
There are very few extremes in this sign,
these natives being for the most part evenly bal­
anced and cool headed. Virgo people make few
pretentions, preferring to work quietly and un­
observed. They are not anxious to obtain fame
or recognition, but act as discreetly as oppor­
tunity will allow.
Those born during the last ten days of August
are generally calculating and given to premedi­
tation, rarely, if ever, acting upon impulse. They
are retiring and often bashful, and fastidious.
Those born from September first to tenth are
more thorough. They rise in life through their
own merits. They are generally scientific and
critical, also sensitive and keenly alive to sur­
rounding conditions. They are competent reas-
SECTION FIVE 111
soners, thoughtful and persistent. Those born
between the tenth and the twentieth of the
month incline more toward a less active life,
possessing much more reserve. They are quietly
firm.
Libra, from September twenty-second to Oc­
tober twenty-second, is the seventh sign of the
Zodiac, airy, cardinal and balancing. It is the
first of the Reproductive Trinity. Those born
when the Sun is in this sign are very refined
and are great lovers of justice. They are sen­
sitive, approbative, fond of pleasure, ambitious,
generous, intuitive, harmonius, perceptive and
artistic. All persons born in this sign are well-
balanced, amiable, well-disposed and capable of
taking a dispassionate view of life. They see
both sides of a subject very clearly. They love
to be approved, working well when praised or
admired; and they generally merit approval,
being pleasant and equable persons to live with.
They have excellent perception, never failing
to observe clearly all that is going on around
them.
112 YOU
There are two extremes born under this in­
fluence; those who are pleasure-lovers, worship­
pers of form and ceremony, custom and conven­
tion; and those who are very spiritually mind­
ed, mentally refined, and keen to appreciate
unity in all things.
Those born between September twenty-second
and the end of the month are dispassionate, easy­
going, very refined, kind and harmonius. Those
born between October first and tenth are lovers
of justice, mentally clever, fond of good society,
faithful in all their attachments. Those born
between October tenth and twenty-second are
more material, but keenly intellectual and highly
appreciative of mental expression in all forms.
They make good partners, as they generally
endeavor to preserve harmony.
The celestial sign Scorpio, October twenty-
third to November twenty-first, is the eighth
sign of the Zodiac, a fixed and watery sign. All
persons born with the Sun in this sign are firm,
dignified, controlled, reserved, tenacious and
SECTION FIVE 113
magnetic. They are tactful, discreet and cau­
tious. They love approval and appreciate en­
couragement.
This sign has concealed within it more power
than most of the signs. This causes the Scorpio
person to be very shrewd and cunning when not
morally developed, and to exhibit intense pas­
sion and jealousy. Thus he is likely to be exact­
ing, suspicious and mistrustful.
Of the three types, those born between Octo­
ber twenty-third and the end of the month are
very susceptible to the influence of those around
them. They are not talkative, often shy and
bashful; but their nature changes considerably
on reaching middle age. Those born in the per­
iod from November first to tenth, inclusive, are
more talkative. They may place too much re­
liance upon the spoken words of others and suf­
fer in consequence through deception of mis­
placed confidence. They are hospitable and
kind. Those born in the period from November
tenth to twentieth are very tenacious deter-
114 YOU
mined and ambitious. They love public gather­
ings and society, but are also fond of home and
company.
Those born under the Sun in Scorpio are strong
characters, and when they overcome pride and
jealousy their power for good in the world is
enormous. As they develop they become more
intuitive.
They have strong constitutions, yet have great
internal force and recuperative power, they also
possess intuitive medical knowledge.
Financially they succeed by their keen pene­
tration and power to adapt themselves to their
environment. Theyalways do well in life, pos­
sessing the will power and determination to rise
in the world.
Marriage is very important for them, and
always beneficial, as they have remarkable
powers of attachment, and make excellent pa­
rents.
SECTION FIVE 115
Sagittarius, covering the period from Novem­
ber twenty-first to December twentieth, is the
ninth sign of the Zodiac, a fiery and mutable
sign. All persons born with the sun in this sign
are hopeful, bright and impressionable, with an
instinct for prophecy. They are active, enter­
prising, loyal, expressive and given to the dem­
onstration of affection. They are lovers of liberty
and believers in freedom of speech; and none
know so well how to find the weakest part in
another’s armor as do Sagittarius people. Never­
theless, they are straightforward, independent,
philosophical and religious in thought and prin­
ciple.
Of the three types, those born between No­
vember twenty-first and the end of the month
are very blunt and outspoken, and unwilling to
submit to any restraint or control. They are
fond of science and the practical side of life,
taking much interest in details and minute par­
ticulars. Those born between December first
and tenth are passionate, generous, open and
free, fond of argument, high-minded and inde-
116 YOU
pendent, possessing a love of religious and philo­
sophical studies. Those born between the tenth
and the twentieth are more self-willed and at
times independent and indifferent, fond of com­
bat and militant in spirit, with a penetrative
mind and ready wit.
The mental side of life appeals greatly to the
Sagittarian, who is always more or less philoso­
phical, though sympathetic.
The nature of these persons is hopeful and
joyous even in advanced years, and although
sometimes disturbed their disposition is gener­
ally calm. They are simple in their mode of
life, and above all things delight in independ­
ence, and will sacrifice everything rather than
be under restraint. They fret exceedingly in
unsympathetic surroundings. They are watchful
and distrustful of others, even of themselves,
which sometimes leads to deception whilst try­
ing to avoid it. They love truth, peace and jus­
tice. They are complex and difficult to gauge,
and fond of theology and spiritual subjects, but
inclined to be visionary.
SECTION PIVE 117
The celestial sign Capricorn, from December
twenty-first to January nineteenth, is the tenth
sign of the Zodiac, a cardinal and earthy sign.
All persons born when the Sun is in this sign are
ambitious and fond of building high ideals of
physical splendor and perfection. They are
economists, thrifty, perservering, reserved, dip­
lomatic and profound. They are industrious,
painstaking, slow and cautious, rarely proud or
too independent, but having, nevertheless, a fair
amount of self-confidence. They are rarely dem­
onstrative or fond of display, and generally are
sincere and plain-spoken.
The character of those born under Capricorn
is very decided. Their mentality manifests as
studiousness, carefulness, thoughtfulness, ability
for scientific research, reflection and meditation.
The health and constitution of those born
under the Capricorn influence are affected pri­
marily by the Sun, which is the life-giver. T his
sign is a retentive sign, and enables those who
are born under its influence to cling to physical
118 YOU
life as long as it is possible, and they usually
live much longer than those born under any
other sign, often reaching the age of ninety to
a hundred years, and at the same time preserv­
ing all the faculties and senses to the end.
All persons fully under its influence are am­
bitious, careful, thoughtful, prudent, reserved,
energetic, perservering, powerful and enduring.
The celestial sign Aquarius, January twentieth
to February eighteenth, is the eleventh sign of
the Zodiac, a fixed airy sign. All persons born
with the Sun in this sign are difficult to under­
stand. They are quiet, unobstrusive, patient,
faithful, humane and kind. They love nature,
music, art and literature, the intellectual and
refined side of life appealing to their humani­
tarian sense of equality. They are intuitive,
honest and well meaning, of a studious and
thoughful nature, bent upon fathoming the mys­
teries of nature.
This sign belongs to the airy triplicity, hence
is concerned with the mental region of the
Zodiac.
SECTION FIVE 119
Humanity has not reached that stage when
all the qualities that are to be made manifest
through the sign Aquarius can be developed.
There are very few who completely express the
individual characteristics of this sign in our
present day, but those who have evolved to
where they can express their individual nature,
are very determined, patient, quiet and faith­
ful persons. They are philosophical, humanitar­
ian, and exceedingly refined, and they make ex­
cellent researchers and scientific writers.
Mentally, they are cautious, steady, intelligent,
discriminative, concentrative, studious and
thoughtful, and when they give their minds to
study they can extract more from a subject
than any of the other airy signs. There is a
tendency for them to live more mentally than
physically, and everything belonging to the men­
tal world appeals to them. They usually have a
strong healthy constitution, but if they become
too concentrative or follow a sedentary life then
there is danger of trouble arising from the de­
fective circulation.
120 YOU
They succeed best as artists, designers, musi­
cians, inventors, electricians, writers and in any
employment where steady faithful concentrated
work is necessary.
The planet Saturn is their ruler, but it is the
metaphysical side of Saturn—which governs the
contemplative and meditative qualities. All per­
sons under the Aquarian influence are more or
less excellent students of human nature, and
their quiet, silent, thoughtful manner always
inspires confidence when they are understood by
those with whom they come in contact.
The celestial sign Pisces, from February nine­
teenth to March twentieth, is the last sign of the
Zodiac, a mutable, watery sign. All persons born
with the Sun in this sign are very receptive,
mediumistic and impressionable. They are not
determined nor positive, but persistent, persuas­
ive and emotional..J h ey are very patient, and
do not willingly complain. They are imitative,
peaceful, sympathetic and generous.
SECTION FIVE 121
In this sign there are to be found two ex­
tremes; but Pisces being a dual sign, these indi­
viduals often express both these opposite sides
of their character, and hence are not easily-
understood. They are quite alert and willing
to take upon themselves any responsibility if
it is to serve a good and useful purpose}
This sign confers upon those under its influ­
ence a peculiarly intuitive, receptive condition,
which enables them to internally sense and un­
derstand things in a totally different way from
that of other signs. In character, Pisces people
are somewhat over-restless and anxious, and
there is a great deal of indecision; but they are
able to sense the surrounding conditions, and
possess a kind of psychic tendency. The emo­
tions are very strong and are likely to be very
much aflected by those with whom they come
in contact.
Mentally they are changeable and imagina­
tive, and are always more or less fond of ro­
mance, but they possess that peculiar under-
122 YOU
standing that is not acquired from actual learn­
ing, and seem to know things in a strange
manner^ They are rarely at a loss to explain
conditions, and have often been termed “walk­
ing encyclopedias.” There is one special char­
acteristic which is a distinctive feature of their
sign and that is their hospitality and their great
love of dumb animals.
Physically the constitution seems to be easily
upset through worry and by being over-anxious
and too restless.
All those born in this month appear to be
inspirational, and for the most part live in their
feelings and emotions. Some of the noblest
characters may be found in this sign.
Get but the truth once uttered and ’tis like a star,
new born, that drops into its place, and which, once
circling in its placid round, not all the tumult of the
earth can shake.—James Russell Lowell.
SE C TIO N SIX
SE C T IO N SIX
Most of us are dead to the wonderful truth
outlined in the sky. Truths more wonderful,
more glorious than any tale of mystery or ro­
mance, truths that are continually spread be­
fore us in Nature’s great book.
The Greeks mapped out the geography of the
heavens which is now used more than 1400 years
before Christ. Ptolemy recorded no less than
forty-eight of the largest and best known con­
stellations of stars, more than 600 years previous
to this, and remember that the telescope was
invented only 400 years ago.
Our painted American savages, the Arab in
the desert, the simple children on the banks of
the Nile, the wild men of the Islands of the sea
have all been more observant of the mystery hid
in the stars, than we as a people are today.
The solar system, from the highest spiritual
point down to the lowest physical, is one vast
126 YOU
organized whole! nowhere dead, nowhere uncon­
scious, nowhere useless, nowhere accidental; but
carefully gathered, ordered, and supervised to
express the indwelling life and intelligence of
its Creator and to subserve His plans. In fact,
it is one gigantic Being, throbbing with vitality
and consciousness.
The distance of stars from us is so great that
it conveys no impression on the mind to state
them in miles, some other method, therefore,
must be used, and the velocity of light affords
us a convenient one. Light travels at the rate
of 186,000 miles a second, and by using this as
a measuring rod, we can form a better idea of
the distance of stars. Thus, the nearest star,
Alpha Centauri is situated at a distance which
light requires three and a half years to traverse.
On the average, light requires fifteen and a
half years to reach us from a star of the second
magnitude, forty-three years from a star of the
third, and so on, until, for stars of the twelfth
magnitude, the time required is 3500 years.
SECTION SIX 127
How have astronomers ascertained that the
star nearest to our solar system is twenty-five
trillion miles away? The diameter of the Earth’s
orbit is 186,000,000 miles; that is to say, that
in six months from today the earth will be on
the other side of the sun and therefore 186,-
000,000 miles away from its present position.
Now, if we photograph the stars today, and six
months from now we photograph them again,
the second photograph will show that some of
the stars have shifted their position ever so
slightly with regard to all the rest of the stars.
The reason for this shift is easily understood
by comparing the stars to a line of lanterns at
night. If you stand just a little way off from
that line, you will see the lanterns as so many
points of light all close together; but if you walk
off at right angles for a little distance, you will
see them somewhat separated from each other
and the nearest ones will appear to be separated
from each other more than the farthest ones.
This is termed parallax. The earth in altering
its position by 186,000,000 miles shows us paral-
128 9 YOU
laxes which, for the nearest stars, are great
enough for the astronomer to use in calculating
their distances. If he can measure the parallax
of a star it is then a slight matter to calculate
the distance of that star from the earth.
The telescope on Mount Wilson, California, is
100 feet in diameter, it took seven years to grind
the disk, which is coated with silver, the disk
alone weighs four and one half tons. It does
not magnify as is commonly supposed, but simply
gathers the light and brings it to a focus, in
this case, the reflection is 250,000 times that of
the human eye, and enables us to penetrate 400
times further into space.
Any magnification may be used in the eye­
piece, a magnification power of from 3,000 to
6,000 is generally used in viewing the planets.
A great clock work motor is used to counteract
the apparent motion of the heavens caused by
the rotation of the Earth. The movement of
this motor is so accurate that a star will remain
in the same point in the eye piece as long as
may be desired.
SECTION SIX 129
The sun and his family of planets revolve
around a central sun, which is millions of miles
distant. It requires something less than 26,000
years to make one revolution. His orbit is called
the Zodiac, which is divided into twelve signs,
familiarly known as Aries, Taurus, Gemini,
Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius,
Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces. It requires our
Solar System a little more than 2100 years to
pass through one of these signs, and this time
is the measurement of an Age or Dispensation.
Because of what Astronomers call “the preces­
sion of the Equinoxes,” the movement of the
sun through the signs of the Zodiac is in order
reverse from that given above.
For some years past the Solar System, which
includes our planet earth has been entering the
zodiacal sign Aquarius. An airy, mental, elec­
trical sign, which inclines to metaphysical, psy­
chological, progressive and changed conditions;
co-operative and equalizing in its influence. It
conduces to invention, interest in aerial matters,
means of transit, means of communication, of
130 YOU
education, of hygiene and of new forms of
government.
Its planetary ruler is Uranus, called “The
Reformer,” who destroys but to rebuild better
anew. It is Uranus that “ makes old things
pass away, that all things may become new.”
It conduces to liberty, freedom and expression.
It has been called the humane sign.
_The twelve signs are alternately positive and
negative in their nature^ each contains a certain
specialized influence of its own, having a ruler
from which the nature of its influence is ob­
tained. The Sun radiates energy to every mem­
ber of its solar family. As the central figure
among the planets, its position indicates the
sphere of activity in which the individual will
meet with greatest success and is the essential
impulse and driving force that urges him to it.
The Sun is the ruler of all life, the Moon is
the giver of all form, and as life manifests
through form, the relationship of the Sun and
Moon is inseparable, and it becomes the task of
SECTION SIX 131
every one to subject the Moon or form side of
his existence to the Sun or life side, and the
degree of success which he attains in doing this,
will be the measure of his ability to rule his
stars.
As the Sun is the Life-giver of the Solar
System and the heart is the Life-giver of the
Body, it is easy to see why the Sun’s influence
is the greatest in the nativity of Man, as it
operates directly through the heart.
The influence of the Moon is greatest in the
first half of life, and the influence of the Sun is
the greatest in the second half.
Every planet has definite characteristics which
impress themselves upon the child at birth. This
is due to the electrostatic condition of the at­
mosphere at the time of the child’s first inspira­
tion of air, by which a vital change takes place
in the nature of the blood. For this reason those
who are born under the influence of a particular
planet portray the characteristics of that planet
132 YOU
most strongly in their mental temperament, and
this finds reflection in both motive and action.
In addition to the influence of particular plan­
ets there is the influence of the various constel­
lations. They are usually divided into Cardihal
Fixed and Mutable signs. The Cardinal will
make the character acute, active, restless, as­
piring and changeable. The mutuable, indif­
ferent, slow, vacillating and hesitating, yet tract­
able and impressionable. The fixed will make
it determined, decisive, firm, ambitious and
unbending, slow to move, yet irresistible when
started.
The constellations easily fall into the following
divisions—
Cardinal—Aries—Cancer—Libra— Capricorn
Fixed—T aurus—Leo—Scorpio—Aquarius
Mutable—Gemini—Virgo—Sagittarius—Pisces
The influence of the (jardinai sign is to stir
the latent forces into action promote change and
create initiative.
SECTION SIX 133
The influence of the fixed sign is for stability.
The individual may be slow and plodding, but
he will be persistent; he will know no defeat; he
will concentrate upon one point and pursue
it to the end; his zeal will be almost fanatical.
._The influence of the mutable sign is flexibility
and change. This influence is purely mental or
spiritual and gives purpose and incentive to
action.^
The cardinal type therefore is active, the mu­
table type restless, and the fixed type rigid. As
material success depends upon action, the im­
portant factors in the world’s work are derived
from this type.
As stability is a necessary factor in important
industrial undertakings the fixed type frequent­
ly share the material and financial success with
the cardinal type. The mutable type is, how­
ever, adverse to effort; they want adventure,
change, travel;_they are therefore the promoters,
who bring manufacturer and inventor togetherp
134 YOU
they are the vendors and middleman and the
agents who negotiate between buyer and seller.
They are also the sensitives, and react more
keenly to the experiences of life; they carry the
heavier burden because they feel more. They
participate in the issues of life to a greater de­
gree because they carry not only their own
burden, but the burdens of those around them.
The greater possibilities of inner unfoldment,
understanding and development are always with
the sensitive. The sensitive uses not only
reason, but imagination, vision, intuition and
insight.
. The fixed types are usually the materialists
who are content with objective possessions and
attainments. They use their reason and are
interested in that only which can be measured
or can be seen, felt, and handled. They are the
doers rather than the dreamers and are utterly
stable; they fill many responsible positions with
great success and are valuable members of
society.
SECTION SIX
d
135
Neither type is superior, they are simply dif- /
ferent both are necessary.
The fixed signs represent something ingather-
ed, collected together, accumulated and relative­
ly unified; something definite and uniform; a
centre of power and possibility, relatively quies­
cent and unchanging in itself receiving, from out­
side and giving back again when required. They
resemble violent explosives, which are inert while
they are undisturbed, but contain large stores
of energy locked up within them, and produce
sudden and violent effects when stimulated to
liberate it.
The cardinal signs are always on the surface,
never inert, never still, full of activity, ever
busy and changing, they attract most attention
in the world.
The mutable signs are intermediate between
the two extremes, fluctuate between them, and
can ally themselves with either, but they are
never so steadfast as the one nor so active and
136 YOU
open as the other. In accordance with this it
may be noted that three out of the four mutable
signs are described as “ double.”
In terms of character as applied to the aver­
age man of today. Fixed signs indicate persons
in whom feeling, desire, or emotion is strong in
one or more of the many forms this phase of
consciousness can assume, it may be selfish or
unselfish according to the impression given their
being at the moment of birth by the planetary
vibrations prevailing at that time and place.
Such persons are averse to change, and have
settled views and habits that are very difficult
to alter whether good or bad. They vary from
the patient and enduring to the obstinate and
determined. They sometimes follow one occu­
pation or way of life for a long time without a
change. They make faithful friends and un­
relenting enemies.
Cardinal signs signify persons who are full of
activity, either of body or mind, often of both.
SECTION SIX 137
They are restless, busy, venturesome, daring,
bold, can cut out paths in life for themselves;
are innovators, pioneers, abandoning the old and
seeking after the new. They are self reliant and
ambitious; often make noticeable, popular, or
notorious figures in their sphere of life; may be
found occupying public positions, or exercising
authority over others. They are generous and
impulsive, move and act quickly. They have
not the plodding perserverance of the fixed signs,
but can work hard and quickly, and achieve
much in a short time. They seek rather to
mould circumstances to their will than to adapt
themselves to circumstances as do natives of
mutable signs, or to overcome by dogged per­
sistence as the fixed signs can. They are quick
both to love and hate, easily make both friends
and enemies, but their feelings may change as
quickly. Activity is the keynote of their char­
acter, no matter in what channel it may run,
whether practical, emotional, or intellectual and
whether for good or evil.
' Mutable signs are more difficult to delineate,
Adaptability may perhaps express their mean-
138 YOU
_ inS- In the practical affairs of life the natives
of these signs show neither the activity that
moulds circumstances to their will, characteris­
tic of cardinal signs, nor the perseverance and
endurance of the fixed signs, but rather seek to
gain their ends by adapting'themselves to cir­
cumstances by intelligent discrimination and the
avoidance of extremes. jThey take the circuitous
path when the direct road is not open, and
sometimes even when it is open. This tendency
shows itself in a great variety of ways. They
can adapt themselves to the habits and moods
of other people, they can easily see both sides
of a question, and can honestly sympathize with
„T-'ii6 contradictory opinions and principles. In
the sphere of the emotions this may make them
sympathetic, humane, and charitable, and lovers
of peace and quietness. ^Intellectually it may
give a very impartial, subtle, penetrating and
discriminating min They are to some extent
'X
natural managers, messengers, travellers, or in­
termediaries, in a general sense; interpret or
express the feelings and ideas of others, make
SECTION SIX 139
writers and speakers of all grades, from clerk
to author, from lawyer to preacher.
In the individuality, the cardinal signs give
executive ability, and action that is unifying in
nature and in accordance with divine law; the
mutable signs cognize likenesses, synthesis, and
draw together ; and the fixed signs give stability
and realization of the unity underlying apparent
separateness.
These signs may be further differentiated as
follows:
EARTHY— Practical and material, commer­
cial, intellectual and scientific.
W ATERY— Emotional and plastic, sympa­
thetic and resolvent; reproductive.
AIRY—Refined and artistic, given to ab­
stract ideas.
FIERY—Spiritual and idealistic, energizing
and creative.
They are divided as follows:
Earthy— Taurus— Virgo— Capricorn
140 YOU
Fiery—Aries— Leo—Sagittarius
Airy— Gemini—Libra—Aquarius
W atery— Cancer— Scorpio—Pisces
Earth is the lowest and outermost of the states
of matter, the most differentiated limited and
complex, and the farthest removed from the
state of pure spirit. In its reference to a cosmic
plane, it signifies the physical plane; as a state
of matter it means the solid; in reference to
man it means the physical body; as a state of
consciousness it represents action, doing, voli­
tion, as distinguished from feeling or thinking.
Persons in whose nativity the Earth is pre­
dominant show as many modifications and
classes as do natives of other elements; but they
are generally practical matter-of-fact people of
the world who are better at doing than at think­
ing or feeling; or who try to reduce thought and
emotion to practical application.
They may be said to be natural executants,
but their service varies from that of the Prime
Minister, who is a servant of a Kind, to the
SECTION SIX 141
Clerk, the shop assistant, and the laborer; and
they range from the wise to the foolish,
from the actively ambitious, selfish or unselfish,
to the passive, inert, and unenterprising.
♦
Water, as a state of matter, means the liquid
state. In its application to a cosmic plane, it
signifies the next interior one to the physical;
called variously the astral or psychic plane; it
expresses consciousness through feelings, emo­
tions, desires, instincts, passions, intuitions; and
those who are born under it show both the
strength and the weakness of this side of human
nature. They vary from the sympathetic, affec­
tionate, charitable, imaginative, sincere, and reli­
gious to the indolent, luxury-loving, passionate,
selfish, listless and inert.
Air as a state of matter means the gaseous
state; it corresponds to sunset, and expresses con­
sciousness through thought and understanding.
Those who are born under airy signs show many
and various gradations of intellect, from the
literary to the scientific from the metaphysical
142 YOU
to the poetic, from the busy, practical, and exe­
cutive to the profound, comprehensive and
solid. The imagination, whether expressed
through poetry, music or art seems to belong
partly to the air and partly to either fire or
water.
Fire corresponds to sunrise and to individuali­
zation. People coming under fire signs are im­
pulsive, energetic, enthusiastic, positive, impet­
uous, and active. They seem to resemble the
natives of watery signs more than those of earth
or air, for they live more in the feelings, emo­
tions and passions than in the intellect. In so
far as it is represented by the sun, fire may
stand for the energizing and all permeating life
of the Universe everywhere, the main-spring of
all evolution, all progress.
This, then, is the laboratory in which Nature
is forever combining the spiritual forces which
result in the infinite diversity on every side,
for “All are parts of one stupendous whole.”
SE C T IO N S E V E N
SE C T IO N S E V E N
Energy is a mode of motion, and we are
conscious of motion by its effect only. This
effect, if transmitted to the brain through the
vehicle of the eye, makes itself known as light;
if it impinges upon the ear, we know it as
sound.
Whether this energy shall reach the eye or
the ear, depends upon the length and frequency
of the vibrations.
Radio waves vibrate from 10,000 to 30,000,000
times a second; heat and light waves much
faster. Radio waves are therefore extremely
long, heat waves shorter and light waves still
shorter.
The length of a wave depends upon its fre­
quency, that is, the number of waves which pass
a given point in one second.
We may compare electrical or radio waves
to the bass note of a musical scale. As we go up
146 YOU
the scale the waves become shorter and shorter
and the frequency higher and higher, until they
produce the sensation of heat. If the frequency
is increased visible light waves will appear.
As the frequency is increased, the sensation of
light is finally lost; here we contact the ultra­
violet or X-ray. As it still further increases we
no longer are conscious of the vibrations but
know them by their effect only.
When the frequency is more than 38,000 vi­
brations per second, the ear cannot recognize
sound; when 400,000,000,000,000 vibrations have
been reached we perceive the sensation of light,
and as the vibrations gradually increase the eye
perceives one color after another, until violet is
reached with its 75,000,000,000,000 vibrations a
second.
Every phenomenon in nature is what it is, by
virtue of the rate of motion or vibration.
We speak of the sun as “rising” and “setting,”
though we know that this is simply an appearance
SECTION SEVEN 147
of motion. To our senses the earth is apparently
standing still. We speak of a bell as ringing,
and yet we know that all that the bell can do
is to produce vibrations in the air. When these
vibrations come at the rate of 16 a second they
are then frequent enough to set the tympanic
membrane in motion from which the vibration
is transmitted along a nerve to the brain, where
- it is registered as “ sound.” It is possible for
the mind to hear vibrations up to the rate of
38,000 a second. When the number increases
beyond this all is silence again. So we know
that the sound is not in the bell, but is in our
own mind.
We speak and even think of the sun as “ giving
light.” Yet we know that it is simply giving
forth energy which produces vibrations in the
ether at the rate of four hundred trillion a
second, causing what are termed light waves,
so that what is called light is simply a mode of
motion, and the only light that there is, is the
sensation produced in the mind by the motion
of these waves. When the number of vibrations
148 YOU
increases the light changes in color, each change
being caused by shorter and more rapid vibra­
tions; so that although we speak of the rose
as being red, the grass as being green, or the
sky as being blue, we know that these colors
exist only in our minds, and are the sensation
experienced by us as the result of a particular
rate of vibration. When vibrations are reduced
below four hundred trillion a second they no
longer affect us as light, but we experience the
sensation of heat.
Scientific observations have shown that the
earth’s temperature declines one degree at the
height of 100 feet above the earth’s surface, and
that there is a difference in temperature corres­
ponding to each 100 feet; and it has been assum­
ed that beyond a certain radius from the earth’s
surface— beyond its atmosphere—dense dark­
ness, with corresponding density of cold, reigns
supreme.
The French aviator Jean Callizo, who holds
the world’s record, and attained a height of
SECTION SEVEN 149
40,820 feet, said that the last observation which
he could make of his thermometer showed a
temperature of 58 degrees below zero, but soon
the mercury sunk out of sight below the arma­
ture, so that he had no means of knowing how
cold it became. Notwithstanding the fact that
he wore four pairs of gloves, paper, silk, wool
and leather, his fingers became numb.
If the sun gave light and heat as many sup­
pose all space would be flooded with light, there
would be no night, because the entire orbit in
which the earth moves would be filled with
light. No star would be visible because the
stars are not visible in the light.
The sun is 93,000,000 miles away from the
earth. It is a great dynamo 866,000 miles in
diameter. It sends electro-magnetic currents
throughout all solar space, which is something
like six billions miles from end to end. It turns
on its axis like the planets, and is but one of
thousands of similar systems of suns and planets,
many of them much greater in extent, all of
150 YOU
As we ascend from the Earth, the atmos­
phere becomes more rare, and there is conse-
them moving forward in space and all revolving
around one common center.
It is clear, then that instead of giving light
and heat the sun gives forth electrical energy
only. This energy contacts with the atmosphere
of the earth in the form of rays. As the earth
is revolving at the incredible speed of more
than a thousand miles an hour at its circum­
ference, the atmosphere coming in contact with
the electric rays of the sun becomes incandes­
cent, causing the sensations of light and heat.
As the earth revolves at a constantly de­
creasing speed as we reach the poles, the fric­
tion becomes less and less and so we find less
light and less heat as the poles are reached,
until at the poles there is little light and
no heat. What we know as light therefore
appears only in the atmosphere, and not out­
side of it, and in that part of the atmosphere
only which is turned toward the sun.
SECTION SEVEN 151
quently less friction, and therefore less light
and less heat.
As the direct rays of electrical energy from
the sun reach only that part of the earth which
is turned toward the sun, light appears on that
side only. The other side of the earth being
turned away from the sun there is no friction
and consequently no light, but as the earth turns
upon its axis the atmosphere gradually comes
into direct contact with the electrical rays from
the sun and light appears. The more direct the
rays are which strike the earth the stronger
the friction, the brighter the light and the
greater the heat. This solar phenomenon we
call morning, noon and night.
A man sees because of the activity of the
Optic Nerve, by which light vibrations are
communicated to the Sensorium, where they
produce the images of things. This Sensorium
is the corresponding center in the Brain which
is energized by a force connected with the lum­
iniferous ether; hence the act of seeing is identi-
152 YOU
cal with the making of the image of the thing
seen. In fact, what we see is the image and
not the object.
A reflex is an involuntary act. When light,
which is radiant energy, strikes the eye, the
pupil contracts. These animal reflexes exceed in
sensitivity any apparatus yet devised by man.
The retina of the eye is 3,000 times more
sensitive than a photographic plate. The sense
of smell surpasses in fineness the most impres­
sionable scientific instruments. The lungs ante­
date the bellows, the heart, the pump, the hand,
the lever; and the eye, the photographic camera.
Telephonic and telegraphic apparatus dupli­
cate mimetically what has always been done by
the nervous system and always by aid of the
same energy.
Scientists make use of the word Ether in speak­
ing of the substance “ in which we live and move
and have our being;” which is omnipresent,
which interpenetrates everything, and which is
SECTION SEVEN 153
the source of all activity. They use the word
Ether because Ether implies something which
can be measured, and so far as the materialistic
school of science is concerned anything which
cannot be measured does not exist. But who
can measure an electron? And yet the electron
is the basis for all material existence, so far as
we know at present.
A number of electrons equal to twenty-five
million times the population of the earth must
be present in the test tube for a chemist to
detect them in a chemical trace. About 125
septillions of atoms are in a cubic inch of lead.
And we cannot come anywhere near even seeing
an atom through a microscope!
Yet the atom is as large as our solar system
compared to the electrons of which it is com­
posed.
All atoms are alike in having one positive
central sun of energy around which one or more
negative charges of energy revolve.
154 YOU
The diameter of an electron is to the diam­
eter of the atom as the diameter of our earth
is to the diameter of the orbit in which it moves
around the sun. More specifically, it has been
determined that an electron is one-eighteen-
thousandth of the mass of a hydrogen atom.
It is clear therefore that matter is capable of
a degree of refinement almost beyond the power
of the human mind to conceive. We have not
as yet been able to analyze this refinement be­
yond the electron, and even in getting thus far
have had to supplement our physical observa­
tion of effect with imagination to cover certain
gaps.
From all this it is plain that the electron, is
merely an invisible mode of motion—a charge of
electrical energy.
Light is then a mode of motion. For it results
from the oscillation of the infinitesimal particles
that impinge on the cells and awaken the trans­
muted motion which we call seeing.
SECTION SEVEN 155
The solar fluid is also the medium for the
transmission of the potencies organized by the
various planets, it holds in solution the basic
elements of life, it is the only possible fluid
which is sufficiently subtle to carry the delicate
vibrations which are constantly being broad­
casted over the radio, and which penetrate iron,
wood, steel and every other barrier, and which
are not limited by either time or space.
The movement of the planets cause vibra­
tions in the ether, the nature of the vibrations
which they send depend upon the particular
nature of that planet, as well as its ever chang­
ing position in the zodiac. These emanations
are constantly being impressed upon all the
worlds of our system by the perfect conductivity
of the solar ether.
Throughout the entire Universe the law of
cause and effect is ever at work. This law is
supreme; here a cause, there an effect. They can
never operate independently. One is supplemen­
tary to the other. Nature at all times is en-
156 YOU
deavoring to establish a perfect equilibrium.
This is the law of the Universe and is ever ac­
tive. Universal harmony is the goal for which
all nature strives. The entire cosmos moves
under this law. The sun, the moon, the stars
are all held in their respective positions be­
cause of harmony. They travel their orbits,
they appear at certain times in certain places,
and because of the precision of this law, astrono­
mers are able to tell us where various stars will
appear in a thousand years. The scientist bases
his entire hypothesis on this law of cause and
effect. Nowhere is it held in dispute except in
the domain of man. Here we find people speak­
ing of luck, change, accident, and mishap; but
is any one of these possible? Is the Universe
a unit? If so, and there is law and order in
one part, it must extend throughout all parts.
This is a scientific deduction.
Ether fills all interplanetary space. This more
or less metaphysical substance is the elementary
basis of all life and matter.
SECTION SEVEN 157
Matter in motion represents kinetic energy.
Ether under strain represents potential energy,
and all of the activities of the material universe
consist of alterations from one of these forms of
energy to the other.
The movement of the planets represents kinetic
energy, matter in motion. For instance Uranus
is a mass of matter, more than one hundred
thousand miles in circumference, this tremen­
dous amount of material substance is driving
through the Ether at the rate of four miles
a second, as it has a diameter of 34,800 miles
it puts at least 34,800 miles of Ether under
strain, driving it forward with a velocity of 4
miles per second, and what is of still more
importance the planet is not only moving for­
ward, but is revolving upon its axis, it will
then, not only push the ether forward but will
twist it into spiral form, these spiral vibrations
are potential energy.
Uranus enters the sign of Aries in the spring
of 1927. Aries is a cardinal fiery sign, those who
158 YOU
come under the influence of this sign are ambi­
tious, versatile, enterprising, forceful, determin­
ed, headstrong, impulsive, fiery and quick tem­
pered.
Mars is the normal ruler of the sign and
brings enterprise, daring, energy and progress.
But the vibrations from Uranus create an
abnormal situation, enterprise will be converted
into strife, daring into friction, energy into ac­
cident, ambition into enmity, construction into
destruction. The powerful electrical vibrations
from Uranus, contacting the fiery vibrations
of Aries will have a tendency to break down
existing conditions, and in so doing bring about
fractures, dislocations, sudden catastrophies,
alienations, ruptures and separations.
All that is unlimited and unbound comes
under the influence of Uranus. His mission is to
awaken and revivify, remodel and renew the life
of those who come under his magic power.
Swift and unexpected, he brings thunderbolt
catastrophes and experiences unthought of, for
SECTION SEVEN 159
with him indeed it is: “ The unexpected that
always happens.”
He waits to afflict, but out of his evil always
comes good. He gives no warning as to the
nature of his lightning-like cataclysms, but
comes laden as it were, with a mixture of colors,
the hues of which are peculiarly interwoven with
the color of the vibrations with which he meets.
We may then expect to find a great conflict
of natural forces during the next few years,
storms, disasters, unseasonable weather, with the
consequent destruction of life and property.
These are the natural and inevitable results of
the conflict of unseen forces, and there seems to
be no way of evading or avoiding the result of
this invisible warfare.
But unfortunately the result does not stop
here, the vibrations reach the minds of men
and act upon the impulses and emotions, and
unless the affairs of the nation are in the hands
of men who recognize the danger and know
160 YOU
how to modify, adjust or control the situation,
the result is war.
War is simply the result of ignorance and
prejudice, try to visualize the result of this lack
of knowledge concerning natural laws, can you
realize the situation, think for a moment, see
the army of the dead pass in review, the great­
est army ever gathered together in the history
of the world, men from Germany, men from
France, from Italy, from England, from Belgium,
from Austria, from Russia, from Poland, from
Rumania, from Bulgaria, from Servia, from
Turkey, yes and from China, Japan, India, New
Zealand, Australia, Egypt and America, on they
go, silently, noiselessly, for the dead are very
quiet, marching all day long and all the next
day and the day after, still they come, day
after day, week after week and month after
month, for it would take months for this army
of ten million men to pass any given point.
All dead and dead only because a few men in
high places did not know that force can always
be met with equal or superior force; they did not
SECTION SEVEN 161
know that a higher law always controls a lower
law, and because intelligent men and women
allowed a few men to control their thinking
processes, the entire world must sit in sack­
cloth and ashes, for the living will find it neces­
sary to work the rest of their lives in order to
even pay the interest on the obligations assumed
during the last war, and their children will find
these obligations an inheritance, which they
in turn will pass on to their children and their
children’s children.
“Though the mills of God grind slowly,
Yet they grind exceeding small,
Though with patience He stands waiting,
With Exactness grinds He all.”
SE C T IO N EIGHT
SE C T IO N EIGHT
All that the ear perceives in the beautiful
and wonderful music of a symphony orchestra
is simply motion of one dimension, or motion
in a straight line.
Noise and tone are then simply terms of
contrast. Noise is due to a non-periodic vibra­
tion. Tones are sounds having continuity and
containing such characteristics as pitch, fre­
quency intensity and quality.
The vibrations produce various effects in the
atmosphere, such as displacements, velocities
and accelerations, as well as changes of density,
pressure and temperature.
Because of the elasticity of the atmosphere
these displacements occur periodically and are
transmitted from their source in radial direc­
tions. These disturbances as they exist in the
air constitute sound waves.
Nearly all methods for recording sound waves
make use of a diaphragm as the receiver.
166 YOU
The ear drum, the telephone receiver, the
phonograph, and the radio illustrate the method
by which the diaphragm is set in vibration by
the direct action of sound waves.
A diaphragm responds with remarkable facil­
ity to a great variety of tone combinations;
the telephone and radio are convincing evi­
dence of the degree of perfection attained by
these instruments.
But what is still more wonderful is the fact
that a diaphragm in reverse action may set up
vibrations and thus reproduce sound waves of
any description, as is done by the diaphragm
of the phonograph which is mechanically pushed
along by the record.
The intensity of a simple vibratory motion
varies as the square of the amplitude. For this
reason vibrations in their original form are
usually inaudable because they do not cause
waves in the atmosphere, as illustrated by the
string of a violin without the instrument, or the
reed of the clarinet without the tube.
SECTION EIGHT 167
A sound producing instrument has two func­
tions—the generator and the resonator— which
may be illustrated by the strings of a piano
and the sound board; the vocal cords of the
human body and the mouth; the diaphragm of
a drum and the body; the mouth of an organ
and the tubes.
It will readily be seen that the resonator
can give no tones except those received from
the generator. The quality of the tone will then
depend upon the degree of sympathy which
exists between the generator and the resonator.
To tune a sounding body is then to adjust
the resonator to its natural period of specified
frequency. When they are in tune the response
will be of the maximum efficiency, but when
they are out of tune there will be little or no
resonance, and consequently no efficiency.
Hearing is the sensation produced by the audi­
tory nerve; sound vibrations are communicated
to the brain, and thence within the conscious-
168 YOU
ness. The auditory nerve communicates the
vibrations of the Sonoriferous Ether in such a
manner as to duplicate the sound vibrations
within. Hence it is the action of this energy
energizing the nerve that produces the sensa­
tion of hearing, which is in reality the repro­
duction within us of that which is heard.
To make this clear, there may be a beautiful
love song, a military march, or a funeral dirge
in the air, but you are conscious of neither
without the use of an amplifier; but with the
use of this instrument you may listen to either
of these by a simple selective process, and your
emotion of love, or of triumph, or of sorrow,
is aroused by the different vibrations which
have been projected into the ether from a broad­
casting station thousands of miles away.
The energy coming from the sun during the
day interferes with sound. For this reason radio
is always more efficient after sundown, in win­
ter than in summer. In other words, audi­
bility is increased as light decreases.
SECTION EIGHT 169
During the total eclipse of the sun which
took place September 10th, 1923, the efficiency
of the radio increased more than fifteen times
while the eclipse was taking place. To be exact,
the audibility of the radio at nine o’clock in the
morning of the day of the eclipse was 32, while
at the maximum or totality it was 490.
The ether is the universal connecting medium
which binds the universe together and makes
it a coherent whole instead of a chaotic col­
lection of independent isolated fragments. It
is the vehicle for the transmission of all manner
of force.
It is therefore the storehouse of potential en­
ergy. It is the one all permeating substance
that binds the whole of the particles of matter
together. It is the uniting and binding medium
without which, if matter could exist at all, it
could exist only as chaotic and isolated frag­
ments.
It is the universal medium of communication.
The activities of nature are reduced to a series
of laws through the discovery of under lying
170 you
causes, and these causes are found through the
observation and classifications of correspon­
dences.
There are no new laws. All laws are eternal;
they never change. They have always been in
existence and will always continue to be in
existence. All manifestations of physical life
depend upon these laws. The laws governing
chemical combinations, the conservation of en­
ergy, electric radiation, chemistry, and physics,
are all applicable in the organic domain, and
the conditions and experiences with which we
meet depend upon our understanding and ap­
plication of these laws.
The great advantage which the violin has
over all other orchestral instruments is due to
the control the performer has over the instru­
ment. The tone quality, as well as the wave
form, remains constant so long as the bowing
is constant in pressure, speed and direction.
These wave forms arouse emotions of gaiety,
passion, force, gloom or anger, by causing vi-
SECTION EIGHT 171
brations in the nerves of the sympathetic system.
The emotions are the gateways of the soul,
the most holy place. All sciences lead to the
threshold of this unseen vestibule and point
within.
Music is the science of sound, tones, rhymes,
mathematical ratios and even silences, all con­
veyed by mere vibrations in the ether which
are the only means of action; and yet with these
the deepest and most profound emotions are
aroused. One whose heart is hopelessly callous
to the spoken message, and impervious to the
written word, can be reached by the invisible,
impalpable, incomprehensible, unspeakable pa­
thos aroused by the ethereal vibrations of the
trained musical artist.
But, however great the artist, his place in
the scheme of things will depend upon his ability
to act in harmony with his environment. For
if each member of an orchestra were to play
regardless of his fellow players the combined
result would be a painful discord, although
172 YOU
separately each might produce an agreeable
harmony.
We are each an integrel part of an organic
whole, and must therefore act in concert; each
must be consciously attuned to the others and
perform his particular part as related to the
whole. He must not interfere with the parts
of others, nor play a solo when a symphony is
the program.
The golden tone of the cornet, the bird-like
warble of the flute, the stately sonority of the
trombone, the reedy richness of the clarinet,
the ringing clarity of the bell, the brassy note
of the bugle, the dulcet blending of the violin,
the enchanting sweetness of the harp, the en­
ticing notes of the piccolo and the martial roll
of the drum, are all necessary and essential in
the grand ensemble of the orchestra.
The instant a piece of music is broadcasted,
by putting the proper mechanism to your ear
you can get it as clearly and distinctly as
\
SECTION EIGHT 173
though you were in the same room. JThis in­
dicates that these vibrations proceed in every
direction w
u wherever there is an ear to hear, it
may hear^
If then, there is a substance so refined that
it will send the sound of a musical instrument
in every direction so that every human being
who is equipped with the proper mechanism
may receive the message, is it not possible that
the same substance will carry a thought just
as readily and just as certainly?
If it is possible to arouse the emotion of
love or power or fear by sending vibrations
through the ether for thousands of miles in
such a manner that anyone may contact them,
is it not also possible that any emotion, any
thought, may be sent in the same manner, pro­
vided only that the sending station be suffi­
ciently powerful?
It is—but these thoughts, emotions and feel-
insg are not received consciously, for the very
174 YOU
excellent and simple reason that, we are con­
scious of nothing except that which reaches us
through one of the five senses.
The five senses are the only method by which
we may contact the objective world, and as we
can not see a thought, nor can we hear it, taste
it, smell it or feel it, there is no way by which
we can become conscious of it. -— .
But that does not mean that we do not get
it, in fact by far the largest proportion of our
thought reaches us subconsciously or intuitively.
The sub-conscious is provided with an entire
system of nerves reaching every part of the
body, and this system is entirely separate and
distinct from the objective, it is called the sym­
pathetic. Every pore in your skin is provided
with a tiny hair which is an antennae reaching
out into space, and is infinitely more sensitive
than the antennae which receives the messages
on your radio. This is why and how the wild
animals of the jungle receive messages of dan-
SECTION EIGHT 175
ger long before the hunter ever sees them, they
sense the danger and are off.
Thought is the vibratory force caused by the
action of the brain upon the mental ether. When
we think the mind must first be energized by a
particular energy. This energizing of the mind
causes it to act upon the stimulus of that
energy, and a thought is made in the mind as
a result of such energizing. There is then the
energizing of the brain, the mental action of
thinking, and the making of the thought as a
result of such thinking. Begin to think. The
thoughts will follow each other in rapid suc­
cession. One thought will suggest another. You
will soon be surprised at some of the thoughts
which have made you a channel of their ex­
pression. You did not know that you knew so
much about the subject.
You did not know that you could put them
into such beautiful language. You marvel at the
ease and rapidity with which the thoughts ar­
rive. Whence do hey come? From the One
176 YOU
Source of all wisdom, all power, and all under­
standing. You have been to the source of all
knowledge. Every thought which has ever been
thought is still in existence, ready and waiting
for someone to attach the mechanism by which
it can find expression. That mechanism is the
brain. You can therefore think the thoughts
of every sage, every artist, every financier,
every captain of industry who has ever existed,
for thoughts never die.
Back of the beating hammer,
By which the steel is wrought,
Back of the work-shops clamor,
The seeker may find the thought;
The thought that is ever master
Of Iron and Steam and Steel,
That rises above disaster,
And tramples it under heel!
B u rton B radley.
SE C TIO N NINE
SE C T IO N NINE
The varying velocities of light contain all
the splendors of the universe. The velocities
decrease from white light, 186,000 miles a sec­
ond, through violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow,
orange and red to black, 140,000 miles a second.
It is by the varying movements of these velo­
cities that the eye is affected by the sensation
known as Color.
The molecular constitution of a body deter­
mines the character and speed of the light vi­
brations it returns to the eye, and thus gives
each body its own characteristic color. Hence
the term Color is used to denote the different
appearances which matter presents to the eye
independent of its form.
Black is composed of equal parts of red, yel­
low and blue. White is composed of five parts
of red, three parts of yellow and eight parts of
blue. Normal or natural gray is composed of
white and black in equal proportions. Black,
180 YOU
therefore, means the result of all colors, while
white signifies the reflection of all colors; and
each color in its turn, is but a mode of motion,
or the varying sensations which we experience
when these vibrations impinge upon the optic
nerve.
Color is, therefore, one of the manifestations
of vibration and all vibration manifests in cor­
responding color, the color being merely an in­
dication of the occult chemical activity.
The color indicates not only the quality but
the value of any chemical substance by reason
of it own particular rate of vibration, and all
objects of any particular color have that vibra­
tory activity and vibratory value which pertain
to that color. As the color is, so is the vibration.
Nature’s scale of vibration is very wide in its
extent. It commences with sound, then merges
into thermal heat waves, and these vibrations
climb the vibratory scale as the temperature
SECTION NINE 181
increases, and merge into the vibrations of the
radiant heat waves in the infra-red which reach
up to the visible red of the light spectrum.
The vibrations above the infra-red are:
15 trillions
20 trillions
28 trillions
35 trillions
50 trillions
60 trillions
75 trillions
The sensation of color, therefore, depends on
the number of vibrations of light ether, just as
the pitch of a note depends on the number of
vibrations of the sounding body. The number of
vibrations for each color is constant. These
seven different rates of vibration which we know
as colors make up the visible light spectrum.
Beyond these are series of vibrations known
as the ultra-violet. These extend up to those
vibrations designated as radio-activity, of which
Visible Red.
Orange ......
Yellow ......
Green ........
B lue............
Indigo ......
Violet ........
182 YOU
radium and the X-rays are best known examples.
This ends both the light spectrum and nature’s
vibratory scales so far as present knowledge
goes. As the quality and value of all forms of
energy are due to their rates of vibration, it
follows that color will indicate the quality of
the vibrating energy.
Color, like the diatonic scale, is divided into
seven distinct notes.
Red has a stimulating effect. The disturbing
influence of red is well illustrated by the expres­
sion “painting the town red,” indicating reck­
lessness and destruction.
Yellow is a nerve tonic. It is the climax
of luminosity, and symbolizes sunlight itself.
It produces the feeling of joy and gaiety.
Green has a quieting and soothing effect. It
is the color of nature and suggests life. It checks
mental activity and suggests sleep.
Blue suggests space, vastness. It is depressing
and chilling. One who is continually in a blue
SECTION NINE 183
environment will sooner or later have the
“ blues.” It is a melancholy color.
Violet is magnetic and cooling.
Each color has a distinct frequency or vibra­
tion due to wave lengths. Red has a larger
wave length than blue, which is proportionately
much shorter. That is why the quick notes of
the drum arouse the emotions of the savage;
they express in sound what the red expresses in
color, while the neutral notes of the flute or
horn have a quieting influence. They express in
sound what blue expresses in color.
These manifestations are recognized as they
are perceived by the different nerves, for the
mind of man translates the impressions of the
world into facts of consciousness and thought
by means of the nerves. All these varying rates
of vibration differ only in direction, rate and
frequency, and are interpreted according to the
different nerves or groups of nerves physically
184 YOU
attuned to them or organized to select and
respond to especial manifestations of vibratory-
activity.
Color is both physical and psychological in
its effect upon the mind. The chemical effect is
a physical one; the psychological effect is psy­
chic. The nervous system reflects its disturb­
ances upon the mind; hence the sensation of
pain or pleasure and the emotional states which
accompany them. This is true of all the colors.
Primary colors are radical, elemental, and fixed
in their vibrations or wave lengths, and hence,
when once the effects of the sensations which
they produce on the mind are known, their
uniformity can always be depended upon.
Red as thermal and a stimulant, and blue
is electrical and depressing, act uniformly on
all forms of life. The spectrum analysis proves
that the seven colors of light are made up of
vibrations or wave lengths of mathematical
exactness.
SECTION NINE 185
As all vibratory activity expresses itself in
form, color and sound, it follows that the energy
is always of that particular color, shade or tint
that belongs to that particular rate of vibration.
This is true not only of those colors, shades and
tints which are perceptible to visible sight, but
also of the finer forces of nature which trans­
cend the physical senses.
All energy of whatever quality is continually
vibrating, and, by reason of this vibration, _it
assumes the color, shade or tint belonging to
that specific rate of vibration.
The primary colors are red, blue and yellow.
All the other colors are combinations of these
colors in certain proportions. Red is the phy­
sical color and is the color of all physical energy.
The various shades of red have their various
significations, but generally speaking, red is the
physical color.
Red is also the color of the will. Where-
ever the will is expressed it assumes the
186 YOU
red color because Will is the out-flowing or
manifesting principle, the extension or expres­
sion of the Self into manifestation. There­
fore it must express itself in and through the
physical; consequently it becomes red in color.
The second primary color is blue, the color
of emotion. All energy vibrating on the higher
octave is either blue or red according as it is
positive or negative; blue being the negative,
feminine or magnetic side of etheric matter, and
red the positive, masculine or radiant side. The
bluer the matter may be the more magnetic it
is, while the redder it may be the more electrical
it is. Will and Desire are thus the two poles
of etheric matter; Will being red, Desire being
blue.
The third primary color is yellow and is the
color of the mental plane. Everything vibrating
on the mental octave is yellow. The darker the
yellow the more gross and material is the char­
acter of the thought; the lighter it becomes the
more spiritual it is. The clearer the yellow is,
SECTION NINE 187
the more purity of thought. The brighter the
yellow, the more brilliancy of mind is indicated.
Yellow or orange symbolize the highest func­
tion and power of our nature and pre-eminently
typify the “ scientific” temperament.
White is really the combination of all the
seven colors. They are all found to unite in form­
ing the white ray. The prism has the power of
breaking up the white light into seven prismatic
rays, therefore white light is really the combi­
nation of those rays.
Pure white is unity. It is in fact the very
essence of balance. It is the star of hope which
typifies cleanliness and symbolizes power. It
is the language of knowledge, expression and
spirituality.
Virgin white not only signifies cleanliness,
but purity; and naturally the mind is conscious­
ly as well as unconsciously affected by it.
188 YOU
Black is the reverse of white. White indicates
the spirit. Black indicates extreme materiality;
not materiality in the sense of physical sub­
stance, but materiality as the antithesis of spirit.
Black indicates the disintegration which leads
to annihilation.
Black is repressing, depressing and suppress­
ing. It represents the negative conditions of
gloom, fear, error, disease, ignorance, pessimism
and hopelessness.
Black typifies the universal negative, in which
all color is hid, absorbed, and is emblematic of
death, oblivion, annihilation. —.
Scarlet is the color of anger, the color which
the astral body assumes when it is in an intense­
ly angry condition. Anger is really the forcible
action of the will moving outward in a very
positive manner. This is what produces the state
of anger.
The color of ether is pink, although its vibra­
tion is so intense that very few are able to see
SECTION NINE 189
the vibration; but ether is always pink. Crim­
son is the color of affection and human feeling.
It is the self-relative color, because our affec­
tion is given to persons on acount of their par­
ticular relation to us.
Affection is purely a physical and animal '
feeling. '
Rose is the color of life, and as we approach
the physical it is more red. As life is brought
under the influence of the emotions, it takes on
whatever color is found, blended with this red
or rose color.
r " Indigo blue is the color of occultism. The
dark indigo partakes of the element of sorcery,
while the pure indigo is emblematic of pure
occultism.
Violet is the color of magic because it is so
far above the ordinary rate of vibration that it
has the power of neutralizing and even trans­
forming those rates into its own, thus giving the
power of alchemy. _______ _—
190 YOU
Purple being blue mixed with red, the positive
aspect of emotion, is the color of mastership,
and indicates the master.
Lavender, which is a great deal of white
mixed with purple, indicates the master on the
astral plane, but merging toward the spiritual.
Green is the color of action. It is expressed
by minor chords, and is the positive expression
of the inner being as expressed through action.
Unselfish action— action which is purely al­
truistic in its character, which has no relation
whatever to the individual—is a clear emerald
green, and the nearer this approaches to the
spiritual the paler it becomes.
Brown is, in a sense, a mystical color, in that
it indicates the presence of white, red and black
in certain combinations, as the shade is, so will
its influence be.
As all the colors are included in the white,
so is all matter built up of simpler or elemen-
SECTION NINE 191
tary substances and all changes are due to dis­
tribution and aggregation of the elementary
matter.
Motion is the primary cause which gives rise
to color and all other phenomena in existence.
In order to trace the origin and progress of
any effect, visible or invisible, the aim must be
to determine the movement or movements which
brought the phenomena into existence.
The principle of vibration permeates the whole
science of radiation or motion and may be stated
in a general way, by saying that a body absorbs
waves which are of the same period as those
which it emits when it is itself, in vibration.
The essential condition is therefore that the
receiver shall be in the same key or wave length
[_^as the sender or origin of the movement.
The original wave gives energy to the wave
upon which it impinges, while one is gaining
energy, the other is losing it and this continues
until the process of absorption is completed.
192 YOU
This principle applies to light, heat, sound,
color or energy of any kind, where it is dis­
tributed by a process of radiation.
Silently sat the artist alone,
Carving a Christ from the ivory bone.
Little by little with toil and pain,
He won his way through the sightless grain,
That held and yet hid the thing he sought,
Till the work stood up, a growing thought.
—Boker’s Ivory Carver.
SE C T IO N TEN
SE C T IO N T E N
The influence of heat is so beneficent and
sometimes so terrible, that it is not surprising
that from time immemorial it should have re­
ceived not only the attention but sometimes
the adoration of mankind.
It is through the agency of heat that all
animal and vegetable life comes into being,
without heat there could be no life, as we know
it upon this planet.
Heat is the sensation produced by the motion
of atoms of matter, if we pass the various ef­
fects of heat in review, we shall find that matter
and motion are the necessary correlations of
heat.
Heat coming in contact with certain sub­
stances, brings about the phenomena which we
call combustion, this is caused by the union of
Oxygen and Carbon which union produces at
once both heat and light. The result is the dis­
integration of the substance.
196 YOU
There are other causes of combustion which
proceed more rapidly, take for instance a piece
of gun-cotton—Gun-cotton is a combination of
carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen, when
heat is applied, the four kinds of atoms will
become immediately disassociated leaving no
trace of the gun-cotton. Where did it go? The
carbon and a part of the oxygen formed carbonic
gas, the rest of the oxygen combined with the
hydrogen and formed vapor, the nitrogen re­
mained free.
It will then be seen that heat does not change
the nature of the atoms, it simply changes their
respective positions with regard to each other.
The application of heat not only brings about
a chemical change in the nature of substances,
but in so doing it liberates energy and what is
most interesting to observe the energy which is
liberated is always solar energy. -
In the combustion of coal it is the remains of
immense forests, which existed upon the earth
SECTION TEN 197
long before the advent of man. These forests
depended for their existence upon the energy
which they received from the Sun. We now
burn the coal, which liberates the energy which
was radiated by the Sun to the earth thousands
of years ago, and has been preserved intact.
If we apply the heat to water we are simply
combining the solar energy stored up in the
wood or coal with the water and thereby con­
verting it into vapor.
If we make use of hydraulic power, we are
again utilizing the energy of the Sun which was
required to lift water from ocean or lake and
carry it to the mountain top.
The energy of the wind is but the force which
is transmitted to the atmosphere by the conden­
sation of vapor and is therefore received from
the Sun.
All animal life is dependent upon food and
this food is but the result of the action of solar
energy upon the earth. Each atom of hydrogen
198 YOU
in the blood of an animal disengages a certain
specified amount of solar energy, and this in
turn combines with oxygen and makes resti­
tution to nature in another form.
Lines of energy crossing a center never fail
to intensify at the focus into heat or light or
both. Suspended Energy passing the intensified
local centers becomes fixed in a state of rest,
and materializes into static matter.
Matter in the Sleep state becomes the core
of resistance to energized influx and the Suns
come into being, the focal centers and Arc Lights
of the deep.
There is a bridge between Energy and Matter
that is invariably used. That bridge is heat,
which expresses according to the Energy applied,
resistance met and Time consumed. If it be a
great resistance and confined to a short Time,
the heat will be intense; if it be a lesser resis­
tance or a longer period of Time consumed, the
heat will in like ratio be reduced or extended
SECTION TEN 199
Not because there is a less quantity of heat, but
because it is extended in keeping with the great­
er or lesser Time used.
Energy is a potential force in the state of
action, while matter is expended Energy in the
state of rest. Energy is prior to Matter, a finer
composition and more susceptible to the influ­
ence of Natural Law. Out from the Eternal
Principles of Nature, slowly the endless sea of
cosmic Energy came into being. The eternal
silence was the womb that gave birth to the
ocean of Life.
Whenever the tranference and transformation
of energy occur some effect is produced, but the
energy is never diminished in quantity. It is
merely passed on from one body to another.
Energy depends upon the rate of motion—
that is, the mass multiplied by the velocity—
and we therefore find the greatest quantities of
energy passing through stellar space, for cer­
tainly the heavenly bodies contain the greatest
mass and attain the highest velocity. It has
been calculated that the sun is distributing
200 YOU
energy into space at the rate of 12,000 horse­
power per square foot of surface.
The ether then is the great vehicle of energy,
and the medium in which all energy originates.
This energy passes from potential to kinetic and
back again. For example, when a planet is at
the farthest point from the sun her velocity will
be least, consequently her kinetic energy is
least. As she rounds the farthest point in her
orbit and begins to approach the sun she ac­
quires kinetic energy at the expense of potential
energy. When nearest the sun her velocity is
greatest and her potential energy least. As she
rounds the nearest point and begins to retreat,
her kinetic energy begins to diminish; it is used
up in combating the powerful attraction of the
sun.
Such is the ebb and flow throughout all nature
of the visible energies of the universe, and herein
will be found an explanation for the different
effects produced upon mankind by the planets
as they continually change their location; all
SECTION TEN 201
changes and phenomena being due to variations
of the ethereal waves caused by the movement
of stellar bodies, or mass multiplied by velocity.
The sun contains enormous quantities of hel­
ium, helium comes from radium, and radium is
a storehouse of the most concentrated energy
known to man. It is a source of energy which
will liberate three or four million times as much
heat as any chemical reaction known, and con­
tinue to do this in almost unlimited quantity.
The molecule is a structure formed by a com­
bination of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen and hydro­
gen; the four atoms which represent earth, air,
fire and water. These four elementary atoms
form the various molecules from which eighty-
six chemical elements are composed
The character of the elements depends upon
the proportion in which the four elementary
atoms are united, each element contributing its
rate of vibration in accordance with the pro­
portion in which it is present in the combination.
202 YOU
These eighty-six different chemical elements
constitute the basis for every group of matter,
organic or inorganic, and the only difference in
the elements is in the rate of vibration or the
vibratory activity of the molecules of which
the structure is composed.
The constitution of matter is therefore simply
a mode of motion, all form being the result of
the vibratory motion of the cosmic energy.
The material changes which take place are
caused by changes in atomic structure, and the
changes in atomic structure are in turn the re­
sult of alterations in the vibratory motion of
the cosmic energy. Because of these facts we
see that transmutation is not only entirely pos­
sible, but must actually take place continually.
The different manifestations of energy are:
gravitation, heat, light, electricity, magnetism,
chemical affinity, cohesion, and adhesion or
molecular attraction.
The law of gravitation is that: Every sub­
stance in the universe attracts every other sub-
SECTION TEN 203
stance with a force jointly proportional to the
mass of the attracting and of the attracted
body, and varying inversely as the square of
the distance.
Light, heat, magnetism, electricity, chemical
affinity, are only different modes of one and the
same energy, and each can directly or indirectly
be converted into the original form from which
it was taken.
Cosmic power, whether static or dynamic,
can neither be increased nor lessened. But since
scientists will accept for truth only that which
can be demonstrated by experiment or by cal­
culation, and since it is far more difficult to
measure and calculate forces than to weigh
matter, the rotation of force remained a mys­
tery for many years; and not until recently has
this theorem been recognized and demonstrated.
It has now, however, secured uncontested recog­
nition.
To react chemically two bodies must contain
intrinsic energy at different chemical potentials.
204 YOU
When such bodies are brought together a part
of the intrinsic energy of one or both is trans­
ferred into such new forms of combination as
are stable under the new conditions.
We use the word “ adhesion” to denote the
attractions exerted between particles of two
different bodies when placed in contact with
one another. On the other hand, when particles
of different bodies have such an attraction for
each other as to rush together and form a sub­
stance of a different chemical nature, then we
have the operation of chemical affinity.
When a substance is heated, it gives out part
of its heat to a medium which surrounds it.
This heat-energy is propagated as undulations
in the medium, and proceeds outward with the
enormous velocity of 186,000 miles in a second.
If the temperature of the hot substance be not
very great these undulations do not effect the
eye, but are invisible, forming rays of dark heat;
but as the temperature rises we begin to see a
few red rays, and we say that the body is red-
SECTION TEN 205
hot. As the temperature still continues to rise
the body passes to a yellow and then to a white
heat, until it ultimately glows with a splendor
like that of the sun.
This splendor of the sun is but an indication
of the nature of the process which is taking
place; for light, heat and energy are but the
process of releasing solar energy.
Through the process of combustion the van­
ished sunshine which has been laid up in wood
or coal is again liberated.
The force which urges forward the locomotive
is simply sunshine converted into power.
In 1857 Mr. Murray of London published a
biography of the famous English engineer,
George Stephenson, in which an interesting de­
scription of the light and heat cycle is given:
On Sunday, just when the company had re­
turned from church and were standing on the
terrace overlooking the railway station, a train
206 YOU
rushed by, leaving a long line of white steam
behind.
“Now,” said Stephenson to Buckland, the well-
known geologist, “ can you tell me what power
moves that train?”
“Why,” replied the other,“ I suppose it is one
of your big engines.”
“ But what moves the engine?”
“ Oh, probably one of your stout Newcastle
engine-drivers.”
“What do you say to the light of the sun?”
“What do you mean?”
“ Nothing else moves the engine,” said the
great engineer. “ It is light, which for thousands
of years has accumulated in the earth— light
which was inhaled by plants, that these during
the time of their growth might fix the carbon,
and which now, after having for thousands of
years been buried in the coal beds of the earth,
is again brought forth and set free to serve the
SECTION TEN 207
great purpose of mankind, as here in this
engine.”
If the great engineer had been living today
instead of in 1857, he might have asked not
only, “ can you tell me what moves that train”
but “what moves all of our trains, all of our
machinery, what lights and heats our homes,
our factories, our cities,” and the reply would
have been the same. Nothing less than the
light of the sun.
The same energy of the sun takes up the
water from the ocean in the form of vapor.
Water would ever remain in perfect equilib­
rium if it were not for the action of the sun.
The rays of the sun falling upon the ocean con­
vert the water into vapor, and this vapor is
taken up into the atmosphere in the form of
mists. The wind gathers it together in the form of
clouds and takes its across the continent. Here
through changes of temperature it is again con­
verted into rain or snow. So that the sun is
not only the source of electrical energy by
208 YOU
which light and heat are developed, but it is the
source of life itself. No life of any kind could
exist on this planet without the energizing and
vitalizing magnetism derived from the sun. As
the earth approaches the sun in spring we see
the result in the myriad of plants and flowers
and the verdure with which the fields are cover­
ed; the life-giving force becomes everywhere
apparent.
The effect of this influence is seen in the tem­
perament of the people inhabiting the globe.
When the perpendicular rays reach the people
we find a cheerful optimistic, “ sunny” disposi­
tion, but as we reach the far north where the
absence of light and heat make life a struggle,
we find the people correspondingly dark and
gloomy.
And not only the scientist, but the poet too,
with unerring insight has recognized this all-
important influence of the sunlight on the tern-
SECTION TEN 209
perment of men, over a hundred years ago
Byron thus attributed this effect to the solar orb:
Thou chief star,
Center of many stars! which mak’st our earth
Endurable, and temperest the hues
And hearts of all who walk within thy rays.
Sire of the seasons, monarch of the climes,
And those that dwell in them for near or far
Our inborn spirits have a tint of thee,
Even as our outward aspects!
All energy on this earth, organic or inorganic,
is directly or indirectly derived from the sun.
The flowing water, the driving wind, the passing
clouds, the rolling thunder and the flashing light­
ning; the falling rain, snow, dew, frost or hail;
the growth of plants, the warmth and motion
of animal and human bodies, the combustion
of wood, of coal— all is but solar energy in
action.
The most powerful physical energy, the one
whose varied forms and fields of action increase
daily, whose benefits are as great as the ignor-
210 YOU
ance and prejudices which reign concerning it,
is beyond a shadow of doubt electric energy.
When all its modalities are known, electric
energy will become the basis of therapeutics;
for all other forms of energy are either merely
derivatives or means of equilibrating the play
of electric phenomena in the depths of our tis­
sues.
It is by means of electric currents that we suc­
ceed best in arresting cellular disturbances. It
can be applied to all diminution of energies and
to every species of depression or decay in physio­
logical vitality and to all disorders supervening
in'the reflex circulation.
Acting on the nervous extremities it redresses
abnormal sensibility, or bridles the feverish sen­
sations. On disordered irritability it acts as an
harmonius equalizing force, as a regenerator of
the endangered vitality; and finally as a curative
for perverted stability, it possesses the character­
istics of militating in the same helpful and ra-
SECTION TEN 211
tional manner as nature, preventing our com­
plaints from becoming chronic.
All pathology lies within its domain, and it
holds a preponderant place in the treatment for
rejuvenation.
In the depths of the tissues radiant heat
transforms electric energy, raises the tempera­
ture of the tissues at the precise spot indicated
to it, exerting a dual influence both by its elec­
tric effects and the torrents of heat of the
desired intensity with which it can flood the
organ under treatment.
Applied generally, it brings to the organiza­
tion a bonus in the shape of a caloric ration,
which enables it to resist effectively physiologi­
cal decay.
Finally high frequency, the youngest born of
electrotherapy, sees the scope of its benefactions
increase daily; and in the treatment for rejuve­
nation it supplies the nervous energy needful;
transfusing the largest available portion of effec-
212 YOU
tive resistance ; storing up the vital dynamism in
the nervous cell.
And all this is accomplished with the most
absolute certainty.
To insure its efficacy, electricity must be for­
mulated and proportioned in the same way as
any other active therapeutic agent.
Electricity will act powerfully on every organ,
tonify the nervous centers, counterbalance the
cellular exchanges, regularize failing functions,
reconstruct tissues, and compel the retrogression
of old age.
In static form, the entire domain of neurosis,
of fears, of hypochondria, nervous and intellec­
tual strain, over-excitement and depression, is
dominated by it. All depressed or neurasthenic
persons, or those who suffer from insomnia, are
well acquainted with its soothing and revivify­
ing action.
Its astounding success in all dermatological
affections is well known.
SECTION TEN 213
Progressive regeneration, marked awakening
of the digestion and the nutrition, comfort and
pleasure walking and moving, increased power
of resistance to the fatigue of work, pronounced
increase in the joy of living—such are the results
which are generally observed.
And electricity is but another form of vibra­
tion, another name for sunshine. It is but the
rays of the sun, specialized and directed. Why,
then, should it not be the greatest therapeutic
agent known to man; is it not the source of
light, of heat, of energy, of life itself?
They drew a circle and shut me out.
They called me a heretic, a thing to flout;
But Love and I had the wit to win.
We drew a circle and took them in.
SE C T IO N E L E V E N
SE C T IO N E L E V E N
We live in a fathomless sea of plastic mind
substance. This substance is ever alive and
active. It is sensitive to the highest degree. It
takes form according to mental demand.
Thought forms the mould or matrix from which
the substance expresses. Our ideal is the mould
from which our future will emerge.
The Universe is alive. In order to express
life there must be mind; nothing can exist with­
out mind. Everything which exists is some mani­
festation of this one basic substance from which
and by which all things have been created and
are continually being recreated. It is man’s
capacity to think that makes him a creator
instead of a creature.
All things are the result of the thought pro­
cess. Man has accomplished the seemingly
impossible because he has refused to consider
it impossible. By concentration men have made
the connection between the finite and the Infi­
nite, the limited and the Unlimited, the visible
218 YOU
and the invisible, the personal and the Imper­
sonal.
The building up of Matter from Electrons
has been an involuntary process of individualiz­
ing intelligent energy.
Men have learned a way to cross the ocean
on floating palaces, how to fly in the air; how
to transmit thought around the world on sen­
sitized wires; how to cushion the earth with
rubber and thousands of other things just as
remarkable, just as startling and just as in­
comprehensible to the people of a generation
ago.
Men will yet turn to the study of life itself
and with the knowledge thus gained will come
peace and joy and length of days.
The search for the elixir of life has always
been a fascinating study and has taken hold
of many minds of Utopian mould. In all times
philosophers, have dreamed of the day when
SECTION ELEVEN 219
man will become the master of matter. Old
manuscripts contain many, many receipts which
have cost their inventors bitter pangs of baffled
disillusionment. Thousands of investigators have
laid their contributions upon the sacrificial altar,
for the benefit of mankind.
But not through quarantine, or disinfectants,
or boards of health, will man reach the long-
sought plane of physical well-being; nor by
dieting or fasting or suggesting, will the Elixir
of Life and the Philosopher’s Stone be found.
The Mercury of the Sages and the “ hidden
manna” are not constituents of health foods.
When man’s mind is made perfect then, and
then only will the body be able perfectly to
express itself?
The physical body is maintained through a
process of continuous destruction and reconstruc­
tion.
220 YOU
Health is but the equilibrium which nature
maintains through the process of creating new
tissue and eliminating the old, or waste tissue.
Hate, envy, criticism, jealousy, competition,
selfishness, war, suicide and murder are the
causes which produce acid conditions in the
blood, causing changes which result in irritation
of the brain cells, the keys upon which Soul
plays “Divine Harmonies” or fantastic tricks
before high heaven,” accordingly to the arrange­
ment of chemical molecules in the wondrous
laboratory of nature.
Birth and death are constantly taking place
in the body. New cells are being created by
the process of converting food, water and air
into living tissue.
Every action of the brain, every movement of
the muscle, means destruction and consequent
death of some of these cells, and the accumula­
tion of these dead, unused and waste cells is
what causes pain, suffering and disease.
SECTION ELEVEN 221
We allow such destructive thoughts as fear,
anger, worry, hatred and jealousy to take pos­
session, and these thoughts influence the various
functional activities of the body, the brain, the
nerves, the heart, the liver, or the kidneys. They
in turn refuse to perform their various functions,
the constructive processes cease and the des­
tructive processes begin.
Food, water and air are the three essential
elements necessary to sustain life, but there is
something still more essential. Every time we
breathe we not only fill our lungs with air, but
we fill ourselves with Pranic Energy, the breath
of life replete with every requirement for mind
and spirit.
This life giving spirit is far more necessary
than air, food or water, a man can live for
forty days without food, for three days without
water, and for a few minutes without air; but
he cannot live a single second without Ether.
It is the one prime essential of life, so that the
process of breathing furnishes not only food for
222 YOU
body building, but food for mind and spirit as
well.
It is a well known fact in India, but not so
well known in this country, that in normal, rhy­
thmical breathing, exhalation and inhalation
takes place through one nostril at a time; for
about one hour through the right nostril and
then for a like period through the left nostril.
The breath entering through the right nostril
creates positive electro-magnetic currents, which
pass down the right side of the spine, while the
breath entering through the left nostril sends
negative electro-magnetic currents down the left
side of the spine. These currents are transmitted
by way of the nerve centers or ganglia of the
sympathetic nervous system, to all parts of the
body.
In the normal, rhythmical breath, exhalation
takes about twice the time of inhalation. For
instance, if inhalation requires four seconds, ex-
SECTION ELEVEN 223
halation, including a slight natural pause before
the new inhalation, require eight seconds.
The balancing of the electro-magnetic ener­
gies in the system depend to a large extent upon
this rhythmical breathing, hence the import­
ance of deep, unobstructed, rhythmic exhalation
and inhalation.
The wise men of India knew .that with the
breath, they absorbed not only the physical
elements of the air, but life itself. They taught
that this primary force of all forces, from which
all energy is derived, ebbs and flows in rhythmi­
cal vibration through the created universe.
Every living thing is alive by the virtue of par­
taking of this cosmic breath.
The more positive the demand, the greater
the supply. Therefore, while breathing deeply
and rhythmically in harmony with the universal
breath, we contact the life force from the source
of all life in the innermost parts of our being.
Without this intimate connection of the indi-
224 YOU
vidual soul with the great reservoir of live,
existence, as we know it would be an impossi­
bility.
Freedom does not consist in the disregard of
a governing principle, but in conformity to it.
The laws of Nature are infinitely just. A viola­
tion of just law is not an act of freedom. The
laws of Nature are infinitely bénéficient. Ex­
ception from the operation of a bénéficient law
is not freedom. Freedom consists in conscious
harmonious relation with the Laws of Being.
Thus only may desire be satisfied, harmony at­
tained, and happiness secured.
The mighty river is free only while it is con­
fined within its banks. The banks enable it to
perform its appointed function, and to answer
its bénéficient purpose to the best advantage.
While it is under the restraint of freedom it gives
out its message of harmony and prosperity. If
its bed is raised, or its volume greatly increased,
it leaves its channel and spreads over the coun-
SECTION ELEVEN 225
try, carrying a message of ruin and desolation.
It is no longer free. It has ceased to be a river.
Necessities are demands, and demands create
action, which result in growth. This process
makes for each decade a larger growth. So it
is truly said that the last twenty-five years have
advanced the world more than any previous cen­
tury, and the last century has advanced the
world more than all the ages of the past.
Notwithstanding all of the different charac­
ters, disposition and idiosyncresies of different
people, there is a certain definite law which
dominates and governs all existence.
Thought is mind in motion, and psychic
gravity is to the law of the mind, what atomic
attraction is to physical science. Mind has its
chemistry and constituent powers and these
powers are as definite as those of any physical
potency.
Creation is the power of mind, by which the
thought is turned inward, and made to impreg-
226 YOU
nate and conceive new thought. It is for this
reason, that only the enlightened mind, can
think for itself.
The mind must acquire a certain character of
thought, which will enable it to reproduce it­
self without any seed from without to impreg­
nate it.
When mind has acquired this nature in ac­
cordance with which thoughts are able to re­
produce themselves, it is able to spontaneously
generate thoughts without outside stimulation.
This is done by conceiving thought in the
mind as a result of being impregnated and fe­
cundated by the Universal.
They must not be permitted to go out into
space, but on the contrary, must remain within
where they will create physic states corres­
ponding to their natures.
SECTION ELEVEN 227
It is this absorption of self-generated thoughts
and their conception of corresponding psychic
states that is the Principle of Causation.
This is possible owing to the fact that the
mental Cosmos is perpetually radiated as a
Unity of Mind, and this Mind functions in
connection with the soul of man as his mind.
It being essence, is identified with the essence
of the Cosmos, and with the essence of all things.
The result is, that having attained unto and
having become an Infinity of thought, the indi­
vidual is Omniscient in Mind, Omnipotent in
Will, and Omnipresent in Soul. The quality of
his mind is Omniscience, and the quality of his
soul is Omnipresence.
Such a man is possessed with real power in
all that he does. He is indeed a Master, the
Creator of his own destiny, the arbiter of his
own fate.
228 YOU
There are many flowers of vari-colored blos­
soms. Each blossomed stem simply reaches up
to the great sun—the god of vegetable life mani­
festation—without complaining, without doubt,
in all the fullness of plant desire, faith and
expectancy.
The rose and the lily demand and attract the
richness of color and perfume.
And so man too will in the future, unshackle
the great desire forces of mind and soul and
turn them to heaven in righteous demand for the
highest gift in the Universe, Life.
And life means to live.
Age is a prejudice, which has become so firmly
anchored in your mind that any casual number
of years mentioned evokes a precise image on
your brain.
Twenty years, you see a youth or a young
girl adorned with all of the juvenile graces.
Thirty years a young man or young woman
in the full development of vital strength and
SECTION ELEVEN 229
equilibrium, still on the up-grade towards the
dazzling heights of maturity.
Forty years, the summit has been reached, the
effort made having been maintained by the
prospect of the vast horizons to be dominated.
The road traversed is contemplated with pride,
but with emotion you already turn towards the
abyss whose dizzy curves wind steeply into
ever-increasing darkness.
Fifty years, half-way down the slope, which
is still illumined by the light from the peaks
though already touched by the chill of the
abyss. Organism weakened and compelled to
submit to numerous abdications.
Sixty years brings you to the entrance of
the cold melancholy valleys . . . Resigned to
inexorable destiny you stand on the threshold
of old age. You begin preparations for the long
journey which must inevitably be undertaken.
230 YOU
Seventy years wrinkled and old endowed with
numerous infirmities, you sit in the waiting-
room for the last journey considering it miracu­
lous that you are still alive.
If the eightieth year is exceeded, the fact is
mentioned as an amazing phenomenon and you
are treated with the respect due to antiquities.
Is this paralled correct? Is there any con­
nection between age and age-value?—Let it be
emphatically stated that the tyranny of the
birth certificate can be abolished.
The fact that a year represents one complete
revolution of the earth round the sun has noth­
ing in common with the evolution of the human
being.
To be so many years old means simply that
the circling seasons have been observed so many
times, and nothing more. It implies no con­
sideration of the intellectual or physical state.
The person who has seen the untiring astrono-
SECTION ELEVEN 231
mical phenomenon forty times may be much
younger in the real meaning of the word than
one who has seen it but thirty times.
The vibratory activities of the planetary Uni­
verse are governed by a law of periodicity.
Everything that lives has periods of birth,
growth and fruitage. These periods are gov­
erned by the Septimal Law.
The law of Sevens governs the days of the
week, the phases of the moon, the harmonies of
sound, light, heat, electricity, magnetism, atomic
structure. It governs the life of individuals and
of nations, and it dominates the activities of
the commercial world. We can apply the same
law to our own lives and therefore come into
an understanding of many experiences which
would otherwise appear inexplicable.
Life is growth, and growth is change. Each
seven year period takes us into a new cycle.
The first seven years is the period of infancy.
The next seven the period of childhood, repre-
232 YOU
senting the beginning of individual responsibility.
The next seven represents the period of adoles­
cence. The fourth period marks the attain-'
ment of full growth. The fifth period is the
constructive period, when men acquire property,
possessions, a home and family. The next, from
35-to 42, is a period of reactions and changes,
and this in turn is followed by a period of
reconstruction, adjustment and recuperation, so
as to be ready for a new cycle of sevens, begin­
ning with the fiftieth year.
The law of periodicity governs cycles of every
description. There are cycles of short periods,
and cycles of long periods. There are periods
when the emotions gain the ascendency and the
whole world is absorbed in religious thought;
and there are other periods when science and
learning take the ascendency and the patent
office is flooded with new inventions. There are
other periods when vice and crime rule with a
high hand; periods of strikes and hard times,
times of turmoil confusion and disaster; and
there are periods of reform.
SECTION ELEVEN 233
What is the cause of these cycles? Are they
arbitrary, have they no basis or foundation in
nature, recurring with almost the regularity of
clockwork and without any incentive whatever?
Or are they perhaps due to Universal Laws, and
caused by the revolution of the planets in their
orbits, having their origin in some principle in
nature which man may learn, and thus ulti­
mately be able to predict with certainty the
recurrence of the same phenomena?
The revolution of the several planets upon
their axis, constitutes the largest amount of
matter in motion, with which we are familiar,
and consequently is responsible for the largest
amount of energy.
The movement of the planets in their various
orbits around the Sun, brings the largest amount
of Ether under strain, and thereby brings into
existence the largest amount of potential energy,
with which we are familiar.
234 YOU
All of the activities of the material universe
are therefore contingent upon the movements
of these several planets.
Let us note the results of these movements.
The first result to be noted is the differentia­
tion of the rays of the Sun into seven primary
colors, orange, green, violet, yellow, red, indigo
and blue. These seven colors have their corres­
pondencies in the seven notes of the musical
scale.
We then find that the vibrations of each planet
is responsible for the condensation or chrystali-
zation of electrons into matter, and so we have
gold, silver, mercury, copper, iron, tin and lead.
By pursuing our inquiry still further, we find
that these vibrations are distributed to all parts
of our body through the sympathetic nervous
system, and that there are seven plexus along
the spine for this purpose. We also find that
there are seven functions of our body which are
controlled, the heart, brain, lungs, reins, gall,
SECTION ELEVEN 235
liver and spleen, and finally we find that these
vibrations manifest on a still higher plane, as
spirit, soul, intellect, love, energy, judgment and
memory.
The angle between two planets at some time
and place in their established orbits, and their
angular relation to the Earth, causes an influ­
ence which is received by those individuals who
are receptive or keyed to those particular
vibrations.
Under a favorable influence we find the body
relaxed, comfortable, and at ease; this state
of being reacts favorably upon the mental con­
dition and we find mental poise, tendency to
pleasure, amusement, reaction, happiness, kind­
ness, love.
If the influence is unfavorable the body will
be tense, irritable, with corresponding mental
depression, fear, anger, malice, violence etc.,
according to the nature of the planets involved.
236 YOU
When Saturn contracts the tissues and
squeezes out dead elements from the organs,
Jupiter does the reverse by expanding and ab­
sorbing new elements for the maintenance of
growth and development.
The effect of this Jupitarian process on the
mind is to make the feelings “Jovial” optimis­
tic, comfortable, carefree, generous and compas­
sionate; able to look out and beyond self to the
needs and happiness of others, with the result
that the word and deed bring commendation
and support from others—what is done, will
produce fortunate results.
When Saturn is benignly aspected the organs
and functions affected by vibratory influences
of that planet operate in a normal manner, but
when Saturn is adversely aspected its operations
in the human body tend to inertia, contractions,
restrictions, decay or dissolution and serious
disease results unless the individual is aware of
what is necessary in order to counteract the
influence. Herbert Spencer said: Life is a con-
SECTION ELEVEN 237
tinual adjustment of internal conditions to ex­
ternal environment, “ a statement which we all
know is absolutely true, just as much as the
axiom of the ancient wise men. “As above, so
below,” events in the solar system have a cor­
responding effect in the human system. Much
food for thought is furnished by the divisions
of the zodiacal circle, taken in connection with
the various periods of vital activity that deter­
mine the course of life.
The Planet Uranus makes the circle of the
heavens in eighty-four years, which is its
“year” ; and as this planet is one that has a
special influence over man in a spiritual sense,
its “month” , or passage through a twelth part
of the circle, might well be expected to exer­
cise an influence on the life of man comparable
to that exhibited in the physical world by the
sun during the various monthly stages of its
annual course.
The fact that during each period of seven
years a complete change is known to take place
238 YOU
in the physical body, as testified to by physiolo­
gists, tends to support this theory of a sign
ruling over each seven years of life; and cer­
tainly the period of eighty-four years may be
taken as a Life Cycle, without necessarily re­
garding it as marking the limit of normal human
life. In this sense these eighty-four years of
life will correspond to the one earth year or,
to the circle of the Zodiac.
Let us now consider the division of the Zodiac
into four grand quarters resembling; Spring,
Summer, Autumn, and Winter. The Spring
Quarter corresponds to infancy, childhood, and
youth; the irresponsible and educational period
from the first to the twenty-first year of life,
when the personal is being fitted by service and
study, for the next important stage. It is the
time when fidelity and filial reverence; obedi-
ance, industry, are instilled into the growing
mind.
The Summer Quarter of life, from 21 to 42
is the practical period of life, and is concerned
SECTION ELEVEN 239
with the life of the householder, in which wealth
becomes an object, responsibility grows, and the
duties of life becomes heavier and filled with
business activity. It is the period when the
social side of the personality is expressed and
the lesson of unselfishness is learned; prosperity
comes with the fullness of life which abounds
in the Summer portion. The virtues developed
are caution, thrift, charity, magnanimity, dili­
gence and prudence.
This period of life is governed by the sign
Leo; in which the life-forces burn at their great­
est heat, and love for partner and offspring
finds its greatest height in the domestic and
social world.
The Autmun Quarter of life is one in which
the glory of manhood and the fullness of mother­
hood are turned to wider interest, and personal
claims are sacrficed for the benefit of those
outside the narrow circle of the home. The
duties of government and the national welfare
are taken up with motives which are less limited
240 YOU
and more altruistic in their nature, the desire
being to help in the ruling and guiding of those
who belong to the nation. The virtues to be
acquired are equilibrium, justice, strength, cour­
age, vigour, and generosity.
The concentralising power of this period is
denoted by the sign Scorpio, symbol of self-
controlled emotions, fixed feelings and perma­
nent modes of action; the fluidity and change­
able sensations of the watery signs being made
stable and reliable and fixed.
The next stage of life, is the period in which
experience is garnered and the lessons of life
are stored ready for the enriching of the Ego.
It is the stage in which the review of life brings
wisdom, and the tender feelings of sympathy
to all; the virtues of the last three signs are
made manifest as patience and self-sacrifice,
service; purity, wisdom, gentleness and compas­
sion.
The centralising of the mind in the sign Aqua­
rius, brings the climax when the Man is com-
SECTION ELEVEN 241
plete, and the humanised perfection of manhood
culminates in the one whose mind is wholly
centered in higher states of consciousness.
This is the plan of the normal evolution of
humanity, when the civilized nations have
worked through their infantile, spring-like
stage. For nations, like individuals, are also
evolving, and it is the national good and the
national perfection that is to be the outcome
of this wisely ordained plan, in accordance with
the will of the Supreme Ruler of the Universe.
Perhaps it was this national good and national
perfection which one of our great men saw,
when he had the wonderful vision, which he so
beautifully described.
“A vision of the future arises. I see a world
where thrones have crumbled and where kings
are dust. The aristocracy of idleness has perish­
ed from the earth.
I see a world without a slave. Man at last is
free. Nature’s forces have by science been en-
242 y o u
slaved. Lightning and light, wind and waves,
frost and flames, and all the subtle powers of
the earth and air, are the tireless toilers for the
human race.
I see a world at peace, adorned with every
form of art, with music’s myriad voices thrilled,
while lips are rich with words of love and truth;
a world in which no exile sighs, no prisoner
mourns; a world on which the gibbet’s shadow
does not fall; a world where labor reaps its full
reward, where work and worth go hand in hand.
I see a world without the beggar’s out­
stretched palm, the miser’s heartless stony stare,
the piteous wail of want, the livid lips of lies,
the cruel eyes of scorn.
I see a race without disease of flesh or brain—
shapely and fair, married harmony of form and
function— and, as I look, life lengthens, joy
deepens, love canopies the earth; and over all,
in the great dome, shines the eternal star of
faith.”
SE C T IO N T W E L V E
\
SE C T IO N T W E L V E
Life is not created— it simply Is. All nature
is animate with this force we call “ Life.” The
Phenomena of life on this physical plane, with
which we are chiefly concerned, are produced
'by the involution of “ energy” into “matter,”
and matter is, itself an involution of energy.
Living tissue is organized or organic life;
dead tissue is unorganized or inorganic matter.
When life disappears from an organism, disin­
tegration begins, the process of organization
ceases.
Organization requires a high rate of vibration,
or short wave lengths, moving with great in­
tensity, the molecules of which the tissue is com­
posed are in a continuous state of activity, the
result is the tissues manifest what we call life.
Life vibrations have but one source and that
is the Sun. Senility is a part of the death pro­
cess, it is caused by the accumulation of Earthy
salts or so-called mineral matter.
246 YOU
This mineral matter usually consists of lime
and chalk which settles upon the walls of the
arteries which become hardened and calcinous
and lose their elasticity.
If the vibrations are sufficiently intense, it
would be impossible for these salts to settle in
the system, the intense vibration would make
the accumulation impossible; the minerals would
be expelled in the process of elimination.
Old age, decay and death are therefore simply
due to the inability of the individual to keep
in tune with the vibrations from the Sun, which
is the source of all life.
Longevity and vitality are in direct ratio as
we contact the intense vibrations from the sun
and isolate ourselves from the slow, disorganiz­
ing, disintegrating and deathly vibrations of the
Earth.
Life is a rate of vibration, a mode of motion,
death is the absence of that vibration.
SECTION TWELVE 247
Life is a manifestation of activity. Death is
the process of disintegration, the absence of acti­
vity. The vibrations of life originate in the
Sun. The vibrations of death originate in the
Earth.
The Sun is the source of life, the Moon of
form, and the Earth of disintegration or death.
The Earth is ever seeking to embrace in its
bosom all things; it is the tomb or fixed resting
place for every form of organized manifestation.
The vibrations from the Earth are, therefore,
the vibrations of destruction, of disintegration,
nothing has so far been able to resist the con­
tinual pull of these Earthy vibrations; every­
thing has had to finally succumb, all form of
whatever nature has thus far been compelled
to return to the Earth to await the vitalizing
vibrations of the Sun, before being again brought
into manifestation.
But, will this always be true? Not necessarily,
it may not always be necessary to contact these
248 y o u
disintegrating vibrations, we may be able to
insulate ourselves to some extent at least.
The Universe was built by vibration; that is
to say, the specific form which everything has,
on either a large or a small scale, is due abso­
lutely to the specific rate of vibration which
gave expression to it. The Universe, then, both
in general and in particular, is the effect of a
system of vibration; in other words, the music
of the spheres has expressed itself in that form
which we denominate the Cosmos.
This vibration expresses intelligence. This is
not intelligence as we understand the word, but
a cosmic knowledge which is responsible for the
growth of finger-nails, hair, bones, teeth or skin,
the circulation of blood, and breathing, which
proceed whether we are asleep or awake.
Thus consciousness or intelligence abounds in
every thing, peculiar to itself only in that it
differs in character to every other thing, for
there is but one Universal consciousness or intel-
SECTION TWELVE 249
ligence, while there are multitudinous different
expressions of it. The rock, the fish, the animal,
the human are all recipients of the one Universal
intelligence, they are only differently formed
manifestations of Cosmic substance—differently
combined rates of motion or vibration.
Mind is a system of vibration, the brain is
the vibrator, and thought is the organized effect
of each particular vibration when expressed
through the requisite combination of cells.
It is not the number of the cells, but their
vibratory adaptability which gives range to the
thoughts of which the mind is capable.
It is through the Universal Mind that the
Seeds of Thought enter the brain of man, so
that it conceives thought which becomes a cur­
rent of Energy, centripetal in the mind of man,
and centrifugal in the Universal Mind.
These seeds of of thought have a tendency to
germinate to sprout and to grow, they thus form
what we call ideas.
250 YOU
When a mental picture is formed in the brain,
the rate of vibration corresponding to that pic­
ture is immediately awakened in the ether. It
depends, however, upon whether the Will or
Desire principle is acting as to whether that
vibration moves inward or outward.
If the Will is used the vibration moves out­
ward and the principle of force is put into
operation. If the Desire nature is awakened the
vibrations move inward and the law of Attrac­
tion is put into operation.
In either case the law of Causation expresses
itself through the embodying or Creative Prin­
ciple.
The time is not far distant when man will be
able to make the body immune against disease
and arrest the ordinary processes of old age
and physical decay—perpetuate youth even
after the body has passed the mark of the
centuries.
SECTION TWELVE 251
Immortality, or perpetual life, is the fondest
hope, the legitimate goal and just birthright of
every human being. But the majority of people
of all religions, and those of no religious belief
at all, seem to think that it is to be attained,
if at all, at some future time, and on some other
plane of existence.
Every human being who is not sick or insane,
has an innate desire to live as long as possible.
If there is an individual person in the world
who does not desire to live, it is because he is
in some abnormal condition of body or mind
or expects to be.
As a matter of fact, the more highly enlight­
ened and developed the individual, the more
intense the desire and longing for life, -and it is
improbable that there would be a natural desire
for something that was impossible of attain­
ment.
Prof. Jaques Loeb, formerly of the depart­
ment of Psychology at the University of Cali-
252 YOU
fornia, said several years ago: “Man will live
forever when he has learned to establish the
right protoplasmic reaction in the body.”
Thomas Edison says, “ I have many reasons to
believe that the time will come when man will
not die.”
Five-sevenths of the flesh and blood are
water, while the substance of the body consists
of albumen, fibrin, cassein and gelatin; that is,
organic substance composed originally of four
essential gases, oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen and
carbonic acid.
Water is a combination of two gases, air a
mixture of three gases; thus our bodies are
composed of only transformed gases. None of
our flesh existed three or four months ago;
face, mouth, arms, hair, even the very nails.
The entire organism is but a current of mole­
cules, a ceaselessly renewed flame, a stream at
which we may look all of our lives and never
see the same water again.
SECTION TWELVE 253
These molecules do not touch each other and
are continually renewed by means of assimila­
tion, directed, governed and organized by the
immaterial force which animates it.
To this force we may give the name “ soul,”
so writes the great French Astronomer, Physi­
cist, Biologist and Metaphysician, Camille
Flammarion.
The Bridge of Life, a symbol of physical re­
genesis, has been exploited in song, drama and
story. Paracelsus, Pythagoras, Lycurgus, Val­
entin, Wagner, and a long unbroken line of the
Illuminati, from time immemorial have chanted
their epics in unison with this “riddle of the
Sphinx,” across the scroll of which is written,
“ Solve me, or die.”
This solution may lie in an understanding of
the nature of the glands which control physical
and mental growth, and all metabolic processes
of fundamental importance.
254 yotj
These glands dominate all the vital functions
and co-operate in an intimate relationship which
may be compared to an interlocking directorate.
They furnish the internal secretions or har-
mones which determine whether we are to be
tall or short, handsome or homely, brilliant or
dull, cross or congenial.
Sir William Osier, one of the world’s great
thinkers, said, “ For man’s body is a humming
hive of working cells each with its specific func­
tions, all under central control of the brain and
heart, and all dependent on secretions from
the glands which lubricate the wheels of life.
For example, remove the thyroid gland just
below the adams apple, and you deprive man
of the lubricants which enable his thought-en­
gines to work, and gradually the stored acquisi­
tions of his mind cease to be available, and
within a year he sinks into dementia. The nor­
mal processes of the skin cease, and the hair
falls, the features bloat, and the paragon of
SECTION TWELVE 255
animals is transformed into a shapeless carica­
ture of humanity.
There are seven major glands, the pituitary,
the thyroid, the pancreas, the adrenal, the
pineal, the thymus and the sex glands, which
control the metabolism of the body and domi­
nate all vital functions.
The pituitary is a small gland located near
the center of the head, directly under the third
ventricle of the brain, where it rests, in a de­
pression in the bony floor-plate of the skull.
Its secretions have an important part in the
mobilizing of carbohydrates, maintaining blood-
pressure, stimulating the other glands, and
maintaining the tonicity of the sympathetic
nerve system.
The thyroid gland is located at the frontal
base of the neck, extending upward in a sort
of semicircle on both sides. The thyroid secre­
tion is important in mobolizing both proteids
and carbohydrates; it stimulates other glands
256 YOU
helps resist infections, affects the hair growth
and influences the organs of the digestion and
elimination. It is a strongly determining factor
in the all-around physical development, and
also in the mental functioning. A well-balanced
thyroid will insure an active, efficient and
smoothly co-ordinated mind and body.
The adrenal glands are located just above the
small of the back. These organs have some­
times been called the beauty glands, “ since one
of their functions is to keep the pigments of
the body in proper solution and distribution.
But of greater importance is the agency of the
adrenal secretion in other directions. The se­
cretions contain a most valuable blood-pressure
agent and are a tonic to the sympathetic nerve
system, hence to the involuntary muscles, heart,
arteries and intestines. These glands respond to
certain emotional excitements by an immediate
increase in volume of secretion, thus increasing
the energy of the whole system, and preparing
it for effective response.
SECTION TWELVE 257
The pineal gland is a small conical structure
located behind the third ventricle of the brain,
the ancients realized that this gland was of
vast importance, it is spoken of as a spiritual
center, the seat of the soul and possibly of
eternal youth or life everlasting. It is near the
top and back of the head.
The thymus gland is located at or near the
bottom of the throat, just below the thyroid
gland, it is considered essential for children only,
but is it not possible that the degeneration of
this gland is one of the causes of premature
senility?
The pancreas is located just behind the peri­
toneum near the stomach, this gland aids diges­
tion and when not properly functioning an
excess of sugar may be produced, which causes
diabetes and other serious troubles.
The sex glands are located at the lower part
of the abdomen, it is through the functioning
of these glands that life is created and the
process of reproduction carried on.
258 YOU
When the secretions from these glands are
not called upon for procreative purposes, they
are poured into the cell life, renewing the energy,
strength and vitality.
If they fail to function there is depression
and general debility.
It is clear then, that if we can find some way
to make these glands continue to function, we
can renew our health, strength and youth indefi­
nitely; because the thyroid develops vital ener­
gy, the pituitary controls blood-pressure and
develops mental energy, the pancreas controls
digestion and bodily vigor, the adrenals furnish
pep and ambition and the sex glands control
the secretions which manifests as youth, strength
and power.
We can better understand the mechanism of
glands, when we remember that the Sun is the
source of all life; that the rays from the Sun
are differentiated into seven different tones or
colors or qualities by the seven different planets,
SECTION TWELVE 259
and that they enter the human system by the
seven plexi located along the spinal column, and
we now find that this life is carried to the seven
major glands in the body, where it controls
and dominates every function of life.
Unfortunately, however, ordinary window
glass excludes practically all of the ultra-violet
rays, which are the most essential in the main­
tenance of health and vitality. A few sanitar­
iums and hopsitals have had special windows
of fused quartz constructed, which admit these
ultra violet rays, but so far the cost of such
windows is prohibitive, a single window costing
from ten thousand to fifteen thousand dollars.
Apparatus is now constructed, however, which
may be attached to the ordinary electric current,
so that the full benefit of the vital rays from
the solar orb may be secured.
When the glands are supplied with the vital
rays, of which we have heretofore been deprived
the result will be a remarkable degree of vital-
260 YOU
ity, mental and physical vigor, in fact, it is
already known that cholesterol can be converted
into a vitamin by the action of the ultra violet
rays, and it is possible that other inert sub­
stances may be activated in like manner.
The ultra red rays have also been found to
be an exceedingly valuable therapeutic agent.
Fabrics of certain weaves are used to filter these
rays.
Deductions from the experiments made by
several of the world’s leading scientists more
than fifteen years ago are to the effect that it
will be possible for the physical body of man
to become so purified and responsive that it may
continue living from age to age without death.
The income and outgo of the body can be so
perfectly adjusted that the organism will not
becomes old, but will be rebuilt from day to day.
The vibratory force of Life can be inspired
to such a degree, and radiated through the tis­
sues to such an extent, that this man of clay
SECTION TWELVE 261
will really become a temple of the living God,
not merely a reservoir of unconscious and un­
regulated intelligence.
By very simple hygienic care we can greatly
prolong each life manifestation. Hence we have
reason to believe that a complete knowledge of
vibratory force and its effect upon the structure
of the body, will aid the organism in making
the life manifestations permanent.
Dr. Monroe, an eminent physician and scien­
tist of Great Britian, says, “The human frame
as a machine contains within itself no marks
by which we can possibly predict its decay; it
is apparently intended to go on forever.
But of all the multiple adepts or masters that
have kept the light burning above the Three
Piers of the magical Bridge, none has more
clearly and beautifully written thereof than did
the great poet, Isaiah:
“Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened,
and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped.
262 YOU
Then shall the lame man leap as a hart, and
the tongue of the dumb shall sing; for in the
wilderness shall waters break out, and streams
in the desert. And the glowing sand shall be­
come a pool, and the thirsty ground springs of
water; in the habitation of jackals, where they
lay, shall be grass with reeds and bushes. And
a highway shall be there, and a way and it shall
be called, “The way of Holiness;” the unclean
shall not pass over it, but it shall be for the
redeemed; the wayfaring man, yea, fools, shall
not err therein.”
The nerves are fine threads of different colors,
each one having a special chemical affinity for,
certain organic substances, oil or albumen
through and by which the organism is mater­
ialized and the process of life carried on.
The imagination might easily conceive that
these delicate infinitesimal fibres are strings of
the Human Harp, and that the molecular min­
erals are the fingers of Infinite Energy striking
the notes of some Divine Anthem.
SE C TIO N THIRTEEN
SE C T IO N THIRTEEN
Your emotions will invariably seek to express
themselves in action. The emotion of love will
therefore seek expression in demonstrations of
loving service.
Emotions of hate will seek expression in vin­
dictive or hostile actions.
Emotions of shame will seek expressions in
actions corresponding to the nature of the cause
which brought the emotion into being.
Emotions of sorrow will bring the tear ducts
into violent action.
From this you will see that the emotions al­
ways focalize the energies upon the idea or de­
sire which is seeking an outlet.
When the emotions find an outlet through the
proper channel, all is well, but if they are for­
bidden or repressed, the desire or wish will
continue to gather energy and if, for any reason
it is finally suppressed, it will pass into the
subconscious where it will remain.
266 YOU
Such a suppressed emotion becomes a com­
plex. Such a complex is a living thing—it has
vital power and force and the vital force re­
tains its intensity undiminished throughout the
entire life-time, unless released. In fact, it gains
in violence with every similar thought, desire,
wish or memory.
The emotion of love causes the solar plexus to
become active, which in turn influences the
action of glands which produce a vibratory
effect on certain organs of the body which
creates passion. The emotion of hate causes an
acceleration of certain bodily activities, which
change the chemical organization of the blood
and eventuates in semi-paralysis or if long
continued, in complete paralysis.
Emotions may be expressed through mental,
verbal or physical action, and they usually find
expression in one of these three ways and are
therefore released and this energy dissipated in
a few hours; but when by reason of honor,
pride, anger, hatred or bitterness, these emo-
SECTION THIRTEEN 267
tions are buried from consciousness, they become
mental abscesses in the subconscious realm and
cause bitter suffering.
Such a complex may find reverse expression,
for instance a man who has been forbidden to
express his love for a woman may develop into
a woman hater. He may be irritated and an­
noyed by the very sight of feminine things. He
may appear to be bold, independent and domi­
neering, but this will be but the camouflage by
which he is attempting to cover up the craving
for love and sympathy that has been denied him.
Should this man eventually select a mate, he
will unconsciously select one of an opposite type
to the one who caused him sorrow. The attach­
ment has been reversed— he wants no reminders.
Suffering is an emotion and it opens the doors
of the subconscious mind. The thought, “this
is what I get for wrong-doing,” produces a con­
clusion—“well, I’ll never do it again!” This is
the reformation suggestion that goes down
268 YOU
into the subconscious mind by the auto-sugges­
tion of the individual suffering penance. Thus
reformation takes place because it changes the
soul’s desire, and also produces a new desire to
avoid the consequences of suffering indicated
to it by the penance.
Desire originates in the subconscious mind.
It is plainly an emotion. Emotion originates in
the soul or subconscious mind. Pleasure emo­
tions are the diversions and rewards for service
which the subconscious mind renders the body.
You have seen that when any thought, idea
or purpose finds its way into the subconscious
through the emotions, the sympathetic nervous
system takes up the thought, idea or purpose
and carries it to every part of the body, thus
converting the idea, thought or purpose into
an actual experience in your life.
The necessary interaction of the conscious and
subconscious mind requires a similar interaction
between the corresponding system of nerves.
SECTION THIRTEEN 269
The cerebro-spinal system is the organ of the
conscious mind, and the sympathetic is the organ
of the subconscious. The cerebro-spinal system
is the channel through which we receive con­
scious perception from the physical senses and
exercise control over the movements of the body.
This system of nerves has its centre in the
brain.
The Sympathetic System has its centre in a
ganglionic mass at the back of the stomach
known as the Solar Plexus, and is the channel
of that mental action which unconsciously sup­
ports the vital functions of the body.
The connection between the two systems is
made by the vagus nerve, which passes out of
the cerebral region as a portion of the volun­
tary system of the thorax, sending out branches
to the heart and lungs, and finally passing
through the diaphragm, it loses its outer coat­
ing and becomes identified with the nerves of
the Sympathetic System, so forming a connecting
270 YOU
link between the two and making man physi­
cally a single entity.
The Solar Plexus has been likened to the
sun of the body, because it is a central point
of distribution for the energy which the body
is constantly generating. This energy is a very
real energy, and this sun is a very real sun, and
the energy is being distributed by very real
nerves to all parts of the body, and is thrown
off in an atmosphere which envelopes the body.
If this radiation is sufficiently strong, the
person is called magnetic; he is said to have a
strong personality. Such a person may wield
an immense power for good; his presence alone
will often bring comfort to the troubled minds
with which he comes in contact.
When the solar plexus is in active operation,
and is radiating Life and Energy and Vitality
to every part of the body, and to every one that
we meet, the sensations are pleasant, the body
is filled with health and all with whom we come
in contact experience a pleasant sensation.
SECTION THIRTEEN 271
If there is any interruption of this radiation,
the sensations are unpleasant, the flow of vitality
and energy to some part of the body is stopped,
and this is the cause of every ill to the human
race, physical, mental or environmental.
Any explanation of the phenomena of life
must be based upon the theory of Oneness. The
psychic element being found within all living
substance, this Cosmic Intelligence must have
existed before living substance could have come
into existence, and therefore, it exists today all
around us, flowing in and through us. This
Cosmic Consciousness projects itself in the form
of living substance and it acts with a conscious
intelligence in manufacturing its food supply
and evolving organizations on to a higher and
higher plane of life.
This Cosmic Mind is the creative Principle of
the Universe, the Divine Essence of all things.
It is therefore, a subconscious activity and all
subconscious activities are governed by the
272 YOU
sympathetic nervous system which is the organ
of the subconscious mind.
No human intelligence has ever accomplished
the results which the Cosmic Intelligence pro­
duced in developing a chemical laboratory right
within the foundation of plant life, and the pro­
duction of elaborate mechanical devices and
harmonious social organization right within our
own bodies.
In the mineral world everything is solid and
fixed. In the animal and vegetable kingdom it
is in a state of flux, forever changing, always
being created and recreated. In the atmosphere
we find heat, light, and energy. Each realm
becomes finer and more spiritual as we pass
from the visible to the invisible, from the coarse
to the fine, from the low potentiality to high
potentiality. When we reach the invisible we
find energy in its purest and most volatile state.
And as the most powerful forces of Nature
are the invisible forces, so we find that the most
SECTION THIRTEEN 273
powerful forces of man are his invisible forces,
his spiritual force and the only way in which
the spiritual force can manifest is through the
process of thinking.
Addition and subtraction are, therefore, spirit­
ual transactions; reasoning is a spiritual process;
ideas are spiritual conceptions; questions are
spiritual searchlights and logic, argument and
philosophy are spiritual machinery.
Every thought brings into action certain phy­
sical tissue, parts of the brain, nerve or muscle.
This produces an actual physical change in the
construction of the tissue. Therefore, it is only
necessary to have a certain number of thoughts
on a given subject in order to bring about a
complete change in your physical organization.
Thougts of courage, power and ispiration will
eventually take root and as this takes place you
will see life in a new light—life will have a new
meaning for you, you will be reconstructed and
filled with joy, confidence, hope, energy. You
274 YOU
will see opportunities to which you were here­
tofore blind. You will recognize possibilities
which before had no meaning for you. The
thoughts with which you have been impregnated
are radiated to those around you, and they in
turn help you onward and upward; you attract
to yourself new associates, and this in turn
changes your environment; so that by the simple
exercise of thought, you change not only your­
self, but your environment, circumstances and
conditions.
These changes are brought about by the psy­
chic element in life. This psychic element is not
mechanical, because of its power of selection,
organization and direction such a power can not
be automatically mechanical.
The Cosmic Intelligence possesses the func­
tion of memory for the purpose of recording all
the experiences which it encounters and project­
ing and organizing itself on higher planes of life.
It is this function of memory which is the here-
SECTION THIRTEEN 275
ditary directing force found within living or­
ganisms.
This hereditary directing force frequently
manifests as fear, fear is an emotion, it is con­
sequently not amenable to reason, you may
therefore, fear your friends as well as your ene­
mies, fear the present and past as well as the
future, if fear attacks you, it must be destroyed.
You will be interested in knowing how to
accomplish this, reason will not help you at all,
because fear is a subconscious thought, a pro­
duct of the emotions, there must then be some
other way.
The way is to awaken the Solar Plexus, get it
into action, if you have practiced deep breath­
ing you can expand the abdomen to the limit,
that is the first thing to do; hold this breath for
a second or two, then still holding it, draw in
more air and carry it to the upper chest, draw-
in the abdomen.
276 YOU
This effort flushes the face red. Hold this
breath also for a second or two and then still
holding this breath deflate the chest and expand
the abdomen again. Do not exhale this breath
at all, but, still holding it, alternately expand
the abdomen and chest rapidly some four or
five times. Then exhale. The fear is gone.
If the fear does not leave you at once, repeat
the process until it does. It will not be long
before you are feeling entirely normal. Why?
Because in the first place this breathing effort
concentrated at the pit of the stomach affects
the great ganglion of the sympathetic nervous
system lying exactly opposite, called the Solar
Plexus, which largely governs circulation.
The stimulation of the Solar Plexus releases
the nerve currents and the renewed circulation
re-establishes the muscular control.
The breath entering through the right nostril
creates positive electro-magnetic currents, which
SECTION THIRTEEN 277
pass down the right side of the spine, while
the breath entering through the left nostril sends
negative electro-magnetic currents down the left
side of the spine. These currents are transmit­
ted by way of the nerve centers or ganglia of
the sympathetic nervous system.
All force or energy comes from the sun. We
may be said to literally live, move and have
our being, in a physical sense, in the sun. This
force or energy, enters the etheric spleen with
every inhalation of the breath. As it enters the
spleen, the solar plexus draws it to itself with
every exhalation, and from the solar plexus
it travels along the nerves to the sacrum plexus
situated at the extreme end of the spine, and to
the cardinal plexus, the core of the brain. These
are the three main centers of the body.
From the cardinal plexus, this life energy tra­
verses the nerves to the head. Again on the
downward path it passes through to the psychic
center, situated between the eyebrows. Then it
278 YOU
traverses the nerves of the face; then the bron­
chial center; the throat front; the pulmonary
center; the upper chest and the lungs; the lower
lung center, seated above the heart; the vital
and generatic center seated at the base of the
stomach; and so this life energy makes the cir­
cuit of the nerves until it gradually works its
way out through the pores of the skin.
You will therefore readily see, why this exer­
cise can and does completely eliminate that
arch enemy Fear.
If you are tired, if you wish to conquer
fatigue stand still wherever you may be, with
your feet holding all your weight. Inhale deeply,
raise the body on the tip toes, with the hands
stretched above the head and the fingers pointed
upward. Bring your hands together above the
head, inhaling slowly and exhaling violently.
Repeat this exercise three times. It will only
take a minute or two and you will feel more
refreshed than you would if you took a nap,
SECTION THIRTEEN 279
and in time you will be able to overcome the
tendency to fatigue.
The virtue of this exercise is in the intention,
the intention governs the attention, this in turn
acts upon the imagination, the imagination is a
form of thought, which in turn is mind in
motion.
All thought formations interact upon one
another until they come to a state of maturity,
where they reproduce their kind, this is the
law of creation. These are indicated in the char­
acteristics of the individual. If the body is
large, the bones heavy, the finger nails thick,
the hair coarse, we know that the physical pre­
dominates. If the body is slight, the bones
small, the finger nails thin and pliable, we know
that the mental and spiritual characteristics pre­
vail. Coarse hair indicates materialistic tenden­
cies. Fine hair indicates sensitive and discrimi­
nating mental qualities. Straight hair indicates
directness of character, curly hair indicates
changefulness and uncertainty in thought.
280 YOU
Blue eyes indicate a light, happy cheerful,
active disposition. Grey eyes indicate a cool,
calculating, determined disposition. Black eyes
indicate a quick nervous, venturesome disposi­
tion. Brown eyes indicate sincerity, energy and
affection.
You are, therefore, a complete manifestation
of your most inward thoughts, the color of your
eyes, the texture of your skin, the quality of
your hair, every line and curve of your body,
are indications of the character of the thought
which you habitually entertain.
Not only this, but the letters which you write
carry not only the message which the words con­
tain, but they are charged with an energy cor­
responding with the nature of your thought, and
therefore, often bring a very different message
than the one which you intended to send.
And finally, even the clothes which you wear
eventually take on the mental atmosphere which
surrounds you, so that the trained psychome-
SECTION THIRTEEN 281
trist finds no difficulty in reading the character
of those who have worn a garment for any
length of time.
YOU.
I feel your brow your hair,
You do not know that I am there,
Oh! Could you but know—
What then were time or place or space.
SE C T IO N F O U R T E E N
SE C T IO N F O U R T E E N
In an ordinary bar of iron or steel the mole­
cules arrange themselves promiscuously in the
body. The magnetic circuits are satisfied intern­
ally and there is no resulting external magnetism.
When the bar is magnetized the molecules
rearrange themselves according to the law of
attraction, turn on their axis and assume posi­
tions more nearly in a straight line with their
north ends pointing the same way. The closed
magnetic circuits are thus broken up and exter­
nal magnetism made evident.
You cannot see the molecules of iron or steel
changing their relative positions under the in­
fluence of magnetism, but the effect reveals the
change which has taken place. When all of the
molecules have turned on their axis until they
are all arranged symmetrically, the bar has been
completely magnetized. It cannot be further
influenced, however strong the force.
The bar has now become a magnet and will
exert force in every direction. The amount of
286 YOU
force which the magnet will exert decreases as
the distance from the magnet increases.
The magnetic lines complete their circuits in­
dependently— and never cut, cross or merge into
each other.
Another bar of iron or steel placed in the
magnetic field of a magnet assumes the proper­
ties of the magnet; this phenomena is known as
magnetic induction. This is the action and re­
action which always precedes the attraction of
a magnet for a magnetic body.
Electricity is the invisible agent known to us
only by its various manifestations. You are a
perfect electrical plant. Food, water and air
furnish the fuel, the solar plexus is the storage
battery and the sympathetic nervous sytem is
the medium by which the body is charged with
magnetism. Sleep is the process by which the
battery is recharged and the vital processes re­
plenished and renewed.
SECTION FOUKTEEN 287
The male is the positive or electrical charge
and the female the negative or magnetic charge.
The male represents current, force, energy; the
female, capacity, resistance and power.
What happens when one of the opposite sex
comes into your magnetic field? First, the Law
of Attraction is brought into operation, then,
by the process of induction you are magnetized
and assume the properties of the person whom
you are contacting.
When another person enter your magnetic
field what is it that passes from one to the
other, what causes the thrill and tingle over the
entire sympathetic nervous system? It is the
cells rearranging themselves so as to carry the
charge of energy, life and vitality which is
passing from one to the other, and which you
are receiving by the process of induction.
You are being magnetized and in this process
you are assuming the qualities and character­
istics of the person whom you are contacting.
288 YOU
In the magnetism which is passing from per­
son to person is all the joy, all the sorrow, all
the love, the hatred, the music, the art, the
fear, the suffering, the success, the defeat, the
ambition, the triumph, the reverence, the cour­
age, the wisdom, the virtue, the beauty, which
heredity and environment have stored in the life
of your love; for it is nothing less than love,
this Law of Attraction is the Law of Love;
and Love is life, and this is the experience by
which life is being quickened into action, by
which character heredity and destiny are being
determined.
When you become impregnated with these
thoughts of love, of success, of ambition, of
triumph, of defeat, of sorrow, of hatred, of fear
or suffering, are you immediately conscious of
them? By no means. Why not? The reply is
very simple and easily understood. The brain
is the organ of the conscious mind, and it has
five methods only by which it can contact
the objective world. These methods are the five
senses: seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting and
SECTION FOURTEEN 289
feeling. But Love is something which we can­
not see, we cannot hear, neither can we taste,
smell or touch it. It is therefore plainly a
subconscious activity or emotion. The subcon­
scious, however has its own system of nerves
whereby it contacts every part of the body and
receives sensations from the outer world, the
mechanism is complete, it controls all of the
vital processes: the heart, the lungs, the diges­
tion, the kidneys, the liver, the organs of gen­
eration. Nature has evidently taken all of these
out of the control of the conscious mind and
placed them in the control of the more reliable
subconscious, where there can be no interference.
Where physical contact is made an entirely
different situation is created; in this case, we
bring into action the cerebro-spinal nervous sys­
tem also, through the sense of touch. You will
remember that the conscious mind has five
methods by which it contacts the outer world;
the sense of touch is one of these. So that actual
physical contact brings into action, not only the
290 YOU
sympathetic nervous system, but the cerebro­
spinal nervous system also.
As the brain is the organ of this system of
nerves, you immediately become conscious of
any such action. So that when both the emo­
tions and the feelings are aroused by both men­
tal and physical contact we bring into action
every nerve in the body.
The exchange resultant from these associa­
tions, should be beneficial, inspiring and vital­
izing, and such Is the case when the association
is ideal and constructive. Such an association
produces an effect in consciousness and life,
typified by the increased power and usefulness
in the crossing of plants, birds and animals.
This result, means added power, utility, beauty,
wealth or worth.
The Principle of Attraction as it operates
through infinite time, evidences itself in the
form of growth. The one fundamental and in­
evitable result of attraction is the bringing to-
SECTION FOTJKTEEN 291
gether of things that have an affinity for each
other, with a resultant eternally advancing
growth of life.
You have found what happens, when one of
the opposite sex comes into your magnetic field,
now let us consider what happens when you
approach another personality of the same sex.
All human intercourse is a matter of accomo­
dation, and you will be a factor in determin­
ing what the relationship shall be, and it rests
with you to determine whether you shall be the
predominant factor in the new relationship.
If you give you are the positive or predomi­
nant factor.
If you receive you are the negative or re­
ceptive factor.
Each person is a magnet having both positive
and negative poles, and with tendencies that
impel an automatic sympathy with or antipathy
toward whatever approaches or is approached.
292 y o u
Normally, the positive poles lead the way,
and the approach of two positives from opposite
directions forshadows a collision.
The fundamental of life is harmony, and dis­
cords are obstructions that lie in your path.
They obscure the reality of peace that lies at
the heart of every experience, but as you in­
crease in experience, you are enabled to discern
the good in apparent evil, and your power of
attraction increases proportionately.
To the extent that you are magnetized to­
ward “ saturation point” you may determine
your relation to others and their relation to you.
Any magnet has the power to induce har­
monious conjunction with one that is less
powerful.
This is accomplished by causing a reversal
of polarity of one of the magnets. Then dis­
similar poles come together in peace and har­
mony.
SECTION FOURTEEN 293
The more positive magnet will compel the less
positive magnet to become receptive to the
greater power that dominates it.
The lesser magnet may be obliged to be re­
ceptive to the overpowering influence. It ac­
knowledges the impelling power that requires it
to reverse its polarity.
It turns its positive pole away and its nega­
tive pole toward the positive pole of the greater
magnet, and the two meet in harmonious rela­
tion.
The negative magnet may, however have the
higher knowledge, and may not desire to domi­
nate. Possessing greater wisdom it may disdain
the use of force.
Perhaps it prefers to conciliate, or wishes to
receive rather than give. Instead of forcibly
obliging the lesser magnet to accomodate itself
to imposed conditions, the greater magnet may
voluntarily reverse its own polarity.
294 YOTJ
If you are a great soul you will know intui­
tively whether to exercise coercion or non-resis­
tance. Where coercion is used, the resultant
harmony is an involuntary and temporary
submission, while the non-resistant method binds
because of the sense of freedom that it confers.
The coercive method is distinctively intellec­
tual, while that of non-resistence is essentially
spiritual.
If you are highly developed spiritually and
similarly endowed with intellectual power, you
can use the latter to the greatest advantage, in
this case you will neither discard reason or
logic, because in your understanding of life’s
mathematics you will make application of
spiritual geometry, mental algebra or physical
arithmetic, according to the requirements of
your problem.
You will find that existence involves ever
recurrent occasions for accomodation, compro­
mise and reversal of polarities. You may escape
SECTION FOURTEEN 295
compulsion through acquiescent submission, and
avoid the use of force by inviting pleasurable
acquiesence.
You may command and exact unwilling obedi­
ence or you may invite and receive voluntary
co-operation.
You may induce harmonies and create friend­
ships or you may plant hatreds that will react
as obligations that must eventually be satisfied.
An understanding of the properties of the
human magnet will enable you to solve many of
the problems of life.
Conflict and opposition have their place, but
ordinarily they constitute obstacles and pitfalls
to be avoided.
You will find that you can always avoid
useless opposition and unprofitable conflict by
reversing your polarity or impelling its reversal
in your would-be opponent.
296 YOU
You are, indeed, in the loving care of prin­
ciples that are immutable, and that are designed
solely for your benefit.
You may place yourself in harmony with
them, and thus express a life of comparative
peace and happiness, or you may put yourselves
in opposition to the inevitable, with necessarily
unpleasant results.
You determine your conscious relation to all
that is. You express the exact degree of happi­
ness or the reverse that you have earned through
the associations which you have pemitted to
come into your life.
You may from any one experience learn the
spirtual lesson it was intended to convey, or
you may make necessary many similar experi­
ences.
You may gather wisdom from experience
rapidly and with ease, or you may do so slowly
and with difficulty.
You are able to consciously control your con­
ditions as you come to sense the purposes of
SECTION FOURTEEN 297
what you attract, and are able to extract from
each experience that which you require for fur­
ther growth.
When you possess this faculty to a high de­
gree you may grow rapidly and reach planes of
thought where opportunities for greater service
await you.
It remains for you on each successive plane
to learn how to express the greater harmonies
that your higher growth has placed within your
reach, for it is only through expression that you
may appropriate what is for your use or bene­
fit.
You have now entered upon the borderland
of the basic, the fundamental, the active prin­
ciple of life. Little did you realize a few years
ago the innumerable vibrations which surround
you such as electric, magnetic, heat, actinic; the
control and the use of which are now keeping
you busy.
Suppose that what you term “ electrons”
should be active centers of intelligence connected
298 YOU
with an Infinite Mind, which is all-wise and
all-knowing. That marvelous mind which thinks
with design and sees ends from beginning.
Suppose that “ electrons” should not be cen­
ters of force and energy only, but centers of
intelligence, and that mankind will finally dis­
cover that the brain is an organized center of
millions of these intelligent electrons, and that
they are in contact with all other electrons of
which the Universe is composed.
The universe is the effect of a system of vi­
bration; the Cosmos is organized by the action
of energy vibrating in accordance with certain
rates which express themselves in form. The
universe, could, therefore, in no case be any­
wise different than it is unless the vibratory
influence which organized it had been different,
the universe being the expression in form of
those vibratory influences which have organized
it out of the Cosmic energy or ether.
Sir William Crooks took some very fine sand
and scattered it over the head of a drum. Then
SECTION FOURTEEN 299
by taking a tuning fork and sounding different
notes just above the drum head so that the
vibration set in motion by this particular key
would vibrate upon the drum head, the sand
was seen to shift and assume a definite geomet­
rical figure, corresponding to the particular note
which was sounded.
When another note was sounded the sand
shifted and assumed another figure, demonstrat­
ing that the notes of a musical scale will pro­
duce a corresponding form, in any substance
sufficiently plastic to assume form under their
direction.
This proves that vibration is the origin of
form, each particular vibration giving rise to a
corresponding form.
Vibration, then is at the foundation of phy­
sics. Form, as well as light, heat, color and
sound are inseparably connected with vibratory
activities. Each vibration expresses itself in a
form corresponding to that particular rate of
vibration.
300 YOU
Form, then, is the organized result of energy
at certain rates of vibration. Vibrations express
themselves in corresponding geometrical figures
and in this way build up crystals which are
the expression of vibration, a number of these
crystals collectively forming a body of the par­
ticular elements which is the outgrowth of that
particular vibration.
Study the beautiful forms of snowflakes fall­
ing on cold winter days; you will find that one
day the forms are quite different from those of
the day before or the day after, although the
conditions may differ but in the very smallest
degree.
Nevertheless this minute different has sufficed
to evolve these very different forms; each of
which is the exact expression of a special com­
plex relation between moisture, motion, pressure,
temperature, rarity, electrical tension, and
chemical composition of the air that prevailed
during their formation.
SECTION FOURTEEN 301
When a thread is introduced into a bowl of
saline solution, and then lifted out of it, there
will gather over the entire length of the sub­
merged string a mass of mathematically perfect
crystals of salt.
It has been observed by the students of nature
that the crystals are never exactly alike. Not
only is this true of the different chemical ele­
ments, but we know that each individual crystal
is a little different. Now, knowing that this
crystallization is due to vibration and all dif­
ferences in the form of the crystal are, therefore,
due to differences in the rate of vibration, we
can recognize the fact that the individuality of
any object is due to the corresponding indivi­
duality in the vibration which gave expression
to it.
It is the law of vibration which brings to
maturity the fruit of every thought, whether
wholesome or unwholesome, desirable or unde­
sirable. It is this law which causes the things
which we see to take form, it is this law which
302 YOU
gives sparkle to the diamond, lustre to the ame­
thyst, color to the grape, fragrance to the rose,
beauty to the lily, and it is through the opera­
tion of this law that each of us is attracting
to ourselves the associates, experiences, circum­
stances, conditions and environment by which
wT
e are related to the objects and purposes which
we seek.
Existence is like the output of a loom. The
pattern, the design is there; but whereas our
looms are mere machines, once the guiding cords
have been fed into them, the Loom of Time
is complicated by a multitude of free agents,
who can modify the web, making the product
more beautiful or more ugly, according as they
are in harmony or disharmony with the general
scheme.
With the Arabic numerals 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, 0 any conceivable number may be expressed.
With the twenty-six letters of the alphabet
any conceivable thought may be expressed.
SECTION FOURTEEN 303
With the fourteen primary elements any con­
ceivable thing may be organized.
What is true in the inorganic world is like­
wise true in the organic, certain conscious pro­
cesses will invariably be followed by the same
consequence. Clearly, then, it requires an in­
telligent force to direct the activities of these
electrons and cause them to unite with regular
mathematical precision, and thus bring into
being, matter of every conceivable form.
Mind is then the source of all things, in the
sense that the activity of mind is the initial
cause of all things coming into being. This is
because the primal source of all things is a cor­
responding thought in the Universal Mind. It
is the essence of a thing that constitutes its
being, and the activity of mind is the cause by
which the essence takes form.
An idea is a thought conceived in the mind,
and this rational form of the thought is the
root of form, in the sense that this form of
304 YOU
thought is the initial formal expression which
acting upon Substance causes it to assume form.
There can be nothing except as there is an
idea, or ideal form engendered in the Mind.
Such ideas, acting upon the Universal, engender
corresponding forms.
Matter being Cosmic Mind in physical mani­
festation we perceive that everything is possess­
ed of intelligence directing its development and
manifestation. This is the intelligence which
causes rocks to cohere and crystallize, while
plants manifest life in an entirely different
manner.
Plant life divides its cells rapidly, absorbs
moisture, air and light readily, while the rock
expels them. But they both combine and trans­
form elements in just the right proportions to
reproduce, perpetuate and color their species.
The one purpose in life for centuries was as
simple as that of the lower animals or plants;
SECTION FOURTEEN 305
the simple aim of self preservation and of the
production of descendants. Human beings were
contented with the simplest organic function,
nutrition and reproduction. Hunger and love
were their only motive for action. For a long
period they must have aimed at the one single
object of self-preservation.
In the route of our ancestry, specific lines were
traveled, and specific character established. We
lose neither the one nor the other, for both lines
and character are projected from generation to
generation. The lines, although invisible are
never broken, nor are they ever abruptly chang­
ed to other type expressions. Neither are the
characteristics ever lost though they continue
to project from generation to generation down
through the ages.
We may distill, analyze, compound all the
elements that are used as conveyors or vehicles
in the process of constructive energy and we
will not find the element that will produce a
nut, a plum or even as much as a mustard seed,
306 YOU
unless we send the energy into condensation
over character lines as constructive moulds that
must first be established.
Character lines are invisible tracks over
which and through which Nature is ever press­
ing into constructivity every element and thing
of creation from the plane of the fungi, to that
of the intellectual and Spiritual Man.
In its highest form of expression the Principle
of Attraction is manifested in love. It is the
One Universal Principle that equally governs the
seeming involuntary affinities of minerals and
vegetable substances, the passions of animals,
and the loves of men.
The Law of Love is a piece of pure science;
and the oldest and simplest form of Love is
the elective affinity of two differing cells. Above
all laws is the Law of Love, for Love is life.
Progress being the object of Nature, and
Altruism the object of Progress, the Book of
Life is found to be a love story.
SE C TIO N FIFTEEN
SE C T IO N FIFTEEN
You imagine many things that are not so,
but if you continue to imagine these things,
they eventually come to pass, why is this?
It is because the imagination is the process of
image—ing these things in or on your mind,
and this process is nature’s method of Creation.
Perhaps you may think that your imagina­
tion can create nothing, well you can easily
prove whether this is so or not, yourself. Take
a piece of white paper about twenty-four inches
square, draw a circle as large as this paper
will permit, draw a horizontal line through the
center of the circle, call the left end of the
line A, the right end B; now draw a vertical
line through the circle, call the north end of this
line C, the south end D ; take a lead pencil and
attach a string about eight inches long, and
upon the end of the string tie a small weight
about the size of a quarter, now then for the
proof:
310 YOU
Place the paper on a table, stand upright and
hold the rod above the paper, so that the pen­
dulum will be just above the center of the paper
where the lines intersect, now think of the line
A-B, but do not move, in a few minutes the
pendulum will swing back and forth along the
line A-B. Now think of the line C-D ; the pen­
dulum will stop swinging back and forth, but
will begin to swing up and down along the line
C-C.
Now take your thought off from the lines
entirely and fix it upon the circle, the pendulum
will begin a circulatory motion.
Now then, think that the pendulum is swing­
ing faster and faster, that you can hardly stop
it, the motion will become so fast, that you can
hardly see it go.
Now then, think that it will not move at all,
that something is the matter with it.
It will stop!
SECTION FIFTEEN 311
This experiment is one which Mr. Charles
Baudouin of The Jean Jacques Institute in
France uses to illustrate the power of thought
to his students.
You may think that this is Will Power, it is
nothing of the kind, in fact, if you Will the
pendulum to move it will not budge, you must
think of the result, not upon how it is accom­
plished.
In his experiments M. Baudouin, found that
the higher the type of intelligence, which the
student posssessed, the more rapidly did he
secure results. Those students who were more
or less deficient in mentality were very slow
and in some cases results were almost negli­
gible.
When you become familiar with the operation
of this law, you will have found the secret of
success, of health, of prosperity, of happiness,
of popularity.
312 YOU
You will have discovered a law which is as
dependable as the law of gravitation.
When this law is put into operation for the
purpose of bringing about material success or
prosperity, it is called the Creative Law of
Prosperity.
You may ask how can this result be accom­
plished, how will the things be brought to you
which will make you harmonious, prosperous
and happy. They will come to you through the
operation of Natural laws.
Spirit, Universal Mind, Life, Energy, express
through all forms of the seen and unseen side
of life. The human brain is the finest, most
vibrant vehicle on this plane and thus it has
power or control over all things.
If you think or concentrate along any particu­
lar line, you start a train of causation, and if
your thought is sufficiently concentrated and
kept continuously in mind, what happens?
SECTION FIFTEEN 313
There is only one thing that can occur. What­
ever the vision you have, the imagination you
have, the image is accepted by the Universal
intelligence expressing through the cells of your
physical body and environment, and these cells
send out their calls into the great formless ener­
gy everywhere around you for the material
which corresponds with the image and harmon­
izes in its vibration with, and whether the image
is for success along any particular line or fear
of a particular thing, you call the atoms from
out of the formless energy which make for the
success or the thing you fear— you relate with
conditions necessary to bring into manifestation
the thing you desire or the thing you fear.
Thoughts of anger, hatred, fear, jealousy,
worry, etc., act directly on the secretions caus­
ing an actual poison in the system, which in
time will destroy the body, unless they are
overcome with love, harmony, joy, faith, etc.
Constructive thoughts are stronger than des­
tructive thoughts and love is the strongest of all.
314 YOU
We are told by the greatest of teachers that
the fundamental or foundation law of our being
is love. Love God, love your neighbor, love
yourself, love your enemy, love everybody and
everything. No one can afford to hate because
hate always destroys the hater. It is said that
“Whom the gods would destroy, they first make
angry.”
Prosperity is a harmonious, creative state of
being. Creative law will overcome every kind
of inharmony, whether it be financial, physical,
mental, moral, or social.
Every thought of lack or poverty acts directly
on the heart, affecting the circulation causing
consipation, congestion,, and many forms of
disease, due to poor circulation.
Thoughts of prosperity, love, joy and happi­
ness also act upon the heart, causing good cir­
culation and a healthy body. There is much
truth in the saying, “Laugh and grow fat,” “A
merry heart doeth good like a medicine.”
SECTION FIFTEEN 315
Any physician will tell you that if he can
get a good circulation of pure blood to the part
or organ of the body affected, he can heal it,
regardless as to what may appear to be the
difficulty.
All possession is based on consciousness. All
gain is the result of an accumulative conscious­
ness. All loss is the result of a scattering con­
sciousness.” This is another way of saying that
thoughts are things, and that things are
thoughts, (thinks) materialize. Thoughts are
today being photographed, showing that they
take form in the surrounding ether, or universal
substance. These are scientific facts.
Thought is a creative energy, and will auto­
matically correlate with its object, and bring it
into manifestation, because thought is spiritual
energy or vibration.
All this brings us back to the fact that pros­
perity is the result of right, or creative thinking,
316 YOU
and that poverty is the result of wrong or des­
tructive thinking.
You can prove this for yourself in a very
short time.
Begin by taking these words, “ I am whole,
perfect, strong, powerful, loving, harmonious,
prosperous and happy.” Repeat them over and
over to yourself as often as you can think to
do it, and especially the last thing before drop­
ping off to sleep at night and the first thing
upon awaking in the morning. Remember, these
are creative words.
Every thought or word opposed to them is
destructive, and must not be allowed to enter
your mind or to be expressed in words. Every
thought of disease, sickness, and pain is opposed
to wholeness and perfection, and should be
eliminated by declaring, “ I am whole and per­
fect.” Every thought of weakness is opposed
to strength and should be put out of mind by
saying, “ I am strong and powerful.”
SECTION FIFTEEN 317
To know this law and live in harmony with
it is to build prosperity on a rock foundation
which nothing can desroy.
By this law things which are seen are made
from things which do not appear.
We are told by scientific students of nature
that every element in the material world is in
the ether. From these elements, the cabbage
takes what it requires to form a cabbage. From
these same elements, the apple tree forms and
colors an apple, and the rose from these elements
produces, colors and perfumes a rose. Surely,
man should know as much as the cabbage, the
apple, or the rose about handling these elements.
Students of nature also tell us that there is
one universal substance, out of which all things
are formed, and that the difference between
flesh, vegetable, stone, iron, glass, etc., is the
difference in the vibration, or motion of these
particles of substance, as they are brought to­
gether and act and react upon each other.
318 YOU
If you sends thoughts of health, love, and
prosperity, they will return to you multiplied,
like the seed you sow in your garden. Send out
destructive thoughts they also return to you
multiplied like weeds. You reap what you sow.
Law governs every form of light, heat, sound
and energy. Law governs every material thing
and every immaterial thought. Law covers the
earth with beauty and fills it with bounty.
Shall you then not be certain that it also gov­
erns the distribution of this bounty?
There are, however, many laws, with which,
possibly, you may not be familiar, for instance,
when you grow weary of listening to a piece of
Jazz Music being broadcasted from a New York
hotel, you turn the dial an eighth of an inch,
and you get the beautiful notes of a violin
from Detroit or Cleveland or Chicago, again
you turn the dial an eighth of an inch and you
hear an Organ solo from Omaha or Denver,
another turn of the dial and you hear a quar­
tette singing in San Francisco or Los Angeles,
SECTION FIFTEEN 319
and this is true whether you live in an apart­
ment in New York, of a bungalow on the
Hawaiian Islands or are the keeper of a light­
house on the shores of Alaska.
The simple turn of a dial will take you clear
across the continent and you may stop as often
as you wish on the way, and all because the
various broadcasting stations use a different
wave length.
The wave length depends upon the frequency
or the number of vibrations which pass a given
point in one second.
It is possible for one of the more powerful
broadcasting stations to send a message which
will simultaneously reach every person in the
United States, but the message will be received
by those only who have a receiver which is in
tune with the station which is sending the
message.
The seven planets comprising the Solar Sys­
tem, are all creating vibrations in the ether.
320 YOU
These vibrations are all of such high frequency
that there is at this time no means of measuring
them.
These vibrations change the character of the
thought, the emotions, the impulses and thus
influence the lives of every vital organism.
And why should this not be true, the mes­
sage from an ordinary broad-casting station is
delivered with energy equal to something like
5,000 H. P. while a planet like Jupiter with a
diameter of 85,000 miles develops an almost in­
conceivable amount of energy as it plows its
way through the Ether, with the speed of a
cannon ball.
It is Nature’s method in comparison with the
methods of man, but you are inclined to mag­
nify the results of mans endeavor and minimize
or deny the influence of the greatest amount of
physical force in existence.
SECTION FIFTEEN 321
When you repeat, “ I am prosperous, harmoni­
ous and happy,” you are tuning in on Jupiter,
the most powerful station in existence.
You are raising your vibration, you are in­
creasing the frequency, you are shortening the
wave length.
Jupiter is the station of good fortune, the
station of power, the station of plenty.
Get him located on your mental dial.
PETER BELL.
He moved among the vales and streams,
In the green wood and hollow dell;
They were his dwelling night and day
But Nature ne’er could find the way
Into the heart of Peter Bell.
In vain through every changing year,
Did Nature lead him as before,
A primrose by the river’s brim,
A yellow primrose was to him,
And it was nothing more.
WoBDSWORTH.
SE C T IO N SIXTEEN
SE C T IO N SIXTE EN
Beauty always accompanies economy of struc­
ture and movement, indeed it is the expression of
this economy. All improvement in speed and
directness of movement must have been adap­
tive, must have given the individual an advan­
tage in gaining food, escaping enemies or in
some way making its evolutionary position more
secure.
Beauty and intelligence are the outcome of
different phases of the same forces of organic
evolution. What is good we call beautiful.
A graceful carriage, a springing, vigorous
rhythmical step, a sweet breath, good teeth,
clear complexion, a pleasant musical voice, a
handsome shapely neck, red lips, a well devel­
oped chin, and clear bright, animated eyes are
indications of health.
The ideals of human excellence, of character,
morality, beauty, intelligence, health, sanity
and energy which we teach our young men and
women cause them to seek these things in their
mates.
These ideals are thus bred into the physical
and mental constitution of the race. They
become its most priceless possession.
326 YOU
And because this stream of germ plasm is
almost inviolable it comes about that when a
race has attained to health and character by
means of natural selection, these virtues can be
bequeathed to succeeding generations until the
river of life empties into the ocean of eternity.
In order to maintain the equality of the sexes
in numbers and quality, nature has ordained
that in each succeeding generation the elements
of human character shall cross the line of
genesis.
The history of the world reveals the fact
that men do not transmit their characteristics
to their sons. Neither do women transmit their
characteristics to their daughters.
No great man has ever yet appeared who did
not have a mother who embodied in her char­
acter the elements which made him successful.
No woman has ever astonished the world with
her genius who was not the offspring of a father
who possessed the germs of the same genius.
Differences in environment and education have
had their influence, but as far as the law of in­
heritance furnishes a cause of observed effects,
there are no exceptions to this rule.
SECTION SIXTEEN 327
In any apparent exception where a son has
followed in the footsteps of his father with
success, it will be found that the mother pos­
sessed the elements of character which made the
success possible.
In all ages men have mourned the fact that
their sons were unable to follow in their foot­
steps, while the current theology and social
customs of society have denied this success to
their daughters, because the occupation in which
those talents would shine have not been con­
sidered within “ woman’s sphere.”
And so, after decades of misuse and suppres­
sion, the talent has appeared in the grandson.
In the same way talented boys inheriting from
sensitive and refined mothers the grace which
would have made them brilliant musicians,
accomplished painters, and incomparable poets
have been compelled to adopt commercial pur­
suits for which they were utterly unfitted.
- Good examples of this tranference of acquired
development to the opposite sex in the third
generation are found in the pedigrees of trotting
horses. The highly trained stallion George
Wilkes does not appear as the sire of any of
ihe very fast mares, but he appears ten times
328 YOU
as the sire’s sire and as many more times as
the sire’s grandsire.
Martin Kallikak beleived that blood would
not tell; or, if it did tell, it would not tell on
him. Martin’s dramatic history, and the his­
tory of his germ-cells, his blood, have been
related in a little book called “The Kallikak
Family,” by Dr. Henry H. Goddard, Director
of the Juvenile Research Bureau of the State of
Ohio, and formerly Superintendent of the fam­
ous School of Feeble-Minded at Vineland, New
Jersey.
Martin Kallikak was a young soldier of the
Revolutionary War. His ancestry was excellent.
But one wild night up the Hudson Paver, Mar­
tin forgot his noble blood. In this night of dis­
sipation he met a physically attractive, feeble­
minded girl. The result of that meeting was
a feeble-minded boy. This boy grew up and
married a woman of whose mentality Doctor
Goddard could secure no record. But she was
evidently of the same ilk. They produced nu­
merous progeny with a large percentage of
feeble-mindedness. These grew up lazy, thrift­
less, shiftless, trifling, thieving people. Marry­
ing into their own kind another generation of
the same general character came upon the
SECTION SIXTEEN 329
human scene. This has gone on now for six
generations.
However, on the other side of the canvas,
blood has painted a different and wonderful
story. Later in his life, Martin married a young
Quaker woman of splendid talents and heroic
ancestry. It seemed that this line of children
simply could not turn out badly in any environ­
ment. Indeed, like all blood, good or bad, it
made its own environment. This line has given
us 496 descendants. All have been normal peo­
ple. As Doctor Goddard says, they have given
us descendants of the highest respectability and
social usefulness including among their mem­
bers “doctors, lawyers, judges, educators, land­
holders, traders, and men and women prominent
in every phase of social life.” The last one on
the chart is now a man of wealth and influence.
Nobody ever had to build asylums, peniten­
tiaries, reformatories or special schools for this
line of blood. The other line has cost society
hundred of thousands of dollars to restrain their
evil tendencies and care for their feeble minds
and bodies. One line has torn down, the other
has built up; one line has reaped, and the other
has scattered; one has contributed nothing but
330 YOU
wickedness and woe, while the other has blessed
the earth with beauty and achievement.
Thus we find the difference in individual
lives to be largely measured by the degree of
intelligence which they manifest. It is a greater
intelligence that placed the animal in a higher
scale of being than the plant. The man higher
than the animal and we find this increased
intelligence is again indicated by the power of
the individual to control modes of action and
thus to consciously adjust himself to his en­
vironment.
It is this adjustment that occupies the atten­
tion of the greatest minds and this adjustment
consists in the recognition of an existing order
in the Universal Mind, for it is well known that
this mind will obey us precisely in proportion
as we first obey it.
As we increase in experience and development,
there is a corresponding increase in the exercise
of the intellect, in the range and power of feel­
ing, in the ability to choose, in the power to will,
in all executive action, in all self-consciousness.
The success of the hour may belong to the
strongest fighter, but the future belongs to him
who knows best, how to adapt himself to the
most precarious condition of life.
SECTION SIXTEEN 331
The gigantic animals that lived at remote
geological periods have vanished, but many of
their weaker contemporaries still exist.
Choose what improvement you wish in a flow­
er, a fruit, or a tree, and by crossing, selection,
cultivation, and persistence it can be fixed irre­
vocably.
Choose any trait of character, be it honesty,
fairness, purity, industry or thrift, by giving
all that is implied in healthful, environmental
influence, you can cultivate it and fix it there for
life.
Heredity will of course make itself felt, and
as in the plant under improvement, there will
be certain strong tendencies to reversion, but
persistence will win.
If you are highly ambitious and are devour­
ing biographies of this great genius, or that
powerful captain of industry, for cues to suc­
cess, it will be well to take an inventory of the
endowments given the great genius during the
formative period of his life.
Cosmic Intelligence continues to experiment
and develops other co-ordinated systems into
higher and higher complex organizations.
332 YOU
Experiment after experiment is tried and
different specie organizations developed; each
one trying to keep the spark of life burning
within itself to its highest degree by continually
adjusting itself to the changed conditions of its
environment.
The protoplasm or cell, perceives its environ­
ment, initiates motion and chooses it food. These
are evidences of mind. As an organism develops
and becomes more complex, the cells begin to
specialize, some doing one thing and some an­
other, but all of them showing intelligence. By
association their mind powers increase.
Whereas in the beginning each function of
life and each action is the result of conscious
thought, the habitual actions become automatic
or subconscious, in order that the self-conscious
mind may attend to other things. The new
actions will, however, in their turn become
habitual, then automatic, then sub-conscious in
order that the mind again may be free from
this detail and advance to still other activities.
Human love has as many elements and shades
as there are phases of human consciousness and
interest. It includes emotional enthusiasm, ten­
derness and devotion; esthetic attractiveness,
appreciation and satisfaction; intellectual stim-
SECTION SIXTEEN 333
ulation, approval, and respect; social acquaint­
ance, companionship and comradeship, and the
happiness which is the result of self-denying
consideration and sacrificing service.
This means that self-consciousness is increas­
ing, expanding, growing, developing and enlarg­
ing; it increases and develops because it is a
spiritual activity; we multiply our possession of
spiritual things in proportion to our use of them.
All material things are consumed in the using.
There is a diametrically opposite law govern­
ing the use of the spiritual and the material.
The intellectuals are not necessarily the great
benefactors of mankind, because as a rule their
noble ideas have not the emotion to propel
them to success. You undoubtedly know many
who have been too dumb to recognize opposi­
tion and so accomplished what our intellectuals
said—“ Could not be done.”
Combine proper intelligent, well born emo­
tion with an idea, and it is like combining
energy to mass—it goes forth with direction and
force to bless the world with its goods. Deny
the idea, however nobly conceived, this mys­
terious quality, and it is likely to die at birth.
334 YOU
You are made up of millions of minute living
creatures each possessing mind and intelligence.
These are controlled by group minds, and these
group minds are controlled by the subconscious
mind, which in turn is controlled by the thought
which enters it.
It is thought which makes the adjustment.
This is the process of crossing the human
with the germs of the Divine.
This is the infusion of a higher type.
This is the final goal of Human Destiny!
The End.
The New Psychology
The supreme charm of “ The New P sychology“ is the
practical character of its teachings, the clarity and sim­
plicity of its expression. Unlike m any w orks which attempt
to present psychical truths, it is not a tangled skein of
disconnected thoughts, but an orderly, logical and well-
reasoned system. Its science is fully abreast of the time,
and in many instances prophetic. It presents no brief for
any creed, cult or dogma, nor does it attack any existing
system o f ethics, philosophy or religion. O ne reader says:
“ The New P sychology,“ by a synthesis of philosophy,
science, metaphysics and religion, defines man’s place in
the universe and reveals his latent pow ers with a vividness
and pow er which remind the reader of the lightning flash
that illuminates an entire landscape which before lay
wrapped in gloom . The seeker for truth will find in its
* pages a key to the treasure house o f the w orld’s wisdom,
a clue like that of Ariadne to lead him through the laby­
rinth of human sciences to the shore of a boundless ocean
flecked with the sails of heavenly argosies.”
Price Cloth $3.60; Gilt-Edge DeLuxe $5.40
CH AR LES F. H A A N E L , Author and Publisher
704 N. 9th Street, St. Louis, Mo.
The Master Key System
is a system o f Philosophy em bracing the ultimate principles,
elements, causes and laws that underlie and explain all
knowledge and existence, arranged in an orderly and
scientific manner, giving it unity and completeness.
The Results
A ccruin g from the operation of this
Principle, are so startling as to appear
incredible to the unitiated. For this rea­
son there are to-day m ore students of
The Master Key System
than of all similar systems of philosophy
com bined.
“ You have synthesized the wisdom of the
East and W est and given it in a manner
so logical and penetrating, that by its aid
one is able to distinguish wisdom from
sophristy, truth from delusion, spiritual
expression from psychic vagaries, and the
sublime causations of spiritual insight
and intuition from deceptive visions and
false revelations. You have successfully
taken the mystery out of mysticism and
placed all propositions in the clear light,
so that ‘He w ho runs may read.’ I con­
sider you a true benefactor to the w orld.”
Cloth $3.60; Gilt Edge DeLuxe $5.40
i
CH AR LES F. H A A N E L , Author and Publisher
704 N. 9th Street, St. Louis, Mo.
