{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__anonymous___chronicles_of_osiris.pdf","mytitle":"Chronicles Of Osiris","mylang":"de"}
(CHRONICLES OF OSIRIS
/
Set down in the House of El Eros-El Erua,
they being male-female, born according to
the laws governing the Dhuman-Adamic
race, this being their fourth incarnation
\
N THE
L O N D O N : R I D E R C O .
PATERNOSTER HOUSE, E.C.
ONEFERU
(Incarnate at Menaton during Akhnaton's reign)
THE N E W YO R K I
PUBLIC LIBRARY
332965A
ASTOR, LEN O X AND
t i l d e n f o u n d a t i o n s
it 1627 ■ ■ ■ ■
Made and Printed in Great B ritain at
Thg Mayflower Prose, Plymouth. W illia m Brendon & Son, L td .
« •
I N T R O D U C T I O N
I
T would appear to be desirable to preface with
a brief introduction this first volume of The
Chronicles of Osiris♦
Lest there be any misapprehensions such as have
accompanied The Book of Truth, where people have
assumed that actual contact was established with
the presence of the Master Osiris, I propose to
outline as clearly as possible what happens when
I receive the Writings', which phenomenon has
been explained to me from the Beyond,
The process may be more easily understood if it
is likened to a telephone exchange, by which
parallel I wish to point out that a series of con­
nections are made which penetrate the various
conscious strata of the Universe. The messages
are sent out to the material Earth, and are picked
up by selected teachers functioning upon the
different strata, each messenger passing it on
until it reaches the physical plane and is communi­
cated direct to me by a special guide who, as an
adept, is at present helping on the work of Osiris
in one of the Earth schoolrooms.
Another debatable point on which I should like
to tduch is the claim that the mummy of Khanaton
(Akhnaton) has been found. When the facts of
this claim are clearly seen they certainly do not
carry much weight. The tomb in which the
V
CO
remains were found was supposedly the tomb of
Queen Thyto, Mother of Akhnaton. The rock
tomb at El Amarna never received his body, as it
was well recognised that on the death of Akhna­
ton the religion of Aton would be suppressed, and
the wrath of the priests of Amon be vented upon
the King's mummy, which would certainly never
have been allowed to remain in the royal tomb. It
was therefore conveyed elsewhere, as can be seen
from the later chapters of this book. Continuing,
however, with the facts surrounding the body
found in 1907 at Thebes, it must be said that the
chamber first encountered contained the remains
of Queen Thyto's parents. In a second chamber,
hewn out of the rock, and supposed to be the tomb
of Queen Thyto, was found a very
coffin enclosing a more dilapidated mummy, of
which the bones only remained. The cartouches
were obliterated, although certain inscriptions to
Aton were faintly visible, as were also seals of
Tut-Ankh-Amon, who is shown in the following
pages to have been the son of Akhnaton, Canopic
jars containing the viscera, heart, etc., were found,
but it was again a matter of conjecture whether
theseremains were those of a male or a female. The
discoverers of this tomb maintained that the fact
of the sculptured heads surmounting the jars being
beardlessis no proof that they represented a woman,
as it was believed that Akhnaton was never
represented with a beard. Against this can be placed
the evidence of the last statues of Akhnaton found
at Karnak, where he is represented with a heard. A
circlet, which M . Maspero and others call a
Queen's crown, and which is thus labelled in the
Cairo Museum, was also found. M . M aspero's
pronouncement is, however, contradicted by the
finders of these supposed remains of Akhnaton.
The fact adduced in contradiction— that this
circlet was found with the tail and not the head of
the bird over the forehead— seems to be a flimsy
one; and at any rate both parties are entitled to
their points of view, for nobody has hitherto been
in a position to contradict them. T h is is given as
only one example of the widely divergent opinions
which surround these remains. It is well known
that the Egyptians often substituted other bodies
for their own, especially where a royal mummy
was concerned, the reason being that if any person
wished to invoke the K a of the deceased they
could do so by obtaining access to the body and
then operating their black magic. But they could
not invoke the K a unless they actually had access
to the body. T h ey could not, for instance, invoke
the K a of A by practising their arts on the body
of B. The followers of Akhnaton knew perfectly
well that if the priests of Am on found his body
they would seek to operate their black magic upon
it. They, therefore, placed the body of one of his
VU
f
stewards in the tomb, so that when the priests of
Amon should come they would think it to be the
mummy of Akhnaton; their invocations would be
useless, and they would depart in blissful ignor­
ance of the fact that the actual mummy was peace­
fully resting elsewhere.
I was well aware of the claims put forward, as I
was warned by my guides of the arguments which
would have to be met, and was asked not to accept
things blindly. When the messages first came to
me I was entirely ignorant of Egyptian history.
The names were as Greek to me, and I knew
absolutely nothing of Akhnaton's life or times.
I had never read books on Egyptology and,
curiously enough, I have no friends who are
Egyptologists, nor have I ever set foot in Egypt.
My information has come to me, and is coming to
me, from a super-physical source, and this can be
vouched for by many important persons.
The finding of Akhnaton's Temple at Kamak
was predicted to me, and the prophecy was duly
fulfilled. All the messages have been tested and
examined very carefully, and in view of past hap­
penings I see no reason for mistrusting our data.
After all, certain historical facts which appear in
the scripts can be proved by existing Egypto­
logical records.
1was asignorant of the subjects of these writings
as 1 am to-day of the Chinese language, of which
▼
in
I know not one word* It is admitted by Mr.
Arthur Weigall, in his Life and Times of Akhnaton,
published by Thornton Butterworth, that Pro­
fessor Sethe published in the Nachrichten der K.
Gesellschaft der Wtssenschaften zu. Gottingen, in
1921, an article in which he came to the conclusion
that the mummy found was probably not that of
Akhnaton. There are also others who, like Pro­
fessor Sethe, hold the same views concerning the
identity of the remains. However, the reader may
judge for himself after reading the following pages
of script, all the time bearing in mind that the
events detailed are not extracted from the pages of
any book, but came by way of clairaudient dicta­
tion.
Finally, I should like to summarise the follow­
ing facts :
1. I had absolutely no knowledge of Egypt­
ology in any shape or form.
2. The names of Akhnaton, etc., mentioned in
the scripts were entirely unknown to me, and
at first conveyed no meaning.
3. Why should not another Pharaoh other than
Akhnaton have been singled out 4 If the
source of information were playing false, some
king might have been chosen whose mummy
was definitely identified.
4. Great doubt surrounds the claim to have
identified the remains of Akhnaton.
iz
5* Against this doubt must be placed the definite
information given to me which states that the
mummy of Akhnaton has yet to be discovered.
6. Other statements concerning this Pharaoh (of
whom I had never heard before the dictation
of the messages) can be proved, and often
run parallel to what Egyptologists themselves
surmise.
7. This being the case, is not the statement con­
cerning the mummy made more powerful i
8. Those who carried out the excavations which
revealed the remains which are claimed as
those of Akhnaton have purely material hypo­
theses only at their command. Accordingly,
some have made their deductions in favour
of the remains being those of Akhnaton,
whilst others, equally well established in the
world of Egyptology, have come to the con­
clusion that doubts are sufficiently strong to
justify the assertion that they are probably not
his remains but those of someone else.
9. Lastly, from the esoteric standpoint, the in­
formation given to me not only made refer­
ence to these material deductions and spoke
of the existing uncertainty and controversy
surrounding the remains, but also recon­
structed for me the actual happenings as they
took place, so that one can easily see from
the esoteric data given where the exoteric
champions have been misled.
El Eros.
THE L A M E N T A T I O N O F H O R U S
O V E R T H E
D E S T R U C T I O N O F A T L A N T I S
0
CHEKON, thou golden city of Atlantis.
Thy towers are overthrown, and thine altars
are buried beneath the waves of the mighty
ocean. Thy sanctuaries became an habitation for
jackals andvipers, and thy highways became streets
of iniquity. Behold the word of Ptah was spoken
andtheEarthopened wide its mouth and swallowed
those evil ones, that not one remained. Alas ! ye
golden domes and glistening columns weep for the
destruction that has come upon you.
Weep for all eternity, for in thine awful desola­
tion shalt thou rise up again from thy watery grave.
Behold thy voice shall be like unto the voice of
the harlot crying aloud and saying— Behold out
of my whoredom hath come destruction. Take
heed ye nations of Earth lest ye fall into greater
tribulation. The fair city of Chekon the first city
of Atlantis is overthrown. The habitation of Ptah
is no more.
XI
C H A P T E R
A
T
L
A
N
T
/S
AMD
l
E
M
U
k
tA
Chapter I
|N the great days of Atlantis which were beforeJuly i-jth,
the coming of the great flood which was the 1926.
final punishment meted out to those evil ones 7 pjru
—all men lived at peace with one another. The
continent was divided into three sections, partly on
account of its geographical nature and partly be­
cause of the decree of Ptah. It was after the
destruction of that evil continent called Sarkon
(Lemuria) that my Father Ptah did collect together
all those divine sparks who were to escape the
destructionwhich finallyswept Sarkon away. They
were taken to Atlantis, which was at that time ripe
to receive the evolving life of the world called
Earth. This I have already told you in The Book
of Truth which has already been given unto you,
my children.
The Dhumen and women lived and mixed with
the sons and daughters of Yevah, and they were as
teachers to their less evolved brothers of earth.
All was according to the word of my Father Ptah
which had been given unto Him by the blessed
Cosmos. My Father chose from amongst the ray-
children twenty-four son-daughters who were to
helpHiminHisplansfor the evolvingdivinesparks.
Temples were built, and places of worship were in­
augurated having as their visible sign the disc of
the living Sun of whom the Lord is Horus-Atanu,
8
Thehe acting as the mediator between the men of Earth
Chronicles and the Father-Mother-Son God. These temples
of Osiriswere built of a white shining stone which was
common in Atlantis and which was very durable.
They were always to consist of the outer court
of the priests and teachers and the three subter­
ranean chambers which were the same in character
as that built at a later date in Khemu, and referred
to in The Book of Truth. Twenty-four of these
temples were built, one chief Cathedral of Initia­
tion in the Sacred Heights, and the remainder
in the tablelands and the lowlands. Over each
temple was placed one of the twenty-four Initiates
or ray-children whom I have already mentioned as
being chosen by my Father Ptah for the execution
of His WiU.
July 18th, I would here give you a short explanation as to
1926. the actual relative positions held by my Father’s
11*20a.m.teachers whom He had chosen, and I would also
define exactly the position held by my Father Ptah
Eil Daudu and His actual manifestation to the
people. The time that I now speak of, my beloved
children,is that great and glorious period beforethe
times of bitter hate and tribulation which came
later, and that because these men had brought it
upon themselves.
For a moment I will take you to the Continent
of Sarkon. This evil place had been entirely
destroyed according to the word of the Cosmos
manifested through the medium of E il D audu and The
His twin and spouse eternal who is E il Daudua, the Chronicles
same whom I have called Evam in m y Book of of Osiris
Truth. The actual disintegration of that great con­
tinent was over a period of m any thousands of
years of Earth's time, and was accomplished as the
outcome of a series of volcanic disturbances which
gradually undermined the substrata comprising the
foundations of that continent* T h e disaster was
brought about on account of the Satanakuic dom i­
nation exercised by E ranus and his followers * Black
magic was rife and the chances of those who still
remained steadfast to the cause o f divine evolution
were almost hopeless* T h e final great upheaval
was caused by an immense crater or fissure about
three miles in circumference being rent in the
centre of the continent*
From this fissure suffocating gases were poured
into the atmosphere, and being o f a heavy nature
these gases hung low over the continent, spreading
out in all directions, so that before the subm er­
sion actually took place the entire life o f the
continent was obliterated, only those who were
to be collected in Atlantis being saved and ordered
during previous periods to proceed into that
continent.
Having described to you briefly the destruction
of Sarkon, I shall proceed w ith the state of evolu­
tion in Atlantis*
5
The My children, during the last years of life
Chronicles Sarkon, my Father had been preparing the Con-
of Osiris tinent of Atlantis to receive the life of the world
for He had been plainly told by the Cosmos that
Sarkon must be obliterated.
His first care was the organisation of the crown
of Atlantis. This was the Cathedral which was
built at His commands in the Sacred Heights. I
shall here give a brief description of it as follows:
It was situated in the heart of the high mountains
beyond the tablelands and was inaccessible to
those who knew not the power of levitation. It
was surrounded by seven great peaks, which repre­
sented the seven pillars of the universe, and in the
centre thereof nestled this great house of Initiation,
the only visible sign being the head and front paws
of a gigantic sphinx which guarded the eastern
entrance. Between the paws of this sphinx was
an immense iron door, through which, when
opened, force could be directed downward upon the
tablelands where the uninitiated population was
ordered to gather for worship ever so often during
the year. The main structure, whidi was above
ground and situated in the basin formed by the
seven peaks, was connected with the sphinx by a
tunnel which was about one hundred yards in
length and semicircular in section. The structure
itself was all built of a white stone found in Atlantis
and used because of its absolute durability and
o
resistance to the action of the elements. It was The
round when viewed generally, but in reality it had Chronicles
twenty-four sides, and was surrounded by pillars of Osiris
placed at each angle formed by the junction of the
walls.
The ceiling was slightly dome-shaped, although July 19th,
at first sight it had the appearance of being flat. 1926.
Upon the very centre of this dome was the disc of IX *2 5 a *
m*
the living Sun of Horns-Atanu, and it was depicted
as having seven hands reaching out therefrom
towards the solar universe. This symbol was to
represent the sun collecting all the vital force from
the fountain head of the Cosmos which dwells
within the circle of the conscious universe. T o
return to the interior of this chamber, which was
really a huge circular-shaped temple, I shall
describe for you, my children, the ornamentation
and furniture which comprised the interior.
In the centre of the floor, which was of marble,
was a gigantic pattern of the sun's disc with the
seven hands reaching out, and in the very centre
of this sun was the head of Ptah Eil Daudu-Eil
Daudua, and they were represented in the form of
a sphinx. Remember, my children, that this was
not symbolising Ptah as a deity who was to be
worshipped, it only symbolised Him as the Father
King Initiate, and He held the same position as I
have already explained to you in my Book of
Truth. The altar or table of Initiation was placed
7
Chroniclescha
against the east wall of this twenty
If and
of Osiriscommonproduct of the highlands
upon
Atlantis. The
The front had
engraven upon it the symbol of the world called
Earth,whichwas enclosed within a heart; upon the
top of this world was a cup-shaped flower, out of
the centre of which watched the all-seeing eye of
the inner circle of the Cosmic mysteries, and from
out the very top of this symbol were four great
strands or rays of vitality emanating from the eye,
andsymbolising the flow of vitality, knowledge and
This whole symbol
force. Upon
conscious
trinity of the Cosmic
the altar’s top were various chalices and cups for
the drinking of the juice of the orange and the
breaking of the bread, which was used at the com­
munions of Remembrance. These vessels and
platesneednotbe described unto you, my children,
as they will not be important except for you to
know that they were there.
6.10p./n. This chamber, being the outward and visible
edifice, was used by the Initiates and helpers who
hadbeenchosenfromamongst the ray-children and
DhumanAdamicsby my Father Ptah. All matters
of administration and legislation were drawn up in
this chamber, and it was also used as a chamber of
worship when occasion so required.
I shall not go into an explanation of the three
8
subterranean chambers, as they were almost The
exactly the same as those used in the Temple in Chronicles
Khemu described in The Book of Truth, the only of Osiris
exception being that the pillars were plain and were
not sculptured as were those of the Temple in
Khemu; the sacred Temple language was, how­
ever, used upon the pillars of the various chambers
when it became necessary to the process of Initia­
tion.
My Father Ptah was the chief of this Temple,
although He did not wear the mortal garment of
flesh as did the various ray-children and Dhuman
AdaIf in authority under Him. Nay, He still
retained the divine body of heaven, viz 4€
the
skin oat,” as did His twin and spouse eternal, and
two did even function together as one perfect
whole,
vou of
this point, O 19 children. I would
y Father's viceroys for Atlantis and also
of the ray-children chosen to be the mortal head
of that continent. M y children, it was I who was
chosen by my Father to carry out His commands,
and I did wear the mortal body of sin, even as I
did at a later day in Khemu, as you have already
read in my Book of Truth, the only difference being
twin eternal Isis was incarnate with me and
that If
did bear unto the mortal flesh the child Horus who
was the Chief of the Cathedral of the Tablelands of
Atlantis, and to him were given all matters con­
nected with the choosing and administration of the
9
Thepriesthood, in fact the entire administration oi
ChroniclesAtlantis was under his direct care and supervision,
of Osirisand he did mix with the evolving population
which was at that time peaceful and loving one to
another.
July 20th, My children, at this point I would touch upon
1926. the nourishment taken by all who lived in Atlantis.
1245 P'tn. Remember, the act of slaughtering mortal flesh to
nourish the human body was a thing unheard of at
that period of Earth's evolution; at a later stage of
this my book I shall explain how that evil practice
came about. The entire population of Atlantis
was nourished by the vegetable and fruit life of
the continent. Cakes of flour and sweet meal were
made, also was the milk of the cow used in various
ways, even as is the custom among the nations of
Earth at your present time of incarnation. Spiritual
nourishment was also inhaled from the scent of the
beautiful flowers which abounded in Atlantis, and
these flowers all appeared in their natural beauty,
and were not inbred in any manner whatsoever,
They grew wild and gave off their fragrant perfumes
to the air untended by man's hand. All the pasture
land was natural and beautiful, and the animal and
insect life was kindly and friendly one to another.
The act of killing was unknown, also each form of
life had its use and its work to accomplish, from the
most highly evolved Adamic to the least evolved
grub of the soil.
The population lived mostly out of doors, for the The
climatic conditions were ideal. Chronicles
The rainy periods which were for the nourishing of Osiris
of the soil were always at fixed seasons, and at these
times the inhabitants used the protection of their
houses, and I would take this opportunity of de­
scribing them to you. First of all the population
was divided up into clans, there being twenty-four
clans in all; over each clan was a chief man or king
and he was responsible to the special Initiate placed
over his clan. Each clan carried out its building
operations, and it was entirely separate and did not
interfere with its neighbour.
The buildings were all of that same white stone
which I have already mentioned— some of you
may ask how it was possible for them to build
houses of stone when they had not the instruments.
My children, the evolution of Atlantis proceeded
for many thousands of years of Earth's time, and
at first the population lived in the fields and used
houses built of mud and reeds, but when the period
of which I now speak was reached they had arrived
at a state of evolution when they had at their
command all your modern appliances and also many
that you of the present civilised world have never
yet thought \>f.
1 1
ESW
*
s
C H A P T E R
Chapter II
M
Y children, I would set before you in this July 21st,
chapter what took place in Atlantis after 1926.
the period of evolving prosperity had p r o -10.20 ajn.
ceeded for many centuries.
The particular twenty-four Initiates, all ray-
children, were the same as those m entioned in the
final chapter of my Book of Truth. The Cathedral
of the Sacred H eights was administered by me who
am Osiris, and I was incarnate in the mortal flesh
as was also my spouse eternal Isis.
The Cathedral of the Tablelands and Lowlands
(which were together under one Chief Initiate, my
beloved son) was administered by El Potipheru,
and he was the same that I have mentioned in my
Book of Truth, also was his spouse eternal incarnate
with him and she was known as El Potipherua. So,
my children, you w ill see that the twenty-four In­
itiates were divided into two groups of twelve—
one group being administered by m e, Osiris, and
the other by the thirteenth Initiate, El Potipheru.
Alas ! it was in the lower lands towards the sea­
board of the continent that the evil of Eranus
(Satanaku) first m anifested itself. I shall try to
give you a clear description of what took place. I
need not go into the prosperous period which pre­
ceded this tim e, because I can leave you to con­
struct this for yourselves. One there was dwelling
15
Them the lowlands of Atlantis, he being the same
Chronicles child of Yevah who is mentioned in my Book of
of Osiris Truth as the first usurper Kharopolakhis, and in
Atlantis he was known by the name of Itheboleth,
which signified one dominated by ambition and
self-will. He was tall and goodly to look upon,
and in the past had done much good work for
my Father Ptah Eil Daudu. He was a priest
of the outer court of the twenty-fourth Temple of
the Lowlands, and his master was one Nisseau.
Alas l my children, had the time come when
Setturn was to be allowed to try the people to see
who were worthy.
The intuitive mind of Itheboleth was ever think­
ing within himself, and sometimes it occurred to
him that he had as much knowledge as his chief
Nisseau, also was Nisseau a little indiscreet in his
trust and he was moved to speak too openly in the
presence of Itheboleth. Thus was all the harm
wrought and the seeds of dissension sown. Ithe­
boleth had a plan of action whereby the teachings
of the mysteries of the Sacred Heights were to be
made more public, and from what he had gathered
fromNisseauwas he able to start and form a secret
sect which he called the Initiates of the Lowlands.
My children, you canseewhat was bound tobe the
out the length and breadth of Atlantis, nor was it
confined to the lowlands alone, but the tablelands
16
became affected. A t length this secret sect became The
so powerful that they were able to defy openly the Chronicles
existing form of administration, and through the of Osiris
knowledge of Itheboleth, which he had gained
from the indiscreet and trusting Nisseau, was he
able to turn many of the more material mysteries
to his own use, which, alas! developed into Black
Magic, which was a thing after the vile heart of
Eranus (Satanaku). Itheboleth was so able to
dominate his followers that actual open revolt
broke out and the first mortal blood was spilled.
The domination of Itheboleth grew, and then July 2,2nd,
came crime and destruction to the Continent of 1926.
Atlantis. It was during this period, when Setturn 3 p.m,
was trying the people, that the subtle brain of
Satanaku was planning and striving to overthrow
the divine state then existing.
His methods were as follows : He superimposed
his will upon the will of Itheboleth, and at first
sight it looked as if the divine laws and mysteries
were being operated through Itheboleth. Satanaku
caused him to build sanctuaries of Initiation in the
lowlands of the continent, until finally these
sanctuaries and temples outnumbered those of my
Father Ptah Eil Daudu. These temples were also
built with subterranean chambers, even as was that
one of the Sacred Heights.
M y children, in these subterranean passages
were Satanaku and his astral entities of evil able to
C 17
The manifest to the uninitiated population, and by these
Chronicles seeming miracles were they able to poison their
of Osiris minds so that they forsook the true teachings ofm
y
Father's teachers and followed after Satanaku, who
promised them all sorts of rewards in return for the
trust and obedience they placed in him. It was in
these temples of black magic that Satanaku first
ordered the human sacrifice to be offered up, and
this I have detailed more fully in The Book of Truth.
The people were also told that if they killed and
consumed the flesh of the cattle they would becom
e
as gods themselves, never knowing death, so you
can see how evil was wrought and how the act of
slaughtering mortal flesh was first started. Alas!
the mischief did not stop here, for the kings of the
clans made war upon each other, and from thiswas
another evil bom, v iz. the desire for enlarging
material possessions and obtaining material pomp
attheexpenseofothers. All this graduallyaccumu­
lated until finally the cancer had spread throughout
the lowlands and tablelands of Atlantis. However,
the worst blow was yet to come. One day
was the Continent of Atlantis to awaken to a most
terrible dawn. Itheboleth had for a long timebeen
collecting various clans together who were favour­
abletohisbecomingKing Initiate of Atlantis. Alas!
the day came which found this army on the move.
They marched from the lowlands and table­
lands, driving towards the heights all those who
18
opposed their progress in any manner whatsoever. The
The sacred temples fell and the vessels and orna- Chronicles
ments of Initiation were plundered. M any of the of Osiris
masters fell in their temples, as did Nisseau upon
the sword of his supposed friend Itheboleth. Some
were able to make their way to the Sacred Heights,
which were quite inaccessible to the armies of the
people. Then was it that m y Father Ptah raised
His voice and, standing between the paws of the
great Sphinx of the Highlands, cried unto the
Cosmos, saying, 44 O h, Thou Fountain of all wisdom
and knowledge, what shall I do unto this people
who have outraged the shrines of the M ost H igh i
Show me T h y commands, that I may bring their
just reward upon their heads for ever/'
Then did the populace behold, and their tongues
were stopped, for the ground did tremble and a
mist filled all the tablelands and stretched even
unto the seaboard of the lowlands and the earth
was rent so that great tongues of fire rose up, con­
suming all those who came within their grasp* On
that terrible day, m y children, many were swallowed
up and the remainder hid their faces and fled unto
their own abodes. Then were the commands of
my Father made known unto them through me,
Osiris, and I gave unto m y eleventh descendant,
who is even Erosuphu, the statutes o f m y Father
Ptah, and he was chosen to be m y Father's word
unto the people.
19
CHAPTER
Chapter III
M
Y children, I would tell you in this chapter J u ly 23rd,
about the delivering of the Statutes unto 1926.
the people of Atlantis. The rebellion of 10.15
Ithebolethhad been quelled, and the people, realis­
ing their awful guilt, sought safety in prayer ; for,
my children, it has always been the way of mankind
that in the hour of his bitter tribulation he has
called unto the Father-Mother God, who has
heard their cry. So did the people then, and my
Father, hearkening unto the voice of Eil Daudua,
diddrawup the Statutes of Ptah which are set down
in my Book o f T ruth, and they were as a warning
unto those children of Atlantis, and told them of
the things that they might expect from time to
time, for evil had again manifested itself, also was
it impossible to check it entirely, as many had
sought safety in flight and had migrated into the
Continents of Africa and America after the first
earthquakes in Atlantis, for the damage done was
very great, and the number of people swallowed up
exceeded 140,000 souls. My Father Ptah Eil
Daudu administered the Continent of Atlantis as
follows: Me, Osiris, He sent unto that continent
called Africa, and my headquarters were made in
the land of Khemu, and my place in Atlantis was
taken by my beloved son Horus, who administered
the divine laws in the Cathedral of the Sacred
2
3
TheHeights Alas the Incarnate Initiates ofthe
Chronicleslan
d
san
dtablelan
d
sh
adnearlyall perished in
ofOsirisinsurrection caused by Ith
eboleth
,h
ehimselfbe
sw
allow
ed u
p in a great fissu
re which a
p
p
e
a
r
inth
eE
arth during th
o
sefateful days. TheA
m
in
istra
to
rof th
eCathedral o f the Tablelands m
L
ow
lan
d
sd
ida
lsoperish and fell in the sanctum
of h
is te
m
p
le
. S
o, m y children, y
o
uwill see how
ra
y
-c
h
ild
re
nof m
yFather Ptah and His loyal
A
d
a
m
icfa
m
ilyw
ere tosu
ffer martyrdom for the
c
a
u
s
e t
h
e d
iv
in
e Cosmos♦ Atlantis was now
p
la
c
e
du
n
d
e
r th
eprotection of one Chief Initiate,
w
h
ow
a
sm
yb
e
lo
v
e
ds
o
nH
o
rn
s, who administered
t
h
e c
o
n
tin
e
n
t fro
m th
e seclusion of the Sacred
H
e
ig
h
ts
. H
isc
h
ie
fe
m
is
s
a
ry
,chosen by m y Father,
w
a
sE
l E
ro
s
u
p
h
u
, a
n
dh
ew
a
s th
eju d ge and
g
iv
e
ro
f t
h
a
tc
o
n
t
in
e
n
t
. H
is s
p
o
u
s
e eternal
in
c
a
r
n
a
t
ew
ithh
ima
n
dw
a
sh
ise
a
ru
n
tothe
m
a
n
d
so
ft
h
eC
o
s
m
o
s
. T
h
eg
re
a
tp
ro
p
h
e
t
of the divine mysteries was the Father-M other of
El Erosuphu and the same who are written down
The Book of Truth as Adolemaiu-Adolemaiua
The old temples of the tablelands and low
lands were re-established and their shrines rebuilt
and in fact in many instances the earthquakes had
been so severe that the temples were red u ced
July 24th, irreparable ruins
1926. So, my children, there was
ajn . organisation of the administration of the C
on
tin
en
t
24
of Atlantis. The Cathedral of the Sacred Heights The
was the supreme house of Initiation, and those Chronicles
who thought themselves worthy of taking the road of Osiris
of the neophyte were received into that sacred
house to start their divine journey to life eternal..
The remainder of the continent had its temples,
which were under the direct surveillance of the
Sacred Heights and their chief priests were chosen
from amongst the Adamic population, but never
were the secrets of the divine mysteries carried into
those parts of the continent.
The new regime lasted for many centuries of
Earth's time, and the evil ways of Itheboleth seemed
completely forgotten, and his name was only men­
tioned with horror by those who had recourse to its
use. As time passed the Continent of Africa was
becoming fertile and cultivated at the hands of
those people who had migrated thither at the first
earthquakes of Atlantis. I must here tell you, my
children, that the Continent of Africa was not as
you know it now, for the desert of Sahara was then
submerged under the ocean and the sea washed
against that range of granite escarpment upon
which the Sphinx was carved at a later date, of
which I shall tell you further on, also was the stone
used to build the Pyramids quarried from that
same granite formation.
The seaboard ran almost as far south as the
modern Khatom, and behind it flowed the river
25
The N ile which ren dered the land o f K h em u 1so
Chronicles T he em igrants from A tlan tis chose as their
of Osiris abode K hem u, and th ey continued to inere2
num bers until at length qu ite a large settlei
was created, These people were peaceful and h
m ostly out o f doors, using as houses mud h
interlarded with reeds, O ther emigrants fro
Atlantis had found their way to what is now Centn
and S
o
u
thA
m
erica, an
d they had gone by way ol
that small continent called Antiilia, the present site
of w
h
ic
h is the region occupied by the West
Indies,
26
C H A P T E R W
Chapter IV
T
H E readministration of Atlantis proceeded July 26th,
peacefully for m any centuries of Earth's 1926.
time, till at length a certain num ber of the 12 noon
Yevahic population bethought themselves that it
would be well if they could obtain a knowledge of
the divine mysteries, and to this end they laid their
plans. Again were shrines raised up, and a certain
sect deified the memory of Itheboleth and raised up
a great sanctuary in his honour in the lowlands of
the continent over against the eastern seaboard.
I need not tell you, m y children, that they were
helped by the Satanakuics and b y the A rch Satan-
aku1 himself, who threw the whole o f his energy
into the newborn fight.
Then was it that m y beloved son Horus sent
unto El Erosuphu and did command him saying,
“ Go thou throughout the length and breadth of
Atlantis and warn the people, those children of
Adam and Yevah, lest they bring upon themselves
the wrath of the Cosm ic force. Also say unto them,
* Thus saith Horus, the divine representative of
Atlantis who is the very light of the morning, and
from whose rays do ye receive your life. U tterly
forsake the ways of Satanaku, also cast down the
vile shrines of Itheboleth and let his name be
utterly forgotten, for if ye do not these things
» Devil.
29
The w hich I command, then shall the wrath of th
e
Chronicles Cosmos be meted out to you and ye shall perish
of Osiris one and a11/ ”
Thus did m
an­
dateofHorus throughout the ContinentofAtlantis;
also visited h e Chekon, which was the chief cityof
Atlantis, but alas I the words which El Erosuphu
spake unto the people were as seed falling upon
barren soil, and in their place sprang up all kinds
of weeds which did choke the young seed w
hich
had been sown* My children, Satanaku called
untothepeople ofAtlantis, and using as his m
outh­
piece certain Yevahic men at that time incarnate,
he spake unto the people, and some of the blas­
phemieswhichhespake unto the people arewritten
in The Book of Truth. Alas I the people, hearken­
ing unto the voice of Satanaku, offered up afresh
their sacrifices, and this was so that the Adamic
population should be utterly wiped out, for as I
have told you in The Book of Truth, the Adamic
children were always born as son-daughters, that
ismale-female (twins), and they were eternally wed
aswastheirrightofthedivine spheres from whence
they had The subtle intellect of Satanaku
demanded that when any such births took place
the children be offered as a sacrifice
him, for he claimed to be the people's benefactor
and even their rightful god*
*•*5 p.m. So, my children, the people of Atlantis hearkened
80
unto the voice of Satanaku, because he showed The
unto them certain of the magical arts of which he, Chronicles
as a divine son of the Cosmos, possessed a know- of Osiris
ledge. Thus E l Erosuphu proceeded up into the
Sacred Heights and did stand again before H om s
and told unto him all that had befallen the table­
lands and lowlands of the continent. Also did
he tell my beloved son how the people were taken
in idolatry and would not hearken unto the com ­
mands of the Cosmos which had been voiced
through the mediumship of H orns-Atanu. T hen
did my beloved son commune with the Father-
Mother-God, and cried unto them, saying, ** O
Lord God, Father-M other-Son of all Creation,
behold I have failed utterly in m y task of bringing
this people unto Thee. T h e shrines of the M ost
High are overthrown, and T h y cities have become
an abomination in the sight of Thine all-seeing
Eye. O Lord, Great Fountainhead of the Cosm ic
Force, what wilt T h ou tell me, that I may take
vengeance for Thee upon this people i **
And the voice of the Cosm os, the Father-M other
of Creation, came unto Horus-Atanu and spake
thus: “ M y beloved son and ray-child, take not
unto thyself the blame for the waywardness of this
people. Call thou unto m y beloved firstborn, who
is even Eil Daudu, and I will put into H is heart all
those things that H e shall both do and say, and
I will cause the shrines of black magic to be
si
The obliterated entirely that not one trace shall be left
a ^ m ^ —
stain t»
of s So, my beloved children, Horus-Atanu did as the
voice of the Cosmos commanded, and my beloved
Father, who was on a visit to the other distant
spheres of gross matter, returned unto Earth with
His twin and spouse eternal, who is Eil Daudua.
And when He had come unto that continent called
Atlantis, of which the capital is Chekon, He bade
Eil Daudua merge within Himself that she might
hear the word of the Cosmos which was to be given
unto Him even as had been told to my beloved
the
Horus-Atanu. My children, the Fountainhead,
lystic Three-in-One, did manifest Itself
through the heart of Eil Daudua, and she spake
unto Her male half and said, ** Atlantis shalt Thou
lake even as was Sarkon, but before Thou stretch-
est out Thine hand Thou shalt collect certain of the
Adamic and Yevahic population who are still my
devoted children, and Thou shalt select leaders who
shall be placed over the remainder of those whom
shall command Thee Thou shalt
Land each leader to construct boats which shall be
able to withstand the waters of the ocean, and the
boats shall be the same as those used in Atlantis.
And when all is ready, and also certain of the
animal and plant life has been collected, Thou
shalt command the leaders of the sections to depart,
and they shall proceed until they co •f
32
dry
land, then shall they disembark and the land shall T h e
be for them as an habitation and they shall utterly Chrorucl
forget the ways of Satanaku, and by the sweat of of Osiris
their labours shall they cultivate their lands/*
Thus spoke the Cosmos unto Eil Daudu through
Eil Daudua, and H e did as the Cosmos commanded,
speaking unto the people as H e had been instructed.
But alas! my children, a desire for 4
4 know­
ledge ft
grew up in the minds of the people, and
they did seek to construct a huge tower, thinking
that they would be afforded a sight of the Sacred
Heights, and the construction of the boats lagged
so that the people were unable to depart.
Then spake the Cosmos unto Eil Daudu a second
time, and sa id ,4
4 Behold, I w ill cause the m entali­
ties of the people to be changed that no man shall
understand his neighbour's sp eech : thus w ill they
be confounded and the work w ill be stopped.
And when this has taken place then shalt Thou seek
out new leaders from amongst the people, and they
shall be from among the Adamic population, and
Thou shalt issue T hy commands unto them even
as I have already told T hee, and when the time
comes that the boats are ready to depart, Thou
shalt command each leader to collect unto him all
who are of his tongue, so shall there be several
schools, all of different tongues, and they shall
migrate in their boats as I have commanded, and I
will cause the boats to be guided to the Continents
D 33
Theof Earth which are now in readiness to receive these
Chroniclespeople* and as time doth progress* each school sha
ll
of Osiris become a nation, and over each school shall I cause
to be placed Divine Initiates and they shall be
known as the Dynasties of the Initiates. And over
Khemu will I place in their order of descent the
twenty-four Initiates of Atlantis* including m
y
beloved Ray Affinities Osiris And out of
land of Khemu shall I cause the divine mysteries of
the Cosmos again to arise that they may be as a
lasting sign unto the nations of Earth. And when
the time shall come that man's estate shall have
become worse* I will close again the sacred mysteries
and they shall be lost to Earth until such time as I
shall command light to be again
people.
given unto the
And behold by this plan which I have
evolved shall I cause all who prove unworthy in
the use of the divine gift of free will to be utterly
obliterated* and they shall return again from whence
they came* likewise shall all those who withstand |
the weariness of material time be at last received
into the fold of the children of the Cosmos* and the
children of the Cosmos by adoption* and this state
shall continue until the marriage feast of God the
Son shall be ready to take place/'
July 27th, Before closing this chapter* my children, I would
1926. make one important point clear unto you in con*
la*2? 7
1
0
0
7
1nection with my beloved eldest brother-sister who
are Arbal-Jesus and Arbel-Jesus Their history
written down in detail in The Book of Truth. A ll The
that I would tell you is that they dwelt in the Sacred Chronicles
Heights with my beloved Father-Mother and were of Osiris
asspecial helpers unto Him, The downfall of Arbal
came immediately before the final commands of
the Cosmos for the destruction of the Continent of
Sarkon. It was during the very early days of evolu­
tion in Atlantis, for as I have told you, my Father
Ptah Eil Daudu was actually preparing that con­
tinent before the destruction of Sarkon. I shall not
go into details concerning these times as they are
set down for you in The Book of Truth. Also there
are other matters of importance which do not
appear in The Book of Truth which have now to be
set before you.
35
C H A P T E R V
Chapter V
M
Y children, I shall give you a brief account
of the final disintegration of Atlantis.
Those who were to be saved had already
set out in their boats and were many days distant
on the ocean when the final commands of the
Father-Mother-God were carried out.
I shall take you up into the Sacred Heights of the
continent and show you my Father's plans for the
safeguarding of the sacred mysteries and statutes
of Atlantis. The twenty-four Masters who were to
rule Khemu were collected together, some being
still incarnate and the remainder discamate. Also
were many of the Adamics who were discamate
brought unto my Father, and when all were
assembled my Father spoke unto them after this
manner : ** Ye dual rays of my very breath, it has
been commanded me by the Cosmos that I offer
unto you the choice of self-sacrifice. The sacrifice
shall be in this form : that ye shall one and all re­
incarnate in the mortal body of sin that ye may by
sodoinghelp the men of Earth and the lost Adamics.
Behold ye shall be offered the choice of doing this
great work for the Father-Mother-God or of re­
turning each one unto his rightful place in the
various spheres of the Cosmic universe. Re­
member, mine own dual rays, rays of the purple
branch and rays of the golden branch, your times
39
r
The of tribulation on Earth may be long, and your
Chronicles paths exceedingly stony, yet if ye are able tow
ith-
of Osiris stand the trials of material time, then shall yehave
accomplished a great work for the blessed Cosm
ic
Trinity. Weigh ye well my words and belittle not
my warnings unto you, for again I say the pathway
will be full of stones and sharp pieces which shall
wound your mortal flesh like knives. Yea, inm
any
shall the spirit suffer Therefore
unto
that ye are making the greatest sacrifice thatyecan
offerunto the Father-Mother-Son-God, theblessed
Trinity of the Cosmos.”
Having spoken thus, my Father received person­
ally each volunteer, and he was enrolled with all
secrecy, and each individual knew not the vow
s
thathis fellowhad taken, for each one was enrolled
in the way best suited to him, for, let it be know
n
untoyou, my children, that the same sentencehath
a different significance for each mentality.
The secrets of the mysteries were hidden within
the entities of each ray-child, the Adamics not
being admitted into the secret mysteries of Initia­
tion, although collectively they had their lesser
tasks to perform and, even though they were less,
they were a most important part of the complete
whole. The first to be called unto my beloved
Father was I, Osiris, who was instructed concern­
ingthebuddingof die chief sanctuary of Initiation
40
which was to be erected in the land of Khemu, and The
the complete plan was given unto me, and it was Chronicles
the same as that one of the Sacred Heights except °J O siris
for certain differences* The outer court was the
one which differed most, also were there certain
minor differences to the inner sanctuaries, which I
have already mentioned further back in this my
book of The Chronicles of O siris.
I shall not give a description of this Tem ple of J u ly 28th,
Initiation at this time, because it is described for 1926*
you, my children, in The B ook of T ru th , where a 11.47 a jn .
detailed description of all the parts is given.
Having made known unto me what things I
should do, my Father bade me call unto Him El
Erosuphu, the law-giver, to whom were delivered
the Statutes of my Father Ptah. These statutes,
when in the possession of a fully qualified Initiate,
were a key unto the divine mysteries of the Cosmos.
They were sculptured in stone, the same that I
have already mentioned to you as being very dur­
able. These statutes were written in the sacred
Initiate language and it was only understood by
those ray-children who were Initiates of the inner
eye of the Cosmic mysteries. The use of the
sacred signs and symbols played a great part in that
sacred script, and he who is unable to understand
the connection that exists between the symbols and
the sacred alphabet is unable to translate the
statutes. These statutes were taken into Khemu
41
TheAt the commands of my Father, and they w
ere
Chronicleslodged with the tablets of stone given tom
e, O
siris,
of Osirisand I would mention that the plans of the sacred
temple were inscribed upon my tablets. Then
did my beloved Father call unto HimHorus-Atanu,
and unto him were given twenty-one tablets of
stone, and upon them were engraven the sacred
commandments and laws of the Cosmos delivered
unto Eil Daudu at the destruction of Sarkon. A
copy of these was held by each ray-child, yet w
ere
they not written down upon stone, but were re­
tained by them as a lasting memory. Later in
these chronicles shall I give them unto you; these
also were written in the sacred Initiate language
which was known only to the ray-children of m
y
beloved Father Eil Daudu,
Having delivered His charges unto the twenty-
four my Father spake thus unto us: “ My be­
loved children, thanks be unto you that you have
one and all accepted the burden of the world upon
which hath so much sorrow already descended,
This one thing will I make known unto you. When
ye hold rule over that land of Khemu which is
within the fertile valley of the river that is called
Neilos, your periods of rule shall be for a hundred
years of Earth’s time, and she who is your twin
eternal shall not incarnate with you, for she shall
be required as the ear unto the commands of the
Cosmos. The mortal sex bodies that ye shall wear
shall not be crystallised by the act of mortal sex The
union, but shall be a less material body, and one Chronicles
that can be produced at the will of the Kharm ic of Osiris
Lord Melchisadech, and when the garment is
ready then shall he command the awaiting spirit to
take its place within its walls. Seven years before
the reigning master shall vacate his mortal shell
shall the Kharmic Lord M elchisadech crystallise a
like garment for his successor and this shall be so
that the heir shall be instructed during the passing
of the seven years in the mysteries, for know you
from past experiences that the act of incarnation
doth dull and cramp the ego, even if the mortal
house be ever so perfect, for the memory lies latent
and requires to be awakened, and when schooled
in the correct manner, this awakening takes place
within the seven Earth years. T h e mortal shell of
the departing master shall be etherially disinte­
grated when its time hath com e/'
M y children, I shall not continue the speech of
Eil Daudu, for all that was commanded is written
down for you in The Book of Truth. Also is the
phenomenon of the discamate female half ex­
plained, as are many other things that I shall only
touch upon because they are links in the circle of
remembrance which is to be again brought unto
you.
All these things having been done, the Initiates
who were still incarnate and also those Adamics
43
Thewho had been collected by my Father to be future
Chroniclespriests and teachers, were transported into the
of O
sirisdiscarnatestate. Casting away their mortal bodies,
they proceeded unto their various spheres as they
were commanded by the Lord Melchisadech. El
Erosuphu was sent unto that land of Khemu, and
he proceeded thither with the tablets of stone
which had been entrusted to his care, and this w
as
done by causing the stones to become etherialised,
until they had reached their appointed resting-
place, where they re-materialised. In like m
anner
were all the material objects designated for Khemu
transported thither*
Having made clear these things unto you, my
children, I shall proceed with an account of the
destruction of the The foundations
Atlantis were already undermined on accdtflH
the previous upheavals which had occurred, so that
the lowlands fell away at the first quaking of the
soil nearest the seaboard. My children, remember
you not that the people sought to construct a tower,
which they deemed would lead them to the Sacred
Heights 1 I say unto you, 4
4Those who tamper
with the divine mysteries shall perish by them/'
The Continent of. Atlantis fell away from the
lowlands upwards, and as it submerged, so were
the people driven up towards the tablelands, which
parts were as yet unaffected.
Some of you will ask why they did not e
s
c
a
p
e
from the continent in boats T h e reason was The
because the sea was a seething mass of molten lava Chronicles
and sulphurous tongues of fire, and all who were of Osiris
bold enough to approach were swallowed up or
scorched to death. As the days went by the table­
lands in turn became affected, and crumbled,
falling away into the sea, till at length were the
population that remained left in a crowded mass
around the slopes of the highlands, yet could they
not approach them, because only those who
possessed the knowledge of the adept could levi­
tate thither. Yet, my children, were the evil ones of
Atlantis to see from within the jaws of death
those sacred heights which they had so striven to
reach.
Outraged nature was to play her part, and sud­
denly a huge crater was formed within the Sacred
Heights, and truly did it seem as if Satanaku
awaited them in that cauldron of fury. T h e
Sacred Heights subsided and, telescoping into the
bosom of the earth, afforded those people congre­
gated upon the tablelands a glimpse of what they
had striven to see.
Down went the sacred temple, surrounded by
the seven peaks, and as it subsided it sucked after
it the remaining portions of the tablelands, engulf­
ing those evil ones who still remained alive. Thus
perished Atlantis, and at length the waves of the
ocean closed over the last traces of that evil
46
Thecontinent, that same fair land that had once been
Chroniclesthe habitation of Ptah and the divine men.
of O
siris Thus did my beloved son Horus behold the
destruction, for there were none present at that
awful funeral, save my beloved Father-Mother \
I, Osiris; and my beloved son Horus-Atanu, and
it was upon this memory that my son did write his
lament which I have set down for you at the com
­
mencement of this my book, that it may give its
message unto the nations of earth for the dawning
day of Aquarius.
Chapter V I
H
AVING detailed briefly the events which July 30th,
took place in Atlantis and Sarkon,and having 1926.
described to you the particular fates which 3.10 p.m.
overtook them, I shall proceed to give you a de­
scription of what occurred in Khemu from the time
of the final emigration, which,took place about
15,000 b .c . When at length the boats containing
the refugees arrived at that spot now called Alex­
andria, they did according to the word of my
beloved Father Ptah Eil Daudu, and proceeded to
disembark*
The particular Adamic priests who were in
charge of the boats turned their attention to the
organisation of their particular contingents. A t
length, when all had encamped upon that fertile
piece of land now known as the Delta of the Nile,
the Adamic chiefs collected together and conferred
with one another as to the best means of adminis­
tering the wants of the people.'
A t length was one chosen whose name was
Horhetop, and he in turn elected his chief priests
and helpers from amongst the remaining Adamics.
i I would here state that those emigrants who had
i landed in Egypt during the first series of earth­
quakes which shook Atlantis had proceeded further
j south, and constituted what was afterwards called
| die countries of the Nubians and Ethiopians♦ Not
I B 49
The all the ships had landed at Alexandria, for som
e
Chronicles had been driven on to the northern shores of the
of Osiris Mediterranean and had settled in Greece, in fact
detachments had settled all along the northern
Mediterranean seaboard. As the years passed by,
and the population increased, great stone buildings
were set up, built after the same manner as those
of Atlantis, before the submerging of that con­
tinent. When all things had been appointed for
the comfort of the people, and when sufficient
dwellings had been erected, Horhetop turned his
attention to the erecting of temples and places of
Initiation. He was a man who possessed a very
keen intuition and was well skilled in the sacred
arts, being an adept of the fifth degree. His first
build huge IIbrance. and
these took the form of three pyramids. The reason
why the pyramid was chosen was because the third
chaIt the neophytes in the
of Atlantis had been pyramidal in form. His plan
was to construct three of these huge edifices, within
each of which different stages of Initiation were to
be passed. The entrance to these great temples of
Initiation was identical with that of the Temple of
the Sacred Heights of Atlantis, viz. through the
paws of a gigantic sphinx which was carved out of
the natural rock. It is this ancient sphinx that you
see at your present time of incarnation, my beloved
children. .Since those dim times, however, it has
60
A
been badly tampered with, and altered to suit the The
conceits of the various rulers of that ancient land, Chronicles
and often has the monarch attempted to give the of Osiris
face a resemblance to his own features; thus
historians of the ages have attributed its origin to
early Kings of Egypt*
M y beloved children, when the will of Horehetop
caused the Sphinx to be built, he raised a monument
to the remembrance of the Initiates of Atlantis,
and he was again
ystenes
to revive the ancient
T h e time taken to build the Sphinx
and the three Pyramids, known to-day as the
Pyramids of Gizeh, was over a period of 1050 years
of intermittent building* A s one priest-M onarch
died, so did his successor swear to carry on the
work of his predecessor. T h e Sphinx was connected
with the three Pyramids by a series of underground
chambers and passages, those leading to the
pyramids radiating from a centre circular-shaped
temple which was also com pletely subterranean.
Under each of the Pyramids were chambers
which connected with those external structures
by it eans of passages and small tom b-like apart­
ments or rooms.
I shall only touch upon these details lightly, as
I wish for the present to leave this colony that had
grown up from the refugees o f Atlantis, and proceed
to a place situated in what is known at your present
time as Upper Egypt.
51
The It so happened, my children, that I appeared in
Chroniclesa vision unto the reigning Priest-King of thecolony
of Osins of the Delta, and spoke unto him even as I had
been commanded by my Father Ptah Eil Daudu,
o ____ and I said unto him, “ Collect together all the
0*40 p .m . t .
people, both Adamic and Yevahic, and when they
have come before thee divide them into two camps,
and over one of the divisions shalt thou place thy
successor and bid him go forth towards the south,
following the course of the great river which is
called Neilos, and when he shall have come to the
place that I shall show him he shall pitch his camp,
and bid the people take the land as a dwelling-
place. And when all has come about as I shall
command, then shall he proceed to the place of
hiding which I have selected at the commands of
my beloved Father Eil Daudu, and behold he shall
be guided by me in a dream, and I will show unto
him the plans for the building of my house, wherein
shall be hidden all the secret mysteries of Initia­
tion/' Having spoken these words unto the King
(who was even an incarnation of Adolemaiu,1 he
having been bom wed to his twin and spouse
eternal, who was Adolemaiua, they being born
from amongst the Adamic population of the Delta)
I departed. On the morrow, when the King
awoke, he sent unto his son-daughter El Erosuphu-
E1 Erosuphua and told unto them all that he had
1 Eleventh Master Initiate in genealogical tree in The Book of Truth*
62
The
him and made known
Erosuphu all that he had been told by me. Then of Osiris
didEl Erosuphu act according to the commands of
his father, and collecting the people together they
proceeded unto that place towards the south which
had been shown unto El Erosuphu by his father
Adolemaiu.
And when, after many days' journeying, theyJuly 31st,
arrived in thevicinity of my Father's hiding-place, 1926.
which He had elected for the secretion of the 1145 a.m
various tablets and secrets of the Sacred Heights,
behold they pitched their camp.
The first act of El Erosuphu (who was known as
Heliomore in that incarnation) was to command
the people to build them houses in which to live.
These resembled those of the Delta which I have
already mentioned to you, my children. At length
the time came when the people were organised
and formed a settlement, living according to the
laws given unto the chief priests by Heliomore.
Then did I appear unto him and did show him
where the statutes of my Father Ptah were hidden,
also the tablets of stone containing the plans of the
sacred Temple of Initiation. Having done this
I spoke thus unto Heliomore and said, Collect
the people before thee and cause two thousand
picked men to be taken from amongst them, and
allowthe chief priests to make their selections fro
63
44
The amongst the people, and when this has been done,
Chronicles call unto thee the chief priests of the people and
of Osiris give unto them my instructions concerning the
building of this temple, which is to be my Father’s
House in which shall be kept all the divine mysteries
of the inner eye of the Cosmic force.
And behold when the time shall come that thou
shalt be called out of the flesh, then shall thy son
El Potipheru carry on my Father’s work, and
behold I say unto you that the work shall not cease
until the time shall come when this House of
Remembrance shall be completed. And it shall be
the home of the future masters of the divine dynas­
ties of Khemu, and at a period yet to come shall I
appear before you clothed in the perfected mortal
dynasty
Cosmos, and it shall be crystallised at
le Kharmic Lord Melchisadech. And
shall continue to hold spiritual rule
d of Khemu even as my Father Ptah
Idyou in the Sacred Heights of Atlantis
destruction of that evil continent
ft
Having made known these things unto Helio-
ore, I departed unto my twin and spouse eternal
who is Isis, and dwelt in the country of the Gods,
always maintaining telepathic communication with
Khemu of which I was the Lord. My children, I
shall not go into details concerning this House of
Initiation, the House of the Divine Dynasty of the
ray-children, as it is given in detail in The Bookof
64
Truth♦ What I would now do is to make clear The
unto you the connection that existed between Chronicles
Upper and Lower Khemu. As I have already told of Osiris
you, my children, the refugees from Atlantis first
settled in the Delta of Lower Egypt, and having
constructed the Pyramids and Sphinx at the com­
mands of Horhetop, the old services of remem­
brance were reinstated, first in the small temples
which were constructed, and 1050 years later in
the pyramidal houses of Initiation which were at
last ready* The Father-Mother-God was wor­
shipped through the mediumship of Ptah whom
they designated King-Father of the Gods and
divine men* The Pyramids never formed the
Inner Circle of the divine Initiation, they being
only stones of remembrance to keep the people in
the knowledge of the Cosmos until such times as
the sacred House of my Father should be ready,
which was not till about the year 10,000 b*
c* M y
children, my Father's House being ready, I took
my place in the mortal sanctified body which
Melchisadech had prepared for me, and calling unto
me the chief priests of the temples, I selected from
amongst them teachers who were to officiate in the
outer court of the temple* The various Initiates
who were not full adepts did I place according to
their degrees of knowledge in the two subter­
ranean chambers which comprised the pyramidal
chamber and the rectangular chamber, and I need
65
The not go into details concerning these as they are
Chronicles d esk with at length in The Book of Truth. The
of Osiris first to officiate as Initiate adept of the Initiate
adepts in the rectangular chamber was my beloved
son and ray-child Horns, and I would here tell you
that he was in the body created by Melchisadech
longer than any of the other masters, and that
because I had of necessity to place one who could
be relied upon in the sanctuary of the Initiate
adepts, and he had to be my shield and mouthpiece
unto the outer world. Thus were all matters of
material administration left in his charge, also was
he to be my successor when the time came for me
to relinquish my mastership.
At this point I would return to the connection
that existed between Upper and Lower Egypt.
The Adamic priests and novices who were initiated
into the mysteries in my Father's House, were sent
into Lower Egypt when they had passed the neces­
sary degrees, and they did officiate and hold
spiritual rule over the Pyramidal centre of Initia­
tion which was known as the outer circle of Initi­
ates of the Circle of the Eye, and this centre took
its instructions from the Inner Circle of the Eye of
the Cosmos, which was that centre occupied by
my Father's House which was in Upper Egypt.
This state of administration endured uninter-
Over
ruptedly for about 2400 years of Earth time.
Lower Egypt was there a monarch who was the
56
figurehead w ho ordered the m aterial laws of the The
country, and he was chosen by the Adam ic priest- Chronicle*
hood of the Pyram idal cen tre; likew ise over of Osiru
Upper Egypt was there also a m onarch w ho ad­
ministered the m aterial laws of the country, and
he was chosen at the com m ands of the Initiate
adept of the Initiate adepts. And rem em ber, my
children, these kings w ere always chosen from
amongst the A dam ic population.
67
CHAPTER
Chapter V II
Y children, having described unto you the August i st,
way in which the land of Khemu became 1926.
populated and at length consisted of Upper 10.50 a.m.
and Lower Egypt, I would link as clearly as possible
the so-called mythical period of this history to what
is called the authentic historical period of Egypt.
One thing will I point out, and it is that the
remainder of the world was proceeding to evolve
and organise itself in almost exactly the same
manner as Khemu. The only reason that I deal
entirely with Khemu is because, as I have told you
in The Book of Truth, it was chosen to be the “ Land
of Revelation ” and was predestined by the Cosmos
to play the final part in the history of the world
called Earth.
Temples of Initiation were built in the other
countries of the world. Also were the divine
services of remembrance carried out in exactly the
same manner as in Khem u. T h e architectural
in
relics which have survived in other countries, such
as those continents at present known as North and
South America, have done so by chance, and were
not predestined to be stones of revelation, although
these remnants will prove useful in connect­
ing the civilisation of Khem u with that of the
Continents of North, South and Central America.
Having made clear unto you these things, I shall
ei
The return to K h em u . T h e history o f the divine
Chronicles dynasties of the masters need not be gone into
of
clear. As Egypt
divided into Upper and Lower Egypt
there was an Adamic prince ruling over each
division, and these princes were always born from
amongst the Adamic population.
I would here tell you that it was becoming in­
creasingly difficult to distinguish between the
Adamic and Yevahic population, as they had
mixed
owing to the machinations of Satanaku. The
general material rule was, however, that the
Adamic population comprised the ruling classes
and the priesthood, whilst the Yevahic population
held subservient positions under their Adamic
brethren.
Do not misunderstand me by saying that, as
there was a distinction, it was impossible for the
Yevahic men and women of Earth to share the
privileges of the Adamics, because this was not so,
for if after various incarnations a Yevahic man or
woman had evolved and progressed then was he
absorbed into the Adamic population, and was
even born to Adamic parents.
The only spirits who still were able to separate
with certainty the two races were the Kharmic
Lords, of whom there were seven. When
os
A
3 __
l<
female twins were born the old Atlantean custom The
of regarding them as being bom wed as husband ChrontcUt
and wife was still observed, although from the of O nni
point of view of divine birth this was not always
correct. To return to what took place in the land
of Egypt, I would say that neophytes were now
received for Initiation from the surrounding
countries, for it was many thousands of years since
the emigrants from Atlantis had spread over the
face of the world*
Again evil crept in, for those people who had
left Atlantis after the rebellion of Itheboleth had
increased and m ultiplied, and you w ill remember
that they had settled chiefly in Africa and America.
Alas, they had been w ell nursed and schooled by
Satanaku and his entities from the astral planes.
They had taken unto them selves all manner of gods
and idols, and in order that these people could be
recognised, the Cosmos had spoken unto Eil Daudu
and had commanded him to cause them to have
coloured skins; so that those of Central America
had reddish skins, whilst those of Africa and the
East had some bronze skins and some black. The
black and lowest race have survived to-day as the
negroes of South Africa. T he inevitable thing
happened, the people of Khemu began gradually
and secretly to intermarry w ith these dark-skinned
people, and they in turn taught them all manner of
heathenish practices, for know you that they were
68
u
The even Nisseau shall relinquish the mortal body, and
Chronicle: shall return unto his own place, amongst the ray-
O
sirischildren in the higher spheres# The Adam
ic
priests and the population shall thou warn, and
thoushah command them that they retreat through
the city, so that the exu lta n t enem y m ay be drawn
after them, and when they have come to the centre
of the city I will cause the Earth to commence its
" Having spoken thus unto
Father departed
e, my
this point I would tell you,
ray children, that the king of the invading anries
was an incarnation of Itheboleth, the same that had
caused all the strife in A tla n tis, and his name was
Kharopolakhis, to whom I have referred in TAe
Book 0/ Truth as the first usurper# I need hardly
tell you that he had held himself aloof from the
battle and had camped at a very safe distance from
the actual scene of the disaster#
Theentrancetothe sacred sanctuaries they found
not,as the quaking of the earth had obliterated all
trace,alsowasdie outer court reduced to a stateof
ruin which mingled with die rest of the town of
Tabos.
At length, after a long search, the invading army
withdrew.
I would here tdl you, my children, that Khasv
opolakhis had been a neophyte, educated in the
sanctuaries of die temple during previous years,
and it was his desire for material advancement
rtta> twn to seek to turn tbe mysteries The
to fats own use. He was an Initiate of the more Chronicles
material arts of Initiation, and he now sought of Osiris
to ft*"** a body which he called the “ Brotherhood
of Knowledge/' Temples were built and the names
of the various masters were deified and set up as
gods whom the people worshipped. I shall now
leave Upper Egypt and shall proceed to the
Pyramidal centre of Lower Egypt.
The resistance here had been fiercer, and the
invading army had returned again into its own
country. My children, it w ill be dear to you what
was to be the future course of events. The admin­
istration of Upper Egypt having been overthrown,
die people of the third kingdom proceeded to
increase their borders at the expense of the
Egyptians who were not in a position to offer any
very effective resistance. At length also did the act
of intermarrying become so common that the
two races absorbed each other. The Brotherhood
founded by Kharopolakhis flourished and became
a material religion, and during the years that
followed a high standard of efficiency was reached.
The arts of building became perfected and also
was there a large and well-organised army. The
capital of this new kingdom which had sprung out
of the two former races was situated upon the
present site of Thebes and the Valley of the Tombs
of the Kings. The inevitable happened, my
07
The children, and the Kingdoms of Upper and Lower
Chronicles Khemu were constantly at war with one another.
of Osiris This state endured for about 1000 years, and
the unity of Egypt was not brought about till the
year 6600 b .c . when one Mentos arose from among
the people of the Pyramidal centre and united the
two lands* He took as his insignia of office
the crown of the south, which was the crown of
me, Osiris, and this was placed inside the crown of
Ptah Eil Daudu, which was the crown of the rulers
of Lower Egypt, and the complete double crown of
Mentos was identical with the double crown of me,
Osiris, which I have mentioned in the Book of
T ru th , and it symbolised me as the son of Ptah
in that it appeared from out the centre of my
Father's crown*
CHAPTER VIII
Chapter VIII
H
AVING described as clearly as possible die August 6th,
events which took place during the mythical 1926*
period of the world's history, I shall proceed 3.12 p jiu
todeal with what is termed die authentic historical
period, and I shall point out how many of the state­
ments made concerning this latter period are
really nothing more than hypotheses, and incorrect
at that.
The first king who was strong enough to unite
die lands of Upper and Lower Egypt under one
crown was, as I have told you in the preceding
chapter, Mentos, and he was a reincarnation of one
of die higher Adamics who had been commanded
to appear before my Father Ptah Eil Daudu in
the Sacred Heights of Atlantis at the time when He
waspreparing tohave thesacred mysteries conveyed
into Khemu under the charge of the various ray-
children who were to be the future Initiate rulers
of the land of Egypt,
M entos, bein g full of intuition and psychic
ability, had perceived that unless be united the
two lands, the third kingdom of Nubia would in
time conquer each part of Egypt separately,
whilst they were yet divided.
Thus it happened, my children, that about the
year 6620 B.C., this prince collected together a
huge army, which was well trained and victualled,
71
The sad proceeded to march on the land of Upper
Chronicles Egypt, all the time collecting recruits ashe marched
of Osiris southwards.
In each town he caused his proclamation to be
read, explaining to the people that if they did not
unite with him they would finally be overcome by
the Nubians, whose property the land of Egypt
would become.
The army of Mentos increased until, on his
arrival at the place which had once been the city of
Tabos, he had rallied all the Egyptian people
to his standard.
Hisheadquarters he made at This, which is some
fifty miles north of the site of the ruins of Tabos.
The temples were reinstated and the worship of
me, Osiris, and my twin and spouse eternal, Isis,
were revived in the south, whilst in the Pyramidal
province the worship of my Father Ptah was
established as it had always been from the time
when the refugees had setded in the Delta after
the submerging of Atlantis. The only difference
wasthattimehaddistorted the trueformofworship
inwhichmyFatherPtahEil Daudu was considered
to be the doorway through which the Cosmic
Trinity was worshipped. In the provinces of
Upper Egypt the same thing had happened, and
the names of certain of the Masters which had
survived had beendeified, andsupposed likenesses
in the forms of statues were raised up to their
72
A
memory. I have mentioned one or two of these T h e
in The B ook o f T ru th . The King, who was now C h ro n icles
called “ the supreme Lord of the two lands/* o f O siris
did not interfere with the religious views of the
state, but devoted his time to consolidating what
he had been able to unite, until at the end of his
reign Upper and Lower Egypt were united as one
big Empire, and this was the beginning of what
has lived in the history of the world called Earth
as the Egyptian Empire.
The various surrounding tribes were subdued,
and the Nubians kept in check until at length the
Empire became so strong that she did not fear them
any longer.
To turn for a moment to the priesthood of Egypt,
I would say a few words concerning their various
deities. The chief deity of Upper Egypt was Amon,
or Amen, and this name had been handed down
from the divine dynasty of the Masters which I
have explained in T h e Book of T ruth. He was really
El Amenu, and the ensuing priesthoods had singled
out his name to be that of their chief god. So,
my children, that is why Amen became the chief
deity of the south. M y name and that of my twin
and spouse eternal Isis were also deified and helped
to form the circle of the gods of Upper Egypt. I
was looked upon as the God of Rebirth into the
world of everlasting light, where I reigned with
Ra— the Sun-god.
73
The Amenwas called the King of the Gods; andthis
Chronicles was where thelands of Upper and Lower Egyptdid
of Osiris notagree, for thatof Lower Egypt calledmyFather,
Ptah Eil Daudu, the King-Father of the Gods,
and you will see, my children, that the priesthood
of Lower Egypt were nearer the truth, as far as the
name was concerned, because my beloved Father
Ptah Eil Daudu was in reality the Father-King of
thewhole DhumanAdamic race. However, thetwo
lands andeventheir towns all had their ownspecial
and local gods, who were worshipped. Sometimes
they were deifications of the old Masters of the
Divine Dynasty, and sometimes they were not.
This scheme, however, suited the plans of my
Father very well indeed; because, whilst all this
external pomp and circumstance were being carried
on, asecret circle of neophytes andadeptswhowere
reincarnations of the ray-children and Adamics,
who had volunteered in Atlantis to be teachers of
Earth, gradually increased, and the secret mysteries
wereagainopentoaselectedfew,who guardedtheir
precious secret very jealously indeed. Subter­
ranean temples were built, and the external
temples were at length brought under the rule of
thissecretbody,whichwas gradually growing. The
external pomp was kept up, and the kings were
supported so that the land could be kept free from
invasion, in order that the circle of Initiates could
proceed with its work of educating the neophytes
74
of the surrounding countries. Only after passing The
themost terrible tests were the intending neophytes Chronicles
received into the circle of the Initiate brothers, of Osiris
whose chief centres were Memphis (which was
built by Mentos), Heliopolis and Thebos, better
known as Thebes. The Initiate centre of Heli­
opolis had as its visible sign the sun’s disc and the
old worship of Atanu was practised. In very
ancient times in Atlantis the Lord Horus was held
to be the medium through which the blessed
Trinity of the Cosmos was worshipped. And you
will remember, my children, that the great temple
of the Sacred Heights of Atlantis was surmounted
by the sign of the sun’s disc with the seven hands
reaching out to the solar universe.
These three chief centres received neophytes August 'jth,
fromGreece and the northern shores of theMediter-1926.
ranean. The Pyramidal centre of Memphis had 3 p.m.
by now become the chief centre of Initiation, and I
would here tell you, my children, that the sacred
House of my Father Ptah which had served as
the home of the Masters of the Divine Dynasty,
hadnever againbeen entered after the destruction of
the city of Tabos, when it was invaded by Khar-
opolakhis about the year 7600 b .c .
This sanctuary, which was then lost, has never
yet been found, and it will not again be revealed
unto the mortal men of Earth until the time when
my Father Ptah shall command me saying *
*Open,”
75
The and when that day shall dawn the world shall again
Chroniclesbe afforded a sight of that sacred house, in which
of Osiris are hidden the secret mysteries of Initiation of the
Inner Eye of the Cosmic Trinity, Even then, my
children, they shall be as nothing unto those who
have not the divine truth within themselves, for
the uninitiated men of Earth shall be unable to
decipher the sacred alphabet and symbols in which
the mysteries are set down.
Having made this thing clear unto you, I shall
proceed with what took place at the Memphyte
centre; but before doing so, I would say a few
words concerning the Initiate centre of Heliopolis.
The worship of Atanu as the visible sign of the
Cosmos to the mortal men of Earth was carried on.
The original rites of Atanu in Atlantis symbolised
my beloved son Horus as the medium between the
men of Earth and the Cosmic Trinity, the visible
symbol of my son being the solar disc, having the
seven hands reaching out from it. In Heliopolis,
however, the rites of Atanu were somewhat dis­
torted and the solar disc was actually worshipped
as the Cosmic Trinity—God, the one source of
creation. The cult was pure and stainless, and the
abominable rites of sacrifice were forbidden, as
was also the consumption of animal flesh as a
means of nourishment for the mortal body. The
Initiates of Heliopolis lived entirely upon fruit
and loaves of meal which they baked, also did this
76
centre stand very much apart and was exceedingly The
careful whom it accepted as neophyte, only those Chronicles
who could prove that they were of pure Egyptian of Osiris
blood being taken. The Pyramidal centre had
become the most cosmopolitan, and received neo­
phytes from all parts of the then civilised world.
This centre became the most popular right up to
thetimeofKufu, the chiefmonarchof theauthentic
Dynasty down by historians
that he was responsible for the construction of the
Great Pyramid, and two of his successors, Kafres
and Mycrinos, for the two smaller Pyramids;
theSphinx is also attributed to this dynasty, which
actually ruled the lands of Upper and Lower
Egypt about 5500
my children, the
As I have already told you,
st-monarch Horhetop was
responsible for the construction of the Sphinx
and the three Pyramids of Gizeh, which occupied
a period of 1050 years to complete. I will now
explain to you how the supposition has come about
which attributes the building of these monuments
to the kings
monarch of
the Fourth Dynasty. The first
Fourth Dynasty, who was called
Kufu, was a man who was devoid of all religious
tendencies, and the Great Pyramid had appealed
tohim as being a suitable tomb to receive his body
whenthe time ofhis mortaldeathshould come. He
caused the necessary preparations to be made and
inscribed
7 7
Thewalls. So, my children, you will see how the erro
kromdeswhich exists to-day concerning the Great Pyramid
of Osinsfirst came about. Kufu knew perfectly well what
were the uses of the Great Pyramid of Gizeh, but
he was a man full of materiality, and one who
honoured not God, his motto being, *
*Work! and
gods chant their own praises tt
This monarch was a Yevahic usurper, and one
who lent a willing ear to the evil promptings of
Satanaku. Two of his successors, Kafres and
Mycrinos, although not being quite so material,
followed in his footsteps, and proceeded to pre­
pare the two Pyramids to receive their
bodies. I would here tell you, my children, that
August qth, the bodies of die three monarchs were moved
1926.by die priests of Memphis when they were
2^0pm.again able to regain their old power, which they
did when the first king of the Fifth Dynasty
ascended the throne of the two lands, his name
being User-Ka-(Ra). From this time onwards
the rites of Initiation were carried on in the three
chief centres winch I have already mentioned, and
this continued up to the end of the Ptolemaic
period.
After this die great Empire of Egypt was devas­
tated by her many avaricious enemies, and die
shrines of die Tnitiat« were closed.
I shall deal with this period at greater length
later on in these my chronicles. My rhilA rm , I
T O
would now take you to the period which existed The
about 1500 b .c . and 2000 b .c ., and when you read Chronicles
this my book you will observe that the dates given o f O siris
to you by me do not coincide with the dates given
to you by the material deductions that have been
made by your historians. The difference is,
however,infinitesimal when you think for a moment
of thevastness ofthe ages whichhave existed. Even
some of the more modem historical events cannot
be vouched for with absolute certainty in many
I shall now take you to the Eighteenth Dynasty,
which ruled Egypt during the period of 2000 and
1500 B.c. This dynasty of monarchs was founded
by Amosis I, and it was his successor, Amenhetep I,
who founded the priestly brotherhood which offici­
ated under the protecting wing of Amon-Ra at
Thebes. Gradually this brotherhood obtained the
old power which it had held in former times under
die kings of the first three dynasties. The king was
also a high priest of Amon, and this was purely an
honorary title.
The Initiate Brothers, who still existed as a very
secretand select body, broke away from the material
priesthood of Amon, and practised the old worship
of Atum or Atanu, which was the religion of Heli­
opolis during die early dynasties of the double
empire- They were regarded with much disfavour
by the priests of Amon, who were looking purely
The to t material advancement.
Chronicles to live in seclusion and
o f O n ru of Amcahetcp III. and In
M woman from the Ttgi
incarnate female half of
meataoned in dn
Divine Dynasty. She e
persuaded the king to
lowers of Aianu. and m
cult grew and the
of Aim or Axanu.
The day at
) m d bckw d due through him
be converted to (he worship of A tu m ,
of Amoo be buDjr overthrown, and
O o d n work upon the mind of the
At this point, my children, I would
far a brief space and take yon
of AmoO'Ra at
c h a p t e r
Chapter DC
if children, it so happened that whilst the
heir to the Egyptian throne was being
initiated into the if Ra-Atanu
at Heliopolis, one arose from amongst the
priesthood of Amon at Thebes. He was the son of
the king's sister and was looked upon by her and
by the Brother Priests of Amon as the future heir
to the throne, which they proposed to seize for him
upon the death of his uncle, Amenhetep III.
p jn
He
was their one hope of escape from what seemed to
them inevitable, viz. that the worship of Ra-
Atanu would supplant them throughout the length
and breadth of Egypt. This royal priest's name
was Osi-ra-es, he being a priest of the idolatrous
cult of Osiris which was included in the circle of
the gods of Upper Egypt.
Osi-ra-es, however, had other ideas, and being
an incarnation of Adolemaiu, the eleventh Initiate
spoken of in The Book of Truth, was fully awake
to the shortcomings of the holy fathers of Amon.
His one great objection to the cult of Amon was
the inclusion of the animal and reptile gods, which
were nothing more than the inventions of Satanaku,
which had come down from the first emigrants who
set out from Atlantis and settled in N ubia; for,
my children, the vile images of these gods had
vastly pleased the. mentality of Satanaku, and they
were a good parallel to the terrible malcreations
85
Thewhich he had produced in the evil days of
ChroniclesSarkon.
of Osiris The royal priest, however, was given charge of
the sacred Ark of the priests of Amon in which
were kept the various magical books and mysteries
practisedby them. Osi-ra-es thoughtandpondered
within himself, and seeing how evil the priesthood
of Amon had become, he decided upon the bold
plan of visiting some of the oppressed tribes who
inhabited the eastern part of the Nile's Delta, for
thesole purpose of persuading the king Amenhetep
III to cease driving them like slaves, their chief
work being to quarry stone for the temples of
Amon and his consort Mut. He obtained the
King's permission to set out upon his journey, and
after many months' tour of the provinces of the
Delta, he returned and made his report to the
King, not, however, without having made out his
own plan of action.
Amenhetep, as he had foreseen, was soon over­
ruled by the priests of Amon, and yielded to their
arguments without much pressure from the holy
fathers.
One day, my children, were Osi-ra-es and several
of his intimate friends missing from the great
Temple of Amon,and with themhad also gone the
sacred Ark of Amon, together with the magical
books and die staff, which was supposed to shoot
forth green leaves each year, to show that Amon
was pleased with the king and with the people.
80
In truth what happened was that if the priests The
required Amon to show pleasure they produced a Chronicles
budding staff, and if not, then the barren staff was of Osiris
exhibited in the temple, and as the Ark was sacred
and never opened except by the high priest of
Amon, who was at that time Men-Ptah-Amen, the
trick was produced with the utmost ease. There
was, however, my children, one exception to this.
Osi-ra-es, feeling the urge of the Cosmic force
within himself, cried unto me, and he spake in
this manner, “ O, thou Osiris, thou who hast
triumphed over the tomb and who dost reign eternal
in the Kingdom of Light with Ra the Sun-God,
hear my supplications. If it be that I am thy
chosen one to save those of the people who will
hear, grant that the staff in the Ark of Amon may
at thy commands shoot forth green leaves. If
thou will grant me this one manifestation of thy
great power, then will I make thy name to sound
throughout the length and breadth of the Earth,
of which this, thy land of Egypt, is the heart i ”
Having spoken thus unto me, my children, I called
unto my beloved Father, Ptah Eil Daudu, and He
answered me, saying, that I should let the staff bud
in answer to the prayer of Osi-ra-es. When, on the
morrow, he opened the Ark with his followers, they
saw the staff budding, and knew that the prayer of
their leader had been answered. Then did they
straightway forsake the priesthood of Amon, and
went and dwelt in Syria with the parents of one
87
Theoi their number. Then did Osi-ra-es raise up a
Chronicles Temple to me, Osiris, and did seek to revive the
of Osirisancient mysteries which I had shown unto him in
his dreams. And he did choose as his high priest
one of his followers, who was a brother of the circle
of me, Osiris, in the Temple of Amon at Thebes,
and his name was Asar-haron, which literally
means " Osiris guiding/' So, my children, time
passed, till one day I, together with my twin and
spouse eternal Isis, appeared unto Osi-ra-es in
a dream, and bade him proceed unto Egypt and
assume the leadership of the people east of the
Delta,whowere a certain portion of the descendants
of the Adamic population which had settled there
in the days that came after the flood of Atlantis,
and this particular sect had always kept themselves
apart and had not intermarried with the dark-
skinnedmenof Satanaku and the children of Yevah.
So, my children, having assumed command of
these tribes, Osi-ra-es proceeded unto Amenhetep
III, asking him to allow the people to migrate
into the land of Syria, whither they wished to
proceed, so that they might escape the harsh treat­
ment of their Egyptian masters. The king at
first readily consented, but when the high priest
of Amonheard the news, he threatened Amenhetep
with thewrath of Amon and all the gods of Thebes.
And I would here tell you, my children, that this
high priest, who was called Men-Ptah-Amen, was
a further incarnation of Itheboleth the Altantian
88
usurper, who was still playing the part of The
Satanaku, which had ever been his w ay. However, Chronicles
the king was overruled b y the threats of Am on, of Osiris
and finally refused to open the frontiers for the
proposed exodus of the D elta tribes. T h u s was it,
my children, that Osi-ra-es and his followers
departed to the D elta provinces and proceeded to
organise the tribes so that they could fight their
way out into Syria.
At length, m y children, the tribes under the August
command of Osi-ra-es were ready to rise against 12th,
the king of Egypt, and at a given time they prepared 1926.
to march out of the D elta provinces and proceed 2.15 p.m.
into Syria. W hen the holy fathers of Am on heard
of these happenings they w ent to the king and
persuaded him to send a force against the emigrants.
Then did Am enhetep I I I call unto him his eldest
son, Thothmosis, who was captain of the royal
bodyguard, and commanded him to proceed to
the province of the D elta w ith an arm y, and so stop
the exodus of the D elta tribes. B y the time that
the king’s forces caught up w ith the migrating
tribes, they had almost reached what is now known
unto you, m y children, as the Sinai Peninsula.
What happened here I shall outline briefly for you.
Osi-ra-es had organised the tribes after this m anner:
the Ark of Am on in charge of Asarharon proceeded
to lead the tribes, and behind it came all the elders
and chief priests of the Tem ple, which was at that
time only a portable building. N ext came the
89
Thewomen andchildren and all the civilpopulation,and
Chroniclesbringing up the rear came the men of war who
of Osirisguarded the exodus of the people. The frontier
guards having heard what was taking place had
either shut themselves up in their strongholds or
joined with the migrating tribes. Then was it,
my children, that a terrible storm, in the midst of
which the heaviest fighting took place, broke over
the whole province of the Delta. The Egyptians
were very persistent and followed close upon the
heels of the retiring tribes, till at length the marsh
lands at that time existing round the Sinai Peninsula
were reached. The tribesmen, under the commands
of Osi-ra-es, retreated behind these marsh lands,
drawing the Egyptians after them. When at length
both armies were between the peninsula and the
marshes, the forces of Osi-ra-es turned and offered
fight to the Egyptians, who were so completely
taken by surprise that they fled in panic, many of
them being submerged in the marshes in their
hasty flight; and among those who perished in
this manner was the king's eldest son and heir,
Thothmosis. Thus, my children, you will see how
the tribes referred to in the Bible as the children of
Israel crossed over into the desert of Sinai on their
way into Palestine. The prophet referred to in the
Old Testament as Moses was none other than the
son of the king's sister, and I have referred to him
in these my chronicles as Osi-ra-es. He was, as I
have told you, my children, an incarnation of
90
Adolemaiu, and the eleventh Master Initiate men- The
tioned in The Book of Truth. You will also perceive Chronicles
that the Exodus referred to in the Bible took place of Osiris
during the latter part of the reign of Amenhetep III,
and not in the reign of Mer-en-Ptah as is constantly
stated by your mortal historians. Had this not
been so, the young prince (who, as I have already
told you, was undergoing initiation into the mysteries
of Ra-Atanu at Heliopolis) would not have ascended
the throne of his father, but his elder brother
Thothmosis would have been the successor.
Had there been no battle in the marsh lands August
west of the Sinai Peninsula, Thothmosis would 15th,
not have perished, but would have ascended the 1926.
throne of his father. Having made these things 3.45 p.m.
clear unto you, my children, I shall proceed to the
centre of Heliopolis. The time had arrived when
Amenhetep III was becoming feeble in health
and being urged by the Queen Thyto, the mother
of his younger son Amenhetep, he sent unto Heli­
opolis and commanded that the young prince
should be made co-regent with him. Young Amen­
hetep's age was now close upon fifteen years, and
the Queen, together with the rest of the followers
of Ra-Atanu, thought it wisest to secure the suc­
cession before the death of her husband, Amenhetep
III. The old monarch had become more and more
dominated by the priesthood of Heliopolis after
the death of his eldest son Thothm osis; chiefly
because he blamed the priesthood of Amon for
91
77* the expedition which had caused his son's death.
Chronicles However, my children, from that time onward
of Osiris the power of Amon waned, and the Sim of Atanu,
rose in the heavens. It soon became generally
accepted that young Amenhetep would be able to
keep the throne, especially as his mother, Thyto,
was popular amongst the people, and the priesthood
of Amon could not count upon enough support to
foster a revolution.
Under the monarchs of die Eighteenth Dynasty,
Egypt had become the greatest nation of the then
civilisedworld.and thepeoplethought thatinspiteof
his monotheisticviews young Amenhetepwould still
hold fast to die material traditions of the Empire.
After the passing of Amenhetep HI, the young
king ruled the land in conjunction with his mother.
Thyto. He spumed
bouse, and refused to
82
allegiance from Amon. As time progressed the The
people became disaffected, the Syrian Em pire Chronicles
was breaking and the kingdoms were fulling one o f O siris
byone to thesword of Osa-ra-es and bis tribesm en.
I would here tell you, my children, that Osi-ra-es
hadhalted in the desert of Sinai and had remained
there till the death of Amenhetep III, and it was
not until he heard of the internal strife which was
gripping Egypt, that he determined upon the bold
plan of conquering Palestine, and driving out the
Egyptian garrisons, for he knew that die Syrian
fcinos would join him, if it was to rid the land of
the hated Egyptians.
Amenhetep IVth's final insult to the priestly
Chronicles
The children, its secrets were never known after
th. entered by a series of secret doors
/ Onm moved by levers, and it was to this place that his
followers conveyed hi3 bods so that
should escape desecration at the hands of the priests
of Amon. Soon shall these subterranean chambers
be again uncovered, and it will be seemingly by
accident that one of the secret levers will be moved.
The body of Khanaton will be found two chambers
down in a roomwhich appearsround,butis inreality
octagonal. This chamber* is inscribed with prayers
and songs to Atanu-Ra, the one God of Light and
Life. The body lies in an alabaster and gold sar­
cophagus, and near it will be found the ossified re­
mains of a young woman. These, my children, are
the remains of the chief singer Hareesh, who,
having borne the king a son, who afterwards
ruled the double empire as Tut-ankh-Amen, threw
herself into die Nile waters, thinking to find rest
with Ra-Atanu, where she intended to await the
coming of her lover, Khanaton. And here, my
children, I would tell you that even as Khanaton
was an incarnation of El Erosuphu so was Hareesh
an incarnation of his twin affinity El Erosuphua,
and they are given in The Book of Truth as the
twelfth male-female Master of the Divine Dynasty.
August Having made these things clear unto you, I
lo tJ lf xftoaod the neck of KH AN ATO N 'S remains are beads similar to those
1026# * possession of E L EROSUPHU*
*The walk are encrusted with gold ; it k the great chamber of the
is cun.sum
's disc*
94
TAewhich means the double of A t o m This son, my
Chronicles children, was housed secretly with his mother at
c/ OjzVti Heliopolis, and it was intended that upon the death
ofhis father, Khanaton, he should ascendthethrone
of Egypt and so carry on the religion of Aten,
which doubtless would have come to pass had not
the holy fathers of Amon at Thebes gained news
of this intended heir. They resolved upon a
plan to kidnap the young boy and bring him
up in the Temple of Amon, so that they could pro­
duce him as a successor to Khanaton at a future
date, not as one to foster the religion of Aten, but
one to champion that of Amon. This plan was
successful in part, but in part only, for upon the
death of Khanaton, his younger Sem-en
Ka-Re seized the throne and ruled for a few years
Amama. and the same time of
Amon proclaimed the young boy Pharaoh at Thebes
under the name of Tut-Ankh-Amen which means
44
the double of Amon.
f t
Sunday, Alas 1 how low stooped the beautiful Nefertite l
November The priesthood of Amon offered rich gifts and she
of Hareesh was stolen
accepted. The little son
by wiles from the prie; of Heliopolis
The name of Aton could no longer depend upon
itsnearestofkin. No wonder was it that Akhenaton,
philosopher, poet, and priest as he was,became sick
atheartandlanguished in spirit. Even the beautiful
palaces ceased to bring joy to his crushed spirit.
The gorgon of Amon again raised its evil head at
0
0
Thebes, and its witchcrafts were subscribed to by T h e
beautiful one— Nefertite. She practised Chronicles
black secrets of the evil genii and sought company o f O siris
with soothsayers and all those who had devils for
company
city of Aton, through which ran
like a silver thread, became city of
desolation courtiers of the king quarrelled
and cast envious eyes at the throne of Pharaoh.
Only one was there among that avaricious crowd
of courtiers who was faithful unto the words of the
king—even he, the faithful one, Sem-en-ka-re.
Came the day when Akhenaton, sick at heart and
ailing in body, was stricken with a disease of the
lungs, and after a brief struggle to remain on earth,
parted from the body.
The faithful Sem-en-ka-re fought nobly against
the overwhelming odds which confronted him,
but alas ! all was in vain. The sorcerers of Thebes,
spurred on by that evil one who had once lived a
royal queen in Aton, raised up the little son of
Hareesh and set him up to destroy the life's work of
his father. Alas, the heavens closed and the rays
of Aton lost their strength. Amon prevailed and
the Hsht of Aton was from temples.
So ended the sad struggle between king and priest­
hood— the one standing for honesty and love and
the other for extortion and lies. The veil fell
was
Behold! again that those sad days may
07
H
The be reconstructed. They, the figures in that ancient
are incarnate again, and must work out
debts afresh. The circumstances
Chronicles
o f Osiris their
tothee,twainEl Erosuphu-ElErosuphua
herefore, I say unto thee, go forward and,
knowing the past, strive to bring the future to
asuccessfulconclusion.
Be not headstrong, but work slowly and surely I
that each foundation-stone laid may remain stead- I
fast even unto the day of revelation, which is now
dose at hand.
My children, the Empire became sadly
disrupted, and the Syrian possessions as well as
die Asiatic Empire seceded from Egypt, and pro­
claimed their independence. Hareesh,the mother
of Tut-Ankh'Aton,when she heard of the kidnap­
ping of her son, became so grief-stricken that she
flungherselfinto thewaters of die Nile, just outside
Hdaopohs, and her body was afterwards found by
the priests of Atanu washed up on to the banks of
die river. When Khanaton heard the sad news,
he hardly ever smiled again, but devoted himself
even more dosely to the Temple of Aton. The
body of Hareesh was taken at his commands to the
shrine at Thebes, and it remains there to this day,
mychildren,andwillbediscoveredwhen thesecrets
of that temple tomb are revealed. The body was
M
not embalmed, partly because the embaimers were The
from amongst the priesthood of Amon, and partly Chronicles
because Khanaton was now in the position of not o f O siris
knowing whom he could trust.
In anyevent, the body,when found by thepriests
of Heliopolis, was so acted upon by the waters of
the Nile, that embalming would have been almost
impossible. One important thing would I bring
to your notice, my children, and it is this—Khana­
ton was, as I have told you, an incarnation of £1
Erosuphu, and is mentioned in The B ook o f Truth
as the twelfth Master initiate of the divine
dynasty. He was one of the twenty-four Initiates
of the Sacred Heights of Atlantis who had volun­
teered to take on the mortal body of shame that
they might help the Yevahic men of Earth to learn
the true ways of the Cosmos.
The incarnation as Khanaton was disastrous in
any respects; firstly, the material side of life
was forgotten, and religious ideas were forced upon
the people to a fanatical degree.
The Empire was allowed to break up, whilst the
l(
King,in theeyesofthe people,carried onthereligion
of Atanu or Aton amongst a select few to whom
he gave all and everything. He made no efforts
to show the remainder of the population the true
light of Aton: those who did not fall in with his
ideas were simply forced into subjection. He was,
to the priests of Amon and the general populace,
99
338965^
The a tyrannical criminal who was amusing himself
Chronicles with a new religion, casting favours lavishly on all
o f Osiris those who embraced it with him. On the other
hand §
• children, had Khanaton maintained
material traditions of his ancestors, he would have
been able to go much further and would have had
thesupportofhispeople,inwhichcasetheopposing
priesthood of Amon would have been powerless,
and would have had to bow the head to popular
opinion. His conduct towards his twin affinity,
El Erosuphua, who was incarnate as Hareesh, was
also misguided; for, my children, had he set
himself to please the people, he would have been
ableintimetohavemadeher theRoyal Queen-wife,
instead of having to carry on a secret liaison with
her. In this event the succession would have been
secured, his son Tut-Ankh-Aton would have be­
come his successor and would have been brought
up in the religion of Aton, extending the work com­
menced by his father. As things happened, the
birth had to be kept secret, and it at length leaked
out, with the result that the young son of Hareesh
waskidnapped by die priests of Amon and brought
tip as a devotee of that god at Thebes. However,
die Cosmos sees the intention rather than the deed.
Over-zeakmsness had made Khanaton fanatical,
and instead of approaching the problem with sane
deliberation he chose the course of unconditionally
forcing upon the people his monotheistic views.
100
CHAPTER X
Chapter X
T
HE time had arrived, mychildren,when theAugust
great double Empire of Egypt was in a20tk,
deplorable condition—the lawsof the land 1926.
were set at nought, and murder and robbery were 11.20 a.m.
rife. Revolt was also breaking out amongst the two
sects of Amon and Aton, and the King lived more
like a prisoner in his capital at El Amarna. At
length, broken in health and seared to the soul
by his failure to bring about the religious revolu­
tion, he fell sick and contracted haemorrhage of
the lungs, which was equivalent to what is called
pneumonia in your present day of incarnation.
The death of Khanaton was the signal for a general
uprising of the people of all classes. The two chief
centres of Ra-Atanu at Heliopolis and El Amarna,
were able for a time to carry on their religion, but
after a brief period of two years these remnants
of the religion of Khanaton perished, and the
worship of Amon was again constituted at Thebes.
The great temples and palaces of Aton which had
been built at great labour and expense by Khanaton
were despoiled, and the great granite blocks used
for their construction carried to Thebes, where
temples were erected in honour of Amon and his
wife Mut, also were the old temples repaired*
The Atanuic shrine at Thebes, which I havealready
mentioned, was destroyed as far as the external
103
The buildings were concerned, but all trace of the sub-
Chronicies terranean chambers was lost, for the suspicions
o f O siris of the holy fathers of Amon had not been aroused,
so that no thorough search was made. The actual
upper temple, which was rectangular in construc­
tion, was despoiled, as was also the wall which
protected it from public view. There was also the
great altar to the sun's disc which was surmounted
by the life-giving orb from which reached out
hands after the same manner as the symbol which
surmounted the great Temple of the Sacred
Heights of Atlantis, which I have already described
to you, my children, in the commencement of
these my chronicles.
Statues of the King Khanaton were also lavishly
exhibited round the courts of the temple, and he
was often depicted in the guise of the Sun spirit
who was Horns, my beloved son, and ray-child.
Some statues of the King have already been found
in connection with this temple, but more have
yet to come to light. I would also here tell you
that the discovery of this temple at Thebes was
prophesied through the pen of El Erosuphu during
the middle of 1925, and many can come forward
in support of these things which I now tell you.
Also, my children, for the benefit of those among
you who have not seen it recorded, it was sub­
sequently discovered1—thus was the prophecy
1The actual name of Kamack was given.
104
I
4
J
\
/
t
v
k j
fully justified. I shall now leave Khanaton, and The
after saying a few brief words to you upon the Chronicles
progress made by Osi-ra-es and his tribesmen inof Osiris
the land of Syria, I shallsetdownforyouthetwenty-
one (21) commandments given unto my beloved
Father Ptah Eil Daudu in the great and beautiful
days of Atlantis, after which I shall dose this, my
first Book of Chronicles unto you, my children.
The armies of Osi-ra-es, having assisted the
Syrian kings in driving out the Egyptian hordes,
had proceeded to consolidate their positions upon
Syrian territory. One after another the Syrian
kingdoms fell to the sword of Osi-ra-es, until at
length the whole of Syria was in the hands of the
tribesmen. Even amongst these people, my
children, had the seed of evil found ground upon
which to grow and multiply. The tribesmen had
become discontented with their successes, and
murmurings had broken out amongst them. Asar-
haron, the high priest in charge of the Ark of
Amon, had become jealous of the power wielded
by his brother priest, Osi-ra-es, and he proceeded
to foster discontent, urging the people to worship
the gods of the Syrians and forsake the rigjd teach­
ings of Osi-ra-es. For he said unto them, “ The
gods of the Syrians are gods of pleasure. The flow
of the wine cup and the strain of the dance give
them great delight, whereas the god of Osi-ra-es
hideth himself and will not allow his features
H2 105
*
Theto be carved in stone; behold I will show you gods
Chronicles who will go before you in battle, striking terror into
of Osiristhe hearts of your enemies/' And when the people
heard what Asar-haron said, they lifted up their
voices and acclaimed him, saying amongst them'
selves that his words were words of wisdom. When
word of this was brought unto Osi-ra-es, he was
exceeding wrath, and assembling a great multitude
of the people, he appeared before them, for he had
been absent from the people, having gone to the
temple which he had erected on the heights of the
Sinai Peninsular, and whilst he had been away
Asar-haron and his followers had sought to under-
mine his authority, A great electric storm raged
during Osi-ra-es' absence, which had caused him
to delay his return still further until it should .
abate somewhat, Asar-haron cunningly told th
multitudes that Osi-ra-es had left them to perish,
and had himself suffered a like fate at the hands of
the angry gods of the Syrians in the Mount of
Sinai, and he further told them that if they prayed
unto the Syrian gods they would withdraw their
wrathandcause the storm to cease its raging. Thus
was it, my children, that Osi-ra-es found the people
in revolt, and having raised up shrines and images
to Ashtoreth and other Syrian gods and goddesses.
When the sullen multitudes had appeared before
him, he opened the Ark of Amon and drew out the
sacred book of me, Osiris, and of her who is even
Isis, and he did cast down the tablets which were
r
of stone, and they were shattered in a thousand The
pieces, and at this sarne time did lightning come out Chrmdes
of the clouds and did strike the sacred veaels soof O
siris
that they were destroyed, and the earth quaked so
much that many were swallowed up even as was
the case with those evil ones of Atlantis And
when the people saw what had happened they
became afraid, and with one accord fell down and
worshipped the God of the Ark of Osi-ra-es. Then
was it, my children, hat I appeared unto Osi-ra-es
in a dream, and commanded him to again recon­
struct the tablets of stone and write again the laws
which he had given unto the people at my com­
mands, and, my children, I would warn you of one
thing: do not assume that the laws of Osi-ra-es
were the same as the twenty-one commandments of
Ptah Eil Daudu, because they were not; and I shall
complete this chapter by givingunto you the lawsof
Osi-ra-es as imparted unto him by me in a dream,
andafterwards inscribeduponstone,thattheymight
be able to be read by the people under his charge.
The next and final chapter of this my first
Book of Chronicles shall be devoted entirely to
the twenty-one commandments of my beloved
Father Ptah Eil Daudu.
The laws of Osi-ra-es which I shall now tetA
u
gu
st
before you, my children, were given unto him by2ist,
me, Osiris, in order that he should have astandard
code of morality with which to rule the people2
over whom he had assum
ed com
m
and. I w
ould
107
The also make one important thing clear unto you, viz*
Chronicles that the Ten Commandments set down in the Bible
of Osiris are laws which have been drawn up from time to
time, until they have finally arrived in their present
form, but they are not a copy of the original laws
given unto Osi-ra-es by me, Osiris. The Biblical
story has a certain amount of truth in it, but it
does not portray the exact happenings of the times
in question*
Having made these things clear unto you, I shall
proceed to give you the translation of the original
hieroglyphical text given to Osi-ra-es by me. It
is as follows:—
The word of Osiris came unto me in a dream
and did command me to set down these laws for
the governing of the people under me; and behold
the voice spake unto me and said :
Command the people entrusted to thy charge
and say unto them:
i. *Abstain from taking the life of thy fellow,
or of anything which creepeth upon the face
44
of the Earth, or of that which swimmeth
in the depths of the ocean.
2. *Seek not to obtain that which doth not
belong to thee, for he that doth cast the eye
of envy upon his neighbour with desire to
obtain that which his neighbour hath, with­
out his consent, hath committed the sin of
covetousness.
t
i
I
3. *Seek not to supplant thy fellow with desire The
to take his place, for he who doeth this thingChronicles
is guilty of deceit*
4. ' Give honour unto thy earthly father and
mother, that they have been privileged to
be called unto parenthood, for unless the
command were of God the Cosmic force,
they could not become the vessels of earthly
birth*
5* *Seek not to take a husband or a wife if the
divine spark of love is not brightly binning,
for I say unto you that whoso doeth this
thing is guilty of seeking the lusts of the
mortal body of shame, and hath walked in
the ways of Satanaku.
6. *Thou shalt not at any time have mortal
union with thy brother or thy sister for the
sole purpose of satisfying the lusts of the
mortal body of shame, for whoso doeth this
thing is guilty of practising the Initiations
of Satanaku*
7. *Never shall any among you seek mortal
union with those that are fromout theanimal
kingdom, for I say unto you that this is one
of the greatest offences that mortal man or
woman can commit before the face of the
Cosmic Spirit of God.
8* *Speak openly unto thy brother and thy
sister that thy words may be as “ the sacred
oaths ” in the eyes of all men.
109
oj Osiris
4
The
Chronicles
of Osiris
9. *Refrain from the devastating practices of
Black Magic, for by these things did those of
Atlantis and Sarkon perish. I
10. ‘ Confess thy faults to no man, but seek the
temple of thine own heart which doth dwell
within each one of you. Speak with thy God
face to face, for He alone can pardon your
offences, by giving you a happy and clear
conscience with which to appear before men.
11. ' Help one another as ye yourselves are
helped by the Universal Creator. I
12. *Abstain from the practice of unveiling the
faults of others before the multitudes, for
by so doing are you degrading them before
themselves and before men. He who is
faultless let him proclaim it, and his soul
will hear him, and recognising the truth which
it hath heard, will reward him greatly, but
if the lie hath been spoken, then shall the
sower gather in the harvest accordingly.
13. ' Abstain from warring one with another,
for by so doing are ye leaning unto the ways
of Satanaku.
14. *Honour all men as you would have them
honour you/ "
Those, my children, are the Laws which were
given by me unto Osi-ra-es, and I would bid you
to ponder over them, that their meanings may be
fully revealed unto you.
110
CHAPTER X I
Chapter XI
M
Y children, in this the final chapter of my August
first Book of Chronicles, I shall set downfor 22nd,
you the twenty-one Laws of Adantis which 1926.
were delivered unto my beloved Father Ptah Eil 3.22 pjn.
Daudu in the Sacred Heights of that continent.
They were inscribed upon twenty-one tablets of
stone. Upon each tablet was one law or com­
mandment. I shall give unto you the translation
as nearly as it is possible; for, my children,
their exact significance cannot be portrayed ex­
cept they be understood in the characters of
the sacred alphabet in which they were originally
written.
My children, the voice of the Father-Mother-
God came unto my beloved Father Ptah Eil
Daudu through the medium of my beloved Mother
who is Eil Daudua, and spake in this manner, say­
ing : “ Set before the people my laws and com­
mandments which I now make known unto you,
saying:
1. *Seek ye the temple of the heart in which
doth dwell the divine spark of the Cosmos.
Commune with thy God that all things may
be right twixt you and Him.
2. *Remember and fall not into the error of
deifying and worshipping the divine symbols
and signs, but keep them as a means of
113
The
Chronicles
o f Osiris
approach unto the All-powerful Fountain­
head of the Cosmos*
3. 4Revere and obey the Master Teachers who
have been placed over you. Do their behests
with a will to seek out the true wisdom and
knowledge of God.
4. *Take no life from out the mortal flesh, else
are ye warring with the seven Lords of
Kharma who hold the appointed leases of
Incarnation.
5. 4Take not the material flesh of any creature
that creepeth upon the face of the Earth, or
that swimmeth in the waters of the Ocean,
that it may serve as meat for the mortal
body of shame, for if ye so do ye are leaning
unto the Initiations of Satanaku.
6. *Seek not to call up the spirits of the dis-
camate unless ye be the Mastersand Teachers
of the Divine Mysteries, for if ye do this
thing, then shall ye be guilty of practising
the abominable rites of Black Magic.
7. *Seek not to operate the occult laws of the
Cosmos, unless ye have been entrusted with
the signs and symbols of Divine Truth, lest
ye fall a victim to the wiles of Satanaku.
8. 4Seek not the link of communication with
those who are discarnate for the sole purpose
of obtaining material gain therefrom.
9. *Do not open thy mouth to condemn any
114
man, but extend the hand of help to all who The
are in need of guidance. Chronicles
io. 4Let no man take a wife if the spark of divine of Osiris
love is lacking, for he who doth transgress this
law is guilty of seeking to satisfy the lusts of
the mortal flesh.
n . 4Abstain from practising the vile abomina­
tions of Satanaku, and let not man lie with
man and woman with woman.
12. *Do not make sacrifices of flesh and of
blood,for thesearethe Initiationsof Satanaku,
which he taught in Sarkon.
13. 4Observe the feasts of Remembrance, drink­
ing the juice of the orange and eating the
meal cakes.
14. 4Confess thy faults to no man, but commune
with the temple of thine own heart, which is
the House of God the Cosmic Force.
15. 4Seek forgiveness from no man, for God
alone can forgive, by granting unto you
peace of mind.
16. 4Covet nothing that belongeth to thy neigh­
bour, but be content with thine own
possessions.
17. 4Seek not to take upon thyself the state of
parenthood unless it be commanded thee
by the Lords of Kharma.
18. 4Let thy words be as 44the sacred oaths ”
before the face of all men.
115
The 19. 4Seek not to better thyself at the expense of
Chronicles thy fellows.
of Osiris 20. 4Honour thine earthly Father and Mother
that they have been chosen to be the vessels
of parenthood.
21. *Speak falsely against noman, but givehonour
as you would have honour given to you/ ft
These, my children, are the twenty-one com­
mandments which were given unto my beloved
Father Ptah Eil Daudu by the blessed Cosmos,
after He had carried out the destruction of that evil
continent of Sarkon.
I shall now close this book, leaving you to give
it true thought and understanding, and a will to
grasp the truth of what I have set down for you.
The blessing of the Holy Cosmos be with you all
now and through all Eternity, Amen—Amen, and
yet again—Amen.
116
