{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__anonymous___prospectus_sixth_international_congress_of_the_order_of_the_star_in_the_east.pdf","mytitle":"Prospectus Sixth International Congress Of The Order Of The Star In The East","mylang":"de"}
The .Star Congress, 1927.
6th International Cqngress of the Order of the Star
in the East. Ommen. August 5th-13th, 1927.
The next Congress will be held again at Ommen from August 5th (arrival
before Dinner) to 13th (departure before or after Lunch).
As will be seen from the preliminary programme, the Camp has p~en
extended one day, the first day being devoted to various activite~ as
E.S. and T.S. etc.- .
Only members who registered throughNational Representatives are admitted.
Those occupying rooms obtained by their own arrangements as happened last
year, will not be admitted .
Hotel-rooms to be reserved through 4merican Express (See No. 6).
PRELIMINARY .PROGRAMME (subject t1J changes):
FRIDAY, August · 5th.
SATURDAY, 6th.
SUNDAY, ;; 7th.
Aui. 8th, 9th, 10th, nth:
Arrivals.
6p.m; Dinner.
Evening Free.
Morning. Various activities.
2.30 p:·m, _ E.S.
4p.m. Tea offered by Camp.
6p.m. Dinner.
L.C.C.
8.30 a.-m. Meditation.
9a.m. Breakfast.
10-30 a.m, Opening of Camp:
I p.m. Lunch.
2-30 p.m. Public Lecture;
6p.m. Dinner.
8p.m. Music.
8-3c p.m. Camp-fire,
8-30 a.m. · Meditation,
9 a. m. Breakfast. ..
10-30 a.m. Lecture or Address.
1 p. m. Lunch.
Afternoon Games:
6 p.m. Dinner:
8 p. m. Music.
8-30 p.m; Cqmp-:fire;
FRIDAY, August 12th. 8-30 a. m. Meditation;
SATURDAY, August 13th.
9 a. m. Breakfast.
10-30 a. m; Lecture or address.
1 p. m. Lunch.
Afternoon Games.
6 p.m. Dinner.
8 p. m. Music. .
8-30 p.m. Camp-fire and closing of Camp.
Departures;
)
, ,)
:z THE STAR CONGRESS, 1927.
• +
1 . CO~GRESS PRICE: F3o .-(Dutch Florins) (£z 10s. od .) for the 8 days, including
Registration Fee, board, (dinner on Friday, August 5th and lunch on Saturday,
13t?, in~luded) an~ lodging in tent, including also campbeds and thin mattress,
which will be provided for everybody this year, without further expense.
2. N .B.-The date on which the letter containing the full amount of Congress money
is received by the National Representative is treated as the date of registration.
This applies to the respective dates mentioned hereafter.
3. !:&CREASE: For registration after May 15th, extra of F 2.
For registration after June 15th till July 1st: F5.
Registration for board and lodging received after July 1st by the National Repres-
entative cannot be accepted.
For those not staying and not boarding in Camp particulars in March HERALD.
4. WITHDRAWALS: If cancelling before June 15th: F25. will be refunded .
If cancelling before July 1st: F15. will be refunded.
If cancelling after July 1st: no restitution.
Amounts to be restituted will only be remitted after the Camp is over .
5. SPECIAL TENTS: As we have again hired and bought a considerable number of
small tents, we are sure that those registering in time will get the accommodation
asked for.
Any profit on this item is used to buy again new tents so that in a few years it
will, we hope, be possible to procure a much larger amount of this special accommo-
dation, probably at lower prices.
The following extras will be charged :
SMALL TENTS.
For 1 person F3. each person per diem.
For 2 persons F .2 .50 each person per diem.
For 3 or 4 persons F2. each person per diem.
LARGR TENTS.
FB . each person per diem.
F1. each person per diem.
F3 . each person per diem.
6, HOTELS AND ROOMS: F3 ..per diem extra, including breakfast, which however
must be taken in Camp (cannot generally be taken in hotels as erroneously stated).
Hotels and rooms should be mentioned in application and paid for to National
Representative as la,st year, but after member gets back receipt, application for
hotel or room should be made to Amet'ican Expyess, Beuysplein, Rottudam (Holland)
mentioning besides name and address of membet', also number of receipt.
7. OWN TENTS : Members who bring their own tents will please mention this fact
to the National Representative when registering. If tents are sent on in advance
they should reach Ommen not later than July 15th.
As space occupied by own tents is considerably more than by other tents gener-
ally, registration for own tents instead of being lower like last year, will be in-
creased to F36. (£3 .). whilst it is to be understood that own tents have to be pitched
by the owners themselves, not by any of the Camp-helpers.
For own Tents Campbed and Mattress are provided, but no other extras.
8 . OWN MENAGE CAMP: Distance to Camp will be further than last year. No
own menage yooms are possible this year, whilst own menage tents will be a!Jowed
for special reasons to be stated to the Camp Management.
Cost: F15. including registration fee.
If registered after May 15th: F2. extra.
If registered after June 15th to July 1st: F5. extra.
No registration will be accepted after July 1st.
9. PAYMENT OF EXTRAS: The extras for special tents and hotels have to be sent
together with the Congress money to the National Representative. If in a few
exceptional cases the special accommodation should not be available the money
will be refunded on Members' arrival in Camp.
THE STA R CONGRESS, 1927.
10 . CONDITIONAL REGISTRATION: If a member makes the special accommodation
(tent or hotel) a condi tion for coming to camp, this should be clearly mentioned to
the National Representative. In case it cannot be procured communication will
be sent to the member without delay and the money refunded .
11. THEOSOPHICAL ORDER OF SERVICE CAMP : The Order of Service will hold a
camp starting the moment the Starcamp is over (Saturday afternoon, August 13th),
for which not only members of the Order of Service, but also members of the Order
of the Star in the E ast and of the Theosophical Society can regist er.
NO correspondence or registration regarding this camp should be addressed to
National Representatives of the Star, Starcamp-Management or other Star-Officia ls,
who will neither answer, nor return such letters. For particulaYs see June HERALD.
12. CHILDREN: By courtesy and under responsibility of the Head of the Own Menage
Camp it is now possible to bring children under 7 years of age (but belonging to the
family), to the Own Menage Camp, free of charges, even if the children should not be
members of the Order .-The names and the ages of the children have to be men-
tioned to the National Representative in the registration.
These young children, whether they be members of non-members are not a llowed
to enter the ordinary camp, but have to stay in the Own Menage Camp or outside
the Camp-grounds .
Children of 7 years and older can only be admitted (to the Own Menage Camp
or to the ordinary camp) if they are members of the Order and have to pay the full
camp fee (with the condition mentioned in No. 31).
Members who through this n ew arrangement are only able to regist er now, can
do so till July 1st with the National Representative, without the increase mentioned
inNo . 3 .
13. SANITARY ARRANGEMENTS: As about 3,000 members are expected the
sanitary installation will be extended again. As last year many members occupied
showerbaths far over the allotted time of IO minutes, some even going so far as to
using these rooms as dressing rooms, thereby keeping fellow-members waiting and
often preventing them from having their shower, it is hereby repeated, that only
10 minutes are allowed, and we expect Star-members to live up to this rule. Prob-
ably a bell will sound every IO minutes, which gives waiting members the right to
enter.
Members will remember the unpleasant announcement which had to be made
on account of ladies disposing of rubbish in the lavatories. We expect this not to
reoccur and would kindly ask National Representatives to instruct members as
fully as possible in this respect. Like last year the necessary arrangements are made
to dispose of all rubbish.
14. TRAVELLING AND CAMP FUND : Al1 members especially those who have
arranged to go to Camp this year, are remindt i of the position of members who live
in European Countries where the rate of exchange ·makes it difficult to face the
expense.
A fund is open through which we may come to their help.
Will each send some gift for this purpose to the National Representative along
with the registration money?
15. CAMP OUTFIT: Cup, plate, spoon, fork, knife. Electric torch, sheets, blankets,
pillowcase, soap, towels, etc.
Nights may be cold even in August.
See also 1924 and 1925 HERALDS.
16. BLANKETS: Can only be given in exceptional cases. It is not possible to have
stocks large enough to provide for everybody.
3
4 THE STAR CONGRESS, 1927.
+ +
17. SUGGESTIONS FOR 1927 CAMP will be appreciated and followed up as far as
possib!e.
18. CORRESPONDENCE: All enquiries and requests to be addressed to National
Representatives only. The Camp Office cannot answer members individually.
19. LUGGAGE: All luggage registered should be marked ''Ommen (0. )'' and labelled
with member's name. Personal (hand) luggage also to be labelled.
:o; LUGGAGE SENT IN ADVANCE: has to arrive in Ommen before July 15th and
should be marked "Franco Bestelgoed Starcamp, Ommen, (O.)" Holland," with
again member's name clearly marked as despatcher.
21. CAMPSERVICE.
The Corvee service has not worked satisfactorily in some departments last year,
due on one band to our being late in organizing it, and on the other band to some
star-members forgetting or shirking their responsibilities. This makes it all the
harder on the faithful band of workers, who stick to their jobs and without whom the
camp could simply not be run.
We are sure if members realised the amount of work carried on ' 'behind the
screens,'' all would be eager to undertake some part of the work.
To know beforehand on whom we can count, we add a list of the various a.ctivities
First of all we divide the members into two large groups: ·
A . Willing to do any work at any time, agreeing, if necessary, to miss a lecture or
the like. The Camp Staff and their assistants belong to this group, also many
of the kitchen and technical departments.
B. Undertaking some definite job(s) at prearranged times.
B.r:
B.2:
B.3:
B.4:
B .5:
B .6:
B .8:
B.9:
B .ro:
Specification of jobs and times:
Kitchen and dining tents
Supervision during bathhours
Inspection of bathrooms and
sanitary
Ushers (stewards for lecture-
tent, etc.)
Transport of food
Stenogr. and typing in office
B.II : Telephone ..
B.12:
B.13:
B.14: ;,
B.15:
B .16:
B.17: Stenographers (only fully quali-
fied members who can take down
lectures will please apply as this
work is of great importance)
B .I 8 : Nurses Red-Cross tent
B.I 9 : Office Messengers
required:
7-10 a.m.
12- 3 p .m.
5- 8 p.m.
6- 8 a.m.
8- 9 a.m.
frequent inspection during the
day
during lectures
during dinner hours
morning ..
afternoon
8-ro a.m.
I0-12 ,,
12- 2 p.m ...
2- 4"
4- 6"
6- 8"
during lectures . .
hours to be fixed by the available
Staff themselves
IOO
IOO
IOO
6
6
3
20
25
:
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
IO
!2
8-II 2 young members
THE STAR CONGRESS, 1927.
B .20: Office Messengers
B .2I :
B.22 :
I I - 2
2- 5
5- 8
2
2
2
B.23: Baggage tent every other day Io strong members.
B .24: Canteen Management assistants all day except during lectures. . 6
B .25: Canteen service idem (20 boys, 20 girls)
B .26: Bus conductors ..
B.27: Guides
B .28: Gate keeper
B.29:
B .30:
B .3I : Camp-police
B .32: Night-watch
B .33: Emergency squad (in case of
storm, fire or the like) .
Only those who are experi-
enced in the handling of
physical plane difficulties
are asked to apply.
B .34 : Post-office assistants
B .35 : Lost and Found ..
B .36: Technical assistants (only techni-
cal members will please
apply)
B.37: Leaders for games (only experi-
enced game-leaders)
B .38: General service (willing to do any
job between certain hours) . .
B .39 : General service
B.40:
B.4I:
B .42:
B .43 :
.B.44:
B .45:
B .46 : Care of flags
B .47: Cleaning of offices
B .48 : Motor-service (for those owning
motor cars) ..
B .49: Storekeeper' s Assistants
all day of arrival and departure
other days principally morning
and evening
only day of arrival
alternating morning of one day
8 a.m.-I p.m. and after-
noon of next I-6 p .m.
evening 6-Io p.m., every
other day
Night ro p.m.- 8 a.m. May
sleep; only to act in case
people want to enter.,
Constant eye on matters in camp
during 2 hours every other night
reporting as soon as emergency
signal given ..
during open hours of post-office .
Not during lectures
in the afternoon
a few hours during the day
Afternoons
6- 8 a.m.
8- Io a.m.
10-12 ,,
I2- 2 p.m .
2- 4
4- 6 ''
6- 8"
8-10 ,,
morning and evening
early morning . .
any time during the day when
required by the camp-man-
agement.
hours to be fixed later ..
I2
6
3
3
50
30
50
IO
4
I O
2
6
4
5
6 THE STAll CON'GRESS, 1927.
Now first of all not all registering for a certain job can be taken: this depends on
the number applying, etc.
But if you do undertake one of the above jobs, regard is as a point of honour to
appear at the exact hour.
If not enough members do apply, the Camp management will have to deal out
tasks, as was partially done last year, but it is preferable to let members chose to
their own ability.
In a Star camp it should not be difficult to find servers .
Please send the following form of application with your name, number of your
receipt and the number of the service you desire to render and post to the Starcamp-
Management, Ommen (0), Holland:
I, ...... .. ....... ..... . .... .. .......... ., ............ section....... .
undertake the following as my share in the camp-service:
Please scratch A. Full time duty wherever and whenever wanted.
whatever not B. Nos .......... .
wanted
Receipt No ....... ... ....... . . Signature .. ... .. .... . .. ... .
Speaking languages ................................................... .
Special ability ....................................................... .
N .B .-The fore- and after-camp can only be attended by the helpers invited by the
camp-management and nobody is admitted in camp before August 5th or after
August 13th, unless possessing an official invitation, signed by the Camp-
Management. (See also No. 30)
22. LATE COMERS: Though we fully appreciate the difficulty of some of our members
to know a month or so ahead whether they will be able to go or not, we have, for
the sake of our Staff and the smooth running of the Camp to adhere to the dates
given above. Last year many members who did not register in time, started a
rather extensive correspondence with the Head, National Representatives or
members of the Camp-Management.
May we point out that such a procedure is useless, apart from causing extra
work to those addressed.
Would it moreover be fair to admit late-comers, who want to break the rules,
whilst members, who have been thoughtful enough not to trouble others on account
of their bad luck, or forgetfulness would have to stay at home? We hope this year
members will refrain from trying to register after the fatal date. Those coming to
Camp without having registered cannot be admitted.
23 TRAIN CONNECTIONS:
LONDON-OMMEN per BATAVIER: LONDON-OMMEN (via Hook of Holland) :
8 THE STAR CONGRESS, 1927'.
OMMEN- BERLIN-(via RAALTE-DEVENTER) :
I & II Cl. I, II and III Cl.
Departure Ommen 7 .26 I8.30
Arrival Deventer 8.35 I9-45
Departure Deventer 8 .40 22.02
Arrival Oldenzaal 9.50
Departure Oldenzaal II.04
Arrival Berlin Fr. str. I7 .27 7.29
Arrival Hamburg I6 .03 6.24
OMMEN- BERLIN (via MARIENBERG- ALMELO) :
I & II Cl. I, II and III Cl.
Departure Ommen 7.25 II .02
Arrival Marienberg 7.42 II .I5
Departure Marienberg 7.50 I! .3I
Arrival Almelo 8.2I I2.02
Departure Almeol 10.05 I3 .II
Arrival Oldenzaal 10.42 I3 .27
Departure Oldenzaal II .04 Ig.45
Arrival Berlin I7 .27 2I .58
Arrival Hamburg I6 .03 20.27
OMMEN-VIENNA (via ZWOLLE-ARNHEM):
I, II and IIrCl.
THE STAR CONGRESS, 1927.
Departure Roosendaal II .29
13 .or
17 .IO
12.54 22.22
Arrival Brussels Midi Nord 15 .34 -.18 17 .34
22.54
Arrival Paris Nord 22 .27 6.53
(Dep . Roosendaal :
to Brussels r6.r6
to :Paris 16 .52
HAMBURG-COPENHAGEN: I, II & III Cl.
8.45
Departure Hamburg 19.04
6.05
Arrival Copenhagen 19.05
26.
21!.
29.
30.
31 .
DOGS; No dogs are allowed in camp.
SMOKING: It was reported that some members smoked in their tents. Apart
from the discomfort caused to others, this exposes the whole camp to the danger of
fire. Smoking is strictly prohibited in camp, whether in or outside tents. Mem-
bers smoking inside a t ent expose themselves to removal from camp.
TALKING: Many complaints reached us ,about members talking after IO p. m.,
even near midnight. If a kind request to stop has no result, please report names to
Camp-Management;
EVENING ARRIVALS : Last year a few members arrived on cycle or by car between
II and 12 p. m. As this is disturbing the Camp nobody will be admitted after 10
p. m. , except those arriving by the last train {about IO p. m. ).
We came across the queer conception that "requests" are not "orders" and there-
fore have not to be obeyed. For the instruction of these few members we point out
that a request in a Star camp should be even more than an order in ordinary life and
has to be obeyed as if it were such.
ILLNESS: Members whose illness may cause inconvenience to their tent-partners
or to the camp-management are requested to refrain from coming to camp. Members
suffering from furunculosis (serious form of boils)'! or"i other affections of the skin
cannot be admitted. (Much to our regret two members had to leave on this account
last year). The camp doctor's decision in such cases is final.
FORE AND AFTER CAMP: Only workers invited by the Camp Management can
attend these camps . Last year a few members arrived a few days earlier, jthinking
they might help. They could not be admitted, and to prevent goodwilling members
from getting a refusal, we point out that only those in possession of an invitation
signed by the Camp Management and a special badge issued, will be admitted.
If parents come to camp accompanied by more than one child the other children will
only have to pay Fzo, instead of F3o (but only if their age is 7-18 years, and they
are living with the parents at home).
The receipt will have to be marked: ''2nd (or 3rd a.s.o .) child, 7-18 years, still
at home.'' If too much has already been paid, the amount will be refunded at time
of arrival in camp.
32 . WOODEN HUTS: It is planned to erect a limited number of small wooden huts for
members, willing to pay a sum of probably about Fzoo/F300, and larger wooden
houses with running water (at £F6oo to FIOoo) . The structure becomes the pro-
perty of the Camp-Management, but the member, by paying this amount, acquires
the right to use this hut personally during camptime for this and following camps
(of course only as long as she or he is a Starmember). Will those planning to have a
hut put up, get into touch with the Camp-Management as soon as possible, which will
send full particulars and drawings on application .
9
ro
33·
34.
35.
37.
39.
Till~ STAR CONGRESS, 1927.
MOTOR CARS: This year' s camp will contain a limited number of places where
motor cars can be parked, protected from sun and rain at a price of F2o .- for the
8 days of the camp. Members wishing to rent such a place are asked to send in
their names as soon as possible to the Camp Management, Ommen.
ARRIVAL : Will members arriving by train at Ommen kindly keep their seats and
not start moving luggage till they are asked to leave their carriage.
The ''Star'' -part of the train remains at Ommen; the carriages will be emptied
one by one so as to prevent congestion on the small Ommen platforms and to accele-
rate transportation to camp.
GUIDES: No guides will be sent to the frontiers as so many members know the
way now. Only at Zwolle where some groups may have to change trains, a few
guides with the Star armlet will be present.
PRICE OFSTAR CAMP: To avoid misconceptions we expressly state that our keeping
the same camp price for 8 days has only been done with a view to the first day not
being essentially a "Star" -day; it does not mean that the price per day ha$ been
lowered.
POST: Though this year's camp.will possess an official village-post-office, members
will facilitate matters by having forwarded as few letters and papers as possible.
BANKING, MONEY CHANGING, TOURIST-OFFICE : The American Express
Co. will again look after all this. No personal or bank cheques are cashed, but we
draw the attention of members to the American Express Travellers' cheques, which
are very convenient . As last year we heard some complaints about rates of exchange
being too high and fares above the normal, we would ask to report any such cases
with full date to the Camp-office. Moreover at the American Express office, boards
will be found containing rates of exchange and 1st, 2nd and 3rd class fares to the
principal towns in Europe.
FOOD: We had a few complaints about the food being too ''starchy,'' others'
however, wanted more potatoes! (To say nothing of the uncooked food adherents).
This is becoming a ''doctor's dile=a. '' Making difierent menus would be too
hard on the kitchen-staff and too complicated altogether. We would therefore
propose that members forget their culinary tastes just for one week, which will
doubtlessly help them over their difficulties. Moreover the store will have some
"raw" and "hard" foodstuff in stock.
A few cases came to our notice where members harboured non-registered members
in their tents. Such members will be removed from camp with their guest.
DAY VISITORS (ONLY STAR MEMBERS ADMITTED):
On: 1 . Saturday 6th.
2. Sunday 7th.
3. Thursday uth.
The camp will be open on the above days to Star members from 8-15 a.m., till
after the campfire (about 9-30 p .m .) at the following charges:
F. 5--each day without food.
,,. 8- ,, ,, with ,,
(sleeping in camp is impossible and not permitted) .
Members wishing to visit one or more days will please register through National
Representative befors July 15th, adding the amount required. A receipt will be
sent with badge(s), bearing the number of the day (1, 2 or 3) and name of member.
These badges must be worn visible in camp and have to be handed back at the gate
in the evening on leaving the camp; members failing to do so will be charged double
the camp price (F .60).
~ Nobody,twill be admitted without badge, whilst registrations reaching the
National Representative after July 15th, cannot be accepted.
Light refreshments can be had at the Canteen; all kinds of foodstuffs at shop.
THPJ STAR CONGRESS, 1927.
42. PUBLIC LECTURES: Probably on Sunday afternoon at 2-30 p .m. (Dutch Summer-
time) and Wednesday afternoon also at 2-30 p.m. (Dutch Summertime) in lecture
tent . Admission FI .50 to be paid at the gate on entering, which does not entitle
anybody t o enter the general camp. Star members' day visitors are admitted to
the Sunday public lecture free of charge, after the general public has been admitted.
Star members-campers only after general public and day-visitors have entered.
These lectures will be broadcasted from Hilversum, wave length rn70 M.
43. If doctors, other than the camp doctor, treat patients they are bound to inform the
camp doctor of the names of such patients and of the nature of the illness.
44. Registration for hotels will take place near the station (probably just opposite) and
indicated by sign-posts. Those staying in hotels should for their own comfort
register there before going to the hotel or coming to camp, as otherwise they cannot
be admitted and would have to go back.
45. Telegraph address: Star C'._amp, O=en.
46. Telephone : Ommen No. 29.
47. The fact of being invited by Mr. Krishnamurti, Mr. Rajagopalacharya or others for
Presswork, selling books or some other special job, does not relieve members from
the necessity of registering in the ordinary way through their National Representa-
tive.
We a.pologize for having to be strict in so many respects, but with a camp of
z, 500-3, ooo this ca.nnot be avoided.
Looking forward to meeting you all, old a.nd new friends,
THE CAMP-MANAGEMENT,
Ommen(O.)
!!
THE STAli CONGRESS, 1927.
RE CAMP RULES.
It was found last year that the rule "Be considerate" demanded some further ex-
planation, which we are offering below .
For the comfort of members we first give general information, followed by ''kind
requests" and ending with "It is prohibited."
We would ask members to study information and "prohibitions" before coming to
the information-window. This saves your time and ours .
Members are particularly asked to study the various requests .
The leaders were much hampered last year in their movements (in the most literal
sense) by members showing their enthusiasm at too near a distance. With 2,500 to
3, ooo members for the coming camp this would be even worse, so please !
The shower bath is another sore point. Though of course you like to be and feel
clean, there are many, many members having the same desire, whose politeness prevents
them from tearing open the door behind which they expect you to be dressing your hair,
or looking in the mirror before venturing in the open again . Well, the showerbath is
exclusively destined to shower (not only on you, but also on others), so please !
If tent-partners prove to be offensive by smoking, or talking during the night,
there is every reason to report to the Camp Bureau (information window) giving exact name
and if possible number of the one concerned. Nobody has the right to spoil the rest of
others.
In case you feel like talking after IO p .m ., forego the delight and think that there
are still many days on which you can talk, so please !
Last year a few members b ehaved as if we had run out of food supplies and they
were too eager to help themselves a second time, before everybody had been served (sur-
vival of the fittest, you know). Well they need not fear, so please !
But, badinage apart, we found that a- let us hope comparatively small- group of
members, did not live up to Star-ideals last year, sometimes not even to ordinary outside
world ideals.
This year a few thoughtless members will not be permitted to spoil the peace and
happiness of all the others and the harmony of the camp, so we intend to enforce certain
rules, which after all only embody everyday politeness and a thimbleful of thoughtful-
ness. Should members really feel unable to live up to these rules or to comply with a
reasonable request, he (or she) will simply have to go and camp outside the Eerde borders.
vVe hope, however, that the National Representatives and Local Secretaries will
explain these matters to those attending the 1927 camp, so that there will be no jar on the
harmony of a gathering like this, which-held in the midst of unspoiled natural beauty-
will, if all co-operate, convey spiritual blessings to those assembled and to the work
around. Camp Management:
C . H. VAN DER LEEUW.
A. F. FOLKERSMA.
Mrss H . VAN LOENEN .
MISS M. L. FLEDDERUS.
Mrss c. BAYER.
H. BAYER .
J. VIGEVENO.
TIIE STAR CONGRESS, 1927. r3
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+
GENERAL INFORMATION, REQUESTS AND RULES.
(only preliminary; for definite form see programme handed on arrival, which also contains
the maps mentioned).
I .
2.
3
GENERAL INFORMATION:
Camp-map in centre of programme.
Map of neighbourhood at end of programme.
The camp has been enclosed this year; unavoidable because of stray passers-by
strolling into camp. There are three entrances (on map: A, B, C). Only those
wearing badge visibly will be admitted. A is the main entrance, open day and
night. Band C will be open from 9 a.m . to IO p.m .
4. The camp is divided into four parts:
Gentlemen's camp.
Own Menage camp.
Ladies' camp.
Married camp.
5. The streets are numbered ; on each street-corner are boards, indicating tent-numbers.
6. Information and complaints: Only at information window of office (open 8-Io; I2-I;
2-5), but before asking please note :
7. Post Office open 8-I_
; 2-7-30, except for issuing letters, see No. 13.
8. Stamps at Post-Office.
9. Telephone at Post Office. Local calls IO cts. Long distance calls (Holland)
ordinary traiff plus 25 cts. International calls, tariff plus Fr.
IO. Telegrams at Post Office: Tariff plus 25 cts.
II • Registered letters at Post Office.
I2. Money orders at Post Office.
I3. Letters given out at Post Office as follows:
Names beginning with : A-B-C-D- E
F-G~H-I & J-K
L-M-N-0-P&Q
R-S- T-U&V- W; X, Y, Z.
14. American Express open 9-I ; 2-6.
15. Complaints and information re hotels at American Express Office.
I6. Information about travelling, tickets at American Express.
I7. Cashing cheques, changing money, at American Express.
at 2-0 p.m.
'' 2-I5
,, 2-30
,, 3
I8. The shop will be open 8-45-g-45; 2-5-30. The Shop and Canteen are separate
this year . The following articles are available: (list will be found in prog;ramme).
19. The canteen will be open n-30-I2-30; 2-5-30; 7-8.
Cup of tea, 15 cts. Biscuits, 15 cts.
,, coffee, 15 cts. Fruit, 15 cts.
Glass of lemonade, 5 cts.
Payment only with tickets worth 15 cts (to be had near the canteen-entrance)
in booklets of 5 (75 cts.) and IO (F 1-50) .
20. First aid tent (indicated with+ on map), marked by a red flag with white cross and
and the doctor can be called in case of necessity. If the nurses are present at the
lectures, they will carry a red flag with white cross, so as to be easily located.
two red lights above each other at night. Nurses will be in attendance day and night
21. Breakfast, 9 a .m . sharp; Lunch, 1 p.m. sharp; Dinner, 6p.m. sharp.
The dinner tents this year contain about 250 persons each. The tables hold
14 persons (7 on each side). The food will not be served out, but a pail will be put
on each side of the table for one row of seven persons. It is necessary that members
should fill the tents from the near end and leave no gaps at thet ables, but see to it
that 7 persons are seated on each side.
22. The orders of the Stewards in each tent as to seating and food have to be obeyed.
+ •
.,
THE STAR CONGRESS, 1927.
The showerbaths are for washing only, not for making a complete toilette. Mem-
bers occupying them longer than ro minutes will be removed. The normal time
being 5 minutes.
The sanitary buildings have been extended by one. The former two buildings are
now both for ladies, whilst the new building is for men (see map).
The camp service anangements are given out with the programme on arrival.
As a rule no announcements will be made at table or campfire, members being
expected to consult the notice-board(s), near dining-tents, frequently.
There will be posts put up where members of the different countries can assemble
at 2 p.m. for getting translations of the morning-lectures or information if the
National Representative is willing to anange for this. The Camp management is
not responsible for this item being carried out.
ARRIVAL: On arrival at the station members will remain seated, the carriages
being emptied one after the other which makes a constant and well regulated trans-
port to camp possible. On the station, boards will indicate three directions:
To camp. To hotels. To Own Menage Camp.
The luggage of one carriage will follow the bus with the occupants of that carriage,
so that the luggage will be standing ready after having registered. But members
should attend personally to their luggage being transported out of the station as
far as the busses. For registered luggage hand receipt to Star Officials at Station
after writing name and registration number on same.
29. DEPARTURE: A d eparture form is handed out with the programme, which please
fill in and band at the American Express before the gth. This is only to get an
approximate idea of the space needed on each train. The hand-luggage has to put
ready two hours before the train leaves, n ear the board, indicating that train . Lug-
gage to be registered has to be at the departure tent four hours before train leaves
(for early morning train the night before).
30. Fire or other emergencies will be dealt with by the Emergency Squad; members
should quietly await instructions.
3r. Fire or other troubles at night should be reported to the Nightwatch in tent marked
N on map, flying a green flag with white N, and moreover marked by three green
lights above each other at night.
32. The members of the camp management are wearing gold badges with Camp Man-
agement written on.
The heads of departments silver badges with the name of department.
Assistants bronze badges with name of department.
They have to be obeyed within the scope of their department.
33. The lecture tent is provided with wooden benches behind which members may sit on
their own campstools (collapsible stools or small collapsible chairs) . In front of the
benches only sitting on the ground is permitted.
34. A few acousticons (telephones for deaf members) will be found on the right hand
side benches back row, reserved for members of very bad hearing, who have applied
to the camp-bureau and got a special ticket, which has to be shown to the Stewards
if asked for.
35. A free path has to remain in the centre of the tent (indicated by white stripes). The
indications of the stewards with regard to seating have to be carried out.
Guides, stewards, ushers wear blue armlets or squares with white star.
Lost and found objects at Lost and Found tent (see map).
Members not wearing badges are not admitted to camp or meals.
Members are not admitted to Meditation or Lectures after the hour indicated.
Tents will be inspected between ro and rz a.m.
The registering for a certain camp service implies carrying it out and appearing at
the exact hour. In case of inability to be present at the appointed hour, please
report to head of Camp-service department (in the General office) .
THE STAR CONGRESS, 1927.
+~~-=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!!
Registering for Star camp service does not imply rendering the same serivce in the
order of Service Camp (following after Star Camp). Members attending the Order
of Service camp and wishing to render camp serivce in it have to apply separately
(see publication).
42.
43.
44.
45.
To make possible a proper registration for the Order of Service camp, the whole
camp will be cleared in the afternoon of the day of departure (August 13th) at 5 p .m .,
all members leaving through the main gate and those attending the Order of Service
Camp, re-entering to be registered. As those only attending the star camp have to
leave camp before dinner and the last afternoon train leaves about 5 p .m., this will
not cause any inconvenience twe hope.
O'"ffi Menage member will please go to Own Menage camp on arrival and register
there with the head of Own Menage (Mr. J . Kraamer) .
Decisions of the Camp-Management are final and members, by their coming to
camp, agree to obey such decision, collectively or personally.
KIND REQUESTS .
r. Not to press round the leaders before and after lectures, campfires, on their arrival
and departure and so on.
2 . To speak quietly at meals.
3. Not to talk in the vicinity of the lecture tent (within some 30 or 40 yards of it) whilst
meditation or lectures are going on.
4. To occupy the baths if possible less than half the allotted time.
5. To be very punctual at meals.
6. To leave the campfire at once if the request is made .
7. To bear constantly in mind the purpose for which the camp is held and to act accord-
ingly.
8. To be gay without being loud and quiet without being dull.
g. To bear with imperfections, to which the camp is subject.
IO. To complain, if need arises, to the information-window at the office, never to
fellow-members.
II. Not to occupy "reserved" seats in lecture tent or round campfire.
I2. To hand in any complaints about tent partners (smoking talking at night and the
like) at camp office: information window.
PROHIBITED (for those who are not naturally considerate).
I . To smoke inside tents or in camp generally.
2. To talk, move about camp, make music or sing between I0-30 p .m . and 6 a .m .
3. To occupy bathrooms longer than IO minutes.
4. To use bathrooms for hairdressing and so on.
5. To throw rubbish of any description in the lavatories; boxes are provided to dispose
of all rubbish.
6. To move chairs into the lecture tent .
7 . To move chairs belonging to the canteen or other tents.
8. To light fires in the woods.
g. To stick pins in the cavass of tents.
IO. To interchange accommodation in tents or hotels without written consent of Camp
Bureau (new registration of F3o-will be charged in such cases) .
II. To sell articles of any description in camp.
I2. To enter the kitchen, unless connected with kitchen-service.
13. To give out information to the Press.
14. To use lights other than electric in tents (unless on official errands with camp lanterns)
I5. To light spirit or petrol lamps or other burners of any description.
16. To have dogs or other animals in camp .
I7. To remove any utensils from the kitchen.
~ +
'
