{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__besant___the_new_civilization.pdf","mytitle":"The New Civilization","mylang":"de"}
THE NEW CIVILISATION
FOUR LECTURES DELIVERED AT
THE QUEEN'S HALL, LONDON,
IN JUNE 1927
BY
ANNIE BESANT D.L.
THE THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE LIMITED
38 GREAT ORMOND STREET, LONDON, W.C.1
Published in Z927
,.,tJIa GUGI Brlraln ~
UNWUf BllOTHJtRS, LIMITED, LONDON AND WOXING
CONTENTS
LECTURE
I. THE CRUMBLING OF CIVILISATION
II. THB RELIGION OF THE NEW CIVILIS.\TION •
Ill. EDUCATION IN THE NEW CIVILISATION
IV. ECONOMICS OF THE NBW CIVILISATION
PAGa
1
25
43
6g
LECTURE I
THE CJlUMBLING OF CIVILISATION
FRIENDS:-
Many of you may remember that for the last
two years, speaking in this hall, I have dealt with
subjects closely allied to each other, one year with the
coming of the World Teacher as regarded historically
chiefly, and last year as regarded from the standpoint
of modern and ancient psychology. During this course
of lectures, while they are connected very closely with
the coming of the World Teacher, I am going to deal
really with certain practical points of enormous import-
ance ; and even apart from any belief in the historical
connection between the coming of such a Teacher, and
the change of civilisation which followed it, even with-
out that connection, the general signs of the times
about you, the remarkable conditions of our earth,
especially during the past year and the early part
of the present year, ought to draw your attention,
as reasonable and thoughtful people, to the general
idea that there is much change in the air. When
we find, for instance, the very unstable equilibrium,
as some scientists have called it, of the crust of our
earth, that seems to suggest changes that may be
startling to those who have not studied the history
8
of the past. And after all the crust of our earth
is rather an important standpoint for us, seeing
that it is the ground on which we stand. So very
many earthquakes have taken place, as you may
have noticed if that point is of interest to you. I
have noticed them because I was expecting them, and
I kept a record of them as they turned up one after
another. I know there are many more interesting
things in the newspapers than earthquakes. The news-
papers take much more interest in what horse is going
to win the Derby and the sayings of any jockey w~o is
going to ride in the race, than they do in those more
serious matters which ought to interest people; intelli-
gent educated people should take some reasonable
thought for the future, and should feel to some extent,
at least, the responsibility of their own share in ~haping
the thought of the time, of their own duty in trying
to form some rational conception of the nature and
probable results of the coming changes.
Now these changes are the matters to which I propose
to draw your attention to-day, as to the fact ·of the
changes and the signs of the crumbling of civilisations,
only alluding to the past but dealing more fully with
the present signs. The fact that the coming of the
World Teacher has been connected with these in the
past is, of course, interesting and significant, still more
the fact of the changes of civilisation that have taken
place in similar epochs in our world's history. I have
sometimesthought, when I have been perhapsin a rather
ill-tempered mood, that when we scoff at Nero fiddling
while Rome was burning, future generations may
perhaps scoff at us, having seen the changes that we
can only look forward to, and wondering why people
were so indifferent, so wrapt up in the trivialities of life,
so blind to the menace of the future.
And so I am going to tryif I can to provoke thought
anyhow in those who come to listen to these lectures.
9
I do not ask you in any way to accept my own thought,
but I do ask you to think for yourselves. I should say
that I should .like to provoke discussion, but that, I
think, is not very easy to compass in these days ; so
I shall be content with the humble ambition of winning
a few of you really seriously to apply yourselves to a
consideration of the present condition in the civilised
countries of the world, with some study of the past,
which may guide you in the present, and some attempt
to prepare for changes that are coming. For it is
always well to remember that it is the thought of large
numbers of people that makes changes inevitable. The
outside change may seem to be made by an Act of some
legislature, but it is not the legislators that make the
changes; it is the public opinion of the people, their
relative ignorance, or knowledge, underlying the thought
currents that they create. Legislators follow public
opinion; they very rarely, if ever, create it. And
it is on you and people like you that the future
of our world ·inevitably depends, the future that you
will see in its early stages, of which your children
and your grandchildren will reap a large part of the
harvest of the seed sown to-day. So I allude rather in
passing to the fact that this coming of the World
Teacher, that I have talked about so much, is connected
with that other point in racial evolution td which I have
been drawing attention for many years, the appearance
of a new human type on our globe. Now I do not
propose to spend any time in arguing that, because it
has gone beyond the stage of argument. When H.P.B.
mentioned it in 1888, very few people took any notice
of what she said. When in 1909, in San Francisco, I
gave my first lecture on the subject, there again, quite
naturally, very little attention was paid to it. Science
at that time was silent, and even as late as two years
ago in the Association that is supposed to be for the
advancement of at least British Science,. when a theo-
IO
sophical anthropologist, greatly daring, ventured to
draw the attention of that learned assembly to the
fact that a new sub-race was appearing, the learned
gentlemen simply said they had not heard of it. Well,
they ought to have heard of it-that is all one can say
about it-because in America thay have been discussing
this question now for a number of years. During the
last few years the voice of the American scientist has
been quite decisive on the subject, and it is not only
the question of science that is concerned. I mention
science because so many people think science is
infallible, and therefore one likes to base oneself upon
"infallible" science; but the fact is so widely pressed
on public attention that, in addition to the scientific
certainty, the teachers of the schools in California,
for the last two years, have been experimenting on
the children under their charge ; and they have
come to the very general conclusion that these
children of the new type, where intelligence is con-
cerned, at the age of 4! to 5 years are the equals
of the ordinary children at 7 or 8, and so on. So
much is this recognised, and so numerous are the
new type that in the schools of California -the
children are now being divided into two classes. It is
found impossible to teach them together. The one
class is so quick of apprehension, and the other, the
ordinary normal child, though clever enough in his
own line, has not the peculiar faculty called intuition,
which is showing itself in this new type of human race.
It is not, therefore, worth while to argue the matter any
longer. There is a book which I think by this time is
published in America by the leading Anthropologist,
Dr. Hrdlika, a gentleman who, either this year or last,
came over to England to give the Huxley lecture, for
he is a man of international reputation. He has
written a book called The American Race, in which he
says that this new type is perhaps a sub-race. That is
II
a point on which a large number of people, who go by
the name of Theosophists, are very largely agreed-
that it is a sub-race. That is because they have been
looking at sub-races in their books and already have
studied five which have appeared since the great
Mother-Race in Central Asia began sending out its
emigrations towards the West. I may say in passing
that I will not trouble you with these details at all,
I shall only mention the Empires that were founded
because these are a part of the subject which I have to
deal with.
I ask you, then, either to take the new sub-race for
granted, if you do not care to study it, or to test what
I have just said by reading Dr. Hrdlika's book, or by
making careful investigations by application to the
Smithsonian Institute, or other sources of information,
such as I have myself been consulting for a good many
years past. Leaving that, then. as an acknowledged
fact, I come to my next point. The sub-races that
have appeared in the past, in the great Mother-Race to
which we all belong, were not regarded or known
then, or observed as spec_ial types, until they had been
in existence for some hundreds of years. Then they
were so markedly different, these different types, that
later on, at least after their emigrations, they became
recognised as separate sub-races. Now each of these
had its own Teacher, each of them had its own civilisa-
tion, and each of them had its own Empire, which is
a point which I will ask you to bear in mind, because
that has a very close connection with all of you who
are living in these Islands, in the British Colonies, in
the American United States, and in other countries like
Germany where the Teutonic type is very largely
predominant. Take it, then, for the moment that in
connection with each of these sub-types there was
a Teacher, a civilisation, and a World Empire. . If
I wanted just to recall to you what is meant by a
12
World Empire, I would ask you to consider after the
great emigrations had gone on from Central Asia, the
Empire of Egypt, the Empire of Persia, the Empire of
Rome, and those three succeeded in time by the great
Empires that arose in the sub-Continent of India. All
of these, except those in India, were Empires in which
one sub-race dominated completely. They all estab-
lished a domination over the world of their time. If
you notice that fact, then, making a note that it is a
fact in history, you might also notice that all the
civilisations which flowered into these Empires have
passed away. You can only find them in their sepul-
chres, and sometimes you have to dig deep into the crust
of the earth before you find the earliest of the capital
cities that grew up in those Empires. So far as they are
concerned, they belong to ancient history and the tombs.
Their relics alone remain. When we come to the
Teutonic sub-race, the fifth of the number-1 have
mentioned four of the Empires-we do not find that
that sub-race so far has established a World Empire.
We do find, however, that that part of it living in
Britain has begun laying the foundations-not under-
standing what they were doing particularly-by an
enormous energy in colonising countries which did not
belong to them. If you look over the history of
England during the seventeenth, eighteenth, and even
the nineteenth centuries, you may be struck by the
fact that Britain was establishing in far-off countries
a very remarkable collection of colonies of the British
race. One great collection of colonies, as you know,
was in North America. And there in the eighteenth
century, for the time, the unity of this part of the
Teutonic Race was broken. You all know· about the
tea-making in Boston Harbour, and the subsequent
development of the United States of America. Those
then broke away and so far delayed the progress of
Britain-not in any scheme that she had, for she had
13
none-but in the fact that she was gradually laying
the foundations of a world-wide rule.
You have to think now in centuries, because, as you
have been told so often, Time is an illusion. But,
living in that world of illusion, we must recognise the
passage of time, and for these great world movements
you must think in longish periods of time. I choose
centuries, though in the larger ones you have to think
in millennia. Do not, then, be in a hurry to see
definite signs in each place quickly following each
other in sequence. But look over the world in
those three centuries that I have mentioned, the
three preceding our own, and notice this enormous
colonisation carried on by people of the British stock,
all of them practically, with the exception of those
settled in North America, the part that afterwards
became the great American Republic-forming the
future Teutonic Empire in the days of its infancy
and youth. Other nations colonised also, but to
nothing like the same extent, nor with the same
success. I am leaving India for the moment out of
the calculation-not because I ever forget her and her
relation to the British Empire in the past and in the
present, but because I am laying stress on the sub-race
concerned in this particular matter of the unconscious
building up of a great Empire. Then came a period
when a quarrel arose between two branches, two great
divisions of the Teutonic race-the late war. In that
one very vital question was decided. The German
Empire, a mighty military power, would, had it suc-
ceeded, evidently have founded an Empire of military
force. Now while this nation was on the other side,
and while you warmly condemn that ambition, it may
be well in relation to it sometimes to look at home,
and see if the Teutonic sub-race here has not done a
good deal in the same manner. I am not very much
~oncemed with that for the moment, because I want to
14
point out one remarkable fact-one good thing that
the German Empire did, despite its autocracy and its
dream of subduing the world, and that was that in
its great cities it had no slums. I have flown over
several of the German big cities, and when you go in
an aeroplane you can estimate the ways cities are built,
and I was very much struck by that fact. And one
time after I had noticed it from the air, I enquired
about it on the earth, and I found that my observations
there were quite definitely correct, as I expected to
find them, because I knew something of the life of the
German manual workers, and I knew their general
comfort in living, their interest in arts, such as music,
and the large provisions that were made for training
them to some extent in that art, especially because, I
suppose, of the musical genius of the German people,
taking them generally.
Now that is a very important point and I am
asking you to think over it carefully. I am essentially
opposed to an Empire of force. I think it is a thing
which largely dwarfs a nationality. Perhaps, therefore,
I am the more careful to put on record this one splendid
result of an autocracy, that those who made the pros-
perity of the country by their labour were not forgotten
by their Government, but were carefully helped, guarded
and provided, not only with the necessaries of life, as
ordinarily understood, but largely with that Art, that
Culture, that possibility of a more human life which
prevents men from turning into machines, hardly
knowing anything of the beauty, the happiness, the
splendour, the possibilities of human life.
Now, leaving that branch, let me come to the United
States, the Great Republic. There are no slutns in the
United States except those where dwell the immigrant
population. There are no slums among native-born
Americans. You know I have been spending some
seven months in the United States, partly occupied in
IS
travelling and speaking, partly in more settled work,
and I did not find slums. I found very comfortable
houses, well cared for, with gardens sloping down to
the roads of the towns. They do not wall in their
gardens there, or put up hedges, so that you must not
look over them. They leave them open mostly to the
streets, and they make them bright with flowers, so
that all the passers-by have the pleasure of going
through flower-lined streets. Another point that I
remarked with very, very great pleasure in America,
was the absence of the class sense that I noticed.
Now I have been a very great deal, I am happy to say,
among the manual workers of England especially-not
so much of Scotland. I have been in their houses as
their guest, sat at their tables as a friend; but I was
always conscious in those, that while personally I had
no sense of the class difference, my kindly host had a
sense of ·it, and it showed in his outer manners to my-
self. Now I do not find that in America. For t4e first
time in my life1 talking with people engaged in manual
occupations of every kind, I found that they treated
me entirely as a social equal. I cannot tell you how
pleasant that was, and the sense of friendliness that it
gave to the whole of the country. Driving along in a
taxi the man who drove you would tell you all about
the place, just as he would have done if you had been
driving in a private car with the owner of the car
driving. There was no sense of anything unusual in
it, because there was not. Naturally people educated
in.that way would not live in slums, and they do not.
So that beside the Empire of force I put the great
Republic, not nearly as free as it ought to be, but still
one in which class plays very little part in the education
and the demeanour of the people. Of course wealth
makes an enormous difference. But even there the
man who is now a multi-millionaire may have started
working in somebody else's workshop. When I come
16
to deal with the economic part of the new civilisation,
there are some interesting points I shall want to speak
of in relation to economics in America.
Looking, then, at this question of the slums for a
moment, let me ask you to consider this historical fact
and what it means for a nation that has as many slums
as there are in this country. Wherever the masses
of the people have been condemned to a low condition
of human life, whether it be by chattel slavery or by
serfage, or by wage slavery, there you have a cancer
at the very root and heart of your civilisation, and unless
you get rid of that you will die of the disease. Becanse
of that, very great is your responsibility. All of you
who are here are educated people, and on the educated
people of the country most of the changes depend. I
know there are changes that come by revolution, but
that means chaos, longer or shorter as the case may be.
And chaos is a thing that no wise person can desire as
an interlude between two civilisations. Hence the
importance of studying the conditions and getting rid
of those which will render chaos inevitable.
Leaving that fact, then, let us go on to the next step
in our study. And we shall find that we have to
deal here with certain questions on which every one of
us ought to have a definite opinion. What that opinion
ought tobe I have no right to dictate to any one of you,
but you certainly ought to have an opinion. It is your
duty as a citizen of the land. And in the formation
of that opinion, to whatever particular line of thought
and of action it may lead you, try to form it, if you
can, with as much impartiality as you can compass,
getting rid of the natural prejudices and conventio~
that so very much limit our powers of thought and
diminish the usefulness of our intelligence. In this
war that I spoke of the point was decided against
the Empire of force. Now what is the only reason-
able alternative ? Surely a Commonwealth of free
17
nations joined together by ties of mutual respect and
affection and good will and desire to promote the
good of the whole Commonwealth. That seems to
me to be the only alternative that can really last.
And I would ask you to consider at your leisure whether
there is anything that can be stable between the two.
You can have a certain stability by force for a time,
I know, but it is against the great law of Brotherhood
which breaks every civilisation which is built up
and maintained in contravention of that law. For
remember, the law of Brotherhood is a natural law.
It is based on the· Unity of Life. There is but one
God, and one Life which is in the whole of the worlds
that He has made. And that Unity of Life means a
Brotherhood of the many separated lives that exist in
that Unity. Those who would think separately, for
separate and small interests, for individual interests
against the good of the Nation, for national interests
against the good of all the Nations, they are bound to
fail, because the law is sure and cannot be broken.
It breaks whatever is built up against it, just as, if the
law of gravitation be disregarded, the building falls.
So do civilisations fall which are built in contravention
of that law of human life. And the Brotherhood is
not only human. That life is everywhere in our world.
Nothing exists outside it. The sub-human kingdoms
are also kingdoms of living things, the animal more
sentient than the vegetable, but the vegetable sentient
to an extent-limited I grant, but discovered by deli-
cacy of instruments by Sir Jagadish Chandra Bose,
the great Indian scientist. Lately a thought has arisen
that the things called "non-living," like rocks even,
have their own limited sensitiveness, massive sensations,
not individualised or keen. And so we come gradually
to realise that we are living in the midst of this vast
assemblage of brothers, sub-human as well as human,
and, as some of us know·, super-human as well as human.
2
I8
And just as the knowledge that you have, or may have,
of this coming sub-race, may enable you intelligently
to co-operate with its development, as others in the
past had not the knowledge to do, so as you realise
more and more this Unity of Life, and know that it
comes from the "One without a Second," you may
begin also to realise the obligations that lie upon you,
the duties that you cannot really escape, of living in
accordance with the law that exists.
And so when you turn to the conditions of the New
Civilisation, this tremendous fact of the Brotherhood
of all that lives-and as I have said there is nothing
in our world that does not live, in different degrees
-you begin then to realise that many changes will
have to be made, not only in the political or
economic organisation, but also in your own individual
duties as one of the more intelligent divisions of this
great and universal Brotherhood. And it is because
of the vital importance of that teaching that the
Theosophical Society, which has just been holding
its Convention here, has made Brotherhood the one
thing in which all members must agree. We can
quarrel as much as we like about everything else. All
our religious opinions and social opinions and economic
opinions may differ. We may think each other either
orthodox or heretical as much as we please ; but on
that one cardinal fact, that we are a nucleus of Universal
Brotherhood, we must agree ; we cannot honestlyremain
in the Society if we cease to believe in that supreme fact.
Now that, of course, must colour all our thinking. And
because those who call themselves Theosophists have
bee·n studying for very many years-the last fifty
years-these deeper questions which underlie all out-
side changes in civilisation, I think especial respon-
sibility lies on you, my Theosophical brethren, to do
your share of the work in forming public opinion on
the coming changes in the life of the Nation. All
19
citizens have a great responsibility, but you a peculiar
one, because you have more knowledge; and the more
knowledge you have, the greater your responsibility
and your duty. All, however, have a share in that,
and should take their part therein.
Looking, then, at this great question of the World
Empires that the four preceding races and sub-races
have had, and that are now all buried, what about this
world-wide spread of the great Teutonic, or fifth sub-
race in all its branches ? What about the Colonies
already founded, now Dominions, which, if you look
at them on the map, yoti will see are a suggestion of
a great Unity prevailing among them. But there is
a question that you have to solve quickly, and are,
to some extent, solving, though not quite as logically
as it should be done. There you have to face the
great question, if you do not have an Empire of force,
then you cannot keep "subject" Nations within your
rule. It must be a Commonwealth of free Nations, or
you must lose your rule over them. That is a very
pressing question, because you have a huge number of
people-six to one in your Empire-who do not share
the colour of your skin. Now the colour of a skin may
be a question of beauty. Some like one, and some·like
the other, but that is not a radical difference in the
position of human beings in any assemblage. When
you come to consider that fact, you have also to con-
sider your relations to six out of every seven of the
people who form your far-flung rule. And that was
the great forgetfulness-or not quite forgetfulness, but
almost deliberate wrong-that Mr. Hearst showed at
the time of his proposal that was so warmly welcomed,
of uniting the English-speaking peoples. Even that,
although he would not know it, would include an
enormous number of Indians, who speak the English
tongue very much better than some of us do. I
suppose he was not thinking of those ; they do not
20
count. But they will count. He forgot all about
them, and he said he would not touch India. Then
his plan cannot succeed. I may say this has been
pointed out exceedingly clearly by Mr. Krishnamurti in
an article which has stirred the Continent, but has not
had any very large publicity here, where the argument
was not congenial, of course, to the owners of English
newspapers; still it circulated very largely over France,
Germany, Holland, and other countries. That trouble
has to be faced. There cannot be a Commonwealth
of free white Nations if Britain is to be one of those
white Nations. For her rule extends, as I have just
said, over six times as many coloured people as white.
And even the Australians are beginning to turn yellow.
I do not know where their place will be in an Empire
of the whites, after a few more generations. Now, is
not what we really want-if this great Teutonic sub-
race is to build up, as the other preceding races have
done, a world-wide body-is not what we want that
there shall be a real body, without "rulersand subjects"
of one coloured kin.d of people over another ? I am
a heretic, I know, when I say that the only right to
rule comes from Wisdom, but you will find that out
some day, and I am content to wait. I know it is a
most 11
undemocratic" sentence, but still I cannot
change my opinion for that. I think many of the
blunders from which you have suffered are because you
do not realise, not only that every child has a right to
education, and that the education of every child should
extend, not only through the earlier stages, but right
on into young manhood and womanhood, as it extends
in your so-called upper classes in society. I shall have
to deal with that when I speak of education in the New
Civilisation.
Suppose, then, we agree that we will work for a
Commonwealth, or that we will work against it, because
some opposition is always very valuable in pointing
2I
out the weak points ~f any scheme which may be
devised. Suppose a large enough majority-as you
will count heads without weighing their contents-
decides that it wants a Commonwealth and not an
Empire-and I hope they will decide that-then you
will have to consider how you are going to build up
your Commonwealth. With that subject I propose to
deal on the next three Sundays. Meanwhile, may I
suggest with regard to this question of the building,
that it is one which ought now, without delay, to be
taken into consideration, to be thought over, and, as
I said, if possible, discussed. For we do not want a
scheme put forward only by a few people. We want
the thoughts of all the different classes within this
mighty realm, so that every interest may be considered,
and above all that a really human life may be secured
for every child that is born into that coming Common·
wealth. For that is the right of the child. Good
surroundings, full education, training in the dutie·s of
the citizenship into which he is born-those the child
has a right to claim from his elders, and his elders have
the duty of so shaping Society that he may receive
that from the international union of these free Nations
in the great Commonwealth-to-come.
And you and I, and millions of others like us, have
to work for that, have to try to point out the inevitable
foundations of a civilisation that will last. And the
only things that we have to choose between are the
careful building or the rapid decay. There is no inter-
mediate place. That is why I would fain awaken
every one of you to the realisation that whatever
his opinions, whatever his political party, every one
of you has a duty of forming an opinion, and
also of making your opinion as intelligent and as
full of careful thought as you are able to make
it in these days where education, at least of an
elementary character, is so widespread. It is easier to
22
spread thought and to make public opmton than it
was in past·days. It is possible to arouse the public
mind and the public conscience. The great difficulty
that stands in the way is the selfish interest of some
set against the human life of others.
Now the one thing that is valuable above all other
things is human life,·for it is the most highly developed
life that we have to deal with in questions of national-
ities, politics, and so on.
May I conclude by putting to you one thought that
I hope will remain with you, however much you may
disagree with some things that I have said, and that
is that every child that is born into this coming
Commonwealth has the right to circumstances that will
develop in him to the full every good quality that he
brings with him into the world. Now, naturally, those
of us who know that reincarnation is a great fact in
human life, know that evolution is a continual repetition
of life in three worlds, the one where he gathers experi-
ence, the next where he sees .the evil results of evil
thinking and evil passions, and the last-by far the
longest life of the three-where he weaves that experi-
ence into faculty, into capacity, which he brings with
him when he comes again to birth, and enters on his
next period of physical human life. The child who
comes to us is not a blank slate on which we can write
whatever we choose. He has himself written upon it
by many a life in the past. He has traced the outlines
of his own character, his own.weaknesses, and his own
_strengths. He comes to us, a human being with a
character; and that character should be the signpost
of the education that we give, adapted to the child.
For the child is not a piece of putty to be moulded into
something by a system. He is a living human being
of divine origin, and he has a right to everything that
can evoke the Hidden God within him, and help him
to overcome the more animal propensities which have
23
come from his earl~er evolution. And so let us, in
thinking out our Commonwealth, remember .that the
child represents our greatest national asset and demands
from us the discharge of our highest duty. And the
mother of the child must also have her place in our
vigilant care. For on the Motherhood of the country
depends the future. It is the mothers who give birth
to the children, a natural fact too often forgotten, I
think, in our civilised days. It is the mother within
whose very substance the form and the framework of
the child is built. And yet how we trample on our
mothers too often, even on those who are bearing
children, and make their lives so hard that the children
are born less strong, less capable, less full of life, than
every child .should be when he comes into the world!
Oh! think of the mothers of your land more than
you do. It is not without significance that the German
constitution of free Germany has a special clause dedi-
cated to the Motherhood of Germany, a consecrated
trust put into the hands of the Nation, and too often
neglected. The women have to fight for all they need,
and are trampled into the dust too often in the streets
of our towns. And so I would ask you, after thinking
of the children, and providing well for them, to remember
that, no child can be healthy who is not born of one
whose motherhood has been held sacred, because it
gives a life to the Nation, and creates the future
generations. If every man among you would see in
every woman a potential mother; if as you honour
your own mothers you would honour every woman who
walks our streets ; then one of the greatest curses of
this civilisation, which has bred dreadful disease as
well as unutterable degradation to womanhood, would
be remedied for ever and you would make the country
purer and healthier than it is. That must be part of
our New Civilisation. That is an essential part if the
civilisation is to live. And when the great principles
24
I have mentioned to-day are analysed, considered,
~cepted or rejected as you will-that is your respon-
sibility-then we shall be in a frame of mind ready to
consider the great departments of human life, the
development of which, and the changes in which, will
form our subject of study on the three next Sundays.
LECTURE II
THE RELIGION OF THE NEW CIVILISATION
FRIENDS:-
In my first lecture I pointed out two very
opposite dangers which threatened respectively America
and Europe. In Europe we had the excess, the terrible
excess, of· poverty; in America, what may sound
strange to you, the excess of wealth. Both of these
act as a practical cancer to civilisation, the one by
reducing large numbers of the people to a constant
struggle to exist-! do not say to live, but to exist;
the other bringing a satiety which leads to a constant
attempt to find new excitement, of living on the surface
of things, of seeking satisfaction in ever greater and
greater excitement, even the excitement of crime.
To-day I am to deal with the first of the three
great departments of human life which affect every
human being ; and however much you may sub-
divide them they remain, I think, fundamentally
three in number. The first of those, as I have put
their order, is Religion. The work of religion, I shall
submit to you, is to change our attitude and object
in life, to seek unselfish, rather than selfish, ideals, and
unselfishness ever widening out into larger and larger
circles, until at last it shall embrace in one mighty
26
Brotherhood everything that lives. Then, after that,
what we may call in a sense the most important of
all-Education. That evolves and moulds our capaci-
ties, brings out the seeds of human power and faculty,
and enables them to grow and to develop. That is
necessary in order that by knowledge we may begin
to understand; when to knowledge we add love, that
turns it into wisdom. Education should be of a nature
which shall help everyone who comes into the world
to develop his faculties to the very best advantage.
For out of education comes the culture of the indi-
vidual and of the Nation ; and that is the application
of what we have learned in education to human life
and the growth of humanity. Then in the third place
I have put Economics-Religion in the New Civilisa-
tion, Education in the New Civilisation, Economics in
the New Civilisation.
Now economics is the necessary basis that lies at
the very root, the very foundation, of Society. It
means the science of the right production and the
right distribution of the various articles that form the
material side in life. It means in addition to that,
full opportunities for everyone to lead a really human
life. For by human life I do not mean simply
abundance of all that satisfies the physical body. I do
not mean by human life all that gives physical pleasure,
physical luxury, the possession of much, and far more
than is necessary for the human life. But I do mean
by human life, the development of those higher faculties
in man which find happiness, not in the things that
perish in the using, but that increase and grow with
the using and the sharing; the treasures of the human
mind as you find them in literature, the treasures of
human emotion as you find them in art in all its many
phases-I mean those greater and relatively permanent
enjoyments which refine, which cultivate, which develop
the higher side of our nature, and help to make man
27
what he ought to be if he is to reach perfection, the
natural end of evolution.
And the first of those departments is the one with
which I am to deal to-night-Religion in the New.
Civilisation. Naturally, then, we ought to begin with
a clear understanding of what we mean by religion.
Do we mean by it only the various religions of the
world, each of them with its own particular value to
those who follow it, but each of them necessarily partial
and changing with the changes of the generations of
men? I should define religion as that inner urge that
we find in the human being to realise that life which is
the life of God in man, the God within the man, cramped
and cabined by his material surroundings, reaching.
out, as it were, to the God outside him, universally
enveloping him as well as entering him, called often
in Philosophy, God Immanent in the first case, Trans-
cendent in the second case.
If it be true that there is but one Life, that that one
Life is the all-enveloping power outside which nothing
can exist, then it is fairly clear that that life abiding
in the heart of a rational and emotional being, a being
also of activities whereby he is effecting the material
world around him, that that God within must necessarily
be for ever striving to reunite Himself as it were.with
the God around. And so, wherever you find the human
race, except for brief periods which soon slay them-
selves by their own excesses, we find this seeking after
God, this urge, as I have called it, of the God within
to satisfy Himself by reunion with the God around
him, the God in his fellow-creatures, as well as the
transcendent Life that includes all things.
That to me is what I mean by religion, this inner
urge to know the greater Self. But the religions .of_.·
the world might fairly be regarded as the answers of
God without to this urge within the. members of the
human race-temporary answers, differing in much of
28
their detail, but ever with the same Love without,
seeking the Love within.
So we find that with each great human type, a separate
religion appears, and we can trace them down through
the ages, one in their essence but each with its own
symbology, each with its own dominant virtue, adding
to that great garland of symbology and of virtues
which we find when we realise the inner oneness and
the outer differences of the religions of our world. For
we can see in the great Mother Race that Unity is the
one dominant idea, the "One, without a Second."
Then we can find that that idea is repeated in Egypt
by the sun, in Persia by fire, in Greece by harmony,
music, sound. We can find in each as well that that
note exists in man as well as in the world around him,
and that each religion has its own specific dominant
virtue, adding to the growing possibilities of the human
race.
Seeing that Unity amid diversity, seeing these gradual
additions to the religious wealth of the world, the
next thing is to pierce that diversity and find the
inner unity of all these different faiths. As we look
at them from that standpoint, then it is that we begin
to realise that all these religions are only differing
answers from the one religion. We see in each of
these the Unity which it shares with everyone of its
fellow-faiths. And the first point in that Unity is
the Immanence and Transcendence of God. Then
we find, following upon that, the perfectibility of
humanity as the goal of these divine lives in all the
world. Then we see that if perfection is to be the
goal, life after life must follow, ever growi'ng in great-
ness, in radiance, and in strength. And so, in every
great religion, we find that third common truth of
Reincarnation. Then in order that these lives may be
orderly and successful, we find that the life period is
distributed through three worlds, the physical, the
29
intermediate, and the heavenly, and that in the physical,
man gathers experience-experience of good and evil-
but experience of every type and kind of life; that
he gathers up that experience and carries it with him
through the gateway of death. Then in the inter-
mediate world we find that some of the experience
has sorrow at its heart, because it is against the order
of the universe and the beauty of the universe; that
that bears its natural fruit of dissatisfaction and craving;
dissatisfaction because in that subtler world the body
has disintegrated and the cravings of the body can
-find no satisfaction there; and then a gradual with-
drawal from such experience as '' evil,'' and the storing
of that withdrawal as part of the conscience of the future.
And then there is the passing on of ·those who ·have
gathered experiences in the physical world and have
separated them into good and evil in the intermediate
world, to a long productive Heaven-world, where all
the useful experience is woven into character, where
the germs of faculties grow and are ready to bud into
flower, where every noble aspiration becomes a capacity
to achieve, every high thought becomes a faculty of
the mind that shall be re-embodied in the physical
world, every longing to help and to succour becomes
that love which lasts, which death cannot touch or
injure, becomes a deeper passion, a s.tronger emotion,
a more compelling enthusiasm; so that after every
leaving of that native land of ours, the Heaven-world,
we come back from that long sojourn, back from that
long weaving of experience into power, we come back
again to the physical world with the germs of the
faculties we have created out of experience within
us, to be developed by a short life-period in the physical
world. And so there is the turning over and over
again of the wheel of births and deaths. That great
doctrine, that great gospel of hope for every man, the
certainty of perfection, no matter how he tries and
30
fails and struggles, that has been part of the heart
of every great religion, obscured for a few centuries
only in the life of Christendom for a very definite reason.
The special work that had to be carried on in Christen-
dom was to bring out creative activity, was to teach
great lessons of activity as service, through that sub-
race especially to which this work was confided.
Now we find that the knowledge of Reincarnation
lessens-and it is only fair to recognise that it lessens-
to some extent the value of each separate human life.
For people may sometimes think, "Well, if I do not
do a thing in this life, I can do it in another. If I
do not conquer and make this particular faculty now, I
have a long future before me in which I can sow and
cultivate it." It does to a certain extent limit the
value of each separate human life. And since in the
religion that was to rule in Christendom the concrete
mind was to be highly developed, the activities to
which it gave birth were to be fully utilised, each life
was to be full of energy, of effort, in order that that-
individuality might be developed, as it only could be
developed by ·struggle and by effort, for a short
time only, this great truth of Reincarnation was
veiled from ordinary sight, although it never quite
perished out of Europe. For, even when denounced
as a heresy by the dominant Church "Orne of the
heretical sects preserved it and handec 1 the tradi-
tion to the future. Every now and then the truth
comes out, as when in one of the great Musalman
doctors of the Middle Ages you find this doctrine
embodied. He wrote :
I died out of the mineral and became a plant ;
I died out of the plant and became an animal ;
I died out of the animal and became a man.
Then he asks triumphantly :
When did I ever grow less by dying?
JI
Then it again woke in the poets and the philosophers
of Europe, especially of ·Germany. It came across
the sea to the poets of England, as to Wordsworth,
where again you find its reappearance. And to-day
from every side you can ·hear the statement of this
idea of a continuing soul passing from life to life,
growing, increasing, working for perfection ; as was said
by one professor, it is the only rational theory of immor-
tality"; it is recognised as the one great gospel of
hope, that however low we may be at the moment,
we shall at last attain that perfection which the Christ
commanded when He told His followers : '' Be ye
therefore perfect even as your Father in Heaven is
perfect.~~ You know every one of you well enough that
in this one brief life you cannot gain perfection_
. You
know that with our vagrant thoughts, our unruly
emotions, our activities so often stained with selfish-
ness and greed, that we cannot gain Divine perfection
before we pass out of this life, although the Christ
whom Christendom worships as God, commands that
His followers should reach that point. Only through
Reincarnation can you obey Him. Only through
Reincarnation can you prove His command to be
possible of fulfilment.
And these great basic truths are the truths that all
religions have, and they all lead us up from the Unity
of life to the Brotherhood of all that lives; that is the
end which they seek to substitute for selfish striving,
for individual gain at the loss of others, the Father-
hood of the one Life, the Brotherhood of all that
lives; that is the attitude of all religions to the
world. These basic truths are the foundation of their
Unity.
And so we have-what has been called in America at
the same time that the Theosophical Society was pro-
claiming that Unity in Asia-so we have the thought
which is expressed by the words "The Fellowship of
32
Faiths"; the Fellowship is proved by their unity of
origin, their sufficiency, at different stages of human
progress, for those to whom they were given.
And that Fellowship of Faiths will be a central
characteristic of the New Civilisation. That means that
religious quarrels will find their ending, that religious
wars will.be looked upon as the worst of crimes, that
· instead of fear and distrust and even hatred between
the members of these different faiths, all shall recognise
the Fellowship, that they shall be as many jewels in
a single diadem, many pearls in a great necklace round
the neck of hwnanity.
And in the New Civilisation, this Fellowship will
develop and grow-not suddenly, there are no such
sudden leaps in nature, but there will be a steady
growth in that direction, and you can see the beginning
of that around you at the present day. Not very long
before I left America I read in a Boston paper that
the various Protestants of Boston City-for Boston is,
of course, of the New England type of religion-that
the various Protestants of this city met together in
order to point out the excellencies of the Roman Catholic
religion. Surely a remarkable gathering, that these two
forms, which have been fighting for centuries, should
by their representatives in a New England city, the
inheritance of the Puritans, that these should meet
together, not to criticise, not to quarrel, not to denounce,
not to hate, but to explain the value of a Faith, the
form of which they did not hold, and a Faith also which
does not respond to such an action unhappily at present,
as it claims that it is the unique form of Christianity.
Such a meeting is surely a sign of progress towards
the Fellowship. And when we find other meetings,
wherein the Hebrew Rabbi and the Christian-Minister
joined together similarly in their recognition of the
one God and of His Worship ; when meeting after
meeting is taking place in which so-called different
33
religions are joining hands; when we read that in one
of the great religious cities in India-Madura in the
south-Musalmans and Hindus met together in common
public meeting and showed their Brotherhood by
worshipping together and by exchanging tokens of
love and trust, those two Faiths that often fight in
Indian cities, those two Faiths that draw against each
other, not only the weapons of the mind, but physical
weapons by which they destroy each other's bodies,
when they can meet in friendship in one of the most
religious cities of India, surely the Fellowship of Faiths
should not be so far off. And that is one of the things
after which all who believe in religion ought to strive,
not to obliterate all differences, but for the recognition
of their value. For that is one of the lessons that the
very earnest religionist sometimes finds it- difficult to
learn, that differences should not be used as reasons for
discord, causes of disharmony, but rather as enrich-
ment of concord, just as notes dissonant if played alone
in combination may form part of the most splendid
chords in music. Beethoven, the great master of chords,
thus used apparent dissonances, reconciled them and
made those magnificent chords which perhaps more
than anything else rendered his name immortal amongst
the masters of that great art. We learn along that
line of thought that wherever we find difference
of opinion we should welcome it rather than dislike
it, utilise it to learn some new aspect of the many-
sided truth, utilise it so as to see from our brother's
angle of vision as well as from our own. How little
would you know of the shape of any globe, if all of
you stood on one side and saw that alone I But the
man who is facing north learns something from the
man who is facing south, and he of the east from him
of the west. Every different angle shows the unity
of the apparently diverse truths. And in the Fellow-
ship of Faiths we learn the value of our brother's reli-
3 .
34
gion by those differences, as well as by the great truths
in which it is in accord with our own.
Passing from that we may ask what will be the
next great feature of religion in the New Civilisation.
Knowledge, I think, rather than faith. Of that there
are already signs. For that new race of which I have
so often spoken is, as you know, developing a quality
of Intuition, that which Bergson pointed out as more
allied to instinct, inherited experience, than to the
reasoning faculty in man. And if you would take the
inherited experience as the experience inherited from
one life after another, until that inherited experience
show.s itself as the life-product which we call instinct,
which does not need experience before it causes action,
which doe.s not need reasoning before it acts; that is a
life-preserving instinct in its lower forms; it is a truth-
revealing intuition as it shows itself beyond the reasoning
faculty and intellect in man.
Now it is that particular faculty which is showing
itself in the children of the new sub-race. And as we
look forward into the future and the New Civilisation
which is to learn through centuries, remember, to
build this up gradually, we begin to realise that the
effect of this intuition in religion will be to transform
religion from faith to knowledge. For intuition is a
recognition of truth at sight, a recognition of truth
that comes from the inner life and not from that life
working through the external instruments of matter.
The veil of subtle matter is only the garment of the
soul, as intuition is developed; and that may be
developed, as you probably all know, in advance of
its appearance in the ordinary evolution of man.
I spoke to you, I think, last year on that great Science
which is called the Science of Yoga, the union of the
human Spirit with the Divine Life, self-consciously
attained. That is won by using the laws of the mind
as we know them, just as a gardener desiring to produce
35
finer flowers uses the laws of natural growth in the
vegetable kingdom, eliminating those that are against
his aim, and using untrammelled those that produce
the result that he desires in the flower which he sees in
idea before he is able to produce it in vegetable matter.
So it is we may work with mind as he works with
the vegetable kingdom. We may develop from the
resources of our own higher nature, drawing down by
the laws in which we live those higher powers that we
desire to make available in the world, in which our
great work is the spiritualising of matter and the
making of matter the obedient servant and instru-
ment of Spirit. So, if we choose, by hard work-and
certainly by a good deal of what may be looked on
as self-denial, save that nothing should be called by
that name which leads us to the object which we will
to achieve-we find it is possible to develop this intuition
ahead of our race, and so to attain the knowledge of
the eternal verities before that knowledge is reached
by the average evolution, which only works slowly
by the many workings and antagonisms in nature;
whereas evolution can work more rapidly when the
antagonisms are eliminated and the powers we desire
to develop are given their full scope. And in this
Science of Yoga, there are, as you know, two distinct
paths that were very well explained by Dr. Van der
Leeuw during our late Convention, the path of the
mystic and the path of the occultist. They both seek
the same goal and they both seek to bring human
consciousness to the Real and the Eternal-two names
really only for one great truth. The mystic finds it
by plunging down into the depths of his own nature,
putting aside everything that is passing, everything
that is transient, everything that is temporary, using
that phrase that Mr. Jinarajadasa used a little time
ago, the Sanskrit phrase, "Neti, neti-not this, not
this," and so putting aside everything of the changing
36
mind-" not this, not this "-all the thoughts that fiow
or drift through the mind or are created by it-11
not
this, not this." Naught thatchangesisEtemal; naught
that is transient is Real.
And so he who follows the mystic path puts aside
all these changing things, and they become to him
indifferent. He does not seek pleasure if it is not there.
He does not reject it if it is there. He takes the things
as they come and go, the contacts of matter imper-
manent, with that higher indifference which rejects
naught and desires naught, to which nothing is alien.
And so, putting aside the transitory, one thing after
another, that which is in the cravings of the body,
that which is in the satisfactions of the emotions,
that which is in the thoughts of the mind, he goes
down into the depths of his own nature and finds at
its very centre the Life of God. A solitary path, for
none may help him in it. A path often misunderstood,
because as he treads it he seems strange and self-con-
tradictory. And when he finds his goal, silence is all
that he can show to the outer world. Philosophy can
explain itself, metaphysic can explain itself, all that
the mind constructs by the mind can be understood.
But that Supreme which is the Reality, that Supreme
which is the Eternal, from that it is written the intellect
sinks back silent, and in that silence the great truth is
found. And so mysticism can never be really taught
to the end. There are many things that can be done,
many ways of thinking that can be learned, but when
the God without reveals Himself to the God within,
in that Union silence is the natural, the inevitable
atmosphere. And so it is written in one of the Hebrew
Scriptures that the day shall come when no man shall
say to his brother, u Know the Lord," for all shall
know Him from the least to the greatest-direct know-
ledge gained by each for himself.
The path of the occultist differs very much from that,
37
though it leads to the same goal. For men's tempera-
ments are so different. The occultist seeks to learn
and to amass knowledge, so that by gaining knowledge
all the powers of nature may come within his grasp.
So for the occultist it is possible that he may take the
left-hand path rather than the right. His road branches
off into those two ways ; the path of the mystic is but
one. For if there be in the occultist the desire to
possess, if he does not purge himself of all desire for
aught but service, if he does not from his very heart
tear out the root of selfishness and seek only the larger
hope, the God in all, then his path is a path of terrible
danger, and many are the wrecks, says H. P. Blavatsky,
that strew that path.
But if he has learned that greatest of all lessons, the
longing to serve the larger life ; if he only desires power
that he may help the weak; righteousness that he
may help the unrighteous; purity that he may help the
impure; everything in order that he may give of himself
to help his brother, then his path will climb the high
mountain peak, and he will become one of the great
helpers of the world. Along that path as well as along
the mystic, feet have trodden of our own humanity.
And in the New Civilisation as it grows and buds,
there will be many mystics and many occultists in
advance of their race. For wisdom is wanted to build
the material fabric of that Civilisation as well as that
union with the Divine which sheds the radiance of
Divinity on the paths which are trodden by men. So
we shall find in that New Civilisation the same great
truths which are the heart of every religion, but we shall
also find faith more and more replaced by knowledge,
as I said. And so the evolution of the people shall
be quickened and the darkness of ignorance shall pass
more and more away from our world.
The condition of this growth is, f just said, Service.
And the way to learn to love service, to learn to find
38
in it the one satisfaction that makes life worth living,
is to strive to share with others the things that you
already have. All that is best in you of knowledge,
of art, of culture, of all these things which make a great
Civilisation, religion will lead you to share them abun-
dantly, until all have part of the gains that may have
been made by the one. For what is that great verse
of one who was a great occultist, the Apostle S. Paul,
when he spoke of the poverty of the Christ ; " though
He were rich, yet for our sakes He became poor," and
the reason is given: in order that "by His poverty,
we might be made rich." Gradually we learn as we
strive to live the Christ-life, which is the life of the
Spirit striving upwards towards his liberation, we
learn that all the really precious things we have
are the things that we can share with our fellow-men
if they lack them. For to grow into "the full stature
of the Christ," to become a Saviour of the world, means
that you keep nothing back for yourself, but share all
you have of precious and of rare with those that are
around you. It means that you are continually pouring
out all that you possess, and that when you have poured
it out, there flows from above, from the inexhaustible
reservoir of God Himself, into your empty hands there
pours down the power of the Godhead. And that is
the aim of the occultist, that he may spread that power
over the whole of the world, that in silence and in
secret he may send out thoughts, thoughts that are
powers, in order that the Civilisation in which he lives
may be saved from its dangers and helped to all that
is good. For even in this stage of our world that
can be done to some extent. This ought not to be a
wonderful thing to you, nor a thing incredible, when
you see how the ordinary scientist has found out that
these powers largely exist, and that he can utilise the
subtler powers that have been discovered in order
to spread human thought and human knowledge.
39
Moreover, owing to the cyclic law by which the Rays
come into power in due succession, the Ray known
as the seventh-during the dominance of which there
is a more widely spread communication between the
physical and the subtler worlds than has existed for
ages-is now coming into power once again. Under
this, by the use of due and appropriate ceremonial,
whether in the various religions, or in such ceremonies
as have come down from the Ancient Mysteries of
Egypt and Chaldea, of which fragments are found in
different Masonic Rites, the inhabitants of the subtler
worlds can co-operate with human beings, and both
gain by such co-operation increased power to aid
and quicken evolution. In the religions, the Beings
variously known as Angels, Devas, Shining Ones, are
drawn to the ceremonies and take effective part in
them, making them more potent for the helping of the
human beings who perform them ; and also taking from
the human beings vibratory forces belonging to the
physical world, that the human beings naturally use,
and that the inhabitants of the subtler worlds cannot
themselves generate. This co-operation between angels
and human beings is thus profitable to both, and you
may remember that it is specially mentioned in the
Bhagavad-Gita as bringing great good to the inhabitants
of the different worlds of denser and subtler matter.
Most religions in their rituals appeal to the Angels,
or Devas, to join with the human worshippers, and it
is obviously wrong to use invocations as a mere for-
mality, not expecting that any response will be made
by the Beings who are invoked. I have myself often
observed how ready is the response, and how the atmo-
sphere is changed when~ real invocation with expecta-
tion of the due reply is made.
As more and more children are born into the wor.ld
who are clairvoyant, the centre in the head which is
developing and is the organ for clairvoyant vision will
40
come more and more into use. Later still, the Angels
will be more ready to densify their subtle bodies, and
become thus visible to ·ordinary sight. Then the
"Fellowship of Angels and Men" will again become
a generally recognised part of human life, and their
radiant happiness and beauty will shed their benignant
influence on our earth.
Even now you can do much by the deliberate use of
your thought power. For what is your thought power?
It is a power that in your own brain can be measured
by a galvanometer. And as you have more strength,
as you have more power under your control, your
galvanometer needle swings more strongly. And what
you call thought becomes a galvanic current in your
brain-for all these forces are linked together. The
worlds are not separated really from one another, but
interpenetrate each other, and all the finer forms of
matter interpenetrate the coarser, as you may send
gas through water, or water through a porous solid
substance. Why, then, think it strange or incredible
that human thought, trained and developed to a know-
ledge of the powers which that thought can command,
can be used to improve the civilisation of the world,
to get rid of its evils, and to strengthen all that is good ?
And when many join together in combination to use
that thought power, when many congregating together
work along the same lines in order that the power may
be well directed, when the human will, which is our
highest and divinest power, directs the way in which
that current shall travel, do you wonder then that
great changes may be made even by comparatively
a few people using the power ? That is the power
used by the Inner Government of the world, subject
to conditions. For all Nature's laws have to be
obeyed. Knowledge is learned by obedience and not
by disobedience to law. But if there were many of
us, friends, who had the courage and the knowledge to
4I
tread this difficult path of the occultist, then we might
change the face of Europe and save it from the dangers
that menace it to-day. I do not know that there is
time enough to do it. I do not know that there are
enough of us, so we must put our strength together to
accomplish as much of the purpose as we can; but
in the New Civilisation which is dawning, in the New
Civilisation that is beginning to appear, although
still veiled and incomplete, in that Civilisation the
power of thought will be acknowledged and the outer
Civilisation will be shaped by the thoughts of the
noblest and the best. And in order that we may share
in laying its foundations, in order that our knowledge
may not remain without its fruit, in order that we may
learn something of what the future may be, and use our
dawning powers to hasten its coming, shall not some
be found in this great land of Britain who will put,
not only their country, but the world, before their
individual gain and interest, some who will throw away
the transient and work in the Eternal, and in that
way become helpers, a benediction to the world?
That is the thought I will leave with you as the outcome
of our thinking of the new religion in the New Civilisa-
tion. The new religion will be a religion of sacrifice
prompted by love and guided by knowledge. The new
religion will have as one of its mottoes the phrase voiced
by my friend William Stead and myself for a smaller
effort, "The union of all who love in the service of all
who suffer." That is one of the ideals that we shall
strive to realise. For that we seek the powers by which
we may help our race. And those who seek honestly
shall find ; those who give the fourfold knock, the knock
of the Cross of Sacrifice on the closed door, to them
that door will be opened; and by them the foundations
of the New Civilisation will be laid.
LECTURE III
EDUCATION IN THE NEW CIVILISATION
FRIENDS:-
My subject, Education in the New Civilisation, is
unfortunately rather a subject for a series of lectures
than for a single one. For it is complicated ; much
knowledge has to be grasped if a scheme, a system, of
education is to be developed which would lead to a
higher and better and more brotherly civilisation than
our own. I must do the best I can to start you think-
ing on the subject. And, after all, that perhaps is the
best use _of a lecture-not to dogmatise and impose
the opinions of the speaker, but to stimulate the members
of the audience to their own individual thinking. For
it is thus really that knowledge spreads, and by thought-
ful discussion much may be done to remedy the faults
of the past and to open up better avenues of progress
for the future.
When I speak of the New Civilisation, I have to
remind you that in.its fullness the Civilisation of the
next sub-race, and later of the Mother-Race, will take
long in evolving, and that during the time of the evolu-
tion of that new human type the present civilisation
will go on. Unless it breaks to pieces by continuing
on some of the lines on which it has started, that civili-
44
sation will continue, and I hope will evolve forms of
Education that will enable it to rise higher than it has
risen in the present, and to avoid terrible collapse, the
catastrophe which has swept away the earlier civilisa-
tions of our race. ·
And I shallwant to ask you to consider in dealing with
Education what you conceive of as the u human being,"
the children who form the subjects-and very often I
am afraid the victims-of the Education imposed
upon them by their elders. If the elders will consider
that every new generation brings some new gifts to
the human race, if they realise that what is wanted is
not merely that which they may have wished for in their
earlier days, but that which will help the new generation
to make progress, to develop all that it brings with
it; then the present civilisation in a higher form would
naturally continue while the younger sub-race and the
new Mother-Race were developing, and many, many
changes of the most vitally beneficial character might
be evolved, not for the New Civilisation, but for a higher
form of the civilisation that we have at present, the
civilisation of what we call the fifth, the mind sub-
race, of what used to be called the Aryan Race ; I
~lieve its name has been changed now, but I am going
to stick to it, because it covers other great groups, this
Aryan Mother-Race.
Now when we are considering what we mean when
we talk of the human being, we have no full records,
either religious or scientific in their nature, which
tell us of those great continents on which it is said
the human race was born and then developed, the
continents, the first of which is below the Pacific, and
the second of which is below the Atlantic Ocean. One
remnant is said to have been brought from Atlantis by
one who said that he had brought it to China from the
City of the Golden Gate-the capital of Atlantis. The
Classic of Purity it is called-a very small work. It
~5
has been translated into English, and is of wonderful
mystical beauty. There may be other remnants hidden
perchance in China, if ever that mysterious country
becomes open, willingly open-not by force-to the
thought, the scientific thought, which may evolve out
of the turmoil of the present.
There may possibly be hidden secrets of know-
ledge which that ancient race, sheltered from the great
catastrophe that shattered its Continent, may have
saved, may have developed, and may still have in its
keeping for the helping of our knowledge of the world
of the past. That, however, is only a matter of specu-
lation, and the first definite idea that we have as to
the stage of the human being in the great ladder of
life comes to us from our own ancient Motherland in
Central Asia among the Aryans. Some think-! do
not know with what justification-that parts of ·those
great Upanishads brought down into India were brought
from far-off climes and contained some of the knowledge
of the past which has been lost. Anyhow, taking
one of those, whatever its age may be, it tells us of
the One. " Spirit " or " Life " are both confusing
words because they connote their opposites, spirit
and matter, life and form ; whereas we are led back
in this to the manifestation of a fragment of that which
is pure Being, manifesting Itself in order to bring a
universe into manifestation after Itself, showing Itself
in three great ways, power, wisdom, activity. And in
a much later commentary on that statement we may
read that the first quality, pure existence, so to speak,
was shown in the mineral kingdom; then, that the
beginnings of feeling went on and produced the vege-
table kingdom; then, that a still greater activity pro-
duced the animal; and finally that in man the three
great modes of consciousness appeared that I men-
tibned-power manifesting as Will, wisdom as Realisa-
tion of the Supreme, creative activity as Intellect.
46
With these modes of consciousness limited in man, many
a Civilisation has been constructed.
Ancient India evolved for itself by thinking and
working a very wonderful system of Education, an
Education which showed a knowledge of man's nature,
showed how that nature could be trained and helped
to develop, taking it that under the whole of the multi-
plicity of forms there lay the Unity of the Supreme
Self. That Education remains to-day in history, but
very little in actuality in India now. For it has been
overlaid, crushed practically under the modem Educa-
tion carried thither from the West. And it is only
comparatively lately, by the efforts chiefly of Indians,
that it has been brought to light-though I must
pay a tribute on this matter to the Madras Govern-
ment, because it has issued for many, many years
now a definite history of uncovered memorials of every
kind, of buried inscriptions unburied, of inscribed
metal plates which had ·also become buried and been
brought up from excavations which had been carried
out. So that we have there a mine of information
as to the past, which makes it easy for anyone who
cares to take the trouble to reconstruct, not only the
history of Education in India, but also the record of
many unfortunate social and economic changes in
modem times. The history is full of valuable in-
formation, since the country lived by those ancient
institutions for thousands of years, and while they
existed, it was never known poor, never known ignorant,
and never known continuously miserable. The ancient
system of Education lay at the bottom of all the enduring
prosperity. I do not propose to go into its details,
because it would take far too long. ] dealt with it at
some length in a lecture delivered to the University of
Calcutta on ~~ Indian Ideals," one of which was the
Ideals in Education. It is interesting to note in passing
that it is an Indian Scientist, Sir Jagadish Chandra Bose,
47
who has proved in the experimental way of the West
the truth of the old religious teaching of the unity of
life, proving-to the satisfaction, as you know, of the
Royal Society that made him one of its Fellows-that
life reacted similarly in the human being and in the
sub-human kingdoms-in the animal and in the vege-
table and in the mineral. I believe he has some -hope
-I do not know that it can ever be realised-that he
will be able not only to descend into the sub-human,
but also to ascend into the super-human, and prove
the identity of s1:1per-human life in the subtler realms
of matter. However that may be, we have quite
enough to go upon in dealing with Education if we
are to utilise the ancient science of the East and the
modem science of the West. It is interesting that at
one supreme poirit these two are entirely at one, and
that is on the idea that it was evolution; stage after
stage of the development of life, which led up to man
reproducing the three great attributes of Spirit in Will,
in Self-realisation, and in Intellect.
We may drop for a moment into the Middle Ages
and find a Musalman Doctor striking again this note
of evolution. And in a very curious way ; for all
through it he spoke of himself as " I " passing through
the stages. For he wrote the striking words : " I died
out of the mineral and became a vegetable. I died out
of the vegetable and became an animal. I died out of
the animal and became a man. When did I ever
grow less by dying? I shall die out of the man and
become an angel." With a wonderfully keen insight
he pierced through the apparent ending of man at
death. He did not take refuge, as it were, in revealed
religion, but he declared that he had passed through
these stages, and had become man, and that death
would again presumably be the portal to a higher
stage of life and not the ending of life, as for a brief
time modern science was inclined to think. And when
-t8
we come to the many splendid discoveries of modem
science through the last half of the last century, we
find one very wonderful triumph of its thought. For a
time, almost blinded by the splendour of the facts dis-
covered, science was inclined to plunge into a material
explanation for the unfolding of life. You may remem-
ber how Professor Tyndall-you won't remember the
speech, I suppose, many of you, but you can read
it and you must know it, anyhow, by tradition-
declared to the British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science that we must look to matter for
the promise and potency of every form of life. And
then you may remember that twenty years later Sir
William Crookes exactly reversed, turned upside down,
that statement, and declared that we must look to life
as the force moulding and shaping matter-an idea that
was far truer than that of his predecessor.
Now when we come to look at man as he has
been evolved through many, many ages, then it is
not unnatural that we should strive to understand
how we can best add to the rapidity of his evolution
by utilising that intelligent appreciation and applica-
tion of natural law to the child that has been used
so successfully in the vegetable and the animal
kingdom. It is natural and right that we should
study the human being, that we should realise how he
is constituted, realise the great departments of this
evolving life, or I had better say unfolding life, develop-
ing, in the form in which it occupies, instruments suited
for its use. That was a very, very ancient idea. It
was said that the embodied Spirit desired to see-and
the eye ; Spirit desired to hear-and the ear; desired to
think-and the mind appeared. Always the struggle
of this embodied Universal Life to shape its instruments
and utilise them, utilise them for the growth of the
world, for the development, as it were, of those who
could reproduce in miniature its own perfections.
49
And looking at man in this way as a microcosm-
the word macrocosm has often been used of the world,
the universe around him-we have to distinguish in
him the different parts of his being, those that every
one of us recognises, whether we think or do not think
that those are reflections, or reproductions rather, of
the same modes of consciousness existing on a higher
level that do not enter at present into our "waking
consciousness" as we call it. And so we find ourselves
with this waking consciousness of 'Ours, which is the
consciousness with which we have to deal in Educa-
tion, although if we think there is a higher of which
it is the reproduction, that will largely influence our
main method of Education. For instead of thinking
of Education as merely an attempt to develop certain
qualities that the child brings with him, we shall think ,
of the child as an embodiment of the Divine Spirit,
that Spirit reproducing itself in miniature as what we
call his mind or thinking faculty, his emotions and
passions that we may call feelings, classing them
·together, closely related as they are, and these embodied
in a physical body through which they show themselves
in the outer world. On the unfolding of these, the
training of these, the helping of these to grow into
their higher forms, on that will depend our success in
Education. Therefore we need this knowledge of the
very essence of the human being, the Spirit, and his
manifestations through the mind, through the feelings,
and through the activities of the body.
So we have as the field of our Education, if I may so
call it, first, physical Education; -then emotional Educa-
tion, emotions being primarily the passions of the
body, the cravings of the body played on by the mind
when the man remembers and anticipates; the mind
can guide and direct those emotions and use them to
produce happiness and not, as do the passions of which
they are refinements, to spread unhappiness as the
4
so
later result of momentary physical pleasure. For this
we need niental education, including the drawing out
of the faculties of the mind and their training to their
utmost capacity.
For we want to make our child a citizen, a good
citizen, first in the family, then in the larger community
of town or city or country, then in the whole land as
a Nation. But shall this extending circle of citizenship
be bounded by the boundaries of the land in which he
lives? Or shall he overleap those boundaries? Shall
he utilise the teachings of the home, of the community,
of the Nation, widen out his circle to other Nations,
love them and serve them and help them wherever
opportunity occurs; become a citizen of the world
as well as a citizen of a country, have an international
duty, an international usefulness as well as that which
is limited by the boundaries of his own native land?
For if Education should be all that it might be, if our
knowledge of human nature makes it possible gradually
to eliminate the results of ignorance, gradually to
eliminate all the side which causes trouble to others
and replace that by service and comradeship with
others, if that be a possible result of Education, then
it is an ideal indeed, as all ideals should be, but also an
ideal to be reduced to practice. For an ideal is a fixed
idea that influences conduct; otherwise it is not worthy
of the name.
Looking at it in this wider way, we see this great
horizon opening up before us, beginning in the centre
of the home, carried on over the world in which we live.
Looking at it in that way, we begin to see that what
we are doing with the child is not simply drawing out
any germs of qualities that he may bring with him
which may be useful in the life for which he is preparing,
but that Education is very much more than that.
Some of you may have read Mr. Jinarajadasa's smaller
books in which one word very constantly occurs, and it
51
may have struck some of you as a curious word to
use in the connotation in which we find it, and that is
the word "Release." He speaks constantly not of
bringing out a quality, as it were, which the child has
in germ, but of releasing a power that the child has,
a power divine in its nature. So that Education
becomes a removal of obstructions in the way of that
power coming forth, rather than a nourishing of certain
germinal qualities which the child has-opinions differ
whence he has obtained them, but which he undoubtedly
possesses. No one now denies that a child is born with
a character. Some used to say it came by heredity,
and some now say it does not come that way. But
anyhow, it is there. One of my Musalman writer
friends, I remember-for I have read the little I can
which has been translated out of Arabic and dog Latin
of the Middle Ages-says that a child comes into the
world with his character tied round his neck, and that
is his destiny. A true connection, because more im-
portant than anything else in the destiny of the
child is the character which he brings with him into
the world. But if, instead of taking that idea, which
is a partial truth and is valuable in its way, we take
the other idea of the child as the embodiment of
Divinity, of the Divine Life, then we see him as having
in the activity of the creative intellect the higher life
of which the mind is a reproduction as known to
us through the brain; if we take the higher
spiritual quality of Self-realisation, Intuition as it
is sometimes called, then we realise that it is related
to the instincts and the emotions of the human
being, and in that supreme power of the Will, that
divinest part of man on which his happiness depends
in the future even more than it depends on the
purification of the emotions·, you have the possibility
of the only freedom which is real, and by bringing
the Will of the individual into accord with the
52
Universal Will, the Divine Will. That Will ever
works to greater and greater good, and we begin to
realise that freedom lies in service, service to the Divine
Will and accord with the Divine Will. For human
good, however slowly our ignorance may make it come,
lies in that will of man coming into accord with the
Divine Will. That is the secret of man's constant
progress, despite all temporary faults, all partial
setbacks.
One great lesson that we learn from the scientific
view of evolution is that all progress is made by the
efforts of the inner life, the struggle of that life to
express itself, the continual urge of that life to make
its vehicles of resistant matter bow to it and serve its
purpose in the outer world. For the purified will and
work of man is the hand of the Divine, as it were, in
our world. And through man God works out His
beneficent purpose, and makes the children of men the
redeemers of the world. That is the work of Educa-
tion, to liberate, to release, the Divine within what
we call man's higher nature, and also to train its repro-
duction in the lower by those outer methods of teaching
which will conduce best to the evolution of the Divine
Man, the unfolding of the Hidden God within.
And as we begin to think over this, we also begin to
realise that the Civilisation that we desire must be the
aim of our Education, that its very aim and purpose
must be to make a Civilisation which is worthy of
humanity. And I submit to you two or three facts
in the civilisation round us which show fairly clearly
that as Education has produced the people of to-day,
the citizens of to-day, there must be something sadly
wrong with the Education given to the young, where
these faults show themselves in the adults, the stains
on civilisation, that it is our duty to try to remove.
Now one of those I will put to you a little brutally
for the moment. It sounds very harsh, but I want to
53
mention to you one or two facts in passing which I
think will show you why I say that this Education
of ours must be defective in some vital matters. In
the adults of to-day there is so much indifference to
suffering among their fellow-men. Now I know that
that sounds harsh, and your minds will go to the many
efforts that are made to lessen suffering, to the many
attempts of good men and women to sacrifice themselves
in order to help others. All those are good and true
and beautiful. But if there were not in the majority
a rooted indifference to the conditions of their fellows,
you could not have lasting in the life of to-day
certain things that we are capable of remedying and
that are not remedied, because we have not yet eradicated
from our nature a certain pleasure in danger to others
provided we are not involved-in it ourselves. And this
is true not only here; it is true everywhere to an extent
that is shocking when you begin to consider it. You
note how continually people talk about something that
gives them a thrill; but if you enquire into the kind of
thrills that they seek, you mostly find that they involve
some danger to human life or human limb. Take a
thing like the racing at Brooklands, and you will see
exactly what I mean; the tearing round and round
a circle made for the purpose and the eager people
who watch it, knowing that at any moment those
drivers may be flung broken from their cars, not for
any good purpose, but to get a·certain speed more than
somebody else has reached. If it were an effort to
save a human life, if it were an effort to carry assistance
to some scene of disaster, then men are justified in
risking their own lives, but not that they may get a
money prize, not that they may bring crowds to watch
them. These are things that demoralise a people.
But there is a much worse side to this. I am very fond
of reading the Morning Post. I do not say I agree with
it. but I set a ~ood de~l of \lSe~l ipfoqnatio~ fro~ it,
54
I have two extracts here-I do not think they are
meant to be read together-but they come out of the
same number, June 14th, so that I am not to blame if
I do cut them out of the paper and read them together.
They will show you exactly what I mean by indifference
to human suffering. Now the first of these-this is a
short one-is the last stage in the Devonshire House
scheme. There is another block wanted, and that is
going to consist of 105 luxurious fiats, and :6350,000
are going to be spent on those " luxury fiats," as they
are called. That is the heading of it. It drew my
attention-" £350,ooo Luxury Flats. The last stage
in the Devonshire House Scheme." Between two
and three millions altogether are being spent on that
scheme. Now this same instructive journal gives an
account of a survey carried out in the City of West-
minster, and that survey has revealed not anything
that people do not know generally about the condi-
tion of large numbers of the poor, but some specific
cases. They give a fair number of them here, and
they point out that a great many of the people live
in damp basements. They give one case of a widow
with three daughters and a son, i.e. five people living
in two rooms, the back room terribly damp, and the
tenant remarked, u We have to live like animals."
That was a mistake of the tenant. Valuable animals
are kept very carefully from disease that would grow
out of keeping them in damp basements. Their lives
are too valuable to their owners, more valuable than
the human lives that are spoken of here. That was
in Rutland Street. In Aldemay Street there are damp
basements with the boards laid on mud without con-
crete foundations, and sewer rats so numerous that
within twenty-four hours of the laying of a new board
it was eaten through. That is enough, I think, to
show you the contrast between the luxury flats that
~re bein~ built o~ the Devo~shire lfo~ sjte a.Jld
55
the way in which people live in the City of West-
minster, not so very far removed from the Devonshire
House site.
Friends, I submit that if these things exist and are
published in a newspaper read by many, many thou-
sands of people without one word of protest-a doctor
said it was not worse than other places, in fact it was
better than some places-that is not much satisfaction
to the people who have t~ die there. I ask you whether,
if we all really cared about it as we should care about it,
if our brother or our mother were living in the City of
Westminster in one of these horrible places, would we
allow without protest the waste of huge sums on luxury
fiats for a handful of people, while we know that thou-
sands of people in London are living in basements and
attics and in sculleries, and carrying on their lives
suffering almost from birth to death? I have been
down to some places in the East End. I have talked
to some of the people there, and I remember vividly
a splendidly made woman who had come from
the country. I looked at her children, little wizened,
starved creatures. If we all remember these things and
work against them, they could not last. And I plead
for an Education that shall teach the younger genera-
tion whose hearts are warm, whose enthusiasm is easily
stirred, whose emotions are quick and can be guided
by high ideals of social service, and to the reform of
scandalous .
abuses, I plead for such Education in order
that this misery may be removed, because their hearts
will be ready to work for the redemption of the people
when they have been educated to understand their
duties as citizens of a land like this. And if you say
it would cost a great deal of money, gra{lted. There
is money enough wasted, not only in luxury fiats ; why
not scrap your battleships, and use the money you
waste on them on the Education of the children on
humane and noble lines ?
56
Now let us glance a little more in detail at how we
should begin this work of better Education. I have
mentioned those departments of our waking conscious-
ness, because those are indubitable facts. They are
before you all the time. Now how are you to release
the Divine Spirit if you believe in God, or to train the
emotions of sympathy and comradeship and compassion
which we find in all young people ? Now the first
thing you want to get rid of entirely is fear. Think of
the child for a moment, how helpless it is, a baby born
into the world. The mite of a creature surrounded
by great giants,· I imagine, to its little eyes, absolutely
at their mercy. Then consider how often, as that
baby grows, especially among the thoughtless and the
careless, he is frightened, threatened if people are at
all inclined to roughness. And even thoroughly good
people as we know them are thoughtless as to the way
they speak to a little child. Has it ever struck you
that a child should never hear a harsh word addressed
to itself, and never have a moment's fear of anything
from which he can be guarded? For the great quality
we all of us want, the great quality we all of us admire,
the quality we must have if a Civilisation is to be re-
formed, is that quality of courage to which fear is the
great obstacle. If a child is to grow up as he should
grow up, brave and full of courage, full of enthusiasm
for the right, then it must never know what it is to
fear. I know that sometimes it is said children have
faults. Yes I So have we. But we are not afraid, as
the child is made afraid. A child has no defence-
especially at home. Its parents sometimes lose their
tempers, although the child apparently must never
lose his. For if he loses his he is "very naughty."
Now we want an Education that shall be absolutely
devoid of anything that creates fear, because half the
faults, as they call them, of the children are the result
of fear.
57
I can remember a silly little story of my own very
young childhood when my brother and I had made a
little festival for my dolls and his animals, I think, and
there had been a large sugar almond put as a kind of
piece de resistance for the occasion. I was accused of
stealing this. Well, I had not, as a matter of fact,
and I said I had not. Somehow or other, whether it was
that a servant took it and wanted to shield herself I
do not know, but it had disappeared and I was whipped
for the lie. That is to say, I was frightened into saying
what was not the truth. I was made to tell a lie. I
had spoken the truth when I said I did not touch the
thing. I do not know to this day what became of it.
I remember my terror, and I was finally forced to say
I had taken it. Whether it was a good thing to think
that I was a thief and a liar I do not know. I am sure
that my own dear mother never thought I was either
of them, but she thought a child ought to be taught
to tell the truth. The way to tell the truth is to make
a child fearless, not to frighten it. For a child has
many difficulties in what we call telling the truth. In
the first place he has a very vivid imagination, and
that is a thing that I would ask all of you who are
elders to remember. A child's body does not know
the world into which it has come. It is interested and
amused watching things. It fancies a great many
things that you and . I would say were not there.
Whether they are there or not may be a question as to
whether we ourselves are, or are not, what is called
clairvoyant. I know of one case of a child that had
as playmate another child who was not visible to physical
sight, and he used to come out into the garden and
play with this invisible child and talk to it and talk
of it. Having sensible people around, nobody con-
tradicted the child, nobody said anything against it.
That is one way in which children are often misjudged,
and tha.t is why I mention it. Do not take it for
58
granted when they say to you what seems to be untrue,
do not take it for granted that it is untrue for them.
Then remember that a child with a quick imagination
will see things-not with the physical eye truly; but
how shall a child distinguish in the use of words
in a language it is re-learning or learning perhaps for
the first time. The knowledge of a presence there, to
a child, is seeing. There are many things of that sort
in which young children suffer a great deal and often
lose a faculty that might be developed, because they
are afraid of being accused of telling a lie. Then again,
if they are sensitive, if they are afraid of a harsh word
or of ridicule, it is we who are driving them into false-
hood. I am thinking of the value of courage, which is
natural to the free Spirit, remembering a very fine
verse of an old Hindu Scripture, that God is fearless.
Let us realise that we should give the child the com-
pletest liberty consistent with his safety from injury.
As we watch him try to understand him ; see what
is his bent, as we call it; see what is his special
faculty and what are his peculiar powers, what he
does not possess that we might like him gradually to
develop. Then let us try to give him the Education
which will cause these powers he shows to develop
to their fullest. Remember that this is the right of
the child. For it is the weak who have rights, and
the strong have duties-a fact that is too often forgotten.
Now we hear a great deal about the rights of men.
I do not complain of that particularly, but I would
rather hear of the rights of the child and of the animal;
for they cannot defend themselves. We have the duty
of protection. And in the New Civilisation and in, I
hope, the improvement of this Civilisation, children
will be taught, and they will learn easily, to love all
who are around them, human beings, animals, play-
mates, all the things that feel. And they will never
know 'wha,t it is to find an animal they have loved and
59
petted, as sometimes happen in country districts,
appear on the dinner table, to the horror and suffering
of the children. Very few children like meat naturally.
Why should we not get rid of the meat diet altogether
when we know all the suffering that it cause~? Many
of your diseases ~orne from the poisons caused by
the terror of the creature led to the slaughter-house
at the smell of blood. It poisons its blood which then
you have in its flesh on your tables. As has been well
said, you often "eat pain." Then you wonder why
disease is spreading. You wonder at the spread of
cancer, a very painful disease. And you torture other
animals to find out cures, instead of stopping the torture
of the animals that you eat for food. In the New
Civilisation we shall not have meat. We shall do with-
out it, and we shall be very much more comfortable
and very much healthier and very much happier for its
absence. Of course, you all know that such absence
is one of the conditions made in some countries where
they have Yoga as a part of religion. People who do
not trouble about the suffering of creatures in order
that they may have the perverted pleasure of meat-
eating do not realise at all the effect of that meat-
eating on themselves. One of the things I was most glad
to hear of in America was that the Chicago purveyors
of meat are complaining of the spread of vegetarianism
and the decrease of the orders that they receive-that
great element of compassion is increasing, that duty
to the sub-human kingdoms, that these younger rela-
tives of ours of the animal kingdom are not ours to
use as we like, but ours only that we may help in their
evolution. People talk about the cruelty of nature.
But what is the cruelty of nature to the wild animal
compared with the cruelty of man to the domesticated
animal ? The wild animal knows very little of fear if
it is really wild, and is not so savage as some of you
might thi~~. The villa~ers of lJldia drive away the
6o
tiger with sticks from their villages if he intrudes into
them out of the forest ; but then again they do not
go into the forest to shoot the tiger for amusement
in the place that is its natural habitat. We have to
alter our feeling altogether in our relation to those who
are in our power, whether they are human children or
whether they belong to the sub-human kingdoms.
Animals are ours for service-our service to them-
because that helps on their evolution. They pay us
back with love, many of them, and we can make their
service to us helpful and not so harmful as it often is
to-day. This great human virtue of compassion, of
pity, of sympathy, if we use it habitually and cherish
it in the children, they will show it as they grow up
and leave a nobler and a better civilisation. So part
of our Educationmust be thissense of comradeship with
everything that lives around us.
Then there is the training of their own bodies.
Remember that that training cannot be done well
unless the child during the first seven years of life
has thoroughly healthy surroundings, plenty of nourish-
ing food, and open spaces for air and sunlight.
Gradually, I believe, people are beginning to under-
stand that those first seven years of life can never be
made good later, if advantage is not taken of them during
those years. The physical health of the body through
life is injured by neglect of thoroughly healthy sur-
roundings through those seven years, and special work
has to be done with the body during those years.
Scientists will tell you the child goes through the
stage of the savage. His senses are very, very keen.
Think, then, of these senses and their Education. For
those are the years when their education is of vital
importance. But, above all, take care of the physical
health. Look at our children here, so many of them
playing in the streets. It is not only the danger of
being run over; it is the constant sapping danger of
61
want of fresh air and sunlight which undermines their
health for the whole of their lives. That is a point
which I would ask all of you to consider. There are
so many squares in London-you know it well-where
the people living in the houses round them have each
a key, but very seldom trouble to go into the square.
Why not throw them all open to the children, children
of the poor, and let these empty squares, instead of
alleys and slums, be their playgrounds. One of the
good signs that you may see is that efforts are being
made to provide playgrounds in every City where
children may go and have the possibility of healthy
and useful exercises, and have the training of the senses
in those first seven years.
I expect you know the story of Houdini, the great
conjurer, how he trained the senses of his son, because
he wanted him to be a conjurer in his turn. As he
walked through Regent Street with this little bit of a
boy when he passed a window he said to the boy, ''Just
look in as we walk past." A little time after, when he
asked him what there was in the window, at first the
child did not know. But that training of the child's
eyes grew to such an extent. that after a time he could
name almost every object as he walked slowly past
the window, and could remember them all, imprinting
them on the brain rapidly as he went by.
Now, as you know, that training is part of the Montes-
sori System, not in that particular form, but the training
of the eye, the training of the ear, the training of touch
to distinguish different fabrics. All these sense quali-
ties are very vivid in the child and very easily trained.
During the next stage of seven years you have to
think of the emotions. Do not wait till the emotions
become tumultuous; do not wait until these emotions
surging through the boy and girl are not understood by
them, not knowing what they are or whence they
come. That is not the time to begin the training
62
of the emotions. It is by holding up great ideals,
especially examples of human excellence, stirring the
minds of the young boy, of the young girl from seven
to fourteen, stirring them with the ideals of the really
great men of the world-! do not mean great soldiers.
I do not mean great generals and admirals, or people
of that kind. I mean great benefactors of the human
race, great masters of painting, of sculpture, of all
things that are beautiful, great men who serve their
race, who sacrifice themselves for men and not men
for themselves-the difference between the hero and
the coward. Hold up these before the boys and
girls, and they will try to work them into their
own lives.
Training in some manual occupation should be part
of Education from the beginning. For manual labour
should accompany the training in literature, in mathe-
matics, in all the subjects of ordinary Education. In
addition to these, there should be manual training for
all, for that teaches accuracy and dexterity, teaches
grace of body as well as strength of body. And the
body must be thus trained through youth as well as
in the younger days and on into manhood, so that our
men and women may be more beautiful with each
generation, as they will be if this side of their educa-
tion is attended to. Then we shall begin to realise
what a human body can do. We shall understand
how much can be developed. And in the training of
the body do not forget the training of what they call
team games, for this trains character as well as the
body-the following of a leader whom you have chosen
for his skill, the willingness to take an insignificant
part in the game, if it makes it the best for the group
with which you are playing, the willingness to be insigni-
ficant so long as the group wins-those are steps on
the way of Service. Those are gradual trainings of the
character in good temper, in comradeship, in willingness
63
to work, not for any absolutely personal end. In that
way you train the growing youths and make them
better citizens of the Commonwealth of which they
will form a part. Then when you come to fourteen
or onwards, then is your chief time for the training of
the mind. The reason is a physical one, that until
about that age the brain has not developed the network
of cells necessary for the purely intellectual studies, the
studies in which logic, reasoning, are involved, and in
which an argument is carried on from one point to
another. You know how very often boys at school
are taught Euclid. I am afraid that sometimes, not
following the proof, they learn the letters marking
lines and angle$ so that they can recite the problem
perfectly, but if you alter the letters they are lost.
It is no good to blame them. They cannot reason
things out. We have to suit our Education to the
child, not only to his own special qualities but to
those common qualities of the growth of the brain
which must be thought of, if our Education is to be
thoroughly wholesome and not harmful in its object.
And make your education as varied as you can.
Never force the child. I know sometimes the child
will be what you call idle. He does not want to be
idle, but he does not want the particular job you are
giving him to do for the moment. If you would try to
follow the child's likes and dislikes more, as teachers
are beginning to do, you would find that very often the
thing the child wants to do is the thing for which he
has special capacity and power, and the thing which
you want him to do is a thing for which he has very
little faculty, very little power of enjoyment in the
learning. A child wants to know, and that is what
every teacher should remember. But he does not
always want to know what the teacher wants to teach
him. That is a very different thing. A wise teacher,
if he finds the pupil inattentive and careless will put
64
that particular subject aside for the time and find out
what the child really wants. You will not spoil the
child by that attention to the nature that he has, and
you can teach him to make an effort to learn at a time
when he will be willing to make it. If you have con·
sidered him, he will consider you in turn. He will
respond to your thoughtfulness, to your kindness, to
your readiness to meet him half-way. Very often if a
child is tiresome at his work and you turn him out
into the playground for hall an hour, he will come back
refreshed and bright and ready to go on again ; whereas
if you put him in the corner or try to punish him foolishly,
you will only make him sulky and ill and full of dis-
like. The great triumph of a school is where the pupils
are all glad to go back to it after the holidays, because
the children look forward to the varied employments
and pleasures there-what they are doing, what they
are accomplishing, what they are creating.
But now if this is to be done there is one point I
must put to you, and it is this: neither student nor
teacher should ever have anxiety during the educational
period as to his means of living, as to any cost he may
undergo. Now in the old days in India it was the
duty of the learned man to teach, and those great
Universities of India were wonderfully beautiful. You
can read the stories of travellers, and especially of
Chinese travellers, who went into India sometimes to
find learning at those very places: It was the rule
there that the State, or the Government, or the wealthy
people, gave the money for Education, but they did
not exercise any control over the money. That is they
did not control the Education. That was the duty
of the teachers. I wonder if it would be possible to
get that into the modern head. The Education of the
child is vital for the Nation. An ignorant child grows
up a danger to the State. The better educated your
children are, the fewer will find their way to the gaol,
65
or the workhouse, or the asylum. The old rule was
that what the teacher wanted should be supplied to
him, so that he need not be anxious about himself or
his family, and thus not as good a teacher as he other-
wise would be. I have read the lists of the clothes
supplied and so on at the various Universities of India.
The same thing was true of the Gove~nments of that
day. They thought if a man's duty was to teach, he
would be the best judge as to how he should teach.
· And while they gave money from the King's Treasury,
the King had no share in the control of Education.
Apply that to your modern schools and your modern
Governments, and you will get rid of your Government
Inspectors ; moreover, you would have better teachers
where teaching is honoured and respected as it was in
the old days in India. I read how in a great convoca-
tion at a University the King of the State came in and
no one moved. But when the Head of the University
came in, "the Venerable of Venerables," everybody
got up, King and students and public and everybody
else, and waited until he took his seat. Social rank
was given to the learned and not to the wealthy or
to the rulers. There again you will find a possible
answer to the question of expense. In those old
days they used to divide the rewards to people
according to the kind of work they did. The teacher
must have food and clothing, but he did not want
rnagnificence or splendour of any kind. His learning
was his wealth, and his_ reward was honour, fame.
Another reward was wealth, and the third power.
The teacher did not have wealth heaped upon him, but
a sufficiency only, since his reward was the honour in
which he was held. And the merchant-he was the
man to have wealth, and his duty was to supply the
wants of those whose work for the Nation did not bring
them wealth. And the ruler might be splendid for
his reward was power, but he was not regarded as one
5
66
who was to have everything else heaped upon him.
You give one man-say a Prime Minister-a big income
and power and honour, heaping on one all the different
rewards that can be given. But the harder the work
a man does, the more disagreeable it is, the more it is
of the nature of drudgery, the longer it is and the smaller
are the wages. That is just the upside down way of
distributing the various rewards that a civilisation should
give to its workers. Every man ought to have a voca-
tion in the State. Vocational Education is coming
back to you. It is what they called Caste Education in
India long ago, for the caste was the vocation for which
the man's powers fitted him. Gradually we must
realise that every man has a duty to the Nation into
which he is born, that no man has a right to monopolise
all rewards, but that every man should have his share;
that which is needful for a happy and healthy life.
We must have a civilisation where everyone is educated
for the first twenty-one years of life, as you educate
very often the people who are least useful to you in your
civilisation ; we must give every man respect who does
his duties as a,good citizen, whether he be a labourer
or whatever he be. Remember also that if he does hard
drudgery, then he ought to be better paid than the
man who does easier or pleasanter work, because that
drudgery increases for him the difficulty of the human.
life. We should give short hours and higher wages to
the man who does the unpleasant drudgery, so that
he may have leisure, and means to fill that leisure with
the cultivation of the more human qualities which are
denied him by the civilisation of to-day.
Do you know that in America, where everyone is now
educated, where it is very difficult to get a servant at
all, that the house hasmachinery bywhich all the difficult
parts and the drudgery parts of household work are
done. The mistress of the house, even though she
may be well off, does not have a dozen servants as
67
she might have here. She does the work, because the
machinery does it for her. She puts the materials for
the dinner together, arranges them in the machine,
turns a little dial to the hour at which she wants the
dinner to be ready, and goes out about her other work,
or her amusements or duties, and she finds the dinner
cooked and ready waiting for her at the hour to which
she has pointed on the dial; so that household work
there is not a burden. I have been living in America
just recently, that is how I know about these particular
details. _I want them applied all through, because I
have often said, in speaking of machinery, that it is
meant to give leisure to workers and not to make them
into machines. What you are doing now with your
machinery is to make a man the slave of the machine
instead of the machine being the slave of the man, to
give him leisure and time for cultivating his more human
qualities.
I look for a civilisation in the days to come, even
before the next great human type has thoroughly
developed, in which we shall have a civilisation of
comradeship, a civilisation in which we can easily meet
together socially, in which all will be educated, will
be trained in good manners and courtesy and the graces
of human life. That is the eivilisation that you can
make if you will. There is time enough for you to do
it while the other human stage is developing. If you
have the will to do it, the heart to do it, the courage
to do it, then you may make an Education which will
change the face of your Civilisation and all will have
a life really worth the living, noble in its aims, beautiful
in its surroundings, great fu. its achievements, the life
of which man is capable, for which man is intended.
Let us try to make that life possible by an Education
that will create a civilisation worthy of the human race.
LECTURE IV
ECONOMICS OF THE NEW CIVILISATION
FRIENDS:-
To-night I am going, as you know, to discuss a
very thorny subject o11twhich much difference of opinion
is found. And so I repeat, in order to avoid any possible
misunderstanding, that in discussing any subject on
which difference of opinion exists I am not com-
mitting in any way the Theosophical Society of which
I am the President, because within our Society all
opinions are free. Everyone is expected to form his
own opinions, and I have no authority of any kind,
C!:5 well as no desire, to impose my own particular
opinions on any member of the Society. The only
thing that we are all bound to is Universal Brother-
hood. We try to be a nucleus of such Brotherhood,
to spread it abroad in the world ; but the Society
does not lay down any special way in which that
Brotherhood is to be brought about. People of very
different opinions as to the methods of realising Brother-
hood are equal members of the Society, with their own
methods of carrying out its objects. Therefore I say
specially to-day, where I shall put forward very definite
opinions with regard to Economics in the New Civilisa-
70
tion, that I am speaking entirely for myself, stating
the way in which I interpret the practice of Brother-
hood, and not imposing upon any member of the Society
the particular form along which I am working to realise
that Brotherhood.
Now there is a very general consensus of opinion, I
think, that the present condition of things is intolerable;
indeed, in very many ways it would be ludicrous if it
were not intolerable. - And in order not to multiply
a number of opinions, I have selected two that I have
come across during the last week of very _widely
separated classes of opinion·both of which agree on the
intolerable conditions that now exist. Both of them
agree in the absolute necessity of removing these con-
ditions, and of the responsibility and the duty that lies
upon us. Now one of these is-in this week's Spectator,
which, I understand, is now regarded as a Conservative
journal, and therefore naturally not in favour of very
violent changes. It publishes some of those particulars
to which I alluded last week of the condition of certain
par:ts of Westminster which, it -says, exists within a
stone's-throw of Buckingham Palace. Mter describing
these conditions, the frightful conditions in -which
many of the people of the slums of Westminster live,
it goes on to say:
To publish such things, knowing that they are true and ·
that there is no quick and simple remedy, makes us bum
with shame. Why do we tolerate such breeding-grounds
for disease and degeneracy ? Why, at whatever cost, do
we not strike a blow in the teeth of the wrong ? ·
And then it goes on to argue, and to argue quite
truly:
It is we who are alive and who glory in the many-sided
life of to-day on whom the responsibility falls. We have
chosen our path. We cannot go back on the industrial
road of Western civilisation. Indeed, we would not do so.
7I
A -true conception of Christianity and consequent co
operation between classes will, we believe, yield ar richer
harvest in human happiness than any of the crack-brained
extremist doctrines of Communism. But slums such as
these in the Victoria Ward of Westminster are a menace
to all that we hold most dear and a proof of how incomplete
is the expression of our faith. Let us remember also that
the Victoria Ward is only one of fifty cankers in London,
and that there are a score of other cities equally diseased
in these islands.
There is the view, then, from a highly respectable
Conservative newspaper.
The other quotation that I selected.comes as a result
of a Missionary Conference, and it is headed : " The
Demand of World Renaissance: The Missionary
Response." It begins by the statement:
A drastic transformation of attitude by the Christian
forces of the West was called for throughout the sixteenth
Annual Conference of the Missionary Societies of Great
Britain and Ireland, which broke up on Saturday morning
after three and a half days at the Hayes, Swanwick.
Then after giving a number of reasons why action
had to be taken, it points out that a definite effort must
be made in order that the present conditions may be
changed:
Our impotence arises from a lack of joyful confident
expectation of the Kingdom and all that it implies.
Then it goes on to say that that is what the Missionary
Societies should be doing :
Only when we get that can we irradiate our home field
as well as the field of Islam, Hinduism, and the rest with
the light of Christ.
Now look at these two confessions for a moment;
they each represent the present conditions of things as
intolerable.· In fact one speaker described how a group
72
ofdesperate Christians,worried todeathby the impotence
of the Church in face of a changing world, came together
and gradually are finding light. That is a position I
think in which most of us will agree if we try to think
it over, and to realise what are the conditions which
cause this intolerable state.
Right economics must be the foundation.of any real
and serious dealing with the great problem of poverty
as it exists in modern countries. You cannot persuade
people for the most part to listen very patiently to other
sorts of reforms, if they are suffering from pressing
physical needs, if their bodies are ill-nourished, if they
dwell in slums, if the general conditions of health,
even of reasonable health, are unattainable by them in
their daily lives. Disquisitions on Economies even can
ha.t:dly interest them, unless these Economics point to
methods of remedy, remedy for which those who speak
of it are prepared to work and to bring about in
a reasonable time. It ought almost to be enough to
provoke economic changes to consider what I spoke
of as the real absurdities which exist in our midst.
I mean such things as you see every day at the present
time, of vast numbers of unemployed, potential pro-
ducers of the articles neceSsary for life, yet unemployed,
and those articles which they themselves might produce
cannot be produced by them because of the social
conditions under which they are living. They cannot
get employment; and without employment they are
obliged to spend their time in idleness ; and to depend
on some form of charity which injures their self-respect,
at the same time as they cannot avoid it if they desire
to keep their bodies alive.
Now the fact of that co-existence of people who could
produce what they want and yet who remain in forced
idleness-surely that is a thing which ought to be
remediable by human thought applied to the conditions,
73
the social conditions, and the economic conditions
which prevail in this country. And those are not the
only points that have been urged over and over and
over again against the economic system under which
we live. It has been pointed out, as you know, that
the more successful labour is in the quantity of the
articles it produces, the ·more is it faced with the state
of over-production, and is thrown either upon the
streets or shorter hours, so that the over-produced
articles may find a market whereby they can be distri-
buted among those who can pay for them.
Now surely there is something inherently absurd in
the fact that warehouses are bursting with goods which
labour has produced· and needs, while that very labour
suffers from its over-production of goods, although it
is under-supplied with the very articles that it has so
lavishly produced? These are things that leap from
the very surface to our eyes, and yet they go on year
after year, yet very little real effort is made to get rid
of them by dealing with the fundamental causes,
economic causes, that produce them, allowing those
causes to continue to produce unemployment and so
to make labour, as it were, very largely its own execu-
tioner for a time. There are so many things of that
sort that have been dinned into the ears of the public
year after year, year after year, and yet the system goes
on existing amongst us, either as if we had no brains to
remedy it, or no hearts to sympathise with the sufferings
that it produces.
Now, as I have said to you, in America they have
been able to abolish poverty for the native-born
American. I have to ·make that limitation because
you still have poverty in the slums of a few cities in
which the immigrants multiply. We can find working
in America a number of causes which point to the
way by which poverty might be abolished in other
74
countries as well as in America. And in dealing with
this let us remember that the Americans gradually,
though very rapidly, have abolished poverty among
themselves. We can find there has been going on for
some years what has quite rightly been called by a
well-known Professorof Harvard University, u An Indus-
trial Revolution in the United States.'' That Industrial
Revolution has not been a violent one. It has not been
a Revolution brought about by legislative enactment.
It has been brought about by the deliberate thought
of the people themselves, by starting certain means of
action deliberately adopted, some on the part of the
manual working community, others on the part of the
employing community, which have changed the con-
ditions of labour in certain very effective ways.
It is not necessary for me to dwell long on these
because they are very obvious when they are men-
tioned; but I mention them in order that you may see
what can be done in a country even without legislation
in order to give into the hands of the workers the mastery
over their own labour, making machines as they should
be, the servants of men, not men the servants of
machines, the producers of comfort for the workers by
utilising certain definite means; some of these, as I
say, have been done by the workers themselves, others
where the employers have shown a remarkable public
spirit. These I mention because they show what can
be done, even without legislation, if the people under-
stand the causes of poverty, and themselves take
action in order to put an end to them.
Now one of those means which I read very carefully
in this book, speaking of the Industrial Revolution in
the United States, by Professor Carver of Harvard
University, dwelt upon certain conditions brought
about by the workers themselves through their Trade
Unions. I was struck with that, because it was one
·75
.of the things that had been suggested, but .suggested
vainly, by my old friend and comrade Charles Brad-
laugh, when he was advising especially the Northum-
berland and Durham miners-who were men of very
strong independence of character and very well versed
in the politics of the time-when he was advising them
to use the accumulated funds of their unions, not in
strikes but in purchasing businesses and carrying them
·on co-operatively under their own control. I presume
that in that, as in so much else, he was somewhat
before his time, for the idea was not effectively carried
out. One or two attempts at co-operative production
were made. They unfortunately failed, largely owing,
I am sorry to say, to the jealousy of the workers them-
selves of their own leaders, the lack of trust and
confidence in men who, by superior ability, had shown
themselves capable of conducting business effectively,
but who raised jealousy rather than gratitude, unfor-
tunately, in those early days of co-operative production.
(Co-operative distribution had been very largely carried
out with success.)
Now in the United States that idea has been very
well realised. The Trade Uni<>ns have bought up
businesses, and knowing.that the banks established by
capitalists would not finance a working-class business
that was growing, they took the very sensible step of
creating their own labour Trade Union Banks. Those
banks consisted of members of the Trade Union. They
did not appeal to the public at all. They were made,
created, by the Trade Union that had purchased the
business. They stored in their own banks any money
that they ·saved, and so financed the growing .business,
and have carried on several such businesses in the
States which are thoroughly successful. Along that
line there has been this co-operative industry making
certain Trade Unionists masters of their own labour, and
76
profiting by its results by dividing the profits along
co-operative lines.
I also found that there was a rather strange pheno-
menon there-the way in which certain great employers
began and are now continuing to bring in those they
employas partners in their own business. It is the ha]:>it
over there, and I suppose elsewhere, to give at certain
times a bonus to labour in recognition of the share it has
had in producing the result which goes so largely to the
employers. Lately, some firms have been beginning not
to give a money bonus but to give to their employees
dividend-bearing shares in the business in which the
men are employed; thus they have made them share-
holders in the business. And as these shareholders
multiply, they will gradually become the majority in
the Company; and even before that is done they have
the right to vote at the regular shareholders' meetings
and thus have a share in the control of the business in
which they are producing wealth.
Another thing that has been done there, and that is
specially the action of very generous individuals, is
that the Capitalist is putting a limit on his own accumu-
lations. I presume men have found that they cannot
use more than a certain amount of money, cannot wear
more than a certain amount of clothes, or eat more
than a certain amount of food. They find that they
have more wealth than they really can use for the
increase of their own happiness. They get, in fact, a
satiety of wealth. The result of that has been that
they have voluntarily, in some marked cases-keeping
what will give them a respectable competency as they
consider it, for the rest of their lives-handed over
the rest of the business and its accumulated capital
to be worked by the employees, under the guidance
of the cleverest men there, who have been accustomed
to management under the control of the real employers.
77
And so the business goes on producing its profits in the
hands of the workers who make that wealth. These
are the main lines of work by which great changes have
been brought about in the United States. As I say,
they have practically abolished poverty for the Ameri-
cans. I am obliged to put in those words because the
immigrant population (which they have now very care-
fully limited) is a certain menace if it should be allowed
to grow too large; so now only a certain percentage
of people of every country can enter the country each
year. And these still live in the conditions of poverty
in the places where they congregate, although, I presume,
they gradually become assimilated with the American
people, generally by inter-marriage, and so on.
Now, looking at these, we can see a number of forces
at work which, while they are voluntarily set agoing,
do ameliorate to an extraordinary extent the poverty
that we find in the older countries. I do not think
that those are changes that are likely to do very much
over here, except, perhaps, the first one of the buying up
of a business and working it co-operatively by the
Trade Union that buys it. But there is one other
point that we may just notice in passing that has
made an enormous difference to the working classes of
America, and that is, that not only do they have an
exceedingly good education, but also there is no feeling
of class there, which puts a man into a particular social
position because of the employment in which he gains
his livelihood. That is a feeling which has entirely
disappeared, so far as I have seen, and I have mixed
with many kinds and types of people there; there is
that social feeling of self-respect and of respect for
others which makes the ordinary workman in America
feel himself to be a citizen in a free country. He is
neither aggressive in asserting that fact, nor apparently
conscious of any other possibility, He talks with you
78
as your equal, as over here a person, in whatever class
he may happen to be, would speak with those whom
he considers to be his social equals.
You have, then, peculiar conditions in America which
you could not easily reproduce in an old country like
this. But I do desire to suggest to you in this country
that a profound economic change is absolutely necessary.
that unless that change is brought about, the civilisation
cannot last, nor ought it to last with the canker of
poverty eating out the very life of great masses of our
people. There is, of course, one enormous advantage
that the American worker has in addition to his good
education and to the absence of class feeling; and
that is that there has been a certain new experiment
in that country, the Trusts that were first formed in
America many years ago. Now in the book called
the Fabian Essays, it fell to my lot to write on that
particular form of American production, and I pointed.
out then that the Trust was a most useful institution,
because it made it so very easy for bodies elected
by the people to take over the. production of the
necessaries of life, and to administer them by able
managers such as the Trusts secured, but for the
benefit of the country and not for the benefit of
a comparatively small number, a combination of capi-
talists. Now that most interesting experiment, which
would inevitably have led to Socialism if it had been
allowed to go on, was put an end to by. President
Harding. He had a wonderful admiration for what he
called the small individual worker. It did not strike
him that that small man all by himself was not a
particularly strong or free member of Society: The
President thought it developed individuality, and-so
under his impetus Trusts, as they first existed, were .
made illegal. But a thing that is necessary practically
because of its great advantages cannot be legislated out
79
of existence. And while the inter-State Trust was
rendered impossible by law, the Trust could exist as a
"company~~ within the limits of any particular State.
Hence the Trusts have come back again to a very con-
siderable extent, and they are finding ingenious ways
of getting round the law, as you generally can if you
use a·certain ingenuity in your proceedings. Trusts in
the separate States are somehow or other getting linked
up together, so that the inter-State thing is somewhat
of a reality although not legal and although not ope}lly
acknowledged. It is impossible to stop an economic
movement that enables goods that are necessary to
be produced at · a· comparatively low cost, because
by combination the great expenses of competitive
advert.ising are done· away with,. and by the large
numQer of people that can be organised to work
together a very small profit out of each individual
workman amounts to an enormous fortune, where
those huge numbers of profits pass into very few
pockets.
And so you have in America, of course, some enormo~
Companies, especially for oil and other matters that
have an assured sale, and in that way-organisation has
taken a place in American Economics which is not
recognised at present apparently here. They do not
speak in America of three· constituents of wealth
production, raw material, labour, and capital, the
accumulated savings of labour. They add a fourth
and that fourth is a very important one in its practical
utility. They add " management." In that it is that
very largely you have the extraordinary success of
American labour, and the result, this abolition of
poverty among the manual labour class of native-born
Americans. The organisation of large numbers of
people, the managing of production in the most economic
ways, the keen brain ability brought to bear upon pro-
Bo
duction so as to minimise the cost_, to make larger
profits, those are really the economic doctrines which
lie at the root of this change in American production
which has raised the manual labour class entirely out
of the miseries of poverty. And that is a point which
is certainly worthy of consideration. Sometimes it is
applied, of course, for the gain of a particular person,
as in the very remarkable case of Mr. Henry Ford.
But then in his particular case you have the exceptional
junction of a marvellous brain for business and a warm
human heart which sympathises with the lot of those
who are engaged in the production of wealth. That is
a rare combination, but it is a fact that we are bound
to admit in his case, if we know anything of Henry
Ford's life. One outward sign of it you can see in the
way in which he has gradually been reducing the hours
of labour without reducing wages, so that now he has
only a five-day week instead of a six-day week (he
hopes to reduce that, he says, still further), so that
without the men losing anything of the high wages
that he pays-for he pays high wages while demanding
great efficiency from his workers-he now gives them
two days of leisure in every seven, so that they are able
to utilise the results of their education, so that they
can add to that education the culture which is one of
the most precious results of education, the application
of the knowledge gained to the understanding of human
nature, and that wide sympathy with great varieties
of human kind that ought to be the mark of culture
everywhere and is the mark in some. So you find him
not only looking for high efficiency from the healthy
men, but also- providing for the cripple, for the blind,
forms of work which they can do despite their physical
disability, and in that way enabling them to earn their
own living-not separated off in asylums, or anything
that looks in the least charitable, but having their
8I
places in the great working organisation which: has
made his name famous over the world.
Further, we find one mark of general prosperity,
which might rather surprise a good many of the people
employed in factories over here, if it were reproduced
here; and that is that you find the ordinary workers
going to their places of work in some form of motor
vehicle. There is a great deal of buying and selling of
motor-cars there, and the motor-car gradually becomes
second-hand and third-hand, and it is sold at a very
cheap price. So that if you are going through a place
in which labour is concentrated for work, you have to
be careful to choose your time if you want to get on
fairly quickly, because when the workers come out at
four o'clock the whole road is blocked with their motor·
cars and motor-lorries and other motor vehicles carry-
ing them back comfortably and quickly to the homes
away from the place of labour, and therefore the healthier
and the more enjoyable also.
As I mentioned before, so many of the very pretty
towns in America have roads of single houses, with
their lawns going down to the side-walks, and borders
full of flowers ; they like to make the place look pretty
for everybody who passes. Then when you ask what
kind of people live there, you are told: "Oh I just the
ordinary workers." They have these homes and spend
the leisure gained by the use of machinery to shorten
the hours of labour according to their own tastes.
Now all that has been done in America, but it is not
along that line f' should suggest that our efforts should
be concentrated here. It is far easier in a country like
America, a new country with an enormous amount of
available land and comparatively a very small popula·
tion-they are about 120 millions now, but that is
as nothing in comparison with the immense extent of
the United States. In a country like this, small and
6
82
densely populated, far more rapid means are necessary,
and are within the reach of the workers if they will use
the power of the vote that they possess to bring about
reasonable legislation to make economic changes in the
country.
For there lies the real and right way of changing
the economic conditions here to those of the New
Civilisation. I am not able to deny that a people
who are oppressed and suffering-oppressed by those
stronger than themselves-! am not able to deny
their right to revolt against that oppression when they
find it intolerable. But I do say that in a country
like this, where practically you have now, if you choose
to use it, universal suffrage ; where if you are con-
vinced that a thing is right you are able to bring it
about by peaceful and legislative means ; if you have
at present a Trade Union Bill which destroys the work
of generations of the working· classes ; if you are
threatened with a new Constitution which you are
never to change-the most remarkable kind of .Consti-
tution that the world has yet seen-then these things
are the fault of those who do not care to change their
own condition, who are led astray by thoughtlessness,
prejudice, or other reasons, instead of looking at the
condition of the whole of the people to-day, and
bringing about those radical changes in Economics
which are known by the general name of Socialism.
Now in using that word, I am using it because while
I said that in the Theosophical Society opinions are
absolutely free, there is one thing which has come out
of the utilisation of that science of Yoga that I spoke
of last year in this hall, by which it is possible to quicken
individual evolution and to forecast the future more
accurately than one could do only by the watching of
tendencies in the present. According to that, with the
n.ew sub-race which is now being so rapidly born,
83
especially in California in Western America, with
that new sub-race, looking on the world from the
standpoint of its Inner Government, we shall have
Socialism definitely growing. In what I have called
the "Happy Valley" (because I hope it is going to
be a Happy Valley before very long), we shall have
a kind of miniature of the New Civilisation which will
have economic Socialism, practical Brotherhood, as its
basis, added to that hierarchical form of Government
which places the Government in the hands of the wise.
I presume that what you nowcall Democracyis search-
ing for a waybywhich to find outits best men, and so far
not entirely satisfactorily, if you will permit me to say
so. But it must be searching for them. It must want
to have its wisest men, its men of highest character,
its best men, in a word, at the head of public affairs,
whether in the community or the town, or over the
whole of the country, and in the Great Commonwealth
of Nations. Clearly you cannot have a Government
which will be able to understand how to govern, unless
the members of the Government are wise, and unless
to that wisdom of the head they add the desire of the
heart to bring about happy conditions for the masses
of ordinary humanity. Now wisdom has been some..
times defined as knowledge united to love, and I think,
on the whole, that is a very good definition of it. For
you may have very wide knowledge, and at the same
time that knowledge may be selfishly used and be more
mischievous to the community than beneficial to it;
but if to knowledge you add love, then you have the
wisdom which is the only true authority, knowledge
which understands and love which applies that under-
standing equally to all. Such people, to the extent to
which we can find them, should have the power to
rule, given by the willing allegiance of their fellows.
You can often notice, if you are dealing with a crowd,
84
that the instinct of the crowd is on the whole right,
that the crowd is more moved by unselfish heroism
than by~ selfish advantage grasped at. It is the man
who sacrifices himself who becomes the hero of the
crowd ; the miner who goes down at the risk of his life
to save his fellow-workers after an explosion ; the fire-
man who plunges into the burning house to save a
human life--those are the men whose sacrifices arouse
enthusiasm, because the heart of man is good, and they
recognise and love heroic goodness wherever they see it.
It is those who combine wisdom with heroism who are
the natural leaders of a free people. It is those whom
any sensible Democracy must be trying to find, though
very often misled in its search. None the less it must
find them, otherwise it cannot continue to exist.
With that, of course, there comes a great respon-
sibility to understand the causes of poverty, and then
the duty to abolish them. Obviously the way must
be by the method of skilfully organised co-operation,
carried out to its natural and inevitable ending in
Socialism. In America-where they are dreadfully
afraid of the word Socialism because they have only
known it in the form of bombs and rioting on the part
of the unfortunate immigrants who have come out of
great tyrannies in Europe and bring bitter hatred of
Governments with them-they object very much to
the word. So I used the word " Co-operation , when
I preached Socialism there, for Socialism is really
National Co-operation. I should not have been allowed
to preach " Socialism." I should have been deported
if I had tried to teach it under that name. And as;
after all, words are meant to express thoughts, and as
every thought about " Socialism , is hopelessly wrong in
America at present, it would have been misleading to
use a word that would have been entirely misunder-
stood. So I used the word " Co-operation," or " well-
ss
organised Co-operation," and under that taught what
H.P.B. called the "Socialism of love," and I found it
met with very great approval. Sometimes I pointed
out that England has done much more in the way of
socialising the supply of many things, especially by
municipalities, than America had, and very much to
her own advantage. I told them of the municipalitie?
which had taken up the supply of many necessaries
and conveniences of life, and where the profits of the
supply went to the reduction of taxation, thus returning
to the people. I saw one day in a newspaper here that
it said: " If that is Socialism~ let us have a great deal
more of it." Well, that is one of the things that
Socialism is, the supply of the necessaries of life to .the
profit of the people who want them, the organisation
of Industry by those elected by the Community chosen
for business ability, and who are put in control of
bu~ness undertakings. The one thing you want to
avoid, if you are going to start ·a business, is being in
a hurry and being too enthusiastic and optimistic.
Now, in our experiment which we are going to carry
on in California, we have already begun road-making
and soon will line the roads with trees. In our Happy
Valley, which is to be a miniature of the New Civilisa-
tion, we have begun by saying that every industry
carried out there must be co-operative-no individual-
istic enterprises in which people sell for their own
personal advantage, but co-operative bodies to supply
the various necessaries of life, and everything to be
done in the co-operative way. That habit of working
together, the training in wpat is sometimes called team
work-the extension of the spirit which makes a good
player in a match in .schools and colleges, each thinking
of the whole body and not of his own individual glory-
that is the spirit that we want to spread in the whole
of our Community.
86
Over here we want every voter, man and woman, to
recognise that the desirable economic changes can
be brought about by legislation, if the people really
want them ; and the task is to persuade the people
that they do want them by showing them their efficacy
in theory and in practice so far as we can.
So we need to establish in the country deliberately,
in all municipal work, the duty of the municipality to
act as the organised Community of the town by which
it is elected. That is one of the ways in which Socialism
in the towns has slowly and very inadequately, of course,
spread in England. Then we want gradually that the
great National undertakings shall be taken over by the
people as a whole, so that as great wealth is made, it
may come back to the people themselves. If you take
a few cases of the opposite kind, you can see at once
how effective such legislation might be.
Now I have not the exact figures of the water supply
of London, but that, as you know, was created by a
Company, and the shares have grown so enormously
valuable with the growth of London-which the Com-
pany after all did nothing to promote-that people sell
fragments of shares and sell them at a very high price.
Now supposing that the water supply of London had
been taken in hand by London instead of that private
company being formed, there would have been one
large source of wealth flowing into the huge town which
has grown up. As the town grew and the need for water
grew the wealth of the town would have increased, and
instead of the water supply of London going to enrich
people belonging to a company who have inherited
shares from their ancestors, Lo~don taxes would be
lessened by the price of the water supply, and so we
should have coming back to the citizens, to a very large
extent, that which they now pay in taxation. If this is
recognised surely it should be possible to prevent the
87
formation of private companies for the supply of various
necessaries of ordinary life. Why should private com-
panies be allowed to supply your means of transport
for the pr.ofit of a particular body of shareholders?
Why should railroads, the necessary means of transport
for great masses of the people, why should their profits
go into the pockets of shareholders? The very moment
you are in National danger, the very moment that the
life of the Nation must be thought of before the profits
of shareholders, you take over the railroads into the
hands of the Government and run them. But it is
said that they did not pay so well. No, because they
were not managed economically, because you carried
troops very often for nothing ; none the less you utilised
those railways under the stress of National needs in a
socialistic way. But under Socialism we may hope
that you will not have wars, as you have them at the
present time. For you must remember that no war
could take place in Europe to-day if the great capitalists
refused to advance the loans which make the war
possible. Wars are really made, or peace is made, by
the power of the great financiers in Europe at the
present time. It is they who decide whether a country
shall go bankrupt or whether it shall succeed; they
who decide whether they will finance a loan to such
and such a Government in order that it may be able
to make war on a neighbouring State. You think your
Parliament decides. You think your citizens vote for
it. Yes, but behind them is the power of money, with-
out which no war can be made. It is a menace to
Europe all the time, because war is a very money-
making thing to a certain number of people, and there-
fore it is to their advantage to have a war, no matter
how the Nation may suffer by the horror of it. Why
should you not do what France has done through its
Prime Minister with regard to America? Why should
88
you ·not make a Pact with America, that you will not
enter into any war with her ? Monsieur Briand is out-
lawing war between France and America. Why not
between Great Britain and America ? Why should
theFe not be peace among all the Nations of Europe ?
For after all of what is composed the population of
America? It is made up out of emigrants from
European Nations who have gone over there, who have
settled there, who living near each other have learned
to know each other and by knowing each other have
learned also to love each other. It is ignorance that
makes race hatreds, and knowledge that does away·
with them. Why should we not have a United States
of" Europe as well as a United States of America ?
Why should not war be outlawed between European
Nations? American States do not now fight with each
other. People have grown into one Nation made out
of all the different Nations of Europe. Why should we
not teach here in our schools and practise in our man-
hood and womanhood that ideal of the United States
of Europe, which would put an end to War from one
end of this continent to another? For after all our
interests are the same. The more we can spread
common interests, the less danger will there be of War.
But even if you should establish Socialism here, if
the land of England belonged to the people of England,
if the great needs of the Nation in transport belonged
to the Nation, if all these large concerns were national-
ised, so that no one might be born into the English
Nation who gains nothing from the land which is called
his native land, why should we not still look forward
to a time when the Nations will realise that their
common good lies in peace and trading and abolish all
the barriers that separate them so that the frontiers· of
a Nation may not need to be guarded ? Do you realise
that along three thousand miles of borderland between
Bg
Canada and the United States there i.s not a single gun
to guard that borderland ? Why should not the same
thing be the case over here.?
But there is one economic menace that you have to
consider, which is not one of your own c.ountry .or
within it only, that great economic pressure of the
coloured races on the land ruled by white races, the
land·taken away by the white from the coloured peoples.
There is a menace that you must think of, and that you
must gradually eliminate. For it is an ever-growing
economic danger. The great economic pressure cannot
be long resisted by any legislation that you.can make.
You may make your legislation, as children make sand
castles by the sea. But the tide comes up in spite of
the sand castle, and when it retreats again the smooth
sand has reappeared. So with the great economic laws
of human life. The economic pressure of the coloured
races is becoming too great to be withstood. We speak
of the chaos in China. But China is naturally .a very
peaceful Nation. Why is it that there is a hatred of
the foreigner in China to-day? Because the foreigners
have demanded the open door for themselves into
Chjna,· and have denied it for the Chinese into their
own countries. Because you have in China an enormous
population of some four hundred millions of human
beings, and because you have within reach of China
Canada, as large as Europe, with only eight millions
of people in it. The whites hold the vast ranges of
Australiafor the six millionsofwhitesthere, while Japan,
which has one-twentieth the acreage of Australia, has
nearly ten times its population. Those are the world
economics that you have to consider, not only the
economics of your own Nation, not only the economics
of European Nations) but the world economics, the
great coloured problem which is pressing more and
more f.or a solution. The real hatred is not so much a
go
hatred of the white, but the economic pressure, the
pressure of people who cannot live in the land where
they were born, and who see great empty spaces calling
out for cultivation and find those spaces baqed from
them by people who cannot utilise them. That phase
of world economics you must consider. For it is there
again an economic question ; economics lie at the very
root of the whole of our national weHare. What, then,
shall be our hope in this·? I say to you frankly my
hope is in the young far more than the old. In the
student population of every land there lies the hope
of the world's brotherhood in the near future. You do
not find among the students of the Nations the same
antagonism, the same suspicion, the same hatreds that
you find among the elders of those same people. Go
to what country you will, go, perhaps, even above all, to
our late enemy the great German people, and you will
find that it is the youth of Germany that have no
resentment, no hatred, no desire for revenge, that they
want to raise their own land by what there is great in
her, by her .art, by her music, by her philosophy, by
her science, and not by the miserable weapons of War.
And it is the same in other lands as well. The move-
ment in China is led by Chinese students. The move-
ment in all great countries to-day is being led by the
young of the countries. Why, your little. children
of Wales over in the West of Britain, in that little
land, the school children, as you may have seen in
1922, sent out a message of good will to all the school
children of the different countries of the world. America
answered it and has made a Good Will Day, and Australia
is answering it, and many States there are making a
Good Will Day on the 18th of May. It is in these young
people growing up desiring to be friends with the people
of other Nations, in our boys and girls in the schools,
in our young men and women in the Colleges and
9I
Universities, there lies the hope of England as the hope
of every other Nation. For it is they who shall bring
about the better conditions, Brotherhood in practice,
the welfare of the people. Those are they to whom I
look to make the New Civilisation; those are they in
whom National hatreds are not arising, but rather a
love for other peoples as brothers.
Let us encourage the young, then, in their enthusiasm.
Let us hold up the ideals that we have so shamefully
failed to realise. In the coming generations there lies
the hope of the future, and it is they who will make the
New Civilisation a Civilisation of practical Brotherhood,
of love to all the Nations of the earth.
