{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__behrend___your_invisible_power.pdf","mytitle":"Your Invisible Power","mylang":"de"}
YOUR
INVISIBLE
POWER
The Mental Science of
Judge Thomas Trowardas
Practiced and Taught by
His Personal Pupil
G E N E V IE V E BEHREND
Your Invisible Power
A Presentation of the
Mental Science of
Judge Thomas Troward
By
GENEVIEVE BEHREND
L. N . Fowler & Co.
Ludgate Circus, London
Published by
T H E E LIZA B ETH T O W N E C O ., IN C .
H O LYO K E , MASS.
Copyright, 1921
By Genevieve Behrend
Copyright, 1927
By Genevieve Behrend
Printed in G .S .A.
CONTENTS
Chapter Page
Fo
jlciword........................................ 5
I. Order of Visualization................ 11
II. How to Attract to Yourself the
Things You Desire ................. 17
III. Relation Between Mental and
Physical Form ........................ 23
IV. Operation of Your Mental Picture 26
V. Expressions from Beginners.... 38
VI. Suggestions for Making Your
Mental Picture ........................ 42
VII. Things to Remember in Using
Your Thought Power for the
Production of New Conditions 45
VIII. Why I Took Up the Study of
Mental Science ......................... 49
IX. How I Attracted to Myself Twen­
ty Thousand Dollars............... 55
X. How I Became the Only Personal
Pupil of T. Troward, the Great
Mental Scientist ..................... 62
XI. How to Bring the Power in Your
Word Into Action ................... 73
XII. How to Increase Your Faith. ... 75
XIII. The Reward of Increased Faith.. 77
XIV. How to Make Nature Respond to
You ........................................... 79
XV. Faith With Works-What It Has
Accomplished ...................... 80
XVI. Suggestions As to How to Pray or
Ask, Believing You Have Al­
ready Received......................... 85
XVII. Things to Remember ................. 93
FOREWORD
THESE pages have been written for the
purpose of furnishing you a key to the
attainment of your desires, and to explain
that Fear should be entirely banished from
your consciousness in order for you to obtain
possession of the things you want. This pre­
supposes, of course, that your desire for
possession is based upon your aspiration for
greater happiness. For example, you feel
that the possession of more money, lands, or
friends will make you happier, and your de­
sire for possession of these things arises from
a conviction that their possession will bring
you freedom and contentment.
In your effort to possess, you will discover
that the thing you most need is to consistently
“Be” your best self.
One morning after class a man came to me
and asked if I would speak the word of supply
for him, as he was sadly in the need of money.
He offered me a $5 bill with the remark:
“Dear Madam, that is half of every dollar I
have in the world. I am in debt; my wife
and child have not the proper clothing; in
fact, I must have money.” I explained to
him that money was the symbol of differenti­
ated substance, that this substance filled all
space, that it was present for him at that very
moment, and would manifest to him as the
S
money he required. “But,” he questioned,
“it may come too late.” I told him it could
not come too late, as it was eternally pres­
ent. He understood and got the uplift of my
spoken word. I did not see the man again,
but six months later I had a letter from him
stating he was in New Orleans. He said, “I
am well established here in my regular pro­
fession of photography; I own my own home,
have an automobile of my own, and am gen­
erally prospering. And dear Mrs. Behrend,
I want to thank you for lifting me out of the
depths that day in New York. Three days
after I talked to you, a man whom I have not
seen for years met me on the street. When
I explained my situation to him, he loaned
me the money to pay my bills and come down
here. The inclosed check is to help you con­
tinue your wonderful work of teaching peo­
ple how to mentally reach out and receive
their never-failing supply. I would not take
anything for my understanding as you have
given it to me. God bless you.”
A feeling that greater possessions, no mat­
ter of what kind they may he, will of them­
selves bring contentment or happiness, is a
misunderstanding. No person, place, or thing
can give you happiness. They may give you
cause for happiness and a feeling of content­
ment, hut the Joy of Living comes from
within.
Therefore, it is here recommended that you
should make the effort to obtain the things
6
which you feel will bring you joy, provided
that your desires are in accord with the Joy
of Living.
It is also desired, in this volume, to sug­
gest the possibilities in store for all who make
persistent effort to understand the Law of
Visualization, and who make practical appli­
cation of this knowledge on whatever plane
they may be. The word “ effort,” as here
employed, is not intended to convey the idea
of strain. All study and meditation should
be without strain or tension.
It has been my endeavor to show that by
starting at the beginning of the creative ac­
tion, or mental picture, certain corresponding
results are sure to follow. “While the laws
of the Universe cannot be altered, they can
be made to work under specific conditions,
thereby producing results for individual ad­
vancement which cannot be obtained under
the spontaneous workings of the law pro­
vided by Nature.”
However far these suggestions I have given
—of the possibilities in store for you, through
visualizing, may carry you beyond your past
experience, they nowhere break the continuity
of the law of cause and effect.
If through the suggestions here given, any
one is brought to realize that his mind is a
center through and in which “all power there
is” is in operation, simply waiting to be given
direction in the one and only way through
which it can take specific action—and this
7
means reaction in concrete or physical form
—then the mission to which this book is dedi­
cated has been fulfilled.
Try to remember that the picture you think,
feel, and see is reflected into the Universal
Mind, and by the natural law of reciprocal
action must return to you in either spiritual
or physical form. Knowledge of this law of
reciprocal action between the individual and
the Universal Mind opens to you free access
to all you may wish to possess or to be. It
must be steadfastly borne in mind that all this
can be true only for the individual who recog­
nizes that he derives his power to make an
abiding mental picture from the All-Originat­
ing Universal Spirit of Life, and can be used
constructively only so long as it is employed
and retained in harmony with the nature ofthe
Spirit which originated it. To insure this
there must be no inversion of the thought of
the individual regarding his relationship to
this Universal Originating Spirit, which is
that of a son, through which the parent mind
acts and reacts.
Thus conditioned, whatever you think and
feel yourself to be, the Creative Spirit of Life
is bound to faithfully reproduce in a corre­
sponding reaction. This is the great reason
for picturing yourself and your affairs the
way you wish them to be as existing facts—
though invisible to the physical eye—and liv­
ing in your picture. An honest endeavor to
do this, always recognizing that your own
8
mind is a projection of the Originating Spirit,
will prove to you that the best there is, is
yours in all your ways.
G. B.
Los Angeles, California;
May, 1929.
9
Your Invisible Power
CHAPTER I
Order of Visualization
THE exercise of the visualizing faculty
keeps your mind in order, and attracts
to you the things you need to make life more
enjoyable in an orderly way. If you train
yourself in the practice of deliberately pic­
turing your desire and carefully examining
your picture, you will soon find that your
thoughts and desires proceed in a more or­
derly procession than ever before. Having
reached a state of ordered mentality, you
are no longer in a constant state of mental
hurry. Hurry is Fear, and consequently
destructive.
In other words, when your understanding
grasps the power to visualize your heart’s de­
sire and hold it with your will, it attracts to
you all things requisite to the fulfillment of
that picture by the harmonious vibrations of
the law of attraction. You realize that since
Order is Heaven’s first law, and visualization
places things in their natural order, then it
must be a heavenly thing to visualize.
Everyone visualizes, whether he knows it or
not. Visualizing is the great secret of success.
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
The conscious use of this great power at­
tracts to you multiplied resources, intensifies
your wisdom, and enables you to make use of
advantages which you formerly failed to
recognize.
A lady once came to me for help in selling
a piece of property. After I explained to her
just how to make a mental picture of the sale,
going through the details mentally, exactly as
she would do if the property were sold, she
came a week later and told me how one day
she was walking along the street, when the
thought suddenly occurred to her to go and
see a certain real estate dealer, to whom she
had not yet been. She hesitated for a moment
when she first got the idea, as it seemed to her
that that man could not sell her property.
However, upon the strength of what I had told
her, she followed the lead and went to the
real estate man, who sold the property for
her in just three days after she had first ap­
proached him. This was simply following
along with the natural law of demand and
supply.
We now fly through the air, not because
anyone has been able to change the laws of
Nature, but because the inventor of the flying
machine learned how to apply Nature’s laws
and, by making orderly use of them, produced
the desired result. So far as the natural
12
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
forces are concerned, nothing has changed
since the beginning. There were no airplanes
in “the Year One,” because those of that gen­
eration could not conceive the idea as a prac­
tical, working possibility. “It has not yet
been done,” was the argument, “and it cannot
be done.” Yet the laws and materials for
practical flying machines existed then as now.
Troward tells us that the great lesson he
learned from the airplane and wireless te­
legraphy is the triumph of principle over
precedent, the working out of an idea to its
logical conclusion in spite of accumulated con­
trary testimony of all past experience.
With such an example before you, you must
realize that there are still greater secrets to be
disclosed. Also, ‘‘That you hold the key with­
in yourself, with which to unlock the secret
chamber that contains your heart’s desire.
All that is necessary in order that you may
use this key and make your life exactly what
you wish it to be, is a careful inquiry into the
unseen causes which stand back of every ex­
ternal and visible condition. Then bring
these unseen causes into harmony with your
conception, and you will find that you can
make practical working realities of possibil­
ities which at present seem but fantastic
dreams.”
A woman came to me in New York City,
13
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
asking for help, as she was out of work. I
spoke the word of ever-present supply for her
and intensified it by mentally seeing the
woman in the position she dreamed of, but
which she had been unable to make a practical
reality. That same afternoon she telephoned
and said she could hardly believe her senses,
as she had just taken exactly the kind of a
position she wanted. The employer told her
she had been wanting a woman like her for
months.
We all know that the balloon was the fore­
father of the airplane. In 1766 Henry Caven­
dish, an English nobleman, proved that hy­
drogen gas was seven times lighter than air.
From that discovery the balloon came into ex­
istence, and from the ordinary balloon the
dirigible, a cigar-shaped airship, was evolved.
Study of aeronautics and laws of the aerial
locomotion of birds and projectiles led to the
belief that mechanism could be evolved by
which heavier-than-air machines could be
made to travel from place to place and remain
in the air by the maintenance of great speed,
which would overcome by propulsive force
the ordinary law of gravitation. Professor
Langley of Washington, who developed much
of the theory which others afterward im­
proved upon, was subjected to much derision
when he sent a model airplane up, only to
have it bury its nose in the muddy waters of
14
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
the Potomac. But the Wright Brothers, who
experimented later, realized the possibility of
traveling through the air in a machine that
had no gas bag. They saw themselves en­
joying this mode of transportation with great
facility. It is said that one of the brothers
would tell the other, when their varied ex­
periences did not turn out as they expected:
“It’s all right, Brother, I can see myself
riding in that machine, and it travels easily
and steadily.”
Those Wright Brothers knew what they
wanted and kept their pictures constantly be­
fore them. Now transportation through the
air is developing rapidly and we all feel sure
it will in the near future become as ordinary
a method of travel as the automobile.
In visualizing, or making a mental ‘
picture.,
you are not endeavoring to change the laws of
Nature. You are fulfilling them.
Your object in visualizing is to bring things
into regular order, both mentally and physi­
cally. When you realize that this method of
employing the Creative Power brings your
desires, one after another, into practical, ma­
terial accomplishment, your confidence in the
mysterious but unfailing law of attraction,
which has its central power station in the very
heart of your word-picture, becomes supreme.
Nothing can shake it. You never feel that it
is necessary to take anything from anybody
15
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
else. You have learned that asking and seek­
ing have, as their correlatives, receiving and
finding. You know that all you have to do is
to start the plastic substance of the Universe
flowing into the thought-moulds your picture-
desire provides.
16
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER n
How to Attract to Yourself the Things
You Desire
THE power within you which enables you to
form a thought-picture is the starting
point of all there is. In its original state it is
the undifferentiated formless substance oflife.
Your thought-picture makes the model, so to
say, into which this formless substance takes
shape. Visualizing, or mentally seeing things
and conditions as you wish them to he, is the
condensing, the specializing power in you
which might be illustrated by comparison with
the lens of a magic lantern, which is one of the
best symbols of the imaging faculty. It illus­
trates the idea of the working of the Creative
Spirit on the plane of initiative and selec­
tion—or in its concentrated, specializing form
—in a remarkably clear manner.
The picture slide illustrates your own men­
tal picture—invisible in the lantern of your
mind until you turn on the light of your will.
That is to say, you light up your desire with
absolute faith that the Creative Spirit of Life,
in you, is doing the work. By the steady flow
of the light of the Will on the Spirit, your de­
sired picture is projected upon the screen of
17
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
the physical world—an exact reproduction of
the pictured slide in your mind.
A woman came to me for help to cause her
husband to return to her. She said she was
very unhappy and lonely without him and
longed to be reunited. I told her she could not
lose love and protection, because both be­
longed to her. She asked what she should do
to get her husband back again. I told her to
follow the great power of intuition and think
of her husband as perfectly free, and the em­
bodiment of all that a husband should be. She
went away quite happy, but returned in a few
days to tell me that her husband desired a di­
vorce in order to marry again. She was quite
agitated and had evidently relaxed her will
in following the instractions given at the for­
mer interview. Again I told her to hold con­
stantly in her mind that the loving protection
of the Spirit of Life would guide her in per­
fect happiness. A month later she came again
and said that her husband had married the
other woman. This time she had completely
lost her mental grip. I repeated the words for
her as before, and she regained her poise. Two
months later she came back to me, full of joy.
Her husband had come to her, begging her
forgiveness, and telling her what a terrible
mistake hehad made, as he could not be happy
without her. They are now living happily to­
gether, and she, at least, learned the necessity
18
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
of holding her pictured desire steadily in
place by the use of her will.
Visualizing without a will sufficiently steady
to inhibit every thought and feeling contrary
to your pictured thought would be as useless
as a magic lantern without the light. On the
other hand, if your will is sufficiently devel­
oped to hold your picture in thought and feel­
ing, without any ‘‘ifs’’; simply realizing that
your thought is the great attracting power,
then your mental picture is as certain to be
projected upon your physical world as a pic­
ture slide put into a magic lantern shows on
the screen.
Try projecting the picture in a magic lan­
tern with a light that is constantly shifting
from one side to the other, and you will pro­
duce the effect of an uncertain will. It is as
necessary that you should always have back of
your picture a strong, steady will, as it is to
have a strong steady light back of a picture
slide.
The joyous assurance with which you make
your picture is the very powerful magnet of
Faith, and nothing can obliterate it. You are
happier than you ever were, because you have
learned to know where your source of supply
is, and you rely upon its never-failing re­
sponse to the direction you give it.
All said and done, happiness is the one
thing which every human being wants, and the
19
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
study of visualization enables you to get more
out of life than you ever enjoyed before. In­
creasing possibilities keep opening out, more
and more, before you.
A business man once told me that since
practicing visualization, and forming the
habit of devoting a few minutes each day to
thinking about his work as he desired it to be,
in a large, broad way, his orders had more
than doubled in six months. His method was
to go into a room every morning before
breakfast and take a mental inventory of his
business as he had left it the evening before,
and then enlarge upon it. He said he expanded
and expanded in this way, until his affairs
were in a remarkably successful condition.
He would see himself in his office doing ev­
erything he wanted done. His occupation re­
quired him to meet many strangers every day.
In his mental picture he saw himself meeting
these people, understanding their needs, and
supplying them in just the way they wished.
This habit, he said, had strengthened and
steadied his will in ai almost inconceivable
manner. Furthermore, by thus mentally see­
ing things as he wished them to be, he had
acquired the confident feeling that a certain
Creative Power was exercising itself, for him
and through him, for the purpose of improv­
ing his little world.
When you first begin to visualize seriously,
20
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
you may feel, as many others do, that someone
else may he forming the same picture you
are, and that, naturally, would not suit your
purpose. Do not give yourself any concern
about this. Simply try to realize that your
picture is an orderly exercise of the Universal
Creative Power specifically applied. Then
you may be sure that no one can work in oppo­
sition to you. The universal law of harmony
prevents that. Endeavor to bear in mind that
your mental picture is Universal Mind spe­
cifically exercising its inherent powers of ini­
tiative and selection. God, or Universal
Mind, made man for the special purpose of
differentiating Himself through him. Every­
thing there is, came into existence in this same
way, by this self-same law of self-differentia-
tion, and for the same purpose. First came
the idea, the mental picture, or the prototype
of the thing, which is the thing itself in its
incipiency.
TheGreatArchitect of theUniverse contem­
plated Himself as manifesting through his
polar opposite—matter—and the idea expand­
ed and projected itself until we have not only
a world, but many worlds.
Many people ask, “But why should we have
a physical world at all?” The answer is:
“Because it is the nature of Originating Sub­
stance to solidify, under directivity rather
than activity, just as it is the nature of wax to
21
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
harden when it becomes cold, or plaster of
paris to become firm and solid when exposed
to the air. Your picture is this same Divine
Substance in its original state, taking form
through the individualized center of Divine
operation,in your mind;and there is no power
to prevent this combination of Spiritual Sub­
stance from becoming physical form. It is the
nature of Spirit to complete its work, and an
idea is not complete until it has made for it­
self a vehicle. Nothing can prevent your pic­
ture from coming into concrete form except
the same power which gave it birth—yourself.
Suppose you wish to have a more orderly
room. You look about your room, and the
idea of order suggests boxes, closets, shelves,
hooks, and so forth. The box, the closet and
the hooks, are all concrete ideas of order, be­
cause they are the vehicles through which
order and harmony suggest themselves.
22
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER III
Relation Between Mental and Physical
Form
SOME persons feel that it is not quite proper
to visualize for things. “It’s too mate­
rial,’’they say. Why, material form is neces­
sary for the self-recognition of Spirit from
the individual standpoint, and this is the
means through which the Creative Process
is carried forward. Therefore, far from mat­
ter being an illusion and something which
ought not to he, matter is the necessary chan­
nel for the self-differentiation of Spirit. How­
ever, it is not my desire to lead you into
lengthy and tiresome scientific reasoning, in
order to remove the mystery from visualiza­
tion and to put it upon a logical foundation.
Naturally, qach individual will do this in his
own way. My only wish is to point out to you
the easiest way I know, which is the road on
which Troward guides me. I feel sure you will
conclude, as I have, that the only mystery in
connection with visualizing is the mystery of
life taking form, governed by unchangeable
and easily understood laws.
We all possess more power and greater
possibilities than we realize, and visualizing
23
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
is one of the greatest of these powers. It
brings other possibilities to our observation.
When we pause to think for a moment, we
realize that for a cosmos to exist at all, it must
be the outcome of a Cosmic Mind, which binds
“all individual minds to a certain generic
unity of action, thereby producing all things
as realities and nothing as illusions.” If you
will take this thought of Troward’s and medi­
tate upon it without prejudice, you will surely
realize that concrete material form is an ab­
solute necessity of the Creative Process; also
*‘that matter is not an illusion but a necessary
channel thru which life differentiates itself.”
If you consider matter in its right order, as
the polar opposite to Spirit, you will not find
any antagonism between them. On the con­
trary, together they constitute one harmonious
whole. And when you realize this, you feel,
in your practice of visualizing, that you are
working from cause to effect, from beginning
to end. In reality your mental picture is the
specialized outworking of the Originating
Spirit. One could talk for hours on purely
scientific lines, showing, as Troward says,
“that raw material for the formation of
the solar systems is universally distributed
throughout all space. Yet investigation shows
that while the Heavens are studded with mil­
lions of suns, there are spaces which show no
signs of cosmic activity. This being true;
24
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
there must be something which started cosmie
activity in certain places, while passing over
others in which the raw material was equally
available. At first thought, one might attrib­
ute the development of cosmic energy to the
etheric particles themselves. Upon investiga­
tion, however, we find that this is math3-
matically impossible in a medium which is
equally distributed throughout space, for all
its particles are in equilibrium; therefore, no
oneparticle possesses in itself a greater power
of originating motion than the other. Thus
we find that the initial movement, though
working in and through the particles of pri­
mary substance, is not the particles them­
selves. It is this something we mean when we
speak of Spirit.”
This same power that brought universal
substance into existence will bring your in­
dividual thought or mental picture into phys­
ical form. There is no difference in the
power. The only difference is a difference of
degree. The power and the substance them­
selves are the same. Only in working out
your mental picture, it has transferred its
creative energy from the Universal to the par­
ticular, and is working in the same unfailing
manner from its specific center, your mind.
25
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER IV
Operation op Your Mental Picture
THE operation of a large telephone system
may be used as a simile. The main, or
head central subdivides itself into many
branch centrals, every branch being in direct
connection with the main central, and each
individual branch recognizing the source of
its existence, reports all things to its central
head. Therefore, when assistance of any na­
ture is required: new supplies, difficult re­
pairs to be done, or what not, the branch in
need goes at onceto its central head. It would
not think of referring its difficulties (or its
successes) to the main central of a telegraph
system, though they might belong to the same
organization. These different branch centrals
know that the only remedy for any difficulty
must come from the central out of which they
were projected and to which they are always
attached.
If we, as individual branches of the Univer­
sal Mind, would refer our difficulties in the
same confident maimer to the source from
which we were projected, and use the reme­
dies which it has provided, we would realize
what Jesus meant when he said, “Ask and ye
26
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
shall receive.’’ Our every requirement would
be met. Surely the Father must supply the
child. The trunk of the tree cannot fail to
provide for its branches.
A man came to me in great distress, saying
he was about to lose his home in the South.
In his own words, it was mortgaged to the
hilt, and his creditors were going to foreclose.
It was the house in which he had been born
and had grown to young manhood, and the
thought of losing it filled his heart and mind
with sorrow, not only from a money stand­
point, but from the standpoint of sentimen­
tal association. I explained to him that
the Power that brought him into existence did
so for the purpose of expressing its limitless
supply through him; that there was no power
on earth which could cut him off from his
source except his own consciousness, and that
in reality he would not be cut off then. I ex­
plained to him that he had it, but was unable
to recognize that it was there, and said to
him, ‘‘Infinite substance is manifesting in you
right now.” The next week, on Sunday, just
before leaving my dressing room in the Sel-
wyn Theatre to give my afternoon message,
I received the following note: “ Dear Mrs.
Behrend: I want you to know that I am the
happiest man in the whole city of New York.
My home in the South is saved. The money
came in the most miraculous way, and I have
27
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
telegraphed enough to pay off the mortgage.
Pleas ;tell the people this afternoon about this
wonderful Power.”
You may be sure I did, explaining to them
that everything animate or inanimate is called
into existence or outstandingness by a Power
which itself does not stand out. The Power
which creates the mental picture—the Origi­
nating Spirit Substance of your pictured
desire—does not stand out. It projects the
substance of itself, which is a solidified coun­
terpart of itself, while it—the Power—re­
mains invisible to the physical eye. Those
will appreciate the value of visualizing who
are able to realize Paul’s meaning when he
said, “ The worlds were formed by the word
of God. Things which are seen are not made
of things which do appear
There is nothing unusual or mysterious in
the idea of your pictured desire coming into
material evidence. It is the working of a uni­
versal, natural Law. The world was pro­
jected by the self-contemplation of the Uni­
versal Mind, and this same action is taking
place in its individualized branch which is the
Mind of Man. Everything in the whole world,
from the hat on your head to the boots on your
feet, has its beginning in mind and comes into
existence in exactly the same manner. All
are projected thoughts, solidified. Your per­
sonal ...dvance in evolution depends upon your
28
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
right use of the power of visualizing, and
your use of it depends on whether you recog­
nize that you, yourself, are a particular cen­
ter through and in which the Originating
Spirit is finding ever new expression for po­
tentialities already existing within Itself.
This is evolution.
Your mental picture is the force of attrac­
tion which evolves and combines the Origi­
nating Substance into specific shape. Your
picture is the combining and evolving power
house, in a generative sense, soto say, through
which the Originating Creative Spirit ex­
presses itself. Its creative action is limitless,
without beginning and without end, and al­
ways progressive and orderly. “It proceeds
stage by stage, each stage being a necessary
preparation for the one to follow.’’
Now let us see if we can get an idea of the
different stages by which the things in the
world have come to be. Troward says, “If
we can get at the working principle which is
producing these results, we can very quickly
and easily give it personal application. First,
we find that the thought of Originating Life,
or Spirit, concerning Itself is its simple
awareness of its own being, and this, demand­
ing a relationship to something else, produces
a primary ether, a universal substance out of
which everything in the world must grow.”
Troward also tells us that “though this
29
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
awareness of being is a necessary foundation
for any further possibilities, it is not much
to talk about.” It is the same with indi­
vidualized Spirit, which is yourself. Be­
fore you can entertain the idea of making
a mental picture of your desire as being
at all practical, you must have some idea of
your being; of your “I am” ; and just as
soon as you are conscious of your “I-am-
ness,” you begin to wish to enjoy the free­
dom which this consciousness suggests. You
want to do more and be more, and as you ful­
fill this desire within yourself, localized spirit
begins conscious activities in you. The thing
you are more concerned with is the specific
action of the Creative Spirit of Life, Univei
sal Mind specialized. The localized God-germ
in you is your personality, your individuality;
and since the joy of absolute freedom is the in­
herent nature of this God-germ, it is natural
that it should endeavor to enjoy itself through
its specific center. And as you grow in the
comprehension that your being, your individ­
uality, is God particularizing Himself, you
naturally develop Divine tendencies. You
want to enjoy life and liberty. You want free­
dom in your affairs as well as in your con­
sciousness, and it is natural that you should.
With this progressive wish there is always a
faint thought-picture. As your wish and your
recognition grow into an intense desire, this
30
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
desire becomes a clear mental picture. For ex­
ample, a young lady studying music wishes
she had a piano in order to practice at home.
Shewants the piano somuch that she can men­
tally see it in one of the rooms. She holds
the picture of the piano and indulges in the
mental reflection of the pleasure and advan­
tage it will be to have the piano in the corner
ofthe living room. One day she finds it there,
just as she had pictured it.
As you grow in understanding as to who
you are, where you came from, what the pur­
pose of your being is, and how you are to ful­
fil the purpose for which you are intended,
you will become a more and more perfect cen­
ter through which the Creative Spirit of Life
can enjoy itself. And you will realize that
there can be but one creative process filling
all space, which is the same in its potentiality
whether universal or individual. Further­
more, all there is, whether on the plane of the
visible or invisible, had its origin in the local­
ized action of thought, or a mental picture,
and this includes yourself, because you are
Universal Spirit localized, and the same cre­
ative action is taking place through you.
Now you are no doubt asking yourself why
there is so much sickness and misery in the
world. If the same power and intelligence
which brought the world into existence is in
operation in the mind of man, why does it not
31
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
manifest itself as strength, joy, health and
plenty? If one can have one’s desires ful­
filled hy simply making a mental picture of
that desire, holding on to it with the will, and
without anxiety, doing on the outward plane
whatever seems necessary to bring the desire
into fulfillment, then there seems no reason
for the existence of sickness and poverty.
Surely no one desires either. The first reason
is that few persons will take the trouble to in­
quire into the working principle of the Laws
ofLife. If they did, they would soon convince
themselves that there is no necessity for the
sickness and poverty which we see about us.
They would realize that visualizing is a prin­
ciple and not a fallacy. There are a few who
have found it worth while to study this sim­
ple, though absolutely unfailing law, which
will deliver them from bondage. However,
the race as a whole is not willing to give the
time required for the study. It is either too
simple, or too difficult. They may make a
picture of their desire with some little under­
standing of visualizing for a day or two, but
more frequently it is for an hour or so.
If you will insist upon mentally seeing
yourself surrounded by things and conditions
as you wish them to he, you will understand
that the Creative Energy sends its substance
in the direction indicated hy the tendency of
your thoughts. Herein lies the advantage of
32
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
holding your thought in the form of a mental
picture.
A man in the hardware business in New
Jersey came to me in great distress. He
wouldhave to go into bankruptcy unless some­
thing happened in a fortnight. He said he
had never heard of visualizing. I explained
to him how to make a mental picture of his
jusiness increasing, instead of a picture of
losing it. In about a month’s time he returned
veryhappy and told me howhe had succeeded.
He said, “I have my debts all paid, and my
shop is full of new supplies.” His business
was then on a solid basis. It was beautiful
to see his Faith.
The more enthusiasm and faith you are
able to put into your picture, the more quickly
it will come into visible form, and your en­
thusiasm is increased by keeping your desire
secret. The moment you speak it to any living
soul, that moment your power is weakened.
Your power, your magnet of attraction is not
that strong, and consequently cannot reach so
far. The more perfectly a secret between
your mind and your outer self is guarded, the
more vitality you give your power of attrac­
tion. One tells one’s troubles to weaken them,
to get them off one’s mind, and when a thought
is given out, its power is dissipated. Talk it
over with yourself, and even write it down,
then destroy the paper.
33
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
However, this does not mean that you
should strenuously endeavor to compel the
Power to work out your picture onthe special
lines that you think it should. That method
would soon exhaust you and hinder the fulfill­
mentofyourpurpose. Awealthyrelativeneed
not necessarily die, or someone lose a for­
tune on the street, to materialize the $10,000
which you are mentally picturing. One of the
doormen in the building in which I lived
heard much of the mental picturing of desires
from visitors passing out of my rooms. The
average desire was for $500. He considered
that five dollars was more in his line and be­
gan to visualize it, without the slightest idea
of where or how he was to get it. My parrot
flew out of the window, and I telephoned to
the men in the courtyard to get it for me.
One caught it, and it bit him on the finger.
The doorman, who had gloves on, and did not
fear a similar hurt, took hold of it and brought
it up to me. I gave him five one-dollar bills
for his service. This sudden reward sur­
prised him. He enthusiastically told me that
he had been visualizing for just $5, merely
from hearing that others visualized. He was
delighted at the unexpected realization of his
mental picture.
All you have to do is to make such a mental
picture of your heart’s desire, and hold it
cheerfully in place with your will, always con­
34
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
scious that the same Infinite Power which
brought the universe into existence, brought
you into form for the purpose of enjoying
Itself in and through you. And since it is all
Life, Love, Light, Power, Peace, Beauty, and
Joy, and is the only Creative Power there is,
the form it takes in and through you depends
upon the direction given it by your thought.
In you it is undifferentiated, waiting to take
any direction given it as it passes through the
instrument which it has made for the purpj.se
of self-distribution—you.
It is this Power which enables you to trans­
fer your thoughts from one form to another.
The power to change your mind is the individ­
ualized Universal Power taking the initiative,
giving direction to the unformed substance
contained in every thought.
It is the simplest thing in the world to give
this highly sensitive Substance any form you
will, through visualizing. Anyone can do it
with a small expenditure of effort. Once you
really believe that your mind is a center
through which the unformed substance of all
there is in your world, takes involuntary form,
the only reason your picture does not always
materialize is because you have introduced
something antagonistic to the fundamental
principle. Very often this destructive ele­
ment is caused by the frequency with which
you change your pictures. After many such
35
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
changes, you decide that your original desire
is what you want after all. Upon this conclu­
sion, you begin to wonder why it (being your
first picture) has not materialized. The Sub­
stance with which you are mentally dealing
is more sensitive than the most sensitive pho­
tographer’s film. If, while taking a picture,
you suddenly remembered you had already
taken a picture on that same plate, you would
not expect a perfect result of either picture.
On the other hand, you may have taken two
pictures on the same plate unconsciously.
When the plate has been developed, and the
picture comes into physical view, you do not
condemn the principle of photography, nor
are you puzzled to understand why your pic­
ture has turned out so unsatisfactorily. You
do not feel that it is impossible for you to ob­
tain a good, clear picture of the subject in
question. You know that you can do so, by
simply starting at the beginning, putting in a
new plate, and determining to be more careful
while taking your picture next time. If these
lines are followed out, you are sure of a satis­
factory result. If you will proceed in the
same manner with your mental picture, doing
your part in a correspondingly confident
frame of mind, the result will be just as per­
fect. The laws of visualizing are as infallible
as the laws governing photography. In fact,
photography is the outcome of visualizing.
36
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
Again, your results in visualizing the ful­
fillment of your desires may be imperfect, and
your desires delayed, through the misuse of
this power, owing to the thought that the ful­
fillment of your desire is contingent upon
certain persons or conditions. The Origi­
nating Principle is not in any way dependent
upon any person, place, or thing. It has no
past and knows no future. The law is that the
Originating Creative Principle of Life is
“the universal here and everlasting now.’’ It
creates its own vehicles through which to op­
erate. Therefore, past experience has no
bearing upon your present picture. So do
not try to obtain your desire through a chan­
nel which may not be natural for it, even
though it may seem reasonable to you. Your
feeling should be that the thing, or the con­
sciousness, which you so much desire, is nor­
mal and natural, a part of yourself, a form of
your evolution. If you can do this, there is
no power to prevent your enjoying the fulfill­
ment of the picture you have in mind, or any
other you may create.
37
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER Y
Expressions prom Beginners
HUNDREDS of persons have realized that
“visualizing is an Aladdin’s lamp to him
with a mighty will.’’ General Foch says that
his feelings were so outraged during the
Franco-Prussian war in 1870 that he visual­
ized himself leading a French army against
the Germans to victory. He said he made his
picture, smoked his pipe, and waited. This is
one result of visualizing with which we are
all familiar.
A famous actress wrote a long article in one
of the leading Sunday papers last winter, de­
scribing how she rid herself of excessive
avoirdupois by seeing her figure constantly as
she wished to be.
A very interesting letter came to me from
a doctor’s wife, while I was lecturing in New
York. She began with the hope that I would
never discontinue my lectures on visualiza­
tion, which were helping humanity to realize
the wonderful fact that they possessed the
means of liberation within themselves. Re­
lating her own experience, she said that she
was born on the East Side of New York in the
poorest quarter. From earliest girlhood she
38
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
had cherished a dream of marrying a physi­
cian some day. This dream gradually formed
a stationary mental picture. The first posi­
tion she obtained was in the capacity of a
nurse-maid in a physician’s family. Leaving
this place, she entered the family of another
doctor. The wife of her employer died, and in
time the doctor married her—the result of
her long-pictured yearning. After that, both
she and her husband conceived the idea of
owning a fruit farm in the South. They
formed a mental picture of the idea and put
their faith in its eventual fulfillment. The
letter she sent me came from her fruit farm
in the South. Her second mental picture had
seen the light of materialization.
Many letters of a similar nature come to me
every day. The following is a case that was
printed in the New York Herald last May:
“ Atlantic City, May 5—She was an old
woman, and when she was arraigned before
Judge Clarence Goldenberg in the police court
today she was so weak and tired she could
hardly stand. The Judge asked the court at­
tendant what she was charged with. ‘Stealing
a bottle of milk, Your Honor,’ repeated the
officer. ‘She took it from the doorstep of a
downtown cottage before daybreak this morn­
ing.’ ‘Why did you do that?’ Judge Golden­
berg asked her. ‘I was hungry,’ the old
39
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
woman said. ‘I didn’t have a cent in the
world and no way to get anything to eat except
to steal it. I didn’t think anybody would mind
if I took a bottle of milk.’ ‘What’s your
name?’ asked the Judge. ‘Weinberg,’ said
the old woman, ‘Elizabeth Weinberg.’ Judge
Goldenberg asked her a few questions about
herself. Then he said:
“ ‘Well, you’re not very wealthy now, but
you’re no longer poor. I ’ve been searching
for you for months. I ’ve got $500 belong­
ing to you from the estate of a relative. I
am the executor of the estate.’
“Judge Goldenberg paid the woman’s fine
out of his own pocket, and then escorted her
into his office, where he turned her legacy over
to her and sent a policeman out to find her a
lodging place.”
I learned later that this little woman had
been desiring and mentally picturing $500,
while all the time ignorant of how it could pos­
sibly come to her. But she kept her vision
and strengthened it with her faith.
In an issue of Good Housekeeping there was
an article by Addington Bruce entitled ‘‘Stif­
fening Your Mental Backbone.” It is very
instructive, and would benefit anyone to read
it. He says, in part: “ Form the habit of de­
voting a few moments every day to thinking
about your work in alarge, broad, imaginative
40
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
way, as a vital necessity to yourself and a use­
ful service to society.’’
James J. Hill, the great railway magnate,
before he started building his road from coast
to coast, said that he took hundreds of trips all
along the line before there was a rail laid. It
is said that he would sit for hours with a
map ofthe United States before him and men­
tally travel from coast to coast, just as we do
now over his fulfilled mental picture. It
would be possible to call your attention to
hundreds of similar cases.
The method of picturing to yourself what
you desire is both simple and enjoyable, if you
once understand the principle hack of it well
enough to believe it. Over and above every­
thing else, be sure of what it is you really
want. Then specialize your desire along the
lines given in the following chapter.
41
YüUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER VI
Suggestions foe Making Your Mental
Picture
PERHAPS you want to feel that you’ve
lived to some purpose. You want to be
contented and happy; you feel that good
health and a successful business would give
you contentment. After you have decided
once and for all that this is what you want,
you proceed to picture yourself healthy, and
your business just as great a success as you
can naturally conceive it growing into. The
best times for making your definite picture
are just before breakfast, and again, before
retiring at night. As it is necessary to give
yourself plenty of time, it may be necessary to
rise earlier than you usually do. Gro into a
room where you will not be disturbed, medi­
tate for a few moments upon the practical
working of the law of visualizing, and ask
yourself, “ How did the things about me first
come into existence! How can I get more
quickly in touch with my invisible supply!’’
Someone felt that comfort would be better
expressed and experienced by sitting on a
chair than on the floor. So the very beginning
of a chair was the desire to be at ease. With
42
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
this came the picture of some sort of a chair.
The same principle applies to the hat and the
clothes you wear. Go carefully into the
thought of the principle hack of the thing.
Establish it as a personal experience; make it
a factto your consciousness. Then open a win­
dow, take about ten deep breaths, and during
the time draw a large imaginary circle of light
around you. As you inhale—keeping your­
self in the center of this circle of light—see
great rays of light coming from the circle and
entering your body at all points, centralizing
itself at your solar plexus. Hold the breath a
few moments at this central point of your
body—the solar plexus—; then slowly exhale.
As you do this, mentally see imaginary rays,
or sprays, of light going up through the body,
and down and out through feet. Mentally
spray your entire body with this imaginary
light. When you have finished the breathing
exercise, sit in a comfortable upright chaii
and mentally know there is but one Life, one
Substance, and this Life Substance of the Uni­
verse is finding pleasure in self-recognition in
you. Repeat some affirmation ofthis kind,until
you feel the truth and stimulating reality ol
the words which you are affirming. Then be­
gin your picture. If you are thorough in this,
you will find yourself in the deep conscious­
ness beneath the surface of your own thought
power.
43
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
Whether your desire is for a state of con­
sciousness, or a possession, large or small, be­
gin at the beginning. If you want a house,
begin by seeing yourself in the kind of house
you desire. Go all through it, taking careful
note of the rooms, where the windows are sit­
uated, and such other details as help you to
feel the reality of your picture. You might
change some of the furniture about and look
into some of the mirrors just to see how
healthy, wealthy, and happy you look. Go
over your picture again and again, until you
feel the reality of it, then write it all down
just as you have seen it, with the feeling that:
“ The best there is, is mine. There is no
limit to me, because my mind is a center of
divine operation,’’and your picture is as cer­
tain to come true, in your physical world, as
the sun is to shine.
44
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER VII
Things To Remember
In Using Your Thought Power for the Produc­
tion of New Conditions
1. Be sure to know exactly what conditions
you wish to produce. Then weigh carefully
what further results the accomplishment of
your desire will lead to.
2. By letting your thought dwell upon a
mental picture, you are concentrating the
Creative Action of Spirit in this center, where
all its forces are equally balanced.
3. Visualizing brings your objective mind
into a state of equilibrium, which enables you
to consciously direct the flow of Spirit to a
definitely recognized purpose, and to careful­
ly guard your thoughts from including a flow
in the opposite direction.
4. You must always bear in mind that you
are dealing with a wonderful potential en­
ergy, which is not yet differentiated into any
particular form, and that by the action of
your mind, you can differentiate it into any
specific form that you will. Your picture
assists you to keep your mind fixed on the
fact that the inflow of this Creative Energy
45
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
is taking place. Also, by your mental picture,
you are determining the direction you wish
the sensitive Creative Power to take, and by
doing this, you make the externalization of
your picture a certainty.
5. Remember when you are visualizing
properly that there is no strenuous effort to
hold your thought-forms in place. Strenuous
effort defeats your purpose, and suggests the
consciousness of an adverse force to be fought
against, and this creates conditions adverse to
your picture.
6. By holding your picture in a cheerful
frame of mind, you shut out all thoughts that
would disperse or dissipate the spiritual nu­
cleus of your picture. Because the law is Cre­
ative in its action, your pictured desire is
certain of accomplishment.
7. The seventh and great thing to remember
in visualizing is that you are making a men­
tal picture for the purpose of determining the
quality you are giving to the previously un­
differentiated substance and energy, rather
than to arrange the specific circumstances for
its manifestation. That is the work of Cre­
ative Power itself. It will build its own forms
of expression quite naturally, if you will allow
it, and save you a great deal of needless anx­
iety. What you really want is expansion in
a certain direction, whether of health, wealth.
46
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
or what not, and so long as you get it—as you
surely will, if you confidently hold to your pic­
ture—what does it matter whether it reaches
you by some channel which you thought you
could count upon, or through some other of
whose existence you had no idea. You are
concentrating energy of a particular kind for
a particular purpose. Keep this in mind and
let specific details take care of themselves, and
never mention what you are doing to anyone.
Remember always, that “ Nature, from her
clearly visible surface to her most arcane
depths, is one vast storehouse of light and
good entirely devoted to your individual use.’’
Your conscious Oneness with the great Whole
is the secret of success, and when once you
have fathomed this, you can enjoy your pos­
session of the whole, or a part of it, at will,
because by your recognition you have made it,
and can increasingly make it, yours.
Never forget that every physical thing,
whether for you or against you, was a sus­
tained thought before it was a thing.
Thought, as thought, is neither good nor
bad; it is Creative Action and always takes
physical form. Therefore, the thoughts you
dwell upon become the things you possess or
do not possess.
A man came to me telling me howhe longed
to marry a certain young woman, hut felt he
47
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
could notafford to as his salary was small, and
work uncertain. I spoke the word of ever­
present Certain, Unlimited Supply and ex­
plained that Love knows no failure. “It is
yours to enjoy. See yourself in the kind of a
home you both want. Do your part, keep on
loving the girl, and believe absolutely in that
which Lives and Loves in you.” A few
months later they both came to my study
looking radiantly happy. I knew they were
married. The wife said to me: “Dear Mrs.
Behrend, we are very happy because we now
know how to use our thought power and hold
our consciousness as one, with all we want.”
So be yourself and enjoy Life in your own
Divine way. Do not fear to be your true
self, for everything you want, wants you.
48
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER VIH
Why I Took Up the Study of Mental
Science
1HAYE frequently been questioned about
my reasons for taking up the study of
Mental Science, and as to tbe results of my
search, not only in the knowledge of princi­
ples, but also in the application of that knowl­
edge for the development of my own life.
Such inquiries are justifiable, because one
who essays the role of a messenger of psy­
chological truths can only be convincing as he
or she has tested them in the laboratory of
personal mental experience. This is partic­
ularly true in my case, as the only personal
pupil of Judge Troward, the great Master in
Mental Science, whose teaching is based upon
the relation borne by the Individual Mind
toward the Universal Creative Mind, which is
the Giver of Life, and the manner in which
that relation may be invoked to secure expan­
sion and fuller expression in the individual
life.
My initial impulse toward the study of Men­
tal Science was an overwhelming sense of
loneliness. In every life there must come
some such experience of spiritual isolation as
49
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
pervaded my life at that period. Notwith­
standing the fact that each day found me in
the midst of friends, surrounded by mirth and
gaiety, there was a persistent feeling that I
was alone in the world. I had been a widow
for about three years, wandering from coun­
try to country, seeking for peace of mind.
The circumstances and surroundings of my
life were such that my friends looked upon
me as an unusually fortunate young woman.
Although they recognized that I had sustained
a great loss when my husband died, they knew
that he had left me well provided for, free to
go anywhere my pleasure dictated.
Yet, if my friends could have penetrated
my inmost emotions, they would have found
a deep sense of emptiness and isolation. This
feeling inspired a spirit of unrest, which drove
me on and on in fruitless search upon the out­
side, for that which I later learned could only
be found within.
I studied Christian Science, but it gave me
no solace, though fully realizing the great
work the Scientists were doing, and even
having the pleasure and privilege of meeting
Mrs. Eddy personally. But it was impossible
for me to accept the fundamental teachings of
Christian Science and make practical appli­
cation ofit.
When about to abandon the search for con­
tentment and resign myself to resume a life
SO
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
of apparent amusement, a friend invited me
to visit the great Seer and Teacher, Abdul
Baha. After my interview with this most
wonderful of men, my search for contentment
began to take a change. He had told me that
I would travel the world over seeking the
truth, and when I had found it, would speak
it out. The fulfillment of the statement of this
Great Seer then seemed to he impossible. But
it carried a measure of encouragement, and
at least indicated that my former seeking had
been in the wrong direction. I began in a
feeble, groping way to find contentment with­
in myself, for had he not intimated that I
should find the truth? That was the big thing,
and about the only thing I remember of our
interview.
A few days later, upon visiting the office of
a New Thought practitioner, my attention was
attracted to a hook on his table entitled ‘‘The
Edinburgh Lectures on Mental Science,” by
T. Troward. It interested me to see that
Troward was a retired Divisional Judge from
the Punjab, India. I purchased the book,
thinking I would read it through that evening.
Many have endeavored to do the same thing,
only to find, as I did, that the book must be
studied in order to be understood, and hun­
dreds have decided, just as I did, to give it
their undivided attention. After finding this
treasure book, I went to the country for a few
51
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
days, and while there, studied the volume as
thoroughly as I could.
It seemed extremely difficult, and I decided
to purchase another book of Troward’s, in the
hope that its study might not require so much
of an effort. Upon inquiry I was told that a
subsequent volume, “ The Dore Lectures,”
was much the simpler and better of the two
books. When I procured it, I found that it
must also be studied. It took me weeks and
months to get even a vague conception of the
meaning of the first chapter of Dore, which is
entitled “Entering Into the Spirit of It.” I
mean by this that it took me months to enter
into the spirit of what I was reading.
But in the meantime a paragraph from
page 26 arrested my attention, as seeming the
greatest thing I had ever read. I memorized
it and endeavored with all my soul to enter
into the spirit of Troward’s words. The para­
graph reads:
“My mind is a center of Divine operation.
The Divine operation is always for expansion
and fuller expression, and this means the pro­
duction of something beyond what has gone
before, something entirely new, not included
in the past experience, though proceeding out
of it by an orderly sequence of growth.
Therefore, since the Divine cannot change its
inherent nature, it must operate in the same
manner with me; consequently, in my own
52
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
special world, of which I am the center, it
will move forward to produce new conditions,
always in advance of any that have gone
before.”
It took an effort on my part to memorize
this paragraph, but in the endeavor toward
this end, the words seemed to carry with ttierii
a certain stimulus. Each repetition of the
paragraph made it easier for me to enter into
the spirit of it. The words expressed exactly
what I had been seeking for. My one desire
was for peace of mind. I found it comforting
to believe that the Divine operation in me
could expand to fuller expression and produce
more and more contentment—in fact, a peace
of mind and a degree of contentment greater
than I had ever known. The paragraph fur­
ther inspired me with deep interest to feel
that the life-spark in me could bring into my
life something entirely new. I did not wish
to obliterate my past experience, hut that was
exactly what Troward said it would not do.
The Divine operation would not exclude my
past experience, but proceeding out of it
would bring some new thing that would tran­
scend anything that I had ever experienced
before.
Meditation on these statements brought with
it a certain joyous feeling. What a wonderful
thing it would be if I could accept and sin­
cerely believe, beyond all doubt, that this one
53
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
statement of Troward’s was true. Surely the
Divine could not change its inherent nature,
and since Divine life is operating in me, I
must be Divinely inhabited, and the Divine in
me must operate just as it operates upon the
Universal plane. This meant that my whole
world of circumstances, friends, and condi­
tions would ultimately become a world of con­
tentment and enjoyment of which “I am the
center.” This would all happen just as soon
as I was able to control my mind and thereby
provide a concrete center around which the
Divine energies could play.
Surely it was worth trying for. If Troward
had found this truth, why not If The idea
held me to my task. Later I determined to
study with the man who had realized and
given to the world so great a statement. It
had lifted me from my state of despondency.
The immediate difficulty was the need for in­
creased finances.
54
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER IX
How I Attracted to Mysele Twenty
Thousand Dollars
IN the laboratory of experience in which my
newly revealed relation to the Divine op­
eration was to be tested, the first problem was
a financial one. My income was a stipulated
one, quite enough for my everyday needs.
But it did not seem sufficient to enable me to
go comfortably to England, where Troward
lived, and remain for an indefinite period to
study with so great a teacher as he must be.
So before inquiring whether Troward took
pupils, or whether I would he eligible in case
he did, I began to use the paragraph I had
memorized. Daily, in fact, almost hourly, the
words were in my mind: “My mind is a cen­
ter of Divine operation, and Divine operation
means expansion into something better than
has gone before.”
Prom the Edinburgh Lectures I had read
something about the Law of Attraction, and
from the Chapter on“ Causes and Conditions”
I had gleaned a vague idea of visualizing. So
every night, before going to sleep, I made a
mental picture of the desired $20,000 which
seemed necessary to go and study with Tro-
55
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
ward. Twenty imaginary $1,000 bills were
counted over each nigbt in my bedroom, and
then, with the idea of more emphatically im­
pressing my mind with the fact that this
twenty thousand dollars was for the purpose
of going to England and studying with Tro-
ward, I wrote out my picture, saw myself buy­
ing my steamer ticket, walking up and down
the ship’s deck from New York to London,
and finally, saw myself accepted as Tro-
ward’s pupil. This process was repeated
every morning and every evening, always im­
pressing more and more fully upon my mind
Troward’s memorized statement: “ My mind
is a center of Divine operations.” I endeav­
ored to keep this statement in the back part
of my consciousness all the time, with no
thought in mind of how the money might he
obtained. Probably the reason why there was
no thought of the avenues through which the
money might reach me was because I could
not possibly imagine where the $20,000 would
come from. So I simply held my thought
steady and let the power of attraction find
its own ways and means.
One day while walking on the street, taking
deep breathing exercises, the thought came:
“ My mind is surely a center of Divine opera­
tion. If God fills all space, then God must be
in my mind also;if I want this money to study
with Troward that I may know the truth of
56
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
Life, then both the money and the truth must
be mine, though I am unable to feel or see
the physical manifestations of either. Still,”
I declared, “it must be mine.”
While these reflections were going on in my
mind, there seemed to come up from within
me the thought: “I Am all the substance there
is.” Then, from another channel in my brain
the answer seemed to come, “ Of course, that’s
it; everything must have its beginning in
mind. The Idea must contain within itself
the only one and primary substance there is,
and this means money as well as everything
else.” My mind accepted this idea, and im­
mediately all the tension of mind and body
was relaxed. There was a feeling of abso­
lute certainty of being in touch with all the
power Life has to give. All thought of money,
teacher, or even my own personality, vanished
in the great wave of joy which swept over my
entire being. I walked on and on, with this
feeling of joy steadily increasing and expand­
ing until everything about me seemed aglow
with resplendent light. Every person I
passed appeared illuminated as I was. Ail
consciousness of personality had disappeared,
and in its place there came that great and
almost overwhelming sense of joy and con­
tentment.
That night when I made my picture of the
twenty thousand dollars it was with an entire­
57
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
ly changed aspect. On previous occasions,
when making my mental picture, I had felt
that I was waking up something within my­
self. This time there was no sensation of
effort. I simply counted over the twenty
thousand dollars. Then, in a most unexpected
manner, from a source of which I had no con­
sciousness at the time, there seemed to open
a possible avenue through which the money
might reach me.
At first it took great effort not to be ex­
cited. It all seemed so wonderful, so glorious,
to be in touch with supply. But had not Tro-
ward cautioned his readers to keep all excite­
ment out of their minds in the first flush of
realization of union with Infinite supply, and
to treat this fact as a perfectly natural result
which had been reached through our demand1
This was even more difficult for me than it
was to hold the thought that “all the sub­
stance there is, I Am; I (idea) Am the begin­
ning of all form, visible or invisible.”
Just as soon as there appeared a circum­
stance which indicated the direction through
which the twenty thousand dollars might
come, I not only made a supreme effort to re­
gard the indicated direction calmly as the first
sprout of the seed I had sown in the absolute,
but left no stone unturned to follow up that
direction, thereby fulfilling my part. By so
doing, one circumstance seemed naturally to
58
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
lead to another, until, step by step, my de­
sired twenty thousand dollars was secured.
To keep my mind poised and free from ex­
citement was my greatest effort.
This first concrete fruition of my study of
Mental Science as expounded by Troward’s
book had come by a careful following of the
methods he had outlined. In this connection,
therefore, I can offer to the reader no better
gift than to quote Troward’s book, “ The
Edinburgh Lectures,” from which may be
derived a complete idea of the line of action
I was endeavoring to follow. In the chapter
on Causes and Conditions he says:
“ To get good results we must properly un­
derstand our relation to the great impersonal
power we are using. It is intelligent, and we
are intelligent, and the two intelligencies must
co-operate. We must not fly in the face of the
Law expecting it to do for us what it can only
do through us; and we must therefore use our
intelligence with the knowledge that it is act­
ing as the instrument of agredter intelligence;
and because we have this knowledge we may
and should cease from all anxiety as to the
final result.
“In actual practice we must first form the
ideal conception of our object with the definite
intention of impressing it upon the Universal
Mind—it is this thought that takes such
thought out of the region of mere casual fan­
59
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
cies—and then affirm that our knowledge of
the Law is sufficient reason for a calm expecta­
tion of a corresponding result, and that there­
fore all necessary conditions will come to us
in due order. We can then turn to the affairs
of our daily life with the calm assurance that
the initial conditions are either there already
or will soon come into view. If we do not at
once see them, let us rest content with the
knowledge that the spiritual prototype is al­
ready in existence and wait till some circum­
stance pointing in the desired direction begins
to show itself. It may be a very small circum­
stance, but it is the direction and not the mag­
nitude which is to be taken into consideration.
As soon as we see it we should regard it as the
first sprouting of the seed sown in the Abso­
lute, and do calmly, and without excitement,
whatever the circumstances seem to require,
and then later on we shall see that this doing
will in turn lead to a further circumstance in
the same direction, until we find ourselves
conducted, step by step, to the accomplishment
of our object. In this way the understanding
ofthe greatprinciple ofthe LawofSupplywill,
by repeated experiences, deliver us more and
more completely out of the region of anxious
thought and toilsome labor and bring us into
a new world where the useful employment of
all our powers, whether mental or physical,
will only be an unfolding of our individuality
60
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
upon the lines of its own nature, and there­
fore a perpetual source of health and happi­
ness; a sufficient inducement, surely, to the
careful study of the laws governing the rela­
tion between the individual and the Universal
Mind.’’
To my mind, then as now, this quotation
outlines the core and center of the method and
manner of approach necessary for coming in
touch with Infinite Supply. At least it, to­
gether with the previously quoted statement,
“My mind is a center of Divine operation,”
etc., constituted the only apparent means of at­
tracting to myself the twenty thousand dol­
lars. My constant endeavor to get into the
spirit of these statements, and to attract to
myself this needed sum, took about six weeks,
at the end of which time I had in my bank the
required twenty thousand dollars. This could
be made into a long story, giving all the de­
tails, but the facts, as already narrated, will
give you a definite idea of the magnetic con­
dition of my mind while the twenty thousand
dollars was finding its way to me.
61
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER X
How I Became the Only Personal Pupil op
T. Trowakd, the Great Mental
Scientist
AS soon as the idea of studying with Tro-
ward came to me, I asked a friend to
write him for me, feeling that perhaps my
friend could couch my desire in better or more
persuasive terms than I could employ. To all
the letters written by this friend, I received
not one reply. This was so discouraging that
I would have completely abandoned the idea
of becoming Troward’s pupil, except for the
experience I had had that day on the street,
when my whole world was illuminated, and
I remembered the promise “All things what­
soever thou wilt, believe thou hast received,
and thou shalt receive.”
With this experience in my mind, my pas­
sage to England was arranged, notwithstand­
ing the fact that apparently my letters were
ignored. We wrote again, however, and fi­
nally received a reply, very courteous though
very positive. Troward did not take pupils;
he had no time to devote to a pupil. Notwith­
standing this definite decision, I declined to be
discouraged, because of the memory of my ex-
62
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
perience upon the day when the light and the
thought had come to me, “I Am all the Sub­
stance there is.” I seemed to be able to live
that experience over at will, and with it there
always came a flood of courage and renewed
energy. We journeyed on to London, and
from there telegraphed Troward, asking for
an interview. The telegram was promptly
answered, setting a date when he could see us.
At this time Troward was living in Euan
Manor, a little out-of-the-way place in the
southern part of England, about twenty miles
from a railway station. We could not find it
on the map, and with great difficulty Cook’s
Touring Agency, in London, located the place
for us. There was very little speculation in
my mind as to what Troward would say to me
in this interview. There always remained the
feeling that the truth was mine; also that it
would grow and expand in my consciousness
until peace and contentment were outward, as
well as inward, manifestations of my indi­
vidual life.
We arrived at Troward’s house in a terrific
rainstorm, and were cordially received by
Troward himself, whom I found, much to my
surprise, to be more the type of a Frenchman
than an Englishman, (I afterward learned
that he was a descendant of the Huguenot
race), a man of medium stature, with a rather
large head, big nose, and eyes that fairly
63
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
danced with merriment. After we had been
introduced to the other members of the family
and given a cup of hot tea, we were invited
into the living-room, where Troward talked
very freely of everything except my proposed
studies. It seemed quite impossible to bring
him to that subject. Just before we were
leaving, however, I asked quite boldly: “Will
you not reconsider your decision to take a per­
sonal pupil? I wish so much to study with
you,” to which he replied, with a very indif­
ferent manner, that he did not feel he could
give the time it would require for personal in­
struction, hut that he would he glad to give
me the names of two or three hooks which he
felt would not only be interesting but instruc­
tive to me. He said he felt much flattered and
pleased that I had come all the way from
America to study with him, and as we walked
out through the lane from his house to our
automobile, his manner became less indiffer­
ent, a feeling of sympathy seemed to touch
his heart, and he turned to me with the re­
mark: “You might write to me, if so inclined,
after you get to Paris, and perhaps, if I have
time in the autumn, we could arrange some­
thing, though it does not seem possible now.’’
I lost no time in following up his very kind
invitation to write. Myletterswere all prompt­
ly and courteously answered, but there was
never a word of encouragement as to my pro­
64
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
posed studies. Finally, about two months
later, there came a letter with this question in
it: “What do you suppose is the meaning of
this verse in the 21st Chapter of Revelation?”
“ ‘16. And the city lieth foursquare and
“ ‘the length is as large as the breadth;and he
“ ‘measured the city with the reed, twelve
“ ‘thousand furlongs. The length and the
“ ‘breadth and the height of it are equal.’ ”
Instinctively I knew that my chance to
study with Troward hung upon my giving the
correct answer to that question. The defini­
tion of the verse seemed utterly beyond my
reach. Naturally, answers came to my mind,
but I knew intuitively that they were incor­
rect. I began bombarding my scholarly
friends and acquaintances with the same
questions. Lawyers, doctors, priests, nuns,
and clergymen, all over the world, received
letters from me with this question in them.
Answers began to return to me, but intuition
told me not one was correct. All the while I
was endeavoring to find the answer for my­
self, but no answer came. I memorized the
verse in order that I might meditate upon it.
I began a search of Paris for the books Tro­
ward had recommended to me, and after two
or three days’ search we crossed the River
Seine to the He de Cite to go into some of the
old bookstores there. The books were out of
print, and these were the last places in which
65
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
to find them. Finally we came upon a little
shop which had them. The man had only one
copy of each left, consequently the price was
high. While remonstrating with the clerk,
my eye rested upon the work of an astrologer,
which I laughingly picked up and asked:“Do
you think Prof.—would read my horoscope?”
The clerk looked aghast at the suggestion, and
responded, “Why, no, Madame, he is one of
France’s greatest astrologers. He does not
read horoscopes.”
In spite of this answer, there was a persist­
ent impulse within me to go to the man. The
friend who had accompanied me in my search
for the hooks remonstrated with me, and tried
in every way to dissuade me from going to
the famous astrologer, hut I insisted. When
we arrived at his office, I found it some­
what embarrassing to ask him to read my
horoscope. Nevertheless, there was nothing
to do hut put the question. Reluctantly, the
Professor invited us into his paper-strewn
study; reluctantly, and also impatiently he
asked us to he seated. Very courteously and
coldly he told me that he did not read horo­
scopes. His whole manner said, more clearly
than words could, that he wished we would
take our departure.
My friend stood up. I was at a great loss
what to do next, because I felt that I was not
quite ready to go. Intuition seemed to tell me
66
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
there was something for me to gain there.
Jnst what it was I was unable to define, so I
paused a moment, much to my friend’s dis­
pleasure and embarrassment, when one of
the Professor’s enormous Persian catsjumped
into my lap. “ Get down, Jack!” the Profes­
sor shouted. “ What does it mean?” he
seemed to ask himself. Then with a greater
interest than he had hitherto shown in me, the
Professor said with a smile:
“I have never known that cat to go to a
stranger before, Madame; my cat pleads for
you. I, also, now feel an interest in your
horoscope, and if you will give me the data
it will give me pleasure to write it out for
you.’’
There was a great feeling of happiness in
me when he made this statement, which he
concluded by saying, “ I do not feel that you
really care for your horoscope.” The truth
of this statement shocked me, because I did
not care about a horoscope, and could not give
any reason why I was letting him do it.
“However,” he said, “may I call for your
data next Sunday afternoon?”
On Sunday afternoon at the appointed time,
the Professor arrived, and I was handing him
the slip of paper with all the data of my birth,
etc., when the idea came to ask the Professor
the answer to the question Troward had given
me from the 16th verse of the 21st Chapter of
67
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
Revelation. The thought was instantly car­
ried into effect, and I found myself asking
this man what he thought this verse meant.
Without pausing to think it over, he imme­
diately replied, “It means: the city signifies
the truth, and the truth is non-invertible;
every side from which you approach it is ex­
actly the same.’’ Intuitively and undoubting-
ly I recognized this answer as the true one,
and my joy knew no bounds, because I felt
sure that with this correct answer in my pos­
session, Troward would accept me as his pu­
pil in the fall.
As the great astrologer was leaving, I ex­
plained to him all about my desire to study
with Troward, how I had come from New
York City for that express purpose, seeming­
ly to no avail, until the answer to this test
question had been given to me by him. He
was greatly interested and asked many ques­
tions about Troward, and when asked if he
would please send me his bill, he smilingly
replied, “Let me know if the great Troward
accepts you as his pupil,” and bade me good
afternoon. I hastened to my room to send a
telegram to Troward, giving my answer to
the question from the 16th verse of the 21st
Chapter of Revelation.
There was an immediate response from
Troward which said: “Your answer is cor­
rect. Am beginning a course of lectures on
68
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
The Great Pyramid in London. If you wish
to attend them, will be pleased to have you,
and afterward, if you still wish to study with
me, I think it can he arranged.” On receipt
of this reply preparations were at once made
to leave Paris for London.
I attended all the lectures, receiving much
instruction from them, after which arrange­
ments were made for my studying with Tro-
ward. Two days before leaving for Corn­
wall, I received the following letter from
Troward clearly indicating the line of study
he gave me:
31 Stanwick Road,
W. Kensington, England.
Dear Mrs. Behrend:
I think I had better write you a few lines
with regard to your proposed studies with me,
as I should he sorry for you to be under any
misapprehension and so to suffer any disap­
pointment.
I have studied the subject now for several
years, and have a general acquaintance with
the leading features of most of the systems
which, unfortunately, occupy attention in
many circles at the present time, such as The­
osophy, The Tarot, The Kabala, and the like,
and I have no hesitation in saying that, to the
best of my judgment, all sorts and descrip­
tions of so-called occult study are in direct op­
69
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
position to the real life-giving Truth, ana,
therefore, you must not expect any teaching
on such lines as these.
We hear a great deal these days about Ini­
tiation; hut, believe me, the more you try to
become a so-called “Initiate” the further you
will put yourself from living life.
I speak after many years of careful study
and consideration when I say that the Bible
and its Bevelation of Christ is the one thing
really worth studying, and that is a subject
large enough in all conscience, embracing, as
it does, our outward life and of everyday con­
cerns, and also the inner springs of our life
and all that we can in general terms conceive
of the life in the unseen after putting off the
body at death.
You have expressed a very great degree of
confidence in my teaching, and if your con­
fidence is such that you wish, as you say, to
put yourself entirely under my guidance, I
can only accept it as a very serious respon­
sibility, and should have to ask you to ex­
hibit that confidence by refusing to look into
such so-called “Mysteries” as I would forbid
you to look into.
I am speaking from experience; hut the re­
sult will he that much of my teaching will ap­
pear to he very simple, perhaps to some extent
dogmatic, and you will say you have heard
much of it before.
70
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
Faith in God, Prayer and Worship, ap­
proach to the Father through Christ—all this
is in a certain sense familiar to you; and all I
can hope to do is perhaps to throw a little
more light on these subjects, that they may be­
come to you, not merely traditional words, but
present living facts.
I have been thus explicit as I do not want
you to have any disappointment, and also I
should say that our so-called course of study
will he only friendly conversations at such
times as we can fit them in, either you coming
to our house, or I to yours, as may he most
convenient at the time.
Also, I will lend you some books which will
be helpful, but they are very few, and in no
sense occult.
Now, if all this falls in with your ideas, we
shall, I am sure, he very glad to see you at
Ruan Manor, and you will find that the resi­
dents there, though few, are very friendly and
the neighborhood very pretty.
But, on the other hand, if you feel that you
want some other source of learning, do not
mind saying so, only you will never find any
substitute for Christ.
I trust you will not mind my writing you
like this, but I do not want you to come all the
71
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
way down to Cornwall, and then be disap­
pointed.
With kindest regards,
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) T. TROWARD.
This copy of Troward’s letter, to my mind,
is the greatest thing I can give you.
72
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER XI
How to Being the Powee in Youe Wobd
Into Action
IN' every word yon use, there is a power
germ which expands and projects itself in
the direction your word indicates, and ulti­
mately develops into physical expression.
For example, you wish the consciousness of
joy. Repeat the word “ joy” secretly, per­
sistently and emphatically. The repetition of
the word joy sets up a quality of vibration
which causes the joy germ to begin to expand
and project itself until your whole being is
filled with joy. This is not a mere fancy, but
a truth. Once you experience this power, you
will daily prove to yourself that these facts
have not been fabricated to fit a theory, but
the theory has been built up by careful obser­
vation of facts. Everyone knows that joy
comes from within. No one can give it to you.
Another may give you cause for joy, but no
one can be joyous for you. Joy is a state of
consciousness, and consciousness is purely
mental.
Troward says the “ Mental faculties always
work under something which stimulates them,
and this stimulus may come either from with­
73
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
out, through the external senses, or from
within, by the consciousness of something not
perceptible on the physical plane. The recog­
nition of this interior source of stimulus en­
ables you to bring into your consciousness any
state you desire.” Once a thing seems nor­
mal to you, it is as surely yours, through the
law of growth and attraction, as it is yours to
know addition after you have learned the use
of figures.
This method of repeating the word makes
the word in all of its limitless meaning
yours, because words are the embodiment of
thoughts, and thought is creative; neither
good nor bad, simply creative. This is the
reason why Faith builds up and Fear de­
stroys. “Only believe, and all things are
possible unto you.” It is Faith that gives
you dominion over every adverse circum­
stance or condition. It is your word of Faith
that sets you free—not faith in any specific
thing or act, but simple Faith in your best
self in all ways. It is this ever-present Cre­
ative Power within the heart of the word that
makes your health, your peace of mind, and
your financial condition a reproduction of
your most habitual thought. Try to believe
and understand this, and you will find your­
self Master of every adverse circumstance or
condition, for you will become a Prince of
Power.
74
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER XII
How to Increase Your Faith
BUT you ask, “ How can I speak the word
of Faith when I have little or no faith?”
Every living thing has faith in something or
somebody. Faith is that quality of Power
which gives the Creative Energy a corre­
sponding vitality, and the vitality in the word
of Faith you use causes it to take correspond­
ing physical form. Even intense fear is alive
with faith. You fear smallpox because you
believe it possible for you to contract it. You
fear poverty and loneliness because you be­
lieve them possible for you. It is the Faith
which understands that every creation had its
birth in the womb of thought-words, that gives
you dominion over all things, your lesser self
included, and this feeling of faith is increased
and intensified through observing what it
does.
Your constant observation should be of your
state of consciousness when you did; not when
you hoped you might, but feared it was too
good to be true. How did you feel that time
when you simply had to bring yourself into a
better frame of mind and did, or you had to
have a certain thing and got it? Live these
75
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
experiences over again and again—mentally
—until yon really feel in touch with the self
which knows and does, and then the best there
is, is yours.
76
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER XIII
The Reward of Increased Faith
YOUR desire to be your best has expanded
your faith into the faith of the Universe
which knows no failure, and has brought you
into conscious realization that you are not a
victim of the universe, but a part of it. Con­
sequently you are able to recognize that there
is that within yourself which is able to make
conscious contact with the Universal Law, and
enables you to press all the particular laws of
Nature, whether visible or invisible, into serv­
ing your particular demand or desire. There­
by you find yourself Master, not a slave, of
any situation. Troward tells us that this Mas­
tering is to be “accomplished by knowledge,
and the only knowledge which will afford this
purpose in all its measureless immensity is
the knowledge of the personal element in uni­
versal spirit,” and its reciprocity to our own
personality. In other words, the words you
think, the personality you feel yourself to be,
are all reproductions in miniature of Cod, *‘or
specialized universal spirit.’’ All your word-
thoughts were Cod word-forms before they
were yours.
The words you use are the instruments—
77
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
channels—through which the creative energy
takes form. Naturally, this sensitive Crea­
tive Power can only reproduce in accordance
with the instrument through which it passes.
All disappointments and failures are the re­
sult of endeavoring to think one thing and
produce another. This is just as impossible as
it would be for an electric fan to be used for
lighting purposes, or for water to flowthrough
a crooked pipe in a straight line. The water
must take the shape of the pipe through which
it flows. Even more truly this sensitive, in­
visible Substance must reproduce outwardly
the shape of the thought-word through which
it passes. This is the law of its Nature; there­
fore, it logically follows, “As a man thinketh,
so is he.” Hence, when your thought or
word-form is in correspondence with the Eter­
nal constructive and forward movement of the
Universal Law, then your mind is the mirror
in which the Infinite Power and Intelligence
of the Universe sees itself reproduced, and
your individual life becomes one of harmony.
78
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER XIV
How to Make Nature Respond to You
IT should be steadily borne in mind that there
is an Intelligence and Power in all Nature
and all space, which is always creative, and
infinitely sensitive and responsive. The re­
sponsiveness of its nature is two-fold: it is
creative, and amenable to suggestion. Once
the human understanding grasps this all-im­
portant fact, it realizes the simplicity with
which the law of life supplies your every de­
mand. All that is necessary is to realize that
your mind is a center of Divine operation, and
consequently contains that within itself which
accepts suggestions, and expect all life to re­
spond to your call. Then you will find sug­
gestions which tend to the fulfillment of your
desire coming to you, not only from your fel-
lowmen, but also from the flowers, the grass,
the trees, and the rocks, which will enable you
to fulfill your heart’s desire, if you act upon
them in confidence on this physical plane.
“Faith without works is dead,” but Faith
with Works sets you absolutely free.
79
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER XV
Faith With Works—What It Has
Accomplished
IT is said of Tyson, the great Australian mil­
lionaire, that the suggestion to “make the
desert land of Australia blossom as the rose”
came to him from a modest little Australian
violet while he was working as a hushman
for something like three shillings a day. He
used to find these friendly little violets grow­
ing in certain places in the woods, and some­
thing in the flower touched something akin to
itself in the mind of Tyson. He would sit on
the side of his hunk at night and wonder how
flowers and vegetable life could be given an
opportunity to express themselves in the des­
ertland ofAustralia. Nodoubthe realized that
it wouldtake a longtimeto save enoughmoney
to put irrigating ditches in the desert lands,
but his thought and feeling assured him it
could be accomplished, and if it could be done,
he could do it. If there was a power within
himself which was able to capture the idea,
then there must be a responsive power within
the idea itself which could bring itself into a
practical physical manifestation. He reso­
lutely put aside all questions as to the specific
80
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
ways and means which would be employed in
bringing his desire into physical manifesta­
tion, and simply kept his thought centered
upon the idea of making fences and seeing
flowers and grass where none existed at that
time. Since the responsiveness of Reproduc­
tive Creative Power is not limited to any lo­
cal condition of mind, his habitual meditation
and mental picture set his ideas free to roam
in an infinitude, and attract to themselves
other ideas of a kindred nature. Therefore,
it was not necessary for Tyson to wait until
he had saved from his three shillings a day
enough money to irrigate the land, to see his
ideas and desires fulfilled, for his ideas found
other ideas in the financial world which were
attuned in sympathy with themselves, and
doors of finance were quickly opened.
All charitable institutions are maintained
upon the principle of the responsiveness of
life. If this were not true, no one would care
to give, simply because another needed. The
law of demand and supply, cause and effect,
can never he broken. Ideas attract to them­
selves kindred ideas. Sometimes they come
from a flower, a hook, or out of the invisible.
You are intent upon an idea not quite com­
plete as to the ways and means of fulfillment,
and behold along comes another idea, from no
one can tell where, and finds friendly lodging
with your idea; one idea attracting another,
81
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
and so onuntil your desires are physical facts.
You may feel the necessity for improve­
ment in your finances, and wonder howthis in­
crease is to be brought about, when there
seems suddenly to come from within the idea
itself, the realization that everything—even
money—had its birth in thought, and your
thoughts turn their course. You simply hold
to the statement or affirmation that the best,
and all there is, is yours. Since you are able
to capture ideas from the Infinite through the
instrument of your intuition, you let your
mind rest upon that thought, knowing full
well that this very thought will respond to
itself. Your inhibition of all doubt and anx­
iety enables the reassuring ideas to establish
themselves and attract to themselves “I can”
and “ I will” ideas, which gradually grow
into the physical form of the desire in your
mind.
In the conscious uses of the Universal Pow­
er to reproduce your desires in physical form,
three facts should be borne in mind:
First—All space is filled with a Creative
Power.
Second—This Creative Power is amenable
to suggestion.
Third—It can only work by deductive
methods.
As Troward tells us, this last is an exceed­
ingly important point, for it implies that the
82
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
action of the ever-present Creative Power is
in no way limited by precedent. It works ac­
cording to the essence ofthe spirit of the prin­
ciple. In other words, this Universal Power
takes its creative direction from the word
yon give it. Once man realizes this great
truth, the character with which this sensitive,
reproductive power is invested becomes the
most important of all his considerations. It is
the unvarying law of Creative Life Principle
that “As a man thinketh in his heart, so is
he.” If you realize the truth that the Crea­
tive Power can be to you only what you feel
and think it to be, it is willing and able to
meet your demands.
Troward says, “If you think your thought
is Powerful, your Thought is Powerful.’’
“As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he”
is the law of life, and the Creative Power can
no more change this law than an ordinary
mirror can reflect back to you a different
image than the object you hold before it. “ As
you think, so are you’’does not mean *‘as you
tell people you think,” or “ as you would wish
the world to believe you think.” It means
your innermost thoughts; that place where no
one hut you knows. “None can know the
Father save the son,” and “No one can know
the son hut the Father.’’ Only the reproduc­
tive Creative Spirit of Life knows what you
think, until your thoughts become physical
83
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
facts and manifest themselves in your body,
your brain, or your affairs. Then everyone
with whom you come into contact may know,
because the Father, the Intelligent Creative
Energy which heareth in secret your most se­
cret thoughts, rewards you openly: repro­
duces your thoughts in physical form. “ As
you think, that is what you become” should
be kept in the background of your mind con­
stantly. This is watching and praying without
ceasing, and when you are not feeling quite
up to par physically, pray.
84
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER XVI
Suggestions as to How to Pray or Ask, be­
lieving you have already received.
Scientific Thinking—Positive Thought
Suggestions for Practical Application
TRY, through careful, positive, enthusiastic
(though not strenuous) thought, to realize
that the indescribable, Invisible Substance of
Life fills all space; that its nature is Intelli­
gent, Undifferentiated Substance.
Five o’clock in the morning is the best time
to go into this sort of meditation.
If you will retire early every night for one
month, and before falling asleep, impress
firmly upon your subjective mind the affirma­
tion:‘‘My Father is the ruler of all the world,
and is expressing His directing power
through me,’’you will find that the substance
of life takes form in your thought molds./Do
not accept the above suggestion simply be­
cause it is given to you. Think it over care­
fully until the impression is made upon your
own subconscious mind understanding^.
Rise every morning, as was suggested before,
85
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
at five o’clock, sit in a quiet room in a straight-
back chair, and think out the affirmation of
the previous evening, and you will realize and
be able to put into practice your Princely
Power with the realization to some extent, at
least, that your mind really is a center through
which all the Creative Energy and Power
there is, is taking form.
Scientific Prayer
The Principle Underlying Scientific
Prayer
In prayer for a change in condition, phys­
ical, mental, or financial, for yourself or
another, bear in mind that the fundamental
necessity for the answer to prayer is the un­
derstanding of the scientific statement:
“Ask, believing you have already received,
And you shall receive”
This is not as difficult as it appears on the
surface, once you realize that:
Everything has its origin in the mind, and
that which you seek outwardly, you already
possess.
No one can think a thought in the future.
Your thought of a thing constitutes its
origin.
86
STOUR INVISIBLE POWER
THEREFORE:
The Thought Form of the Thing is Already
Yours
As soon as you think it.
Your steady recognition of this Thought Pos­
session causes the thought to concentrate, to
condense, to project itself, and to assume
physical form.
To Get Rich Through Creation
The recognition or conception of new
sources of wealth is the loftiest aspiration you
can take into your heart, for it assumes and
implies the furtherance of all noble aims.
Items to he remembered about Prayer for
Yourself or Another
Remember that that which you call treat­
ment or prayer is not, in any sense, hypno­
tism. It should never he your endeavor to
take possession of the mind of another.
Remember that it should never he your in­
tention to make yourself believe that which
you know to be untrue. You are simply
thinking into God or First Cause with the
understanding that:
“ If a thing is true at all, there is a way in
which it is true throughout the universe.”
Remember that the power of thought works
by absolutely scientific principles. These
87
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
principles are expressed in the language of
the statement:
“As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he.”
This statement contains a world of wisdom,
but man’s steady recognition and careful ap­
plication of the statement itself is required to
bring it into practical use.
Remember that the principles involved in
being as we think in our heart are elucidated
and revealed by the law: “As you sow, so
shall you reap.”
Remember that your freedom to choosp just
what you will think, just what thought posses­
sion you will affirm and claim, constitutes
God’s gift to you.,/
It shows how First Cause has endowed ev­
ery man with the power and ability to bring
into his personal environment whatever he
chooses.
Cause and Effect in reference to Getting.
If you plant an ACORN, you get an OAK.
If you sow a GRAIN OF CORN, you reap
a stalk and MANY kernels of com.
You always get the manifestation of that
which you consciously or unconsciously AF­
FIRM and CLAIM, habitually declare and
expect, or, in other words, “AS YOU SOW.”/
Therefore, sow the seeds of—
I AM ...I OUGHT TO DO. ..I CAN DO...
I WILL DO.
88
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
Realize
—that because you ARE you OUGHT to do;
—that because you OUGHT to, you CAN do;
—that because you CAN do, you DO do.
The manifestation of this truth, even in a
small degree, gives you the undisputable un­
derstanding that DOMINION IS TOUR
CHARTER RIGHT.
You are an heir of First Cause, endowed
with all the power He has.
God has given you everything. ALL is
yours, and you know that all you have to do
is to reach out your mental hand and take it.
This Formula may serve as a pattern to
shape your own Prayer or Affirmation into
God for the benefit of another or yourself.
If for another, you speak the Christian
name of the person you wish to help; then
dismiss their personality entirely from your
onsciousness.
Intensify your thought by meditating upon
the fact that there is that in you which finds
the way, which is the Truth and is the Life.
You are affirming this fact, believing that
since you are thinking this, it is already yours.
Having lifted up your feeling to the central
idea of this meditation, you examine your
own consciousness and see if there is aught
which is unlike God. If there is any feeling
of fear, worry, malice, envy, hatred, or jeal-
89
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
ousy, turn back in your meditation to cleanse
your thought through the affirmation that
God’s love and purity fills all space, includ­
ing your heart and soul. Reconcile your
thought with the love of God, always re­
membering that:
You are made in the Image and Likeness of
Love.
Keep this cleansing thought in mind until
you feel that you have freed your conscious­
ness entirely of all thoughts and feelings
other than:
Love and Unity with all Humanity.
Then if denials do not disturb you, deny
all that is unlike your desired manifestation.
This accomplished, you almost overlay your
denial with the affirmative thought that You
are made in the Image and Likeness of God,
and already have your desire fulfilled in its
first, its original thought-form.
Closing of Prayer.
Prayer as a method of thought is a de­
liberate use of the Law which gives you the
power of dominion over everything which
tends in any way to hamper your perfect
liberty.
90
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
YOU HAVE BEEN GIVEN LIFE
THAT YOU MAY ENJOY IT MORE AND
MORE FULLY.
The steady recognition of this Truth makes
you declare yourself a
PRINCE OF POWER.
You recognize, accept, and use this power as
THE CHILD OF A KING, AND HENCE
DOMINION IS YOUR BIRTHRIGHT.
Then when you feel the light of this great
truth flooding your consciousness—open the
flood-gates of your soul in heartfelt praise
because you have the understanding that
THE CREATOR AND HIS CREATION
ARE ONE;
also that the Creator is continually creating
through his creation.
Close your treatment in the happy assur­
ance that the prayer which is fulfilled is not
a form of supplication, but a steady habitual
affirming that: “ The Creator of all creation
is operating specifically through me,” there­
fore—
THE WORK MUST BE PERFECTLY
DONE. YOUR MIND IS A CENTER
OF DIVINE OPERATION.
91
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
Hints for application and Practice
For every five minutes given to reading and
study of the theories of Mental Science, spend
fifteen minutes in the use and application of
the knowledge acquired.
1. Spend one minute in every twenty-four
hours to conscientiously thinking over the
specification that must be observed in or­
der to have your prayers answered.
2. Practice the steady recognition of desir­
able thought possession for two periods
of fifteen minutes each every day. Not
only time yourself each period to see how
long you can keep a given conception be­
fore your mental vision, but also keep a
written record of the vividness with which
you experience your mental image. Re­
member that your mental senses are just
as varied and trainable as your physical
ones.
3. Spend five minutes every day between 12
noon and 1 o’clock with a mental research
for new sources of wealth.
92
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
CHAPTER XVII
Things to Remember
THAT the greatest Mental Scientist the
world has ever known (Jesus Christ, the
Man) said all things are possible unto you.
Also, “the things I do, you can do.” Did
he tell the truth?
Jesus did not claim to he more divine than
you are. He declared the whole human race
children of God. By birth he was no excep­
tion to this rule. The power he possessed
was developed through His personal effort.
He said you could do the same if you would
only believe in yourself.
A great idea is valueless unless accom­
panied by physical action. God gives the
idea; man works it out upon the physical
plane.
All that is really worth while is content­
ment. Self-command alone can produce it.
The soul and body are one. Contentment
of mind is contentment of soul, and content­
ment of soul means contentment of body.
If you wish health, watch your thoughts,
not only of your physical being, but your
thoughts about everything and everybody.
With your will, keep them in line with your
93
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
desire, and outwardly act in accordance with
your thoughts, and you will soon realize that
all power both over thoughts and conditions
has been given to you.
You believe in God. Believe in yourself
as the physical instrument through which
God operates. ,,
Absolute dominion is yours when you have
sufficient self-mastery to conquer the negative
tendency of thoughts and actions.
Ask yourself daily: “ What is the purpose
of the Power which put me here?’’
“How can I work with the purpose for life
and liberty in me?”
After having decided these questions, en­
deavor hourly to fulfill them. You are a law
unto yourself.
If you have a tendency to overdo cmything:
eat, drink, or blame circumstances for your
misfortunes, conquer that tendency with the
inward conviction that all power is yours.
Eat less, drink less, blame circumstances less,
and the best there is will gradually grow in
the place where the worst seemed to be.
Always remember that all is yours to use
as you will.
You can if you will; if you will, you do.
God the Father blesses you with all He has
to give.
Make good Godly use of it.
94
YOUR INVISIBLE POWER
Tlie reason for greater success when you
first began your studies and demonstrations
in Mental Science, was your joy and enthusi­
asm at the simple discovery of Power within,
which was greater than you were able to put
into your understanding later. With increased
understanding, comes increasing joy and en­
thusiasm, and the results will correspond.
95
