{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__bennett___apollonius.pdf","mytitle":"Apollonius","mylang":"de"}
APOLLONIUS
OR
The Present and Future of
Psychical Research
BY
\KN. BENNETT, M.A.
Late Fellow of Hertford College, Oxford
Phil. Vit. A poll. II, 45
London
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER &Co., Ltd.
New York: E. P. Dutton & Co.
Made and Printed in Great Britain by
M F. Robinson & Co., Ltd., at The Library Press, Lowestof
APOLLONIUS
OR THE
PRESENT AND FUTURE
OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Psychical research has in the last
twenty-five years lived down the
obloquy and suspicion which sur-
rounded its earlier days, and secured an
assured position as a recognized branch
of scientific study. In nearly every
European country and in the United
States of America men of acknow-
ledged eminence in their professions
—philosophers, scientists, doctors,
literary men—have devoted themselves
to the earnest study of those obscure
and baffling phenomena which form
the subject matter of psychical research,
though this field of scientific endeavour
holds at present few allurements in the
[5]
APOLLONIUS
shape of personal advantage or reward ;
no appreciable endowments exist to
facilitate such research, no professorial
chairs are reserved for its devotees.
The patient and unselfish toil of those
men, who have given to psychical
research years which otherwise might
have brought them rich material gains,
is based on their deep and abiding
interest in the subject, and their frank
endorsement of Schopenhauer's words :
" The phenomena under discussion
are, at least from a philosophical stand-
point, of all the facts presented to us
by the whole of experience without
comparison the most important : it is
therefore the duty of every educated
man to make himself thoroughly
acquainted with them."
Nevertheless, in spite of the recent
emergence of psychical research into
the clearer light of scientific tolerance
and even encouragement, it must be
admitted that its literary output has
[6]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
within recent years, as far as the
Enghsh-speaking races are concerned,
fallen far behind the brilliant and yet
substantial work of its earlier pioneers.
Few, if any, of our modern researchers
in Great Britain have reached the high
level attained by the works of, say,
Myers, Gurney, Podmore, Professor
and Mrs Sidgwick, and Professor James
of Harvard. Nor again has any ade-
quate progress been maintained in the
experimental work which characterized
the earlier history of the Society for
Psychical Research. Our main evidence
for telepathy is still the careful work
of the Sidgwick group at Brighton, and
little has been accomplished in the
investigation of " physical phenomena "
since the perplexities and disappoint-
ments of the Palladino experiments.
In America the glory has indeed de-
parted from a movement which was
formerly illumined by the splendid
work of William James, Hyslop,
Hodgson, and Prince,
[7]
APOLLONIUS
On the other hand, if in Great
Britain the earher branches of experi-
ment have to some extent been
neglected, a vast amount of useful
work has been accomplished since the
death of Myers in the new field of
" cross correspondences ",^ which, in
the opinion of some, may well prove
to be the most productive of all our
areas of research. On the Continent
too experimental work of a high order
has been developed during recent years,
more especially in France and in
Germany, the results of which have
been given to the world in the writings
of such men as Richet, Osty, Schrenck-
Notzing, Tischner, Dessoir, Driesch,
and others. The happy selection this
year of Dr Driesch as President of the
1 i.e. two mediums sitting widely apart,
sometimes even in different countries, receive
different messages alleged to come from the same
discarnate personality. "When taken separately
such messages may be obscure and meaningless ;
when read in conjunction they present a clear
and intelligible meaning.
[8]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
S.P.R. is a tribute to the fine work of
himself and his countrymen. No better
future could indeed be desired for
psychical research than that it should
occupy the serious attention of German
scholars and be treated in accordance
with the painstaking and efficient
methods of German science.
But while the advance of psychical
research on strictly scientific lines has
to some extent fallen short of the hopes
of our pioneers, an unprecedented
development has taken place in the
cruder and less critical forms of what
is popularly known as " Spiritualism ".
This increased interest in spiritualistic
phenomena has been followed by a vast
output of books devoted to the accept-
ance of the spiritist theory and gener-
ally characterized by the absence of
scientific spirit or critical investigation.
Thousands of persons who fully admit
their acceptance of the " facts of
spiritualism " and allege that they find
in the teachings of the spiritualist
[9J
APOLLONIUS
creed guidance in life and consolation
in death appear to be satisfied with a
minimum of reason for the faith which
is in them. Popular enthusiasm for
occult experiences has produced no
corresponding increase in the number
of serious students. The valuable
material accumulated with immense
care in the Proceedings of the Psychical
Research Society is to a large extent
unknown to and unexplored by the
modern spiritualist, who professes to
base his claims, if called upon to do so,
on uncritical data derived from pro-
fessional clairvoyants or his own auto-
matic script. The result has been a
veritable flood of alleged messages
from another world which, in some
cases, have been supplied to the
Sunday newspapers by discarnate and
obliging intelligences with the regu-
larity of an editorial leader. The recog-
nized spiritualist churches, " Lyceums"
and similar organizations in Great
Britain, 6io in number apart from
[10 J
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
independent societies and groups, pos-
sess a membership of at least 54,000 ;
and, despite the honourable efforts of
many educated and enlightened spirit-
ualists who are determined enemies of
mediumistic fraud, a steady increase
has taken place in the ranks of those
pseudo-mediums who trade on the
credulity of the public.
At first sight this strange develop-
ment might appear to be wholly out of
keeping with the spirit of an age which
may reasonably be described as mater-
ialistic. The appalling failure of or-
ganized Christianity to avert or shorten
the War, the diseased growths which
have fastened upon our music, art, and
drama, the waste and extravagance in
our social life, the cruel self-seeking of
our international conduct—these and
other influences of the War-period and
its aftermath have provided a fitting
inspiration for large sections of our
population which appear to have little
taste for much beyond the life-purpose
[II]
APOLLONIUS
of Mr. Wells' hero " to put one's hands
on the dibs, and have a good time."
But history has demonstrated in the
case of individuals and nations alike
that material and even intellectual
progress does not necessarily eliminate
superstition. The sceptical Julius Caesar
crawled up the steps of the Capitol to
avert the jealous wrath of the gods
;
the Renaissance was responsible for
two centuries of witch-burning. And
so we find that side by side with the
weakening of moral and religious sanc-
tions a widespread spirit of credulous
and uncritical belief pervades the com-
munity. The vast developments in the
circulation of cheap newspapers while
adding enormously to the information
of the public on current events, has
also led our less educated citizens in
general to accept what they see in
print. During the War-fever even men
of recognized position whose training
might, one would think, have instilled
into them some measure of intellectual
[12]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
caution, have exhibited amazing credu-
lity. The late Bishop of Carlisle, and
the Editor of Punch are typical of
thousands of our fellow-citizens, clerical
and lay alike, who accepted without
question such grotesque fabrications as
the German " Corpse Factory " or the
" Crucified Canadian ". Stories em-
bodied in the Bryce Report and similar
publications were received without any
misgiving or discrimination by ninety-
nine per cent, of our population. The
nebulous story of the singularly in-
efficient " Angels of Mons " formed the
text of lay and ecclesiastical addresses.
The national mind, carefully tutored
by the fraud or stupidity of controlled
journalism, was ready when the War
ceased to exchange the material horrors
of this world for the spiritual excite-
ments of the next.
The most powerful impulse, however,
behind the new spiritualism has come
from the staggering loss of human life
in the Great War. Never before in the
[13]
APOLLONIUS
world's history has the cry of human
bereavement been so loud and bitter,
for the vast majority of the millions
who perished in the conflict were young
men leaving behind them a heritage of
sorrow incomparably greater than that
which follows from the loss of the old,
who in far greater numbers die every
year in the ordinary course of nature.
Nor has the poignancy of their grief
for the loss of sons and brothers been
lessened for those among the survivors
who have reached the conviction that
these vast armies of the world were
led to the slaughter on false pretences,
and that the soldiers died not, as most
of them honestly believed, to promote
justice, peace, and freedom, but to
subserve the same vile motives of
imperialist and commercial greed which
have promoted every other modern war.
In earlier ages the Christian religion
did indubitably inspire in the minds of
its adherents a genuine conviction of
a life beyond the grave and a future
[14J
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
recognition of those lost awhile. But
Protestantism in its violent rejection
of earlier tenets has so far attenuated
the doctrine of a future existence that
its harsh interdicts on prayers for the
dead and its vague and inconsistent
beliefs as to the state of the departed
have to a large extent ceased either to
attract or convince. At Omdurman
the writer saw thousands of men
advancing against the most terrific fire
of the century's warfare with the name
of God upon their lips and real con-
viction of a future life in their hearts
—but these men were not Christians.
The carelessness, timidity, or corruption
of the Churches have served to devital-
ize not only the ethical precepts of
their Master but also that immortality
which He brought to light. But,
although the old springs of comfort
have to a large extent ceased to flow,
the needs of the human heart remain,
and are turned to those fresh sources
of assurance and consolation which
[15]
APOLLONIUS
are so lavishly offered by modern
Spiritualism.
:ti * -^ ^ *
Those who undertake the scientific
consideration of psychic phenomena
must realize the existence of certain
initial difficulties specially attached to
this branch of research. No form of
scientific work is more exposed than
this to the dangerous influence of the
" personal equation " in the researcher.
An astronomer might conceivably be
prejudiced in his work on Mars by some
a priori tendency to regard that planet
as the home of sentient beings, but the
influence of such personal factors in
scientific research may generally be
regarded as almost negligible. When,
however, we find ourselves in contact
with psychic phenomena which indi-
cate intelligence, it is often difficult to
dissociate our conclusions as to the
source of such intelligence from our
other beliefs or disbeliefs. On an
occasion famous in the annals of the
[i6]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Society for Psychical Research a sealed
envelope containing a written state-
ment by the late F. W. Myers was
opened in order to test the accuracy of
Mrs Verrall's automatic '
Myers' script,
which had previously claimed to reveal
the words of the sealed message. I shall
never forget the look of cruel dis-
appointment which appeared on the
faces of some of those present when
the two messages were found to be
dissimilar. On the other hahd one of
the party, a persistent opponent of the
spiritist hypothesis, received the result
with obvious satisfaction.
That such preconceived hopes or
opinions colour the general attitude of
the devotees of popular and uncritical
spiritualism is obvious. Given a dark
room, a professional medium in-
adequately controlled or uncontrolled,
and a cardboard trumpet, the voice
which comes through the trumpet is,
to a large extent, accepted as that of a
discarnate friend because the sitters
[17] B
APOLLONIUS
are already convinced of a survival or
earnestly desire to be so convinced.
Even in the later work of psychical
researchers of a higher order, men of
intellectual eminence and scientiiic
training, a certain relaxation of critical
rigidity is sometimes noticeable. In
these cases the lapse from earlier
standards of evidence is no doubt due
to the absolute conviction secured by
long and critical investigations at some
previous period. When already con-
vinced intellectually by earlier experi-
ences of the reality of the phenomena
under investigation, even men of the
mental calibre of a Sir William Crookes
may almost insensibly deviate in sub-
sequent discussions from the evidential
standard of the investigations from
which they derived their earlier con-
clusions.
There exists another weakness of the
human mind against which the psychical
researcher must always be on his guard.
Those perverse tendencies which are
[i8]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
covered by the term '
megalomania
*
form a sinister factor which serves con-
tinually to warp the judgment and even,
in some cases, the moral sense of those
who lay claim to the possession of
supernormal powers. It is doubtful
whether this form of mental perversity,
appearing often as a kind of kink in
otherwise normal and regular minds,
has ever been adequately recognized
by those whose task it has been to
collate the facts and estimate the
validity of alleged psychic phenomena.
Megalomaniac impulses, indeed, would
appear to provide at any rate a partial
explanation of many declarations about
strange and startling occurrences out-
side the actual area of the seance room.
The writer, from personal experiences
in several modern wars, including the
last, and a careful study of war
psychology and war-literature, has come
to the conclusion that of the large
number of atrocities which are alleged
to disfigure the record of all civilized
[19]
APOLLONIUS
armies only a very small percentage
ever occur at all. Some of these
stories are certainly invented by
Propaganda Departments, civil and
military, whose members, in some
instances, do not scruple to disseminate
falsehoods in order to blacken the good
name of an enemy people and so
increase the ferocity and fighting
efficiency of their own troops. But
the bulk of these atrocity tales are due
to the megalomaniac desire on the part
of soldiers or civilians to recount
thrilling and terrible events or pose as
the actual participants in some grue-
some episode. A civilian refugee or a
wounded soldier in hospital (a normally
truthful person) will sometimes invent
in detail an atrocity story in order to
impress an interrogator or a nurse and
so secure for himself an amount of
megalomaniac satisfaction. It is pre-
sumably the same curious impulse
which brings to famous criminals in
the dock offers of marriage from
[20]
- PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
ordinarily decent and respectable
women, or leads an obscure tourist to
carve his initials on the Parthenon, or
stimulates people to frenzied social
effort in order to shake the hand of a
royal personage, however commonplace
his character or feeble his achievement.
But if this form of mental perversion
finds so many outlets in the course of
everyday life, we may well expect it to
flourish even more abundantly in the
environment of psychic happenings.
After all, what ordinary experience,
however desirable, could vie in value
and interest with the power to receive
or convey actual messages from the
dead ? What ordinary scientific achieve-
ment could equal the exercise of a
power which could secure the passage
of matter through matter, bring about
the levitation of a table without
personal contact in defiance of the
laws of gravitation, or cause the appear-
ance of a materialized hand or even a
full-length figure ?
[21]
APOLLONIUS
The professional mediums who every
Sunday, sometimes more frequently,
conduct the spiritualist services in our
towns are obviously regarded as persons
of great importance and authority by
their large audiences, and the conscious-
ness of this, apart altogether from the
fact of their fees, may stimulate them
to supplement, if need be, the output
of possibly genuine phenomena by an
ever-ready supply of pseudo-messages
and haphazard " delineations ". The
humbler mediums, usually unpaid, who
form the centre of thousands of
" circles " in our working-class homes
are invested with an importance and
feel a mental exaltation quite foreign
to the drabness of their ordinary
surroundings and occupations. And
here again if genuine powers of
clairvoyance are inadequate or non-
existent, this special form of spiritual
pride will still provide a satisfactory
flow of messages from the deceased
[22]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
buccaneer or Indian chief who acts as
the " control ".
It is difficult indeed to assign any
limits to the intrusion of this singular
influence in the domain of psychical
research. In one remarkable instance a
London barrister of recognized standing
and enjoying a large income from his
profession posed for some time in
private circles as a physical medium.
He claimed inter alia the power of
causing the partial levitation of a table
by placing his hands on the top. Yet
at a sitting conducted by members of
the S.P.R, this gentleman was easily
detected in the childish trick of having
inserted inside his cuffs two small
pieces of wood, which were thus
introduced under the table's edge !
On another occasion I found during the
investigation of a case in Hampshire
that a maidservant, possibly in collusion
with her mistress, was producing lumin-
ous crosses by rubbing moistened
[233
APOLLONIUS
matches on the furniture and walls
—there being no conceivable motive
for this transparent deception beyond
the desire to be regarded as a successful
" medium ". Much, if not all of the
story of the Rev. Stainton Moses' career
can probably best be explained as an
amazing example of spiritual megalo-
mania. Such a theory cf course in-
volves the disagreeable conclusion that
a clergyman and a public-school master,
endowed with a kindly and generous
disposition, must have spent years of
his life in the systematic deception of
his most intimate friends and, later
on, of the public at large. Nevertheless,
all said and done, the moral miracle
in this astonishing case is, as Mr
Podmore suggested, more easy than
the physical one.
The extraordinary poltergeist cases
—cases by no means infrequent and
widely distributed—in which furniture
is violently moved, windows and
crockery smashed, and pictures thrown
[24]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
down, can usually be traced to the
furtive trickery of little boys, or more
commonly little girls, who do not
scruple to destroy their parents' pro-
perty and peace of mind in order to
secure for themselves the secret satis-
faction of some megalomaniac impulse.
Apart from the deliberate imposture,
due more often than we suspect to the
megalomaniac impulses referred to
above, there is some ground for believ-
ing in the existence of a still more
subtle form of apparent fraud. It is
frequently asserted by mediums of
repute that they are unable to do
justice to themselves or exercise their
gifts to good purpose because of the
unsatisfactory influence of one or more
sitters of an aggressively sceptical type,
a curious parallel—be it said in all
reverence—to the strange remark of
the Evangelist that the miracles of
Our Lord were sometimes actually
prevented by the disbelief of His
hearers.
[25]
APOLLONIUS
But may the disbelieving sitters, in
some instances, go further than a mere
hindrance of genuine phenomena and
actually cause the production of trick-
ery and fraud on the part of the
medium ? Given a medium susceptible
to telepathic suggestion, and one or
more sitters suspecting or convinced in
advance that all they will witness at
the seance will be an exhibition of
trickery, it is easy to see that tele-
pathic suggestion of fraud, conscious
or unconscious, from the minds of
these sceptics may result in trickery
which is primarily due not to the
medium but to themselves. This risk
is obviously accentuated when the
medium falls (as, for example, in Mrs
Piper's case) into a cataleptic condition
or some form of ordinary hypnosis.
In any case it is confidently asserted
by psychical researchers of capacity and
experience that the same medium may
be fraudulent at one moment and
genuine at another. Such a thesis is
[26]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
doubtless hard of acceptance to ordinary
men or women, however disposed they
may be to an unprejudiced considera-
tion of psychic phenomena ; and it was,
in fact, rejected by the original founders
of the Psychical Research Society, who
definitely refused to include within the
area of their investigations the alleged
phenomena of any medium once de-
tected in the perpetration of fraud.
Further experience, however, has
apparently modified this once inflexible
attitude, and at any rate a majority
of the Council of the S.P.R. are now
willing to hold experimental seances
with mediums against whom fraud has
been openly alleged or actually proved.
The writer shares the view of this
majority, for, as far as he can judge
from personal experience or the definite
testimony of others, a medium like
Eusapia Palladino was, sometimes, in-
dubitably guilty of patent and childish
trickery (which she would subsequently
admit quite shamelesslv), and at other
[27]^
APOLLONIUS
times produced valid phenomena of
amazing interest under the strictest
test-conditions.
We need not devote much time to
the deUberate fraud and trickery which
have always been admittedly associated
with certain manifestations of medium-
ship and have frequently inspired such
disgust and contempt in the minds of
would-be investigators that they have
abandoned the quest altogether. Those
who have persevered in spite of dis-
couragement know what it is to find
oneself in uncomfortable and ill-
ventilated rooms, holding the hands of
unknown persons in the dark, tortured
by the metallic music of a cheap gramo-
phone, or compelled to join in dis-
cordant renderings of revivalist hymns
or dreadful ditties like " Where is
now the prophet Daniel ?
" And one
realizes all the time that the music is
meant to drown the noise caused by a
fraudulent medium in wrapping himself
in muslin or adjusting a false beard, and
[28]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
further that one will have to pay a
guinea for this wretched exhibition !
What researcher, again, has not ex-
perienced the boredom of public or
private sittings for " delineations ",
when a medium, after a few spasmodic
twitchings, " passes under control
"
and proceeds to describe the appear-
ance of the deceased relatives and
friends of the members of a credulous
audience, which will subsequently con-
tribute to the " silver collection " ?
Who, too, has not reflected with
amazement upon the staggering
credulity of men and women who
accept the delineated " old gentleman
with white hair " or the " old lady with
grey hair parted in the middle " as
unquestionably their late father or
mother; or, in a materializing seance,
believe that the same piece of butter
muslin waved in one direction is a lost
grandparent and waved in another
direction is a little child? Such weari-
some and sordid experiences form the
[29]
APOLLONIUS
via dolorosa of researchers, who are
prepared to seek for gold even in the
muddiest streams, and sometimes find
it ; for, even if ninety-five per cent,
of the alleged phenomena are explicable
by trickery or deception, the remaining
five may defy all such explanations.
The student of psychical research is
confronted at the outset by a consider-
able volume of reasoned and unreasoned
opposition. Persons who in other
directions are entirely opposed to each
other's points of view combine for a
common assault : uncompromising
materialists and devout evangelical
Christians form a strange alliance
against what they vaguely describe
as " spiritualism ". An even more
curious dislike comes from large masses
of our population who, without any
deep convictions or reasoned arguments
for their hostility, are irritated by a
movement which appears to upset the
even tenour of their mental conserva-
tism. Even cultured people are not
[30]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
proof against this prejudice : at many
dinner tables any sustained reference to
the alleged phenomena of mediumship
would be regarded as " bad form " and
thoroughly objectionable. When the
writer entered the House of Commons
he was informed by the chairman of
his Liberal Association that his member-
ship of the Psychical Research Society
would "do him harm in the con-
stituency ". This unintelligent aversion
to spiritual novelties, which almost
wrecked the Salvation Army in its
infancy, secured the triumph of the
Dayton " fundamentalists ", and now,
though happily with diminishing force,
assails the study of clairvoyance or
telepathy, seems analogous to that
primitive instinct which impels wild
birds to combine for the destruction of
an exotic parrot which has escaped
from its cage.
Even as regards the more ser ious
of his opponents, the apologist of
psychical research is entitled to object
[31]
APOLLONIUS
at the start that comparatively few of
these are adequately equipped for their
task. It is lamentable that our hostile
critics have for the most part scarcely
taken the trouble to understand our
position or furnish themselves with
more than a quite superficial knowledge
of the facts. What a sorry figure would
be cut by most of our lay and ecclesiasti-
cal opponents were they set an examina-
tion paper on the evidences accumu-
lated by the Psychical Research Society,
to go no further ! One of the best
known opponents of the phenomena of
mediumship has admitted that he has
never made any personal investigation
of the claims of any prominent medium,
British or foreign, and a brochure dis-
tributed to his audience exhibits an
amazing ignorance of the subject matter
against which his platform diatribes
are directed. There is another reason
for popular hostility. Much of the
fraud which admittedly exists is of a
peculiarly heartless character, for its
[32]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
exponents derive their resources largely
from bereaved men and women who
fly to spiritualism for tidings of their
lost ones and for solace in their grief.
The natural indignation felt against
such traiJickers in human sorrow un-
doubtedly predisposes many superficial
critics to assume in their haste that all
public mediumship is fraudulent.
Apart from the more or less un-
intelligent prejudices of the public
generally, the scientific investigation of
the phenomena of mediumship is
hampered by the professional an-
tagonisms of the Church and the Law.
The menace of legal proceedings, while
a terror to the fraudulent, is also a
deterrent to the supply of genuine
phenomena. Mediums are usually
persons of a very sensitive and nervous
temperament, and the fact that at any
moment a Mrs Leonard is liable to the
same legal procedure and the same
conviction as the most insignificant
fortune-teller is not conducive to the
[33] c
APOLLONIUS
regular supply of those supernormal
facts which form the subject-matter of
scientific psychical research. From
time to time, and apparently by con-
certed action, legal proceedings are set
on foot by the authorities against public
mediums. The requisite evidence is
furnished by detectives or journalists
who have secured sittings with the
defendants, and the prosecution takes
place under an Act of George IV,
directed against " vagabonds " and
" fortune-tellers ". Our magistrates
usually maintain on these occasions
that the essential part of the legal
offence is the medium's claim to
" foretell the future ", and this is
apparently accentuated and aggravated
by the " intention to deceive " or the
acceptance of money or reward. During
an epidemic of legal medium-baiting in
1917, men and women were sentenced
to heavy fines, up to £50, or imprison-
ment, because of their claims to foretell
the future. Yet a little reflection might
[34]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
have caused our magistrates to remem-
ber that all the official representatives
of organized religion are regularly
engaged in foretelling the future and
are paid—and quite rightly—for their
services in this respect. The so-called
" sport " of the race-course is—as many
of us knovv' to our cost—built upon an
elaborate and extensive system of
prophecy for payment—whether the
forecasts are made in the columns of
the most respectable newspapers or in
the circulars of professional tipsters.
Nor, indeed, can one wholly dissociate
those manifold pledges which disfigure
our political elections from the same
suspicion ; for these prophetic anticipa-
tions are made in order to win votes
and so secure the social and pecuniary
rewards which result from electoral
success.
Some of the magistrates who tried
and condemned these mediums dis-
played a pitiable ignorance of the whole
subject of psychic phenomena. Almost
[35]
APOLLONIUS
anybody indeed appears to be con-
sidered competent to dogmatize about
theological or psychic matters without
any credentials in the shape of adequate
study or experience. The following
extract from the well known " Brock-
way " case serves to illustrate the
mental equipment of a magistrate for
a trial of this character :
" The Rev. G. H. St. John Mildmay stated
that he had had two sittings with the defendant
and was amazed that she could tell him names
that he had written in a paper which was then
folded up and held in her hand ... he was
convinced that she was perfectly genuine.
Magistrate : You have, I suppose, seen con-
jurors taking cards out of people's
hair and such things ? {Laughter)
.
Witness : There was nothing resembling
that."
A subsequent reference by one of the
witnesses to the possible influence of
"lying spirits" was followed by this
edifying dialogue
:
Mr Barker (prosecuiivg Counsel) : I object to
such ridiculous questions.
Mr Wild (for the defence) asked the magistrate
to rule whether such a question was ridiculous.
[36]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
The Magistrate (with emphasis) : I certainly
think it is ridiculous.
Mr Wild then said—with justice —that it was
evidently waste of time to go on, and left the
Court."
The antagonism of the Christian
Churches, a damnosa hereditas from the
unspeakable records of past centuries,
is now a waning force, chiefly confined
to the ranks of what the late Dean
Rashdall rather roughly called " the
inferior clergy ". There are some
exceptions. The distinguished Dean
of St Paul's, a devoted student of the
obsolete fantasies of Neoplatonic phil-
osophy, seems quite unable to dissociate
the serious study of psychic phenomena
from the fraudulent banging of tam-
bourines or the wearing of false wigs.
He is ready to consider the unsupported
assertions of Plotinus, that that third-
century mystic on one occasion enjoyed
some form of beatific vision in the
" contemplation of the One " ; but on
the other hand the more recent and
[37]
APOLLONIUS
infinitely better supported testimony of
a Lombroso, Crookes, or William James
as to the occurrence of a physical or
clairvoyant phenomenon is contemptu-
ously ignored. Now and again sincere
representatives of medieval Christianity
like Lord Hugh Cecil are to be found
who ban the si'ance-Toom. because they
are convinced that clairvoyance is a
form of necromancy and '
controls
'
like Mrs Piper's " Phinuit " or Mrs
Leonard's " Feda" demoniacal agencies
totally unfit for Christian intercourse.
The more general and more enlightened
attitude of at any rate the Anglican
Church is embodied in the Report of
the bishops at the Lambeth Conference
of 1920 :
*
' We say without hesitation that we welcome
scientific investigation : we recognise the
patience and the sldll with which members of
the Psychical Research Society examine the
mass of evidence of all kinds submitted to them,
and above all the unmistakable desire to safe-
[38]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
guard the inquiry against illusion or fraud, to
arrive at truths, and to interpret scientific facts
correctly."
Yet side by side with this moderate
and reasonable resolution we find that
the Conference registered a very strong
warning against " the habit of recourse
to seances and mediums ". Here again
is revealed once more the ignorance of
many well-meaning and able critics who
possess a merely superficial acquain-
tance with the subject. How, for
example, can we study scientifically
the phenomena of clairvoyance without
recourse to clairvoyant mediums ? Such
an embargo would—to go no further
—
have robbed us of the profoundly
interesting records of Mrs Piper's trance-
mediumship, or the striking results
contained in Dr Osty's volumes. One
might almost as well approve of the
scientific study of anatomy and forbid
recourse to the dissecting-room.
[39]
APOLLONIUS
At this point, and in view of the
admitted imperfections which mark the
course of our inquiry into supernormal
phenomena—the fraud and creduhty
and malobservation which so easily
beset our work—the question may
fairly be asked :
" Has psychical
research really any future ?
"
To such a query I have no hesitation
in giving an emphatic " Yes ". One
may go further and say that at no
period since the subject was seriously
studied have we had better reasons for
such an answer. Within the last few
years a veritable revolution has occurred
in the general attitude of science
towards the phenomena of the universe.
In the light of Einstein's discoveries
the dogmatism of the materialist has
become obsolete. The old scientific
outlook has been undermined and
superseded by scientists themselves.
Atoms and electrons are no longer
regarded as ultimate realities. Accord-
ing to Professor Eddington, " there is
[40]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
nothing to prevent the assemblage of
atoms forming the brain from being
itself a thinking machine in virtue of
that nature which physics leaves un-
determined and undeterminable." Not
only the '
laws of Nature '
but space
and time and the great globe itself may
conceivably be mental phenomena,
themselves the creations of mind. And
so it has come to pass that such an
utterance as Professor Clifford's
:
" The Universe is made of ether and
atoms and there is no room for ghosts
"
remains only as a fragment of an
outworn scientific creed. The division
of the external world into a material
world and a spiritual world is now held
by scientists to be superficial. No
inherent impossibility rules out of
court the possible manifestations of
other minds than ours, functioning
apart from our own brains and bodies.
" We may doubt ", says Professor
Eddington, " whether there is any
branch of knowledge from which exact
[41]
APOLLONIUS
science is excluded " : there is " room
for ghosts ", and room for other super-
normal phenomena hitherto ignored or
denied by scientists in general. The
fact of telepathy indicates the existence
of other methods of mental communion
outside the recognized channels of
sense, and for that reason is rejected
a priori by some of the more conserva-
tive representatives of science. " Such
a direct transmission of ideas from one
mind to another ", writes Dr Jodl,
" without any perceptible physical
method of communication would in-
dicate the presence of a crack in the
very foundations of all our views on
nature, and, if proved, would lead us
to a complete revision of fundamental
principles." Dr Henning declares that
" psycho-physics, yes, even psychology,
as a science, must be utterly wrecked
before we have recourse to telepathy."
How different in tone is the statement
of one of the most acute among our
younger thinkers, Professor Broad of
[42]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Cambridge\ who not only tolerates
the existence of a spiritual world but
postulates the actual necessity of a
'
psychic factor '
in order to provide a
coherent explanation of the universe
and ourselves.
Since the advent, then, of a new
scientific revelation the field lies open
for further work and further advances
in psychical research. No longer denied
access to the precincts of orthodox
science or received with a dubious
welcome, the professed student of
supernormal phenomena can claim and
receive a definite status as the represent-
ative of an acknowledged branch of
scientific study. But in realizing this,
he must realize too the responsibilities
of a position so assured. Two objects
must be permanently kept in view
—
the accumulation of fresh facts, and
the exercise of rigid control and
accuracy in our experiments.
* The Mind and its Place in Nature, 1925.
[43]
APOLLONIUS
In the discovery of new material we
are, of course, faced by the irritating
and disappointing character of the
phenomena with which we deal. They
are often spasmodic, sporadic, irregular.
They do not occur in any fixed sequence
nor can they be predicted. Even when
our experiments yield obvious success,
we are ignorant of what the conditions
of such success may be : no satisfactory
experimental control of these wajrward
phenomena seems at present feasible.
If they are reached through the channels
of mediumship, we are again exposed
to the varying and uncertain influences
exercised by the physical or mental
condition of the medium at the moment.
It is quite clear that these '
sensitives
'
are in almost all cases persons of a
definitely neurotic or hysterical tem-
perament ; indeed, if we can ever
establish the actual connection between
these pathological conditions and the
production of supernormal phenomena
we shall have gone a long way in
[44]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
unravelling the tangled skeins of psychi-
cal research. The discovery and
classification of fresh psychic facts may
mean the expenditure of long and
tedious hours, but without the renewed
exercise of " recherche lente, perseverante,
ohstinee " we cannot hope to convince
ourselves or to speak with our enemies
in the gate. In this department of
research more than all others our facts
soon become more or less obsolete, or
at any rate lose their compelling force.
No one now alludes to the careful
mechanical safeguards against fraud
devised by Sir William Crooks in the
eighties. Our generation has almost
forgotten the convincing experiments
in telepathy carried out by the Sidg-
wicks and Professor Barrett, and no
longer quotes the Stainton Moses
phenomena which Myers accepted. The
call is for the production of fresh data
collected by our own contemporaries.
Without therefore troubling ourselves
unduly for the time being with explana-
[45]
APOLLONIUS
tions and theories about the facts,
without intruding into the work the
will to believe or disbelieve, let us
devote ourselves to experiment and
empirical facts. Surely among the
thousand members of the Society for
Psychical Research, to go no further,
enough recruits could be found to
supplement adequately by their own
unselfish efforts the splendid work of
our own pioneers in Great Britain and
America.
Further, in the process of accumulat-
ing and systematizing our facts we
must accept as an axiom of un-
questioned validity that natural and
normal causes must be eliminated
before we have recourse to the super-
natural or supernormal. In other
words, we must regard it as prima
facie more probable that the medium is
consciously or unconsciously fraudulent
or that the sitters are the victims of
credulity or malobservation than that
men and women possess a capacity for
[46]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
acquiring knowledge or influencing
matter which transcends the recognized
facts of ordinary experience. Our
course then as psychical researchers
is clear. We must exercise such drastic
and complete control over the whole
course of our experiments as to render
deception an unthinkable hypothesis.
That such methods of control exist and
can be applied is indubitable : that
they are occasionally absent from
seances conducted by scientific and
educated persons must equally be
admitted.
Podmore revealed several defects in
the alleged safeguards against fraud
accepted in certain experiments with
Florence Cook and even D. D. Home ;
and quotes a serious instance of care-
less description in the record of the
famous experience of the London Dia-
lectical Society with the latter medium :
where the statement that "the room was
illumined by moonlight " is shewn
from the calendar (as in the parallel
[47]
APOLLONIUS
of Sir John Moore's burial) to have
been incorrect. In more recent times
the conditions observed in Warsaw
and in Paris with the mediums Kluski
and Gujik have been sometimes un-
satisfactory. Nor can any impartial
critic, in view of the surprisingly lax
conditions which prevailed, necessarily
accept the widely recorded successes
of Professor Gilbert Murray in thought-
transference as manifestations of any-
thing abnormal or unusual. In the
case of any less distinguished per-
former it would have been difficult to
regard such experiments, in the ab-
sence of any repetition of them under
test conditions, as worth the serious
consideration of a scientific body.
The collection of fresh facts is, to a
large extent, conditioned by the supply
of sensitives and by the provision of
adequate funds for such research. Apart
from the existing opportunities pro-
vided by University chairs of Mental
Science, Mental Philosophy and the
[48]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
like, which have already contributed
largely to this study when held by men
like McDougall, James, Schiller, and
Broad in Great Britain and America,
private generosity will always ap-
parently be ready to assist in some
measure the experimental work of
psychical research. The most serious
obstacle arises not from the absence of
monetary assistance but from the fact
that the feelings entertained towards
one another by the warring sects of
religion are reflected in the rivalries
and disputes of the societies engaged in
the study of psychic phenomena. That
regular supply of sensitives which is
required for an adequate collection of
empirical facts is seriously hindered by
the violent animosities of leaders who
light over the bodies of well-known
mediums and sometimes tempt them,
like football professionals, by the
dangerous offer of a higher fee.
If we accept the view that psychical
[49] D
APOLLONIUS
research holds ample promise of a
useful future, we may next consider the
various lines of our advance.
Any serious study of psychical re-
search demands as its first essential
a knowledge of the results secured from
a careful consideration of telepathic
phenomena. Many researchers would,
indeed, maintain that their investiga-
tions need not extend beyond these
limits. They regard telepathy, once
scientifically established, as a working
hypothesis which will cover the whole
field of those abnormal phenomena
which form our subject-matter. From
this point of view, apparitions, clairvoy-
ance, crystal-visions, even the physical
phenomena of the seance-room.—these
and other abnormal happenings can be
explained by the exercise in one shape
or another of the transference of human
thought and volition outside the
ordinary channels of sense.
Those who hold that thought-trans-
ference is the solvent of all our
[50]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
perplexities in psychical research may
point to the fact that down the centuries
one marvel after another appears to
have been directly attributable to this
cause. A useful monograph might be
written on this fascinating theme. To
go no farther, it is easy to see how the
miracles recorded in Biblical and ecclesi-
astical literature, and the amazing
records of witchcraft and sorcery, may
to a large extent be brought within the
compass of the telepathic solution, k •?
No serious attempts to investigate
the conditions or results of thought-
transference appear to have been under-
taken before the middle of last century.
It was not indeed until 1876 that Sir
William Barrett really initiated the
careful and scientific study of telepathic
phenomena which has been continued
by the Society for Psychical Research
in England and on the Continent by
Boirac, Osty, Tischner, and many
other distinguished savants. The
results obtained have been, it is true,
[51]
APOLLONIUS
questioned and criticized at every turn
by certain scientists who deny that
telepathy is either proven or indeed
possible. Professor Jodl (quoted by
Tischner) goes so far as to say :
" Such
a direct transmission of ideas from one
mind to another, without any per-
ceptible physical method of communica-
tion, would indicate the presence of a
crack in the very foundations of all our
views on Nature." " Psycho-physics ",
writes Dr Henning, " yes, even psycho-
logy as a science must be utterly
wrecked before we have recourse to
telepathy." It is, however, useless to
indulge in mere a priori refutations or,
in the case of telepathic experiments,
to concentrate on the failures and ignore
the successes It is of course impossible
within the very narrow Space-limits of
this little book to furnish any detailed
reference to such experiments. Suffice
it to say that evidence varied, cumula-
tive and irresistible now exists which has
established telepathy as a scientific fact.
[52]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
The study of telepathic phenomena
suggests the interesting question
whether telepathy is a psychic factor
of permanent and regular character or
whether it represents merely the dying
embers of a once more active force.
Can the transference of human thought
apart from physical media be developed
and systematized on such a scale as to
suggest immense possibilities in the
human relationships of the future ?
Or will such development be inevitably
retarded by the fact that telepathy is
a dying sense to be classed with various
obscure eccentricities of the human
body which serve merely as vestigial
landmarks in the long history of the
race ? Despite the alluring possibilities
of the first suggestion, indications
certainly exist which lend colour to the
pathetic belief that research has only
discovered this force in the evening of
its existence.
This view of telepathy as a " rudi-
mentary survival " seems to be
[53]
APOLLONIUS
strengthened by the admitted fact that
manifestations of telepathy are far
more certain and more striking wlien
the percipient is under hypnotic sugges-
tion ; for, if it be the subHminal self
which rises above the threshold in
hypnotic slumber and obeys the
suggestion of the agent's mind, this is
itself in all probability a manifestation
of race-experience rather than that of
the individual. The everyday self, the
product of normal experience, is in-
fluenced to a much slighter degree by
hypnotic suggestion than that mysteri-
ous entity, the secondary self, trailing
its clouds of precarnate existence.
In the dim recesses of our race-
history our pithecoid ancestors in de-
fault of language may well have
possessed telepathic powers for the
communication of their simple ideas,
which powers have gradually been
rendered less necessary as language
developed, and may ultimately, unless
stimulated and exercised, finally perish
[54]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
from atrophy. Such a theory would be
illustrated by those stories which are
furnished by rehable travellers and
missionaries with reference to the amaz-
ing transmission of news which at times
appears to take place amongst native
races of a low level of civilization under
circumstances which preclude any
opportunity for normal methods of
communication.
Nor, again, is it easy to avoid the
conclusion that some form of telepathy
exists among various forms of animal
life. The " homing instinct " of the
cat and the pigeon, and bewildering
facts connected with the flight of birds
of passage, inexplicable from any
ordinary laws of experience, may con-
ceivably be examples of a form of
telepathy infinitely more regular and
efficient than the fitful manifestations
on the part of homo sapiens which
engage the attention of psychical re-
searchers. It is not easy to find any
ordinary explanation for the immediate
t$5]
APOLLONIUS
rush of a scattered herd of cattle to
any available shelter, when one of
their number has been struck by the
noiseless warble-fly. Or when I watch
the curving flight of the beautiful ruffs
and reeves round a Norwegian lake
—
the absolutely simultaneous rise, the
instantaneous wheel of the whole flock
in the fraction of a second—or, again,
when I see hundreds of starlings rise
together and afterwards return to their
trees in complete unison, I find it
difficult to regard these charming
incidents as due to normal or even
abnormal sight or hearing, and wonder
whether here again some rudimentary
but efficient form of telepathy may not
be at work.
Can we go further, and suggest that
some of the baffling phenomena of
heredity and instinct may ultimately
find their origin in the telepathic
transference of thought ? We accept
the word '
instinct ' as an adequate
explanation of the habits of sentient
[56]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
creatures, but it explains nothing.
Every manifestation of instinct is
obviously due to volition, however
rudimentary—is, in other words, a
mental as distinct (so far as such
distinction goes) from a physical
phenomenon. It is difficult to trace
an " instinctive " movement to material
spermatozoa or germ-cells. " The burnt
child dreads the fire " as the result of
its own experience, but no experience
taught the baby how to use its lips at
its first meal, any more than it taught
the chicken how to escape from the
eggshell. The " collective experience
of the race ", the alleged source of
these phenomena, may sooner or later
be recognized as the telepathic trans-
ference from the mind of the parents
of concepts derived from the previous
telepathy of successive generations.
It may appear at first sight fantastic to
suggest that the mechanically exact
habits of a mother-wasp may be the
result of mental telepathy, but after
[57]
APOLLONIUS
all this seems a better vera causa than
the wasp's-egg, a minute fraction of
matter which can explain nothing in
the realms of thought or of volition.
Charcot's telepathic suggestion of a
hot iron by the application of a wooden
ruler elicited a cry of agony, and
produced a bhster filled with lymph on
the percipient's arm ; other experi-
ments at the Salpetriere and elsewhere
raised weals and other stigmata on
human bodies. Can it be that this
same mysterious and powerful force
may come to be accepted as at any rate
a partial solution of the vexed question
of heredity ? A baby is born with
marked physical characteristics of its
father or mother. During its prenatal
existence you have two main factors :
the minds of the parents on the one
side, on the other the mind of the
unborn child. The future of the little
being lying under her heart forms the
constant thought of the expectant
mother. She thinks of it as reproducing
[58]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
certain characteristics of herself or of
the husband she loves ; the husband
applies his thoughts in the same
direction : and such concentrated
suggestion, consciously or unconsciously
conveyed, may serve to shape the
child's body as well as its mind, in
accordance with the maternal or
paternal hopes and desires.
Well established as it is in the simpler
forms of direct communication between
agent and percipient, telepathy is
sometimes called upon to explain the
whole series of phenomena which are
grouped under such heads as clairvoy-
ance, psychometry, crystal-gazing,
automatic writing, etc. The more or
less public exhibitions of alleged
clairvoyance which form the central
feature of innumerable spiritualist
services in this and other countries do
not, as a rule, furnish convincing
indications of supernormal activity.
I have never myself seen any public
" trance-speaker " who, despite the
[59]
APOLLONIUS
conventional twitchings and contortions
which herald the ingress of the Red
Indian or other spirit-control, did not
appear to be in complete possession of
his or her normal consciousness. But
the prolonged and careful investiga-
tions of Mrs Piper's mediumship and
those more recently undertaken with
continental clairvoyants by Drs
Tischner, Osty, and others, stand on a
very different footing. In the face of
the accumulated evidence furnished
by such research, those who rely on
telepathy as the universal solvent of
psychic difficulties must often falter
where they firmly stood. Leaving for
the moment all the concrete evidence
derived from experiments with the
British Mrs Leonard or continental
mediums like " Mrs van B.", or
Mademoiselle de Berly, the records of
the Piper seances form a rich store of
evidential facts. Amid all the various
deceptions and failures of the quaint
" Dr Phinuit " or the more precise
[60]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
" George Pelham ", detailed and
accurate messages are found, some of
which appear inexphcable by any con-
ceivable exercise of telepathy between
living persons.
Nor again can the agency of living
minds always furnish a satisfactory
explanation in the rare but indubitable
cases of prevision or precognition ex-
hibited by clairvoyants. From what
source come those precise statements
made from time to time by trustworthy
mediums, under strict test-conditions,
with respect to certain articles placed
in their hands ? Clairvoyance of this
type, often called psychometry, might
almost suggest the validity of Fech-
ner's theory of "odylic" influences,
which may appear less fantastic in an
age when the dividing line between
matter and mind is becoming theoreti-
cally obsolete. Moreover, to psycho-
metry, once accepted as a scientific
fact, an interesting corollary would
attach ; for, if mere contact with a
[6i]
APOLLONIUS
man's cravat can produce from the
medium a detailed and accurate account
of the suicide of an unhappy prisoner
who had worn the cravat, masonry and
Avoodwork might in the same inscrut-
able fashion be responsible for suggest-
ing the auditory and visual phenomena
of a " haunted house ". Some well-
attested cases exist in which alteration
of structure in a house has been
followed by the cessation of the
" hauntings ".
If telepathy from the living breaks
down when called upon to explain all
the facts of clairvoyance, there exists
another explanation which has received
the enthusiastic support of those in-
vestigators who, while they reject
transference between normal minds,
point enthusiastically to the alleged
efficiency of the " secondary " or
" subliminal " self. Fascinating des-
criptions are given of this " mysterious
Mr Hyde which lurks in each of us ",
this subconscious mind working in the
[62]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
inner sanctum, as director and con-
troller, while the normal work-a-day
self transacts the conventional business
of life in the open shop. The amazing
performances of a " calculating boy ",
the sudden conversion of a Bunyan or
a Paul, the supreme genius of a Shake-
speare or a Handel, are alike referred
to that comprehensive source of all
things supernormal, the secondary
self ! This subliminal self can, we are
assured, furnish a sensitive with in-
formation which otherwise could not
possibly be possessed by any other
living person. It can not only explore
the dim recesses of past experience but
foretell with accuracy the events of the
future. Driven from the outer trenches
of telepathic defence, some modern
protagonists of psychical research find,
as they think, an impregnable strong-
hold in the limitless efficiency of the
subliminal self. The soi-disant George
Pelham may convince his friends that he
is what he claim.s to be, but he is only
[63]
APOLLONIUS
a manifestation of Mrs Piper's sub-
conscious self—in other words, George
Pelham is Mrs Piper. If a medium
announces in England the death in
battle of an officer hours before the
bad news has even reached his
battalion's base, this (if not a '
happy
shot ') is merely a striking instance of
those abnormal powers of cognition
possessed by the medium's subliminal
consciousness.
Can this hypothesis bear the heavy
strain put upon it ? After all the
phrase " subliminal self ", " uncon-
scious mind "
—call it what you will
—
embodies nothing at all beyond a
hypothesis. Nobody has yet demon-
strated the existence of such a division
of the mind attached to each living
personality, or defined its qualities or
capacities. There are indubitably
certain depths in the human mind
which may be reached by the processes
of psycho-analysis, but in these cases
there appears to be no compelling
[64]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
reason for any bewildering thesis of
two or more distinct minds attached
to the same human organism. There
may be diversities of mental operation,
but the same mind : the 0e6s and d-npiov
can form a composite mentality capable
of moral excellence on the one hand,
and on the other exposing to the
Freudian probe the lower levels of a
non-moral animal existence;
Not only have we failed to prove
conclusively the existence or determine
the activities of an entity so improbable
a priori as a second self, but this popu-
lar hypothesis cannot always justify
itself by fitting the facts, unless indeed
we are prepared to assign to such an
additional human mind a considerable
measure of omniscience. How much
further do we get by declaring that
such intelligences as Phinuit, George
Pelham, or Feda are mere manifesta-
tions of a medium's " secondary self "?
The messages which we receive from
clairvoyant experiments with entranced
[65] B
APOLLONIUS
or controlled mediums, table tiltings,
planchette, ouija boards, etc., present
a bewildering congeries of good sense
and stupidity, relevancy and irrelev-
ancy, truth and falsehood, sobriety
and flippancy. Such communications
possess two marked characteristics.
They display intelligence, however low
the level of that intelligence may sink ;
and they invariably claim to proceed
from the surviving minds of dead men
and women, or at any rate from dis-
carnate beings or " spirits ".
These messages fall into two classes ;
in the first place, the most important
of them, those which offer evidential
matter either spontaneously or in
compliance with a sitter's request. In
such dark and unaccustomed paths the
thoughtful researcher must walk warily
and form his judgments dispassionately.
Suffice it to say that persons of real
ability and calm judgment are to be
found who are intellectually convinced
[66]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
that in certain instances the agencies
which have communicated with them
through mediums are actually what
they claim to be, the surviving person-
alities of dead friends or relatives.
I found it difficult during some sittings
under an assumed name with Mrs Piper
to resist the belief that I was being
addressed by two lost friends, so
amazing was the relevancy of a single
message in the one case, and the force
of accumulated details in the other.
Of a communication through the same
medium given to his sister-in-law for
transmission to himself Professor
William James of Harxard writes as
foUows :
" The point is that the message is an
allusion to a matter known (so personal
is it to mj'self) to no other individual
in the world but me—not possibly
either to the medium or to my sister-
in-law ; and an allusion so pertinent
and intimate, and tender and helpful,
and yet so unhelped by any actual
[67]
APOLLONIUS
earthly knowledge on anyone's part,
that it quite astounds as well as deeply
touches me. If the subject of the
message had been conceivably in my
sister-in-law's mind, it would have
been an interesting but not infrequent
case of telepathy ; but as I say it
could not possibly have been, and she
only transmits it to me after the fact
not even understanding it."
The second group of messages possess
little or no evidential value with
regard to the personal survival of
individuals, though they too always
claim to proceed from " spirits " of
some kind. Trivial, vulgar, and un-
worthy as they often are, these com-
munications cannot be ignored by the
student of psychical research. When
we have eliminated trickery, collusion
and self-deception from these ex-
periments, there remains a residuum
of communications more or less in-
telligent which obviously do not proceed
from the normal consciousness of either
[68]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
sitter or medium ; in most cases,
indeed, there is no medium employed,
for the messages are spelt out through
movements of a table or an instrument
of the planchette type.
Many of these messages are of a
perplexing character. Some show in-
dications of a rather colourless goodwill,
others are freakish and deceptive with
a flavour of feeble practical joking.
Occasionally they are blasphemous or
indecent. A very common feature is
the giving of addresses connected with
the sitter or with the former life of
the alleged spirit-communicator. Full
names of individuals, the names of
streets and the numbers of houses are
freely given. Nevertheless, in nearly
every instance it is found that the facts
as given are partially or entirely
inaccurate. The whole procedure is
baffling and obscure. If on the one
hand the false information is due to
the conscious action of any of the
[69]
APOLLONIUS
sitters, why does not the person in
question take the trouble to provide
a more complete deception ? How easy
it would be for such devotees of
trickery to equip themselves with a
stock-in-trade of really accurate names
and addresses from any list of obituary
notices contemporary or of older date.
If these tiresome and misleading state-
ments proceed from the subliminal
consciousness of the sitter or medium,
it is obvious that this entity is unable
to secure various simple items of current
information ; and in that case, again,
what is the motive of such transparent
deception ?
Nor, indeed, if the subliminal con-
sciousness be accepted as the source of
such perplexing messages, can we feel
altogether happy in the possession
of a secondary self or subconscious
mind which is admittedly guilty in
many instances of trickery, evasion,
flippancy, deliberate and often cruel
[70]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
deception. Any clouds of glory that
such a self may have trailed behind it
are at times sadly tarnished, nor is the
conviction either agreeable or inspiring
that we harbour within us a force
capable of prseternatural knowledge
and amazing achievement and yet
characterized at times by conduct
which the ordinary mind of any decent
person would utterly condemn ; for
such a secondary self is frequently
exhibited as " repressed, conative,
infantile, unreasoning, predominantly
sexual " and, one may add, sometimes
fraudulent and usually non-moral. So
many difficulties, indeed, appear to be
involved in connecting these messages
with any conscious activity that some
investigators take refuge in the view
that they consist only of the " stuff
that dreams are made of ", proceed-
ing from the lumber-room of the
mind, and no more fraudulent or
immoral than the elusive vagaries
[71]
APOLLONIUS
and incongruities of some fantastic
dream.
One other source of the perplexing
messages under discussion remains for
our consideration. There is, as we
have said, a feature common to them
all : they invariably claim to proceed
from disembodied personalities.
If the devotees of the '
subliminal
self ' hypothesis persist in bringing
these agencies also within the broad
compass of the human mind, conscious
or unconscious, it may, I suppose, be
urged that the claim to discarnate
existence put forward by these
animulae vagulae, hlandulae, is a
delusion which is built upon the
accumulated mental experience of the
human race, always believing, or striv-
ing to believe in a life beyond the
grave. From the dim recesses of our
racial history this pathetic protest
against annihilation has, as it were,
become a stereotyped portion of the
[72]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
human mind, and so it comes to pass
that while the normal self may reject
a personal survival, faint and fleeting
echoes of the primaeval faith still rise
from the depths of the unconscious self.
If it reaUy be the case, however, as
suggested above, that no activity of
the human mind, whether normal or
subliminal, can furnish an adequate
explanation of the communications in
question, we are left to face the facts
and ask ourselves whether, after all,
the claim put forward by the agencies
involved may not be a valid one, viz.,
that they are what they invariably
aUege themselves to be, the product
of discarnate inteUigences. It is easy
for those unacquainted with the
accumulated phenomena of automatic
writing, the planchette and ouija
boards, and so on, to sneer at such an
interpretation of the facts. But sneers
have often dogged the earlier footsteps
of scientific enterprise, and in any case
[73]
APOLLONIUS
—sneers or no sneers—the scientific
researcher must, if he can, provide a
solution of the phenomena which in
this department of his work are so
abundant and so easily repeated, that
nothing else is needed beyond a careful
sifting of the material, and above all,
a mind as free as possible from any
conscious bias towards either a normal
or supernormal explanation. Once it
is accepted that modern science does
not necessarily preclude the existence
of intelligences independent of those
associated with the functions of the
human brain, we may frankly admit
that the theory of spirit-agencies in the
case of these erratic messages does at
least fit the facts. The existence would
seem to be suggested of those alleged
unseen entities, sometimes described as
'
elementals ', an order of low-grade
spirits, able and apparently eager to
communicate with us. The presence of
such beings around us has, in earlier
[74]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
centuries, been widely accepted by a
veritable consensus gentium ; and the
general characteristics of the com-
munications in many a table-tilting or
planchette experiment would seem to
correspond closely to those of the
fairies, efrits, demons, gnomes, " little
folk ", et hoc genus omne—an inter-
mixture of good humour and mischief
coupled with a limited intelligence and
the almost complete absence of any
moral standard.
Before leaving the subject of tele-
pathy, one more reference to this force
as the origin of psychic phenomena
must be briefly considered. The well-
known " Census of hallucinations
"
conducted by the Society for Psychical
Research revealed the fact that
(a) 9.9 per cent, of the 17,000 persons
questioned declared that they had at
one time or another seen an appari-
tion, (b) that very few recognizable
phantasms were seen after the lapse of
[75]
APOLLONIUS
one year from the day of death, (c) that
of the veridical cases the vast majority
coincided more or less accurately with
the moment of death. Modern research
has also revealed a fact never before
established, that phantasms of the
living are far more frequent and gener-
ally far better attested than those of the
dead. In summary, it may be claimed
that men and women with sound minds
in sound bodies do occasionally see
phantasms of both living and dead
persons under circumstances which
entirely preclude malobservation or
deception. No fact could, indeed, be
better established than that ghosts are
seen now as they have been seen all
down the ages. What, however, is new
in respect to this interesting phenome-
non is the modem explanation that a
ghost is a subjective impression con-
veyed to the mind of A by a conscious
or unconscious suggestion from the
mind of B. Deeply interesting as are
[76]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
the well-established and comparatively
numerous telepathic images conveyed
from the living to the living, these do
not lead us outside the range of ordinary
telepathic activity :
" There needs no ghost, my lord, come
from the grave
To shew us this."
But what are we to say to similar
phantasms when the person they
represent has passed through the
gates of Death ? With the special signi-
ficance of these cases we shall deal
later.
It seems clear, then, that the student
of psychic phenomena will find many
promising lines of research in the
ample field covered by telepathy,
clairvoyance, and the varied activities
of motor automatism. Fresh facts
must be accumulated and sifted, fresh
efforts made to co-ordinate such facts
and discover the laws through which
APOLLONIUS
they work. Nevertheless, there re-
mains another area of supernormal
activities which cannot be neglected
—the physical phenomena alleged to
occur from time to time, almost in-
variably in the presence and apparently
through the mediumship of certain
individuals. In this obscure region,
however, the opportunities for fraud
have been so great, the detection of
trickery so frequent, and the general
character of the mediums often so
indifferent, that, even with the ex-
periences of a quarter of a century
behind them, many careful and able
researchers find it difficult to give
any definite opinion either for or
against the existence of such startling
phenomena as " materialization ",
" ectoplastic " extrusions from the
body, or the movement of material
objects without physical contact
(telekinesis). The only excuse for
offering my own personal views is the
[78]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
fact that I have over a long period of
years had sittings with some of the
world's best known '
physical ' mediums
including Mrs Corner (nee Florence
Cook), Eusapia Palladino, Eva C.
(Marthe Beraud) and Willi Schneider,
and a considerable number of less known
sensitives, and I am unable to endorse
the opinion recently suggested by a
body of able and experienced German
investigators, Drs Gulat-Wellenburg
and Rosenbusch and Graf v. Klinckow-
stroen, that no scientific evidence exists
for the occurrence of physical phenom-
ena. On one occasion I have witnessed
the production of a complete, visible
and tangible figure which certainly was
not the medium herself : that it was
a confederate—the only other normal
possibility—was ruled out by elaborate
and convincing precautions. Despite
the open readiness of Eusapia Palladino
to cheat when left without control,
many of the positive results secured
[79]
APOLLONIUS
through the mediumship of this Nea-
politan peasant-woman under test-con-
ditions appear to defy any normal
explanation. The sceptic has still to
explain how after a searching examina-
tion, medical and otherwise, Eva C.
under stringent conditions of control
and observation was able to exude from
her body solid and fluid masses of so-
called ectoplasm, the existence of which
was duly recorded by photography.
No reliable evidence exists to disprove
the claim made on behalf of D. D.
Home, that he was never detected in
any kind of mediumistic fraud, and
much of the evidence resulting from the
personal experiences of cultured and
educated persons with this medium is
staggering in its completeness. " On
that very hearthrug where you are
standing ", said the late Sir William
Crooks, F.R.S., to me, " I saw Home
raised eighteen inches from the ground
in broad daylight and verified the
[80]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
phenomenon visu et tactu ". "I do
not say ", remarked this same great
scientist on another occasion, " that
these things are possible—I only say
they happened."
Telekinesis (the movement of material
objects without personal contact) in full
light has been attested by men of
unimpeachable honesty and acknow-
ledged ability—like Professors William
James, Lombroso, Schiaparelli, and
Richet . Mr Dingwall quotes two axioms
of the professional conjurer
—
Never
tell your audience beforehand what you
are going to do, and Never perform the
same trick twice on the same evening.
But Mdlle Tomczyk of Warsaw re-
peated the same form of telekinesis
more or less continuously for six
years. Is it conceivable that through-
out that period various groups
of educated and experienced investi-
gators should have utterly failed to
detect the use, say, of threads or
[8i] p
APOLLONIUS
filaments however fine ? It is childish
and unscientific to ignore sound
testimony and regard every account
which comes to hand of supernormal
physical phenomena as little else
than the tale of an idiot signifying
nothing.
There is indeed ample work in this
dark and dubious region for those who
have time, patience, and opportunity
for the investigation of the rare cases
of well attested physical mediumship.
In view, however, of the more im-
mediate results of real value which may
be secured from a study of the sub-
jective phenomena of psychical research
it is obvious that, unless a physical
medium is willing sooner or later to
submit himself frankly and honestly
to every reasonable test proposed by
the best scientific minds, it is com-
paratively useless for a researcher to
spend his limited time in inconclusive
[82]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
sittings for the alleged marvels of
telekinesis or materialization.
We have sketched the main lines
upon which the psychic student of
to-day is working, and the question
which remains is simply Cui bono ?
What is the practical, or even the
theoretical value of our research ?
Several adequate replies may, I think,
be given.
The results secured by psychic re-
search in Great Britain and various
other countries possess, first of all, a
real historical value. The attested
phenomena of telepathy, clairvoyance,
and physical mediumship throw a
clear light upon many dark corners of
the past.
The Sibylline and other oracles
uttered by the entranced priestesses of
of old, and many of the features of
[83]
APOLLONIUS
medieval magic, have their unmistak-
able counterparts in the experiences of
modern mediumship. The appalling
records of the most devilish machinery
ever devised for the torture of mankind,
the witchcraft persecutions (not of the
Dark Ages but of the Renaissance),
possess an added horror when one
realizes that the offences alleged
against the nine million persons burnt
to death in two centuries were to a
large extent the outcome of psychic
forces and conditions whose character
was totally unknown to either the
victims or their tormentors.
The sacred books of Christianity and
other religions speak of visible and
audible phenomena of supernormal
character which have their obvious
analogues in the psychic experiences of
our own days. The messages revealed
in the shining Urim and Thummim,
the quaint telepathy of Jacob's sheep-
farming, the phantasm and the voice
[84]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
at Endor — these things appear no
longer as the isolated happenings of
a remote and dissimilar past or of
a special dispensation. In the pages
of the New Testament, too, the heal-
ing touch for the sick, the rescue
of the possessed, the experiences of
the first Eastertide on the way to
Emmaus or on the Galilean beach,
the testimony of the " five hundred
brethren at once ", the sudden con-
version on the Damascus road—such
records are indeed " worthier of all
men to be believed " because they are
no longer relegated to a far-off " age
of miracles " but are repeated and ex-
emplified in the phenomena of modern
research.
Apart, however, from the question
of historical interest, is it too much
to hope that we may sooner or later
succeed in controlling and utilizing to
a vastly greater degree than at present
those new forces which our researches
[85]
APOLLONIUS
have brought to Ught ? Mr H. G. Wells,
in a prophetic page of When the Sleeper
Awakes pictures a Harley Street of the
future occupied by the consulting-
rooms of telepathic specialists, and
there can be little doubt that the
valuable work even now accomplished
in cases of nervous derangements and
mental pathology by suggestion, hyp-
notic or otherwise, is capable of still
further expansion as fuller informa-
tion accumulates and earlier prejudices
subside.
The employment of suggestion in the
education of the young is a field at
present almost unexplored, although
suggestion is so obvious a factor in the
" endless imitation " of childhood. The
increased application of psycho-
anal57tic methods may in the future not
only relieve to an infinitely greater
extent the maladies and distresses of
the ordinary individual, but revolu-
tionize our attitude towards the
[86]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
criminal. Just as the treatment of
hysteria has already advanced far
beyond the beatings and cold douches
of our grandparents' days, so do our
methods of handling the crimina
become ever more curative than
penal ; nor is it probable that fifty
years hence civilized nations will still
regard the rope or the electric chair
as the only possible fate even for the
murderer.
In another direction psychical re-
search may stretch out a helping hand
to reinvigorate the failing forces of
religion. The structure of organized
Christianity to-day exhibits all the
signs of gradual but inevitable decay.
Even of those who may be willing to
render lip-service to the formulae of
orthodoxy few ever enter a church or
chapel. The forces of Christianity
appear to exercise little control over
domestic politics, and none at all over
the international conduct of the nations,
I87]
APOLLONIUS
which so often displays a complete
contempt for the precepts of either
religion or morality. While the
organized religion of Christ has still
a message for the individual and can
still guide His faithful followers in life
and cheer them in the hour of death,
the despairing cry of the Saxon
chronicler might well be uttered over
the masses of " Christian " mankind
to-day :
" Christ and His saints sleep."
Faced with such hard facts, thoughtful
men are beginning to realize that some
reconsideration and restatement of the
Christian position is inevitable. In
such enterprise valuable data would be
provided by the results of scientific
psychical research. One of our best
known psychologists has indeed gone
so far as to declare that no other power
than psychic research can hope to
arrest the advancing forces of material-
ism. The acceptance of the fact that
[88]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
communications and influences can
reach us which are manifestly not the
product of human minds nor conveyed
through the ordinary channels of sense
would stultify any a priori denial of the
possibility of that " spiritual com-
munion " which is an essential feature
of religion.
In the second place, psychical research
is, in the view of many, already able
to endow with a measure of precision
and certainty those vague and tremu-
lous promises of a future life which are
offered by the Churches. Owing to the
rapid decay of religious forces in the
western world this vital doctrine of a
personal survival has for the vast
majority even of so-called Christians
lost any real significance. In answer
to the query " Do you desire a future
life whatever the conditions may be ?
"
which appeared in a questionnaire
circulated by the American Branch of
[89]
APOLLONIUS
the S.P.R. in 1900, the '
noes ' num-
bered no less than 78 per cent, of the
total replies received (3321)—many
taking the form of " not at all ",
" not in the least ", " never think about
it ". And although the results of an
investigation within such narrow limits
cannot be regarded as decisive, it is
probable that the note of scepticism or
indifference which runs through the
majority of the replies reflects to a
large extent the attitude towards a per-
sonal survival adopted by the average
man or woman of the present day.
Against the advancing tide of un-
belief or indifference the modem
presentation of religion seems wellnigh
helpless. Nevertheless, if this spirit of
blank negation or complete indifference
continues to make headway, it is
difficult to see how either moral or
religious sanctions can retain their
authority. If annihilation be our fate,
any moral guidance of the Universe
[90]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
must appear to many minds almost
inconceivable. And if the moral
guidance of the whole collapses,
schemes of morality for the parts be-
come a reductio ad absurdum : the
Divine sanctions of the Sermon on the
Mount are replaced by systems of
glorified Police Regulations imposed
by the shifting decrees of a human
majority.
Within the narrow limits at our dis-
posal we can only indicate very briefly
the main lines along which psychic
research may serve to establish the fact
of a survival. The cumulative effect
of the evidence offered is very great
and may avail—in Glanville's words
of old
—" to secure some of the out-
works of religion and regain a parcel of
ground which bold infidelity hath
invaded."
(i) Various forms of automatism
and certain well attested physical
[91]
APOLLONIUS
phenomena indicate the existence of
discarnate intelHgences.
(2) Telepathy proves that thought
can be conveyed apart from the
ordinary channels of sense, and,
if telepathy be accepted as the
cause of apparitions of the living,
it would seem that the dead whose
phantasmal forms appear to us are
also capable of volition. The apparition
(seen simultaneously by two witnesses)
of a dead mother bending over the cot
of her dying child " with a look of
infinite love and tenderness " is deeply
significant. Of even greater evidential
value are the well-attested accounts of
apparitions seen by dying children or
their young brothers and sisters who
were present at the deathbed.
(3) Many of the communications
which reach us from tried and tested
mediums, like Mrs Piper, appear to
[92]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
be what they claim to be, actual
messages from deceased persons.
(4) It is virtually impossible to
attribute some of the '
cross-corres-
pondences' recorded by the S.P.R, to
any other agency but the conscious
and detailed activity of a discarnate
personality.
*****
And so our patient work continues.
The men and women who forty years
ago served faithfully as the pioneers
of modern psychical research have
nearly all passed away. There can be
little doubt that they had pitched their
hopes too high. So deep was the
devotion inspired by these new labours,
so large the mass of facts offered by a
veritable cloud of contemporary
witnesses, that leaders like Myers and
Sidgwick and Gurney hoped with con-
fidence that in their own days the
[93]
APOLLONIUS
compelling force of the facts they had
gathered would bring intellectual con-
viction and change the whole outlook
of mankind. Such clear certainty
came to few men in the ranks of these
pioneers themselves and most of them
died " seeing the promises from afar
but not having attained unto them ".
But fresh recruits have filled the gaps
in our line, fresh channels of research
have been opened up, and fresh facts
recorded : modern science tends rather
to clear our path than to close it, and
the light of that earlier hope still shines
brightly. Amid the limitless possi-
bilities of the next fifty years—great
developments in surgery, bio-chemistry,
television, lighting, and transport—it
may be that not the least of the dis-
coveries which glorify the new age will
come from the scientific results of
psychical research. " Hardly as yet ",
said William James a year before he
died, " has the surface of the facts
[94]
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
called '
psychic '
begun to be scratched
for scientific purposes. It is through
following these facts, I am persuaded
that the greatest scientific conquests
of the coming generation will be
achieved. K'uhn ist das Muhen,
herrlich der Lohn !
"
[95]
TO-DAY AND
TO-MORROW
Each, poU 8vo, boards, 2/6 net
nPHIS series of books, by some of the
"*
most distinguished EngUsh thinkers,
scientists, philosophers, doctors, critics,
and artists, was at once recognized
as a noteworthy event. Written from
various points of view, one book frequently
opposing the argimient of another, they
provide the reader with a stimulating
survey of the most modern thought in
many departments of life. Several
volumes are devoted to the future trend
of CiviUzation, conceived as a whole
;
while others deal with particular pro-
vinces. It is interesting to see in these
neat little volimies, issued at a low price,
the revival of a form of literature, the
Pamphlet, which has been in disuse for
many j^ears.
Published by
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER & CO., LTD.
Broadway House; 68-74 Carter Lane, London, E.C.4.
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
FROM THE REVIEWS
Times Literary Supplement: " An entertaining
series."
Spectator :
" Scintillating monographs."
Observer :
" There seems no reason why the
brilliant To-day and To-morrow Series should
come to an end for a century of to-morrows.
At first it seemed impossible for the publishers
to keep up the sport through a dozen volumes,
but the series already runs to more than two
score. A remarkable series ..."
Nation :
" We are able to peer into the future
by means of that brilliant series [which] will
constitute a precious document upon the
present time."—^T. S. Eliot.
Manchester Dispatch :
" The more one reads of
these pamphlets, the more avid becomes the
appetite. We hope the list is endless."
Irish Statesman :
" Full of lively controversy."
Daily Herald :
" This series has given us many
monographs of brilliance and discernment. . . .
The stylistic excellences of this provocative
series."
Field :
'
'
We have long desired to express the
deep admiration felt by every thinking
scholar and worker at the present day for this
series. We must pay tribute to the high
standard of thought and expression they
maintain. As small gift-books, austerely yet
prettily produced, they remain unequalled
of their kind. We can give but the briefest
suggestions of their value to the student,
the politician, and the voter. ..."
Japan Chronicle :
" While cheap prophecy is
a futile thing, wisdom consists largely in look-
ing forward to consequences. It is this that
makes these books of considerable interest."
New York World: " Holds the palm in the
speculative and interpretative thought of the
age."
[2]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
VOLUMES READY
Daedalus, or Science and the Future.
By J. B. S. Haldane, Reader in
Biochemistry, University of Cambridge.
Seventh impression.
" A fascinating and daring little book."
—Westminster Gazette.
'
' The essay is brilliant,
sparkling with wit and bristling with
challenges."
—
British Medical Journal.
" Predicts the most startling changes."
—Morning Post.
Gallinicus, a Defence of Chemical War-
fare. By J. B. S. Haldane. Second
impression.
"Mr. Haldane's brilliant study."
—
Times
Leadinq Article. " A book to be read by every
intelligent adult."
—
Spectator. " This brilliant
little monograph."
—
Daily News.
Icarus, or the Future of Science. By
Bertrand Russell, f.r.s. Fourth
impression.
"Utter pessimism." — Observer. "Mr.
Russell refuses to beheve that the progress of
Science must be a boon to mankind."
—
Morning Post. "A stimulating book, that
leaves one not at all discouraged."
—
Daily
Herald.
What I Believe. By Bertrand Russell,
F.R.S. Third impression.
" One of the most brilliant and thought-
stimulating little books I have read—a better
book even than Icarus."—Nation. " Simply
and brilliantly written." — Nature. " In
tabbing sentences he punctures the bubble of
cruelty, envy, narrowness, and ill-will which
those in authority call their morals."
—
New
Leader.
[3]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
Tantalus, or the Future of Man. By
F. C, S. Schiller, D.Sc, Fellow of
Corpus Christ! College, Oxford. Second
impression.
" They are all {Daedalus, Icarus, and
Tantalus) brilliantly clever, and they supple-
ment or correct one another."
—
Dean Inge, in
Morning Post. " Immensely valuable and
infinitely readable."
—
Daily News. " The
book of the week."
—
Spectator.
Cassandra, or the Future of the British
Empire. By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
" We commend it to the complacent of all
parties."
—
Saturday Review. " The book is
small, but very, very weighty ; brilliantly
written, it ought to be read by all shades of
politicians and students of politics."
—
York-
shire Post. " Yet another addition to that
bright constellation of pamphlets."
—
Spectator.
Quo Vadimus ? Glimpses of the Future.
By E. E. FouRNiER d'Albe.D.Sc,author
of " Selenium, the Moon Element," etc.
" A wonderful vision of the future. A book
that will be talked about."
—
Daily Graphic.
" A remarkable contribution to a remarkable
series."
—
Manchester Dispatch. " Interesting
and singularly plausible."
—
Daily Telegraph.
Thrasymachus, the Future of Morals.
By C. E. M. JoAD, author of " The
Babbitt Warren, "etc. Second impression.
" His provocative book."
—
Graphic.
"Written in a style of deliberate brilliance."
—Times Literary Supplement. " As outspoken
and unequivocal a contribution as could well
be imagined. Even those readers who dissent
will be forced to recognize the admirable
clarity with which he states his case. A book
that will startle."
—
Daily Chronicle.
[4]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
Lysistrata, or Woman's Future and
Future Woman. By Anthony M.
LuDOVici, author of " A Defence of
Aristocracy," etc. Second Impression.
" A stimulating book. Volumes would be
needed to deal, in the fullness his work pro-
vokes, with all the problems raised."
—
Sunday
Times. " Pro-feminine, but anti-feministic."
Scotsman. " Full of brilliant common-sense."
—Observer.
Hypatia, or Woman and Knowledge. By
Mrs Bertrand Russell. With a
frontispiece. Third impression.
An answer to Lysistrata. " A passionate
vindication of the rights of women."
—
Manchester Guardian. " Says a number of
things that sensible women have been wanting
publicly said for a long time."
—
Daily Herald.
Hephaestus, the Soul of the Machine.
By E. E. FouRNiER d'Albe, D.Sc.
" A worthy contribution to this interesting
series. A delightful and thought-provoking
essay."
—
Birmingham Post. " There is a
special pleasure in meeting with a book like
Hephaestus. The author has the merit of really
understanding what he is talking about."
—Engineering. " An exceedingly clever
defence of machinery."
—
Architects' Journal.
The Passing of the Phantoms : a Study
of Evolutionary Psychology and Morals.
By C. J. Patten, Professor of Anatomy,
Sheffield University. With 4 Plates.
" Readers of Daedalus, Icarus and Tantalus,
will be grateful for an excellent presentation
of yet another point of view."
—
Yorkshire
Post. " This bright and bracing little book."
Literary Guide. " Interesting and original."
—Medical Times.
[5]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
The Mongol in our Midst : a Study of
Man and his Three Faces, By F. G.
CrOOKSHANK, M.D., F.R.C.P. With 28
Plates. Second Edition, revised.
" A brilliant piece of speculative induction."
—Saturday Review. " An extremely interest-
ing and suggestive book, which will reward
careful reading."
—
Sunday Times, " The
pictures carry fearful conviction."
—
Daily
Herald.
The Conquest of Cancer. By H. W. S.
Wright, m.s., f.r.c.s. Introduction
by F. G. Crookshank, m.d.
" Eminently suitable for general reading.
The problem is fairly and lucidly presented.
One merit of Mr Wright's plan is that he tells
people what, in his judgment, they can best
do, here and now."—From the Introduction.
Pygmalion, or the Doctor of the Future.
By R. McNair Wilson, m.b.
" Dr Wilson has added a brilliant essay
to this series."
—
Times Literary Supplement.
" This is a very little book, but there is much
wisdom in it."
—
Evening Standard. " No
doctor worth his salt would venture to say that
Dr Wilson was wrong."
—
Daily Herald.
Prometheus, or Biology and the Ad-
vancement of Man. By H. S. Jennings,
Professor of Zoology, Johns Hopkins
University.
" This volume is one of the most remarkable
that has yet appeared in this series. Certainly
the information it contains will be new to most
educated laymen. It is essentially a discussion
of . . . heredity and environment, and it
clearly estabUshes the fact that the current
use of these terms has no scientific
justification."
—
Times Literary Supplement.
"An exceedingly brilliant book."
—
New Leader.
[6]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
Narcissus : an Anatomy of Clothes. By
Gerald Heard. With 19 illustrations.
" A most suggestive book."
—
Nation
" Irresistible. Reading it is like a switchback
journey. Starting from prehistoric times we
rocket down the ages."
—
Daily News.
" Interesting, provocative, and entertaining."
—Queen.
Thamyris, or Is There a Future for
Poetry ? By R. C. Trevelyan.
" Learned, sensible, and very well-written."
—Affable Hawk, in New Statesman. " Very
suggestive." —/. C. Squire, in Observer.
" A very charming piece of work, I agree
with all, or at any rate, almost all its con-
clusions."
—
J. St. Loe Strachey, in Spectator.
Proteus, or the Future of Intelligence.
By Vernon Lee, author of " Satan the
Waster," etc.
" We should like to follow the author's
suggestions as to the effect of intelligence on
the future of Ethics, Aesthetics, and Manners.
Her book is profoundly stimulating and should
be read by everyone."
—
Outlook. " A concise,
suggestive piece of work."
—
Saturday Review.
Timotheus, the Future of the Theatre.
By BoNAMY DoBRfiE, author of "Restor-
ation Drama," etc.
" A witty, mischievous little book, to be
read with delight."
—
Times Literary Supple-
ment. " This is a delightfully witty book."
—Scotsman. " In a subtly satirical vein he
visualizes various kinds of theatres in 200 years
time. His gay little book makes delightful
reading."
—
Nation.
[7]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
Paris, or the Future of War. By Captain
B. H. LiDDELL Hart.
"A companion volume to Callinicui.
A gem of close thinking and deduction."
—Observer. " A noteworthy contribution to
a problem of concern to every citizen in this
country."
—
Daily Chronicle. " There is some
lively thinking about the future of war in
Paris, just added to this set of live-wire
pamphlets on big subjects."— Manchester
Guardian.
Wireless Possibilities. By Professor
A. M. Low. With 4 diagrams.
" As might be expected from an inventor
who is always so fresh, he has many inter-
esting things to say."
—
Evening Standard.
" The mantle of Blake has fallen upon the
physicists. To them we look for visions, and
we find them in this book."
—
New Statetman.
Perseus : of Dragons. By H. F. Scott
Stokes. With 2 illustrations.
" A diverting little book, chock-full of ideas.
Mr Stokes' dragon-lore is both quaint and
various."
—
Morning Post. " Very amusingly
written, and a mine of curious knowledge for
which the discerning reader will find many
nses."
—
Glasgow Herald.
Lycurgus, or the Future of Law. By
E. S. P. Haynes, author of " Concerning
Solicitors," etc.
"An interesting and concisely written book,"
—Yorkshire Post. " He roundly declares that
English criminal law is a blend of barbaric
violence, medieval prejudices, and modem
fallacies. ... A humane and conscienrious
investigation."
—
T.P.'s Weekly. " A thought-
ful book—deserves careful reading."
—
Law
Times.
[8]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
Euterpe, or the Future of Art. By
Lionel R, McColvin, author of " The
Theory of Book-Selection."
" Discusses briefly, but very suggestively,
the problem of the future of art in relation to
the public."
—
Saturday Review. " Another
indictment of machinery as a soul-destroyer
. . . Mr Colvin has the courage to suggest
solutions."
—
Westminster Gazette. " This is
altogether a much-needed book."
—
New
Leader.
Pegasus, or Problems of Transport.
By Colonel J. F. C. Fuller, author of
" The Reformation of War," etc. With
8 Plates.
" The foremost military prophet of the day
propounds a solution for industrial and
unemployment problems. It is a bold essay
. . . and calls for the attention of all con-
cerned with imperial problems."
—
Daily
Telegraph. " Practical, timely, very inter-
esting and very important."—J. St. Loe
Strachey, in Spectator.
Atlantis, or America and the Future.
By Colonel J. F. C. Fuller.
" Candid and caustic."
—
Observer. " Many
hard things have been said about America,
but few quite so bitter and caustic as these."
—Daily Sketch. " He can conjure up possi-
bilities of a new Atlantis."
—
Clarion.
Midas, or the United States and the
Future. By C. H. Bretherton, author
of " The Real Ireland ", etc.
A companion volume to Atlantis. " Full of
astute observations and acute reflections . . .
this wise and witty pamphlet, a provocation
to the thought that is creative."
—
Morning
Post. " A punch in every paragraph. One could
hardly ask for more '
meat.' "
—
Spectator.
[9]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
Nuntius, or Advertising and its Future.
By Gilbert Russell.
" Expresses the philosophy of advertising
concisely and well."
—
Observer. " It is doubt-
ful if a more straightforward exposition of
the part advertising plays in our public and
private life has been written."
—
Manchester
Gtiardian.
Birth Control and the State : a Plea
and a Forecast. By. C. P. Blacker,
M.C., M.A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.
" A very careful summary."
—
Times Literary
Supplement. " A temperate and scholarly
survey of the arguments for and against the
encouragement of the practice of birth control."
—Lancet. " He writes lucidly, moderately,
and from wide knowledge ; his book un-
doubtedly gives a better understanding of the
subject than any other brief account we know.
It also suggests a policy."
—
Saturday Review.
Ouroboros, or the Mechanical Extension
of Mankind. By Garet Garrett.
" This brilliant and provoking little book."
—Observer. " A significant and thoughtful
essay, calculated in parts to make our flesh
creep."
—
Spectator. " A brilUant writer, Mr.
Garrett is a remarkable man. He explains
something of the enormous change the machine
has made in life."
—
Daily Express.
Artifex, or the Future of Craftsmanship.
By John Gloag, author of " Time,
Taste, and Furniture."
" An able and interesting summary of the
history of craftsmanship in the past, a direct
criticism of the present, and at the end his
hopes for the future. Mr Gloag's real con-
tribution to the future of craftsmanship is
his discussion of the uses of machinery."
—Times Literary Supplement.
[lO]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
Plato's American Republic. By J.
Douglas Woodruff. Third impression.
" Uses the form of the Socratic dialogue
with devastating success. A gently mahcious
wit sparkles in every page."
—
Sunday Timet.
" Having deUberately set himself an almost
impossible task, has succeeded beyond belief."
—Saturday Review. " Quite the liveUest
even of this spirited series." — Observer.
Orpheus, or the Music of the Future. By
W. J. Turner, author of " Music and
Life."
" A book on music that we can read not
merely once, but twice or thrice. Mr Turner
has given us some of the finest thinking upon
Beethoven that I have ever met with."
—
Ernest Newman in Sunday Times. " A
brilUant essay in contemporary philosophy."
—Outlook. " The fruit of real knowledge and
understanding. '
—
New Statesman.
Terpander, or Music and the Future. By
E. J. DENT,author of "Mozart's Operas."
" In Orpheus Mr Turner made a brilhant
voyage in search of first principles. Mr Dent's
book is a skilful review of the development of
music. It is the most succinct and stimulating
essay on music I have found. . .
."
—
Musical
News. "Remarkably able and stimulating."
—Times Literary Supplement. "There is hardly
another critic alive who could sum up contem-
porary tendencies so neatly."
—
Spectator.
Sibylla, or the Revival of Prophecy. By
C. A. Mace, University of St. Andrew's.
"An entertaining and instructive pamphlet."
—Morning Post. " Places a nightmare before
us very ably and wittily."
—
Spectator.
" Passages in it are excellent satire, but on
the whole Mr Mace's speculations may be
taken as a trustworthy guide ... to modem
scientific thought."
—
Birmingham Post.
[II]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
LucuUus, or the Food of the Future. By
Olga Hartley and Mrs C. F. Leyel,
authors of '
The Gentle Art of Cookery.'
" This is a clever and witty little volume
in an entertaining series, and it makes enchant-
ing reading."
—
Times Literary Supplement.
" Opens with a brilliant picture of modem
man, living in a vacuum-cleaned, steam-
heated, credit-furnished suburban mansion
'
with a wolf in the basement '
—the wolf of
hunger. This banquet of epigrams."
—
Spectator.
Procrustes, or the Future of English
Education. By M. Alderton Pink.
" Undoubtedly he makes out a very good
case."
—
Daily Herald. " This interesting
addition to the series."
—
Times Educational
Supplement. " Intends to be challenging and
succeeds in being so. All fit readers will find
it stimulating."
—
'Northern Echo.
The Future of Futurism. By John
RODKER.
" Mr. Rodker is up-to-the-minute, and he
has accomplished a considerable feat in writing,
on such a vague subject, 92 extremely inter-
esting pages." — T. S. Eliot, in Nation.
" There are a good many things in this book
which are of interest." — Times Literary
Supplement.
Pomona, or the Future of English. By
Basil de S:6lincourt, author of *
The
English Secret ', etc.
" The future of English is discussed fully
and with fascinating interest."
—
Morning
Post. " Has a refreshing air of the unexpected.
Full of wise thoughts and happy words."
—Times Literary Supplement. " Here is
suggestive thought, quite different from
most speculations on the destiny of our
language."
—
Journal of Education.
[12]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
Balbust or the Future of Architecture.
By Christian Barman, editor of '
The
Architect's Journal '.
" A really brilliant addition to this already
distinguished series. The reading of Balbus
will give much data for intelligent prophecy,
and incidentally, an hour or so of excellent
entertainment."
—
Spectator. " Most readable
and reasonable. We can recommend it
warmly."
—
New Statesman. " This intriguing
little book."
—
Connoisseur.
JUST PUBLISHED
Apella, or the Future of the Jews. By
A Quarterly Reviewer.
" Cogent, because of brevity and a magni-
ficent prose style, this book wins our quiet
praise. It is a fine pamphlet, adding to the
value of the series, and should not be missed."
—Spectator. " A notable addition to this
excellent series . His arguments are a provoca-
tion to fruitful thinking."
—
Morning Post.
The Dance of ?iva, or Life's Unity and
Rhythm. By Collum.
" It has substance and thought in it. The
author is very much alive and responsive to
the movements of to-day which seek to unite
the best thought of East and West, and dis-
cusses Mussolini and Jagadis Bose with
perspicacity."
—
Spectator.
Lars Porsena, or the Future of Swearing
and Improper Language. By Robert
Graves.
" An amusing little book."
—
Daily Mirror.
" It is to this subject [of swearing] that Mr.
Graves brings much erudition and not a little
irony."
—
John O'London's Weekly. " Not for
squeamish readers."
—
Spectator. " Too out-
spoken. The writer sails very near the wind,
but all the same has some sound constructive
things to say."
—
Manchester Dispatch.
[13]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
Socrates, or the Emancipation of Man-
kind. By H. F. Carlill.
Sets out the new view of the nature of man,
to which the trend of modem psychology,
anthropology, and evolutionary theory has
led, shows the important consequences to
human behaviour and efficiency which are
bound to follow, and maintains that man is
at last conscious of his power to control his
biological inheritance.
Delphos, or the Future of International
Language. By E. Sylvia Pankhurst.
An inquiry into the possibility of a medium
of inter-communication, auxiliary to the
mother tongues. A survey of past attempts
from the sixteenth century to the present
day. A prophecy of the coming inter-
language, its form, its social and cultural
utility, and its influence on world peace.
Gallic, or the Tyranny of Science. By
J. W. N. Sullivan, author of "A
History of Mathematics."
Is the scientific universe the real universe ?
What is the character of the universe revealed
by modern science ? Are values inherent in
reality ? "What is the function of the arts ?
In addition to answering these questions, the
author attacks the notion that science is
materialistic.
ApoUonius, or the Future of Psychical
Research. By E. N. Bennett, author
of " Problems of Village Life," etc.
An attempt to summarize the results secured
by the scientific treatment of psychical pheno-
mena, to forecast the future developments of
such research, and to answer the familiar
question " "What is the good of it all ?
"
[14]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
NEARLY READY
Janus, or the Conquest of War. By
William McDougall, M.B., F.R.S.,
Professor of Psychology, Harvard Uni-
versity, author of " The Group Mind,"
etc.
A volume of fundamental importance to all
those who would avoid future wars. Sections
are devoted to lessons of the Great War, the
Causes of War, Preventives of War, League
to Enforce Peace, and International Air Force
as a Prevention of War.
Rusticus, or the Future of the Country-
side. By Martin S. Briggs, F.R.LB.A.,
author of "A Short History of the
Building Crafts," etc.
Attributes much of the blame for the dese-
cration of our countryside to the petrol engine,
though he recognizes other contributory causes.
He attempts to analyse the charm of our
counties before the Industrial Revolution
and shows how that movement influenced
their aspect. Finally he surveys the future,
making practical suggestions to avoid further
'
uglification.'
Aeolus, or the Future of the Flying
Machine. By Oliver Stewart, author
of " Strategy and Tactics of Air
Fighting."
A picture of the air-vehicle and air-battle-
ship of the future, painted with colours from
the aeronautical research work of to-day.
The author foresees that the flying machine
will resist mass production. Aircraft will
be exalted as individual creations of the
Artist-Scientist rather than debased as tools
of the Commercialist.
[15]
TO-DAY AND TO-MORROW
Stentor, or the Future of the Press. By
David Ockham.
Shows how since the War the control of the
Press has passed into the hands of only five men
.
The law is powerless, even if willing, to check
this justification. Now that independent
organs of opinion are almost eliminated, the
author discusses the danger to the community
unless the Public is made aware of the personal-
ities and policies behind the Trusts.
IN PREPARATION
The Future of India. By T. Earle
Welby.
An analysis of the spiritual and political
future of 320 million persons in the light of
present tendencies.
Mercurius, or the World on Wings.
By C. Thompson Walker.
A picture of the air-vehicle and the air-port
of to-morrow, and the influence aircraft will
have on our lives.
The Future of Films. By Ernest
Betts.
Vulcan, or Labour To-Day and To-
Monow. By Cecil Chisholm.
[16]
