{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1842__miller___true_inheritance_of_the_saints.pdf","mytitle":"True Inheritance Of The Saints","mylang":"de"}
Li
o,
DISSERTATIONS
ON'
THE TRUE INHERITANCE -
or THE SAINTS,
LID 'IEE
TWELVE HUNDRED AND SIXTY DAYS
OF DANIEL AND JOHN;
_
wrt!
,' AN ADDRESS
Tonufwmmummennuuwniulnl
Anvnnr uxAn.
...ii--1
BI WILLIAM KILLER.
B 0 S T 0 N :
PUBLISHED BY JOSHUA V. HIMES,
14 Dovonuhlrs Suomi..
1842.
2. Dulinrnrlox ox 'rx-in Twnvm HUNDRID
CONTENTS.
l. Till uv: lxslnrutrcl 0l'.1'lll Snnrre, . .
.um
Suxrv Dun or Dnuzx. nw Junx, . . .
The beginning of the little horn, or Pnptcy, .
The end of papal dominion, . . . .
Two witnesses clothed in sackcloth 1260 days, .
The 1260 days of the churhh in the wilderness, .
I. "6l1l.|l 'Annnneor 'fill Conirnmxci or B:-
. Lnvnn u¢_ Tlll Snoosn Anvxsf nun,
nlua rr Law Hnlrros, N. Y., Nov.
2-s,1a41, . _ . _ . .
The int and second denth explained, . .
_
'
-.
, »'~..-|'l.4
P°¢
Y
I0
I4
81
47
51
PREFATORY REMARKS.
Dan Bttornnt Hnnzs :-I send you a few thoughts for
publication on the text, Matt. v. 5: "Blessed are the meelr,
for they shall inherit the earth," with a dissertation on
the |260 days of Daniel and John. on this latter article
I have nothing to say, except to invite the critical exam-
ination of the students of prophecy who oppose the theory
I advocate, and to show, if they can, that these prophetic
periods did not end in 1798.
My object in the first article, you will readily perceive,
is to try, if possible, to get some of our brethren of the
spiritual reign, and also those of the English view, to
look at the promises of God in their proper light; and,
if possible, to save some of them from preaching a doc-
trine which flatters the camal heart with the idea of a
future peace and safety, and prevents many a careless
and unwary soul l'rom seeing the awful danger they are
in, promising themselves a long time to come, when sud#
den destruction is at the door.
Two ideas I hope our brethren will weigh well before
theygo about deceiving souls, as I do most solemnly and
sincerely believe their doctrine is calculated to do.
'
1., Is this, promise made to all the redeemed; or only
to those who may live in. some age of the present evil
world? I hope some of the advocates of the spiritual
reign, will answer this question honestly and fairly. Did
the disciples who heard Christ, do right in believing in
this promise for theniselves? or did they understand the
Savior to refer to some of the meek who might live in
some after age? And, if so, would it not be right to
apply all the promises of this chapter to the people living
in one age only? Again, if the meek are only to inherit
iv rnernonr nsrunxs.
V
the earth, how can the carnal Jew, and the as cu-nal hes
then, inherit it at the same time? I cannot believe that
those wicked Jews will be joint heirs with Christ and the
meek.
Iwould also inquire if this inheritance is not at the
same time that Daniel speaks ot] when the saints possess
the kingdom, under the whole heaven. Daniel vii. 22, 27:
"Until the Ancient of Days came, and judgment was
given to the saints of the Most High; and the time came
that the saints possessed the kingdom., And the king-
dom and dominion, and the' greatness of the kingdom uu-
der the whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the
saints ol' the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting
kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey him."
2. If the text, Matt. v. 5,
"
Blessed are the meek, for thq
shall inherit the earth," is to be understood as belonging to
the millennium day before the resurrection, then all the
promises contained in Matt.,v. 3-12, mustbe construed to
mean the same time, by the same rule. If so, how can
the promise, Matt. v. 10, Il, "Blessed are they which are
persecuted for Jighteousness' sake, for theirs is the king-
dom of heaven; blessed are ye when men shall revile
you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil
against you falsely, for my sake," be fulfilled? Can
there be persecution for righteousness' sake, when the
saints possess the kingdom under the whole heaven!
Will men revile you, and persecute you, and say all man-
ner of evil against you falsely, for Christ's sake, in this
millennium? No. Then if these persecuted brethren
had died before this day came, how can they possess the
kingdom on earth, except theyrise from their graves?
Who, then, can claim this promise? Not those who live
in this millennium; for they are not persecuted. Nor
YKEIATOIY lllllli. V
those who live before this day; for they are dead. Who,
then, shall possess the kingdom of God, under the whole
heaven? and who are the meek, to inherit the earth!
Iboldly and fearlessly say, such a millennium as our
opponents ofthe second advent present, is impossible to
he realized in the earth, before Chrlst's coming, and the
resurrection of the just. I challenge the world to show
us how these things can be.
If Christ is nt the door, and the time has come when
"
he will thoroughly purge his floor," and when he "will
burn up the chati' with unquenchable fire," will it not be
an immense detriment to the world of mankind to flatter
them with a long time of peace and safety, when sudden
destruction is coming upon them? 0 ye servants of the
Most High, beware what you teach!
Where has Christ taught such a millennium as you
teach? Put your finger on the place, and tell me where!
I ask one text, one passage; in the name of my Master, I
ask you where? Give me none of your great men as au-
thority, none of your wise sayings, no vain philosophy,
no commandments of men; but the plain word of God.
Where is your proofI Souls are hanging upon your
skirts; you cannot slumber safely. There has a cry gone
forth: "
Watchman! what of the night? Watchman!
what of the night?" We adjure you by the living God,
that you tell us the truth. You profess to be teachers;
0 teach as with the wisdom of God, and not of men:
You call yourselves pastors; feed us, then, with the rich
promises of God, rather than vain traditions received
from the fathers.
We ask for "
bread ;" give us not "
a stone."
»
Wu. Munn.
nmn, JM. 1, 1842.
1*
Google
THE TRUE INHERITANCE OF THE
SAINTS.
H.u"r|1xw 1. 5 :-L-" Blessed are the meek: for they lhlllinharil
the earth."
So says the dear Savior, and so said the
Holy Spirit by the sweet
psalmist in Israel!
This then is a promise of God,
piven by his
Spirit, and ratified by his Son esus Christ.
Who then will say, this promise will never
be consummated? Many, my kind reader
have said what is tantamount to a denial oil
this promise, or an unbelief in its fulfilment.
The kings of the earth have opposed it,
and will as long as the devil is prince of the
power of the air, and ruler over the children
of disobedience in the earth. The great men
and mighty men of the earth, have, and will
oppose this glorious promise, so
long as the
world is govemed by physical force, and
war, rapine, and lust are the instruments of
power. The proud clergy will oppose this
good promise, as long as they seek to please
men, tb lord it over the heritage of God, 'to'
obtain notoriety over their fellows; or to
gratify their lust by sanctimonious names of
* kdm nxvii. il.
-
l
8 THE TRUE INHERITANCB _
titles, which our Savior forbade his followers
to receive, or wear.
All impenitents will oppose it, so long as
they possess reason or judgment: for they
well know if none but the meek should in-
herit the earth, they themselves must be
thrust out: and this is the very reason why
a certain class of men never quote this text
to prove universal salvation; because their
reason tells them that shame would mantle
their cheek with a
blush, to claim this appel-
lation for all men.
Then _let me discuss my subject in the
following order:
_
I. I WiLL INQUIRE, Wuo ARE 'run MEEK?
II. _Wan EARTH is rnomsnn AS 'rasrn IN-
nemnucs? AND WHEN, .mn How, 'rms ausssmo
WILL st: AccoMrusx~usn'l
I. Wuo Ass 'rim Manx? They are not the
proud Pharisees, who think themselves better
than others; for this would be a contra-
diction of terms. To say a proud man is a
meek man, would be putting evil fbr good,
and I should meet with the wo
pronounced
by the prophet Isaiah, (V. 20,) "'Vo unto
them that say concerning evil, it is good."
And the wise man says, Proverbs xvi. 54
"
Everyone that is proud in heart, is an
abomination to the Lord." ,It cannot be a
bigoted man; for the prophet has pronounced
a,_solemn wo
against all such. "Isaiah v. 21 :
'
Wo unto them that are wise in their own
eyes, and prudent in their own sight."
"
or 'rn smrrs. 9
It cannot be those who are seeking honor
of men, or one of another; for Christ says of
such,
"
But I know you, that ye have
not the love of God in yon." lt cannot be
those who are`fond of titles, love the upper-
most rooms at feasts, chief seats in the as-
semblies, greetings in the markets, and to be
caUed of men Doctor, Doctor, or Rabbi,
Rabbi; for Jesus says of the like, "Ye
serpents, ye generation of vipers! how can
ye escape the damnation of hell?" Matthew
xxiii. 1-23. Who then can it be? you
may inquire; for there is no sect in Christen-
dom, at the present day, but are seekin for
the honors and emoluments of the work? I
acknowledge your charge is apparently just,
but not universally true. As it
respects
the
leaders and most active men, as t e world
would judge, in all the sects of Christendom,
I fear your objection would hold good in the
main; and the reason is plain: meekness is
modesty; it "vaunteth not itself, is not
puffed up;" and, of course, in the bustle of
the
present day, meekness would not be
foun _in the world's first ranks. It is only
in a time of severe trial, or great persecu-
tion, that you will discover the meek man in
the front rank; and then he "doth not be-
have unseemly, seeketh not his own, is not
easily provoked, thinketh no evil."
'
Therefore, not many mighty, nor many
noble, or rich, will be fotmd in the company
of the meek, in such a time as this. Yet
1,0
'
'ms rum mmm-unc: .
God has reserved, in my opinion, more than
seven thousand, who have not bowed the
knee to Baal, (the god of honor.) But, who
are the meek? I answer, Christ was meek,
as he tells us: "Take my yoke upon you,
and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly
in heart, and ye shall find rest to your
souls." Again; "Behold thy king cometh
unto thee, meek," ow. Christ, also, has
the same
promise from the Father, Psalm
ii. 8: "Ask of me, and I shall give thee the
heathen for thine inheritance, and the utter-
most parts of the earth for thy possession."
The children, which are born of the Spirit
of God, are meek, because they possess the
same spirit which was in Christ. Isaiah
xxix. 19: "The meek also shall increase
their joy in the Lord, and the poor among
men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel."
Those who are given to Christ by the
Father, are called the meek. Psalm xxii.
26, 30, 31: "
The meek shall eat and be
wtisfied: they shall praise the Lord that
seek him.: _your heart shall live for ever.
A _seed shall serve him; it shall beaocounted
to the Lord for a generation. Theyfshall
come, and -shall declare his righteousness
unto a people that shall be born, that he
hath done this." Those who obey the com-
mandments of God. Psalm xxv.9, 10: "'1'he
meek will he guide in judgment: and the
meek will he teach his way. All the paths
of the Lord are mercy and truth unto such
or 'nm smrrs. 11
as keep his covenant and his testimonies."
Those who obtain salvation through faith,
and are saved from wrath in the day of
the Lord's vengeance. Psalm lxxvi. 9:
"When God arose to judgment, to save
all the meef°of the earth." In one word,
the -meek are penitent, humble followers
of Christ--obedient in word and doctrine
-lovers of truth and righteousness, of a
contrite spirit, a broken heart, and a re-
conciled -mind to God; a
poor and a
perse-
cuted people, hated by the world, despised
of men, but chosen of God, and precious.
And now, my friend, where shall we go
to find suchfa people as this? There is a
people somewhere on the earth that will an-
swer tothe description of character given us
by our blessed Master in Matthew v. 3-12,
inclusive, or the promise of God would be
of no effect. What sect, or denomination
shall we -visit, to find a people of this
description 'P Let us go to the Baptist,--a sect
totwhich the writer belongs. What do we see Z1
A people "poor in spirit?
"
If so, they are
making great eforts not to remain so much
longer; for they are seeking anxiously for a
good share of worldlvy goods and _popular
applause, and are very successful in their
calling, ln those things. Do they "mourn?"'
Yes, for the want of more riches and
honors of this world. Are they "'meelc?'?-
Man ot' them would' blush to claim that
appeilation. Do they "hunger and thirst
»
I2 'ras 'nun nmxnrnscs
I
after righteousnessl" I fear many, very
many of us, are hungering and thirsting
after the wisdom of the world, and to favor
tyrants and slaveholders, more than to seek
righteousness and truth. Will they show
mercy? Not if you dilfer wi!H them in the
least article of their creed, or oppose the
least of their po ular schemes of the present
day. But are they not pure in heart 'l Dare
they claim this grace? No; unless a man
can claim it, while his heart is full of self-
love, a love of the world, and pride, avari-
ciousness, and covetousness. Surely you will
give them some
praise as a sect. Are they
not -acemakers; and may they not be
callerthe children of God 'l They make no
peace with one another, nor with other
sects, if they cross their path. They plead
for, and support war as a sect; and I would
be very thankful to know in what sense
they can be called peacemakers at the pre-
sent day. Are they not "persecuted for
righteousness' sake 2" If they are, then to be
persecuted, is not what 'l have supposed
persecution meant: but this, as aeect, they
will not, dare not claim. ,
' "
Blessed are
ye, when men shall revile
you, and persecute you, and shall say all
manner of evil against you falsely for my
sake." May they not claim this blessing as
a sect? Where is the world saying all man-
ner of evil against the Ba isis? If we
should claim this, the world would have
reason to call us
liars,
o1¥_ 'rss
'
ssnvrs. lg
'
To what sect shall we
go, where we may
End tYre'meek'! To Presbyterians? No, no,
say all the' other sects, they cannot be the
meek; for they are much more anxious to
obtain good names from men, and honors
of the world. Yes, yes, none seek for these
things more. They cannot be the meek.
And if we could give them the preference,
still there is a difficulty, we cannot well sur-
mount ;-there are two' parties there; and
until they make peace, we could not call them
meek; I' refer to' the old school, and the new
school.
Where shall We find the meek? for they
must inherit the earth. Shall we find them
in thé Church of England? Methinks I
hear a
fushy' rind, all the other sects cry
out, at Gnce, no,= no.
Why, what's the mat-
ter now? Shame, shame, to call them meek.
They d'o not even pretend to have their
members all born of the S irit; and if pride,
and the love of the wor{)d, and a love of
the honors from men, and the high-sotmd-
ing titles, are
opposed to meelmess, surely
you cannot claim the world for them. _
~
Stall we go and try the Methodist? Me-
thinks I hear, from every other sect, no,
no. They are as proud, and much more
selfish, than others of our sects; they love
the world, ardlcovetbus, and boasters, and,
in _common with modern sects, choose the
highest seats: we cttnnot, will not, call
tHeth~Hheg
'
I4 ras 1-atm msanxnucs
And, if we should go to any other sect,--to
Christians, Freewill Baptists, Protestant
Methodist, Moravians, Disciples, Lutherans,
Unitarians, Greeks, Quakers, Shakers, Mor-
mons, Turks, or Jevvs, we should hear a loud
voice,-no, no,-from every other sect.
Where then can we find the meek? I an-
swer,-from the four winds of heaven, front-
every continent, from. land and sea, from
every age, from every clime, from every
nation, kindred, tongue, and people, on our
globe, from every sect, from Catholic and
Jew, from high and low, from rich and poor,
from bond and free, from the ffair Georgian
to the dark African: "For thou vvas slain
and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood,
out of every kindred, and tongue, and
people, and nation."
`
Not all, of any
clss, or sect, or nation, kindred, tongue,
or people; but, out of every class; so says
the text, and so my soul believes. "And
hast made us unto our God, kings ,and
priests,
and we shall reign on the earth."
velation v. 9, 10. _
But will not the earth be inherited by the
meek before the resurrection of the saints?
Nsvsn. Butl have been taught to believe, says
the objector, that the time was coming, in the
gospel day, when the meek would inherit
the earth; that is, the nations of the earth
would, at some time, all become holy,
and constitute a universal race of the meek.
This could not be "the meek," if such _a
_
or 'ma ssrxrs. 15
statc of things could be brought about; it
would be only a PART of "l/ze' meek."
This promise to the meek seems to me to
be a
general promise to all "
the meek.",
Did not the dear, meek children of God,
who then heard the Savior speak, receive
that promise to themselves, with all the
other promises in that chapter? Certainly.
Then, if you are correct in your views
that only those who lived in that day will
inherit the earth, you must see, that they
have been deceived; for they have been
dead near eighteen hundred years. And if
that promise can be thus taken away from
them vho heard him,»I ask, what romise
was there given in that sermon,whicii might
not, by the same rule, be taken away, and
given to a people who may live in ages long
to come? And what warrant have you, or
I, that any promise belongs to us? l hope
you see the folly of such constructions.
Again; the promise to Abraham, "that he
should be heir of the world," was not to
Abraham or his seed, through the law, but
though the righteousness oi? faith. I"or.if
they which are of the law be heirs, faith is
made void, and the promise made of none
effect. Therefore, it is of faith, that itmight
be by grace; to the end the promise might
be sure to all the seed; not that only which
is of the law, hut to that also which is ofthe
Iitith of Abraham, who is the father ot' us
all. Romans iv. 13-16. You cannot help
llti
`
-rms
:aux mrnanrjrascx
'
but to see, that the promise to
Abraham, .that
his seed should be heirs of the` world, is
virtually the same promise as made by
Christ,
"
The meek shall inheritthe earth;"
and this is made sure to all _the seed, both
under the law and under the gospel. How
then, 1 ask, can this promise be verified
until after the resurrection of all the saints?
"
For God is not a God of the dead, but ol
the living." t
Again; if the meek are to inherit the_earth
in -this state of things, I Wish some one
would prove to me which Christian sect
will be the favored sect; for there can be no
division in that stat of meekness; they will
all be peucemakers hiere. And you, gentle-
men, who are in favor of such a millennium,
and expect it to be brought about by the
present gospel, and the means nov in luse,
'p.re.very remiss in your duty, it
appears to
me, if you do not settle that point immedi-
ately, and
begin your ,millennium without a
monient's de ay. ,lf ministers and ,watch-
men ever will see eye to eye, in the gospel
day, why not NOW? Come, show us the first
fruits of your happymillennium. And begin
ye watchmen in Zion; tell us, who shall lead
ns in this glorious cause, to _make all sects
one '! Shall the mother Catholic church of
Rome lead us 2 No, no,-no pope, cry a
hundred voices at once. Who then shall
lead us,-her oldest daughter, the English
Episcopal church?
No,-fno bishops ioflzlug
' '
or tm: smrrs. 17
land shall lead us, say a hundred voices
more.
To vhom then shall we look? The twin
sister of the last, the Lutheran church?
Ninety and nine voices join in one cry,-she
is dead, twice dead, and ought to be pluckcil
up by the roots; this will not do.
What do you say to some of her younger
daughters,-the Presbyterians, for instance?
No, by no
means; we may as well be ruled
by popes and- bishops as by.a presbytery.
Indeed, gentlemen, you will be hardly suited.
What do you say to the Congregationalist
grand-daughterof the old lady? Away, away,
say many speakers at once. She is proud;
too much pride for her years,-cannot bear
her.
Well, then, let us take another grand-
daughter, in another line. What say you to
the Methodist,-will you follow them '! No,
no, she has too many bishops for her cloth,
-not a little too roud, and over much
righteous,-cannot iiollow her. Then let ns
try some of the illegitimate daughters ;-the
Baptists. See, see, a hundred noses are turn-
ed up at once; all cry out,--it is an insult,-
come from Munster, or
nobody knows where,
-tries to be rond, but makes a fool of her-
self;-sho'ws her bringing up,-low bred,-
but loves to imitate her more proud neighbors,
'-she is puffed up, doting on smaller matters
of thelaw,--she has become vain in her
imaginations;-thinking
herself something,
.}8 'nn
My gygpagmc:
she ,knows _not ,how others _lqokuppn her.
We will not have her to rule over us. _,Shall
we caU 'up the other sects, legitimate, or
illegitimate? Scores of ,voices cry Qut ,at
once, name them not.
'
Where then shall we go? The watchmen
must see eye to eye, they must lift up their
voices together. Come, tell us, to whom
shall we go? To Christ,--so say you all;
but is Christ divided? And if we should go
to him, and be one in him, vqe must drop our
sectarian natnes, and be called by a new
name. What,-Christian? No. Why not?
Bec_ause it is the name of a sect already.
Away with that name then. Shall we be
called Unionists? .Are they not a sect, as
deep in _the mud as we are in the mire?
They say we must all come to them. -We
can have no fellowship for them; for they
are only making new divisions in our old
sects, to build up a new one
_to benefit them-
selves. .
Ye believers in a temporal millgq-
_nium, tell me how you calculate to bring on
your
haw time, and who will rule
earth? lic will be our king, and V110
will set upon the throne of David foreverf!
You are wellqaware, if the rneek_1nhem_tl5e
earth, theyinnst have a king ,and a
knig-
doin, and it will stand forever. ,For_Qa`a,|el
plainly tells us,
(vii._27,¥` "And k1I§-
_
om and domi_nion, and t,_e greatness of the
kingdom, _under the whole -heaven, shall be
siv¢n,t°r _the people °f,¢h° _Semis f9f,l-}A'?,M9§'
`
,
19r,:r'§g~M§=§1'¥~ ~
_
49
High, .whose ki dom fis /an
,everlasting
kingdorn, allpgqminionsrslrallVservc an
obey him." Serve and obey whom! rl an-
swer, the,L0rd ,Jesus Christ. _See verses II3
and 14: "I saw in ,the ni ht visions, and
behold, one like the Son olgman 6211118 Wllh
the clouds ,of heaven, and came t0_the All-
cient of Days; and they bl'0U$hl hlI{1 llfial'
before him. And there was given him do-
'minion, and glory, and a
kingdom, that (the
mggk from) all people, nations. and lau-
gnages, should serve him; his ,dominion is
au' e{,e|-lasting dominion, which shall not
pass away, _and his kingdom, that which
shall not be destroyed."
Bur, says the objeetor, ,we read .that
Christ's reign must cease.
[Corinthians
xv. 24-28: "
Then cometh the _end, (viz., at
'thc coming of Christ) when he shall _have
delivered up the (mediatorial) kingdom:tp
God, even ,the Father; when he shall have
put down all rule, and all
anthorigyand
power." Tome, this is the arnpuntof aul}s
remarks: God has _
iven all
.power on
earth, into yhe hands o§.les_n§_Chr|st, _a.s,me-
dia§or,,,to,-grve,eterpal life to as ,many as the
Father _has ,given him, or,as many as, shall
ibe1i,¢,ve'.pn his word ;' and when rhe"end _bf
this inqdi#r6rial,};iqgdo_m shall mme, =h¢,wiU
,raise,h;s,chi|d|'er1, aadall the meek of the
ear|.h,f-"For he :mast reign,__until he,ha1,h
put ,all enemies under his. feet, the _lay
enemy that shall be destroyed is death,"-to
him or the churqh: "for he is head," or
20
'
rrri: imigitinucx
king, "overall things to the'church;" then
he ivill dash all the kingdoms of the earth
to pieces; destroy all those wicked men
who rejected the gospel, and who would not
have him as mediator to ruleover them: and
shall raise his church and present it to God,
}VlIl101§.S[0l 01'
wrinkle, holy, unblameable
111 his Sight- See Q Corinthians iv. 14, Ephe-
sians v. 27, Colossians i_. 22, Jude 24. '] hen
the glorified kingdom will he given to Jesus
Christ, and he will be known as our God
forever; for "he is over
all, God blessed
forever." Romans ix. 5, Colossians iii. 11.
See also Ephesians i. 22, 23: "And hath
put all things under his feet, and gave him
to be head over all things to the church
'which is his body, the fulness of hirrr-that
filleth all in all." But he will not raise the
wicked until a thousand years after, says
the objector. How then can he conquer
death until the second _resurrectionl The
inconsistency is not in the Bible, of which
you complain; it is in your understanding
ofit. Where has God, or Christ, or the
Bible ever promised to conquer death for the
final impenitent '!* Show me the passage,
and I will acknowledge the restorationist has
some ground for his faith; but I never could
find the least promise, or hint ofanything of
'the kind. But will you not admit, says the ob-
Jfctor,
that the vicked will arise from death 'Q
'cs, I will admit it; or, which is the same
° See page 66.
'
~
.or na SAIQIIS. QI
thing, .I will admit theylive again in thejlcsli .
but what has that to do with the suljoct?
So far from death being conquered, they
are 'no sooner raised and judged, than they
_are sent into the second death, which is ap-
parently mnch more awful and terrible
than any previous death; for from this death
there is no reprieve. Well, then, will you
not agree that they are raised in Christ?
No, I cannot; because it needs prooil Will
you not agree that they are ,raised by the
power of Christ 'l lwill; for all that are
in their graves shall hear his voice and come
forth, they that have done good _to the
resurrection of life, (death conquered) and
_they that have done evil unto the resur~
,rection ofdamnation (death eternal.) "'I`hou
,didst cause judgment to be heard t`rom hea-
ven; the earth feared and was still, when
God arose to judgment, to save all the meek
of the earth." Psalm lxxvi. 8, 9. "The
Lord lifteth up the meek, he casteth the
wicked down to the ground." Psalm cxlvii.
6. The meek _are the penitent and humble
,followers of Christ, who shall be saved in
.the day ofthe Lord Jesus, and have part in
the first resurrection. Blessed, indeed, me
the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.
"Thy people (the meek) also shall he all
righteous, they shall inherit the land for-
ever." Isaiah lx. 21.
Il. vl-lA'l' EARTH
is rnomisen 'ro 'rms mask,
asm ixnexiriixcel
22 'run 'mire mnsnrrxucx
Earth, has a number of significations.
(L) lt means the terraqueous globe, asin Gen.
viii. 22: "VVhile the earth remaineth, seed
time and harvest, and cold and heat, and sum-
mer and winter, and day and night, shall not
cease." (2.) It means the land, as in Gen.
i. ll): "And God called the dry 'land earth."
It means the inhabitants of the earth,
as in Gen. xi. 1 :
"
The whole earth was of
one language."
I have an opinion that "the earlh" in our
text means the globe which we inhabit.
Man vas made to inhabit the globe; and if
the devil can prevent this part of God's pur-
poses from being executed, then so much of
the design of the Almighty would be frus-
trated. But he cannot do it: for Jesus Christ
has engaged to redeem the earth from the
curse, rand fill the world with fruit of the
holy seed: "the meek shall inherit the earth."
And already he has given indications of his
power to do what he has engaged to perform.
First ; he has proved his power to forgive
and cleanse penitents from sin, on earth.
This even his enemies acknowledged he did;
for they brought it as an accusation against
him. Mark ii. 7, 10: "Why doth this man
thus speak blasphemies? Who can forgive
sins but Got] only?" Then Christ says,
"
But that, ye may know that the ,Son of
man hath power on earth to forgive sins."
This is one
great step towards executing
this glorious purpose and promise of God.
_
-
OF_ THE SAINTS.
Secondly ; he has manifested his power to
conquer death, by raising Lazarus and others,
and afterwards taking his own life again;
showing that he has power to raise up all
the meek of the earth. If this could not
have been done, then death would have held
us in bondage; and how could the meek
inherit the earth? For we must have
bodies to inherit the body of the earth,
and substance to inherit substance. There-
fore, two important hindrances to our inher-
itingethe earth are removed by the mani-
fested power Of Christ. Another power is
also necessary to be used in order to ensure
the happiness of the meek. T/iirdly; evil
spirits must be driven out of the earth, or
the meek might be liable to deception and
error, which would till the earth with con-
fusion and despair: but in this Christ has
proved his power, by casting out a. legion of
evil spirits from one man, and many out of
others, and driving them into the sea, and
doing as he pleased; showing that in due time
he would be able to chain Satan and his host,
that they come not upon the earth to trouble
or deceive the meek.
Fourlizly; he must cleanse the earth, in
order to make the place of their residence glo-
rious. This has been once done by water.
And as Peter tells us, (2 Peter iii. 6, 7',)
"
Whereby the world that then was, being
overflowed with Water, perished; but the
heavens and the earth which_are now,Aby
iff 'nm -ratni md
V'
rrixcx _
tlile sarrfe word'
érif }5lnVer} are kent in Qtore,
reserved' unto re against the day of jitdg-
ment and perdition of ungodly men," af
the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, with
all his saints. Some say this buming day is
not fo' be until after a thousand years' reign
o'l` the saints on the earth. l must differ
from such ; for I can sec no object in buming
the earth after the meek _have inherited it a
thousand years, and after the new heavens
and new eart_h are created. _
I knowv your
objection; for you say,-the new heavetis and
new _earth are nbt created until after the
thousand years' reignl Bnt that needs prooi
And one thingvis certain, this thousand years
isthe
great
sabbath of rest spoken of by Paul
iu_He . iy. 1-9; and Paul tells tts that
when this day of rest shall corhe, and wheri
Christ hath en'tered into his fest, he will
cease from his labors, as God did from his;
and if Christ has riot created the new hea-
vens and new carth', then how can he cea
'
from his labors? For he says, "Beholilsi
create new heavens and a new earth." Iszi.
liv. 17419;
Again ; Peter says, Epistle iii; l3,)
"Nevertheless we, according to his
&rom-
isé,"i¥Who'se
J§r'or'nise'l
Christ's. here
has hepromisé '} _
Matt. v. 3412:
_"Blessing
are' the _meek
"
&»c.-L"look for new heaven
`
and new eatin, wherein dwelleth righteous-
ness,A"ithe ofthe earth. Also (He xiévi
þÿJerus'£1"`is o'1¥ the édrth thi!
or rn smrrs. 23
sand years. See Rev. xx. 9: "
And they went
up on the breadth ofthe earth, and compassed
the camp of the saints abolrt, and the beloved
city: and fire came down from God out of
heaven, and devoured them." Will that be
bumed up? But it is evident that God will
cleanse the world by Iire, before he reigns
with his saints, or the meek, on earth. See
Matt. iii. 12 : "Whose fan is in his hand,
and he will thoroughly purge his floor, (the
earth,) and gather his 'wheat'(children of
the kingdom) into the garner: (New Jeru-
salem) but he will burn up -the chaff (the
wicked!!
with unquenchable fire." This is
eviden y the same burning. day that Peter
describes as at the coming of Christ. 2 Peter
iii. I0-12: "
But the day of the Lord will-
oome asa thief in the night; in the which
the heavens shall pass away with a
great
noise, and the elements shall melt with fer~
vent heat; the earth also, (or men of the
earth,) and the works therein, shall be bumt
upf' Not the globe; for if Peter had meant
the globe, there would have been no propri-
et in mentioning the works in the globe,
age: the globe itself was burnt. "Seeing
then that all these things shall berdissolved,
what manner of persons ought ye to be in all
,holy conversation and godliness." The
meek are not yet the inheritors of the earth ;,
for it is the present inhabitants that are
com-
manded to be "
Looking lbr and hastxng
IIIIID the eomingof 'the dqr of Gnd, whenetn
3
M 'ms :rum nmssrrmcs
thc heavens, being on fire, shall be dissolved,
and the elements shall melt with fervent
heat." The elements of the 'earth are air,
tire and water; these. will be so overpow-
ered hy tire, as to melt with fervent heat.
As water once overpowered the earth, and
destroyed all living from the face of it,
except those who were prepared for it.; so
will fire overpower the earth, and hnrn
up all living, that hafve not the "form of
the fourth" with them. Arid after that,
the heavens and earth will be new as they
were after the flood. And the meek will
inherit the earth forever. One more evi-
dence 1 will bring, that the wicked must
lie cnt off from the earth before the meek
shall inheritit. Psalm xxxvii. l0,ll: "Fox
yet alittle while and the wicked shall not
be; yea, thou shalt diligently consider his
place, and it shall not be. But the meek
shall inherit the earth, and shall delight
themselves in the abundance of peace." ln
this passage we are clearly taught that
when the meek inherit the earth, there will
he no wicked on the earth. Then this must
he after Ghrist's coming; for Paul tells ns, 2
'l'hess. ii. 8: "And then shall that wicked
be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume
with the spirit of' his mouth, and shall de-
stroy with the brightness of his coming."
So it will be impossible to find any time
between now and the coming of Christ, but
there will he wicked on the earth; and after-
or 'ma sauna. 21
wards, you shall diligently search for his
place
o|| earth, and it cmmot he found.
there then is the temporal millennium!
Or where shall we lind the nncouverted
Jew or wicked heathen in this reign of the
meek? for thou shall diligentlycousider his
place»and it shall not be. Again; Psalm
xxxvii. 22: "
For sttch as be blessed of him
shall inherit the earth; and they that be
cttrsed of him shall be cnt off." Blessed
are the meek, says the dear Savior. Again,
_verse 34: "
Wait on the Lord and keep his
way, attd he shall exalt thee to inherit the
land :when the wicked are cut ofll thou shalt
see tt." What shall we see 'l We shall see
the meek inherit the land, when the wickrd
arecntotli And when shall that be? l~`nnl
says,
"
Whom the Lord shall destroy by the
brightness of his coming." David says,
verse 38: "
But the transgressors shall he
destroyed together: the end of the wicked
shall he cut off." Christ tells tts, Matt, xiii.
30: "
Let. both grow together tmtil the har-
vest.; and in the time ol' the harvest I will
say to the reapers, gather ,
yea together tirst
the tares, and bind them in httndles to bum
them; hut gather the wheat into my barn."
How exactly all the Scriptures harmon-
ize in this view of our subject! And lake
any other view, and dillicttlties meet us in
every step. 1 would ask, why are men so
lunth to look at our subject! And why dc
.the dear servants of Christ 'put od' the exam-
¢
28
'
'mx 'nun ntmzarnucs
ination of this subject until it will be forever
too late? I adjure you, as
you love my
Master, as you love souls, as you love truth,
examine these precious promises. If l am
correct, you certainly must see that the doc-
trine of a
.temporal millennium, or of the
Jews' return, are and- will be the cause of
linking thousands to endless ruin. I know
you preach immediate repentance, and I
thank you; may God bless you in so doing:
bitt you know the human heart is as prone
to put off repentance,'as it is death; and you
are well aware that some of our
neighbors
and friends reject every motive you can
place before them concerning duty, or death.
I'hey mean to repent before they die; they
expect to die, but not now. Therefore they
are not ready to repent' or die. Now, say
you, preach as Paul did, a
judgment to come.
Poh! say they; you need not try to alarm us
with that stale doctrine: you say that we
must have a thousand years yet, before the
judgment; or the Jews must return, and build
old Jerusalem again; or Christ must come
and live on earth a thousand years before he
destroys the wicked.
`
These are so many shields to ward off
present necessity, and they become to the
poor, blind sinner, peace and safety, although
you design it not. Yet if it should be false,
think, my dear brethren, do think, what
awful consequences will actually follow. It
fan do you no harm to examine; truth is
9
or 'rat smrrs. 29
what you want; you want no error,-it will
do no good.
A certain impenitent man, in al place
where l was giving a course of lectures,
went to the minister of the place, and cn-
qnired of him what he thought of Mr. Mil-
ler's lectures, and especially consenting -the
thousand years' millennium before Christ
would come. 'I`he minister answered him,
by saying,
"
Mr. Miller has taken away my
millennium, root and branch." "Well, do
you not suppose the Jews must return and
be converted!" "I have also been shaken
from that belief," said the minister. He said
the poor man dropped his head, turned pale,
and after a moment's redection, observed,
"then'Mr. Miller may be right, and I nm
gone." May you, my dear reader, find_ as
hottest a minister as the one l have _lust
mentioned; and if you are in a lost condi-
tion, may you cry to God, "l am gone,"
and find one to help when you shall be in
deep trouble. Amen.
3|
-DISSERTATION ON THE TWELVE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY DAYS, BY
DANIEL AND JOHN.
`
-¢-any-np
~
I-r is very evident to every Bible student,
.that "time, times and a half§" "forty-two
months," '_' and one thousand two hundred
and threescore days," mean the same length
nf time, 'in the prophecies of Daniel and
John. And
although they apply to different
thin , yet they have been, and will all be
fuliizd in the same
period of time. I shall
therefore take up the several places-where
tlieywoccur, and showss well as I can, by
Scripture and history, what the terms .ima
ort,-when they began,-and when they
gad their end, or when they will have their
accomplishment, as the case
may be.
Daniel vii. 24, 25: "And the ten horns
ont of this -kingdom are ,ten kings that shall
arise: and another shall rise after
them;
and he shall be diverse from the' first, and he
shall subdue three kings. And he shall
speak great words against the Most Hi h,
and shall wear out the saints of the Mgoat
rwnunelngmexun mu mrs. 31
Eggh,
and think tochange times and lava:
they shall be given intohia hand until
a time, and times, and the dividing of time."
We must notice, in the first piece, that
this power, into whose hands the saints are
iven "until a time, and times, and the
sividingof time," is apart of Da,niel's fourth
kingdom--the Roman. (See verses 7, 8, 11,
19-23, of the 7th chapter.) Again; it is
represented as coming up after the Roman
kingdom should be divided into ten parts.
Verse 24: "And the ten horns out of this
kingdom, are ten kings that shall arise:
and another shall arise after them, and he
shall be diverse from the first, and he shall
subdue three kings."
Of course, this wer must have arisen
after the empire otpo
Rome fell, and after the
division into ten kingdoms, which all hap-
pened before the beginning of the sixth cen~
tury, A. D. 489. The character and acts
of this power are minutely described by
Daniel. "And heshail speak great words
against the Most High, and shall wear out
the saints of the Most High." This is thesame
character that Paul calls "that wicked,"
or "that man of sin." 2 Thessalonians ii.
3-8: "Let -rw man deceive you by my
means: for that day shall not come, except
there come a falling .away first, and that
WHL-of sin be revealed, the
m itim;>
wha opfpoeeth ,and exalteth hi above all
that is called God, or that is worshipped; se
3
~
~|tsstnrn|a|zo:t
'
that he, as»God, sittoth in the temple of Gnd,
shefwing himself that' he is God. -Remember
ye not, that when lwas yet with yon, l
told you these things? And now ye know
what withholdeth that he might be revealed
in his time. For the mystery of iniquity
doth ~already work : only he who now letteth
will let, until he be taken out of the way.
And then shall that wicked be revealed,
whom the Lord shall consume with the
spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with
the brightness of his coming."
." Who opposeth and exalteth himself
above all that is called God, or that is
worshipped, so that he as God, sitteth
in the temple of God, shewing himself
that he is God." ls it possible for any
man, not prejudiced, not to understand this
power to mean Rome in its papal state?
It must be in the Roman kin dom; or in the
fourth and last empire of 5aniel`s vision.
This little hom was to come up among the
ten. I believe all commentators and his-
torians agree that the westem empire -of
Rome was divided into ten kingdoms. Then
this power was to come up in the west; it
was to make "wat with the saints and
prevail against them, until the Ancient of
)ays came, and jud ent was `ven to the
saints of the Most Sigh." Betgoie the end
of the world his dominion-was to be talken
away. Dariiel vii. 26. Or, as Paul says.
2 Thessalonians ii. 8: "And then_sha1l
rwiinvx KUNDBID ;9.ND`8IX'1'Y uns. 33
that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord
shall consume with the spirit of his mouth,
and destroy by the brightness of his coming."
This hom then must be the power which
was to have power over the westem king-
doms in the Roman empire, and the people
of the Most High are to be given into his
hand for a time, times and an halt, or which
is the same
thing, twelve hundred and sixty
years. This same power is mentioned by
John, in Revelation xiii. 5: "And there was
given unto him a mouth speaking great
things, and blasphemies; and power was
given him to continue forty and two
months," or twelve hundred and sixty
years.
From a similarity of character and acts,
as well as the time this power was to make
war with the saints, (not the Jews,) we can-
not be mistaken; it must mean apal Rome.
See John's farther description oi?this power,
Revelation xiii. 6--8: "And he opened his
mouth in blasphemy against God," by call-
ing himself "
Most Holy Lord God, the
po ;" "to blaspheme his name and his
taxrnacle," by calling that abominable city
of Rome, where everything is unclean
and filthy, the "holy city-holy catholic
church ;" "and them that dwell in heaven,"
-those that are departed from this life-are
worshipped as gods by the subjects of this
same
power.
"And it was given unto him
to ma e war with the saints, and to over-
»
34 I ntssaxrrrtox on 'ran
come them: and power was given him over
all kindreds, and tongues, and nations. And
all that dwell upon the earth shall worship
him, whose names are not written in the
book of life of the Lamb slain from the
foundation of the world." Thus we see the
character and marks of this power agree in
the writings of Daniel, Paul, and John.
And now, if we can find the same _har-
mony in the beginning of this power, and in
the ending of the same, agreeing with his-
tory, we cannot be far from right.
TI-IE BEGINNING OF THE LITTLE HORN, OR PAPACY.
Daniel sa s it came up among the ten
horns of the §oman empire, meaning the ten
kings; and that he should be diverse or
different from the ten. Then he would sub-
due three kings. Also, Daniel xi. 31:
"They shall pollute the sanctuary of
strength,
and shall take away the daily
sacri ce, and place the abomination that
maketh desolate." Paul agrees with Daniel.
2 Thessalonians ii. 3-8: "Let no man
deceive you by any means: for that day
shall not come, except there come a falling
away first, and that man of sin be revealed,
the son uf perdition." Verse 4: his charac-
ter. Verse 5: "Remember ye not, that,
when I was yet vith you, Ltold you oftliese
tltings? And now ye know what withltoId»
etli, that he might be revealed in his time:
'rwr~:|.vs- mmnnsn un -
sirrr mrs. 35
for- the mystery of _iniquity doth already
work: only he Vh0 now hindereth will hin-
der, until he be taken out of the way; and
then shall that wicked be revealed, whom
the Lord shall consume with the spirit ol`
his mouth, and shall destroy with the bright-
ness of his coming." I
~
John says of the same power, Revelation
xiii. 2: "And the beast which I saw was
like unto a leopard, (the Grecian kingdom,)
and his feet were as the feet of a bear,
(Persian,) and his mouth as the month of a
lion, (Babylon;) and the dragon gave him
his power, and his seat, and great authority."
Also, in Revelation xvii. l2, 13: "And the
ten homs which thou sawest are ten kings,
which have received no kingdom as
yet;
but receive
newer
as
kings one hour with
the beast. 'lhese have one mind, and shall
give their power and strength unto the
beast."
In these passages we must expect to get a
clue to know when and where we shall find
the beginning of the twelve hundred and
sixty years.
~
1. We can satisfy any mind that it was
among the ten kings; therefore, we cannot
begin it'before about A. D. 538. Then the
ten kings became, of course, of one mind;
for when they were all converted. to the
Christian faith, then how natural that they
should agree and give their kingdom unto
thebeast until the words of God shall be
fulfilled.
'
30 nusxrrrrwn on 'rar
2. 'I'he three kingdoms were then plucked
up,-the Heruli, Vandals, and
Ostrogoths,-
the
list
of which was the Roman kingdom,
in 5 .
'
3. Justinian, emperor of Constantinople,
(called the dragon,) gave the
dpope
of Rome
"his power,"-meaning a co e of laws, on
which his power was established, and which
were continued until the French abolished
them, when Italy was made a republic, in
l798,-"and his seat,"-the city of Rome,
the capital of the Roman empire,-"and
great authority :" he made the bishop, or
pope, head over all others, bothin the Greek
as well as in the Latin churches.
4. The remainder of the kings acknow-
ledged the supremacy of the pope, and
became subject to his ecclesiastical domina-
tion, abput the same time. Thus was the
rise and establishment of that power, which
Daniel calls the "little horn," and the
"abomination that maketh desolate;" Paul
calls, "the man of sin," "that wicked;"
John calls the same power, "beast," and
"woman," "mystery Babylon, mother of
harlots." ,
This power, thus described by these in-
spired prophets, as they tell us, was to
exercise power over the kings of the earth,
and war
against the saints, "time, times,
and ahalf," or "forty-two months," which,
in
egrophetic language, means twelve hun-
dr and sixty yearax If this-time began
'rwsnvn nfmnnan mn sun uns. 37
when the emperor Justinian slibdued the
Ostrogoths and Arians in Italy, and gave
power to the bishop of Rome to rule over all
others, both east and West, and when the
city of Rome was made the seat of papal
power, and when that power began to be
exercised over the kings of the ancient
Roman empire, and a war of extermination
began against the saints, who would not
yield obedience to the idolatrous worship of
papacy; then it must have had its rise in
A. D. 538, towhich add twelve hundred and
sixty, and it will end in A. D. 1798. We
will now see if the prophecy of the end will
warrant us in the beginning.
.
THE END OF PAPAL DOMINION.
Daniel says, {vii.26,) "And they (the ten
horns, or
kings) shall take away his (the
pope's> dominion, to consume and to de-
stroy it unto the end." W'ho, I ask, can
be so ignorant as not `to know, that the
power or dominion of the pope was taken
away in the year 1798? Two hundred and
ten years before, or "seven months" in
prophecy, England had broken off the yoke
of papacy, and some of the German states
had joined England in the protestant decla-
ration of rights, against the catholic league:
but for the year 1798 was reserved the final
stroke, which broke the last link of papal
dominion over the kings of the earth, and ll
4.
38 mssmriwrtox on 'mx
consum tion was fastened upon papacy
which lias caused them who worship the
beast, to gnaw their tongues With pain.
(See the letters of the pope to the priests, df
late date.)
Paul says, (2 'I'hessaloniansi~i. 8,) "Whom
the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his
mouth (preaching of the gos el) and shall
destroy with the brightness olPhis coming."
Surely no one can
deny, but 'that the gospel,
as it has been preached for more than forty
years, has produced a
consumption on
papacy, ~and has fulfilled this part of Paul's
prophecy to the very letter. Even the pope
himself is our witness.
John says, (Revelation xiii. 9, 10,) "lf
any man have an car, let him hear. He
that leadeth into captivity shall go into cap-
tivity: he that killeth with the sword must
be killed with 'the sword. Here is the pa-
tience and the faith of the saints." It is
evident that the prophet is here
telling every
man, who is not `a bigot, or
prejudiced
against the truth_ who has an ear to hear,
'how this power would come to its end, of
forty-two months, spoken of in the fifth
verse. As he would lead into captivity the
kings and their subjects during the forty-
two months, so, in .the end, would they, the
kings and their subjects, lead this wer into
captivity. This was literally flil)filled in
1798. The pope was taken from his throne
on the 15th day of February 1798, and by
rwntvx .mmnun Arm srxrv mrs. 39
the French army made a captive, and kept a
prisoner until 1799, when he died in cap-
tivity, in France. This power had wielded
the sword of his civil authority over the
the kingdoms and states of Europe for many
centuries, and had pulled down and set up
at his will, and by the power of his armies
had destroyed kings and their subjects. He
now must be killed in like manner. When
the twelve hundred and sixt years should
be finished, his power would' be killed, or
taken away by armies, or by the authority
of the kings. And sure enough, when the
twelve hundred and sixty years had come to
their end, behold, the power which the pope
had exercised over others was now exer-
cised over him, and he became a.
dependant
on the breath of Bonaparte for his mere
nominal existence as a bishop of the church
of Rome.
"Here is the patience."
'
Paul had told the
brethren not to be troubled as that the
day
of Christ was at hand. 2 Thessalonians ii.
3 :
"
Let no man deceive you by any means:
for that day shall not come except there
come a falling away first, and _the man of
sih be revealed, the son of perdition." This
is the same power of which we have been
speaking, which Paul tells us would
pgecede
the coming of Christ; andwould ma e war
with the saints, a time, timés, and a half, as
Daniel says ; and continue forty-two months,
as John tells us. Therefore the saints were
I0 nrsssrrrnoil on 'ras
to have atience, to wait for the coming of
our Lord,Jesus Christ, until this man of sin
should be led into captivity, and his power
be destroyed by the sword of kings. This
would try their patience, and when they
would see these things take place their
"
faith" would teach them that they might
look for his coming, even at the door. There-
fore, when they see these things come to
pass, the true saints will believe. "
This is
the patience and the faith of the saints."
Again; John has another rule by which
we may know when the end of this power
will come. Revelation xvii. 16: "And the
ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast,
these shall hate the whore, and make her
desolate, and naked, and shall eat her flesh,
and bum her with fire."
'
The ten kings of the Roman kingdom,
shall hate the false church of Rome, and
shall make her desolate, by the means of
separating from her communion, taking
away her benetices and tithes, confiscating
her property, and abolishing hcr laws and
ordinances, and renouncing her power by
which she had ruled over the kings of the
earth. See the 18th verse: "And the wo~
man which thou sawest is that great city,
which reigneth over the kings of the earth."
This prophecy has been literally fulfilled;
and yet how many, who pretend to be
teachers in Zion, deny the fulfilment as soon
as they will the prophecy itself; for they
-
TWELVE HUNDRED AND SIXTY DAY . 41
say we may understand prophecy when itis
fulfilled. Yet who believes this, forty-three
years after it has all been fulfilled? I am
truly astonished at the unbelief and blind-
ness of professed Christians at the present
day. -
The same unbelief which was mani-
fested at Christ's first coming, is as much if
not more visible in professors'now than
then.
Take heed; if God spared not the natural
branches, how will he spare those who live
in the gospel day?
Thus, then, has this little hom of Daniel
come and strutted out its short space of time,
times, and a half; but his dominion is taken
away. And Paul's "man of sin," who was
then in the future, has been revealed; he
has wickedly exalted himself above all that
is called God; he has set in the temple of
God; has been showing himself that he was
God; but his proud looks have been hum-
bled, his high titles have come down, he is
no more a
god, and the hectic fever has
bleached his cheek, and his consumptive
voice shows him on his decline. How can
we help believing?
But We have another mystery to explore,
of thesame time as the former; it is that,
which by Paul is called the "mystery of in-
iquity," which did already work. It is what
Daniel calls the "
daily sacrifice," meaning
the "daily abominationz" this, too, is to
continue a time, times, and a half. See
4*
`
B .
msslnnnou orc 'ml
Daniel xii. 6, 7: "And one said to the man
clothed in linen, which was upon the waters
of the river, How -long shall it be to the
end of these wonders? And I heard the
man clothed in linen, which was upon the
waters gf the river, when he held up his
right hand and his left hand unto heaven, and
aware by Him that liveth forever, that it
shall be for a time, times, and an half; and
when he shall have accomplished to scatter
the power of the holy people, all these things
shall be finished."
This power, which is to scatter the power
of the holy people, is a different one, quite,
from the one we have been attending to.
This scatters; that wears out. This treads
under foot; that makes war against the
saints. This carries us to the end of all
wonders; that only to the end of the power
of mystical Babylon, over the kings of the
earth. This alludes to literal Babylon and
the kings of the earth; that to mystical
Babylon and the power of the pope: ef
Rome.
_Again; in Revelation xi. 2: "But the
court which is without the temple leave out
and measure it not; for it is given unto the
Gentiles; and the holy city shall they tread
under foot forty and two months." This is
the same twelve hundred and sixty years, as
in the time, times, and an half; and alludes
to the time the Gentile kings would scatter
the holy people and rule over them. This
~
'rwnvn ammasn Arm srrrr mrs. 43
was prophesied of by Moses, in the 26th
chalpter
of Leviticus; see 33d verse: "And I
wil scatter you among the heathen and will
draw a sword out after you; and your land
shall be desolate, and your cities waste!
Deuteronomy iv. 27: "And the Lord shall
scatter you among the nations, and ye shall
be left few in number among the heathen,
whither the Lord shall lead you." Many
places might be brought to prove the scatter-
ing of the Jews, and now I will prove the
scattering of the Christians. Matthew xxvi.
31: "Smite the shepherd and the sheep of
the flock shall be scattered abroad." The
high priest said, (John xi. 51,
523
"that
Jesus should die for that nation, an not for
that nation only, but that also he should
gather together in one the children df God
that were scattered abroad." This proves
the fact of the scattering of the holy
(people,
who will be gathered when the Lor Jesus
shall come in the clouds of heaven, and
send out his angels and gather together
his elect from the four winds of heaven.
And then comes the question, How long to
the end of these wonders 'l The answer was,
"for a time, times, and a half :" or forty-
two months; three years and a half pro-
phetic, which is twelve hundred and sixty
years common time. We now wish to know
when the scattering of the holy people be-
gan? Isaiah prophesied, in the year B. C.
742, that within sixty-five years Ephraim
44 mssanrniou on 'nm
should be broken, and be not a. people.
Isaiah vii. 8. Sixty-live years from that
time, in the year B. C. 677, the ten tribes,
including the tribe
`of Ephraim, were carried
away, and were never afterwards known as
a nation: The same year Manasseh, king
of Judah, was carried in fetters to Babylon,
and the power of Judah and Benjamin was
broken, and the Gentiles exercised their au-
thority over them, and the kings of Judah
only reigned by suiferance, paying tribute to
Babylon, or the kings of the earth, after-
wards. See Lamentations ii. 9: "Her gates
are sunk into the ground: he hath destroyed
and broken her bars: her king and her
princes are among the Gentiles : the law is no
more: her prophets find no vision from the
Lord." We see, by this, that the power of
the holy people was already scattered among
the Gentiles when Jeremiah wrote his.la-
mentations. But the same
prophet has told
us
plainly when' this scattering of the holy
people began. Jeremiah xv. 4: "I will
cause them (my people, verse
7,) to be re-
moved into all kingdoms of the earth,
because of Manasseh, the son of Hezekiah,
king of Judah, for that which he did in
Jerusalem." Here, then, the power of the
holy people began to be scattered in the days
of Manasseh.
Now if' we can find a fulfilment of these
things in the history of Manasseh, we cannot
err. 2 Chronicles xxxiii. 9--11: "So Ma-
TWELVE HUNDRED AND SIXTY DAYS. 45
nasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem to err, and to do worse than the
heathen, whom the Lord had destroyed be-
fore the children of Israel. And the Lord
spake to Manasseh, and to his peo le: but
they would not hear him; wheregore the
Lord brought upon them the captains of the
host of the king of Assyria, which took
Manasseh amon the thorns, and bound him
with fetters and carried him to Babylon."
This captivity took place in the year before
Christ, 677. (See chronology over this
passage.)
If this is'the time when the kings of the
earth began to rule over Zion, and to scatter
the power of the holy people for a time,
times, and an hall, or twelve hundred and
sixty years, when will it end? I answer,-
when all these things shall be finished.
First, the kings exercised their authority
677 years before Christ, and 538 years after
Christ; which 677 added to 538 makes up
1215 years only, which did not accomplish
the scattering of the holy people, nor the
treading under foot of the court forty-two
months; or the twelve hundred and sixty
years ; and this is the reason why John was
not to measure, because it would not be ful-
filled until mystical Babylon should wear
out the saints, and change times and laws, a
time, times, and an half; for God hath put
it into the hearts of these kings to fulfil his
will, and to agree and give their kingdom
46 DISSERTATION ON THB ~
unto the mystery of Babylon, or
papal Rome,
until the twelve hundred and sixty years
of mystical Babylon should be fulfilled;
which 1260 years added to 538,-when the
kings became of one mind, converted to the
orthodox faith, gave up their power to the
bishop of Rome, and the power of papacy
began,-will carry us down to the year A. D.
1798, when the kings again took their power,
and will now accomplish the scattering of
the holy people, by reigning from A. D. 1798
to 1843, which is 45 years; add which to
1215 which the kings had reigned, before
mystical Babylon obtained the- power, and
we have twelve hundred and sixty years of
the kings' reign, scattering the holy people,
treading under foot the the sanctuary and
host, which is properly the court, where the
host stands waiting the return of our great
High Priest, who will return to bless his
people, in turning every one of them from
their sins and their iniquities in Zion. There
is no wonder, then, that the angel told
Daniel, (xii. 12,
13,?l
"Blessed is he that
waiteth (that is, on t e
Lordg
and cometh to
the thousand three hundre and five and
thirty days;" for then the High Priest of
our
profession will come out of his temple,
from his holy place, to shake terribly the
earth, to dash in pieces the kings and king-
doms of this world, as a otter's vessel, to
carry them away that no place on the earth
shall be found for them. "But go thou thy
'rwmvs mmm;-:n AND SIXTY mrs. 47
way till the end be, for thou shalt rest, (die,)
and stand in thy lot at the end of the days."
Then all those who have waited on, and for
the Lord, will have part in the first resurrec-
tion; "For the Lord himself shall descend
from heaven, with a
shout, with the voice of
the archangel, and with the trump of God: and
the dead in Christ shall rise first." Then the
sanctuary will be cleansed, and the place of
his feet made glorious. Then will be the
resurrection of the just, and Daniel will
stand in his lot.
When will this, glory be revealed? I an-
swer, at the end of these days, which is
forty-five years after papacy should lose
her power over kings, and after she should
be led into captivity by the kings of the
earth; when the "seven times" should pass
over the holy people, and when the seven
years of' bondage of the church shall be
ended; for God has said, (Deuteronomy xv.
1,) "At the end of every seven
years thou
shalt make a release," and none can dis-
pute but these were shadows of good things
to come; and God will release his children,
at the end of seven years. And all must
agree that the children of God have been in
bondage now almost seven
prophetic years.
I shall now show when the twelve hun-
dred and 'sixty days had their fulfilment, in
Revelation xi. 3: "And I will give power
unto my two witnesses, and they shall pro-
phesy a thousand two hundred and three-
IS msssuu-ton on 'rn
score daysclothed in sackcloth." I shall
ask and answer the following queries:
1. Whose witnesses are they?
2. What is a witness?
3. What are these witnesses?
Whose witnesses are these? I answer,
they are Christ's; because he is the speaker.
See Revelation i. 1: "The Revelation of
Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to
shew unto his servants things which must
shortly come to pass." Again; he only has
power to prophesy, or
give the power; for
"the testimony ot' Jesus Christ is the spirit
of prophecy ;
"
and he has all power.
Then these witnesses are Christ's wit~
nesses.
What is a witness? I answer there are
two kinds, oral testimony, and written testi-
mony. Oral testimony is the testimony ofa
living person, who testilies to facts which
he knows by means of one or all of his tive
senses. No man can testify to a matter of
faith; and all must see the impropriety of
supposing these two witnesses can be per-
sons or men, when we read the time,-twelve
hundred and sixty days; for we have
already shown that these days have only
been fulfilled in so many years,-"each day
for a year;" and, as no man ever has lived
so many years, and, as we have no evidence
that any individuals will ever prophesy so
long in this state of the world, we must
therefore look for some other mode of testi-
TWELVE HUNDRED AND
SIXT? DAYS. 49
mony beside oral. Again; it cannot be a
man or men: for Christ positively and plainly
declares, (John v.
34,) "But I receive not
testimony of man;" which sets that matter
at rest forever, that men cannot be the two
Witnesses.
What are the witnesses, then 'l I answer,
written testimony may be witnesses; and
the last will and testament of a man, written,
signed, sealed, and ratified by death, is con-
sidered the best testimony in the world, and
is held almost sacred among all men and in
all nations. Then we must conclude that
Christ's tvo witnesses must be the Old and
New Testaments; for noth-ing short can testi-
fy, in this our day, concerning Christ. Yes ;
we have the testimony of Christ himself to
this point. John v. 39: "Search the Scrip-
tures, for in them ye think ye have eternal
life, and they are they that testify of me."
The very name, two testaments, signifies
"two witnesses." If, then, the Scriptures
are the two witnesses, where and when
were they clothed in sackcloth? I will an-
swer. During the reign of papacy, the Bible
was -suppressed from the common
people;
the laws of that power prevented the Bible
from being published in any language but
the Greek and Latin, in those kingdoms and
nations where the Roman church had or
could obtain the ascendancy or
power; and,
for a
long season, from the beginning of the
Sixth century to the reformation in the six-
5
,
50 mssrnru-ron on 'rim
teenth century, more than nine tenths of
our world was covered with gross darkness.
The word of God was little known or read,
if credit can be given tothe histories of those
times: and even down to the year 1798,
but very little pains was taken to publish
the Bible in or among the nations of the
earth. And up to that time, protestant
writers, many of them, clothed the Bible in
mysticism, and taught that it could not be
understood by common minds at least. But
from that year we may date the rise of
missionary efforts, and Bible societies. Then,
the Christian community began to awake,
as from a long sleep of moral night, afnd be-
gan to see and feel the necessity of publish-
ing the lamp of life, to a dark and -a
benighted
world without note or comment. "Then
all those virgins arose and trimmed their
lamps," translations of the Bible began,
and in the space of forty years since, four
times as many languages have received the
Bible or
parts of it, as had received it in
eighteen hundred years before. Well may
we exclaim,--the sackcloth is rent in twain;
the little book is open; the angel is dying
through the midst of heaven, having the
everlasting gospel to preach to them that
dwell on the earth ! We know the two wit-
nesses are no longer clothed in sackcldth.
If ever, since the days of the apostles, the
Bible has been free and clear, it is so now.
Who can say, in sincerity and truth, that
TWELVE HUNDRED AND SIXTY DAYS.
the Scriptures are now darkened by a sack-
cloth covering? Even the Roman church,
who so long suppressed its translation and
circulation, are now
translating, and circu-
lating too, the Bible in many languages.
Then, indeed, must the twelve hundred and
sixty years have ended. And you may in-
quire, When? I answer, When the pope
lost his dominion, and Italy was made a re-
public; when free toleration on religious
opinions was
given by the power of the
French; and when the Bible was permitted
to be read and published in any language
under the whole heaven,-in the year of our
Lord 1798. Then, from the year 538 to the
year 1798, was the twelve hundred and
sixty years completed, and the word of God
fulfilled. Roman bishops may jeer at these
calculations; but one thing is true,-the
wounded bird will always flutter. So, my
dear reader, when you see any of our would-
be great men, whether protestant or catholic,
begin to laugh or sneer at the writings of a,
poor old man, believe me, there is a wound.
THE TWELVE HUNDRED` AND SIXTY DAYS OF THE
CHURCH IN THE WILDERNESS.
Revelation xii. 6, 14: "And the woman
ded into the wilderness, where she hath
a. place prepared of God, that they should
feed her there a thousand two hundred and
threescore days." By the woman, we
must
52 nrssnnrurxou on 'ras
understand the church; by the wildemess,
we must understand, driven away from the
"great city which rules over the kings of
the earth." Revelation xvii. 17. Or, -in
plain English, it is the true church of Christ,
separating herself from the abominations and
communion of the old mother of harlots and
abominationsy of the' earth; the Roman
church being the only church which has
reigned over kings, especially the ten kings
of the ,Roman
empire.
The time speci ed is twelve hundred and
sixty years,-the same time Daniel's "
little
horn" and John's "
mother of harlots"
were to reign over the kings. Of course, the
church of Christ must have separated her-
self frorn the mother church at the time the
church of Rome obtained her power to reign
over kings, in the year 538, when the Arian
kings were subdued and made to yield
obedience to the orthodoxy of the bishop of
Rome, from which time many schismatics,
as the historians of the Roman church tell
us, separated themselves from the catholic
church, as they call her. And Moshiem
tells us, that in the beginning of the sixth
century, many who professed Christianity,
opposed the worshipping ofsaints and images,
and many of the unmeaning mummeries of
the Roman church.
Then twelve hundred and sixty years
would bring us to the year 1798, when free
toleration was given to all churches, of
'rwnnvs nummnn AND srrrv mrs. 53
whatever sect or denomination, to worship
God accordingto the dictates oftheir own con-
science, or their own sense of religious duty;
even in Italy, the very seat of the beast, and
in France and other kingdoms, which had,
for ages, held a
rigid and iron sway over the
minds and consciences of men, and had
Ersecuted
and driven away, outlawed and
aten, every church not in fellowship with
the Roman bishops and priests.
Iask, can we be mistaken in the fulfil-
ment of this prophecy? ls the church now
in the wilderness? And if you should re-
spond,-she is,-I ask you, when then was
she out? Not in the apostolic age: for she
was not more free then, than now. And
then, let me inquire, where is your twelve
hundred and sixty years? It can have no
meaning. 0, Christian! Ibeg of you, believe
in the word of' God; do not, 1 pray you,
discard time, any more than manner. Is it
not selfishness in us to discard the set times
which God has fixed, and not man? Where
is our faith ? Why are we so slowof heart to
believe? Three times we have witnessed,-
yes, in the lifetime of some of us,-the fulfil-
ment of the "
time, times, and an
hall," in
the accomplishment of the "forty-two
months," in the completion of the "twelve
hundred and threescore days," and yet,
O God, we refuse to believe! Shame on
that professor who will not open his eyes!
They tell us we cannot understand pro-
5*
54 mssnnrurron on 1-ma:
phecy until it is fulfilled. But here it is
three times fulfilled in this day we live.
What excuse have you now, 0 ye heralds of
the cross? Ah! say you, that is your con-
struction; we are not bound to follow your
explanations. No, no. But for ages you and
your fathers have been telling us thatthese
prophecies were true; and you have told us
that when they come to pass we should know
what they meant; and although ages on ages
have rolled their rapid course, yet nothing
has transpired, as
you will own; and we, if
we should search, and find, as we
believe,
the prophecies fulfilling, and tell our reasons,
you then can taunt us with a sceptic argu-
ment,-"this is your construction,"-and
then not dare to tell us what it means!
Awake, awake, ye shepherds of the flock!
Come, tell us why these things are' not ful-
filled. Deceive us not. You stand upon
thewalls, both night and day; then tell us
what it means? We have a
right to ask,
"l/Vatchman, What of the night? Watch-
man, what of the night?" An answer we
must have; or
you must' leave your towers.
lt will not do to answer us, like Dowling,
"
l am under no obligation to tell you." Has
Zion no better watchmen on her walls than
this? Alas! alas! then we may sleep,
and sleep, until the trumpet's dreadful blast
shall shake our dusty, beds, and the last
angel raise his hand and swear,
"
that time
shall be no longer." Why are you thus
-rwnnvs nmmxu-rn .mn sxxrv pus. 55
negligent
and remiss in duty? If I am not
rig t in my construction of God's holy word,
pray tell us what is truth, and make it look
more plain,-and willwe not believe? Thus
you will cleanse your garments from our
blood, and we must bear the shame. What
time of night 'Z Come, tell us
plainly. There
are portentous clouds hanging over our
heads; we hear the murmurs of the fitful
winds; we see sad omens of a dreadful
storm; and where is our watchman's voice?
Your silence gives us fears that we are be-
trayed. Awake, awake ! Ye watchmen, to
your post! It is no false alarm, There are
Judgments, heavy judgments, at the door.
"Our God shall come, and shall not keep
silence; a fire shall devour before him, and
it shall be very tempestuous round about him.
He shall call to the heavens from above, and
to the earth, that he may judge his people."
How shallthe fearful stand in that great
day, when heaven and earth shall hear his
mighty voice, and they that hear must come
to Judgment? Where will the unbelieving
scoifer then appear? When God makes in-
quisition for the blood of souls, and when
the under-shepherds stand with their flocks
around the "great white throne," to have
each motive, thought, word, act, and deed,
brought out to light, before a gazing world,
and tried ~by that unerring rule "
the word,"
-I ask you, scorner, jester, scoffer, how will
you appear? Stop,
stop,
and think, before
you take a
fatalleap, an jest away your soul!
56
'
nissannrlon on 'nm
'
If the 'church of Rome is the little hom,
we know his dominion is taken away, the
twelve hundred and sixty years are
passed,
and I am right in my calculations.
lf the pope of Rome is the man of sin, we
know he has been revealed, lived out his
day, and is now "consuming" by the gos-
pel light; and waits only the glorious
coming of the Son of man to be utterly de-
stro ed.
Ify the apocalyptic beast is the church of
Rome," we know she reigns over no kings
now; but that she who has led kings in cap-
tive chains, has in her turn been captive to
their pover; and the forty-two months are
fulfilled, and .my numbers must be true.
If the "mother of harlots" is the Ro-
man church, we well do know the kings of
Europe have taken away her power, have
eaten her flesh, and the twelve hundred and
sixty years of her cxaltation are finished;
and tlien my reckonings must be sure. ~
If the two testaments are the two wit-
nesses, it is well known they are not clothed
in sackcloth, and the twelve hundred and
sixty years of their prophesying are fulfilled,
and I cannot see how Lam mistaken, if this
time is fulfilled;
The clturch in the wilderness. lf the wo-
man, in Revelation xii. 6, 14, means any
church now in Christendom, it would be
very diiiicult to tell how they can now be
said to bein the wilderness; and if she is
TWELVE HUNDRED AND SIXTY DAYS.
rmitted to dwell in the city, she cannot
EZ in the wilderness state. Therefore, this
time is fulfilled. And all that can remain
is the forty-iive years from 1798. Are we
ready?
'
CIRCULAR ADDRESS
0| TH! GENIILL CONFEBENCI OF 'IELIIYEIS ll Tl! AD'
VENT FEAR, HELD AT LOW BAKITDI, N. Y», ROYEIBEI
z_5,1e41. .
BY WILLIAM MILLER.
'
To all who are "looking for that blessed
hope and the glorious appearing of the great
God and' our Savior Jesus Christ," grace,
mercy and peace be multiplied.
We know, dear brethren, the anxiety and
joy with which you are looking for the king~
dom of God on earth; we realize, in some
measure we hope, the deep feeling of soul,
the warm gratitude of heart, and the well-
grounded stability of'faith towards God and
the Lord Jesus Christ, in the hope of soon
seeing that kingdom established over all the
earth, and the kingdoms of this world given
to the saints of the Most High, who will
possess the same forever, even forever and
ever. _
If great men can, and do devote their ease,
their comfort, their riches, and life, to obtain
an earthly crown, which perishes while it is
yet only in their hand, or vanishes away
cmcuun mnnnss. 59
before it is realized even by sight; how much
more ought we to fight, suffer or do, to
obtain an incorruptible crown, which fadeth
not away, and an inheritance which wasteth
not! Let us, then, put on the whole armor
of God; for we must fight until the shout of
victory is heard in heaven, when the spiritual
Jqshua shall descend from on high, with a
shout, with the voice of the archangel and
the trump of God,-until the kingdoms of
this world become the kingdoms of our Lord
and his Christ. Yes, dear brethren, we
must not think of laying down our armor
until our
glorious leader comes, and conquers
death, and him that has the power of death,
that is the devil. We know you are told by
our
Judaizing teachers and the temporal
millenists that you are to have a long time
of peace and safety before our Jesus shall
come; but we
pray you, brethren, be not
deceived. It is false. -These are the false
prophets, that cry peace and safety when
sudden destruction cometh. Listen not to
their flattery; they cannot conquer for you.
It is Jesus alone that can conquer; he is the
Captain of the Lord's hosts, and he will
come and save us in the day of his coming.
Let none deceive you by any means; for thc
"man of sin" who has long made war
against the saints, and that "wicked one"
which has been a long time revealed, must
continue to work iniquity, until Christ shall
destroy him by the brightness of his coming,
60 curcuiut witness.
--when he will come in flaming tire, to take
vengeance on them who obey not the
gospel, and destroy them who cry peace and
safety.
We warn you against these false teachers,
who mind earthly things. They are de-
ceiving you by the traditions of men; they
tell you that the world is growing better qid
better, while the truth is, the world is as it
was in the days of Noah, waxing worse and
worse. They tell you that all sects will be
one, and will see eye to eye; but the facts
in the case are, that the old sects are di-
viding, and new ones are rising to an alarm-
ing extent. And they must acknowledge
that, to all appearance, their temporal mil-
lennium is receding rather than advancing;
confusion and anarchy are now in the ranks
of all sects, and disunion and division have
broken the bonds and removed the most
ancient landmarks among them.
Why will not men open their eyes? How
true it is that the god of this world has
blinded their eyes! Men are determined to
have their great blessings in this world. God
has determined we shall be "strangers and
pilgrims" here, and receive our "evil
things" in this world, but in the world to
come everlasting life. On the other lmnd,
the worldly-minded man will receive his
good things in this life, and in that which is
to come, his "evil things." God will be
Justilied in his people, and glorified in all
them that believe. _
cmcuun nmnzss. 61
We then would entreat you that ye be not
conformed to the fashions, customs and
opinions of this world,-for they will drown
you in perdition; but be ye ready to enter
into that kingdom which will be eternal, and
which will be set up when Christ shall leave
his mediatorial seat and take his throne of
the kingdom of his Father, and shall reign
on the throne of David forever. To this
time we are looking, for this we are
waiting,
and for this time we
long and pray.
"
Thy
kingdom come:" what is this but praying
for Christ to come? Surely, every man who
thus prays, virtually says, _ 'fCome, Lord
Jesus ;" and we fear that many who are in
the habit of saying these words, do not un-
derstand the import of the prayer. What
kingdom is this we ask to come fl The gos-
pel? No. Why not? Because the gospel
has already come. It vas first preached to
Abraham, and then to the Jews,-afterwards
to the Gentiles, and then in all the world, as
a witness unto all nations;-and then shall
the end come. Now are 'we
praying for a
kingdom to come, which, as soon as it comes
and is proclaimed among all nations, hath
an end? _
This cannot be: pray for a king-
dom to come, which has been in the earth
certainly four thousand years,-how foolish l
What do we mean
by praying "thy king-
dom come?" We must mean, if we have
any meaning, that which the Holy Spirit
inspired,-the kingdom which Daniel speaks
6
62 cmcunn Annnsss.
ot; (vii.
14.3
"And there was given him do-
minion, an glory, and a kingdom, that all
people, nations, and languages, should serve
him: his dominion is an everlasting do-
minion, which shall not pass away, and his
kingdom that which shall not be destroyed."
If it is this kingdom, it is an everlasting one,
it is an universal one,-" all people, nations
and languages, should serve him." It is
"under the whole heaven." It shall not
pass away. Then it must be in the new
heavens and the new earth; for these hea-
vens and earth will pass away. It must be
after the great burning day; for Peter shows
plainly that then the heavens shall pass
away, the earth and the works therein shall
be burned up. 2 Peter iii. 10: "But the
day of the Lord will come as a thief in the
night; in which the heavens shall pass away
with a great noise, and the elements shall
melt with fervent heat; the earth also, and
the works that are therein, shall be burn-
ed up."
'
We see, by these passages, that the king-
dom for which we pray cannot be the king-
dom with "
tares," &,c., or the wicked, in it;
for "thy will" is to .be done in it as in
heaven. It cannot be the kingdom before
Christ puts all enemies under his feet, for all
dominions are to serve and obey him. It
cannot be the kingdom given up to the Fa-
ther; for it is given to the Son of man. It
cannot be before it is presented to the Father;
`
v
, cmcuum. Annnnss. 63
because it is an everlasting kingdom, and
will never pass away from the seed of Da-
vid: he is to set on the throne of his Father
David forever and ever. It cannot be the
kingdom which our
English brethren de-
scribe, with the carnal Jew and wicked
heathen in it; for under the whole heaven
it is given to the saints of the Most High.
It will never be destroyed nor
given to ano-
ther people. But Christ and the saints will
possess it, joint heirs forever.
_But can you makethese things to harmon-
ize, says the objector? We will try. In the
iirst place, we must remember that Christ
reigns now in his kingdom of grace: for
"grace reigns through righteousness unto
etemal life, by Jesus Christ our Lord;" and
this is the' kingdom which is given up to God
the Father, and this at the coming of our
Lord Jesus Christ. See 1 Corinthians xv.
23, 24: "But every man in his ,own
order: Christ the first fruits; afterward they
that are Christ's at his coming. Then
cometh the end, when he shall have deliver-
ed up the kingdom to God, even the Father;
when he shall have put down all rule, and
all authority, and power. Also, Ephesians
v. 27: "That he might present it to himself
a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle,
or any such thing; but that it should be
holy and without blemish." And Jude, 24:
"low unto him that is able to keep you
from falling, and to present you faultless be<
64 omouus mnnssst
fore the presence of his glory with exceeding
joy." By these texts, it is evident that tne
kingdom presented to the glory of God, the
Father, is the mediatorial kingdom of grace,
at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with
all his saints. 1 Thessalonians iii. 13: "
To
the end he may establish your hearts un-
blameable in holiness before God, even our
Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus
Christ, with all his saints."
But, says the objector, it is equally evident
that Christ destroys death, the last enemy,
before he presents his kingdom to God the
Father. , True; but does he present the
wicked to God the Father? We read of no
such presenting. 'Are the wicked in 'his
kingdom at the end, when he gives up the
same 'l No. For at the end he gathers out
of his kingdom all that work iniquity or that
offend, and they are burned, and this too at
his coming and kingdom. Then, if Christ
conquers the enemies of his kingdom, raises
all the dead saints, and changes all the
living saints to immortality and etemal life;
has he not fulfilled his promise? Who dare
say, Nay? Where has he promised to con-
quer death for the wicked? Find such a
text, if you can. But it is not so: for no
sooner do the wicked dead "live again,"
than they are
judged and sent away into the
"second death." Then the subject we have
been considering resolves itself into the fot-
lowing form:
~
cmcuus Ammzss. 65
The reign of grace continues until Christ
eaves the mediatorial throne; then the
judgment begins, first at the household of
faith; the wicked and the proud are gather-
ed and burned, and their bodies are made
ashes under the feet of Christ and the saints;
Malachi iv. 3: "And ye shall tread down
the wicked; for they shall be ashes under
the soles of your feet in the day that I shall
do this, saith the Lord of hosts;" the right-
eous are raised and caught up to meet the
Lord in the air, unto eternal life; they are
there judged and justified, before God and
the holy angels, and, through righteousness,
they are now presented to God the Father
without spot or wrinkle, or
any such thing.
Thus grace has finished the work; the cap
stone, Jesus Christ, is brought in with shout-
ing and grace unto it. The Lord Jesus
Christ takes his place as the cap or
top stone
of the building, which is now become a holy
building, compact in every part,-a house
not made with hands, but without hands,
eternal in the heavens, "unto eternal life."
Then will the Father give up the glorified
kingdom to the Son of man, and the Lord
Jesus Christ become King on the holy hill of
Zion, and "God blessed forrevermore." He
is our God; we have waited for him, and he
will save us.
This is the kingdom for which we
gray-
and when this is set up, the will of Go will
"be done in earth as in heaven."
6*
66 cmcunas Annasss.
`
You may be anxious to know what we
understand by "second death." We will
now explain.
A second always implies a first; for if
there were no first, there could be no second.
Again; the second must be, in its general
character, like the first. It would not proper-
ly be called the second, without a. resem-
blance to the first. Therefore, inorder to
understand the second, we must have an
understanding of the _/irst death.
What constituted the first death which
man experienced fl
I answer, it was amoral death. Man was
created in the image of his Creator; he was
pronounced good; a law was given to him,
which, if ke t inviolate, would secure his
happiness and moral life forever, but if dis-
obeyed, would prove his moral death. "For
in the day thou eatest thereof thou shalt
surely die." In his primeval state, he was
placed in the garden of Eden,-the holy of
holies in the new made earth;-where he
could hold sweet communion with God, and
enjoy intercourse with his Divine Creator.
All things on the earth were given into his
hands to enjoy, and he was made ruler over
them all. He was only prohibited from the use
of the tree of knowledge, in the midst of the
holy garden of God. To partake of this tree
was death. He knew the divine prohibition, he
understood the law. No plea of justification
could be raised on account of the ignorance of
s
omcunn Annnnss. 67'
the law, or the penalty; for the woman sa s
to the serpent, (Genesis iii. 8,)
"
But of the
fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the
garden, God hath said, ye shall not eat of it,
neither shall ye touch it, lestye die." Man
disobeyed, and died; he became an
enemy
to God by wicked works, and a rebel to that
being who made him ruler in the dominion
of the earth. Man became obnoxious to the
divine purity, and was thrust out of the
garden, and from the presence of God. His
dominion was cast down, and the subjects
of man's dominion became rebels to his au-
thority; the earth was cursed,- and he that
was created lord over all the earth became
a. vagaboud in his own kingdom, and a
stranger in his own territory, by a moral
death.
Then, as man rebelled against his Govern-
or, so the subjects of man's government re-
belled against man, and natural death, as it
is called, became king over all the earth. It
was the consequence or fruit of man's moral
death, by which death reigned over man,
and the subjects of man's dominion became
the means of man's dissolution and death.
The natural world, fire, earth, air and
water, are the instruments of death to man.
The animal world, from the mastodon to the
gnat, may be, and have been, the means of
natural death. The mineral contains its
ison, and produces death in all living.
lighe vegetable, from the cedar to the hyssop,
,
4'
68 cmcnnn Annales.
are but soinany weapons, in the hands of the
king of terrors, to bring men to the dust, and
all living to their mother earth. Moral
death was the penalty ; natural death is the
wages or consequences ox" moral death. Thus
the moral death must be first death; for all
must agree that the man is morally dead
who works sin, and that he cannot obtain
the wages of sin until sin dwells in him.
Then moral death is the poison which taints
the blood and pollutes the mind of man;
while natural death preys only upon the
body, and reduces the frame to dust. The
iirst death is then the penalty of sin. Natu-
ral death is the wages of sin, and the.con-
sequence following moral depravity. Man
cannot sin without deriving instantly a
moral death. Yet man may live six hundred
years, and sin all those years, before he dies
a natural death. Thus, when man had sin-
ned, he was driven out of Eden and from
the presence of God. This was the tirst
death, the wages of which were consequently
the separation of soul and body. These
deaths, being inseparably connected, are but
the stock and fruit of the same tree.
When God saw man thus lost, morally
dead and subject to natural death, he pro-
vided a
remedy for fallen man against both
these evils, by Jesus Christ: from the Hrst,
by moral regeneration; from the second, b
the resurrection. Let me be understoodx
then, as
believing that these two deaths, as
crncumu. Annnass. 69
they are commonly called, form in fact but
one death, and may be called the _frat death,
being the penalty and wages of sin, or dis-
obedience of the commandments of God,-
the tree and fruit of rebellion. The second
death is in consequence of the rejection of
the remedy which God has provided forthe
first death, which came upon us in conse-
quence of our first transgression. Then we
'were cast off from the presence of God in-the
garden of Eden,--the spirit separated from
the body, and the body cast into the grave.
This constitutes the first death.
The second is like unto the first, Let me
explain. When Christ comes to sit upon the
throne of his kingdom on the earth, and to
be glorified in all them who have believed,
and to give etemal life to as many as have
obeyed the gospel and received the
named;
which has been provided by the great Go ,
in Jesus Christ; then, those who have re-
fused to comply with the requirements of the
gospel, and have trampled-on the blood of
the covenant and counted it an unholy
thing, will be banished from the presence of _
the Lord, thrust out from the kingdom of
grace, separated from the glory of his power,
and have no inheritance in the New Jerusa-
lem, the Eden of God, be se arated from the
new earth, and cast into helli "
This is the
second death." 2 Thessalonians i. 9, 10:
"Who shall be punished with
everlastinig
destruction from the presence of the Lo ,
70 ycmcvma Annnnss.
and from the glory of his power; when_he
shall come to be glorified in his saints, and
to be admired in all them that believe (be-
cause our testimony among _you was be-
lieved) in that day." Revelation xx. 14, 15:
"And the wall of the city had twelve foun-
dations, and in them the names of the twelve
apostles of the Lamb. And ,he that talked
with me had a golden reed to measure the
city, and the gates thereof, and the walk
thereotl" Revelation xxi. 8: "But the fear-
ful, and unbelieving, and the abominable,
and murderers, and whoremongers, and sor-
cerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have
their part in the lake which bumeth with»
fire and brimstone: which is the second
death." To this all must come who will not
obey the gospel. There is no deliverance
from this death, only by Jesus Christ, the
second Adam, the Lord from heaven. He
has the power to restore to all who believe
and obey him, what the first Adam lost.
Moses says, that soul who will not hear this
prophet shall be cut off from among the
people.
And the Savior says, the tares shall
e
gathered and burned. "Take the un-
profitable
servant and cast him into_ outer
arkness, there shall be wailing and gnash-
ing of teeth." If man rejects this offering
and sacrifice of 'the dear Redeemer, he will
be forever lost. "There remaineth no more
sacrifice for sin, but a fearful looking for,
and iiery indignation which shall devour the
»
cmoumn mnnnss. 71
adversary." There is no other name given
under heaven amongst men, whereby we
can be saved,.but the name of Jesus. There-
fore, if we reject him, and his offering, our
death becomes eternal of necessity; we can-
not have a
hope of deliverance when and
where there is no deliverance.
Let us then be diligent to do the work of
our Master; let us try to save all the souls
in our power, by persuasion and entreaty for
them, that they may come to Christ and
be saved, while his arm is stretched out,
and his mediatorial kingdom is not com-
pleted.
Let us enéourage each other to faithful-
ness and good works, that the world may
have no occasion to say of us,-they be-
lieve not in a coming Jesus. Let us be
diligent, that we may be found of Him in
peace.
And now, brethren, we exhort you to let
your light shine; be not ashamed of this
gospel, which brings life and immortality to
light. When you read the history of the
ancient sufferers, and servants of God, in
Hebrews, 11th chapter, will you not be
ashamed of that false delicacy, which pre-
vents some of you from owning and pub-
lishing to a
scofling world, what you in your
consciences do believe is true? We have
great reason to be thankful to God for the
courage and faithfulness of many of our
brethren, who are laboring to publish the
12 _
crncuu nuns.
present truth of the second advent. God has
raised up and sent forth, as we humbly be-
lieve, a number, from difli-:rent sects, of our
dear brethren, to give the "midnight cry."
We might name to you many who have the
confidence, and we
hope the support of our
friends in our several conferences; viz.,
brethren Litch, Himes, Ward, Jones, French,
Fuller, Thompson, Sntclife, and others,
who are already in the field, proclaiming
"the midnight cry," "go ye out to meet
him." c
t
And now, brethren, we advise you to
open your pulpits, houses, hearts, and hands,
that you may further them in this work
of the grace of God; that when the Mas-
ter comes to reward every man as his
work shall be, He may say unto you, "As
much as ye have done it unto the least of
these, ye have done it unto me." We
know, if this work be of God, it will stand.
And wo be to that man, who may be found
lighting against God! Better for that man
that a millstone be hung about his neck,
and he cast into the depth of the sea, than
to offend one of those little ones! Let us
put forth every exertion, that the cry be
made to every son and daughter of the hu-
man family, before the "great and notable
day of the Lord come."
