{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1842__topham_ward___a_case_of_successful_amputation.pdf","mytitle":"A Case Of Successful Amputation","mylang":"de"}
11,1 b^^i - tern
ACCOUNT ( ^
OF
A CASE
OF
SUCCESSFUL AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH,
DURING THE
MESMERIC STATE,
WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE PATIENT:
READ TO THE ROYAL MEDICAL AND CHIRURGICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON,
ON TUESDAY, THE 22nd OF NOVEMBER, 1842.
BY
W. TOPHAM, Esquire,
W. SQUIRE WARD, Esq^^- M.R. C.S.
(PORMERLV HOUSE SURGEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL),
LONDON
:
H. BAILLIERE, 219, REGENT STREET.
M DCCC XLII.
„,.,«TRRS WARDOUIl STREM, OXFORD STREET.
WALTON AND MITCHELL, PRINTERS, WABUUU
ADVERTISEMENT.
The writer of the first part of this Account conceives
some apology necessary, for intruding his name upon
the public, in connection with a subject like the pre-
sent : —in so wide a degree foreign to the vocation of a
Barrister. He has been led to do so, from considering
that his statement being, exclusively, matter of fact,
any value, it might possess, would be derived, entirely,
from its authenticity.
The phenomena of Mesmerism were, two years ago,
first examined by him as curious ; and afterwards stu-
died, as facts, both interesting in themselves, and im-
portant in their consequences. He has since made, and
witnessed, numerous experiments, with extraordinary
results :
—and the success of the effort, here recorded,
will always induce him to look back, with gratification,
upon the leisure hours, which he has devoted to Mes-
merism.
Middle Temple,
Nov. 1842.
TO THE
ROYAL MEDICAL AND CHIRURGICAL
SOCIETY.
Mr. President and Gentlemen :
In detailing the circumstances attending the
important case I have the honor of communi-
cating to this learned Society, I shall abstain
entirely from any preliminary remarks upon the
supposed cause of the effects I have produced.
I shall, still, call the state "Mesmerism:" because
the term involves no principle ; it regards the
phenomena only ; and not the specific cause for
them.
Whatever the agent may be, through which
the Mesmeriser influences his patient, whether
by a medium,—some, or the entire portion of
which, is, already, familiar to us, under another
designation,—or by a medium totally new to our
experience, it becomes me not now to inquire.
The generality of men, when they hear of
6
some novel phenomena, instead of testing the
truth by experiment alone, endeavor to ascer-
tain the cause, by tbeir own powers of reasoning ;
and belief or disbelief is made to follow the
result. The startling phenomena of Mesmerism
have but too frequently illustrated this remark.
To facts, I shall, therefore, confine myself
;
and, to such only as I can personally vouch
for.
ACCOUNT OF A CASE,
ETC., ETC.
James Wombell, aged 42, a laboring man, of
a calm and quiet temperament, had suffered, for
a period of about five years, from a painful affec-
tion of the left knee. On the 21st day of June
last, he was admitted into the District Hospital
at Wellow near Ollerton, Notts. ; no longer able
to work, and suffering much pain. It was soon
found that amputation of the leg, above the
knee-joint, was inevitable ;
and, it was eventually
proposed, that it should be performed if possible,
during mesmeric sleep.
I saw Wombell, for the first time, on the 9th
of September. He was sitting upright, upon a
bed in the hospital ; the only position which he
could bear. He complained of great pain, from
his knee, and of much excitability and loss of
strength, from his constant restlessness and de-
8
privation of sleep ; for he had not, during the
three previous weeks, slept more than two hours
in seventy.
In the first attempt to mesmerise him, vi'hich
occupied me thirty-five minutes, the only effect
produced was a closing of the eyelids, w^ith
that quivering appearance, peculiar to mesmeric
sleep ;
and, though awake and speaking, he could
not raise them, until after the lapse of a minute
and a half
My attempt, the next day, was more success-
ful, and in twenty minutes he was asleep. I
continued to mesmerise him every day, except
the 18th, until the 24th of September : his
susceptibility gradually increasing, so that, on
the 23rd, the sleep was produced in four minutes
and a half The duration of this sleep varied :
continuing, generally, for half an hour ; some-
times, for an hour ;
and, occasionally, for an hour
and a half. But, with two exceptions (attempts to
converse with him), I invariably found him
awakened, though without being startled, by
the violent pain from his knee ; which suddenly
recurred at uncertain intervals.
9
The third time I saw him, he was suffering
great agony, and distressed even to tears. I com-
menced by making passes, longitudinally, over
the diseased knee : in five minutes, he felt com-
paratively easy; and, on proceeding further to
mesmerise him, at the expiration of ten minutes
more, he was sleeping like an infant. Not only
his arms were then violently pinched, but, also
the diseased leg itself; without his exhibiting any
sensation : yet this limb was so sensitive to pain,
in his natural state, he could not bear even the
lightest covering to rest upon it. That night,
he slept seven hours without interruption.
After constantly mesmerising him for ten or
twelve days, a great change was observed in his
appearance. The hue of health returned ; he
became cheerful ; felt much stronger ; was easier,
both in mind and body ;
slept well ; and reco-
vered his appetite.
On the 22nd of September, he was first ap-
prised of the necessity of an early amputation.
The communication seemed almost unexpected ;
and affected him considerably. I, this day,
tried the experiment of mesmerising him against
his will ; proceeding by contact with the hands.
10
charging him, particularly, to exert his mind to
prevent my affecting him. During the process,
he occasionally glanced at those near him ; mov-
ing his eyes as he felt inclined, and, in twelve
minutes and a half, passed into mesmeric sleep.
The two or three previous days, it had been
effected in six minutes. He informed me, subse-
quently, he had repeatedly called to mind the
intelligence just received, and the torture which
he must endure ; but he soon found the influence
irresistible, and presently lost all consciousness.
The anticipated loss of his limb, however, that
night, destroyed his natural sleep. Next day,
though found still fretting, restless, and in con-
sequent pain, he was yet, by my touch, asleep
in four minutes and a half.
I V4ras then absent, and did not see Wombell
until the 28th. He was looking healthy and cheer-
ful ; his natural sleep was sound and regular ;
and his pain soothed and diminished. I was,
now, convinced that the operation might be safely
attempted, during mesmeric sleep, and, with the
man's firm consent, it was fixed for the Saturday
following.
On the morning of Saturday, the 1st of Oc-
11
tober, I again mesmerised Wombell, having done
so the two previous days. This was done in
the presence of Mr. William Squire Ward, of
Wellow, (the operator), and two other surgeons ;
in order that the previous mesmerism might
tend, as I believed it would, to render his sleep
deeper, when again mesmerised for the opera-
tion : and also to satisfy them of the state in
which he would be, when that time arrived.
He slept an hour ; and was roused, by an
attempt to converse with him. I, then, shewed
them my power of affecting any one of his limbs,
even when he was quite awake. At my request,
he extended his arms, alternately. By making
two or three passes over each, without any con-
tact, I so transfixed them, that, from the shoulders
to the tips of the fingers, they became as rigid
and unyielding as bars of iron, not to be unbent,
except by mechanical force, powerful enough
to injure the limbs ; and yet, instantly, relax-
ing throughout, and dropping to his side, from
the effect of my breath alone. His right leg
was affected in the same degree ; and relief
from immediate pain was frequently afforded, by
12
making similar passes over the diseased one.
Though the sensibility to pain was diminished, in
the limbs thus affected, whilst awake, it was only,
during mesmeric sleep, I found it totally gone.
At half-past one o'clock, we proceeded to
Wombell's room, to make the necessary arrange-
ments. From the suffering inflicted by the
slightest movement, it was found impossible,
without needless torture, to place him upon a
table. The low bed, on which he then lay, was
therefore lifted upon a temporary platform. Ten
minutes after being mesmerised, he was drawn,
by means of the bed-clothes beneath him, towards
the end of the bed. The movement, however,
excited that pain, which had so often aroused
him before ; and now it did so again. There
was something quite excruciating in the suffering
which the state of the knee produced ;
for, I had
seen him, whilst in mesmeric sleep, pricked to
some little depth, in other parts of the diseased
limb, without being disturbed or conscious of it.
To preclude the necessity of any further move-
ment, his leg was now placed in the most con-
venient position which he could bear. Shortly
13
afterwards, he declared that the pam had ceas-
ed; and r again mesmerised him, in four
minutes. In a quarter of an hour, I informed
Mr. Ward that he might commence the opera-
tion. I then brought two fingers of each hand
gently in contact with Wombell's closed eyelids ;
and there kept them, still farther to deepen the
sleep. Mr. Ward, after one earnest look at the
man, slowly plunged his knife into the centre of
the outer side of the thigh, directly to the bone ;
and then made a clear incision, round the bone,
to the opposite point, on the inside of the thigh.
The stillness, at this moment, was something-
awful : the calm respiration of the sleeping man
alone was heard ; for all other seemed suspended.
In making the second incision, the position of the
leg was found more inconvenient than it had ap-
peared to be ; and the operator could not pro-
ceed with his former facility. Soon after the
second incision, a moaning was heard from the
patient, which continued, at intervals, until the
conclusion. It gave me the idea of a troubled
dream ; for his sleep continued as profound as
ever. The placid look of his countenance never
14
changed for an instant ; his whole frame rested,
uncontrolled, in perfect stillness and repose ; not
a muscle or nerve was seen to twitch. To the
end of the operation, including the sawing of
the bone, securing the arteries, and applying the
bandages,—occupying a period of upwards of
twenty minutes,—he lay like a statue. Soon
after the limb was removed, his pulse becoming
low, from the loss of blood, some brandy and
water was poured into his throat ; which he
swallowed unconsciously. As the last bandage
was applied, I pointed out, to one of the sur-
geons and another gentleman present, that pe-
culiar quivering of the closed eyelids, already
alluded to. Finally, when all was completed,
and Wombell was about to be removed, his
pulse being still found very low, some sal vola-
tile and water was administered to him : it proved
too strong and pungent, and he gradually and
calmly awoke.
At first, he uttered no exclamation; and, for
some moments, seemed lost and bewildered
:
but, after looking around, he exclaimed, " I
bless the Lord to find it's all over !" He was
15
then removed to another room; and, following
immediately, I asked him in the presence of those
assembled, to describe all he felt or knew, after
he was mesmerised. His reply was, " / never
knew anything more ; and never felt any pain at
all: I, once, felt as if I heard a kind of crunch-
ing'' I asked if that were painful ? He replied,
" No pain at all! I never had any ; and knew
nothing, till I was awakened by that strong stuff''
(the sal volatile). The "crunching," no doubt,
was the sawing his own thigh bone. He was
left, easy and comfortable ; and still found so,
at nine o'clock that night : about which hour, I
again mesmerised him (in a minute and three
quarters), and he slept an hour and a half I
may further add that, on the Monday following,
the first dressing of his wound was in mesmeric
sleep. Of this dressing, usually accompanied
by much soreness and smarting, he felt nothing
;
slept long after it was completed ; was ignorant
of Mr. Ward's intention ;
and, after awakening,
remained unconscious of its having been done.
Mr. W. S. Ward's own valuable statement, in
accordance with his personal observation and
16
care, prior and subsequent to the operation, he
has kindly permitted to be appended to my own ;
and, thus, to render complete the narrative of
this case : which I leave, without a syllable of
comment.
W. TOPHAM.
Middle Temple,
Oct. 25th, 1842.
17
Mr. President and Gentlemen :
Being a party concerned, in offering the
present paper, for reading, before your learned
Society, I feel that, as a member of your own
profession, and the operator alluded to, in the
preceding pages, some observations are due from
me, in addition to those already brought before
you, by my friend, Mr. Topham.
The circumstances, under which the operation
was performed, are of so novel a nature, that
they may afford much ground for discussion ; if
the members of the profession, to whom I have
the honor of addressing these observations, will
calmly deliberate upon them ;
and, without pre-
judice, examine the subject, which (should fur-
ther experience confirm the anticipations that
may reasonably be entertained, from the happy
result of the present trial) holds out such a boon
to the surgeon ; whose province it is, and whose
B
18
study it has, for ages, been, to mitigate the
poignant sufferings that " flesh is heir to."
The case, to which the attention of the Society
has been already called, was one of very exten-
sive ulceration of the cartilages of the knee-joint,
of four and a half years standing : the conse-
quence of neglected inflammation of the synovial
membrane ;
produced by injury, which was
treated by a quack, in the first instance, but
did not come under my own notice, until about
three years before his admission into the District
Hospital, at Wellow ;
when, supposing ulcera-
tion to have commenced in the cartilages, I
ordered absolute rest, and the usual treatment
;
which was only adhered to for ten days ;
when,
in spite of every remonstrance on my part, he
returned to his ordinary employment (an agricul-
tural laborer), in his still crippled state.
He then fell into the hands of other practi-
tioners, whose discipline was less rigid, and
whose prognosis was more sanguine than mine.
I frequently met him, and occasionally warned
him of the eventual loss of his limb, if he per-
sisted in using it. His last fair prospect was a
J9
promised cure by cupping, but this having pro-
duced no relief, he applied for admission into the
hospital. At this time the disease had far ad-
vanced; the slightest motion of the joint was at-
tended by the most excruciating agony ; his nights
were almost wholly sleepless, in consequence of
the painful startings of the limb ; his pulse weak
and rapid ; his face constantly marked with a
hectic flush ; his tongue foul, and appetite gone.
He was now confined to his bed, but could not
bear a horizontal position. The joint was sup-
ported by a light splint ;
poultices, fomentations,
&c., were applied ; attention paid to his general
health ;
opiates, quinine, wine, &c., prescribed to
get him into a fit state for the operation (which I
deemed inevitable), without any apparent benefit
:
but, on hearing that Mr. Topham was coming
into the neighborhood, I determined to request
him to try the effects of Mesmerism upon him ;
with a view, not only of tranquillising the sys-
tem, prior to the operation, but, if pt ssible to
procure such a degree of insensibility to pain, as
to render the man unconscious of the operation
itself: having long desired to see this accom-
20
plished, as the " summum bonum " of Mes-
merism.
I was, however, obliged to leave home, from
indisposition, at this period ; but daily received
reports of the progress made upon my patient
:
and, on my return, on the 27th of September,
—
about three weeks after the commencement of
the Mesmerism,—I was as much astonished as I
was delighted, to observe the improved condition
of the man. He had, now, much more the hue
of health ; his nights were more quiet and tran-
quil ; his appetite had returned ;
and, in fact,
such was his state, that had I not known the
previous history of the case, much doubt must
have arisen, in my mind, as to the propriety of,
immediately, amputating the limb. It is true,
there was, still, the pain, on the slightest move-
ment of the joint ;
and, still, some of the same
painful startings at night ; but he no longer ap-
peared to be suffering in his general health,
which, on the contrary, was greatly improved :
nevertheless, I felt assured, notwithstanding all
this in his favor, that there was too much disease
to admit of a final recovery.
As I had quite determined upon not attempt-
ing to remove the limb, while the patient was
under mesmeric influence, unless I was con-
vinced of its safety, and had opportunities of
seeing him in that state ;
and, moreover, not
without the man's own full concurrence ; on the
29th, I requested Mr. Topham to mesmerise
him ; when I was delighted to find his suscepti-
bility so great. When asleep (if I may use the
term), his breathing was unaltered ; his pulse
tranquil, and about 80 ; his waking was slow
and gradual, and without the least start ;
and,
I found, he was insensible to the prick of a
pin.
Under such circumstances, I saw no grounds
for fear or hesitation ; and having obtained the
patient's consent, or, rather, at his own urgent
request, I fixed the following Saturday, 1st of
October, for the performance of the operation.
The patient (as has been already stated) was
lifted, with his bed, upon a platform ;
and, al-
though he was considerably excited, by hearing
the cries of another patient, upon whom I had
been performing a tedious and painful operation
22
in an adjoining room, he was soon put into mes-
meric sleep : but, as I wished him to be placed
in the usual position, with the limbs extended
over the end of the bed, an attempt was made to
draw him down with the bed-clothes ; but this
occasioned so much pain, as to awake him. I
was, now, somewhat embarrassed ; as his posi-
tion on the bed, with his extremity lying in close
contact with it, was so very unfavorable to the
operator ;
but, having proceeded thus far, I was
unwilling to mar the first attempt at lessening the
horror and pain of a capital operation; although,
I must confess, I was by no means sanguine of
success. The patient was again put to sleep ;
previously to which, a surgeon present raised the
limb about two inches from the mattress, by rest-
ing the heel upon his shoulder and supporting
the joint with his hand ;
promising also, if the
man should awake, instantly to draw him down,
so as to allow the leg to extend beyond the edge
of the bed.
In a few minutes, Mr. Topham said he was
quite ready ;
when, having adjusted the tourni-
quet (the very unfavorable position of the patient
23
precluding the possibility of otherwise compress-
ing the artery), I proceeded to perform the
operation, as has been described. Having made
the anterior flap, without the slightest expres-
sion of consciousness on the part of the patient,
I was under the necessity of completing the
posterior one, in three stages. First, by dividing
a portion of the flap on the inside; then a simi-
lar portion on the outside. This proceeding
(which of course was far more tedious and
painful than the ordinary one) was rendered
necessary, to enable me to pass the knife
through, under the bone, and thus complete
the whole ; as I could not sufficiently depress
the handle to do so, without the two lateral
cuts.
Beyond what has been already so well de-
scribed by Mr. Topham, I need only add, that
the extreme quivering or rapid action of the
divided muscular fibres was less than usual ; nor
was there so much contraction of the muscles
themselves: I must also notice, that, two or three
times, I touched the divided end of the sciatic
nerve, without any increase of the low moaning,
24
described by Mr. Topham ; and which, to all
present, gave the impression of a disturbed
dream.
The patient is doing remarkably well ; and
sat up on Sunday last, to eat his dinner, —just
three weeks from the operation ; and he has not
had a single bad symptom : none, even of the
nervous excitement, so frequently observed in
patients who have undergone painful operations,
and who have suffered much previous anxiety, in
making up their minds.
On dissection of the joint, the appearances
fully verified my diagnosis. The cartilages of
the tibia, femur, and patella, had been entirely
absorbed, except a much-thinned layer, partly
covering the patella. There was deep, carious
ulceration of the exposed ends of the bones ; and
especially on the inner condyle of the femur
;
which had wholly lost its rounded shape. Some
coagulated lymph was effused upon the surface
of the synovial membrane, in several places ;
and the joint contained a certain quantity of
dark-colored pus.
It is not my intention to trespass further upon
25
the valuable time of the Society, by presuming
to stand forward as the champion of Mesmerism
generally : a task to which I feel myself to be
totally incompetent. For a long time, I had been
a sceptic; and, long, a "cui bono" querist:
when, through the kindness of Dr. Elliotson, a
few months ago, I was allowed an opportunity
of examining for myself, the power of that agent
in producing coma ; in rendering rigid the mus-
cles ; and in causing, to a certain extent, insen-
sibility to pain. I saw, and was convinced, that
my opposition was ill-founded ; and the result
of this conviction has been the present success-
ful and flattering trial ; which is a sufficient an-
swer to those who are incredulous, only, as to
any benefit to be derived from it : for there can
be very few, now, even of the most bigoted
objectors, who will venture to deny its powers
in producing coma. This, too, in the calmest
temperament ; not merely, according to the fre-
quent supposition, in the highly nervous young
female, but, even to utter insensibility, in an
agricultural laborer, aged 42: to which class,
I need scarcely add, nervous excitement, in the
26
common acceptation of the term, is almost an
entire stranger.
Be it observed, also, so complete was the
susceptibility, that coma was quickly produced,
under the most unfavorable circumstances : as,
when in extreme pain from his disease ;
when
using his own volition, to the utmost, to coun
teractit; and when on the table, with the fear
of the operation before his eyes.
Although the single experiment, we have de-
tailed to the Society, is scarcely sufficient to
set the question completely at rest ;
is it not of
a sufficiently encouraging nature, to demand an
immediate repetition, by those of my profes-
sional brethren, to whom the splendid institutions
of the metropolis offer such frequent oppor-
tunities ?
W. Squire Ward.
Wellow, near
Ollerton, Notts.
October 2m, 1842.
