{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1842__zadkiel___zadkiels_legacy.pdf","mytitle":"Zadkiels Legacy","mylang":"de"}
ZADKIEL'S LEGACY ;
| # , C / 2.
CoNTA in ING
A FULL AND PARTICULAR JUDGMENT
oN
THE GREAT CONJUNCTION
or
$aturn ant; 3)upiter,
ON THE 26TH OF JANUARY,
1842,
BE ING THE IR
M0ST IMPORTANT CONJUNCTION
| SINGE THE DAYS OF KING ALFRED THE GREAT:
Foreshewing the History of the World for 200 Years to come!!!
| AL80,
FssAYs on HINDU AsTRology,
A.N. p.
THE NATIVITY
of
H. R. H. ALBERT EDWARD, PRINCE OF WALEs &e,
t HIS CHARACTER AND FUTURE DESTINY, &c, &c.
LONDON:
S HERWOOD AND CO., PATER NOSTER ROW.
1842.
com PT on AND RITCHI E, PR1NTERs,
Middl E - star Et, cloth - FAIR, LoN Don.
- - - -
- -
- -
. * …
- -
- - - - -
* >
z. *. -- - *
• -- * * 2.
-
-
-- - - - -
-
-
- * - -
- ~ : * - *
-
- - -
- - -- *>
* ** * * ***.
- - - - - - ,
* * ~ : , , ,
* * * * * * : ... "
-
-
--
-
* *
- */"
£". /~~ -
*
-
- * -
- -
2. "
*
- *
PR EFACE. .
MANY generations shall pass by, many centuries roll away,
and this book shall still remain a memento of the sublime
powers of astral influence; for lo! I have commenced it at the
moment of Mercury southing on this present first day of Sep
tember, in the year of Grace one thousand eight hundred and
forty, when fixed signs did occupy the angles of the heavenly
scheme, the Moon and lord of the sign ascending being also
in fixed signs, five planets angular, the lord of the ascendent
in the ninth, or house of science, and the Moon, while ruling
that house, being situate in the ascendant, in sextile to the
glorious Sol, ruler of the 10th, or house of fame, and applying
to a close conjunction of the bounteous and benefic Jupiter.
Moreover, Mercury, on the cusp of the 10th, is in reception
of the Sun, caput draconis is in the 4th, and the lord of the
ascendant in trine aspect to the ruler of that house, which go
verns the end of the matter. The enemies of truth, the foes
of astral doctrines, will never prevail against it; and this book
shall be quoted in proof of the solemn realities of the great
iv - PREFACE.
philosophy of the heavens, long after its present puny foes
have been forgotten, long after the present and the coming
centuries are remembered only through the page of history,
and thought of only by those who scan the dim vista of by
gone ages.
Thus much in anticipation of this, the most cherished endea
vour to enlighten mankind, which has occupied the mind, for
many years, of their friend and brother; who in writing
“ZADKIELS LEGACY,” hopes that he will not call in vain
to the world to awake from their dream of selfish and unwor
thy pursuits of wealth and pleasure, to the contemplation of
the beauties of truth and holiness, and to the practice of that
BROTHERLY LovE which JESUS CAME To TEACH, and for the
increase of which all good men daily pray, as does ever the
friend of all nations, the lover of all that is human,
ZADKIEL THE SEER.
N.B.—The above was penned at the date assigned, but not
printed finally (although some portions of the predictions ap
peared in “The Horoscope” in January, 1841), until the pre
sent date, 19th May, 1842. -
Die Jovis.
PREFACE.
Calculation for discovering the exact Time of the
GREAT CONJUNCTION.
24 & l: ,
Right Ascension of k 25 January, mean Noon :
H. M. 8. o
18 38 13:44 – 279
wf 270
|2 A.R. from k 9
f n
33 21-6
33 21-6 Co. s. 9.99.3931
b Dec. South 22 32 23.8 Co. T. 10.38.1920
4th Z. Tang. ... 67 10 30.5 = 10,375851
Obliquity ...... 23 27 40.016
5th 4 ..... ...... 90 33 10,516
For Longitude :- *
0. f li
Sine 4th Z. ......... 67 10 30.5 A. Comp. 0.035413
Sine 5th, or co, sine 0 38 10:516 9.99997.3
Co. Tang. A.R. kr... 9 33 21.6 10,773.793
Co. Tang long. k 8 49 13.81 - 1080917.9
For Latitude : –
Co. Sine 4th Z. ... .. 67 10 30.5 A, Comp. 0.411262
Co. Sine 5th/, or sine of 0 38 10:516 8.046378
Sine Dec. ............ 22 32 23.8 9:58.3570
Sine Lat. b ......... 0 37 38 N. 8.04.1210
vi PREFACE.
Right Ascension of b 26th January, mean Noon :
H. M. S. o
18 38 41.85 - 279
kf 270
b A.R. from.” 9
12 Dec. So. . 22
4th Z. Tang. ... .67
Obliquity ...... 23
5th Z. : 90
w ff
40 27.75
40 27.75 Co. S. 9.99.3780
32 0.2 Co. T. 10.382060
10 28.814 – 10:37.5840
27 40.025
38 8-839
For Longitude :
o f
Sine 4th Z. ......... 67 10
Sine 5th Z, or co. sinc 0 38
Co. Tang. A.R. fromk; 9 40
Co. Tang, long kf 8 55
For Latitude :
Co. Sine 4th. ...... 67 10
Co. Sine 5th Z, or sine 0 38
Sine Dec. ............ 22 32
Sine Lat. 2 ......... 0 38
ti
28:814 A. Comp. 0.035414
8.839 9.99997.3
27.75 10.768345
48-175 - 10.8037.32
28:814 A. Comp. 0.41.1254
8.839 8.045180
0.2 9-583450
34 N. - 8.049.884
->
PREFACE. vii
Right Ascension of 3: 25th January, mean Noon :
H. M. S. o d f/
18 38 2-06 – 279 30 30.9
kf 270
A.R. 1 from 2; 9 30 309 Co. s. 9.993992
Dec. 1; So. ... 23 4 37.3 Co.T. 10.370527
4th Z. Tang. ... 66 38 8:8 = 10.364519
Obliquity ...... 23 27 40.016
5th Z. ......... 90 5 48.816
For Longitude :
0 * th
Sine 4th Z. ......... 66 38 88 A. Comp, 0.037156
Sine 5th Z, co, sine 0 5 48.816 9.999999
Co. Tang. A.R. kr 9 30 30.9 10-775994
Co. Tang. long. k 8 44 29.357 = 10-813149
For Latitude :
Co. Sine 4th Z. ... 66 38 8:8 A. Comp. 0.401675
Co. Sine, 5th Z. Sine 0 5 48.816 7.2281.52.
Sine Dec. ......... 23 4 37.3 9-593251
Sine Lat........... 0 5 45 N. - 7-223078
By a similar process the long, it on the 26th at mean
noon is shewn to be k? 8° 57'34'3", his right ascension on
viii PREFACE.
thatdaybeing 18.38m, 5884,and declination23 3. 505.
South. -
f t! o * 's
b Long. 26th Jan. Kf 855 48.1752; do, kf 8 57 34.3
25th ... 8 49 13.810 8 44 29-357
b diff. <- 0 6 34-365 74 diff. 0 13 4,943
f fi
it moves in 24 hours 13 4,943
# do. do. 6 34-365
2!’s acceleration ... 6 30-578
o * fi
b long. 25th, at noon 8 49 13810
24 do. do. 8 44 29-357
2, distant from k = 0 4 44,453
Then, as 6' 30-578 to 24 hours, so are 4 44'453" to 17 hours
28 minutes 44.222 seconds; the true moment of the conjunc
tion, after mean noon of the 25th January, 1842, at Greenwich.
Also 24h.: 6 m. 34.365s.: 17 h.28m. 44.222s.(=17.478895 h.)
: long, made by b, = 4' 47.211". Then 8° 49' 13.81" +
4 47.211" = long. 2 at the d, 89 54 1,021".
And also 24h.: 13m. 4943s.: ; 17.478895h.: long made by
11 = 9, 31.664"; then 8° 44' 29.357" + 9' 31.664"– 8° 54
1-021", the long. It also; which is the same as that of E.
ZAD KIEL’S LEGACY.
THE MUTATION INTO THE EARTHY TRIGON.
THE MUTATION, or first “great conjunction” of E and it
in the EARTHY trigon, took place exactly at 5h. 28m. 44s.
A.M., on the 26th of January, 1842, Greenwich mean time.
The last Mutation was on the 7th of December, 1603, being
rather more than 238 years ago". That was a Mutation out
of the watery into the fiery triplicity. Speaking of it in the
year 1652, William Lilly says, “As water and fire are con
traries, so will the actions of men, for these almost 180 years
to come, be quite averse to what was then and in those times
acted” (alluding to the period under the influence of the wa
tery trigon); “and that is most rational and of especial con
cernment for such as will hereafter wade into these mysteries.”
It has always been held among astrologers, “that b and it
do change and overturn many human affairs in this world;
and that then, or near that time, there is first an appearance
of them, when it and 2 do change from one triplicity to an
other in their meetings or conjunctions.” . Now, the average
time they remain in each triplicity being about 240 years, it
follows that, as they have traversed the airy, watery, and fiery
trigons since any great conjunction took place in the earthy
trigon, we have, therefore, 240 x 3 = 720 years elapsed since
that event; and to this, if we add the 240 years since the first
* It is true, there was a “great conjunction” of these planets in
4° 56' of the sign mp, on the 16th of July, 1802; but as they had not yet
left the fiery triplicity entirely, but were again joined in ‘Y” in the month
of June, 1821, we must consider the approaching phenomenon as the
true “Mutation.”
B
2 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
or GREAT conjunction in that trigon, we have a period of
NINE HUNDRED AND sixty years since a phenomenon occurred
exactly of the same character with that which recently hap
pened. This event took place about the year 882 of the
Christian era, which was about the 12th year of the reign of
the great King Alfred, who, under the influence of THAT MU
TATION, expelled the Danes from England. The next Muta.
tion was about 1122, soon after which the overthrown Saxon
line of monarchs was restored in the person of Henry II, who
was born in 1133, and began to reign in 1154*. Then came
the watery triplicity into action, by the MUTATION in 1362;
and we find that Henry IV was born in 1367+, and ascended
the throne in 1399, and thus the line of Lancaster commenced.
Lastly, the MUTATION to the fiery trigon took place in 1603+.
in which year the union of the English and Scottish crowns
took place in the person of James I. Wherefore we perceive
that these MUTATIONs do most assuredly affect the destiny of
the ruling families of Great Britain; and if we examine the
state and condition of other kingdoms, and the circumstances
of the people, and general state of civilization throughout the
world, we shall find equal cause to believe the aphorism, that
“Saturnus et Jupiter mutant res et convertunt, eritgue varia
tionis initium cum mutantur de una triplicitate ad alian in
conjunctionibus, et ea una figura in algam.”
Here it may be well to offer some explanation to those
readers least informed regarding astrological terms, of the
names and nature
* It will be observed, that Henry invaded England in 1153, reduced
Ireland to subjection in 1172, and took the King of Scotland prisoner,
and obliged him to give up the independency of his crown, in 1175: thus
mutations vast and important occurred through all these realms soon after
b and it entered the airy triplicity.
+ Henry IV conquered the King of England, Richard II, in 1399.
The Welsh defeated him in 1402; and the rebellion of the Percys began
in 1403. The wars of Henry V in France followed. Henry VI pro
claimed King of France in 1422. Jack Cade's rebellion in 1446, Civil
wars raged, and misery reigned through England, nearly all the period
of this Mutation of 12 and it in the watery triplicity.
# Then came Charles I, civil wars, the Commonwealth, the restoration
of King Charles II, the abdication of James II, the revolution of 1688,
the bloody wars in Ireland, &c.; and, eventually, the accession of the
house of Hanover in 1714: all within a century of the last Mutation of
I and it into the fiery triplicity.
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. 3
OF THE TRIGONS, OR TRIPLICITIES.
The triplicity, or trigon, is one-third part of the Zodiac, and
consists of those three signs which constitute an equilateral
triangle, or are each 120° asunder. These are thefiery trigon, .
consisting of Y', Śl, and 1 , which are under the influence
chiefly of the Sun and Jupiter; the earthy trigon, consisting
of 8, mg, and k", which are chiefly influenced by the Moon
and Venus; the airy trigon, which consists of II, 2-, and ::,
influenced mainly by Saturn and Mercury; and, lastly, the
watery trigon, which contains gz, m, and X, and is influenced
chiefly by Mars. However, these trigons are influenced more
or less by each planet having dominion in the signs they con
tain. We will here, therefore, explain how it is that Ptolemy,
quoting the opinions of the ancients before his day, teaches
that these triplicities influence the various portions of the
Earth; and we can safely affirm, after many years' experience.
that this doctrine is entirely consonant with facts, and that it
has been the foundation of numerous successful predictions
which we have sent forth, for these last thirteen years, of the
most important events, both physical and political, which the
world has witnessed.
Ptolemy observes, that “the four triplicities being thus esta
blished, the whole inhabited earth is accordingly divided into
four parts, agreeing with the number of the triplicities. It is
divided it'. by the line of the Mediterranean Sea,
from the Straits of Hercules* to the Issican Gulf+, continued
onwards through the mountainous ridge extending towards
the East; and by this latitudinal division its southern and
northern parts are definedit. Its longitudinal division is made
by the line of the Arabian Gulf, the Ægean Sea, Pontus, and
the Lake Maeotis (Sea of Azof); and by this line, about 35°
of east longitude, are separated its eastern and western parts.
The four quadrants of the Earth are thus shown to agree in
number with the four triplicities. They are—1st, Europe;
2d, the southern parts of Asia; 3d, the north-east quadrant,
or the eastern parts of Russia, Tartaria, and Mongolia, the
* The Gut of Gibraltar. * The Adriatic Sea.
# This line is about 36° of north latitude, extends across the north of
the moderm kingdom of Cabul, and enters the Pacific by the Yellow Sea.
4 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
Caspian Sea, &c.; 4th, Africa. The reader is referred to the
third chapter of the second book of Ptolemy's Tetrabiblos for
farther explanation on this head; and we shall only observe
here, that the fiery triplicity rules the first quadrant, the
earthy triplicity rules the second, the airy trigon influences
the third, and the watery trigon the fourth. There are some
peculiarities regarding those parts of the Earth near the place
where the lines of latitude and longitude before described cross
each other, and which Ptolemy calls “the middle of the Earth.”
The result is, that although in the first quadrant, and therefore
influenced by the lords of that triplicity—viz, Q, 3, and 14,
“the people of Macedonia, Thrace, and Illyria, are chiefly in
fluenced,” says Ptolemy, “by %y and b;” wherefore they will
fall under our especial notice in treating of this MUTATION,
which occurs in the sign ky. But the whole of the nations in
fluenced by the earthy trigon will be peculiarly affected by
this phenomenon; though chiefly so those influenced by "f,
'' according to Ptolemy, are “India, Arriana, and Ge
drosia.” By the two latter we understand Chorassan and
Affghanistan. The following places, then, are those in which
the most important effects will occur from the MUTATION,
being those influenced by k =India, Afghanistan, Chorassau,
Macedonia (or Turkey in Europe), Thrace (or Greece in ge
neral), and Illyria, comprising Croatia, Bosnia, and Sclavonia;
also Albania, Bulgaria, and the Morea. And, by the autho
rity of modern astrologers, Lithuania, Saxony, Stiria, Hessia,
Wilna, Mecklenburg, Brandenburg, Oxford in England, and
the Orcades.
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. 5
ON THE FIGURE (AT THE MUTATION) FoR LONDON, SERVING
FOR OXFORD AND ALL ENGLAND ;
In which a general judgment is attempted of the leading
effects upon the Destinies of England, produced by the first
“GREAT Conjunction” of b and it in the Earthy Trigon.
R 207o 17'
MUTAT 10 N
74 & 5
5h. 28m. 44s. A.M. *{ # #
26th January, -
1842,
Greenwich.
Lat. 11 006' N. b Lat 0° 38' N.
DEC Lt N AT to N.
o f
3 56 S.
P 22 32 S.
T! 23 4. S.
& 6 31 S.
Q 18 47 S.
?
§
})
6. ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
This vastly-important phenomenon, the great astrological
feature of our £, willpresent the foregoing remarkable
figure of the heavens in the latitude of London, and on the
meridian of Greenwich. The first striking object in the figure
is the conjunction of the two superior planets b and 1 in the
ascendant and in the 9th degree of kr, and the first decanate
or face of the sign; being also in the term of 8 and triplicity
of the D. The D is in g7, in the 7th angle, entering upon the
South Node or 8, and being in A to H and 8 to 2, which
benefic is also ascending. The @, in the 6th degree of :, is
on the cusp of the 2d house, casting a A to the Medium Coeli,
and falling in the term of b, as does also the ). We find #
in the 2d house, and also 3 ; while H casts a D to the degree
ascending, as does the D to the Medium Coeli, which point
receives also a C from ? in the ascendant. -
The ascendant signifies the common people, or general state
of the realm in this kingdom of Great Britain; and this great
conjunction happening therein, one of the most obvious results
may be judged of by the following rule, given by Wm. Lilly,
at page 21 of his work on Eclipses (printed in 1652), as to
the first decanate of k?:—“In the first decanate, or ten de
grees of k", it imports unhappy chances attending great men,
and strange casualties unto such; the transmigration or oft
shifting #places of some king, prince, or person of eminent
rank and quality; and it implies the revolt or rebellion of
nobles, and others of meaner quality; viz., of the common
people. It imports a covetous prince or magistrate, by reason
of his oppression, shall cause insurrections.”
This applies to solar eclipses, the effect of which endures at
the farthest only as many years as the eclipse lasts hours.
But here we £ same unhappy influence become a radix
for the judgment of celestial phenomena for above 200 years
to come; whence there is too much reason to fear that a pro
minent feature in the history of the next two centuries will be
not only great moral and political changes in the condition of
the people, but that these will be the result of sudden and
violent revulsions in society, brought about, it is to be appre
hended, by taxation and “oppression.” And we even foresee
that, from the lord of the 7th, who denotes the public enemies
of the nation, being in their 2d or house of property, recourse
will be had, at some future day, to the method of purchasing
ZADKIEL’S LEGACY. 7
by gold, in lieu of deeds of arms, the forbearance of those
enemies. We perceive great and serious detriment to the
nation by means of foreign loans, whereby much wealth shall
leave this country, and fall into the hands of her foes.
The lord of the ascendant is 24, who is here discovered out
of all his dignities, and afflicted by the malign and potent
conjunction of 5 ; wherefore, as Ramesey saith, at page 228
of his Astrologia Munda, “The people shall exercise cruelty,
oppression, and injustice; and shall be disobedient, and break
the laws,” &c. The position of the D in the house of enemies,
and going out of her dignities, imports, alas! that the people
will be “grievously afflicted and molested by their enemies,”
as saith the above writer. But as it is a general significator
of religious orders of men, and he thus afflicted and debilitated,
many and important are the changes and mutations which
shall fall upon all classes of churchmen during the reign of
this great conjunction. Noblemen, judges, and lawyers, also,
shall find great changes in their affairs. They may not hope
to escape the whirling gusts of the coming storm, sweeping
and violent as it may be expected to fall upon all such classes.
And too much reason is there to expect that the furor of in
fatuated mobs will be spent on the venerated fabrics of reli
gion and law; and that the most essential changes and mu
tations in these matters shall occur is beyond all doubt. Alas!
that an uneducated people should exist:
THE SECOND HOUSE, OR HOUSE OF PROPERTY.
Therein we find Mars, who, being in his triplicity, and in
conjunction with Herschel, is £ to £ He there
denotes irruptions by water, injuring the trade and property of
the people; attacks on their commerce,plundering of shipping,
&c., by the neighbouring public enemies of the ruling powers.
Nor can we perceive other than many and very bloody sea
fights; which, although they may be generally successful,
will not entirely prevent the aforesaid evils, as the Moon in
Cancer denotes a multiplicity of naval forces opposed to this
nation in war / May her best friends take warning by this
hint; and may the £ of England never, for an
object whatever, neglect the wooden walls of Old England.
WE say, FoRTIFY THE THAMEs! We should advise mea
8 ZADKIEL’S LEGACY.
sures to prevent a fearful and a fatal overflow of a great
river to the north-east of London, which, if it be the Thames,
and that it really do occur, and no steps be taken to meet the
consequences, will go well nigh to ruin the port of London, to
beggar some of the greatest merchants of the day, and drive
the country to the very verge of bankruptcy! The evils would
be felt far and wide, and years must roll away before the
country could recover the shock to her commerce and her
naval power; therefore, we pray God, that if this be what
we perceive, by the sadly malefic position of Mars and Hers
chel, it may by prudence be averted; or woe! woe! to that
great ': London Ramesey says, “The Sun in the second,
the people shall waste and expend their wealth; also, their
rulers shall covet after the fingering and disposing thereof.
insomuch that they shall live sneakingly and poor.” Here we
find the Sun on the very cusp of the second £, and there
fore we may fully expect that the latter clauses of this judg
ment, at least, will be fulfilled, inasmuch as that is nothing
uncommon”.
We find Venus in the ascendant, she being partly ruler of
the 10th, and also ruler of the 5th house. Herein we perceive
much luxury and extravagance among the people, and that in
matters of meat, drink, and raiment. Gaming and many
other vices will ensue; and, while aping the vicious manners
of the court, we fear the people will but lay the foundation
for national suffering and weakness. We mention this in
connexion with the 2d house, because extravagance and luxury
generally precede beggary and ruin. And if these evils should
come on this land, we fear that those who, among the people,
have power to £ them by justice and temperance, for
their neglect and vicious selfishness, will have much to answer.
Mercury is on the cusp of the 2d.; and, as he rules the 9th
house, which influences the commercial power of the nation,
and is in his own term and triplicity in a fixed sign, we joy to
see that the merchants and tradesmen of this great nation
shall yet flourish and be famous, meeting honour and esteem.
But these things will chiefly happen in the western parts of
the kingdom; for Aquarius, in which Mercury is found in trine
to GB, is a western sign, as is also Gemini. But, as regards
the mischiefs beforementioned, by means of Jupiter and Sa
* This was printed Dec. 1840. The income tax has verified it !
ZADKIEL’S LEGACY. 9
turn in Capricornus, &c., they will chiefly fall in the southern
portions of the country, that being a southern sign.
The position of Mercury, who describes the religion both of
the people generally and of the state, being ruler of the 9th
and 6th (or 9th from the 10th), certainly denotes important
changes in the property of the church. And as Mercury is
ruled by Saturn, lord of the ascendant, which signifies the
people, and the 2d, which denotes the pecuniary resources of
the people or nation at large, we foresee that the day must
arrive, during the influence of this phenomenon, when the pro
perty ofthe church will be devoted to the purposes of the state.
The cause of this proceeding is shown by the houses ruled by
Mercury being the 6th, which influences the health of the
community; and the 7th, which influences the public enemies
of the country, and also the honour and dignity of the Crown.
Therefore we may conclude that public or government defi
ciencies, caused by protracted wars, and also public sicknesses,
will reduce the people of England to such a state of pecuniary
distress, that the revenues of the church will be seized to over
come the difficulty!
Among the epidemic diseases to which the people of this
country will be liable at certain periods is one, which, from
its symptoms, will, we fear, be the cholera morbus. It will
be marked by cramps or spasms, and by coagulated blood in
the veins. And this we mention here, having alluded to ge
neral sicknesses as one cause of pecuniary distresses in the
nation. It will be seen that Mercury, lord of the 6th, is in
the 2d house in Aquarius, which sign influences all such dis
eases as above described. But Mercury in Aquarius also go
verns or causes “running pains in different parts of the body,
and fluxes and disorders in the bowels,” all of which are
attendants on that fatal epidemic, the CHOLERA MORBUs.
We find Mars in the 2d house; and he being afflicted by
the conjunction of Herschel, denotes certainly that “the people
generally shall be driven to want, and be perplexed with tax
ations and tributes.”—Wide Ramesey, p. 241.
We must here observe upon the Decanates which occupy
the cusps of the houses, a doctrine too much neglected by
modern astrologers, but which was held in high repute by the
ancients, especially by the Indians. The Decanate on the cusp
of the 2d house is the first face of Aquarius, “which is a face
*
10 ZADKIEL'S LEGACY.
of continual trouble for money and profit, never at rest, ever
in labour and toil, yet poor and indigent.” To a great extent
this influence will operate to confirm what we have said as to
the pecuniary distresses of the nation, all of which bids our
rulers to husband our resources.
OF THE THIRD HOUSE,
This house denotes the neighbouring nations in friendly in
tercourse with the people; also all matters connected with jour
nies, and public roads, &c.; also letters and post-offices. The
position of Herschel shows some sudden quarrels and disputes
with our neighbours, chiefly on naval or maritime matters;
and among '' nations Portugal is prominent, as being fre:
quently inclined to quarrel with England. The place of Hers
chel on the cusp of the third house shows many strange and
unexpected events connected with public railway companies.
chiefly of a destructive kind; and we feel assured that the
system of railways will not be either permanent or satisfa.
tory. . It will pass away, and become one of the things which
have been. Other, and at present unthought-of, modes of
conveyance will be adopted.
OF THE FOURTH HOUSE.
This rules the landed interests, and all things connected
with agriculture and the produce of the land; also buildings
and the arts of husbandry and architecture. As the sign
Taurus is just coming on to the cusp, and in all the eastern
parts of the kingdom is already there, we may consider Venus
as ruler of this house, and all the weighty matters it influences.
We find Venus in the ascendant, and placed with the Dragon's
Head in sextile to Herschel and opposition of the Moon, and
she is disposed of by Saturn, Mars, Sun, and Moon.
These testimonies denote extensive and valuable improve
ments in the face of the country, and much advantage to the
farmers by new roads and modes of conveyance. Also, we
perceive extensive benefits by means of discoveries and in
ventions, chiefly of a chemical nature; as Mars is joined to
Herschel, by which the produce and value of the land will be
greatly increased; and, as Taurus is also on the 5th, the house
of property to the 4th, the revenues of the land will rise to a
ZADKIEL’s LEGACY. | |
vast and unlooked-for extent; and, as Saturn rules Venus, we
feel assured that mining will be eminently successful, and
that the supply of coals will increase, new stores of that va.
is able mineral, as also of lead, being discovered. Now, the
people being denoted by the Moon, who is in opposition to
Venus, lady of the 4th and 5th, certainly denotes much ill
will to the landed proprietors on the part of the people; and
as the Moon is close upon the 8th house, which rules over “la
bour, sorrow, battle, strife, and slaughter,” we foresee much
dispute and many struggles, not unattended with slaughter, on
the part of the landed aristocracy against the people. Be it
remembered that we speak of two centuries of time (although
the influences will speedily begin to appear), when we declare
that long and bloody will be the struggle on the part of the
eople of these countries to shake off the power that the land
'' possess, and which has eaten, and will eat, into the very
vitals of the popular industry, as shown by the affliction of
-he Moon (the chief significator of the masses) in this im
portant scheme of the heavens. Yes, we declare it upon the
faith of that science which upholds the true doctrine of the
stars, the veritable philosophy of nature, that the laws which
maintain the luxury of the landlord at the expense of the poor
man's labour, and the hunger of the poor man's infant, are
a curse upon society. But mark! the finger of the Deity al
ready points to their dissolution; for Venus, the significator
of the landlord, hastens to overtake the Sun, and is already
within one degree of combustion / How do we read this re
markable token ? Whence shall the troubled mind, the run
ning to and fro, the overwhelming grief of the lords of the
soil and their effeminate companions and supporters, emanate?
Who shall befriend the poor man, and lift him up from the
heel of the oppressor, which now grinds him to the earth and
bids him struggle on, the helot of want and the slave of
hunger, that the rich may wallow in the slough of intemperance
and pomp, or revel in the lust of abundance?
These important queries are replied to by the figure before
our eyes with a clearness and simplicity that will enable a
tyro to decide. The answer is so plain, that he who runneth
may read. The struggles will be many, on the part of the
public to overcome the landed interests, but in vain; for the
Moon, significator of the public, is going out of her dignities—
12 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
going into the south, or unfortunate mode, and going even to
eclipse in the house of death, and indigence, and misery.
Much, then, shall the masses suffer, and their struggles shall
be embittered by the sabre of the soldier, as shown by the evil
aspect of Mars, to which the Moon is fast applying. But a
great and gigantic authority will assuredly destroy the power
of the landlords when this phase of popular suffering shall
have run its destined course. That authority is DEATH'
The Sun is ruler of the 8th house, and rules “the inheritance
of the dead.” He is placed on the cusp of the house of pro
perty, and we see by this token that a dire and fearful pesti
lence shall stalk across the land of Britain, especially the
western parts; and then, when death has decimated the po
pulation, a change shall come forth, in which corn-laws shall
fall, and laws of primogeniture shall quail. And then will
be eventuated the effects of Saturn in this figure elevated
above Jupiter, as declared by Ramesey, p. 72 of #. Astrologia
Munda, “GREAT AND NOBLE MEN SHALL BE SLAIN.”
THE FIFTH HOUSE.
This house rules all matters connected with the price of
provisions, and also theatrical affairs, and popular education,
&c. The position of the lady of the 5th, Venus, with the
Dragon's Head and angular, and in sextile to Herschel, are
testimonies which denote prosperity for the drama and its
supporters, and that many popular dramas shall yet appear
and succeed, especially during the early years of influence
of this phenomenon. Yet, as we find Saturn and Jupiter in
sesqui-square to the cusp of the 5th house, we foresee that the
drama will be much opposed and injured by the efforts of
ascetic, puritanical characters, who deem that all amusement
is opposed to religion. -
The affliction of the Moon by Venus, and the fact that Venus
is herself going to combustion, are not signs of any permanent
plenty in this land; but, on the contrary, much want and
distress is denoted, and many sorrowfully bad harvests, until
after the period denoted by Venus arriving at combustion,
which we conceive will be about the year 1851, after which
date the prices of bread and other produce of the soil will be
more moderate; and about sixteen years after the conjunction.
or about 1858, there will take place some great alterations in
ZADKIEL’S LEGACY. - 13
the laws, by which a more plentiful supply of provision by
foreign importation will occur. This is foreshewn by the dis
tance of Venus from Mercury, lord of the 9th house, who rules
foreign commerce. - -
The education of the people will make but melancholy pro
gress until the above-named conjunction of Venus with Mer
cury, the effects of which will be felt after as many years as
the planets are degrees asunder. At that period some great
change in the law, as regards national education, will produce
very extensive improvements in the literary and scientific con
dition of the people; probably some splendid invention may
then benefit the nation.
THE SIXTH HOUSE.
This house denotes the health of the community, and it also
influences the armed naval power of the nation, and the state
religion. These are highly-interesting subjects, and will afford
most exciting matter for consideration.
As regards the public health, we have already mentioned
much; but we may add a few remarks. The sign on the 6th
house is Gemini, the ruling sign of London; wherefore that
city may expect to suffer the diseases denoted by the sign,
which are chiefly of a spasmodic nature, and produced by
corrupt blood. Yet, as Mercury is escaping from combustion,
we may hope that the city of London will have no very se
rious attack of disease until the time denoted by Mercury
coming to conjunction of Mars, about thirty-three years sub
sequent to January in the year 1842. At that time some pes
tilential epidemic will be imported in a ship from Alexandria
or Sicily, which threatens to produce the most fatal and ex
tensive ravages. This judgment is formed from the distance
of thirty-three degrees between the lord of the 6th and Mars,
who is placed in the sign ruling those countries, and afflicting
the 49, &c., in the 6th house. Now, the chief character of the
pestilence we foresee (being £ by Mars) will be sudden
and violent affections of the heart, bowels, and other viscera,
attendant with fever and affections of the feet. The diseases
before described of an epidemic nature will be distinct from
this special sickness, which will affect chiefly London and the
south-west parts of England.
The armed naval forces of the kingdom are also influenced
C
14 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
by Mercury in this figure; and, as he also rules the 7th house,
or house of open enemies, we may feel assured that for six
years subsequent to this conjunction, there being six degrees
to pass off the 7th, the wooden walls of Old England will rule
triumphant over her enemies. But as Mercury has to pass
through eighteen degrees of a fixed sign, we judge also that
for eighteen years £ floating batteries of Britain will still
uphold their name, and fame, and power. A change in mari
time warfare—a new era will arrive. Some decline of power
in the naval forces of the kingdom will then be witnessed;
and at length, about the year 1875, a bloody battle will be
fought, in which some treachery on the part of the allies of
Britain will cause the meteor-flag of England to droop. Let
the ministers and men of England in that day take heed to the
warning !
£imehas rule over the religion of the state. The year
1844 will be pregnant with changes; but these will be still
more marked in the year 1850, when Mercury enters the lunar
decanate: thus shewing that a more popular form of religious
worship will be then adopted, and that the people will, after
that period, control to a much greater extent than at present
the powers of the hierarchy!
A.R. 3549 31'.
> o->
</
> * > >
J. * Ž o
6" st ‘. s” ”’s 2% -
*
...” |NEW M00N *~.
4% PREV ious to '*-* -
" - T. d W2 < ~
~ ?” At 4h. 15m. P.M. _
42 ...”. 11th January, 1842. - . c.N. i
6 * > Lond 5. " i
> ontion. -8%). 9%
- >= - ==- <, o \\ ''',
_2^ x* *:
> * <> > /€ ox
ZADKIEL's LEGACY, | 5
This is, without exception, one of the most remarkable
figures it has been our lot to observe. The close collection of
six planets in the sign Capricornus, and all falling in one house,
will assuredly have a very powerful influence on the countries
and places influenced by that sign, and upon the matters
shewn in whatever house they may be situate.
Here we find them affecting the health of the community;
and, as this satellitium of six planets is found in a tropical
sign, it “gives warning,” to use the words of Ptolemy, “of
changes in the atmosphere, and in political affairs.” '. aS
the 6th house influences health, we may expect diseases pro
duced by atmospherical causes, and in all probability some
epidemic originating (from those causes) in India, and spread
ing over the world, as did the cholera. The periods of in
tensity of such disease will be shewn by the returns of great
conjunctions, and other aspects of Jupiter and Saturn, during
the influence of this mutation, which will extend over the next
240 years; also by eclipses of the Sun and Moon, to which
the figure of the mutation will serve as a radix; for by the
51st aphorism of Ludovicus de Rigiis, we learn that “Nullus
effectus sive parvus a revolutione vel ab aliis significantibus
erit, quod non primum d radice habeat exordium.” And he
adds, “Quare summa diligentia radices considerandae sunt.”
The above was quoted by Wm. Lilly, and thus Englished:–
“There is no effect or material accident, no matter though it
seem small, which is signified either in a revolution or other
wise, which first of all had not a beginning from some radix;
therefore with great diligence the first roots or foundations of
things are to be inquired into.”
Now, in the lunation we find the luminaries conjoined on the
place of Venus in the mutation; and as Venus rules the 9th
house in the latter, which influences the ecclesiastical as well
as the commercial powers of the nation, undoubtedly wondrous
changes and mutations will soon take place in these things;
and, as regards the commerce of England, much of it will
migrate to India, and some of the ports of Britain will yield
the palm to those of Hindostan. Thus much we read of these
weighty matters.
Again, as the stars found in the 6th at the lunation are in
the ascendant at the “great conjunction,” we see a farther
token that the religion of the state will adopt a new phase,
and the powers of Episcopacy pass away. SIC TRANSIT
16 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
GLORIA MUND1' But the naval powers of the country will
feel the effects of these numerous planets in the 6th house.
The modes of naval warfare will undergo extreme mutations,
and ere many years destruction will be hurled at the foes of
this country upon the waves by means of instruments at pre
sent unknown; but these changes will be attended with much
bloodshed and expenditure of treasure.
THE seveNTH House.
This rules the public enemies of the country, and is the
house of war and battle. It has also some influence over the
dignity of the £ powers and the credit of the government.
Many and woful are the wars I foresee from this great
conjunction. Yes, the bones of many an Englishman will
bleach upon the arid sands of northern Africa; for one of the
chief fields of blood will be the ancient Phazania, Nasamo
nitis, and Garamantica, embracing all the modern Libya, Tri
poli, and Barbary.
The position of the Moon afflicted on the 7th surely denotes
a multitude of enemies, and the gathering together of vast
fleets to war against England. Among the van will be seen
the star-speckled flag of the American and the blood-red
streamer of the Egyptian:-yes, again and again will Egypt,
America, and England struggle upon the waves which border
the sands of Africa. But not alone upon the seas, not alone
upon the burning soil of Africa, will the warlike men of Bri
tain shed their blood and expend their treasure. The Sun,
Moon, and four planets in Capricorn transitting the cusp of
the house of war (in the lunation), denote the crash of armies,
the onslaught of thousands upon thousands in the wide-spread
fields and by the broad rivers of Asia". There shall be seen
in all Chorassan and Afghanistan, and throughout Baloo
chistan, from the Caspian Sea to the Bay of Bengal, myriads
of martial men striking for life and liberty in many a blood
stained struggle, where the banners of England and the
Scythian flag will wave in proud defiance. And the great
and leading cause, or first inducement, of these Indian wars
will be the oppression of the ruling powers upon the culti
vators of the soil, the peaceful Hindoos, who, at length driven.
* This was published 1st of March, 1841. The Affghan war has shewn
its verity ?
ZADKIEL’S LEGACY. | 7
to resist the tyranny of their rulers, will find ready friends in
the wily sons of the North, as shewn by Mercury, the signi
ficator of the enemies of England, placed in Aquarius, the
ruling sign of Russia! -
THE EIGHTH HOUSE.
This is the house of Death; and as Leo is on the cusp
thereof, we learn thereby the nature of the leading causes of
mortality during the reign of this mutation. But the first
Decan of Leo occupies the cusp; whence also we may gath r
the character of the great causes of death. Among the
Hindoos the Decani were named the Dréshcandis, and the de
scription of each of the 36, that is 3 for each sign, is given in
the Asiatic Researches, vol. 9, p. 367. The first face, decan or
Bréshcaná, of Leo is thus described. “[THE SUN] a vulture
and shakal stand on a cotton tree: a dog is near: and a man
in a squalid dress laments for his father and mother.”
The chief of the noted public mortalities will be produced
by fevers, and these will be of a pestilential nature. When
ever any great eclipse shall fall on the place of this “Great
Conjunction,” or on its opposite place, there will ensue (during
the reign of that eclipse) a marked prevalence of feverish
complaints, and diseases of a contagious and pestilential cha
racter in these kingdoms.
Let future Astrologers observe this hint, and point out
the effects to future governments in their day and generation;
and then less extensively may be witnessed “a man in a
squalid dress lamenting for his father and mother.”
Again, let it be well known to the world, that individuals
born in England, &c., who have either the ascendant, Sun or
Moon, about the 9th degree of Leo, or near the 9th degree of
Capricorn or Cancer, will be subject especially to suffer in
'health during the influence of the eclipse falling on such place
in their nativities. They will suffer from inflamed blood and
cutaneous disease, also disordered reins, gravel, stone, stran
gury, &c. And here I will observe that medical men, who
are now fast adopting the true philosophy (that of astral in
fluences), will do well to examine the nativities of their patients,
and note whether any recent eclipse fall on such E.' as
before-named; for by no other means can they so readily and
certainly acquire a knowledge of the existing disease, and
C 2
'*.
18 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
thereby counteract its action, as by attending to these sug
gestions.
This house also has influence over the money of public ene
mies. And as the Sun, its ruler, is weak, we may hope that
the poverty of the nation's adversaries will be a frequent
means of peace and tranquillity. For as individuals shun law
when they are straitened in their circumstances, so do ma
tions avoid war when they are weak in their finances. The
lust of slaughter and of conquest will often be checked, among
the French more especially, by the want of money.
The NiNTH HOUSE.
This is the house of science, learning, books, writings, and
religion; and denotes all ecclesiastical matters, and clergymen
of every degree.
The happy position of Venus in trine aspect to this house
shews a more liberal and a milder principle will be introduced
into religious worship than has hitherto prevailed. Much of
the asperity and unseemly bitterness and persecution which
has obscured the piety of past ages will pass away; and not
withstanding the ascetic character of Saturn's rule, which has
already begun to lead the clergy into the region of severity in
regard to forms and ceremonies, as evinced among the Pu
seyites, yet the influence of Venus will bring about an increase
of true and devout religious feelings and practice in these
countries. And happy will it be for mankind when the day
dawns that will overthrow the puritanical doctrines of formal
observance of rites and ceremonies, such as Sabbath-keeping;
and substitute the pure religion of the heart—that is, devotion,
prayer, and thanksgiving towards God, and charity, love,
forbearance, humanity, benevolence towards mankind.
The ruler of this house being Mercury, the general ruler of
science, and he being placed in Aquarius, points out a won
drous career of scientific invention, which will throw the steam
engines and the spinning jennies of our day into the shade.
England will still take the lead in science, and vast will be
the wealth its operations will pour into her lap; not entirely
to the disadvantage of the multitude, who at present starve
amidst the fields of plenty, and wither in the very view of the
cornucopia of national abundance.
ZADKIEL'S LEGACY. 19
The sextile aspect thrown by Mercury to the cusp of the
12th house, shews that science will illumine the darkest shades
of the union workhouses, and that by means of new inven
tions the poor will find their condition, as to means of sub
sistence, immensely improved.
The position of Mercury in the 12th degree of Aquarius,
where he has dignities by term, face, and triplicity, and where
he receives no ill aspect, assuredly denotes some very re
markable inventions connected with the nature of that sign.
Aquarius is an airy sign; and I thence deduce that by means
of the air some vast powers will be gained to ameliorate the
pecuniary condition of the people; and I foresee that a new
application of the power of the wind will be devised, by
which vessels may # propelled, in lieu of by steam. Thus,
by means of a balloon sent aloft, when there is a breeze there,
and none below, the balloon attached by a rope to the bow
sprit, the vessel may be drawn along. Also, by means of
windmills, a power of pumping ships, and even propelling
them, is practicable, and I believe will be applied; also, I
conceive that such powers may be applied to the cultivation
of the land, whether by pumping off water or by raising it
from low situations, for the purposes of irrigation and other
objects. It is well known that in Holland, by means of wind
£ large lakes have been drained: and it is not even a
matter of speculation to believe that farmers may be benefitted
by some scientific application of the power of wind; either
to drive mills to raise water, or for other purposes; as, for
instance, to affix a windmill at the top of a barn to drive a
winnowing or thrashing machine. Now, as the part of For
tune is found in the sixth house, and therein receives the ap.
plying trine of Mercury from the house of property, and as
the sixth rules farmers, and as Mercury is in the house of
Saturn, the general ruler of all agriculture, we may well be
lieve that the farmers of England will yet gain by the judicious
application of the sciences of aérostatics and hydraulics,
which have been hitherto sealed books to that important class
of society, the agriculturists.
But I believe that the world is also destined to witness,
during the reign of this Mutation, some very important
changes, as regards the substitution of the power of wind for
that of steam to numerous classes of industrial operations.
20 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
It may be possible to propel carriages by cylindrical wind
mills on rail-roads, and to work spinning machinery, printing,
and numerous other mechanical operations, by means of such
devices. And that all these views will be eventually carried
into operation, the potent position of Mercury demonstrates.
THE TENTH HOUSE.
This is the house of honour, lordship, and dignity, and de
notes the ruling dynasty. The remarkable circumstance of
the last degree of a sign passing from its cusp denotes a
change of some consequence near at hand. Yet as the ruler,
Venus, hastens to Caput draconis, we may not anticipate evil
to the ruling family, but rather that prosperity will attend
them while they sit upon the throne.
Thrice goes the Sun his golden round aud half again ;
Beware the day, oh! England's Queen!
I read not now the stars in vain;
The world shall then see all I mean :
The lady of the tenth has three degrees and a half to pass
out of the sign /
The sextile aspect from Herschel to Venus is a note of much
deception practised by the ruling powers of Portugal towards
the Royal Family of England: the breach of treaties and
much political chicanery will be witnessed.
A total eclipse of the Moon will take place on the 21st May,
1845, on the ascending degree in the Horoscope of Queen
Victoria; and during the £ of that lunar eclipse dark
hangs the cloud of destiny over the ruling powers of England!
for tumultuous and warlike scenes occur, and thence shall be
dated the opening of a fatal page in the history of Britain.
The tall trees of the forest shall be bowed before the strength
of that tempest; the most aged oaks shall fall, the birds of
the air which rested thereon shall flee screaming away!
The slime of a poisonous reptile shall stain the sceptre of
Albion; corroding rust shall dim its brilliancy; the rude
friction of steel shall renovate its lustre. Would we know at
what period of time these events shall fall out, then let us
note when gold shall fill a scale, and fire be therein, and those
who look abroad shall next perceive a woman take their place:
ZADKIEL’s LEGACY. 21
and, lo! darkness in high places, where the Sun was wont to
shine, and a MULTITUDE hasten to gather wool from the back
of a ram | So be it!
T VENTH house.
This ...# and exchequer of "see
vernment, the peers, and the supporters of the crown. -ás
Mars hastens to a conjunction of Herschel, we may say that
the ruler of this house is afflicted. And as this position occurs
in a watery sign, the government will suffer much by ex
penses attending naval warfare; and this will in some cases
be near Alexandria, and also on the coasts of the Portuguese
nation, which will be a source of trouble to this country.
But this house also has influence over the peers and their dig
nities; and as Herschel has much influence over public bodies,
we may expect that many sudden and unlooked for changes
and revolutions among the hereditary legislators will fall out, as
it is the nature of that planet to produce such effects. These
changes will be of a nature little dreamed of now; but the
glitter of many coronets shall vie with the gleam of the ocean
wave as it breaks before the prow of a speedy vessel, and sad
mess shall be therein.
THE TWELFTH HOUSE.
This is the house of sorrow, and affliction, and of prisons,
poor-houses, and hospitals, &c.
The recent square aspect of Mars, and sextile a
Mercury to this house, may well denote the recent ch
the law regarding the poor, and the cruel nature of
changes. But as the Sun hastens to a sextile of the c
this house, having only 3% degrees to go to form the aspect,
we may feel assured that three and a half years hence some
remarkable benefits will accrue to the poor. And as the Sun
denotes in this figure the Privy Council, it may be that new ar
rangements will be made for the government of the poor, by
orders to issue from the Privy Council. The great conjunction
had scarcely occurred, before the Poor Law Commissioners
issued a new set of rules and regulations, which are of a miti
gatory character, and less harsh, as they must needs be, than
those formerly in operation. This change is shewn by Jupiter,
22 ZADKIEL'S LEGACY.
lord of this house, being joined with Saturn, lord of the
second, from the twelfth, which denotes the property or pos.
sessions of the poor. I judge, from the nature of Saturn in
Capricorn, that t£oor laws will soften down to a system
of agricultural : - I fondly hope, that
- as "he poor,
ay thereon maintain themselves by the labour,
wiTeventually be adopted. This great conjunction denotes
such a reform in the principle of poor relief; and I refer my
readers who sympathize with the poor man's sufferings, to a
pamphlet recently brought out by my publisher on this subject”.
The day will arrive ere this Mutation be run the haif its
course, when men will look back with sceptic wonder on the
inhuman doings of our age towards the poor, as we now con
template the cruel butcheries of former religious persecutions,
the horrors of the inquisition, and the barbarities of the old
noblesse of France towards their miserable serfs. Yes, this
phenomenon assures me (and there is no prediction I ever yet
made with such internal satisfaction) that the day is not far
distant, when the poor man's rights will be recognized equally
with those of the rich—when it will be universally perceived
that the earth was made large enough for man—and that no
blasphemy was ever yet uttered equally revolting to that of the
Malthusian philosophy, which depicts the Deity as insufficient
to devise a means of subsistence for those to whom he has given
exist ice upon the face of this world of beauty. But I am
impressed with the idea, that the true principle of
d peaceful enjoyment of the million blessings this
duces, can and will only be discovered in the con
of labour and the combinationof interests, by some such
as that portrayed by the intelligent and philanthropic
Frenchmant. But, let me be well and clearly comprehended.
I mean not to advise or support the abomination of Robert
Owen's false and wretched atheism, or the attempt to bring
men to act in community on any other than the noble princi.
ple taught by the blessed Jesus, that they should “ love their
neighbours as themselves.”
* “Proposals to abolish all poor laws, except for the old and infirm;
and to establish asylum-farms, on which to locate the destitute able.
bodied poor, who might thereon maintain themselves.”
+ Four IER:-see his Nouveau Monde Industriel.
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. 23
"fie
As arEAT conjunction
Żcs | AT
. 10h 25m. 24s. A.M.,
\ t MEAN TIME,
LAH 0 RE,
&- | Lat. 319 30' N.
Long. 74 10 E.
THE GREAT conjunction AT LAHoRE IN INDIA. . *.
* * ...
Lat. 31" 30' N, Long, 74° 10' E. -
The exact meridian where Saturn culminates at the moment '.
of the conjunction is in long. 72° 22' E.; and this is about
ninety-two miles west of Lahore, exactly forty-five miles west
of Bombay, and nearly 200 miles east of Cabul. I here give
the figure for Lahore, as that is so near the point of the ruler
of the conjunction, southing, and is an ancient seat of govern
ment in India, where very extensive effects will be experienced.
Assuredly an entire change of government will here ensue.
New rulers will be seen to mark their footsteps in the ancient
halls of the kings of India. Dire will be the struggles for
power, and dire the sufferings of the people; yet the rulers
24 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
will be changed. And the farmers or labouring agriculturists
will have a larger share of the soil, as is seen by the Sun in the
house of property of the government, throwing a trine aspect
to the pars fortuna in the sixth, which house 'farmers, &c.
Jupiter rules the ninth, and is joined with Saturn in the
10th house, and out of all his dignities. THERE will ARISE
A NEw RELIGION IN INDIA! A great leader shall appear: the
people support him, and fanaticism once more shall dye the
waters of the Indus with the blood of mankind. The potent
position of Saturn on the meridian bodes much physical suf.
ferings as well as political mutation, &c. Ramsey declares
(p.328), that, “in fiery, earthy, and airy signs, they cause
drought, and a scarcity of provisions, and barrenness of the
ground, pestilence, and famine.” But I conceive that a dis
tinction ought to be made; and I am of opinion that earth.
signs affect more directly the condition of the earth; and,
therefore, I judge that some terrible earthquakes will attend
and following this phenomenon about the borders of the Indus,
and that defect of the crops will ensue, and awful famine stalk
through the broad plains, where tradition tells us that, 2000
years ago, reigned the great Vicramdditya. These evils will
recur at all those periods during the two coming centuries of
time, when eclipses may occur, or comets appear, in the first
decanate of Capricorn, the ruling sign of India.
I find that the Sun will be eclipsed on the 31st Dec. 1842,
in the 10th degree of that sign; whence we may expect very
important results in India in the year 1843, and that even
then some very important change in the present government
will ensue. But there will also be a powerful revival of the
effects immediately after the total eclipse of the Moon, which
will fall on the place of this great conjunction, and which hap
pens on the 1st of July 1852; and this will be again renewed by
the lunar eclipse of the 26th December of that year. Again, a
great solar eclipse of six digits will fall on the 31st Dec., 1861,
when Q 10° will be rising at Lahore, and both it and #2 in
the ascendant, bringing vast changes in the condition of the
people of those parts. But one of the most important eclipses
this century for the Indians will be on the 2d July, 1871, at
about half past six, P.M., at Lahore; when the Moon will rise
eclipsed, and in conjunction with Saturn, close to the place of
this Mutation, being at the time in opposition to 1 and square
ZADKIEL'S LEGACY. 25
to 3. That summer will bring a fearful and destructive pes
tilence along the banks of the Indus, with storms, floods, and
earthquakes of terrific character. Finally, the great leader or
prophet, as he will profess to be, will arise in the southern
parts of the country, about the Indus. His success will be
very great, and he will certainly establish his power in glory,
and continue permanently to rule those parts of the world.
Nor will this change fail to spread over the passes and affect
the wild tribes of the Affghans.
s' * #.
£&#9 Ž% $
th. *%. / 5.
Q #5 Ż
–
The
| GREAT CONJUNCTION | ".
At
CAL CUT TA,
Lat. 22° 23' N. /
| Long.88 20 E. Ż
| 1 Ih. 22m., A.M. $
| 26th January, 1842. < ce
- - -
&#
6, &B
». ŽS %.
% ~\ *
\
The GREAT CoNJUNCTION of 1 and b at CALCUTTA in
lat. 22° 23' N., long. 88° 20' E., occurs at 11h. 22m., A.M.,
mean time at that £ The position of Saturn and Jupiter
in the 9th house, £ is that of secret enmity to the govern
ment, and the D in the 4th, in opposition to the 10th, speak
D
26 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
strongly of plots and conspiracies, and also of open insurrec
tions against the rulers of India. The priests and the people
combine to overthrow the existing order of things, and will
display great boldness therein. But although they will cause
the government to expend much money in defending its pow
*r, they will not succeed, at least for a considerable period.
Yet a vast change will take place during the rule of this Mu
tation; and I am of opinion that a representative government,
in which the people will have great influence, will very soon
be £
The commerce, and trade, and revenue of British India will
soon undergo great mutations; and her manufactures will
spread and rapidly supersede those she now imports. Much
naval warfare, by means of steam vessels, will be witnessed
along the coasts and upon the rivers of India, especially to
wards the northern and eastern quarters. -
ZADKIEL’S LEGACY. 27
The GREAT CONJUNCTION at SAALFIELD, in the south-west
part of Saxony, at 6h. 14m. 36s, mean time of that place.
I here present the figure of a place where the two planets
in conjunction will be just rising, and I do so because this
part of the world is declared by old astrologers to be under
the influence of the sign Capricorn, and we may, therefore, ex
pect powerful effects to fall there. But the periods of their
occurrence may be looked for when eclipses shall fall on the
cusps of the angles of this figure, especially on the 1st and
7th. For example: there will be 5 digits of the Sun eclipsed,
in the 16th degree of Taurus, about 3 past 11 A.M. mean time
at Saalfield, on the 6th of May, 1845. And as this falls nearly
opposite to the 10th house in this figure, which governs the
ruling family, we may expect the death of a leading and dis
tinguished character of that family during the period of the in
fluence of that eclipse; probably about July 1845.
28 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
Moreover, a great change is foreshewn in the state of the
people generally, and much physical suffering by floods, &c.,
and failure of harvests in the present year, 1842.
The GREAT CoNJUNCTION at MEXICO, in lat. 190 26' N.,
long. 99° 5' W., at 10h. 52m. 21s, mean time there, on the
25th of January, 1842.
The effects of this phenomenon will be most potent at this
ancient seat of by-gone dominion. All those parts have long
been discovered to be chiefly influenced by the sign Capricorn,
in which this Great Conjunction occurs. The planets will be
on the lower meridian in long. 1070' 38' W., which is 83 de
grees to the west of Mexico, and falls near Cape St. Lucas,
the southern extremity of Lower California.
I have no hesitation in foretelling a lamentable stroke of
fate in this part of the world, in the shape of a terrific earth
ZADKIEL’S LEGACY. 29
quake, which will surpass all that has been experienced for
many ages! It will be seen that the two bodies in conjunction
afflict by square aspect the horizon, as they do by their pre
sence the meridian. Yes, vast will be the destruction in the
ancient province of Mexico, and before this book sees the
light we may hear the intelligence of some of the evil I see de
noted in this figure". But the influence will be renewed when
ever there shall happen an eclipse near the 9th degree of Capri
corn, or the opposite degree. And as the great solar eclipse,
on the 8th of July, 1842, falls near the midheaven, the ruling
powers of Mexico will fall, and the enemies of that country
will prevail in overthrowing the existing government; and it
is probable that the state will be incorporated with some other,
as its independence is grievously threatened. Regarding the
physical phenomena I have described as to be expected from
this Great Conjunction, I must now offer some additional re
marks.
If we observe the eclipses, &c., preceding important earth
quakes, and to which these may be referred as causes, we shall
find that, wherever Saturn has the leading hand in their pro
duction (which is most frequently the case), the shocks fall
out most heavily on the meridian where he may be at the time,
and according to a certain law. That law appears to be con
nected with the angle in which his light, as reflected to the
earth, falls on the atmosphere; and I am of opinion that the
light of Saturn, being denuded of the red ray, or positive elec
tricity, produces a negative state of the electric matter about
those parts where his light falls in such angles, and so creates
a rush of the electric matter in the earth near those parts, to
restore the equilibrium; which rush produces all the conse
quences we witness in earthquakes.
Now, upon this principle, I note that Saturn is just 220 32
declined from the equator at this Great Conjunction; where
fore, if we conceive a right line to be continued from the spot
where Saturn's ray falls vertically on the earth, it will £ a.
place in 220 32 N. lat., and 107° 38' W. long, which is close
to Cape St. Lucas, in Lower California, and not far from Cha
melo. Hence, I judge that very violent derangements of the
atmospheric electricity will occur in those parts, and terrific
* Intelligence arrived of war with Texas while this was in the press!
D 2
30 ZADKIEL'S LEGACY.
earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, storms, &c., will follow.
But when Saturn becomes vertical on the meridian of those
places, his light falls at an angle of 30 degrees in lat. 7" 28
N.; and 45 degrees in lat. 220 28' N., and 60 degrees in lat.
37°28' N., and 72 degrees in lat. 49°28' N., and 90 degrees
in 67°28' N. These several angles are those of the several
astrological aspects, and the principal effects may be expected
in places falling in those latitudes, but chiefly near that meri
dian of 107° 38' west.
F have already mentioned those in the 23d degree of lati
tude, and 1 may now enumerate the others. In the 38th degree
of north latitude, and 108th degree of west longitude, we find
a spotjust without the boundaries of the United States terri
tories, and we observe that the great river ARKAUsAs rises near
that locality. This, then, is one place wherein we may expect
fearful earthquakes and other phenomena of electric origin, as
great storms, &c., The next locality, in the 50th degree of lati
tude, falls about the boundary line of 1818, and near the Milk
River. Lastly, the 68th degree of latitude on this said meri
dian falls near Back's River, in Bathurst's Inlet, within the arc
tic region. All these places will be affected, but chiefly those
in the province of Mexico, about the 108th degree of west
longitude, and the 23d degree of north latitude, or both sides
of the mouth of the Gulf of California, where the stupendous
phenomena of earthquakes will assuredly occur, even during
the present year 1842, especially about the periods when Sa
turn or Jupiter will be stationary. The 23d of April", the 6th
of May, but chiefly the 10th of May, will be noted for extensive
earthquakes in various parts of the world, particularly about
those parts of Mexico I have above described. The Moon will
south at one o’clock on the morning of the 26th of April in the
mouth of the Californian Gulf, and from the very remarkable
positions at that time I fully expect a violent and extensive
earthquake at that time and place.
* News has arrived of extensive earthquakes in Greece at this date,
while this was printing.
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. 3]
ESSAYS ON HINDU ASTROLOGY.
ON THE INDIAN AND ARABIAN DIVISIONS OF THE ZODIAC, AS
THEY REFERRED TO THE DECANATES.
In the 9th vol. of Asiatic Researches there are some remarks on
Hindu astronomy and astrology, of which I shall here offer an
abstract. They are chiefly written by H. T. Colebrooke, Esq.
“Another topic relative to the zodiac, and connected with
astrology, remains to be noticed. I allude to the Drèshcanas,
answering to the Decani of European astrologers. The Hindus,
like the Egyptians and Babylonians, from whom that vain" sci
ence passed to the Greeks and Romans, divide each sign into
three parts, and allot to every such part a regent, exercising
planetary influence under the particular planet whom he there
represents.
“The description of the 36 Drèshcandis is given towards the
close of Varāha Mihira's treatise on the casting of nativities,
entitled Prihat Jataca. It is here translated conformably with
the gloss of BATTOTPALA; omitting, however, some variations
in the reading of the text which are noticed by him, but which
can be of no use, unless occasion should arise for reference to
them in comparing the description of the Drèshcanás with
some amulet or ancient monument, in which the Decani may
be supposed to be figured.
1. [MARs.]. A man with red eyes, girt round the waist
with a white cloth, of a black complexion, as formidable as
able to protect, holds A RAISED BATTLE-AXE.
2. [THE SUN.] A female clad in red apparel, with her mind
fixed on wearing ornaments, having a mare's head, and a bell
like a jar, thirsty and resting on one foot, is exhibited b
YAvANA, as the figure of the Dréshcana, in the middle of
Méshat.
3. [JUPITER.] A fierce and wrathful man, conversant with
arts, of a tawny complexion, solicitous of action, but unsteady
in his resolves; holds in his hand a raised stick, and wears
* Mr. Colebrooke, good, simple man, here terms astrology a “vain.”
science; but he has given ample evidence that he knew nothing of the
subject from his own experience. His assertion, therefore, is merely
the result of ignorance, and deserves no respect from the searchers after
truth.
+ Mesha, the ram.
32 ZADKIEL’S LEGACY.
red" clothes. He is the third in the tripartite division of
Mésha. -
4. [VENUs.] A woman, with hair clipped and curled, a
body shaped like a jar, her clothes burnt, herself thirsty, dis
posed to eat, and fond of ornaments: such is the figure of the
first in WRISHABHA.
5... [MERCURY..] A man, with the head of a goat, and a
shoulder like a bull, clothed in dirty apparel; skilful in regard
to the plough and thecart; acquainted with field, grain, house,
and kine; conversant with arts, and, in disposition, voracious.
6. [SATURN.] A man, with a body vast as an elephant's,
and feet great as a Sarabha'sf, with white teeth and a tawny
body; his mind busied upon the wool of wild sheep; occupies
the extremity of the sign Taurus.
7. [MERCURY..] Such as are conversant with the subject
declare the first in the tripartite partition of the third sign to
be a woman, fond of working with the needle; beautiful, de
lighting in ornaments, childless, amorous, and with her arms
elevated.
8. [VENUs.] In the middle of the sign Gemini is a man,
with the face of a Garudd!, standing in a grove: he is an
archer, clad in armour, and holds a bow; he meditates on
sport, his children, ornaments, and wealth.
9. [SATURN.] At the end of the sign Gemini is a man de
corated with ornaments, having as many gems as the ocean
contains; clad in armour, and furnished with a bow and
quiver; skilled in dance, music, and song, and practising
oetry.
#[THE Moon. The wise declare the first in Cancer to
be an animal with the body of an elephant, the feet of a Sa
rabha, a boar's head, and horse's neck, standing in a grove,
under a sandal-wood treet), and upholding leaves, root, and
fruit.
11. [MARs.] . In the middle of the sign Cancer, a woman,
in prime of youth, with blossoms of lotos on her head, attended
* This allusion to the red colour of garments worn by people influenced
by this sign is remarkable. England is influenced by Aries, and the
red coats of the English soldiery are as well known as their Martial
prowess and propensities.-Z.
+ A monster with eight legs, who destroys elephants.
# An eagle, or else a gigantic crane, perhaps a vulture.
§ Santalum album sive sirium myrtisolium.
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. 33
by a serpent; cries while standing in a forest, resting against
the branch of a Palaisa" tree.
12. [JUPITER.] Last in Cancer is a man, with his head in
clined; he is decorated with golden ornaments, and embarking
on a vessel; and, encompassed by serpents (twined round him),
he traverses the ocean to seek ornaments for his wife.
13. THE SUN.] A vulture and shakal stand on a cotton
treet : a dog is near; and a man in a squalid dress laments
for his father and mother: this representation is pronounced to
be the first of the Lion.
14. [JUPITER.] A man, formed like a horse, bearing on
his head a garland of yellowish-white flowers, wears a leather
dress: unconquered like a lion; armed with a bow, and dis
£" by a hook nose: he is placed in the middle of the
10ii.
15. [MARs.] The third in the tripartite division of Leo is
a man, having the head of a bear, with a long beard, and
curled; in disposition similar to an ape; and holding a staff,
fruits and flesh.
16. £ A damsel, bearing a jar filled with blos
soms (her person clothed in apparel soiled with dirt), solicitous
for the union of dress with opulence, is going toward the fa
mily of her spiritual parent: such is the first of Virgo.
17. [SATURN.] A man, of a dark complexion, with a cloth
on his head; holds a pen, and is casting up accounts of receipts
and disbursements: he bears a large bow, and his body is
covered with hair: he is placed in the middle of the sign.
18, [VENUs.]. A woman, of a fair complexion, dressed in
bleached silk, tall, holding in her hand a jar and ladle; is de
voutly going towards a temple of the gods: the wise pronounce
this to be the last of Virgo.
19. [VENUS.] A man is proceeding along the middle of a
high-way, holding a balance, and having weights in his hand:
he is skilled in measuring and meting, and meditates on com
modities and their prices. The Yavanas declare this form to
be first of Libraj.
* Butea frondosa. + Bombax heptaphylum.
# Yavanas signifies the “Wise;” some conceive it implies the Greeks.
[There is no kind of ground for this idea; and I think it might be shewn
to mean merely what it is often rendered, “the wise;” id est, the magi or
philosophers, or men of learning. -Zadkiel.]
34 ZADKIEL'S LEGACY.
20. [SATURN.] A man, with the head of a vulture, carry
ing a water-pot, is anxious to proceed, being hungry and
thirsty; in thought he visits his wife and son. He is middle
most of the balance-bearer (Libra).
21. [MERCURY..] A man, in figure like an ape, adorned
with gems, bearing a golden quiver and armour, and carrying
fruits and flesh; is scaring deer in a forest: such is the figure
exhibited by the Yavanas*.
22. £ A woman, without clothes or ornaments,
comes from the great ocean to the shore; she has fallen from
her place; round her feet are serpents entwined; but she is
pleasing. Such is the first of the sign Scorpio.
23. [JUPITER]. A woman, with a body like a tortoise and
a jar, and with serpents entwined round her person; is soli
citous to prepare local comforts for her husband. This figure
the wise pronounce to be the middle one of Scorpio.
24. [THE Moon.] The last of the Scorpion, is a lion, with
a large and stooping head, resembling that of a tortoise; he
guards the place where sandal-wood grows, terrifying dogs,
deer, boars, and shakals.
25. [JUPITER.] An animal, with the body of a horse and
head of a mant, holding a large bow,stands near ahermitage,
and devoutly guards the implements of sacrifice; such is the
first of the three divisions of the bow (Sagittarius).
26. [MARs.] A pleasing female, of golden complexion,
like the Champacaj, moderately handsome; sits on a throne,
distributing marine gems. This is described as the middle
division of the bow.
27. [THE SUN.]. A man with a long beard, of a complexion,
yellow, like the Champaca, is sitting on a throne, with a
* The original is expounded by BATToTPALA, “declared by the an
cient Yavanas.”
[It is clear that this treatise pf the great Indian astrologer, VARAHA
MIHIRA, was written at a period, if not before the Greeks knew any
thing of astronomy, at least very soon after, which is conclusive against
the term “ancient” being applied to them.—Zadkiel.]
+ [It is remarkable that this is the exact figure the Egyptian, Arabian,
and European astrologers have employed to depict the sign Sagittarius:
thus shewing, not necessarily, the same local origin for the science. but
that all have observed the incontestible fact that men born under the in
fluence of this sign are remarkably partial to horses, and to riding and
hunting.—Z.]
# Michelia Champaca.
ZADKIEL'S LEGACY. 35
staff in his hand: he wears silk raiment, and a deer's skin.
Such is the third figure of the ninth sign.
28. [SATURN.] A man, of a terrible aspect, with the body
of a hog, hairy, having tusks like a Macara"; holds a yoke,
a net, and fetters. He is first of Capricorn.
* A sea monster: perhaps the Narwhal may be intended.
This supposition of Mr. Colebrooke is untenable, and arises from his
want of acquaintance with the origin of the oriental figure for the sign
Capricorn. That figure had the HEAD of a goat and the TAIL of a fish.
I shall here quote some remarks of Jamieson on this subject. “On the
Egyptian zodiac we find the sea goat, held in a string by the god Anubis.
In the zodiacs of Dendera and Esmé, the symbol is half goat, half fish:
in the Indian zodiac it is composed of a goat passant, traversed by a fish;
on the oriental zodiac of Sir W. Jones, it is a fish swallowing an antelope,
and surrounded by aquatic birds; and the zodiac of Moor's Hindu Pan
theon represents an antelope. The sign of the goat (the sea goat) was
called “the southern gate of the Sun,” by the ancient orientalists, as Can
cer was denominated “the northern gate.” Ten stars in the sign Ca
pricorn are known by the name of the “Tower of Gad” to all oriental
scholars. In Egypt the goat was adored as the symbol of sol generator;
and Mendes was the god typifying the Sun in Capricorn. Mendes was
also the name of a district in Egypt.
Zebulon bore on his standard the symbol of Capricorn, the sea goat. * *
Popular fable makes Capricorn to be Pan or Bacchus, who, fleeing from
the giant Typhon in the river Nile, transformed himself into a sea-goat;
upon which account Jupiter made him a constellation.
It is clear that Grecian fable throws no light on this subject; to elucidate
which, we must remember that India is ruled or chiefly influenced by Ca
pricorn (as shewn in the recentinsurrection in Cabui, &c. as foretold from
the entrance of Saturn into that sign, &c.), and hence arose the fable of
Bacchus having been educated in India. And the reason of this sign hav
ing been called the goat is obviously the fact, that persons born under that
sign’s influence have the contour of that animal in their long peaked chin,
and are remarked for their skippish, frisky action, and also for their libi
dinous propensities, that animal being noted for such also. Butthe reason
of the name of the sea-goat (the Macara of the ancient Hindus) must be
sought for in the ancient astronomical phenomena. If we go back only
2400 years, we find that Pisces (the fishes) occupied the place of Capri
corn, and thence, it seems, the Macara or sign of the goat had the tail of
a fish. There can be little doubt that the Megaera of the Greek poets
was a mere corruption of this term. Let us bear in mind that Capricorn
is the house of Saturn, and the exaltation of Mars. Hence the two malefic
planets have chief rule therein; and Capricorn is a sign noted for produc
ing persons who entertain envy and hatred. The word Megaera is de
rived from tasyaies", invidere, odisse, to envy, to hate. This shews the
allusion to the astrological character in the name. Megaera was one of
the Furies, or daughters of Nox (night), and Acheron (hell or darkness).
All these are allusions to the darkness incident to theSum's passage through
Capricorn, and to the darkness of complexion of all Capricorn people.
The connexion of the two malefics with this sign accounts for the doctrine
36 ZADKIEL’S LEGACY.
29. [VENUs. In the middle of Macara is a woman skilled
in music, with eyes large, like the petals of the lotos, and with
a dark complexion. She seeks various things; she is de
corated with jewels, and wears metallic ornaments in her
ears.
30. [MERCURY..] A man, shaped like a Cinnara", clothed
in a woollen cloth and furnished with quiver, bow, and armour;
bears on his shoulder a jar adorned with gems: he is last of the
sign Macara.
31. [SATURN.], the first of the jar (Aquarius), is a man
with the head of a vulture, clothed in silk, and wearing an
antelope's hide with a woollen cloth: his mind is busied in
obtaining oil, ardent spirits, water, and food.
32. [MERCURY] in a burnt carriage; a woman clad in
soiled apparel, bearing vessels on her head, is collecting metals
in a forest containing cotton trees. -
33. [VENUs.] A man of a dark complexion, with hairy
ears, adorned with a diadem, carries and transports vases
that the Erinnyes (the Greek name for the furies, the word signifying sti,
vows, the fury of the mind) inflicted their vengeance upon earth by wars,
pestilence, and dissensions; such being the effects of Capricorn, as now
evidenced in India, and recently in Oxford, Mexico, Greece, &c. But the
allusion to the astrological influences is farther obvious, in the doctrine that
the furies were “daughters of the earth” (Capricorn is of the earthy tri
plicity), and conceived from the blood of Saturn, he being lord of that sign;
and we see that their mother Nox had a cock sacrificed to her, which bird
was sacred to Mars, who is exalted (the chief dignity) in this sign. Far
ther, Macara, among the Hindus, is obviously the MARA of the Buddhists,
the C being softened down or lost in the latter idiom. For MARA is al
ways drawn with a BATTLE-Axe or spear in one hand, and a cock or
horned goat in the other, as I have witnessed in the Budhist temples.
The character of MARA is violent, warlike,-“the propagator of all
evil,”—says the author of the Miniature of Buddhism—“ an ill-natured
deity, mighty in power, inhabiting the sixth Dew.loka,” or heaven. The
CHACKRA is a weapon in the form of a discus; “the symbol of MARA, by
which he can inflict thunder and lightning, bring down fire from heaven,
and perform other mighty exploits, which, on some occasions, make all
the gods tremble, and fly before him.” All these points demonstrate that
the Buddhist deity, MARA, with his “battle-axe” in hand, and the man
with red eyes and raised “battle-ave,” in the first Dreshcanã, the MA
CARA of the Hindus, and MRG ERA of the Greeks, were all personifica
tions of the influence of the planet MARs, more particularly when in his
place of power, the horned goat.
The reader will pardon the length of this note, as its subject is import
ant to the right understanding of many allusions in the writings of the
ancients.
* A human figure, with the head of a horse.
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. 37
with articles of metal, and with bark, leaves, gum, and fruit.
He is last of Cumbha.
34. [JUPITER], the first of the fish (Pisces), navigates the
sea in search of ornaments for his wife. He has jewels, and
his hands are full of vessels used in sacrifice, together with
pearls, gems, and shells.
35. [THE Moon. A woman, surpassing in complexion the
blossom of the champaca, ascends a ship with lofty masts
and flags, and approaches the shore of the sea, accompanied
by her retinue. This is declared by sages to be the second in
the tripartite division of Mina. -
36. [MARs.] Near a cavern in a forest, a naked man, with
serpents entwined round his body, and tormented by robbers
and fire, laments. He is the last of the fish.
Arabian astronomers, in like manner, divide each sign of
the zodiac into three parts, denominated wajeh, or in the plu
ral wajuh, which severally belong to the £ planets":
thence called Rab ul Wajah.
*
* In the following order, beginning from Aries: viz., Mars, the Sun,
Venus, Mercury, the Moon, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, the Sun, &c.
The reader will here observe, that none of the learned who have writ
ten on this subject have noticed the origin of this order of the planets.
It is simply the rate at which they move in the heavens; thus, if we be
gin with the slowest, Saturn, the next in motion is Jupiter, then Mars,
then the Sun, Venus, and Mercury, and, last, the Moon, who moves
swiftest of all: after the Moon we begin with Saturn again, and so forth.
It was this order which was followed in distributing the planetary hora,
or hours, among the Sanscrit, the Roman, and the Arabian astrologers.
Each planet had a day appointed to its influence also, and that day be
gan by the hour of the planet, as the first hour on Sunday is sacred to
the Sun, the 2d to Venus, 3d to Mercury, 4th the Moon: then began the
category again with Saturn, Mars, Jupiter, and the Sun, &c. On Mon
day, the 1st hour was the Moon's, 2d Saturn's, &c. The proper import of
the term Wajeh, is PAce or countenance, agreeing with the Greek Pro
sopon. Face is the European term for the Decanates.
After shewing that the astrological doctrines of the Decani was con
fesedly borrowed by the Greeks from foreign nations, Mr. Colebrooke
declares that “ the astrological doctrine itself may be exotick in India.
One branch of astrology, entitled Tajaca, has been confessedly bor
rowed from the Arabians. [Query: Is not this Horary astrology?] The
casting of nativities, though its practice is of more ancient date in India,
may also have been received from western astrologers, Egyptians, Chal
deans, or even Greeks.” On the contrary, I believe much of it origin
ated in India. By their own acknowledgment they have cultivated astro
nomy for the sake of astrology.
BhoscARA expressly says, “By ancient astronomers, the purpose of
E
38 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
ON THE ASTRONOMICAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE ANCIENT HINDU
ASTROLOGER.S. -
In the treatise by BRAMAGUPTA, which still exists, and in
the Siddhanta Sirómani, the work of a more recent writer, it
is stated that the number of savan, or natural days, contained
in the CALPA, is 1,577,916,450,000.
ALBUMAZAR, an Arabian astrologer, states that “the Hin
dus reckoned from the flood to the Hejra 720,634,442,715
davs.”
In the 9th vol. of Asiatic Researches, p. 242, Mr. Davis
thus constitutes the Hindu chronology:
Years expired of the Calpa to the end of the
Satya Yaga.......... 1976;84,000
Treta Yuga ......... 1,296,000
Dwapar............... 864,000
To the Cal Yuga, 1972,944,000 years.
Then he says, that if the days in the Calpa be multiplied
by the above number, and divided by 432,000,000, we shall
find the quotient to be “exactly the number of days mentioned
by ALBUMAzAR; that is, it will be 720,634,442,715, without
any fraction.” But I find Mr. Davis has made an error, by
taking one cypher too little in his divisor, which should be
4,320,000,000+ instead of 432,000,000. Now, it becomes
interesting to learn how the Hindus arrived at this particular
divisor, or why they fixed on 12,000,000 “ Divine” years:
and it is obvious that it was by having observed it to be con
nected with a certain astronomical period, which we will pre
sently examine. This they multiplied by the number of days
in the sidereal year, and thus they produced the Savan, or
number of natural days in the CALPA, or period from the crea
tion until the commencement of the last Yuga, or Divine age.
Nothing can be clearer than that, if the calculation come out
the science is declared to be judicial astrology; and that, indeed, depends
on the influence of configurations, and these on the apparent places of the
»lanets.”
i [I have introduced these extracts as interesting to the student in astro
logy, and as evidence of the extent and the antiquity of the science among
the learned and judicious philosophers of Hindoostan.-ZAD KIEL.]
* See note at page 42.
+ A Divine year is 360 common years.
ZADKIEL'S LEGACY. 39
correct, “the poor, despised Hindu astrologers” had a de
gree of astronomical knowledge of which the Greeks and Ro
mans never dreamed, and which has been excelled only very
recently by modern astronomers, with all their refined instru
ments, telescopes, logarithms, and appliances to boot. The
calculation does come out correct; for if the above Calpa be
divided by 4,320,000,000, the quotient will be the length of the
year, 365,2584375 days; which differs only in the third place
of decimals from European astronomers. The following com
parative amounts of the computed lengths of the year will shew
the accuracy of these very ancient calculations.
Length of the Sidereal Year in mean Solar Time.
By the Hindus........ 365 : 6 : 12 '9
By Ursino ............. 365 : 6 : 9 : 12
By Sir J. Her : 6 : 9 : 10
Thus, the Hindus differed's in. 57 sec. from the Ger
man astronomer, and 2 min. 59 sec. from Sir John Herschell.
And it is demonstrated, that the Hindus knew ExACTLY
the length of the year. We know, however, that the Greeks
were ignorant of this important piece of astronomy.
The “astronomical period” I promised to examine is that
of the DiviNE AGE. The Treta Yuga has been shewn to
have been taken as 1,296,000 years, equal to the number of
seconds in 3600, and that of the Dwapar Yuga 864,000 years;
the difference is 432,000 years: of which, it will be seen, the
“divisor” before named is a multiple; 432,000x10,000–
4,320,000,000. But it will appear that the sum of the Treta
Yuga and the Dwapar Yuga is equal to 2,160,000 years;
and we shall see that a certain astronomical theory, which
Mr. Colebrooke has condemned as “wholly unfounded” (Asiatic
Researches, vol. ix, p. 364), is connected therewith, and proved
to be extremely well conceived.
In speaking of the stars in the Great Bear, it is said in the
Brame Siddhanta of SACALYA, that “their motion is eight
liptas (minutes) in a year. Their distances from the ecliptic,
north, were respectively 55", 50%, 56°, 57, 60°, and 60°. For
moving in the north into different positions, the saGES em
ploy 2700 years in revolving through the assemblage of aste
40 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
risms; and hence their positions may be easily known at any
particular time.” These “sages” were termed Rishis, and
we are told their names; viz. CRATU, PULAHA, PUTASTYA,
ATRI, ANGIRAs, WASHISHTA, MARiCHI.
The seven Rishis were evidently the seven chief stars of the
Great Bear, and we are informed that they remain in one aste
rism during 100 years. These are, of course, 100 Divine
years, each of which is equal to 360 common years. If we
multiply this 100 years by 360, we have 36,000; and as the
Rishis took twelve times this period to go through the twelve
asterisms or zodiacal signs, we get a multiple of the same
“ astronomical period,” viz., 432,000 years", for 36,000 x
12=432,000. But we have seen that “the sages employ
2700 years in revolving through the assemblage of asterisms,”
and they are said to move eight minutes in a year. This be
ing a “ Divine” year, it follows that they move eight minutes
in 360 years, or one minute in 45 yearst. And as there are
21,600 minutes in a great circle, if we multiply this into 100
the number of years they remain in each sign), we have
2,160,000, which is the “ Divine age” again; and this Di
vine age, when repeated 2000 times, becomes 4,320,000,000,
which we have seen to be the multiplier used with the number
of days in the year to ascertain the great period of time the
Hindus termed the CALPA, or days since the Creation. This
number itself was called the “Calpa or grand period,” when
ears were signified. See THE MYTHOLOGY OF THE HINDUs,
y C. Coleman, Esq.
I have thus shewn that the theory is not quite so unmean
ing as the writer in the Asiatic Researches declares.
We will now proceed to examine the component parts of
this Divine age of 2,160,000 years. It was divided into two
portions, which consisted of 1,080,000 years each, called the
Maha Yuga, or Great Age. And each of these were com
* This is the Cali age.
+ As 8 min. in 1 year are 360° in 2700 years, and these are to be mul
tiplied by 360 (being “Divine” years), we have 2700 x 360=972,000
common years. This is the amount of three “ages,” as will be presently
observed. 2d Age 216,000 years
3d Age 324,000 ......
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. 41
posed offour ages (all distinct astronomical periods); which
I believe, were the “four ages” so celebrated in antiquity.
Y EA als,
1st Age.................. 108,000
2d Age................... 216,000
3d Age.................. 324,000
4th Age.................. 432,000
MAHA YUGA, 1,080,000 years,
which, doubled, produces 2,160,000 years, the Divine Age.
The ratio of increase is found to be as 1, 2, 3, 4; an arith
metical progression. It will be observed that there were four
Vedas, or astronomical books, each of which treated of one
Maha Yuga, which, repeated four times, give us 4,320,000
years, or 12,000 Divine years.
The Hindus had observed the spiral motion of the Pole of
the earth, which causes the variation of the obliquity of the
ecliptic, and to this motion allusion is made in the words
“ moving in the north into different positions.” They appear
to have formed these “ages” on the theory which supposes
that motion to be 10 in 6000 years; and as they conceived the
precession of the equinoxes to make one complete revolution
in 24,000 years, when each constellation returned to the same
sign of the zodiac, they, of course, believed that the Pole
moved 49 in that period of time. The time, therefore, in which
the poles would be reversed, that is, the North Pole would
come to point to that part of heaven where the South Pole
did formerly, or traverse 180°, would be #9 = 45 x 24,000
: 1,080,000, the extent of the MAHA YUGA. If each “age”
be multiplied by 4, we have the four Yugas —
1st ... 108,000 x 4 = 432,000, the Cali Yuga.
2d.... 216,000 x 4 = 864,000, the Dwaiper Yuga.
3d.... 324,000 x 4 = 1,296,000, the Treta Yuga.
4th... 432,000 x 4 = 1,728,000, the Satya Yuga.
1,080,000 x 4 = 4,320,000, the Divine Age.
Thus we see how the Maha Yuga is composed of the sum
of the four “ages,” and how, when multiplied by 4, it pro
duces the great period used by the Hindus (multiplying it by
1000), with the number of days in the year, to find the Savan
or days in the CALPA, or age of the world. -
It would seem, that the Hindus signified by the Cali Yuga
E 2
\
42 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
the age of heat; the term cali being evidently the Hebrew
m?p calo, torreo, to scorch. And if we assume the Poles of
the earth to revolve, then in the latitude of Cashgar, 36° (near
to which the observations must have been made), there would
be 18 revolutions of the constellations through the Zodiac (each
taking 24,000 years to complete); during which the northern
tropic (or path of the Sun) would fall within the circle of per
petual apparition, being within 36° of the Pole, and pass.
ing daily above and below the Pole, as do the stars of Ursa
Major now, and during all that time never setting to the in
habitants of 36° of north latitude". I say, 18 such revolutions;
because the Poles, moving 4" in each, would require 18 such,
to move from 36" on one side to 36" on the other side of a
given point; since 36" x 2 = 72, and # = 18. Now, 18 x
24,000 =432,000 years, which is the length of the CALI
YUGA; and whether founded in truth or not, is, at least, very
possible, and may account for some geological phenomena at
present unexplained. It demonstrates, at least, that a long
series of astronomical observations must have existed among
the Hindus, and that their old astrological notions, as con
nected with these ideas, “must be referred,” to quote Mr.
Davis, “to an antiquity which has not yet been ascertained.”
The other ages were formed upon similar principles. As
the pole receded from the Sun, the tropic approached the ze
-nith, which in lat. 369 it would reach in 4% revolutions, for
900–72=18, and # = 4}. This number of revolutions of
24,000 years will be 108,000 years; which number, multi
plied by 8, gives us the Dwapar Yuga of 864,000 years.
The tropic, or solar path, then receded from the zenith till it
* If the Sun remained 432,000 years above the horizon, its beams
would produce those calorific or scorching effects that might well cause
the name of CALIYUGA, or Scorching Age, to be given to that period.
And if the well-known motion of the Ecliptic be a revolving motion instead
of an oscillating motion, as supposed (but not proved) by modern astrono
mers, such must have been the case.
Respecting this number it may be remarked, that the 360 degrees in
the zodiac, multiplied by twice the age of Noah at the flood, 600 years,
will produce it. Also, that the reign of Xisuthrus (supposed to be Noah)
is said to have been 43,200 years, or a tenth part of it. Also that the
number of degrees which constitute a TRINE asPECT, viz. 120°, contain
exactly that number of seconds. For 120x60x60=432,000. It is now
clear that this important number is not only remarkable astronomically,
but also in its astrological character.
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. 43
reached the equator, i.e. 36°, but *=9 revolutions of 24,000
or 216,000 years, which, if multiplied by six, gives us the
Treta Yuga. The ecliptic now recedes from the equator, and
approaches the horizon, and after passing 54 degrees (equal
to 13% revolutions of the constellations), the path of the Sun
was in the circle of perpetual occultation, and never rose above
the horizon. But 1332(24,000–324,000, which, multiplied
by four, gives 1,296,000, to which add 432,000, and we get
1,728,000 years, the Satya Yuga, or age of DARKNEss; so
called from Sati, the South Pole. Thus, although a closer in
vestigation would throw more light on this interesting subject,
I have gone far enough to shew that the ancient Hindus were
not dreaming when they spoke of these vast periods of time;
but did, indeed, depict the principle of the great divisions of
time, as formed by the combined motions of the pole and the
precession of the equinoxes. Nor may we assert with Mr.
Colebrooke, that theirs was “a pretended revolution of the stars
in Ursa Major;” for we have no evidence, as yet, given by
modern astronomers, that the poles do not so revolve; and
geological facts speaks much in favour of such a doctrine.
I conclude this essay in the words of Mr. Colebrooke: “re
specting the age of Varāha Mihira's astrological treatise, it
may be added, that he is cited by name in the Pancha tantra,
the original of the fables of Pilpay, which were translated for
NUSHIRVAN MORE THAN 1200 YEARS AGo”.”
* Preface to the Sanscrit edition of the Hithpadesa, p. xi.
44 ZADKIEL'S LEGACY.
A.R. in Time, 14h. Im.45s, A.R. in degrees 210° 26'.
&
S. Birth ofH.R.H.. the *
£ PRINCE OF WALES, oft
At 10.4sm. …
% 9th November, *
<
30-26
NATIVITY OF HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE OF
WALES.
The official bulletin of the time of birth of this interesting
royal infant was given as 10 h. 48 m. A.M., on the 9th No
vember, 1841; and I have seen a letter from Dr. Locock, her
Majesty's accoucheur, stating that that was the accurate mo
ment of the infant's birth. I, therefore, erect a figure for the
lat. 51° 32' N. and long. 0°6'W., that being the exact situa.
tion of Buckingham Palace.
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. 45
The sidereal time on the meridian, at mean noon, the 8th
November, 1841, was exactly:
H. M. S.
15 10 0.42
Mean time elapsed............... 22 48 0
Diff of mean and sidereal time – 3 4473
- 38 1. 45:15
Deduct ............................. 24
A. R. at birth.................... 14 1 45–2100 26'
This gives m 2 35' culminating.
Then to find the point rising at the birth, by reference to
the table of houses (p. 8 of my “Tables for Calculating Nati
vities”), we find the long, rising when 2 m culminate to be
£ 27" 2', and when 3" m culminate, the rising point of the
ecliptic is 1 27" 53. The diff. is 51’, which for 35 on the
meridian gives the longitude of the asc. 4 27° 32', for 60:51
:35:30, and # 270 2 + 30°– f 27° 32'. This is quite suffi
ciently accurate; for if it be worked out by trigonometry, it
will differ only 2 minutes in longitude.
Thus A.R. on merid. ........................ 210 36
90
Oblique asc. on horizon..................... 300 26
270
Oblique asc. from k?........................ 30 26
Then rad. .................................... 10.00000
To sine oblique asc. ........................ 9.7.0461
So co, tang, lat. ..... ........................ 9.90009
Co. tang. 4th............Z. 68° 5' = 9,60470
+23° 28. -
As 5th ........ ......... Z 91° 33' Cos. A.C. 1.56784
•
To 4th............................. Z Co. sine 9.5720.1
So oblique asc. from k”......... Co. tang. 10.23101
To co, tang, long from k 2" 26'......... 11.37086
46 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
This falls back from kf, and gives 4 30°–2° 26'> f 27° 34' as
the true ascendant of his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales.
The following is the SPECULUM, or Table of Data, for
working directions in this Nativity.
Planet. Lat. Dec. A.R. M. iD. S. arc.
H 0.47N. 4-27S. 351-5 39.21 95.30
b 0.44N. 22-44S. 270: 11 120-15 121.50
* 0.14N. 22.58s. 260.42 50.16 57.46
d 1.35S. 24, 9S. 286.44 103. 5 124.21
Q) - 16:54S. 224-26 14 0 67-31
? 1 42N. 5.58S, 199-19 11. 7 82.26
% 1.40S, 22.16S. 238.35 28- 9 58-59
J) 4-11S. 3.37S. 177.49 32.37 85.26
69 — 231:20 20:54 –-
Notes.—The distance of 24 above the first house is 7° 30'. The distance
of #2 below the asc. is 1°35'; and the distance of the 9 outside the ninth
house is 4° 8'. The éP is 7° 35' inside the 11th.
GENERAL JUDGMENT.
The following brief notice appeared in a second edition of
my Almanac for 1842; but as it was written and printed before
the Sun set upon the new-born babe, it could not do more
than give a mere outline of those subjects I now purpose to
enlarge upon.
London, 1 P.M., Nov. 9, 1841.
“I have just read the announcement, on the Mansion House,
of the “Birth of the Prince of Wales, as predicted in this
Almanac. The above figure is for the minute given by au.
thority. The Q happily has the mundane sextile of it, who
is strong by being in good aspect to 2; but as 3 is angular,
and throws a square to the Q, we cannot hope that the child's
constitution will be free from liability to feverish complaints,
especially when the Q completes the square of 3, at about
2 y. 4 m. of age. This excepted, I find the hyleg strong, hav.
ing the parallel of Q , and I doubt not this scion of our Royal
House may, if it overcome the above aspect, live to sway the
sceptre of these realms.
“The Prince will, in person, be a tall, fair, slender figure,
and handsome, being born under 4 ; and he will be extremely
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. - 47
like his royal father in appearance. The D is in good aspect
to #, which gives him a shrewd and clever turn of mind, with
good natural talents; and he has it so strong, that he will be.
come a mild and benevolent sovereign, though firm and rather
positive in opinion.
“The place of b in square to the ) will render him liable
to sorrows and misfortunes, nor will he escape severe losses of
the nation's power, &c.; but, on the whole, I may congratulate
the country on this royal nativity.
“ZADKIEL.”
DISTRIBUTION of THE DocTRINE of NATIviTIEs.
Under this head the immortal Ptolemy has some observations,
with which it may be well to introduce my judgment on this
royal nativity.
* The doctrine of genethliacal prognostication should be
separately and '' considered, for the sake of order
and perspicuity, in its first, second, and successive divisions
or heads of inquiry. It will thus be found to present a mode
of investigation at once practicable, competent, and agreeable
to nature.
“One division is applicable only to certain circumstances
established previously to the birth; as, for instance, to those
which concern the parents; another to circumstances, which
may be established both before and after the birth, as those
respecting brothers and sisters; another to circumstances ac
tually occurring at the very time of birth, and immediately
consequent ''; and this head of '' embraces
various points, and is by no means simple; and the last divi
sion relates to events liable to take place after the birth, at
various periods, earlier or later; and it involves a still more
diversified theory. Thus, the questions to be solved, in regard
to the actual circumstances of the birth itself, are, whether the
production will be male or female, twins, or even more; whe
ther it will be monstrous; and whether it will be reared. The
questions of the periods subsequent to the birth relate first to
the duration of life (which is distinct from the question of life),
then to the shape and figure of the body, to the bodily affec
tions, and to injuries or defects in the members. After these
further inquiry is instituted, as to the quality of the mind and
48 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
the mental affections; then, as to fortune, in regard to rank
and honours as well as wealth. In succession to these the cha
racter of the employment or profession is sought out; then the
questions relative to marriage and offspring, and to consenta
neous friendship, are to be considered; then that concerning
travel; and, lastly, that concerning the kind of death which
awaits the native.
On each of the foregoing points of inquiry the doctrine and
precepts to be followed shall be thoroughly and succinctly
detailed; but all idle conceits, promulgated l, many persons
without any foundation, capable of sustaining the test of rea
son, shall be utterly avoided, in deference to the only true
agency, which is derived from primal Nature herself. It
is only upon clearly effective influences that this treatise is
established: and all matters which are open to an authorised
mode of inquiry, by means of the theory of the stars, and their
positions and aspects with regard to appropriated places, shall
be fully discussed here; but the divination by lots and num
bers, unregulated by any systematic causation, must remain
unnoticed".”
The Parents.
“In conformity to Nature,” says Ptolemy, “the Sun and
Saturn are allotted to the person of the Father, and the Moon
and Venus to that of the Mother; and the mode in which these
luminaries and planets may be found posited, with reference
to each other as well as to other planets and stars, will inti
mate the situation of affairs affecting the parents.
“The degree of their fortune and wealth will be indicated
by the attendants of the luminaries. If the luminaries be ac
companied (either in the same signs in which themselves are
laced, or in the signs next following) by the benefics, and
£ such stars or planets as are of the same tendency as them
selves, a conspicuous and brilliant fortune is presaged,
especially should the Sun be attended by matutine stars, and
the Moon by vespertine, &c.”
In this nativity it will be seen that the Sun is “attended”
* Ptolemy here alludes to geomancy and other kinds of divination, which
are unphilosophical, and in many respects unfounded. The divination “by
lots” was very common in the East, and was not sinful, as many suppose
all divination to be, because it was practised by the Apostles; as related
Acts i, v.24 to 26.
ZADKIEL’S LEGACY. 49
by Jupiter, who is matutine and strong in every way, in his
own house, in sextile to Venus, and in mundane trine to the
Moon; on the other hand, the Moon is “attended” by Venus,
who is equally powerful and equally well aspected; whence
we see that the rule applies strictly, and is exactly borne out
by the circumstances of the “conspicuous and brilliant for
tune” of this royal infant's parents.
It appears, unhappily, that Mars, in this nativity, forms a
square aspect to the Sun from the ascendant and midheaven
(which aspect measures 2'27', and will be completed at the
age of two years and five months, and may operate at a month
earlier); and as Ptolemy states, that, “if Mars be aspected
to the Sun in the way before-mentioned, the father will die
suddenly, or receive injury in his face or eyes,” there is
reason to apprehend some degree of suffering to the native's
royal father during the spring or early in the summer of
1844. And as the influence arises from aspects in the as
cendant and midheaven, this suffering appears to be of a per
sonal nature, affecting the sufferer by some feverish complaint,
which may arise from an accident by over-exertion or a fall.
It is to be hoped the native's own health will not suffer mate
rially; yet, the Sun being hyleg, gives cause to apprehend
that an obstruction in the stomach will place the child in some
danger. And as the transits in February 1844 are trouble
some, I advise great watchfulness respecting the infant's state
of health about that period. The following observations are
by Ptolemy, regarding the native's mother. I offer them to
the judicious student, without note or comment, for obvious
reasons :
“If Mars be succedent to the Moon and Venus, or in quar
file, or opposition to them, or if Saturn be similarly aspected
to the Moon only, and both of them be void of course or retro
grade, or cadent, adverse accidents and disease will attend the
mother: should they, on the other hand, be swift in motion
and placed in angles, they portend that her life will be short,
or grievously afflicted. Their position in the oriental angles,
or succedent houses, particularly denotes the shortness of her
life. * * Should Mars make these aspects to Venus, the death
of the mother will then take place from fever, some latent dis
ease, or sudden sickness. Saturn's quartile to the Moon, should
F
50 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
she be occidental, causes danger from affections of the womb,
or from consumption."
Children not reared.
I pass to the consideration of this question, which Ptolemy
treats on in the 10th chap. 3d book.
“If either of the two luminaries be in an angle, and one of
the malefics be either in conjunction with that luminary, or
else distant in longitude from each luminary in an exactly
equal space, so as to form the point of junction of two equal
sides of a triangle, of which sides the two luminaries form the
extremities, while, at the same time, no benefic star may par
take in the configuration, &c., the child then born will not be
susceptible of nurture, but will immediately perish."
This rule does not here apply. The Sun is the hyleg, and
being in evil aspect to Mars, will assuredly render the child
liable to martial (inflammatory) diseases; yet there is no
danger of its immediate dissolution.
Duration of Life,
This question is to be referred to the operating directions.
And as, when in the early part of the third year, the hyleg is
afflicted, and the life will be in some danger, yet as good as
pects succeed it, and as the Sun (hyleg) has the close mun
dane sextile of Jupiter, and is nearly in the mundane parallel
with Venus, and in mundane £. with the Moon, I judge
that this royal infant has good stamina in his constitution, and
may be able to withstand the destructive effects of very dan
gerous directions. The evil Saturn so near the ascendant cer
tainly tends to produce nervous affections and frequent weak
ness, and the Moon receiving his close square (from which
she is removed only 44 min. of longitude, and which measures
to about seven months of age, or June 1842), will also shake
his constitution; but, happily, the Moon is not hyleg, and he
will not, therefore, be # to suffer so much in his own per
son at that time as may his royal mother. It is a strong proof
of the reality of the principles of astrology, that at nearly the
same period we find there is an evil direction in the Queen's
own nativity; viz., Q D b Z., 23° 53'.
The next threatening aspect for the native's life is the
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. 51
Q D b. Con, which falls at about the age of twelve years
eight months, July 1854. And as, on the 12th of May,
the Moon will be eclipsed nearly on the place of the Sun in
this nativity, there will be great affliction in the reigning
family of Britain during May and July 1854! This is farther
confirmed by 2 being on the place of the Sun in the Queen's
nativity on the first of May; and as, at that period, Mars also
will be squaring Saturn, much evil is then threatened to the
royal father of this child by Ill HEALTH, &c. &c.; nor will
the arms and the honour of England escape a grievous blow
that summer. The child will, however, be able to overcome
this influence, I believe, as regards his own person; yet not
without severe illness of a phlegmatic nature, attended with
pains and obstructions in the head.
The Form and Temperament of the Body.
Ptolemy observes that “Jupiter, when oriental, makes the
person white or fair, with a clear complexion, moderate growth
of hair, and large eyes, and of good and dignified stature;
the temperament being chiefly of heat and moisture.” The na
tive will be described by Jupiter in Saggittarius, as that planet
was exactly rising during the birth. I quote this description
from p. 247 of White's Celestial Intelligencer, as I feel confi
dent that it will exactly apply to the Prince of Wales, when
arrived at manhood
“A tall upright body, oval face, ruddy complexion*,
chestnut hair, much beard, a good eye, courteous, fair condi
tioned, noble deportment, just, a lover of horses, accomplished,
and deserving respect.”
Hurts, Injuries, and Diseases of the Body.
The position of both malefics near the ascending horizon,
does, no doubt, render this native very liable to injuries by ac
cidents, &c.; but he will not be liable to any lasting diseases.
The square aspect of Mars to the Sun denotes some danger
of a blow or cut in the left side of the head, near the ear; and
this will be likely to occur from sport or play, exercise, &c.
The times when this will be most likely to occur will be during
evil directions, and under the influence of malefic transits.
* Rather bronzed or dusky.
52 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
But we must also regard the nature of the ascending sign to
discover the constitudional diseases of the native; which, by
previous knowledge of them, may be in most cases greatly
mitigated. The sign Sagittarius gives a disposition to disease
in the parts of the body ruled by that sign, viz. the thighs, &c.
and, therefore, there will be a liability to fistula, and to in
juries to the thighs. Over-heated blood by intemperate sport
and exercise, as hunting, &c., will be liable to produce fevers;
and this native will also be likely to meet with hurts by falls
and kicks from horses, and may most likely break a thigh by
a fall from a horse; and this will be very likely to occur, or
at least some injury by a horse, in the month of May 1870,
when Saturn will be stationary exactly on the ascending degree
in this nativity. These influences will exist also at other
£ in the native's life, when evil aspects may be formed
y directional motion.
The position of Mercury, who is weak, and afflicted by Mars,
and who rules the 6th house, and is in Sagittarius and retro
grade, rather denotes a nervous and excitable constitution; and
may, probably, if the native should give way to indulgence in
high living, and excite his mind by any degree of intemper
ance, produce epileptic attacks, as the germs of such affections
certainly will exist. Prudence and temperance may, however,
easily eradicate this predisposition.
The Quality of the Mind.
The rational and intellectual qualities are to be judged by
the situation of Mercury; while all others, which regard the
mere sensitive faculties, and are independent of reason, are
considered by the Moon and such stars as she may be confi
gurated with.
In this nativity we find both Mercury and the Moon in
bicorporeal signs, which renders the mind variable, versatile,
not easy to be understood, volatile, and unsteady; amorous,
wily, fond of music, careless, full of expedients, and prone to
regret his acts. The potent position of Jupiter so near the
ascendant, and aspecting the Moon, makes him liberal, frank,
self-confident, brave, ingenious, unreserved, yet acute. Fur
ther, the mental qualities will be exquisite, unimpeded, and
successful; and the close sextile aspect of Mercury and the
Moon will give variety of talent and much mental ability.
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. 53
Jupiter here rules Mercury, and aspects the Moon, and is glo
riously situated; he then, says Ptolemy, “renders the mind
£ gracious, pious, reverent, £ courteous, lofty,
iberal, just, magnanimous, noble, self-acting, compassionate,
fond of learning, beneficent, benevolent, and CALCULATED FOR
GOVERNMENT.” -
But Jupiter is conciliated with Venus, and, by the same
authority, “will render the mind pure, joyous, delighting in
elegance, in the arts and sciences, and in poetry and music;
valuable in friendship, sincere, beneficent, compassionate,
inoffensive, religious, fond of sports and exercises, prudent,
amiable and affectionate, gracious, noble, brilliant, candid,
liberal, discreet, temperate, modest, pious, just, fond of glory,
and in all respects honourable and worthy.
No doubt the planet Saturn, so close to the eastern horizon,
will also powerfully affect the disposition. But he is also
“posited in glory,” as Ptolemy mentions, and will tend to make
the native “careful of his person, strong, and profound in
opinion, laborious, imperious, austere, singular in mode of
thinking, hostile to crime, avaricious, parsimonious, an accu
mulator of wealth, violent and envious;" yet much of the close
mess of character produced by Saturn will be remedied by
the Sun being so closely “conciliated with the lord of mental
temperament; contributing, thereby, to increase probity, in
dustry, honour, and all laudable qualities.”
The square of Saturn to the Moon will add to the gloomy
side of the picture, and give a tinge of melancholy at times to
the native's character, and also a disposition to look at the dark
side of things and lead him to despondency; nor will he be at
all of a sanguine character, but cool and calculating, though
occasionally rash. Yet, all things considered, I declare that
though firm and sometimes positive in opinion, this royal ma-.
tive, if he live to mount the throne, will sway the sceptre of
these realms in moderation and justice, and be a pious and
benevolent man,—a gracious and merciful sovereign.
The Fortune of Wealth.
The pars fortuna is well situated and well aspected, having
the sextile of Venus near and the close sextile of Saturn, who
is “configurated with Jupiter.” This, according to Ptolemy,
54 ZADKIEL'S LEGACY.
“provides wealth through inheritance;” and we may thence
safely judge that this royal infant is destined to enjoy the in
heritance of his ancestors' wealth and dignity. Here sceptics
may observe that this is a matter of course. But let me pray
them to mote the nativity of the Duke of Bordeaux, who was
equally born to a throne, but who will assuredly never over
come the dreadfully evil positions of the stars at his birth;
which have thrust him off the royal seat, and bid him wander
through the world, without a country, and, almost, without a
home.
Fortune of Rank.
The Sun is angular and well aspected, but neither luminary
in a masculine sign; whence I deduce that the native, if he
live to attain the royal dignity, will not be so potent a sovereign
as his mother, but that some limitations will be set to his
power, which may be in the loss of some very extensive terri
tories. And as Mars and Saturn are both in Capricorn, which
governs India, that way will his losses lie. For he is destined
to have much grief from that quarter, and will rarely meet with
success in the operations of his armies, &c. in that part of the
world. The Sun in Scorpio, and in zodiacal sextile to Mars,
denotes that the Prince will greatly favour maritime affairs,
and be much engaged in conducting naval wars; which will
tend greatly to his honour, as the meteor flag of England will
float bravely beneath his fostering care. Again, and again,
shall the wooden walls of Old £ obtain extensive victo
ries in the future reign of the great, and, as he shall be called,
“THE WISE KING ALBERT.”
Marriage.
“Man is born to trouble as the spark flies upward.” The
Moon squared by Saturn, and Venus squared by Mars, do not
promise eithera very early or a very happy marriage. Indeed,
there will be some serious domestic troubles; and I forewarn
this noble-minded Prince that he will have strong passions.
Let him, them, beware how he gives them the reinl Let him
be sure that he is destined to meet trouble by and through the
female sex; and he should,therefore, be prudent in his liaisons.
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. * 55
Yet will he marry a princess of high birth, and one who will
not be undeserving of his kindest and most affectionate atten
tions.
Children.
The Sun in the 10th house in a prolific sign denotes not a
large progeny, nor will they be free from disease; and death
will destroy them early: yet as Mars, ruler of the 10th and
11th houses, is potent and angular, I deem that this royal in
fant shall not fail entirely to' a son to succeed him; nor
will that son be other than like his father,- GREAT, EMINENT,
and ILLUSTRIOUS.
The 14th year of this child will be remarkable, as in that
year the Sun will come to the meridian. This usually elevates
the native to rank and power; nor can I doubt uhat he will then
attain to some great dignity. -
D1 RECTIONS IN THE NATIVITY OF THE PRINCE OF WALES.
As a guide to the numerous students in astrology, who are
now daily increasing in number, I will here present the pub
lic with a few “ Directions,” worked out according to my
usual form of calculating. I have added a few observations,
also, as to the effects to be expected from their influence.
Q & # DD. 11" 3.
The rule to find this is as follows:–“As the semi-arc of Q
to meridian distance of Q, so is the semi-arc of # to the se
cond distance of Mercury from the meridian, when the con
junction is formed.”
For this, and other similar cases, I first find the “Constant
Logarithm,” of the Q and the M. C. thus:—
Log. A comp. of Q's arc, 67" 31', is 9:5741, to which add
the Log of the Q's merid dist., 14"; viz., 11091 : the sum is
-6832.
Then add to this Constant Log.......... 6832
The Log, of #'s semi-arc ............... 3392
It gives Log of 17' 6' .........- - - - - 1-0224
56 ZAD KIEL'S LEGACY.
The second distance of $ being 17" 6', we take it from 8's
merid dist. 28'9", and the remainder is the arc of Q & # by
Direct Direction; viz. 11" 3'.
To equate this, add thereto the Q's right asc. at birth; viz.
224° 26', and we have 235" 29, which is the right asc. of m,
27° 46'; which we find the sun reached at near 6 o'clock in
the morning of the 20th of November, or 10 days 18 hours
after birth. These, being taken “a day for a year,” give the
age of 10 years 9 months for the period when this direction
will operate.
I now look to the Ephemeris for the place of the ) at 6 A.M.
on the 20th of November, 1841, and I find she reaches the
square of the O’s place about that time. To find the very
minute when she arrives there I proceed thus:
The D moves in longitude from noon of the 19th to noon
of the 20th of November, just 11° 47'. Then, I say, “if
11" 47 give 24 hours, 8° 50' (the dist the p is at noon of the
19th from the square of the Q's place at birth) will give just
18 hours. Therefore, at 18 hours after the noon of the i9th
of November the D was in : 16° 54, the exact square of the
©'s place at birth. This was 10 days 19 hours and 12 min.
after the birth, equal to 10 years 9 months and 18 days of age,
taking again “a day for a year.” Which gives us the 27th
of August, 1852, for the period of this evil influence being
at its maximum, because of the evil secondary direction of
the ) concurring with the primary direction of the Q. -
We have farther to observe what transits will then be
operating, and also what elipses may be in force, if any. I find
that, at the end of August 1852, the evil E will be stationary
in the 18th degree of 8, close to the opposition of the Ó at
birth, a very evil and destructive influence. But, happily, it
will be exactly on the place of the Q, in 17" of m, which neu
tralizes b's influence. There will be a total eclipse of the ,
in the 10th degree of kh, on the 1st of July, 1852; which, fall.
ing so near the place of Mars in this nativity, will not fail to
operate mischief, by heating the native's blood, and rendering
him rash and liable to accidents. Having now considered all
the influences in operation, I cannot but conclude that :
coming to conjunction of the Q will be dangerous to the
native's health, and the more so as # rules the house of sick- .
ZADKIEL's LEGACY. 57
mess. And as Ptolemy observes that 8 causes mischief by
sport or exercise, it may well occur that about the end of
August 1852 the Prince will meet with some accident by sport,
which may affect his back or reins, hips or thighs; and this
may occur from falling from a horse, as # in f denotes horses.
The position of 21 on the @ saves from danger of death, yet
renders the blood impure, and the native may well have ob
structions in the stomach and feverish attacks, as # is in
semi-square to Mars. Moreover Q & 8 generally, if it pro
duce mischief, causes loss, or injury by travelling, so that an
injury may arise when on a journey.
Now, we must consider that if other evil primary directions
be operating at the same time, the influence will be more power
ful. If the direction be formed in the zodiac, as in the Q
semi-square of 3, are 14° 41', or Q & 8 zodiac, arc 15° 36',
we proceed nearly in the same way. For the former we say,
“as the semi arc of the G) is to the distance of Q from the
midheaven, so is the semi-arc of the aspect to its 2d distance;”
which second distance being taken from the primary distance
from the midheaven, gives the arc of direction. “The aspect”
in the former case is 45° from 3, which falls in 1 0° 14', the
right asc. being 238°3', from which taking the right asc. of
the midheaven, 210° 26', we have the merid. dist. of the aspect
27° 37'. The semi-arc of f 0° 14' is 62° 23', which gives a
2d dist. of 12° 56', and this taken from the merid. dist. of the
aspect, 27° 37', leaves the arc of direction, O SU 3, 14° 41'.
This measures to the end of the year 1855; and as about
the middle of December that year the evil Mars passes the
place of the Moon at birth, we must look to that period for
the most prominent effects to appear. Then, as to finding the
character of the effects, we must consider that, on the 25th of
October, 1855, there will be a total eclipse ofthe Moon, which
is found to fall in three degrees of the sign Scorpio, the exact
midheaven of this nativity. The honour of the native will be
thereby affected in consequence. And we may expect that
some rash conduct of the youthful Prince will distress his
friends; and that, if he were ruler of the realm at that time,
a terrible battle would occur, or other military affair, ex
tremely unfortunate for the nation, and derogatory to his ho
nour. Moreover, the Sun being hyleg, will not fail to affect
the native's health. Mars in ki causes injuries to the knees;
< *
58 ZADKIEL's LEGACY.
and, therefore, it will be dangerous to indulge in skating,
&c., by which he may cut his knee, and be thereby lamed
about this period: much inflat
being also probable.
The following are important
© + 7. Con. b 16 at 0Yrs.
mmatory action in the system
directions early in life:–
3 Mos., under which a splen
did ''took place.
J D # Zod. 0.32 at 0Yrs, 7 Mos., much suffering to the
native’s mother.
Asc. & b ... 1 35 at l Yr 7 Mos. Again loss and
D S D o Z. 1 40 at 1 Yr 8 Mos. £to the native's
mother, illness from
coughs, &c.
Q D & DD. 2 27 at 2 Yrs. 5 Mos. Scarlet fever, with
danger.
Q R. P. Q 2 42 at 2 Yrs. 8 Mos.
Asc. & b Z. 252 at 2 Yrs. 10 Mos. A very weak state of
health, and serious losses in
the family of the native.
O Par. Q D.D. 559 at 5Yrs. 10 Mos. Good Health.
Q & # DD. 11 3 at 10 Yrs. 9 Mos. Accidents, &c.
M.C. × 2.... 11 45 at 11 Yrs, 6 Mos. Honours.
) DJ 3...... 12 26 at 12Yrs. 1 Mo. Dangers.
@ 0 | Con. 13 7 at 12 Yrs. 9 Mos. Sickness.
M.C. & © ... 14 0 at 13 Yrs. 7 Mos. Honours, &c.
© S D 3 ... 14 35 at 14 Yrs. 2 Mos, Illnessand accidents.
Q & # Z. ... 1536, - -
Asc. A 2 ... 16 22 - -
Asc. & 3. ... 1740 at 17 Yrs.......... Hurt on the head or
knee : some illness.
M.C. × ) ... 24 21 at 23 Yrs. 3 Mos. The Prince will marry.
ZADKIEL.
#:&
* *
*, *.
BOOKS PRINTED FOR SHERWOOD & Co.
astrology.
D EpicATED to S1 R John HERscHEL, BART.
* -
- - -
G RAMMAR of ASTROLOGY, containing all things necessary
for CA1 cu LAT is G A NAT iv 1TY by common Arithmetic. Second Edition. By
ZADKIEL THE SEER. Price 5s. cloth. -
This work will enable any person to calculate his own Nativity, and decide for
himself, by the modern and improved rules of Astrology, how far that science is true
or false. The Author calls upon Men of Science to make the experiment: believing
that the character, disposition, fitness for any particular employment, and general
destiny, may beforeknown by the simple rules laid down in this work. It contains
the Nativity of Lord Byron's Daughter; and it is a curious fact, that this Lady's
marriage, which took place in June 1835, was foretold in the GRAMMAR of
ASTROLOGY that the event would happen at the period it really did. With the
calculations given at length. -
rs."
I ABLES to be used in CALCULATING NATIVITIES, com
prising Tables of Declination, Right Ascension, Ascensional Difference, and Polar
Elevation; also Tables of Houses for London and Liverpool. Computed by
ZAPKI E1., for the G&AMMAR of Astrology. Price 2s. 6d,
LILLY's INTRODUCTION to ASTROLOGY; being the whole
of that celebrated Author's Rules for the Practice of Ho RARY Ast Rology; wherein
the superstitions of the 17th century have been expunged, and the whole art rendered
plain and familiar: particularly fitted for the use of learners, and accordant with the
improved science of the present day. The easy rules given in this Work will enable
searchers after truth to decide on the reality of Astrology, in a few weeks, by prae
tising Horary Questions. Edited by ZAI,KIEL, Author of the Grammar of Astro
logy, Astrological Almanac, &c. 8vo, price 10s. 6d. boards.
N.B. The former editions of William Lilly's Astrology are long since out of
print, and only to be met with at very high prices. This is printed from the edition
of 1647, and contains all the Schemes, Fac-Similes of the Hieroglyphics of the
PLAGUE and F1 RE of LoN bon, and a Portrait of the Author.
\
ZADKIEL's ALMANAC, and HERALD of AsTRology; con
taining Nativities of eminent Public Characters, numerous Astronomical Predic
tions of the Weather for every Day in the Year. Published annually, price is.
2 Books printed for Sherwood and Co, Paternoster Row.
-
C1'tbbage, Cine55, & 3ratight'.
NEw TREATISE ON CHESS. The Rudiments of the Game
explained on Scientific Principles; with the best Methods of Playing the most
brilliant Openings and difficult Ends of Games; including numerous original
Positions, and a Selection of Fifty New Chess Problems. By G. WALKER.
Third Edition, corrected and improved. Price 8s. -
CHESS MADE EASY, a New Introduction to the Rudiments
of that Scientific and Popular Game, exclusively for Beginners. Flegantly printed,
and illustrated with numerous Diagrams. By G. WALKER. Price 3s 6d. gilt
edges.
“He (Mr. Walker) has done more for Chess than any other man now ":
nothing could be better arranged or explained than is the matter of this little
Treatise.”—Metropolitan Magazine.
SELECT GAMES at CHESS, as actually played by
Phi L.1 port and his CONTEMPORARIES. Now first published, from the
original Manuscripts, with Notes and Additions, by G. WALKER Price 5s.
cloth.
-
STURGES GUIDE to the GAME of DRAUGHTS, in which
the whole Theory and Practice of that scientific Recreation are clearly illustrated;
including many Hundred Games Played Out, and QN E H UN DRED and FIFTY
Curious Positions displayed on Diagrams. Revised and improved by G. WALKER.
Price 4s. 6d. cloth.
“Joshua Sturges was the best writer on Draughts that ever appeared. He spent
his whole leisure in the cultivation of his favourite pursuit. The Game of Draughts
was to him all in all; and the book is a charming book of its kind. Those who are
curious in the matter cannot do better than try some of the critical ‘positions. We
promise them abundance of sport.”--Atlas.
CRIBBAGE PLAYER's TEXT-Book being a New and
complete Treatise and easy Guide to a perfect Knowledge of that Intellectual Game,
in all its varieties; including Anthony Pasquin's scientific work on Five-Card
Cribbage. By G. WALKER. Price 3s.6d. bound and gilt, with a coloured Fron
tispiece.
How LE's GAMES Improved and Enlarged by New and
Practical Treatises, with the Mathematical Analysis of the Chances of the most
fashionable Games of the Day, forming an easy and scientific Guide to the Gaming
Table and the most popular Sports of the Field. By G. H. Esq. 18mo, 5s. cloth
Books printed for Sherwood and Co., Paternoster Row. 3
- Cooke's
TOPOGRAPHICAL LIBRARY,
BRITISH TRAVELLER'S
POCKET COUNTY DIRECTORY:
Con TAIN ING
An Accurate and Comprehensive
TOPOGRAPHICAL AND STATISTICAL DESCRIPTION
of A 1, L THE
C OU NT IES
A PERFE cT acquaintance with the Local History and Internal Advantages of our
Native Country is certainly one of the most useful, ornamental, and desirable branches
of human knowledge; and it will readily be admitted that there is not a nation in the
world more generally interesting to the scientific observer than that of Great Britain.
COOKES TOPOGRAPHICAL LIBRARY forms a complete PICTURE of the
BRITISH EMPIRE, and contains a particular Account of the
Situation, Mines, Agriculture, Picturesque Scenery.
Extent, Minerals, Fairs, Natural History,
Towns, Fisheries, Markets, Civil and Ecclesiasti
Roads, Manufactures, Monuments, cal Jurisdiction,
Rivers, Trade, Curiosities, &c. &c.
Lakes, Commerce, Antiquities,
of all the Counties in ENG LAND, WA LEs, and Scot LAND ; the whole interspersed
with a variety of Information, entertaining to the general Reader-highly beneficial
to the Agriculturist, Trader, and Manufacturer–and particularly interesting to the
Traveller, Speculatist, Antiquarian, and, in short, to every man of the world.
The Work is highly illustrated with a complete Series of County MAPs, accu
rately Colo URED, and Embellished with upwards of Three Hundred Picturesque
Views of Towns, CAst LEs, CH U R c HEs, CATH E D R ALs, NATURAL CURI osiT, Es.
No BLEMEN's and G ENT LEMEN's SEATs, DR U1 D10A L REMA 1Ns, &c. &c.
The division of the Work into separate Counties affords great accommodation to
the Public, in selecting such portions as may be wished; thus the Western Circuit
of England comprehends CoRN wall, D. EvoN, DoRsET, SoMERs ET, Wilts, and
HANTs, and forms Four interesting Volumes. The other five Circuits of the
Judges may be selected and bound up in like manner.
To each County are prefixed a List of T H E M A R KETs and FAIRs; an IN DEx,
shewing the D1st Ance of every Town from 1 on doN, and of Towns from each
other: also a Copious TRAVELLING COUNTY GUIDE, describing all the
Roads, Inns, Distances of Stages, Noblemen's and Gentlemen's Seats, &c. forming
A COMPLETE COUNTY ITINERARY.
The Plan of this Work has received particular approbation, from its being divided
into Easy Jo URN E Ys; by which means, Persons, either Riding or on Foot, have
the opportunity of viewing many beauties which otherwise might be missed : and to
frequenters of the various Watering Places it will be found a most agreeable GUIDE
and Cox PAN 10N.
*...* The price of each Part, containing a separate History of each County, varies
according to the size of the County, from Two to Four Shillings.--Any of the Parts
may be had separately.
4 Books printed for Sherwood and Co. Paternoster Row.
*
Qigeful $300kg,
FOR EVERY HOUSE AND FAMILY.
/
*
T WO THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED PRACTICAL RECEIPTS
in everv Branch of FAMILY COOKERY; in which the art of preparing Food and
Drink for the Human Stomach is simplified and explained, in accordance to the best
knowledge of the age, with an Historical Introduction on the Art of Cookery, from
the earliest periods to the present time; On the Duties of Cooks and other Servants;
Observations on the Implements, &c. employed in Cooking; instructions in the Art
of Carving, for Marketing, and for Trussing. By JAMES JENNINGS, Author of
the Family Cyclopaedia. Containing nearly 600 pages, price 7s.6d. cloth.
-
A PRACTICAL TREATISE on BREEDING, REARING, and
FATTENING all KINDS of DOM ESTIC POULTRY, PIGEONS, and RAB
BITS: also on Breeding, Feeding, and Managing Swine, Milch Cows, and Bees.
By BONINGTON MOUBRAY, Esq. Seventh Edition, enlarged by a treatise on
Brewing, on making BRIT isH WIN Es, CIDER, BU11 ER, and ChEE's E, and Country
Concerns generally; adapted to the Use and Domestic Comforts of Private Families.
££ new and original Drawings from Life, coloured from Nature, of the
various Breeds of Fowls and Animals. 7s.6d. cloth boards.
A COMPENDIUM of the ENGLISH and FOREIGN FUNDS,
and the principal Joint-Stock Companies; forming an Epitome of the various objects
of investment negotiable in London, with some account of the internal debts and
revenues of the Foreign States, and Tables for calculating the value of the different
Stocks, &c. Second Edition, with additions. By C. FENN, 12mo 5s. cloth.
FoRTUNE’s EPITOME of the ST CKS and PUBLICFUNDS;
containing facts and events relative to the Stocks, Funds, and other Government
Securities, necessary to be known by all persons connected therewith, or who are de
sirous of "investing their capital; with every necessary information for perfectly
understanding the nature of these Securities, and the mode of doing Business there:
in ; including a full Account of every Foreign Fund and Loan, the Dividends of
which are payable in London. Fourteenth Edition, revised and corrected by J.
F1ELD, Jun. of the Stock-Exchange. Price 6s. cloth.
Books printed for Sherwood and Co. Paternoster Row. 5
FAMILY CYCLoPAE D1A, a code of USEFUL and
NEC ESSARY KNOWLEDGE in DOM ESTIC ECONOMY, AGRICULTURE,
CHEMISTRY, and the ARTS; including the most approved Modes of Treatment
of DISEASES, ACCi DENTS, and CASUALTIES. By JAMES JENNINGS,
Esq. in one large volume, 8vo, price il 7s in boards.
-
A R T of B R Ew ING on SCIENTIFIC PRINCIPLES,
adapted to the Use of Brewers and Private Families; with the value and im
portance of the Saccharometer. The whole system of Ale, Table Beer, and
Porter Brewing, and the Names and Proportions of the various Ingredients used by
Porter Brewers (but prohibited by the Excise) made public. To which are added,
Directions for Family Brewing, making Cider, Perry, Home-made Wines, &c. &c.
Price 3.s. 6d.
“A great body of practical information compressed into a small volume.”–Monthly
Critical Gazette.
-
*
EveRY MAN His own BREWER A Practical Treatise on
BREWING, adapted to the Means of Private Families. By BONINGTON
MOUBRAY, Esq. Price is. sewed.
-
- y - - - - * - ~
PRACTICAL TREATISE on BREWING the VARIOUs
SORTs of MALT LIQUOR, and the mode of using the Thermometer and Saccha
rometer rendered easy to every capacity: forming a £omplete Guide in brewing LON
DoN PORTER, BROWN STOUT, and every other description of Ale and Beer
To which are added, General Instructions for making Malt. By ALEX. MORRICE,
Common Brewer. Eighth Edition, 8vo. 8s.
EveRY MAN His own LAWYER; a Practical and Popular
Exposition of the LAws of ENG LAN p : containing the requisite Legal Information
relative to every possible Circumstance and Situation in which Persons can be placed
in the ordinary occurrences of Trade and Social Life. Including the important
Acts of last Session. By JAMES SHAW, Esq. Price 9s. bound in cloth.
SHAW'S CONSTABLE & POLICE-OFFICER'S COMPANION
and GUIDE; containing the Duties, Powers, Responsibilities, Indemnity, Remu.
neration, snd Expenses of those Officers. Price 4s.
-
~! |- ~ * -
-
CortAGER's FRIENDLY GUIDE in Domestic Economy.
compiled for the use of the Industrious Poor. Price 6d. or 5s. per dozen.
“We feel it our duty to call on all persons who are interested in alleviating the
afflictions and compensating the privations of their suffering fellow creatures; on all
who would wish to see a restoration of that right feeling of one class of society to:
wards another, on which their preservation of social order depends—we call on all
such to rouse themselves from the culpable apathy which has hitherto restrained
them from virtuous and necessary exertion, to co-operate in the distribution of
a work such as this, and to furnish means for the practical application of its useful
lessons.”—British Farmer's Magazine, Feb. 1832.
6 Books printed for Sherwood and Co. Paternosler Row.
r
THE VILLAGE DOCTOR; or FAMILY MEDICAL ADVISER,
describing, in a plain and familiar manner, the Symptoms of all the Disorders to
which the Human Frame is subject, including the Diseases of Women and Children:
with a Method of Treatment; containing Four Hundred Preseriptions, arranged for
Domestic Economy and general Convenience. Eighth Edition, considerably im
proved. By JAMES SCOTT, M.D. 18mo, 5s, cloth.
PLAIN andPRACTICALEXPOSITION oftheLAwofwills,
with an ABSTRACT of the NEW LAW, 1st VICTORIA, c. 26; with necessary
INSTRUCTIONS and useful ADVICE to TESTATORS, EXECUTORS, ADMI
Nist'RATORS, and LEGATEES ; and of the Consequences of Intestacy; also,
Directions,especting the Probate of Wills, and the taking out Letters of Administra.
tion; the Method of obtaining a return of the Administration and Probate Duty, it
overpaid; and Forms of Inventories to be taken by Executors; with Precedents for
making Wills, Codiciis, Republications, &c. By R. "10KSON, Esq. of the
honourable Society of Gray’s Inn. New and improved Edition, 5s. 6d.
“We regard Mr. Dickson's publication as a book which no family above the low
est grade in society should be without. And to the lawyer, as well as the genera.
reader it will be found a useful and valuable publication.”-Athenaeum.
ARTs of LIFE and Civilization, with Accounts of all the
USEFUL PRODUCTS of NATURE and INDUSTRY, and Practical Details of
Processes in Manufactures, Chemistry, Pharmacy, Building, Mechanics, and other
Social Sciences, alphabetically arranged, according to the best Authorities and latest
Discoveries. In 1400 columns of Nonpareil type, forming a very thick volume in
duodecimo. By Sir RICHARD PHILLIPS. Price 14s, cloth.
THE CODE of HEALTH and LONGEVITY, or, a General
View of the Rules and Principles for PREsEaviNo HEALTH and PRolo N G1we
Life. By the Right Hon. Sir JOHN SINCLAIR, Bart: , Fifth Edition, in ore
large volume, 8vo, illustrated with Seven Portraits of Celebrated Persons who
attained Extraordinary Ages. Price 20s.
-
VINTNER's, BREWER'S, SPIRIT MERCHANTS, and Li
CENSED ViCTUALLER'S GUIDE and INSTRUCTOR ; containing an exten- -
sive Collection of approved RECEIPTS (many of them never before published),
for MANUFACTURING WINES, MALT LIQUORS, CIDER, PERRY. VINE
GAR, SPiniTS, LiQUORS, ESSENCES, CORDIALS, and COMPOUNDS,
in accordance with the present improved PRACTICE: IMPORTANT HINTS
on ceili,ARING, and the general Management of all the Articles enumerated;
Abstracts of the Laws affecting innkeepers, with various Tables, and Miscellaneous
Matter for constant Reference. £ with particular attention to the Interests
of the TRADE, as well as for the use of Private Families and Gentlemen’s Butlers,
&c. By a PRACTICAL MAN. Fifth Edition, 12mo. 7s, cloth.
