{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__anonymous___history_and_philosophy_of_animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"History And Philosophy Of Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
THE
v
HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY
OF
WITH PRACTICAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE
EXERCISE OP THIS POWER.
BEING A COMPLETE COMPEND OF ALL THE INFORMATION
NOW EXISTING UPON THIS IMPORTANT SUBJECT.
BY A PRACTICAL MAGNETIZER.
BOSTON :
PUBLISHED BY J . N. BRADLEY & CO,
OFFICE OF THE D-ULY MAIL, 16 STATE STREET.
Digitized by Google
~~ ~!.:, (_, 't:. '6 4- ~.
!$~--10to-~"t". t
To
ROBERT H. COLLYER, M. D.
(Pv.Jril of Dr. EUiol1mt1 JJICff&b.r .llfOtl;.4uulll .llfe4ioal Booidy, ~.)
THE GREA'l' CHAMPION OF MESMERISM
IN THE UNITED STATES,
THIS WORK IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED,
• BY THE AUTHOR •
NoTE. This work is intended as an elementary treatise upon Animal
Magnetism, for the use of intelligent inquirers. The Author has attempted
to give just what is stated in the title-page, and no more. His intention
was, not to convince the skeptic&), but to inform the candid. It was sup-
posed that a compand of information, in relation to the history, philosophy,
and practice of Animal Magnetism, with all the rules and cautions for the
exercise of the power, was desired by the public. And here it is.
Entered, according to Act ofCongress, in the year 184-3, .
BY J. N. BRADLEY & Co.,
' in the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the District ofMassaC.'busetts.
·-~ ....~ ..
Digitized by Google
CHAPTER I.
Early Hutory of .Animal'Magnetism-Mesmer the Dis-
coverer-Itsfate in France-Ttwestigation of the French
Academy of Medicine-Opinion of Dr. Franklin.-
Magnetism in Great Britain-OpinionsofDr.EUiotson,
Rev, C. H. Townsend, Charles Dickens, Lord Broug-
ham, ~c.
THE true power of Animal Magnetism, as practiced at the
present day, was first discovered by ANTONY MESMER, a Swiss
Physician, who, about the year 1750, attracted much attention
by his philosophical writings. He appeared in Paris, in 1778,.
where the subject of Magnetizm soon excited great interest; and
it is still held in high esteem by the most learned and scientific
men of that city, notwithstanding the repeated attempts which
have been made to crush it. The Science is now frequentJy
called MESMERISM, aner its discoverer.
In the first discovery of this science, somnambulism was rare,
and clairvoyance was unknown. These phenomena have been
developed by subsequent experiments. Mesmer applied his
power solely- to the cure of disenses. He enveloped it in great
mystery, and sold his secret to different persons for large sums
of money. Many curious stories are related of him, which our
· lil.nits will not permit us to notice. It is said he was in the habit
of operating, not only by actual contact with the patient, but
by means also of long rods of iron, which he held at some dis-
tance from his body. One of his principal methods was, to
convey the magnetic ftuid, by cords, either from magnetized
trees, or out of covered vessels, to his patients, and in this man-
ner was able to throw them into " condition in which they could
not be said to be either asleep or awake.
In his most palmy days, it is said, Mesmer was able to save
himself an immensity of trouble, for one glance of his eye was
quite enough, very commonly, to rivet the subdued patient in o.
profound slumber. He always operated, except when he used
the magnetized trees, in a chamber lined with mirors, and
darkened to a sort of'twilight ; and the place, when the opera-
iion was going on, is said to have been "a wilderness of solemn
silence," broken only by the liquid sounds of the harmonicon, of
which Mesmer was a perfect master. In the course of modern
experiments, the science has of course been greatly simplified
and improved.
In the year 1784, the subject of Animal Magnetism had ex-
cited such great and general interest in France, that the King
directed a Committee of the Royal Academy of Medicine of
Paris, to investigate the subject, and report their opinion of its
merits. Dr. Benjamin Franklin, the American Philosopher,
then Ambassador at the court ofFrance, was appointed a member
of this Committee.
Digitized by Google
A great number of exp.;riments were pdrformed before this
Com1nittee, by Dr. Deslon, a follower of )lesmer, and a .report
was ronde unfavorable to the science. It is generally supposed
that this report condemned the science altogether ; and the
opinion of Dr. Franklin hf\S often been triumphantly quoted by
skeptic~ in support of their skepticism. But stlch was not the
fact. 1'he Committee merely decided that there was not suffi-
cient evidence exhibited, to show that the phenomena called
Magnetic, were caused by the action of ajluid, as had been co.n-
tended by· the disciples of Mesmer; but they attributed the.
singular results which. they had witnessed-and which were
admitted as -
remarkable in the report-to the influence of the
imagination.
" Say what you will," observes the Rev. Mr. Townsend, "the .
important point in Mesmerism-the strange influence .of man
upon his fellows-was conceded by the Committee, in terms the
most explicit." .
One circumstance attending this report will show the value of
the great American Philosopher's opinion. It is said that of all
tbe members of the Committee, Dr. :Franklin, on account of ill
health, took the least active part in the investigation. Mr. Alex-
ander Ju11sieu, one of the most eminent nat.uralists and philoso-
phers of his age, carefully attended all the experiments, and
experimented himself upon several patients. Now mark the
result. Dr. Franklin signed the report against Magnetism, and
Jussieu alone diftered from his associates. He did not sign the
report, but published a private one, remarkable in every point,
in which he asserts that he had obtained positive evidence ofthe
reality of a magne~ic power in the human system.
In 1825, this same French Academy of Medicine, at the
suggestion of Dr. Foissac, decided that the multitude of new
facta which had been elicited in relation to Animal 1\laAnetism,
rendered it necessary to make a new examination of the subject.·
A Committee of nine members, distinguished for their talents
and philosophical attainments, was formed for that purpose,
and after four years of careful investigation, they .1uade an.
elaborate report entirely favorable to Magnetism.
They declared, among other things, that " a certain number
of the observed phenomena, appeared to them to have been
produced by Magnetism alone, and could not have been pro-
duced without it." And they concluded by saying, that "they
have collected facts important enough to show that th~ Academy
should encourage and favor re.searches in Magnetism, as being
a very curious branch of Physiology and Natul"al History."
Let no person after reading these facts, pretend to assert that
the French Academy of Medicine has condemned Animal
Magnetism. We are willing to let the opinion of Dr. Franklin,
on this subject, pass for what it is worth. That he was wise
beyond knowledge, is eviden.t.
Digitized oy Google
From France, a knowledge of Animal Magnetism, soon spread
into Great Britain, Germany, Prussia, Russia, and other
countries of Europe, where it bas engaged the attention of sci-
entific men to the present day. Innumerable treatises have
been written upon it, in various languages ; hospitals have been
erected for the application of the powe.r as a medical agent; a
professorship of Magnetism was created by the faculty at Berlin;
and all for what! To sustain an imposture ! It cannot be
possible. . .
In Great Britain the science of Magnetism appear11 to have
made less progress than in the United States. At least, the
accounts ofexperiments which we receive from England, through
the public journals, do not display a very high degree ofskill in
the art, or a very extended knowledge of thE! principles upon
which it is based. The power, however, appears to have been
extensively applied for the relief of pain, and in surgical opera-
tions, with great success.
In England there are two distinguished believers and advocates
of Mesmerism, whose names are known to all intelligent persons
at all acquainted with the acience-Dr. John Elliotsoo, Presi-
dent of the London University Hospital, and the Rev. Chauncy
Hare Townsend of the established Church. Dr. Elliotson baa
been remarkably succest~ful in his experiments. He has deliv-
ered an address before the London Phrenological Society, in
explanation and support of the Magnetic power, particularly in
relation to its influence upon the separate organs of the brain ;
and he hns also published several valuable essays upon the
subject. One chapter of his splendid work on Physiology,
which may be found in the libraries of some few wealthy per-
sons in the United States, is devoted to Magnetism, as an
important branch of study.
The excellent work entitled ''Facts in Mesmerism,'' by the
Rev. Mr. Townsend, which has been republi11hed in this country,
has done much to ad,•once the science, and to give it a respec-
table character. Thiil work is mor.e particu.larly noticed in
C.bapter VIII of this treatise. . .
The opinion of Mr. Charles Dickens (Boz,) may al~o be
noticed, to show the estimation in which this science is now
held by men of intelligence in Great Britain. Mr. Dickeas, in
a letter to a friend, says, that having witnessed the experiment~
of Dr. Elliotson in London, "be should be un~rue to that gen-
tleman and to himself, if he hesitated to declare, that he is a
believer in the science, and that he became so against all his
preconceived opinions and prejudices!'
It has also been stated that the London Society for the
Diffusion of Useful Kuowledge, with Lord Brougham at their
head, hns borne public testimony to the reality and usefulness
of Magnetism.
Digitized by Google
6
CHAPTER II.
Introduction of Magnetism into the United States-Poyen's
Expet·iments and puhlications-Dr. R. H Collyer-
(he Boston RepQrt on Magnetism-Present condition of
the Science in the United States-Magnetism in New
England-Dr. D. Gilbert, Benj. T. Nyman, Rev. J.
B. Dods, M1·s. Fergus, Silas Allen, Dr. ~'ltattuck, tJ-c.
ANUIAL Magnetism was first introduced into the United States,
in 1836, by CHARLES PoYEN, a French gentleman of good talents
and educatipn, who appears to have been a very sincere, but
excessively timid advocate of the science. He was engaged
Cor some time as a teacher of the French language at Lowell,
Mass., and· afterwards at Boston. He had witnessed experi-
ments in Magnetism before leaving Paris, but did not exercise
the power until after his arrival in this country. He visited a
large number of towns and cities in New England giving lectures
upon Magnetism, public experiments and private instruction to
classes. He met with very little success, either in promoting a
belief in his doctrines, or in pecuniary benefit to himself. But
the seed waR sown which was to spring up and bear a hundred
fold.
Mons. Poyen's principal magnetic subject was a Miss Gleason,
o( Pawtucket, a young Indy of good character, who had been
an invalid, and was greatly benefited by magnetic influence.
Mons. Poyen also magnetized several other persons, but he does
not appear to have possessed any extraordinary power.
Miss Gleason was one of the best magnetic subjects ever
produced in the United States. She has eince been magnetized
many thousand times, without any injury to her mind or health.
She has resided for some years past in the family of Mr. Alex-
ander Wright of Lowell, a gentleman of Scotch descent, -
a
powerful magnetizer, and a particular friend of Mons. Poyen,
during his residence in this country. Mr. Wright is the super-
intendant of a Carpet Factory. Miss Gleason has frequently
been magnetized by Jadie~, and children. ,
Mons. Poyen published a work in 1837, entitled the "Progress
of Animal Magnetism in New England," in which he gave a
history of his experiments with Miss Gleason and others, pre-
faced by an interesting essay upon '' The Proofs of Magnetism."
This is a work of considerable value.
Miss Gleason is now in the city of Boston, in the family of
Mr. Silas Allen, (a good magnetizer) and while in the magnetic
state, she frequently examines persons afflicted with internal
diseases, with great benefit to the patients, giving them informa-
Digitized by Google
7
tion respecting their condition which they could not po18ibly ob
tain from physicians who judge of diseases only by external signs]
A year or too after the publication of his work, Mons. Poyen
returned to Paris, where he still resides. The last information
we had of him was, that he had partially given up his favorite
subject of animal magnetism, and devoted himself to the culti•
vation of the sugar beet. His ambition while in this country,
appears to have been to win the reputation of introducing and
establishing the science of magnetiflm in the United States.
But he lacked the magnetic power and the moral courage
necessary to accomplish this gigantic task. ~e had raised a
whirlwind, but he could not direct the storm.
Much discussion was excited by Mons. Poyen's experiments.
The public sentiment was however violently opposed to the
subject, supposing it to be an arral\.t humbug. The letter to
Dr. Brigham of Hartford, by Col. Stone of N. Y.; the Pratical
Instructions of Deleuze; Durand's pretended Exposition oC
Magnetism ; and several other. publications appeared at this
time. A few intelligent men in Boston, Providence and New
York, learned the art of magnetizing; but the whole thing was
generally considered so absurd and ridiculous, that they were
compelled to practi1:e it in secret. Durand's burlesque upon
magnetism contributed, more than all other causes combined to
produce this result.
As might be expected, a great calm followed this excited state
of the public mind. Every body supposed that animal magnet-
ism was effectually killed ; and it was consigned, by common
consent to that "limbo" of things lost or forgotten upon earth
which Mihon speaks of-a place " far oft'on the back side of the
world."
Two or three years passed away, and no new facts were
elicited in relation tu this subject. At length there appeared in
New York a. magnetizer of great and peculiar power, Dr.
RoBERT H. CoLLYER, whose name and history are now so
familiar to the people of New England, that it is almost un-
necessary to detail his Rgency in the promotion of magnetism.
Dr. Collyer is one ofthe most fearlesa advocates of magnetism
we have ever known ; and although somewhat peculiar in his
public discourses, and somewhat eccentric in his general char·
acter, yet from his thorough acquaintance with chemistry and
physiology, his burning enthusiam, and his dauntless energy of
character, he is a man admirably qualified for an advocate of
Mesmeriem, which excites at once the strongest prejudices and
the fiercest opposition of all clasees ofsociety. If Dr. Collyer
has done little to covince the mass of mankind of the truth of
magnetism, he has done much to excite investigation and inquiry,
and to revive the subject from its dormant state, and he has
been justly styled "the champion of .
Mesmerism in the United
States."
Digitized by Google •
a
Dr Collyer first lectured in Boston in the spring of 1841.
His le.ctures were attended by large and intelligent audiences,
almost every night, for nearly three months in succession.
Many persons were convinced by his experiments of the reality
of a magnetic power-in. the human system, and many intelligent
skeptics were confounded.
A Committee, consisting of twenty-four gentlemen, selected
from the learned pro(essions, was finally chosen to investigate
the subject in private, and 'decide whether it was a humbug or
not. The committee held numerous sessions, and Dr. Collyer
appeared before them ·with his subjects, and entered into a full
explanation of the magnetic state. The Committee also per-
formed several experiments of a fearful character, which Dr.
Collyer had not before attempted. The members fipally con-
fessed themselves unable to discover any thing like imposture in
the magnetic state, but still they refused to give a decided
opinion in favor of the science.
The report of their proceedings however, closed with the
following resolution, which was unanimously adopted, with a ·
view to publication :
" Resolved, that while this Committee refrain from expressing
any opinion as to the science or principle of animal magnetism,
they freely confess, that in the experiments, of Dr. Collyer,
· ~ertain appearances have been presented, which cannot he ex·
plained upon the supposition ofcollusion, or by referen·ce to any
physiological principles known to them.
- This result was perfectly satisfactory to the friends of Mag-
netism. It concedes the great point in dispute,-the reality of
the mesmeric condition,-and when that is granted all the rest
must follow, almost as a matter of course.
Dr. Collyer has continued his lectures and experiments in
Boston and vicinity, until the present time, with great succetos.
He bas also visited various parts of New England, Canada, and
-New York, where he has invariably attracted large audiences,
and contributed in no small degree to extend a knowledge of
the science among the people.
A great number of other persons of good talents, have entered
the field as lecturers and practical magnetizers, among whom
are several of the gentler sex ; and there are now, without doubt,
some two or three hundred skilful magnetizers in the city of
Boston alone, and some twenty or thirty public lecturers in
New England.
Dr. D. GILBERT, a physician of good standing in Boston, has
produced some remarkable eft'ects by the power of. "local
magnetism," or the concentration ofthe magnetic influence upon
a single organ or point of the body. ~ .This is particularly
noticed in the chapter upon the results of magnetism. Dr.
Gilbert has lectured repeatedly in Boston and the adjacent
towns with much success, always attracting the most intelligent
~.
Digitized by Google "'i..
9
portion ofthe community, and presenting the subject with a
degree of candor and skill, which gains for him the reapect and
confidence of the community. Dr. Gilbert has reduced his
views to a scientific theory, somewhat more elaborate than that
which we have given in this work, but agreeing perfectly with
our explanation in the main.
BEN1. T. NYMAN, ·Esq., ofBoston, is a magnetizer ofgre4t
power, and very skilful in the management of experiments.
Mr. Nyman has attended numerous private parties, and illus-
trated the science in presence of the most learned 1\lld scientific
.men of our city ; and he has probably made more converts
among this class of people, than any other magnetizer. His •
public lectures have been attende-d by large and intelligent
audiences, and his discourses are distinguished for boldness and
good common sense. He is an intelligent practical mao-well
qualified to illustrate this delicate subject.
'fhe Rev. J~ B. DoDs, a Unive.rsalist clergyman, has recently
lectured to audiences of nearly three thousand persons, for six
or eight nights in succession, at the Malboro Chapel, in Boeton.
He is a man of decided talent, and posseues a happy faculty of
interesting the great mass of the people in this mysterious and
intricate science. His great experience in addressing religious
societies, united with the habits of moral control and abstraction
of mind, which his profession requires, afforded an excellent
preparation for this difficult task. Mr. Dods has enlightened
and convinced hundreds of persons who have heretofore been
violent sceptics.
Mrs. FEaous, an intelligent aad respectable lady of Boston,
has given a great· number of public and private illustrations of
mesmerism, in family circles, and at her rooms, at the corner of
Washington and Winter Streets. Her subject is ayoungwoman
blind from her birth. The experiments which ·she performs are
of the most interesting character.
Dr. SHATTUCK of Lowell hae also been very succeuful as a
magnetizer and lectprer, and bas made some new and valuable
discoveries in the science. A large tut~or was extracted from
.the shoulder of a lady whom he had magnetized, at a public
'lecture in LoweI), without causing the slightest pain. The in-
cision was made to the depth of two inches. .This experiment
was performed under the direct personal inspection of three or
four other physicians, who admitted the astonishing insensibility
of the patient. .
S1us ALLEN, Esq., ofPleasant St., Boston, is another good
magnetizer. We have already mentioned that Miss Gleason
the first person magnetized by Mons. Poyen, is now in this gen-
tleman's family. Mr. Allen recently magnetized a lady who
had broken an arJll, and the fracture was set by Dr. Hewett,.the
well known "bone setter" while she was in \his state, without
.pain. The arm was afterwards kept in the inaet·eible condition
Digitized by Google
10
until healed. A report of t~is case has beert published by Mr.
Allen himself:
Among other gentlemen who have exercised the magnetic
power, written upon the subject, and taken an active interest in
its progress, we may mention the following :
In Boston, Rev. John Pierpont; Drs. Lewis, Flint, Dana,
lng~lls, Gregerson, and Ball; Mr. Brackett, artist; Robert
Carter,..Esq., &c.
In New York, Rufus Dawes, Esq., the poet, Henry Inman,
artist, Dr. H. H. Sherwood, and Rev. La Roy Sunderland.
In Providence, R. I., Drs. Brownell and Cleaveland; T. C.
Hartshorn, Esq. ·
In Porrland, Me., John Neal, Esq., Professor Ingraham.
In Hartford, Ct., Bishop Brownell, Ex-Governor Ell11worth,
Dr. Brigham, and the Professors of Washington College.
In Albany, Rev. Messrs. Garfield, and Sprague; Dr. ·Yates,
Professor Grimes, and Mr. Colburn.
In Philadelphia, Pro'fessor :Mitchell, and several eminent
·lawers.
In Louisville, Kentucky, Dr. Charles Caldwell, and J. R.
Buchanan.
CHAPTER III.
The art of Magnetizin~-.All persona possess the power-
Method of operating-The Magnetic state-Its leading
features-Rules and Cautions for the exercise of the
power-Convulsions, Paroxysms, Crisis, o/c.
•
It is universally contended by Magnetizers that all persons
possess the magnetic power-females as welt as males, and even
children-differing only in degree. It is also believed that all
persons can be acted upon by magnetic influence, differing, of
course, in the degree of their susceptibility.
In answer to the inquiry, "can every person be magnetized ?"
we answer..._yes. But one individual cannot magnetize every
body. The most powerful magnetizer in the whole world (if
he could be found) might magnetize all the rest of his fellow
beings. But until this man be found, we must be content with
t~is simple principle of nature -a lesser power ca.nnot over·
come a greater..
The difference in magnetic power between any two individu-
als arises, of course, from the different amount of vital fluid in
......__
....
·..._ Digitized by Google
11
their systems ; from the presence or absence of the intellec•
ual and moral qualifications necessary to perform the operation;
and from their knowledge or ignorance of the rules by which
,the art is governed. A man of powerful and well c,ultivated
intellect, accustomed to mathematical abstraction, possessing a
strong physical constitution full of vital tluid, will, of course,
perform the operation of magnetizing better than a perst)n in a
Jow state of vitality, wilh a weak, uncultivated, or wandering
mind. Thus it will be seen why some persons cannot magne-
tize every body. A lesser power cannot overcome a greater.
The power of magnetizing is greatly increased by practice.
The operator gains confidence-learns to economise his power,
and to exert it to advantage-and acquires a certain knowledge,
feeling, or "knack," which it is almost impossible to explain in
language.
The usual method of magnetizing a " new subject," or one
who has never been magnetized before, is this :
The magnetizer takes a seat in front of the person to be
magnetized, as represented in the preceding engraYing. He
first places the palms of his own hands upon the hands of the •
subject, and endeavors to establish an equal degree of warmth
between them. He then places the balls of his thumbs against
the balls of his subject's thumbs, holding the hands with a gentle
pressure. Then abstracting his mind from all other thoughts
and objects, and fixing his eyes upon the eyes of the subject,
with earnest, determined, penetrating, but somewhat mild ex-
pression, 'he exerts an unremitted, unchanging effort of will,
increasing in intensity the longer it continues, until the subject
yield before his superior power, and closes his eyes in the mag-
netic sleep.
During all this operation the eyes of the magnetizer should
not for an instant relax their hold upon the eyes of the subject,
or move a .hair's-breadth from their object, which is the very
pupil of the eye. The magnetizer should not even wink from
first to last, till the eyes of the subject close involuntarily as if
made of lead. Incredible as it may seem, the eyes of a pow-
erful magnetizer can be kept unwmkmg for half an hour, or
eYen longer. .
The act of magnetizing is now considered almost entirely a
severe mental operation, and very little physical exertion is
believed to be required.
As soon as the eyes of the subject close, the magnetizer
begins to make the " passes" as they are called, with both
hands, from the crown of the head down .the sides of the face
and body, to the end of the fingers, throwing the hands outward
and carrying them back again to the crown of the bead in
aem1-cireles. The fingers of the operator, at this time, should
always be kept slightly separated. After making these passea
two or three minutes, (or longer) the magnetizer should pau
Digitized by Coogle
' .
12
his hands lightly from the head, directly neross the face to the
pit ~fthe subject's stomach (always avoiding the nose and chin)
permitting them to rest upon the stomach for a momemt, then
throwing them outward as before. Let these passes be contin-
·ued for a few minutes; then repeat the first passes; then make
several long passes from the head down to the feet; and the
-work is finished. If many experiments should be tried with the
subject, the short passes must be occasionally repeated.
The prevailing sentiment in the mind of the magnetizer,
during this operation, should be strong determination of will,
united with benevolence of feeling. The proper ingredients of
the magnetic power, are happily illustrated by the magic
circle on the last page of this work.
An experienced magnetizer can generally tell by his own
feelings whether he is likely to be successful or not. If success·
ful, he seems to fasten upon the eye ofthe subject, 'vith a gathering
fascinating power, of a peculiar nature-and when this has been
accomplished, he should endeavor, by all means, to keep the
"charm" unbroken. This is the feeling, or "knack," before
alluded to.
A subject is awakened and brought out of the magnetic state,
by making passes, afthe distance oftwo inches from the body,
upward from the stomach to the head, exerting the will in a mod-
erate degree to produce the desired result. There is no difficulty
in this, and extended directions are therefore unnecessary.
After the magnetic sympathy is established._ between the
magnetizer and his patient, by holding the thumbs, and exer-
cising the will, the external senses of sight, hearing, feeling,
tasting, and smelling, generally become blunted, one by one;
the eyelids are irresistably drawn together; a tingling sensation
is felt in the arms ; cold currents of air seem to be passing
around the body, in the direction otthe magnetizer's hands;
and a gener~l torpor falls upon the limbs. The eye yields first
.to the slumbrous influence, but long after that organ has ceased
to net, the hearing retains all its acuteness, and the patient is
still.able to indicate sounds. But at length the "porches of the
ear" are closed, as well ns the "curtain of the eye,"-the senses
of feeling, taste, and smell, lose· their external power and the
patient, though still alive and breathing, is dead to ·every thing
around him, save the magnetizer's voice. ·
1'his condition is not always, as has been supposed, a state of
perfect i11sensibility. It is believed, however, that no power hut
magnetism can nwaken a subject while in the perfect somnam-
bulic state. You may call upon them, but unless you are placed
in magnetic communication, they cani10t hear you. You may
mnke shrill noises in tl1eir ears, or discharge pistols over their
heads, but. you cannot start them. None of the subjects that
we have operated upon, could be nwokened by external injul'ies
inflicted upon the body. Very strong ammonia applied to tire
Digitized by Google
•
tB
nostrils, will sometimes cause them to .move the head, and will
bring tears from the eyes, but will not dispel the magnetic in-
fluence. So, if snuff, or red pepper, or hartshorn, should be
thrust into the nostrilsJ with the end of a quill, until it reache<l
the nerves of the eye, and aftected the lungs, ·it would cause a
sensation of pain, but would not arouse the patient, and he
would know nothing of it, when brought 'back to his natural
state. But what is very curious, although an arm or a leg might
be amputated, without causing the patient to start, a slight . d~h
ofcold water thrown into the face will make him •start more
than any thing that can be done to him.
We know that many of the operations of the body go on as
in ordinary life, and there is a living, palpitating substance be-
neath the paralyzed surface-but the avenues of external sensa-
tion seem to be generaUy closed-the patient loses control over
his own thoughts and actions-and remembers. nothing of what
has passed, on being brought back to the _natural state.
All persons, in the magnetic state, do not present the same
phenomena. · · ·
Some persons IU'e entirely rigid and insensibletopain, in evel'y
part of the body. You may pierce their flesh with knives; pull
out their teeth, cauterize them with a hot iron, apply the moat
powerful caustic to their flesh, or give them an ·electric shock
which would cause instant death in the natural state, but they
appear totally unconscious of your .attacks. · . ·
Others manifest a degree of sensation altogether unnafriral,
falling into fits of rage, or violent convu)si{)ns, if only touclled
by a spectator, or brought into contact ·witIt steel and other
substances.
Some persons never speak while in the magnetie state ; ilome
speak with difficulty; others speak with the greatest ·elegance
and fluenc.f. · ·
Some subjects possess the power ofclairvoyance, and seconcl-
sigbt in a high degree, IHld ·can see things independently of the
' magnetizer, near their heads or at great distance, and describe
them with astonishing accuracy. Others are never able to see
or describe anything, near them or at a distance•
'!'here is evidently no invariable rule with regard to the powers
which may be elicited by magnetic influence, in different 800'1-
,tlambulists. Nor are the same subjects always alike at different
·times. ·
The following are the principle cautions' to be obsened in
exercising the magnetic power.
No person afflicted with nerv·ous debility, bad humors, or
chronic diseases, {especially of the heart or stomach) should
ever attempt to magnetize. Apart from the injury sustained by
the operator, the eftect of such diseases upon the subject mu~t
be decidedly bad. Persons in the magnetic state feel most
keenly all the sensations of the magnetizer, and suffer all his
Digitized by Google ..,. '
I
14.
ills, even in a greater degree, and are often seriously afFected
in conaequence.
· Nervous feelings in the operater, will produce convulsions in
the subject, which it is often exceedingly difficult to suppress.
liumors irritate them, or excite great nausea; and chronic
diseases, such as St. Vitus' dance, are sometimes permanently
communicated to the subject through the magnetic medium.
No personaftlicted with chronic diseases of the heart, stomach
or brain, should be thrown into the perfect magnetic state, by a
peraon not thorou,;hly familiar with all the efFecta of this inftu·
ence; for though magnetism might be beneficial to such persona,
ifjudiciously applied, yet if improperly used, ·it might be ex-
ceedingly disastrous.
In ease any excitement, convulsions, or other paroxysms
should occur while the subject is in the magnetic state, the true
course for the operator is, to remain perfectly calm, and cool ;
and he should immediately endeavor to restore the equilibrium
of sensibility in the system by making long passes from the bead
to the pit of the stomach, and the extremities, exerting the will
powerfully to compose the subject, until the paroxysms cease.
Convulsions and paroxysms arise from two causes-excite-
ment from sympathy with the magnetizer; from disease in the
magnetizer or the subject ; or in consequence of magnetizing
some of the organa of the brain, or the sympathetic nerves,
intentionally or otherwise. . _
When the convulsion• arise from sympathetic excitement, or
from disease, the long passes from the head to the stomach will
~~:enerally check them. But if this ehould prove ineffectual, the
subject should be immediately taken out of the state.
When the convulsions arise from accidental or improper
excitement of the organs ·of the brain, they can be checked by
exciting the opposite organs, or by reducing the irJ6uence upon
the excited organs, with backward passes. For instance, if
combativeness be unnaturally excited, magnetize benevolence,
and the subject's rage is changed at once to kindness and good
humor. It is highly desirable to know pcecisely where these
organs are located, so as to be able to hit them at once. .
The magnetizer should always avoid placing the points of his
fingers on any part of the bead or body of the subject, (par-
ticularly upon the nose,_ chia, &.c.) unless he is very familiar
with the location of the organs and the sympathetic points,
as t!Jey are called, of the whole system Tbia rule is one of
vast importance.
Digitized by Google
•
•
15
CHAPTER IV.
The Philosophy of Maf(netism explained-The Magnetic
Fluid- The Spiritual State-Main points of difference
hetu;een Magnetizers-Magnetism not the effect of imag•
inatwn, or the resul.t of contrivance-,Character of th6
Magtutic Medium-Analogies of Nature.
INTELLIGENT Magnetisers throughout the country, agree very
nearly in their opinions with regard to the nature. of the mag-
netic power and the philosophy of the science.
We think we may auert, without fear of contradiction, that
Dr. Collyer, Dr. Gilbert, Dr. Francis Dana, Rev. Mr. Doda, and
Mr. Benj. T. Nyman, of Boston; Rev. Mr. Sunderland and
Dr. Sherwood, of N. Y.; Rev. Mr. Garfield, of Albany; Dr.
Buchanan, of Louiaville ; and other distinguished mesmerisers,
all unite in explaining Anima) Magnetism upon the principles
which we are about to state. This is also the theory set forth
by the Rev. Mr. Townsend, of England, in his ·"·Facts in M«:.e-
merism ;" it was the doctrine advocated by Mesmer, Poyen, and
Deleuze ; aad it agrees with the opinions of many of the old
philosophers who wrote upon the subject of ~he soul. Our ex-
planation is this : .
It ia believed that there is an elastic, invisible ether pervadi.,g
all nature, which, under different modifications, and in different
oodies, assumes the cbaracteJ' of the electric, the galvanic, and
the mngnetic tluid. That a modificaticm of this elastic ether is
resident in the nervu of the human ayetem, and is the connecti7&1f
link between mind and matter. Tbat thie ether being set in mo-
tion by the will of one pe1'1()7t1 can be made to operate upoll the
ether reeident in the nerves of a'Mtner per1on, ancl through that
ether upon the brain, so aa to paralyze the external ~emu, control
the mind. and hold subject the whole man to the will of the
magnetizer. This ether, or tluid, is called the Magnetic Me·
dil4m.
It is further believed that the human syatein consists of four
great divisions. 1. A material body. 2. A vitaJ or animating
principle. 3. A mental power. 4. A soul, or spirit. And that
the.magnetic tluid is the oitaL principle, and th~ cause of all the
strength aod animation of the body.
It is also believed that when the avenues of natural or exter·
nal sensation are closed, by the action of the fJital or magnetic
fluid communicated by the magneti:~:er, the internal ~ense (or
apirit) becomes, as it were, somewhat relieved from the ordiqary
inftuencea of the body, (as it will be after death,) and coose>
quently displays its spiritual power; that the apirit existe, in
Digitized by Google
16
fact, in a, new atmosphere, (the magnetic) in a state of being
governed by net11 laws, alld presenting most wonderful phenom-
ena. The magnetic fluid then becomes a medium for the com-
munication of ide¥ and seniations tQ' the' mind, just as the air
conveys sounds to the ear, odors to the sen11e of smelling, and
concussions to the sense of feeling.
When the subject is in the magnetic state, the internal senae
baa the power of seeing through all space, to the remotest
bounds of the universe, by an independent power of sight-and
this constitutes true Clairvoyance. The internal sense not only
sees what the magnetizer ~y imagine, nod communicate by
sympathy of sensation, but it sees things that the magnetizer
cannot see, and never has seen, by an ·independent power, pe-
culiar to that apiritual conditibn. .
The manner in whieb the magnetic ftuid operntes upon the
human llystem, is a point' not yet ·understood. and perhaps it
never 'will· be. ·Ii is a mystery, fike many other mysteries ·of
nature, which man cannot etplain. ·we see a blade of grass
grow, but we ~annot fully explain how it grows.
The -principal points of debate, between mag"netizers, respect-
ing the philosophy' of the seience, are·these:
L Whether the magnetic influence is a direct operation tiC
mind upon mind, or the operation of mind upon a magnetic me-
dium·or fluid !
2. Whether, if there be a tnagnetic fluid in the human sys-
tem, it is analogons'to electricity or not f . .
The first, is mainly a point of inquiry, rather than of belief.
'f..Ko person, we think, practically acquaintea with the science,
.actually believes the magnetic power simply a mental operation,
rihont·the agency of a ftuid,
In relation to the second point, the prevailtng opinion ofmog-
netizers is settled and uniform. They believe that the magnetic
fttrid is in some respects strikingly analogous to electricity, and
.J the galvanic ftuid ;' but in other res'pects it di'ftets from· 'both tery
r-. widely. They consider it a similar principle of nature, modi-
lfied by the hnman system'; The Rev. Mr. Dods ia the only
magnetiser wh'o contends for a very strict analogy between elec-
tricity and animal magnetism. · ·
The Rev. Mr. Townsend says, ''I do not contend for the
identity of·the magnetic agency with the electric, but for the
'propinquity." · · · · ·
Dr. Buchanan of Louisville, says:: "I have clearly provetl
the existence of a fluid in the nervous system, and am siii'e M
its great analogy to magnetism ; but hue not succeeded ill
·provin!t its identity eifher with electrieity, magnetism, or ·gal-
vanism."
• We have recently made particular ·irrquiries of Dr.' Gilbert
aird Mr. Nyman, distihguisht!d magnetizers before mentioned; as
to their'views on this point, lind they both unite in saying they
Digitized by Google
do not believe in a perfect analogy between electricity, an.d .ani-
mal ·magnetism. The ·opiniuns expre@i!ed by Mr. Sunderland,
in his ''Magnet," and by Dr. Collyer-in his lectures, agree most
perfectly with those above quoted.
That the results produced by the magnetizer cannot be' the
effect of imagination, is too apparent to admit of a doubt; that
idea has long since been exploded, and no person at all ac-
quainted with the subject, now pretends to advance itwith any
confidence whatever. ·
We disprove this charge at once, by the fact thnt a person
who· has been magnetized several times, can be thrown into the
magnetic sleep by the magnetizer, when he is at a distance of
half a mile, and at a moment when the person to be acted upon
shall not even suspect it. This has been done successfully by a
person who did not even know where the subject of his opera-
tions was at the titne he made the attempt. ·
The greatest disbelievers · in the science have also been
thrown into the magnetic state, while making every eft'ort to
resist the influence of'the power.
1'hat the results of magnetism cannot be produced by any
artific~al contrivances, by .drugs and opi'ltes, or by collu~ion and
trickery, has been admitted, by the most learned and ingenious
men, who have, at various times, investigated the science in Eu-
rope and America. Indeed, if this power were a human con-
trivance, it would be more wonderful than magnetism itseli with
all its mystery.
That the magnetic medium, or fluid, partakes in no degree of
the qualities of the immortal spirit,. we feel satisfied from long
experience, under every variety of circumstances, and from ex·
periments of the most daring characte}! performed with a deter-
mination to put this question to the severest test thnt the nature
of the subject permits. We are convinced, that however much
.we mny operate upon the physical man, and upon the magnetic
fluid which pervades his system, we have no control whatever
over the immortal principle.
There is one reason, mentioned by Mr. Townsend, in proof of
thjs theory of a magnetic fluid, which we consider a very forci-
ble and substantial one : "That the ma~netic ·iafluence," he
says, .. is capa'ble ofexhaustion and repair, like any other physical
agency, we have hl\d abundant means of ascertaining. It is well
'known that when we nre strongest we can best magnetize, and
that our power declines in pr()portion to the fotigue consequent
upon its exertion. And when thus exhausted, the best restora-
tive. is exercise in the open air."
Now if the magnetic principle were not a fluid of a pliysictd /
nature, how could it be thus poured out and exhausted? If the
magnetic power proceeded from the immortal spirit, do you
think it could· be thus lost and regained-diminithed and in·
crerued? Do 10u think we could reduce the dimensions of the
Digitized by Coogle•
'
18
.W, by a mere eft"ort of will, and regain immortal power from
the common sun, the air, the skies!
Mr. Townsend observes, that if we aeek for a general instance
of the mutual lou and gain and interckange of vital force, which
is one of the principal wonders of magnetism, we have only to
look at the eft'ects produced when old persons sleep with young.
Since the' days of King David, it has been known that old per-
sons are thus strengthened at the expense of the young.
Some painful instances of this kind are upon record. ,One of
an infirm old lady, who was so sensible of the benefit which she
derived from sleeping with young persons, that with a sort of
horrid vampyrism she always compelled her maid to share her
bed, and thus successively destroyed the health of several at-
tenc.lants.
Facts of this description are well known, and show conclu-
sively that the vital power is a fluid, of a physical nature, capa-
ble of being communicated from one body to another. .
Some magnetizers have suggested that the magnetic fluid,
was the l!reat creative and vivifying power of the universe, the
cause of light and heat, and the vitality of plants ; and there
would seem to be much that is reasonable in the idea.
·CHAPTER V.
7'he principal results of Magnetic power-Sympathy of
Sensation-Spiritual Knowledge- Clairvoyance-Des-
cribing lnternal Diseases-Phreno-Magnetism-Neurol-
OlfY-Local Magnetism-Latent Influences- Wonderful
Insensibility-Magnetism not Injuriou.s-Experimenu
witl1. tho Blind.
THE grand characteristic of the Magnetic state, is·the general
insensibility of the system, and the control exercised over the
mind and body ,of the sub~ect, by the will of the Magnetizer.
The principal results which have been produced, in dif-
ferent subjects, by this power, are the.following.
Sympathy of Sensation. The great sympathy of sensation,
established between the subject and the mag11etizer, is one of
the first results of the magnetic condition. Some s~1bjects
manifest a more feeble degree of sympllthy than others; but in
general they feel very acutely aU the pains, pl(lasures, tastes,
and other 11ensations w.hich the magnetizer feels ; read his
thoughts, and the two, in this respect, become "one 1lesb."
There is no doubt at all upon this point.
Digitized by Google
19
Spiritual KnlnOkdge. The fact that a person in the magnetic
state, possesse.s superior knowledge, and wonderfully increased
capacity of mind, is also placed beyond dispute. Under the
influence of this power, the ignorant become wise; the weak·
minded become strong and intelligent; a person of no musical
taste or cultivation, can sing and play with a skill surpassing the
most experienced performers ; the profane and the infidel,
become devout; and the whole moral and intellectual character,
becomes changed from the degraded condition of earth, to the
exalted intelligence of a spiritual state. The external senses
are all suspended, and the internal sense or spirit, acts with its
natural power, as it will when entirely freed from the body after
death.
No person, we think, can listen to the revelations of a S!Jhject
in a magnetic state, respecting the mysteries of our nature, and
continue to doubt the existence of a never-dying soul, and the
existence of a future, or heavenly life.
Clair,oyance. We also believe in the reality of an indepen·
dent power of second-sight, called Clairvoyance-the power of
seeing through all space, and describing scenes as existing at
the moment, in any part of the universe, without the aid of the
Magnetizer. When the subject receives ideas of places and
things through the mind of the }lagnetizer, it is merely thought-
reading, or sympathy of sensation, not true Clairvoyance.
There has been_much mistake upon this point, and we wish to
convey a correct idea of the power.
When the subject is in the perfect somnambulic state, the
whole universe appears to them, (so they invariably inform us,)
aa if filled with light. They see with an internal or spiritual
sense of sight, through the magnetic medium. When the
magnetizer directs his mind to a particular object or place in
any part of the world, he acts as a guide to poant out the place
or object which he would have the subject look at, and the
subject then actually sees, not only that particular object or
place, hut all other objects and places in the vicinity, 41 they
exist at tke moment; they can then see things which the magne-
tizer cannot see, and never has seen, with an independent power
of sight. In true Clairvoyant experiments, the magnetizer only
acts lit a guide to the subject ; the subject does not see objects
aa stamped upon his imagination, but by looking directly at the
objects themselves. We are a full believer in this doctrine. 1
Descrihing Internal Diseases. The power of seeing and
describing the internal organs of the human system, is another
remarkable peculiarity of the magnetic state. There is no
doubt in the minds of practical magnetizers on this subject. It
is the result of the Clairvoyant power and spiritual knowledge.
Magnetic subjects differ of course very much in their capacity
of seeing, and power of describing diseases, but all of them
describe the same diseases in the same way, as we have proved
Digitized by Google
20
by hundreds of experiments. In general they can do little
towards prescribing a cure, but their advice is often of a very
valuable character. Whenever they do prescribe, it is some
simple or natural medicine, as roots and herbs, or som~ direc-
tions as to diet, bathin.,., exercise, &c. .
Pheno Magnetism. It is also a settled principle of belief, that
the various organs of the brain may be excited by magnetic
influence, while a person is in the Somnambulic state, singly, or
in combination, almost to insanity, and relieved of this influence
at pleasnre. This is done by placing the fingers upon the
organs as located by Phrenologists, and exerting the will accord·
ingly. 'fhe organs may also be excited by the sympathy of
sensation, if the magnetizer excite to an unusual degree any
particular organ of his own brain'; and hence arises the neces-
sity of maintaining great firmness and coolness of mind, while
conducting experiments of any kind in Animal Magnetism.
Neurology. This branch of magnetism was first discovered
by Dr. Joseph R. Buchanan, of Louisville, Ky. It is the art of
magnetising the organs of the brain, and nerves of the body,
while the subject is in the waking state. He styles it Neurology,
or the science of the nerves. His method of operating is but
imperfectly understood by other magnetizers, but is believed to
be nothing more than the common P«?Wer of Animal Magnetism,
applied by a peculiar method of concentration, upon a single
point, instead of extending its effects through the system.
Indeed this power of producing local effects, in the natural state,
has been discovered and exercised in Boston, by Dr. D. Gilbert,
with even greater effect than by Dr. Buchanan, who claim!! for
his discovery. the merit of a distinct science. .
Local Magnetism. Dr. Gilbert, of Boston, has produced the
most striking local magnetic effects upon many persons in the
waking state, hy a powerful abstraction and concentration of
mind upon a single organ or point of the body. For instance,
he will put an arm or leg into the rigid or insensible state, iu
two or three minutes, without affecting any other part of the
body. The person <?rerated upon, will retain a full knowledge
ofhis condition, but will lose all power of QJotion and sensation,
in the paralyzed Jimb, until restored by the will of the tpagne-
tizer. ~
Dr. Gilbert will magnetize an eye, so that a person will be
unable to open or close it; the mouth so that it c~nnot be opened
or shut; the tongue so that it cannot be put out, o~ drawn inlo
the mouth; and so with respect to any organ of the body. He
can also paralyze one part of the arm, (the upper or lower part,)
and leave the power of motion, and natural sensation in the
other part. He <inn even render insensible a single nerve, in
nny part of the body, without affecting any of the adjacent
nerves. At some of his public lectures he has formed a tableau
·of six or eight persons who had never been magnetized before,'
[l Coo<: e,
c
21
with their legs hoisted up, their arms extended, mouths open,
tongues out, eyes closed, and all without the power of changing
their ludicrous condition! Dr. Gilbert is also a powerful ~and
very intelligent magnetizer in the usual way, alld he has deduced
from his experiments some very important principles, which we
are not ·sufficiently familiar with, to give with accuracy. It will
be seen at once, how useful this power of local magnetising
might be made, in surgical operations, and acute sufferings from
fractures, tic-dolereau, &c.
· A variety of singular results have been produced by magnetic
influence, not included in the above heads, an\l a numbet of
daring experiments have been performed, to test the magnetic
condition, which we will notice in the following paragraphs.
It is found that if two persons magnetize the same _
subjeci,
particularly while he is in the magnetic state, it disturbs the
influence, and injures the magnetic capacity. And if one of
these magnetizers should endeavor to influence the subject, to
oppose the other, it will destroy the experiments entirely.
Subjects may be made to fall into the magnetic state, at any
hour or moment after they have been awakened, withoul any
new influence being brought to bear upon them ; and they will
remain in that state just as long as directed, and no longer,
coming out without any aid from the magnetizer. So if directed
while in the magnetic state, to perform any particular act in
the natural state, they will do so without knowing what influ-
ence controls them.
Many persons in the magnetic state, cim, by their Clairvoyant
power, find any individual you may think of, while in correspon-
dence with them, whether they have ever seen that individual
or not. They will tell you what part of the world he is in, what
is the state of his mind' and health, what he is doing at tlJ&
moment, and many curious things about his personal history.
If the person be dead, the subject will tell you so, and you may
then send them in search of his spirit. 'I'heir revelations res·
pecting the spiritual world, are very wonderful. We have
tested this power of finding individuals, by permitting a stranger
in a large audience, to take the, subject's hand, und mention any
person in the room, that person being also a stranger, and the
subject has succeeded in selecting from three hundred strangerR,
the very person mentioned, with his eyes closed, three times in
succession.
The wonderful insensibility of some persons in the magnetic
state, has been tested by experiments of a fearful chaJ'actcr,
which plnce the fact beyond dispute. Dr. Collyer has repeat-
edly passed through one of his subjects, Rufticient electricity to
produce instant death, in any human being in the world. And
this has been witnes:~ed by hundreds of persons in Boston.
Teeth are every day extracted, while the patients are under this
influence, without pain. Tumors have been cut out, limbs ~ct,
Digitized by Google
and other painful operations performed, which could not other-
wise be endured without emotion. Concentrated ammonia has
been forced into the nostrils ; and subjects have even been
compelled to inhale this powerful ether, without breaking the
magnetic spell. We are satisfied that no human power except
magnetism, can awaken a subject, if thoroughly magnetize'd.
The facts above alluded to, are matters of common report, and
ore so well known and authenticated, that it is unnecessary to
give the details.
The magnetic influence is not, that we are aware, in any
respect injurious to the minds or general health of the subjects;
but some of them, if magnetized frequently, become highly sus-
ceptible to this influence, and may be thrown into the insensible
state by a very feeble power. A ring upon the finger, a chain,
or a breast-pin worn by the subject, will sometimes retain suffi-
cient magnetism to produce this effect. A common drinking-
glass, handled by a magnetizer, will retain sufficient influence
to paralyze an arm, if handled by the subject. A knife used by
a magnetizer at dinner, can be distinguished by the subject, in
consequence of the inftuence inadvertently imported to it, and
so of any other article used or handled by the magnetizer.
These facts prove conclusively, in our opinion, that the magnetic
ugent is a fluid of a pkysicol nature, capable of being imparted
to material bodies, and that the will is only the 11UJ'Ving power of
that fluid.
The power of thought-reading, united with musical ability,
baa been wonderfully manifested, by aome subjects, they being
able to sing with great precision, following a musician placed in
correspondence with them, through the most difficult pieces or
composition, in any language, and even repeating any mixed
pieces, or impromptu notes, which he may utter, with the exact-
ness of a musical instrument responding to the touch, although
entirely ignorant of music in the natural state. A subject
recently exhibited by some gentlemen at the 1\farlboro Chapel,
in Boston, possessed this power in a high degree.
Persons born blind, hove been made to see, by Clairvoyant
power, (not with the natural eyes) as well as any other magnetic
subjects. They have read books, told the time by a watch,
distinguished colors, &c.
CHAPTER VI.
P1·oofs of Magnetism from the Analogy of Nature, and
the History of Man--Somnambulism, or Sleep Wnlking
-Ecstatic Convulsions-Power zmiversally exercised--
Trances- Visions- Witches.:.....Gipsies-Snake-Cltarm-
ers, o/c.
'
THE facts and circumstances universally relied upon by mag-
netizers, to prove the reality of a magnetic power in the human
system, are summed up in the following paragraphs :
"Mesmerism," says Mr. Townsend," is no miracle, but a de-
velopment of powers inherent in man."
In proof of this we notice the fact that the magnetic state has
often been produced spontaneously, by nature, without the aid
of human influence, as in cases of common somnambulism, or
sleep-walking, epilepsy, catalepsy, and the ecstatic condition of
religious enthusiasts.
Common sleep-walkers, it is well known, frequently rise in
the nil{ht, and walk about in dangerous places, without injury-
perform many useful labors-and retire to rest without being
awakened from their slumbers. Some persons have threshed
grain, written sermons, prepared accounts, &c., while in this
state, with ns much skill as if really awake. Other persons, in
fits of somnambulism and epilepsy, which frequently come on
in the middle of the day, have developed some of the ~xtraordi­
nary powers of the magnetic state, such as the capacity of seeing
with the eyes closed and bandaged, divining the thoughts of the
persons around them, and describing things in another room, or
in distant plnccs. Some of these persons have also been gifted
with superior knowledge, such as we find in the magnetic pa·
tients. · ·
We found a well attested ease of this kind, on R recent visit
to Hartford. The subject was a young woman named Green,
who had been under the care of Dr. Gillet, a well known and
highly respectable physician living at East Windsor, Connect:-
cut. He informed us that sever~) years ago the young woman
frequently fell into fits of somnambulism, in the day time, and
manifested some extraordinary powers. She was able to thread
a needle, and to perform her domestic labors, with her eyes
closed; she could read a book, upside down, with great fluency;
could tell the time by a watch held near her head ; knew what
her friends were doing in any part of the room, at any moment,
&e. This lady had a very feeble constitution, and it was sup-
posed that the phenomena were produced by the weakness of
her system. Dr. Gillett, and other personil magnetized her, and
Digitized by Google
she graduaHy increased in strength, and the fits ceased alto-
gether. The lady still lives near East Windsor, at a place
called Wapping.
A similar, but still more extraordinary case occurred some
few yenrs ago at a place called Marston's Mills, near ·Barnsta-
ble, Mass. '.rhe subject· was a Mrs. Freeman, who was under
the care of a physician named Dr. Bennet Wi~g.
There are few persons, probably, who have not heard ofyoung
Yarnell, a lad born in Buck's County, Pennsylvania, and brought
up in the family of a Mr. Harper, in Frankford, Philadelphia
County. This lad, it is said, even in health, had the most per-
fect somnambu.lic or magnetic lucidity. He could .perceive
persons and their conduct, at any distance, by simply closing
his eyes, resting his elbows on his knees, and his head on his
hands. When questioned ,by wiveo~ as to husbands long absent
at sea, he would give the most correct information; and he
often directed where stolen articles might be found.
The case of the famous Springfield somnambulist, Miss Jane
Rider, is well known. 'l'hese are but example.s of a large class
of cases, of dift"erent shades of character, produced spontane-
ously, without the aid of human influence, showing conclpsively,
we think, that there is capacity in the human system, fitted to
produce the high degree of lucidity or clear-sightedness, and
the spiritual knowledge of the magnetic state. In cases of or-
dinary somnambulism, epilepsy, catalepsy, and ecstatic convul·
sions, it is a disease; but in the magnetic state, .it is a natural
development of powers inherent in man. We prove that the
spontaneous condition is a disease, beca\Jse it is seldom or never
exhibited in persons of sound or healthy constitutions : and be-
cause the.y can be relieved frorq these difficulties by the applica·
tion of magnetism. .
Religious excitement of every description is a most prolific
cause of trances, conVulsions, and so-called insanity. The or·
gans of veneration and marvellousness become highly excited,
the bruin is continually active, and the whole system is thus
rendered exceedingly susceptible to magnetic influence. In
large assemblies individuals are sometimes magnetized by other
persons-99metimes they magnetize themselves-and sometimes
the trances nre the sole result of disordered mental action.
The trances which oeeor in the dancing assemblies of the
Shakers, are undoubtedly produced by this cause. Here, the
mind of every individual is fervently and intensely fixed upon
one subject-Heaven. They nre all engaged in making violent
manipulations with their l1ands, and heads, throwing off and
fanning t,he vital fluid at every motion, and acting upon it by
the strong influence of their wills. The most sensitive persons
soon fall down in the magnetic state, and the spirit, having power
to see through all space, directs its attention at once to the heav-
en,ly world. .
,
Digitized by Google
Penons in this state often rebearae to the astonished listener
full and coherent accounts of the heavenly world, and its inhab-
itants. Magnetic subjects will do precisely the same thing, and
will find and despribe any ,,articular person-any friend you
may select, or any of the "great aead,"..,.-either in Heaven or
the other regions. That they actually do find and see·these per-
sons, we do not mean to assert. But iiH!ir revelations are cer-
tainly very wonderful in any view of the subject, and vastly
more ingenious than any thing they are capable of producing in
the natural state.
We find another strong argument in support of the truth of
Mesmerism, from the fact that this power is universally exer-
cised, in every part of the world, by some of the most learned
and sagacious men of the age, and many elaborate philosophical
treatises· have been written upon the subject. It is a natural
power, shared, in some degree by all men, and therefore cannot
be an imposition. .
"The magnetizer," says Mr. Townsend, "makes no mysteri-.·
ous monopoly of his art, but contends that the power to magnet•
iez, and the capacity of being magnetized,.however modified by
circumstances, may be de\·eloped in every lmman being."
"The faculty of magnetizing," says Mr. Deleuze, "extsts in
all persons; but some men have a magnetic power very superior
to that of others."
And this is the current opinion of all magnetizers.
Another proof of magnetism, is this :-The magnetic patients
are thrown into a state which cannot be feigned, and which, if
it could, would be more wonderful than even magnetism itself-
and the results are beyond any human power heretofore known.
We believe that no marl, however skilful, or ingenious he may
be, can feign the magnetic state, and bear what our subjects will
bear, and perform what they can perform. Men may perform
greater feats, of a difterent character, but they cannot coun·
terfeit the effects of magnetism. ·
Again, the subject of Human Magnetism has been repentedly
investigated, by skilful, scientific men, who have invariably be·
come convinced that it was not an imposture. The reports of
the French Committees, and' the late Boston Committee, show
this.
Many a •• wrinkled eld" has no doubt, acquired both fame
and fortune by the exercise of this wonderful power, without ·
knowing any thing of the philosophy of her .art. The power
was perhaps discovered by accident, and pursued because it fur-
nished an easy mode of escaping the ills of poverty. Some of
these unfortunates, have, no doubt, adopted the common opinion
of the world, that the Evil One aided their craft; and have'
given themselves up to the spirit of evil itself, as a matter Qf
necessity.
• The Gipseys, in Great Britian, and the Gitanos in Spain,
Digitized by Google
..
.'•
who possess the wonderful art of taming wild and unmanagea-
ble horses, by whispering in their ears, are believed to have
exercised the same power in a high degree. These strange
people throw themselves into convulsions and trances, heal the
sick by a preteaded application of wild herbs gathered at mid-
night in lonely places, and perform a variety of other marvel-
lous feats, by magnetism, which have long eluded the keenest
inquiries of philosophy and science.
The Snake charmers of India, and the Lion tamers ofEurope
and America, Ulle the same power.
The black snake is a powerf!ll magnetizer, as in the case of
bird-charming. The d<!lnestic cat also magnetizes birds ; and
it is a singular fact, that if a man attempt to magnetize a cat,
it rouses her at once, and she will become restless, and escape
to avoid his glance, or fly directly in his face. The great quao·
tity ofelectricity in a cat, which may be elicited by rubbing the
fur, is well known.
There are also numerous other interesting analogies which we
have not space to notice.
CHAPTER VII.
Objects and uses of the Science-the relief of paill-treat-
ment of Nervous Diseases-Use in Surgical Operations
-Investiga.tion of Internal Diseases-Important truths
respecting the Brain, Nervous System, the Vital princi-
ple, the Soul, and the Spiritual State.
ONE of the first inquiries which arise in the mind, in view of
the wonders of Magnetism, is this : What is the object and ten-
dency of this power! Is it not dangerous to the best interests of
society! _
We might answer this question by the single assertion that all
truth is of diDine origin, and cannot be injurious to man. But
the subject will admit of a more full and extended answer.
'fhe power of Animal Magnetizing, is in our opinion, a very
remarkable and important discovery,.on account of the light which
it throws upon the whole nalure of man-his physical, mental,
and spiri.lual condition•.
In its application to the cure of nervous complaints, and the
relief of pain ; in the examination of internal diseases ; and in
surgical operations, its value has been tested and proved by abun-
dant experiments, which must be familiar to the reader. There
is yet a vast field to be explored in .this direction, and incalculable,
Digitized by Google
!7
we believe, will be the amount of knowledge which will be gained
by future experiments.
As a remedial agent in cases of head-ache, tooth-ache, tic·dol-
ereau, paralysis, chronic pains, convulsions, nervous debility, and
other diseases of a l!imilar character, it has been in the hi~est
degree successful. In cases of violent nervous affections, such as
shaking palsy, nen·ous irritation, titanic convulsions, great wake-
fulness, &c., it is the only power that can afford immediate and
permanent relief.
In surgical operations its great usefulness in producing an en-
tire insensibilty of the system, has been tested and proved by abun-
dant experiments which must be famili~r to the reader. Several
cases are particularly noticed in the other parts of this treatise.
In extracting teeth it has also been used to produce insensibility
to pain, with entire success, and several experiments of this sort
have been tried, by different lecturers, in the presence of large
assemblies, to their entire satisfaction.
The power of seeing and describing internal diseases, has also
been fulley tested. We believe the magnetic patient has the pow-
er of investigating the condition of his whole body,-head, lungs,
stomach. intestine$, and even the interior of his bones, muscles,
and arteries, whenever requested to do so by the magnetizer ;
and that he can also look into the bodies of other persons, and
describe his own or other diseases, although himself entirely
ignorant of the science of medicine, and the ills of the person
examined. We believe he can de this either by taking the hands
of person~, or by looking at them, (if clairvoyant) at the dis·
tance of many miles.
We find that the magnetic subjects will describe an individual,
and his disease!', in the same way, if directed to do so half a dozen
times, at intervals of s~weral days, although the person examined
may be a perfect stranger. Two subjects also agree very nearly,
in their descriptions.
Mr. Hood, the celebrated English wit, very truly observes that
if any man labors in the dark like a mole it is a physician. He has
continually, (he says) to divine the color of a cat in a bag. He
is called in to examine a suspected trunk, without the police·man's
privilege of search. He is exper.ted to pass judgment on a physi-
cal tragedy, going on in the house oflife, without the critic's cbance
of seeing the performance. In fact, ev.ery malady is an Enigma,
and when the doctor gives you over, he "gi,•es it up.''
Mr. Townsend recommend!! seriously and in strong terms, to all
who study medicine as a profession, to pay attention to human
magnetism," for by this power," he says, " we best dissect man,
whether mf!?ltally or physically and if ever the vital i11jluences are
to be understood, it must be, not by anatomizing the dead, or by
torturing the living, but by observation of our fellow men while in
the magnetic state.''
The magn~tic agency also revea,l~ many important truths re•
Digitized by Google
28
speeting the Brain, the Nervous System, the Vital or animating
principle, the Soul and the spiritual state. It demonstrates most
conclusively, the truth -of a multiplicity of or~aus in the Brain, R!l
set forth by Gall, Spurtzheim, and other phrenologists, and renders
Ph~enology no longer a science of observation or theory. It not
only proves Phrenology as it has formerly been understood, but it
developes and extends it to a most suprising extent, showing more
than one hundred different organs, where we have before known
only about thirty.
It shows a wonderful connexion between these organs and the
nerves of expression in the countenance, revealing -a system of
Physiognomy at once curious and astonishing, and as positive as any
of the facts of natural science.
It illustrates the whole mechanicism of the nerves and muscles,
even to the finer threads of the nervous system, which are lost in
the attempt to anatomize the body. It goes beyond all former
medical and anatomical knowledge, opening as it were the Yery
doors of the arcana of nature, and showing the internal organi·
zation of man with the eye of a superior intelligence.
The language of the Rev. Mr. Townsend, upon this subject is
the language of perfect truth.
" Separated from the usual action of the senses," he says, " the
mind of the somnambulist seems to gain J'uster notions, to have
quite a new sense of spiritual things, an to be lifted nearer to
the fountain of all good and all truth. The great indication of
this state, is a horror of falsehood, which I have found to be
common to all subjects. Sincerity is their special characteristic ;
they cannot feign or flatter; they seem to be taken out ofcommon
life, with all its heartless forms and plausible conventions."
Mr. Townsend relates that having magnetized !tn infidel he
proceeded to question him on subjects relative to a future state,
in the presence of a gentleman of much intelligence who wished
to witness the experiment.
"The conversation itself," he says, " I cannot detail, hut the
impression it left upon my mind can never be effaced. The
Somnambulist rose into an eloquence which seemed unearthly.
It was simple, it was beautiful, it was like inspiration. He
spoke of the never dying nature of the soul ; of its ransomed
beatitude; of its progress through various eras of exiftence.
Every one present was affected ; some even to tears. It was
beautiful to see the young prophet, "'hose countenance had
taken an expression of puity and childish innocence, speaking
so calmly the words of holiness and comfort, and the older lis·
tener humbly stooping to drink of the waters of refreshment
from so lowly a source.
"Beautiful are the things he has said to me, respecting the
soul's recognition of th(l)se it lo\'ed on earth, and of the pnvilege
of departed friends to watch over the objects of their solicitude
while toiling through the pilgrimage of life ; but .were I par·
Digitized by Google
29
tieularly to record these speculatiom, as they would be called,
I should probably be deemed a visionary or branded as an
enthusiast."
We had a conversation with Bi3hop Brownell, of Connecti•
cut, some few months since, upon this subject. The Bishop is·
a full believer in the sr.ience, and very bold in his advocacy
of its truth. He declares unhesitatingly that he has no fears,
whatever, of its dangerous tendency. He says he never fears
t~e truth. He tbjnks it may possibly be devoted to some bad
uses, and so he says, may almost any power known to man.
But for this reason alone he would .not shut out the light of
nature, nor refuse to ,.ollow the guidance of truth.
The Rev. Mr. Townsend seems to 'be impressed with the
same generous feeling.
"In pure compassion," he says. "I wovld appease the fears
of those who deem .Mesmerism, if true, a pe~ilous truth that.
should be huddled up from knowledge, and, like the Bible in a
Catholic land, restricted to the use of the initiated. Such persons
actually dread lest the new science should make man too wise,
and too po\verful, and look upon it with fear and trembling, as a
pernicious stepping forward from our sphere, as the very Babel
tower of this era. Let these apprehensions subside. In being
permitted to view the mesmeric state, there is nothing to make
man proud, but all to make him humble. Then, too, mesmer·
ism has its restrictions which keep it low to earth, evoa while
it hints to heaven. Many are the conditions required for its
accomplishment. Carefully hedged about is it, by the barriers
of opposing will, by defective sensibility, even by a spirit of
skepticism. Its highest capacities are exerdsed with difficulty,
its loftiest wonders are few nod fleeting, and exhaust evidently,
the person by whom they arc exercised." ·
CHAPTER VIII.
Published Works on the Subject of Mesmerism, with an·
. opinion of their value-Elliotson's Essays-1'ownsenifs
"Facts "-Poyen's Works-Ha1·tshorn's translation of
Deleu~:e-Col. Stone's Letter-Durand's Exposition, or
New Theory-Magazines, Essays, <Joe.
. .
IN France, great attention has been pnid to the subject of
magnetism, ever since its introduction by Mesmer. Men of the
first nmk and education hove proc-ticed it, and published essays
and volumes upon the subjer.t. The Society of Paris, alone, has
published 24 volumes of narratives of facts, essoys, and reviews.
Digitized by Google
30
The publications on Animal MAgnetism in England, have not
been so numerous as in France. Dr. John Elliotson has published
some essays on this subject, and has devoted to it one chapter of
his gre11t work on Physiology. A lengthy report of his address
before the London Phrenological Society has also been pub·
lished.
The Rev; Mr. Townsend's" Far.ts in Mesmerism," which has
been frequently alluded to in this treatise, is an elaborate philo-
sophical work, of great value. It contains many important facts,
and principles, expressed in elegant philosophical language ; and
should be read by 1!Very intelligent inquirer after tru~h. This
work has been republished by Messrs. Little & Brown of Boston,
and by the Me&srs. Harper of New York.
Mons. Poyen·s "Progress of Magnetisll\ in New England,"
contains much interesting information respecting the first experi·
ments performf'd in the United States; and though Poyen was
far behind the operators of the present day in his knowledge or
the art, yet his work is one of considerable value.
Poyen also published a translation of the Reports of the French
Committees. The results of these investigations are fully stated
in the first chapter of this work. ·
Soon after the appearance of Poyen's works, :Mr. T. C. Harts·
horn of Providence, R. 1., published a translation of the " Practi-
cal Instructions in Magnetism," by Mons. Deleuze, Librarian of
the Society of Natural History, of Paris, with a valuable Appendix
of facts collected by the translator. This work, in our estimation,
rankB next to Mr. Townsend's in value. Deleuze was a very
experienced magnetizer. He had practiced the art some twenty or
thirty years, and had seen experim£'nts performed by some of the
most distinguished operators of Paris. His work contains very
full and minute instructions for rnagnetising, particularly in
relation to the treatment of diseases. This part of the subject has
never been treated so well by any other writer; and- we have
been more brief upon this point, than we otherwise should,
because all requisite information may be obtained from Deleuze• .
The great fault of his work is the tone of excessioe timidity which
runs through the whole of it, ami the evident ignorance, which he
manifests, of many important laws of the science, which are no\V
well understood. Deleuze appears to have known nothing of the
art of exciting the organs of the brain. Many of the convulsions
and "crisis/' which he .speaks of, and which he considered an
unavoidable result of magnetic influence, no doubt arose from the
. accidental excitement of the organs of the brain, or the sympathetic
nerves. This fact being known, there is no great difficulty in
controlling a patient, and maintaining a constant equilibrium or
magnetic influence in every part of the system. Still, the lnstruc•
tiona of Deleuze contain many valuable hints and cautions, which
should be read by every magnetizer, who wishes to understand
Digitized by Google
31
the art. Mr. Hartshorne's translation was published at Providence,
but is now, we fear, nearly out ofprint.
Col. Stone's letter to Dr. Brigham of Hartford, also published
about this time, is rendered almost useless, by the great increase
of light upon the subject; but it is still interesting on account of
its fairness and intelligence, and as a part of the history of the
science.
Durand's Exposition, or New Theory of Animal Magnetism,
is now consigned, by general consent to the oblivion which it
deserves. It is, in our opinion, the mos~ contemptible burlesque
we have ever read. It has neither the merit of wit, ingenuity, or
philosophical force. It is neither broadly ludicrous, shrewdly
sensible, nor gravely argumentative. It has neither keenne11s, nor
bluntness sufficient to merit attention. It is merely a long and
distorted statement of magnetic experiments, with a false, foolish,
and pointless attempt at explanation. It does not contain a single
suggestion which is now thought worthy of remembrance. Then
why did it have such a powerful influence upon the public Jllind 1
Our :mswer is this. At the time it was issued, the public mind
was highly excited upon the subject of magnetism. The mass of
the people were violent skeptics. They considered the whole
thing a magnificent humbug, and they were ready to receive.any
explanation of the trick,, without a question of its truth. Durand
promised an exposition of the humbug, and the bait was swallowed
without masti~ation. The book appeared-an elaborate pam-
phlet-and went off faster than hot cakes at a hungry table.
Every body read it, and believed that the humbug was exposed,
though they could not, for the life of them, tell how it was exposed.
We set it down as a very lucky, but not a very ingenious pecuniary
speculation. The book is now irretrievably defunct, and can serve
no useful purpose, unless it be to singe a fowl, or "stop some
hole to keep the wind away."
The works published sincP. Durand's Exposition, are not
numerous.
Dr. H. H. Sherwood of N. Y., has published a medical work,
containing some bold suggestions, entitled " The Motive Power
of Organic Life," in which he maintains the opinion that the vital
principle is essentially magnetic, and may be operated upon, in the
cure of disease, upon purelv magnetic principles.
In 1841, Dr. R. H. CollyPr published the first number of a
"Mesmerir. Magazine," at Boston, but in c:onsequence of the
pressing nafure of his public engagements, he was compeJled to
suspend it.
Jn the same year, the Rev. La Roy Sunderland commenced a
similar publication, caJled the" Magnet," at New York, which is
still continued.. It is a useful work.
Dr. Caldwell of Louisville, Ky., and Professor :MitcheJI of
Philadelphia, have both published small works upon this subject,
which will be read with interest.
Digitized by Google
A little work, ~iving an outline of the science was published
anonymously in Philadelphia, aeveral years ago, entitled " The
Animal Magnetizer." ·
Artides of value have also ~ppeared in the Knickerbocker
Magazine, the Louisville Journal, the Philadelphia Gazette, the
Boston Courier, and other leading journals, from writers of emi·
• neoce, gi\'ing detailed accoun\s of remarkable experiments.
'!'here is certainly no lack of facta .or information on thia
important subject.
,
Digitized by Google
