{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__brown___a_warning_to_watchfulness.pdf","mytitle":"A Warning To Watchfulness","mylang":"de"}
-
».. -...-.-
_-...
_-~ 'TIl l;`
5
; szcoun ADWNT usnnnv.
5
* xo. xx..
3 nncnmnnn 16, lsu.
'
'
fa
°
A
I
E WARNING
; N,
E WATCHFULNESS
D
nn
I
z ,
i
If ~
_
_
I
I
IY
F. G. BROWN.
Q -;
nl
ui
i.
4
I
.
U
:
BOSTON:
Q
PUBLISHED BY JOSHUA V. HIMES,
4 14 Devonshire Street.
/ One sum. x>°m¢.-ma., mo miles, um.; 0111* l00,2}cu.
PROEM.
Tas times are perilous, and call for watchful~
ness and prayer on the part of all professing
Christians. The temptations of the world, the
deceitfulness of its riches and pleasures, can
only
be withstood by a close walk with God, in the
faithful performance of every Christian duty.
"
Watch therefore, and pray always, that ye may
be accounted worthy to escape all these things,
and to stand before the Son of man."
The following work, by Bao. Baown, cannot
fail to aid the humble disciples of Christ in pre-
paring them for his appearing and kingdom.
_ J. V. HIMES.
Barton, Dec. 12th, 1843.
l
A
WARNING TO WA TCHFULNESS.
._..
"
And what I say unto you, I say unto ull, Watch."
Mark 37.
ALL are familiar with the occasion on which these
words were spoken. Several inquiries wére proposed
to the Saviour. They were in the following form :-
"
When shall these things be! and what shall he the
sign of thy coming, and of the end of the' world!"
These inquiries were so direct and definite, that if a
reply be given to them at all, we shall naturally expect
it to be equally as specilic and clear. Such an expec-
tation is well founded, as will be seen on examination.
The Saviour, without repelling the inquirers for what
might have been thought impertinent and inquisitive
roposals, and without evading the questions in the
l)east, proceeds to give a clear narration of certain
events, which shall occur in regular order, and be fol-
lowed by certain signs which shall betoken his advent.
And to conclude all, he urges upon them the practical
duty of watching for his coming. This he repeatedly
enforces in the course of one or two short sentences.
The disciples, in this instance, betrayed an anxiety
very common among primitive Christians. They all
desired to know something about the time of Christ's
second advent. 'I`his solicitude neither the Saviour nor
his apostles hesitated to gratify: had it not been a very
4
natural and commendable anxiety, we have reason to
presume that it would not have been responded to so
promptly. The theme of Christ's second coming en~
gaged the attention and interested the soul of every
inspired writer of the Scriptures, with hardly an excep-
tion. The Bible is full of the subject. Nor less was
it a iiequent topic of discourse among the apostles.
Paul refers to the Saviour's second appearing more
than a score of times; the other apostles several times;
and John, as he looked along down the stream of time
in prophetic vision, and beheld one event succeeding
another, until he came to the glorious consummation,
when Christ should be revealed from heaven without
sin unto salvation, his soul heaving with .unutterable
delight in anticipation of that glorious event, bursts
forth with the emphatic ejaculation-" Come, Lord
Jesus, come quickly !"
But neither Christ or his apostles refer to that event,
or to the time of its occurrence, as matters for idle spec-
ulation, or for the purpose of satisfying a vain curiosity.
Indeed, it is reasonable to suppose that inquiries on this
subject were prompted by the Holy S irit, not so much
for the benefit of those who then lived as for our good
who should come after them. John alludes to Christ's
second coming, for the practical purpose of quickening
his brethren to vigilance and purity; Peter, to holy
conversation and godliness; Paul, to temperance and
sobriety, with other virtues; and the Saviour, in the
way of
impartinfg consolation, encouragement, and
warning to watch ulness. We take it for granted, that
all inquiries on the same subject at the present day,
result from a sober and commendable desire to make a
practical use of the doctrine; and that all efforts to
gratify such inquiries spring from the same
pure foun-
tain. A mere intellectual sense of this event, together
with the time of its occurrence, cannot benefit the soul
in the least: nay, it may serve to sink it deeper and
degper
in final wo !
rom what has now been observed, we deem the
'inquiriesproposed to Christ, by his disciples, very
5
important and momentous; and the reply, together with
the impressive admonitions accompanying it, of rave
attention. What I say unto you, I say unto all, Vlgttch,
watch, watch. The command is universal, and inten-
ded to apply to all of the followers of Christ, in every
successive stage of the church down to his very coming.
Indeed, if it be a command more binding upon the
church in one period than another, it will be conceded
that it is more obligatory upon those who may be alive
when these events and signs referred to shall be wit-
nessed. If so, the instructions to watch are
particularly
addressed to us, and we cannot pass them by unheeded.
Independent, however, of this inference, here is a com-
mand of universal application. As Christians, we are
all looking for Christ's appearing sooner or later : some
of us think the time of his
coming
is plainly revealed in
God's word; others not; but al will allow that the
Scriptures clearly teach the duty of watchfulness in
respect to the Saviour's appearing. Many of us are
watching for that event to occur speedily, and are pre-
paring ourselves accordingly. It is with heartfelt
:grief
that we find so many ofthe professed disciples of esus
indifferent and unconcemed at this hour, and so
many
who seem to say, that as long as the Bible is silent on
the time of Christ's coming, they may totally disregard
all orders to watch and to prepare themselves for the
great day of the Lord God Almighty. So long as such
continue at ease in their Laodicean state, and slight such
plain directions of the great Judge, we tremble _for their
safety, and justly fear that they will be among those
who shall in vain cry, Lord, Lord, open to us.
It is in the hope of stirring up such to a sense of their
true condition, and of arousing them to immediate duty,
that we undertake to present them with the light in
which the oracles of God set forth this
subject; feeling
assured, that if they are the Lord's genuine children,
they cannot longer be indiferent, when they see the
prominence which this doctrine sustains in the Scrip-
tures, together with the responsibilities and duties
resting on Christians, arising out of the great truth of
1*
6
the second coming of Christ.
Certainlg they will not
shrink from yielding
objzdience
to plain cripture, fairly
and honestl inter rete _
I. We bzgin thin by inviting your attention to some
plain but impressive parables employed by our Lord
him-
self, for the
purplose
of setting this subject before us in
its strongest li t. The first to which we refer may
be found recorged in Matt. xxiv. 42, 43, 44.
"Watch therefore; for ye know not what hour your Lord
doth co
"Butmlfxiow this, that if the
(good
man of the house had
known in what watch the thie would come, he would have
watched, and would not have suffered his house to be broken
ug; Therefore be ye also
ready: for in such an hour as ye think
not, the Son of man cometh.'
We learn from this parable, that to those who shall
be oif their guard and not expecting his approach, he
will come as a thief. If found watching, our best inter-
ests will be secured; but if negligent and distrustful, our
loss will be certain. A thief in his coming will surely
take advantage of our absence and uneoncem ; the only
security therefore is constant vigilance. As if the
Saviour had said, Be always ready for my coming; lest,
being surprised, you incur a like loss. As you cannot
trust the thief, by saying that he will not make his dep-
redations at this, or that hour, so neither can you deter-
mine when I may or may not appear. No man thinks
of suffering his goods to bc despoiled ; so no Christian
dreams of having Christ come without being prepared
to meet him. But as our mere thinking so, never saves
our possessions from the grasp of the depredator;- so
our mere thinking that our souls' interests will never be
desolated, is no security in itself against such a catas-
trophe.
'
second parable stands in connexion with the fore-_
going:
"Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his lord
hath
mgde
ruler over his household, to give them meat in due
nv
. I
"Blessed is that servant, whom his lord, when he cometh,
shall lind so doing.
"
Verily, I say unto you, That he shall make him ruler over
all his goods.
"
But and if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My lord
delsyeth his coming;
"
And shall begin to smite his fellow-servants, and to est and
drink with the drunken;
"The lord of that servant shall come in a day when he
looketh not for him and in nn hour that he is not aware of,
"And shall cut him asunder and appoint him his portion
witlpthe hypocrites; there shall be weeping and gnasliing of
teet ."
Here the Saviour likens himself to a lord, and his
followers to the servants of a household, in whose hands
the former leaves all his domestic interests, constituting
some rulers to superintend and direct the affairs of his
house, and to administer to his servants proper and
well-timed food-" meat in due season." With an eye
fixed on his instructions, such a servant if wise and
faithful, will neglect no
part of the duties assigned him ;
he will not provide his supplies at irregular intervals,
nor have them always of the same character; he will
adapt his fare to the season, and to the circumstances ol'
the household. We hence infer that the wise and faith-
ful servant of Christ will see that his duties vary with
circumstances ; he is not left to reason that because the
health and good of the church have thus far been pro-
moted, that therefore the same kind of truth is always
to nourish it, without any variation ; God has otherwise
ordained. And here we find a suflicient sanction for the
course pursued by second-advent hesrers and preachers.
The hearer believes that Christ is just to come; he
accordingly feels that nothing will sustain and impart
life to his soul, but those scriptural truths which har-
monize with his coming. We are frank to acknowledge
that in comparison with this aliment
nothin?
else is as
palatable, or nourishing to him: nor is this act strange
to one who has once tasted of the delicious qualities of
this soul-reviving doctrine. While at the same time
the preacher feels himselfspecially called on to proclaim,
8
"
Fear God, and give glory to him ; for the hour of his
judgment is come : and worship him that made heaven,
and earth, and the sea, and the fountain of waters."
Nothing less can be meat in due season: besides, all
other great gospel truths cluster in sweet and refreshing
profusions around this particular doctrine of the Lcrd's
coming: the latter tending naturally to enforce the
former. As we read the Scriptures, he may not shrink
from the discharge of this duty at the peril of his soul's
salvation. Nor may those who are subject to his care,
turn away from his warnings now, at the peril of a like
exposure. A minister does not conclude his services
when he has proclaimed on the general doctrines of
faith and repentance: his duties are more extensive
and solemn; if he thinks they are not, he had better
relinquish his ofiice, before he prepares others, by his
inertness and
sluggishness for the same fate which
awaits himself. 1or does it suliice to plead an uncer-
tainty or an ignorance as to the particular times in
which we are living. These are made plain matters of
prophecy, and may be understood z it his duty to know
the times. Our Lord rebuked the scribes and Phari-
sees for not knowing the times in which they lived;
intimating that such an ordinary measure of perception
as they all exercised in divining the least change in the
natural world, would, if properly directed, assist them in
ascertaining the character of the times on which they
had fallen. If they did not understand, it was because
they would not, or because the were more interested
in serving themselves than the liiord. Just so we say
of their prototypes at the present day; had they the
humble, obedient disposition of their master; were
Christ the centre ot' iheir thoughts, and affections, and
souls, the objects around which their hearts yearned
with nnutterable agony by day and by night, there
would be ho kind of trouble about ascertaining the truth,
and of perceiving at once the dreadful danger in which
the whole world lies of experiencing the last and most
terrible of Jehovah`s vials of wrath.
Let it now be marked, thatas this parable relates to
9
the Lord's coming, there seems to be an intimation, in
the clause last quoted, that the wise and faithful ser~
vant will be sure to announce that coming in its place:
and thus he will indeed administer meat in due season.
By so doing he shall be blessed, and by continuing so
to do until his Lord comes, he shall receive marked dis-
tinctions and honors. Such are Christ's loyal subjects,
who never liinch from duty, though despised, and
mocked, and pitied for their conscientious adherence to
their great King's instructions.
How reverse his treatment, however, who, neglecting
his Lord's interests, and paying little or no regard to his
coming, begins secretly to cherish the conviction that
the Lord defers his return. Of this crime such an one
may be guilty, when he is entirely silent about that
event; when he contends that it has already occurred ;
or that it is a mere figurative coming taught in the
Bible, a coming which is to be fatal to none, but glo-
rious to all, irrespective of characters; when he main-
tains that this event is far in the future, and its time
nowhere taught; when he secretly rejects the doctrine
from his heart, and boldly and unblushingly publishes
that the coming of Christ shall not alter his engage-
ments, the character and method of his preaching, his
conduct; or by any other course which shall be con-
strued by the world into a refusal to prepare himself
and others for that crisis. If such infidelity as this has
crept into his heart, or escaped from his lips, you may
look for another step in his career of hardihood, mischief
and wickedness, which will tit him, as well as all who
sympathize with him, for more complete ruin. He
will begin publicly to reproach and
iiggre
those who, in
the honesty of their souls, believe the rd is coming, a_nd
are trying to be prepared for him; to brand them with
heresy, and to thrust them out ostensibly for want of
charity and for denunciatory epithets; (ah! the all-
ilaming eye above knows the hypocrisy of such hearts :)
to sympathize with and to please those who hate the
Lord's coming, and to join with them in their sensual
excesses and impious indifference to this tremendous
10
event, with
fre¢1uent
cries of peace, peace: yea, more,
to tum this who e subject into ridicule and jests, thereby
sdbrding merriment and
sm
for the wicked, blas-
pheming multitude. My ! who would dare it!
Such are preparing for themselves the heaviest of Jeho-
vah's thunderbolts. In the midst of their railing, and
scofring, and tyranny, and bacchanalian revelries, sud-
den snd awful destruction shall be pourcd out upon
them: and they shall be swept away into the burning
lake with hypocrites and unbelievers: "
there shall be
weeping and nashing of teeth." With unbeltevers,
because they have concealed or sported with God's
word: with
hy'poov~il¢.r,
because they really are such ;
they have pro eased to love Christ's coming, and to
desire the inheritance prepared for his followers; but
the mention of either has awakened within their bosoms
the bitterest opposition or the most consuming hatred.
Alas, how little do the deluded multitude consider, that
those on whom they are bestovving their windy adula-
tions for their successful efforts in quieting their con-
sciences, by showing that the judgment is a great way
oH`, are these very evil servants so vividly portrayed by
our Lord in this parable! Why are they so blinded as
not to see what their teachers are? and that the devil
could not have selected more specious and unsuspecting
agents by which to lay his last snare for their souls!
Yea, why do they not themselves perceive that "
my
Lord delayeth his coming" is nowhere found in their
commission ; and that the argument which
they
have so
long employed against Universalism, may with ike force
be urged against the doctrines for which they plead!
Universalism has for its sympathizers and advocates
those who are reckless and hardened ; consequently, it
is not of God. Well then, the anti~advent doctrine is
subject to a like judgment for a similar reason. Would
that all ministers who preach against Christ's coming,
were as rational as one, who, alter having preached sev-
eral discourses against our view , accidentally passed a
small group of individuals who had formed a part of his
audience, and overheard them damning to h-~ll all the
ll
Millerites, md extolling himself and others for their
giant vindication of the truth. It went like a barbed
arrow to his heart; he dropped his head and began to
reason
:-"}lVhat, is Satan divided against himself3
then must
krngdlom fall
!"
dlil;
at once
resplvipd
on
never a preac in ose ourses, wen ome,
shut hir§;llf up in hii study, and there continued for
days, turning over his Bible anew, and breathing out
ve emcnt prayer to God for light and knowledge: and
soon, while on his knees, in his barn, was converted into
the doctrine of the Lord's immediate coming.
Far more tolerable will it be for us, if we keep our
peace at this time, than, b breaking the silence, we
bless the wicked on whom (god hath directed us
wtpro-
nounce a
"
wo,"
"
wo ;" and sadden the hearts o the
righteous,
to whom we have been commissioned to bear
'
ings of comfort and health.
01r Saviour next introduces another parable found in
the following chapter : it is the well-known parable of
the
te; vipgipz ; a parable designed to illustrate things
imme 'ate y fore his coming.
_"Then shall the kingdom of heaven he likened unto ten vir-
gins,
which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the
ridegroom.
"And ive of them were wise snd five were foolish. _
_"They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil
with them.
"
But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
l"Whilc
the bridcgroom tarried, they all slumbered and
s e t.
'PAnd at midnight there was s
cry made, Behold, the bride-
groom cometh; go ye out to meet him.
"Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.
"And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for
our
lsmps are
gone out.
"But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not
enouph
for us and you; but go ye rather to them that sell, and
buy or yourselves.
'
And while they went to buy, the
hrideiroom came; and
they that were ready went in with him to t e msmage; sud
the door was shut. _
"
Aherward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord,
qasn to us.
12
"
But he answered and said, Verily, I say unto you, I kno!
o not.
yy llwatch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour
wherein the Son of msn cometh."
Here those who have seen evidences of the Advent
near, are represented as going forth to meet their Lord,
after the events enumerated have transpired, and the
foretold signs have been seen. They were those who
at least professed to believe that Christ was about to
come, or
they would not have gone forth. From the sur-
prise on which the Bridegroom came to them, together
with the unpreparedness of a portion of them to meet
him, he urges the importance of sleepless vigilance and
readiness for his coming. To slumber at all is hazard-
ous in the extreme; but to sleep with little or no
preparation for Chr-ist's coming is utter folly and mad-
ness. Friends: are you slutnbering over this great
subject of Christie coming! if so, do you know that
yéou
are preparing to be aroused by the cry of the
ridegroom's approach! That others, in whose piety
you may have confidence, may be indifferent to this
event, neither excuses your indifference, nor proves that
you are
pfepared,
if they ETB, for the archangel's
trump! ow
desperate your condition, if, together
with all your carelessness about Christ's coming, you
are headless about the state of your soul. To die in
your present condition would be unendurable. Will
you not then awake at once, shake off your sloth, repent
over your backslidings, and fill your vessel with oil
against any emergency? God help you. The present
apathy of the professed church, which the prayers
and entresties of Gods faithful servants and children
have almost failed to break, cannot long continue; a
stemer and louder alarm will soon be given, which can-
not be unheard ; the deafest ear shall hear it, but hear
to learn such a woful doom, as no repentance can ever
recall.
'
It appears to us that this parable, brethren, WIS
intended more
especially Rn' us who have actually gone
13
form with our lamps to meet the Bridegroom. lt
is to be feared, then, that some of us have not all the
qualifications
necessary
for Christ's coming; we have
perhaps a head know edge of this truth but no heart
preparation. Do not let a soul of us be deceived; to
"
he in this band," aye, the foremost in the train, will
in no case, by itself, save us ; we mnst have the oil in
our vessels with our lamps: nor will it avail us that
once the shone brilliantly; if not ready when Christ
comes, ah is over with us. Many are gone forth with
ns, who have not the same confidence that Christ will
come this year; they profess an affection for the doc-
trine; they declare that the grand event is liable to
occur at any moment; and yet what superficial arrange-
ments have they made for it! what a miserable sense
they seem to have ofthe reparations necessary for that
tremendous occasion! Xgain, they are folding their
arms for rest, or burying themselves in the vanities and
cares of this life. Oh! that we might all exhort one
another, lest, like the foolish virgins, when the door is
shut, we begin to stand without, and to knock, saying,
Lord, Lord, open to us; and he from within shall
answer,
"
Verily, I say unto you, I know you not."
Mark has recorded the same parable with Matthew,
with a little variation. This parable, although we
have considered it in its plaoe, we again refer to, for
the purpose of making an additional remark.
Mark 34-37 :-
"
For the Son of msn is as a msn taking s far journey, who
left his house, and
dgave authority to his Servants, and to every
man his work; an commanded the poner to watch.
"Watch ye therefore: for ye know not when the master of
the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, oi' at the cock-
crowing, or in the morning:
"Lest
cominf suddenly, he find you slee
`
"And what say unto you, I say unto aim etch."
Here the importance of keepin up a vigilant watch
arises from the impossibility of eaizulating the hour of
the Lord's return. Now, many tell ns that these ro-
2
14
peated sdmonitions of Christ to watchfulness are evi-
dence that the time of his coming is not revealed. We
can see no reason
why both the time and the admoni-
tions may not be consistent with each other, since no
man can possibly know the hour, day, week, or month.
But grant that we can gain no kind of clue to t.he
period when Christ shall come, then there is a still
weightier reason for unceasing watchfulness. Are
such objectors now watching! If so, it is enough.
Or, do they
orliject
to the time because they do not want
to watch?
hey
are certainly presumptuous if not
now
watching. f they cannot aver when Christ will
come, they cannot know when he may not come; if
they sincerely love him, they will spontaneously arise,
and
malice
such preparations for his coming as his dig-
nit an sovereignty demand.
'l`he porter in the parable evidently denotes the min-
ister of Christ. It is his duty to look out and to an-
nounce to all within the house the return of his Lord;
if he neglects doing this, he disregards his trust, and
is unfaithful. But, alas! how many, who stand as
porters at the gate, and as watchmen upon the walls,
have already refused to announce their Lord's coming!
Some of the poor, anxious inmates are yearning to
know whether their lovely Lord be near; but these
indifferent porters and watchmen are responding,
"
We
will have none of it here; we know nothing about the
Lord's coming;" while others of them, with a little
more affected fidelity, are
crying ont,
"
We know as
much about that matter as those who pretend to know
more; we have heretofore done our duty; souls, by
hundreds, have been converted through our instru-
mentality; were that event near, we know the Lord
would let us see it. But, let the case be as it may, we
shall all be safe, if we continue to pray for sinners."
Now, this is an elfectual quietus, it savors so much of
real piety. And again; these idle porters, who have
made their oilice a. mere sinecure, or a medium for
receiving the adulations of those within, are fondled,
and worshipped, and applauded, by the unsuspecting
15
objects of their unfaithfulness. They are loved and
honored the more for their peace-and-safety lullabies,
little supposing that such are rocking their souls to
sleep for perdition; they are passing them on direct to
the pit of woe, with the brand of death all burning on
their brows! Friend, do you say "That is not my
minister "'! And so, perhaps, every one will say; but
pause, and don't be too conhdent of it. Your soul is
above all price; the jewels of the universe are chaff to
it. Make no mortal being its exclusive guardian ; suffer
it never to be out of your own sight. I pray you
beware, lest that very one, whom you now esteem as your
dearest friend, become Ihe author Myour _final ruin !
Thus much, in the way of parables, we are taught
the duty of watchfulness, with exclusive reference to
Christ's second personal appearing. These parables
include no small portion of our Lord's teachings; they
are quite as
impressive as
any of the parables which he
ever spake.
II. Let us see what is said on this great subject by
W?
of precept.
uke xxi. 34-36 :-
"
And take hcad to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts
be overcharved with surféting and drunkenness, and cares of
this life, and so that da mme upon ou unawares.
"
For as a snare shal?it come on all them that dwell on the
face of the whole earth.
"Watch ye therefore, und pray always, that ye may be
accounted vorthy to escape ull these things that shall come to
pass, and to stand before tle Son of man."
Our Saviour here enumerates certain excesses and
vices, which, by being indulged in, will render us un-
mindful of that day's approach. Undue care about our
business, gross sensuality, a strife for the honors and
distinctions of the world, will all have a tendency to
have the Lord's coming surprise us. , Such indulgences
naturally indispose the nind'to consider that event;
they render it umusceptible of religious influences;
16
they obscure the mental vision, and thereby deceive
their victims by false assurances of peace, when sud-
den destruction cometh. Now, we cannot account for
the present indiference of Christians, and their intole-
rable dullness as to beholding the proofs of the Lord's
speedy coming, on any other ground than this: they
have not taken heed to this their Lord's important
warning; they are overwhelmed, with the world, in
their cares, and business, and pleasures, and extrava-
gant excesses. They are all after mammon; all feast-
ing their bellies on the good things of the present life.
They have all gone back from God; they have all
their gilded projects to carry out before Christ comes;
at present, they cannot heed the call, "Come, for all
things are now ready." One has bought a piece of_
ground ; another, a yoke of oxen; another has married
a. wife; .another has a religious society to look after;
another, a
seminary for educating the rising ministry;
and another, the heathen to convert. They have all
marked out more work for themselves or for God; and
all, with one consent, make excuse. But the Lord of
the entertainment will have his gitests notwithstanding;
and they are already pouring in from the streets and
lanes of the city, and from the highways and hedges,
and are filling up the house. Praised be God, the
intemperate, the licentious, the abandoned, the inlidel,
are catching the gracious call, and tuming in to the
royal feast; publicane and harlots are crowding into
the kingdom of God, while, of those for whom the
table was originally spread, the insulted Lord has
sworn,
"
None of those men which were bidden shall
taste of my supper."
'
How little do those think, who
are now steeling and bolting their hearts against all
conviction of Christ`s
coming.,
that the parable of the
supper was spoken mainly wi reference to themselves!
Mark, at supper time, the invitation went forth. How
little do they dream, who confess themselves heartily
sick of hearing so much about the Lord's coming, that
they are
making the above excuses, and that they are
rejecting invitations which Gad himself has caused to
17
be oH'ered them! They suppose-for the devil has
told them so-that this stir about Christ's coming is all
enthusiasm and fanaticism. Ah! they do not see that
the characters who have now accepted of the call render
it fearfully ominous that the supper is just about to be
eaten without their presence! Their heedlessness and
worldliness blind them to all the startling tokens of the
coming of the Lord. God is at work all around them,
driving up events to the consummation of all things
with lightning rapidity; prophecy is fulfilling with
alarming exactness; while signs of the approaching
glory are flaming out in all the broad archways of
heaven. But nothing unusual is occurring: "VVhere
is the promise of his coming?" asks whom? the
scoiferl nay, the professed Christian. The most pow-
erful arguments in proof of the Lord's coming are no
more to his mind than is a feather to the turbulent
bosom of the ocean ; with one dash of his pen, he can
sweep away all the researches of men of piety and
learning on this subject; or, with "of that day and
hour knoweth no man," he can meet giants on the
field and vanquish them at a. blow. Well, God designs
that, so long as their characters continue what they
are, they shall be deceived, and be involved in midnight
on this subject; else as a snare that day could not
overtake them. Never, perhaps, was the great mass
of the world so well prepared for being surprised by
this snare; they are just beginning to congratulate
themselves on their stored-up treasures, or their vast
facilities for wholesale possessions; with haughty self-
complaisance they are now
folding their arms, and say-
ing to themselves,
"
Soul, thou hast much goods laid
up for
many
years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be
merry." hey have seized upon all the mysteries of
nature, and made them servants to administer to their
inflamed passions and lusts; and now, with all that
pride and daring for which the human heartjs distin-
guished, they seem as if with uplifted arms to
challenge
the very Almighty on his throne to arrest them in their
2*
i
IS
srohigate career, or to intertere with their concerns
ut t eir impiety and rebellion shall not pass unnoticed ,
they may be driven and baited on to ruin a. little while
longer, like the ox for the slaughter, and then the great
snare will he drawn, and they shall not escape! O,
careless sinner, backslidden ptofessorvtbe storm is cer-
tainl coming! the heavens are already growing dark
and lowering! the terrible thunders of Jehovah's ven-
geance are just ready to dash upon your guilty head!
the forked lightnings of divine justice and insulted
mercy are just ready to leap upon your unsheltered
soul! the world stands waiting for the awful tragedy!
Turn, then, sinner, from thy wicked works, and secure
a. refuge ere it be forever wo late. And, slumbering
Christian, with tears I would_ warn you, I would cn-
treat you, to get ready for that
qeat day; it is near,
it is near, and hasteth greatly. i
otbing but ceaseless
prayer and watchfulness will qualify you to escape the
snare, and to stand belbre the Son of man; if taken,
you will certainly be destroyed. Come, then, would
you escape that snare; you must no
longer be a dweller
here; the ties that hind you to earth must at once be
severed; you must become sober, temperate, heavenly-
minded, watchful, prayerlul. You can have no
just
sense of the crisis which is just before you, without
adorning yourselves with these graces, and admonishing
your souls to vigilance, humiliation, and prayer. For
one, I tremble, lest, with all my efforts to the contrary,
I be at last left; left vith a careless and God-hating
world, to perish eternally.
Luke xii. 35, 36, 40 1-
"
Let your loins be girded about and your lights bumin ;
"And ye 'ourselves like unto men that wait lbr theirdord,
when he will return from the wedding; that, when he cometh
and knocketh, they muy'open unto him immediately."
"
Be ye thewlhre ready also: for the Son of mau cometh ll
an hour when ye think not."
Romans xiii. 11 :-
"Aad that, knowing the lime, that now it is high' time to
19
wake out of sleep: Eur now is our salvation nearer than when
we believed."
The salvation here referred to must be that which
awaits the Christian at his Lord's coming. In view of
the neg.;-ness of this perfect salvation, and the dawn
of that day which shall reveal Christ from the parted
skies, the apostle
uric:
his brethren to awake out ol'
sleep, and to put on t Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Cor. i. 7, 8 :-
"So that e come behind in no
'
; waitin for the co
`
of our Lord llesus Christ:
gm K mms
"Who shall also contirm you unto the end, that ye may be
blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ."
1 Thess. v. 4.-Please read the whole chapter, and
obey its instructions.
2 Thess. iii. 5 :--
"
And the Lord direct
'your
hearts into the love of 9od,and
into the patient waiting r Christ."
Hebrews ix. 28 :=-
"So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many; and
unto them that look for him shall he appear the 'second time
without sin unto salvation."
No man, in the scripture sense,can be
Ioolsirég
for
Christ, who is not from his soul praying,
"
ome,
Lord Jesus, come
quickly," and living in view of -the
Lord's coming.
James v. 7, 8 :-
"Be tient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the
Lord. Eehold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit
i' li h d hl
`
f
`
`l h
'
th
o 1 eenrt ,an at ong patience or it, unu e ascnive a
earl and latter min.
"he ye also patient; establish your hearts: for the coming
of the Loral druweth nigh." »
Here the character of a real Christian is betrayed.
Amid the wrongs and cruelties which the innocentanli
harmless suffer, it might be natural for him to feel a
little impatience to have th096,£Ii¢Yll00l redlellttlhy-
20'
the 'great Arbiter in person. But he is to be patient
and to continue a calm and steadfast confidence in the
God of 'ustice, assured that the Lord's coming di-aweth
nigh. 'i`o multitudes, at the present clay, this advice
is quite superfluous; they are more concerned [gr 3
guilty world than they are for the insulted and putraged
government of God. But, praised be God, there are
some, to whom the apostle's caution is smsmmble,
Brethren, be patient; do not feel like hastening the
divine movements, or to have Christ come
merely to
save you from the chagrin which you might be expect.
ed to feel if he does not come as you expect. Others
have waited for this event longer than we have. Mill-
ions of saints, who have fallen asleep in Jesus, are
sympathizing with us, and looking and waiting as well
as ourselves. The prize hung up for us in heaven's
palace is well worthy the exercise of long patience and
toil. Let us fill up every moment with duty and 'dili-
ence, that we may at last receive, from the lips of our
f{in%the "
Well done, good and faithful servant !"'
1 eter iv. 7:-
Z
But
tllie
end of all
things is at hand: be ye therefore sober,
sn wstc unto prayer.
J 2 Peter iii. 12:-
"Looking for and hosting unto the coming of the day of
God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and
the elements shall melt with fervent heat."
t
Looking for and hosting, or earnestly desiring and
reaching forward unto, the coming of the day of God.
Yes, brethren, we will do it, though all the hosts of
Satan be let loose upon us, and though his sympa-
thizers here charge us with want of pity for those who
are to be the sufferers by this, to the wicked, awful
catastrophe. If it be right to obey man rather than
God, judge ye.
John, the revelator, who has-recorded the principal,
grand events which were to occur between his and the
21
closing-up scenes of the last
day,
has interspersed simi.
lar hints and warnings; as in ev. iii. 3:-
"
If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come on thee as I
gtietl
and thou shalt not know what hour 1 will come upon
ee."
And again, Rev. xvi. I5 :-
"
Behold, Icome as a thief, Blessed is he that watcheth,
and lrleepeth
his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see
s s ame."
Such are some of the numerous calls and warnings
to the Christian to watchfulness with respect to Christ's
second glorious appearing. They are calls from the
highest authority-calls from which no man may with
safety tum away. Now, in view of them, wc ask,f
and we ask with emphasis,--Where is the professed
church of Christ at this moment? You say Christ is
your lawgiver: how dare you, then, withhold your
obedience to his plain demands? How can those get
away from such imperious commands, who have here-
tofore maintained, with such commendable ertinacity,
that the Bible must be our sole guide in all questions
of duty or opinion! Where are those who have ex-
pressed their abhorrence of all mere tradition, and have
contended so manfully for a rigid reference to the pure
and unadulterated word of God, honestly, fully, and
faithfully translated, even to the smallest preposition,
and yet, with the Bible fairly
teeming
with the great
truth of Christ's and the saints' tina glory, and the
cautionary advice, found on so many of its-pages, to
watch and prepare lor it,-are folding their hands in
apathy on both this fact and this duty! where those
who can see everything else in the Bible but the Lord's
coming, and the duty to watch for that coming! where
those who can so
grossly outrage every principle of
rational freedom and scripture truth, as to make it
heresy worthy of church expulsion either to preach,
exhort, pray, or
sing about the Lord's coming, and
who dare to demand can essions of those who have
believed, from a
prayerfu study of God's word, that
22-
Christ is coming immediately? VVhere are they? Not
in the pope's chair, nor in the cardinal's office, nor in
the bosom of the mother of harlots; but in our own
free, indulgent, and kind-hearted Protestant churches,
whose care first gave direction to our infant steps, and
whose arms have so
long enclosed us from the perils of
the way. O, let maternal profession blush, and repent !
her children have not lost all affection for the erring
parent, nor all sensibility, reason, and religion.
But let us deduce a few observations from the parables
and precepts which teach the duty of watchfulness with
respect to Christ's second coming.
We observe, first, The ounds of our final accept-
ance with God are thus clelarly seen to depend upon
our watchfulness with. reference to Christ's appearing.
I would not introduce any forced inferences from these
texts; but I ask if this is not one which is plainly and
fairly inferable. We find in them no allusion made to
former frames of mind or feeling; no allowance for
past vigilance or service; no intimation of the "elect "
as exonerated from this duty, or saved in its violation.
Those alone are seen to gain admittance to the great
wedding, who have made themselves ready for the en-
tertainment. Not that a mere belief in 1843 will save
any soul; but to love Christ's appearing, and to hold
one's self in readiness for it, is certainly indispensable.
Blame us not, then, if we put this matter on the same
ground as did the great Teacher and his a ostles; we
dod
not aspire to the judgment seat; let god be the
u ge.
J
We observe, second, The sacredness of a strict and
literal observance of the duty enjoined. Mark, it is
watching with special reference to the coming of Christ
bodily, visibly, gloriously. It is an acl, and not a mere
state of mind, which is required. Hence, he who
amendsor substitutes this duty for another is guilty of
adding to and taking from the words of the books of
this prophecy, and must hold himself answerable at the
proper tribunal. Christ and his apostles have decided
what shall be believed, regarded, and preached. They
23
imdoubtedly selected the strongest motive that could be
brought to bear upon the human conscience; and rea-
son as well as
experience have proved the wisdom of
their choice. The occurrence of death is but a single
circumstance ; the advent brings with it all other events.
Death does not lead us at once to the judgment; the
advent does. Death chills and territies; but the advent
warms, and inspires, and elates. When the mind con-
templates death, it seizes hold of this particular event,
and there measurably pauses; from its very nature, it
cannot be so intensely affected and convulsed by that
which is remote as by that which is near. VVhat says
observation! the question has been fairly tested. VVith
the first stories of the nursery, to the very last teach-
ings of the pulpit, we have been fed with cries of
"
Death! death!" Our friends and neighbors have
been swept off with pestilence, with the flames, and
buried by hundreds in the angry deep; and funeral
prayers and sermons have been said over their lifeless
bodies. But what has it all availed! How few have
had these visitations of heaven, or the wamings which
have followed them, blessed to their conversion! Not
so with the proclamation of Christ's coming; the pos-
sibility of his sudden coming has almost electrified the
earth from pole to pole. Again : will the prospect of the
ave comfort the saint under his present trials? Never.
gut the Lord's coming will be a healing panacea for
every atiiiction. But are those, who pretend that a.
preparation for death is all-sufficient, prepared them-
selves for that event? are they watching for death?
Let their business, their cares, their conversation, their
devotions, their life, make the answer.
"
But it is not
essential to know about the Lord's coming." Well,
satisfy yourselves with iiying to this subterfuge, if you
will ; obedience is essential. Essential! but are we to
contend for no truth, unless that truth involves an
essential in religion? How easy it would be, on this
principle, to,pare down the whole word of God
to a
system of non-essentials! Some of us can
appreciate
this "
not essential" doctrine. But hark: the oblec-
B4
!o'r's words intlicste s bad heart; he is certainly striv-
ing
"
to climb up some other way." Let him beware,
lest his non-essentials
lgd hian wthere hope and mercy
can never reach him.
'
rien s i you go cont to
your convictions of duty, and ti; the plain declniziins
of God's word,-if you resist the light which is flash-
ing into your mind on this or any other doctrine of
Scripture -you are entirel welcome to your pros-
pects for eternity; for one, lywould not hazard my soul
where you lodge yours so quietly. The
eroiinrl
of
ty is in a strict and literal observance 0 al tiat
requires. You must tremble at God's word, or aban-
don all
thouiht
of heaven for yourselves; you must
:run at your ather's call, or be forsaken of him when
you shall call. May God's Spirit incline you to a. ful]
hearty obedience, while obedience may come up
ore him as a sweet-smelling incense.
Observe, third, The importance of using every means
gr ascertainipg Cltrisfs sicondtconaing.
The
ii-:eiquept
mont ions owac imp no on y a prepara on o
meet it, but the importanceyof trying to ascertain about
th;
time of its occurrence. A knowledge of the event
w'l be intimately associated with etforts to meet it;
indeed, we can hardly suppose how one can be prepared
for that which is not expected. lt is by bringing an
event nigh to us that invests it with its reality; for
example, we may think much of our own dissolution
when there are no prospects of death before us; but it
is only when we find ourselves actually on the confines
of the eternal world, that all our powers are
awakened
tpl mit
the
scélexpn crasis.
So,
useless
we
capl be(-lieve
t e vent 'an t e ju gment to just at t e oor,
instead of far down the stream of time, through suc-
cessive ages and numberless events, they cannot affect
us as when, by seizing _the great telescope of truth, we
observe that these sublime events are the first to strike
the vision, and the next in order to be ushered on to the
stage. "The
apostles preached these things as nigh
in their day." Phen can we do less than this in these
lutdays? Were these inspired men, however, mis-
25
taken, as many would seem to insinuate by this objec-
tion! Is the event never to occur because they did not
witness it? Our opponents will not dispute but that
the chronological prophecies, to say the least of them,
were designed to awaken a spirit of
inquiry and watch-
fiilness as their fulfilment draws nigh. hor will they,
I judge, dispute but that such rophecies will have
expired with the present year. ¥lence, on their own
assumption, they can no longer be indiH`erent to the
times, or blame us if now we place ourselves in an
expecting attitude for Christ's appearing. But few,
excepting those whose prejudices against the doctrine
are so deep-rooted as to reject all proof of the Lord's
appearing, will dispute but that the signs of the advent,
as rehearsed by Christ himself, have already been hung
out from the heavens. As the signs, then, justify our
expectations of the coming of our
lovely Lord, neither
they nor ourselves should be asleep at this moment.
But few, unless skeptics, and those who are obstinately
blind to all light that is shed before us from prophecy,
will contend that the Bible is perfectly silent in regard
to everything which would serve as a clue to this
looked-for event. With this admission, therefore, it
becomes our imperious duty to search the Scriptures
with diligence, to see if it be not high time to make
preparations for earth's last drama. That some un-
usual convulsion is just ahead, all seem ready to allow ;
therefore, none can be indifferent to its character.
None but the scorner will pronounce our efforts to
alarm our fellow-men idle and visionary. Within a
few years past, the coming of Christ has gone forth
like a whirlwind into the ibur quarters nf the globe,
and the world, to some extent, has been fairly rocked
on this subject. The doctrine of Christ's speedy com-
ing is either true or false: in either case, we cannot be
idle spectators. lf a lie has been so extensively propa-
gated, and the doctrine be, as some hold, of the devil,
then such can have no real interest for the cause of
truth, unless they are up at once, and begin, with
fasting and much prayer, and a fresh examination of
3
26
God's word, to neutralize the effect of such a falsehood.
Why have they not done this long since! But, if our
doctrine be of God, we call upon all to start from their
downy pillows; to lay off their Babylonish garments;
to abandon their sumptuous feasts; to cast their honors
under their feet; to forsake their carnal pleasures; to
renounce the maxims of this wicked world; and, like
the men of Nineveh, to robe themselves in sackcloth,
and sit in ashes before God, if peradventure the A1-
mighty may have mercy on them. Watch! The in-
junction itself implies that we may foresee Christ's
coming if we will. The particularity with which
Christ spoke of the events and signs which should
ppecede
his second advent, all go to the same effect.
ow, have we, before God, used our best efforts for
informing ourselves respecting this momentous event!
If we will persist in our ignorance and opposition to all
warnings from scripture and from the signs of the
times,-if we will suffer ourselves to be laughed out
of all concern, and frowned down from all sober inves-
tigation of God's word relative to approaching scenes,
-then do we betray the most consummate weakness,
folly, and madness, and must abide the heavy conse-
quences of such a course of procedure.
Observe, lastly, The guilt of interposing obstacles in
the way of the preparation of any for Christ's appear-
ing. lf, as
many contend, we can know absolutely
nothing about the time of his coming, then why is he
not as liable to come nov as at any future time? and
how do such justify their present indifference? Why
take such a course as will necessarily lead to
quieting
the fears of the wicked! and why provoked with those
who are now disposed to watch, inasmuch as the duty
now begun, should time continue, will not be aban-
doned? lf we know not absolutely at what watch
Christ may come, then no soul, unless speaking by new
inspiration, ought to have the audacity to countermand
Heaven's standing orders to watch, or to interpose
obstacles that might seem to put that event far in the
future.
"
Prophecy is to be understood only with its
.27
fulfilment." This is about as convenient an argument
against the advent as that which is so commonly em-
ployed by some of our opponents, for the purpose of'
getting away from all implied consequences that might
result from final indifference to the coming of' Christ.
They can easily silence all concern, by the soothing
doctrine ofthe saints' final perseverance ; but the same
individuals would sit very uneasily on their cushioned
seats to listen to more than a
single sermon a year, on
the abstract doctrine of God's decrees, or sovereignty.
All vicws of election which interfere with the duty of
watchfulness, must be defective. But do those who
urge the above objection profess themselves to be in
entire ignorance on all prophetic events? Itrow not.
That prophecy is to be understood only with its fulfil-
ment, is both unscriptural and unreasonable. "
Blessed
is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of' this
prophecy, and keep those things which are written
therein: for the time is at hand." Rev. i. 3. Now,
here is a blessing promised on those who should study
prophecy long before its fulfilment, and govern them-
selves accordingly. Again: on the ground assumed,
we can suppose of but a single motive which could
prompt the divine mind in causing prophecy to be reveal-
ed; and that is, to convince an infidel world of his
Own existence and ofthe divine authenticity ofthe Scrip-
tures. But where is his regard, all this time, for his
covenant-keeping people 1
This doctrine naturally leads to another, viz., that it is
difiicult to know when prophecy is fulfilled at all; since
events frequently resemble each other, and history is so
poor a source from whence to gather facts on which to
rely with confidence Yes, says the infidel, that is true,
and hence the argument for the inspiration ofthe Scrip-
tures, by comparing scriptural events with events which
the profane historian has already recorded, is utterly
worthless. So that the grand motive of God in causing
the future to be made a
subject of' prophecy is all lost on
the skeptic ; while the humble believer is left to grope his
way in impenetrable confusion and darkness, with no
28,
sure ide for his feet. To say that this is the Bible of
the Cgilristian, is to provoke the jeers of thé intidel; to
tantalize the anxious disciple of Christ, and to cast
insult upon the professed Author of revelation.
To interpose obstacles in the way of Christ's coming,
is to occasion a. violation of the duty of watchfulness.
This duty is always binding, independent of what we
may think is yet to occur. Now to enumerate events
which are yet in the future, and which in the nature of
things can occur only with the expiration' of centuries,
is certainly to cause the infraction of the duty enjoined.
No one can pursue this course without casting in the
back ground and entirely invalidating all contidence in
the prophetic periods, the signs and other aids which
Jehovah has employed for the purpose of awakening
our faith in relation to the conclusion of all things
earthly; or, which is the same thing, without causing a
portion of God's word to be discredited, and forestalling
all investigations that might lead to a knowledge of an
approaching judgment. Such do the souls of those
who confide in their iidelity, a. tiagrant wrong, by pre-
aring them to be surprised by the terrors of the great
say of God; they will be sure to ruin far more than
they have ever been instrumental in saving from final
wo. Such an,one, if he be a preacher ofthe gospel,
cannot honestly proclaim the doctrines of a temporal
millennium, and of the retum and conversion of the
Jews, &c., and at the same time urge upon his hear-
ers tho importance of watching for Christ's retum.
The most unthinking of his congregation would detect
his inconsistency and hypocrisy. With the doctrine
of the advent nigh for his theme, as the apostles
taught it, he would find full employment for his best
powers, full range for his choicest thoughts, wamith
and energy kindled up in his own breast, and nourish-
ment and life administered to the souls of his hearers.
For example: could he come to the poor, pining object
of man's extortion and oppression, with the soothing
words of an apostle,
"
Be atient therefore, brethren,
unto the coming of the Lord); stablish your hearts, for
29
the coming of the Lord draweth nigh ;" or could he, like
another apostle, while surrounded by hearts smitten
with anguish in view of the loss of dear ones on earth,
comfort and console the weeping moumers, with an
assurance that the grave must speedily deliver up its
captives, and restore them, all adomed with immortal
glories, to the embrace of those who now mourn their
brief absence; what a healing balm would this be to
suffering humanity. Or, like another apostle still, could
he draw upon the territic realities of a burning day just
at hand, as a
powerful motive to all "
holy conversation
and godliness," why, religion would suddenly assume
a new aspect in his midst; the dull and the careless
would never be satisfied but with a
piety that would
shine and glow and burn. As it is, however, he stands
in his own light; his preaching must be confined to the
consideration of a few practical duties, without being
supplied with motives sufiiciently strong by which to
enforce them ; it must be a powerless gospel.
Says the lezmied Dr. Breckenridge, "The watch-
word of the church in the days of the apostles, was,
Dominus noster venit---our Lord is coming: it was this
that made them missionaries in the true sense of the
word. So, if it were preached now, it would give life
and power to the whole body. The Lord's treasur
would be in the pockets of his people, and not in fund?
ed revenues; it would be forthcoming when and
wherever and in whatever amount it should be wanted.
The mental, moral, and physical energies of the church,
its men and women and children and money and goods
and lands, would be forthcoming." Such, we might
add, has been the result of this experiment as
already
tried. The d_octrine of Christ's speedy coming has
inspired the hearts of its believers with new life and
fresh devotion to the cause of Christ, such as has rarely
been known since the days of the apostles. And with
all the disparaging and reproachful remarks which
such sacrifices have elicited from the lips of the profess-
ing church, she can never see the palmy days which
she has pictured for herself, until she drinks into a
3*
30
similar spirit and
goes heroicslly and perseveringly to
work, as if she real y believed her own creed. But the
church is effectually defeating her own professed ends;
she is proclaiming doctrines that will naturally intluencs
her members to continue to amass property for them-
selves and their children, and to stint out only an occa-
sional farthing for the heathen; leavin the vast work
of evangelizing the world to their equalifyas pros rous
and able successors. Time enough yet, will ii; the
secret preaching of all her sons and daughters. Cer-
tainly she cannot
expect
to achieve her triumphs by a
miraculous agency; er present inelliciency, however,
would seem to indicate to the contrary; then how vain
must be her hopes! Will she never see that she is her
worst enemy--that she is casting obstructions in her
own
pathway, and rolling backward the mighty wheels
of her triumphant car? If God never blesses a false-
hood, surely her doctrine of a
temporal millennium is
destined to destruction-and though proclaimed year in
and year out, it can never effect the world's conversion.
Let the church come back to her original ground; let
her ministers renounce her fables and cherish again the
good old scriptural views of the reformers and godly
men of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Let
them believe and preach the near approach ofthe judg-
ment, as did such learned and sober Christians as Cal-
vin, Latimer, Knox, Sandys, Ridley, Bradford, Dave-
nant, the divines of the Westminster Assembly, Watson,
Thomas Adams, the framers of the Saybrook Plat-
form, St. Romance, and many others, of distinguished
note in the church. Let them not go to the judgment
with falsehoods in their hands.
But I have quite exhausted your patience. A word
more, and I am done. Brethren,-the admonition of
the text addresses itself forcibly to us. If we have
correctly interpreted God's word, Jesus is just ready to
withdraw the great curtain which conceals him within
the inner vail, and to come forth to bless his people. It
is the service of our
day)to
make preparations for his
coronation as the son of avid, and to prepare hallelu-
31
jshs when he shall. ascend his everlasting throne. To
tltedischarge of this duty, the clearest hght from pro-
phecy, and the
gegeral]
tenor of
('f°od's ward-,
direct
mdencourage. ut etusuot rget tvvesrs
liable again to be lulled to repose by business, by ples#
urs, by novelties, by vain conversation, and by the pre~
vailin and all-contaminating unbelief of the
'professing
church. We are
only
secure while, with a eep sense
of our weakness an
depelpdence, was keep
og: eye
steadily fixed on the great o art,-the auntless ptsin
of our salvation, and the promised port of everlasting
Est. Howtsricl; þÿll8t'Pl;1¬r§0;nV;'hl6i;l
we
stmpgrl1;h;v;
e
prospec o vic or n- ow com o
animating the promise,
"
En, I am with you always,
even unto the end of the world."
Professor of religion,-deceive not yourselves by
relying on past
expeirience,
or
béabusing
rtao yogi' pur-
poses any precious octrine of od's wo . evvare
of Sat.an's subtle and deep-laid plots for ruining
slyour
souls. It is high time you should awake out of eep.
I know you are
nowrepsmd
either for this or for an
event less serious. hat says our closet in your be~
half? Wliat proc( have you of being accepted, should
Christ now burst from his mediatorial throne? What
ckhance
of salvation would
ther;
be
ltgr tlie majority of
t eprofessing church? Some ave en nownto con-
fess that should this event occur as expected by us
they
must certainly be lost. Oh, that dreadful storm, it will
thoroughly test
every
hope ;-will it find you all ready!
Sinner,-that wil also be a terrible time for you.
Mpiuntaina
and
r¢;_cks vvgll fbe inpolxrpd toh
fall
onthyou
an to 16 you romt e ace o im t atsitte on
the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the
great
day ofbfiis
wrath is come, and who shall be able
to stan 1 ow there is hope of our salvation ;
another hour squ'andered, and all may be forever lost!
O, sinner; as your friend, heed this counsel. Say not
the advice is
unseasonable. Say not the
judgment
is
not expected by a majority oi' the church an of the
ministry. All that may`be true; and yet they are as
32
liable to be sleeping over the truth, ss we are liable
to be cherishing an error. Their silence maybe the
ver means which God has allowed for the purpose
of having that day come upon the _wicked as a snare,
or unawares, as upon the inhabitants of the old world,
and of the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. How een
you
meet your Judge, with his government insulted,
is
providences abused, his
judgments slighted, his
Spint grieved and his Son rejects l Pause, then, and
propitiate his favor, while mercy is in store, while the
flaming sword of Divine justice is yet undrawn, and
let me meet you on the fair shores of an
ever-blooming
paradise!
THE WARNING.
Ton. on, ye grovelling worms of earth,
Scom and forget your heavenly birth;
Gather your heaps of shining dust,
And die-as soon, right soon, ye must!
Or, if'your spirit thirsts for fame,
Make haste, nor rest, until your name
Stands among those accounted great,
From battle-fields, or halls of state;
Put on
your laurel: for a
day,-
Yon'll soon be swept from earth away.
Ifall you ask is pleasnre's cup,
Haste, fill it, drink its contents up;
Fill it, if life is spared, again,
And from the brim to bottom drain,
Then drop it from you.r palsied hand,
And in your Maker's presence stand!
Receive your doom, and haste aecursed
To dwell when: your tormenting thirst
No drop of water can allay,
While endless ages pass away!
No prayers, nor
tears, will then avail;
Your lost and sulfering spirit's wail.
Forever o'er he1l's burning sea,
Must break in tones of agony !
But let His glorious Name be praised
Who has my deathless spirit raised,
To seek in high and holy things,
Above earth's filthy grovellings,
A portion and a bright abode.
With Christ, my Savior, and my God.
THE SECOND LDVENT.
The chsriot! the chariot! its wheels roll on ire,
As the Lord cometh down in the pomp of hisjre;
Self-moving it dnves on its pathway of cloud,
And the heavens with the burthen of Godhead src hand.
The glory! the glory! by myrieds are poured
The hosts ofthe angels to waiton theLord;
And the glorihed saints and the martyrs are theme,
And all who the palm-wreath of victory wear.
The trumpet! the trumpet! the dead have all heard;
Lo, the depths of the stone-covered charnel are stirred;
From the sea, from the land, from the south and the north.
The vast generations of man are come forth.
The judgment! the judgment! the thmnes are all ect,
Where the Lamb and the white-vested elders ue met!
All Hesh is at once in the sight of the Lord,
And the doom of eternity hangs on his word!
0 mercy! 0 mercy! look down from shove,
Creator, on us, thy sad children, with love:
When beneath to their du-kness the wicked are driven,
Huy our sanctified souls had s mansion in hcevel.
`
I
Dg\Zed by
Google
