{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__dickerson___philosophy_of_mesmerism.pdf","mytitle":"Philosophy Of Mesmerism","mylang":"de"}
THE
PHILOSOPHY OF MESMERISM,
OR
Quintal ittagnettam,
BEING
A COMPILATION OF FACTS
ASCERTAINED BY EXPERIENCE, AND DRAWN FROM THE WRITINGS OF
THE MOST CELEBRATED MAGNETISERS
IN EUROPE AND AMERICA.
INTENDED TO FACILITATE THE HONEST INQUIRER AFTER TRUTH,
AND PROMOTE THE HAPPINESS OF MANKIND, BY DIFFUSING
THE KNOWLEDGE OF ONE OF NATURE'S WISEST LAWS
AND MOST BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS.
BY K. DICKERSON,
Practical Magnetiser.
x f 1 ^ -
CONCORD, N. H.
PRINTED BY MORRILL, SILSBY & CO.
1843.
TO THE
REV. LA ROY SUNDERLAND
OF NEW YORK,
AUTHOR OF THE MAGNET,
THE BOLD DEFENDER OF TRUTH,
WHO BY STUDYING NATURE IN ALL ITS VARIED FORMS, HAS WON
FOR HIMSELF AN IMPERISHABLE FAME, UNLOCKED THE
AVENUES OF THE MIND, AND BY THE MIRACULOUS
POWER OF MESMERISM, HAS SHOWN MEN
THEY ARE IMMORTAL,
anbts TOotlt in resjiectfuils tretitcatetr
BY THE AUTHOR.
The author of this work is happy to acknowledge his obligations to
Robert H. Collyer, Rev. La Roy Sunderland, Rev. Chauncey Hare Town-
send, A. M. late of Trinity Hall, Cambridge, from whose philosophical
writings the author has obtained much valuable information—to whom he
owes a debt of gratitude too great to be cancelled.
COPY RIGHT SECURED.
THE
PHILOSOPHY OF MESMERISM.
CHAPTER I.
Incredulity of mankind.—Their fears of Mesmerism.—Opposition that it
receives.—Its final triumph, and its results.
Mankind receive the false, but reject the true. Mahome-
danism, in less than a century, swept like a hurricane from
Gibraltar to China, from the Pyrenees to the Mountains of
the Moon, and ranged beneath its banners sultans and kings
without number. Three hundred years elapsed before
the mission of Christ was acknowledged by a single sove-
reign—Joe Smith, the Mormon prophet, now counts his
followers by tens of thousands. Millerism, " the baseless
fabric of a vision," like a tornado prostrates the energies of
mankind, distracts the brain, and leaves its votary in the
maniac's cell ; but still, fanned by the internal vibrations of
a disordered brain, onward it goes. Peter the Hermit caused
Europe to tremble from centre to circumference, while he
announced to the world that " Christ was about to appear on
Mount Zion." Emperors summoned their subjects by mil-
lions, kings counted their followers by tens of thousands,
princes vied with each other, knights emblazoned their
shields, citizens ventured their lives in the holy war, and all,
urged on by those conflicting passions that enthusiasm can
arouse, marched in one mighty mass to drive the Sara-
cens from the Holy Land.
4
The Pounder of the Christian religion was crucified, his
followers sawn asunder, or broken on the wheel ;
Galileo,
when he announced to the world that this earth revolved on
its axis, that the sun was stationary, that the planets revol-
ved around the same at different distances and with different
degrees of velocity, was denounced an infidel, summoned
before an inquisitorial court, and then incarcerated in a dun-
geon ; Martin Luther, when he seceded from the Church of
Rome, was declared a " heretic," and delivered over to the
" buffetings of Satan ;" Columbus was long deemed an en-
thusiast, and jeered at by the ignorant and bigoted. Galileo
lives forever—his name is immortal, his accusers are known
only for their folly ;
Luther's name will outlive time—eter-
nity alone can do him justice ; and as for Columbus, every
breeze conveys to us the sweet fragrance of his memory,
and every tongue lisps praise to the discoverer of our own
dear country.
Mesmerism, on the same principles, is opposed, its fol-
lowers ridiculed, its advocates treated with contempt. The
minister fears it will dethrone religion ;
the physician, that
it will empty his purse ; the bigot, it will disturb his creed,
and all join in the general denouncement of Mesmerism.
Dr. Elliotson, President of the London University Hospital,
was compelled to resign his office on account of believing in
Mesmerism ; the Rev. Mr. Townsend incurred the censure
of his fellow brethren, Dr. Collyer has drank deep of perse-
cution ; and the reader will pardon me if I here remark, that
although not wishing to associate my name with an Elliot-
son, a Collyer, or a Townsend, in point of literary acquire-
ments, yet I feel a little proud to state that with them I feel
myself honored, by so far advocating truth as to receive the
censure of the religious fraternity to which I once belonged,
"on account of believing in Mesmerism and phrenology."
Mankind are surrounded by a wall of brass ;
you may
storm their castle, ply the battering rams of truth against
o
their citadel, but still they are invincible, unless they have
one particle of common sense, one desire to learn for them-
selves ; if so, attack them at those points, and they will sur-
render ;
and knowing, however slow men are to be convin-
ced, they will at length arrive at correct conclusions, I hail
that day with pleasure when the powers of the mind will
become developed, and Mesmerism be raised to that stand
that God and Nature intended it should occupy. It is not
for feeble man to place a band on that intellect that was
derived from the Almighty, to prescribe bounds for the soul
to traverse, or dim its vision by his own narrow mind.
The results of Mesmerism will be glorious, as it is one of
God's natural laws; and we ask if the Almighty ever made
a law, but what a knowledge of the same would be condu-
cive to the happiness of mankind ? It exhibits a develope-
ment of the mind heretofore unknown—it tells us plainly
that the mind, freed from the " husk of organization," be-
comes immortal ; that when this physical organization decays,
that the immaterial principle expands its powers, and exists
in another sphere. And let us with reverence say, that by
the mysterious powers of Mesmerism we are enabled to sur-
vey the past and look into the future, that we by our Mes-
merisees can hold communion with the spiritual world, that
we behold through them " an opening vista to the world
unseen," that, still lingering around this mortal state, depart-
ed spirits watch and guide the steps of once loved friends.
But for this we do not vouch, but merely state them as facts
that we elicit from our Mesmerisees.
But this we do know, that our Mesmerisees have and can
tell what is transpiring at a distance, that they can describe
the diseases of persons they never saw, and prescribe remedies
for the same.
6
CHAPTER II.
History of Mesmerism.—An account of Mesmer—Introduction into France.
—Mesmerism in Great Britain and America.
The ancients undoubtedly were somewhat acquainted with
magnetism. From those chiselings and hieroglyphics we
find on the pyramids of Egypt and the crumbling towers of
Greece, we infer that Mesmerism was by them understood,
but, like the art of embalming, long since lost. Rudely
sketched on the column of the falling tower, or deeply cut
in the towering pyramid, you may still see the patient re-
clined on his couch, while over him stands the anxious
friend apparently assuaging his pains by the accustomed
passes downward. But history on this is silent, and it is pro-
bable that at the burning of the Alexandrian library the
accounts of magnetism perished in the general conflagration.
" The celebrated priestly race of Chaldea, whose learning
first measured the courses of the stars, and taught men the
nature and position of the heavenly bodies, and whose genius
reared those mighty monarchies and stupendous cities, that
have made the Assyrian plain the glory of the earth, were
accustomed to mesmerise, not only for the cure of disease, but
for sublimer purposes,as is evident from many significant pas-
sages in the classics." But leaving Egypt and Greece, "of
whose mighty lore the fragments that have floated down the
stream of time, excite our wonder at their greatness, and re-
gret at their obscurity," we come down to modern times,
and find in 1750 there lived in Germany a man, called Mes-
mer, who attracted much attention by his peculiar writings.
In 1778, Mesmer appeared in France, and created much ex-
citement there on account of his peculiar powers. Mesmer
shrouded his power of magnetising in mystery : —he sold
the art for gold, and by his shrewdness contrived to make
7
himself wealthy—he employed his power solely to cure dis-
eases. He would often operate by means of long iron rods,
standing at a distance, conveying the fluid to them from ves-
sels, trees, &c, by means of cords and other instruments that
his fruitful mind invented. Mesmer possessed in a remarka-
ble degree the magnetising power. One glance of his eye
sometimes was quite sufficient to produce a quiet slumber.
He generally performed his operations in a darkened cham-
ber, lined with mirrors, with light sufficient to form a twi-
light shade, while now and then the solemn silence was bro-
ken by the liquid sounds of the harmonicon, of which Mesmer
was a perfect master. But unfortunately, from the very out-
set,Mesmerism was associated with the soiling calculations of
self-interest and the errors of an over-heated brain. Mesmer
wished to make a monopoly of what should have been the
property of all mankind ; he sold his secret, he bartered his
future fame for gold. The result of his moral suicide has
been for a long time the degradation of Mesmerism. The
false came blended with the true, and both were alike con-
demned together.
Magnetism was laid before the Royal Academy of Medi-
cine in France, in 1784. Dr. Franklin was a member of the
committee of investigation, but on account of ill-health was
unable to attend to the duties of the same. A great number
of experiments were made before the committee by Dr. Nel-
son, a follower of Mesmer, but the committee reported unfa-
vorably to the science. But they did not condemn it : they
only stated that in their opinion the phenomena called mag-
netic, did not arise from the existence of a fluid, as Mesmer
contended, but was the effect of the imagination.
In 1825, this same Academy of Medicine made a second
investigation of the power of magnetism. A committee of
nine members were selected, and after a thorough investiga-
tion they concluded their report by stating that they " had
collected facts sufficient to show that the Academy should
8
encourage and favor researches in magnetism as being a very
curious branch of physiology and natural history."
In Great Britain, Dr. Elliotson, the champion of Mesmer-
ism, has boldly sustained the cause, by philosophical reason-
ing and practical illustrations, and with him the Rev. Mr.
Townsend may be associated, whose profound mind, prolific
pen and metaphysical erudition has given to Mesmerism a
name and a fame lasting as time. Mesmerism in Great Bri-
tain is beyond reproach ;
among its votaries are the most phi-
losophical characters in the United Kingdom.
In the United States, Mesmerism is slowly, but regularly
advancing. We, as a people, are much behind the enlight-
ened nations of Europe in a knowledge of this power, but
the spirit of inquiry that now operates on the minds of com-
munity, will continue to progress till the hidden resources of
the mind are fully discovered, and man occupy that stand in
the scale of existence that God and nature intended he
should. Mesmerism was first introduced into the United
States by Mons. Poyens, a French gentleman of fine talents,
but remarkably reserved in his deportment. He lectured in
many towns in New England, and although his labors were
not crowned with that success he might have anticipated, yet
a spirit of inquiry was awakened and seed sown that was to
spring up and bear a hundred fold.
Mons. Poyens was remarkably successful in magnetising
Miss Gleason, of Pawtucket, who was one of the best mag-
netic subjects ever produced in the United States.
Miss Gleason is now living in Boston, and while in the
magnetic state examines the internal diseases of persons, and
has been successful in prescribing remedies for the same. In
1837, Mons. Poyens published a work entitled the "Progress
of Animal Magnetism in New England," that contains much
valuable information. After that, Mons. Poyens returned to
Paris, where he now resides, preferring the avocation of an
amateur farmer to the vicissitudes of the life of a lecturer on
Mesmerism.
9
In 1840, there arrived in New York a man of very differ-
ent charaeter than Mons. Poyens, and that man was Dr.
Robert H. Collyer. He had nerve to withstand ridicule,
power to quell opposition, an iron constitution, an indomita-
ble spirit, and possessed the magnetic power in a remarkable
degree. He boldly entered the field, predicated himself on
truth, defied attack, challenged opposition, and has won for
himself an imperishable fame.
Dr. Collyer first lectured in Boston in the spring of 1841.
His lectures were fully attended, his experiments were satis-
factory, and the believers in Mesmerism in Boston number
the most respectable portion of the city.
Dr. Collyer has visited the principal cities in New England,
making converts by hundreds, and such has been his success
that almost by general consent he is styled the " Champion
of Mesmerism in America."
The Rev. La Roy Sunderland of New York stands con-
spicuous as a writer on Mesmerism. He publishes a work on
Mesmerism, a monthly periodical called the Magnet, which
has done much to diffuse a knowledge of the laws of Mes-
merism, and explore the hidden path of mental operation.
The Magnet is one of the best and most philosophical peri-
odicals published in America, and from the high standing of
the author, his literary acquirements, his knowledge of phy-
siology, his writings are sought for with great avidity, and no
one that personally knows the Rev. La Roy Sunderland will
question his veracity.
He has taken hold of truth with " a giant's grasp," exam-
ined nature in all her varied forms, analyzed her laws, mea-
sured the boundless field of exploration, and by the mighty
energies of his mind introduced man to a new world by ex-
plaining to him the philosophy of existence. But Mr. Sun-
derland's delicacy makes him shudder at exhibitions made in
public of the powers of Mesmerism ;
but he has yet to learn
that the laws of Mesmerism are too general to be confined to
2
10
the cloister, or dealt ont by licensed agents, and that he, nor
no set of men can monopolize what God intended for all
mankind.
Dr. Gilbert, of Boston, is an able advocate of Mesmerism,
and possesses in a remarkable degree the power of magnet-
ising. His exhibitions are interesting, his powers of concen-
tration and abstraction great, magnetising any part of the
system he may choose, exciting any organ of the brain he
may please.
The Rev. Mr. Dods, a Universalist clergyman, has recently
been lecturing in Boston to crowded houses. His lectures
are very interesting, his manners prepossessing, and he has
done much to interest community, and awaken a spirit of
inquiry.
Dr. Shattuck, of Lowell, has also done much to dissemi-
nate a knowledge of Mesmerism, illustrated it by experiments
and public lectures, and in many instances has relieved pain,
and recently so powerfully magnetised a lady, in Lowell,
that she had a large tumor taken from her shoulder, without
causing the least pain.
Among the better half of creation, that interest themselves
in magnetism, is Mis. Fergus of Boston, who has a blind
girl for her subject. This girl, ihough blind from birth, by
the mysterious power of Mesmerism, is made to see and de-
scribe things correctly.
The persons that successfully magnetise in the United
States are so numerous that their names would fill a volume.
A few of them I can only mention :
—Rev. John Pierpont,
in Boston, Drs. Lewis, Flint, Dana, Ingalls, Gregerson and
Ball ; in New York, Rufus Daws, Esq. the poet, Henry In-
man, and Rev. La Roy Sunderland ; in Portland, John Neal,
Professor Ingraham ; in Louisville, Ky., Dr. Caldwell and
Dr. J. R. Buchanan ;
in Concord, N. H. Rev. M. G. Thomas
and Mical Tubbs.
11
CHAPTER III.
Philosophy of Mesmerism explained.—The magnetic fluid.—How put in
motion.—Its action on the organs of the brain.—The philosophy of
religion.—Efficacy of prayer.
There are many subjects that are transcendental ; with our
limited knowledge, we cannot scan Omnipotence; but by the
due exercise of the powers God has given us, we can look at
the book of nature, we can examine the physical laws of
our Creator, read and be immortal. "He that seeks after
knowledge as the traveller does for the springs of the desert,
explores the wide range of science and philosophy, that tra-
vels among the stars, guages the dimensions of suns, calcu-
lates the transits and attitudes of the great wheeling orbs of
immensity ; that analyzes nature's laws, developes all the pow-
ers of his mind, approaches to the very verge of the mate-
rial world, and there discovers a spiritual world bearing the
same relation to his spirit that the temporal world does to his
body, honors the Father of his spirit, and manifests a mind
worthy of the God that made him."
The philosopher sees a divinity that shapes the end of
man, discovers that the universal cause acts not by partial,
but by general laws, that since time began, nature has been
uniform in all her works, that the great Lawgiver was wise
enough to make laws that needed no revising, that he "is
the same yesterday, to-day and forever," that the various
changes,physically and mentally, mankind experience are oc
casioned by organization, external circumstances or the phy-
sical laws of nature. Hence we infer that the ebbing and
flowing of man's mind, his mental changes are not miracu-
lous manifestations of God's power, but the effects of organ-
ization, obedience or disobedience to the natural laws. When
we view the broad expanse of the ocean, see the rolling of
12
its turbid waters, gaze on the ruffled bosom of the mighty
lake, or listen to the falling cataract, we say all this is in
accordance with nature's laws.
Hence, the phenomena of Mesmerism is a law of nature.
There is nothing supernatural about it. It is all in accord-
ance with nature's laws and the organization of our being.
Mesmerism is; but what it is, no one can tell. The sun
shines ; but why, or how it shines, no one knows.
We know we are surrounded by an infinitely thin, elastic,
volatile fluid, that we inspire and expire it every moment of
our life ; but the component parts, the inherent qualities, no
one can determine. Whether it be electricity or galvanism,
is beyond our scan. Suffice it to say, it exists, and that, too,
in every particle of matter that was ever formed. Upon the
existence of this fluid, we account for the phenomena of
Mesmerism. This fluid, we say, is an emanation of Divine
power, the first approximation that the Deity made towards
forming matter, that comes under our observation. It is the
medium in which we live, that power that causes the invol-
untary nerves to perform their functions, the soul of animal
life, the vivifying principle of nature ; combined with the un-
dying, vitalising principle of immortality, it constitutes the
eternal spirituality of man.
All minds are originally the same. The only difference
between a wise man and a fool is, the former has a greater
number or more perfect instruments to work with than the
latter. All minds combined with an unknown principle
spring from this same fluid, consequently, when in the Mes-
meric sleep, the mind is sent back to its native element, and
then it can extend its power of observation as far as its na-
tive element extends. Hence arises the power of clairvoy-
ance.
By a concentration of thought, the mind of the Mesmeri-
ser comes in contact with the Mesmerisee, the former being
more powerful than the latter, is overcome and returned to its
13
native clement, and can be directed to any given place the
Mesmeriser chooses, provided that place be in connection
with this electrical medium ; the mind all the time holding
connection with the body by a certain plastic medium suffi-
ciently powerful to safely reconduct the spirit to its temporal
abode. It is this fluid that operates on the organs of the
brain. Animal life is electricity. Electricity acting on the
brain, produces emotions of mind ; these emotions are regu-
lated by the amount of electricity, and the number of organs
in action. By the force of will, the author of this work has
excited the organs of the brain in the natural state ;
produ-
cing joy or sorrow, hope or fear, submission or self-esteem,
each organ manifesting its legitimate action. Mr. H , of
P , N. H., an attorney at law, is the most susceptible of
the Mesmeric power, of any gentleman I ever saw, possess-
ing an ardent temperament, a brilliant mind, while in the
normal state he seems to approach near the spiritual world.
There are, however, but few persons that the organs of the
brain can be highly excited in the natural state by the will of
the operator, the Mesmeric sleep being altogether preferable.
It is by the existence of this fluid that we account for ex-
citements of any kind whatever. The God of nature has
seen fit, in his wisdom, to locate the high and ennobling fac-
ulties of the mind at the top of the brain, intending them to
govern, the animal propensities near the base of the brain,
evidently intending them ever to be in submission to the mo-
ral sentiments ; but men reverse the order of nature, frequent-
ly by allowing the propensities to govern. Man is an animal.
There enters into his organization all the faculties that help
compose any animal whatever, and, besides those faculties
animals possess, man has additions and super-additions of the
brain, that render him a being but little lower than the angels.
He is that link in the great scale of existence that unites
mortality with immortality, this world with the next.
When the organs of Benevolence, Veneration and Consci-
14
ontiousness are excited, men arc religious ;
if they have large
Firmness, they may endure to the end ;
if not, they will be
vacillating and changing. When this fluid operates on Com-
bativeness, Destructiveness, Secretiveness, &c, men will be
immoral and vicious. Independent of this, every individual
has, by the laws of nature, a will that can, more or or less,
control the organs of the brain by sending electricity to them.
Religion dwells in the moral sentiments; arouse those to action,
and men are religious. Excite Caution ;
they see danger.
Arouse Hope ;
a brilliant sensation pervades the whole system,
and the dismal scenes that Caution viewed, Hope changes to
a paradise of love. And this is the operation of electricity
on the brain.
There is a beautiful harmony in the order of nature. The
ebbing and flowing of the mind is governed by as fixed laws
as the tide. God nor his laws never change—He is the same
yesterday, to-day, and forever. Prayer therefore does not
change him ; but by a physical law of nature, by looking
steadfastly at any object, we in a certain degree partake of
its nature ;
so, by looking to God, our moral sentiments be-
come aroused, and we are transformed to his image. There-
fore, the more we pray to God, the more we shall be like
him. But man can operate upon man by prayer, and this too
through the agency of this electric fluid that surrounds us.
Thousands of instances can be cited where the mind of an
individual has been wrought upon by the prayers of a friend,
when the mind keenly feels for the welfare of him whom he
prizes highly.
Would our limits permit, we would illustrate this most
clearly ;
but all we ask of the seeker after truth is, to investi-
gate facts for himself, examine, analyze, and trace out Nature's
laws, and lie will find these remarks true, permanent as God
himself, and the great mystery of excitement will be clearly
understood, and the action of mind upon mind as clearly
demonstrated as the propelling of engines by the expansive
15
power of steam. But we forbear—so long have mankind
entertained the idea that their peculiar transits of mind, their
religious feelings are the particular emanations of Divine
Power, it will be like calming the raging of the mighty
ocean by a magic wand, to attempt to at once break the spell
of tradition, but truth being omnipotent, it will prevail.
CHAPTER IV.
Magnetic sleep.—Manner of magnetising.—All possess the power.—Should
not be attempted hut in a state of health.—Its prominent features.—Rules
and cautions for the exercise of the power.—Convulsions, paroxysms.
Manner of restoring consciousness.
In the magnetic sleep, the mind is unconscious of external
nature: unless aroused by the mind of the Mesmeriser,the sen-
ses seem locked in silence, and the physical organization loses
its power of action,at least the nerves of voluntary motion seem
suspended. But the mind seems to be more active, and to
seemingly gain what the physical system loses. The inter-
change of fluid between the Mesmeriser and the Mesmerisee
is imperceptible to the eye,consequently the phenomena are in
many respects unexplainable. Our clairvoyants tell us that
electricity passes from them to us, and from us to them, that
they feel all the sensations that pervade our mind, and can
even read our very thoughts.
There are several kinds of Mesmeric sleep. Some indi-
viduals under the magnetic influence seem to be physically
and mentally unconscious. They are insensible to pain, and
no power of the Mesmeriser can affect their senses, a general
paralyzation of the body and spirit seems to fix its cold grasp
on them. Others seem to know all the Mesmeriser knows,
read his thoughts, and are mere reflectors of his will. Again,
others more spiritual, more elevated, know whatever is taking
place around them, and can correctly describe any place on
16
earth, no matter whether they were ever there or not before.
Of this wonderful power of clairvoyance, we shall speak in
a subsequent article. Different magnetisers have different
modes of inducing the mesmeric sleep. We here shall give
a concise account of the modus operandi, as practised by our-
selves and many other magnetisers. We copy largely from
the celebrated Deleuse, whose miraculous success has aston-
ished the world. The manner of magnetising is as follows:
viz : the magnetiser should be calm and collected, self-pos-
sessed, knowing himself to be founded on the eternal princi-
ples of truth, and being about to operate on the immortal
mind, he should feel far above the grovelling objects that dis-
turb the world, and be morally superior to those who may-
surround him. The Mesmerisee should be seated in the ea-
siest positiou,the Mesineriser should seat himself in front on a
seat, a little more elevated, so that his knees may be outside
of the Mesmerisee's, and feet by the side of his. Demand,
then, of the Mesmerisee, that he give himself up entirely,
that he think of nothing, that he banish all fear, and indulge
hope, nor be disquieted if the operation produces momentary
pain. After a state of self-collectedness, take the Mesmeri-
see's thumbs between your two fingers, so that the inside of
your thumbs may touch the inside of his. Remain in this
condition till there is an equalization of temperament, then
remove your hands, moving them to the right and left, and
waving them so that the interior surface be turned outward,
and raise them to the head, then place them on his two
shoulders, then draw them down the arm to the extremity of
the fingers, touching lightly. Repeat this pass several times,
always turning the hands and sweeping them off a little be-
fore reascending, then place the hands on the head, hold,
them there a moment, then bring them down before the face
at the distance of one or two inches, down to the pit of the
stomach, there let them remain about two minutes, passing
the thumb along the pit of the stomach, and the fingers clow,n
17
the sides. Then descend slowly the body as far as the
knees. After the first passes, dispense with putting hands
on the head, and make the succeeding ones along the arms,
beginning at the shoulder or along the body, commencing at
the stomach.
When the sleep is induced, and the Mesmerisee sinks into
a quiet slumber, take care to draw towards the extremity of
the hands, and towards the feet, shaking your hands each
time. Finally, make several transverse passes in front of the
head and stomach, carrying the hands outward, to throw off
the superabundance of fluid in the system. In magnetising,
always make the passes downward, for it is on this account
that we turn the hands obliquely when they are raised to-
wards the head. It is necessary that there should be a gen-
eral diffusion of fluid through the system, therefore passes
from the head to the feet, along the sides, are sometimes ne-
cessary. Sometimes in nervous persons, it is proper to make
passes two feet from the subject, producing a calm and quiet
state of mind.
When the magnetiser acts upon the subject, they are said
to be in communication, there being a reciprocal feeling on
the part of the subject by means of the vital fluid.
All persons possess the power of magnetising to a certain
extent, though few have it in sufficient force to produce in
others the Mesmeric condition. It however can be much im-
proved by exercise and judicious management. The cele-
brated Collyer remarks, that his observation has led him to
believe that those persons that possess the bilious tempera-
ment, characterised by a strong frame, black hair, dark skin,
and dark eyes, and by force and energy of mind and charac-
ter, are, in general, possessed of a greater share of Mesmeric
power, than those of a lymphatic, sanguine or nervous tem-
perament. There are, however, many exceptions, chiefly in
favor of the nervous, the nervo-sanguine, and the nervo-bil-
ious temperaments. Strength, health and a most determined
a
18
will, are also requisite in the Mesmeriser. He should also pos-
sess greater bodily health than the Mesmerisee, unless the lat-
ter is accustomed to the Mesmeric influence, and perfectly
willing to be Mesmerised. The bodily health of the Mes-
meriser is a very important consideration. Instances some-
times occur, when the Mesmerisee is thrown into spasms on
account of the ill-health of the Mesmeriser.
The period that the Mesmeric power is most fully devel-
oped, is from twenty-five to forty years of age. Bodily qual-
ities however sink into insignificance when compared to spir-
itual and intellectual qualifications. The Mesmeriser should
possess acuteness and habits of observation, so as to be ena-
bled to act properly at all times, and under all circumstances.
A knowledge of phrenology is necessary in order to be suc-
cessful. Sometimes by touching the sympathetic points, or
the termination of the organs, an undue excitement is caused,
which may cause spasmodic contortions, and much skill is
requisite to restore the equilibrium of the system. For in-
stance, Benevolence might be accidentally excited, and a pro-
fusion of tears might flow, attended with mental anguish ;
the operator in order to instantly quiet the system, need but
excite Combativeness, and calmness will ensue. Therefore,
to excite Combativeness, the operator must know its location.
Benevolence seems to be a general soothing organ, as Com-
bativeness, Destructiveness, Self-Esteem, Firmness, Secre-
tiveness are all quieted by the action of this organ.
Passes made from the head downward to the extremities,
generally calm the mind, in case of spasms and convulsions,
if the operator can calm his own mind sufficiently.
In case of excitement in the mind of the Mesmeriser, he
had better step a short distance from the Mesmerisee, and by
making several passes down his own head, together with an
effort to arouse his Self-Esteem, self-control may be restored.
To restore consciousness, it is only requisite to reverse the
process, making upward passes accompanied by an effort of
19
the will. Never be frightened if it takes some time to awa-
ken the sleeper, as you will ultimately succeed, and if even
left alone, the Mesmerisee will in a few hours return to his
normal state. Sharp points of steel, held near the head, will
also restore consciousness.
CHAPTER V.
How to cure disease by magnetism—Disease occasioned by derangement of
the magnetic forces. Magnetism remedy for insanity.—Clairvoyance,
true and false.—Its wonderful powers.
As " flesh is heir to many ills," and human nature continu-
ally racked with a thousand pains, to alleviate the sufferings
of humanity, and to comfort the distressed, should be the
desire of all. Mesmerism, as a remedial agent for the remo-
val of pain, seems to be unequalled, though yet in its infancy,
and that, too, while the laws that govern the same, are but
partially understood.
In prescribing the manner of operating on a patient, I
quote from Deleuse in addition to my own experience. When
the sick person desires you to attempt to cure him by mag-
netism, if you feel a desire to second his wishes, agree with
him the hour of sittings, and elicit from him a promise to
conform to your prescriptions, and an assurance that none
shall be informed of the operation, excepting those who
ought naturally to know it. Put the patient into the Mes-
meric sleep, agreeably to the general rules laid down in a
previous chapter. But if the patient is not able to sit in a
chair, take your station near his bed in the most convenient
manner ; take his thumbs, make several passes along the
arms, and, if sitting upright, others along the back, then with
one hand make longitudinal passes from the stomach, just
touching the clothes, then at a distance. Finish by passes
along the legs^ and by transversal passes before the head,
20
breast and the stomach. A magnetical influence being dif-
fused through the system, the dissipating of pain will be at-
tended to. The following are some principles to guide the
magnetiser.
The magnetic fluid when put in motion, draws along with
it the blood, the humors and the cause of the complaint. For
example, if one has the head-ache, if the forehead be very
hot and the feet cold, by making a few passes from the head
to the feet, the equilibrium is restored, and the head cured,
and the feet become warm. If the pain is in the shoulder,
make passes from the shoulder to the end of the fingers ; the
pain will descend with the hands. Magnetism seems to chase
away and bear off with it what disturbs the equilibrium, and
its action ceases when the equilibrium is restored.
The following rules, with some exceptions, may thence be
established, viz :
Accumulate and concentrate the magnetic fluid on the suf-
fering part, then draw off the pain towards the extremities by
gentle passes.
Do you desire to cure a pain on the shoulder ? Hold your
hand on the shoulder for several minutes, then descend to
the end of the fingers, and so repeat the process. To cure
the pain in the stomach, place your hands several minutes on
the same, then descend to the knees. If your patient be
troubled with an obstruction, place your hand upon the seat
of it, keep it there for some time, then draw it along to the
extremities. Sometimes a circular motion is requisite to cor-
respond with the windings of the intestines.
The motions made externally will operate sympathetically
internally. If the posterior portion of the head be injured,
take the head between your hands, conveying the action of
will to the seat of the injury, then bring the hand down along
the back, if the contusion is behind the head—along the arms
and side, if on the side of the head, and down across the
stomach and knees, if on the frontal portion of the head.
21
The blood will thus be prevented from rushing to the head,
and bleeding will be unnecessary.
In case of violent head-ache, place your hands on the head
where the pain is seated, hold them there a few moments, then
withdraw them as if you believed the fluid you had introdu-
ced united with the patient's, that the mingled fluid stuck
to your hands, and that in separating your hands and shaking
your fingers, you could draw it off again. This process will
not be efficacious when the head -ache is caused by a derange-
ment of the stomach. The stomach then should be operated
upon, passes being made downwards from the same.
Another important process to cure local pain is to place a
piece of linen several times folded, or flannel, on the suffer-
ing part, then apply the mouth above it, and breathe through
it, then draw off the pain as usual.
The head may be cooled by placing the palm of the hands
on the same, and letting the fingers extend upwards to con-
duct off the fluid. In all magnetic operations the fingers
should be kept separate.
The treatment of disease should be uniform and regular
as possible. The sittings must be periodical and equal in du-
ration, the magnetiser calm and collected, all foreign influ-
ence banished, all curious persons excluded, and the Mesmer-
isee's will must be consulted, if rather despotic.
The importance of the discovery of Mesmerism will not
be duly considered till mankind become acquainted with the
healing balm that floats around them in nature's great reser-
voir—till they learn that originally disease and pain were oc-
casioned by a transgression of the physical laws of nature,
and the only and better way to avoid pain and distress is,
study and learn truths from nature's eternal pages, and be
wise and happy.
Magnetism exists in every thing—the power of speech and
thought—all the influences we exert—all the feelings of our
mj ncl s—all those we produce in others, are attributable to no
22
other agency than the magnetic forces. It is the life of our
physical and mental organs, and the medium by which ideas
are conveyed from one brain to another. It is the agency by
which one mental organ speaks to another, and by which
mind acts upon mind. Mind is made up of a congeries of
opposite faculties, which balance and influence each other, and
our virtue consists in governing them agreeable to the laws
of the great Creator.
All the organs of the brain are positively and negatively
electrified; and in a well-balanced head, the manifestations of
mind will be regular, and the eccentricities of character are
much dependent on the irregularity of the organization. All
the organs of the brain were created for beneficial purposes,
and the legitimate action of the whole is to promote the happi-
ness of man.
That happiness is the most desirable that will continue
the longest, and this can only be obtained by a harmonious
action of the whole ; the moral sentiments holding the as-
cendency.
Animal life is magnetism in an organized or modified form.
The magnetic forces produce the conception and the growth
of the human system, and their decay and separation from the
body produces death.
From the brain vitality is distributed through the system,
and different parts of that organ supply it for different por-
tions of the body, so that every vital or physical organ and
muscle is animated and controlled by a separate portion of
the brain. The temperaments are fixed and determined by
the predominance of the different magnetic forces.
Derangement of the magnetic forces produces monomania,
insanity and madness. Derangement of the cerebral organs
produces disease. All diseases may be controlled more or
less by magnetising the cerebral organs corresponding with
the parts affected.
For nervous complaints and diseases of the brain, such as
23
monomania, insanity and madness, magnetism is a perfect
cure when we can ascertain the different parts that have been
affected.
Medicines have no effect in removing disease except in so
far as they produce the right kind of action upon the mag-
netic forces of the parts diseased.
Mesmerism proves Phrenology beyond all dispute. It
shows us that all the organs of the brain are positively and
negatively electrified. As for instance, there is one organ
for joy, another for sadness ; one for love, another for aver-
sion ; one for forgiveness, another for retribution ; one for
courage, another for fear ; one for self-esteem, another for hu-
mility; one for destroying, another for preserving, &c. &c.
Therefore, as before remarked, when the organs are equally
balanced, men are sane and uniform; when unequally, they
are insane or irregular. Clairvoyance, says the celebrated
Collyer, is the result of a superabundance of nervous force
in the brain ; this may be induced through the instrumental-
ity of one person on another, by the exertion of his will, or
in consequence of an increased action of those organs that
assimilate this force, as is the case in extraordinary mental ex-
citement and continuity of thought. This latter condition
is known as a trance. Then the spiritual body is enabled to
leave its corporeal tenement and range from country to coun-
try, from world to world, and universe to universe. The bo-
dy vitalizes by a unison of the same chain of nature's laws
which accommodates itself to all conditions of our being, oth-
erwise a cessation of vital action must ensue ;
for in the con-
dition of the corporeal and spiritual body as exists in natural
life, there is just sufficient vital force to serve as a plastic me-
dium, between the body and spirit ; the latter cannot then
leave the body except from an extension of the ordinary laws
of our economy without the natural consequence—death.
Clairvoyance is divided into true and false. True clairvoy-
ance is of rare occurrence, in consequence of the many high
24
conditions essential to its manifestation. The Mesmerisee is
required to possess capacities of no ordinary nature, such as
few persons are capable of.
The Mesmeriser or correspondent should have a clear, ac-
tive mind, the power of concentration and abstraction, and
above all, the power of depicting precisely and clearly in his
mind what he wishes described, and banish every foreign
idea from his thoughts.
The cause of a majority of failures may be attributed to
this simple fact—persons have attempted this mental trans-
portation, wanting all these qualifications, and even if they
had them, in nine cases out of ten, from the novelty and sin-
gularity of their position, stationed before an audience in cor-
respondence with a person in the Mesmeric state, subject to
the jeers, ridicule and scoffs of the public, they have been so
much disturbed by external circumstances that the accounts
of the clairvoyant have been vague and contradictory. But
there are persons who possess the required capacities, and to
these we may safely guarantee true clairvoyance, which is a
departure of the spiritual from the physical body, at which
time it recognizes for itself independently of the Mesmeriser
or correspondent, he having only the task of giving direction.
He never gives it information but merely by the powers of
his mind, the capacity of being able to free itself from the
" husk of organization ;" and according to the perceptibility
of this power in the Mesmeriser, are the results clear, vivid
and brilliantly true. When we have known the Mesmerisee
spiritually to recognize men and things in distant countries,
totally unknown to any of the parties, the truthfulness has
been subsequently proved to be in exact accordance with
facts.
False clairvoyance is often mistaken for the true. It con-
sists in the image of the mind of the correspondent being
reflected on the brain of the Mesmerisee ; in which case the
description is only in accordance with the picture thus paint-
25
ed. The correspondent has nearly all the qualifications, but
deficient in the exercise of his will. The description will
be part correct and part incorrect.
The writer of this, in Feb. 1843, magnetised Miss F., of
Mont Vernon, N. H. Being a lady of fine mental powers,
well educated, and of a brilliant mind, she, as might be ex-
pected, manifested true clairvoyance in a remarkable degree.
She minutely described the diseases of persons not only pre-
sent, but those 60 miles distant, and told what was taking
place at the time, where she never was, and as correctly read
my thoughts as I could myself. She correctly described the
structure of the brain, traced the termination of the organs,
explained the philosophy of Mesmerism, and the effect it had
on the system. To the question, What is mind? she replied,
" Electricity and spirituality combined." And to the ques-
tion, By what power do you see objects? she replied, "By
electricity, as that pervades all matter, and is diffused through
every thing." When the subject is in a perfect somnambu-
lic stale, the whole universe appears to them as if filled with
light. They see with an internal or spiritual sense of sight,
through the magnetic medium. In true clairvoyant experi-
ments, the magnetiser only acts as a guide to the subject; the
subject does not see objects as stamped upon his imagination,
but by looking at the objects themselves. True clairvoyants
can readily look through the system, ascertain the bodily
health, and frequently prescribe remedies. If so, the medi-
cine is of a simple nature, generally consisting of roots and
herbs, and with directions as to diet, bathing, &c. Miss F.
of Mont Vernon, remarked that "nature was the best doctor
—that the blood would purify itself—that there was a suffi-
ciency in nature to cure all diseases men were subject to."
A
26
CHAPTER VI.
The truths that Mesmerism unfolds.—Its natural tendency.—Proves man's
immortality.—Overthrows infidelity.—Exhibits man's capability.—Proves
his accountability.
Mesmerism introduces us to a new world, unlocks the hid-
den resources of our nature, and exhibits a developement of
the mind heretofore beyond our conception. It exalts our
ideas of human nature, elevates the mind, and at once shows
us that we are fearfully and wonderfully made.
When we see the Clairvoyant with his spiritual eyes cross-
ing oceans, travelling among suns, surveying the broad cano-
py of heaven, viewing the lunar sphere in her brightness,
coursing with the comet in its rapid progress, or for a moment
draw aside the veil that parts from us the spiritual world, and
hear from lips mortal, the scenes of an immortal life, we can
but bow with humble reverence before that Being whose
Power Omnipotent made man immortal. Mesmerism teach-
es us that the immortal principle is separate from the physical
organization—that however much we may operate upon the
material, we can in no way effect the immaterial principle ;
for in the Mesmeric sleep, if a sufficient quantity of electri-
city be sent through the system to instantly produce
death in the natural state, the system will in no way be affect-
ed. This has been tested by experiments made by Dr. Coll-
yer and others to an alarming extent. Mesmerism strikes a
death-blow to infidelity. It saps the foundation of the skep-
tic ;
for let the greatest infidel be put into the magnetic state,
and he at once, when directed to take a survey of the spirit-
ual world, seems charmed with its beauty, and the softer strains
of christian melody fall from his lips inured to blasphemous
impiety.
The language of the Rev. Mr. Townsend is in accordance
27
with truth ;1
Separated from the usuaJ action of the senses,
the mind of the somnambulist seems to gain greater notions,
to have quite a new sense of spiritual things, and to be lifted
nearer to the fountain of all good and all truth. The great
indication of this state is a horror of falsehood, which is found
common in all subjects. Sincerity is their special character-
istic ;
they cannot feign nor flatter. They seem to be taken
out of common life, with all its heartless forms and plausible
conventions." Mr. Townsend magnetised an infidel, and
then questioned him as to the future state. " The somnam-
bulist rose," says Mr. Townsend, " into an eloquence which
seemed unearthly—it was simple, it was beautiful, it was like
inspiration. He spoke of the never-dying soul—of its ran-
somed beatitude—of its progress through various eras of ex-
istence. Every one present was affected, some even to tears.
It was beautiful to see the young prophet, whose countenance
had taken the expression of purity and innocence, speaking
so calmly the words of holiness and comfort, and the older
listener humbly stooping to drink of the waters of refresh-
ment from so lowly a source."
" Beautiful are the things he has said to me respecting the
soul's recognition of those it loved on earth, and of the priv-
ilege of departed friends to watch over the objects of their
solicitude, while toiling through the pilgrimage of life ; but
were I particularly to record these speculations,as they would
be called, I should probably be deemed a visionary, or brand-
ed as an enthusiast."
Mesmerism shows most clearly that the God of nature has
given man certain inherent principles, that he can cultivate,
nourish and cherish, and by the power of his own will can
live virtuously if he chooses, though this power is modified by
organization. It demonstrates plainly that religious emotions
take up their abode in the moral organs, benevolence, vene-
ration and conscientiousness ; that the selfish propensities re-
side in the lower organs of the brain.
28
The theory, then, that man by nature is totally depraved,
and can do nothing himself, and that he is to be consigned to
eternal perdition for not doing what he had no power to per-
form, is but the "baseless fabric of a vision," untrue in na-
ture, contradictory in practice.
The accountability of man arises from the fact that inter-
woven within the contexture of intellectual thought there
exists by nature in a well-developed brain, a consciousness of
right and wrong, a moral sense of justice ;
though education
and religion may greatly strengthen this inherent principle of
a knowledge of vice and virtue, truth and error.
For one, I will not be guilty of supposing for a moment
that the changes of mind men experience are the particular
manifestations of God's power, when 1 myself can produce the
same feelings in myself and even others, both in the natural
or unnatural state. Many a time have I made an individual
shed tears of sorrow, then laugh, &c. in the natural state, by
the force of my will ;
and in the magnetic sleep one moment
cause him to pray, the next fight ; one moment steal, the next
confess it, &c. &c. And by parity of reason, if I can produce
these effects on others by the force of my will, I see no diffi-
culty in mankind governing themselves by the force of their
own will.
Then if God by the physical laws of nature has given men,
in and of themselves, power to regulate their own conduct
by the standard he has erected in the moral sentiments of
their nature, if they then refuse to be governed by those dic-
tates of moral conduct, they are certainly amenable, and of
necessity must be punished according to the deeds done in
the body.
We then arrive at these conclusions : that mind can, in a
certain extent, control its own manifestations ; that mind can
act upon mind, by the means of electricity ; that electricity
is the medium that God created, an agent or instrument he
employs to affect his creatures, and that all the feelings and
29
sensations of the mind are the effects of electricity on the
brain and external circumstances that surround us—mind or
spirit being an immaterial, immortal principle, will exist for-
ever ; that the brain is the organ of the mind, the instrument
by which the mind performs its operations ; that brain con-
sists of a variety of organs each one referring to some par-
ticular appearance in external nature, is a fact that all Phre-
nologists know to be true.
That all those organs originally were given man by God
himself, and were intended for man's happiness, that the le-
gitimate action of the same is to cause happiness, is a matter
of belief ; but that the religious and moral organs are loca-
ted on the top of the head, all Phrenologists and Mesmeri-
sers know to be true ;
and that the evil propensities of men
are placed near the base of the brain, (not intended by na-
ture for evil,) is also beyond a doubt with Mesmerisers and
Phrenologists ;
but that mankind have transgressed the mo-
ral and physical laws of God, and by the power of their own
will have entailed upon themselves sickness, disease and pre-
mature death, and that nothing but a compliance with the
physical laws of nature will ever bring men back to a state
of quiet happiness, is a doctrine generally believed by all ac-
quainted with the structure of the system.
CHAPTER VII.
FACTS ON MESMERISM.
BY TOWNSEND.
Ethereal medium.—Thought-reading.—Magnetic sleep produces a new
era in man's existence. —Magnetism a boon given by God himself. —Man's
inner and outward body.
Granting that which few will deny in the present day, that
there is one pervading medium throughout nature, infinitely
elastic and impressionable, it follows as a consequence, that
30
our thoughts must necessarily, in agitating the brain, agitate
also the great ocean in which animate and inanimate matter
has its being, with which we are in partial relation, with which
God is in infinite relation. We only draw a legitimate conclu-
sion when we say that every thought moves the brain in its
own proper manner ;
and a personal ignorance of these spe-
cific changes, though they occur in our own persons, is no
proof whatever they do not take place. We are perfectly
unaware that sensation depends upon a corporeal sign ;
yet
a corporeal sign there is.
A pervading medium being allowed to exist throughout
nature, (such as the electric,) it follows as a consequence, that
every thought which moves the brain, imparts motion to the
ethereal medium.
Mesmerised persons being in a state of extreme sensibility,
are cognizant of the motions of finer media than common.
The motions caused by the thoughts of other persons being
transferred through the brain and through a certain medium
to the sensorium of a Mesmerised person, are to him intelli-
gible signs of thought. Hence arises the power of thought-
reading.
Wherever we turn our attention, there is a manifest progres-
sion from finer to grosser media. An ethereal and infinitely
subtle fluid pervading the realms of space is the first known
step from Deity to matter. Distributed through this, and
probably condensed from the prime elements, are discerned
masses of luminous substance, which are called nebulae.
Amid these luminous masses which constitute the first traces
of matter of which we have ocular evidence, are beheld cer-
tain nuclei, forming the germs of future suns and worlds ; so
at least we may infer or safely conjecture, that " all this vari-
ety cf things" which our earth displays was once in a fluid
state. Nay, there needs but a sufficient application of the
universal solvent, heat, to melt down all again into fluidity
and vapor. Thus again, with science we arrive at a primal
31
universal element such as is now supposed to be the substra-
tum of the gasses, and this element is the first demonstration
of the Almighty mind.
"All are but parts of one stupendous whole,
Whose body nature is, and God the soul."
Again, to turn our attention to Mesmerism, the first time of
witnessing a successful experiment in the magnetic sleep must
be an era in the life of every thinking being ; while the stu-
dent in this science, who at length arrives at the knowledge
of an ethereal medium connected with all animated beings,
and with thought in particular, beholds a flood of light, illu-
minating mysteries which have probably long weighed on his
heart and brain. He beholds all life and intelligence at once
connected and individualized, reciprocally connected in all its
parts, universally with God, and he has a glimpse at least of
the waves of the great ocean agitated by thought eternal,and
tending to thought again in the limited portions of intelli-
gence which the Almighty has gifted with individual con-
sciousness. I cannot for a moment doubt that future gen-
erations will hail Mesmerism as the very note which was
wanting to render all nature harmonious—as the key that fits
every ward of knowledge, and unlocks all the treasures of
science.
The light which this phasis of our nature gathers from,
and reciprocally sheds on revelation is remarkable, and to
reason's eye, most precious. In Mesmerism the mind recurs
to its native character and fundamental endowments, seem-
ing to cast aside the accidental differences induced by educa-
tion, circumstances and neglect of moral duties.
As regards a future state, there is great reason to believe
that Mesmerism is a boon granted by God to confirm our faith
and to cheer us on our way ; and wretched indeed must be
the view of man which confines him to this bank and shoal
of time—which does not regard him and all his glorious en-
dowments as intended for a series of existences.
32
From many considerations we may surmise that the mind is
capable of being organised in two ways, visibly and invisibly.
It may have a subtle envelope adapted generally to its own
active and subtle essence, and in addition to this it may have
a coarser covering, as our mortal body, adapted to its present
state of existence, and furnished with particular organs for
particular purposes. The dissolution of this coarser covering
is by us called death, that is, we seem by men to die, but
with our inner body we never part, and consequently by that
we still retain our hold upon individual existence ; the soul
never quitting completely the body with which it is united.
Let all apprehensions concerning Mesmerism subside
there is nothing in it to make man proud, but all to keep him
humble ; it keeps low to earth even while it hints of heaven.
Its highest capacities are exercised with difficulty, its lofti-
est wonders are few and fleeting ; still it arises upon our actual
existence.
That the Mesmeric medium should link science to science
is comparatively but a trifling benefit. That it should con-
nect this world with a future is its last and greatest service.
CHAPTER VIII.
TRIUMPH OF PATHEISM.
The accredited agent by which spirit acts upon matter, the mind upon the
body.—The intermediate source of life, animal and vegetable. The
means by which one portion of matter attracts or repels another. The
basis of all medicinal remedies.—The cause of disease and death.
Let those that are shrouded in bigotry, enveloped in their
own dismal maze of wilful ignorance, having eyes they see
not, ears, they hear not, let them, I say,remain in the darken-
ed gloom of unbelief ; but he that aspires after happiness,
thirst, after truth, seeks for knowledge, longs to have a fore-
33
taste of immortality, let him become acquainted with the
laws of Mesmerism, not fail to study nature in all her varied
forms, analyze her laws and give full scope to the high
and ennobling energies of his nature, as by so doing he will
have within himself a reservoir of happiness that will ever
afford him an abundant supply.
Truth is eternal, its germ once planted in the human mind
never perishes. The spark of discovery once elicited, lives
in idea, and thought, like fuel, nourishes it till its radiance
is visible through the great empire of inquiry. Nothing once
known is easily lost. The discoverer may die in obscurity,
but his ideas live after him, and his name becomes immortal.
But there are many difficulties in the way of scientifical
investigation, and it will be seen that no little degree of mo-
ral courage as well as a firm grounded consciousness of being
the apostle of a great truth is requisite in order to give the
world the benefit of discovery. He must have nerve to with-
stand ridicule, be proof against the arrows of satire, indiffer-
ent to the laugh of the unbelieving, and calmly superior to
the malice of the envious and ignorant. He must have the
spirit of a martyr,and be ready to sacrifice himself in support
of the truth he has discovered. Fortunately for science, near-
ly all great discoverers have been such men. Nature has
wisely revealed her secrets to those who have had the cour-
age to promulgate and defend them. The result is, the whole
material universe has been laid open to the intellectual in-
spection of man. The wide field of philosophy has been
explored, the hidden mysteries of science brought to light,
and man standing pre-eminent in the scale of existence has
almost arrived to an angel's sphere.
34
CHAPTER IX.
Description of the feelings frequently experienced by the Mesmeric clairvoy-
voyant.
BY BULWER.
Glyndon still kept his eyes on the star, and the star seemed
gradually to command and fix his gaze. A sort of languor next
seized his frame, but without, as he thought, communicating
itself to the mind, and as this crept over him, he felt his
temples sprinkled with some volatile and fiery essence. At
the same moment, a slight tremor shook his limbs and thrilled
through his veins. The languor increased, still he kept his
gaze upon the star, and now its luminous circumference
seemed to expand and dilate. It became gradually softer
and clearer in its light, spreading wider and broader ; it dif-
fused all space—all space seemed swallowed up in it. And
at last, in the midst of a silver shining atmosphere he felt as
if something burst within his brain, as if a strong chain was
broken, and at that moment a sense of heavenly liberty, of
unutterable delight of freedom from the body, of bird-like
lightness, seemed to float him into the space itself. Sudden-
ly, at that moment, though this space, in which nothing save
one mellow, translucent light had been discernible, a swift
succession of shadowy landscapes seemed to roll, trees, moun-
tains, cities, seas glided along like the changes of a phantas-
magoria. Voices then came to his ears, but in tones that
seemed to him strange, so subdued were they and sounding
as it were so far off, that they were as voices heard in the
vision of some holier men from a distant sphere.
Glyndoh stood amazed ;
above, around, all was lovely !
heaven with all its beauty burst upon his astonished vision,
and while he began to think himself free from earth's allur-
ing charms, amidst exstatic pleasures and bliss beyond com-
35
pare, a voice strong and powerful, a force irresistible, bade
Glyndon return to his native earth. Glyndon awoke and
found himself at home.
CHAPTER X.
DEATH.
BY GEORGE COMBE.
In the vegetable world, the effect of death is to surround us
with young trees, in place of everlasting, stately, full-grown
forests, standing forth in awful majesty without variation in
leaf or bough, with the vernal bloom of spring changing
gracefully into the vigor of summer, and the maturity of au-
tumn with the rose, just simply and delicately budding, then
luxuriant and lovely in its perfect evolution. Turning to
the animal kingdom, we discover the same fundamental prin-
ciple prevails. Death removes the old and decayed, and the
organic law introduces in their place the young, the gay, and
the vigorous to tread the stage with renewed agility and de-
light.
The pains of premature death endured by mankind are
the punishments of infringement of the organic law, and the
object of that chastisement is to impress upon us the neces-
sity of obeying them, that we may live, and to prevent our
abusing the remedial process inherent, to a great extent, in
our constitution ;
while death in old age, by insensible decay,
is an essential and apparently an indispensable part of the
system of organic existence. That this arrangement admits of
a succession of individuals, substituting the young and vigo-
rous for the feeble and decayed, that it admits of the race
ascending in the scale of improvement, both in their organic
and mental qualities, and finally that the moral sentiments
when supreme in activity, and enlightened by intellect, which
36
perceives its design and consequences, are calculated to place
men in harmony with it, while religion addresses its consola-
tion to the same faculties and completes what reason leaves
undone.
CHAPTER XI.
From the Magnet.
PATHETISM-
It is generally expected that every person who is said to
be in the magnetic state, shall exhibit the same phenomena.
This is true, so far as the state is perfect ;
but it must be re-
membered that all do not enter this state perfectly, and that
there is such a thing as a partial state, in which only one,
two or more of the senses are subdued at the same time,
whilst the rest remain in their natural state, and of course
cannot exhibit the peculiar phenomena which always occur
when such senses are truly pathetised. I have had several
in partial state, who were unable to open their eyes or move
a limb contrary to my will, yet they could see, heard all that
was said, had feeling, taste, smell, &c, and yet when the or-
gans of the brain were touched, they would describe the
feelings as they came on, and said they were almost irresis-
tible.
A young lady, whom I pathetised several times, with the
same results, appears to be in a semi-sleep, and while in that
srate hears no one, is insensible to pain, yet with her eyes ban-
daged will imitate me in every manner, yet not a single organ
can be excited. Her waking up, does not destroy the effects
of my will, for I can make her raise her arm, contrary to her
own will, although she may endeavor to resist its elevation.
In this case the sense of feeling was not affected. I have
37
others whose sight was pathetised, yet they could see and
describe things both in and out of the room correctly, which
I knew nothing of, yet they could hear, had feeling and were
conscious of all that passed around them.
•
Sometimes the memory is not pathetised ; and when this is
the case they remember all that has passed when they are re-
lieved. The same is the case with the sense of touch, feel-
ing, sensation, taste, smell, or with every other sense, organ
or faculty which is not under the operator's influence.
I ascribe all the failures which have taken place in clair-
voyance to an imperfect somnipathic state, which is caused
either by the disposition of the subject at the time of enter-
ing this state, or to a natural or constitutional wakefulness of
certain senses, organs or faculties.
CHAPTER XII.
Magnetism establishes religion.—Christ came to establish the supremacy of
the moral sentiments.—Human reason should ever bow to Revelation.
It is our humble opinion that since the propagation of the
Christian religion, by its founder and immediate followers,
there has been no discovery in the laws of nature of so much
importance to the world as the discovery of the power of
magnetism. Every day's experience strengthens our belief,
every new phenomenon exhibited shows us plainly that man
is fearfully and wonderfully made, that the imperishable spirit
of man is designed for immortality, that its food is faith, its
life an emanation of Divine power, its existence co-equal with
God himself.
That an imponderable fluid, which we call electricity, is
the medium through which mind acts, and the agent by
which God acts upon the mind, that within the contexture of
38
the brain, interwoven with our existence there are certain mo-
ral organs, the legitimate action of which is to make men vir-
tuous, that by the physical laws of nature, man has power
to keep those moral organs in action by the force of his own
will, we cannot for a moment doubt ; but that after man has
wilfully and willingly transgressed the moral law of God,
trodden under feet the commands of heaven, his repenting
does not cancel the demand the justice of God has against him,
and nothing but the purifying blood of Jesus Christ can
cleanse him from a moral trangression of the laws of heaven.
To me it seems obvious that one part of the mission of
Christ was to establish the supremacy of the moral senti-
ments, and give man power to live virtuously if he choose.
Children, then, that have not arrived at the age of maturity,
not capable of judging between good and evil, by the word
of God and an enlightened intellect, consequently are not
culpable, and as to such Christ says, " Suffer little children to
come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven."
In our deductions and investigations of the laws of nature
we shall always find that nature and revelation agree, that the
God of nature is the God of revelation, and that all the
movements of nature are fixed by certain laws. "The mi-
nutest drop of water that descends the mighty fall of Niaga-
ra is regulated in all its movements by definite laws, whether
it rise in mist and float in the atmosphere to distant regions,
there to descend as rain ;
or be absorbed by a neighboring
shrub and reappear as an atom in a blossom on the Canadian
shore, or be drunk up by a living being and sent into the
wonderful circuit of the blood ; or become a portion of a
mighty oak, which at a future time shall career over the
ocean as a ship." Nothing can be less ascertained than
the motion and changes of such an atom, yet there is not a
philosopher but what will admit that all those changes happen.
Therefore in endeavoring to harmonise revelation and nature
by human reason, if a discrepancy is discovered apparently
39
between them, it is not that revelation or the laws of nature
are wrong, but human reason does not judge correctly. At
the commencement of this work we spoke of the excitability
of mankind, the laws that governed the same, the avidity by
which men receive the false and reject the true, and referred
to the progress of the " Miller doctrine," so called.
On a subsequent acquaintance with their sentiments and a
knowledge of their lives and conduct as a whole, (although
several by an undue excitement have become insane,) I can-
not but think them sincere and endeav.oring to practically
carry out the principles of the christian religion ; but whether
their belief of the second advent of Christ this year, be
correct or not, time will soon determine.
In conclusion, we have but to remark to the reader, that in
the foregoing pages we have endeavored to speak the truth as
we understand it, to unhesitatingly express facts as we know
them to be, and fearlessly plant ourselves on the broad plat-
form of God's moral and natural laws, knowing that " truth
is omnipotent and will prevail." And in the language of a
celebrated divine would say, " to be virtuous is to be happy,
that the greatest wisdom and the most profound philosophy
is obtained by practically carrying out the principles of Jesus
Christ as they fell from his lips."
PUBLISHED WORKS.
For a more thorough knowledge of the laws of Mesmer-
ism, we would refer the reader to the writings of the celebra-
ted Mr. Townsend, " Facts on Mesmerism," written by him ;
to the " Magnet," a monthly periodical, published at New
York, by the Rev. La Roy Sunderland. A pamphlet, enti-
tled the " History and Philosophy of Animal Magnetism, by
a practical Magnetiser," published by J. N. Bradley, Boston,
is a cheap and valuable work.
