{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__fowler___hereditary_descent.pdf","mytitle":"Hereditary Descent","mylang":"de"}
AMER. PHREN. JOURNAL, Vol. V., No3. 9, 10, 11 & 12.
HEREDITARY DESCENT:
ITS
LAIVS AI¥D FACTS,
ILU'STRATEO AND AITHKD TO THE
IMPROVEMENT OF MANKIND;
WITH
H I iN T S T O W O ]\I A N ;
INCLUDING
DIRECTIONS FOli FORMLNG MATRIMONIAL ALLIANCES
PRODUCE, IN OFFSPRING, V/HATEVER PHYSICAL, MENTAL, OR
MORAL QUALITIES MAY BE DESIRED 5
TOGETHER AVITH
PREVENTIVES OF HEREDITARY TENDENCIES.
I5Y O. S. FOWLER,
PRACTICAL phrenologist;
Editor of " The .American Phrenological Journal.;" and .Author of " Fowler''3
Phrenology," " Phrenology applied to Education and Self Improvement,"
do. to " Matrimo7iy" do. to " Ttmperance," ^c.
" Like beg-cts like."
—
Ma^.
" And God said, Lei ihe earlh bring forth llie living creature after his kind, and
it was so."
—
Gen. i. 21.
" Visiting the ini(juity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth gen-
eration of ihcm that hale me, and showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me
and keep my commandments."
—
The Decalogue.
" Like mother, like daughter."
—
Man.
NEW YORK:
O. S. & L. N. FOWLER, in Clinton Hall, 131 Nassau Street.
Philadelphia. Colon's Publication Office. 20.1^ Chestnut Street; Boston. Sa.xlon &
Pierce's Phrenological Depot, 13.^.J
Wasiiington Street, and Jordan <& Co., 121 do.;
Rochester, N. 1., R L. Adams, IVinocrat Office ;
Syriicuse. J. A. Hopkins, and Hall
<!tCo; Sacketl's Harbor, Dr. Kimball j Cincinnati, O., Dr. Curtis ; Danville, Ky.
E. A. Smith.
1843.
y
To all wlio liave formed, or may form, Matrimonial
Alliances, or become Parents, as well as to every
lover of nature, especially in her most important
and beautiful operations, this vrork is respectfully
dedicated, by a servant of man
—
THE AUTHOE-
131 Nassau Street, New York, Sept. 1843.
Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year of our Lord 1843,
By O. S. fowler,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of MasBachusetta.
cent
Iff3
PREFACE.
Though the sun of science has dawned, and is now shining
with full effulgence, upon Geology, Agriculture, Chemistry,
Botany, Conchology, Natural History, Physiology, Anthropology,
&c., enlightening what was before obscured, dispelling the clouds
of ignorance and superstition, improving mechanics and the arts,
and shedding on man a flood of happiness, both in their acquisi-
tion and a])plicatlon, yet a sister science, and that the most inter-
esting and important of the group ; that of parentage, and the
means of thereby improvins; the race, remains enshrouded in
Egyptian darkness. How long shall this darkness be tolerated,
«nd even fostered ? How long shall man continue his researches
and discoveries in mechanics, agriculture, the arts and sciences,
Sz-c. See, and yet leave this by far the richest field of philosophy and
human improvement wholly unoccupied, or entered only after it
has been overrun with noxious weeds and briers, which no
amount of labor can more than partially subdue ? So far as re-
gards the intellectual and moral improvement of mankind, by
investigating and applying the laws of hereditary descent, an
almost total nonentity exists. Combe, in his " Constitution of
Man," has presented this subject, and urged its importance, yet
lie has given us but a glimpse merely of the laws which govern
this department of nature, and omitted all specific directions for
applying them to the production of desired qualities in offspring.
But has not the time now fully come for collecting and dissemi-
nating light on this subject ? Has not its application, by the
farmer, to the improvement of his slock, forced home and gen$-
ralized the conviction that it can be employed so as to produce,
in man, personal beauty, physical health and strength, and high
intellectual and moral attainments, &c. &c., and that with as
4 PREFACE.
much greater advantage as man is above the brute ? The con-
viction is becoming universal (the learned Blacksmith to the con-
trary notwithstanding), that the disposition and mental powers of
mankind, are innate—are born, not created by education, and
that the human mind, instead of being a blank on which educa-
tion and circumstances write the whole character, has an ivherent
constitution and character of its own, and that often in the very
teeth of education. A still small voice—the voice of God and of
truth, has enlisted attention, excited an interest, and gained the
public ear. To augment this rising interest, and to aid parents,
as parents, in the discharge of this their most solemn and eventful
duty, is the design of the author in penning this work, and to suc-
ceed in this cause of God and humanity, so near his heart, so
engrossing to his head, will consummate the highest and the
greatest object and desire of his life.
That its style and composition may be faulty, because compiled
in great haste and in the midst of professional eni^agements
peculiarly arduous and almost unremitting, is readily confessed, but
that its subject matter will bear criticism, he fully believes, because
all his facts arc facts, and because he has been guided by the lights
of Phrenology and Physiology. Without these lights and land-
marks, especially that of the former science—this science of ?/zan
and of tl:e jnind—no one, however learned or talented, can do
this subject justice. Walker, though he may possibly \\ rite well
on the propagation of animals, and has said many good things
about the transmission of merely physical qualities, yet, when he
comes to the transmission of mental and moral rjualities, which, to
man, are the main items of interest, is sadly at fault—is grop-
ing his way in total darkness—the blind leading the blind. But a
Phrenologist, and especially a ractitioner of this science, is not
only guided by a nomenclature of the mind and a map of its
powers incomparably superior to all others, but he can also trace
clearly, and read legibly, the resemblances and the differences
between parents and their children, by means of their phrenological
developments. None but a Phrenologist, none but a skilful
PRACTICAL Phrenologist, is at all capable of doing this subject
justice. He can, and one of the principal merits of this work
consists in the fact, that its author has 'practised phrenology for
more than ten years, in nearly every State in the Union, and
PREFACE. 5
been called upon to examine the heads of parents and their
children by thousands. By having one parent and a child or two,
he has often excited astonishment and drawn tears by his descrip-
tion of the other parent, perhaps deceased for twenty years ; nor
liave any of these facilities for preparing himself to write this work,
been lost. All have been treasured up and brought to bear on
this, to him, all engrossing subject.
If any apology be deemed necessary for his having published a
hasty edition of this work, it is to be found in the overichclming
importance of its subject matter. If he had waited to perfect
the first edition, it would never have seen the light, for his j^rofes-
sional labors absolutely preclude the possibility of his devoting
much time to it at present. Still, with this skeleton before him,
which he can, from time to time, fill up wiih facts arranged under
tiieir separate heads, he can improve at his leisure, and by the criti-
cisms o friends and the strictures cf enemies, he hopes eventually
greatly to enlarge and improve, Doth its style and its matter.
THE AUTHOR.
jV. B. As facts of this kind are the main items of value,
and as they are so abundant as to be within the observation and
memory of every reader, the author solicits the communication of
striking and well authenticated facts of this class, especially from
Phrenologists and from mothers, particularly those facts which
evince chantres in children of different ages, analogous to those to
which the parents, during the augmentation of their families, w^ere
subject. Mothers, especially, who can trace their own peculiari-
ties of feeling in the dispositions of their children, will do good by
relating their own experience, as guides and warnings to those
who are inexperienced in this matter.
(XT" For Contents, see the end of the work.
1*
HEREDITARY DESCENT.
CHAPTER I.
THE SUBJECT—ITS IMPORTANCE.
SECTION I.
THE PROGENY RESEMBLE THEIR PARENTS.
•' And God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth."
Man dies. Animals, trees, vegetables, and all that lives
and grows, die, and moulder back to dust.
To man, this arrangement or institution of death, is cer-
tainly most beneficial. Governed by inflexible laws, every
violation of which causes pain, often most excruciating, and
continually liable, through ignorance or sinful indulgence, to
break them, and thus to induce their dreadful penalty, unless
death came to his relief, the augmentation and aggravation
of suffering almost certain, in the course of ages, to accumu-
late upon him, would render him so inconceivably miserable,
as to extort the agonizing prayer that the rocks and the
mountains would fall upon him, or that dark oblivion would
annihilate soul and body together. From a condition so
absolutely horrible, death is our kind deliverer; and instead
of being looked upon with dread, is in fact, when it comes in
its season, a blessing—a boon equalled only by life itself—an
institution planned and ordained by infinite Wisdom and
Goodness united, and directed to the highest good of man.
It also allows an infinitely greater number of human beings
to enjoy the blessings of life, and to prepare themselves for a
happy eternity than the earth could otherwise contain, and
in every conceivable point of view, converts our earth, other-
wise one great field of anguish, into a state highly conducive
to happiness.
b HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Reproduction. Parentage secures uniformity.
But let death pursue its course for a single generation only,
without some counter arrangement, of reproduction, and our
earth would be depopulated; man, and every living thing
annihilated, and all the pleasures connected with life, buried
in dark oblivion; because, in no one instance does the great
Architect of the universe, bring man, animals, trees, vegeta-
bles, or any thing that lives and grows, into being by a direct
act of creative power; but in all instances of multiplication,
of whatever kind, he employs the intervention of parentage
as a ineans—as the only means—of reproduction. And in
no department of the Creator's works is infinite wisdom and
goodness displayed to better advantage, than in this arrange-
ment of parentage. By its instrumentality, an agreeable
diversity, and yet a general uniformity, are secured. But for
this uniformity, that is, if one horse had one foot, another a
thousand, and others more or less as it hapjjcned: if some
human beings had heads, others norie ; some a heart and
eyes, others neither ; some one muscle and others another;
some the faculty of reason, others not; some that of affec-
tion or appetite, and others none : if some had the faculty for
perceiving colors, or relishing the beauties of nature, and
others were destitute of these qualities, &c. &c., our world
would have been a perfect bedlam—would have been old
chaos, "all confusion worse confounded"—a perfect Babel,
not in language only, but in every conceivable point of view.
But this arrangement gives to every member of the human
family some development of every organ, enough, at least, to
perceive the relations of every faculty, so that all possess the
same primary powers, the same fundamental constitution.
It also allows an agreeable diversity of form, character, and
propensity; some being born with one faculty stronger than
another. Though every man has a face, a nose, eyes, a
mouth, cheeks, &c., yet in some they are larger, longer, fuller,
&c. &c., so as to produce that endless diversity of the human
countenance, along with that general sameness, by which it
is characterized, so that none need be mistaken for another.
Another exquisitely beautiful institution growing out of
this arrangement of parentage, and depending upon it, or,
rather formed bv it is that of connubial, parental and Jilial
CHILDREN RESEMBLE THEIR PARENTS.
Connubial love. 'i'he arrnngcnieiil- of parentage mosl beaulil'iil.
love. But for this plan of parentage, the relations of hus-
bands and wives to each other, of parents to their children,
and of children to their parents, and all the heaven-born
pleasures of the family, would have had no existence. Let all
the relations of husband and wife, and of parents and chil-
dren be blotted out; let man be as the ostrich, "hardened
against her young;*' let families be disbanded; let kindred
be unknown ; let there be no children to love, please, provide
for and educate ; none to soften the pillow of age, or soothe
and cheer the descent to the grave; no parents to love, vene-
rate, and pattern after, and how solitary and soulless would
existence be rendered; how vast the hiatus left; how blank,
how scattered, how revolutionized our world! Few ends,
few charms would be left ; the sun of most of our joys would
be set in darlciiess, and onr earth M'ould not be worth a wish.
But the filial and parental relations, how beautiful, how per-
fect throughout ! Parents living in and for their children,
and children nestling under the kind wings of parental fond-
ness; tender infancy, sportive, happy childhood, and blooming
youth, shedding their happy, cheerful influences all around
—
oh ! is not this arrangement of parentage worthy of a God !
This banished, and conxubial love—tliou "holy of holies"
of the human heart ; thou queen of our earth ; thou life and
soul of woman ;
thou glorious son of our nature ; thou first-
born, thou only remnant, of paradise; thou paradise thy-
self; thou rnost exalted and heavenly emotion of the human
soul—oh whither art thou fled ! Gone forever ! An Au<ycl
gone ! The veil of the human heart " rent in sunder," and
thick darkness resting upon man !
But no ! Thanks to cur merciful God, he hath engrafted
CONNUBIAL LOVE upon the nature of man ; and most delicious
are its fruits ! The gold of Opher, the nectar of Eden, the
honors of the world, all earthly blessings, vanish at thy ap-
proach, or rather, cluster around and adorn thee—are flowers
in the garland of thy loveliness ! Oh " Thou Fount of every
blessing," ungrateful as we mortals are, we thank thee, we
love thee, at least for this thy crowning blessing to man.
In short, every department of this parental and filial ar-
rangement, is infinitely beautiful and perfect in itself, and
10 HEREDITARY DESCENT ITS LAWS AND TACTS.
Reproduction. Things reproduce after tlieir kind.
most delightful to man—is the workmanship of a God. Let
man receive this heavenly "coal from ofl' the holj'' altar" of
his nature, improve the gift, and derive from it that full flood
of happiness, that cluster of blessings, which it was designed
to impart.
Reproduction, tlien, and hy means of parentage, is the
source or means of life. "And God said, Let the earth
bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit-tree
yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the
earth: and it was so. And God said. Let the waters bring
forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life, and
fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of
heaven. And God created great whales, and every living
creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abund-
antly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind :
and God saw that it was good. And God blessed them, say-
ing. Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas;
and let fowl multiply in the earth. And God said, Let the
earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and
creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind: and it
was so. And God made the beast of the earth after his kind,
and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth
upon the earth after his kind : and God saw that it was good.
So God created man in his own image; in the image of God
created he him; male and female created he them. And
God blessed them : and (;Jod said unto them. Be fruitful,
and multiply, and replenish the earth." —Gen. i.
Thus it is, that every thing which lives and grows, not
only reproduces^ but "brings forth after its kind." The
product of the oak, is an acorn, which grows and becomes
another oak, to produce, in its turn, other acorns, and they,
other oaks ;
but no other tree or fruit. Wheat reproduces
wheat; corn, corn; clover, clover ; sheep, sheep ;
cattle, cat-
tle ;
and man, man. But for this law that the offspring shall
resemble its parent, the farmer might plant corn and reap
stones or apples—might sow stones and raise cattle—might
sow any thing or nothing and raise any thing, as it hap-
pened, and the human oflspring would be as likely to b«
cattle, trees, or stones, as human beings, having fixed charac-
CHILDREN RESEMBLE THEIR PARENTS. 11
The work. Facts our guide.
ters and specific capabilities. But this arrangement of " each
after its kind^^^ not only causes each generation of every
herb, plant, tree and animal, through all past and coming
time, to resemble its first, original sire, but it also causes the
offspring of man to be man, and not only to be man, but to
be endowed with fixed and physical, mental, and moral na-
tures, and still more, to inherit the peculiarities even, and all
the constitutional peculiarities, of their parents. The mi-
nuteness and perfect accuracy of the transfer of the qualities
of parents to their children, are truly astonishing ; and the
object of this treatise is to show hoic and wAere/n children
resemble their parents, and to point out those laws which
govern hereditary influences. It will consist mainly of facts
in proof and illustration of those laws which govern the
transmission of physical and mental qualities and peculiari-
ties from parents to their children, through successive gene-
rations, with directions, especially to mothers, for applying
these principles to the physical, intellectual and moral im-
provement of mankind, and to the production, in offspring,
of whatever qualities may be desired. And, as nothing but
FACTS can conduct us safely through this unexplored region,
this work will consist mainly of facts of this class, mostly
recorded for the first time, drawn from the parental history
of families and individuals remarkable for their physical or
intellectual peculiarities, and especially from our pilgrim an-
cestors and their descendants, showing that the mental and
physical qualities of particular families of the former, their
forms of body and face ; their tastes, talents, propensities,
modes of thinking and acting; their intellectual and other
peculiarities, have descended throughout the whole line of
their progeny, and remain stamped even upon the present
generation.
Other materials for enriching the pages of this work, will
be drawn both from parental histories of persons remarkable
for talents, or moral worth, or vicious inclinations ; and also
from our prisons, penitentiaries, poor-houses, and asylums for
the deaf, dumb, blind, insane, diseased, &c. (fcc.; as well as
from that wide range of personal experience thrown open to
the author by his extensive professional practice.
12 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Difficulties. Hereditnrj- laws.
That the investigation of this subject is not unattended
with difficulties, is readily admitted ; first, in consequence of
the fastidiousness generally thrown around it; and, secondly,
because of the great variety of causes brought into operation
in this matter, some of which appear to conllict with others,
and others still, to blend ;
so that it requires a truly philo-
sophical mind, and of the highest order, properly to inves-
tigate this subject. And then again, many whims, many
prejudices are to be encountered, and many things are given
as facts which are not facts. But amidst all these diffi-
culties, the author has one safe guide—the developments.
Wherever they can be observed in both parents and children,
we may rest assured of the correctness of the results that
follow.
As to the alleged impropriety connected with these inves-
tigations, I have but one thing to say—Those who are so
very extra delicate and refined that they cannot investigate
this subject without a blush, should, in all conscience, be too
delicate and modest to warrt. Do not " strain at the gnat
and swallow the camel." If true modesty need not be
offended by marriage, it certainly need not blush to learn the
duties and relations necessarily connected with, and growing
out of, that marriage. " To the pure, all things are pure."
SECTION II.
REPRODUCTION GOVERNED BY LAWS OF CAUSE AND EFFECT.
" Like begets like."
In pursuing these inquiries, we have one unerring land-
mark ; one safe and sure guide, on which implicit reliance
may be placed ; namely, that this department of nature, in
common with all her other works, is governed by the action
of certain fixed and invariahle laws—that canse and effect
reign universal, and operate in producing every great, every
minute, quality, in every child. Else, if causes are not em-
ployed in the production of these effects, we have one portion
HEREDITARY TRANSMISSIONS CAUSE AND EFFECTS. 13
Parents the causes. Chililren ilie effects.
of nature, and that the most interesting and important, left
to chance—all chaos and confusion. If the arrangement of
cause and effect be valuable in any one department of God's
dominions, it certainly is valuable in this. If it be the best
system for the government of nature in general, it certainly
must, and for the same reason, be so for this ; and (he more
so because of the paramount importance of the subject itself.
And to suppose that this department of nature is left to the
fate of chance, and not governed by the laws of cause and
effect, is to "charge God foolishly"—is to suppose anarchy
and dark uncertainty reign over the most important part of
the works of God. The idea is preposterous—is blasphe-
mous—is utterly at war with the facts of the case, for chil-
dren certainly do resemble their parents. The products of
parents are not sometimes one thing and sometimes another,
but they have the same anatomical construction^ the same
form, the same general nature and disposition, with their
parents. In short, to attempt to prove that children resemble
their parents, or that invariable la^cs of cause and effect gov-
ern the transmission of qualities from parents to their chil-
dren, is like attempting io prove that two and two make four,
or that a part is less than the whole, or that two things, each
like a third, are therefore like each other, or like trying to
establish, by argument, what is already self-evident—Xhdii
fire burns, that the sun shines, that we live. The proposi-
tion that children resemble their parents, and that this re-
semblance is governed by fixed laws of cause and effect, and
that the mental and physical qualities of parents cause those
of their children, is too obvious, too self-evident to require or
be capable of proof. No sane or reflecting mind can doubt
it. Every man, woman or child that observes or thinks,
must have this conclusion irresistibly forced home on them.
They see, they/ee/, they knoio, that the mental and physical
qualities of children, have their causes—that these causes are
the same qualities in their parents ; and that like causes in
parents produce like qualities in their children, but that the
difference in the constitutional qualities of children, is caused
by differences in their parents.
2
14 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
All cause and effect. The minuteness of this resemblance.
Less space and amplification would have been allotted to
the above truism, had not a most important inference de-
pended on, and grown out of it—namely, that every consti-
tutional quality of the child, both mental and physical, has
its origin and direct procuring cause in the similar qualities
of the parent; and that a// the qualities and dispositions of
the parent are transmitted to their children. This matter is
not shrouded in mystery, is not left to uncertainty. Not only
is it governed by irrevocable laws, but every condition and
quality of the parent, however trivial or unobservablc, stamps
its impress upon the child. If there exist ony relations of
cause and effect between parents and their children, by which
the former transmit ajiy qualities to the latter, then all is
cause and effect—then all the shades and phases of the pa-
rent's mind and character, and all the characteristics of their
bodies, will be stamped upon their children. Either there
are no causes and effects in this matter, or else all is cause
and effect, and all the most minute constitutional peculiari-
ties of the child, are caused by parental influences. Nature
never half does any thing. She makes clean work, or does
nothing. She does not give a p«r^ of our original nature
in obedience to certain laws of transmission, and a part,
not; but she gives «//, even down to the smallest iota, in
obedience to these laws.
Let, then, this important truth, that children resemble their
parents, and that parentage causes all the innate qualities of
mankind, sink deep into the minds of parents. Let them
remember that their children will be the very transfer, or
image of themselves; reflected in all their shades of feeling
and phases of character; inheriting the same tastes; gov-
erned by the same sentiments and passions ;
debased by the
same vices ; ennobled by the same virtues ; adorned by the
same charms and graces; and endowed with the same tal-
ents and intellectual powers. Remember, also, that this
transfer is wonderfully minute and specific ; and that your
offspring are to be bone oi your bone, and flesh o( your flesh,
mind and soul of your mind and soul ;
good or great, as you
are good or great ; and happy or miserable, as you are happy
or miserable.
LAWS OF REPUODUCTION. 16
'I'hese causes observable and applicMble. Applied to animals.
Nor are these causes beyond either our knowledge or our
control. Both the antecedents and the consequents—both
the causes and the effects, are within our own observation.
Parents can certainly take cognizance of their own qualities
and conditions, and can also witness the effects of these
qualities and conditions on their children. These operations
of nature are not hid under a bushel, but are in full view
;
with no cloud, no veil, no dimness to obstruct their perfect
vision ;
and with every possible opportunity to study these
phenomena, and apply these laws. Indeed, how can they
help seeing them 7 how avoid putting this and that together,
and drawing conclusions? No intellectual parent can have
his attention turned to this subject, without having its prin-
ciples and facts forced home upon him. Men study and
apply analogous priticiples and facts, in planting corn and
sowing wheat—in selecting particular soils for particular
crops ;
and especially in improving their breed of cattle, sheep,
swin-e, horses, (fcc. They know how to apply, they actually
do apply, analogous causes to the production of fleet horses
and of draft horses; of swine that will fatten easily and
have little bone ; of sheep that will bear fine wool, or are best
fitted for the table ;
of poultry that will fight, or fatten, or
reproduce well ; and so through the whole range of domestic
animals. So fully do they understand, and so certainly do
they apply these laws, that they can -predict beforehand^ and
with perfect certainty^ whether the foal will be a mule or a
race horse ; what will be its color, and even its movements ;
whether the lamb will be black or white, large or small,
coarse or fine woolled, lean or easily fattened ; whether the
calf will be a short horned Durham, or any "other breed
having fixed qualities, &c. Now, those same laws which
govern the transmission of physical qualities from sire to
scion through the brute creation, also govern the transmission
of physical and mental qualities from parents to children.
Each is equally tangible and observable : or, if there be any
difference, it is in favor of the human offspring. If laws gov-
ern this matter—and this has been already demonstrated
—
and if man can study and apply these laws to the produc-
tion q{ given qualities in his domestic animals—and this is
16 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
The qualities of children, like those of animals, can be predicted before birth.
a matter of every day practice, is reduced to perfect system—
then these same laws can both be ascertained as regards
human offspring, and applied to tlie production, in them also,
of whatever physical and mental qualities may be desired.
If we can produce speed, or strength, or bottom in a horse, or
tendency to fatten in swine ; fine wool in sheep ; spirit in the
game-cock, the qualities for producing good milk or beef in
cattle, or lameness, or kindness, and other mental qualities in
animals ; and if the same laws of parentage govern the
transmission of both physical and mental qualities from
human parents to their offspring, which no reflecting mind
can doubt, then these same laws may be applied so as to
produce not only physical strength, suppleness, flesh, and a
powerful constitution, but also so as to produce revenge, or
amiableness ;
pride, or humility; intelligence, or stupidity;
taste, or coarseness ; mechanical, or mathematical, or politi-
cal, or reasoning, or any other powers desired. Nor need
any more doubt hang over the latter results, than now hang
over the former. As, from knowing the qualities of the brute
parents, we can predict the qualities of animals 7t'iY/« certom^y
before they see the light, so, by knowing the qualities and
conditions of the hum,an parentage, can we predict, and with
unerring certainty, the future form of body, head, face, &c.,
and all the intellectual and moral qualities of children, and
all before they see the light. And not only can we predict
these qualities of offspring, but parents can so unite, as to
cause their offspring to inherit whatever physical, or mental,
or moral qualities may be desired—so as to be short and
stocky, or slim and long—as to be consumptive or long-lived,
healthy or scrofulous ;
feeble or vigorous, strong, or spry, or
deformed, or well formed, or amiable, or pugnacious, or just,
or roguish, or ingenious, or musical, or witly, or acquisitive,
or timid, or courageous, or inventive, or communicative, or
poetical, or logical, or oratorical, or imaginative, «fcc. &c. &c.,
to qualities without a number, and down through all their
minutest shades and phases. And he who doubts this, denies
one of two self-evident truths—first, that laws of cause and
effect govern the transmission of any qualities from parents
to their children ;
or, secondly, that these causes are within
ADVANTAGES OF KNOWING AND* APPLYING THESE LAWS. 17
Human improvement ran be carried in6iiiiely beyond ihHl ol animals.
our observation and application —to doubt either of which is
to doubt that the sun shines, or bodies fall.
But more. Tliat very important advantages can be de-
rived from efforts to improve the breed of animals, is a mat-
ter of every. day's experience and observation. Above two
thousand dollars liave been paid for a single Durham calf,
and all on account of its qualities as a breeder merely ; and
that farmer who pays no attention either to his seed or to his
breed., is left far in the rear of other farmers.
But the advantages to be derived from the application of
these principles to the improvement of man. are as much
greater than those capa!)le of being derived from their appli-
cation to the improvement of animals, as man is superior to
animals, and as his qualities are more varied and positive
than theirs. If the happiness of man can be greatly promoted
by improving the breed of his domestic animals, how much
more by improving his own breed? As much more as liis
own organization and destinies are higher than theirs—as
much more as the number of qualities is greater, and the
scale of improvement runs higher in him than in them. Their
range of improvement is bounded by "strait and narrow"'
limits ;
his, scarcely knows any bounds : they, have few
qualities to be compounded, and that few are mostly physi-
cal ; he, has not only a njuch greater variety of physical
powers, but he has a vast range oi mental and wora/ qualities,
not only susceptible to every physiccd improvement made,
but also themselves capable of improvement. As two or three
numbers allow but iew changes to be rimg on them, say two
or three letters of the alphabet, and as every additional letter
allows a still increasing number of changes to be rung, or of
words to be spelled, till the twenty-six letters of our alphabet
allow a number of changes to be rung that will require /0//7/-
one figures to express—a number altogether inconceivable by
man—so the still greater number of man's phrenological fac-
ulties, especially when taken in conjunction with the different
temperaments and textures, allow a number of changes, (and
in this case, every change may be an improveinent^) infinitely
greater than those alluded to above. Not that all these
changes, all these improvements, can be rung on a single
2*
18 ^ HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Appeal lo paTPiils. Erroneous views.
individual, but they can be rung oji the i^ace; and very many
of them on every individual of that race; for who can calcu-
late the improvement effected wlien but a single organ is
improved 7 all its combinations, amounting to millions of
mental operations, being thereby improved, both in him, and
in his descendants to the latest generations.
And now, parents, does not this principle hold out a star
of promise and of blessed hope? Can you see fruit like this
within your grasp, and not reach forth your hand and pluck
it, and that, too, when it is just as easy as to pluck these
sour grapes that many now compel themselves to eat through
life? The destinies of your offspring are completely in your
hands and within your control. Nay. willing or unwilling,
you are compelled to control them, or else not to enter npon
the parental relations at all. There is a veccssity in the case.
Your children are obliged, in their mental and physical con-
stitution, to be what you are. Can you take a look into the
future, and behold these yet nnexisting immortals, and re-
member that their destinies are completely at your mercy
—
and that you caiinot possibly escape these awfully solemn
responsibilities—and then close again your eyes, and sleep
over these momentous consequences? Ca7i you even allow
yourselves lo become parents thoughtlessly, or unwittingly,
or without previously arranging these causes so as to bring
about desired results? But more on this subject hereafter.
SECTION III.
EDUCATION AND PARENTAGE CONTRASTED.
Poeta nascitur, non fit.
The oft quoted, and generally admitted sentiment ex-
pressed in the stanzes,
" 'T is education forma the common mind ;
Just as the twig is bent, the tree 's inclined,"
is as erroneous as it is generally diffused. The sentiment
should be,
RELATIVE INFLUKNCE OF PARENTAGE AND EDUCATION. 19
The origfiiial consliiulion more imporiant ihan education.
T'is PARENTAGE that FORMS tile commoii mind,
ff'hile education only trains it.
That early education and training exert a powerful influ-
ence for good or for evil in moulding and modifying the
character and shaping the conduct of childhood, and even
through life, is readily admitted, and is tacitly implied in
every effort made to cultivate the intellect .or improve the
morals of children by intellectual discipline or moral training.
That they even go so far as materially to strengthen the
faculties thus called into frequent action, and enlarge and
invigorate their organs, is also admitted, and has been estab-
lished in the author's work on " Education and Self-Im-
provement," but, great and beneficial as are the power and
influen(;e of early education and discipline in subduing un-
ruly passions, elevating the moral sentiments, and strength-
ening the mind, yet those of parentage are far greater.
Though children, and even adults of but feeble moral and
intellectual faculties, may, by proper iu'cllectual culture,
moral training, and virtuous associations, be prevented from
becoming vicious, and even rendered passable in intellect and
fair in morals, yet the same amount of culture, applied to an
organization origbially good, will yield a tenfold harvest of
virtue and talent to the subject, and of happiness to all con-
cerned. The not very elevated, but trite and perfectly ap-
plicable adage, " You cannot make a silk purse," &c., im-
plies that to render culture and the product valuable, we
must have good materials with which, or on which to ope-
rate—that the origi7ial, inherent constitution must be good,
in order to render efforts at education available. Though
education may greatly irnj)rove a youth, and enable him to
do what, without severe training, he could not accomplish,
yet all the education in the world can never make a dog a
man ; nor a hyena, a lamb. Though a young oak may be
trained to grow straight or crooked, tall or bushy, &c., yet it
can never be trained to grow or to be any other kind of tree,
nor an animal, nor a man. It may be planted in soil rich or
barren, so as to become thrifty or stinted in growth, yet it
can never be trained to become any thing but an oak. The
20 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Tlie rel.itive influence of education and parcntitg'e conlrasleH.
influence of education is greatly abridged by the original
constitution of the person or thing to be educated. And in
order to exert its full power, and shower down its richest
blessings—and they are rich indeed—the original stock must
be good ;
and the better this stock, the more beneficial this
education. The public sentiment is wrong in paying loo
much attention, relatively, to education, and too little to the
parentage, or the original stock. " These things ought ye
to liave done, but not to leave the other undone." Cultivate
corn planted on a barren soil with ever so much assiduity,
and the crop will be but meagre. The rich prairies of the
west, need scarcely the least cultivation, yet yield abun-
dantly ;
an(f a rich soil with little culture, yields a much
more plentiful harvest than a barren soil well cultivated.
Many deplore their want of education, not knowing that
innate sense, is infinitely superior to acquired learning. If
a youth enter college a saphead, he comes out a leather-
brains; but a man naturally talented, even if he cannot read,
will be capable of managing a large business successfully,
and exerting a powerful influence in society. Sound common
sense, or what is the same thing, superior natural abilities,
weighed in the balance with all that education can bestow,
the former is gold, the latter feathers. Education with supe-
rior natural abilities, works wonders by polishing the marble,
but you must first hai-e the marble before it can be polished.
All the education in the world cannot create talents, nor
impart them when nature has not. Poeta nascitur, no7i Jit,
a poet is born, not made one by education, embodies the
experience of all nations and all ages. The sentiment,
*'
'T is education forms the common mind,"
is untrue, unless we lay the stress on common mind, and
allow that in cases where ])arentage has given no special
bias to the mind, but left it common place, education then
gives it various directions. But education can never create
genius. It cannot create any thing; above all, it cannot
make a constitutional saphead a Shakspeare or a Milton.
Elihu Burritt, the learned blacksmith, in his public lectures,
reverses the old adage, Poeta 7iascitur non Jit, and says,
EPUCATION AND PARENTAGE CONTRASTED. 21
JCIilui Burritt, and relatives.
Poeta Jit, non nascihir—says a poet is made a poet by educa-
tion, and not born a poet—says that the human mind is a
sheet of blank paper, on which education and circumstances
write the whole character—that every man can make liimself
a Shakspeare, a Milton, a Bonaparte, or a Kidd—that all
men are born alike—that in the original constitution of a
Webster and a Franklin, there is nothing to distinguish them
from a Billingsgate culprit, or the Amsterdam idiot, who
knew too little to feed hinjself ; and by implication, that he
himself owes his knowledge of fifty languages, and of all the
literary lore of past ages, to education. Mistaken Burritt
!
Your phrenological developments are in the teeth of this
assertion ; for where is the man with such developments for
acquiring knowledge; and who was your grandfather Hins-
dale 7 Who are your brothers and nephews ? To a man,
possessed of the same unquenchable thirst after learning, and
the same ease and facility in acquiring it. So that your own
parental history gives the error to your favorite doctrine.
What originated your ruling passion for books? Poor, very
poor, not only with none of the usual enticements or facilities
for acquiring education, you could not rest, night nor day,
without yielding obedience to this desire for knowledge. Was
it education that first generated, and X\\fir\ fanned into a fierce
flame—^an all absorbing passion, this love of languages, and
history, and facts 7 No ; it was bor7i in you, and constitu-
ted an original portion of you, a proof of which is to be
found in the fact, that no where in the whole range of busts
or of heads, is to be seen an equal development of those
organs that love literature and science. But more of the
learned blacksmith in another place.
Not that I would diminish aught from the value or virtue
of education. After it has been remodelled, and adapted to
the nature of man, let it be sedulously cultivated ;
but let the
original germ, receive the first and the special attention, be-
cause its influence is primary and continues through hfe.
22 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Parenlal responsibility. Where reforms must commence.
SECTION IV.
RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS.
" A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good
fruit."
—
Bible.
The present is emphatically an age of reform. The ice
of the dark ages, which has bound the river of society and
fettered its current since the creation of Adam, is beginning
to break up. Mankind are freeing themselves from the
shackles of ages, and attempting various reforms in govern-
ment, politics, the arts, sciences, religion, morals, temperance,
&c., &c., and with partial success, but none of the reforms
now in progress can extend far or effect much, till they begin
with the root of vice, and make it a root of virtue—till they
commence with the germ. They may lop off a few of the
longest branches of the tree of sin and misery which now
overshadow mankind ;
but they can effect no more—can go
no farther. To illustrate : The temperance reform would
have effected little if it had not made drunken parents temj)e-
rate parents, and thus the parents of temperate children ;
for
drinking parents, by entailing their own drinking disposition
upon their offspring, would have made drunkards much faster
than they could have been reformed ; and made them consti-
tutional drunkards
—
dyed in the rcool^ and almost irreclaim-
able. Though the moral reform efforts now in progress, may
snatch now and then a miserable "brand from the burning,"
yet a hundred to one will be thrown into this " hell upon
earth," and that by parents as parents. It is parents, by
their own animal indulgences, and that before their children
see the light, that plant the prolific seeds of licentiousness in
the otherwise pure breasts of their unborn infants, which de-
velope themselves prematurely, and hurry on their hapless
victims in a career of vice most sinful, and to an end most
horrible. The gallows may occasionally end the life of some
wicked sinner, or the prison lock up a few thieves and com-
batants, while ignorant and thoughtless parents go on to
ma/ce prison birds a thousand fold faster, and that too whea
REFORMS MUST COMMENCE WITH PARENTS. 23
Aiipeal to parents. The star of promise.
•
opposite results might just as well be obtained. Efforts un-
tiring, and the best adapted possible, may be made to infuse
a love for books into the breasts of children, but these efforts
should begin icith parents, and while becoming parent.'i, in
order to prepare children to be profited by them. And so
with all other reforms.
Thoughtless parent, stop and consider ! Remember that
you give that original impress and bias to your children,
which must foini (I had almost said create) their characters
for this world, and continue to influence them from the cradle
to the grave, and even beyond this life ; for, without any
question, our lives here, will influence us hereafter, and pa-
rentage, by forming the main elements of our characters here,
will do much to control them throughout the endless ages of
eternity! Oh parents, parents ! parents!! your responsibili-
ties as parents, are immense—are inconceivably immense !
Well might an archangel shrink from their exercise. And
yet parents go on to exercise them with as little concern as
do the swine, thinking, like them, only of the animal indul-
gence connecte I therewith, and paying less attention to the
future qualities of their offspring, than they do to the offspring
of their beasts. And therefore many of their own children
are greater brutes, in all but shape, than are their dumb
beasts.
But a brighter day is dawning on our race. The star of
promise is just peering through the trees, and rising above
the mountains. That star of promise is—not the recent
discoveries in science and the arts, for, though they may
improve his physical condition, yet they do not reach the
inner man, but generally feed, and thereby re-invigorate, his
merely animal nature, thus greatly augmenting the evil
;
not in our increased efforts in securing revivals, and forming
Bible classes and Sabbath schools, for whatever these may
do for his immortal soul, they do precious little for him here,
except to rivet the chains of some religio-politico sectarian
doctrine; not in the recent and truly valuable improvements
in conducting education, for though they may help to modify
the character, yet they do not form it; not in the moral
reform, nor the temperance reform, nor in any other reform,
24 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Its importance. Appeal to youth.
«—
•
for though they may save a few, " so as by fire," yet they
do not begin at the root—but it consists in the increasing
attention just beginning to be paid to hereditary influences.
The momentous interests thronging around this subject, are
just beginning, Hlce a distant sound, to break upon tlie pubUc
ear. That sound will, it must, wax louder and louder, until
its roar becomes deafening and terrific ;
swallowing up all
other sounds, and bearing complete sway till it remodels man
physically, intellectually, and morally. No intelligent mind
can contemplate this subject without regarding its interests
as 'parainount to all others. A little longer, and its claims
will be generally seen and felt, and its laws studied and
applied, not alone to the general improvement of mankind,
but to the production, in ofispring, of whatever qualities, both
physical and mental, may be desired.
Then will new generations people the earth—generations
of men and women having all that is great, and noble, and
good in man, all that is pure, and virtuous, and beautiful,
and angelic in woman, with little of that physical disease
and deformity, and few and far between of those more
hideous moral blemishes that now degrade the image and
disgrace the workmanship of God. Then shall they be in-
deed and in truth the " image," and reflect likeness of their
Maker, and be the worthy sons and daughters of God Al-
mighty. Then, but not till then, will the millennium dawn
upon our benighted world ;
then shine in its morning glory
and beauty, and in its noonday power and eff'ulgence. Then
shall God be honored, and man be perfectly holy and incon-
ceivably happy, and earth be paradise. Would that I could
live to see that blessed day; but, as I cannot, let my humble,
happy lot be to call attention to this transcendently important
subject. Let me labor to show parents their highest duty
and their greatest privilege. Let me arrest the attention of
gay and fashion-loving youth, now rushing headlong and
heedlessly into married life, and becoming the parents of off-
spring to be rendered most happy or most miserable by their
instrum.entality. Oh thoughtless youth ! ye who look upon
love and marriage as a pretty plaything, a novel pastime, a
funny joke, a thing of to-day, and a matter of course, stop,
RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS. 25
Tlie great importance of suitable marriages to future generatious.
I beseech you
—
stop at once! Oh, pause and consider the
immeasurable responsibility you are about to incur ! Not
only reflect on the eflect of so eventful a step, on 3'our own
happiness and that of your consort, but on generations yet
unborn, extending down the entire stream of time, till time
itself be merged into the boundless ocean of eternity, widening
with every successive generation, in the ratio of the increase
of the mighty avalanche. If but your children alone were to
be the recipients of those blessings in the pov/er of parentage
to bestow, or the victims of those unutterable woes contained
in the vials of its wrath, you might indeed pause and trem-
ble, in view of the terrific extent to which your children,
your dearly beloved children—children that are bone of your
bone, flesh of 3^our flesh, and idols of your heart, will be
alTected thereby, but this is only the begiiming of that influ-
ciice. Thousands, aye, millions, " a multitude which no
man can 7iianbe/\" are to issue in countless throngs from
your loins, each rising up to call you blessed or accursed.
In proportion as so momentou.s a step as marrying and be-
coming parents is necessarily destined to afiect the happiness
and the misery of your race, in that proportion should they
be regarded and treated as steps most solemn and moment-
ous, to you, to your posterity, and to the latest generations of
men. Do not, then, let me implore you—do not make light
of these fearful realities, but employ all the means thus put
into your hands, of yourself enjoying your children, and of
stamping the impress of moral purity and intellectual great-
ness upon your posterity. Remember that the moral and
intellectual character and qualities of your children, more
than any other event or thing whatever, is to aflfect and
augment your happiness or misery. If your children should
be sweet and lovely, always greeting you with smiles of love
and kisses of affection, always good to each other and be-
loved by all around them, making the family glad with their
presence, blessing society with their virtues, adorning our
nature with their splendid intellectual endowments and at-
tainments, and disseminating a virtuous and a happifying
influence over all around them through life, how inconceiv-
ably more happy will you be, will they be, will mankind be,
3
26 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
The necessity of learning Ihe parental duties before marriage.
than if they should be feeble and sickly, requiring continual
nursing and the greatest care and anxiety, lest the least ad-
verse wind should blow them into eternity, thus rendering
your nights sleepless and your days burdensome; or than if
their animal passions should predominate, and they be sel-
fish, disobedient, and ill tempered to one another and to all
around them ; or thievish, or deceptive, or licentious, a curse
to their parents, and a pest to society, to end their days in
prison or on the gallows, being most wretched themselves,
and rendering all around tliem vicious instead of virtuous,
and most miserable instead of most happy ! And not only
this, but you will love the husband that begat them, or the
wife that bore them, more and more in proportion as their
children give you pleasure, or less and less as they cause yon
pain, till love itself may bo changed into hatred, and tlie
sweetest nectar become the bitterest gall.*'
Consider all this before you take tliat eventful step, and
cut the prolific thread on which hang suspended consequences
so momentous. And not only consider, but, if you still
resolve to assume these teeming responsibilities, first learn
your X>(irental duties. First inform yourself what conditions
in yourself and in a companion, will secure those qualities in
your children which you may desire ; and then choose your
consort with special reference to his or her qualities or capa-
bilities as a parent. Do not allow ^'ourself to get in love,
and to rush headlong into marriage, till you know for certain
what influences, parental especially, and educational secon-
* The fact that Aniativcnes?, or conntihial love, Phiioprogenitivenes?,
or parental love, and Union for Life, the faculty that hinds hushand and
wife inscparahly together, and for life, are located .side hj side, the former
partly encircling the latter, hc-^idcs heing highly inlerostiDg in a pliilo-
sophical point of vieWj shows ivhy it is that children hecomc " tlie dear
pledges of conuuhial love " hctween their parents
—
tvhy they so greatly
promote and augment tliis love
—
why a husband loves a wife the better
for her hearing him children, and still better in proportion as he loves
those children ; and also tchy he loves her the less, and perhaps even dis-
likes her, if she he barren, (and these remarks apply equally to woman,)
namely, because connubial love and parental love are located side by side,
so that the action of either, greatly i)roniotcs that of the other.
QUALITIES OF A PARENT AND CONSORT CONTRASTED. 27
A good parent and poor companion beiicr ihan a good companion and poor parent.
darily, the partner of your choice will have upon the children
of your love—the idols of your yet undeveloped affections.
If the question be asked, AVhich shall have the preference,
superior qualities as a parent, with inferior ones as a com-
panion, or the quahties requisite for a good companion, with
inferior capabilities as a parent, —I answer, that when the
two are not united, (though they generally go hand in hand,)
1 think the former should have the preference, because a
greater amount of happiness, if not to you, at least to your
posterity, depends upon it. The latter might possibly render
you personally the more happy, (though even this is doubt-
ful,) while the latter is to aliect all your posterity. But if
you determine on marrying a companion who is not capable
of transmitting healthy bodies, strong intellects, or high moral
feelings to your offspring, you should then not become pa-
rents ;
for you have no right to entail physical diseases or
moral blemishes upon posterity. You are not obliged to be-
come parents ; but if you do, it is your imperious duty to
render your offspring happy. You have no right to render
them miserable, as sickly bodies, or bad moral predispositions
certainly will render them, any more than you have a right
to burn- off their hands, or mutilate their bodies, or cut off
tlieir feet or head, after they are born. If parents have no
right to inflict pain upon their children after they are born,
they certainly have no right to put them into a condition before
birth which will cause them to suffer through life. And if
parents are under a moral obligation to their children to do
all in their power for their physical and moral welfare—if he
" that provideth not for his own household is worse than an
infidel," how imperious, how overwhelming the duty of pa-
rents to exert all those parental influences put into their
hands, to render their children healthy, handsome, intellec-
tual and moral. Are not the moral duties and relations of
parents to their children as imperious and binding before
birth as after 7 Are they not evidently as much more so as
tlieir influence over their destinies is more powerful before
than after 7 Strange that parents should think so much of
their dutie.s to their children after they have left their moth-
er's arms, but think so little of duties vastly more important,
2g HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Early impressions. On the choice of a joint partner.
because so much more intimately connected with their virtue
and well being.
Much stress is laid on cctrhj impressions, because they are
regarded as so much more deep and lasting than subsequent
ones. True. All right. But apply this same rule to the
impressions made before birth. Let us state the problem
" by the rule of three." If parents owe an immense simi of
moral duty to their children during infancy and childhood,
because impressions then made upon their minds arc so du-
rable and efficacious, how much greater that duty to these
same children before birth, because the impressions then
made are necessarily inwrought with their very nature, and
make up their cQiistitiitional predispositions ? And is it not
passing strange that parents have strained at this gnat of
their duty, but swallowed that camel whole, without once
knowing that they owed their unborn any duty?
And if parents owe this duty to their children, both before
birth as well as after, does not that duty extend still farther
back, and embrace the choice of a joint partner. That great
and highly benencial influences can be exerted upon children
by parents, by keeping themselves in a proper physiological
condition, will hereafter be seen in a chapter on the differ-
ences in the children of the same parents, these differences
tallying exactly with the changes that occurred to the parents
during the increase of their families ; but even these influ-
ences, however great and beneficial, are far inferior to those
that may be exerted by making the jjroper choice of a joint
parent. This is the foundation of the whole subject—the rooi
of the whole matter. The condition of the parents while
becoming parents, may be the trunk, and educational influ-
ences the branches, of the tree of life, while the constitutional
faculties and the conduct and feelings of mankind are the
fruit ; but as the nature of the root nor only governs the
nature of the tree, but also determines the character and
qualities of its fruit, so the constitutional qualities of the pa-
rents lie at the bottom of this whole matter, and are the pri-
onary causes of the talents and dispositions of children.
"Make the tree good, and then will the fruit be good also."
First choose a companion having a high moral, strong intel-
THE LINEAGE OF A COMPANION. 29
Find out ilie lieredJiary descent of a companion before marriage.
lectual, and powerful physical organization, and your chil-
dren will inherit them.
One of the best indications of the qualities of a man or
woman as a parent, is the qualities of /its or he?' parents and
grandparents. The maxim, " Like mother, like daughter,''
though not infallible, will seldom mislead you. But can-
didates for matrimony never once think of inquiring into the
jiaroital qualities of their future partner in parentage as well
as in love, though they do think of inquiring whether they
are to inherit a paltry patrimo)iy. If a young lady inherit
qualities as a parent of the highest order, but no dollars and
cents, a hundred others that have a paltry patrimony, if it be
even but a hundred dollars, though utterly unfit to become a
parent, or even a wife, are preferred before her. A 5^oung
woman, one or both of whose parents are consumptive, or
scrofulous, or miserly, or ugly tempered, will be taken just
as quick, (no quicker, for no attention whatever is paid to
this point,) as one from a stock that live to the age of a
hundred, and are noted for their talents and their virtues.
Strange, but no more strange than true !
Shall parents be deemed worthy to enjoy the blessings of a
parent, unless they apply the same principles of parentage
that they now apply to the improvement of stock, to a far
higher and nobler purpose? Certainly not; nor icill they
enjoy them, unless, perchance, they stumble on them. Shall
the pedigree of a horse be required to be traced back for fifty
generations, through as many sires remarkable for beauty, or
for strength, or for speed, before you will allow him to sire a
farm horse, and will you make no inquiries about the lineage
of a hosorn companion^ and the prospective father or mother
of your own children ? This is penny wise and pound fool-
ish, with a vengeance. It is wisdom in temporal matters,
but it is the most consummate folly in matters of eternal
moment. AVhen will men learn wisdom 7 When learn to
live] When appreciate and fulfil their destiny? When
will ministers of our holy religion, and the reputed in-
tellectual as well as moral leaders of mankind, preach joa-
rental duty and hereditary descent, along with original sin?
.Not till sectarianism relaxes its all powerful grasp, and allows
3*
30 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Duly of clcrg-ymen lo preach hereditary descent.
them to think iintrarnelled, and to speak iinawed. They
will be the very last to preach the doctrine of the parental
relations and obligations, whereas they slionld be the very
first. I put it to the community, I put it to them direct, both
as individuals and as collective bodies, what doctrines and
duties they now preach are more important or useful than
this very doctrine now advocated? "Oh but," say they,
" our mission is Christ cnicificd, and that oiibj/' Then con-
fine yourselves to that " onli/" and do not jJi'ctcnd to be the
intellectnal leaders of mankind. I would that clergymen
were not considered more than they are—namely, onere onin-
isters of the gospel, or rather of the sects, and not literary
savans. The people look to them to do most of their thinking,
whereas they " are ministers of the gospel (of sects) only,"
and obliged to think in the traces, and to be hampered with
theological schools and theological dogmas. If they would
but preach the doctrines and facts of hei{Editaky descent, or
the duties owed by parents as parents to their descendants,
and instruct parents and young people in the discharge of
these duties, as well as urge them home, with all the sound-
ness and solemnity of the subject itself, and of their sacer-
dotal office, (and surely none of the duties they preach are
more important in themselves, or more momentous in their
consequences,) they would at least add greatly to their use-
fulness. The people look to them for instructions as to their
duty, and as to their ic/tole duty ; and as this is never once
fiientioned, they of course infer that it does not come within
the range of their moral obligations. If they know not the
facts of this subject, let them learn ; but if they do know the
importance of the momentous moral duties owed by parents,
as parents, to their children, though they liave placed them-
selves as " watchmen on the walls of Zion," yet they are
" dumb dogs" that do not bark, and should resign their sa-
cred commission.
Oh! if clergymen would but study and preach this doc-
trine of the parental influences, and instruct parents and
young people in relation to this solemn moral duty, they
would then wield their tremendous influence with equal
and most delightful eflect, and set a moral reformation
THIS SUBJECT TREATED WITH INATTENTION. 31
Neglect of physicians, lawyers and merchanCs.
on foot, would soon remodel society, and almost banish crime
and vice.
I repeat it ; the duty which parents owe, as parents, to
their children, is a moral duty, is one of the highest moral
duties man owes to his fellow man, and even to his God
;
for how can we love the Lord our God with all our heart,
and with all our mind, and with all our strength, while we
are blasting the images of God with a blighting curse, which
will torment them with physical suffering througri life, or
imprint moral blemishes on their natures which are almost
certain to become hideous moral deformities to abide upon
them forever 7 Kow can we love our neighbor as ourselves,
(and in the sense of the word here meant, surely children are
our nearest neighbors,) when we curse them as effectually as
if we beat out their brains, or made them drunkards or
debauchees 7 These parental duties, then, being imperious
onoral duties, and of the highest grade, why should they not
be preached ?- Can clergymen do their Vv'hole duty and not
preach them? But, alas ! they will not. They will proba-
bly be the very last, even to admit them, much less to preach
them.
Then who u-'dl? Who stand up for God and humanity in
this war with evil at its root? Doctors should, but vnll not.
Their business is to cure diseases, not to forestall them—to
dose out pounds of cures (kills) instead of ounces of preven-
tion by sowing correct physiological seed in the department
over which they preside.
And as to lawyers, they are too busy taking pay for telling
lies, and scrambling over one another and their fellow men,
to give subjects like these, so totally foreign to their calling,
a moment's attention. IMerchants are too busy turning cop-
pers, and the rich, in playing the fool—young women in
catching husbands, and married women in cooking dinner
and tending badies, to hear my voice.
But there is a small, a select band, Gideon's chosen few,
culled out by test after test, who will blow the trumpet of
reform with one hand, and distribute information with the
other. To such, I commend this work. Take it; circulate
it ; urge it upon every parent, upon every young man and
32 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Let iiirormation be disseminated.
young woman, especially upon those unmarried women who
are on the qiil vivl to catch a beau or to secure a husband.
Let young women be remonstrated with, and persuaded to
learn their duties as mothers, before they dare cast the first
look of love, or even deck their persons so as to appear attrac-
tive. Give this work to the four winds. A better service
cannot be rendered to mankind, than extending its circula-
tion. Let it be the boon companion of every parent, and of
all who contemplate marriage. Let other and abler works
be prepared, and circulated throughout Christendom. Let the
whole human race, from Behring's straits to Cape Horn, and
"From Greenland's icy mountain,
To India's coral strand,"
be roused to the importance of learning and obeying those
laws which govern the transmission of physical, intellectual,
and moral qualities from parents to their descendants, down
to the remotest generations. Then shall the garden of Eden
cover the whole earth, and render holy and happy all the
nations and individuals that inhabit it.
But having thus far dwelt quite long enough, perhaps too
long, upon the outskirts and importance of our subject, let us
proceed directly to an examination of the subject itself—to
hereditary/ facts, and the laws that govern them.
In prosecuting this subject, let us first examine mankind
in masses, and then by families, and see whether various
forms of the body and face, various diseases, as consumption,
scrofula, the gout, &c., various mental qualities, as insanity,
appetite, anger, kindness, poetry, a talent for mathematics,
or reasoning, or writing, or speaking, &c., &c., are or are not
hereditary—do or do not descend from parents to children
through successive generations, as far as they can be traced,
and thus learn first our parental duties, and secondly the
conditions requisite for becoming parents, and the means of
perfecting ofispring.
RACES AND MASSES. 33
Man now what he has always been.
CHAPTER II.
THE CHARACTERISTICS OF RACES, MASSES, AND NA-
TIONS, IN PART HEREDITARY.
SECTION I.
THE COLORED RACE.
" And ihcir brethren,, among- all the families of Issachar, were valiant men of might."
That man is now what he was in the beginning, and has
been ever since, as far as both his physical form and organi-
zation arc concerned—that he had from the first, hands, feet,
eyes, month, lungs, bones, and muscles, a.id the same number
and general form of each just as he now has—that he had
the same propensities and moral faculties then that he now
has, the same power of reason, the same primary sentiments
of justice, of kindness, and of worship, the same appetite for
food, the same domestic feelings, the primary faculties of
resistance, fear, love of money, love of power, and passion
for glory, the same fundamental powers of observation, re-
collection ,of shape, of places, of events, of colors, &c.—will
not probably be questioned by any one other than a mere
hypothetical theorizer. As far back as we have any history
of him, whether sacred or profane, his constitutional and
cn-iglnal qualities have been what they now are. Slight
changes, induced by climate and circumstances, appear in
different races and ages, but at heart, all appear to have been
the same. And the fact is most singular, that even now,
among the diflerent races, and nations, and tribes of men,
notwithstanding all the changes to which for ages they may
have been subjected-—that different forms of government, and
opposite modes of education, and circumstances every way
conflicting, have, from time immemorial, exerted their utmost
power to effect a radical change—yet the oneness of our race
is most apparent. The avenues to the human heart are the
same in all. All nations and races bow subdued at the shrine
of beauty ; all yield to the power of love ;
all love their chil-
dren ; all eat; all scramble after property; all have a religion
34 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Races differ. The African race. A fact.
of some kind; all feed and shelter the benighted stranger;
all have ideas to express, and express them, and that by lan-
guages, the frame-work and fundamental ele7nents of which
arealike; all sleep : all decorate themselves; all are subdued
by kindness, and angered by abuse ; so much so, that he
who has learned human nature once, need not learn it again.
Yet, though the fundatnentah of our race are the same in
all portions of the earth, dillercnt races and nations evince
lesser differences in propensity and intellect, and even in the
color of their hair, skin, cV:c. Though all have muscles,
brains, &;c., yet the texture of some races is fine, of others
coarse. And there are differences in the tone and character
of different races. The colored race is characterized quite as
much by the tone of their feelings, the peculiarities of their
intellects and expressions, as by the color of their skin.
Their movements, their mode of walking, their tones and
laugh, are as different from those of white men, as are their
noses, or eyes, or lips. So of other races. The Indian has
an Indian character born in him, and lying back of all edu-
cational influences; and so of other races, and of nations.
But more particularly. The color of the colored race is
certainly congenital. It is horn in tJiem, and forms a part of
them. All climes, all ages, bear the mark. Education can-
not reach it, for it is hereditary^ and caused solely by imrental
influences.
A fact bearing on this point. Two white parents in New
Jersey, were very much astonished to find in their child un-
equivocal marks of- the African race and blood. It had the
flat nose, thick lips, curly hair, and dark skin, of a mulatto,
so unequivocal, that strong suspicions were entertained of the
mother's unfaithfulness. The father was thrown into a state
of mind bordering on derangement, and suffered beyond en-
durance, first by suspicions of the incontinency of a wife
whom he loved most dearly, and on Avhom he doted ; and
secondly, by the reproaches of his neighbors. His wife pro-
tested her innocence in terms so strong and solemn, that he
was finally led to believe in her integrity. Still, no explana-
tion of the phenomenon appeared. At length he sailed for
France, and visited a town on its frontiers where her family
THE COLOUEU RACE. 35
Mul allocs. The African hoad.
had resided for several generations, and found, to his joy,
that his wife's great grandfather was an African. And yet
no traces of the colored race had appeared between this
child's great grandfather, and this great great grandson, of
tlie fifth generation. This shows that the physical charac-
teristics of the race still remained, and though they run
nnder ground for five generations, yet that they at length
come to the surface.
In all mulattoes, the physical characteristics of the colored
race appear visible, but become less and still less so in pro-
portion as the parentage is less and less colored. Hence, by
looking at a mulatto, a pretty accurate estimate can be formed
>f the proportions of his parentage. And I am prepared,
fnm extensive observation, to add, that the phrenological
developments of mulattoes approach more and more towards
the European type of head, in proportion to the amount of
Europsan blood that flows in their veins.
That there is a European head and an African head, as
well as ai Indian head and a Tartar head, is evident to any
one who will take the trouble to learn the location and func-
tions of org»is. The African head is longer from the root of
the nose to '»pth Philoprogenitiveness and to Self-Esteem,
tlian the Europ»an, longer and higher in the crown, but not
as wide. And iiis is the case with the heads of colored
diildren, as well aiwiih those of colored adults. In harmony
with this greater dwelopment of Self-Esteem and Approba-
tiveness in them thin in the Caucasian race,, they are pro-
verbially polite and Uibane. and hence make excellent wait-
ers ;
are fond of ornament and show ; love to swell, and are
noted for feeling large i«d swaggering. In harmony with
their greater development tf Philoprogenitiveness, they make
oiir best nurses, as far as fondness and patience with children
are concerned, and evince a nost passionate attachment to
their children, and the strongesv attachment to friends. Ac-
quisitiveness, Secretiveness, and Cautiousness are also gener-
ally large ; Language and the Perceptive Faculties strong,
and Causality less.*
• It is but due to the race here to ol)scrve, tpat the intellectual organs
of colored children are much better than tjiose of colored adults, and very
86 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
The nose of-Africans. Tlicir love of music.
I repeat, then, not only have the dittercnt races dificrent
heads in their general outhncs, but the more of the negro
parentage a mulatto has, the more will his general type of
head partake of that of the race, and vice versa. Taken in
tJie gross, Creoles have generally better heads than those of
pure African blood, but not as good as Caucasians.
Another hereditary difference between the Caucasian and
the African races, is this : —Every Caucasian who has no
colored blood in him, will have a division in the gristle at the
end of the nose, showing a partition of that gristle, or a hol-
low to the touch, at the end of the nose ; but every one who
has the least African blood in him, will have no separation,
the gristle showing no. division between its two sides. Thi^'
is, of course, hereditary.
Another hereditary difierence will be found in their r^is-
cles being inserted at points of the bones dilferent froii the
insertion of the muscles of the Caucasian race ; a«d this
causes that peculiarity in their gait, motions, 6ic., aLtided to
above.
But still more. Though colored people love mi^ic, yet the
diaractei' of their songs is peculiar, so that a ;»ractised ear
can discriminate between an African tune ai'^i other tunes.
They love their friends, but this love has a to'ie in it differing
from that of Caucasians. So they talk, avd talk much, but
they construct their sentences in a manner difiering from our
mvn, and also employ a different class d words. In short,
they seem to have a cast of mind and une of feeling, includ-
ing intonations and gesticulations, d^cring materially from
our own race. The fact is, there /s an organization and a
texture, both physical and phrerological, peculiar to the
race, and which characterizes thatrace in all its ramifications
and crosses, and which owes it^ cause to parentage, and de-
scends from sire to son, fron^ generation to generation, and
which will last as long as th< race lasts.
little if any inferior to tiiosc of rtie whites,l)Ut that tlieir inferior Causality
is doubtless owing, in part, to its want of culture. Still, the cliaractcris-
tics of a colored child's forehead, arc prodigious Language, Individi>-
ality, and Eveutuality, fuH Comparison, and less Causality, relatively,
than is generally found ifl the children of Caucasian parents.
THE INDIAN RACE. 37
Tht-ir indepeiiHence. Their eloquence.
SECTION II.
THE INDIAN RACE.
" Lo the untutored Indian,
Sees God in clouds, and hears him in the wind."
The Indian race, also, has its hereditary pecuHarities, both
phj'^pical and mental. Its copper color, its high cheek bones,
wide mouth, straight black hair, prominent bones, and sunken
eye, while they characterize the race, also descend from
parents to children, both in the Indian race when unmixed,
and also in all its crosses. And not only are these and other
physical peculiarities unquestionably hereditary, caused hy
parentage, but the straight coarse hair of the Indian does not
contrast with the always curly hair of the African, more
strikingly than does the free, independent spirit of the one,
contrast with the easily subdued spirit of the other. Make a
slave of an Indian ! Who ever heard of such a thing? If it
were at all possible to subdue them, think you that Caucasian
cupidity would not long ago have done so, and'chased them
with the lasso through their native forests, as they now chase
the cattle and horses of South America? But the love of
freedom, and the fierce spirit that dies sooner than submit to
servitude, are born in the American race, as is also grati-
tude for favors, and revenge for wrongs. Take the young
papoose from its mother at its birth, and let him never be
cognizant of the Indian feelings and character, except such
as parentage implants in his nature, and think you he would
be any thing but an Indian. 1 grant that education may
gradually modify these qualities, but they will be Indian in
the grain, dyed in the v'ool, and Indian forever.
The Indian is always eloquent, but he is not forgiving.
He is fond of the chase, but he is not fond of philosophy.
He observes the stars, and predicts the weather, but he will
not confine himself to books ;
and though you " beat him in
a mortar with a pestle," yet he is an Indian still.
By civilizing and educating Indian parents, you will with-
ont doubt be able to make additional improvements in the
children, and, in a series of generations, to civilize and adorn
# 4
38 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS,
Papoose heads. The Jews.
the race, but his still predominant Dcstructivcness will render
him revengeful and vindictive, his powerful Secretiveness
and Cautiousness, crafty and cunning, and his great Percep-
tive organs, knowing and intelligent.
I have seen the heads of many papooses, but I never saw
one which did not have the leading developments of the
Indian. I never saw an Indian head on a negro or on a
Caucasian body, and I never saw an Indian body with a
Caucasian head. A very few papooses have Causality some-
what prominent, as will be seen by a cast of Keokuk's son,
and by the skulls of two Sioux children, about eight years
old, in my collection, yet the Avhole contour of these heads is
Indian. I never saw a papoose in which Cautiousness, Se-
cretiveness, and Destructiveucss were not predominant, the
"whole basillar region large, and the head low and flat, which
shows that Indian qualities are hereditary, because found in
children too young to be the vcsuh of education, li cdtication
formed the Indian character, the heads of papooses would
nearly resemble those of other races, and continue to become
more and more Indian in their developments, the older they
grow, and the longer their Indian education continued to
mould their characters. But, as Indian children have Indian
heads, and heads as essentially Indian, and about as strongly
marked with the Indian characteristics, as adult Indians, and
before education has had time to mould them very much,
the inference is that a considerable porfion, at least, of this
Indian head and character, is hereditary.
SECTIOX III.
THE JEWS.
"And Abraliam was vory rich in calllc, in silver, aud in gold."
—
Gen. xiii. 2.
But let ns narrow down our observation still more, and
take up the descent of qualities as regards nations. And one
of our best fields of inquiry will be the Jewish nation, first
because they have kept themselves distinct as a nation from
THE JEWS. 39
I " m —1
Their acquisitivenrss. Their devotion. Abraham.
time immemorial, and not allowed themselves to intermarry
with " the Gentiles ;•' and partly because their characteris-
tics are probably more strikingly marked than those of any
other nation. They are remarkable first for their love of
money; secondly, for their devotion to their religion; and
thirdly, for their general intelligence. Whoever saw a Jew
who was not most intent on the acquisition of property, and
up to all sorts of devices in order to acquire it—a real Shy-
lock, making money his idol, and succeeding beyond measure
in accumulating wealth ? How rarely do Jews forsake the
religion of their fathers, or fail to observe the passover, or eat
the flesh of swine 7 And how universally do they evince
shrewdness and talent, at least in acquiring property 7 And
are not our best historians and oriental scholars, Jews 1
What, then, were the original characteristics of the found-
ers of this nation ? Had they, or had they not. those quali-
ties which now so eminently characterize their descendants ?-
And to settle these points, let us quote from the Bible—=-And
Abrara took Sarai his wife, and Lot, Iris brother's son, and
all their substance which they had gathered,"' thus implying
that they had gathered considerable, and were unwilling to
leave any thing behind, though they were going from Egypt
to Canaan. Again—'"And Lot also, which went with Abram,
had flocks, and herds, and tents. And the land was not able
to bear them, that they might dwell together ;
for their sub-
stance was great, so that they could not dwell together."'
—
^•And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive,
he armed his trained servants, born in his own house, three
hundred and eighteen, and pursued them unto Dan. And he
divided himself against them, he and his servants, by night,
and smote them." This conflict was undertaken, first, for
his kinsman, (and the Jews to this day show the same par-
tiality to their kinsmen that Abraham did to Lot.) and sec-
ondly, to restore his goods. "And he said, I am Abrahanrs
servant. And the Lord hath blessed my master greatly, and
he is become great : and he hath given him flocks, and herds,
and silver, and gold, and men-servants, and maid-servants,
and camels, and asses. And the servant brought forth jewels
of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment."
40 HEREDITARY DESCENT ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Acquisitiveness of Isaac, Jacob, Laban, and Josepii.
Isaac, also, evinced the same love of riches, and was
equally successful in the accumulation of wealth. "And
Isaac Avaxed great, and went forward, and grew until he
became very great : for he had possession of flocks, and pos-
session of herds, and great store of servants." The blessing
which Isaac pronounced on Jacob, is also in point. " There-
fore God give thee of the dew of heaven, and the fatness of
the earth, and plenty of corn and wine." In blessing Esau,
he again mentions the fatness of the earth.
Laban, a descendant from Abraham's brother, also showed
the same acquisitive spirit in making Jacob serve him seven
years in order to obtain Rachel, his cousin, for a wife, and
then deceiving him by giving him Leah, and afterwards re-
quiring seven years more of service in order to obtain the
object of his love. Laban's bantering Jacob to stay longer,
and Jacob's shrewdness and acquisitiveness, if not yankee
cunning, in making the kind of bargains that he did, namely,
for all the speckled, ring-strcaked, and spotted, and liis pealing
the rods and laying them in the gutters where the cattle went
to drink, so that the great body of the young cattle and sheep
might be speckled, (see Gen. xxx. 27—43,) are directly in
point. "And Jacob increased exceedingly, and had much
cattle, and maid-servants, and men-servants, and camels,
and asses."
Not only did Laban's sons show the same acquisitive spirit
in envying Jacob, but Rachel also indulged it in conjunction
with veneration, a quality soon to be mentioned, in stealing
the gods of her own father."^'
Joseph's laying up the corn of Egypt in such vast quanti-
ties, was but another and most beneficial exercise of this
same faculty; and then again his buying in all the gold and
silver, all the cattle and effects, and even the lands and lives
of the Egyptians, for the crown of Egypt, shows the same
faculty; and so did also his putting his kinsmen in the
fattest oi the land of Egypt, and the rapid increase of the
Israelites in numbers and cattle while in Egypt.
• What nn idea that, of stealing a god, and even from a father, and
then lying to hide it!
THE JEWS. 41
Their Acquisiliveness. Shylock.
The manner in which the children of Israel left Egypt,
their taking with Ihem the wliole of their substance, even
* very much cattle," and then their horro^cing all they could
of the Egyptians, even so as to s-poil them, (Ex. xii.,) shows
that they were not a whit behind their predecessors in the
matter of getting property, especially gold, silver, and jewel-
ry, which seem especially to have been the idol of this people
from Abraham to the present day.
The children of Reuben and the children of Gad's having
*'
very much cattle ;" * the saving of all the " silver, and gold,
and vessels of brass and iron," and making them public
property, by putting them "into the treasury of the house of
the Lord,"t Achan's coveting and taking a " goodly Baby-
lonish garment, and two hundred shekels of silver, and a
wedge of gold of fifty shekels weight ;"J the children of Is-
rael's taking " the cattle and the spoils of Ai a prey unto
ihemselves,"<§> and doing the same by thirty-one other king-
doms and cities, namely, killing all the inhabitants, but
pillaging all the metals, goods, and cattle they contained ;
[[
Bloses' pursuing the same course with the kings destroyed on
the west of Jordan; the immense treasures given by David
and the elders of Israel, to build and furnish the temple of
Solomon, namely, seventeen thousand talents of silver, and
eight thousand talents, and ten thousand drachms of gold, and
one hundred thousand talents of iron, the immense riches
lavished on that magnificent edifice, altogether eclipsing
every building of modern times, —all these, and many other
incidents mentioned in ^-cripture, evince a most extraordinary
desire and capacity to acquire and hoard up property, espe-
cially gold, silver, jewelry, precious stones, and cattle. In
short, did ever any other nation, ancient or modern, possess
acquisitivenes in any thing like the degree in which the Bible
represents the Jews to have possessed it all the way along
down from Abram and his nephew, through every part oi
their history, even down to the present time'? Shakspeare's
well known description of Shylock, is in perfect keeping with
• Num. xxxii. 1. f Josh. tI. 24. J do. vii. 21. § do. Tiii. 27..
I
Josh. xi. and xii.
4*
42 HEREDITARY DKSCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Tlie Koiliscliilds. Giranl. Ci.lu'ii. Morse. Chaiham street.
the Jewish character, both as it was then, and is now. Wiio
are the richest men of the old world ? The Rotlischikls; and
they are Jews. Who was Stepiicn Girard. at his death the
richest man in America? A Jew. Wlio are now the richest
men in Baltimore? Probably Cohen & Co., who are Jews.
Mr. Morse, now living in Philadelphia, who began life a
street pedlar of thread, needles, toys, trinkets, &c., and is now
worth several millions, is also a Jew; and his head at Ac-
quisitiveness is the broadest, I think, that I ever saw. One
of the missionaries, several years ago, writes that in passing
through the Jewish part of one of the eastern cities, he was
beset, entreated, and actually compelled to purchase of them ;
and a man now can hardly go through Chatham street. New
York city, which is occupied almost exclusively by Jews,
withont being taken by the arm and half coaxed, half pushed
into a store, to make a purchase ; or if he stops at one of
their mock auction stores, and bids ten cents on a knife, it is
knocked off to him, and he asked to go into the back room
where he finds a thousand items or more struck off to him,
and a hundred dollars required of him, and he threatened till
he pays all he has. Probably a hundred gouge-games are
practised per day, upon an average, in Chatham street alone.
Then look at their pawn-broker's frauds, their usury, and
every sort of device resorted to for making money, and say
if they are not the worthy sons of rich Abraiiam, and the
crafty Jacob? And what is most singular, the very kinds of
property which Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob loved and ac-
quired, namely, gold, silver, precious stones, and flocks, the
Jews of this day love and acquire, except that instead of
sheep, they deal in u-oolletis. Jewelry, which doubtless took
its name from the fact that it was made and sold mostly by
Jews, is to modern Jews, what gold, silver, and costly stones
were to the Israelites of old. Who can look upon these coin-
cidences, and not be compelled to say, not only that certain
qualities are hereditary, but also that they descend from
parents \6 children for thousands of generations, in direct and
continual succession? That education has some influence in
effecting this result, I do not doubt : but the closing remarks
THE JEWS. 43
Tbeir Iiihabitivciiess. Desire to have issue.
of the last chapter will apply here as well as there, and to
all other cases in which this objection is raised.
The mechanical ingenuity of the ancient Jews, especially
as seen in building the temple and carving its vessels, is in
fine keeping with the mechanical ingenuity of modern Jews.
1 have seen as remarkable developments of Constructiveness
in Jews, as I ever saw in any head, accompanied with a
proportionate development of this faculty.
The Inhabitiveness of the Jews, both ancient and modern,
is also worthy of a passing remark. Abraham's buying a
burying place to bury Sarah his wife, and his directing his
sons to bury him there also ; the burying of Isaac, Rebecca
and Leah there ;
Jacob's directing that he be buried in the
same family tomb, even though he died in Egypt ; and Jo-
seph's charge to have his bones buried in the same place, —is
in beautiful keeping with the extraordinary love of the Jews,
throughout their whole history, of their native land. How
often is the promised land referred to 7 How piteous the
lamentations of the Jewish captives for the land of Israel
—
" By the rivers of Babylon, there vv^e sat down, yea, we v:ept
when we remembered Zionl" How, above all price, did
the Jews value Jerusalem, their temple, and the land of Ca-
naan? And even to this day, the eye of every descendant of
that outcast nation is turned towards Jerusalem, witli the
expectation that they, as their descendants, will yet inhabit
the promised land. In other words, the whole nation have
evinced great Inhabitiveness ; and I have never yet seen a
Jew in whom this organ was not very large.*
The parcelling out of the land of Israel to each tribe, and
giving to each family its particular share, with the "law in
Israel" that it should remain in that tribe and family forever,
under all contingences, is also in point.
The desire of the Jews to have an issue, is worthy also of
remark, in Abraham and Sarah, in the daughters of Lot, in
Isaac and Rebecca, in Jacob and Rachel, and in all the race
;
as is also the barrenness of Sarah, Rebecca, and Rachel, at
• This trait is remarkably strong in tlie Indians, and may possibly
throw some light on the identity of the two races.
44 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
The hospitality of the Jews. Their piety.
least till they were old —all from the same stock, or from
Abraham's father. They also insisted on marrying none but
their own kin. Gen. xxiv. 4.
The hospitality of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, was re-
markable. Gen. xviii. 1 —8. See also Gen. xix. 1 —3, Lot's
entertaining the angels. See Gen. xxiv. 15—33, where Re-
becca watered the camels of Abraham's servant, and Laban's
hospitality, both to Abraham's servant, and to Jacob; the
hospitality of the old man mentioned in Judges xix., all
show how sacred they regarded this matter. They seem to
have had no taverns, but to have entertained one another.
Whether modern Jews evince this quality, is left for those
who know them to judge.
Equally remarkable, also, were all the Jewi.sh progenitors,
for their worship of God and religious faith. It is said of
Abraham, " and there he builded an altar unto the Lord,
and called upon the name of the Lord," v/herever he took
up his residence. Indeed, to have an altar, was as indispen-
sable as to have a tent. It is said of him, "And he believed
in the Lord, and he counted it to him for righteousness."
See Gen. xv. 6, and indeed the whole of the fifteenth chapter.
The seventeenth chapter contains an account of his scrupu-
lous observance of circumcision. See also Abraham's prayer
for Sodom in the eighteenth chapter, and his offering up his
son Isaac in the twenty-second chapter.
Isaac also inherited, or at least possessed, the devout spirit
of Abraham. See Gen. xxvi. 25. Jacob also evinced the
same spirit. See Gen. xxviii. 16—22. See also Jacob's
wrestling with the angel. Gen. xxxii., and his building altars
in Bethel and wherever he went. See Gen. xxxv. 1 —5, and
the whole of the chapter.
Joseph's piety was equally conspicuous, as was that of
Moses and Aaron, and of the whole Jewish nation, modern as
well as ancient, in their sacrifices, their ablutions, observan-
ces, (fcc, (fcc, and even now, the Jews keep the passover as
strictly as ever, and adhere to their religion with as much
tenacity as to their gold. Veneration is usually large in the
heads of Jews.
THE JEWS, 45
Their cunning. Their Deslrucliveiiess.
Abraham evinced much cunning and large Secrelivcness,
a quahty strikingly manifested in the Jews at the present day,
especially in their underhanded measures to acquire property.
Gen. xii. 11—15, 18 and 19.
The same cunning was shown by Rebecca in getting Isaac
to bless her favorite Jacob instead of Esau, and by Jacob in
buying Esau's birthright by taking advantage of his hunger.
Isaac, like Abraham, also pr-'^tciided that his vrife was his
sister. See Gen. xxiv. 7. See also the cunning of Rebecca
in getting Isaac to send Jacob away to her brother, under
pretence of his getting him a wife, whereas she only wanted
to place him beyond the power of Esau, who had threatened
to kill him. See Gen. xxvii. 41—46.
Laban, also, another of this deceitful race, after solemnly
promising Rachel to Jacob Jbr a wife, deceived liim. See
Gen. xxix. 22—26. Rachel likewise evinced the same quality,
not only in stealing the gods of her own father, but also in
hiding them under her, and then pretending that it was diffi-
cult for her to rise, because she was not well. The Jews cer-
tainly come honestly by their instinctive talent for deceiving.
Gen. xxxi. 30. Jacob also showed considerable secretive-
ness, and feigned submission, when he met Esau on his re-
turn. Hence, what could he expect, but that the same game
of deception would be played on him, that was played by his
sons in their selling Joseph, and then dipping his coat in
blood and sending it to their father. All along down, sacred
and profane history ascribe this quality to the Jews.
The destructive propensity of the Jews might also be
traced even more conspicuously from Abraham, who put five
kings and all their armies to the sword at once, through
Simeon and Levi, who so fiercely revenged the outrage upon
their sister Dinah, and all tlie battles of the Israelites, in
which tens of thousands, and sometimes hundreds of thou-
sands, fell in a day ;
including David, a man of war and
blood from his youth, to the most horrible manifestation of
this passion at the final taking of Jerusalem. (See Josephus.)
This organ is prodigious in the Jews of the present day, and
is well described in Shakspeare's delineation of Shylock, who
was bent on taking out the heart of his mortal enemy.
46 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Jewish physiognomy. The Chinese. The casts of eastern nations.
It is perhaps worthy of remark, that the Jews all have a
national 2)hi/siognom7j, by which every Jew may be recog-
nized as a Jew at the first glance. (See the article on the
Jews, and tiie accompanying drawing, in the Phrenological
Jonrnal, Vol. V., No. 7.) This form and expression of face,
is of course hereditary. Much might be said of the descent
of superior talents, wonderfully retentive memories, and ex-
cellent literary taste, of the Jews. But enough, at least for
the present.
SECTION IV.
NATIOIVS AND MASSES, GENERALLY.
The Chinese are noted for their sameness, both of character
and head. To a phrenologist, it would seem as if all their
heads were cast ni the same mould, so nearly do they resem-
ble each other. The only perceptible difference, is to be
found in those of different occupations. But, as father and
son, from generation to generation, follow the occupation
of their forefathers, the principle of the descent of qualities,
is still sustained. No field of inquiry would delight me
more, than the examination of the heads of the various
casts in eastern nations; in order to determine, first, whether
each cast had its own particular form of head, of which there
is no doubt; and whetlier the children, and even infants, of
these casts, have the heads of the cast. And if my life be
spared, I intend yet to make them. Will not phrenologists
embrace every opportunity of pi-osecuting these inquiries?
Will not that able and truly excellent phrenologist, Cubi i
Soler, our correspondent in Spain, prosecute these inquiries
still further, and send them to the Journal for publication 7
Will not our friend Garrison, of the West Indies, pursue this
subject in regard to the Creoles of those islands.
What the phrenological developments of the Chinese are,
may be learned from Vol. IV. of the Journal, in the series of
articles headed "The Chinese." But they are introduced
here nmre to serve as the basis of the inference, that whexe
THE HEADS OF NATIONS AND MASSES. 47
Anglo-Amerir.ins. Hope in ihe l^nglish and Ainerirans.
education remains, as theirs has, unchanged, for ages, it
exerts its moulding influence on the parents, to bring them
up to a uniform standard ;
and this operates to keep the race
uniform through a succession of ages. Exactly how much
is to be attributed to education, and how much to parentage,
it may be difficult to say, but the proposition is self-evident,
that hotJi exert an influence.
The Anglo-American head affords a striking contrast to
tliis uniformity of the Chinese. Though the primitive stock
is English, yet the American head differs materially from the
English: and the heads of different states and sections differ.
Blindfold me, and submit one hundred heads from the several
states, and if I sometimes miss as to the state, yet I will sel-
dom mistake a southerner for a yankee, a Virginian for a Yer-
monter, a Missourian for a New Yorker, or a Pennsylvanian
for a I\Iarylandcr. Of course I refer to natives of the several
stales, wiiose ancestors were also natives. The children of
southerners also differ from those of northerners. Their
organs are more on extremes, the large organs larger, and the
small organs smaller; Cautiousness and ApprobativcnesSj
when large, are usually very large; and so of Benevolence,
Destruciiveness and Friendship.
The difference in the development of Hope between John
Bull and Uncle Sam, is very striking. Crossing tlje British
lines, makes a difference of fifty per cent in tliis organ, it
being the greatest on the south side. The explanation is
doubtless this. Hope is more highly stimulated in this
country than in that. Thus the organ grows a little in each
parent, and the law of parentage retains or propagates this
growth. The next generation adds a little more to its size by
cultivation, and parentage retains it all, and hands it down
to the third, to be again augmented and perpetuated. [In
fact this law is the true secret of the progress of both nations
and the race. That our race, on the whole, has improved
and is improving, in morals and intelligence, is evident to
every careful observer. The moral sentiments are exerting
a far greater influence over mankind now, than for ages past;
and it is devoutly to be hoped that future ages will witness
still greater improvements. And this is the key and cause.
48 HEREDITARY DESCENT—ITS LAWS AND FACTS.
Eduration improves. Parentage retains this improvement. Danes, &c.
T\\e reforming influences now abroad, will cause Ihe moral
and intellectual organs of parents to grow, and this will se-
cure an additional development in children, and this will
gradually improve the race.
I would not make education every thing, as Burritt and
the old metaphysicians do'; neither would I make parentage
every thing. But let both be united—education to bring up
defective organs, and then parentage to perpetuate this in-
crease for another addition. The joint action of the two in
improving races, and nations, and families, may well be
compared to a pump. Education raises the valuable water
as far as one generation—as one stroke—can bring it, tho
valve (parentage) then closes upon it and holds it. Educa-
tion then carries it up one peg higher, and parentage again
holds it there, and perpetuates it to be improved in generation
after generation. Nor is man any where near the top of
this scale of human improvement. He is scarcely above the
zero of the thermometer, and on a scale that can hardly be
said to have a limit. And if this treatise contribute to tlie
accomplishment of this great end—the ultimate improvement
of mankind, the great object of its author will be answered.
—
But to return.
The heads of the Danes are quite in keeping with the Eng-
lish head generally. The French head is plainly discernible
from the English, even in childhood. The German head is
also unique, presenting large Conscientiousness, Causality,
and Acquisitiveness. The Welch head always runs far out
and back in the region of the crown, which gives love of
liberty; and it was this which made them forsake their
native vales, and flee to the Welch mountains, in order to
enjoy tliat liberty. And their hair is always very fine, and
their skin delicate. The dark skin, eyes, and hair of a por-
tion of the Caucasian race, namely, the French, Spanish,
Portuguese, &c., is entirely hereditary, and is always found
in the descendants of those nations. But the color of the
eyes, hair, 6ic., of the English nation, varies exceedingly,
and because the original stock of the nation is composed,
partly of Danes, partly of Normans, partly of Romans, and
partly of the original stock of the British Islands.
THE FORM AVD COUNTENANCE HEREDITARY. 49
Th" Chinese—Freiich^Daiics—English.
CHAPTER III.
PHYSICAL QUALITIES HEREDITARY.
SECTION I.
FORMS OF BODY AND FACE, AND THE EXPRESSIONS OF COUN-
TENANCE, HEREDITARY.
Who does the child look like ?
The hieroglyphics and likenesses handed down to ns from
past ages, show that as to the present general forms of the
body and face of man, he is what he always has been
—
having the same upright posture, the same general aspect
and mein, the same position and general appearance of the
nose, eyes, cheeks, month, chin, hair, body, arms, feet, and
the same general physiognomy, &c. ^cc. Nations also have
a peculiarity in the forms of their bodies, and in the expres-
sions of their countenance, by which those descended from
them can generally be designated. The African has a gen-
eral form and physiognomy by which he may be recognized
as certainly and as readily as by the color of the skin. So
of the Indian : so of the Chinese; so of the Hindoo; so of
each race and of most nations.
Again ;
nations that are unmixed, have a unifonn color of
hair, skin, and eyes, and a sameness of countenance, as i?
seen in the Chinese, the French, Italian, <fcc. Who ever saw
a Spaniard with red hair or blue eyes, or with any thing but
dark hair or eyes ] But the English have the i^d hair so
common to the Danes who overran England and partly
populated her, the dark eyes and hair of the Norman race,
and every variety of color derived from their compotmds,
and probably from other sources. The variety in the Eng-
lish countenance—some having the bold, prominent, striking
physiognomy of the Romans, some the stern, rough features
of the Scotch, and others other features strikingly analogoirs
to the physiognomy of other nations known to have inter-
mingled with them—is doubtless owing to the action of
similar causes.
5
50 PHYSICAL QUALITIES HRREDITARY.
Family likenesses. Tlie Rogers family red haireti. Webster.
But to come down to families. What is more common
than to hear the remark—" This child looks like its father or
its aunt, or takes after its mother, or uncle, or one of its grand
parents." The fact that there are family likenesses, family-
physiognomies, family forms of body and head, will not be
disputed by any close observer of parents and children. Es-
pecially will every u-oman recognize the truth of the remark
that children a//z;a7/5 resemble one or the other of their pa-
rents, uncles, aunts, cousins, or grand parents, for woman
notices these resemblances, and is forever talking about them.
Let the portraits of grand parents, and great grand parents
be placed at the head of those of their descendants for seve-
ral generations, and the resemblance of all the latter to one or
other of the ancestors, will be manifest. If one ancestor
have red hair, red hair will break out every now and then in
every generation, and be more and more common in propor-
tion to the strength of that ancestor's constitution. John
Rogers, the martyr, who had "nine small children and one
at the breast," had red hair, as will be seen in the painting of
liim now in Cambridge, Mass., and nearly all the Rogerses in
this country, most of whom are his descendants, have red or
light hair also, or whiskers, and the sanguine temperament.
He evidently had a powerful constitution, and it is remarka-
ble that the great majority of his descendants should inherit
his red hair and sanguine temperament; the races into which
they have intermarried, having exerted a much less influ-
ence on the color of the hair of his descendants than he has
done. Let the reader observe, first, the number of red or light
haired or whiskered Rogerses in the conununity, and secondly,
the religious zeal or else the reforming spirit of those bearing
this name. A lim^al descendant of John Rogers now lives in
Boston, and has red Iiair.
So if some conspicuous ancestor have a prominent or a
Roman nose, or a projecting chin, or full or sunken cheeks,
or a sunken eye, or a heavy eyebrow, or a high or a retreat-
ing forehead, or a long neck, or large or small ears, more or
less of his descendants will have the same. Take the eye-
brow of Daniel Webster. Noah Webster, the author, had a
tuft of long, thick, coarse eyebrows, strikingly analogous t©
THE FORM AND COUNTENANCE HEREDITARY. 61
The Hairh family. Franklin. Folgcr. 1'appan.
those of Daniel Webster. Prof. Hale, a cousin of Daniel
Webster, has a similar tuft, and so has a sixteenth cousin
now living in Philadelphia, as well as that same general cast
and expression of face and forehead, which so pre-eminently
characterize Daniel Webster. But to multiply words on this
point is certainly not necessary, for the observation of every
one having tolerable individuality, is certainly with me.
And every close observer of this point, will be struck with
the wonderful minuteness of this transfer, as though both
father and son and grand son, were daguerreotype likenesses
struck from the same original at different times.
But farther. The forms of body in parents, are also trans-
mitted. If the ancestor be lean and gaunt, the descendants
will be so also. If the ancestor be thick set, round shouldered,
and plump in person, the descendants will resemble him
;
but if one ancestor be short and another tall, or one fleshy and
the other slim, some of the descendants will resemble one,
and some the other. A family of the name of Hatch, once
lived in the town where I was brought up, some of whom
were the tallest persons I almost ever saw, and very slim and
gaunt. Their mother was also tall. One of the sons was of
ordinary size and height, but a daughter of this son had the
long hand and limbs, and the tall figure of her grand father
and great grand mother, and another had not. Another son
was very tall.
Benjamin Franklin was a very broad shouldered man, and
yet of respectable height, and Geo. Folger, of Nantucket,
who is a Washingtonian Lecturer of great power, has the
same form of body, and especially cast of face, that busts and
paintings of Franklin represent him to have had. His like-
ness might easily be mistaken for that of Franklin's ;
for it is
about as long favored, has the same perpendicularity, the
same squareness of forehead at its upper part, and the same
hollow at Eventuality and Individuality, and the same heavy
eyebrows and sunken eyes, possessed by the great philosopher.
They are related, both being from the same stock.
The Tappan family, Arthur and Lewis of New York, and
John of Boston, are also from the same stock, their mother
being related to Franklin, and I think to Folger, and a most
52 PHYSICAL QUALITIES HEREDITARY.
A grand daughter o( Franklin. Lucretia MoU. Levi Woodbury.
remarkable woman. The likeness of John Tappan, both to
Franklin and to the Folger family, is no less striking than
that of Geo. Folger mentioned above. His head, like that of
Franklin, is massive, prodigious at Firmness, Cansalily and
Conscientiousness, less at Self-Esteem, Individuality and
Eventuality, and large at Cautiousness and Acquisitiveness,
qualities that shone out so conspicuously in Frankhn.
x\t New London, in 1837, 1 saw a grand daugliter of
Franklin, in whom a similar form of body was manliest, and
whose square face and projecting Causahty, closely resembled
that of her grand father. Lucretia Molt, so extensively known
as a Quaker preacher, and a woman of powerful intellect, is
also from the same original stock, and has the high, broad,
expansive forehead, square face, and above all, the projecting
Causality of her illustrious kinsman. Nor have I any doubt
but that the great majority of the Folger family, from which
Franklin evidently received his stamp and character, and also
most of Franklin's descendants, possess the general contour
of body and landmarks of the face, so conspicuous in ih©
bust and paintings of this star of the new world. All the
heads of this family that I have measured, have been very-
large ;
and Franklin's was immense ;
so large that he was
obliged to have his hat made on a block kept expressly for
him ;
and hats now made on the same block, (his hatter lived
in Germantown, Pa.) will slip over a head measuring twen-
ty-three inches in circumference.
Again. Many of my readers doubtless know Levi Wood-
bur}'', ex-Secretary of the Treasury, and now member of
Congress from New Hampshire. His build of body, and
form of face, are remarkable—large, fleshy, round, and amply
developed in the abdomen. A few days ago, a gentleman
and his sister called on me for an examination, and gave
their names as Woodbury. The likeness of the lady lo Levi
was so striking that I immediately recognized it, and asked
if she was not related to Levi Woodbury. She said she
was a cousin^ and that the VVoodburys who descended from
their ancestors, (two brothers, Woodburys, who came over
and settled in Beverly, Mass., of whom they were the seventh
generation.) were readily recognized by the Woodbury look^;
THE FORM AND COUNTENANCE HEREDITARY. 63
Tlic \\ooilbury t'aiuily. The Websicr family-.
that Levi resembled his grand father Woodbury, and of
course her grand father, whom she also resembled. Her head
measured twenty-three inches, the largest female head I ever
measured. She was large, portly, fleshy, and possessed of
a strong constitution, resembling her cousin, not only in her
general form of body and face, but also in her principal devel-
opments, namely, prodigious Benevolence, small Veneration
and Marvellousness, large Firmness, Self-Esteern, Acquisi-
tiveness, Conscientiousness, Amativeness, Secretiveness, and
Causality, and a head of great power. And I prophesy great
things of her descendants. She remarked that the Wood-
burys generally had large families—another hereditary ten-
dency.
Her brother, the gentleman who accompanied her, did not
resemble the Woodbury family, but was slim, and predisposed
to consumption—a quality that had appeared in one of his
kinsmen on his mother^ s side. No Woodbury that takes af-
ter Levi in looks, will die of consumption, and alt will live
long.
In 1840, a gentleman entered ray ofiice whom I supposed
to be Daniel Webster, and to whom I gave my hand and
called him Mr. Webster. On inquiry, he proved to be a very
distant descendant of the same family, both being from the
same stock, but parting four generations back. He was nst
about the same height, probably not varying an inch, the
same portly, commanding look and carriage, the same dignity
and slowness, but power, the same tremendous muscular and
vital apparatus, the same heavy eyebrows, dark hair, and
form of forehead, and every way a Webster. He remarked
that he had often been taken for Daniel Webster. He was
about the same weight, probably not varying ten pounds, and
liad the same sized head, lacking but a quarter of an inch
;
his being twenty-four inches, and Daniel's being a quarter of
an inch larger. And on examining his head, 1 found his organs
every way like those of Daniel Webster, excepting that
Self- Esteem and Concentrativeness were less, and Appro-
bativeness and Conscientiousness were larger. The head of
Mr. Webster, the Phrenologist, is also very large, it being
twenty-three inches and a half; and I doubt whether a
54 PHYSICAL QUALITIES HEREDITARY.
The Dvvigiii family. A Inrjje father and small moilier.
Webster can be found, or any relative of the family that has
this Webster contour of body, without haviug a great head,
and great physical power and stamina. E. Webster, the
brother of Daniel, who died many years ago, at Concol-d,
N. H., also had an immense head, yet looked more like his
mother.
The Rev. Sereno E. Dwight, grand son of President Dwight,
relates that he was once riding on horseback with a friend
in a mountainous portion of New Hampshire, when he over-
took an old man, above eight}', also on horseback, who soon
began to eye him very sharply, and finally turning around
and staring him full in the face, asked him if his name was
not Dwight, and he a son of Col. Dwight. He told him no,
but he was his great grand son^ and that his grandfather was
Timothy Dwight, the theologian. The old man then stated
that some sixty years before, lie lived in the family of Col.
Dwight, and that, when he left it for the wild mountains of
New Hampshire, Timothy, (afterwards President,) Dwight,
was in his cradle, but that he (Sereno E.) resembled old Col.
Dwiglit (his great grand father) so perfectly, both in coun-
tenance, tones of voice, and the way he sat in the saddle, that
he ventured to call him a Dwight. This Col. Dwight was
a large, portly, well built, finely proportioned, and noble
looking man, and so was Timothy, the President of Yale
College, and so are most of his descendants.
Parents that are large, generally have children of similar
dimensions; and little parents, little children. 1 know a
clergyman, the Rev. Mr. L., a large, athletic, noble looking,
powerful man, having a head the size of Webster's, and the
reasoning organs even raoro amply developed, who married
rather. a small woman, whose first born v/as so very large,
that its small mother could not give birth to it without tak-
ing her own life. It had the same prodigious head, broad
shoulders, high forehead, and general looks of its father.
Very large men should not, for this reason, marry very small
women. A point as important as this, should not be over-
looked ;
1 mean, where e.Ktremes occur. Still, as far as this
Doint is concerned, small men may marry either large wo-
jwejj or small ones, which ever they prefer in other respects.
THK FORM AND COUNTENANCE HEREDITARY. 55
(iiaiils The Howe tiumly. Iiiterenre.
We also read of giants, and of the sons of giants, and even
o( racfs of giants. The Patagonian Indians of South Amer-
ica, are said io be a race of giants ; and a race of very small
men has recently been discovered in Africa.
From the above facts, the inference that very small persons
shonid not marry those that are very small, is obvious, lest
their offspring be still more diminutive. But more of this
hereafter, when we come to show what organizations should
and shonid not marry.
Tliis principle is still farther ilhistrated by tlie form of the
mouth, and the size and shape of the front upper teeth, in a
family by the name of Howe, the one mentioned in the
American Preceptor as having been taken in the old French
war, by the Indians, at fort Hinsdale, in company with Hil-
kiah Gront, Benjamin Gaffield, and others, and taken to
Canada. The Squire Howe there mentioned as the little
boy who was knocked off the sacks with the tomahawks,
while sitting on them to rest, by which deep indentations
were made in his head, which he carried to his grave ;
had
very large, wide, long, projecting front upper teeth. Most,
I believe all his children, had the same characteristic, and
many of his grand children.
Another Howe mark is a great projection at the root of the
nose, einbracing the organs of Individuality, Eventuality,
Locality, Comparison, Form, and Size, and prominence of
features. The family are also fond of reading.
But why multiply words in proof or illustration of a point
so perfectly obvious as our proposition that the forms of the
face and body are hereditary, and are strikingly analogous
•wiierever the looks of ancestors and descendants can be com-
pared—a point so common, so self-evident, to all who will
examine it. I ask again, if every peculiarity in the forms of
cither body or face in the parent, is not hereditary ? From
what source do offspring derive their looks and shape?
From parents, of course. And if the prominefit characteris-
tics of form are hereditary, all is hereditary. If parentage
gives a part of the looks, it gives them all; so that every
shape and all the peculiarities of form in the child, have their
cause and origin in parentage.
56 PHYSICAL QUALITIES HEREDITARY.
Mrs. Horlon's tliixcn Itick of hair.
SECTION II.
MARKS AND EXCRESCENCES HEREDITARY.
" There was at Galh a man of great stature, whose fingers and toes were four and
Iwenly, six on each hand, and si.\ on each foot : and he also was the sou of the giant."—
1 Cliron. XX. 6.
In October, 1812, while making professional examinations
in the family of Mr. Horton, who resides about a mile east of
Pawtucket, Mass., I discovered- on Mrs. H. a lock of hair, not
gray, nor quite white, but of a flaxen color, diflering entirely
from the color of the rest of her hair, a strip about an inch
wide, growing on the portion of the head directly above the
forehead, for which 1 was unable to account. On examining
her eldest daughter, I observed a similar lock, and in the
same place, the perfect image of that of her mother. I of
course remarked it, and asked if it was hereditary. The
mother then stated that Iter mother had the same light strip
of hair, and in tiie same place: that her gia)id father^ on her
mother's side, also had it; and that \\c^ great grand father
had the same mark, and in the same place ; that of her
uncles and aunts on her mother's side, several, 1 think eight in
twelve had it, and the others not ; that those who had it, lived
longer, on an average,' than those who had it not; and that
her great grand father who had it, lived to be over a hundred
years old ;
showing that those who had it, took their quali-
ties of long life from the same ancestor from whom they
inherited the mark. In other words, those who had the
mark, partook most of the other properties of that family
from whom they derived, the mark. In harmony with a law
of hereditary descent hereafter to be more fully presented, the
daughter which had this mark, also had the physical char-
acteristics, and especially the developments, resembling those
of the mother, namely, large Self-Esteem and Firmness, qual-
ities not often found conspicuous in woman, large Construc-
tiveness and Causality, and prodigious Benevolence, with
the same vital apparatus and general aspect of countenance.
The children that had not this mark, resembled the father,
both in their phrenological developments and in their consti-
JIARKS AND EXCRESCENCES HEREDITARY. &7
Paviiicr. Porcupine men. Kxprrssioi. of ihp oyn.
tuiiou. Several of the mental peculiarities ol' tlie UKnlier
were said to characterize this daughter tliat had the mark,
and several of those of the father, were related as belonging
to the children in whom it was not found. But more on this
last point liereafler.
In examining the head of Mr. Paynter, who now lives in
Newtown, L. 1., I found several excrescences or wens, that
were evidently inserted between the different portions of the
scalp, and movable. Turning to examine the head of his
daughter, I found that she had similar ones. On inquiring
still farther, I foimd that one of his parents had them, (the
mother, I think,) and one was just making its appearance
on a grand daughter. In every case, they were not observ-
able in childhood, and appeared at about the same age in all.
Stepping into the barber's shop No. 2 Beekman street,
New York, some conversation was had in regard to a wen
on the head of a gentleman who had just been shaved. I
asked him if either of his parents had these wens. Ke said
no. but his uncle liad them. I asKed then if lie was consid-
ered to resemble that uncle. He answered, ''
Yes, very
much : I am taken for him often." He was about sixty. —
In several other instances, I have found thtse wens to be
hereditary, and traced them for four and five generations, in
the manner stated above.
The famous and wonderful account of the porcupine men,
recorded \n several scientific works, whose skin piesrnted
bunches, and hairy substances growing out on them quite
analogous to the quills of porcupines, which are moved so as
to rustle against one another and rattle, when their owners
were excited, can be referred to by the curious or tlie scientific,
as in point. This peculiarity was traced, 1 thnik, in five
successive generations.
I know a lady who had a peculiar expression of the eye
when she laughed. Three of her sisters had the same ex-
pression ;
two of her children have it, at)d two of lier grand
children, and hence are often said to lavgh ont of their eijes.
This lady, and at least two of her sisters and one son. have
a spasmodic twitching or drawing of the eye, which is
doubtless owing to the same cause.
58 PHYSICAL QUALITIES HEREDITARY.
Short Ipjs. Twenty-four iiiigers and toes. Fleshy parents.
Rev. Mr. Colver, in conversing on the descent of family
marks, said that when attending some rehgious anniversary
in Vermont, he was invited home by a Mr. Taylor, whose
body was full sized and well proportioned, but whose legs
were only about a foot long. On accompanying him home,
he found two young ladies and a son, all well formed as to
body, and good looking as they were sitting in a chair, but
having feet and legs like their father's, so very short that
they made a most singular appearance about the house, being
only about four feet tail, yet the body full length, the de-
formity in the legs being like that of their father.
Thin-e is a family by the name of Hobart, living in Mid-
dlesex, Ontario Co., N. Y.. many of whom have five fingers
and a thumb on each hand, and si.\' toes on each foot. They
trace back their ancestors for several generations, till their
coming from England to this country, and in every genera-
tion, these four extra appendages appear, sometimes the extra
finger sticking straight out, at others, lying beautifully along
by the side of the rest. I think it descends mainly in the
name of the family, or on the side of the fathers, though
some of the female members of the family have it.*
Several scientific works mention similar cases, both of the
existence of the extra fingers and toes, and of their being
hereditary.
It would be easy to show that fieshy parents usually have
fat children, which, when grown, also become corpulent;
and that whole families are large and fleshy, while others
are lean. And what is still more remarkable, we sometimes
find some families, generation after generation, which are
small and slim till of a given age, and then within a short
time, flesh up and become really corpulent. I have known
this occur to parents and their children and grand children,
caused, beyond question, by liereditary influences.
* A school mate of niinc. wliile kindling a fire, having occasion to
throw down liie tongs near tlie ft-et of one of these six toed race, without
knowing the number of his toes, said to him—"Take care of your toes,
or I'll l»urn thein off." "Then you'll have quite a ^ob, for I've got six on
each foot," was the reply.
GREAT PHYSICAL STRENGTH HEREDITARY, 59
William H. Brown. The Douglass family.
A wide month, a double chin, thick or thin lips, a long or
a short chin, high and narrow cheek bones, large or small
hands and feet, will often be found to descend from parents
to children, and so down to many generations. The grand
daughter of Dr. Franklin, mentioned above, had the double
chin of Franklin. Asa Fowler, who is descended from an
ancestor noted for the great size of his hands and feet, though
small in stature, has this mark of his ancestor some five
generations back, in a striking degree.
The mother of William H. Brown, the profile cutter, men-
tioned on page 29S of "Phrenology Proved, Illustrated and
Applied," was in a room in which a cat had been shut up,
which they were trying to kill. Tlie animal became despe-
rate, and in one of its passes, struck its claw into her ear,
and tore a slit down through the lower portion of it. William
H. Brown has a similar mark, which he will at any time
allow any one to observe; and so has a son of his. I think
this occurred some three months before his birth. At all
events, he will tell the story to others as it lias been told to
him.
Any required number of similar facts, establishing the
descent of physical peculiarities, might be presented, but I
forbear, as doubtless every reader will be able to recur
to those which have transpired within tlieir own observation;
and if we dwell too long on the transmission of merely
physical peculiarities, we must abridge that portion of the
work relating to the transmission of mental and moral quali-
ties.
SECTION III,
GREAT PHYSICAL STRENGTH ilEREUITARY.
As physical strength depends somewhat upon the form and
size of the body, the fact that the latter are hereditary, im-
plies that the former is also hereditary. But we will not
rely on a merely hypothetical inference, to prove this propo-
sition, but will resort again Xo facts. Quotations from Scrip-
60 PHYSICAL QUALITIES HEREDITARY.
Liltle. A sirong woman.
ture already made, show that great pliysical strength de-
scended from father to son in the races of giants, along with
their gigantic stature. Scottish history, especially the his-
tory of the various clans, and more particularly that of the
DoKO'f'/'^ses, shows that for hundreds of years, this trihe has
been remarkable for physical strength. In war, some Doug-
lass performs some almost superhuman feat of strength ; and
in peace, a Douglass alwaj's excels in those games of wrest-
ling, throwing heavy weights, leaping, lifting, &.C., &c., com-
mon in that country ; and most of the Douglasses 1 have
seen in this country, are remarkable for the same quality.
It is related of Mr. Little, one of the first settlers of New-
buryport, that he carried one of the heavy coulter ploughs of
that day, two miles on his back, without stopping. So re-
markable was this exhibition of strength, that our ancestors
deemed it worthy of being handed down, so that it is told of
him to this day. If our ancestors, who were so much stronger
than their puny, feeble descendants of the present day, deem-
ed it remarkable, surely it must have been unparalleled in
our day.
In the old Revolutionary war, while the British soldiers
were quartered in Boston, rivalry existed between tliem and
the Americans, as to which could produce the strongest man
and the greatest wrestler. England sent forth her Goliah,
and the Americans selected one of the descendants of this
very plough-carrying Little, and he proved a David, beating
the English champion with ease in every attempt. Men
*
came from all parts to wrestle with him, because he became
so renowned for throwing all antagonists.
•
He also had a sister who was very strong. One day she
bantered a gentleman who called to wrestle with her brother,
telling him that she could throw him, but he would not ac-
cept her challenge. Leaving the room under pretence of
going to call her brother, she put on men's clothes, and com-
ing in another way, had a wrestle with him, and floored him
repeatedly, when catching him up by his clothes, she pitched
him out doors' Others of this family, both before and since,
hgive inherited the same tremendous power of muscle, besides
all being of great size.
GREAT PHYSICAL STRENGTH HEREDITARY. 61
Jonathan Fowler. An Irish bull}'.
Jonathan Fowler, of Covenlry, Conn.,=* an ancestor of the
author, was a man of extraordinary strength. He was a
modest, peaceable, religious man, and never would fight, yet
he would wrestle if pressed into it; and as to lifting or la-
boring, he had no equal. Men came hundreds of miles to
wrestle with him, (a practice then very common, and re-
garded as a trial of that physical strength v.'hich our fore-
I'athcrs cultivated and prized so highly,) but he never found
the man who could lay him down: while he put all on their
backs who engaged with hini.
An Irish bully, who thought he could whip any thing that
came along, hearing that he was " the Napoleon " of wrest-
lers, travelled from Boston to Connecticut on purpose to fight
him. His rap at the door was answered by Fowler's sister,
who informed him that her brother never fought, though he
sometimes wrestled. This disappointed him, but he still
determined to provoke Fowler to a fight. At length the sister
pointed out her broiher as coming down the road. The
Irishman met him, and challenged him to fight. Fowler
declined, telling him he would wrestle, but that it was against
his principles to fight. The Irishman told him he had coine
all this distance to have O-fg/if, and a fight he would have,
calling him a coward, c^c. in order to provoke him. Fowler
still declining, the Irishman told him he would moke him
fight, in self-defence if in no other way, and then wrung his
nose. Fowler was perfectly cool, and bore all patiently, but
the bully waxed hotter and hotter, till finally taking off his
coat, he made at Fowler, determined to knock him down.
As he came up, Fowler caught him by the shoulder, and be-
ing longer-limbed than the Irisliman, he held him with one
hand as if in a vice, just far enough off to prevent his doing
any damage, while he snapped him in the face with his
thumb and finger till the bully cried enough, when Fowler
let go, telling him to go back to Boston and tell his friends,
not that Fowler irh'ippcd him, but that he S7iaj)ped hira.
• In Burlier's Statistics of Connecticut, under the head Guilford, the
rmder will find ttie nniiie of John Fowler on the list of the foumlers of
the town, about 164.5. This Jonathan Fowler was douhtltss his descend
ant. Guilford was also the native place of the autlior's father.
6
62 PHYSICAL QUALITIES HERKOrTARY.
Fciwlcr's wrestling ahilities. llosfumg a comrade.
Another man came to wrestle, and just as they were about
to commence, Fowler says, " come, let us take something to
drink first," and going down cellar, knocked out the bung of
an untapped cider barrel, and catching hold of each end with
one hand, lilted it to his mouth and drank from it, and set il;
down again, as one would drink from a gallon keg, without
once touching it except with his hands and mouth, telling
the other to help himself. His opponent seeing tliis, gave up
beat, and retired.
In the old French war, some of the American soldiers had
violated some English marshal law, of wliich they were ig-
norant, and had been sentenced to rim the gauntlet. I'his
greatly incensed the Americans, who regarded their country-
men as innocent. Fowler and another of fearless spirit and
powerful muscle, determined on rescuing tliem ;
and as all
hands had been mustered and a great crov/d had assembled
to witness the chastisement, all crowding up eager to see the
spectacle, these two sons of Hercules rushed into the dense
crowd, at two ditferent points, and pushing aside those that
stood in their way, each caught up ins man under one arm,
and with the other, parted the crowd, till they got them out
of it and liberated them. The strength put forth in parting
the crowd, is described as wonderful.
But this is not all. The following hear story is told of him,
and so told, and backed up by such vouchers, that not a
doubt of its truth need be entertained. The painting of him
mentioned in the following extract, and the identical hear-
skin, and that a very lar^e one, with the original pine knot,
have been recently seen in the royal gallery in Great Britain
by a friend of one branch of the Fowler family, and can
doubtless now be seen by any one who will take the (rouble
to inquire it out. The painting represents Fowler as grasp-
ing the bear with one arm and carrying it on his liip^ as he
actually did carry it into the village, and is headed, " Jona-
than Fowler, the Giant of America." Unless a most ex-
traordinary feat of strength and valor had been performed, it
would never have reached the ears of the king of England, nor
if it had, would it have been deemed worthy of a historical
painting. The existence of the painting and of the skin of
^REAT PHYSICAL STRENGTH UKREDITARY. 63
All iiiioresliiig dear slory.
the bear and pine knot, and the fact that this identical story,
without any material variation, is in the mouth of every old
man in New England and in most parts of the West, (for I
never tell this story in my lecture on hereditary descent with-
out hearing of somebody who has heard it.) and told too, of
Jonathan Fowler, of Conn., may be relied upon as unques-
tionable vouchers of its truth. But to the story, which is
copied from the Vermont Republican of Sept. 29th, 1S17,
originally taken from the Hartford Times.
'•
The history of Ccn. Putnam and the wolf are too well
known to need any elucidation. The writer of his life, Da-
vid Humphreys, has fully delineated the heroism and cour-
age of that veteran, and the many bold and daring enter-
prizes which characterized it, in war and peace. About the
same time, as bold and daring an attempt to destroy another
savage monster of the forest was undertaken and accom.plish-
ed by Mr. Jonathan Fowler, of Coventry. As this uncom-
mon act of bravery has never appeared in print, I will give
a short narrative of the affair, so that the youthful part of
the community may see what feats of valor their forefathers
were capable of performing. Mr. Fowler, being on a visit to
East Windsor, between seventy and eighty years ago, and
walking out one day Avith several of his friends, they were
suddenly surprised by a huge bear, who rushed upon them
from his place of concealment. His associates, like a band
of choice modern Pcttipaug spirits, fled without trying to
make the least opposition. The bear came up to Mr. Fow-
ler, who, although a man of great bodily vigor, yet rather
inclined to corpulency'', did not happen to be quite so nimble
footed as his brave friends were. Finding that he should
soon be overtaken, and determining not to be attacked in the
rear, very resolutely faced about just as the bear rose on his
hind legs, to give the sweet Indian hug.
" He, at this instant, with that degree of courage which
was ever a prevailing characteristic of our forefathers, seized
the bear by the throat with one hand, and held him oft. In
the scuffle which ensued, the bear had partly got hira down,
while he begged his friends to get a club and kill the bear,
but, like fixed statues, they remained insensible to his cu-
I
64 PHySICAL QUALITIES HEREDITARY.
His painiiiig. .Seymour Fowler anil llie e.iglo
treaties. At this time the old proverb, " fortune favors the
brave," was completely verified, for, happening to cast his
eyes around, lie espied a pine iaiol on the ground near him,
which, with one hand he reached and took, while llie other
was fast hold of the bear's throat, and with it very deliberate-
ly beat out his brains. His brave companions, after lieing
fully satisfied that the dead bear would not hurt them, ven-
tured to come to tlie spot.
" His Majesty, the king of England, was so higlily pleased
with one of his subjects perlorming so great a feat of valor,
that he ordered liim to be drawn in tlie act of killing the
bear in one of the rooms of his palace, where he remains to
this day.—He was nearly seven feel high, and weighed
about three hundred pounds. Though very large, he was
not fat, most of his flesh being muscle.
" The following anecdote of his great grand son, Seymour
Fowler, of Coventry, will show that the courage of Jonathan
Fowler has, in a great degree, descended imimpaired to one
of his posterity. Seymour Fowler, the young man above
alluded to, about twenty years of age, being in Jidy last in
the State of Ohio, he, in company with several others, Avent
to Lake Erie, for the purpose of bathing ;
and on arriving at
the water's edge, they perceived something of tlie feathered
kind about fifty rods from the shore, upon the surface of the
water. As none of the company could swim except Fowler,
they very prudently advised him not to go out to it; but he
being determined to see what it Avas, stripped off his clothes
and swam within about a rod of it. and finding it to be a
monstrous great eagle, thought of trying to regain the shore,
without further molesting his kingly majesty.
" He accordingly swam for the shore with all speed, but
the eagle, in his turn, pursued his unwelcome intruder.
—
Finding he sliould soon be overtaken, and determining, as
his predecessor had done before him, not to be attacked in the
rear, he resolutely faced about. The eagle finding he had got
as high mettled stuff as his own to deal with, turned over on
his back in a fighting posture, with his talons spread and
erect, the bigness of a man's hand. Fortunately for Fowler,
he- happened to take a walking stick in his hand at the time
GREAT PHYSICAL STRKNGTH HEREDITARY. 65
The Fowlers generally strong.
of his going into the water, and probably it was the means
of saving his Hfe. After being in the water for nearly an
hour in close combat with the eagle, and finding his strength
pretty nigh exhausted, and that he struck at him in vain, he
determined to make one more desperate attempt at the eagle's
life, or perish in the attempt. He accordingly rose out of the
water as far as he could, and just as the eagle was drawing
himself up in order to fix his talons into his body, he aimed
a deadly blow at his head. He was so fortunate as to liit
him on the head and stun him, so that taking hold of one of
his wings, he with great difliculty drew him on shore, amidst
the shouts and acclamations of his companions. The extent
of this monster of the feathered race, from one wing to the
other, was eight feet and six and a half inches ; and some of
the quills, which are now in Coventry, measure nearly one
inch in circumference."'
This bear story is a freemason's 'mark by which all the
descendants of this Jonathan Fowler, in whatever part of the
country they are to be found, recognize each other; any one
of them v.'ho can tell this bear story of one of their ances-
tors, being regarded as genuine ;
others, not.
Tiie eagle story I never heard till I saw it a few days ago
in the connection quoted above ; but Seymour Fowler's
swinmiing out into the lake a mile, and then remaining so
long in the water, shows that he was the worthy descendant
of the •'
giant of America.'' And I have heard of Fowlers in
all parts of the country, in Vermont, in xsew Hampshire, near
Ogdensburg, N. Y., and scattered throughout the state, in
Massachusetts, in Maine, in the far west, and in Canada,
particularly near Brantford, U. C, and also in Bradford
county. Pa., who descended from this stock, and almost to a
man, are strong bodied, hard working, stout built men. Eli-
plialet Fowler, my grand father's brother, was a tory, (the
only Fowler tory 1 ever heard of, for they are generally great
lovers of popular liberly,) and of course was banished to
Canada. I visited his descendants in 1S40, and found that
the old man was reputed, in his day, the strongest man of
those parts, whether for lifting or for wrestling, or for hard
6*
66 PHYSICAL QUALITIES HEREDTTARY.
The author's experience.
work. The same quality of strength also appertains to his
sons, and to his grand so?is. My lather's family was brought
up in Pompey, Onondaga, county, N. Y. ;
and some of the
old settlers, who knew and had worked with my uncle Levi
FoM'ler. remarked of him that he was acknowledged to pile
more logs, and clear off more fallow, in a given time, than
any other man in Pompey. My father has been a very
strong, or at least a remarkably tongh man ; and the san^e is
true of my cousins Curtis, in Owego, N. Y. I saw a mem-
ber of the Fowler family in Bradford county, Pa., who in-
forn)ed me that the same quality of pliysical strength also
characterized that branch of this family.
Though I inherited a consumptive tendency from my
mother, and have been an invalid since fifteen, yet I am
able to perform an amount of mental labor and of speaking
which would kill any but a descendant of " the giant." I
have lectured to crowded houses, in close rooms, every even-
ing in the week, Sabbath evening (on temperance) included,
and 1 seldom lecture much less than two hours, and usually
longer, and in a highly energetic manner, and examine Iieads
all day, from the time I rise in the morning till lecture time,
and often after lectures till midnight, and have followed it
for ten years, and am now more vigorous than when I began.
When I am not talking incessantly, (and I always spealL
loud.) I am writing characters or composing my works, most
of which have been written after the exhau-sting labors of the
day and evening just enumerated. And even now, wliile
writing this paragraph, the clock has struck three in the
niorning. For four months, I have rarely reti;cd till after
twelve, and frequently written till daylight. All tell Uie I
am killing ray self, but I feel no signs of it, and I see none
except gray looks. I am probably just beginning my labors.
Nor do I know scarcely one of the true breed, who have not
an astonishing amount of wear and tear in them.
If any apology be required for the above allusions to my-
self and ancestors, it is, that they come fully authenticated,
are in point, and are none the less facts or worthy of record,
because I and mine are the subject of them.
OREAT PHYSICAL STRENGTH HEREDITARY. 67
The Bi'Igian gianl. Feeble parenis have weakly chiUlreii.
Mons. J. A. J. Bihin, who was exhibited a few years ago
in tliis country, measures nearly seven feet and a half in
height; four feet and two inches around the chest; twenty-
eight inches around the thigh, and twenty-two inches around
the calf of the leg; being, throughout, symmetrically formed.
His weight is three hundred and twenty pounds.
M. Bihin was born at Spa, in Belgium, Dec. 10, 1807. His
heiglu, at birth, he says, was twenty-tive inches, and his
weight twenty-six pounds. At twelve years of age his height
was five feet ten inches, and at fourteen it was over six feet.
He says he can lift from the ground, with his hands, eight
hundred pounds, and straighten his back, when stooping,
under a weight of two tons. His parents were both stout
built, but short; but his o-ran</ -/a/.'/e/-, on liis father's side,
was a very large man. nearly his size, and so was his great
grand father, and both very stout. This the author learned
from his own mouth.
1 have met with similar facts touching the descent of
physical strength in all portions of the country; but enough
on this point. Let us reverse the tables, and remark that
physical weakness and debility, as well as muscular strength,
are hereditary, as is evident from the fact that the children of
most feeble parents are feeble, and die young. Reader, hast
thou never seen a sickly, delicate mother have children too
weak to be borne, or so feeble that every possible care must
be taken to keep soul and body together, lest the least ad-
verse wind should blow them asunder ? Indeed, how rarely
do healthy parents have sickly children, unless rendered
sickly after birth ; and how rarely do feeble parents rear
their children ? And when they do, it is because one or both
the parents were originally strong constitutioned, and re-
tained and propagated tliat primitive stamp in spite of their
disease. That law which governs the vegetable kingdom,
namely, that th.e seed must be gathered from the largest and
finest of the crop; that the sprouts of a nurly tree are them-
selves nurly, and of thrifty ones, thrifty ; that principle in
the descent of animaJs which Jacob employed in putting his
pealed rods before the largest and fattest of the caUle only,
63 PHYSICAL QUALITIES UKUEDITARY.
'J'he IJicvoorl hiinily. Cases of longevity.
(see Gen. xxx. 37—13.) also appertains to man. Healthy
parents impart health to their children, hut sickly parents
liave sickly, puny, pale, whining children, that die young.
But the proposed limits of our work forbid our dwelling
longer on this point.
SECTION IV.
LENGTH OF LIFE HEREDITAFtY.
'•
And Jacob said unto Pharaoh. The days of the years of my pilgrimage arc an hun-
drrd and thirty years ; few and evil have the days of the years of my life been, and
liii ve not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers, in the days ol their
jiili^riniagLi."—Gen. xlvii. 9.
That some families are long-lived, and others short-lived,
'•in all their generations," is a fact so notorious, so obvious
to all who will take the trouble to make observations, that it
is in fact forced home upon the cognizance of all, so that it
requires little proof, and little illustration, but merely to have
attention called to this subject. The papers recently recorded
the death of Henry Brevoort, of the Bowery, New York, at
the advanced age of one hundred and four years. Most of
the Brevoort family have lived to be very old, both before
him aiid since. One of the descendants of a brother. Com.
Brevoort, who fought under Perry on Lake Erie, is now liv-
ing in Detroit, Mich., and is an old man. His father lived
to be old ; so did his father's brother, and indeed most of the
family.
Alcott's Teacher of Health for 1843, page 315, in an article
on temperance as a means of preserving life, gives the follow-
ing valuable facts touching the descent of longevity :
—" A
woman was living, quite recently, at Glasgow, Scotland,
130 years of age. For a century she had not felt pain. Her
father died at the age of 120, and her grand father at 129
years of age. A woman died in the west of England, a few
years ago, at the age of 110, leaving 450 descendants. Tair-
ville, in Shetland, a water drinker, lived to the age of 108.
LENGTH OF LIFE HEREDITARY. 69
Old Parr aiifl his rfescfpHanis. McDonnld. The opium t.iker
His son lived longer than he, and his grand children lived to
a great age."
The following is cut from a newspaper, and is inserted
wjtl'out the author's endorsement, for he has not examined
the antlienticity-of the facts stated, though they are doubtless
so :
—••
The celebrated Thomas Parr was born in the reign
of Henry the Fourth, and was taken to London by Lord
Arundel, in 1635, and introduced to Charles the Second ;
but
the change of situation and his altered mode of life, particu-
larly drinking wine, soon proved fatal to a constitution ac-
customed to more abstemious habits, and he died the same
year, at the age of 152. One of Old Parr's sons died at the
age of 109. A grand son died aged 113; and Robert Parr, a
great grand son. died Sept. 21, 1757, aged 124. A peculiar
trait in the character of these four generations of Parrs, was
their temperate habits."
On page 117 of Dr. Alcott's Library of Health for 1S40,
we find the following:—"We were personally acquainted
with the late Donald McDonald, of quarrelsome memoryj
who was sent to the House of Correction for a street brawl,
when about 105 years old. At the age of 108 he enjoyed
excellent health, notwithstanding an inmioderate use of to-
"bacco, and a proneness to get absolutely drunk whenever he
had an opportunity. The father of Donald lived to be 137,
in Scotland ;
and no one knows when he would have died,
had he not been accidentally killed."
The next page of the same work contains the following:
—
"A former neighbor of ours died at the age of 80, who had
taken opium, not moderately, but immoderately, at least forty
years. The father of the opium taker lived to the age of 97.
When he died, he had been the progenitor of 19 children,
105 grand children, 155 great grand children, and four of the
fifth generation. Many of his children reached the age of
80 or 90. They evidently pos.sessed very strong constitutions,
the opium taker among the rest."
Statements like the above, occur very frequently in news-
papers, and are confirmed by every day observations. Length
of life appertains to the great majority of the Woodbury
TO PHYSICAL QUALITIES HEREDITARY.
l.pisgih ..f life lii'reOiiary. Btiolh. K.indall.
family, to which alhision has already been made. It also
appertains lo the V/obstor family ;
the iifth ancestor of Daniel
Webster liaviiig taken a wife after he was ninety. Franklin
lived to a conyiderable age ;
and so do the Folgers and the
Tappans already mentioned. Most of tho Fowler family
alluded to in the ])receding section, are long-lived. Indeed,
physical strength and long life usually accompany each other.
So abundant are facts of this kind, that it is liardly necessary
to particularize. lu my phrenological examinations, I usually
attempt to ))redict the age of the grand parent after whom
the person examined takes, and usually come within five
years of it. I even venture to make these predictions in my
pubhc lectures; and those who have listened to my exami-
nations in New York, in Boston, and elsewhere, will bear me
witness that I predict the age of nearly every one who comes
forward, and seldom err more than five years. A statistical
record of these cases would be well worth reading, and would
present this point in its true light. I will insert a few as
samples.
At my lecture in Boston on Hereditary Descent, Oct. 5,
1S43, I requested a gentleman to come forv\^ard, and remark-
ed that his grand father, on his father's side, lived to be at
least ninety-five, and asked him what the fact was. He
replied, above a hundred. The reader will see that I not
only predicted {he fact that his ancestors were long-lived, but
I told iriuch ancestor. I saw that he resembled his father^
xmd therefore inferred that his powerful vital apparatus came
through him.
Of another then on the stage, I remarked that his father
probably lived to be eighly-five. The answer was, eighty-
two, and then died of gout, which afflicted him about sixty
years.
To Mr. Booth, of Portsmouth, I remarked that his grand
parents on one side lived to be from eight^'^-five to niiiety
years old. He said that some of them exceeded ninety, and
all except those now alive, had reached eighty.
To W. i>. Kendall, of Boston, in answer to his question
how long h.is grand parents lived, 1 said, they were second
LENGTH OF LIFE HF.KRDITART, 71
Florlon. A ilay's practice Gcnoriil prariice.
Methuselahs. He made answ-er tliat his grand father Ken-
dall lived to be one hundred and one.
I said to Mr. Horton, merchant in Milk street, Boston,
whose firm does the largest business but one in the city, your
ancestors lived to be nearly one hundred. One of them lived
to be ninety-two. The two last occurred on the evening of
Saturday, Oct. 7th. On the 6th, I told a gentleman that his
grand parents on one side, (and I told wlsich.) lived to be
ninety-five or over. He said the grand parent I specified,
lived to be one hundred and two. Of another gentleman's
grand parents 1 said, one of them lived to be ninety-five. One
of them did live to be ninety-two. Of tliose of another be-
longing to the same party, 1 predicted ninety : above eighty-
seven was the answer. Of anotlier of \he parly 1 said, your
mother was consumptive, and is probably dead. She died
of consumption at about the age of forty. If the son reaches
that age, he will exceed my prediction as to his age.
All these cases occurred within three days ;
nor are these
by any means all, but they are selected as samples merely of
what is continually occurring in the author's phrenological
practice. Many think it presumption to pretend even to tell
whether the parentage of persons were long-lived or short-
lived, and think it consummate folly to pretend to tell the
number oi years that parents or grand parents lived, but tlie
fact surprises myself that I scarcely ever vary ten ^"ears, and
usually come within five. True, I have one disadvantage,
namely, the habits of these ancestors' might have hastened or
lengthened their lives ; but then again, those habits that
shortened their lives, weakened the constitutions of their de-
scendants, and lessened those signs or indices of long life on
which I predicated these results.
By the same indications of vitality from which I infer the
age of grand parents, I infer also that of the person himself.
Both the general amount of vital stamina in a person can be
ascertained, and about the rate at which he is using it, and
the two together will furnish data for a pretty correct pro-
phecy as to about the age which the person examined will
reach. If he have a great supply of animal life, and labor
72 PHYSICAL QUALITIES HEREDITARY.
Do nol trifle wiih healih. Parents niid children.
about hard enough to work it up, but not so hard as to ex-
haust liimself, lie is hliely to live long. If he be indolent
and luxurious, or if he over-tax himself, he will die the
sooner. True, we can predict neither the day nor the hour
when the person examined will die, for if he should tie a
stone around his neck and throw himself into the sea, or if
he swallow poison, or shoot a bullet through his heart, or
chew tobacco, or is a drunkard, or has formed habits preju-
dicial to health, he will not be likely to live as long as his
ancestors lived, and may die young, though they lived to be
old. Let no one presume to violate the laws of life and
health, because his ancestors were long-lived, and think his
chance for life therefore g(5od ;
but let him rather cherish the
gift, and hand down to posterity constitutions quite as strong
as that he received from his predecessors.* Besides, our race
is rapidly degencrcd'uig, both as to long life and strength, and
also in })ower of intellect.
The converse of this principle, that length of life is heredi-
tary, is also true. The children of those who die young,
seldom live to be aged, except where a grand parent lived to
be aged, or a parent's death was caused or hastened by cli-
mate, or at least hastened by accident, or bad habits, or ex-
posure, or carelessness, or some violation of the laws of life.
Hence it is that feeble families are apt to run out, and that
those having the greatest amount of vital stamina, become
proportionally the more numerous—a wise arrangement
surely, and one that must soon sweep many of the families
of the present day into dark oblivion.
Life insurance offices always inquire about the ages of
parents and grand parents, and charge less the longer their
life; but as this doctrine is closely allied to that of the last
section, as well as to the one that follows, and so easy to be
observed, let us pass to the inquiry whether diseases are or
ai-c not hereditary.
• " For in jiulpiiig (.-idvi-infr) .Tiiotlier, tlioii coiidemncst also thyself."
" But llie servant tliat kiioweth his ni.nstei's will (the laws of life) and
doeth it not, the same shall be beaten with manxj stripes."
CONSUMPTION HEREDITARY. 73
'I In* children of'consuinplive parents inlieril ihe disease. Two cases.
CHAPTER IV.
DISEASES HEREDITARY.
SECTION I.
*
CONSUMPTION HEREDITARY.
Having shown that length of hfe, or the period at which
death naturally occurs, is hereditary, that is, that the children
of long-lived ancestors, other things being the same, will live
proportionally longer than tiiose born of short-lived parents
and grand parents, and that other physical peculiarities de-
scend from parents to children, let us proceed to investigate
the influence of diseases in parents upon the life and health
of their offspring. And in prosecuting this subject, it should
first be remarked that consv'mpilon is hereditary. The evi-
dence of this proposition is within the observation of every
one vrho will open his eyes upon ihe facts which every where
abound in proof and illustration of it. To present isolated
facts showing that the children of consumptive parents and
grand parents arc more likely to be consumptive than the
offspring of healthy parents, seems to be almost a work of
supererogation, because the fact is so almost universal that
few exceptions occur, and the difficulty is to select from the
vast number of melancholy evidences of its truth. Where
parents are consumptive, it is rarely that the children and
grand children are not so ; and when they are not, these few
exceptions are to be accounted for on the principle, that those
v;ho are not consumptive, take after a parent or grand parent
who was not afflicted with this scourge of humanity.
It may perhaps be in place to cite a few cases as illustra-
tions merely of this great law of propagation. A gentleman
in Beverly, Mass., buried a v/ife and ten children, all of
whom fell victims to this fell destroyer. The mother of Mrs.
H. died of consumption at about twenty-five; Mrs. H. died
at about twenty-three, and left a daughter who has small
lungs, great mental activity and nervous excitability, and a
scrofulous affection, which is now generally regarded as one
74 DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Facts in llie auilior's practice. The author's own case.
form of coiiGumption, and identical MMtli it. Not a day occurs
in which, in my professional examinations, I do not say of
some apphcant, "your family is consumptive," and I gener-
ally tell on which side the consumptive tendency occurs.
Two examples of this kind have occurred this very day. I
said to a gentleman, " Some of your relatives on your fath-
er's side, if not your own father, have died of consumption."
He remarked that his father had buried every one of his
brothers and sisters of that disease. Of a lad examined, 1
said, turning to his motiicr, " you or your family are con-
sumptive, and your boy will not live to be twenty, unless
you turn over a new leaf with him." The remark drew
tears into the mother's eyes; and admitting that her family
were consumptive, she eagerly inquired how it could be pre-
vented. 1 gave her the advice that will be foimd in the next
section —advice which, if taken in season, 1 give as a pana-
cea to every one at all consumptive. Within six months, I
have probably made a similar prediction in regard to one
thousand persons, and have yet to commit the first error on
this point. Sometimes, at first, I am considered wrong, but
a little reflection always recalls some near blood relation who
is in a consumption, or has died of it.
Tlie mother of the author died of this disease, at the age
of thirty-six; but lier otherwise strong constitution withstood
its action for seven years after it was seated. Some ten years
ago, a daughter of my mother's brother died of this disease,
and within a year it has carried a beloved atmt to her "long
home." At the age of fifteen, the author was attacked with
an affection of the lungs, which brought him very low, and
resisted the treatment of medicine, but yielded to that of diet,
(sweetened buttermilk mainly, and a syrup recommended by
a neighborhood doctress.) Three years afterwards it was
brought on by attending evening singing schools wliile af-
flicted with a severe cold ; and returned again while 1 was
in college, so as to comptl me to fall back a year. And when
J. commenced practising phrenology, my lungs were so tender
mat I could not endure to be in a room warmed by coal,
because the gas irritated my lungs so much. My voice was.
alsid too feeble to be heard by a large audience. It should be
CONSUMPTION HEREDITARY. 75
Actual disease hereditary. Former error on this subject.
added, tliat 1 take after my mother, probably more than after
my father; and the rule will be found general, that if a child
looks like, or takes his general form of body, face, and head,
from a parent who is consumptive, or whose kindred are
subject to this disease, this child also will be subject to it.
But if he resemble, in looks and character, an'other parent
who is long-lived, he also may expect to be long-lived, yet
should remember that his childreji are again liable to con-
sumption. Hence, if any reader finds that he or she takes
after a parent or a family members of which occasionally
drop off by this disease, let them beware, and sedulously
employ the advice given in the section following.
Until recently, the doctrine has obtained, that the child
derives no actual disease from the parent, only a tendency or
predisposition towards it—that, for example, parents who had
diseased lungs, did not actually transmit diseased lungs to
their offspring, "but only lungs that were small and feeble,
without any actual disease seated on them. But recent dis-
coveries, especially those made by Louis, a French physi-
cian of celebrity, go far to prove that actual disease is trans-
mitted. He claims to have found tubercles in the hmgs of
infants at birth. If this be the fact, not only is the principle
of the transmission of consumption demonstrated^ but the
general theory will also be established, that the same is true
of the gout, apoplexy, insanity, &c. (fcc, and also that both
virtuous and vicious inclinations are transmitted—a theory
of which this is by no means the only proof. As before re-
marked, the miywtia with which the qualities, and cdl the
qualities of the parents are found stamped on their offspring,
is certainly most extraordinary, every quality of hoth being
reflected in this mirror of nature. If small lungs and large
lungs, irritable lungs and strong lungs, weak and strong, and
large and small muscles, large and small bones, &c., &;c,, are
transmitted, it is perfectly analogous to suppose that even a
state oi disease is transmitted. If, as already seen, and as is
completely established by facts, the various conditions of pa-
rents are transmitted to their children, what reason can there
be why actual disease may not also be transmitted?
DISEASES HEREDITARY.
I'roof derived from ihe venereal disease. A caso.
But there is another class of proofs of this important point.
The venereal disease, the penalty of licentiousness, is cer-
tainly hereditary—not a susceptibility merely, nor di predispo-
sition, but the very disease itself, in its distivciive form, and
in all its virulence of character. Not unfreqncntly are the
children of licentious parents often actually rotten with this
terrible disease at birth,* and the most pitiable and loathe-
some objects imaginable, and before it is possible for them to
be afflicted with it by any means other than by hereditary
influences. Sometimes they lose the use of some of their
limbs for life, or are afflicted Avith abrscesses. or have their
joints all drawn out of shape, from this cause. I know a
young man, the son of a virtuous father and mother, but of a
mother who had received the disease from a previous hus-
band notoriously licentious, \vhose hip joints were drawn out
of shape most horribly, and who had several other unequivo-
cal marks of the disease, which he \y\\\ carry to his grave.
The mother's health was improved thereby, and her blood
cleansed from the poisonous virus.
It is hardly necessary to detail cases of this character, for
they are too numerous and too striking to require it, but it is
necessary to warn erring, passionate youth, that these viola-
tions of the law of chastity and morality, are certain not only
to corrupt their own blood and taint their own constitutions
with this painful and loathesome disease; but also thereby to
be "visited upon their children, and children's children, unto
the thirdand fourth generations." Nor can they escape; for
just as far as the parent is atfected by it, (and how can there
* "A case lately occurred in England, as we learn from the London
Lancet, in which the contraction of syphilis, immediately after mjirriage,
or tlie cure of the disease by nieroury, or botii, was *' visited " upon sev-
eral successive childn-n. Thoiiirli born small, they appeared healthy tili
tive or six weeks after birth, when they all became affected with a dis-
order resembling lej)rosy, of whicii they died. It shoiii*! be observed^
moreover, that the niotlier not only recovered of her di.^rase, but remained
veil for some time before the birth of her first child.—How liule aro
people aware of the evil consecpiences of transgression, not only after,
but before marriage! There is a day comin{r which will tell a tale on
this subject, calculated to make the world, even some of the best portion*
of it, tremble."—Teac/itr of Health.
CONSUMPTION HEREDITARY. 77
Consuinplive persons sliould not become parents.
be indulgence wiihout injury,) just so far will the posterity,
perhaps for many generations to come, also be afTectcd. As
important a law as that of moral purity, cannot be violated
witliout incurring proportionate penalty, inflicted not on the
otTender alone, but on all that proceed from his loins. And
there is probably no vice more prolific of scrofula and con-
sumption, (both one and the same disease.) than this viola-
tion of the law of moral purity. Let the young beware !
But to return. As this disease is certainly hereditary, and
often inflicts scrofula and consumption upon the progeny of
the ofiender, the inference that consumption is also heredi-
tary—that, in common with the disease just named, actiial
consumption is transmitted—not a tendency, not a predispo-
sition to it merely—is at least founded in analogy. Those
therefore who are consumptive, especially if the predisposi-
tion is any way marked, should not marry, or marrying,
should not become parents, lest their children be ushered into
existence merely to bloom and to be cut off" just as they begin
to enjoy life, and lest your own hearts be rent asunder
by the bitterest of pangs—the pangs of disappointed parental
love. Or perhaps they may live to become young m.en and
women, and to form connubial attachments only to be blight-
ed, and thus to break the heart of an innocent victim of your
own folly. Or \i yowx oicn children are not thus unfortunate,
your grand children, (unless means are taken to prevent it,)
will be almost certain to be torn from the pleasures of life,
just as they are beginning fairly to enter upon them, and to
break the hearts of parents and those who have become en-
deared to them. This matter can be calculated beforehand,
and the amount of the consumptive liability determined, with
certainty ; and if that liability be considerable, parents should
abstain, not from the pleasures of becoming parents, but from
the pains. Parents should consult their own highest happi-
ness in this matter, and that is, if a part or all of their chil-
dren are likely to die, not to become parents, not to commit
infanticide, not to entail a blighting curse on those they will
love so dearly ; for in seeking their own highest good, they
thereby seek that of their offspring; because those conditions
7*
78 DISEASES HEREDtTARY.
Coiisuinpiive lamilies lalealed. Cou>iiin|)iioii may he coiitraciecl.
that make either happy or miserable, make the other propor-
tionally so.
It should, however, be added, that if the probabilities are
iii favor of healthy oftspring, then they are at liberty, n'ay,
con)inandcd, to "multiply and replenish the earth.'' And
these probabilities are greatly increased where the consump-
tive parent is rising above the tendency, rather tiian sinking
beneath it. If the tendency be very considerable, yet if by
following the advice soon to be given, or by any other means,
the parent be actually obviating- this tendency, the danger is
far less than if he be equally aliliclcd with it, and becoming
still more so by the disease growing upon him.
If the parent have that tendency, yet not so much but that,
with proper care on his part and on that of the children, the
tendency may be arrested, the children will be even the
gainers; for, all the consumptive families I have ever seen,
have been unusually talented. Indeed, it is the predominance
of the brain and nervous temperament over the vital, which
constitutes the consumptive tendency. Now if the vital ap-
paratus can be so cultivated as not to allow the mental to
break it down, this extra development of the mental appa-
ratus will only augment the talents.
It should be added, that consumption may be contracted
in a parent not constitutionally predisposed to it; and then
be transmitted, so that r.is cliildren v/ill be predisposed to it.
But this is far more favorable to the child than if it has de-
scended for several generations. It may be contracted in one
generation, (this is my own case, it being traced back no
farther than my mother and her sisters.) and either arrested
ia the next, so that the race may be restored, or it may be
augmented in the second, and handed dov.ai thus increased
to the next generation, and so on. And every parent is
boiuid to do v.'hat he can to arrest its progress, and lessen
tiie evil in those that come after him. By pursuing this'
course, it. might soon be banished from any family, however
predisposed. Those who cannot both withstand the tendency
themselves, and impart to their children sufficient vital stamr-
laa to lessen the tendency in them, or at least to arrest its
farther progress, should not become parents.
CONSUMPTION IIEREDlTiRY.
Extracl from Sir James Clark.
After writing the above, in conversing with Dr. Allen, of
Lowell, on this point, he called my attention to the following
remarks on this subject by Sir James Clark, physician to
the Queen of England and her mother—as high medical
authority as can be quoted. It is inserted not so much be-
cause the fact that consumption is hereditary requires proof,
but because it contains many valuable suggestions in regard
to the transmission of this disease, which, besides being val-
uable in themselves, harmonize with suggestions made in the
preceding pages,
» THE CAUSES OF TUBERCULOUS CACHEXIA.
'^Hereditary Origin.—That pulmonary consumption is an
hereditary disease—in other words, tliat tiie tuberculous con-
stitution is transmitted from parent to child, is a fact not to be
controverted ; indeed, I regard it as one of the best established
points in the etiology of the disease. A parent laboring under
tuberculous cachexia, entails on his olfspring a disposition
to the same atiection, proportioned in general to the degree
of disease under which he labors. Examples of this fact are
constantly met with in families of consumptive parents,
where we find the tuberculous constitution much more
strongly marked in general in the younger, than in the elder
children. AVe even occasionally meet with families in which
the elder children are healthy, and the y<Hmger are the sub-
jt'cts of tuberculous disease ;
the health of the parents having
been deteriorated during the increase of their family. There
are, no doubt, exceptions to this observation, depending on
circumstances beyond onr cognizance, but frequently admit-
ting of explanation in the state of the parent's health.
" It has been questioned whether the child is more disposed
to the diseases of the fadicr or to those of the mother : and I
believe the majority of authors agree in favor of the former.
Professor IS'asse, of Bonn, however, in his excellent essay on
tuberculous disease, is of opinion that the hereditary disposi-
tion is more frequently derived from the mother. The point
is very difficult of decision. There can Le no doubi thai the
child may inherit the constitution of either or both parents
;
on some occasions we see that of the father, in others, that
of the mother predominating in different children of ;he same
family. It has also been remarked, and the observation ap
pears to be correct, that the more a child resembles the parent
in external lineaments, the more certainly will a disposition
to the diseases of that parent prevail.
so DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Tulierculous discnse in offspiiiig may be produced by various causes.
" But a Stale of tuberculous cachexia is not the only morbid
condition of the parent which entails the tuberculous predis-
])osition on the children; there are several diseases which
Lave this eilbct, the most important of whicii are a disordered
state of the digestive organs, gout, cutaneous diseases, the
injurious influence of mercury on the system, debility from
disease, age, &c, ;
—in short, a deteriorated state of health in
the parent from any cause, to a degree sufficient to produce
a state of cachexia, may give rise to the scrofulous constitu-
tion in the ofispring,
•'
However various may be the causes of the cachectic state
of the parents, its effect is almost constantly manifeste4 in
the children, by their evincing a predisposition to tubercu-
lous disease. This is a very important circumstance in the
history of consumption, and is highly deserving attentive
consideration. In ascribing tuberculous disease in the off-
spring to an unhealthy state of the parent, I may appear
disposed to generalize too much ; but iriy opinion is nqt
grounded upon superficial observation, or formed without
mature reflection ; and I am persuaded that when the subject
is carefully investigated by others, my views will be found
correct. We have frequent opportunities of noticing a strong
disposition to scrofula in the children of those who enjoy
what is usually termed good health, and in whose families
no scrofulous taint can be traced ; M'hereas, according to my
observation, we never see the parents in an unhealthy state,
whatever may be its nature, without finding, at the same
time, that their chudren are strongly predisposed to tuber-
culous disease.
"Of all diseases, T consider dyspepsia the most fertile source
of cachexia of every form, —for this plain reason, that a
healthy condition of the digestive organs, and a due perform-
ance of their functions, are essential to the assimilation of
food, cyid consequently to the supply of healthy nutriment,
'j'he adji sting powers of the systeni do much to correct a
disordered condition of the different functions concerned in
the process of assimilation and nutrition ; but health cannot
be long preserved when any one of these important functions
is materially deranged.
" A cachectic state may also originate in derangement of the
various secretory and excretory functions, particularly that
condition of them iii winch the effete matter is imperfectly
carried off; and as this derangement very generally accon;-
panies dyspepsia, it accelerates its deteriorating influence.
" There are doubtless other circumstances in the state of the
parents' health capable of giving rise to the strumous diathesis
CONSUMPTION HEREDITARY. SI
Parents sometimes healthy wliile the children are consunipiivc.
in their offspring, wliich are not so c^'ident as tljose wiiich I
liave noticctJ; but there can be little question of their i;illn-
encc. as we often see children presenting the characters of
the strumous dialiiesis at the earliest age, while their pareiits
are in tlie enjoyment of good health, and free from all ap-
pearances of tuberculous or other disease, constitutional or
local. Remarkable examples of this kind have come imdcr
my observation, where whole families have fallen victims to
tuberculous consumption, while tlie parents themselves en-
joyed good health to an advanced age, and were unable to
trace the existence of the disease in their families for genera-
tions back. An imperfect development or a feeble state of
the organs of generation, has been considered a cause of
scrofula in the otlVpring ;
—any thing which interferes with
the act of conception, or with the nourishment of the foetus
in utero, —-such as a disordered state of the mother's health,
depressing passions, a sedentary or unhealthy mode of life,
—
or whatever induces imperfect nutrition in the mother during
pregnancy, may lead to such a result; and this may even
explain why one child is predisposed to the disease, while the
other children of the same family are exempt.
"In the present state of our knowledge, it is not possible to
determine the various circumstances in the health of the
parent which may give rise to the scrofulous disposition in
the child, much less to explain their mode of operation : I
rather allude to them as subjects deserving the investigation of
the general pathologist and practical physician. , That tuber-
culous disease can generally be traced to an hereditary origin,
that is. to a deteriorated state of health in the parent, wiU
not be disputed by any medical observer who has attentively
considered the subject ; but there may be a difference of opin-
ion as to the particular condition of the parent which induces
the tuberculous constitution in the offspring, and also as to
tJie degree in which this constitution may exist in the child
at birth. Having stated my opinion respecting tlie former. I
shall now give my views respecting the latter of these condi-
tions.
" 1. "We have seen, (p. 130,) that, although it is a rare oc-
currence, the child at birth may present tubercles in one or
more of its organs.
'•2. The next degree of heredi'ary disease is that in which
the infant is afflicted with tuberculous cachexia,—a state
which requires very slight exciting causes to determine the
deposition of tuberculous niattcr in some organ. The chil-
dren of consumptive parents are not unfrequently born in
this state, and often die of uibercvilous disease during the pe-
tii^of ififancy.
82 DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Fiirlhei views of Dr. Clark. Preventives of consumption.
fTc
''3. Again, the clifld presents all the characters of the tu-
berculous or scrofulous constitution, and without care, gradu-
ally lapses into a slate of tuberculous cachexia, and dies of
tuberculous disease. The greater ntimber of scrofulous and
consumptive cases, which we meet with in childhood and
youth are referable to this degree of hereditary predisposition.
"4. In another class of cases, the child merely shows a
•edisposition to those functional derangements which gene-
rate the tuberculous constitution; more especially to that form
of dyspepsia {stn/moiis di/sj)ojjsia) to which I have already
referred, as capable of generating the tuberculous cachexia,
and consequently of giving rise to every form of tuberculous
«r strumous disease. The cases of predisposition to consump-
tion which come under this class are, according to my obser-
vation, the ofi'spring of parents w^ho have labored luider dys-
pepsia, gout, cutaneous and other diseases not of a tuberculous
nature. They constitute the most numerous and the most
remediable of the degrees of hereditary disease ;
and yet their
nature is generally the least understood.
" I would beg to solicit the attention of the profession to the
deteriorated health of the parent as the origin of tuberculous
disease : an acquaintance with the various derangements in
the health of the parent, and the mode and degree in which
these are manifested in the constitution of their offspring, is
requisite to enable us to obviate them, and thereby to correct
the hereditary predisposition.
"An opinion is entertained that one generation sometimes
escapes hereditary tuberculous disease, while the immediately
preceding and succeeding generations are the subjects of it.
This is not a very common occurrence, and when properly
investigated, would, I have no doubt, admit of a satisfactory
explanation, without supposing that the disease lay dormant
in one generation to manifest itself in the next.
SECTION II.
PREVENTIVES OF CONSUMPTION.
"An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure."
The idea that consunnption, when once fairly seated, is
incurable, prevails to a most pernicious extent, but of late it
is beginning to be controverted. And well it may; for it is
no more incurable than many other diseases. The cattse of
PREVENTIVES OF CONSUMPTION. 83
How 10 cure consumption. Medicinos only aids.
its having been treated so unsuccessfully, is twofold ; first,
the physiological state which induces and accompanies it,
has not been fully understood : and secondly, it can be cured,
not by medicines, and especially not by poisons and deple-
tions, which reduce the tone of the system when it requires
to be strengthened, but by remedies of a mental and iihys'io-
logical application. Medicines do not reach the case, and
cannot of themselves effect a cure.* Judiciously applied,
they may become aids merely, but should never be relied
upon as cvres. The reynedies should be, air, exercise, and
sleep, nature's great restoratives, while medicines should be
secondary matters. And this simple principle explains the
cause of the lamentable fact, that consumption is so seldom
cured. It has been treated mediccdly, whereas it should be
ixeaied physiologically. The patient is dosed with apotheca-
ries' drugs sufficient to kill a well man, whereas he should
take much air, recreation, exercise, and sleep, and little
medicine, and that very simple in its action.
But in order to cure consumption, we must first understand
its cause, and then endeavor to counteract that cause. In
regard to its cause, then, I remark, that in persons predis-
posed to this disease, I find a most active brain, and great
heat, and strictures, if not pain, in the head, with superior
natural abilities, accompanied with cold hands and feet, and
a most excitable temperament. In short, the predisposition
to consumption cotisists in the predominance of the nervous
temperament, and the feebleness of the vital apparatus. In
general, those who are subject to it, will be tall, or at least
slim, narrow chested, of small stature, and light complexion,
and liable to fall in between the arms, or at least at the sides
of the chest, just inwardly of the union of the arms and body.
They also incline to sit in a stooping posture, so as to form a
* From exfierience find observation, I am convinced that decidedly the
best remedy or agent for the cure of consumption, now in use, is "Sher-
woon's Magnetic Pills and Plaster." Besides being the best reme-
dies I know of for dysjjepsia, which in the preceding section was sliowu
often to hasten, and even to induce consumption, they act directly upon
the diseased parts, and impart that magnetism which reiuvigorates and
restores them, the absence of which causes tlie disease.
84 DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Indications of consuniplion. Cold limbs and a hot liead.
double arch, one by bending the body from the hip joint to
the neck, and the other by bringing the shoulders near to-
gether. This posture is assumed because the lungs and the
internal organs generally, are small, and therefore the other
parts bend in each way upon them, and yet nothing is as
directly calculated to increase the consumptive tendency as
this posture. Consumptive patients also usually liave light
and very fine and soft hair ;
a fine, soft, delicate skin : long
hmbs; long, slim fingers, with long, rounding nails ;
a long,
small neck; sharp features; a sunken cheek, especially
where the pole of the lungs is located, that is, outward from
the end of the nose ;
long face ;
sharp phrenological organs,
and a highly intellectual cast of mind, with a strong desire
to read and study, especially nights. The excess of their
nervous temperament usually renders them wakeful nights,
their minds being in too excited a state to sleep. Hence they
are fond of sitting up late nights and studying, and of lying in
bed late mornings, because, when awake, they enjoj'' life so
much that they arc loth to go to sleep, and this exalted ac-
tion fatigues them so much, that they become very tired, and
hence when asleep, they are unwilling to rise early.
Cold hands and feet, and consequently a hot head, are the
incipient stages of consumption. As long as the circulation
can be kept uniform—as long as the hands and feet can be
kept warm, and the head cool —there is no danger of con-
sumption ;
but whenever the circulation becomes partial, or
as soon as it begins to concentrate in the head, and retire
from the hands and feet, and consequently from the surface
generally, the skin is left exposed to the influences of changes
in the atmosphere, and colds ensue. If the circulation were
vigorous at the surface, these changes in the weather would
be resisted thereby, so that the pores of the skin would not
become contracted by them ; but when the blood is mostly
engrossed by the head, the skin is of course robbed ;
and
being left unprotected by heat, its pores are closed by a cool
breeze or a change of the weather from warm to cold, and
the waste or corrupt matter thrown off by the skin through
these pores, is ot course retained in the system, to augment,
and even to engender disease. A large proportion of th«
•
rREVBKTIVES OF CONsUMPTTON. 85
Importance of Tree circulation at the surface. Uailiing.
diseases of a northern climate, originate in colds, and are
developed by them, consumption in a pre-eminent degree.
As long, therefore, as \he extremities can be kept warm, and
the skin clean and active by a vigorons circulation, colds
will be resisted, and this disease warded off. But as soon as
the hands and feet become cold, and the skin is like " goose
flesh,"' " know thou that" consumption " draweth nigh, and
is even at the door," unless thou restore the circulation at the
surface, and keep thy hands and feel warm.
It will be seen, then, that whatever tends to retard the
circulation at the surface, such as sedentary pursuits, con-
finement within doors, severe application to study, an impure
skin, a changeable atmosphere, habitual sewing, &.C., are
directly calculated to hasten consumption when commenced,
to develope it when latent, and even to engender it; and also
that whatever tends to promote the circulation, such as fresh
air. vigorous exercise, abundant sleep, a warm climate, &c.,
are preventives of the disease.
To keep the skm clean and active, then, is the first, as
well as the main preventive of consumption. And this can
be done by the application of cold tcater and friction^ more
elFectually than by any other means. To every one at all
predisposed to consumption, then, I say with great emphasis,
bathe often. Employ the cold shoicer bath every morning in
getting out of bed, summer and winter, in preference to all
other kinds of bath, and at least the hand bath, when the
shower bath cannot be had. Especially do not omit it in
cold weather, for it is then that you need it the most, the
natural tendency of cold weather being to drive the blood in
upon the heart and head, and of warm weather, to bring it to
the surface. And the colder the water the better, for the
colder it is, the more it excites the skin, and the greater the
reaction produced. Even if there be ice in the water, in case
you wash and rub off hastily, it will throw the skin into a
delightful glow, and electrify and warm up the whole sys-
tem. Warm water should rarely be used. The warm bath
may sometimes be employed when the patient is considerably
reduced, yet even that should be followed by the shower
8
86 mSEASfiS HEREDITARY.
Friction of the skin. Keep the feet warm.
bath, SO as to close the pores far enough to stop copious per-
spiration.
But in all cases of bathing, friction should be added. As
instruments of friction, the coarse crash towel is one of the
best and most convenient; the tlesh brush, as stiff an one as
can well be borne, and applied briskly, ts excellent; and the
hair glove will be found still better. Those made by John-
son, of Boston, I use daily, and can bear testimony to their
virtues.
Let the consumptive invalid remember, that no internal
remedies can at all compare with the external ones here
recommended ;
and that without these external ones, inter-
nal ones are of little avail, besides being almost certain to do
more or less injury. This remedy strikes at the root of the
evil ; that, only at its branches.
Closely allied to this direction, is that of warming the feet,
either by the fire, or by walking, or by washing them in hot
or cold water at night. Never retire with cold feet, but lake
all possible pains to keep them warm. Do not be afraid of
Avashing them in cold water at night. Cold water is not
poisonous, that the sight of it need be much feared. Most
persons even regard it as nnheaWiy^ whereas nothing is better,
both for the consumptive patient and for those who are
healthy. Many colds are taken and consumptions induced,
by damp or wet feet; but if they are washed often in cold
water, a little extra water, now and then, in the form of wet
feet, will do no injury. Heating the feet as hot as can be
borne, on retiring, while it is one of the best cures of a cold
that we have, and is analogous to soaking them in hot water,
is especially calculated to ward off consumption, while sleep-
ing with cold feet is most detrimental. Avoid that at what-
ever sacrifice, if it is by putting heated bricks or stones to
your feet in the night, or by rubbing or dancing, or whatever
means will promote circulation in them.
The importance of the direction to consumptive patients,
to break up a cold as soon as possible, is so obvious, that it
requires barely to be named. However consumptive the
tendency of a person is, if he can but avoid colds, he is safe
;
juid so he is if he can break them up soon. But if they are
PREVENTIVES OF CONSUMPTION. 87
Colds should be broken up. How lo «fo this. Keep (he head cool.
allowed to progress, with occasional additions, for weeks and
nionilis, they will run those into consumption who are not
thus predisposed. Beware of colds, and break theni np as
soon as possible.
The most efficacious means of breaking up colds, is per-
spiration. This may be induced by drinking large quantities
of cold water, or even ice water ; by soaking the feet in hot
water, and then heating them by the fire; by exercising suffi-
ciently to throw you into a sweat ; by taking the warm balb,
<3r still better, the vapor bath, or the sliower bath while the
fever is on ;
by drinking hot herb teas, as horehound, boneset,
wormwood, or by using a syrup made of any bitter herbs,
with molasses; by using the " composition" of Dr. Thomp-
son, which is one of the very best sudorifics in use ; by put-
ting hot bricks to the feet, wrapped in wet cloths ; or by any
•other means which will open the pores, the stoppage of which
causes the disease in question. Do not neglect colds, but do
not stuff them. Do not take additional colds. And one of
the chief virtues of the cold bath recommended above, is that
it jji-events colds. It is hardly possible for one who uses the
bath daily, to catch cold. For ten years, I have taken the
bath nearly every morning, save about four intermissions,
and these were followed, in every instance, with severe colds.
Wetting the head will generally be found to exert a bene-
ficial influence, by carrying off the surplus heat or fevey
collected there by the over-action of the brain, while night
reading and study, and indeecl ail intense application of the
mind, will be found injurious. The object should be to keep
the /lead cool and ihe feel warm. Cold water applied to cold
feet, will warm them, just as running out into the snow
barefooted starts the circulation and warms the feet, while
the same application to the head, cools it, by carrying off all
inflammation, and substituting healthy action in its stead.
Where it does not occasion a cold in the head, it will be
beneficial.
Proper or improper apparel also does much to accelerate or
retard the approach of this disease. Too much clothing, by
preventing the escape of the corrupt matter thrown out of the
system through the skin, an^ confining it around the person,
88 DISEASES HEUEDITARY.
Vcnlilalion iinportniu. Evils of lioi i-ioiiis.
keeps much corrnplion in the system that would otherwise
escape, and is thus highly injurious ; and so is insutllcient
clothing, by leaving the skin too much t::pos6d to the influ-
ence of atmospheric changes. Still, this matter is influenced
by habit and climate so almost entirely, that no specific rules
can be given, except that of wearing sil/c or aripe next to or
near the skin, which will exert a most beneficial influence,
because being a non-conductor, it retains the heat and re-
fuses admission to the cold more efi!ccluailyi and thus pre-
serves the temperature more uniform, than any other article
worn. Woollen is next best, and in winter, both worn near
the skin will be beneficial, and one should be kept on in
warm weather as well as in cold.
The atmosphere breatljcd is still more important. Recent
observations have settled the principle, that consumptive in-
valids require abundance of fresh air; and if confined to a
room, it must be frequently ventilated. Perhaps nothing is
more injurious to the lungs, or more directly productive
of consumption, than impure air or imperfect ventilation.
Though its eflects are partially deadened by habit, so as to
be less perceptible and sudden, yet it is sure to work perma-
nent mischief to the lungs. And the ventilation of the bed-
chamber, not so much by allowing a direct draught to blow
in, as by sleeping in a lay-ge room, with places for the ingress
and the egress of fresh air, is a matter of the utmost moment
to those at all predisposed to consumption.
Closely allied to this subj<^ct, is that of being much in
rooms rendered warm by a fire. I do think immense mis-
chief is caused by our keeping our rooms too varni. This
burns up or expels much of the oxygen of the atmosphere,
and thus deteriorates and vitiates it more than is. supposed.
Thousands on thousands of women have been thrown into
consumption, by sitting and sewing in a warm room, who
would otherwise have escaped. And if they are not thrown
into it immediately, yet the seeds of it are planted, to be
fostered by every new cold or exposure, and ultimately to
ripen into consumption, and be propagated to generations yet
unborn. Perhaps no one thing invites consumption more
than sewing; and when aided by sitting in a heated atmoa-
PREVENTIVES OF CONSUMPTION. 89
Srwin;: iiijurinus. 1'>gl>t laciii"^. Hot drink*.
phere, is likely evea to cause consumption in those who have
no hereditary tendency to it, and is sure to develope it in
those who have. And I shudder for future generations,
when I contemplate the vast number of females, of all ages,
those that are growing rapidly, those that are naturally
healthy, and especially those that are becoming mothers, Avho
sit and sew continually, day after day, week in and week
out, for years together, or who work at various manual occu-
pations equally confining, and that often without stepping
out of doors, or taking the least exercise, by the week to-
gether. And all to procure the means of dressing decently,
that is, of obtaining /a5Aio«a6/e attire, or making fashionable
attire for others. I do regard "the fashions" as most per-
nicious in all their bearings on society—as a curse greater
than intemperance, and even than prostitution itself, and not
unfrequently directly causing the latter. Strange that vir-
tuous and intelligent women either do not see the evil, or
seeing it, do not abandon what is so detrimental even to life
itself!
But above all things, the practice of lacing tight is most
pernicious to those of consumptive habits. By cramping the
lungs, especially the lower portion, it keeps them almost in a
state of inaction ;
and this of course invites disease. The ore-
tion of every organ of the body is indispensable to its health ;
and its inaction, is fatal to it ; and to none does this principle
apply more forcibly than to the lungs. No tongue can tell,
no arithmetic can number, the deaths by consumption occa-
sioned in parents and propagated to their children, by this ac-
cursed practice. A brawny Irish or Dutch lass, may lace
tight with less injury, but for those who are slim and small
waisted naturally, that is, who have but a feeble vital appa-
ratus at best, to reduce their vitality still lower, prevent the
free circulation of the blood, and confine it to the heart and
head, and girt it back from flowing to the skin and limbs, is
to commit virtual suicide, by inducing a disease which might
otherwise be kept at bay.
Drinking hot drinks, and especially tea and coffee, by un>».
duly opening the pores of the skin and thus increasing the lig.-^
bility to take colds, as well as by stimulating when there is.
8*
90 DTSEARES HKREDITARY.
Exorcise. Miignetisin.
already too much action in the system, is but preparing the
way for consumption, and increasing whatever liabihty to it
already exists. Cold water will increase the circulation, and
augment the heat of the system, but warm drinks induce
perspiration, and this greatly diminishes its heat, and invites
colds, and this induces consumption. 1 say to all who have
any hereditary tendency to consumption, drink no wai'in
dfhiks, and especially, never drink hot tea or coffee ; for you
have too much excitability and action in your system already,
and require the cooling and relaxing.
Though allusion has already been made to exercise, its
utility in preventing, and even in curing consumption, re-
quires to be more fully presented. The injporlance of giving
free circulation to the blood at the extremities and surface,
has been presented, and nothing—not even friction, a powerful
agent though it be—is calculated to promote this circulation
as effectually as exercise, and in the open air. If. then, you
find your circulation becoming partial, and your blood retir-
ing from your hands and feet, and of course from your skin,
change your course of life immediately, and take all the ac-
tive exercise you can well endure. Yet do not work too
liard. The great fault with those predisposed to consump-
tion is, that they carry things to extremes. When they work,
it is with all their might, and so as to induce immediate ex-
haustion, and consequent j)rostration ; and so with recreation
and study, and all their desires and eflorts. Take every
thing in moderation, and take liold so that you can hold out.
Gymnastic and calisthenic exercises, will also be of immense
service. Let labor and rest alternate with eating, so as to in-
vigorate the system generally, and this will expel from it
whatever consumption may lurk within it. Nor will the best
medicines in the world be a himdredth part as ei'lcacious as
abundance oi exercise, rest, mid fj-esh air. Doctor very little,
but do all in your power to reinvigorate your general health.
Rubbing the chest and abdomen with the hand, especially
a liealthy, robust person, will impart new life to the feeble
organs within, and so will magnetizing them, or magnetiz-
ing the poles of the organs in the face, or holding the head,'
combing it, &c. Let the mothers and nurses of children
rRKVENTIVES OF CONSUMPTION. 91
'J'Ue colli baili. Giying consuiDptive rhililrrii lime tt> grow.
whose parents are at all inclined to consumption, rnb ihem
a groat deal nighl and morning when they are dressed or un-
dressed, and also employ the bath often as mentioned above;
yet in doing so, let the utmost care be taken to do it quickly^
just by one dash, as it were, and then follow with friction so
as to produce reaction and warmth. In cold weather, let
this be done in a warm room, though with cold water. A
gentleman who was in a consumptive decline, was cured by
being taken every morning in the winter, down to the river,
and having a hole cut in the ice and being plunged in all
over, and then wrapped up warm and taken in his sleigh to
his house; and Dr. Bell, of Philadelphia, recommends the
cold hath even to persons far advanced in consumption—a ve-
comraendation founded in the nature of the disease.
If a child be in any danger of consumption, let it never be
sent to school, because the confinement of the body will pre-
vent that circulation of the blood already shown to be indis-
pensable, and increase all the hereditary tendencies to con-
sumption, and will hasten its progress. Let all the children of
consumptive parents be allowed to play or to work all the
time except when they are eating or sleeping; and generally
a nap in the middle of the day will be found serviceable.
Children of this cast, are liable, in consequence of their ex-
cessive cerebral action, to play very hard, and thus to be-
come greatly fatigued, which may be turned to a good ac-
count, by inducing the habit of taking a nap in the day time.
If they dislike to lose the time, take them on your lap, tell
them a story, and hu.sh them up, and they will soon fall
asleep.
Especially when these children are between twelve and
twenty, they should do very little studying, and labor no more
than is requisite for exercise, but be allowed merely to re-
create and groic. They require ail their energies for growth,
or for the formation and consolidation of their bodies ;
and to
direct these energies to labor and study as such, is perma-
nently to injure both mind and body. Such children are
usually precocious, and should be /:ept from siudy, rather
than sent to school before they are fully grown. The great
trouble with those of this temperament is, that they over-do,
92 mSEASES HEREDITARY.
Tiike litem from sriiool. Inflating' the lungs.
and thus exhaust their energies; and this exhaustion falls of
course on the weakest part. Let boys who are predisposed
to this disease, be furnished with more tools than books, and
be encouraged to make sleds and boxes, to fly kites, slide
dovvn hill, skate, swim, (but never allowed to stay long in the
water at a time.) ride, work, hunt, fish, climb, race, &c. &c.,
just as much as they will. The more the better; and the
more they love to read and excel in study, the worse, for
their consumptive tendency is sure to be developed thereby.
Let no young man thus predisposed, ever com.mence fitting
for college till he is at least twenty, and usually he should not
begin life for himself till he is nearly thirty, lest he drive
business so forcibly before he get his strength, as to exhaust
his vital powers. And let no fears be entertained that such
lads will be inferior in talents unless they are kept at school;
for, as already remarked, a tendency to this disease consists
in too great mental activify, which will of course render them
more intelligent and belter scholars without their going
near a school, than others who are not consumptive,
though they are kept at school continually. Parents are too
apt to forget that' children require thne to grow, as well as
time to learn or labor; and those whose parents are consump-
tive, of all others, require this time. And let lads of this descrip-
tion never be put into a store, or law office, where they are
confined, or have to write, but put them on to the farm. And
let girls of this habit never be sent to learn any trade requir-
ing sitting or confinement, nor to work in factories, but
let them rather be kitchen drudges—any thing that will im-
prove their health and prolong their lives.
Another preventive of consumption, certainly no less im-
portant than any of the preceding, is the full and frequent m-
Jlntion of the lungs to their utmost capacity. That is, sit or
stand straight, throw the chest out and the arms back, and
and then draw in slowly as full a breath as possible, and hold
it in for some time, and perhaps strike the chest gently, or
otherwise as you can endure it, so as lo propel the air down
into all the little air cells of the lungs, in order to stimulate
them action, and thus prevent adhesions and tubercles
from 1
,
Sitting and standing straight, with the shoul-
PrwEVENTIVES OF CONSUMPTION. 93
KHiniiiiigrs luoc. A iifw rcspii<i)<)r.
ders thrown back and the chest thrown forward, is most iri)-
portaiit. , while the stooping pnstnre, especially if at the sanje
time the shonlders are brought forward, is most injurious.
Scarcely any thing can be more so: for this posture, hy
cramping the hmes, prevents their being filled with air, and
thus preparing the blood for circulation, and tends directly to
enfeeble and inflame them. Beware of tlje girl that bends
forward. She is liable to be consumptive.
This inflation of the lungs should occur every few mini.tes
during tlie day, and should be increased by compressing the
air in the lungs, especially when speaking, thus forcing the air
out as if through a smaller aperture, and increasing the dis-
tinctness of the intonation, and augmenting the volume of the
voice. Reading and speaking or talking loud, and also sing-
ing, will be found excellent to exercise and Strengthen the
lungs; especially lei children of consumptive tendencies, talk,
hallo, and sing all they please. To restrain these exercises,
is to augment their liability to consumption.
The wonderful cures effected by using Rammagi's tube,
were effected solely by applying ihe principle here presented
of inflating the lungs; and the disposition of corisumptive pa-
tients to draw long breaths, is an indication that this infla-
lion of the lungs is sought by nature as a relief The benefit
derived from these tubes, does not accrue from drawing the
air through a particularly shaped tube, but it consists in the
exercise of the lungs occasioned by its use. Now since you
can get this exercise even more effectually and frequently by
making your own windpipe into a tube in a second, and "with-
out any trouble, you should apply this simple remedy forth-
with and frequently, till you expand and strengthen your
lungs sufficiently to throw you beyond the reach of danger.
I have seen a simple tube made by boring a hole in the
end of an old ever-pointed pencil case, after cutting off the
pencil part, and fixing a valve so that you could draw in tlie
breath through this hole, but not expel it, and then boring
another smaller hole in the side of the pencil case through
which to expel the air: so that air could be inhaled faster
than expired, by the use of which the lungs are filled up and
kept/ijll, and thus expanded. I have known the chest great-
94 DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Carrying mngnels. Diet. Journeying.
\y expanded by its use in a short time. Breathing through
any sn)all hole, will answer every purpose.
From experiments recently tried, I am induced to recom-
mend carrying magnets, or magnetized steel about the per-
son, and I'requently taking siiocks from the electrical or gal-
vanic battery, or else being insulated and charged with elec-
tricity, as being calculated to supply in part that animal elec-
tricity, the partial exhaustion of which accompanies consump-
tive tendencies.
Much might, and perhaps should, be said in relation to the
diet most beneficial tor those ])redisposed to consumption, but
there is only room to say, that ?io stimulants or tonics should
be taken; a light, cooling, and yet nourishing diet should be
selected, all condiments and stimulants avoided, and if the
stomach will bear milk, take it freely, for it will quiet the
nerves and tend to induce that sleep so much needed. Rice,
bread, especially coarse or brown bread, mealy potatoes,
fruit, and jellies may be eaten, but less meat, little cabbage,
not an abundance of vegetables, but more of a farinaceous and
fruit diet. Let children whose parents are predisposed to
consumption, be literally brought up on bread and milk, por-
ridge, puddings and milk, and roasted potatoes. Eat no fat, no
butter, no cakes, and no more in quantity than your stomach
can fully digest. Better eat too little than too much.
Journeys are often recommended, and generally prove to
be beneficial to consumptive invalids, mainly, however, on
accor.nt of the change of associations they give, and the fresh
air and exercise they afford. A residence on the seashore in
summer, is usually found to be beneficial, yet sometimes the
sea air is too bracing, and stimulates so much as to augnjent
the fever which accompanies, or rather constitiites, this dis-
ease, and thereby hastens its approach. In all these cases,
the consumptive person must be Ids own jiidge as to effects
and quantities, as, indeed, in nearly all the preventives pre-
scribed above. Any one of them may be taken in excess,
and then becomes positively injurious. But whatever injures,
gives warning of the evil by the pain that accompanies it.
iSiug, but do not sing so as to prostrate the lungs much.
Bathe, but not too frequently, to produce reaction. Exercise
PREVENTIVES OF CONSUMPTION. 95"
-/-
Soa voya;jes. A southern rlimalc. Aflvice.
till latiirned, but not till prostrated. Sleep abundantly, but
not so mucli as to induce heaviiiess, and always rise early.
And so of tlie others. Let the patient notice his symptoms,
and govern himself accordingly.
A voyage at sea is often recommended. Andrew Combe,
the author of " Combe's Physiology," mentions that a voyage
to the ]Mediterranean, by keeping him just sea-sick enough
to produce a constant but gentle perspiration, equalized his
circulation, and restored his health, or rather, warded off a
consTunptive attack which had well nigh proved fatal.
A southern climate often effects cures, and on the same
principle ; namely, by bringing the blood to the surface. Cold
weather drives the blood ^/^, and this induces cold and con-
sumption ;
but warm weather promotes circulation, brings
the blood to the surface, relieves the head and lungs, changes
the tone of the system, and averts this disease. That is, a
sea voyage, a southern climate, exercise, friction, baths of all
kinds, abundance of sleep, &c., all strike at the root of the
cause of consumption, and reverse that cause ; and this arrests
its further progress, and thus nature effects a cure.*
Let these directions be faithfully followed, and I am fully
persuaded that no child, however consumptive his parents,
need die of this disease. Carry out these principles, and all
consumptive tendencies can be arrested, and this fatal disease
could soon be banished. And let all parents who are thus
predisposed, practise this advice faithfully while becoming
parents, so as to obviate the tendency in their children. Let
the parents of children at all ia danger of consumption, or
scrofula, or the croup, or the quinsy, or the sore throat—all
but different forms of one and the same disease—employ all
these preventives upon their children, lest this unrelenting
• The fact is, a large, institution, devoted expressly to the cure and pre-
Tention of consumption on tlie foregoing principles, should be established,
and conducted, not by medical men, for they do not and never will un-
derstand this disease, till they read nature in place of books, but Physi-
ologists. Doctors have exhausted their skill, and by common consent,
failed to treat it successfully. Let it now be taken up anew, by another
class of men, and if its cure be attempted by the foregoing and other
•iiuilar means, success will follov^.
% DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Caution lo young women and mothers.
disease snatch from you the dearest objects of your love when
all their talents, all their charms are hrst budding and blos-
soming into womanhood, or ripening into manhood, and be-
coming prepared for stations of nsefnlness or profit. Follow
these prescriptions, and there is no danger. These remedies
will expel all forms of this untimely disease from the system,
and preserve it whole and sound to a green old age. Nor
will they be very detrimental to those who are robust, and in
no special danger of falling its victims.
A single word to mothers who are predisposed to consump-
tion. Remember that your vital energies are but feeble, and
therefore that you have by no means a superabundance of vi-
tal stamina to spare. You may not be able to impart a strong
physical constitution to your ofi'spring, and you are very like-
ly to throw yourself into a premature grave by withdrawing
for the nourishment of your children, those energies which
are indispensable to preserve your own life. I know scores
of mothers who, by this means alone, have committed both
suicide and infanticide, ignorantly, to be sure, but none the
less efTcctually or lamentably. Many of the yonng women of
the present day, will die just as surely as they attempt to be-
come mothers. They have now barely sullicient vitality
to keep them alive. As soon, therefore, as they come to with-
draw from this small supply, an amount suflicient to nourish,
give birth to, and nurse an infant, they exhaust themselves
so completely, that disease, taking advantage of their prostra-
tion, attacks some fatal part, and sweeps them into the grave,
leaving a sickly child and a fond father to mourn her death,
and soon to be follov/ed by the former, and doubly to bereave
the latter. Let none dare to become mothers, wlio have not
a surplus of animal energy sufficient to produce fine, healthy
children, without injuring themselves. But more on a kin-
dred point when we come to speak of the conditions of
parents as influencing the mental and physical qualities of
their oflTspring.
DISEASES IN GENERAL HEREDITARY. 97
King's evil." Dyspepsia. Dr. Beechcr. A ring-worm.
SECTION III.
DISEASES IN GENERAL HEREDITARY.
" Wliai I say " of " one, 1 say " of " all."
We have occupied too much space in establishing tlie
transmi-ssibility of consumption, and pointing out its preven-
tives, to allow much room to be occupied in proving that
other diseases, such as the gout, king's evil, apoplexy, dys-
pepsia, cancerous affections, and other diseases, are heredi-
tary, and hence group our remarks in regard to all otlier
diseases, under one head. Each might he as fully demon-
strated to be hereditary, as consumption has already been
;
but having proved the great principle of the transmission of
one prominent disease, the inference that all the others are
equally so. follows as a matter of course. And then the
great fact that other diseases are transmitted as frequently,
and in cases as striking, as consumption, is one which must
strike every intelligent mind as a law of nature. Hence a
few cases, partly by way of proof, and partly b)'' way of
ilkistration, are all that can now be given.
Take, then, the scrofula, or '•
king's evil"—so called from
its having afflicted the royal family of Great Britain from time
immemorial, and stated in the court journals of England as
the reason why Queen Victoria did not nursQiher own chil-
dren—or the erysipelas, salt rheum, dyspepsia, gout, apo-
plexy, &c., &€., down to almost every chronic disease that
afilicts mankind, and they will be foimd to be transmitted,
and to follow generation after generation, breaking out every
now and then in each, and scourging whole families, as far
back as those families can be traced. Dr. Bcccher h.as al-
ways been troubled with dyspepsia, in a torm peculiarly
n)alignant. His father, Dea. lioccher, of Xew Haven, Conn.,
was afflicted with the same disease, and so arc nearly every
one of his children, and some of his nephews and nieces.
In a gentleman who recently submitted his head for a,
phrenological examination, I observed a ring-worm on the
«ide of his face, which almost covered it, and was highly
98 DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Eruption. Near-sightedness. HIiiulncss. 'Stammering. Gout and apoplexy.
inflamed. He said his father died of a similar one, and that
several other blood relations of his father, including some of
his brothers also, had it.
The redness and eruption on my own face is hereditary.
It appears, though less strongly marked, in my father and
nncle and aunt, and in some of my brothers, sisters, and
cousins. 1 found it in the descendants of my grand fathers
brother, in Canada, already alluded to, and in a very distinct
form. They and we parted four generations back, in my
great grand father.
The cross-eye, or near-sightedness, also appears in families,
parents, children, cousins, uncles, aunts, &c. nearly all wearing
glasses; and if 1 recollect aright, the result of Dr. Howe's
researches proves that blindness is sometimes hereditary,
and that deafness and dumbness are very often transmitted.
James A. Bullard, Mouticello, Sullivan county, N, Y., has
eight children, four of whom are blind. They were all born
"with perfect eyes, and saw well till they arrived at the age
of about five years, when each began to grow blind, and at
about ten, they became totally blind. The parents were
not blind, but an aunt was. I have seen hundreds of cases
in which parents have transmitted blindness, or weak eyes,
or sore eyes, or deafness, or impediments in speech, or some
defect in the voice or organs of speech, or some physical de-
bility or deficiency, which was found in both parents and
children. Jo:*hua Coflin furnished to the author the follow-
ing : —The graijd father of Daniel Webster had an impedi-
ment in his speech ;
that is, he stuttered badly. Daniel's
father lisped all his lifetime, and his brother Ezckiel Webster
was never able to speak some words correctly, though he'
labored hard to do so.
That gout and apoplexy are hereditary, is also a fact es-
tablished by universal observation. And Avhat is more, it
usually occurs in harmony with a principle stated a few
pages previously, at about the same age in parents, children,
uncles, nephews, 6cc. Let me add, by way of preventing
apoplexy, that those whose blood relations are afflicted with
it, should eat less and vor/: more, and above all things, should
avoid all alcoholic drinks. It occurs in consequence of a
INSANITY HEREDITARY. 99
Grabainisin. Cancers. Insanity caused by cerebral inflammation.
surplus of nutrition—a surfeit of nourishment, and a conse-
quent clogging of the wheels of life, till they finally stop alto-
gether. Graliumism and starvation will save such ;
yet to
those thus predisposed, this is the bitterest pill that can be
prescribed, for they generally love the good things. Beer is
often their tavorite drink, yet nothing is more injurious.
Special attention to diet, and especially the Graham diet, will
be found of incalculable value to all afflicted with humors,
fever sores, also often hereditary, cancers, pre-eminently he-
reditary, and all troubled with diseases aifecting the blood,
or growing out of impure blood.
CHAPTER V.
MENTAL DISEASES HEREDITARY.
SECTION I.
INSAINITY HEREDITARY.
Having established the principle, that 'physical qualities
are hereditary, and that the same is also trtie of physical
diseases, we proceed to show that mcyital diseases, or more
properly diseases of tlie brain, and a consequent derangement
of its functions, are hereditary. The great truth that de-
rangement of mind, insanity, monomania, and all kinds of
mental alienation and hallucination, depend upon, and are
caused by, a disordered brain, should never be lost sight of,
neither as a philosophical truth, nor as developing the means
of effecting its cure. Insanity is caused by an injlainmation
of ike brain, and can be cured only by reducing this inflam-
cnation.
Now since other diseases, consumption, erysipelas, &:c.,
are hereditary, an inflamed brain, and consequent derange-
ment of miud, are of course hereditary, being on a footing
with other diseases. In fact, this chapter should properly
have formed a section in the preceding chapter, insanity be-
ICO MENTAL DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Brain of maniacs diseased. Madness a physical malady.
ing as much a disease as consumption, or any other disor-
dered physical function; but was introduced into a separate
chapter, only that it m.ight not, at first sight, startle the
reader by being classed among physical diseases.
Dr. Rush, in his work on diseases of the mind, lias placed
this matter in its true light. He says, page 16
—
"Madness has been placed exclusively in the mind. I object to
this opinion, 1. Because the mind is incapable of any operations
independently of im|)ressions comnnmicated to it throuifh ilie me-
dium of the body. 2. Because there are but two instances upon
record of the brain beinu; found free from morbid appearances in
persons who have died of madness. One of these instances is re-
lated by Dr. Stark, the other by Dr. De Haen. They probably
arose from the brain being diseased beyond that grade in whicli
inflammation and its usual consequences take place. Did cases of
madness reside exclusively in the mind, a sound state of the brain
ought to occur after nearly every death from that disease.
" I object to it, 3, because there aie no instances of prin^ary affec-
tions of the mind, such as grief, love, anger, or despair, producing
madness until they had induced some obvious changes in the body,
such as wakefulness, a full or frequent pulse, cosiiveness, a dry
skin, and other symptoms of bodily indisposition.
" 1 know it has been said in favor of madness being an ideal
disease, or being seated primarily in the mind, that sudden impres-
sions from fear, terror, and even ridicule, have sometimes cured it.
This is true, but they produce their effects only by the healthy
actions they induce in the brain. We see several other diseases,
particularly hiccup, headache, and even fits of epilepsy, which are
evidently affections of the body, cured in the same way by im-
j)ressions of fear and terror upon the mind.
" Having rejected the abdominal viscera, the nerves, and the
mind, as the ])iimary seats of madness, I shall now deliver an opin-
ion, which I have long believed and taught in my lectures, and
that is, that the cause of madness is seated primarily in the blood-
vessels of the brain, and that it depends upon the same kind of
morbid and irregular actions that constitute other arterial diseases.
There is nothing specific in these actions. They are a part of the
unity of disease, particularly of fever; of which madness is a
chronic form, affecting that part of the brain which is the seat of
the mind.
" My reasons for believing the cause of madness to be seated
in the blood-vessels of the brain are drawn,
" I. From its remote and exciting causes, many of which are
the same with those which induce fever and certain diseases of the
INSANITY HEREDITARY.
'
lOl
Quotations (loin UiikIi roiiimued. Dr. Coxc.
brain,' particularly phrei)ilis, apoplexy, palsy, and epilepsy, all of
vhicli are aclinitied to have llieir seals in the blood-vessels. Of
lliiriv-six dissections of the hrains of jicrsons who died of njudness,
Mr. Piiiel sa\s he could perceive no dillierence between the n.or-
bid appearances in ihcni, and in the brains of persons who had
died of apoplexy and epile|)sy. Tlic sameness of these appear-
ances, however, do not prove that all those diseases occupy the
same part of the hain : 1 believe they do not, especially in their
first stage: they become diffused over the whole brain, probably
in their last stages, or in the paroxysm of death. Dr. Johnson of
Exeter, in speaking of the diseases of tl'.e abdominal viscera, men-
tions their sympathy with eaci*. other, by what he very happily
calls '
an intercommunion of sensation.' It would seem as if a
similar intercomn)union took place between all the diseases of the
brain. It is remarkable they ail discover, in every part of the brain,
marks of a morbid slate of the blood-vessels.
" 11. From the ages and constitutions of persons who are n^ost
subject to madness. The foiiiier are in those years in which
actite and inflammatory aiierial diseases usually affect llie body,
and the latter, in persons who labor under the arterial predisposi-
tion.
" III. I infer that madness is seated in the blood-vessels,
" 1. From its symptoms. These are a sense of fulness, and
sometimes pain in the head; wakefulness, and a redness of the
eyes, such as precede ferer, a w bitish tongue, a dry or moist skin,
high colored urine, a frequent, full, or tense pulse, or a pulse mor-
bidly slow or natural as to frequency. These states of the pulse
occur uniformly in recent madness, and one of them, that is, fre-
quency, is seldom absent in its chronic .state.
" 1 have taken notice of the presence of this symptom in my
Introductory Lecture upon the Study of Medical Jurisprudence,
in which 1 have mentioned that seven-eighths of all the deranged
patients in the Penn.sylvania Hospital in the year 1811, had fre-
<]uent pulses, and that a pardon was granted to a criminal by the
President of the United States, in the year 1794, who was sus-
j)ected of counterfeiting madness, in consequence of its having been
declared by three physicians that that symptom constituted an un-
equivocal mark of intellectual derangement.
" Th.e connection of this disease with the state of the pulse, has
been further demonstrated by a most satisfactory experiment, made
by Dr. Coxc, and related by him in his Practical Observations
tipon Insanity, hie gave digitalis to a patient who was in a furi-
ous state of madness, with a pulse that beat CO strokes in a min-
ute. As soon as the n;edicine reduced his pulse to 70, he became
rational. Upon continuing it, his pulse fell to 50, at which time
he became melancholy. An additional quamity of the medicine
9*
102 MENTAL DISEASES HEREDIT.ARY.
Ucraii'jenieiU someiinies an epidemic. Its synifHoins like llio.sc ol f.'vcr
reduced it to 40 strokes in a minute, which nearly suspended his
life. He was finally cured by lessening the doses of the medicine
so as to elevate his pulse to 70 strokes in a minute, which was
probably its natural state. In short, there is not a sinj:le symptom
th'U takes place in an ordinary fever, except a hot skin, that does
not occur in the acute state of madness.
" IV. From its alternating with several diseases which are evi-
dently seated in the blood-vessels. These are consumption, rheu-
matism, intermitting and puerperile fever, and dropsy, marjy in-
stances of wh.ich are to be met with in the records of medicine.
•''
V. From its blending its symptoms with several of the forms
of fever. It is sometimes attended with regular intermissions, and
remissions. I have once seen it appear with profuse sweats, such
as occur in certain fevers, in a madman in the Pennsylvania Hos-
pital. These sweats, when discharged from his skin, fi^rmcd a va-
por resembling a thick fog, that filled the cell in which he was
co!ifined, to such a degree as to render his body scarcely visifile.
"•
Again, this disease sometimes appeai-s in a typhus form, in
v.hich it is attended with cokhiess, a feeble pulse, muttering deli-
rium, and involuntary discharges of freces and urine. But it now
and then pervades a whole country in llie form of an epidemic.
It prevailed in this way in England in the yeai-s 1355 and 1373,
and in France and Italy in the year 1374, and Dr. Wintringhain
mentions its frequent occurrence in England, in the year 17 1 9.
" A striking instance of the union of mildness wit!i common k-
ver is mentioned by Lucian. He tells us that a violent fever once
broke out at Abdera, which terminated by hcTmorrhages, or sweats,,
on the seventh day. During the continuance of this fever the pa-
tients affected with it, repeated passages from th.e tragedy of An-
dromeda with great vehemence, both in their sick rooms and irj
the public streets. This mixture of fever and madness continued
until the coming on of cold weather. Lucian ingeniously and
very properly ascribes it to the persons affected having heard the
famous player Archilaus act a part in the above tragedy, in the
middle of summer, in so impressive a manner that it excited ]n
them the seeds of a dormant fever, which blended itself with de-
rangement, and thus produced, very naturally, a repetition of the
ideas and sounds that excited their disease.
'•VI. From the appearances of the blood which is drawn in this
disease being the same as that which is drav.'n in certain fevers.
They are, inflammatory buff, yellow, seruni, and lotura carnium.
" VII. From the appearances of the brain after death from'
madness. These are nearly the same as after death from phreni-
tis, apoplexy, and other diseases \\ hich are admittf>d to be prima-
ry affections of the blood-vessels of the brain. 1 shall briefiy en-
umerate them ; they are, 1, the absence of every sign of disease.
A
IXSANITT HEREDITARY. 103
Other pift'ol't lliai madness is causpti hy rerchial discasr..
I have ascribed this lo that grade of suflbcaied excitement which
])revents the effusion of red blood into the serous vessels. We
observe the same absence of the marks of inflammation after seve-
ral other violent diseases. Dr. Stevens, in his ingenious inaugural
dissertation published in 181 1, lias called this apparently healthy
appearance, the '
aimatous ' state of inflammaiion. Perhaps it
would be more proper lo call it the 'aimatous' state of disease.
It is possible it may arise in recent cases of madness which termi-
nate finally, from the same retrocession of the blood from the
brain which takes place from the face and external surface of the
body, just before death. But,
" 2. We much oftencr discover in the brain, after death from
madness, inflammation, effusions of water in its ventricles, extra-
vasation and intravasation of blood and even j)us. After chronic
madness, we discover some peculiar a|)pearanct'3 which have nev-
er been met with in any other disease .of the brain, and these are
a preternatural hardness, and dryness in all its parts. Lieutaud
mentions it often with the epithets of '
durum,' '
prsdurum,' '
sic-
cum,' and '
exsuccum.' Morgagni takes notice of this hardness
likewise, and says he had observed it in the cerebrum in persons
in whom the cerebellum retained its natural softness. Dr. Bailie
and Mr. John Hunter have remarked, that the brain in this state
discovered marks of elasticity when pressed by the fingers. Mr.
Mickell says a cube of six lines of the brain of a maniac, thus in-
durated, weighed seven dratns, whereas a cube of the same dimen-
sion of a sound brain weighed but one dram, and between four and
six grains. I have ascribed this hardness, dryness, elasticity and
relative weight of the brain, to a tendency to schirrus,such as suc-
ceeds morbid action or inflanunation in glandular parts of tlie body,
and |)articularly that early grade of it which occurs in the liver,
and which is known by the name of hepitalgia. The brain in this
case loses its mobility so as to become incapable of emitting those
motions from impressions which produce the operations of the
mind.
'•
3. We sometimes discover preternatural softness in the brain,
in persons who die of madness, similar to that which we find in
other viscera from common and febrile diseases. This has been
observed to occur most freqiiently in the kidneys and spleen. The
brain in this case partakes of its texture and imbecility in infancy,
and hence its inability to receive and modify the impressions
^vhich excite thought in the mind.
" 4, and lastly. We sometimes discover a preternatural enlarge-
ment of the bones of the head from madness, and sometimes a pre-
ternatural reduction of their thickness. Of 216 maniacs, whose
heads were examined after death. Dr. Creigl)ton says in 160 the
skull was enlarged, and in 38 it was reduced in its thickness.
104 MENTAL DISEASES HEREDITARY.
'I'liis ihscasfd stale iif the liiaiii, licreilitary.
Now ihe same tliiiii; succeeds rheumatism, and many other febrile
diseases Avhich exert their action iii the neighljorhood oi' bones.
" I might add further, under this head, tliat the morbid appear-
ances in the spleen, liver, and stomach, w hich are seen after death
iVcm niaduess, place it still more upon a fooling with fevers from all
ks causes, and paitictdarly from koino-miasniaiic exhalations, and in
a more especial manner when they aficcl the brain, and thereby
induce primary, or idiopathic |)hrenitis. In short, madness is to
phrenitis, what pulmonary consumption is to pneumony, that is, a
chronic state of an acute disease. It resembles pulmonary con-
sumption further, in the excitement of the muscles, and in the ap-
petite continuing in a natural, or in a preternatural state.
" Vlll. I infer madness to be primarily seated in the blood-
vessels, from the remedies which most speedily and certainly cure
it, being exactly the same as those which cure fever or disease in
ttie blood-vessels from other causes, and in other parts of tlie body.
They will be noticed in their pioper place.
" I have thus mer.tioned the facts and arguments which prove
uhat is conunonly called mathiess to be a disease of the blood-ves-
sels of the brain. All the other and inferior forms of deranjiement,
\vhether of the memory, the will, tlse principle of faith, the pas-
sions, and the tnoral faculties, 1 believe to be connected more or
less with morbid action in the blood-vessels of the brain, or heart,
according to the seats of those faculties of the mind.
" In placing the primary seat of madness in the blood-vessels, I
would by no means confine the predisposition to it exclusively to
them. It extends to the nerves, and to that part of the brain
which is the seat of the mind, both of which, when preternatural y
irritable, communicate more promptly deranged action to the
blood-vessels of the brain. I have called the union of this diffused
morbid irritabiliiy, the phrenitic r>redisposition. Itisfiom the con-
stant presence of this predisposition, that some people are seliloni
affected with the slightest fever, without becoming delirious ; and
it is from its absence, that many people are affected with fevers
and tDther diseases of the brain, without being affected with de-
rangement."
The tcmpercnnent, or a highly susceptible state of the
Avh-ole system, including iiifiaimuability of the brain, is pro-
bably the most potent cause of this disease. That this in-
flamiuabilily of body and brain, and with it a tendency in
the brain to over-action —to be v.ndiily affected by trifles, and
to great impetuosity and enthusiasm, while it is established
by the same great principle wliich establishes the transmis-
sion of other physical diseases, is placed beyond a doubt by
INSANITY HEREDITARY. 105
DcTjingpmciit of Mr. S. and his daugliier in ilie moral and social organs.
an array of facts absolutely overwhelming. Like the sands
of the sea, they are really innmnerable. Wherever you see
derangement, unless it be induced by spirituous liquors or by
some powerful and long continued cause of excitement, rely
upon it, there is some hereditary tendency which is here
leaking out. 1 grant that the delirium tremens, one form of
insanity, is often induced by strong drink, and that some
special organs may at times act so powerfully in particular
cases, as to throw them into a fevered state. That is,
there are other procuring causes of this disease besides he-
reditary influences.
Some of the members of a family on Long Island, by the
name of S., were deranged, and yet uncommonly talented.
One of the daughters, named H., was frequently deranged on
the subject of religion, and in regard to the absence of her
husband. If her husband went to New York, she insisted
on accompanying him ;
or if he went into the field, she would
watch him till he was out of sight, and then look every few
minutes to see if he was returning. So eagerly did she cling
to him, and so unwilling was she to have him out of her
sight, that she frequently vexed a husband v.dio was scarcely
ever known to be vexed abont any other matter, and re-
garded as a most patient and forbearing man. She was also
subject to religious depressions, and entertained the idea that
she was elected to be damned, and that there was no mercy for
her. When about to be afllicled with a recurrence of these
feelings, she would go about the house with her hands clasp-
ed upon the top of her head, complaining of a severe pain
there, and moaning .piteously, and wishing she was dead,
and often attempted to commit suicide. Her friends knew
that when she complained of this pain, it was necessary to
watch her lest she should kill herself Her mental sufferings
induced by this partial derangement, were great indeed ; and
yet she was a superior woman, both as regards general intel-
ligence and the management of household matters. She
died at the age of seventy-eight.
One of her daughters, during a season of sickness, was full
of her conceits —fancying that the whole inside of her was
dead, and that she should die in a few minutes— that sha
106 MENTAL DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Nearly all his desceiidanls deranged, down to the fifth generation.
had loathesome vermin on various parts of her body, and
things of this kind without number. She died at fifty-four
of ihe cholera.
One of her sons, some five years ago, became afflicted with
dyspepsia, and could not be persuaded to get into a carriage,
for fear he sliould fall and break his neck ;
that he was about
to die, and a thousand conceit? similar to those of his mother
and grand mother, lie had the same desire to be (til the time
in tlie bosom of his family that his ^raiid motiier had, and
felt all on nettles if absent from them.
One of his sisters, another grand daugliter of H. S., the
first one mentioned, was for a long time so nervous, tliat the
least noise, or a rap at the door, or the least thing, would
agitate her in the extreme. She also, in common with her
grand mother, absolutely refuses to be absent from her hus-
band, hardly an hour, and often feels a severe pain in the or-
gan of Union for Life, which her whole conduct shows to be
diseased. Separation from her children, is also most painful.
She is, moreover, occasionally subject to extreme depression
of spirits, and especially to that sense of im worthiness, and
being in the way, or neglected, or not wanted, to which her
grand mother was subject.
Her children, again, of the fourth generation from this de-
ranged grand mother, are also the most sensitive httle beings
imaginable, crying out at the least unpleasant word or look,
and when plaintive music is sung; and also moaning pite-
ously when not with their mother, or crying when their
father leaves the room.
Another brother evinces the same tendency—is all on net-
tles if separated from his family, and has several times
threateued to kill himself, anrl been frequently afflicted with
the deliriimi treuK^ns, occasioned by drink. His children are
extremely susceptil)le. Another broiher, who takes after his
father, has escaped, yet some of his children have both the
high order of talent, and also the piirenological developments,
of their grand mother H. S.
Another brother, by a secot)d husband, manifested derange-
ment in a decided fcrm, when but twelve years old, which
ultimately ended in religious derangement, for which he was
INSANITY HEREDITARY. 107
Different branches of iliis family similarly affected.
sent to the insane hospital at Hudson, but from which, how-
ever, he has partially ecovered.
Another son of the H. S., first alluded to, after having boon
deranged for some time, died suddenly in the insane hospital
at Hartford, he being supposed to have killed himself; and a
son of his hung himself on account of being disappointed in
love, and another son has of late evinced marked indications
of derangement.
Another son of this H. S., was deranged for years in con-
sequence of being obliged to pay a small note which he sup-
posed cancelled, and for years refused to see company, but
whenever any o)ie came to the house, he would hide himself
away under the bed or in the closet, fearing the constable
would come and take him off, and that he was likely to come
to poverty—impressions analogous to those that characterized
his brother that died in the insane hospital at Hartford, men-
tioned above. A daughter of his is exceedingly sensitive,
and withal, a highly intelligent woman.
Another brother had a similar attack, or at least, extreme
nervousness, and would walk the floor by the hour, back and
forth, wringing his hands and twisting his pocket handker-
chief as if in great distress of mind, besides being at all times
extremely low spirited.
Another brother still, was similarly afflicted for a short
time, the burden of his derangement being money, a quality
that appertained to his grandfather on his mother's side,
that is, to the father of the H. S. first mentioned. He had
his whims, and was partially deranged in the matter of
money.
The daughter of another sister of this family, evinces ex-
treme sensitiveness and nervousness, and is very low spirited.
Her Hope is small. Cautiousness prodigious, and tempera-
ment most excitable. Her sister, another grand daughter of
the H. S., virtually committed suicide deliberately and inten-
tionally, by eating what she knew and designed would kill
her. This she did from grief occasioned by the absence of
her husband, and his not writing her. She felt as though
she was in the way, and not loved by him. This made her
desire death, and she took a course to produce it.
lOS MENTAL DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Another grand daughter of Mr. S. Recapitulation.
Another sister died from melancholy. In sp6aking of her,
her friends remarked that she got into " a strange way."
This enumeration embraces nearly every one of the descen-
dants of the H. S. first spoken of.
Again. This H. S. had a ?iiece who was courted ten years,
and then taken advantage of, and rendered oicicnte. Though
her guilty paramour was compelled to marry her, yet the
grief, melancholy, and mortification occasioned by the thought
that he was compelled to marry her, but would not do it wil-
lingly, caused her death in a few days after the birth of her
child, which was hasteued by the mother's grief. Several
other members of this family have their peculiarities, and so
have some of the descendants of this S., the oldest of all,
especially those descendants from a bro/her oi Ihe li. S., so
often alluded to. One of them is a judge, and the whole fam-
ily are regarded as eminently talented. Most of them are
also long lived.
1 know not what clearer proofs that insanity is hereditary,
could be adduced, and if all the facts could be slated more in
detail, the case would be still stronger.
To recapitulate. S., the first one of this diseased familj'',
was queer, eccentric, fussy, fidgety, and partially deranged
on the matter of property, fearing he should come to poverty.
Of his relatives, nothing is known, except that some of the
descendants of one of his grand daughters, are a little crack-
brained, to use a common phrase.
Belonging to the second generation, was this H. S., the first
and main one mentioned, who was deranged on the subject of
religion, and on the social organs, and her sister's daughter
died of a broken heart, or unrequited affection.
Of her children, or th.e third generation, one was very
nervous, another died in the insane hospital at Hartford, and
four others were occasionally insane, and one sound.
Of the fourth generation, one virtually committed suicide, one
was sent to the Innatic asylum in Hudson, one often threat-
ened to commit suicide, and something less than a score are
extremely nervous, and about half deranged.
And finally, the infants of the fifth generation, besides be-
ing most sensitive, show an intensity of feeling and a power
INSANITV HliREDITARY. 109
A I.uly in Danvers. '^"hc tiuwall luiuily. An anecdote.
ot' desire, which bid fair lo develope themselves in ultimate
madness, unless the principles to he presented in the next
section, are pntinto vigorous practice.
While making prolessional examinations in Danvers, Mass.
in 1S41, a lady brought her son to me expressing great anx-
iety lest he should be deranged, and giving as her reason that
the child's father died of derangement, and that the child's
grand mother on his father's side, died in the insane hospital
in Charlestown, Mass. On inquiring still further, 1 found that
some of the uncles and aunts of the boy, on his father's side,
had manifested signs of derangement. Ke gave decided evi-
dence of precocity.
Joshua Coflin in a letter to me on hereditary descent, writes
as follows :
" Henry Sewall, who came to this country in 1634, was a
distinguished man, but occasionally subject to turns of de-
rangement. In every, or nearly every generation from that
time to the present, some one or more of his descendants
have been affected in the same way ; and there are now liv-
ing in N**^^=-'-*y and B**^**'^y several lineal descendants of
Henry Sewall nartially or occasionally deranged. And what
is a little remarkahie, they are affected in very much the
satiic mcainer. They are eccentric, odd, peculiar, but always
harmless, though crazy."
An anecdote of one of them, will serve as a sample of the
species of derangement to wliicli they are subject. One of
them was impressed with the idea that lie was elected to be
damned eternally, andtliought llsat the sooner he entered upon
his doom, the better. Ke therefore wished very much to com-
mit suicide, and yet entertained the idea that it was wicked
for liini to do so. lie therefore devised the following method
of making way with himself without incurring guilt. He
thought that if he should swim out into the water just as far
as he could swim, and then turn round and be drowned
while trying to save himself without being able to do so, he
should not be guilty, because he was trying his best to save
himself He tried this plan, but, unfortunately, his strength
held out longer than he expected, and brought him back to
the shore.
10
110 MENTAL DISEASES HEREDITARY.
The Bartlell family generally nervous.
Sometimes they would shut themselves up for months, ut-
terly refusing to see any one, and pleading as an excuse that
they were nnworthy to do so. The derangement seemed to
be produced by small Hope and Self-Esteem, and prodigious
Conscientiousness and Cautiousness. They were all exceed-
ingly pious. Indeed, their derangement seemed to be a reli-
gious melancholy induced by a morbid condition of the mo-
ral organs.
A very pious and most excellent young man died at Am-
herst College about the year 1829, exceedingly low spirited,
and evidently of religious melancholy. His surname was the
same as one of those mentioned by Mr. Coffin in the passage
quoted above, but omitted there and here for reasons which
the reader will appreciate. He was doubtless a descendant
of this family.
"The ancestors of anolher family," says Mr. Coffin, "first
settled in Newbury, many of whose descendants have been,
and still are distinguislicd for talents—having strong minds
in strong bodies, but who have, for many generations, been
afflicted with a nervous irritability. At one time they are
elated, at another time, they are depressed in the extreme, by
which they have snfFered through life. I could narrate a
dozen instances which have occurred in nearly as many bran-
ches of this family, which would corroborate the descent of
this physical peculiarity from generation to generation. For
instance:—The maiden name of my grand mother, was Sa-
rah Oartlett, a woman of strong mind, great firmness and
self-possession when obliged to act; and yet one of the most
nervous persons imaginable. She would sit by the hour to-
gether, and wring her hands enough almost to wring them
oiT, plait her apron into narrow plaits, and then spread it
out again, and repeat this process for the hundredth time.
She would imagine for a long time together that she was nn-
fit for company, because she did not know enough, and
sbould disgrace herself and family; but when obliged to ap-
pear in company, no one could appear to better advantage,
or do herself more credit. On one occasion, when company
had been invited, she could not be persuaded to join them on
account of these gloomy, nnworthy feelings, till some on*
INSANITY HEREDITARY. Ill
The Coffins. Mr. S. o( Syracuse, aud his ancestors and relaiives.
told her iliat she did not know enough to appear respectably,
when she arose with great dignity and majesty, replying,
*lt"s false,' and walked in and became the master spirit of
the occasion.
'•She has a large number of descendants, and out of the
whole, I do not know of one who does not inherit, in a great-
er or less degree, this same nervous temperament, except
some of them by the name of Coffin. The peculiarities of
my own immediate relations, by the name of Coffin," (refer-
ence is here made to the same nervous excitability,) " in that
respect, on my father's side, are clearly traced to my grand
mother Bartlett."
The nervous affection mentioned in the preceding cases,
is evidently a lower species of derangement, as indeed are
ell nervous affections, or what is commonly called "the hypo,"
"the hysierics," '•
hypochondriasis," " the spleen," &c. &c.,
they all being caused, in common with downright madness,
by a morbid or over-excited or diseased condition of the brain ;
and the degree of that disease, determines the degree of the
nervous affection or derangement.
In Syracuse, in Jan. 1S43, the author, in examining the
head of Mr. S., remarked that his extreme nervous excitabil-
ity, bis prodigious Cautiousness and small Hope, would sub-
ject him to ups and downs—would cause him to be sometimes
in the garret, and then in the cellar, and afflict him with ex-
treme melancholy.* He then stated that most of the mem-
bers of his family, as far as he could trace them, were simi-
Jarly afflicted —(hat his father committed suicide, and so did
one of his uncles; and that it was only with difficulty that
lie could at times restrain his tendency to commit suicide. I
then asked him if he was not related to a man by the same
surname with iiis, who formerly resided in B., Yt., and with
whom, some ten years ago, I was acquainted, who was noted
for being by turns severely afflicted with melancholy. He said
he was his cousin. He traced the disease back to his grand
father, who also committed suicide : further back he could not
go. His son had the same temperament, and small Hope.
* A rondition always accom|Minying small Hope and an exciiable tero-
peratnent.
112 MENTAL DISEASES HEHEDITAKY.
A case in Canad.a. One in R. I. T*'9 broihers near lioston.
In Bnrford, Canada West, in Dec. 1810, 1 examined th6
head of a clergyman considered a most excellent man, who
Avas habitually low spirited. He said that his father and
every one of his name and family, as far as he kiicw them,
were similarly afflicted. His and tiicir n^.elancholy took a
religions turn.
In the town of S., R. I., I examined a family of children
having as fine a set of heads as 1 almost ever saw, which I
remarked as really extraordinary. The mother at the close
asked if I thought them any way predisposed to derangement.
I asked her if either parent was ihiis predisposed. She said
yes, that their father died insane, and that tlieir nncle was
then confined in the jail at P. on account of his derangement.
One of their annts is extremely enthusiastic in whatever sho
takes an interest, and has her hobbies, now abolition, now
phrenology, now education, but from having a su])erior mo-
ral and intellectual head, her hobbies are of a moral and phi-
lanthropic cast; still they are hobbies, and she rides them al-
most to death.
I examined the head of a gentleman near Utica, N. Y.,
some of whose relatives had been deranged, and he was oc-
casionally beside himself. He had a superior head, but Hope
was small, and Cautiousness prodigious.
Miss Hunt, female physician in Boston, relates the follow-
ing. Two twin brothers, residing in a town near Boston,
married happily, and had every thing in common, and abun-
dance of the comforts of life, and had always kept free from
debt, and been noted for their honesty. One of them fell
crazy, and run away with the idea that he was, after all,
dishonest—that he was deeply in debt, (though he did not
owe five dollars in the world.) that he had all along imposed
upon his neighbors by pretending to be honest when he was
not, and now he was about to be detected, and exposed, and
that he and his family were coming to poverty, tliough they
had their farm paid for. a large dairy, and their thousands in
Jhe bank.
His brother was so m^^ch grieved and mortified at this that
he too became deranged, and on precisely the same poini, and
their families were rendered the most miserable families im-
INSANITY HEKEDITART, 113
Jhiir grand lailier. The \V. iHinily. Aire. C and daughlcr.
aginable. The brothers insisied on being together, and
talked and nioiinied most piteously over their imaginary mis-
fortunes; yet this only aggravated their malady. One of
them had been deranged on the same point before, and I
think a cousin had been sent to the insane hospital at Wor-
cester. Both parents were perfectly healthy in bcdy and
mind, but a grand father was deranged, and deranged on the
same point—the apprehension of poverty.
There is a family by the name of W., wealthy, influential,
and eminently refined and moral, one member of which, a
young man of about twenty, died recently of derangement in
the matter of appetite. He first adopted the Graham system,
and became more and more abstemious, till he finally refused
to eat almost every thing. Let alone, he would not have
eaten at all ; and wTth the utmost persuasion, he could be in-
duced to eat no more than half a cracker, and drink half a
tumbler of milk twice a day—he conceiving it u-rong to eat
more. He had a splendid head, excepting the absence of
Hope and Amativeness, and the predominence of Cautious-
ness and Conscientiousness. When his physician stood over
him, he could get down enough to make him gain nearly a
pound per day, for a week, but he died ultimately oi pure
starvation resulting from this derangement.
Though this tendency was derived from parentage, and
lurked in his constitution, yet long-continued and severe op-
plication to study (Conscientiousness; the reasoning organs,
and the menial or studying temperament being pre-eminently
developed,) were its direct procuring cause, and were mainly
instrumental in bringing it out.
His mother was an exceedingly nervous woman, and very
odd and eccentric, and so were all his aunts on his mother's
side. Roth his grand parents, and their brothers and sisters
escaped, and were sor.nd in mind, but cne of his great grand
parents was similarly afilictcd—the disease having passed
over one generation.
Old iirs. C, a neighbor of the author's father, was fre-
qncntiy deranged, so much so that she was put into irons—
a
mo«l barbarous practice. One of her sons was deranged.
The family were unusually intelligent.
lU*
114 MENTAL DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Dr. Johnson. 'J'«o iiimilirs in I'c-iin. A case of twin liroUicrs.
This son married a woman who became deranged on the
subject of religion, and whose lirother. a most excellent and
pious man, became cra^y on religious subjects. A daughtei
was quite talented and a most sweet and lovely girl —
a
quality that generally accompanies hereditary derangement.
Dr. Johnson inherited from his father that exceeding nerv-
ousness and most oppressive mehinclioly wJiich followed iiini
through life, and almost led him to commit suicide.
"It is a singular fact in the history of suicide," says Dr.
Rush, in liis v/ork on " Diseases of the Mind," p. 134, "tliat
it has sometimes been hereditary in families. There are
two families in Pennsylvania, in which three of their re-
spective branches have perished by their own hnnds, in the
course of a few years. Similar instances of this issue of fam-
ily derangement, are to be met with in other countries."
The following facts are from the work by Dr. Rush which
has been alluded to. The first account he received in a let-
ter from Dr. Williams, of Deerfield, Priass., dated, June IG,
1812.
" Captains C. L. and J. L. were twin broiliers ; and so great
was the similarity of their countenances and appearance, iliat it
was extremely difficult for stran<.';ers to know them apart. Even
their friends were often deceived by them. Their habits and
n:!anners were likewise similar. Many ludicrous stories are told
of people mistakinti; one for the ctlier,
" Tliey both entered the American revolutionary army at the
same ti(ne. Both held similar commissions, and both served with
honor during the war. They were cheerful, sociable, and in every
respect gentlemen. They were ha|ii»y in their families, having
amiable wives and children, and lliey were both independent in
their property. Some liirie after th.e close of the war, Capt. J.
I'emoveci to the state of Vermont, while Capt. C. reriiained in
Greenfield, and tNvo hundred miles from his brother. Within the
course of thipe years, they have hot!) beer subject to turns of par-
tial derangement, but by no means rising into mania, nor sinking
into melancholy. They ap])eared to be hurried and confused in
their manners, but were constantly able to attend to their business.
About two years a'40, Capt. J., on his reiuin from the general
assembly of Vermoiu, of which lie was a mendjer, was found in
his chamber, early in the niorriinLS with his throat cut, by Iiis own
hand, from ear to ear, shortly afier which he expired. He had
b«en melancholy a few days previous to this fatal calastrojihe,
INSANITY HEREDITARY. 115
A man who wished (o die witlinul children. Farts in ahiiiidniice.
and iiad oo«n^)!ained of indisposition ilie evening previous to the
event,
" Aboirt ten days ago, Capt.C, of Greenfield, discovered signs
of Miclanclioly, and expressed a fear that he should destroy iiim-
seir. Enilv in the niorning of June 5th, he got up, and proposed
to his wife to take a ride wrth hiin. He shaved himself as usual,
wiped his razor, and stepped into an adjoining rooMi, as his wife
sup^Kised, to put it up. Shortly afi<M- she heard a noise like water
oi- blood rutining ujX)n the floor. She hurried into the rooii), but
was too late to save him. He had cut liis throat with his razor,
ai)d soon afterwards expired.
" The motlicr of these two gentlemen, an aged lady, is now in
a state of deiangement, and their two sisters, the only survivors of
their family, have been suliject, for several years, to the same
complaint.
'•
Insanity generally attacks in those stages of life in which it
has appeared in the patient's ancestors. A general officer who
served in the American army during the revolutionary war, once
exjiressed a wish to a brother ofBcer, that he might not live to be
old ; that he might die suddenly ; and tliat if ke married, he might
liave no issue. L pon being asked the reason for these wislies, he
said he was descended frorn a fjimily in which madness had some-
tliiies appeared about the fiftieth year of life, and that he did not
wish to incur the chance of inheriting, and propagating it to a
familv of children. He was gratified in all his three wishes. He
fell in battle between the thirtieth and fortieth years of his age,
and he left no issue, althout-h he h.ad been married several years
before his deatl). A similar instance of the disease appearing at
the same time of life, in three persons of the same family, cx;curred
imder my notice in the Pennsylvania Hospital. It came on in a
father and two of his sons between the sixtieth and seventieth
J
ears of their fives.
" Application was made, some years ago, for the admission of
liiree members of the same family into the Pennsylvania Hospital
on tl)e same day. 1 have attended iwo ladies, one of whom was
\he fourth, aiid the other the ninth, of their respective families,
tiiUL had been affected with this disease in two generations."
The^e facts, and thousands of similar ones which misht
easily be recorded, (and every reader's observation will assure
him any number of fa'^ts of this class, even more striking than
these,) exist every where, and especially are observable in our
insane asylums, and must force home the conviction upon
every rational mind, that a predisposition to insanity is he-
reditary, and follows down in the direct line from father to
116 MENTAL DISEASES HEREDITART.
This (lisfase euu lie prevented. Coiilracliiig marriages.
son and grand son, as far as it can be traced.* And if any
additional evidence were needed to strengthen this con-
cUision, the fact that other diseases are hereditary, furnislies
that evidence. Other qnahties are hereditary, and so is this.
Aiid in the name of science—of that law by Avhich children
resemble their parents—I assure all those, either of whose
blood relations are or have been partially or wholly deranged,
that they also, and their offspr i7ig \oo, are in danger of being
similarly afflicted. The descent of derangement, like that of
consumption, or looks, is a hnv of our naiwe, and they must
lake vigorous precautionary measures, or they too and theirs,
"in an evil hour when they think not," will be overtaken
by it.
But this disease can be prevented. I fully believe it can be
v.'arded off in all cases. None need be compelled to suffer its
dreadful tortures. At least, the tendency can be arrested, and
the next generatioa rendered less, and the third still less, lia-
ble to be overtaken by it, till it can finally be expelled from
the family.
As to contracting marriages with those whose ancestors or
relatives are subject to this disease, the same laws govern
this matter which govern the other diseases, previously men-
tioned. If they are rising above the disease, or if they take
after the parent not thus predisposed, there is less danger.
Or if they resemble those subject to it, provided they are
aware of the tendency, employ preventives, and avoid those
things that tend to induce it. and above all, if, when they are
sensible that their feelings are tmduly exalted, they will place
their reason over against this tendency, and remember that
these feelings are not real, but only the effects of undue cere-
bral excitement—are a disease of the mind, just as inflamma-
tion is that of the body—they certainly can govern the ship
of mind by the helm of reason.
* Will not Dr. Biittolpli, the gifted assist;int of the New York Lunatic
Asyiuui at L'tica, Dr. Woodwanl, and others comiectcd with these insti-
tutions, make extensive inquiries, and record tlic results, with tlie view
of secinjr what ])roportion of all the htnaiics brought to their asylum*
have relations, and cs[)ecially ancestors, that are or have been deranged,
and deranged on the same points.
PREVENTIVES OF TN?AN1TY. IIT
SufiiTiiigs ol ilie iiisanr. Ciueliy of piini>hiiit; ilicni.
SECTION II.
PREVENTIVES OF INSANITY.
*' The enjoymenls aiul stifleriiigs oflhe iiixu. far exceed those of tlie boily."
Of all diseases that afflict our nature, those diseases that
affect the mind, are the most grievous—are crushing, and
absohitely insupportable. To have limb after limb cut
from the writhing body, most excruciating though it be,
bears no comparison to that horror of horrors experienced
''when minrrs diseased." How often have those in this
state been knov/n to hold their hands in the fire, to cut and
bite their llesh, or to submit to amputation, and then remark
that these things were diversions when compared with the
indescribable mental anguish they endure ! Well may the
heart of every philanthropist beat with its fullest and strong-
est pulsations of sympathy, in view of the anguish experienced,
bytlie raging, bewildered maniac; and well may governnjent
attempt the amelioration of those thus afflicted, by erecting:
asylums for their comfort and cure. What practice is so-
barbarous, so absolutely horrible, as that of confining the-
tnaniac, perhaps in a dungeon, in chains or the strait jacket,
treating him as if he were criminal, and perhaps scourging
him at that ! He is sick, not criminal. To chastise one wii»-
is sick of a fever, or dying of consumption, is truly horrible;
but to chastise a maniac, is as much more so as his disease is;
more painful than all others. Ordinary diseases can be en-
dured ;
but let reason hj dethroned, let self-possession be-
swayed from its moorings, let imaginary demons torment, and
all the passions be thrown into tumultuous uproar, the whole
man no longer himself, and of all objects of commiseration,,
this is the most deserving. And it should rejoice every fiiend;
of man, that remedies of this disease have, of late, beeis dis-
covered, and applied with success.
But to prevr>nt a -disease, is gtill l>etter than to cure it : antJ
the author pledges hinjself, that the following prescrij>'»i.cius,.
faithfully adl^epod to, vvhile they will greatly mitigate this
^iaease after it k once seated, will, in most cases, where ift is
lis MENTAL DISEASES HEREDITARY.
H«"'liiro ilie ccii'litiil iiifl immaiidn. Dcrangpd persons talented.
herediiary, if not in all, prevent its developing itseli'in actual
insanity.
Both to prevent and also to cure this disease, it is first
necessary that we understand its rause, so as to counteract or
obviate it. The cai/se of insanity, or raiher inanity itself,
consists in the excessive exci/abifi/y and over-action of the
brain and ven-oiis system, lis prevention, therefore, can be
effected by wlialever will p'cvnni this excessive action; and
its cure can be efi'ecud only by reducing this over-action.
And the remark is loo obvious to require more than its mere
preseniation, iliat precisely the same remedial agents should
be enij)loyed to reduce this morbid inflammation of the brain,
that are now employed to rednceother cases of inflammation ;
and the same means by which tendencies to other forms of
inflammation may be jirevenled, will prevent the inflamma-
tion of the brain, and its consequent derangement of mind.
L» it never be forgotten, that insanity is a purely physical
disease—as much so as consumpiion, or cancerous aflections,
or any oilier bodily indisi)osiiion ; and both preventives and
cures, to be effectual, must be calculated to prevent or reduce
this inflammatio)!.
In order to come the more directly at both the cause andv
the prevention, as well as the cure of this disease, allow me
to call attention to one condition which always accompaniea
derangement, and which is a product of that very cerebral
condition which causes madness, and that is, superior natu-^
ral abilities, accompanied with feelings the most intense and
susceptible imaginable. And these are caused by that same
exalfd action of the brain by which derangement is caused.
Conseq(JcntIy, families and individuals predisposed to de-
rangemeni. are always eminently talented, and possessed of
the best of feel in o;s. It is the very flower of comnnmity who
are afllieted. lii fact, this affliction is only the very excess
of that talent and seiisibihiy. Do superior talents depend
upon the powerful action of ihe brain? So does insanity, only
the cerebral action is still greater. As but a narrow line sep-
arates the sublime and the ridiculous, so but a step divides
the higliesl order of talents from madness. JNor can a sim-
pleluu well be crnzy. It takes a prodigiously small msu lo
PREVENTIVES OF INSANITY. 119
K^ep rhililr'en liable to tlerang"ment from study. F.irniln^.
become deranged ;
so that whoever is subject to derangement,
is '•
nobody's fool."
Hence, then, to prevent an hereditary tendency to insanity
from developing itself, it is necessary only to prevent this
constitutional excitability of the brain from progressing be-
yond the point of healthy action. And to do this, it is only
necessary to divert the action from the brain to some other
part, to remove exciting causes of cerebral action, and to keep
the brain as quiescent as possible.
To illustrate. Your child is hereditarily predisposed to in-
sanity. You will see this predisposition in his ecstasy of
feeling when pleased, and in the overwhelming depth of his
anguish when crossed ;
in the power and intensity of his de-
sires, in his haste and eagerness about every thing, and in
his being prodigiously smart and acute. And this is the er-
ror. Parents generally try to increase this action, by plying
thein with study, keeping them confined at school, and see-
ing how very smart they can make them. But Xhe preventive
of tliis tendency consists in pursuing directly the opposite
course. This highly wrought cerebral action requires to be
'iotiinislied. Study is directly calculated to increase it ;
so is
coi^uement ; but physical exercise is calculated to divert it
from the brain to the muscles. Hence, no child or youth,
eithcTof whose parents or relatives are subject to derange-
ment, siould be sent to school. >sor should ihey, for the same
reason, bv vexed or plagued, or excited any way. but they
should be allowed to run and to play \A\\\q. children, to re-
create and anuse themselves, and be happy during the pe-
riod of youth, rind should not enter. upon the cares and busi-
ness of life till fully matured, and then should check that
boiling energy wl>ch courses through their veins.
Of all occupatiorjs!, farming is the most suitable for them,,
as the labor it require?, diverts the energies from the brain,
and works off that excitement, the excess of which constitutes
this malady. With nothing to do, this energy accumulates,
and gathers upon the most susceptible part, the brain, and
ends m derangement ; but open the valve of labor for its es-
cape, and health and sanity are preserved. I enjoin active
physical labor upon those thus predisposed. Still, I would
120 MENTAL DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Murli sleep. Avoid e;(citenient. , Abstemiousness.
not force it upon children tlius predisposed, but simply en-
courage them to work as much as they please. Play is bet-
ter till they are old enough to be ashamed to play; then let
them work.
Above all, let them sleep much. Put them in bed early,
and keep them from beiui,' excited evenings. Young people
thus predisposed, should never attend balls or parties, or any
exciting scenes, in the evening, nor read novels; but they
should keep cool and quiet. Most certainly they should never
pi ay cards, or any other exciting games of chance, nor take
alcoholic stimulants of any kind or degree, not even wine or
cider or beer ; and it will be decidedly best for them to avoid
even tea and cofiee, because all these tend to augment and
develope that excessive cerebral action from which, mainly,
they are in danger. They should take la.vulices^ not tonics
—
wliat will diminish their excitability, not increase it. Alco-
holic drinks often induce derangcnicnt, even v/hcre there is no
)L\e):eCii\i(i.\'Y predisposiiion to it: much more, then, will they
develope a latent susceptibility already existing.
As those thus predisposed, cannot be too temperate, so the;
are in no great danger of being too abstemious. Indeed, sli'n-
nlating meats and drinks, are doubtless the most eiiio'eiit
ageu;s in developing latent insanity now in operation. Tlie
simplest diet is the best. Milk being productive of dullness,
is decidedly beneficial. Bread-stuffs will be found c^^cidedly
preferable to meats. Indeed, meat should be whoU^ avoided,
because it is a powerful stimulant. It heats ant Severs the
blood, oppresses the brain, and increases the terdency mainly
to be avoided. Bread, milk, Indian and rye niddings, vege-
tables, rice fruit, &c. &c., should constitute the diet of those
thus predisposed. Of course from spices, ^nt'stards, peppers,
pickles, vinegar, and condiments, they should wholly abstain.
Excepting alcoholic drinks, nothing is equally pernicious.
Only those things should be taken which open the system,
and keep it cool. Fruit may be eaten in almost any quantity
with advant age, an so may jellies, if not preserves. But
unfortunately, sweet things are relished by such less than
things that are sour and hot, such as pickles, peppers, <Sx-
Eat them, but they will hurt you.
rUEVENTlVES OF INSANITY. 121
'I'lif mill baili. Avoid those suiijocis on which reFaiives are derangpcl.
Analogous 10 a cooling diet in its sedative influence, is cold
water, l)otli washing and bathing, especially the shower bath.
Cold water is certainly cooling, and as explained in the last
section but one, is pre-eminently calculated to carry off the
superabundant heat of the syslcni, and obviate that feverish
tendency which constitutes th.e predisposition to be avoided.
And 1 do think nothing will be found more beneficial to the
insane than cold water applied externally, especially to the
head, and taken internally in copious and frequent diaughts.
This prescription must commend itself too forcibly to the
common sense of the reader, to require comment or defence.
But above all things, let those thus predisposed, avoid
tiiose subjects on wliich their relatives or ancestors were de-
ranged. Thus, one of the topics of derangement appertaining
to the family of the yoimg man who hung himself in the
summer of IS42, mentioned above, on account of his having
been disappointed in a love matter, was the social affections.
He should have known this. He should therefore have
nipped his affections in the bud, unless he was sure of their
being reciprocated, and consummated by marriage. In short,
he should never have allowed his affections to become en-
gaged, till he was sure of marriage—a direction suitable for
most young people, but doubly so to those thus predisposed,
because love is a very exciting thing any how, whereas they
require peace and quiet. Still, nnless such are able to gov-
ern their love, tiiey should locate their affections, though
tliey need not therefore be in haste to marry. Yet if the
tendency to insanity be decidedly marked, it is not right to
entail so loathsome a disease upon posterity. Such may
well wish the wish of one mentioned in the preceding pages,
that he '•
might not have issve^ And yet, if his own health
be improving^ he will be less liable to entail it upon his chil-
dren. A companion having a cool, soothing temperament,
should alone be chosen.
But tlie most efficacious prevention, after all, is to place in-
tellect on the throne, and to bear in mind that this hereditary
tendency exists, and when the feelings become powerfully
awake to any particular subject, remember that your feelings
are constitutionally too active, and therefore magnify every
11
122 Moral and intellectual qualities transmissible.
Self-jTovcriiinenl. Recnpitulaiion.
thing, and remembering this, will enable you to look on with
intellectual coolness upon the bustling tumult of raging
passions, as upon school-boys at play. Thus, if the predis-
position be to melancholy, remember that these gloomy feel-
ings have no foundation in reality, but are the product of
your own organization; that but for this hereditary predis-
position, the same circumstances would produce opposite
feelings ;
that, in short, all your trouble is self-made, and
without foundation, and this will enable you to dismiss them.
And so of any predisposition that may beset you. True, this
will require much self-government —a quality of the utmost
importance to those thus predisposed, and yet, from the very
nature of their disease, so very rare—yet it will amply repay
all the pains taken in its cultivation ;
and the preceding pre-
scriptions will do much to mitigate, and finally banish from
the human family, so terrible a scourge of ignorant, suffering
man.
CHAPTER VI.
MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
SECTION I.
THE MENTAL QUALITIES AS THE PHVSICAL-BOTII INNATE, AND
UOTr-uNED BY THE SAME LAWS OF TllANS.MISSION.
We have thus far seen clearly, tliat />//?/s/c«^ qualities are
both innate and hereditary. Nor does the proof tluis far ad-
duced in support of this position, admit of the least doubt or
evasion ; lor it amounts to complete demonstration,. And the
more so, oecause the evidence is accnmidathe. By showing
that peculiarities of form and coimtenance were hereditary,
the way was prepared for showing that greatness and little-
ness of stature were hereditary; and establishing this,
strengthened the inference that physical strength was heredi-
tary, and also reacted on both the preceding points, aiid also
oa the succeeding. Establishing these points, again renders
MENTAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE. 123
'Jhi- ai^uini-iii .irruimil.iiive. Pievioiis principles our base linos lor ili<> Itiliire.
(lie proof thai diseases are hereditary, much more conchisive
Uiaii it would be without such preface. Not, liowever, that
eitlier of the points thus far presented, are not proved separ-
ately, and u-i(lio7it tliat acciinuilative evidence we are now
presenting. Each has been sliown to be true alone, ly itself^
and independently of all other considerations, yet each also
reacts upon and supports, not only every proposition that
precedes it, but also each that follows, to the end of the work.
Thus, having proved that consumption is hereditary, analogy
teaches that other diseases are on a footing wiih it, and
therefore that iltcy also are hereditary. Nor would a ?tiict!y
logical argument rcqiure us to pi'ove that any more than one
disease was hereditary; for the inference would be that all
other chronic diseases are equally so. But we have done nx^re.
We have proved that consumption is hereditary, by fipj rals
to farls; and this double proof goes both backwaid ar.d for-
ward, and renders the assurance that etch is hereditary,
doubly sure. And the same is true of eacii point thus far
presented; so that the whole, taken together, forms an nrgu-
nicniative arch absolutely impregnable. There is no ectiing
by tlie positions thus far taken, either individually or collec-
tively.
Let not ilie reader suppose, however, for a moment, that
we have dwelt thus on the traubmission oi physical qualities,
either because uf the intrinsic importance of this department
of the subject, or aierely in order to demonstrate the trans-
missibiiiiy of physical qualities or of diseases. Were this the
only, or even the main object of the preceding pages, they
would never have been printed. No; but we have proved
that pliysical (jualiiies, diseases and insanity included, are
hereditary, mainly in order to prepare the way for what
follows. We have merely been laying the foundation^ that
we might build upon it our subsequent superstructme. We
have been thus minute and particular in matters that are
"known and read of all men," that we might demonstrate a
basis from which to proceed to the unknown. We have
demonstrated these propositions, in order to use them in
proving subsequent ones. As the astronomer, in measuring
the distances, dimensions, orbits, &<c., of the heavenly bodies,
124 MORAL AND INTELLFXTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
The same laws govern llic transmission oCbolli ilie nieiital and iiliysical qualities.
is obliged to fix his base lines on the earth—on iein-a jirma,
where tliey can be seen and measured—so we have thus far
been merely laying onr base lines—been demonstrating the
transmissibility of p/njsical qnalities, and sliowing M'lial prin-
ciples govern this transniissibility, in order to nse liicse
principles in prosecuting onr investigations as to the trans-
mission of mental and moral qualities. Not that the facts
and principles thus far presented, are not deeply interestisig
and highly important in themselves, and the lessons they
teach, calculated to augment vastly the best interests of man^-
kind, but after all, th.ey have been demonstrated mainly so
that they may be employed in investigating the laws which
govern the transmission of hitelleclual and moral qualities.
To improve man physically, to banish disease and to secure
physical health and animal j)lcasure, is certainly an object
most desirable—as much more desirable than the improve-
ment of our stock of catilr, horses, (Sec, as man is superior to
the brute creation ;
but these, immensely important as they
are, are trifles in themselves, whm compared with the im-
provement of the mind and morals of mankind—objects as
infinitely superior to the merely jj/i'i/sical improvement of
mankind, as the 77ii?id and sovl oi man are higher in the
scale of creation, and more prolific as instruments of enjoy-
ment and suffering, tlian is the body. I grant that improving
man physically, is the way to improve him mentally and
morally, yet I am presenting the relative importance of each
species of improvement, as contra-distinguished from that of
the other.
But with what emotions should we proceed to the investi-
gation of a subject so all important? ^Vith what cautiousness
should we proceed ? With what unwonted eagerness, with
what untiring assiduity and patience, should we learn this
the greatest lesson that God can teach, or man can learn ?
And may " that Wisdom which cometh from above," so
guide the pen of the writer, and the mind of the reader, that
no error may creep into these pages, and that much useful
information may be imparted thereby.
What, then, are some of our base li/ies, our fixed land-
marks, our lights to guide us in our investigation of a subject
MENTAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE. 125
Form ut' the liutiy aud head iraiismissible. &>o of the phrenulog-ical organs.
SO almost entirely unexplored? To those demonstrated in tho
preceding pages should be added, one derived from the lights
of Phrenology and Physiology, namely, that the menial quali-
ties are as the physical—that the influence of each recipro-
cally affects the other, and that, therefore, to improve either,
is to improve the other also. ]\Ian is a physical being, as
well as a mental and a moral one ;
and he also has a mental
and a moral nature, as well as a physical one. Nor are these
two natures strangers to each other ; but they are nearly re-
lated each to the other, by the uniform action of the great
laws of Phenology and Physiology; so nearly, that the con-
ditions of each, exert a powerful and a perfectly reciprocal
influence upon the other. As is either, so is the other.
I by no means design to touch the mooted question of ma-
terialism. I do not mean to say that the physical conditions
control the mental and the moral. This doctrine 1 do not
believe. If either governs the other, I believe the mental and
the moral govern ihe physical ; or rather, I believe there are
conditions or causes lying back of both, and which govern
both. But this question, be it decided whichever way it
may, does not affect our position, that the conditions of each
reciprocally aff'ect the other; that the reciprocality of these
reciprocal influences is perfect, and that each is as the other.
The tone, and texture, and organization of the body, are as
those of the mind ; and vice versa, those of the mind are as
those of the body. The laws which govern the one, also
govern the other; and those conditions which improve either,
also improve the otiier.
But more. A close similarity exists between the form of
the body, or the looks of a person, and the tone and charac-
teristics of the mind. The relation is this : —The form and
looks of the body depend upon, and are governed by, its
structure ; and this same structure is also as the organization
of the brain and nervous system ; and they are as the quali-
ties of the mind. As is the form, so is the structure; and as
is the structure, so are the mental qualities. And there are
certain shapes of body, which invariably accompany certain
trails of character, talents, and peculiarities. I believe, for
example, that the original, inherent properties of the mind,
11*
12G MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIKLE.
The foims of all bodies adapted lo ihcir iialures.
assume particular shapes of body—those shapes best adapted
to its manifestation ;
that, as a pepper seed and a kernel of
corn, both planted together, having tlie same soil, the same
sun, rain, covering, and culture, each abstracts its particular
and even opposite nature and nutriment from similar condi-
tions, and the products of eacii assume the particular quali-
ties of its parent from the same soil, sun, and showers, so
different original, innate, mental qualities gather around
themselves, both before and after birth, particular kinds of
matter, and assume particular shapes, adapted to their re-
spective natures; hence the endless diversity seen in counte-
nances, motions, appearances, size, figure, strength, &c. &c.,
of mankind.
I have elsewhere shown that " there exists a oneness, a
harmony of construction, between every portion of the body
and every other portion, the plireiiological organs included;
that this principle of unity applies also to the mind, so that
the general characteristics of the body and those of the mind,
harmonize with each otiier ; that jvomineiice of features, in-
dicates stro7igJy marked points of character ; that beauty and
proportion of body, indicate a well-balanced character and
fine feelings ; that coarse hair always accompanies coarseness
in the fibres of the brain, together with coarse, harsh feelings,
but that a delicately organized body, indicates and accom-
panies delicacy of feeling, &c. ; in short, that there is a unity
of character running through the whole person, mentally and
physically." *
I do not, however, design here to show n-Jiat shapes of the
body accompany given qualities of the mind, and vice versa;
but I wish merely to state this great law of our being, that
the texture of the body corresponds with the toyw and charac-
ter of the mind ; that a vulgar soul inhabits a vulgar body,
and has a vulgar expression of countenance; but that a re-
fined mind inhabits a delicately organized body, and gives a
refined, sensible, susceptible expression to the countenance,
• See American Phrfnolof^icnl .Tournal, in a series of artirles headed
«* Practical Phrenology." See iilso page 3'2 of tlie author's work entitled
*' Practical Phrenology," and bound in with " Phrenology Proved," &-c.
MENTAL QI'ALITIIS TKANSMISSIPI.K. 127
If pliysical qualities are hi-redilary, «io are also the ineiil.il.
and a corresponding shape to tl;e body ; and so of every
otlicr quality and characteristic of either body or mind, in-
chiding the fact lliat changes in either, produce corresponding
changes in the other.
And now for the inference. We have demonstrated the
proposition, that p/njaical qualities and pecnUarities are ke-
reditanj, and that all of them are hereditary. Now, since
the mental qualities are as the physical, and since the physi-
cal are, beyond all question, hereditary, the inference that
tiierefore the mental qualities, and all the mental qualities,
from faculties the most powerful and energetic, down through
all the shades and phases of character and disp<)sition, in-
cluding all the diversity of tastes and talents that exist
among men, are hereditary, except what modifications are
induced by education—that is, that the wliole of the basis of
character, even that on which alone education can operate,
is hereditary.
But more. If physical qualities are hereditary, and the
mental are also hereditary, because connected witfi the physi-
cal, it follows that those same laws which govern the trans-
mission of physical qualities, also govern that of the ijitel-
lectval and moral. Nor need there be the least doubt as to
this point. Hence, to improve the mental, we must proceed
precisely as we do to .improve the physical—must employ the
same means, and in the same manner ; and the same results
will crown our happy labors.
But to be still more specific. It has already been clearly
shown, that the texture of the body, and also the form or
shape of both the body and head, are hereditary ; and Phre-
nology shows that certain shapes of the body, and especially
of the head, always indicate, accompany, and coincide with,
certain shapes of the head, or certain phrenological develop-
ments. Hence, since certain forms of the head, that is, since
the relative size of certain phenological developments, are
hereditary, and since these developments are as the charac-
ter, it is plain that those traits of character v/hich result from
these developments, are also hereditary. That is, the form
of the head being hereditary, and the character coinciding
with that form, therefore the primary mental qualities ara
128 MORAL AND IXTTvLI-ECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
Tlie Ooclriue ilial KducHlioii tonns ihe common mind, toulroveried.
hereditary. We have already seen, for instance, that the
fornn of FranUliii's head, which is peculiar, and in perfect
keeping with his character, is found in the Folger family,
(Franklin's mother being a Folger,) and also in Franklin's
descendants. Now Phrenology being true, this descent of
ihe forrns of ihe head, or what is the same thing, of the rela-
tive size of the phrenological organs, proves that both the
original powers of the mind themselves, and also their rela-
tive power and energy, are lierediiary. 'J'he truth of Phre-
nology being admitted, the fact of the descent of different
forms of the head \s forced home upon every observing mind ;
and this establishes the descent of both the organs and the
facidties^ and also of the proportionate size of the former, and
the consequent energy of the latter. Neither doubt nor eva-
sion find any place in this argument, or railier, in this uni-
versal fact.
We have dwelt thus long upon the preceding points, partly
because of their intrinsic merit and importance, partly be-
cause of their linking inseparably together the preceding and
the succeeding portions of this work, and partly because they
completely overthrow the doctrine of the old metaphysicians,
that of " the Learned Blacksmith" included, that the human
mind is a blank, on which education and circumstance write
its whole character—that
"'Tis Edccation forms the common mind ;"
that neither the faculties of the mind nor the ideas, are innate,
but that man is just what education makes him, and nothing
more, nor less, nor dilTerent ; that, in short, children derive no
primary faculties, no peculiarities of mind, no mental, no
moral, no intellectual elements or bias whatever from their
parents as parents, or. what amounts to the same thing, that
no part of the disposition en- the powers of mankind, are he-
reditary, and, consequently, that parents do not transmit to
their children any hereditary qualities whatever, which
amounts to a total abrogation of the doctrine of the descent
of mental qualities from parents to children—a doctrine
which any ragged urchin in the streets should be ashamed
not to know ; a doctrine, the denial of which argues the most
MENTAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE. 129
The lallticy of iliis ilocirriip, as advocaled hy Nott, Hannlioii, ami Rtirriti, exposed.
coiisnmniate bigotry or intellectual obtuseness in such men
fls Dr. Nott, Dr. nainilton, and the Ijcarned (ignorant on
this poini) Blacksmith.* H(nv is it possible for men to be
so wise in other matters, and yet so foolish in this? How
can men of sense and intelligence deny the doctrine, that the
men'al qualities of parents descend to their children 7 How-
ever sensible they njay be in oilier matters, they are simple-
tons in this. However learned they may be in Grecian lore,
or physical philosophy, or the healing art, they'are icnora-
ninsos in this. However great in logic, or metaphysics, or
theolooy, ihoy have not sufficient intellect to perceive a law
as universal as the law of gravity, as plain, and palpable,
and numerous in its facts, and as eminently inductive, as
any other law of nature. On this point—the very acme of
wisdom, the most useful and beauiil'ul department of knowl-
edge^they are bigoted ignoramuses, and bt-hind every mother
in il'.e land in this species of intelligence, ^vchnien learned?
Sk'-// men icise / 11' learned, they are also ignorant, and that
too in the rnosl essential and the most connnon department
of learning. If wise, they are also foolish. H'hey have
"dead flies" in the ointment of tlieir talents and learning.
And they are bigots at that, for nothing but learned bigotry
will allow any man to maintain such palpable absurdities,
such N'iirned monstrosities. What! Do you, Drs. Hamilton
and IVoit, and you, t^lihu Bnrritt —do you indeed believe and
teach, that the mental qualities of parents, tlieir dispositions,
propensities, talmts. moral and religious dispositions, strength
or feebleness of intellect, and so on down through all their
infinite shades and diversities of character, are not heredi-
tary—not born in and iriih their children? Do not descend
from parents to their children, and are all the result of cdiica-
tion? Do you not know any better? Pray then what do
you know anyhow? Are you indeed so soft, so simple?
Would you not call him a learned simpleton, who, however
much he knew of history, the languages, or the natural
• See I he nniIiorV "Answer to Dr. H.-iiniltoii, in wliirli Dr Nott is
qiioKfil ; ]\ii(l also Stricture.-* on a Ij-ctiiro of tin; Lc.iimumI Biicksiiiilli ou
this sitlJL-ct, iti vol. IV. of the American I'lirenolugical Juiiriial.
130 MOHAf, AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
B»'iii nil >i \\<>n1 'I he iIiii k hi (I chirken Bipalhing. Crying.
scieiicfs. (li(i \]o[ know ihe alphabet, or liow to make a fire,
or wash his hiisids? Or hini a book-worm ignoramus, who,
tlioiigh ho knew '•
fifty Knnatinpfs," added to all the learned
lore of p;isi iiLM's. did not know that ehildren were born of
parents ;ii all. or liow they entered the world, or that tlieir
mental fafiiliics were Jiercdilary 7—Come, come, stop your
study of tlie l.uigMages; 5>i«ip inventing yonr stoves and
makihir your (wpc! inienis in the laboratory; stop amputating
limbs teaching Miuh ins. »S:c.. and go and learn your A B C's
on liercdiiai y (IcsriMii, lioni matrons and sires. Come, go
with nil', and I will sliow yon that persons are often what
ihey arc^, not only vUJiout cducaiion, hut, to quote Dr. Ham-
ilton, ' ///. the very teeth' of it. Tell me tliai Eenjamin West
was .1 pamlt'r because he was toiight to paint, when the fact
is, that he was rt priiumidc (], and even severely punished,
because he paiuied ; and was obliged to hide Jiis paint and
paintings in his ("aiher's garret, and steal away unobserved
to follow ihis his '•
ruling passion," strong at hiiih, and dc-
'
veloprd to l:e a masier pas. ion when but six years old 7 Do
you. really mean to say, that the young duckling, hatched by
tlw lieu. sc( ks ihr water, and swims dexlrously upon \\, from
ihe fust ^roic of his foot, because he is icnight to seek the
water, and taught hoii) to swim? That the chicken hatched
by the diirk. avoids the water, because it is tuvght to avoid
it, and pieks up its fo"d in consequence of, and in obedience
to, previous iiistnictiorts? (
h" do you really mean to main-
tain that the infant at birth, cannot breathe till it is taught
to brea(h(\ and taught how and u/ieti ? That it cannot draw
nature's iioiirisl.nient from its mother's breast, till it '\s taught
to do so. and taught hoir, and that it nurses solely because it
istaugiit? That before it can open its eyes upon surrounding
objects, it must first he tai/ghi the laws of optics, and that it
sees solely becavse it is taught hmo to see, and could not see
without such teaching? Or do you really maintain that a
cliiid cries because it is taught to cry, and shown hoWy
(mothers, of course if you will only not teach your darlings
to cry, they vvdl never in the world know how to cry, for
" 'T is ( ducalion " leaclies a diiliJ to cry,)
MKNTAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE. 131
Kmotious sfenerally, thirikin;r, mrmor)'. Sec, inltiilive rikI iiiii;iip.
and that it could not cry unless taught to do so? Tliat chil-
dren, from first to last, hear because they are tanglit the
principles of acoustics, and cannot hear till then? That they
cannot articulate till they are taught hoic 7 That no child
experiences a single emation of any kind, whether of anger,
or affection, or hunger, or heat, or cold, or pleasnre, or fear,
or pride, or selfishness, or pity, or justice, or kindness, or
taste, or sexual love, or any other emotion, till they are
iavght to do so ; and that they do so solely and only becraise
they are educated to do so? Do you indeed maintain that no
idea can be formed in the child's mind, till it is taught hoia
to form a thouglit, or is educated to think? Or that educa-
tion creates memory, or mechanical genius, or a talent for
poetry, or painting, or oratory, or learning languages, fcc?
Then this self-same edncation must really be a greater creator
than even God Almighty himself
!
"Oh no, we do not mean that education causes cliildren to
perform these and other operations that are instlnctire."
Then pray what do you mean? Either you do not mean
any thing at all, or else yon mean that appetite (Alimentive-
ness) is innate; that the breathing faculty (the phrenological
organ of which has recently been discovered) is instinctive,
or what amounts to the same thing, is iiuiate ; and so of an-
ger (Combativeness,) fear (Cautiousness.) affection (Adhe-
siveness,) love (Amativeness.) selfishness (all the animal
propensities large.) pride (Self-Esteem.) ambition (Approba-
tiveness,) sense of justice ((conscientiousness,) the religious
sentiments (the moral organs,) the laughing propensity
(^Mirthfnlness.) the talking propensity (lianguage,) the dis-
position and ability to think (Causality.) various kinds of
memory (the intellectual organs generally,) and so through
all his instincts, are each instinctive, that is, innate? Grant-
ed ;
for that expresses our doctrine exactly. If hunger, sen-
sation, breathing, seeing, anger, crying, laughing^ affection,
&c., are iitstinctive, and therefore innate, so is talkativeness,
taste, kindness, sense of justice, ability and disposition to
think, construct, remember, plan, observe, sing, &;c. Whal
broad line of distinction exists between these mental opera-
lions? None. Is one instinctive? So are all. Is one the
132 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
A\\ the primary faculiics innate. These niusi exist before eilncalioii can take eflTccl.
result of education? So are all. One is natural ; so are all
;
and if natural, also hereditary, and hereditary becmise natu-
ral, and natural bccartse hereditary. The fact is, that to
leave these, or any of them, to education, is to leave them
undone allogellier. Nature (the Deity) is not so bungling a
workman as to leave things as indispensable as is each of
these functions, to education; that is, to leave them out of
man allogether. No: man's powers are all innate; that is,
all insf/nc/lve, all intnilJve. Intuition, iimateness, and instinct,
are diifercnt names of the same thing ;
namely, for whatever
is hereditary ; and are all appellations belonging to evei-y
faculty of the hnman mind; and no less to the faculty that
breathes or eats, than to that which thinks, or remembers, or
talks. True, education may direct tliese primary powers into
difiercnt channels—may teach the faculty or the instinct of
appetite, both one and the same in substance, to eat fruit, or
meat, or tobacco, yet the eating instinct, or the faculty of
eating, must exi.st, before it is possible to teach it. How
would Dr. llamihon, or Dr. Nott, or Ehhu Burritt, go to
work to teach a child to see, that had no eyes ; or to hear,
that had no ears ; or to talk, that had no moiitk ; or to move,
that had no vmscles ; or to tliink, tliat had no Cavsalily, or
no original primary element or fac^dty for thinking? There
must be a faculty back of all education, and prior to all
teaching, before education can liave any material whatever
on which to operate, or eflect the least iota. Why cannot
Dr. Nott teach a dog Uiathematics? For no other reason
whatever, except that the dog has no primitive instinct, or
original /«c?///y, capable of being taught, and capable of per-
ceiving mathematical relations. But why can he teach his
pupils mathematics or logic? For no other reason than be-
cause they were created, with an origijial, intvitive faculty, or
power, or instinct, capable of perceiving these relations. Dr.
Nott says he can make every boy in any hundred that may
be selected, brave. Granted; because every boy in a hun-
dred, and in a million, and in the human family, has more or
less of the original instinct, or faculty of Combativeness,
capable of being increased by cultivation and exercise.
Though the duckling can swim when it first enters th»
IMEXTAL QUALITIES TRA.Ns:\n:>SIIU.E. 133
Niilure gives rverv primary pnwer—ei'ucniioii iraius il. Clearing our traik.
water—though the robin can fly the first time it leaves its
lofty nest, yet the former can swim more cxpertlj', and the
latter tly more easily and dextrously, from having practised.
So, although the power of thought, or the faculty of reason,
be innate or instinctive, yet education, culture, and practice
greatly increase its power, its correctness, and its scope. Yet
education can only {rain, it cannot create it. So of every
other power in man, both mental and physical. Nature,
through the instrumentality of hereditary descent, imparts
the primitive faculty^ tlie original power^ of doing every act,
exercising every feeling, and thinking every thought, that it
is possible for man to do. to exercise, or to think ;
and those
who maintain this dogma of the dark ages, the utier fallacy
of which we have pointed out, " know not what they do."
If some readers think we have dwelt too long on a point so
plain that "he that runs may read,"' let them remember that
if an error so glaring, so entirely subversive of the Avhole
doctrine of the hereditary descent of mental qualities, be
maintained by Nott, Burrilt, Hamilton, and a host of others
who exert a powerful influence over tiie popular mind, and
spread these pernicious errors far and wide in their lectures
and writings, it is certainly important, and high time, to
coimteract these errors, and to overthrow a doctrine so pal-
pably absurd as the doctrine that the mental qualities are not
innate, but are the products of education alone. Especially,
how could the author procefed to establish the doctrine of the
innateness and descent of mental qualities, without first
^'•clearing the track" of such rubbish ']
How can I build my
doctrine of the hereditary descent of mental qualities, on the
ground pre-occupied with the opposite doctrine, that lliey re-
sult from education, till 1 first tear down this doctrine? And
how can we draw those infinitely important inferences which
are to follow, without basing our foundations deep in the first
principles of the nature of man 1 I trust this course will be
found warranted by the superstructure we are thereby pre-
paring to erect. And then, again, the author has no where
seen this doctrine of the innateness of all the faculties, satis-
factorily established, or its opposite doctrine completely over-
thrown.
12
134 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
All ihe menial powers alike hcredilary. Iilioo}' ami superior lalenis lierccliiary.
But enough. We proceed to slioio hy f'/.rfs, tliat tlie intel-
lectual and moral faculties arc innate and hereditary^ (both
the same in reality,) and then to point out some of the laws
which govern their transmission.
But before we pass to the consideration of this matter, it is
due to this portion of our subject to remark, that since the
mental faculties arc hei'editary, they are all hereditary. All
that is -primary, original, and constitutional in man, is heredi-
tary—is hereditary because it is constitutional, and constitu-
tional because it is hereditary. Education cannot create the
first germ, cannot impart or originate the least thing. It can
bring out gifts that are hereditary; it can re-augment and
invigorate, but it can go no farther, can do no more. Let the
true office of hereditary descent, namely, that of transmitting
all that is constitutional in man, and in the degree of energy
in which the parent possesses it, be assigned to it; and let
also the true office of education, th.at of disciplining and re-
augmenting these faculties, preparatory to their re-transmis-
sion and improvement, be assigned to it. Let neither he
driven beyond the bounds allotted to it by nature; and let
both education rnd parentage go hand in hand, pari passu,
pars nohile fratrvm, in accomplishing the greatest of all
works—that of improving and restoring n^ankind, and pro-
moting their- virtue and their" happiness. And wo be to him
who neglects either for the other.
SECTION II.
IDIOCY AND SUPERIOR TALENTS, HEREDITARY.
A GENTLEMAN wlio is couuectcd with D. Fanshaw's Bible
establishment 115 Nassau street, New York city, relates the
following :
—" Some ten years ago, in Chester county, Pa., I
knew an idiot, so low in the scale of organization, that he
could neither talk nor laugh, nor even chew. His food was
gruel exclusively, which was poured into his mouth, and
run down his throat—he not knowing even Jloiv to sualloic.
IDIOCY AND SUPERIOR TALENTS HEREDITARY. 135
An idiol in Pa. Two idiols in one family, and ihree in anoilior.
He made but two noises, one a kind of grunt, which signified
tliat he was hungry, and the other a humming noise, as if he
wanted to sing. \Vhen he heard music, he would lay down
an the floor and roll, appearing as if it gave him pleasure;
and yet he nianifssted no other sign of intelligence except
those above named. His faeces passed from him without re-
straint. He could move but little. He had a brother who
was barely able to take care of himself. His father evinced
no want of intellect, but his mother was none the smartest,
and rather a butt among her neighbors, and was considered
rather flat. Her sister also knew just enough to warm his
porridge when lie called for it by this grunt, and pour it
down his throat; and this was all she did, or knew how to
do. Farther particulars I could not learn, though these facts
argue a want of talent in one grand parent^ the deficiency
not being as conspicuous in the mother, as iti her sister or her
In the poor-house in Wilmington, Del., in 1S3S, I saw a
mother and her daughter, both idiots, and the intellectual
lobe small in both, and alike in shape, namely, Individuality,
Form, and Locality somewhat developed, but Causality,
scarcely larger in either than in an orang oulang.
My brother, L. N. Fowler, has the drawings of several
brothers, by the name of Emerson, who were so completely
idiotic, that they had not done the least thing for themselves,
though some of them were sixty years old; and did not even
know how to feed themselves. One of the brothers barely
made out to take care of himself; the other three were total
idiots. The parents wer^e not noted either for talents or for
the want of them. Tlie point to which attention is mainly
called, is that there was some most unfavorable condition in
the parents, which resulted in the idiocy of..three successive
children.
Mr. Parker,^ of Parkersville, Pa., in conversing on heredi-
tary descent, said that he had children come to school to him
whom he could not possibly teach to read, and who, though
tlie utmost pains were lavished on them, seemed unable to
* If I mistake tlie namt of my author, I do not the/cd stated.
13G MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
What conditions in parents producp idiocy or talents in children.
learn to spell. Thej'' were regarded as fiats by al! who
knew them. Both parents had been married before, and had
children tolerably intelligent; yet all the products of this
union were simpletons.
There is a point connected wi.th the two preceding facts
which deserves investigation, namely, what conditions there
are in parents, both of whom are tolerably knowing, that can
produce idiocy. That there are such conditions, and also
conditions of an opposite character, the union of which pro-
duces talents in the offispring far above that possessed by
either parent or any of their relatives, is obvious to all. And
similar results appertain to the health of parents and children ;
some children being weakly wliile both parents are Iiealthy,
and both from a healthy stock ; and others healthy when
both parents are sickly. These conditions, like that of tho
colored ancestor and his descendant of the fifth generation,
mentioned in chap. ii. sec. 1, may have run under ground
for several generations, or there may be conditions in the
parents, perhaps disease, or fatigue, or excessive labor, or
highly favorable conditions, but tliere is scmethi?ig in this
point worthy of being investigated.
Closely allied to the above, is a principle on which it is
proposed to enlarge hereafter, but which deserves to be at
least noticed in this connection. Reference is had to the
condition of parents, especially of mothers, as influencing the
mental properties of the child. Near the A. factory, R. I., 1
"Was called to examine the head of a lad, some six years old,
whose organization was quite imperfect, head small, counte-
nance idiotic in expression, and unable to talk. On ques-
tioning the mother as to her situation during pregnancy, she
said that she was accustomed to sit in church where sbe
could not well help looking out at the door, (in summer,)
"where her eye rested upon an idiot, Avho was in the habit of
coming and sitting outside during service. Pie annoyed her
extremely, and 3^et she could not M'ell keep her eyes off from
him. Her child was the miniature of this idiot, not only in
the expression of its countenance and in all its motions, but
also in the cast or character of its idiocy.
THE SOCIAL FACULTIES HEREDITARY. 137
Talented sons have lalcnted moiliers. Amativencss licrcdiiary.
I saw another child near Adams, N. Y., rendered idiotic
by the condition of tlie mother during pregnancy ; and I
have seen others in all parts of the country, more particular
raention of some of which will be made hereafter.
Thus it is that hereditary influences often produce idiocy.
But they sometimes produce opposite results. Superior natu-
ral talents are generally, probably always, hereditary. To
notice isolated cases of this kind, however, is not the design
of this section, it being reserved for one on the descent of
specific intellectual faculties. All proposed to be done in this,
is, to show that the general tone and tenor of the brain—the
presence and the absence of the intellectual lobe, is heredi-
tary, abundant proof of which consists in the fact, that all
tlie intellectual men of whose parentage we have any knowl-
edge, were the sons of highly talented mothers. To this
general fact I do not know a single exception.
Having already shown that physical qualities are heredi-
tary, the preceding doctrine that the general tone, texture,
and organization of the brain are hereditary, requires little
additional proof, because the physical qualities being heredi-
tary, the texture of the brain included, and this texture being
'as is the tone and power of the intellect, the general quantum
or deficiency of intellect is of course hereditary. This con-
clusion, however, will not be left to rest on this inferential
basis merely, good though it be, but will hereafter be sup-
ported by facts, showing that the talents given by certain
organs are hereditary; that is, that the relative energy of
certain organs and their faculties, is hereditary.
SECTION III.
AMATIVENESS AND THE SOCIAL FACULTIES HEREDITARY.
If this element of our nature were not hereditary, it would
not be likely to be as universally developed as it now is, nox
ever as prolific. But although nearly or quite every member
of the human family has more or less of this faculty, yet,
like other mental and moral (\v\d\ii\es, \i runs iii families
;
12*
138 MORAL ANB INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIPLE,
David snd Sol'TTion. Royal family of KnglanH. Jiurr. Kci«ards.
aod not only in families, bni in the descendants of ihose
families, from generation to generation. Solomon seems to
have inherited that strong passion, Avhich induced him to
have so many wives and concubines, from \\\s falJier David,
who, not content with scores of wives and concnbines, con-
ceived such a passion for the wife of Uriah, that he commit-
ted actual murder in order to indulge it. In fact, Abraham,
Isaac, Jacob, Judah, Tamar, the daughters of Lot, and the
whole race, seem to have inherited and propagated this pas-
sion in an especial degree. See also the Bible account of the
kings of Israel and Judah in this respect, wlio were of course
lineal descendants of David.
The royal family of Great Britain, from time immemorial,
have been notorious for the power of this passion, as well as
for indulging it, of which its rapid augmentation of late is by
HO means a solitary example.
Aaron Burr had a development both of this organ and of
its propensity, in a degree truly wonderful—hardly an in-
stance being on record equally conspicuous. liis uncle,
Pierpont Edwards, v/as nearly iiis equal, and not only so
notorious, that, in New York, where he flourished at the bar
above half a century ago, even now his name is coupled with
the grossest libertinism, and the most unbridled protligacy,
but a novel was written on one of his' seductions. Both I'.e
and his nephew made their boast that they could seduce amy
v/oman, however virtuous, to whom they might be intro-
duced ; and it is yet within the recollection of most of my
readers, that when the love-letters of Aaron Burr—expres-
sions of passion from ladies of the highest standing in the*
land—were on the eve of being published, the publisher was
threatened with death from several quarters, by the friends
of ladies whom this correspondence would expose. It is said
to exceed every thiiis of the kind ever read or heard of; and
for ages to come, will the name of Aaron Burr be associated
with seductions the most artful and successful, with the in-
dulcrence of sexual passion the most gross and unparalleled
for excess, and with t!ie ruin of all that is lovely and virtuous
in v/oman. Long may it be ere such another foul enemy of
female virtue again scourges our earth !
THE SOCIAL FACULTIES HEREDITARY. 130
'J'lic rhildien of liarlols. A remarkable case. ClnUlrrn in atnis-liouses. &.c.
1 have met with several relatives of th.is notorious sinner,
and found the same gross appetite predominated over both
reason and the moral sentiments. It can, without doubt, be
traced farther back in this family, and in other branches
—
but enough on this painful case.
I examined the head of the son of a harlot in Xcw York,
only four years of age, and foimd the organ enormous, and
its manifestation in proportion.
JMore than a hundred years ago. a m.an run away with
another man's wife, irlien he was niiteiy-five years old! and
that too when he had four wives then living. This same
passion can be traced down for six generations, and will
probably be traced down six more, in a degree equally sur-
prising. Tlie fifth lineal descendant is said to spend thou-
sands of dollars on kept mistresses annually, though married,
and now probably tjixty years old ;
and all of his sisters be-
came mothers before marriage, besides evincing this passion
in the strongest manner. His niece, a girl only thirteen
years old, spent a ^g"^ weeks in his family, and returned to
her parents a mother before she v.-as fourteen, and by her
own cousin, his son, then not fourteen. Ai! the male mem-
bers of tliis family, and many of the females, are equally
remarkable.
I have been struck with the fact, that the children found
in our alms-houses and houses of correction, most of whose
parents were licentious, had extremely large Amativeness
;
and I have yet to see the first child of frail women, and the
first illigitimate, in v.'hom this organ was otherwise than
large. But enough of this disgusting picture, with the single
important inference, that the indulgence of parents during
the gestation of the mother, is directly calculated to develope
prematurely a beastly animal passion in the unborn infant,
and is one cause of the alarming prevalence of this vice. If.
as we shall hereafter see, the state of parents, while becoming
parents, and especially that cf the mother, influences the
child, surely the indulgence of this passion, merely for the
sake of the animal gralificatiea alTorded, must necessarily
plant the seeds of vicious iiid.lgence in the breast of the
otherwise pure soul of the unborn infant, to be ultimately-
140 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
Warning to parents. Amaiivcni-ss in talented men.
ripened up into full grown licentiousness. In tiiis way it is,
that many a child is ruined before it is born, and that too by
2)ious parents—ruined ignorantly, I grant, but none the less
eflectually. "What is more common than to see the children
of licentious parents follow in the footsteps of their predeces-
sors ;
and if this law govern the children of sin, it equally
governs the children of animal parents.
I have introduced this section mainly to prepare the way
for the preceding inference—an inference the importance of
which is deemed quite snlhcient apology for its introduction,
and without which any work on hereditary descent would
be sadly wanting.
It has been long and generally remarked, that this passion
is extremely strong in great men ;
and hence young men, in
aspiring after greatness, have allowed themselves to indulge
this propensity without restraint, thinking it one element in
greatness. So far from it, it is the ruin of many who would
otherwise have become distinguished. So far from making
men great, its excessive indulgence is the greatest drawback
to talents that they can well encounter ; for it creates a fever
in the brain that directs the energies from the forehead to
the cerebellum, and keeps the whole mind and body in a
perfect /et-e;- of preternatural excitement ; nor do I believe a
tritly great man can be found, who, during- t/ie period of
youth, freely indulged this passion. What may be the case
in manhood, after the system is matured, is quite another
thing. But be this as it may, one thing is certain—greatness
does not cause an excess of this animal passion, nor does an
excess of this feeling ccn/se greatness. This, however, may
be true, that a powerful constitution lies at the basis of both,
giving both superior talents and stcpng propensities. Still, a
strong constitution bears no relation to this organ more than
to any other. 1 have seen it small in persons of the most
powerful physical organization ;
and large in those of weak
constitutions hereditarily. No uniform proptfition exists be-
tween the power of this passion, and the energy of the intel-
lectual lobe, except the reverse ratio, that the more physical
energy is expended in its indulgence, the less there is re-
maining to be expended by the intellectual lobe. A certain
THE SOCIAL FACULTIES HEREDITARY. Ill
1 — . .
Having twins herrtlilary. l^oytT. Ilujrlics. IJIiiiKieH's ol>sfrvalion.
species of talent, that requisite for political enjineiice, for
example, in which its neighboring organ Combaiiv"eiiess is
required to.be so large, in order to sustain angry discussion
and recrimination, may be coupled with its excessive mani-
festation, yet how is it possible fcr this animal passion, in its
brutal exercise, either to strengthen the intellect or improve
the morals? And those who indulge it in order to aid them
in becoming great, will find themselves greatly mistaken.
Still, there' is probably little doubt, hut that its energy in
parents, ausm.ents all the energies of their children, Amative-
ness included.
Another hereditary quality, belonging of right to tl.is sec-
tion, is, that the tendency to have two or more children ai d
birth, descends in families. Dr. Kimball, of Sacket's Harbor,
after relating a striking case of the descent of Amativcuess in
a French woman and her daughter, writes as follow.,
:
"The sister of a man named Boycr, living in E ville,
liad twhis hrice. One of Boyers daughters married a i\!r.
Flagg, and died in her first accouchmeut, being delivered of
one living twin hefi>re sl.e died, the other renjaiuing unborn.
A son of Boyer, (and this principle descends in boih the
male and the female line.) married a Miss Mnglies, who,
after having four or five single Iiiiihs, was delivered of f/nee
diildren at one birth. Huglies, a brother of this last Boyers
wife, married Boyers sister, who. afier having three or four
single births in as many years, had twins, on account of
which Hughes left her, and lived clai^.destinely with another
woman, by whom he soon after had three children at one
birth:'
Verily, these Hughes and Boyers fulfil the first command-
ment in. the Bible, '•
Be fruitful, and multiply, and rv^plenish
the earth," with a vengeance. Can it be tl}at the marriage
of two families, each of which are accustomed to have tv.ins,
causes the birth of triplets'.^
Blundell says that a lady related to one of his pupils, had
/oi/r children at on.e birth, jind that three of tlie sisters of
this prolific wnnian. had either twins or triples. Dr. K. also
states, that having twins descends in his own family, and
mentions some other cases. But facts of this class are loo
142 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
Haviii!^ large or small families lierpditary. The incestuous propensity.
abuiulaiit to lequiro specification ;
for almost or quite all
parents who have twins, will be found to inherit this predis-
position from their parents, one or both ;
or else to be related
to tliose that have twins.
Those who belong to large ftimilies, generally have large
families, unless the other parent is feeble; and those Avho
belong to small families, to have small families, unless the
other parent be from a large family, and be the more power-
fnl. Whole families, in all their branches, will be found to
have just about the same number of children with their an-
cestors and relatives.
The incestuous propensity seems to be hereditary. A
father in Portland, Me.."^' committed incest with his own
daughter. Her son committed incest Avith his mother, and
the product of this double incest, was the lad who, at thirteen
years old, was sent to the stale prison for tying up another
boy and emasculating him. John Neal, the phrenologist,
writer, and lecturer, was called on to examine his head be-
fore the jury, and found prodigious Destructiveness. The
result in regard to Amativencss, 1 have not learned. Can it
be that incest tends, like marrying cousins, (a point hereafter
to be presented.) to degenerate and vitiate the race, and that
therefore the Bible forbids it? For the doctrines of the Bible
will be found to be eminently y;A//osoy;/i/cfl/, and to embody
many of the great physiological laws of our being.
A few remarks on the transmission of the other social or-
gans, may perhaps be appended to this section with as much
propriety as inseried in a separate one..
I know a little girl who is exceedingly fond of a kitten.
No hing delights her more than to play with one, or gives
her more pain than taking it from her. Neither father nor
rtiother likes a cat ; but the maternal grand mother o{ the
child was passionately fond of cats, would take them to bed
with her, and was almost cat-crazy. The child takes after
• This fact is stated by our friend and aj^ent, Wm. C. Harding, the
phrenologist, who is lecturing with much success in Maine. Will IVlr. H.
Bend puch oiher facts (Jii hereditary descent as he may chance to observe,
and especially relative to the P. family hereafter to be mentioned.
THE SOCIAL FACULTIES HEREDITARY. 143
The pets of parents ami chijiiren Ihe same. Adhcsirenesi hereditary.
its mother m its form of head and expression of countenance,
and tlie child's mother takes after her mother ; so that the
cliild resembles that grand parent from whom she inherits the
cat loving propensity—a law which will be found illustrated
by facts scattered throughout the work. This case is cited,
not because of its intrinsic importance, but to illustrate the
minuteness of this law of transmission.
Another sister of this girl, loves a cat extremely, yet takes
after its paternal grand father in its phrenological develop-
ments, yet it derives its excessive sensitiveness from its
mother, who inherited it from her mother—a fact at first
sight not in harmony with the law just named, yet the child
derived its extreme sensitiveness from its maternal grand
mother, from whom also she inherited her extreme love for
cats. The child does not strictly lake after either parent,
but takes a portion of both its physical and mental qualities
from both parents.
I wish here to ba nnderstood as maintaining that children
inherit not only particular organs from their parents, but also
the particular direction of those organs—not only large and
small Philoprogenitivcness, but also love of the particular
thing on whicli the organ in the parent fastened ; of which
still farther mention will be made hereafter. The children
of Israel had a strong passion for feeding cattle, a considera-
ble portion of which doubtless was inlierited from Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob, all of whom, including Lot, Laban, and
Esau, not only derived their entire sustenance therefrom, but
seemed to take the greatest />/co5«re in it, and also to be emi-
nently skilful.
The love of the Swiss, the Welch, and the Highland
Scotch for their native hills, and the home sickness so com-
mon to the Swiss who leave their country, is doubtless in
part hereditary.
Whole families, for generations, will be found to be ajfce-
tionate, fond of one another, of home, and highly domestic ; and
other families are wanting in this quality. Doubtless this is
in part owing to its want of culture, and yet this very want
of culture, grows in part out of the constitutional feebleness of
this faculty. Facts touching the transmission of these social
144 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TF.ANSIMISSIBLE.
Directions for lelliiia^ which paronl a child resemhles.
faculties are so common, so multifarious, wherever we make
observation, that isolated illustrations are not necessary.
And one of the very best guarantees of aticction in a daugh-
ter, is affection on the part of her moiher, especially if she re-
semble that mother.
It may be as proper to remark here as any where, that
one evidence that a man resembles his mother rather than
his father, consists in an unusual development of his social
organs. In woman, these organs are much larger than in
man; and that son who takes after his mother, will have
these organs Idrger than they are usually found in men; and.
when thus unusually large, it is a sign that he resembles his
mother, rather than his father, in whom they are less. Of
course exceptions occur to this rule ;
for the father may take
after his mother, and the mother after her fah'ur, so that the
husband may have them the largest, and the son have them
large, and yet take after his father, or rather, after h\s g?a}id
mother. Yet, as a general rule, the above sign holds good,
and will tell whether a son takes after his mother or father.
Self-Esteem and Firmness are most conspicuous in males ;
and if a daughter have a high head in the crown, which
indicates a large development of these organs, she will gen-
erally be found to resemble lier father instead of her mother.
So a large development of Causality, Constructiveness, and
Calculation, especially the latter, in a daughter, shows that
she takes after her father, these organs being more fully
developed in man than in woman.
Guided by these and some other similar signs, I rarely fail
to tell which parent persons resemble, provided they resemble
either, and thereby the age of the parent or grand parent
whom they resemble, or the diseases to which they afe
liable—which parent, if either, died of consumption, and,
consequently, whether they are liable to it ; and also what
were the leading mental and physical peculiarities of this
parent, and other predictions depending on this resem-
blance.
THE PROPENSITIES HEREDITARY. 145
Co;ul>aiiveiiess aiul I)o>lru(-liveiiriis hereditary.
SECTION IV.
THE PROPENSITIES HEREDITARY.
In central Pennsylvania, there lived two brothers, named
Mc , who were renowned for their fighting propensity ;
Combaiiveness and Destriictiveness being powerful and ac-
tive. In addition to their fighting propensity, they were
very strong, able-bodied men, and eclipsed all rivals in those
parts, in wrestling, hopping, lifting, 6cc. A daughter of one
of them, a large, fine-looking, energetic, stern, commanding
woman, married a ^Ir. P , and became tlie mother of two
sons, both of whom, though peaceable, excellent men. pos-
sessed great phj'sical strength, and the combustibility of
their maternal grand father. If a man ofTeied them an
insult, either of them would knock him dov/n instantly, and
by the tiinf* the insulting Avord was uttoed. A son of one
of them, in whom Con>hativeness, Destructivencss, firm-
ness, and Seif-Esteem were very large, was denied some
gratiiicafion by his father, in consequence of which, he be-
came enraged, swore terrih!}'', and, coming into the house
with all the fierceness imaginable, he caught hold of a chair,
and, slamming it down spiiefully upon the floor, exclaimed,
"I can tear the. house down, and will do it." His temper,
when once roused, was most outrageous and ungovernabla.
In looks, color of hair, form of body, and phrenological
developments, he resembled his father, and he his mother,
and she her father.
The two brothers were remarkable for their personal
cmirage, and their self-possession in times of danger. The
daughter, also, was as eminently courageous as her sons, and
the grand son mentioned above, literally feared nothiiig.
One of the descendants of this combative family married
?. woman who belonged to a very mild and sweet-disposi-
tjoned family. Of their children, one daughter had the de-
velopments of her father, and was stern, r.esolute, and vio-
13
146 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
Nero. Byron. CiiiUtreu born in and after the Canada outbreak.
lent-tempered, while another hail the mildness and sweetness
of the mother, along with her pJirenological developments,
inchiding small Hope, and a melancholy cast of mind.
Both the parents of Nero possessed the rcvcngefnl and
murderous disposition, to a degree almost unparalleled in the
annals of history. They were monsters in depravity, and
their son was a fiend.
Tiie mother of Byron was a most violent-tempered woman,
and her son was the lawful heir of such a patrimony. The
particulars of this case will be found highly interesting, but,
as they are recorded elsewhere, we will not swell our pages
by their transfer, our object being, mainly, to add iieio facts,
not to compile those already before the public.
But is there any need of multiplying cases of this kind?
Who does not know that ill-tem])ered parents have ill-tem-
pered children, and that the children of mild, sweet-disposi-
tioned parents are like their parents'? Who does not know,
that when bolk parents are revengeful or fiery in their anger,
the children are more combustible than either parents ? and
that those children, one of whose parents is mild and the
other spirited, are the one or the other, according to the pa-
rent they resemble ?
There are, however, some modifications of this law ;
such,
especially, as differences in the conditions of the parents be-
fore the birth of difierent children. In Canada, in 1840, 1
noticed many children in whom Dostructiveness was im-
mense—larger, by far, than this organ in either parent.
Thus, a child of Mr. S ,
the chief executive officer of
Upper Canada, living at Toronto, had one of the largest or-
gans of Destructiveness that 1 ever saw in a human being,
together with a most splendid intellect. The child was born
during the outbreak in Canada, in quelling which, its father
took the most active part, he being the commander of the
military forces. His house was besieged by the insurgents,
and the lives of all were threatened—circumstances calcula^-
ted to arouse all the energies of large Destructiveness in the
parents to their highest pitch of inflamed action, ready, in
this state, to be transmitted to their oflfspring. The boy re-
THE PROPENSITIES HEREDITARY. 147
jyiiijor IMc . Son. Sou* oftorys who seitlecl in Canada.
sembled Iiis mother. Cautiousness was also very large in
tlic child, and the Cautiousness of the mother was more than
once wrought up to the highest pitch by fear of immediate
death.
A son of Major Mc ,
wlio was second in command in
the expedition against the Caroline, and who had his hand
shot otf in boarding her, after having laid open the head of
one of her men with his broad-sword, had this organ very
large and very active, beyond anything I have seen before or
since, except in the last one named, and along with it the
most violent, iniiammable temper imaginable. He was born
some ten or eleven months after that expedition, and was be-
gotten, of course, while this organ was in most powerful ex-
ercise, in the father, if not in the mother. Nor is there the
least doubt, but that children born during war, are far more
combative and destructive than those born during peace.
But, though this is not departing from the present subject,
it is encroaching upon the subject matter of a chapter on the
conditions of parents while becoming parents, as influencinsj
the future characters of their children.
In passing, perhaps it may not be improper to remark, in
this connection, that the authors of the attempted revolution
in Canada, were, almost without exception, the sons and
grand sons, (especially the latter,) of the American tories
who were banished from this country on the successful
termination of our struggle, and settled all through Canada,
on 600 acre lots, given by the British government to each
banished tory, as a reward for opposing this revolution.
True, they sided with the English government, but still,
they could hardly have lived in this country previous to, and
during that great moral struggle, without catching some of
its spirit, and were opposed, probably not to liberty itself, but
to the men and measures of the war. They would certainly
be supposed to possess more of the American feeling, than
those who had always remained submissive to the British
government, which the successful issue of that struggle was
calculated to augment. This spirit they transmitted to their
148 MORAL AND INTELLKCTVAL QUALITIIS TRANSMISSIBLE.
The hea'ls of inlaiits resemble those ol pairiiis. Appeliie l;eretliiary.
children, "and they again to theirs," and the lesnlt v/as, this
strnggle lor the independence of Canada.*
Let not the reader suppose that 1 attribute all of the re-
sults above stated, to parental influences. On the other
hand, parents who have violent tempers, not only impart
large organs and strong fat;ulties of Conibativenesss and De-
structiveness to their children, but they also re-augment the
power of these faculties daily by scolding and punishing
them, and by keeping, in a variety of ways, these facultieg
in a fevered state. It is not all parentage; it is not all edu-
cation. Infants^ at first, have a phrenological organization
analogous to those of their parents—have large or sniall
Combativeness, Secretiveness, Destructiveness, Alimcntive-
iiess, or Acquisitiveness, accordhig to the size of these organs
in their parents. To tliis result 1 have been driven, by ex-
amining the heads of thousands and thousands of parents
and their children, in tlie families into which I am daily
called to practise my profession--one of the very best oppor-
tunities in the world for observing this point. Nor have I
the least doubt, but that following me into families hut for a
single week, will convince any observing or rejecting mind
of the correctness of these conclusions.
Again, the appetites of children are as those of their pa-
rents. Franklin, in mentioning the peculiarities of his pa-
rents, describes h\s father as almost destitute of Alimentive*
ness, that is, as appearing unconscious of the kinds of food
on the table, and indifferent to what kinds, and as eating
mainly from necessity, or, at least, with but little appetite or
relish. His description, in this respect, shows, as clearly as
any thing can show, that liis father had small Alimentiveness.
He then goes on to say, that/;-om this innlicntion of his fa-
ther to food, he, also, cared little what he Tile. His mention
of the/«6'/ that his appetite was feeble, (in illustration of
• It ehould !te ndderl, that tlio original design of the orif,'inators of that
ntniggle, was not a report to anus, l)iu the extuusion of their rij^hts by ])e-
titions and votes. But a few ivcklc.-s spirit*!, taking advantage of the
popidar excitement, in order to distingirLiih themselves, took np artm^jnnd
caused the defeat of a needed refunii that had licgun jji-opcrly, and iu the
S{)irit of peace.
THE PROPENSITIES HEREDITARY. 149
Rullsli and dislike of particular kiuds of food hereditary.
r
which, his story of the two rolls of baker's bread under his
arm, while reconnoitring Philadelphia, is in point,) is all we
wish, we being able to account for it quite as satisfactorily
by ascribing it to parentage, as he, by attributing it to a
habit implanted by his father
—
the absence of aj)j}etite in both^
being all that concerns us.
Whole families, again, in all their branches, are good liv-
ers. A strong appetite, for plain food, however, appertains
to every branch of the Fowler family, as far as I have been
able to trace it, either backward, or in the various branches
descended from the Jonathan Fowler referred to in the pre-
ceding pages.
Every member of that S family, subject to derange-
ment, mentioned in chapter v., loves good things, and though
most of them are very fond of money, and most saving and
economical, yet, they pay out money freely for eatables, and
always set a table loaded down with good things, besides,
their female members being excellent cooks.
And not only does a strong or a weak appetite descend in
families, but an appetite {ox particular kinds of food is also
hereditary. Thus, if the parents be fond of fruit, or pota-
toes, or peppers, or pickles, or oysters, or meat, or any par-
ticular dish, the children will generally inherit an appetite
for the same dish. Two of the children mentioned above as
inheriting a passion for cats, and also extreme nervousness,
from a maternal grand mother, inherited also from her a love
of roasted potatoes, both grand mother and grand daughter
preferring to make entire meals, day after day, on roast po-
tatoes and batter alone, and preferring this diet to all others.
Hence, ^f the appetite of the father fastens upon or rejects
oysters, or ardent spirits, butter, &c., that of the son will fas-
ten upon or reject the same articles, and induce the conse-
quences. The father of Ur. Kimball, of Sackett's Harbor,
N. Y., could never endure the taste or smell of butter; and
his son, though a merchant, will never keep butter in his
store, solely on account of the disgust he instinctively feels
towards it, preferring to forego the loss of both profits and
customers, rather than have it about him ; nor can he sit at
13*
150 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
Longings of mothers. Iiilcmperance herrdiiiiry. 'I'he I), family- D F.
the table on which it is, unlc.ss it is of the purest, sweetest
kind.
Edmund Bridges, of Prattsburg, could never endure
cheese, and not even bread cut with a knife with which
cheese iiad been cut without its being washed; but whether
it was iiercditary, I know not. Let each reader observe
particulars for himself.
Analogous to this doctritie, and directly calculated to prove
it incontcstibly, is an appetite in children for certain things
after which the mother longed during pregnancy, but, for the
reason already stated, facts of this cast will be presented
liereal'ter, as well as directions in regard to it.
In harmony with the foregoing principle, an appetite for
alcoholic drinks will be found to be hereditary, and especially
to descend in the line of the rnother. But it often descends
in that of the father.
Three brothers, by the name of U ,
emigrated to this
country with William Penn, and settled at Chester, Pa.,
whose descendants spread throughout liie western part of
that state. They wore a remarkably sober, lionest, industri-
ous, temperate family, in Jill their branches except one, into
which intemperance Avas introduced by the marriage of one
of the descendants with the daughter of a highly influential
member of tiie senate of that state, who, though he did not
become a sot, \v\ would have his wine after dinner, and
drink till he felt pretty well. He also treated his frietids
freely. This dnught»»r was not known to love liquor, but, of
six children, every one, a daughter included, became com-
mon drunkards. Nearly every child of these six also be-
came drunkards of the lowest cast, and so did a large pro-
portion of their ciiildren, though some of them were snatched
as brands from the burning, by the temperance reform. And
e\'e\\ the descendants of the sixth generation, though chil-
dren, love the "critter," some of whom were brought up in
families where no liquor was drank, except with medicine.
Still, the temperance reform will probably save many of
Jhem.
D. F ,
whose name, were it given, would be recog-
nized throughout the laud, especially in the religious world,
THE PROPENSITIES HEREDITARY. 151
A partial idiot. CliiM of Mrs- K- PermaiiPiil loi g^in^s resoml)l« apppiiie
thoug!i Causality and Conscientiousness are immense, inher-
ited. I think from his father, a love of spirituous Hquors, to
which lie yielded till he was about twenty years old, when
lie caine to a firm resolve never to taste another drop again,
and his adhering to this resolution has saved him, while his
talents have rendered him distingnished.
In Westchester, Pa., in May, 1840, 1 saw a man whose in-
tellect was every wa}'' inferior, and who liad been addicted to
drinking, ever since boyhood. His mother, whenever she
could, by any means in her power, raise money suflicient,
would get a quart or a gallon of liquor, lie down by it, and
keep beastly drunk till it was gone. Every one of her chil-
dren, the one alluded to above included, evinced this liquor-
loving propensity, even in their cradlos. One of them mar-
ried a tavern-keeper in Philadelphia, but v/as seldom in a
state fit to see company, and was more or less intoxica-
ted most of her time—a truly besotted woman. One of the
sons of another daughter was taken, when a boy, to live in
a Quaker family, in which no spirits were kept, and yet he
evinced a hankering after it.
The following case occurred at Cohocton, N. Y., the na-
tive town of tlie autlior. Mrs. K., who loved liquor, and
\YOuld have her sprees, wanted, while pregnant, a particular
kind of spirituous liquor, which she could not obtain. Her
child cried the first six weeks almost continually, and, as
if in perfect misery ;
and notliing that could be done for it
gave relief. At lengtli, by some means, the kind of liquor
ufter which its moth-er had longed, was given it, and it
clutched it most eagerly, and swallov/cd it with the utmost
greediness, and drank off half a pint, not only without in-
jury, but with great benefit. From being a most miserable
object, it became iiealthy, and stopped its incessant crying.
Not a rational doubt can be entertained, that the longings
of the mother will cause longings for the same .thing in the
diild. Now, in what consists the material difference be-
tween the transmission of tingratified longings, and of ii per-
majieiit appetite for a given thing? Simply in Xhe permanency
of the desire in the parent, and of the impression left on the
child ; for, if a mother's appetite be strong for particular
152 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TEANSMISSIBLE.
The tone of mind injured by intemperance in parents.
things, she will, of course, desire these things at limes when
she cannot indulge this appetite instantly. That is, she will
have an habitual longing.
True, these remarks do not apply to the father, but they
prove the principle of the transmission of appetite, and, since
other qualities are transmitted by the father, why not this
faculty? Still, I believe drunkenness in the mother to be
more detrimental to the children, and more likely to be Irans-
raitted, than in the father.
Another thing. The tone, cast, and character of the feel-
ings and intellect of children, are altered and influenced by
drinking habits in parents. They are more gross and ani-
mal in all their actions and associations, and less intellectual
and moral. Teachers have uniformly replied to my ques-
tions, whether they observed any ditference in the minds and
scholarship of the children of drunken parents, compared
with those of temperate parents, that they found the former
worse to manage, and less inclined to study, as well as more
difficult to be taught, than the latter. iS'or is this to be won-
dered at, but it is in perfect harmony with the great law of
physiology, demonstrated in my work on Temperance, that
all alcoholics stimulate the animal propensities more, rela-
tively, than the moral sentiments. By rendering the parents
more gross and sensual, it naturally stamps an aniiiial im-
press on their offspring, and the more so, because usually
begotten while the parent is in liquor.
True, the superior virtues of the temperate parent may
prevent the children from forming intemperate habits, and
though they may possibly escape destruction, yet, this de-
praved appetite, this liquor-loving stream, is almost sure to
fiow on to generations yet unborn, widening and deepening
as it progresses, either breaking out Jiere, and there, and
yonder, or else sweeping their name and race from the face
of the earth. Is not this a most powerful motive to young
ladies promptly to refuse the addresses of those young men
who drink a drop of any kind of stimulants 7 Every young
woman who marries even an occasional stimulater, is in im-
minent danger, aye, almost sure, of losing the affections of
her first,, her only love, past all recovery, and following him
THE PROPENSITIES HEREDITARY. 153
Lovp of money liorecliiary. A family of miser* in Wpsiclieslor
to an early and a most bitter grave; and also of seeina; her
sons, otherwise her comfort and support, beoonie her broken
reed, lier deepest disgrace, redoubling the indescribable
miseries of having a drunken husband, in the still deeper
miseries of having besotted children. Parents cannot l>e too
careful as to what appetites they indulge ; for, they are sow-
ing seed in a susceptible soil, from which those they most
love, will reap prolitic crops of health and happiness, or of
vice and misery.
An inordinate love of money, and also the comparative
absence of this faculty, will be found to be hereditary.
There wore two brothers, who resided in the vicinity of
Westchester, Pa., both of whom loved money to exce.'^s. and
one of tliem so much so, that he refused to marry, because
of the expense attendant upon having a family. ^^ Mpu he
became old and infirm, to save expense, he lived mostly on
ginger-bread, which he kepi locked up in a cupboard, the
key of which he carried in his pocket, even whcM Le was
extremely feeble and about to die, lest any one should get to it
and eat.
His brother married, but kept his family on tiie closest
fare po3>ihle, and amassed property to the amount of several
hundrcti thousand dollars, and yet, when he became too old
to d<i business, he would go about unfinished houses and
pick up all the nails and pieces of iron, 6cc., that he could
Hud, and carry them home.
His son, a farmer, had some cattle that strayed away into
the yard of a neighbor, (perhaps because ihey were not fed
overmuch,) some three miles off, who, not knowing to whom
they belonged, weighed out the hay given them, and charged
the usual price of hay by the ton. Their acqtiisitive owner,
findinz out where they were, went and took ihem away, but
absolutely refused to pay even the price of the hay they ate,
to say nothing of the trouble of taking care of them. Many
other similar samples of his meanness, wore related of him;
and the whole family, for three generations, were noted for a
mean, miserly, penurious spirit. I examined the head of a
son of the last one mentioned, and found his head short and
wide, very thick tlirough at Acquisitiveness, and wanting
154 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
ExplaiiaiioD ofihe prodigality ofihe children of the rich. Patty Cauiion.
in Self-Esteem—an organization that always accompanie«
penuriousness.
The present generation, however, are spending freely the
wealth hoarded up by their ancestors. The reason is proba-
bly this, and will serve to explain the fact that children are
often so prodigal, when their ancestors have been so pru-
dent : First, they took to drinking; and this will make way
with almost any property, however large. Secondly, though
the children of those who love and amass wealth, are apt to
inherit this faculty fully developed, yet, having every thing
furnished to their hands, and not being compelled to earn a
living, and hence, not having occasion to cultivate this facul-
ty, it becomes less and less active, while the gratification,
and thus, stimulation, afforded to the other faculties, causes
them to make frequent and large demands on Acquisitive-
ness, so that they overpower it, and it thus becomes weaiv in
them, and still weaker in their children, while the organs
that lead to extravagance, become large ;
and this organiza-
tion is transmitted to their children, which causes them to
be extravagant, and to squander the earnings of their ances-
tors.
Perhaps the history of Patty Cannon may not be inappro-
priate here, though it would have been quite as appropriate
under the head of Destructiveness.* The father of Patty
Cannon became outraged with a neighbor, in consequence of
a difference in a matter of property—something, I think, re-
lating to a store—and, going into a shop v/here his enemy
was at work, picked up a scantling and struck him on the
head, and killed him, for which he was executed.
A brother of Patty Cannon, and son of this murderer, stole
a stallion, which the laws then in vogue punished by death,
and he loo was executed. He was, every way, a bad man.
The mother of Patty was a large, heavy, fleshy, clever
woman, but was said to be unduly fond of the other sex, and
both Patty Cannon and her sister Betsey, (whose skulls may
be seen in the author's collection.) inherited both the destruc-
tive propensity of their father, and the sexual passion of
•See an account of her in the Phrenological Almanac for J84J,
THE PROPENSITIES HEREDITARY. 155
Betsey Cniiiion. Gcortje Li (tie
their mother. Betsey was one of the most foul-mouthed,
profane, violent-tempered, revengeful, and implacable of
women, and yet, handsome and witty. She married, but
was openly and habitually untrue to her husband, and guilty
of depravity in almost every form, though she was not known
to have committed murder. But her tongue was considered
the most bitter and caustic imaginable, and gave her notorie-
ty all through that region. Amativeness and Destructive-
ness are very large, and also that part of Acquisitiveness
that acquires property.
One of the descendants of either Betsey or Patty, was
recently tried in Delaware for some offence against the laws,
I thmk it was an accusation for murder.
But the most notorious of this notorious family, was Patty
Gannon herself. With the shedding of human blood for the
purpose of committing robbery, she was as familiar as with
her alphabet. She engaged and held in subjection a gang of
men, for the sole purpose of committing robbery and murder,
and employed her Amativeness as a decoy-duck to bring
victims within her reach. A more desperate robber or mur-
derer, or one who overawed the public authorities so effectu-
ally and so long, probably never existed. Her insatiable
Acquisitiveness led her to fit out a kidnapping vessel, for the
purpose of decoying free negroes on board, and transporting
them to the South and selling them, in which she killed
many infants, to prevent their exposing her by crying, and
many adults that were too infirm to bring the price of their
transportation. She committed suicide in prison.
The organs of Acquisitiveness, and Destructiveness, and
Secretiveness, and Amativeness, are very large, the whole
animal region large, the moral wanting, and the intellectual
large.
Joshua Coffin relates the following :
" George Little," (the one mentioned in chap, iii., sec. 3.)
"emigrated from London to Newbury, in 1640. He was
noted for great strength of body, great shrewdness and sa-
gacity, and extraordinary power of intellect. He selected
two of the best tracts of land in Newbury, on one of which
he lived, and which his descendants have occupied to the
156 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
'J'lie chenliiig propensity hereditary. Capt- G- and descendants.
present time. In the town records of Newbury, may be
found the following unique notice of him, '
The selectmen
are to take care and see that George Little gets no more land
than what belongs to him.' Now, this passion for acquiring
landt^-d property, has been transmitted, unimpaired, through
his posterity, to the present time. They all own immense
tracts of land, and of the very best kind. There is hardly
any end to their possessions in real estate, and they were
among the principal 'getters up' of the land speculations of
lS3."i to 183S.
" But, this is not, by any means, tlic only trait of character
for- which his descendants are remarka])le. During nearly
two centuries, they have ranked among the first in the town,
in point of intellect, though the present generation evince a
falling; oft' in this respect, because their parents were foolish
enouuh to marry cousins."
In relation to the transmission of the cheating and forging
propensity, Mr. C. remarks as follows :
—" Capt. W. G., a na-
tive of England, and one of the first settlers of Newbury,
a well-educated man, and possessing fine talents and much
influence, was yet, in 1676, so regardless of his reputation
and of moral principle, that he forged a military account
against the state, in order to put money into his own pock-
ets, though he had lived in Newbury about forty years. He
left town soon after his conviction, and died in Salem, Mass.
" One of his descendants, Colonel * Samuel G., cheated a
soldier out of his pay, and, on being convicted, wrote a most
huiTihle rfpology for his conduct, which is now on file in
Boston. Jacob G., his nephew, I think, lorged a deed of
land : and there are some of his descendants now living,
who inherit and exhibit this same prnprnsily to cheat and
deceive. They seem to inherit large Acf[uisilivcness and
Secretiveness. and small Conscientiousness."
The notorious humbug, Goward, who swells so largely in
bis advertisements, as being the greatest teacher that ever
*Tlie ancestor's lieing a Ca[)t,iin nnrl tlie flescendant a Colonel, impll^
that tlie mililnri) spirit runs in fiiinilies. And one's fi)rpin<^ a military ac-
count, and tlie otLur's defrauding a soldier of his })»)', are quite analogous.
THE rnOPENSlTIES HEREDITARY. 16-7
Bnindrelh. Ansart. Firmnpss and eminent tolenis in the Pike famDy.
was, in writing, book-keeping, geography, history, the
languages, drawing, painting, music, vocal and on the piano,
harp, flute, lute, guitar, accordian, ifcc, (fcc, through the
whole round of sciences and accomplishments, has immense
Approbativeness, which, unrestrained, is the swelling, brag-
ging faculty; and a cousin of his, from the land of steady
habits, whom I examined, some years ago, in N. Y., had this
organ very large. Brandreth's parents, one or both, must
liave had a young mountain of Approbativeness, judging
from the organ in their son.
Ansart, a French physician, who came to this country,
was one of the most polished of men, and a perfect gentle-
man in manners and carriage; his every action being
graceful, every motion elegant. His sou, and a grand
daughter, inherited the same polish and elegance of man-
ners.
It will not be difiicult to adduce facts, showing that each
of the faculties of Secre{iveness,*Cautiousness, Approbative-
ness, Self-Esteem, and Firmness, especially the two last, are
hereditary. Joshua Coffin mentions the descent of Firmness
in the Pike family, of v.hich he says:
" Gen. L. M. Pike, a native of New Jersey, a brave
cfiicer in the last war, who was killed at the battle of
Q,ueenston, was a descendant of Capt. Pike, who emigrated
to X. J., from Newbury, Mass., about 1666. This Capt.
Pike was brave and intelligent, and noted for his skill and
enterprise in the Indian wars. From John Pike, who emi-
grated to N. J., down to their descendants at the present
time, nearly all of them have been distinguished for clear-
ness of intellect, firmness of purpose, self-possession, and in-
domitable courage. Nicholas Pike, the old school-master
and mathematician, and Abner Pike, also a school-master
and mathematician, now in Newburyport, a resolute, forci-
ble, bold, energetic man, Abner Pike, Esq., formerly of New-
buryport, but now of Little Rock, Arkansas, whose 'Hymns
to Callimanchus ' have been published in Blackwood's Mag-
azine, and with commendation, and which are really splen-
did specimens of poetry, these, and many others are descen-
dants of John Pike. So marked are some of their peculiari-
14
158 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
VVasliiiigion. and his mother and sisier. Jioiiapattr.
ties, (allusion is here made to the Fir/nness of this family,)
that the people of Newbury call it ^Pikeism.''
"
Cases of the transmission of Self-Esteem, in both its natu-
ral and in its perverted function, are numerous and striking.
Washington was a man of great dignity, and inspired all
who beheld him, with great awe and deference. His mother
possessed this quality in a pre-eminent degree. A writer in
the Lady's IMagaziiie speaks of her as follows:
"I was often there with George, his play-mate, school-
mate, and young man's companion. Of the mother I was
ten times more afraid, than I was of my own parents. She
awed me in the mildest of her kindness, for she was indeed
truly kind, and even now, when time has whitened my
locks, and 1 am the grand- parent of a second generation, I
eould not behold that majestic woman without feelings it is
impossible to describe. V/hoeverhas seen that awe-inspiring
air and manner so characteristic, in the father of his coun-
try, will remember the matron when she appeared as the
presiding genius of her well-ordered household, commanding
and being obeyed.
" In her person, the matron Avas of the middle size, finely
formed, her features pleasing, yet strongly marked. It is
not the happiness of the writer to remember her, having
only seen her with infant eyes. The sister of the chief, he
perfectly well remembers. She was a most majestic woman,
and so strikingly like her brother, tliat it was a matter of
frolic to throw a cloak around her, and place a military hat
upon her head, and such was the perfect resemblance, that,
had si.e appeared in her brother's stead, battalions would
have presented arms, and senators risen to do komage to the
chief."
The author had laid by for insertion here, an account of
the ancestors of Washington, but. at present, it is not possible
to ccnirnand it. The purport of it is, that they were highly
dignified and respected, yet remarkable for their blandness
and goodness: but always of commanding person, and looked
up to, as to a noble race, a superior family.
The mother of Bonaparte was a most authoritative, com-
manding woman, and, beyond question, Bonaparte's won-
THE PROPENSITIES HEREDITARY. 159
Approhftiiveoess. Cauiiousness.
derful power of commanding, so as to be obeyed^ was hiherit-
ed from this pre-eminently dignified and queenly woman.
I have seen thousands of instances, in which the children
of parents who have had excessive x\pprobativeness, or Self-
Esteem, or Firnuiess, or Cautiousness, or Secretiveness, or
Acquisitiveness, or Alimcntivcness, or Destructiveness, or
Combativeness, have the same organ or organs predominant,
that predominated in their parents. But the proof of our
preceding positions have been so full and positive, that it is
hardly necessary to multiply cases on these points; they be-
ing established by what has preceded them. And we have
other matter, more importr.nt tlian a statement of additional
facts on these points Vv'ould be, with which to fill out the
remainder of the volume.
The remark may ba as appropriate in this connection,
perliaps, as in any otl.ei', that v/hen particular organs are too
large in parents, they v.'ill be quite larje enough in their
children without being much excited. And yet, these are
the very organs that are too active in the parents, atid there-
fore, liable to be brought into h?.biUial r.ction, in exciting
corresponding organs in their children. Thuo, if the Ap-
probativeness of the mother be too large, she is therefore
likely to dress off her darling Avith rufilcs, ribbons, curls,
and gaudy garments, and even with bustles, corsets, and
padding, so that it may be praised abundantly,—tiie very
thing that should not be done, because this will increase, by
its exercise, an organ altogether too large already. On the
contrary, all stimulants should be removed from this faculty.
The child should seldom be praised, and then for moral
qualities only. If the child says or does things to attract at-
tention, or excite the laugh of commendation for its smart-
ness, do not notice it, but turn the subject.
So, if Cautiousness be too large in the mother, it will be
almost certain to be too large in the child, and then to be
re-augmented by the mother's continually cautioning her
child to take care of this, and take care of that, and appeal-
ing to this faculty to make it do this, or not do that,
whereas all possible pains should be taken to keep it
quiescent, and to divert it from excitement, that it may de-
160 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
Clergymen the sons of pious motljers. 'I'lie ricsccndanls of John Rogers.
crease. So, of appetite, and all the other propensities, di-
rections for doing wiiich, will be found in the author's work
on " Phrenology applied to Education and Self-Improve-
ment."
SECTION Y.
THE MORAL FACULTIES OF CHILDREN RESEMBLE THOSE OF
THEIR PARENTS.
One of the very best proofs of this proposition, is to be
found in the general fact, that nearly every eminently pious
clergymen, both of the present day and of ages past, will
be found to have had an eminently pious mother, who, like
Hannah, the mother of Samuel, dedicated him to God "from
his mother's womb." ]Many a fountain of holy emotion has
had its origin in a mother's praying spirit, or in a father's
devoted piety. Passing those already on record in the
biographies of pious men, which usually commence with an
account of the piety of one or both parents, let us look at a
few cases not now on record, yet seen and known of all who
observe.
Take the descendants of John Rogers, the martyr. I
know of only one hotel of any note, in which the good old
puritanical custom of family icors/iip is preserved, and a
blessing asked at the table, and that is in the Marlboro'
Hotel, of Boston, kept by Nathaniel Rogers, conducted for
many years on strictly temperance principles. These morning
and evening devotions ar^; mostly conducted by Mr. Rogers
himself, a lineal descendant of the tenth generation from
Rogers, the martyr. And nearly every one of these ten
descendants have been clergymen, and the last would have
become one, if his health had not forbidden it. IMany of
tlie lateral members of this line, all the way down, have
also been clergymen, and there are many clergymen now
liring, named Rogers, descendants of the pious martyr.
Large Benevolence characterizes them all, and Conscientious-
ness and Veneration are generally large, and they are gener-
THE MORAL FACULTIES HEREDITARY. 161
The Hrainartl family rmiiienily religiuus.
ally imbued with the same spirit of reform which character-
ized their renowned ancestor.*^ Like him, they usually have
large I'amilies.
'I'he Brainard family are, certainh% not less remarkable
for their fervent piety, and glowing philanthropy, than was
their illustrious ancestor, David Brainard, so remarkable for
his religious humility and self-abasement. Where do we
find a stronger manifestation of very large Veneration, Con-
scientiousnes, and Benevolence, large Marvellousness, and
small Self-Esteem and Hope, or of deep humiliation and
self-abasement before God, than we find in his diary'? These
organs were evidently so large and active, as to be actually
diseased ; for it can never be the office of true religion, to
produce such mental suflering as he evidently endured.
Rev. Mr. Brainard, pastor of the church at the corner of
Pine and Fourth streets, Philadelphia, is descended from the
same grand father from whom David Brainard descended,
and he inherits the sam.e cast of piety—the same tender
yearnings for the impenitent, and desire to convert men from
the error of their ways, the same deep sense of guilt and
unworthiness, and the same alternating of ecstasy and re-
ligious melancholy, that characterized David Brainard. And
he has just such an organization as I should predicate of
David, namely, a most exquisite temperament, indicated by
the finest and softest skin and hair imaginable, a large head,
which is high and long, and pre-eminently moral, and quite
intellectual, with full Marvellousness—a development rarely
found—great Veneration, and prodigious Benevolence, Con-
scientiousness, and Cautiousness, with small Self-Esteem and
Hopo, a decidedly good forehead, and large Approbative-
ness. Friendship, and Ideality. He says he is e::ceedingly
afflicted with that same cast of religious melancholy v/hich
David Brainard evinces in his diary, and that, of the Erain-
ards in East Haddom, Conn., who are the descendants or
relatives of this David Brainard, he knov/^ cf but few who
are not similarly aiTlicted.
While practising Phroiiology, in Boston, in Jidy, 1843,
1
• For example, the cx-edilor of the Herald of Freedpm,
14^
162 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
The parents and desrondants of Jonailian Kdwards. Presidpnt Dwight.
was waited upon by a Mr. Brainard, then a patient in the
Lunatic Asylum, South Boston, in whom I found great Con-
scientiousness, Benevolence, and Veneration, and sinall Hope
and Self-Esteem, and Avho had been, for some time, beside
himself, though not palpably de-ranged, on the matter of re-
ligion, which occupied his whole mind, night and day, while
awake. He commenced studying, to become a minister.
As far as I could learn from tlie Rev. gentleman alluded to
above, and from other sources, the Brainard family are now,
and always have been, remarkable for their fervent piety,
and Christian humility, there being few, if any, of them,
who are not consistent and devout Christians. Let the read-
er inquire of, and observe the Brainards in various parts of
the country, who claim any connection with David, and see
whether they are or are not eminently pious, and have or
have not tiiat sombre cast of religious experience which he
had, and, if I am not much mistaken, the result will go to
show the transmission, not of the religious tendency, merely,
but of particular casts of it, for several successive genera-
tions.
Certainly not less remarkable for the descent of high-
toned moral and religious faculties, is tiie Echvords family.
Both the ancestors and the descendants of Jonathan Ed-
wards, the greatest theologian of his age, or even of any
age, devotedly pious as well as highly intellectual, were
pre-eminent for their unadorned piety, and Christian virtues.
The father of Jonathan was a clergyman, and noted for
piety and goodness, and there is now extant a sermon of
his, of great merit, on "The Judgment." His mother was
a most godly woman ;
so his daughters were among the salt
of the earth, and most of his descendants to this day are so
devoted to religious subjects, as to be almost ascetic, and
great numbers from among them, are, or have been, clergy-
men. President Dwight, a "burning and a shining light," in
both the intellectual and the moral world, and one of the
most voluminous and celebrated theological writers of his
age, was a worthy grand son of so pious a grand father, and
many of his descendants, and among them, Sereno E. Dwight,
of New York, but whose physical debility does not allow
THE MORAL FACULTIES HEREDITARY. 163
The piely of ibe Biaiiwirds ami lAtwaiilses coiiirasled. New 1''.ii!;IhikI.
him to preach, are, or have been, clergymen. But, though
tlie descendants of Jonathan Edwards might almost be styled
an ascetic race, yet, the cast and tone of their religions feel-
ings, differ materially from the cast of piety pecnliar to the
Brainard family, just mentioned. The latter dwell on their
sins, and the awful majesty of God, like David Brainard ;
but the Edwards family have a great deal of theological
piety, are always poring over such books and sucli subjects,
as "Edwards on the Will,"' or, "Edwards on the Affec-
tion-o," combining, like their illustrious ancestor, the work-
ings of a sound head, with tlicir pious effusions of prayer
and praise. Long may a race, so good, and yet so talented,
remain to shed a purifying and elevating moral influence
upon their fellow-beings.
if an example, much more general and extended, and yet,
scarcely less specific, were needed, the history of our own
country, and especially, of '^q\y England, affords it. New
England might properly be said to have been settled by the
moral sentiments. It was to escape religious intolerance,
and to enjojMhe uninterrupted worship of GJod, "under their
own vine and ng-tree'' —this it ^vas which drove them across
the Atlantic, whicli erected churches in the wilderness, and
planted t!ie emblem of the cross Avherever they sojourned.
They were the most religious of the old world who settled
the new.
In view of these conditions in the parents of the sons
and daughters of New England, what, let us ask, is the re-
ligions character of their offspring? Not only were all our
laws and institutions, though framed a century and a half
after the settlement of America, framed with special refer-
ence to the religion of their ancestors, the old Blue Laws of
Connecticut included, but the same tone and spirit which
pervaded our Puritan ancestors, have descended almost un-
impaired to the present day, and now sit enthroned upon
our Republic. Look at the influence of clergymen, and the
deference paid to them—hardly less than that paid by Cath-
olics to their priests. Look at the vast hordes that swarm
from every city, and hamletj and dwelling, at the ringing of
the Sabbath bells; and, to possess, or, to counterfeit, this re-
164 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
Eiiff and and IVew F,no)aii(l roiitrasted. 'J'lie religion of Jesus Clnisl.
ligious spirit, is to secure success in almost every department
of business dependent upon the patronage of the pubUc
;
"vvhile, to profess infidehty, is to stamp a man with infamy,
however moral his conduct, and to ruin most kinds of busi-
ness, if not to incur downright persecution; while, i6 attend
churchy is time and money at compound interest, merely as
a stroke of policy.* The English come nowhere near the
Americans in this respect, not even with all the aid derived
from uniting church and state. It does not enter into, and
engross the feelings tl)ere, as liere, but is more formal and
nominal. Nor do religious vagaries, like those of Miller,
Mattliias, and otliers, find as many or as enthusiastic devo-
tees there as here. Nor are they altogether foreign to the
puritanical spirit. A part of this is caused, beyond all ques-
tion, by education, and especially by the early education of
the children of the pilgrims; but this cannot be the only
cause, for, then the heads of the diildrcv, of truly religious
parents, would not diiler from those of others, whereas, they
do difier. I can usually tell llie children of Episcopalians,
though brought up in families of an opposite character,
solely by their moral developments ;
and 1 am plain to say,
that I find the moral organs much larger in the children of
eminently religious parents, than in those whose parents are
not religious. The great fact, that \\\e form of the head, —
that which accompanies the moral sentiments, included, is
hereditary, and, with jt, the moral sentiments themselves,
establishes the corresponding fact, that the relative energy
of the moral faculties, descends from generation to genera-
tion, being gradually augmented or'diminished, by education
and circumstances.
And the fact is highly interesting in itself, and most
auspicious of good to ages yet to come, that the religion of
Jesus Christ appeals to, and cultivates the higher moral sen-
timents, almost exclusively, and requires their supremacy
over the animal propensities. And herein consist the true
•This state of things can hardly be considered as favorable to the
purity and prosperity of true religion, but is almost sure to corrupt the
church, fill it with iiypociites, and render it a "whited sepulchre," still
ihefact is as stated above.
THE MORAL FACULTIES HEREDITAKY. 165
Its iiitiuoiire tin our r.ice. Cnnsciriiiiousnoss in Yaiikeos and children.
causes of that gradual improvement which our race is ob-
viously making in virtue and intelligence. This religion, so
different, in its moral tone and virtuous influence, from other
religions, has gained a powerful foothold among men, and
inculcates justice and truth, devotion and "charity," the
greatest of Christian virtues. This constant appeal to the
moral sentiments, enlarges these organs in parents, and this
causes an enlargement to appear in tlieir cliildren. These
children receive an additional enlargement from this same
religion, and this re-angments these organs in tfieir children,
to be again re-enlarged, and propagated to generation after
generation. See the last page of sec. 4, chap. ii. And may
the religion of our Saviour, in its spirit, and not in its letter
merely, long continue to shed its benign moral influences
over mankind, and go on to exalt and ennoble <Hir race.
It is. perhaps, worthy of remark in this connection, that,
though the moral s<?ntiments, as a class, are larger in the
English and American head than in most other nations, as
is evinced by their heads being higher and larger, yet that
Conscient/ousjiess is less in them than in almost any other
nation. And, accordingly, in point of truth and justice, they
fall far belov/ the French, the Swiss, the Scotch, the honest
German, or the truth-telling Spaniard. This may have been
caused by the English nation's having been foimded in
tlood, rapine, and injustice, by the phmdering hordes of
Danes and Normans, and it may have grown out of their
inordinate love of money, but, be the cause what it may, the
fact is indisputable, whether regard be had to the phreno-
logical organ of Conscientiousness, or to its manifestation,
or rather, comparative want of manifestation, in character.
Watch a Yankee, or he will fleece you ; but a German, a
Spaniard, and even a Turk, will do just as he agrees.
In children, this organ is usually larger than in adults.
In the latter, it is often wanting, but in the former, it is
almost always large. Though it differs in size in children,
yet I never knew it small in but one child, t^.nder ten years
of age, and that was a lad who had been tang/tt, and even
commanded, to steal, almost from infancy. He, doubtless,
166 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE,
(yonscieutiousncss in ihe Culhbeil family.
inherited but an inferior development of this organ, and this
was, probably, rendered still smaller, by education.
1 found a very large development of Conscientiousness in
the head of a Mr. Cuthbert, who lived on the eastern shore
of Md. In examining him, I remarked that it Avas one of
the largest I iiad ever found. Slany anecdotes were related
of its development in character, one of which was as fol-
lows :
—Having occasion to be absent from the legislature
of Md., to which he liad been elected, on business* of his
own, for two days, when lie came to draw his pay, he found
that pay for tlie two absent days had been included. He
pointed out what he supposed to be an error, to the clerk,
and wished the pay for the two absent days, to be deducted
from his salary. This, the clerk said, he had no authority
for doing—that it was customary for each of the members
to be paid for the whole time the legislature was in session,
whether they vt'ere there all the time or not, that the money,
now that the check had been made cut, did not belong to
him (the clerk) nor to the state, and that, by not drawing
it, he would only derange accounts, &c. In reply to all this,
Mr. C. told him that the two days of his absence were spent
in his own private business, and that it was not 7-ig-ht for
him to be drawing pay for time spent in transacting business
for himself, and left the surplus in the clerk's hands, uncon-
ditionally refusing to take one cent that he had not actually
earned. While a member of tlie legislature, he was a
staunch advocate of whatever was right, and maintained
unflinching hostility to whatever measure he deemed wrong,
nor could persuasion or threats deter him from voting as he
thought right. Would that we had more legislators and
Congress-men of t\u?, honest stamp! At an auction, for the
sale of the effects of a womon whoso husband had died, he
hid in a bedstead, at about ^2, the real value of which was
about S5; and, on taking it away, paid her its full value,
without reference to the amoinit he bid on it."**" All his chil-
•These illiistrutions, flt tlie same time tliat they ehow what the true
and exalted function of tliis faculty is, likewise show its lameutahle dei
ficieucy in our day and nation.
THE MORAL FACULTIES HEREDITARY. 167
Marvcllousness. Miles Standisli. The Field family.
dren and grand children whom I examined, (and they were
numerous,) and two brothers, had this organ very large, and
were noted for their integrity and moral worth. Would that
more of our parents possessed the like requisite for becoming
parents.
In Cattawissa, Pa., in one of my public examinations, I
found an unusual share of JMarvellousness, in an honest and
devotedly pious old German, of that place. I examined the
heads of some half a score of his children, and a score or
two of his grand children, and found in tliem, generally, an
unusual share of this organ. This case is rendeyed the
more striking, by the fact, that this organ is generally so
small.
In Boston, Salem, Lowell, and some other neighboring
places, I found this organ to be, on an average, about three
or four times larger than in most other places I have visited,
and in no other places have I found it as large, on an aver-
age, as in these. Boston, "the city of*notions," Salem, of
witchcraft notoriety, and Lowell, the omiimm gathervm of
the " region round about," are just the places where these re-
sults might be expected. My brother joins me in his observ-
ations, and so, doubtless, will every phrenologist.
The descendants of Miles Standish, of puritanical notori-
ety, will generally be found to possess his character for piety,
so much so, as to be very rigid. One of his grand daughters
married a Carey, whose descendants are generally excellent
people, and highly religious.
The Field family, from whom Dea. Phineas Field, formerly
of Xorthfield, ?*Iass.,-and quite extensively known in the re-
ligious world, and the Rev. Chester Field, of Lowell, are de-
scended, are, generally, a pious, excellent family;- nearly all
of them having been noted for their consistent religious faith
and practice.
The reader will, doubtless, pardon another allusion to the
family of the author, nearly every member of which, on both
sides, and in all the branches, as far as tliey can be traced,
have been noted for their piety and religious fervor. ]\Iy
father, for many years a deacon, and a pillar of the churches
where he has lived, an uncle, also a deacon, other uncles,
168 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE,
The relatives of the author. Jolin Whitman and descendants.
two aunts, a grand father and his brothers, nearly all my
cousins on my father's side, and a highly exemplary mother,
and several maternal aunts and uncles, and a grand mother,
(a Field, of the family just named.) and her brothers [and
sisters, and nieces and nephews, by scores, illustrate the de-
scent of the religious emotions from generation to generation.
In turning over the " Memoirs of John Whitman and his
descendants,"' which contains the names, birth and death,
and a short biographical account of most of them, will be
foiuid the statement, that he was devotedly pious, and that
the great majority of his descendants wore also noted for
consistent religious professions and practices.* He was a
* Tlie same work fiiniishes some most excellent illustrations of the
doctrine put forth in a previous chapter, that "length of hfe is lieredi-
taiy." Joim Whitman, called the Ancestor of the Wliitinan family, lived
to he about 'JO. His brother, Zechrriah Wiiitman, is su|)|iosed to have
lived to an advanced age. His eldest son, Thomas, died at the advanced
age of 83. Concerninj*him and his descendants, Judge MitclielJ has tlie
following:—"His descendants are very numerous in Bridgewater ; and
more of them have received a liberal education tl)an of any other name
in town. Several of them have been clergymen. Nine of this name,
and ail of them of his posterity, are now in the profession of the law, in
this Commonwcahii (Massaciujsetts.) The family is remarkable for
longevity. Nicholas had four children who lived to be above 85, two of
them to 90 years. Four of this name are now living, of the respective
ages of 94, 87, 84, and 80." " One of the latter is still living, in the 97th
year of his age; and yet active, and in good health. He might Jiave
added, that a fifth child of Nicholas lived to be 80 years old. Eleven
males bearing the name of Whitman, all descendants of Thomas, are
known to the writer to have lived to the respective ages following, viz.,
80, 81, 82, 83, 83, 83, 88, 90, 90, 95 and 96 years. And three females of
his descendants are known to the writer to have lived to the respective
ages of 92, 95 and 98 years. The instances of longevity have probably
been as numerous in the female as in the male line. None of the sons
of the Ancestor died under 82, and several of iliem reached 90 years."
One of the daughters of Abiah Whitman, reached 92, and two of her
sons lived to be about 80 each. Five of the children of PZbenezer Whit-
man, grand son of th^ Ancestor, lived to the following ages:—80, 86, 87,
9U0, and 94, and their father died, l)y being run over, at 71 years old, and
was very smart and active. One of his grand children was in his 97th
year in 1832. One of the daughters of Thon)as Whitman, and a grand
daughter of the Ancestor, lived to be 98. Samuel Whitman, a grand
THE MORAL FACULTIES HEUEDITARY. 169
Tlie Benevolence of Webster. The descendants i>f Howard.
deacon for many years, and many of his descendants have
been deacons and clergymen.
Of Webster, in regard to Benevolence, Joshua Coffin justly
observes, that, "though he looks like his mother, yet, that he
resembles his lather in point of generosity, who esteemed
property valuable, only to give away to those who stood in
need. Ezekiel, on the other hand, resembled his father, in
looks, complexion, and voice," (the siammermg, alluded to
in chap, iv., sec. 3,) "but was economical in his habits, and
as saving as his mother. Ezekiel died rich, Daniel will
always be poor."
I have examined the heads of some, named Howard, who
were related, by blood, to Howard, the philanthropist, and
found prodigious Benevolence in all known to be thus related.
Often, when struck with a remarkable development of Benev-
olence, in children, have I turned to their parents, and found
this organ to correspond, not only in point of size, but, also,
in its general form and character. I was surprised at the
unusual development of this organ, in a whole family of
children, in Charlestown, and turning to the parents, I found
eon of the Ancestor, died at the age of JOO. Jolin, son of Ahiah, was
80 years oid in 1832, and yet healthy. Another grand son died in his 80th
year. Of the foimli generation, one died at 86, another, at 83, a third,
at 70, another, at 88, anotlier, at 93; another was hving, when in Iiis 97th
year, anotlier lived to be 80, another, 55, another, 90, anotlier was hving
in his 84th year, another died at 95, another, at 72, another, at 50, (of
constini|)tion,) another, at 75, another, at 82, anotlier was living at 82,
anotlier died at 80, another reachefl 80, and his fatlier was nearly 60
when this son was born, another died aged 6G, and another, 71, another,
51, another attained to a "good old age," anotlier died between 80 and 90,
another lived to be over 80, and one of them, Deacon Whitman, recently
died at 107 ! To Rev. Jason Whitman, of Portland, Me., son of
Dea. W., I said, "your ancestors lived to a great age. I should think, to
90 or 95," and he kindly presented me with the work from whiidi the
above was taken, as an illustration of the correctness of my reinark, and
I have in.serted these facts, tiioiigh out of place, because they were too
good to be lost. Thus it would seem that the original Whitman stock,
predominated over all those that intermarried with it, not in imparting
age merely, but, also, in rendering all the descendants conspicuous for
high moral and religious feelings, as well as for strong conrjmon sense.
15
170 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
Large organs in parents, increased in their children. Beecher, Wesley, &c.
it large m both, though not equal, in either, to that of their
children.* I inferred, that the vnion of two large organs,
caused a still greater enlargement in their children, a princi-
ple that I regard as generally established by facts, touching
all the organs. The result of my own observations, (and
they have been neither few nor limited.) is, that, in all cases,
the child takes both the general size, and the specific type,
of his moral and religious organs, either from one parent or
from both, or else, from one grand parent, and, generally,
from the one the child most resembles. And, not only this,
but the particular tone and shades of manifestation in the
former, will resemble those of the latter. If that of the one,
fasten on missionary enterprises, or on converting men to
their religious tenets, that of the progeny will bear the same
impress ;
if the ancestor be hospitable, and free with money,
the child will be so, also; if the piety of parentage be
ascetic and melancholy, so will be that of the descendants;
but, if it take a doctrinal or theological tone, in the former,
the descendants will receive the same cast of religion, and
so on to the end of the chapter.
But, is it desirable to multiply cases, in proof, or illustra-
tion of the great truth, that the moral faculties of parents
descend to their offspring, and in the relative degree of power,
analogous to that in which the former possess them, and that
they take a cast or turn, similar to that which they took in
the former 7 If this were necessary, the single fact, that the
parents, especially of nearly every good man and devoted
minister in our nation, possessed a deep moral and religious
tone of character, would prove it abundantly. The father
of Dr. Beecher, was a deacon, a staunch Christian, and the
pillar of the church, in iS'ew Haven, to which he belonged.
And who were the parents of Wesley'? Eminently godly,
* One of tlie beauties resulting from the examination of this subject
phrenoiogicaLly, consists in the vieasure of the poiver of the tacullies, af-
forded by this science. Without it, the degree of energy, with which
faculties act in parents, cannot be compared with that with which they
act in children, so that no correct conclusions can be formed ; but with
it, this comparison, so indispensable, can be made with perfect ease and
accuracy.
POETRY, INGENUITY, AND CALCULATION, HEREDITARY. 171
Deficient moral organs transmitted. Poetic talents hereditary.
both. But. it is not necessary to particularize, for, where
can the man be found, who is noted for his goodness and
piety, whose parents, or grand parents, one or all, were not
truly pious? High moral sentiments, in parents, may be le-
lied upon, to produce a similar organization and manifesta-
tion in their children.
But more. The deficiency of these organs in parents, pro-
duces a similar deficiency in their children. Look at that
deficiency, as exhibited in the parents of Nero, and in their
son, in whom scarcely a vestige of them was to be found.
Nor need, probably, any reader, depart from the circle of
his own immediate acquaintance, in order to find cases, illus-
trating the deficiency of the moral and restraining sentiments,
in both parents and children ; for, lamentably, there are too
many of them to be found in every town and hamlet in the
land. But, as we shall, probably, touch a kindred point,
when we come to speak of the condition gf parents, while
•becoming parents, especially that of mothers, during preg-
nancy, as aflfecting the characteristics of their children, and
as it is a point too palpably apparent, to incur opposition
from the intelligent reader, we drop it, for the present, with
this single remark, that no one at all conversant with the
location of the phrenologir.al organs, can observe the lops of
the heads of parents and their children, without being struck
with the fact, that their resemblance to each other is most
marked, and perfectly apparent.
SECTION VI.
IDEALITY, CONgTRUCTIVENESS, AND CALCULATION, HEREDITARY.
Pocta nascilur.
The old proverb, " a poet must be born a poet, and cannot
be rendered one by education," has descended, unimpaired,
from time immemorial, having not only stood the test of
ages, but even accumulated strength thereby. It is not to
be denied, that children derive their physical formation, and
172 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
The Davidsons, Schiller. Goeihe. Byron. Children of poets.
their temperament, from their parents, and therewith, of
course, the "/;oe//c temperament," or, that exahed physical
action whicli refines and spirituah'zes the feeUngs, and pro-
duces so\il-inspiring poetry. Bnrritt may teach the doctrine,
as long as the world stands, and " in fifty languages," that
this old adage is fallacious, and that "/yoeta /?/, non nasoi-
tur^' —that a poet is made a poet, and 7U)t born one—but he
will stand corrected, by the parental history of every poet
on record, and by the united observation of past ages. What
was the mother of Margaret Davidson and her precocious
sister—those stars, whose poetical brilliancy, meteor-like,
dazzled our nation, and then burst in death ? Good in
composing poetry, and possessed of an extremely nervous,
exquisite, highly-wrought temperament, and most suscepti-
ble to every excitement. This poetic temperament she im-
parted to her brilliant daughters, and their intellectual pre-
cocity, and youthful poetry, were the fruits. Think you,
that the sluggish temperament of a lazy tavern-loafer, would
have been as likely to have produced similar results? Did
parentage do nothing, in this case, towards the formation of
this poetical taste and talent?
And who was the mother of Schiller, but a woman en-
dowed with the same exalted fpmperamGnt and cast of mind
which characterize her illustrious son 7 Do Schiller and
Goethe owe nothing to parentage, above the veriest block-
head or mendicant that disgraces our common nature?
And did Byron inherit none of his lofty genius and poetic
fancy from that most excitable mother, whom he so closely
resembled in disposition and temperament? Was not the
poetic spirit of Pollock innate^ and was not that of Henrjr
Kirke White, born iii and with him? And where is the poet
of any note, who does not inherit his poetical turn and
temperament? Nowhere. Nor can such be found on the
page of liistory.
If it be asked, then, where are the children of poets
—
where those of Milton, and Shakspeare, and Pope? I an-
swer, that Milton's wife was a daughter of pleasure, weak,
without intellect, without any of those characteristics requi-
site for doing her part towards perpetuating the talents of
POIiTRY, INGENDITY, AND CALCULATION, HEBEDITARV. 173
Cause of the falling pffoftaleuis ia ihe children of great men.
her illustrious hiisbatid, in their descendants. And poets, in
order to become poets, must, ol' necessity, be endowed with an
organization so exceedingly exquisite, that their offspring die
immature. The philosophy involved in this principle, and
also in the fact, that the children of great men seldom equal
their father, and are, frequently, no more than ordinary, de-
serves a passing remark, and is this :
To become a great man, requires several conditions, to an
extraordinary degree, one of which is greait physical strength
and vital stamina, or a most powerful constitution. With-
out this, however well-developed the head and nervous tem-
perament may be, there will be too little strength to sustain
the exhaustion induced by a powerful and oft-repeated exer-
cise of intellect. But, if a sap-head should have the consti-
tution of a lion, he would be a sap-head still, so that it re-
quires not only great pou-er in the vital system, and in the
muscular system, but, also, in the mental system, together
with a nice balance and adjustment, in each, to all, before
great results can be expected. We have abundant samples
of the existence of each separately from the other, to produce
any amount of talent. 1 have seen many men having as
good heads as Webster, and with as much power of intel-
lect, and yet, they had not sufficient physical energy to en-
dure the draughts made on them, by their powerful intellect,
nor even enough io put forth their mental energies. Families,
like individuals and the products of the earth, nations, and
our race itself, spring up, put forth their indications of ener-
gy, blossom, bear the fruit of intellectual and moral great-
ness, and return to decay. They first become noted for their
pfiysical power, and reach an advanced age, and then be-
come possessed of strength of intellect, but it is in the raw
state yet, which lasts till some descendant marries into
another family of great physical energj'-, and a high-wrought
nervous organization, the product of which is, a sou of
genius, or a daughter, who gives birth to a man of superior
talents. But the race has now reached its zenith, the fall
from which, is often precipitate. The parent, perhaps, too
much exhausted to impart a due degree of energy to off-
spring, or, more likely, marrying a companion of too much
15*
174 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
Lwrge Ideality usually accompanies feebleness. Dr. Physic's relatives.
nervousness, and too little stamina, or of inteliectnal powers
no way superior, or else, their own nervous system having
become too much exhausted to impart a strong, sound organi-
zation to their children, they die youns, or else become in-
valids, or, from a variety of causes, fall from the high sta-
tion their fathers had attained. And, I sometimes pretend
to tell how long before a family of great physical energy, is
hkely to ripen into an heir of trancendent abilities. At least,
there are points involved in these suggestions, that deserve
investigation.
It is worthy of remark, that the children of parents who
have large Ideality, are usually feeble, because, a predomi-
nance of this faculty usually accompanies a predominance
of the mental temperament, and much more cerebral action,
than physical strength. Let the best of physical training be
given to those children in whom Ideality is large, and let
them be kept from study, and induced to take much exer-
cise.
To enumerate all the cases that go to prove, or illustrate,
the transmission of Constructiveness, or, the mechanical pro-
pensity or talent, would be to enumerate the great majority
of the parents and children of New England, Still, the fol-
lowing are examples among many :
Dr. Physic was the best surgeon of his day,—and one of
the main requisites for excellence as a surgeon, is Construc-
tiveness. If it require mechanical ingenuity, so as to use
edged tools skilfully, in making a piece of furniture, or any
thing else, how much more so to use the sharpest of instru-
ments, so as dexterously to amputate a limb, extract a tooth,
cut out a cancer, &c. ? And I never saw the surgeon of any
claims to excellence, who had not this organ large. In this
profession, no other organ is equally indispensable. And all
the busts and painting's of this celebrated surgeon, show this
organ to have been immense in his head, which bulges out
at the location so as to form a distinct ridge, on each side of
his head, as seen in his painting in the possession of his son
in Philadelphia, and his bust, in the author's collection.
Two of his sons, with whom I am personally acquainted,
have both a large organ and a powerful faculty of Construe-
POETRY, INGENUITY, AND CALCULATION, HEREDITARY. 175
Mechanical ingenuity in Mr. I'aylor and desceniiants.
tiveness, experiencing their liighest pleasure in the exercise
of this faculty, in which they evince great natural talents.
The daughter of one of them, now dead, had one of the
most splendid heads, if not the hest, I ever saw, on a child
of her age, in which this organ was immense, and its mani-
festation remarkable.
The father of Dr. Physic, and. if I mistake not, some of
his brothers, possessed great mechanical skill.
A Dr. . in Brighton, Mass., is nephew to the inventor
of the method of making cards by machinery, and has, liter-
ally, a passion for mechanical pursuits, and can make almost
any thing, and is given to inventing.
Mr. Taylor, of Lowell, Mass., is the inventor of a gun,
for the patent-right of which, he has been offered $60,000.
He has invented several other things : one consists in cutting
the figures used in printing calico, by machinery, which has
superseded the former method of cutting them by hand, be-
sides having made several other improvements in machinery.
His organ of Constructiveness is very large, as is also that
nf his sons, one of whom, also, has been the author of
some valuable inventions. In every one of his children, this
organ is large, but it is largest in those who most resemble
the father. Before the birth of one of them, he was intently
occupied in perfectmg his new gun ;
and this son, besides
having larger Cornbativeness and Destructiveness, than any
of the other children, will go into the closet to the gun, and
amuse himself with it for hours together, and did this fre-
quently when he was but two years old.
There is really no end to facts which prove and illustrate
the descent of the mechanical propensity and talent, from
parents to children. Go where we may, we find them, and
of a character most decisive and striking. If any reasona-
ble doubt remained, in regard to this point, it might be de-
sirable to prove it by facts, but, as such a doubt cannot be
entertained, it is not deemed expedient to enlarge upon this
point, except in its combinations.
The father, and all the uncles, of Mrs. Lewis, who liveg
at Spring Garden, Pa., were remarkable for their mechanical
and tinkering propensity. They were the mechanics of the
176 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
The uoiou o( frre&l mechanical and inailicmaiical talents in Enoch Lewis aud wife.
neighborliootl, and, if 1 rightly remember, her grand father
was equally noted. Tlie author saw a clock, a most excel-
lent time-keeper, made by him, with a jack-kuife and a
gimblet only. I heard several who had known the old man,
speak of this propensity and ability in him, as being very
strong. Mrs. Lewis had both the organ and the faculty in
an eminent degree, was very skilful with the needle, and
made most of the garments for the family, besides making
them very neatly. In every one of her children, this faculty
was remarkably strong, and its organ very large.
Enoch Lewis, her husband, had a remarkable endowment
of the mathematical talent. He is the almanac-maker for
Pa., and reputed as having the greatest mathematical talent in
that mathematical state, being celebrated every where for his
extraordinary abilities in this respect. His mother had the
same talent, and would propound arithmetical problems to
him while a boy running about the house. Her father,
again, was excelleni in figures, so were several of her bro-
thers and sisters. The children of Enoch Lewis are all re-
markable for the same talent. One of them taught a math-
ematical school in Chester, Pa., and was considered nearly
equal to his father, and superior^ when their ages are con-
sidered. He, again, has a son, who, at the age of twelve
years, had gone through all the mathematical branches, even
fluxions and the integral calculus included. To think of a
boy at 12 mdiSiexms, fluxions ! And none but the sons of
eminently mathematical parents, could do it. The author
was informed, that every descendant of E. Lewis possessed
the same quality, and in a degree really surprising.
The point of this fact is this. We behold the Mississippi
of the mathematical talents, flowing down from generation to
generation on the side of the father, and the Missouri of the
mechanical talents, flowing down on that of the mother,
and the two uniting in these two parents, and both flowing
on down to their descendants, and they will probably co»-
tinue to flow on to generations yet unborn.
This proves what the whole tenor of the. work shows,
or, at least, was designed to show, that matrimonial alliances
might be so formed, as to unite and hand down to posterity,
POETRY, INGEItaiTY, AND CALCULATION, HEREDITARY. 177
Combining qualities in parents aD<i children. The Hayward family. Mr. I'rait.
to any extent, whatever qualities parents clioose to unite and
transmit. We combine qualities in animals, why not in
man ? We can combine mathematical with mechanical
powers, or the reasoning with the moral, or lust with pride,
or executive with inventive talent, or taste with good sense,
or with simplicity, or with wit; sense or wit with sarcasm,
and s«=> of every faculty of our nature. True, they may not
all be added in 07ie generatio7i ; yet, one generation may
combine two or three strong qualities, the next, another, and
so on, and why should not a regular plan be laid down by
families, be carried out, completed, and enlarged by those
who come after them?
In a family, by the name of Hayward, 1 think, one mem-
ber of which I saw in Westchester, Pa., I found an unusual
degree of the mathematical organ and talent, and was in-
formed that it had descended in three generations, and was
now appearing in the fourth, and that the coiis^in of my in-
formant, who was a teacher, and celebrated for teaching
mathematics, was employed as public surveyor of the county
of Columbia, Pa. This talent appeared most conspicuously
in thQ male line.
Of Mr. Pratt, who has made some inventions involving
mathematical principles. I said, while examining his head,
that his patents, one or both, were remarkable for mathe-
matical or arithmetical talents. He said, that, though the
examination was correct in every other particular, yet. it
was faulty in this. He called, a few days after, to say, that,
on mentioning my remark to his wife, she put him in mind
of the fact, that one of his parents was remarkable for cast-
ing up figures in the head, and that an uncle on the same
side, possessed the talent.
In hundreds and hundreds of instances have I made a
similar prediction of the parents of those in whose offspring
I have found this organ large, and with scarcely a single
failure. This organ is extremely large in Col. Anthony,
of whose superior mathematical powers mention is made in
my " Phrenology," p. 276. and I have no doubt of its being
found large in one or more of his ancestors, and in many of
his descendants and relatives.
17S MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES /TRANSMISSIBLE,
Mathemiitical genius of ihe Colburiis. Herschell and bis grand son.
A son of the author of " Colburn's Arithmetic," a work
which has really reformed the old method of teaching arith-
metic, and is, of all others, the proper system of teaching it,
in whom this work shows this faculty to have been very ac-
tive and powerful, has superior arithmetical powers, as well
as a literal passion for this class of studies. He is a survey-
or and engineer. Zerah Colburn, the extraordinary lad who
could solve almost instantaneously any problem propoiuided
to him, and that, when but six years old, and was taken
around as a show, in consequence of a talent so unheard of,
and by which he astonished all the great men of his day,
had the same sur-na.me with the author of Colbni'n's Arith-
metic, and they were probably related, distantly, perhaps, but
both deriving this talent, in a degree so remarkable, from
one common ancestor.
As far as I have been able to judge, from remarks made
about Zerah's father, he too excelled in figures. Will not
some one acquainted with either family, please inquire into,
and forward particulars.
A Mr. Tappan, of Newburyport, was almost equal to Ze-
rah Colburn in calculating figures. His father was a bmkpr,
and quick in reckoning.
The grand son, if I mistake not, oC Herscholl, the greatest
astronomer of modern times, is distinguished for the same
kitid of astronomical talent that characterized his grand
father, and, though somewhat less in degree, yet quite
enough to show the transmission of the mathematical talent,
for, at least, three generations.
I find so many instances of the transmission of the math-
ematical talent wherever I practise phrenology, that I deem
it unnecessary to dwell longer upon it, because I feel confi-
dent that every close observer will find instances of it within
the circle of his own observation, sufiicient to rivet the con-
viction of the transmissibility of both the arithmetical and
mathematical talents and organs. And then, too, the aC'
cumidaiive nature of our argument, as explained in chap, iv.^
sec. 1, renders amplification unnecessary.
INTELLECT HEREDITARY. 179
Tune hereditary. The Hastings family.
SECTION VII.
INTELLECT HEREDITARY—AS TO BOTH KIND AND AMOUNT.
Though quite enough has already been said, to render the
inference conchisive, that all the facnhies, both as to their
power and direction, are hereditary, yet it is proposed to pre-
sent a few facts, as ilhistrations, mainly, of the descent of
some of the intellectnal faculties.
Take Tune, in the Hastings family. One of this family
has become celebrated over the whole country, both as a
musical composer and executor, and has as fine an ear for
harmony as is to be found. He is also an albino, his hair
being perfectly white, skin fine and very fair, and eyes red
and defective. In lS-10, 1 met his brother, a lawyer, at
Rochester, N. Y., also an albino, and, like his brother, not
only extremely near-sighted, but endowed with the same
musical ear and talent for which his brother is celebrated.
He can endure no music but the very hest^ and is thrown in-
to perfect agony by discord, but enjoys the higher cast of
music with a reVish past all description. Several of his chil-
dren, inherit the same musical ear, and so does another bro-
ther^ who is also an albino. But his brothers and sisters
who are not albinos, do not inherit this exquisite musical ear
in as great a degree as these do. I think one parent or grand
parent was an albino, and possessed this musical faculty in
a pre-eminent degree. At all events, it is hereditary, and
can be traced for four generations. I think, also, that, like
the mathematical talents of Enoch Lewis, it increased as it
descended—a fact deserving attention ; for, as already re-
marked, every organ is transmitted, and, if rigorously culti-
vated in the offspring, it grows stronger and stronger. The
lessons given by Lewis's mother to Enoch when a boy,
doubtless, greatly augmented the naturally strong mathe-
matical powers of her son, and his devoting his life to math-
ematics, and getting his living by it, caused its increase in
such a degree, that he transmitted it to his children much
increased, and then his son's being a mathematical teacher,
rendered it still more powerful in his grand son—its increased
180 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
The communicaling laieni hereditary. Palrick Hci>ry and ancestors.
power in the last two of the series, being considerably above
that of the first two. 1 think the same holds true of Tune,
in the Hastings family. At Detroit, in 1837, I saw two
girls, one six, and the other four and a half years old, daugh-
ters of the best music teacher in the city, who sang and
played most exquisitely, better than any others of their age
that I ever saw. At all events, tiie habitual exercise of large
organs in parents, renders them still larger in their children.
Take, next, the organ of Language, as exhibited in com-
municating, both orally and in writing. The Robertson fam-
ily, in England, for many generations, have been distin-
guished for the ease, beauty, appropriateness, and flowing
elegance of their style of writing and speaking. Dr. Wm.
Robertson having become renowned as a historian. Patrick
Henry's father is said to be a nephew of this distinguished
historian, and his mother, a Winston, a family long distin-
guished, not only for moral wortli, but especially for ease,
copiousness, and fluency of diction. Wm. Wirt, in his life
of Patrick H'nry, thus speaks of his mother:—-'Mrs. Hen-
ry, the widow of Col. Syme, as we have seen, and the mo-
ther of Patrick Henry, was a native of Hanover county,
and of the family of the Winstons. She possessed, in an
eminent degree, the mild and benevolent disposition, the un-
deviating probity, the correct understanding, and easy elo-
cution by which that ancient family has been so long dis-
tinguished. Her brother, William, the brother of the present
Judge Winston, is said to have been highly endowed with
that peculiar cast of eloquence for which Patrick Henry
afterwards became so justly celebrated." Of this gentleman,
I have an anecdote from a correspondent, which I shall giv^
in his own words:—" I have often heard my father, who
was intimately acquainted with this William Winston, say,
that he was the greatest orator whom he ever heard, Patrick
Henry excepted ;
that, during the last French and Indian
war, and soon after Braddocks defeat, when the militia
were marched to the frontier of Virginia, against the enemy,
this William Winston was the lieutenant of a company;
that the men who were indifferently clothed, without tents,
and exposed to the inclemency of the weather, discovered
INTELLECT HEREDITARY. 181
A ituoilole of Wui. Wiiisloii. Patrick Henry's developments.
great aversion to the service, and were anxions, and even
clamorous, to return to their famiMes, when this WiUiam
Winston, mounting a stump, addressed them with such
keenness and invective, and declaimed with such force of
eloquence, on liberty and patriotism, that when he concluded,
the general cry was, '
Let us march on; lead us against the
enemy !
' and they were now willing, nay. anxious, to en-
counter all those difficulties and dangers which, but a few
moments before, had almost produced a mutiny."
We here insert an illustration of a principle already pre-
sented, that, where both parents are remarkable for any par-
ticular faculty, the children inherit an migmentation of it.
Both the parents of this illustrious son of genius, were re-
lated to families remarkable for their beauty of diction, and
their soul-stirring eloquence, and their son was the greatest
orator of modern times. Oratorical talents as transcendent
as his, which enchanted alike both the vulgar and the learned,
and chained them in breathless silence, and even so engrossed
his reporter, that he forgot his task, and listened when he
should have written, —talents, too, that were not brought out
by the discipline of the schools, nor by poring over books,
but which burst forth like a smothered volcano, impromptu,
and in spite of circumstances the most unfavorable, must
have been ccntstd, and that cause was, hereditary influences.
And this is rendered the more evident, from the fact, that his
'phrenological developments, as indicated by his portrait affixed
to " Wirt's Life of Patrick Henry," were immense. The
painter seems to have talren the utmost pains to draw pro-
digious Individuality, Eventuality, Comparison, Language,
and Locality. I have never seen the head or the portrait in
which these organs were equally predominant. These
organs he inherited, and their faculties gave him his extra-
ordinary powers of description and eloquence. Causality
was less, and his forehead, at its upper and lateral parts,
sloped rapidly. To compare this portrait with portraits of
his ancestors, would certainly be most interesting.*
•The reader will, doubtless, indulge me in making a single remark
about portraits and likenesses : —As the phrenological organization gi^es
16
182 MORAL AND INTELLFCTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMTSSIPLE.
The composing UileiU hereclitaiy in the family of the author.
Another illustration of the descent of the composing dis-
position or talent will be fonnd in the maternal ancestors of
the author. His mother wrote manuscript by the bushel,
and in a style at once graceful, flowing, perspicuous, and
elegant, consisting mostly of sermons, or, rather, of cssaijs
on religious subjects. She was noted, among all who knew
her, for the ease and felicity with which she composed and
spoke, so much so, that, soon after her death, a project was
set on foot, (though never completed.) of publishing her
memoir and writings. To say that her composing talents
were of a high order, is to speak quite within bounds; and
each of her brothers and sisters, in writing letters, compose
with perfect ease, and with much perspicuity and elegance
of diction. And this is true of my cousins, but the most so
of those who most nearly resemble her.
My brother L. N. F. has published a work on Marriage,
8000 copies of which have been sold within two years, and
has others in manuscript, from which the reader can judge
for himself, as to his writing capacity, though he takes more
after his father, who finds M'-ritiug quite difficult. Still, when
written, it is written 7f:eU, though it is in Iccfuring that he ex-
presses himself with the most ease, perspicuity, and beauty.
Upon the attthor's style of writing, the public have already
passed judgment, in the patronage extended. Of liis "Phre-
the vef)'^ best biography of a person tbat can be furnished, a good like-
ness, in which special pains is taken to ivpresent the relative size of the
organs, will he among the most valuable relics that parents can iiand
down to their children and otherig. Ne.\t to their craiiiiim, it would he
desirable, if some method of eniba'\ming would enable ns to preserve the
bodies of our ancestors, as did the Egyptians, that we might trace devel-
opments uj) to their fotmtaiii-head. Bur, next to this, a bust, taken in
plaster of Paris, will supply the place, wnd greatly excel paintings. In
years past, the author has expended thousands of dollars in bringing this
art to perfection, but, thotigh these improvements have rendered their
being taken no more difficult or painful than being shaved, yet, thi.s
metliod of obtaining likenesses, though inimitably perfect as to every
line and expression of the face, far excelling any effort of the sculptor
or painter, was not appreciated, and, af er sinking him several thousand
dollars, was abandoned. It is ho{)ed, however, that it will soon be takec
up, and rendered a popular method of securing likenesses.
INTELLECT HEBEDITARY. 183
Sal« of the author's works. His grand mother Field.
nology," 20,000 copies have been sold in six years, and its
sale still increases. Of his " Matrimony," the public have
bought above 20,000 copies in two years, and 15,000 of his
'•
IMemory" in one year. Of his "Synopsis of Phrenology,"
150,000 have been sold, of his "Temperance," 12,000 copies,
of his "Natural Theology of Phrenology," about 2,000 in
six months, and the entire edition of his work on " Educa-
tion and Self-Improvement" was sold in three months, which,
with ids work on " Memory," is out of print at present. Of
his various charts, mimense numbers have been published,
and almost half a million of his various productions are now
ill the hands of the American public, and all this, without
the advantages of the book-trade. The demand for them
continues to increase.
When but a mere boy, he took great pleasure in composing
essays, and when on his way to New England to obtain an
education, he spent an entire week at the house of an uncle,
ill writing and re-writing an article on "Dress," leaving off
only to eat and sleep. Before he knew any thing of Phrenol-
ogy, many a day and week have been spent in composing
essays, saving a little time only for eating and sleeping. A
newspaper article, on Agriculture, written by him, in 1S30,
was copied in most of the papers, and he appeared frequently
in the Temperance Recorder, as early as 1S30-2.
It is but justice to add, that the pressure of his professional
engagements allow him so little time for composition, that he
can never re- write, and not always read his manuscript be-
fore it goes to press, so that he appears to great disadvantage.
His grand mother possessed a similar talent, and was
frequently called upon to compose ballads for particular oc-
casions, such as weddings, &c., and also hymns for funerals,
deaths, &:c. She wrote a great amount of poetry, and was
fluent and fascinating in conversation, so much so, that
young people would form parties, even when she was quite
advanced, to visit her, so as to listen to her stories and mirth-
stirring witticisms. She lived to be 82, and was a remark-
able woman.
Her brothers possessed the same quality. When about to
leave home, one of them composed the tune and words,
184 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIKS TRANSMISSIBLE.
His grand molher's hroiliers. tSolnmoii F'ii'UI aiift his Hpscpinlaiits.
" I'll take my stafT, niid travel on,
Till I a better WDrUI do view."
He composed several tunes, and my fj^rand mother was an
excellent singer, as are nearly every one of her blood rela-
tions, Dea. Phineas Field, of Northfield, included. The
deacon, also, has written considerahly for religions papers,
speaks well, and is a pillar in society—a sonnd thinking
man. A sister of his also inherits this writing talent in au
eminent degree. These are cousins of the anlhor's mother.
Another brother of this grand mother, was Dea. Solomon
Field, a man endowed not only with a high order of talent,
but especially with the gift of speech. He was always
ready in church-meetings, or town-meetings to speak, and
was always listened to with profound attention, and was re-
markably fluent and happy as a speaker, and eminently
gifted in prayer, so much so, that he became noted for these
qualities in all the towns around him. He died at an ad-
vanced age, and transmitted these gifts to his youngest son,
who, like his father, is truly eloquent in meetings, never
hesitates for words, and yet always chooses just the words
for the occasion, is devotedly pious, and deeply solemn and
interesting in prayer. One of his sons bids fair to equal his
father, and is a superior scholar. Another grand son of
Solomon Field took the prize for composition in a seminary
of one hundred pupils, when but a new comer, and now
officiates at a Wesleyan chapel, Lowell, Mass. Contrary
to the custom of most clergymen of this denomination, he
generally writes his sermons, has written for periodicals, and
extensively in religious newspapers, and writes most of his
time. He throws a great amount of thought into his discourses.
Other members of this fannly of Fields have been hardly
less remarkable for their speaking and writing faculty, and
I never saw an individual in whose veins runs this blood of
the Fields, who was not endowed with this natural gift for
speaking or v/riting.
Thus it is, that, on his father's side, the author inherits a
powerful physical constitution, with a good share of the
motive or muscular temperament, and con.sequently, great
power of endurance ; and secondly, he has, superadded on
INTELLECT HEREDITARY. 185
Ortler in a il.Tugliier ot Df. Gilsoii. The Leavill family. The Folgers.
his motlier's side, a high-wrought nervous lemperament,
(which always accompanies consumption, and even often
causes it.) and a speaking and writing propensity and talent,
and to these parental causes, rather tlian to any merit of his
own, is due whatever of commendation may be thought de-
served.
If this sketch be deemed to partake somewhat of egotism,
I trust it will be overlooked; for, it lias been introduced be-
cause the faculty is really conspicuous, and also because
some of the readers will doubtless be pleased to learn thus
much of the parentage of him whose writings on parentage
they read.
In Washington, in 1S35, the author examined a little girl,
some three or four years old, daughter of Dr. Gilson, then
editor of the U. S. Telegraph, in whom Order was very large,
and which she showed in character, even before she could put
things in their place, by appearing very uneasy when they
were disarranged, and making signs to that effect. Neither
father nor mother had this faculty, but a grayid mother had
it very large.
The Leavitt family, wherever I have known them, are re-
markable for their strong common sense, and for their power
of intellect. Joshua Leavitt, the ex-editor of the New York
Evangelist, Emancipator, &c., has really become distin-
guished as a writer and clear-headed reasoner. Button
Leavitt, the almatjac-maker for N. H., a profound man, and
a great scholar, and several of his relatives, are remarkable
for power of intellect, for scholarship, profundity of research,
mathematical talents, and a talent for music. The musical
talent runs in this family. It is conspicuous in the New
Hampshire branch just alluded to, and Joshua Leavitt, men-
tioned above, was the publisher of revival and other hymns
and tunes.
The fact, that the superior talents of Franklin were hered-
itary, admits of no question; and that they descended in the
maternal line, is evident from the fact that others of the Fol-
ger family, to which his mother belonged, have become
noted for talents. Thus, Peter Folger, of Nantucket, is a
remarkable man, whether we consider his extraordinary
16*
186 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QrAMTTES TKANPMlNMni.K.
Klihu Burriii's relnlivps » ' *
' * The Sewiill liimiljr.
capacity for acquiring and retaining knowledpo, Iiis inventive
and mechanical pov/cr, or his .strength of intellect, and sound
common sense. The mechanical talents of Fraiikhn greatly
improved the printing press, those of Folger liave con-
structed, probably, t!ie most extraordinary aslic»nomical
ch.)ck that was ever known, which shows the descent of
Constrnctiveness and CausaHty. Franklin was a gieal nai-
viral philosopher; Folger is a great astronomer, and highly
scientific. liUcretia Molt, another descendant of the Folger
family, not only has the same prodigious develoj;rvient of
Causality which distinguished her illustrious kinsman, and
the same high, broad, square, and ca|)acious forehead, as
already shown in chap, iii., sec. 1, but she has ti;e
same philosophical, reasoning, discriminating, scnuinizing,
thought-making cast of mind, and, though a woman, she
has justly become celebrated for her strength of intellect,
and power of thought. I know of no woman that equals
her as n rerrsoncr. And, as far as I have been able to asoei-
tain, the Folger family, as far back as they can be traced,
have evinced precisely the same cast of mind for which
Franklin became so justly celebrated.
Elihii Burrilt's maternal grand father, Hinsdale, wa.'? a.
remarkable man, entrusted with town ofilces, and if I hove
been correctly informed, a g-reat reader, and had a great /'////(/
of kno'icle.ige. Burritt's brother, the author of an excellent
treatise on astronomy, ]/0ssesscs the sanie insatiable thiist
after knowledge that characterizes Elihu, and is extensively
erudite, and so does a sister, and also his maternal nejiiiew,
v/ho has a wonderful memory. One member of this learned
family, I think a brother, killed himself by over-studying,
in which he progressed with astonishing rapidity. Nor Iiave
1 any doubt, but this extraordinary capacity for acquiring
and retaining knov/ledge, will be found to have descended to
generation after generation, as far back as any thing can be
ascertained of all his ancestors.
"The Sewall family," (mentioned in chap, v., sec. 1,)
says Joshua Coffin, "for two centuries, have been distin-
guished for talents, and, for nearly the whole time from
1690, down to the present generation, some one or other of
'^.'^-
INTELI-KCT HKRFniTAr.Y,
(iiiotalions Irtiiii Jn^hilA CoiKn. 'i lit' 111 tliiTs (il i;ri-cit ini-ii.
their family iias been cliief j;isnce of the SiipieiTiC Court,
either in A'lv.v l^ngland or in Canada. " I have examined
the heads of several of this family, and foii'id superior intel-
lectual and moral dcvclopujcnts.
We give below, a quotation, somewhat extended, from a
n)annscript furnished us by Joshua Coflin, a man of the
most extensive knovv'ledge of matieis and things in general,
and especially of facts toucliing herediiary descent, that tiie
author has ever seen. All his phrenological organs of
Memory are very large. His ancestors, for several genera-
tions, liave been puhlic men, and huvt; all been noted ior
knowing ail about every body, their names, ages, parents,
grand parents, &c., or for that luiowledge of gciicaJogy,
which a work like this ought to embody. He is also full of
biographical anecdotes.
" My first remark is this : —Men distinguished for their
native strength of intellect have always been descended from
mothers of strong powers of mind, or, in otlier words, no woman
who is weak or delicient in intellect, ever had a child distinguished
for talents. If the Hither is a man of talents, so much the better,
but, be the father who he may, unless the mother h.as talents, the
children will not, I mitfht almost say, cannot, be disiingnished. It
is not so nmch the seed as ib,e soil* (rom which the husbandman
expects to obtain a good crop; but let h.im take what pains he
may in every respect, he cannot anticipate, nor will he obtain,
any thing uorthy \)i notice, unless the soil is deep and rich. As
a proqf of this assertion, we must depend not on theory, but en
facts, which, as saith the proverb, are 'stubborn things.' And,
from long and careful observation, I have never yet read of or
known an instance of any person of sujjerior iiitellect, whose
iiioiher was not blest with strong powers of mind. Take a {ew
examples:—Sir V. illiam Jones' mother was a woman of extra-
ordinary talents, so was INapoleon's, so was Walter Scott's, so
was the mother of Chief Justice Parsons, of Schiller, of Rev.
Richard Cecil, and, in short, of so large a number, that time
would f.il me to recount tliem. Both the parents of Daniel
Webster were disiinguislied (or their talents ; and, as a striking
proof of the position 1 take, it will interest you to know, that
Col. Ebenezer Webster, father of Daniel, was twice married.
By his first wife. Miss Su)iih, he had several children, not one of
* We want hoik pood seed and j^ood soil, to produce a good crop, as
well iu tlie animal kingdom, as in ilie vegetable.
—
Author.
I
ISS MORAL A\D INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMlSSlfiLE.
\VV>l>sn>r'.s jiih-cnI.ts and ul.iiivos. 'I'lie 'l'hj)|)aii lamily.
wlioui was above mediocrity, in that respect resembling the
mother. By bis second wile, a Miss Eastman, be liad three
children, D;iniel, Ezeklel, who was, in every respect, equal in
point of intellect to Daniel, and a dauiibter, who was the mother
of Pnjf. Iladdiick, of Darlmonib College, and VVilliam Hadduck,
Es(],, who died in Lowell. Daniel's grand mother, Webster,
was a woman of extraordinary talents, which her son, Ebenezer,
Daniel's father, inherited. Her maiden name was Baebiler.
1 mention her name in order to state a fact, viz., that iheie is one
physical peculiarity which has descended from the Rev. Stephen
B.ichller lo his descendant, Daniel Webster. What that peculiar-
ity is, I shall not now mention, but will hereafter. Trace, then,
if you please, the genealogy of the Webster family, and you wiU
find that certain traits have descended froin father to son in the
male line, but that, in every case, where there has been any
indication of superior talent, it has proceeded from the mother.
The mother of Col. Webster, was a woman of extraordinary
talents, and his second w ife, the mother of Daniel, was likewise
talented. So it is, as 1 think, in nearly every case ; that is,
peculiar traits will descend in a family from generation to genera-
tion ; but whether they are or are not distinguished for talents,
depends upon who their mothers were. I^et me illustrate.
" 1 presume you know Lewis Tappan,and his peculiar temper-
ament. Talented, ardent, frank, honest, firm and undaunted, ])er-
severing and industrious, he exhibits just such traits as have dis-
tinguished his ancestors for tive or six generations. Abraham
Tappan came to Newbury in 1634. His oldest son, Peter, was
a physician in Newbury, and a noted man. The records of our
court give ample evidence of his peculiarities. One of his sons
was the Rev. Dr. Christopher Tappan, of Newbury, distinguished
for his talents and his frank fearlessness in avowing his senliinents.
1 will mention one or two instances of his peculiarities: —A Mr.
Pettengell and iiis wife once hrough.t up a child for baptism.
The woman was a devoted Christian, but the father was none of
the best. On baptizing it, he said, with a clear, loud voice, '1
baptize this child ivholli/ on tlie mother's account.' On another
occasion, during the excitement of 1742, he carried a whip into
the church, one Sunday, in order, as he said, to scourge out the
enthusiasts. I ought to mention that he was a little deranged at
that time, but it shows the disposition of the man. His descend-
ants down to the present time, have been distinguished for talents.
"Young Atherlon, now in Congress, from N. H., is one of
them. The Rev. Christopher's nephew, Benjamin, was minister
of Manchester, Mass., a superior man, whose son, David, was
professor of divinity in Cambridge College. David's son, Benja-
min, is now minister in Augusta, Me., an able man. David, of
INTELLECT HEREDITAKY. ISO
Thp T!ij)|iHiis. 'I'hc CiiUiii (iiiiiily
CHmbridije, was an uncle to Arthur, Lewis, and Benjamin, (the
latter beini: now a senator in Congress from Ohio,) John ami
Charles, ol Boston. All of them are superior n)eii. I couhl
mention many others of ihe same family. Concerning the Tap-
pan race, two tliiniis are observable:
—
'•
Aijnham Tap[)an had two wives. Dr. Peter was son of the
first wife, and the other four sous, Ahiaham, Isaac, Jacob and
John, sons of the second wife. I\o\v, while tl)e desceiiflants ex-
hibit many of the trails of the faniilv, the superior talents arc
almost all confined to the posterity of l*e!er. You will ask how
1 account for this ? Could the truth be known, 1 entertain no
doubt that Abraham's first wife was a woman of superior talents.
"His descendants in the line of Peter, for four (generations, or
down to I^ewis Tappan's father, all married women of superior
talents, as I j)ap|)ened to know. We, iherelore, have a ifi;;ht to
expect cliildren to be intelligent when both their parents possess
superior intellect. With the history of this family, 1 am well ac-
quainted, as my mother was a Tappan, and niy grand mother
Tappan was a woman of superior mind. I shall say nc/tliing of
licr descendants. Cliarles Tappan, of this city, (Philadel[)liia.)
the en;^'raver, is one of her grand children. But enough of this
family.
"Let me mention something concerning the Coffin famiFy.
Tristram Coffin came to this country in 1642, with his wife
Dianis, and left five sons and a daughter, in 16G0. He went
w ith three of his sons to Namucket, where their descendants, or
many of them, still reside. One son, Peter, lived in Dover,
N. H., and the other in Newbury, Mass. 1 shall say nothing of
my own relations, except a few : things in corroboration of two
points, viz., that family traits are hereditary, and that talent pro-
ceeds from the mother. Tristram Coffin's wife was a superior
woman. Her son Peter was Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of New Hampshire, and her daughter Mary, who married
a Starbuck, of Nantucket, was a woman of extraordinary talents
and influence. For proof of this, see John Richardson's Journal.
He was a Quaker preacher. See also the novel called Miriam
Coffin, w^hich is founded on fact, and of which the greater part is
true. In that book you will find some verses written many years
ago, and descriptive of the peculiar traits of each family in the
island. One verse, as near as I can remember, runs as follows:
—
'TliH Collins noisy, lioistoroiis, loud,
Tlie siliMit Gnnliicrs |i!o(I<liii<r,
'I lie Maikers proud, iIih iMitdiells good,
Tlie Macys c.-it the pnddin;:.'
"Although the Coffins in Nantucket have been scpnrated from
the Coffins in New bury ever since 1660, there is even now a
190 MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSIBLE.
'J'hi- Mficidy family. Infrrcncox. Jnlin Qtiinoy Adamit.
Striking family resemblance in looks and oilier trails. They are
all very sociable, are great talkers, have good memories, love to
travel, and have a great deal of curiosity. They are to be found
in every stale of the union, and in every quarter of the world
wherever a siiip can sail, so that the name of Capt. Coffin is as
familiar to an American ear as John Smith. But enough of our
fan)ily.
'•
The family of Moody, the descendants of William Moody,
who came to JNewbury in 1634, have been and are now an ex-
cellent family, noted for good sense, honesty, and religious princi-
ple. So of the descendants of Tliomas Hall, and many others
whom 1 could mention. The conclusion to which I have amved
is this, that like produces like—thai family traits are propagated,
and descend from one generation to another in the male line—that
strength of intellect depends on the motlier, and that, if the father
be a person of talents as well as the mother, the children stand a
much better chance of being iiitelligent than they would do if the
mother alone were possessed of superior talents ; but if the mother
bad a weak intellect, you may be assured that the children will
not, I mi^ht almost say, cannot be oilieruise than weak.
"As far as I can ascertain froin a soniewhat extensive knowledge
of the people of INew England, 1 agree in sentiment with C. C.
Baldwin, that those families which were respectable in the 6rst
settlement of each town, are respectable now ; and that those
families whicli were not of any note then, are just so now. Ta
this general principle I would make the following exceptions :
—
First, where a man of respectability and talent marries a woman
of small intellect and low family, or marries a blood relation, there
the family are almost sure to fall into the lower ranks. On the
other hand, where a man of no rank marries a woman of respec-
table family and good talents, the talent and the character coming
from the mother, the family are elevated of course. 1 have no-
ticed another thing, viz., that nearly all our distinguished men in
IVew England are descended from the first settlers. I mention
this last fact, merely as a fact, which may or may not be of use to
you." .
But last, not least, if additional illustrations of the descent
of superior natural talents w'cre required, both the ancestors
and the descendants of John Quincy Adams furnish it. Elo-
quent above almost any other man in America, even at his
advanced age, possessed of more political information than
any other man on this continent, and the most remarkable
memory to be found any where, with a clearness of discrimi-
nation, an intensity of feeling, a power of withering sarcasm,
INTELLECT HEREDITARY. 191
Adams' soil. (leiicral coiir lulling; inlt'ii-iii-e.
a talent for debate, superior to any other member of Con-
gress, and all in an old man borderiiig on SO ! A wonder of
the age is this illustrious old man ! And who was his father?
Let the history of our counti'v answer. And who his mother?
One of tiie most talented women of her age, as is seen by her
letters to her husband. And who is his son 7 Let his ora-
tion before the city authorities of Boston last 4th of July,
pronounced misurpassed only by his father's best efforts,
which father he now bids fair to equal, answer. And other
branches of this illustrious family will be found to possess
great natural abilties. Prot'. Adams, of Vermont, is from the
same stock, and took the first college appointment in the
class in which the author graduated, as the best scholar of
that class.
But, is it either necessary or desirable to extend the record
of these facts ? Has not every reader of common observation,
seen facts analogous to t!;t"se, sufncient to produce the con-
viction, that any required number of similar fleets, miglu
easily be added to the preceding list? In the various fami-
lies into which my profession has called me, 1 have seen
thousands on thousands of facts, establishing the descent of
every phrenological organ in the relative degree in which it
was possessed by parents. Every brography is replete with
them, and so is every city, town, hamlet, and faniily in the
land and in the world. Indeed, to deny the general fact,
the great law, that the qualities of parents, both mental and
physical, descend to their children, and so on, from generation
to generation, down the long stream of lime, is to deny all
law, and doubt the plainest truths in natural science ; for,
what one law is more universal, more obvious? Who will
undertake to affirm that children do iiot resemble their parents
congenitalbj 7 What farmer, what farmer's hoy, even, dees
not know that his stock ahcays resemble the parents of that
stock—that like begets like, as well in man as in the vegeta-
ble or in the animal kingdoms? Will the Learned Black-
smith undertake to reverse this adage, that "like begets
like," as he has reversed its sister adage, that " a poet is
born a poet"? Will he render the one, "like begets urir-
like," or rather, " like begets nothing,''^ as he has reversed
192 MOUAI, AND INTELLHCTUAL QUALITIES TRANSMISSinLE.
Tlie absiirdilies of the oppoiicnls of lliis iloclrioc exposed.
the sister adage, " a poet is mac/e "? for both adages mean
the same thing; and if he reverses the one, he must reverse
the other also. Is he, is any other inteUigent man, wilhng
to deny, in broad terms, the entire doctrine of parentage, and
to say that children mlicrlt 710 qualities, mental or physical,
from their parents'? Surely, no one ! But to admit that 07ie
sififfh quality, whether mental or physical, of either parent,
is hereditary, is to admit the doctrine of parentage, or the
great /r/c/ of hereditary descent ; and to admit this doctrine,
is to admit that all orig-inal, constitutional qualities, are he-
reditary, are innate, are congenital. Either, parents in their
capacity as parents, do nothhig by way of imparting inhe-
rent qualities to the child, or they impart all its original na-
ture, both mental and physical. Wliich is it? Ave children
as likely to resemble any body else, any thing else, as their
parents? Do children indeed derive no inherent constitution
from their parents, and are they left destitute of a// constitu-
tion ? Then, if brought up by and v^ath dogs, or whales, or
lions, or squirrels, they would be dogs, or whales, or lions,
or squirrels, in both body and mind !
See into wl;at absurdities the opponents of this doctrine are
forced I But no one disbelieves it; and those who pretend
that all are born alike, are only malcing believe. 'Vhey knov)
better. All know, all mnst know, that children inherit the
mental and physical qualities of their parents; and to argue
this point, is to attempt to prove that two and one make three.
The great principle of hereditary descent, has only to be
stated, to be admitted. And, I repeat it, if one single quality,
whether mental or physical, is hereditary, then all that is
original, whether in the form of body, position of the head,
feet, heart, each bone, and muscle, &.c., or in the faculties of
the mind, and even in their relative energy, is hereditary,
and all the minutest shades and phases of character, or at
least those elements from which every emotion of the mind,
every virtuous, every vicious feeling, every talent, and even
every thought, evry action of intellect, all that is mental,
are innate, are inherited.
PRELIMINARY REMARKS TO CHAPTER VII. 193
Ilow ilie law thai cbiklrcn nscinble iheir parents is raotlifind.
CHAPTER VII.
THE CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
If the great law, already so fully established, that chil-
dren RESEMBLE THEIR PARENTS, and that they inherit all of
their orignnil elements^ of mind and body, from parentage,
admitted of no modification, and allowed no change to creep
in. it would necessarily render every member of the human
family exactly alike, both in size and shape of body, com-
plexion, looks, strength, and all other physical peculiarities,
so that one could not be distinguished from the other; and
also in all their mental and moral characteristics—in all their
opinions, desires, feelings, pursuits, capacities, dispositions,
modes of thinking and acting, and in short, mevery conceiva-
ble point of view.
But from a monotony so every way oppressive and detri-
menlal to the happiness of man, nature has kindly relieved us,
by instituting the followina: modification of this law, namely,
that the various artificial habits of parents
—
their ever vary-
ing conditions ic/iile becoming parents, should stamp their
impress upon both the mental and physical nature of their
offspring. That the general or the perm,anent nature of
parents, imparts the main bias of character to offspring, ad-
mits of no doubt; and yet children often possess characteris-
tics not found in either parent, or grand or great grand-par-
ent, but which tally precisely with changes that occurred in
the conditions of the parents during the augmentation of their
families ;
and the differences that often occur in children of
the same parentage, Avhile they differ essentially from those
of both parents and ancestors, will frequently constitute a
good history of changes that occurred to the parents at the
several periods of their birth.
But again. Brothers and sisters bear a general resem-
blance to each other and to their parents, because the gen-
eral characters of the parents, and the general tenor of their
characters, remained much the same. But /?/;ms. usually re-
semble each other still more closely, so closely indeed, that
ir
194 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PAKENTS.
Causes of the difference which is seen in children of ihe same parents.
Strangers often fail to distinguish them apart; probably be-
cause begotten and born under precisely the same circum-
stances of the parents. And where they differ from each
other, which is extremely rare, one will generally be found
to resemble one parent or grand-parent, and the other another.
Cut this matter is put completely at rest by the fact that
the organs of the children resemble those of their parents, as
seen in this work, and that those of their parents are capable
of being enlarged and diminished in the course of years, as
proved in the author's work on Phrenology applied to Edu-
cation and Self-Improvement. Hence, if different influences
or conditions of life occur to change the organs of parents
wliile their family is increasing, these changes in the heads
of parents, will of course be transmitted to their children. In
short, both the mental and the physical conditions of parents
while becoming parents—that of the father for days, perhaps
months before, as well as while begetting the child, and that
of the mother for a similar period as well as during the whole
term of gestation and nursing—are transmitted to their off-
spring, and so transmitted as to become constitutional, and
thus handed down to future generations, illustrations of
which have been already given in the preceding chapter, and
will be continued in this.
SECTION I.
THE RESPECTIVE INFLUENCES OF EACH PARENT.
What is the relative influence of the father, and what ol
Jhe mother ? The influence of which is greatest upon the
physical, of which upon the moral, and of which upon the
intellectual character of their ofl'spring7 Does the one trans-
mit the intellectual, and the other the animal nature, or one
the muscular and the other the motive system? and if so.
which imparts which 7 or do they both combine in propaga-
ting each in proportion to their relative energy '? are questions
easily asked, but hard to answer, partly from difficulties im-
posed by the very nature of the case, and partly by the false
THE RESPECTIVE INFLUENCES OF EACH PABENT. 195
Alexander Walker's theory. Farts against this tbenry.
modesty of the age; and yet their proper answer would
evolve principles of great moment and practical utility, in re-
gard to which the author hopes to correct some errors and
make some useful suggestions.
The favorite theory of Alexander Walker, that one parent
imparts the vital system and frontal half of the head, while
the other furnishes the motive system and back half of the
head, at first prepossessed the author in its favor, but has
not coincided with his subsequent observations. He knows a
girl whose wkole head, back, front and top, resembles her
mother's ; and as the heads of both parents are dissimilar,
and that of the girl is strongly marked, it is easy to see
wherein her phrenological developments resemble or ditfer
from eiti.er. The forehead of the father projects most at the
root of the nose and so upwards to Comparison, but retires
at Causality: those of both mother and daughter project at the
upper and lateral portions, but retire at the perceptives, where
that of the father projects most. In the fatlser Cautiousness
is not large, but in both mother and daughter, it is immense.
Adhesiveness is much larger in both mother and daughter,
than in the father. Tlie Concentrativeness of the father is
very small ; of both mother and daughter, large. Striking
differences exist in their organs of Benevolence, Ideality, Con-
structiveness,Approbativeness, and several other organs, those
of the father being unlike those of his wife and daughter.
—
The daughter also resembles her mother, but differs from her
father, in character^ in each of these particulars; and what
renders the case still stronger,, she takes after her maternal
grand- mother^ and groat grand-mother, cousins, &c., both in
these respects, and in her temperament, though her motions
resemble those of her father, as do also a k\v of fier appetites
and habits.
Another child of the same parents, takes its whole head,
both its fore part and its back part, from Ms father, or more
properly from \\s paternal grand-father. In short, I find no
regularity whatever, as regards either portion of the head
coming from one parent, and another as coming from another.
So far from it, I find that the parent which imparts the most
ei the /lead, usually furnishes the most of the body. And I
196 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Principles eslahlislipd by ihc iiulhor's observations.
can generally tell, not only which parent tlie child most re-
sembles, bntl can also toll from irhir/i parent the person in-
herits a liability to consumption, or other diseases, which
was the shortest, larszesi. tallest, most plump or spare favored,
and wliich parent and jrrand-parcnt lived the longest. I re-
cently astonished Professor Emerson, of Andover, by telling
him that he resembled his moiher, and she her father, and
that he resembled his grand- father, and how long his grand-
father lived ;
for I saw that many points in his head, resem-
bled the general form of the female head, (see conckision of
sec. 3. chap, vi.) and also that his powerful rniisailar sys-
tem, came from some male ancestor, and as he resembled his
moiher in head, I inferred that ^Ae resembled her father^ and
inferred that he therefore resembled his mother and maternal
grand-fathrr.
The principle to which all my observations, which have
been both extensive and diversified, tend, is this—that chil-
dren inherit more of both their physical constitution and
looks, and also of their mental tone and character, from that
parent who is endowed with the greatest amount of native
vigor. —that when the physical constitution predomii>ates in
one parent, and the mental in the other, the offspring will
generally, though not always, take on the physical constitu-
tion of the strong parent, and the mental of the intellectual
parent; —that when both parents have a predominance of
either the physical or of the menial, the offspring will inherit
an ov ^mentation of that of its parents, and that, in all cases,
that parent which is the most vigorous, will exert the most
powerful influence on the character of the child, and of a
character similar to his own—tliat the parent which has but
a weak vital, or motive, or mental apparatus, imparts but a
feeble vital or motive, or menial apparatus, and that the
parent which has a strong vital, or motive, or mental appara-
tus, will impart the same to offspring.
If this principle be true, it leads us to the following most
important conclusions :
1. That one having a feeble vital, or motive, or mental
system, should never marry one having this system feeble;
for then, that of their children will be doubly feeble; bat one
THE RESPECTIVE INFLUENCES OF EACH PARENT. 197
Kules (o bf observed id niarryiii|r.
having either feeble, f«hould always marry one having ii
strong. Thus those having a consnnipiive tendency, or (rora
a stock iu which consumption lurks, should never marry
those of the same temperament; but those having narrow
chests, small lungs, a thin visage, spare form, and small ab-
domen, should marry those having lull cheeks, ample busts,
depth and breadth of chest, full abdomens, and considerable
flesh. Let delicate persons never marry those that are also
delicate, nor small or slim persons, those that are small and
slim, rs'or should those having very light conjplexion, hair
and eyes, and fine and soft skin, marry those like themselves,
for then, as the njental temperament predominates in both
parents, and the animal is weak in both, their children will
be small, most sensitive, precocious, feeble^ and aknost sure
to die young.
2. .Nor should those having the animal system predomi-
nant, marry those in wl;om this temperament predominates,
lest their children inlierit an increase of animality, and a dim-
inution of menial power. But. let tliem nniie in marriage
with those whose mental apparatus is strong. Their having
a strong constitution, however, is certainly no objection, but
the more the better. The union of those having great mus-
cular strength and powerful physical constitutions, with those
whose minds are clear, tastes literary, feelings fine and in-
tense, and tlow of thoughts and words abundant, (and his
is generally the case with consumptive families,) will be
found to be aspicious of talent in the progeny.
3. But the best union, is that of similar temperaments,
when both are well balanced. If very small persons should
not marry those that are also small, if those that are tall and
shrn, should marry those that are short and stocky, if any,
and if the weak should marry the strong or none, it does not
necessarily follow that those of average size should marry
those that aie le/y large or else very small—that those whose
tempcramrnts are evenly balanced, and all that they should
be, should marry those whose temperaments are uneven and
theretorc defective ;
but, while those of either extreme, wheth-
er mental or pliysical, whether very large or very small, very
sensitive or very obtuse, very tall or very short, very dark
198 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Krror of VV'alkor. Husbands and wives s^radually assimilate.
comploxioiiPtl or v(!ry light, very coarse-leatured or very fine,
should marry the other extreme, yet those who are medium
in these and other respects, should marry those who are
rnedhim. Those who are right, as to miud and body, or
are what they ought to be, should marry those Vke them-
seloes ; while those that are wrong, that is, at either extreme^
should marry the otiier extreme.
AValuer's great error consists in his directing all extremes
and all o/>/?o,si/e5,. to unite with the other extreme. On tlie
contrary, 1 maintain that, though extremes should marry op-
posite extremes, yet, that mediums slioidd marry mediums.
I grant that extremes fancy extremes, but it is lor precisely
the same reason that a man, burning up with a raging fever,
desires and relishes cold water, or a cold man seeks and en-
joys a fire, namely, because being opposites, they tend to re-
duce his exirem.?s, which are painful because extremes. That
is, when one becomes so tall, or so short, or so large, or so
excitable, &c., as to be the worse therefor, nature corrects
ihis error by creating in him a relish for the other extreme,
by which his extreme will be partially neutralized, and he
benefited.
And then, what is the general fact as regards husbands
and wives 7 Wliile we sometimes see extremes in hitsbands
and wives, yet we seldom find amediuyn man or woman, uni-
ted to the other extreme. And what is more, because it
shows clearly tiie indication of nature, liusbands and wives
that, have lived lovingly together a score or two of years,
naturally and gradually assimilate. If one be fleshy and the
other spare, the spare one gradually fleshes up, and ifie phimp
one loses his flesh ;
the healthy one imparts to the feeble one
a part of his health, and receives in return a portion of the
disease of the sickly one, and so of otlier physical and men-
ial points of diflerence, and even of looks, ical/c, tones of
voice, and character generally—a general principle which
contains invaluable lessons for those who require to employ
it, liiat is, who would seek a help-meet in a companion, or
on J that \\'\\\ further their ends, whatever (hey may be, wheth-
er laborious, or literary, or moral, or religious, or aspiring, or
reforming, or enjoying, instead of hanging as dead weight*
THE RESPECTIVE INFLUENCES OF EACH PARENT. 199
Wh il qu. 'lilies shiiiild be l»|p|i<leH in marriage
upon their wings. Still, those who are too literary li'i their
health, or /oo ambitions for their strength, and too radi' ;!', &c.
ref^nire those of opposite organizations, for the very |)mpose
of holding them in check. Hence highly excitable ] nsons,
should not marry those who are equally excitable, and who,
therefore, will nerve them up to a still higher pitch ot nction,
but they should marry those who will soothe, relax, and soft-
en down their feelings, or as it were, draiv off that ex<f.ss of
excitement Avith which ihey are charged, and at tho same
time benefit themselves, by receiving this action, in win h, by
supposition, they are somewhat ditterent.
Precisely the same general law governs the blendi'.ig and
offsetting of particular organs and faculties. If Ihcy are
about what they should be, as to size and power in mn', let
them be about the same in the other; but, if they are too large
in the one, let them be offset by marrying one in who;!) they
are smaller. Or if a genius is required in either met hanics,
or poetry, or mathematics, orpliysical strength, or the acqui-
sition of knowledge, or giant strength of intellect, let those
having the desired organs largely developed, marry those
having a similar organieation, supported by strength oi con-
stitution, and they can hardly fail of securing their w ;
h.
But these extremes—this deficiency in some respects, and
excesses or prodigies in others—have elsewhere * been t^iiown
to be unfavorable— extremes in the temperament to \»' unfa-
vorable to health, and in the faculties, unfavorable to idrrect
judgment and proper conduct, as well as to virtue aini hap-
piness, while the full development and ey^/a/ action of '/// the
temperaments, is the condition of physical health ami iiappi-
ness, and the equal, harmonious, ov proportionate aiiion of
all the faculties, is the main condition of mental and moral
perfection, of good judgment, sound common sense, (^orrect
feelings, and a virtuous and happy life. Hence parent.^ vhose
bodily and mental organization is what it should be in all re-
spects, should choose companions /iXre ^Aemse^yes; biii those
in whom the mental or physical developments are luieven,
and therefore, whose cfiaracter, opinions, and condi.rt are
• Id tbeautbor^s work on "Education and Self-Iinprovenicm."
200 CONDITIONS OP PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Are taleuls inherited mostly friHii the lather or the mother t
warped and imperlect, should othc{ or supply these defects or
excesses, by aiarrying those havuig opposite uiental aud physi-
cal developments, and thus strike a balance, not only in
their children, but in part m themselves.
Of course the author cannot rini out these general princi-
ples in all their ever varying applications, nor is this neces-
sary, tor readers of ordinary sagacity, and especially, either
by studying Phrenology themselves, or by callmg to their aid
the services of a successful Phrenologist, can soon determine
what qualities he requires similar to, and what to offset, and
subdue, by opposite organizations in a companion. At least,
what I deem a correct and a most important principle, and
one which runs through most of the facts stated in previous
portions of this work, is now before the reader. " Ho that
is wise is wise for himself, but he that scorneth he shall bear
it,'" and his posterity after him.
As to whether superior talents are imparted by the father
or the mother, a great diversity of opinion exists. Some
maintain that the germ is derived wholly from the father, and
that the mother's qualities have no more to do in determining
those of the child, than have those of the hen, in determining
whether the eggs she sits upon shall batch ducks, or geese,
that depending upon the inlierent nature of the egg, and not
upon llie hatcher.* With this theory, I have no fellowship,
because it deprives the mother of all participation in injpart-
in? the original bias of character to her child ;
nor yet have
I with its opposite one, that the mother has all [a do, both in
determining the original character of the egg, and in the
hatching, and that all that the father does, is simply to quicken
the ovum furnished solely by the mother, and winch contains
within itself all the original elements that enter into the for-
mation of either mind or body: and that all the influence ex-
erted by the father upon the character of the child, is through
the imagination of the mother only, thus allowing him '•
no
• An eccentric father, once commandetl his daujihters never to call
their children his graiid-chiiilren, but to call thern the grand-cliilrlren of
thtir husbamfs father, niliiig all real descent from the fatlier, from whom
alone, he contended,was imp.rted tlie germ of existence.
THE RESPECTIVE INFLUENCES OF EACH PARENT. 201
Imn^iii.iiinn ol ihe motlipr influencing ihe rhild.
part nor lot in this ruattcr" of imparting the original bias to
his own child, —a theory maintained by a recent work enti-
tled. "'Menial and ftloral Qualities Transmissible." That the
father, in fiis own capacity as a father, stamps his own physi-
cal and mental nature upon that of his child, is rendered evi-
dent from many of the facts already stated, in which various
talents, propensities, tastes, diseases, &c. tfcc, and even in-
sanity, have descended in the male line, and after passing one
generation, and thus precluding the possibility of its being
communicated by the father's operating on the imagination of
the mother, because the father was perfectly sane, have reap-
peared in the third and after generations. Is it to be supposed
for one moment, that the piety of the Brainard or Rogers
fanidy, descended in the male line, solely by the hnsbamls all
being so devoted as to impress the irnaginatioiis of all iheir
wives, and thereby transmit, not as parents, but as lookers on
merely, this pious influence from sire to son, which, even
though the father was a Brainard. could just as well have
been changed to any thing and every thing else, if other per-
sons of other minds had been at hand to impress the moihev's
mind in an opposite direction? A fine scape-goat this, for
wives who prove truant to their husbands ! If their rhild
should be a mulatto, they have only to say that some ^fambo
impressed their im/jginations ! That impressions made upon
the imagination of the mother, whether by her husband or by
others, or even by animals and things, are often stamped
upon the nature of thechild, will soon be shown, but that the
sole agency of the father—that all he does to stamp his own
mental or physical impress upon his offspring, is done solely
by the impressiuyis he makes upon the mother's imagination,
and not by virtue of his office as a/a/^er—is a theory, wliich,
while it thrusts out the faiher from all participation hi the
formation of the characters of his own children, makiny them
no more his than another's, is so manifestly absurd in itself,
and so contrary to the general tenor of the facts that 1- iron
this point, (one single fact of the right kind being suffifi' at to
overthrow it,) that if it were not entertained in qnarieis en-
titled to respect, would not de.serve refutation, or even
notice.
202 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
ttfiitral ch.-iractcrotihe failier affocliiig ihe child.
My doctrine is, that a part of the orighial substance from
which the child is formed, is derived from the loins of its
father, which substance, partaking, as it does, of his mental
and physical nature, stamps that nature upon the child. I
believe that the father does quite as mucii, congenilaUy^ as
the mother, probably more; and that the mother does most
by way of noitrishuig the embryo; but this matter, a correct
understanding of which, would develope some most impor-
tant truths, is at present shrouded in too much mystery to
allow a correct and final decision of this question.
But, be the office of the father what it may, it is very clear
that whatever congenital influences he exerts, must be exert-
ed at or before generation, so that it is his condition at and
for days perhaps weeks or montlis before that period, or while
secreting the requisite materials, that alone can stamp his
physical or mental impress npon his offspring. Hence, the
permanent, ^e/ie/-a7 character of the father has a much great-
er influence on the child, than his temporary, fluctuating
changes, induced by circumstances; still, if he be habitually
energetic, and labor under no chronic disease, but be full of
animal life and buoyancy of spirit, both for a few days or
months before, and at that period, these temporary influences
and conditions, will unquestionably be transmitted to his off-
spring; or, if he be generally debilitated, or exhausted, or
harassed in business, or suffer under depression of spirits,
<fcc. &c., these and other similar conditions will be commu-
nicated to his oflspring. ,
But, in my humble judgment, both parents contribute, in
proportion to their relative energy, of the original materials^
both mental and physical, from which th6 child s mind as
well as body is formed ; and hence, that feebleness in either
parent, blights the progeny. That a talented mother is ab-
solutely necessary to produce talented offspring, I do not for
a moment doubt; but I believe a talented /a/Ae/" to be almost
equally so. I say almost, for I believe that the influences of
the mother are, on the whole, considerably greater than those
of the father, because, besides contributing her proportion
towards the original formation of the embryo, she alone nour-
ishes the foetus—a function which will soon be shown to be
THE RESPECTIVE INFLUENCES OF EACH PARENT. 203
Talented rbildrcn have taleDted fathers. Judge I...
of the Utmost importance. That all great men will be found
to have had eminently talented mothers, 1 grant, and I grant
that the majority of facts lean to the side of the mother; but
what talented man has a dolt for a father? The fathers of
Washington, of Franklin, of Webster, of Wesley, of Patrick
Henry, and of a host of others, whom the reader will readily
call to mind, will be found to have been men of strong com-
mon sense, sound judgment, strong native powers of intellect,
and much general information.
And then, again, admitting that talents do always come
from the mother, these fnothers must get their talents some-
xchere. Do they always inherit them from their mothers? Do
they not more frequently inherit them from i\\e\x fathers ? If
so, and facts in any abundance show that this is the case,
still the talents often come from the male line, and they often
also descend in the male line ; as in the families of the Sew-
alls, the Folgers, the Lewises, the Edwardses, and others
already mentioned, and also branch off from it through the
daughters of this talented line, into those families into which
they marry.
There is, however, one principle of hereditary descent, pre-
sented in many of the preceding facts, though not formally
announced, which should not be lost sight of in determining
whether superior talents are derived from the father or moth-
er; namely, that children take particular qualities, not from
either parent^ but from a ^rawrf-parent, illustrations of which
principle are furnished by the Hatch family, chap. iii. sec.
1; by the Belgian Giant, sec. 3; by the case of insanity
reported by Miss Hunt, chap. vi. sec. 1 ; by the kitten loving
propensity, sec. 3 ; by the child of Dr. Gibson, by the grand-
mother of Webster, and by cases mentioned in other portions
of the work, as well as by the general observation of man-
kind.
The following facts, while they are interesting in them-
selves, will serve to illustrate our general subject—the con-
ditions of parents, while becoming parents, as influencing
their children. Said Judge L. to nie, during a conversation
on this subject—" I never employed my intellect in becoming
a father, except in the case of my youngest child. After
204 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BtCOMING PARENTS.
An i\miable cliikl. A hint lo parents.
closing my arduous duties on the bench, protracted unusually
long, 1 determined to throw off all care, to abandon business
for a time, and xorccreate and enjoy myself wwh. my family,
and accordingly invited several members of the bar and
others of my particular friends, from adjoining towns, to
meet at my house, and have a social and happy time. On
arriving at home, after an absence of several weeks, I found
that my wife liad just discharged her menses; and she was
rendered exceedingly happy, both by my return, and by the
company I brought with me, all of whom entered heart and
soul into the social festivity; and by adding music and danc-
ing, we had a truly jolly time of it. We both retired in a
most happy frame of mind, and it was under these cheerful
influences, that this child was begotten, and a better natured,
happier dispositioned child, you never saw. She never cries,
or frets, or complains, but will sit on the floor by the hour,
and amuse herself, and appears always happy." The author
spent some days in the Judge's family when this child was
about a year old, and can bear ample testimony to her not
crying, and always appearing perfectly happy.
Another father, on bringing his daughter to me to be ex-
amined, remarked, after I had expatiated pretty freely upon
her superior intellect, amiableness, and genuine goodness, re-
marked, after she had left, that she was beyond comparison
the best and the most talented of his children, and added, that
he accounted for it from the fact, that when she was begot-
ten and born, he was in the full tide of successful business,
had money flowing in upon him, and was abundantly pros-
pered in every thing; but that his children born afterwards,
while he was smarting under reverses of fortune, were ill-
tempered, and not as intellectual as she was.
Let parents look back to the first history of their own
children, and learn from these and similar facts, lessons for
the guidance of their future conduct. And let every parent
employ intellect in these the most important relations of life.
It is a law of our nature, that, to be promotive of happiness,
all our feelings must be exercised in harmony with and under
the guidance of intellect; and the procreative feeling, above
all others, should be thus exercised. ^- •,,..a^*v
THE RESPECTIVE INFLUENCES OF EACH PARENT. 205
Hnppy parents have amiable cUildren. A family in Lowejl.
Another point closely connected with this subject, and, in-
deed, growing out of it, is tlie influence of affection, and also
of disagreement, between husbands aad wives, on their off-
spring. The very nature of love is to blind each parent to
the faults of the other, and perfectly to cemejit and blend
together the aflections of both, so as to " make of twain one
flesh." Nor ought husbands and wives ever to disagree. If
they cannot live together in peace and love, they should not
live together at all ; for, besides all the pleasures flowing
from their agreement, and all the tenfold misery caused by
their disagreement, or contention, (see the author on " Matri-
mony,'' pp. 2.5 to 34,) the influence of disagreement updn the
disposition of children, and also upon their talents, is per-
nicious beyond all conception. Let the reader cast his eye
around on the circle of his own acquaintance, and see if he
can find a single family of children who are highly intellec-
tual and amiable, whose parents live together unhappily.
And ask country school-masters, who, by " boarding around,"
know whether the parents of particular scholars live together
happily or unpleasantly, if the parents of their mischievous,
naughty, bad pupils, who will neither learn nor mind, but
are selfish, and up to all manner of roguery, do noi generally
quarrel ; and if the parents of those children that are amiable,
loving, lovely, bright, good scholars, and promise well, do
not live together in love 7 Nor can words express the im-
portance of this subject. Every cross word, every hard
feeling, is a dagger aimed at the happiness of your unborn
infant. The following is an illustration :
A husband and wife in Lowell love each other tenderly,
neither having been known ever to have spoken a cross word
to the other. This union appears to be perfect, and each to
be literally bound up in the other. The children of this
happy union, are among the sweetest and most affectionate
children any where to be found, no cross words, no pouting,
scolding, domineering, biting, striking, or other ebullitions of
anger, but embraces and affectionate caresses take their
place, the most perfect union pervading the whole family.
But who ever saw a family of cross, ugly-tempered children,
unless their parents quarrelled, or, at least, often blamed and
18
206 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Rules in relation lo ihe exercise of Amativeiiess in parent!).
found fault with each other? or, whoever saw peevish, fret-
ful, scolding, disagreeing parents, whose children were not
equally so? But, additional force will be given to these re-
marks, by showing how intimately the condition of the
mother affects the character of the child. Unpleasant feel-
ings towards her husband, render her constantly miserable,
and keep her angry most of the time ; and this must neces-
sarily impress the same sad and angry tone upon the child,
by which it will be rendered unhappy for life, and scatter ill
feeling wherever it goes !
Above all things, husbands and wives should never co-
habit, unless perfect good feeling subsists between them;
first, because the exercise of Amativeness merely, without
its being modified and purified by the sanction and the con-
current blending of all the other faculties, in which the
animal is buried in the spiritual and the exalted, becomes
mere lust, of the basest and most loathsome character, and
most brutal and disgusting ! How is it possible to make so
exalted an element of our nature, an instrument of animal
gratification merely, from which all its higher, holier charac-
teristics, those that " make of twain one flesh," are banished?
Let woman, especially, answer this question. Secondly,
because the child begotten by animal feeling merely, must
necessarily be animal all its life; nor is it possible to stay
the deep, broad current of human iniquity, now threatening
to swallow up all that is lovely, all that is pure and holy in
man, in one great besom of selfishness and moral pollution, by
all the preaching in Christendom, by all the means of grace
and efforts at reform now in vogue, till parents, in their own
capacity as pai'eiits, commence it, and beget and bring forth
in a pure, and in an elevated state of mind, as well as in a
vigorous and healthy state of body. Nor can I resist the
conviction, drawn from the analogy of the animal kingdom,
from the exercise of appetite, and from all the other faculties,
that BUT ONE cohabitation should take place to a birth. As
we are not made to eat merely to gratify the palate, but only
when nature demcttids the result of eating, so we should not
exercise this organ in this manner oftener than its results, or
oflfspring, requires. But my theory on this point I shall gire
ON NOURISHING THE EMBRYO AND INFANT. 207
Weakly mothers cannot produce healthy oflVpring.
in a separate work, entitled " Amativeness, it Uses and
Abuses, including the remedy of the latter." The above
has been introduced, because, without it, any work on hered-
itary descent would be incomplete; and it is to be hoped that
the reader will appreciate this much, at least.
SECTION II;
THE OFFICE OF THE MOTHER IN NOURISHING THE EMBRYO AND
INFANT,
But, while the congeyiital influences of the mother on the
character and talents of the child, may or may not equal or
exceed those of the father, still, the influences which she is
compelled to exert upon it during gestation, and even in
nursing, unquestionably give her a much greater power over
the character of her oflTspring, than it is possible for the
father to exert; first, because they are continued so much
longer; and secondly, whatever the seed may be, nothing can
come of it if planted upon a rock, or in a barren soil. What-
ever the original elements of talent may be. the jjhysical
stamina must be good, the constitution must be strong, or the
child will die before it arrives at maturity, or else have too
little physical strength to sustain the mind in long-continued
or powerful action. I say, then, let the germ be ivhat it
may—the very best possible—a weakly mother can produce
nothing but 2, weakly off"spring, and a weakly offspring can
never become distinguished. The one condition of intel-
lectual and moral excellence, which lies at the basis of all
others, is a strong constitution ; and this must come from the
mother, or rather, from both father and mother. Be the
father ever so strong and healthy, a feeble mother, with little
vitality herself, cannot possibly impart sufficient vitality to
the off'spring, to lay the basis of a strong constitution, —and,
without this, farewell to genius, farewell to moral excellence,
and to all that is valuable in our nature ! Suppose an able-
bodied man to be half-starved, and allowed but half the air
required for breathing, would he not pine away, and lose
208 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
The roDneclinii between the roollicr and Ihe unborn infant.
Strength and weight in proportion as his sustenance was
withheld from him ? And if this be the case Avith strong
men^ already grown, how much more so with children that
are growing 7 Nor have I the least doubt, but that mil-
lions of the youth of our land lose half of their phys-
ical and mental power, by working oil too much an-
imal energy, or taking in too little —thus having less
physical energy than they require for growth. Let a child
be half-starved, and how soon it withers and dies! How
much more, then, will the embryo, if but poorly supplied
with nourishment, become feeble and stinted in both its
mental and its physical growth ! 1 repeat it, the child
stands not the least chance of distinction, and hardly, of life,
unless its mother be able to furnish it, before birth, with an
abundant supply of animal life. If the unborn infant can
survive the death of its mother but a few moments at
farthest, surely, when the mother is but half alive, how can
the child be more so .' ^>"o connection can possibly be more
intimate than is that between mother and child; the latter
being nourished, sustained, and even formed^ by the same
life-blood, by the same nervous energy, which sustains the
former, so that, if the supply be not amply sufficient for'
hoth^ each is starving the.other. If a meal, barely sufficient
for one, be set before two, all that either eats, is so much
taken out of the mouth of the other ; but if there be not
sufficient for one, the case is so much the worse. Merely to
impart to the unborn infant nourishment sufficient for growth,
causes a great drain of animal power; but, to impart to it
the quantum sufficit of animal energy requisite for enabling
it to maintain a separate existence of its OAvn, to preserve
health, and to gather up within itself those physical and
mental energies required to be put forth in after-life, demands
still more. And every mother knows, that carrying a child
causes a tremendous drain of animal energy, and tends
greatly to exhaust the vital powers. Otherwise, from what
source could the child derive its vital stamina? and especially
the great amow/i^ of vitality requisite to sustain its entrance
into the world, and going through it? And hence it is that
Nature has kindly furnished to the mother, at such times, a
ON N0URISHIN6 THE EMBRYO AND INFANT. 209
Advice (o mothers while pregnant.
greater supply of this energy, than she does at other lime*.
Mothers, while pregnant, provided they are not suffering
from previously incurred debility or disease, sleep more than
at any other time, sometimes being so sleepy that they can
liardly keep their eyes open, eat more and digest better, and
experience a general augm.entation of their usual animal
energy. And hence the inference, that mothers should sleep
plentifully, should exercise much, breathe fresh air in abun-
dance, eat freely of nourishing food, and take all possible
pains to augment this supply of vitality in themselves, in
order to impart it in large quantities to their embryo, so as
to lay a broad and deep foundation of animal energy, that
is, so as to give it a strong physical constitution. And,
above all things, mothers in this state, should not work so
hard as to exhaust themselves, nor sit and sew, nor force
themselves to keep awake when they desire to sleep, nor sit
up with the sick, nor shut themselves up within doors, and
from fresh air, nor do any thing whatever that will deprive
them, and, consequently, their charge, of any of the animal
energy required by it.
And this is a most serious sin of mothers. Many of them
have but a feeble supply of animal life, at best, hardly
enough to keep themselves alive, and not a groat to spare
a child, and yet, they not only become parents, but, even
while pregnant, instead of husbanding the small supply of
strength they have, are lavish even of that, and thus rob
themselves and their infants of vitality, and pay the dreadful
forfeit of this violation of Nature's laws, by having a feeble,
delicate, sickly child, too feeble to sustain life long, and
which, consequently, dies young. Nor have 1 one particle of
doubt, but that this very cause operates to kill more mothers
and children, to occasion more deaths annually, than any
other form of disease—than intemperance, or consurxiption, or
fever, or any other single cause whatever, if not more than
ALL other causes put together. Children di^- of croup, of
fevers, of teethings, of brain fever, of the cumiaer complaint,
and of other diseases innumerable, induced primarily by the
mother's having literally st..rved them of animal energy
before birth, and thereby leaving them too weakly to support
18*
210 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Children destroyed by the lialttts ofnioiliors during pregiianry
themselves against these diseases, which, if the mother had
furnished this energy, would have taken no hold of them.
I would tell half the women of our laud, hoth married and
single, that they are not marriageable—that for them to be-
come pregnant, is to commit both infanticide and suicide
—
is so efl'eciually to drain themselves of vital energy, that dis-
ease, in one or other of its forms, will take advantage of this
exhaustion, and hurry them into a premature grave—and
also to produce ollspring so feeble, that they too must neces-
sarily break the hearts of fond, doting parents, by. dying in
their mothers' arms, if not before they see the light ! We are
shocked when we read of the Hindoo mother casiirg Iier
child into the Ganges, or the (?hinese casting the.r infants, as
soon as they are born, into the street, to be devoured, or to be
picked up in loads by city scavengers, and llirov/n by
thousands daily into a pit prepared expressly for that pur-
pose; or of those barbarous nations who killchiidren outright
to eat their flesh—but in what respect do they differ from
those American moxhexs who cause the death of their infants
by starvation, the worst lorai of dcaih, before birih, or else
render them so weakly that they die during adolescence?
In the number of their infanticides'.' By no means; for, 1
verily believe that more infants are annually killed in Amer-
ica, in proportion to its population, by this and other similar
means, than are killed in any nation on the globe, and killed,
too, by their oun mothers—killed quite as effectually as if .a
razor were drawn across their throats, or poison administered
to them. Most horrible is the thought ! But what else is it,
what else can it be, that consigns to an early grave above
half the children born 7 Do half of the children of China,
or Birmah, or the untaught Indian, die before they become
full-grown 7 By no means. But, with all our boasted
liberty, intelligence, civilization, and even Christianity, no
nation under heaven, whether savage or civilized, conjmits
any where near the proportionate number of doumright
MUKDBRS, committed in this our blessed country, our en-
lightened age and nation ! No tongue can tell the number
of mothers and children killed outright, or else made to drag
out a short and miserable existence, by that accursed practice
ON NOURISHING THE EMBRYO AND INFANT. 211
'J'hc murderoui oftecl ol'li*;))! laciil'^.
of tight-lacing. Most effectually docs it cramp, and gin in,
and deaden the vital apparatus, and thus stop the flow of
vitality at its fountain-head, killing its thousands before they
marry, and so eflectually weakening others, as indirectly,
though eti'ectually, to cause the death of tens of thousands,
ay, of millions more. Yes, and that even by Christian
mothers—by the daughters of Ziox, the followers of the
Lamb! Yea, more. Tl.'cse infanticides, ?r///f their corsets
actually on^ diXe. admitted into tlie sanctuary of the Most High
God, and even to the communion-table of the saints! And
poor, muffle-drummed ministers, either do not know that
corsetting does any damage, or, knowing it. do not open
their mealy mouths, but administer the sacrament to infanti-
cides^ and to those who, u-!iile partaking of the emblems of
their dying Saviour, are " z;? the very act''' of committing
infant'ic'ide^ and slow, but effectual suicide! Nor is there any
isin in American Christian mothers' committing these things,
whereas missiojiar'ies must be sent to China and Bombay,
to prevent the'ir committing these very same crimes, though
by a process as much less horrible, as to be killed outright
by one fell blow, is less paintui than to be gradually
starved and strangled, till a lingering, and iiierefore a most
horrid death, gives relief ! And which is the worst, to kill
the child instantly, at the moment of its birth, or to give it a
s?ow poison that will be sure to end its life, but not till it has
stiffered a thousand deaths, and perhaps reached its teens?
Is tins fiction, or is it .fact? Has the author reasoned in-
correctly, or are all tight-lacers gradual but virtual suicides,
and those of them who marry, childreji- killers 7 And should
not a sin as fatal as this is, to the health and life of posterity,
be exhibited just as it really is—a most murderous fashion?*
It is said, with what propriety I know not. that the fashion
of wearing corsets originated in high life, and was invented
to cover up the frailty of a fashionable and a respectable fair
one. How many now wear them for a similar reason, "de-
ponent saith not,"
j^ *A more full exposition of this crying evil will be found in Tolume v.,
v.. pp. 49 to 65 of the Phrenological Journal, and also in a separate form,
Illustrated with appropriate engravings.
212 CONDITIONS OF PARERTS, WHILE BECOMING PARlNTf.
m
——— — " '
im
Errors in llic present mode of training daughters.
Bill this is by no means all. Tlie whole system of modern
female education is wrong, from the nursery to the parlor
and the grave, and directly calculated to reduce the vital
energies of females, and utterly to unfit them for becoming
wives, and especially mothers. All children, but particularly
girls, are confined, mostly, within doors, and thereby ex-
cluded from both fresh air and exercise. They must go to
school steadily, must tax their mental powers to the utmost
to excel the other scholars, and thus drain their vital ener-
gies from their bodies to their brains, which stints their
growth, and enfeebles their constitutions. They must be
dressed prettily, and thus, lightly, which exposes ihem to
colds; must never romp, nor even play, because it is g-7-oss
and unlady-Iike, and makes them tomboys, but they must sit
down to their needle-work, lo their baok, to their music, or
" tend the baby," the moment they are out of school, eat hot
bread and pastry, and drink tea and coffee in large quanti-
ties; must never run, but must move steadily, like a woman;
must reach puberty all unprepared for it, and know nothing
whatever of its approach, so as to bend or break their con-
stitutions, and experience att'>ndant difficulties all their lives,
lo be re-augmented by the quack nostrums of the day, in-
stead of cured by air and exercise; must be young ladies at
ten, or, at farthest, by twelve, because apples in June are so
tery delicious, and so very healthy, and because all fruit is so
much better before it is ripe than after ;
must learn to be
fashionable, and to dress prettily, and go to church to show
their pretty curls, their new dress or shoes, and their cotton
paddings; must not be allowed sufficient physical energy
with which to grow, but must be small, and delicate, and
prim, and ^;re^^y, and ^7//e ladies ; must learn music scien-
tifically, and sit at the piano by the month; must he fashion-
able, and to be so, must sit and sew diligently by the year, so
as to get that new frock done for next Sunday, or that piece
of fine needle-work finished for a given occasion ; and by
the time girls are fourteen, just when they require all
their energies for growth, they must go to some trade, be a
mantua-maker, or milliner, or tailoress, or go into the factory,
or the bindery, or the press-room, or be a kitchen-drudge,
ox NOURISHING THE EMBRYO AND INFANT, 213
The effect of these erfors. Married women.
and must work and work, to get something wherewith to
appear well in company and at church, till they hreak down
their health, and, with tight-lacing, superinduce a variety of
female diseases that make them drag out a miserable exist-
ence; or if not compelled to work, they must be placed at the
boarding-school, must be taxed to their utmost, and allowed
little exercise, in order to put on the graces, and learn to ap-
pear interesting and be fashionable, and prepared to secure
the great end of woman's existence
—
Marriage—and must
then be ushered into genteel society, to dress, flirt, get in
love, have their affections blighted, court, wear low dresses
and thin shoes, and take a death-cold, or fever, perhaps
dance all night and sleep all day, keep late hours, promen-
ade, read novels, talk nonsense, make conquests, take no
exercise, but stuff down the good things, and swill down
strong decoctions of tea and coffee, pipmg hot, so as to in-
duce perspiration and consequent colds ;
be confined mostly
within doors, and in hot rooms at that; and thus, by a con-
tinual violation of every law of physiology, break down
their constitutions, induce head-ache, nervous affections,
palpitation of the heart, lung affections, a weak stomach,
sleeplessness, &c., 6cc., to the end of the whole chapter of
female complaints; in doctoring which, they are dosed with
calomel, and iodine, and quinine, and ipecac, and bled
almost to death, and become confirmed invalids, past all re-
covery, and then may have one child, possibly two children,
suffer beyond all account during gestation and parturition,
and are thus effectually drained of animal energy, at:d die;
but not till one child is buried, and another is just ready to
follow its frail, suffering mother to an untimely grave !
And then, married women, generally, are not in a situa-
tion capable of doing justice to their children, as mothers.
"With one child under their feet, another in their lap, and
another in embryo, with all the work, and all the cares of
a family on their hands; fretted to death by disobedient and
ill-tempered children, and, perhaps, by dissatisfied husbands,
made perfect kitchen-drudges by day, and kept awake in the
night by squalling young ones—rendered cross by the feeble-
ness and peevish mental condition of the mother before par-
214 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Downward icudetipy of our race. How clauglitcrs should be trained.
turition, and her eating pickles, peppers, cucumbers, cakes,
salt-meat, and other indigestibles, while nursing, and by her
violating tlie laws of physiology in regard to the child,
—
having no time to cultivate their intellects, none to attend
lectures, or take recreation, or amusement, or fresh air; they
are thus effectually dragged through life as if by the hair of
their heads; have no peace all their lives, no opportunity to
take in those resources of animal life with which to sus-
tain themselves, or furnish vitality to their children, —how-
can they avoid frequent miscarriages, or give birth to any
but sickly, animal offspring? And when we add together
the unfitness of most of our women, and those unfavorable
family influences under which most children are born, what
are we to expect of the rising race? Just what the rising
race is, both physically and mentally—a race of Lilliputians,,
sharp-favored, slim, spindling, sickly, barking with colds,
ugly-looking, deformed in the spine, and so frail in health,
that they die by thousands and by millions, just when they
might have begun to enjoy life themselves, and been a source
of pleasure to their parents. That the tendency of our age
and nation is dotcnward, no one can deny; and one cause of
it is in our inothers. Where are the men of former genera-
tions, with sound minds in strong bodies? Diminishing in
stature, and becoming a prey to all manner of diseases, some
of which were unknown to our fathers, precocious, selfish,
crimes multiplying upon us ! Oh! who can look upon the
present state of things, and not weep ! Who can look upon
the youthful race now coming forward, upon diminutive,
crying, dying infancy, puny, precocious childhood, and es-
pecially, upon our girls and young women, pale, emaciated,
flat-chested, small-waisted, delicate, and homely, one and
all, and not shed a tear over the dubious fate of our repub-
lic ! They were American 2ro7nen who made our republic,
and American women are fast unmaking it!
If you ask me how our daughters shovld be brought up,
I answer, in general terms, exactly coiitrary, as much as pos-
'
sible. to the present system of female education. Do not
bundle them up so warm, nor dose them so much from the
cradle; but give them much out-of-door air, and a plenty ol
ON NOURISHING THE EMBRYO AND INFANT. 215
Fuilhcr diierlions in regard to training dausriiters.
cold water in ihe form of baths ;
harden tliem instead of
rendering them delicate ;
let them play instead of going to
school; give them roast potatoes, and bread and milk, instead
of the indigestibles of modern cookery ;
leach them on the
plan proposed in my work on Education and Self-Improve-
ment; govern them by reason, not by blows, by love, not by
fretting and threatening ;
give them abundance of exercise
and romping between ten and eighteen: let them be girls, and
be considered as such till they are about twenty, yet teach
them domestic duties, cookery and physiology; let them know
nothing about being fashionable, or beaux, or love-matters,
experimentally, till after that age, and not marry, till, at
least, titenty-Jive ; let the preservation of the health, and the
laying in of physical stamina, including growth, be their
highest recommendation; let them marry their^r*^ love, and
never be scolded, for, rarely does woman deserve it, and then,
while "after the manner of women," let all possible pains be
taken to augment their physical eaergies, and render them
cheerful and happy, and improve their intellects, and a new
generation of men and women, angels compared with the
present race, will crown these efforts. In short, let Aa/2/rehave
her perfect work, and Art " sit silent by." The artificials of
the day are spoiling our women by wholesale ; especially the
accursed /as// /(///5 of the day. Their chief evil, next to tight-
lacing, consists in requiring of our women so much sewing ;
than which, nothing is more detrimental. No tongue can
tell the immense damage done to the health of women, and
to the lives and talents of posterity, by that accursed instru-
ment—the needle ; and I consider it immoral, and a 5m, or,
what means the same thing, a violation of the laws of our
being, to do, or wear, what requires much sewing. But why
attempt to stay the raging billows of fashion, or declaim
against the artificials of society ? Vain task! But, for one,
let me, at least, weep over these direful evils
!
A word in regard to the nursing of children. Very poor,
in this respect, must be the generality of the women of the
present day. Cotton breast-works, the order of the day, may
cheat the beaux, and do better for courtship, than appearing
to be what most American women really are
—" as flat as a
216 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Infants affected by the diet of nursing mothers.
donrd,"—but they can never cheat the babies, nor can amj
thing supply the place of Nature's nourishment in abun-
dance. And one reason why Nature causes gentlemen to
admire them, is because they are useful. They excite love
in gentlemen, because they are necessary for carrying the
matrimonial relations into full eftect; and that there is a
general proportion between their size and the flow of nour-
ishment, will not be doubted. Their development is also
proportionate to that of the vital temperament, or to the
physical stamina, and hence, their absence indicates little
vitality; and they can be increased by increasing that vi-
tality—a principle, which, while it shows the low state of
vitality in most American women, shows how to enlarge
them, namely, by girls talcing much exercise, and strength-
ening their bodies.
But qnality, in this case, is quite as essential as quantity;
and this depends on the diet of the mother, the state of her
stomach, <fcc., —a point to which mothers do not sufficiently
attend; for, if the mothers were healthy during gestation,
and would then keep their stomachs in good order, children
would rarely cry. They generally cry but little till a month
or two old, or till the diseased state of the mother's stomach
has disordered theirs. And they cry, usually, because their
own stomach is diseased, that is, because of flatulence, or,
as grarmies would say, they have the "belly-ache.'' Now
whatever tends to disorder the mother's stomach, will soon
be felt in theirs, and besides the pain they feel, will corrupt
their blood, retard or vitiate the growth, and sow the seeds
of disease in the system of the infant.
1 will not here discuss the diet of nursing mothers, farther
than to interdict pickles, cucumbers, cakes, hot bread, butter,
fat meat, (and no meat at all is better,) tea, coffee, porter,
beer, green fruit, and all compounds of alcohol and opium,
and to recommend rye mush, and oat-meal gruel and pud-
ding, coarse bread, tapioca, sago, potatoes, especially roasted,
and a plain, simple diet. But directions touching diet will
be given elsewhere, and those kinds of food best in general,
will be best in this case.—Let me barely advert, in this con-
nection, to the practice of giving opium and its various com-
ON NOURISHING THE EMBRYO AND INFANT. 217
Giviii» drugs lo cliiktren. Nursing children.
pounds to children. I consider Godfrey's Cordial, and other
like compounds, to be most detrimental to children, both as
to health and intellect. It has put many a child to sleep for
life, and locked np both their senses and their pleasures
in its torpedic fetters. And then, too, it always makes chil-
dren cross. True, it may quiet them for the time, but, it at
the same time throws the nervous system into 'a feverish
and irritable state, and thus causes them to cry the harder.
Eat pickles, so as to make your children cry, and then give
them laudamnn to stop them
!
Nor should children, especially if cross, be trusted much
with nurses, lest they dose them with this deadening drug,
to lessen their burden. But, we will not now enter into the
nursing of children, but limit our remarks to our original de-
sign, —that of hereditary descent, or showing how to pro-
duce them. This subject of nursing children will be pursued
in another connection.
Children ought, I think, to nurse longer than they generally
do, say till two or three years old, that is, provided their
mothers are in the right state. I draw this inference from
analogies in the animal kingdom ;
and yet, in the present
condition of most mothers, weaning the child early, is better
for both mother and child.
Above all things, a woman should never nurse one child
while carrying another, but should wean one at the moment
when she becomes enciente. And this course is clearly
pointed out by Nature, because the former usually prevents
the latter, and the two concurring together, are almost sure
to sicken both mother and child, doubly drain the mother,
and seriously injure all three.
It is important to add, that the whole process of bearing
children, instead of being unhealthy, as is generally con-
sidered, is the reverse. Women, at these times, might and
should be better than at others; and their being worse, signi-
fies that they are not in a condition fit for bearing either
healthy or talented children.
19
218 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
State of ihc mother's mind Iransmittetl. SeverHl chros.
SECTION III.
CHILDREN INHERIT THE MENTAL CONDITIONS OF THEIR MOTH-
ERS DURING PREGNANCY.
"Anil when Sarai dealt hardly with Haj^ar, she fled from lier face. And the an^el of
tlie Lord found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, and said unto licr, Tliou
shalt bear a son, and he will be a wild man ; his hand will be against every man, and
every man's hand against him."
—
Gen. xvi.
If, as just shown, the state of the mother's body be impor-
tant, that of the mind must be at least, equally so. That the
state of the mother's mind is transmitted, admits of no man-
ner of question. A few cases, in addition to those ah-eady
given:—A Mrs. ,
of L. I., while pregnant, was called to
the door by the rap of a partial idiot, who insisted on coming
in, which so excited her imagination, as to cause her child to
resemble the idiot in looks, action, and idiocy. Bonaparte's
mother spent most of her pregnancy hi the camp and with
the army. Mary, Qneen of Scots, while carrying James the
First, was terribly frightened by a murder committed in her
sight, and her son could never endure the sight of naked
steel. The author knows a lady whose husband under-
stood and applied this principle, by placing his wife in
circumstances more than ordinarily pleasant, so arranging
matters, as to gratify her very much with a visit from his
father and mother, to whom she was nuich attached. He
also arranged his business so that he, and, consequently, she,
were relieved from cares that had before oppressed them, dis-
missed those servants Avhom she disliked, and made it as
agreeable for her, every way, as possible. The result is, that
the child is one of the mildest and sweetest children in the
world, atfectionate, almost devoid of temper, and the delight
of all who know her, as well as the opposite of her sister,
who was born before the parents understood this law. Look
at Ishmael, in contrast. His mother, Hagar, abused by the
jealous, vindictive Sarai, driven out from the family in which
she had always lived, and almost famished in the desert, and
her son a wild man, and "A/5 hand against every man, and
every man^s hand against himJ'^
THE CONDITION OF MOTHKRS INHERITED. 219
EfiVcl i)ro<lurctJ on ofTspriiig; b^- ft- ar in molliers during pregnancy.
Many readers will, doubtless, remember the terrible mur-
der committed by a Mr. Purrington, near Augusta, Me.,
about 1806, on a wife and nine children, the father beating
out the brains of his whole family with an axe, (except one,
wlio, in escaping, had the axe struck into his back,) and
then cut his own throat.* This, of course, terribly alarmed
all the women in the neighborhood, for fear their husbands
might commit a similar outrage upon them ; and the mother of
a friend of mine, sutTered every thing from fear lest she should
be murdered, and this friend, born soon after, has suffered
more, she says, than tongue can describe, from fear of being
murdered, and now, though nearly forty, and compelled by
her business (a tailoress) to go from house to house, she can
hardly endure to sleep alone, lays and thinks by the hour
together how she shall escape if attacked, and is startled
by the least noise, so as to be obliged to get up and go down
stairs, and kindle the fire. She says she has a friend, born
in the same place, and a month or two younger, who is
afflicted with the same foolish fear, and whose mother suf-
fered simiilarly from the same cause.
The brother of a friend of mine is very much afraid of
being killed, and wh&n crazy, (his derangement liaving been
previously mentioned,) he often exclaims, "Oh! don't kill
me ! don't !
" and with as much anxiety as if he were about
to be murdered. His father was a notorious drunkard, and,
when drunk, would beat and abuse his wife, and try to kill
her. Once he drew a large knife on her, and when she fled,
he followed her up into the garret, where she hid lierself
among the rubbish, so as barely to escape with her life.
While thus standing in continual fear of being killed, this
son was born ; and this same fear of being killed always
haunts and torments him.
* This Piiningtoii niul liis relatives, furnish a melariclioly instance of
hereditary insanity. One of his nephews recently jumped overlioard and
drowned himself; one more killed a cliild, anotlier, after making several
unsuccessful attempts on her own life, finally killed herself hy swallowing
ponnded glass; another was a real virago, would shake her fist in her
husband's face, take the broom to him, and was subject to the most fright-
ful ebullitions of anger; and other members of this insane family, were
also insane, and on the same organ,
—
Destructivcness.
220 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
'I'his subject m:>re .sui(al>lo for fciniile writers.
Ill Charleslown, Mass., I saw an idiotic girl, rendered such
liy her mother's having a severe and long-continued fever,
by which she was confined some three months to her bed,
which terminated only by the birth of her child. In the
same time, she buried two children in one grave, and had
other troubles, which, she says, rendered her completely
miserable. The wife of Rev. Mr. J., while pregnant, was
denied some gratification, which she took to heart so
seriously, as to go away and cry for hours, and could hardly
get over it. Her son is an idiot, and spends much of his
time away alone crying. Similar facts will be found in the
last few chapters and the appendix of the work already al-
luded to, entitled, " Mental and Moral Qualities Transmissi-
ble," the main theory of which we have already criticised,
but some of the inferences and observations it contains,
cannot be too strongly commended, especially to mothers.
Written by a mother, and addressed to mothers, it contains
what every mother, and every young woman in the land, ought
to read ;
and the* author has therefore solicited, and will keep
for sale, the work at his office. This department of our sub-
ject is certainly more suitable for the pen of woman, who,
alone, can have exjjericnce in this matter. Could our popu-
lar female Avriters employ their pens or talents to greater ad-
vantage, than by laying this matter fully before the women of
our country, with that propriety which is natural to woman,
informed by that knowledge with which she alone is experi-
mentally familiar? What man knows, on this point, he
must, after all, learn from woman. And I call upon every
woman in the land to go back to her pregnancy with each
child, and then read, in that child, as in her mirror, her own
states of mind, at that, to her child at least, most eventful
period ; and then say, whether the mental condition of the
mother does not stamp its inipress indelibly upon the child?
Especially, let the reader observe children whose fathers have
drank, and thus become poor, and, in a great variety of ways,
rendered the mother unhappy, and left her to buffet, single-
handed and alone, the rough waves of adversity, and to toil
and struggle, in order to support herself, her children, and a
besotted husband, and he will find that the first children boru
THE CONDITION OP MOTHERS INHERITED. 22l
A child lliat lesomblefJ a monkey. Another thai resembled ndruiikard.
i
before the father had abandoned himself to Iiis cups, or op-
pressed his wife with trouble well nigh insupportable, have
better heads, more intellect and moral feeling, and less Self-
Esteem, Combativeness, Firmness, and Selfishness, than
those born after these latter organs were roused to unwonted
activity in the mother, by her troubles. Some of this is un-
questionably caused by the state of the father; but, admit-
ting the principle that the condition of the mother's mind is
transmitted to the child, these unhappy states must debase
and animalize the child. (See remarks on a kindred point,
in the preceding chapter, sec. 4, and question any mother in
the land, and the reader will fmd no end, either to facts of
this class, or to the importance of the subject.)
But, I have inserted these facts mainly to prepare the way
for a principle presented in the follov\ring cases:
In Watertouai, N. Y., the author saw a child, whose looks,
actions, and shape of head, bore a close resemblance to those
of the monkey. Tiie organs at the root of the nose, were
immense. Causality was Vvanting, Approbativeness and the
animal region were large, and the head sloped back from
the perceptive organs to the crown of the head, except at
Imitation, which was large; and the first position the cliild
attempted, was, to catch hold of tl)e table or any thing else,
and siting by the hands, analogous to the monkey's climbing
with its hands. Some three months before the birth of this
child, the mother visited a menagerie, and was particularly
impressed with a fine monkey, which so engrossed her atten-
tion, that she could not keep her eyes from it, and it appeared
equally interested in her. What struck me most, was
the resemblance of the child's head and phrenological devel-
opments to those of the monkey, they being only those of the
monkey enlarged; with which, also, its cast of mind har-
monized.
About ten miles south-east of Adams, N. Y., the author
saw an idiotic girl, who talked, walked, and acted very
much like a drunken person. The father, in accounting for
it, said, that about three or four months before the birth of
this child>,he and his wife were riding home on horse-back,
in the dusk of the evening, when the mother was very much
19*
222 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, AVHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
An iiilellcclual cliild. When llic tliflVroiii fuciillies are l«)rmecl.
frightened, and thrown almost into a hysteric fit, by seeing a
drnnken man hy the side of the road, have a fit, in which
he lay and rolled back and forth, from head to foot. The
first position into which the child was known to put itself,
was, to throw itself on its back, and roll back and forth,
exactly like this drunkard. She walked like him, talked like
him, and looked like him. On examining her head, I found
large Combativeness, Destructiveness, Self-Esteem, Firm-
ness, and perceptive and social organs, but small Causality,
Comparison, Benevolence, Veneration, Conscientiousness,
Hope, Marvellousness, and Ideality —an organization which
harmonized entirely with her character.
Dr. Kimball, of Sackett's Harbor, showed me a lad having
a splendid intellectual lobe, whose mother was called, by the
sickness of her husband, to leave her native village and go
to New York. On arriving there, she found her husband
convalescent, and, being there, she staid some time, to see
the city, with which she was delighted immeasurably, and
of which she often spoke after her return. Seeing so much
of the world, and of men and things that were new to her,
seemed to give to her mind a new start, and the child, born
four months after, was the one alluded to above, prodigiously
smart, and having a towering intellectual lobe. —Other facts,
of a similar bearing, might be stated in any required abun-
dance, but these will suffice to illustrate our principle, which
is, that, during the first four or five months of gestation, the
physical system, and the propensities and perceptives, take
their size and tone, but, that the menial apparatus, and with
it the reasoning and moral organs, are formed, and their size
adjusted, after the fifth month; and hence, during the first
portion of gestation, mothers should take much exercise, and
keep up a full supply of physical vigor—the materials then
most demanded by the embryo ; but that, after the fifth or
sixth month, and while the top of the child's brain is form-
ing, they should study much, and have their moral faculties
called out in a special manner, so as to furnish an abundance
of these materials at the time when they are in greatest de-
mand by the child.
THE CONDITION OF MOTHERS INHERITED. 223
Prools upon ihis sulijecl. The development of character.
This theory is supported by the following concurrent tes-
timony :
—First, when causes like those rrjentioned above,
arrest or retard the growth of the foetus, about or before the
sixth month, the propensities and perceptlves are found fully
developed, while the coronal region is small ; and the reverse
results from opposite conditions. Secondly, by tlie formation
and growth of the brain, from first to last. At first, its base,
only, is developed, and it forms, not all its parts equally, but
\is base, first, to which is added, layer after layer, iipuards
Bind forwards, as it becomes more and more developed. And
then, the scull, at birth, is much larger, relatively, at its base
than at its crown, but the top of it grows much faster, rela-
tively, after hxrih, than the base; and is developed, not pro-
portionally and simultaneously in all its parts, but most
coronally.
Thirdly. The character is successively developed in har-
mony with the same law. The animal passions are much
stronger in children than in adults; because, as shown in
my work on Temperance, and also on Education and Self-
Improvement, the reciprocal relation existing between the
body and the propensities, is much more intimate and power-
ful, than that existing between the body and the coronal re-
gion. Hence, while in childhood and youth, the body is
most vigorous, and the reasoning and moral faculties make
poor headway against Acquisitiveness, Combativeness, De-
structiveness, Appetite, (See, in middle age, both the basillar
and the coronal region are strong, but the mental and moral
gain rapidly on the animal, overtake them, subject them, and
pass them, causing us to take our highest ])leasure in the de-
cline of life, in things that partake of a moral and a?i intellec-
tual cast. Hence, children rarely feel the importance of
study, till they are fifteen, because intellect is yet immature;
but, taking a new start about that period, it wakes up to a
new existence, and progresses more in acquiring knowledge,
extending and deepening the range of thought, and studying
into first principles, than the whole time before twenty ;
and,
as the bodily vigor decreases, mental power and energy in-
crease. Milton began to rear his eternal monument of fame,
"Paradise Lost,'" when fifty-seven, and old and decrepit at
224 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WrflLB BRCOMING PABENTS.
Death iilusiratM ihe subject Advice to moihefs.
that; and most works of genius, the chief merit of which
depends on clearness and power of ilwvght^ have been writ-
ten by men whose physical powers, and with them their an-
imal propensities, were waning, and whose remaining energy,
therefore, was consumed by their coronal region. And death
itself illustrates tliis principle,' by extinguishing the fires of
animal passion first, and letting those of the intellect and the
moral sentiments, go out last—thereby rendering our descent
to the grave much less painful than if torn from life and its
pleasures, while the appetite for them retained all its former
energy, at the same time that it prepares ns for that great
moral change sought by the truly good, in which the moral
sentiments shall maintain complete sway over the propensi-
ties —a principle, rich in philosophic beauty, and most bene-
ficial in all its i;:iuliifarioiis bearings on the happiness of
man, but more fully demonstrated in the author's work on
"Phrenology applied to Education and Self- Improvement."
1 repeat, then, with emj)hasis, let the moral sentiments and
' ijitellect oi the mother, be called into habitual and vigorous
exercise, during the latter stages of pregnancy, by books,
lectures, and agreeable conversation and associations, at-
tending meetings, &c., and let every thing calculated to vex
her, or excite her propensities, or disturb her equanimity and
serenity of mind, be removed, and her condition rendered as
agreeable, as wholesome, and as happy as possible. And
let husbands remember, that, in this one respect merely,
they owe a most important duty to their wives and their pos-
terity. " Be ye wise."
SECTION IV.
NARKS, DEFORMITIES, AND MONSTROSITIES.
But. proving the main principle embodied in the preceding
section, as well as being proved V)y it, is the great law, that
the conditions of the mother during pregnancy, not only
leave their impress npon the child's mind, but they also af-
fect lis form of body, so as to produce marks, excrescences,
MARKS, DEFORMITIES, AND MONSTROSITIES. 225
Children marked hefore birih. This disbelieved by some physicians.
extra limbs, deformities, and even monstrosities. The ques-
tion, whether the state of the mother produces marks, &c.,
has long divided the medical Avorld, and has been tinally de-
cided, both against it, and against the facts of the case,—
a
decision that might well excite our surprise, especially since,
go where we will, inquire of whom we will, we find these
marks in variety and abundance, corresponding with, and
evidently produced by, this cause.
A physician of considerable science and talent, who resides
near Philadelphia, after expressing his disbelief in the doc-
trine, and opposing it strenuously, related the following fact
in proof and illustration of it: —A woman, some months be-
fore the birth of her child, wanted some strawberries very-
much, which she could not obtain; and fearing that this
ungratified desire, would mark her child, and having heard
that the mark would be on the child just where she touched
her own body, put her hand on her hip. Before the child
was born, she predicted that it would have a mark, told what
the mark would resemble, namely, a strawberry, and told
where it would be found, namely, on the child's hip, and lo
and behold, when the child was born, it had a mark, a mark
resembling a strawberry, and on its hip. He also mentioned
several otlier similar cases, but still maintained that there
was nothing in this doctrine. I told him that the mark in
question, and others analogous to it, must have their causes ;
and asked him wAa/ their causes were. He answered by re-
ferring to the fact, that this whole matter had undergone a
thorough and most elaborate discussion in France, where all
Xhe facts on both sides that could be raked and scraped from
all quarters had been adduced, and the experiment tried on
pregnant women in their hospitals, (of course they were on
their guard,) but the question was negatived; and by saying
that its admission involved an anatomical abstirditr/, because
there was no po.ssible connection of the mother and child by
means of which these results could be effected. He added,
that the Medical Faculty, generally, discarded and ridiculed
this doctrine as being both absurd and impossible, and as
being a real old granny's whim, basing their disbelief on its
anatomical impossibilltij.
22G CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
This (art arcountcti for by aiiimal magiiclisni. A child half fish.
But, the believer in Animal Magnetism has no difficulty
in pointing out by what agent these marks and excrescences
are formed. He sees, first, that particular things in nature,
and characteristics in men, have each their respective forms,
adapted to ihcir character, and v;liich they always assume;
and, secondly, that \he feelings of the mother, are imparted
'
to the child by means of magnetism, which is the agent or
principle of life, or rather, life itself ; that, therefore, the con-
dition of the mother's mind, that is, her magnetism, herlife's-
blood and spirit are imparted to the child, and cause it to as-
sume the shape peculiar to those tilings which have magne-
tized the mother, or whose magnetism the mother has im-
bibed.
A fact will illustrate this theory, and also go to prove and
explain this doctrine. I liad it from Mrs. Fowler, of Hur-
ford, Canada West, a woman of superior natural abilities,
and an eye-tvitness of the fact, so that no doubt of its authen-
ticity need be entertained. !t was this : —A woman, about
four months gone, was on a visit to her native town, on the
northern shore of Lake Erie, and stopped at her father's. A
fishing excursion, in a row-boat, and in the night, was pro-
posed, and which she was persuaded to join. The fish were
to be caught v/ith a spear, while asleep in the water^ and
were discovered by means of a torch. The kind of fi-sh
caught, (the name I have forgotten.) have a grissly snout
that turns upward and backward, thus forming a kind of
hook, and often weiglis twenty pounds. She took a seat in
the middle of the boat. A large fish, probably frightened,
leaped from the water, clear over the boat, and right before
her face, uttering, as it passed, a kind of snort or wheeze pe-
culiar to the fish when it jumps out of the water, or is cap-
tured. Tiiis frightened her terribly; so as actually to sicken
her for several days. Her progeny, when born, proved to be
a monst(^.r, half fish and half human, witliout a mouth, but
having a nasal appendage like that of the fish alluded to
above. l:s lower extremity resembled that of a fish, and,
every few minutes, it would spring and throw itself up ft
foot or more from its pillow, and at the same time ntter the
same noise made by the kind of fish alluded to. Having no
MARKS, DEFORMITIES, AND MONSTROSITIES. 227
VVlial can be done by maguelism.
mouth, of course, it could not be fed, and lived only about
twenty-four hours. Being a monster, it was refused a Chris-
tian burial, and was interred in the corner of a field.
Now, as animals can magnetise men, and men, animals,
did not this fish magnetise the woman, and thereby impart
to her of that magnetism, which caused it to assume its par-
ticular form, and which she, of course, imparted to her em-
bryo, thus causing it to assume a part of the magnetism, that
is, of the nature, of the fish, and consequentlj'', of its form
of body.
And this theory is strengthened by the fact, that the magne-
tiser imparts of his magnetism to the magnetised, and the
latter is impregnated with that nature. Thus, being magne-
tised by one who has a head-ache, or tooth-ache, or rheu-
matic atfection, will generally cause the magnetiser to lose his
head-ache, tooth-ache, <fcc., and the magnetised to receive
them. Hence, being magnetised by a well person, generally
invigorates the magnetised, but frequently exhausts the
operator.* Being magnetised by an intellectual person
brightens up the ideas, and quickens the flow of thought
;
and being magnetised by a slow, or an easy, or a good, or a
bad person, makes the magnetised slow, or easy, or good, or
bad. That is, the one magnetised, receives of the mental and
physical nature of the magnetiser.
I said that animals could magnetise men, and men, ani-
mals. A friend of mine, last summer, confined a snake in a
glass box, and tried to magnetise him. At first, the snake
magnetised him. (the same as charming,) so as almost to put
him to sleep, and compelled him to desist for the time, but he
finally magnetised the snake, and thus rendered it perfectly
tame and harmless, so that it would crawl all over him. In
vol. iv. of the Phrenological Jourual, this doctrine was estab-
lished and illustrated by the Egyptians' taming the most
• Sunderland has discovered that there is noJluid, and no tvill in this
matter. What next? Any thing, every thing tliat will furnish boasting
timber, and a new name every month, which few can nnderstand. "Is
not this great Babylon which / have bniided, by the strength of mt
power, and for the glory of my maje.-^ty ?" How many of his new dis-
coveries has he discovered over again, that is, discovered to be wrong?
223 CONDITIONS OF PARKNTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Furlher remarks upon magnelism. A person with an extra thumb.
venomous of serpents. Now, pnt together these two facts,
that the magnetised partakes of the nature of the magnetiser,
and that animals are capable of magnetising mankind, and
the explanation of the above monstrosity is easy. The fish,
as it darted past her, threw off a powerful charge of magne-
tism, as the torpedo does when disturbed, which was imbibed
by the woman, and imparted to the child, and its thus par-
taking of the nature o( the fish, caused it to assume, in part,
and as far as it partook of the magnetism of the fish, its
foi-m of body, and to spring from its bed, and make the noise
made by the fish.
The story of a monster in Connecticut, half snake and
half human, went the rounds of the papers some years ago,
and came well authenticated: still, I would not endorse it,
though it was like others that admit of no manner of doubt.
This theory is introduced, not because it is fully adopted,
but, because it explains these and kindred admitted fads bet-
ter than any other, and shows that the embryo might be so
related to the mother as to receive marks and deformities
from her mental and physical conditions. But, be it true or
false, the point at issue, namely, that marks and deformities
are of frequent occurrence, and caused by the mother's state
of mind, cannot well be doubted. Nor do physicians who
dispute this doctrine, pretend to deny its facts. They are
compelled to admit them, and yet they evade them by saying
that they are anatomically impossible. This arguing against
facts, and to prove that facts are not facts, is quite a task.
True philosophy says,
" Seize Truth, where'er 'l is fotiiid,
On christian or on pagan ground."
But, to proceed with owx facts. At Frye village, in Ando-
ver, Mass., the author saw a Miss Eliza Chickering, who had
an extra thumb, resembling, with the true thumb, a lobster's
claw. Its joint and muscles cause it to work inwards, so as,
with the thumb proper, to be a close imitation to a lobster's
claw; and, during her youthful days, it and the thumb were
of a bright red, like a boiled lobster. The history of it, as
given by her mother, is this :
—She bought a large, fine lob-
MARKS, DEFORMITIES, AND MONSTROSITIES. 229
Marks and defDrmities caused. Wm. H. lUnwii. Addiliuiial facts.
ster, while cnciente, and left it for a raoment, when it was
stolen. She was disappointed in the extreme by the loss, and
could not replace it ; and this lobster's claw on her daughter's
hand was the consequence. Of late, it has lost its rednest;.
She will, doubtless, be kind enough to show it to those who
are curious to know more of it.
Now, this excrescence, and all marks and excrescences,
including monsters, must have had some appropriate and
suflicient cause. What is that cause, if not the one ascribed
to it, namely, that law by which children inherit the mind
of the mother, by means of wliich impressions are made on
the body; but for which law, the mother's mind could have
no effect upon the child's mind. The general action of this
law is unquestionably beneficial, and even indispensable, and
the evils and monsters sometimes resulting from its action,
are produced by its violation, that is, by the mother's being
in an unnatural state of mind, and one which wect/ not occur.
Wm. H. Brow)i, mentioned at the close of sec. 2, chap, iii.,
tcills the story of his having a mark on one of liis legs re-
sembling a mouse, and that his mother, while carrying him.,
was in a room in which a mouse v/as confined, which they
were trying to kill, and which jumped up under her clothes,
frightening her terribly.
In Philadelphia, I met a young lawyer, in a part of whose
forehead, and running up into his hair, was a dark, dingy-
colored mark, elevated, and covered with short hair, which
he said his mother supposed was caused by her being much
frightened, while carrying him, by a mouse.
An aunt-in-law to tiie author, while riding out with her
sister, saw some strawberries spilled by the side of the road,
which she wanted very much. But her sister, who was
driving, only laughed at her. and drove on, turning a deaf
ear to her entreaties to stop, and to her apprehensions that
the child would be marked. The child was marked, on the
back of its neck, with a cluster of red spots, in shape resem-
bling spilled strawberries.
My father relates the following as having occurred in my
native town. A. woman rode by a tree full of ripe wild
20
230 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Lon^insr afier buiter. GriHis. Maikoffire. Mnrkofwiue.
plums, common in that region, which she craved very much^
but wiiich she could not obtain. Her child, born some
months after, had a fleshy appendage hanging from the
thumb, resembling a wild plum, and hanging by a stem of
flesh.
A pregnant mother, in Hanover, Mich., longed for butter,
which could not be obtained, it being in the winter, and
there being more emigrants than eatables. Her child was
born with a running sore on its neck, which yielded to none
of the remedies applied to it, till the mother remembered her
disappointed longing after butter, and anointed it with butter,
by which it was soon cured. This case is to that of Mrs. K.
and child, mentioned in cliap. vi., sec. 4, what a physical
sore is to the moral one of loving liqnor.
James Grifiis, an old neighbor of the author, xvith whom
he has hoed corn, and for v/hom, driven team, and rode horse,
many a day, was wont to*show us boys the cherries on his
arm, which almost covered it, caused, as his mother sup-
posed, by her disappointed longing after that fruit.
Dr. Curtis, the young, but git^ted lecturer on Physiology,
who furnished the case of the crying idiot, mentioned in the
precoding section, relates the case of a woman who wit-
nessed, from a distance, the burning of Pennsylvania Hall,
and whose son, born some three months afterwards, has a
spot which resembles a flame of fire streaking up in diflcrent
places; and several highly interesting facts of this kind will
be found stated in the work, already mentioned, entitled
••
Mental and Moral Qualities Transmissible."
Joshua Corln relates the following of one of his playmates,
whose face, neck, and, I think, whole body, were spotted, as
if some liquid like wine, had been spattered on him. His
mother accompanied her husband, a deacon, to town, to pro-
cure wine for communion, a taste of which she wanted very
much, but for v/hich she durst not ask. On goijig home, the
cork got out, and the wine was spilt all over her new white
dress. The mortification caused by soiling her dress, and
the disappointed longings after the wine, marked her child
with the spots alluded to. A Mrs. Lee, of London, Canada
MARKS, DEFORMITIES, AND MONSTROSITIES. 231
A thumb. The child resembling a snake. Otlier cases.
West,* witnessfid, from her window, the execution of Burly,
from the jail window, who, in swinging off, broke the rope,
and was precipitated to the ground, with his face all black
and blue, from being choked. This horrid sight caused her to
feel awfully ;
and her son, born three mouths afterwards, and
now some twelve years old, whenever any thing occurs to
excite his fears, becomes black and blue, or livid-like, in the
face, an instance of v\^hich, the author witnessed.
The author's wife says she has often seen the thumb of an
infant, a younger playmate of hers, preserved in spirit, and
found among the mesentery, it having been separated from
its stump before birth. Some months before the birth of this
child, the mother saw a thumb cut off by a stroke of the
axe, by which her feelings were wrought up to the highest
pitch of pity.
About 1760, a woman in Brookfield, Mass.. on going to a
hen's nest in a basket, for eggs, as she was putting her hand
down into the basket partly before she looked, was shocked
and terrified, so that she fell back and fainted, by seeing a
large snake that had curled itself up in the nest and swal-
lowed all the eggs, and which hissed and darted towards her
hand as she was putting it down. Two months afterwards,
she bear a child, the eyes and lower part of the face of which,
and especially its mouth, resembled a snake. It made vio-
lent motions and a hissing noise, resembling those of the
snake in the basket, on account of which it was bled to death
by Drs. Honeywood and Upham.
About ten years ago, in Waterbury, Vt., there lived a
young man who appeared as if intoxicated, supposed to have
been caused by his mother's seeing a drunkard while carry-
ing him. His intellect was good.
In Wookstock, Vt., several years ago, a pregnant mother
visited a menagerie, and became deeply interested in the
animals she saw. Some five months afterwards, she gav
*Dr. Lee, her husband, furnishes a striking illustration of the descent
of the mathematical powers, which were remarkably strong in him, and in
some of his brothers, were very marked in his mother and her brothers,
and in her father and iiis family, whose names were Hail, and who emit
grated from near Norwicli, Conn.
232 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
The son who turned his back to his lather while speaking to hiin.
birth to a monster, some parts of which resembled one wild
animal, and other parts other animals. It died soon after.
There is a child now living in Boston, Avhose countenance
bears such a remarkable resemblance to a monkej', as to be
observed at once. The mother visited a menagerie while
pregnant, and while there a monkey jumped upon her.
Another fact illustrative of this principle, was told me in
Vermont. About 179S, Hezekiah B., of H., Vt., a very pas-
sionate, blustering man, and very angry, \vhen angry, but
soon over, becoming deeply exasperated by something his
wife had done, came into the house at a door opposite to
which his wife was kneading bread, her back being towards
the door, and emptied a most abusive vial of wrath and
sputter upon his wife; who, turning round to reply, was so
overcome by her feelings, that she choked for utterance; and
for one hour she kept kneading that bread, so choked by the
overflow of her feelings, that she could not speak; her back,
meanwhile, being turned towards t/ie door, and froTU her
husband. Three months afterwards, her son Solomon was
born ;
and though he has always lived in the house, and
worked on the farm with his father, and has a wife and
child there, yet, till he was thirty-five years old, he never
spoke the first word with him. Finally, one day, being at
work in the field with him, and wanting very much to ask
him a question, he involuntarily came up with his face to-
wards his father, and turning short around, so as to present
his back to him. and then walking from his father, he made
out to speak to him, for the first time in his life. And now,
whenever he addresses him, he turns his back to him, for in
tliis way only can he speak to him, though he has tried his
vfrnost, all his life, to do so while facing him, but all in vain.
When a boy, he sat peaceably on his father's knee only once.
In Bridge water, Mass., about forty years ago, a pregnant
woman longed for a lobster, which she could not obtain.
Some months afterwards, she gave birth to a child resem-
bling a lobster, especially in its hands and mouth. It could
never endure fresh air, and they therefore kept it covered up
closely in bed for several weeks, when it died. Bathing it
often in salt water, would probably have preserved its life.
MARKS, DEFORMITIES, AND MONSTROSITIES. 233
James Copeland. Mrs. Dyke. Mrs. Builer.
James Copeland, 44 years old, is below par in intellect,
and under guardianship, and quite inferior to both parents in
intelligence. He is good natured, quite mechanical, and
very fond of whittling; understands how to do most kinds
of work, but is quite slow, and very particular to have every
thing in proportion and order ; can count money but poorly,
and does not put the cash value to any kind of property,
though he distmguishes between good and poor cattle, and
looks behind him while eating, probably fifty times each
meal. His parentage on both sides, is good, and his idiocy
and looking behind him when eaiing, were caused by his
mother's fear lest she should be surprized by an idiot that
lived near her, who often tried to frighten her. At table she
usually sat with her back towards the door, and often turned
around, while eating, to seo if he was not making his ap-
pearance. She apprehended the fate of her son, before he
was born. James' father has a mark on the inside of his left
leg. resembling a string of sausages.
I saw a man in West Randolph, Vt., who was somewhat
deficient in mind and body, occasioned, as is supposed, by
his mother's being frightened and thrown from a wagon
some months before his birth.
JMrs. Dyke, a feeble, nervous wom.an, who had borne no
children, though she had been married twelve years, was
pregnant ; but a gun being fired under her v/indow, she
sprung up, exclaiming, "That broke my back!" Some
months afterwards a child was born, icith its back-bone actn-
ally broken—dead, of course. The father went to my in-
formant, a lawyer, to get a writ to take up the one that fired
the gun, whom he had cautioned not to fire it, lest it should
produce abortion.
Mrs. Butler, of Williamstown, Vt., was the town bully for
twenty-three years, and whipped every roan in it who op-
posed or offended her. She was a strapping great woman,
tremendous in point of strength, and was fined some ,^.500
for assaults and battery on men. All who knew her, feared
her. Her only child is a: fool, and very fierce and ferocious,
and now confined in a cage, mostly under ground, chained,
and fed as if a pig. His strength is tremendous—so great.
20*
234 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Influence olstiirvalion and success in business on otlspring. Cluh-fcoi.
that he Avill hold a crow-bar out straight, with one hand, by
grasping it at one end.
A woman in H., Yt., longed for a calf's liver, while preg-
nant, and her child, when born, resembled a liver in the face,
and had its ribs separated and turned out. It soon died.
A husband and wife moved to Aharon, near Lake George,
while it remained an unbroken forest. Having no neighbors,
they got out of provisions tiie first year; and before they
could raise any, they could barely obtain snlhcient sustenance
to support life, and that by eating roots, boiling bark, &c.
Their child, born under these circumstances, and now living,
is the very picture of despair—poor, dyspeptic, hypoy, and
feeble in both mind and body. But they had put in a large
crop of wheat, which the inihix of emigration enabled them
to sell at great prices, so iliat. they had abundance, and
cleared some $3000 in one year—every thing going prosper-
ously. Their next child, born under these auspicious cir-
cumstances, is a fine, manly, strong, noble-looking, energetic,
and highly talented man, and a real steam-engine for driving
through whatever he undertakes. His mother told him the
cause of liis brother's debility, and charged him to let him
want for nothing.
The author has heard a case stated, in which a pregnant
woman having company, and wanting some veal, and not
finding any one to kill a calf as quickly as she-wanted, took
hold herself, and attempted to cut its throat, but did not en-
tirely succeed, by which her child was badly marked, but
the particulars have escaped me.
Mr. , of \V., Vt., is club-footed, produced by his motli-
er's being thrown from a wagon before his birth. His second
child was born some three months after he had injured his
foot, which his wife dressed and rubbed daily. The other
children v;ere not thus marked, though tlicir mother feared
they would be, and snfiered every thing in consequence.
Her other children she feared would be marked, but the one
that was mal-formed, sh.e did not fear would be. So it seems
that the mere fears of mothers that their children will be
marked, do not affect tiie nmtter, or rather, mothers seldom
mark those they fear they shall.
MARKS, DEFORMITIES, AND MONSTROSITIES. 235
A child that resembled a cat will) its head heal in.
The Ibllowing conies so fully authenticated, as to leave no
doubt ot" its truth. Magnetism will explain it: see the theory
and facts adduced in this section.
A Mrs. , living in H., Yt., loved a cat very much, and
the cat reciprocated this attachment. That is, one had mag-
netized the other. She lived in a house with an old woman
Avho disliked the cat, and would frequently cuff it off the
table, and out of the way. Many a family quarrel was oc-
casioned by one's liking the cat, and the other not. At
length she moved away, but the poor cat was not taken.
Her husband went back for the balance of their things, and
his wit'e charged him over and over again, and with great
earnestness, to bring the favorite cat. On going for his things,
the cat was sick. The old woman told the husband that the
cat was sick and pining, and refused to eat, and advised him
to kill it. Finally, he took it out behind the br.rn, and beat
out it brains. On going home, his wife, tlie first thing, ac-
cused him of having killed the cat. He denied it repeatedly
and positively, and she as positively asserted that he bad
killed it, and thrown it out back of the barn ;
for, said she, /
felt the bloirs, and saic the mangled cat thrown out beliind
the barn, and took on terribly after her favorite cat, so as :o
be almost beside herself. Her child, which she carried at
the time, when born, resembled a cat. in the looks of its
head, v/itli its brains knocked out, or head beat in ; and died
in a short time.
Another case, of a boy's patting a coal of fire on a turtle's
back, and its running after a pregnant woman, and her
child's being deformed, occurred in a neighboring town.
The author of this work knows a little girl who has a
mark illustrative of this principle, and has seen several
cases, both in Boston and wherever he goes: and so will
every close observer meet them every where, and among all
classes, though most frequently among ti*.e rich, probably be-
cause their mothers were rendered the more susceptible by
being nervous. Some more recent medical authors have
openly avowed this doctrine, and Dr. J. V. C. Smith, the
able editor of the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, a
liberal and highly scientific medical work, recently avowed
236 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PAftENTS.
Facts are numerous. The belief is general.
it in a conversation with the author, and cited cases to prove
it.
But tliere is really no end to facts of this class, incontesti-
ble, irresistable/«c/'5, establishing the great principle already
laid down, that the state of the mother's mind aflects the
child's form of body, even far enough to produce marks,
mal-formations, and monstrosities.
But, is it either necessary or desirable to multiply facts of
this kind? especially, since they are so numerous and palpa-
ble, tliat those already given will, doubtless, suggest analo-
gous ones, to every reader. And the more so, as the policy
of this work is, not to swell its pages with all the facts that
might be collected on every point, facts that scores of volumes
could not contain, but to state the doctrine clearly, and bring
forward a few cases, as ilhistrafions mainly^ of such a char-
acter, that the reader will be able to recall many other simi-
lar ones as having occurred within his knowledge, and leave
the remainder to the memory of the reader.
.Vnd t!icn, too, the belief is general, and pervades all
classes of the community. What husband, Avho has the
UUP. feelings of a husband, but exerts his utmost energies to
get for his wife whatever she longs for; and who does not
^cnow, that things, at other times injiu'ious, if longed for, are
liarmless, and even beneficial. IN'ot that 1 would, by any
jmeans, encourage the whims of pregnant women, or facili-
tate their taking this advantage of tJieir husbands, but, I
woidd have real longings, those that are too strong to be sub-
dued by force of will, gratified. '
"But," say the doctors, '•
this point being admitted, still,
its promulgation will render all our women miserable merely
with fright, fearing lest any unusual thing they see, should
mark their children. Rather keep them in ignorance of this
principle, and deny it stoutly, so as to quiet their fears." But,
for one, I should pilrsue a very (liferent policy, in order to
attain the same end. I should tell women the facts of the
case, and let knowledge put them on their guard. I do not
believe in falsifying, even in cases like this, but advocate the
doctrine that Truth will do good. Properly to fortify mothers
on this point, is, to spread light, so that they may know what
THE CHILDREN OF YOUNG PARENTS. 237
How lo prevent marks, &c. iSircngilieii the nervous system.
to do, and what to expect. Besides, to make women believe
this doctrine, that these things do not mark their children, is
utterly impossible; for, the whole community, high and low,
intelligent, (not learned,) and ignorant, believe the doctrine;
and compelled either to believe in the doctrine, or else deny
(he evidence of their own senses—to disbelieve what they see
and feel. Hence, since this fear cannot be prevented^ let it
be properly directed. Let them know what conditions will
prevent their feelings from marking their children, and how
to avoid feelings likely to do injury.
But, by another method stilly should 1 advise mothers to
avoid these evil consequences —namely, by streyigthening-
their nervous systems, by air, exercise, and preserting and
invigorating their health. It is not the strong, healthy, and
robust, that mark their children, bat the weakly, the Jidgetty,
the nervous, and ihose ensUy impressed, that is, easily magne-
tised. But, if our women would follow the advice given in
the preceding section, so as to keep up a full tide of health
and vigor, they would seldom mark their children, because,
they themselves would seldom be impressed with these for-
eign influences, but would generally resist them.
SECTION V.
THE OLDER THE PARENT, THE MORE INTELLECTUAL AND THE
LESS ANLMAL, THE CHILD.
" The Fox once boasted over the Lioness, that she produced the most young. 'Ah
but mine are Lions/ significantly retorted the Lioness."
Closely allied to the doctrines taught and the principles
presented in the preceding sections, is the general law, that
the children of young parents are more animal and less intel-
lectual and moral, than the children of the same parents born
after the parents become older. The law grows out of the
actions of two other principles already stated, namely, that
the physical and mental conditions of parents, while becom-
ing parents, affect those of their children; and that the ajii-
mal temperament predominates in youth and adolescence, and
238 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
EflTects of immalurily in parents on their children. A proverb.
the mental, later in life, neither of which will probably be
called in question. If, as already fully shown, children in-
herit the qualities possessed by their parents when they were
born, and if the young generally have stronger propensities
and weak'cr intellect and moral leeling, relatively, thoii those
in the prime of lile, or a little past it, or than lliey do after
maturity, compared with before it, to which the experience
and observation of every reader will bear testimony, then of
course, children born wliile their parents are young, that is,
during the reign of the animal nature of the parents, will ne-
cessarily be more animal and less intellectual and moral, than
those born during the reign of their intellectual and moral
facvdties.
Moreover, young persons are immature, in both body and
mind; how, then, can their progeny be otherwise than green,
and animal at that? I do not believe any person is mar-
riageable before 25, unless it be some precocious, green-house
plant, or some consumptive shoot, not marriageable at all.
Can the weak bring forth the strong, or the unclean, the
clean, or the green, the ripe? Do not, my young friends, rush
headlong into marriage, but wait and ripen, and the longer
it takes you to ripen, the better. Some, those from long-lived
families especially, are not sufficiently matured for marriage
till 3.5, and many an old maid is abandoned because on the
wrong side of 30, when, in fact, she is but just marriageable,
and will remain so for fifteen years or more. If parents be-
come parents while yet wild, coltish, impulsive, full of fun
and frolic, and swayed by propensity, how can their children
be otherwise than animal in mind and body? From 35 to
50 is a better period of life than any previous; and children
born during that period, are the heiter^because born then.
This doctrine is sustained by facts, as well as founded in
correct principles. In every portion of the country, and
among different nations, I have met with a proverb variously
expressed, sig-nifying- that " the shakings of the bag make
the finest meal," or that the youngest children are the smart-
est. And not only is this proverb in the mouth of the mass,
but it is supported by the parental history of every man dis-
tinguished for either talents or moral wor»h. Franklin men-
THK CHILDREN OF YOUNG PARENTS. 239
Franklin. Johnson. Exceptions where the health of parents fails.
tions that he was the youngest child of the youngest child of
the youngest child for five ffcncralions in succession ! And
what increases the interest of this fact is, that his being the
youngest of the youngest, was on his mother's side, from
whom, mainly, he unquestionably inherited most of his tal-
ent. If my memory serves me, the father of Ben. Johnson
was 72, and his mother considerably above 40, when this
illustrious son of genius was born. I care not, however,
whether it be the youngest or the oldest, so that the parents
are fully matured, both in body and mind; and use the terms
eldest and youngest mainly to signify the age of the parents
at the birth of their children. Nor do I believe a distinguish-
ed man or woman can be found, whose parents, at their birlh,
were not thirty or vpwards.
But this law is modified by the following important excep-
tion, namely, where either parent, or boih father and mother,
labor under any chronic disease, which continues to grow
upon them, so as gradually to weaken their constitutions
more and more, as each successive child is born, then the ta-
bles are reversed, and the eldest becomes the snjartest, because
he has the strongest constitution. And this is doubly true,
if the disease afflicts and debilitates the motlier. Other tri-
lling modificationr, of this law doubtless exist, but they are
trifling compared with the value of the law itself, and its
practical bearing on the ))eriod most suitable for marrying.
And I warn the young, not to hasten to perpetrate marriage,
both on their own accoimt—because it exhausts them, espe-
cially by consequent aninial indulgence, besides loading them
d')wn with the cares of a family, when ihey want their time
aiyl energies for growth—but doubly so, on that of the children.
I do think it a great crirrfe, and one that ought to be inter-
dicted b}^ law, if any ouglit, (and it is punislied by the laws
of Nature,) for young people to rush headlong inio njarriage,
and beget children, while they themselves are children, yet
in their teens. I recently examined a family of children, the
first two of which were spindling, loosely put together, pimy,
•delicate, and though endowed with memory, yet wore want-
ing in judgment; but the youngest child was the strongest
in body, and the smartest in intellect; and on expressing my
240 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Piirenls should bring ftirih no more children iliaii ihey can provide lor.
surprise at the difference, and asking after the age of the
mother, I found she had married at 19, and was an old
woman at 28. The law ought to forbid marriages to take
place before the parlies are twentj% 1 should say iNventy-five.
Closely connected with this subject, is that of the number
of children born. Our families are generally too large for
their means. True, in rich families, v/here they could be
better supported, they have but few, owing to the general
debility of mothers; but poor famihes, so poor that the pa-
rents can barely scrape together sufficient bread and potatoes
to keep their children from actual starvation, go on to mul-
tiply to the number of ten and twelve, which compels them
to put out their children to a trade very young, to be de-
prived of all privileges of informing their minds, and perhaps
to sell papers, or steal, for a living. If a farmer had but a
few acres of pasture, barely sufficient to keep one cow well,
how foolish for him to turn in four or five cows, all of which
must then starve, and the whole of them would give less milk
for his family, than one would, if well fed. I maintain that
parents are under the highest moral obligation, to produce no
more children than they can support abinidantly. and furnish
with all the materials required for mental or physical im-
provement or comfort.
Besides, is it not infinitely better to have one lion, than a
dozen foxes? What parent would not rather beget one
Webster, than a score of common men 7 I say, let abundant
pains be taken with each child, l.et no more be produced, than
can be fully and faithfully attended to, from before the germ,
till they are thirty. Let this be made a matter of separate
attention, as if it were, wliat it in fact really should be made,
a special business of parents, and the greatest work in which
they can engage. Let each child be so begotten, carried,
born, trained, and educated, that he may be and enjoy, all
that a benevolent and an all-wise God originally constituted
and enabled man to be and to enjoy. Let men be "co-workers
together" with God, in the great work of multiplying human
beings stamped in the image of God, both intellectually and
morally. Oh ! when will men learn wisdom—learn how to
fulfil the great end of their creation ?
EFFECTS OF MARRYING BLOOD RELATIONS. 241
Crossing ihe breed. dumber of our ancestors.
mn~
SECTION VI..
I
EFFECTS OF MARRYING BLOOD RELATIONS.
The principle that c?'ossmg- the breeds is the only way to
prevent the stock from deteriorating, and the best means of
improving it, is as familiar to every farmer in the Union, as
the way to mill. ^Vho does not know that sheep, cattle,
horses, swine, and even fowls, and all kinds of animals, nm
out, unless crossed by the introduction of foreign males or
females ;
that when they breed " hi and in,'^ as it is called^
the young are few and feeble, and those that live to grow up,
are every way inferior. But, introduce a new rooster to
your brood of hens every year, and every egg wilt hatch, or
contain a chick ; and so of other animals. So, also, even
grain will not grow M-ell, if sown on the same soil from
which it was reaped.
That the same 2)ri?ic}ple of crossing the breed, applies to
man, and produces evil consequences to the children of blood
relations, is perfectly evident, both from the facts of the case,
and from the very nature or arrangement of parentage.
Thus, every human being on the face of the globe, is com-
pelled, from this demand in Nature for crossing the breed, to
have two parents, four grand parents, eight great grand pa-
rents, sixteen ancestors of the fourth generation back, thirty-
two of the fifth; two hundred and fifty-six of the eighth;
thirty-tico tJioiisand seven hundred and sixty-eight of the fif-
teenth ; zXxnosi one milUon and fifty thousand of the twen-
tieth ; nearly one thousand seventy-three million of the thirti-
eth; 1,104,893,771,696 of the fortieth; and 1,131,411,222,-
216,704, of only the fil\ieth generation back, all of every
one's ancestors for fifty generations, amounting to the incon-
ceivable number of two thousand three hundred and sixty-
two billion, seven hundred and forty-nine thousand, nine
hundred and fourteen million, two hundred and fourteeiij
thousand and forty-six, (2,362,749,914,214,046 !)—a multi-
tude, verily ! which no man can number, no mind conceive!
That is, the blood of this vast liost is running in the veins of
every living mortal, and that, reckoning back o^ly fiftvi
21
242 coxniTioxs of parents, while pecoming parents.
Niimlicrof closcciulaiits.
generations! What flicn, as each generation donbles tlio^
number, must it be in a hundred generations, which would
carry us back to about t!ie Christian era, perhaps only about
one-third of the age of man !
^''-
Hence, in the very nature
* Lot us consider tills niatfiT, in the descending scale. Take tlio ten
cliiidren of John Rogers, and suppose them to have, on an average, five
chil(h'on each, and each of tliese, five more, and so on for tliirt^- genera-
tions, except allowing eight eacli to the eightli, an esiiinate that will i)rol)-
ahly fall short of the fact, as the Rogerses generally have nearer tens than
tive?. This will give him five Imndrcd and two jrrand children, six
thousand two hundred and fifty descendants of the fifth generation only ;
ihirtij-o:ie million, sixty-five thousand, of the tenth generation, (more than
the whole population of Great Ihitain;) ten biliion, ihrin) hundred an(f
twenty thousand, three hundred and twelve million, and five hun-
dred tlionsand, (10,320,312,500,000,) of the twentieth ; and one hundred
sixty-nine trillion, one himdred and f )rty-ihousan(], two hundred -uid
eighty-eight liillioii, seven tliousand eight hundred and twelve million,
five luindred thousand, of the thirtieth gem.-ration, (in.),!40,28(?,067,812,-
500,000.) And then, by adding all the intermediate sums together, you
have the number of !iis descendants in thirty generations, supposing, on
au average, eucli of his ten chiUlri'ii has five, and each of every genera-
tion has five, except the eighth, who are allowed to have eight. liiit let
them have ten apiece, and he will have had a humlred irrand cliiidren, a
thousand great grand cliiidren, ten thousand (quite a little army) of the
fifih geiieratinn, a hundred tlionsand (an army fov Bonaparte) of the
sixth, n million of tlie seventh, and a hundred thousand million of the
tenth, or jiressnt generation ; ten hundred thousand million (or more than
the present entire popul.iiit'n of the globe.) of tlie eleventli g<>neration,
and ten trillions of the twentieth generation (some three Inmdred yi-ars
from now;) and ten hiiniired ihousnud (pi.-idi-illions, of the ihirtietli
generation. Tills estimate is [)roliably too large^ |M!rhaps the other is,
but it goes to show the rapid ratio in which the hum:m family increases,
and how vast the nn;n!);:r of those wlio, in all coming tiuie, are to be
born of each reader who has, or may have, children that live to have
other children, and also Iiow vast the number that die with every one
wJ40 (!ies without issue. Sonr.' errors may perhaps have crept into iltJO
above enumeration, yet there is no calcnl uing the amount of iiappine!<s
whicii it Is in the power of parents to i;iipart to mankind, by becoming
tlie parents of iieahiiy and virtuous children, rather than of those who
are vicious; for, l)s it remembered, that the character of every p.nent in .
this vast line of ancestors is transmitted to eveiy one of these descen-
daaits. Who cjxu ktok at this snhject in this light, and not shudtler at tlue
inconceivably tuomejitous ccmseqiiences necessarily attached to becoming
parents
!
EFFECTS OF HIAUUVING lU.OOn RELATIONS. 2-16
Fiicts sliowing- ilio cllbcls of marrying cousins.
of the case, (iicre must be crossing of the breed, iiiid to ati
^inconceivable extent, iVoni wjiicli, let man- learn not to n;arry
^blood relations.
Dnt, to tiie lav/ and to the tesliinony o( fads let us next
appeal, and, in this appeal, 1 again quote our lbm;er conirib-
ntor, Joshua Coffin.
" 1 will now relate such facts as came under my own observa-
tion, concerning the consequences of breeding in and in, or, in
other word?:, marrying blood relations. Whatever may be the
cause, the fact is undeniable, that those families who are so foolish
as to intermarry with blood relations, very frecjuenlly, ii not
always, degenerate, both physically and mentally. Independently,
therefore, of the divine inspiration of the laws of Moses, they are
founded on strict physiological principles, which we should do well
always to bear in mind, as they cannot be violated with inipunity.
" N. P., of W., Mass., a fine-looking and intelligent man, of
good sense, married his own cousin, and what a set of childien !
One of them is clump-fooled, another has but one eye, ar;d all
three of them are very weak in intellect, small in person, and
have heads shaped like a flat-iron, point turned downward, flat on
top, and their chin making the point.
" When engaged as a school-teacher, in M., Mass., in 1S29, I
had several children, among them two sons, by the name of E.,
whom I could not help noticing especially. One of them was
nearly an idiot, and the other son was not to be compared to
either the father or mother in point of intellect. On returning,
one evening, from visiting the family, I incjuiied of my landlady,
if Mr. and Mrs. E. were not blood relations; she said yes, they
were cousins. I told her 1 thought so, solely from the fact that
the children were so deficient in intellect. On stating this fact to
Dr. Wisner, pastor of the Old South Church, Boston, he made
the following observation :
—' Do you recollect, Mr. Coffin, that
singnlar-looking man, that comes to my church, that has the
St. Vitus's dancer' * W^ell,' said he, 'his parents were cousins.'
His name 1 do not recollect ;
you never saw such a lookine; object
in your life. He appeared not to have any command over any
muscle in his whole body. I could mention several other cases.
For instance, a family in N. B., Mass., where were a number of
foolish children, whose parents were cousins. The Rev. Mr. Duf-
field, formerly of this city, told me that he knew of two or three
families in the interior of this state, who, for the sake of keeping
their property among themselves, have married '
in and in ' for
several generations, till their posterity are nearly idiots. There
is a family in E. D., in fact, there are several families of the
244 CONDITIONS CF PAKKNTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Furtlier tiicis showing iIk; evil etTccis ol' marrying cousins.
nnnie, who have intermarried so often, that there is one or more
idiots in almost every branch. In fact, no point is better estab-
lished than this, thoi -breeding *
in and in' deteriorates the race,
of men and the breed of cattle, l)oih physically and mentally, i. e.f
if mentally is applicable to animals.
*' Those young men, therefore, who wish to have intelligent chil-
t^ren, must obtain intelligent women fbr wives, who are not blood
relations. 1 often think of the lines of Savage
—
*No tenth transmitter of a foolish face,
No sickly growth of faint compliiince lie,
13nt stamped in Nature's mint of ecstasy.'
" Dr. F. A. Pinckney, of Keywest, told me that he had seen
rjany of the inhabitants of the Bahamas, and that all of them were
deformed in body, and deficient and dull in intellect. He had never
been there, but had understood that the specimens which he saw
were but fair representations of the inhabitants of the islands.
They generally have large hea(Js\ are employed in the meanest
occupations, and have not capacity enough to take the lead in any
pursuit. Dr. P. understood and supposed that the cause of their
physical and mental infirmity was owing to intermarriage, and to
ihat only.
"Dr. P., also spoke of a family in the town of P. in N. Y.,
{12 miles from G.,) where the parents were cousins, and all of
the ten children were fools; he also mentioned several other cases
now forgotten.
" The J. family at C. S., affords some melancholy cases of the
bad effects of intermarriage,
"C. H., of N., I^Iass., a clear-sighted, shrewd man, married his
own cousin, lost three children while young, have four (1841)
living, eldest 14, all under mediocrity, parents sound ; the father
•died^in 1837.
''
Mr. E. S. and wife, of N., Mass., were own cousins, both of
them of sound, strong mind, and firm nerve, and sound health ;
he died, Sept., 18'iO, aged 75, of rheuniatic fever. His wife is
now living; had seven daughters and one son; three daughters
deranged, (two of them dead), the rest of feeble health, and very
nervous—a good Dimiiy.
" H, L., of N., Mass., married his second cousin, has one
daughter of 14, nearly an idiot. I do not know the condition of
the rest of the children.
"T. A. married his cousin's daughter, had five girls, (no boys,)
two were complete cripples, and very deficient in intellect—almost
icliots—one was quite so—one daughter was iTiarrled, and died
childless—the other two married—the children of one of them
are apparently below mediocrity—do not know about the children
of the ether.
EFFECTS OF MARRYING BLOOD RELATIONS. 215
Further facts showing the evil eflects of marrying cousins.
" Mr. P. P., of B., married his second cousin ; their oldest
child is too deficient in mind to take care of himself ; the other
children are not what are called bright, though fair.
" Dr. H. VV,, of B., N. H., now of B., told me that he knew
of four n)en, who had married cousins, each of whom had a fool
for a child. The other children were below par.
" jMr. N. G., from D., N. H., said that he and his motlier counted
about twenty-five families in D. who had intermarried, and of all
their children, not one could they remember of ordinary capacity.
"1 was told that a IMr. P., of JMe., married his own cousin.
Miss W., both now dead, leaving five boys and three girls,
—
two girls and three boys blind—parents' eyes good.
" J. L. A., of N., married a cousin's daughter, has three chil-
dren, apparently healthy, but heavy-minded.
" R. D., of B., iNle., had for his first wife his cousin's daughter,
a ]Miss G., of H., N. H., their oldest child, a boy of 18 years,-^-
lame in the hip,—the other two of feeble health and failing.
" Dr. C., of N. M., N. H., son of Prof. C, married his cousin,
iNIiss B., of U., Mass., had two children, both dead,-—Dr. C.
died 1S40, in N., Mass., having lately removed there-—his widow
is at her father's.
"J. P.. of W., (now dead,) married his own cousin,—of their
children, one died an idiot, two sons died at the age of 23, of
feeble bodies and irritable minds, and one girl has diseased eyes.
Some of the boys are club-footed, wry-necked, &c. One daugh-
ter, married (lately, to a cousin, 1 think) —he lived a year or
two, then (lied —had one child.
''Mr. E., of M.,.Mass., married his cousin —had five daughtcis
and three sons. One of the daugliters is an idiot of so painful a
sight, that the parents board her out (on Ca|)e Ann.) Two of the
other daughters are foolish —the other two are weak—one son
weak-minded—has been made lame—one son ran away with
some of the town's money—the other son is a worthy, upright
man, but unfortimate in all he lays his hands to.
" S. L., of IV., married his cousin. Miss S. A., they^ were
second cousins,—tiiat is, their ])arents were own cousins—had
eight sons and two daugluers—all living (1841)—two sons and
one dau'diier are unable to wfdk,and are hauled about in carriatj-es
O ...
made for the purpose,—their younger child is deaf and dunii),
besides being born like the others mentioned. A. L. once lold
me that he vvas boin well, anfl that, in early years, he lost his
sense of feeling in \\h toe joints, which afterwards became nunii).
and, in process of time, lo use his own expression, tbcy " lap/icd,''
and so it was, joint after joint, upwards in his arms, as well as his
toes and legs, till every joivt was affected in his whole frame.
Perhaps he was about twenty when he became utterly helpless,
21*
2'iG CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, "WHrLE BICCJIING PAr.ENTS.
Furlhor (acts showing ihe evil efTocls of inairviiisj cousins.
and ihen took to his carriage—the others grew lame in the same
wav. J., though now twenty-two or tliree, can walk a little.
'*
Rev. Mr. B., Episcopal clergyman in B., N. Y., married his
own cousin, ]Miss B., ol IV., N. J., —her heahh has dechned,
though sound before—had two children,—both are dead.
'•
A Mr. (name not known,) of W., M. county, N. Y., married
his cousin, had many children, all crippled, none could walk,
all bright.
'•Mr. D., of O. county, married his cousin, had thirteen or
fourteen chil<lren —all are dead but three, and those are in batl
heahh. Tlie father became deranged some years before he died.
'•
^ir. AV. H., of T\I.. married a cousin—lias had several chil-
dren —do not know tlieir condition—the mother has been deranged
for many years in the Charlesiown Asylum.
'•T. C, of P., married his cousin ; their only son is an idiot
—
have six. daughters of ordiiKiry ujinds—1 ihink 1 understood that
they all had a hnnl snuint in ilieir eye, taken from their mother.
"Judge C, of H., O- county, N. Y., was married to a cousin,
had several children,—died idiois—of the two now living, but one
can be said to have common sense.
" jlr. IN. S., of N.. married his cousin, a i?liss Pellingnl,—they
are not over brigh.t, and their children aie decideclly under bright,
and are a bv-word.
" Mr. J.b'B., of P., married his cousin, H. O'B., of B., Me.,
and lived a year and a half afterwards, and died in 18-"J9.
" E. ]M. married his cousin, M. A. M,, both of G., Me., moved
to the West, (IH-O —s!ie died a few days after giving birth to the
fii'St child.
" The Bradstreets and Grants of G., Me., have interm.arried,
and 1 am told the children <=how it.
" N. and S. W.. of T.. hroihef^,—one married his cousin, his
ciiildren are full of mishaps, feeble in body and mind, blear-eyed,
Sec. The children of the other brother are upright, manly, hand-
some people."
A val'.ied friei'id of tiie author's boyhood, foil in love r.nlh
his cousin, (the fatliors of both being brothers, and the
mothers of both being sisters.) but was opposed by the wholo
family, and -'Corahe's Constitution of Man" v/as put into
the hands of the <rirl, and what he says on this point was
shown her, and lie was remonstrated with, in order to break
off the match, but tfi no purpose. They married. Nearly
three years elapsed before the birth of their first child, which
Jived but fifteen minutes. He was told, beforehand, that,
"ETFECTS OF MARRYIXG BLOOD RELATIONE 247
Idiots io Adams, N. Y.. and other places. Iiihabilaiiis of Marlua's Vineyard.
either he would have no living children, or, if he had, they
would be almost certain to be deformed, or deficient in intel-
lect.
In the town of A., the author wa.s handed a letter, in a
very prompt, polite manner, by the son of the P. M. After
he had left the room, "A very smart boy, that," said I.
" How old do you think that boy is V said one present.
'•
About ten years." said I. " He is seventeen," was the re-
ply ;
'•
and he has a brother as small in proportion.'' " Then,
vFcre not his parents cousins'.^ " said I. " Yes," was the an-
swer.
Directly across the road from the tavern where I put up,
in Adams, Jefierson county, N. Y., were two idiot.s, the chil-
dren of cousins, whose heads 1 examined. They barely
knew how to chew and swallow : but not how to feed them-
selves nor walk. The head of the eldest, some twenty years
old, measured but nineteen inches, not more than that of an
infant a year old ought to measure, and the other but seven-
teen ;
and one of this unfortunate family had just died, a to-
tal idiot, and another some time before. Only one of the
children escaped either idiocy or death in infancy, and that
one had barely sense enough to get along- both parents were
intellectual.
In D., Pa., I was called upon by a very anxious mother,
who was wealthy, and had lost all of her children but two,
which were very feeble, their muscles lax, waists yielding,
and they generally sick. She married her cousin.
Dr. Kimball, of Sacketi's Harbor, states that there is a
partial idiot living some three miles east of that village, who
commits to memory with astonishing facility, yet cannot
take care of himself, and is flat. His ])arents were cousins.
A Professor in a l!ie\v England college married his cousin,
and has several clump-footed children. Pity he had not
learned the evil consequences of marrying his cousin,
along with his literary lore. He was "penny wise and
pound foolish."
I have been informed that the inhabitants of Martha's
Vineyard have married "in and in," till many of them are
bhnd, deaf, dumb, and deformed, and some. all. My in-
248 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Facts near Boston. Facts from Maine.
formaut said she knew two blind girls whose parents were
cousins, and though both parents heard and saw well, yet
their children were blind.
A lady whom I met in Boston, in 1841, said, that, while
living in a neighboring town, she was struck with the curi-
ous speeches of some of the school-mates of her sons, as re-
ported by the latter, and on inquiry, found that they were
Hats, and that their parents were cousins. Inquiring further,
she ascertained that four, couple in the town had married
cousins, and tliat more or less of the children of evc7'y couple
were simpletons.
Another lady, in 1843, related cases that occurred in a city
near Boston, in which the children of cousins were below
par.
A lady furnishes the following:—" Mr. B., of W., married
his first cousin, and had two children, both deaf and dumb.
"Mr. L., of W., married his first cousin; cliildren two,
both blind. Mr. Ij., of V/., married his cousin ; has one
child only, deaf and dumb, and could not walk when four
years old. J. H , of \Y., married his first cousin, children
two, both natural fools.
" Mr. D., of C. E., married his own cousin, children three,
all hermaphrodites.
" S. H., of P., m.arried his first cousin, has three children,
all natural fools; so much so, that they cannot talk, and
have to be fed with spoon-victuals, because they have not
sense enough to chew their food. The youngest of the three
is twenty-seven, and cannot walk, but sits on the floor, and
hitches along a little.
" Mr. H. married his cousin, has seven children, one of
which was only about half-witted.
" D. L., of W., married his own cousin, and has nine
children, two of whom are incapable of any kind of labor,
act like drunken persons, and have the St. Vitus dance to
such a degree, thai it destroys all control over their muscles.
Two other children show a marked deficiency of intellect."
She adds, "I know twenty other cases, where the parents
were first, or first and second cousins, whose children are
quite below par."
EFFECTS OF MAKRYIXG BLOOD RELATIONS. 249
Marrying cousins l(» keep properly in the family. Tlie laws nf AFosrs.
I know a whole family of eleven childipn wliose pareiiis
married cousins, to keep property in the family,— a mean,
miserly, despicable motive surely, and, though they kept the
property together, yet one child was a total idiot^ and most
of them were dull. The next generation, sctnated by the
same mean, penurious motive, have mostly pursued the
same cpurse, and thus, married double cousins, that is,
cousins have married the children of cousins; and if the
idiocy of the offspring do not run out the property^ family,
a?id all, then Nature's laws may be violated with impunify.
To this Hst of facts, any required number might be added,
but I forbear. A principle supported by almost every njar-
riage of cousins, will not probably be questioned ; and if so,
let Lawrence, Combe, and Walker be consulted. I grant that
we sometimes find the children of cousins passable, but these
cases occur where the parties do not take after the parent by
whom they are related, but. where each takes after some
other parent or grand parent, in which case, less injurious
consequences may be apprehended, but, even then, there is
danger. A vigorous intellectual and physical organization
in the parents may modify this result, yet, in such cases, the
children will be far below either parent.
The laws of Moses, also,' forbid the marriage of those wha
are "near of kin," because, doubtless, such marriages result
unfavorably to offspring. Every one of those laws, as far
as I have been able to ascertain, are based on physiology,
and forbid what is hurtful in itself, and recommend what is
wholesome in itself Thus, they forbid the eating of swine,
the fat of meat, and also the blood, because, probably^
pork is mostly fat, and fat meat is hard of digestion, and in-
jurious, and so of blood. So, also, frequent ablutions are
required by the Mosaic code, because, doubtless, bathing
frequently is so emiiiently conducive to health. For a simi-
lar physiological reason, in all probability, does it forbid the
marriage of blood relations, namely, because that marriage
is, in itself, so detrimental to offspring. Nor do I doubt but
this marriage of cousins is injurious to husband and ivife, as
to health, and as to contentment and length of life, but this
is a surmise merely.
2oO COXOITIONS Oy parents, while HECOJILNG PARENTS.
Grt^ai infii (roin Icms-loveH families. 'J'he woniPn of our nation
This point bears somewhat upon a point agitated by the
Gcnejal Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, namely,
whcMher a widower should be allowed to marry his first wife's
sister. Such a marriage, probably, violates no physiological
or mental law, and is therefore right; and, to boggle their
brains, and divide the churches, and waste so much wind
and ink on a matter not wrong in itself, and productive of
no evil consequences, is to be wise in non-essentials.
The marriage of other near blood relations is governed by
the same laws, and attended with the same evil consequences,
which follow the marriage of cousins; and the nearer the re-
lation of parents, the worse for the offspring.
SECTION VII.
SUMMARY; OR CONCLUDING INFERENCES AND REMARKS.
Fust: All great men arc from a long-lived parentage.
^^ asliington's mother was found at worlc bi Jier garden when
«ighty-two; and died at eighty-five. Franklin's parents
were aged. O'CoimcIl is from a very long-lived stock, and
in liis prime now when he is past sixiy. Charles G. Finney's
father lived to be about S4, and mother above SO ; and a
brother of his father is now ahve. and considerably above
*^\h De Vritt Clinton's ancestors were long-lived, and also
disiingnished for talents. Those who settled New England
were generally long-lived, and to that cause, m no inconsid-
erable degree, is to be attributed our national greatness
and talents. John Guiucy Adams' great grand father lived
to the age of 93, and father 91 ; and* so of Dr. Bowditch, Car-
lyle, Dr. Johnson, Webster, and a host of others. Nor do
I know a disti:iguished man who is not Indeed, that very
condition of physical strength already shown to be absolutely
necessary to sustain a very powerfid brain, also gives and
accompanies longevity.
Secondly : Every thing depends on the women of the na-
tion. As thcij are, so are future generations; and nothing
CONCLUDING INFERENCES AND REMARKS. 251
The faclory sysiem. Its !);iiierul effect on fmure nioilicrs.
is more certain, than that our women are not what they
should be. "Woman is what man makes her. It is her
nature thus to adapt herself to the wants and tastes of
t!;at sex, on pleasing which, all her hopes depend. She is
easily moulded—is ever ready to girt her waist, or to pad it;
to stay within doors, or to go much abroad: to talk sense or
nonsense ;
to work or play ; to be extravagant or frugal ; to
be prudish or familiar; serious or gay, <5cc., t'^ce., according to
the demand of the matrimonial niarkot. And for man to re-
quire at t!ie ijand of complying woman, whose very nature
is. to adapt h-rsclf to liim, that whicli irtjures hc)\ rnonlolly
or pljysically, is not only to injure her, but also to injure
posterity, and thereby, to, injure himso'f, l;y dclerioratiiig
jiis oirspring. And I tremble for my race, in view of the
present prevailing tasic in this particular. She is required
to fit hevs-^lf to becon\e a tou—to be inierestiug and crrcm-
;A'/s7/erf— ratlier thnn to be lisefiil. And our young vv'onien
generally, are above work, or else ashauicd of it —asliauiccl
to be seen in a working dress; or to soil tlieir hands, es-
pecially by domestic labor. At tJiis r'aie, our nation will be
a nation of no icorhers : and when this occurs, wo be unto
both parents, and children, and our nation? Lei woman labor
more, and sit and sew less, and tahe all pos'iible means to
cult-'vnfe her 'jfhyslcal energies.
Thirdbj: Our factory system requires njodificalion. V»'hile
it might be made one of the most delightful and healthy oc-
cupirions ou.r women could follow. I fear tliat it is seriously
injuring the b.ealth of our female operatives; and this is cer-
tain to u-ea!:c:i future genercdions^ both piiysically and intel-
lectually. Our operatives, generally, as I have found them,
are a superior class of women. 1 find as good heads aiid
bodies at Lowell, as any where else, but a ten years' con-
finein.'^nt ajid slavish servimde in the cotton-mill, is enough
to bre.ik down the health and spirits of almost ajiij one.
Tliey are required to work too hard, and for too nuany h.ours,
and in rooms over-heated, or allowed too little tiu}e for recre-
ation. (an(!, of this, woman requires a great amount,) and
are crowfe-d together by the dozen in small rooms, u§ually
252 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
The aristocracy of birth and wealth contrasted.
heated to sutTocation, and poorly ventilated, and then but
half paid for thus ruining their constitutions !
Now add to tliis injurious effect of the factpry system on
the health of the female operatives, the fact that New Eng-
land is soon to become the great manufactory of the world
—
is soon to be studded all over with factories, and to employ
female operatives by the million^ (Lowell alone employs about
10,000, and I should think all the factories in New England,
or, at least, in the nation, would equal a hundred Lowells,
and employ a million female operatives.) and if this system
be calculated to injure them in their relations as mothers, no
tongue can tell the amount of damage thereby done to the
nation ; and, though we may gain wealth to the purse-proud
capitalist by manufacturing or.r own fabrics, we sIkiU lose
wliat all the wealth of Christendom cannot make good; for,
to have a million women constantly wearing out their health,
and thus unfitting themselves to transmit strong minds, in
strong bodies, to futiu-e generations, and to have these causes
continue to operate on the flower of New England, the fiov/er
of America, is to render wretched, or to ruin, five millions
of their offspring, and twenty millions of their grand chil-
dren, and to debilitate countless millions of their posterity
!
And all this, in two or three generations ! What, then,
will be the amount of injury occasioned to our race, by the
coJiibiual operation of these pernicious influences on every
generation of our beloved country—weakening the first, en-
feebling the second, thinning the ranks of the third, burying
most of the fourth, and so injuring mankind more and more
as time rolls on ! And all to fill the coffers of a few rich
capitalists, and (o curse their children by leaving them rich!
This -subject, indeed, deserv<;s the attention of both thi
philanthropist and the politician ;
yet who, but the phrenolo-
gist, thinks of it
7
Fourthly : The aristocracy of family or birth, is far supe-
rior to that of wealth. The latter has nothing for which lo
recommend itself, but the cunning, extortion, oppression, and
over-reaching, by which that property was acquired. And
yet this^ ay, tliis is the Great Mogul, before which, high and
low, rich and poor, learned and ignorant, and last, though
CONCLUDING INFtRENCES AND REMARKS. 253
Aristocracy of blood. Lei iudivicluals irace and record their ancestry.
not least, saint as well as sinner, bow, as to a god. Our
psalms and hymns require some addition ;
and the Episco-
palian service needs a new prayer, to be said daily by all
the other denominations, commencing in this manner:
"Oh Thou Almighty Dollar! Thou art the Creator, the
Preserver, and the Governor of us all. In Thee, in Thee
alone, we live, we move, and have our very being. From
Thee we derive all that we have and are, and to Tlioe Ave
look as to our only Hope and Salvation. To obtain Thee,
we expend every energy of our bodies and souls, and even
lie, and cheat, and rob; for. Thou art our all i)f all, our only
hope and portion, here and hereafter,'" and closing with,
"And to Thee, oh Thou Almiglity Dollar, Thou Lord our'
God, shall be the power, and the kingdom, and the honor.
and the glory, as it was. is now. and ever shall be, amen
and amen."
But the aristocracy of blood, has some shadow of merit,
though, unfortunately, these ancient families distinguished
themselves for their physical courage, or pride and despotism,
but rarely for goodness or talents. Still, the aristocrat of
blood, will mingle with, and speak to, the common people,
and does not feel contaminated by being in their prese))ee;
but the mushroom aristocrat of wealth, whose fathers worked
by the day, or, like Jacob Barker, once obtained a living hy
wheeling soap-fat and ashes in a wheel-barrow, value i o
one, marry no one, associate wiih no one, and look at no
one, whose worth is not his wealth: and rich fools and
knaves are honored and feasted, while the poor and honcist,
are neglected and despised !
Fifthly : Let every individual trace his ancestry as fa'r
back as possible, on all sides, and rerotrJ all the results he c;:n
obtain, as to their ages, occupations, characteristics, wcnk-
nesses, diseases, and whatever can be ascertained concora-
ing them ;
and let every pregnant mother, record her feelincs,
states of mind, and all that may probably affect her child ;
and let that child be informed of as much on these points as
will warn him of evil where it may be apprehended, or en-
courage him where circumstances are calculated to cncoura-'e
him. And let every reader catechise his parents and grand
22
254 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
The value of iaronnation respecting ancosiors. ISiirreiiiiess.
parents as to all they know of his ancestors, and record it in
the family Bible, or among some sacred family archives, for
his posterity. 1 would give, at this moment, $500 for the
information that my grand mother, who died within the last
five years, could have given me before her faculties failed.
But it is buried forever. Snatch, ye who can, from oblivion,
all that old people can tell you of those from whom you de-
rived your mental and physical existence.* And no tongue
can tell, no mind conceive, the value of such records, to
enable future ages to arrive at correct conclusions in regard
to the sul)ject matter of ihc preceding pages—a subject merely
broached even, in this work, and concerning which, a vast
amount of information is yet to be treasured up—information
which shall enable parents to control the characters, and,
therefore, the destinies, of their children, with as unerring
certainty as that with wliich the expert marksman controls
the direction, distance, &c.. of a rifle-ball, or as the laws of
gravity, control the motions of the planetary system; for, be-
yond all question, this matter can be reduced to the certainty
of an exact scioice. Laws have been sliown to govern this
matter, and if so, their action is as certain and as uniform^
as those that govern any other department of Nature. And
facts, bearing on these points, which may be communicated
to the author, will be thankfully received.
SixtJily : I am often consulted by husbands and wives
who are unfruitful, or who have but one child, and wish for
more, to ascertain by what means this to them extremely
desirable end can be secured ;
and as it may be of use to
some readers, and is really demanded in a work like this, I
will offer a iew suggestions touching this subject. In cases
where barrenness is caused by constitutional obstructions, I
• I cannot commend too liiprlily, " Shattiick's Family Rcjristcr," pub-
lished in Boston, and designed to rceoid all that can be learned of the
names and cinalities of ancestors, as well as the healili, weight, expenses,
sayings, &:c., &('., of children ; and also deeds, contracts, and tdl family
papers, required to be ke[)t. And the author is turning his attention to
some formula of this kind, to he pid)lished wiiliin a year, to constitute a
family record of organs, characteristics, &c., &c.,—such a register as the
preceding pages would require.
CONCLUDING INFERENCES AND REMARKS. 255
Diredions to p<irei)ls who are barren and wish for children.
have nothing to say, for these cases belong properly to the
physician ; but, happily, these cases are extremely rare. But
I believe its most frequent causes, are the physical debility of
one or both the parents; and this is the most easily removed,
namely, by restoring the physical powers. Of course, air,
exercise, and a highly nutritive and rather stimulating diet,
if the system will bear it, continued for a month or two, will
be found to favor this end. So will sage tea, oysters, and
the white of an egg, taken without being cooked. The cold
bath, and abundant friction with the hand, especially at the
small of the back, will be of especial service, the first, by
invigorating the whole system, and the latter, by stimulating
the very parts the action of which is most required. These
are among the most important directions that can be given.
Pepper and spices, taken into the system, may aid. Being
magnetized, will be found most beneficial, especially if the
organ of fruitfulness, located at the lower portion of Self-
Esleem and Approbativeness, and close by the newly dis-
covered organ of Modesty, and partly between the two for-
mer, be magnetized ;
and so will rubbing the cerebellum at
the proper time previous. Dr. Buckland's Physiology, con-
tains several other valuable directions, which I shall copy in
my work on Aniativeness, already mentioned, in which I
shall prosecute this subject somewhat further and more spe-
cifically. The doctor recommends the Lucinia cordial very
highly, but with what propriety I know not. My principal
direction here is, to increase the general tone and vigor of the
body, by air, exercise, and whatever physiological means this
end can be secured. But, fortunately, those weakly parents
who could not have healthy children, have very few, espe-
cially that live ; and this is wise, and prevents our world
swarming with miserable, poor, puny, sickly scions, that
cannot enjoy life themselves, nor promote the happiness of
others. And I warn many of the young women of the pres-
ent day, that they must necessarily be childless, because too
weak to bring forth children strong enough to live. I also
warn those who wish to "be fruitful and multiply, and re-
plenish the earth," that they must preserve their health, under
penalty of barrenness, and also inarry healthy companions.
256 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
The truo exposition of original sin. Qualities often pass one generation.
Seventhly : In the principles embodied in this work, we
find a consistent, philosophical exposition of the doctrine of
original sin, or transmitted depravity. We see how it is, that
the qualities of our first parents have infected every son and
daughter of Adam, and will continue to do so forever. Nor
is there any other original sin than that which is transmitted
by this law; and it is strange that this, the only true version
of that doctrine, has not been adopted by the Christian world,
and applied to the improvement of mankind. This principle
shows hold it is, that God visits the iniquities of the fathers
upon their children, unto the third and fourth generation of
tliem that hate him, but shows mercy unto thousands (of
generations) of them that love him, and keep liis command-
ments; as well as shows how to obviate, in part, the viru-
lence of this original sin. That doctrine is true. Children
do suffer, and necessarily so, for the sins of their parents and
ancestors, and are also " partakers of their holiness;" and
the former is but a consequence of the latter—the latter the
law, the former, the effects of its transgression.
Eighthly : Qualities often pass one generation entirely,
but appear in the second or third, or even more remotely.
The following, in addition to those already presented, will
be sufficient, as illustrations of this law, to prepare the way
for our inference.
Three of the children of Mr. Randall, of Woodstock, Vt.,
(one now dead,) have a little hole close to, and just before,
the ear, resembling those bored by Indian and American
women, in which to insert vanity rings and trinkets in the
ears of their tliis-to-make-them-fair-and-lovely daughters,
with which to help catch beaux, &c. It often discharges
when these children are unwell. Neither Mr. R. has it, nor
his father, not even its sign, but a sister and her children,
have it. His paternal grand father had it, and so have
several others of this family. In this case, this peculiarity
has skipped over ttvo generations entirely, and appeared in
the third in one, and in the second and third in the others.
The flaxen lock, mentioned in chap, iii., sec. 2, skipped over
some members of that family entirely, but re-appeared in
their children.
CONCLUDING INFERENCES AND REMARKS. 257
The Kimball family. Applicaiiou of ihe subject.
"It is a little singular," says Dr. Kimball, " that, in the /
genealogy of our family, every other generation has had tuiyis,
as far back as I am able to trace them. My brother, of the
sixth generation since our family landed, has twins ; my
grand father Kimball, of Stonington, Ct., the fourth genera-
tion, had twins; and my great grand father Kimball, of Ips-
wich, Mass., of the second generation, had twins in 1693.
Of the generation before him, I have not a full account, but
as far as I have, there were no twins. I cannot learn from
what part of England, Goodman, Henry, Thomas, John, and
Joseph came, when they settled in Ipswich."
In fine, having shown that all the physical and mental
propensities or elements, are hereditary, are transmitted from
parents to children, one, two, three, four, five, six, and moie
generations, and though they often skip one or more genera-
tions, running under ground for several generations, only to
re-appear in others; the inference is both analogical and in-
contestible, not only that they have been transmitted ever
since the creation of man ; but also, that they will coniinve to
be transmitted as long as our race exists—a conclusion not
only strengthened, but actually established, by the transmis-
sion of love of money, cunning, devotion, <Scc., (Sec, from
Abraham, throughout tiie whole Jewish nation, down to the
present time—a principle wliich, while it unfolds the princi-
pal instrunjent or means for improving and reforming man-
kind, augments the responsibility of becoming parents, be-
yond all conception, by showing that the conditions and
qualities of the parents of the present generation, will be
stamped, in a greater or less dcgr'ee, upon all their descend-
ants, down the long stream of time, till our world itself grows
old and dies.
The Application of this whole subject to the Improvemetit of
the Race ; inclnding Causes of its Degeneracy.
If, as already seen, no laws of hereditary descent had
existed, that is. if the progeny liad no resemblance to its
parents, acorns might have produced fishes, or elephants, or
stones, or human beings: and the products of mankind might
22*
258 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
How ibe law of rt-spmlilaiire is modified. Sameness in the firsi generations.
have been any thing, everything, or nothing, as it happened.
But, a matter so infinitely important, has not been left to
chance ;
it is governed hy fixed and invariable laics of cause
and effect^ the operation of which causes the jyrogeny to re-
senible its parentage ; by which uyiiformity is impressed on
the nature of man.
"
But, if the law which causes children to resemble their
parents admitted of no modification, and allowed no changes
to be introduced, it is self-evident that every member of the
human family must have been exactly alike in stature, in
looks, in talents, and in every conceivable point of view.
To prevent the occurrence of a monotony so absolutely in-
tolerable, nature has kindly allowed changes to be intro-
duced, first, by allowing circumstances, climate, education,
&:c., to alter the phrenological developments of mankind,
organization and temperament included, together with the
character; and secondly, by causing that the various con-
ditions of parents, while becoming parents—their states of
body and mind, &c., induced by changes in their circum-
stances—should be impressed upon both the mental and ihe
physical conditions of children. The necessity for some law
to allow the introduction of changes of this kind, is apparent,
else, farewell to all hopes of improving mankind. But, these
changes are allowed, and the range thereby opened up for
both the improvement and the deterioration of mankind, is
inconceivably vast and infinitely multifarious; admitting no
limits in either, and also embracing most of those causes
now operating both to deteriorate and to perfect mankind.
During the first few generations after the creation of man,
a very considerable sameness must have characterized the
whole human family, because suflicient time had not yet
elapsed to allow those causes already specified, including
intermarriages, to diversify the race. But, as mankind mul-
tiplied and spread abroad upon the face of the earth, new
modifications and combinations of character were induced
by diversities of climate, education, language, diet, associa-
tions, occupations, circumstances, changes that afiected pa-
rents before the birth of their children, wars, and other simi-
lar causes innumerable, producing new modifications of char-
APPLICATION OF THE SUBJECT. 259
How the great diversity in the human race has been produced.
acier and combinations of faculties and temperaments in
nations, masses, families, and individuals. These new char-
acteristics were then propagated by intermarriages, often on
a national scale, such as Persians marrying Caucasian wives;
the Romans, Normans, Danes, 6cc., overrunning and inter-
marrying with, the aborigines of England, Scotland, and
Ireland ; the Creole system now operating so extensively
throughout the new world, by the intermarriage of the In-
dians and Spaniards at the southern extremity of this conti-
nent ; that of the Anglo-Americans and Negroes in Central
America, as well as of the French and Americans in Louis-
iana and Canada, and others that have been occurring con-
tinually all over the world, and in all ages. By the com-
mingling of these new characteristics, other new combina-
tions and modifications of character were produced, which
again re-combining with others also new, produced a host of
others, only again to widen and augment as time rolls on, as
long as man exists. The subjugation of the Indies and
China by the English, will open a new vein for the produc-
tion of new phases of character, and produce physical pecu-
liarities hitherto unknown, which, instead of dying with
those individuals or generations in which they originated, will
not only live and spread throughout the couniless millions
of their descendants, but also form new bases or causes, the
product of which will be phases of character and kinds of
talent now unknown and inconceivable to mankind. And
what is more, the same principle of augmentation already
shown to appertain to the number of parents and descend-
ants, applies with increased force to the number of neio
•properties now being brought forth, and hereafter to be
brought forth by the operation of this prolific principle. Not
ihdii x\e\y primary elemoits ox faculties are to be produced,
but that new combinations of existing ones, new modifications
of temperament, new conditions of organization, and conse-
quently, new products of mind und character, including new
forms of disease, new deformities, new virtues, new vices,
&€., &c., induced by favorable or mifavorable conditions of
parents while becoming parents, and by other causes innu-
merable continually occurring to modify the characters of
children.
260 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
No two persons exactly alike. Illuslration.
Indeed, it may with propriety be said, and in the fullest
sense of the term, that every child born dillers from every
member of the human family, and that no one individual
that ever has lived or ever will live, has ever been, or ever
will be, exactly like any other individual that ever has lived
or ever will live. Who has ever seen two persons exactly
alike in countenance, size, voice, motion, shape, and other
merely physical qualities? Who believes that two ever ex- ,
isted, or ever will exist, thus precisely alike in physical con-
ditions merely ? No one. And, surely, the diversity existing
among mankind touching mental qualities—opinions, feel-
ings, the order and character of thinking, expression, desire,
&c.; &c., to the end of the whole chapter of human charac-
teristics—is infinitely greater than that appertaining to their
looks and other merely physical conditions. Nor is the in-
ference unphilosophical, or even questionable, that every
item of diversity now existing, or that ever has existed, or
ever will exist, has had or will have its ccnise. Indeed, suffi-
cient proof has been brought forv/ard in the preceding pages,
to warrant the inference, that liereditary influences cause
most of this diversity. Education and circumstances of
course produce a small portion of them, but all that is radical,
and 2jri)nitive, and constiliiiioiial in man. and consequently
by far the major part of this diversity, is the product of
hereditary influences.
To illustrate this whole matter. The first child produced
by the union of a Caucasian and an African parent, was a
mulatto, differing in color and form of body, and in cast of
mind and tone of feeling, from all other members of the
human family. Nobody like him, either mentally or physi-
cally, had ever before existed. His children then intermar-
ried, perhaps with whites, perhaps with blacks, and pro-
duced children unlike either parent or ancestor, because
compounds of two parents the like of one of which had
never before existed, and therefore the compound of this
unique parent with one unlike himself, necessarily produced
another sui rreneris ; and rheir intermarriages, others pos-
sessing a mixture of qualities never before exactly equalled,
or if equalled, the conditions and circumstances of the pa-
APPLICATION OF THE SUBJECT. 261
Inheriting diseases. The mother of Zerah Colbiim.
rents and all the ancestors of tliese two, were not exactly
alike. The same nfiay be said of all Creoles, Every mu-
latto difters not only from all Creoles, hnt even from all other
mulattoes, and of course from every one of the five races.
And this principle applies to every member of the human
family, past, present, and prospective; and hence, mainly,
the diversity of the human character and physiology.
Let us apply this principle to diseases. The author knows
a family of children who inherit consumption from one pa-
rent or grand parent, insanity from another, and a physical
deformity from a third. Can it be otlierwise than that this
new combination of several diseases, should produce in their
cliildren physiological characteristics now unknown, as well
as new forms of disease? And are not these new pathological
conditions and diseases almost certain to combine with other
forms of disease, by their or their descendants intermarrying
with others who inherit hereditary tendencies to other dis-
eases ? thereby producing still other forms of disease to
"which mankind arc now strangers. And \vhat end is there
to facts coming under this head, but assuming, in the detail,
every possible amplification, phase, and diversity, as they
flow onward to generations yet unborn ] Fortunately, how-
ever, when cases like this come together, the family runs out^
and all inheriting this complication of diseases, die.*
Take the following among the innumerable throng of facts
in point. The mother of Zerah Colburn—a highly intelli-
gent, thorough-going, business woman—while carrying her
son, was weaving a piece of diaper which required great
study. She tried and tried, thought and studied, day after
day, till, becoming completely puzzled, she was about to give
it up, when one night she dreamed it all out right, and the
* How heautifiil that arrangement by wliic-li those who are too weakly
in body or niiud to enjoy life, die without issue, and olU^n before they are
capable of becoming parents. Frequently, when ehiidren die, it is tte-
cause they have inherited either so much disease or feebleness, that life
would be a burden to them and their posterity. Hence, nature renders
many mothers childless, or removes their rhi!<lren by death, to prevent
our world being flof)ded with miserable, diseased wrfitches, thiit can
neither enjoy life themselves, nor transmit any thing but disease to off-
spring.
262 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Calculation in Colhiirn. Depravity.
next morning prosecuted her work successfully in accordance
with her dream. In weaving this kind of manufacture, it
requires a given uumber of threads to appear on the right
side, and a given number to come upon the other, according
to the figure to be woven. This involves mathematical cal-
culations more and more complicated, according to the figure
produced. In making these calculations, Mrs. C. so exer-
cised Calculation and some of the other intellectual faculties,
as to leave them strongly impressed upon the mind of her
unborn son ; and accordingly, as soon as he could talk so as
to connect ideas, he would stand by the hour and calculate
half audibly, thus : —Two of this, and four of that, and three
of that, will make so much of that. At the age of six years,
he was taken through our country, England, and France, as
a show, and would solve, off hand, any mathematical prob-
lem whatever that could be asked him. Whether any of his
children possess this quality or not, I do not know; but from
what we have seen in preceding pages, they or their children
most assuredly will inherit it, and in an extraordinary de-
gree; by which a new pha.se of character will be introduced
into the human family, to widen as it descends, and perhaps,
as in the case of the mathematical talents of Enoch Lewis,
to become augmented in future generations by its exercise in
the parents, and to combine with other characteristics simi-
larly intioduced, but of every possible diversity, thereby
involving innumerable and truly wonderful phases of char-
acter, combinations of talent, and shades, or rather ranges
of feeling, and also ideas, principles, modifications of thought,
and capabilities for discovering new truths now unseen by
man, greater in richness and variety than it is possible for
us to conceive.
Much is said of the depravity of man—of its aggravation, of
its ever varying forms and inconceivably multifarious phases.
But, has vice yet reached its acme? Has human depravity
yet put on its last hydra head of monstrosity and hideous va-
riety? 1 trow not. If it be not yet in its infancy^ it is only
because the principles urged in this work are about to be un-
derstood and applied to the production of virtuous qualities
in the embryo, instead of, as now, sowing seeds of wicked-
APPLICATION OF THE SUBJECT. 263
Vices of parents appear in the children. Choosing companions.
ness in the first stages of existence; or rather, along with the
existence itself, tares with and in the wheat at generation.
To illustrate. Let us suppose one parent to be licentious,
and the other, revengeful ; their progeny must necessarily
inherit the licentiousness of the one, and the vindictive spirit
of the other, combined. Let these children marry others noted
for other forms of depravity, and their progeny will be disfig-
ured with vices caused by the blending of all the vices of all
their ancestors, only to be re-augmented by indulgence, and
transmitted in a more aggravated, odious form, to countless
throngs of their posterity yet unborn. And these heart-sick-
ening results are augmented by the fact that birds of a feath-
ex flock together—that those who are sinful prefer to marry
those who are sinful. But, fortunately, here also, as in the
transmission of diseases, death steps in and cuts off the sinful,
and therefore the wretched violators of the laws of virtue,
and their posterity after them, cease to multiply. Virtue and
length of life are sworn friends, but the twin brother of vice
is premature death. Infinitely better that they die, and their
children or children'sxhildren be cut off, than that they mul-
tiply and go on to add sin to sin, and consequently, suffering to
suffering, sowing tares of wickedness and bitterness through-
out the world. Let them die, but let those wlio wish to live
or leave a name and a race upon the earth, obey the laics of
their physical and mental being ! Let, also, those who wish
their posterity to be happy, be careful both whom they mar-
ry, and into what fa7nili/. If any of the members of a given
family tread in the paths of licentiousness, or dishonesty, or
any moral deformity, " be not thou united unto them."
But chose companions from the families of the virtuous and
the talented, that ilicir talents and virtues may offset thy
vices or frailties, if any thou hast, or else combining with thy
talents and thy virtues, may form new virtues, new moral
excellencies, and new capabilities for perceiving truth and
augmenting human happiness; for the children of those en-
dowed with highly favorable temperaments, or superior, or
diversified talents, or transcendent moral virtues, or all com-
bined, must necessarily inherit temperaments, physical organ-
izations, mental capabilities, and moral excellencies now un-
264 CONDITIONS OF PAttENTS, WHILE EECOMING PARENTS.
How longevity and happiness may be promoted.
known and unconceived, as well as arrive at a state of
physical and moral perfection inconceivably beyond what
mankind now enjoy.
To take another example from longevity. Let two parties,
€ach from long-lived ancestors, and both inheriting great
physical stamina, marry, and then take all possible pains to
uugnient their vital energies and prolong their lives, and, as
already seen, their children will inherit an inci'tase of lon-
gevity. Let these children marry again those who have
pursued a similar course, and at the same time re-augment
their already powerful constitutions by strict obedience to
the physical laws, and they will both live still longer than
their parents, and transmit a new augmentation of physical
energy to their children, to be again transmitted to posterity,
increasing as time progresses, till the strongest of our race,
now, will be liliputians compared with them, and the oldest
of us, young in age, mental attainments, and the amount
of pleasure enjo^^ed, to those who might be made to come af-
ter us. To these glorious results, do the principles contain-
ed in this volume necessarily lead us. Our world is yet
young. IMan is yet a babe in every thing. These princi-
ples call be practised, and they will be practised. Vast, in-
conceivably vast, is the range of improvement opened up to
man by this principle ! "Who hath set bounds to the nature
of man, that it cannot pass ? Where is the goal of human pro-
gression which cannot be passed ? Shall space be illimitable,
and shall not the nature of man be equally so 1 It is so:
and this principle presents the only effectual remedy for the
evils that oppress mankind, and the only effectual method of
essentially and permanently bettering his condition. By
applying it, our world can again become a garden of Eden,
and man a world of angels. Though the reforms of the day
may do something for man, yet this principle alone, can
break his chains, banish misery, and fill- our world with joy.
Go on, then, ye soldiers of reform. Labor hard and ac-
complish little ;
for you are beginning at the wrong end, are
working uphill. You are better than nothing; for, a moiety
of reform is better than nothing. But little can ye do. Still,
do that little. Labor on.
APPLICATION OF THE SUBJECT.
The duly of teachers. A case of severe suffering: in a child.
But ye who wish to lay the axe of reform to the root of this
tree of vice and misery, and to plant in its stead a root of
virtue, lecture, preach, write, on hereditary descent—on tlie
uay to improve the stock of mankind. Sound the tocsin of
alarm in the ears oi parents. Warn th6m, that hy indulging
in sin, they transmit sinful predispositions and propensities
to their children—that if one parent indulges in one sin, and
, the other in another, their children will be imbued with the
moral deformities of both, augmented; and probably their
children, marrying with those having other moral blemishes,
or intellectual weaknesses, or physical diseases, will be still
more sinful and miserable, only to re-augment the crimes and
the wretchedness of after generations. Scatter light. Lay-
this matter fully before parents. They love their children.
They would not curse tlieir children and all their descendants
knowingly) What emotion is stronger than parental love
7
What string of reform can be pulled with equal effect?
What will soften the heart, open the ear, and reform a pa-
rent, equal to motives drawn from his children?
Parents, do you love your children ? Is not their suffering
your suffering, tJieir happiness your happiness? If you
neither fear God nor regard man as far as concerns yourselves,
yet listen, oh ! learn and discharge your parental duties.
Can you look upon your children, screaming with pain,* de-
formed by disease, raving with insanity, dying of consump-
tion, s.iarling with anger, fighting and biting each other,
* In Boston, in Nov. 1843, the author saw a cliild about five years old,>
suffer every thing from a most acute inflammatory rheumatism, or tic
tloloreaux. Every motion made her sliriek with agony. There she lay
on her grand mother's lap, who was compelled to move occasionally in
order to take food and change her position, and unable to get more than
a moment's sleep at a time, for week.s together, the child shrieking out
every few moments with the most frightful and piercing pain, and yet
possessed of a powerful constitution, so tljai she still lield on to life with
most extraordinary tenacity. Her mother had the same disease, though
with less severity, and two of her motl;cr's coui^ins died with it, after
suffering more than tongue can tell. Her mother's father had it, and two
of his brothers, and many more of this afflicted family. Was it not most
wicked in these parents thus to curse their descendants with so painful
and excruciating a disease ?
49
"650 CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Closing appeal to parents.
plunged ill debauchery, or perhaps stained with crime, and
remember that yoii are the cause of all this, and not go away
and weep over your children, and over yourselves, and set
about a reform ? Oh ! will you go on to heap curse upon
curse, mental and physical, upon the products of your own
body, not only blighting the image of God, but even in
your oion dearly beloved children and children's children for-
ever ? Murderers, all, and worse than murderers—destroyers
of both soul and body, producers of sufi'ering inconceivable,
ye who transmit mental and physical diseases to your poster-
ity; but the greatest benefactors of mankind, and on the lar-
gest possible scale, ye who transmit healthy bodies, strong
minds, and good moral organizations— that is, every possi-
ble condition of happiness—to your posterity, especially if you
leach them to augment these qtialities, that they may re-
combine them with other mental and moral excellencies, and
hand them down from generation to generation—the current of
virtue and happiness widening and deepening as it flows on,
enriching the valley of time as it meanders along through it,
till it loses itself in the ocean of infinite perfection and eternal
bliss, bearing on its happy waters countless throngs adorned
in everydepartment of their nature with every virtue, and
full to overflowing in every element of their minds and bod-
ies, with every perfection, every pleasure, which it is possible
for the wisdom or the bounty of a God to bestow, or the na-
ture of man to yield; and all stained with no mental or
moral blemish, and marred by no physical disease, infirmity,
or pain !
CONTENTS OF HEREDITARY DESCENT.
BY O. S. FOWLER.
CHAPTER I.
THE SUBJECT—ITS IMPORTANCE.
Sect. I.—The Progeny resemble their Parents, 7
Reproduction. Parentage secures uniformity. Connubial love. Things
produce after their kind. Facts our guide. Difficulties.
Sect. II. —Reproduction governed by the laws of Cause and Effect, . 12
Hereditary laws. Parents the causes—children the effects. The qualities
of children, like those of animals, can be predicted before birth.
Sect. III. —Education and Parentage contrasted, .... 18
The original constitution more important than education. Elihu Burritt.
Sect. IV.—Responsibility of Parents, 22
Where reforms must commence. The great importance of suitable marriages
to future generations. A good parent and poor companion, better than a
good companion and poor parent. The necessity of learning the parental
duties before marriage. On the choice of a partner. Find out the hereditary
descent of a companion before marriage. Information ought to be spread.
CHAPTER II.
THE CHARACTERISTICS OF RACES, MASSES, AND NATIO]NS, IN
PART HEREDITARY.
Sect. I.—The Colored Race, 33
Races diffi?r. Mulattoes. The African head—nose. Their love of music.
Sect. II.—The Indian Race, 37
Their independence—tlieir eloquence. Papoose heads.
Sect. III.—The Jews, 38
Acquisitiveness in Abraham and his descendants. The Rothschilds, Girard,
and other Jews. Their Inliabitiveness—desire of issue—hospitality—cun-
ning—Dcstructiveness—physiognomy.
Sect. IV. —>»ations and Masses, generally, . .... 46
The Chinese. Casts of eastern nations. Hope in the English and Americans.
-i CONTENTS.
CHAPTER III.
PHYSICAL QUALITIES HEREDITARY.
Sect. I.—Forms of Body and Face, and the Expressions of Countenance, 49
Family likenesses. Franklin, Webster, and numerous other examples. A
large father and small mother. Giants. Inference.
Sect. II.—Marks and Excrescences Hereditary, 56
A flaxen lock of hair. Porcupine men. Short legs. Twenty-four fingers
and toes. Fleshy parents. Wiliam 11. Brown.
Sect. III. —Great Physical Strength Hereditary, .... 59
A strong woman. Anecdotes of Jonathan and Seymour Fowler. The Bel-
gian giant. Feeble parents have weakly children.
Sect. IV.—Length of Life Hereditary, 68
Cases of longevity. Old Parr. IMcDonald. Predicting the age of ancestors.
CHAPTER IV.
DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Sect. I.—Consumption Hereditary, 73
Actual disease hereditary. Former error on this subject. Venereal disease.
Consumptive persons should not become parents. Consumptive fnmilies
talented. Extract from Sir James Clark.
Sect. II.—Preventives of Consumption, 82
Cold limbs and a hot head. How to cure consumption. Bathing. Friction.
Keep the feet warm and the head cool. Ventilation. Tight lacing. Hot
drinks. Exercise. Diet. Journeying. Caution to young women.
Sect. III. —Diseases in general Hereditary, 97
Dyspepsia. Near-sightedness. Blindness. Gout and apoplexy. Cancers.
CHAPTER V.
MENTAL DISEASES HEREDITARY.
Sect. I.—Insanity Hereditary, 99
The causes of insanity. Extract from Dr. Rush. Numerous caseffof in-
sanity. This disease can be prevented. Contracting marriages.
Sect. II. —Preventives of Insanity, . . • . . . . 117
Sufferings of the insane. Much sleep. Avoid excitement. Bathing.
CHAPTER VI,
MORAL AND INTELLECTUAL QUALITIES TRANS3IISSIBLE.
Sect. I. —The Mental Qualities as the Physical—both Innate, and gov-
erned by the same Laws of Transmission, . . . .122
Form of the body and head transmissible. So of the phrenological organs.
The fallacy of the doctrine advocated by Nott, Hamilton, and Burritt. The
duck hatched by the hen. Faculties must exist before education.
CONTENTS. 3
Sect. IF.—Idiocy and Superior Talents Hereditary, .... 134
What conditions in parents produce idiocy or talents in children.
Sect. III. —Amativeness and the Social Faculties Hereditary, . . 137
Cases of Amativeness. The children of harlots. Having twins hereditary.
Having large or small families hereditary. Adhesiveness hereditary.
Sect. IV.—The Propensities Hereditary, 145
Combativeness and Destructiveness hereditary. Longings of mothers. In-
temperance hereditary. Love of money. Patty Cannon, and other cases.
Sect. V.—The Moral Faculties of Children resemble those of their Parents, 160
Clergymen the sons of pious mothers. The descendants of John Rogers.
The Urainards. The Edwardses. Cases of Conscientiousness. John Whit-
man. Large organs in parents increased in children. Small organs.
Sect. VI. —Ideality, Constructiveness, and Calculation, Hereditary, . 171
Poetic talents hereditary. Cause of the falling off of talents in the children
of great men. Enoch Lewis. Combining qualities in parents and cliildren.
Mathematical genius of the Colburns. Herschell and his grand son.
Sect. VII.—Intellect Hereditary, as to both Kind and Amount, . 179
Tune and Language hereditary. Pairick Henry and ancestors. The com-
posing talent hereditary in the family of the author. Sale of the author's
works, liurritt's relatives. Quotations from Joshua Coffin. The mothers
of great men. The Websters—Tappans—Coffins—Moodys—Adamses.
CHAPTER Vn.
THE CONDITIONS OF PARENTS, WHILE BECOMING PARENTS.
Sect. I.—The Respective Influences of each Parent, .... 193
How the law that children resemble their parents is modified. Causes of the
difference wliich is seen in children of the same parents. Alexander Walk-
er's theory. Rules to be observed in marrying. Husband and wives grad-
ually assimilate. What qualities should be blended in marriage. Are talents
inherited mostly from the father or the mother .-'
Imagination of the mother
influencing the child. General character of the father affecting the child.
Happy parents have amiable children. Rules respecting Amativeness.
Sect. II. —The Office of the Mother in nourishing the Embryo and Infant, 207
The connection between the mother and the unborn infant. Advice to
mothers while pregnant. Children destroyed by the habits of mothers dur-
ing pregnancy. The murderous effect of tight lacing. How daughters
should be trained. Infants affected by the diet of nursing mothers.
Sect. III.—Children inherit the Mental Conditions of their Mothers
during Pregnancy, .... "... 218
State of the mother's mind transmitted. Eff'ect produced on offspring by
fear in mothers during pregnancy. A child that resembled a monkey. When
the different faculties of the child are formed. Proofs upon this subject.
Advice to mothers.
Sect. IV.—Marks, Deformities, and Monstrosities, .... 224
Children maiked before birth. This fact accounted for by animal magnetism.
A child half fish. IMarks and deformities must have a cause. Numerous
cases of children being marked. A child resccnbling a snake. A son who
never spoke to his lather till he was thirty-five. A child that resembled a
cat with its head beat in. How to prevent marks.
4 CONTENTS.
Sect. V.—The older the Parent, the more Intellectual and less Animal
the Child, 937
Effects of immaturity in parents on their children. Case of Franklin. Pa-
rents should bring fortii no more children than they can pioTide for.
Sect. VI.—Effects of Marrying Blood Relations, ..... 341
Effects of crossing the breed. Number of our ancestors—of descendants.
Numerous facts by Joshua Cofhn, showing the bad effects on offspring of
marrying cousins. The laws of Moses.
Sect. VII.—Summary; or Concluding Inferences and Remarks, . 250
Great men from Ion 5; lived families. The women of our nation. The fac-
tory system—its baneful effects on future mothers. Aristocracy of birth
—
of wealth. The value of information respecting ancestors. Directions to
parents who are barren and wish for children. The true e.xposition of original
sin. Qualities often pass one generation. Two cases. Application of the
subject. How the great diversity in the human race has been produced.
No two persons exactly alike. Inheriting diseases. Vices of parents appear
in the children. Choosing companions. Appeal to parents.
EXPLAx\ATION OF THE FOLLOWING TABLE.
The long columns, formed by those tliree double lines that run
through it lengthwise, and separate it into four equal parts, marked
A, B, C, and D, are designed to record four generations ; or, if
five is desired, as the first will contain but few, let two or three
lines be struck with ([^e pen above the table for the Jirst genera-
tion. Then record each generation in its respective column ;
taking the open space in each large square for every head of a
particular branch. If it is not large enough for this, lengthen it.
Then put each generation of the descendants in the squares
around that open space appropriated to the ancestor. Fill up the
respective smaller squares as occasion requires. This will present
the degrees of relationship at one view. Then, in the blank paper
that may easily be bound in after it, it is easy to specify the
meaning of each figure. Thus : place the figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10, &;c., according as the individual you wish to record is
the first, second, tenth, he, child, in the large square A a, and in
whichever small square you please, 1, 24, or any other, and then
in the blank paper, tell who and whose descendants are recorded
in the large squares, and then, who is designated in the small ones.
That is, make of this table an index to such as it is wished to
record ; using it as you please, only state in the blank paper in
writing what use you do make of each large and small square.
If necessary, several tables can be put together, and numbered,
by which any number of records can be presented in one view.
GENEALOGICAL TABLE.
—
_1 — —
—
— _ —
— .
—
— 1
1
i
(D
— —— — — — — —— — — — — — — — — — __—
3
oc
^^_ — _*- __ -1 — _^_ .__^ .^^ ..^_ —^ ,
^__ .^^ —~. ^^— ^^ 1 _^^. T
r~
_ , ._. . _ ,^_ ^_^ Tf
^
1 !5
1 i 5
1
3?
TS — — — — — — — 5»
1
'
-*
.^
•*
1
^
1 o
1
1
" ~ "*""• ' —"~ " — ~^~
CO
1
<n
"~" ~\~~ "^ ~
^
s
— — — — — — — — —— —
— — — —
~~" ^~
— z
_. —"
— ——z
__^ ^^_ — ^^^ ,^_ ^^_ ^-^ ._ ^_ — 1
___ ^^_ II
n
^^
O — — —— — — —-^ — — — O
1
Ci
SJ
"" —-— ——— ——— —~— ——— ————— CO
- ™" '
^^~
o
——— ^ — ——— — — — — ——— — —L- ——— ?!
'S^
— — —
—— — —— — — ——— —— — — —
^— ——— z— - —
—
Z
—
= — — —
—— — — ( 1 — — 3
1
1
' —""
Ol
^ ~ ~ — — — — ~ — ,
OS
— 1
— — —"
c-
1
'"'
— — - —^_ — —
= - ^-
— —T— —-r- ———
i
——
— -i.
—
<
— — — — — 12
r^ :=: =: =r ::= ^=: = := := z= = = zzz = = —
&<
1
— —— — —— — z — —— I
—— — — "o"
1
— r Ci
1
— i
— — — —
1
.
CO
— — |~ —— — — — — r~
— ;— —— !
— —— — — — fS
a ,
— >o
—— ,
——— —: — — ——— —— — •*
—— 1
1
—— —— — ~ CO
,
e^
— — — —— —7 ——— — — — — ~
—
^ 01 n Tf «n 1
o "i^ 00 !^ 12 '-
cT
2 TJ>
1^ l"2
"FT ^ 2 a f.\^ at s
w
