{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 3279 3453","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v1_constitution_and_rules_1883.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V1 Constitution and Rules 1883","mylang":"de"}
Oon8titution and Rule8. a:n
CONSTITUTION AND RULES,
A, rwiled '" the General Muting, Jaf/llUlrg 19, 1883.
TITLE.
I.-The name of the Society is-The Society for Psychical Research.
OBJECTS.
2.-The objects for which this Society is established are:-
(a) To unite students and inquirers in an organised body, witb
the view of promoting the investigation of certain obscurE."
phenomena, including those commonly known as Psychical,
Mesmeric, or Spiritualistic j and of giving publicity to the
results of such research.
(b) To print, sell, or otherwise distribute pUblications on
Psychical and kindred subjects j to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects by correspondence and
otherwise j to collect and arrange facts respecting them ;
to open Libraries, Reading-rooms, and other suitable
Premises and Offices; and generally to do all sl1ch other
things as may be conducive to the attainment of the above
objects.
NOTE.-To prevent miBconception, it iB lIMe expreuly ,tated that
Memb6'r,I,ip of the Society does not imply t/~ acceptance of
any particular explanation qf t/~ p/~na investigated,
nor any belief as to tlte operation, in the Physical world, of
force, otllM tItan tltOBe recognised by Physical 8cience.
GOVERNMENT.
3.-The Society shalI be governed by a Oouncil consisting of
twenty-four members. The Oouncil shall elect from amongst the
:r.tembers of the Society a President, who shall be President of tbe
Society, and an ex-officio Member of the Oouncil and of all Oommittees,
and who shall retire from office yearly at the first Meeting of the
Council after the Annual General Meeting of the Members of the
Society. He shall, however, be eligible for re-election, and shall be
deemed as retaining his offices until he shall have been re-elected or his
successor appointed, provided that no President shall hold the office for
more than three years consecutively. The Oouncil shall alSo from time
to time elect Vice-Presidents, who shall be ex-o.fficio Honorary Members
of the Society, and who shall have the privilege of being present at.
any of the Meetings of the Oouncil.
Digitized by Google
~32 COlZstitution and Rule8.
CONSTITUTION.
4.-The Society shall consist of-
(a) MEMBERS, who shall contribute not less than two guineas
annually, and who shall be eligible to any of the offices of
the Society; and shall be entitled to vote in the election of the
Governing Council and at all meetings of the Society; to
use its Reading-rooms and Libraries; to borrow books
from its Libraries; and to the free receipt of any journal,
transactions, or periodical publication which may be issued
by the Council.
(b) AsSOCIATES, who shall contribute not less than one guinea
annually, and who shall be entitled to attend all Meetings
of the Society, except such as are convened for business
purposes only, and to the free receipt of the ordinary
published Proceedings of the Society; and shall have free
access to its Reading-rooms and Libraries. ,-
Members and Associates shall be entitled to purchase all the
publications of the Society at half their published price.
5.-All Members and Associates of the Society shall be elected by
the Council Every candidate for admission shall be required to give
such references as shall be approved by the Council, unless he shall
have been proposed in writing by two or more Members or Associates,
who, on his behalf, and by his authority, shall assent to the Constitution
and Rules of the Society, and consent to abide and be gOTemed by
them, one of whom shall have certified in writing, from personal
knowledge of him, that he is a fit person for admission. Every such
certificate having been read and approved at a Meeting of the Council,
the election shall be proceeded with. The election to be by ballot, and
one black ball in six to exclude. The Council shall cause the result to
be made known to the candidate, who, if elected, shall be furnished
with a certificate of election and a copy of the "Constitution and
Rules."
. 6.-The SUbscription shall become due immediately on election, and
afterwards in advance on the first day of January in each year. In
the case of any Member or Associate being elected on or a~r the 1st
October, his subscription shall be accepted as for the following year.
Any Member or Associate who is more than three months in arrear
and who fails to pay after two applications in writing, shall be liable
to be struck off the list. . ,
7.-If any Member or Associate desire to resign, he shall give
written notice thereof to the Secretary. He shall, however; be liable
for all subscriptions which shall then remain unpaid.
HONORARY MEMBERS.
S.-The Council may invite any person who is either distinguished
for knowledge and experience in the subjects of their investigation or
Digitized by Google
OOllstitution and Rule8. 383
'has rendered valuable aid in connection with these subjects, to become
·an Honorary Member of the Society, with the privileges, but without
the obligations, attaching to Associates.
GENERAL MEETINGS.
9.-The Anniversary or Annual General Meeting of the Members
·of the Society shall be held in the month of January, on a day to be
fixed by the Council, and of which not less than twenty-one days' notice
shall be given. The business of such Anniversary Meeting shall be to
;receive the Annual Report of the Council, and Statement of Assets and
Liabilities, to elect New Members of Council, and to discuss questions on
the Rules and management. A Member shall not moot any question
on the Rules or management of the Society unless he shall have given
at least fourteen days' notice thereof to the Secretary, but amendments
-4..: to any motion may be brought forward without notice, provided they
relate to the same subject. The Secretary shall give seven days' notice
to every Member of all questions of which such notice shall have been
.given to him. '
IO.-Special General Meetings of the Members of the Society may
be convened by the Council, or by the President, or by the Secretary on
the requisition often Members, and notice of such Meetings, stating the
objects, shall be given at least seven days previously, and no other
business shall be entered upon at such Meetings than that stated in the
notice.
ll.-All General Meetings of the Members of the Society shall be
~onvened by circular to the Members.
PROCEEDINGS IN GENERAL MEETING.
12.-The quorum necessary to constitute a General Meeting shall
be ten.
IS.-The President of the Society shall preside ex-o.lfieio j in his
absence anyone of the Vice-Presidents who may at the same time be a
Member of the Society; or should no such Vice-President be present, a.
Member of Council. In their absence the Meeting shall nominate its
Chairman.
a.-If within one hour from the time appointed for the Meeting a.
quorum is not present the Meeting shall stand adjourned for one week.
At the adjourned Meeting the number present for the time being shall
~nstitute the legal number.
15.-All questions shall, at a. General Meeting, be determined by a
majority of the Members present, except in the election of Members of
Council at the Annual General Meeting, for which election voting
papers shall be accepted. The Chairman shall have a second or casting
vote at all General Meetings of the Society.
z
Digitized by Google
334 Constitution and Rules.
16.-Voting papers for the election of Members of Council shall be
sent to all Members of the Society with the notice .of the Meeting,
and shall be deposited with the Secretary of the Society, at least
twenty-four hours prior to the Meeting. They shall be duly signed by
the Member voting, and be enclosed in envelopes securely fastened and
marked on the outside" voting paper," and enclosed in a letter sent to
the Secretary and signed by the Member voting, and they shall not be
opened till 80 directed by the Chairman at the Meeting.
ELECTI.oN AND BUSINESS .oF C.oUNCIL.
17.-The Council shall C.onsist .of eighteen Members, elected
annually at 0. General Meeting, and of other Members co-opted fronl
time to time by the Council, provided that the whole number shall not
exceed twenty-four. The Members co-opted from time to time by the
Council shall cease to hold office at the Annual Meeting at which new
members are elected, bllt may be co-opted afresh at the First Meeting.
of the Council after such Annual Meeting.
18.-0f the eighteen elected Members of the C.ouncil of the Society
S.o appointed, six or whatever number may be required to reduce the
number of elected Members to twelve, shall go out of office at the time
appointed for election of C.ouncil in the year 1883 ; one other third, at
the time appointed for such election in the year 1884, and the remainder
at the time appointed for such election in the year 1885, and the
vacancies so made shall be filled by fresh elections. All Members of
Oouncil from time to time elected at the annual elections shall go .out
of .office at the time appointed f.or the annual electi.on in the third
f.ollowing year. The Secretary shall every year, at least twenty-one
days bef.ore the ensuing Annual Geners1 Meeting, send to all the Members
of the Society a list of the retiring Members of C.ouncil, and a statement
whether all, and if not, which of them are candidates f.or re-election. In
all cases the retiring Members shall be deemed as remaining in office
until they shall have been re-elected .or their successors appointed.
19.~Any Member of the Society who shall have paid up all
subscriptions due from him, including that for the current year, - ..
shall be eligible for election or re-election, ali a Member .of
Council, provided he shall have been nominated in writing by
a Member of the S.ociety, duly qualified, and such nominati.on
shall have been forwarded to the Secretary fourteen days bef.ore
the time of holding the Annual General Meeting. A list .of the
persons S.o nominated shall be forwarded to all the Members of the
Society, at least ten days prior to the meeting. In case more persons,
duly qualified, shall be nominated for electi.on at any Annual General
Meeting than are required to fill up the vacant places of those retiring
by rotation, then such persons shall be preferred and declared elected as
shall .obtain the highest number of votes.
Digitized by Google
Oonatitution and' Rules. 335
20.-The Coun!,il shall at their first Meeting after every Annual
General Meeting, elect a President, as provided for in Rule 3. At the
same Meeting they shall also elect a Treasurer and Auditor, .and such
other officers as they may deem expedient, who shall retire from office
annually, at the same time and under the same conditions as proYided
for in the case of the President by Rule 3. They shall from ti,me to time
elect Vice-Presidents, Members of the Society, and Honorary Members,
as provided for ~y Rules 3, 5;and 9. They shall havepower to appoint a
salaried Secretary, and such other paid officers, assistants, and servants
as they may deem necessary, and to determine their duties. All the
appointments made by the Council, the Council may at their pleasure
revoke.
21.-The Council shall elect persons duly qualified to fill up any
vacancies which may, from time to time, occur in their own body; and
'",," any such persons so elected shall go out of office when the term of office
of the persons in whose places they were respectively appointed would
have expired by effiuxion of time.
22.-The Council shall meet monthly, unless otherwise determined.
An attendance book shall be kept, and signed by each Member of the
Council at the time of entering the Council Room. In all Meetings of
the Council five shall be a quorum; all questions shall be decided by
vote, and a decision of the majority shall, except where otherwise
provided by these Rules, be the decision of the Meeting; the Chairm~
to have, in addition to his own, a casting vote. The Chair shall be
occupied by the President; or in his absence by a Vice-President who
is a subscribing member of the ·Society, orshould no such Vice-President
be .present, by a Member of Council chosen by the Meeting.
23.-The Council shaIi have power to appoint for special purposes
Committees composed·of .Members of the Society or other suitable
persons. Every Committee shall report its proceedings to the Council
through the Chairman of such Committee, who must be a Member of
Council, and no report shall be published without the sanction of the
Council.
24.-The Council shall have power, by a majority of three-fourths
of the Members present, in a Special Meeting of their own body duly
convened for the purpose, and of which, and of the objects thereof, not less
than seven days' notice shall have been given to each Member of the
Council, to add to, suspend, or alter any of the rules, regulations, and
bye-laws of the Society; such alteration to be· in force only until the
next ensuing Anniversary Meeting, unless it be then confirmed
by the vote of a majority of the Members of the Society thero
present.
25.-The Council shall have power to employ the funds of the
Society, including any funds obtained by donation, bequest, or
Digitized by Google
336 ' Constitution and Rules.
()therwise, in any manner consistent wi:th the objects thereof, and they
may invest any surplus funds in such securities and in such manner
as they may deem proper; and they may sell, employ, or re-invest
the said funds.
26.-The Council may establish Branches, and Local or Provincial
Societies, in any part of Great Britain or' elsewhere, under such regula-
tions, and subject to such limitations, as they may deem fit.
27.-The Council shall have power from time to time to co-operate
with, or accept the alliance of, other Soci.eties, having similar objects in
view.
AUDITORS.
28.-There shall be two Auditors-one chosen by the Members
of the Society, and one chosen by the Members of the
Council. These shall audit the accounts of the Society, and
report thereon to the Council. The Auditors shall be empowered to
examine into the particulars of all expenditure of the funds of the
Society, where they shall see o~ion; and may report their opinion
upon the whole or any part of it, whether it has been expended in
accordance with the constitution of the Society. .
FINANCE.
29.-The Council shall cause true accounts to be kept of all sums of
moneyreceived and paid,and shall submit the accountsof the Society,with
a statement of the assets and liabilities, to the Annual General Meeting.
PROPERTY AND FUNDS.
30.-Every paper accepted by the Society for reading or publication
shall become the absolute property of the Society, unless the author's
rights be specially reserved.
31.-The property of the Society shall be invested in Trustees
chosen by the Council. The Trustees shall be eligible to any other
office in the Society.
NOTICES.
32.-The posting of a notice to the registered address of a Member
or Associate shall be deemed service of a notice. Members or
Associates residing abroad shall name a place of address in the United
IGngdom.. In default of such address, the Posting of a notice in a con-
spicuous place at the Offices of the Society shall be deemed to be a notice.
33.-A notice forwarded by post to the Secretary of a Branch or
Allied Society shall be deemed a notice to the Members of the Society
of which he is Secretary.
INTERPRETATION OF RULES.
34:.-In the Interpretation of these Rules words importing the
singular number only, include the plural, and words importing the
masculine gender only, include the feminine.
l'RIlITIID BY TIIB NATIO!lAL !'BESS AGUOY, LIlIITBD, 13, WHl'lD'1LLUIS STRKB'1', LoKDO!I, B.c.
Digitized by Google
