{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__hale___herald_of_the_bridegroom.pdf","mytitle":"Herald Of The Bridegroom","mylang":"de"}
SECBND ADV NT LIBRARY.
m|'o.xxxxx.
O"
nuusmsin l,if4LS
'
`
°S_%"_`___""l`_
HERAlA)OF THE BRIDEGROOM!
THE ifL,;cucs THAT AWAIT THE ENEMIES OF
Tm; KING 1-:TERNAL ARE OCONSIDERED;
AND TBI
APPEAIRING OF OUR LORD
. 'l'0
G.-1 THER HIS SAINTS
Il IHOWN T0 Rl-2 TIRE NEXT EVENT BEFORE US, BY A SCHIP'
TURAL EXllIl¢l'l`ION OF THE ORDER OF EVENTS FROM
THE FALL OF THE PAPACY DOWN T0 THE
ESFAISLISHMENT OF THE EVER-
'
LASTING KINGDOM.
_//gf f'J"'J
By Af §I_ALE.
BOSTON: `
PUBLISHED BY JOSHUA V. HIMES,
14 Devonshire Street.
gs
Ou Sheet. Postage-under 100 miles, ll cts.; over 100, 2% C'
WATCHMAN-s --- -__-4
--_-GIVE THEM WARNING FROM ME!
"WATCH z/wr_f, (1 It ,mf em be
mms ffZ'».,
'
"'",.$"rl}'f$%i'~"¥¥}'11\f<'5_s'"»...¢ L11
wo y escape . s
some to pa.as,'¢md to stand be/'ore the Son qf man." _
Lvxa xxx. 36.
TH: appointment of watchmen. or the command
to watch, always implies that there is danger to be
avoided, and, as the counterpart of the danger, some
impiortant
interests to be secured.
pon the faithfulness of the watch may depend the
preservation of a whole country from conquest, when
exposed to the armies or fleets of that country`s ene-
mies; upon the faithfulness of the watch often de~
pends the safety of the lives and the property on
board the ship at sea; on the faithfulness of the
watch we are constantly dependent for the security
of our families and habitations against the danger of
being consumed by fire, and for the security of our
property against the depredations of the thief in the
mg t.
f
Bnt in reference to these interests, men rarely
make a mistake. Every precaution is adopted to
place faithful and competent sentinels upon our
watch-towers in time of war; our
ships must be
well manned, and our cities well guarded.
Are there, however, no other dangers which
threaten us! no other interests to be secured! O,
yes! The sentinels of our armies, and the seamen
in our ships, and the watchmen in our cities, may
all do their duty; our country may be well guarded ;
our cities, and dwellings, and ships, and treasures,
may be well protected; but if, in reference to the
sunn-:c'r or mqunw. 3
end of the great voyage, we are asleep,-if our souls
are driven with the wind and tossed,-if our eternal
interests are unsecured,--the substance is lelt for the
shadow, the true riches for those which must perish
with the using.
Our text speaks of an event, to be prepared for
which we must be lookihg out, with at leastas much
interest as the man to whose trust our perishable
earthly concerns
may be committed. It stands at the
close of thatmost im ortant discourse of the Lord
Jesus, as
reported by gt. Luke, in which he speaks
particularly, though also of other things, of his
coming to our earth; of the signs which should indi~
cate its approach; of "the things" which should
accompany his advent; of the consequences of being
prepared or not; and all to lead us to a sure and
timely preparation.
The great event referred to in the text is stated
in these words: "
And then shall they see the Son U'
man coming in a cloud, with power and great glory."
(Verse 27.) The things that shall come to pass in
connection with his advent, and which make it a
matter of so much interest and apprehension to man,
are more hilly presented hy Matthew (chap. xxiv.
and xxv.) and the prophets and apostles generally.
The object of the thllowing discourse, is to inquire,
1. What are these events which are to lake place in con-
nection with the advent! and, 2. Vllhcthcr we have
reason to look for any cj them bf;/'ore lhe personal and
glorious appearing q/` our Lord Jesus Christ !
l. What are these things which are to take place
iu connection with the coming of Christ? In answer-
ing this question, we shall select only those portions
of the word of God which are of so plain a character
as
hardly to leave room for a doubt as to their appli-
cation. We shall not, however, presume to give the
eract order in which these things will occur, nor do
we suppose it to he possible to give an idea of that
scene of terror as it will eventually be realized; but
what God has spoken we may speak, and we may be
assured that it vill be found in this, as in every part
4 'rim vrmanwmn.
of his word, that has already been experienced, tht
one half cannot be told us.
His word, then, assures us that the most terrible
agencies and instrumentalities, with which man has
ever become acquainted, will be employed in executing
wrath upon the wicked in the day of wrath.
The iirst of these agencies of destruction, which
we shall mention, is the whirlwind. lt is spoken of in
these words: "Thus saith the Lord of ho.~ls, Behold,
evil shall goforthfrom nation lo nation, am/ A GREAT
wnumwmn SHALL sl: austin er mom 'rm-: coasrs
or 'ram E/m'rn." Jer. xxv. 32. "
Behold, -me wnm1.»-
wma or 'mis Loan coma FDRTH wrrn nav, A cou-
'rmume wniuwmn: il shall fall with pain upon the
head of the wicked. The _ferce anger J the Lori
shall not return, until he have Jane il, amd until /te
have performed the intents of his heart: in 'ml
n'r'rn mrs ye shall counter it," Jer. xxx. 23,
24. (See also Eaek. xiii. 9-I3.) With the terrible
character of the whirlwind, or tornado, all must be
more or less acquainted. Though more prevalent in
the tropical and mountainous regions of the earth,
they have been felt in almost every part ol' it. Their
violence is sometimes so great that massive rocks are
overtumed, and the largest trees prostrated, or carried
u into the air; and buildings aredemolisheé, or
parts
oi? them torn away almost as if it were done by the
carpenter's axe. lt was- by a. tornado of this kind
that one of our south-western cities was visited a few
years ago, and a large number of our fellow-men
perished in a most sudden and, alarming manner. ln,
this case, the rich mansion and the humble cottage,
the stately steam-boat and the: rude freight-boat, were
dashed to pieces as if smitten with the besom of de-
struction. This is but one of the many instances
which might be cited to show us the power of Him
with whom we have to do, and the terrible character
of this agent of destructioni, by which God will soon
visit the wicked.
The second of these avenging ncies, which we
will consider,i|thekil-storm. "aihd the Lord shall
'ras mul.-s'roam. 5
cause his glorious voice to be heard, and shall show
the lighting down of his arm, with the indignation qf
his anger, and with thejlame qf a
devouring
Ihre,
with
scattering, and tempest, and /tail-stones." sa. xxx.
30. "
And lhcrefell upon men A etuzrr HAIL our or
ru-zavrzx, rzvsnv s'roN: Aaour 'ms wziem' or-' A
TALENT: and men
blasphemed God because of 'rue
Puou: or 'rns HAIL; Fon 'rue PLAGUE 'rumu-:otf wAs
:xcei-:nine stream." Rev. xvi. 21. (See Isa. xxix.
6. Ezek. xiii. 10, ll.)
The devastations etfected by the hail-storm are as
appalling, as the scene presented
durirzg
its continu-
ance is sublime and terrible. Vhen 'od spoke to
Job out of the whirlwind, in a strain of most sur-
passing tnajesty, he called attention to this agency as
follows: "Hast thou seen the treasures of the hail,
which I have reserved against the time
8/' trouble,
against the day ey' battle and ty' war!" ne of the
sorest plagues of
Egypt
"
was hail, and tire mingled
with the hail, very grievous ;" and, in the conquest
of the land of Canaan, in one of the battles,
"
there
were more which died with hail-stones than
they
whom the children of Israel slew with the sword.
'
Josh. x. 11.
'1`he must sublime and awful scene, in the
dphysical
world, ever witnessed by the writer, was uring a
hail-stomi in the summer of 1841, in Rhode Island.
In this case, the largest hail-stones were about half
the size of a hen's egg. These lilled the air over
our heads, and, as they fell, bounded along upon the
ground, giving to everything a strange appearance of
wild commotion, as if the earth actually trembled
under the shock. Horses and cattle, apparently ter-
rified almost
beyond measure, knew not where to fly
for shelter. 'lhe windows in our dwellings were
broken, and one could not help feeling that it needed
no very great augmentation ot' the storm to demolish
even the buildings themselves.
,
The faces of many were seen to gather palenesa
during this scene; but what was that, or anything
pr
6. 'ras EAa'ruQuAxx~:.
of the ltind which man has ever yet witnessed, com-
pared with the hail-storm which God has declared
shall constitute a part of the last plagues!
The third of these instrumentalities of vengeance,
of which we shall speak, is the earthquake.
"
For
thus saith the Lord of hosts; Yet once, it isalittle
while, AND I wiu. sxuxe 'rue HEAVENS, Ann Tal:
EARTH, AND nu: sm, AND 'ms mu! LAND; and Iwill
shalce all nations, and the Desire if all nations shall
come." Hag. ii. 6, 7. "
I will shake the heavens and
the earth; and I will mterlhrow the throne of kingdoms,
and I will destroy the strength rj' the kingdoms of the
heathen." Hag. ii. 2I, 22. "But now he hath
promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth
only, but also heaven. And this word, HI once more,
li Uieth the removing if those things that are shaken,
(ti: heavens and the earth,) as of things that are
made, that those things which cannot be shaken may
remain." Heb. xii. 26, 27. "
And /here were voices,
and thunders, and lightnings; and there was A Glu-:A'r
EARTHQUAKE, SUCH AS wAs nor smca Msn w|-:ns
uros 'me EARTH, so mrcrrrr AN sAn'r14quAx:, AND
so enl.A'r. And the great my -was divided into three
parts, and the cities of the nations fell." Rev. xvi.
18, 19.
§See
also Isa. xiii. 13, 14. Ezek. xxxviii.
19, 20. oel iii. 16.)
Of all the purely natural calamities by which man-
kind have been visited, none of them excite so much
tenor as the earthquake. Even in those portions of
the earth where they are the most common, the in-
tense feeling of a
prehension is scarcely lessened by
their frequency. Ilo exhibition of nature's power so
completely sets at defiance all the skill of man, or
treats his most gigantic means of security with such
mockery and scorn. It exhibits to us at once, and in
a most striking manner, the weakness of man and
the
power
of God. Mr. Stephens, the celebrated
traveler, who can never be suspected of a want of
firmness, in speaking of the sensations felt during an
earthquake while he was in Central America., says
he never before was so sensible of msn's nothingnes
EABTHQUAKE AT GUADALOUPE. 7
as at that moment. Not only were the dwellings,
the usual
(places
of security, fled from as the points
of special anger, but the solid ground was
heaving
like the waves of the ocean. Professor Risley, who
was at Guadaloupe during the earthquake in February
last, in the interesting account he gives of it, speaks
as follows :-
"The first thing that attracted my attention was
a sudden jar, accompanied by a
rumbling sound, like
distant thunder. I had, some two weeks before this,
been at Port Royal, in the Island ot' Martinique, and
seen the effects of a similar visitation, and I instantly
knew what it meant. So sudden was the shock, that,
within two seconds from the instant I first felt the jar,
I looked np, and saw the whole building, commencing
at the farther end, falling upon the people: the joints
opened, and all began to come down with an awful
crash. I instantly uttered the word 'Jump!
'
'l`he
man who sat opposite to me turned his head, and
looked up sideways, but never rose from his seat;
and, at precisely the same moment, and without stop-
ping to turn myself about, I started from my seat,
and actually jumped sideways out of the window,
through glass, sash, and all, landing some ten or
twelve feet in the yard below. I think it could not
have been over three to five seconds from the instant
I first felt the jar, to the instant my feet struck the
pavement.
"
My impression on touching the ground was its
indescribably rapid motion ; I can compare it to noth-
ing, unless it might be that of a sieve of a
threshing-
mill in its most rapid motion. I should judge, from
the distance I was thrown, first one way and then the
other, that the lateral motion of the earth must have
been from eleven to fourteen feet. I succeeded, not-
withstanding, in retaining my feet for some eight or
ten seconds, till I got away from the building to the
distance of thirty or forty yards, into an open lot of
gmund.
-
"
While I was walking this distance of thirty or
forty yards, I saw the buildings of the whole city
8 aurrnovsks -rr avsmnoura-
tumbling into one mass of ruins, and also the earth
opening in the lower part of the town, and spouting
|p immense volumes of water, to the height of a
hundred and fifty feet. The multitude of thoughts
which passed through my mind during these few
seconds is utterly inconceivable and incredible.
"
By the time I had escaped to the distance of the
thirty or forty yards which I spoke of, the violence
uf the first shock had seemed to abate a very little,
but was almost instantaneously renewed again, with
far greater violence than before; and then it was
that I lost all consciousness, \|til I found my boy in
my arms." "I then began to look about me, and
saw various individuals,-men, women, and children,
-of all classes and ages, wandering about, half
frantic, like myself. Some were in search of a son
or a daughter; others, of a father or a mother;
some, of brothers and sisters; others, of friends and
relatives; all weeping, or in the utmost, inconceivable
agony, pitching and falling about among the ruins
and dead bodies. They would go from one dead
body to another, overhanling them to see if they
could lind the persons sought for, and, if not success-
ful, pass on to another.
"
At this time, the whole city was in one vast pile
of ruins, the awful appearance of which it is utterly
impossible to give even the faintest idea. Even the
place and direction of the streets were in many cases
obliterated, and could not he livund.
"
From the place where I first recovered my con~
sciousness, I suppose I could have thrown a stone
over at least eight hundred of the dead and dying.
As to the whole number of persons who ultimately
perished by that earthquake, I should judge there
must have been ten or fifteen thousand."
What, then, must be the dreadful character of that
scene when tle "
great earthquake, so
mighty and so
great" as to surpass everything of the kind which
has ever astonished or afflicted mankind, shall con~
vulse the earth!
Another and still more appalling scene is to be
-__.r_
'rm-: oxen' Burns. 9
realized in "the great battle qf God Almighty." -It
would be most ap alling if it were
only a war of the
ordinary kind. llmpassioned and perverted reason
and genius make the agents and elements of nature a
hundred-told more murderous than in their ordinary
movements they can be. But. this scene of strife and
blood is to be unlike anything which the world has
ever yet seen.
It is to be, 1. A war of the King of kings,-He
whose right it is to reign,-against his enemies, who
would not that He should reign over them. "
Then
shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them
in his sore displeasure." "'l`hen thou shalt break
them with a rod of iron, and dash them in pieces like
a.potter's vessel." "
These (the kings) shall make
war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them :
for he is Lord of lords, and King ty' kings; and they
that are with him are calkd, and chosen, andfailh/`ul."
Rev. xvii. 14. "
And I saw the beast, and the kings
of the earth, and their amines, gathered together to
make war
against him that sat on the horse, andagainst
his army. And the beast was taken, and with him the
izilse prophet."
"
These both were cast alive into a
e
of jire burning with brimstane. And the remnant
were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the
horse, which sword roceeded out of has mouth: and
all the /owls were _/illled with their flesh." Rev. xix.
19-21. (See also Isa. lxiii. 1-6; lxvi. 15, 16. Zeph.
iii. 8. Rev. xvi. 13, 14.)
2. lt is a war of vengeance against the usurpers
of his land and throne, and also on account of the
persecutions and oppressions of his people. "And
the multitude of all the nations that fight agaznst Ariel,
even all that _/ight against her and her munition, and
that distress her, shall be as a dream lj' a
night-vision.
It shall even be as when a
hungry man dreameth.
and behold, he eateth; but he awaketh, and his soul
is empty; or as when a thirsty man dreameth, and
behold, he drinketh; but he awaketh, and behold.
he* is faint, and his soul hath appetite: so shall the
multitude of all the nations be, that fight against
10 'ms smear Bu°'ru-:_
mount Zion." Isa. xxix. 7, 8. (See also Isa. xi!
24-27. Ezek. xxxviii. 17, 21-23. Joel iii. I, 9
Zech. ix. 14, 15; xii. I-9; xiv. 3, 4.)
3. It will be a universal war. This is clearly
stated in some of the texts already quoted. But
others speak of this in particular.
"
The Lord shall
roar from on
high, and utter his route from his holy
habitation; he shall mightily roar
upon his habitation ;
he shall give a shout, as they that tread the grapes,
Acniusr Am. 'ras INHABITANTS or 'rss stunt. A
noise shall come even tothe ends of the earth; for the
Lord hath a
controversy with the nations, he will lead
wrrn Au. rarsn; he will
*give them that hre wiciid to
the sword, saith the Lord.' Jer. xxv. 30, 31. "
And
the slain ofthe Lord shall be at that day I-'nom our :No
or 'rin :turn svn uN'ro ral: oriran mu: or THE
EARTH! they shall not be lamented, neither gathered,
nor buried; they shall be
dung upon the ground."
Jer. xxv. 33. (See also Joel iii. 9-14.)
4. It will be a war of mutual slaughter.
"
Every
man's sword shall be against his brother." Ezek.
xxxviii. 21. "And I will overthrow the charicts
and those that ride in them, and the horses and their
riders shall come down EVERY ONE BY THE
SWORD OF HIS BROTHER." Hag. ii. 22.
These portions of the word of God present some
cf the things in view of which we are called upon
to
"
watch and pray always, that we may be accounted
worthylto escape
"
them.
To is testimony we have added nothing of fancy,
nothing that is not warranted by the lainest facts
of experience. Indeed, no creations olp fanc could
reach the reality. More we need not say, less we
could not say. Yet who can contemplate the scene
ol' tenor spread out before us in connection with
either of those agencies mentioned above, without
feeling his heart grow faint within him? But, 0,
how overwhelming, how perfectly mute with horror,
are we struck, by a view of the wide~spread deso-
lation and carnage occasioned by their combined, and
doubtless universal agency! And, if our hearts
SUDDEN DESTRUCTION COMETH.
siclren with horror in view of the scene, what must
be its reality!
We have, however, noticed only the more promi-
nent features of the frightful picture, and not yet
even all of these. We have yet to add, because God
has spoken it, that the terrors ol' that day are to be
consummated by "the heavens bein on _/ire, and pass-
ing away with a
great noise; anithe melting of the
elements with fervent heat; the earl/t also, and the
works that are therein, .shall be burned up."
And all that we have thus far noticed is but out-
line. The more vivid and startling shades of the
picture are furnished by the particular exhibition of
the manner in which the human mind will be called
into activity under the circumstances of the case, and
as individuals or classes have stood, and will then
stand, related to each other and to God. And why
should we ibrbear to present these particulars, since
God has done it! It is not that we love to dwell
upon such scenes, that we bring them to view, but
that their presentation may lead our fellow~men to
take warning, and be the more ready to ily to Christ
for mercy and help while he is on the mercy-seat, or
at least that we may be lbund faithful.
One important circumstance, which will aggravate
the anguish of the ungodly in the day of their
"judgment and perdition," is this: their troubles will
come suddenly. Alilictions which are considered only
of an ordinary character, and which pass on to their
crisis gradually, would be almost insupportable, were
they to come upon us without any previous warning.
The loss of a friend in whom our lives are bound up,
-if we are permitted to wait at the side of their
sick-bed, and to mark the gradual workings of the
disease, while hope as gradually leaves us,-may find
us calmly resigned to our lot; when,-if that same
friend should leave us in usual health in the morning,
and he brought before us a mangled and lifeless
corpse in the course of the day, or should fall sud-
denly into the arms of death by our side,-it might
throw us into paroxysml of grief that would threaten
12 nn: Minn Anousi-:n.
even our own life. In one ease, we are prepared for
it, in some measure, by anticipation; in the other,
it comes suddenl and unexpectedly.
And this willy be the case with the lost in that
day. From their business and pleasures, and honors
and riches: whether in the field or the bed-buying
or
selling-at the fire-side, or at the church-at sea,
or on the land-planting, building, or
journeying-
mingling in the dregs ot' public infamy, or reigningiis
the idol in the circle of fashion ;--from all the multi-
plied and engrossing pursuits oflite they will be sum-
moned to receive "
their part" in the last plagues, to
"
go away into everlasting punishment S"
When, they shall say pence and sqfett/, [hen SUDDEN
DESTRUCTION COMETH UPON THEM, and
t shall not asm . As a .mare shall it some on
ailghem that dwell 5; theface qf the whole earth. If
thou therefore shall not watch, 1 will come on thee as a
thief!
And then, also, will start into new activity the
mighty faculties and energies of the soul, to prey upon
their victim like the undying worm and the unquench~
able fire. Numan can ilmn it
conception of the power
of the human mind, until he is placed in a condition
favorable to its development. Whoever has been
laced in circumstances any way similar to those of
grofessor Risley, above, will understand the full im-
port of this remark,-" The mul/ilude of thoughts
which passed l/trough my min/I, during these few
seconds, is utterly inconceivable mid increrlible!
"
God has endowed every man with faculties which
only need to be called into exercise by an occasion
suitable to the result, in order to invest him with a.
heaven ot' unspeakable bliss, or a hell terrible enough
without any positive judicial infliction. And while
the positive iuiliction must be experienced, the laws
and powers of our being will also exert their own
natural strength. Memory and comparison, and con-
science, and lancy, may inflict upon their possessor,
agony as intense as could be inflicted by the [III
malicious and ingenious fiends of hell.
SUFFEBING SELF-lNFLlCTED~ OF GOD. 1 3
f And all their terrible power will be felt to the utmost
by the unhappy ones who reject the counsel of God.
As in the case of" the rich man," memory will cite
them tn the past, and as its fiery record is unrolled,
there will stand out in burning relief, the position
occupied in this life with all its abused and perverted
blessings, and neglected duties, and dishonored rela-
tions. Comparison, with its, endless analogies and
contrasts, will arrange the past, the present, and the
future; bring up each sinner's lot with that of every
other one; what it is, with what it might have been ;
the comparative folly of the choice which has resulted
in such a
destiny; and every comparison will only
serve to heighten the sense of the sinner`s loss. Huw
many will then realize all that is fearful in the reported
dream of the dying student, who, as he started up in
the midst of his last reveries, exclaimed,
"
l thought 1
had squared the circle, and must perish forever for it!
"
How many will lind their ambition to have been more
frightful than the startling conception of Kirk White,
"a death's head concealed beneath the mask of
beauty?
"
To how many will the most envied and
enchanting fascinations of the world constitute the
most horrible imagery of hell?
Conscience, the mean time, forges its bolts and
chains, and scorpion whips of these hoarded "
treas-
ures of wrath ;" while fancy, soaring and sinking in
its wildest flights, converts all the outward elements
and agencies of wrath into emblems of the raging tor-
ture within, and fails, even with its darkest creations,
to match what is actually felt.
Another bitter ingredient in the cup of the wicked
will be this. Every one will then see and feel that
his ruin is the fruit of his own doings, and the just
intliction of a sin-avenging God. Our heaviest calami-
ties often lose their severity when we can trace them
to causes over which we have had no control, or to
which our agency is secondary or remote. But no
alleviation of this kind will soothe the pains of the
ltlli.
2
14 Assoctntss rx six.
Then they will reproach themselves and say,
"
How
have I hated instruction and my heart despised re'
proof!
"
"And the kings of the earth, and the great
men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the
mighty men, and every bond-man, and every free-man,
hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the
mountains. And they said tothe mountains, fall on
us, and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on
the throne, and from the wrath ofthe Lamb. For the
great day of his wrath is come ; and who shall be able
to stand?" Rev. vi. 15-l7. But vrhile each lost indi-
vidual ofour race will charge his lot upon his own guilt,
the direct or indirect agency of others with whom they
have been related, will be called into mind. The rich
man "in hell
"
remembered his "
brethren,"-others
are spoken of as cursing
"
their king and their God "
under their calamities. And when we are told that the
evil servant, whom his lord made ruler over his house-
holtl to give them their portion of meat in due season,
shall have his portion with the hypocrite,-what may
we suppose will be the feelings called forth between
the deceiver and the deceived, when their portion is
assigned them? God has told us that "
the shepherds
shall have no
way to flee nor the principal ofthe Huck
to escape," when "
he shall feed them with judgment."
"Then shall the seers be ashamed, and the diviuers
confounded , yea., they shall all cover their lips."
God "
will make them contemptible and base before
all the people, according as
they have not kept his
ways, but have been partial in the law." We may
form some idea of the consequences of these dishon-
ored relations by what we see sometimes in this life.
A case occurs to us, which, however rcvolting, is on
that account but the more appropriate. It took place
on board a
ship, as follows: She was
crossing the
banks of N. F., and as night drew on, there was every
appearance of her getting among icehergs. The caps
tain was expostulated with to lay to, or put the ship
on another tack; but he refused, and ke t on till about
midnight, when she ran on to an island) of ice. In a
Law or ASSOCIATION. 15
moment all was confiision and despair. The captain
was amonv the first to fall on his knees and beg for
mercy. While he was thus engaged, au enraged
_wicked sailor seized hold of him with a determination
to throw him into the sea. The captain then exclaimed,
"
What are you about! you had better call on God
for mercy, for we shall all shortly be in eternity!
"
The wicked man replied,
"
I 'll have the pleasure of
throwing you into hell, first, since it is on your account
that we are in this condition E"
And a similar result will be experienced from the
whole circle of the dishonored relations of this world.
There will be the murderer, the oppressor, the seducer,
the traitor, the liar, the unrighteous of all classes,
with more or less of their victims. And though we
can hardly form an idea of the mutual miseries, to
which they must be exposed when thus thrown into
each others' society, we are not without some painful
exhibitions of this kind in the present world. Ve
have only to look for a moment upon a
community in
a state of anarchy and civil war, or into a
company of
criminals; or even into a_shop's company, or
ship's
crew, who are accustomed to the furious outbreakings
of' wicked and unrestrained passion. A confinement
with enraged tigers could not be more
revolting, than
with such human beings in such a condition. And
there will scarcely be a more bitter element in the
anguish of the wicked, than the absence of all the
righteous. None but sinners-"I/ze abominabl¢:."'
No love-no truth-no confidence-no respect for each
other. All "
hate/ill and /ruling one uno!/1er."'
And these will not only be exposed to the direct
manifestations ot' hatred and malice; but the law of
association will keep the elements of their miseries in
agitation like the successive waves of a raging sea,--
thus causing them "
to weep and howl for the miseries
that are come upon them." The wailings of "
the
kings of the earth" will call forth a corresponding
lamentation from "the merchants," and "the ship-
masters," and "
all the company in ships," and "
the
l6 'mess scsuns xr 'ras noon.
sailors," over their departed
joys,
their folly and their
common
"
plagues." And t us the wailings of l
Judas will call forth a long chorus of similar wailings
from every Judas among the multitudes of the lost.
While all will feel assured that their lot is fixed for
having sinned against the same God, those who have
participated in the same sins, as they severally wail
over their condition, will strike the key note for all
who are in the same dark prison-house, to kindle
afresh the fire within, and from which there is no
escape. Well might the Psalmist exclaim,-" Gather
nal my soul wilh sinners!
"
What a depth of meaning is there to the words of
the Apostle, when he speaks of the wicked as
"
treas-
uring up wrath against the day of wrath!" And this
day of wrath, yhich is to bring all "
these
things"
to
view as a
reality, we believe, is AT THE DO R!
We now ass to consider the second point of our
inquiry. Have we any reason to look for any of these
thingp
before the personal and glorious appearing of
our ord Jesus Christ?
Though it may be impossible to determine the exact
chronological order of the events which are to close u
the present state of things and introduce the eternal
state; still we shall find there is much more light, even
upon this, than might at first be supposed. As that
day is spoken of by
"
all the prophets
"
of the 0ld Tes-
tament, and also by
"
our Lord and his apostles," in the
New, as the grand subject of interest and hope to the
church, it would be surprising indeed if they had given
us no clue to the order in which the events of that day
are to occur. And though this order may not have
been a particular object with them, in the main, still,
if it can be settled in relereuce to a few of the items,
and the grand parts of the process as a whole, it will
be no
very
dlfncult work to arrange the other items,
so far, at east, as to answer the question under con-
sideration.
The widest and most general views of the grand'
process, as a whole, are expressed in these terms,-
"
T7te day of judgment,"--" the end ofthe world,"-
nook or asvstitrxou-irs oiun-m. 17
"the last day," &c., &c., which must of necessity
comprehend all the particulars spoken ot' at other
times-" the _finishing the mystery qf God,"
"
the
selling up q/'I/le kingdom,"
"
[he coming qf Christ,"
dw., &c. And even in these most general views
there is some
light upon the order in which the
prominent parts of the great scene are to occur. It
is very probable, however, that several of the par-
ticulars spoken of, both in the case of the righteous
and the wicked, will take place simultaneously. We
shall begin with a consideration of the most general
v|eVS.
But before wc proceed any further,-as we shall
have somewhat to do with the hook of Revelation, in
determining the order of the events to be considered.
we need to make a remark upon one peculiarity oi'
that book, whiclr is not sufficiently considered-the
relaliou q/'its parts lv eafh ol/ter. Some have sup-
posed that the events brought to view in the book
must occur in the same consecutive order in which
they are described. On this supposition, we must have
several judgment scenes, and falls of Babylon; some
half-dozen periods of 1260 years, and as many millen~
niums. The absurdity ot' the supposition is its own
refutatiou. The bunk docs undoubtedly give us a
consecutive view of events, as they are to occur down
to the eternal state, hut in une cztse only is Ihrr descrip-
tion consecutive--th:tt of "
the seals." '1`he consecu-
tive order ofthe trumpets is interrupted by a
particu-
lar description of thc history of events and periods and
organizations, which, although they must bc included
in the time embraced in the seals and trumpets, are
nowarticularly
noted in the events of either.
e should keep in mind that the same field is passed
over several times, and that two things cannot he de~
scribed at the same time. One view is completed before
another is begun ; and, therefore, events which may be
contemporaneous in fact, are placed widely apart in the
description ; vhile, in other cases, events which pre-
cede others in the description are to take place after
2|
18 'ras 'rwo-uouuso st-msr.
them in fact. The book consists, very much, of
separate and independent sketches, which are intro-
duced by the familiar phrases, "I looked and be-
hold,"
"
after these things I saw," &c., &c., which
are to be matched together, not by the order in which
they are written, but by the great points, or features
of the scene brought to view in the sketch. Let it be
settled that there is but one millennium-one judgment;
scene-one great battle-one fall of Babylon, (its
final destruction is a different event,) and we know
that the part of each sketch, in which either of then;
is brought um view, matches, in its chronological
relations, with the same point in every other sketch in
which the same thing occurs.
(A) In the diagram, at the close, we have exhibited
the period, with some of its events, from the fall of
popery in 1798, to the end-which we
confidently ex-
pect
"
about the year IS-i3." ltincludes the prophetic
history of the two-hornrrl bras! of Rev. xiii., and also
ol' tlte_/bur angels of Rev. vii. That this beast is the
symbol of "
the European system" under Na olcon,
who at the same time wielded the sccptre of %`ranc0
and Italy, we think any one must,be satisfied who
at all acquainted with the history of that time. The
history of Napoleon, by L'.rdecle, lately published,
is, probably, the best. (See vol. l.. from p. 239, and
the whole of vol. ll.) __
(B) That the "
lburangels" denote thc "Four Great
Powers," England, Russia, Austria and Prussia, we
h-:lieve to be quite as evident; and, since this applica-
tion lias not been so fully pointed out, if at all, and as
it stands iutiniately connected with our present in-
quiry, a few remarks may be made upon it here.
The part taken by the "
Great Powers," in the reli-
gious, as vell as
political, affairs oi' the world, since
the tall ot' Napolenn, and the remarkable circum-
stances which called them to their position, are cer-
tainly ot' a character sntliciently important to be noted
in the prophecy. Mr. Croly thus speaks of their mis-
sion: "
A le ue of the four great European pow-
ers, Englandfiussia, Austria, and Prussia, was for
-rm: form masts. 19
the first time practically combined against the French
Em ire.
t is among the most remarkable circumstances of
sn
extraordinary period, that this measure had defied
all efforts for its accomplishment before. All the
pgwers
had been successively at war with France;
t it was by duple on triple alliances. The whole
labor of diplomacy, in the full consciousness that the
hope of Europe depended on an alliance of the
four,
had continually failed. Some strange impediment
had always started up to forbid a coalition, which yet
each and all felt essential to their common
safety.
"
The mysterious and invincible restraint was now
removed. The prophecy pronounces that it was
removed by the comm/mn or nssvtcs ! By the same
command, the tour allies were summoned to consum-
tnate the overthrow ol' the empire of blood and Athe-
i'
'KI
ism.
"
Its objects were not less remarkable than its con-
stmction. Unlike all others, the alliance was
formed, not for possession of territory, nor for perma-
nent continuance, nor even against the enemy as s
nation. Its declared and single purpose was the
extinction of Napoleon, and, with him, of his system."
,
The chronology of their mission is strikingl
marked. l. It is during the events of "the sixth
seal," and that brings us to the judgment scene, when
the presence of }Iim "who sits upon the throne."
smites the wicked with terror, and "
the great day q/`
his wrath is come." '1`his evidently places their mis-
sion near the end.
2. Their special work is, to control lhc afairs qf
the world till the servants of God an sealed. Not
during the whole sealin time brought to view, but
till it is completed. Ant?this gives us a second clue
to the chronology of their mission, by connecting it
with the finishing of "
the mystery of God "-which
we are assured, in the most solemn manner, takes
place "in the days of the voice of the seventh angec.
when he shall BEGIN to sound." And this
ange;
introduces the reign of Clmlst-the time qf the dean;
20 'ras Mvsrsnv or con.
that they should be
iudged,-to
reward the righteous,
and destroy the wic ed. Compare Rev. x. 5-7,aud
Xi. 15-17.
"'1`he mystery of God," here spoken of by the
rcvelator, is, without doubt, the same that is soii'e~
qnently mentioned in the Apostolic writings. Seo
Eph. ii. ll-22; iii. 1-12; i. I-I4. Col. i.2l.--23;
Acts xv. I3-19. Rom. ix. 24-30; x. li-21; xi;
I2-27. 1
'I`his mystery consisted in offering salvation to
all by faith, through the preaching of the gospel ; that
God should thus "
visit the Gentiles, to take out of Mem
u
penple for his name," that they might become "fel-1
low-heirs, and of the same body, and parlahers ry' his
promise in Christ by Ihe Gospel."
"
In whom also,
offer that ye believed, ye were SEALED wilh tha! holy
spirit q/` promise, which is lhe earnest of our inheri-
lunrc, UNTIL 'l`lIE RIiDl*IMP'I`l()N OF THE
PURCHASED POSSESSIUN." Its grand result,
'when "
linisherl," is thus expressed by the Apostle.
"
Having made hnnwn unto us THE MYSTERY ry'
his will, occur:/ing to /ns good plmsnre which bc hal/l
purposcd in /ri/nsff]/`, 'l`l°IA'l` IN THE INSPEN-
SATION OI" 'l`lIl'l FIYLNESS Ol" TIMES, HE
MIGIIT GA'l`l~IER 'l`OGl*]'l`HEl{ IN ONE ALL
THINGS IN (`7lIRIST, boi/1 which are in heaven and
whirh are on mr/h." _
'1`he special work ofthe "
four angels," which was
to continue "till the .<1»r1'an/s Qf God u°¢'1°e seakd,"
must, therelhrcnternninate zu/zrn "
the myslery of God
is jiuishfrl, in I/ur :lays of (he roiw: Q/`Ihc xevcnth an l,;
WHEN IIE SHALL BEGIN 'l`O SOUND." ws;
hardly need to inform the world that the great powers,
named above, have perlbrmed the work assigned to
these angels since 1815. Their work, we believe, is
nearly done. So the word of God assures us, and
also their present relation to each other. The last
arrival from Europe brought the information that.
Russia had wrlhdrnwn, or was about to "wilhdr41b_
from the conference of London,"--an event which
would amount to a termination of their united a.geney.=
THE END OF THE. WORLD.
This view of the events which are to introduce the
etemal state makes it very clear, that "
our
gathering
gvfgether
unto Christ" is among the first, as to order,
the events of that day.
We now proceed, with the question before us..
One of the most general views of the final pro-
cess is thus expressed: "the and af the world,"-
"the harvest." lt is thus brought to view by our
Lord, by John, and by the old prophets. The natu-
ral order of the agricultural transactions of the har-
vest, adopted to illustrate the manner in which man~
kind are to be disposed of at the end of the world,
is, to secure "the wheat," "the precious fruits,"
jirst, and then to dispose of the tares and the chaff
by burning. (See Luke 17.)
The view of the Revelawr is both natural and
conclusive, it being a connected view of the order
in which the events of the great harvest are to take
place. "And I looked, and behold, a white cloud,
and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of man,
having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand
a sharp sickle. And another angel came out of the
temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat on
the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap : for the time
is comefor thee to reap; for the harm-st of the earth is
ripe. And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle
on the earth; and the earth was reaped." Rev. xiv.
I4-16. This is evidently the harvest of the wheat;
that of the tares follows. "
And another angel came
out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having
a
sharp sickle. And another angel came out from
the altar, which had power over fire; and cried with
aloud cry to him that 'had the sharp sickle, saying,
Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters
of the vine of the earth; lbr her grapes are fully
ripe. A nd the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth,
and gathered the vine of the earlh, and cast it into the
great wine~pre:s of /he wrath rj God." Rev. xiv.
17-19. (Compare Rev. xix. 15. Joel 13.)
Awarding to this view, the deliverance
ei
the right-
eous evidently precedes the destruction of t wicked.
22 'ras JUDGMENT.
Another of the more general views is
ew
ed in these familiar terms: "the day of ,"
"the day of judgment," "the day qf wrath," &c.
Much confusion of opinion prevails upon the final
judgment, by losing sight of this most essential fact
ln the case, that the judicial process consists of these
two important divisions: 1. The trial, in which the
party arraigned is "judged by the law
"
and evidence,
in view of which a decision of condemnation or me-»
quittal is made; and, 2. The execution of that del
cision. Unless this distinction is kept in mind, the
word of God will apparently contradict itself upon
the subject. Compare John v. 22. Heb. xii. 23.
Dan. vii. 9, 10, 22. See tract on the Judgment, by
J. Litch.
The particular time and manner in which the trial
of men will take place is not given us to know so
fully; but, in reference to the execution of the judicial
decision, the word of God is very plain. We know,
however, that, as
"judgment is given to them that
live and reign with Christ after the first resurrection,"
the trial must precede the resurrection, because judg-
ment cannot be given in a, ease. without a decision to
that eifect.
In the symbolic exhibition of the judgment, (Matt.
xxv.) Christ executes the decision wluch appears tn
have been already made by the Father, and refers to
that for the reason of the sentence which he pro-
nounces.
`
According to this view, also, the ri hteous are
disposed of first. With this the view in iiev. xi. 18,
agrees. The dead are judged, the righteous reward-
ed, the wicked destroyed. The eleventh verse of
Rev. xx. is a separate view of Christ as the dispose:
of the
phvysical
world. (Compare with Heb. i.
10-12.) he remaining verses of this twentieth
chapter are also a distinct view of the judgment of
the dead, including their trial "
before God out ofthe
books," and also of the judgment executed upon
them after the trial. It is true, the account of the
scene comes after the account of the binding of Satan,
SETTING UP OF THE KINGDOM.
the first resurrection, &c.; hut, as the trial must
precede the resurrection of the righteous dead, the
fulfilment of that part of the view must be placed,
chronologically, before what is written in the pre-
ceding part of the chapter. The time which should
intervene between the resurrection of the righteous,
(those written in the book of life,) and the resurrec-
tion and judgment of the rest of the dead, (those
who are not found written in the book of life,) had
been before stated in the fourth and fifth verses.
The order of the events in the judgment scene,
so far as the execution is concerned, is evidently this:
All the righteous having had judgment given to them
in the trial, 1. The rig/itwus ¢/end are raised, and the
living are changed; 2. Wuy are taught up together,
and begin to reign in Ije with Chrzsl "tn the air;"
3. The living wicked ure
"
lg/2 "for the miffhty angels,
who came with Christ in _/iavrung fre, to taie vengeance
on them, by destroying them out of the earth wtth the
plagues written in the word q/' God, some of which
we have already noticed.
We come now to consider the order of events as
indicated by the more specific portions of
prophecy.
l. The setting up q/` /he kingdom.
"
n the days
of these kings shall the God of heaven set
tzp
a
kingdom," &c. That this is the same king om
which is given to "one like the Sun of man," and
"to the saints of the Most lligh," (Dan. vii. 13, 14,
22, 27,) is clearly settled, inasmuch as there can he
only one such universal and everlasting kingdom.
The setting up of the kingdom can mean nothing less
than its organization, by bringing the King and his
subjects together; the coronation of the King by the
authorized power; his acknowledgment as such by his
sub`ects; the placing of the King upon his throne,
and] the appointment of those who are to fill places
of authority. And this must necessarily include
these several particulars :-
1. The giving up the kingdom, on the throne of
which Christ now sits,
gee
Rev. iii. 21. Heb. i. 13.
viii. l,) toGod even the ather. 2. The"appearing"
24 ctmnsme 'rua sxscrviisv.
of Christ to the saints. 3. "
Our gathering together
unto Him." 4. The giving ofthe kingdoms of this
world to the Son of man; and lastly, His coming to
"
Mount Zion," that the King may be set upon the
holy hill, the location of the throne of David, which
the Lord God will give to Him whose right it i .
`
All this is'to be done "
in the days of these kings,"
i. e. while the kingdoms of this ufnr/fl are in eaislenw.
-Ps. ii. 6-12. Luke xix. 15, 27. See Jer. xxv.
30-38. Rev. xix. 11-21.
The setting up of the kingdom, therefore, with its
group of relative events, makes it very clear that the
appearing ¢y` Christ to gather his saints, is the _first
event we are lo /ook for i| the series which is to close
up the present order of things. .
2. "
'l`hen shall the sanctuary be cleansed."
The sanctuarv is "
the mountain of thine inheritance,
the place, 0 Lord, which thou hast made for thee to
dwell in; in the sanctuary, () Lord, which thy hands
have established." Ex. xv. 17. Ps. lxxviii. 54, 55.
Isa. lxiii. 18. Dan. ix. 17. lt is the place which "
the
Almighty God
"
promised to Abraham, and to his seed
after him,
"
ihr an
everlasting possession." Gen. xvii..
1-10. The territory possessed, in part at least, by
his natural seed, (though most ofthe time in bondage,
on account of their sins,) after their deliverance front
Egypt, till the seed came to whom the promise was
made,
"
which is Christ." This possession of the
land, however, was
only atype and pledge of the ful-
filment of the "
better promises," made to Abraham,
and his seed through Christ, in the immortal state.
Compare Gen. xv. 8-18. Gal. iii. 16-19, 26-29.
Heh. iv. 8, 9; viii. 6; ix. 15; x. 34; xi. 8-16;
xii. 18-28 -
Here the Lord is to dwell forever. Ps.'cxxxii. 13,
14. Micah iv. 6-8.
Here is to be "
the city of the Great King,"
"
the
throne of the Lord," the metropolis ofthe everlasting
and universal kin dom, which is to be set up by the
God of heaven. %zek. xxxvii. 26-28. Isa. ix; 8, 7.'
The change predicted to take place in the condition
rrs vxNmcA'rioN. 25
of'the sanctuary, according to the different si ifica-
tions of the word. rendered "cleansed," ang"other
plain portions of prophecy, is this : 1. lt is to be "
jus-
tified." The sentence of indignation, which gave it
"
to be trodden under foot," will then be repealed.
2. It is to be "
vindicated
"
by the execution ofthe
threatened wrath upon its adversaries.
3. his to be "
cleansed
"
by the fires of the last
day,
and the new creation.
ts justification is the act of God, the Judge of all,
and is to take place when "her appointed time is
accomplished." Compare Isa. xl. 1, 2 ; lxi. 7.
Zech. ix. 12-I4.
'
`The vindication is the work of' Jesus Christ, and is
to begin at the time of' its justification: see the last
texts referred to. The result of the great comprehen-
sive view of all the prophets, in reference to the
church and her inheritance, is this z
they lead ns
away
into the future by two corresponding lines, according
to which, one
party is the subject of indignation, the
other, thc inslnnncnl of injiirling Ihemdagnalion. At
the end of the lines the scene is reversed. One party
is the covenant people of God, the other her enemies
and oppressors; the former is now
"
trodden under
footy" the change comes
"
at the last end of' the
indignation." l)cnt. xxxii. 29--43. Isa. xlix. 25,
26. Dan. viii. 9 : xii. 1-7. Micah vii. 7-10.
Z h. iii. 14-20.
qglhis work, \lll(1h fulfils the prediction in reference
to the sanctuary, is necessarily blended with the pre-
vious views, the harvest, and setting up of the king-
dom. As soon as the deliverance of' the righteous is
effected, the plagues of the wicked begin,--perhaps
they will he poured ont
successively, probably several
of them together,-but. the particular work of vindi~
eating, or avenging the sanctuary is assigned to the
sixth and seventh vials.
Although the "
appearing
"
of' Christ for the salva-
tion of' his people, by gathering them to
himself,_hu
taken place z and the glorified hosts, seen
"
in the air,"
1 .
3
/
26 'ms LAST PLAGUES.
l"
like a clear heat after rain, and like a cloud of dew
in the heat of harvest," or,
"
as it were a sea of glass
mingled vith fire," (probably resembling the cloud
which received the ascending Saviour,) have caused
all the tribes of the earth to mourn; still, the Lord
has not yet come to our earth, to
"
stand on mount
Zion," or
"
the mount of Oli'es, which is before
Jerusalem on the east." "
The way of the kings of
the east," corresponding with the sections of the
image which lay in that direction, is to be prepared.
"
The kings of the earth, and of the whole world, are
to be gathered to the battle of the great day of God
Almighty, into a place called in the Hebrew tongue,
Armageddon."
"
M ultitudes, multitudes of the
heathen are to be wakened and come up to the valley
of Jehoslt:tphat;" and then, to these multitudes, of
whom it is said,
"
the wickedness is great," who are
made up of _the worshippers of the beast, the scoffers,
the evil servants, those whose hearts were so
"
over-
charged with surfeiting and drunkenness and cares of
this life," and all who were so unwatchful as to be
"left
"
to their nakedness and "
shame," at the time
of gathering
"
them that were ready;" to them he
comes, according to his oft-repeated declaration,
"
as
a
thief!
"
And the enemies of his truth, the usurpers
of his throne, the oppressors of his people, the
angry nations, are destroyed by the King of kings,
with his heavenly army of "mighty ones !7' V
As the vindication of the sanctuary is the work of
our Lord by his personal interposition, and as he comes
with all his saints with him, and as they must be
gathered to him "in the air," before they can come
with him to the earth, his appearing and their gath-
ering together unto him, must precede the vindication.
This brief consideration of the more general views
and prominent events of the great scene for which
we are now looking, may be suthcient to settle the
question, that we have nothing now to look for, but
the appearing of our Lord, and the summons of 'tho
last trump, which, "in the twinkling of an
eye,',f
quickens the dead in Christ to life, and changes the
ENEMIES earl-isnso AND stain. 27
living saints to become equal unto the angels. But
we wish to notice a few other particulars which have
been looked upon as somewhat obscure, though it
would seem that, by "comparing scripture with
scripture," they may be made plain. 'I'hey are the
standing up of .Michael--the silence in heaven-and the
time, as to the order of events, when the last plagues
begin. As these particulars are intimately connected
with the opening of the temple in heaven, and the
appearing of the ark of testimony, they may all be
considered in connection. VVe notice this vision of
the ark and temple, because it will enable us to see, in
a still more clear and satisfactory light, the whole
series of details in the great scene, at the same time
that it gives us this clue to the chronology of the
vials, i. e. of the time of their commencement;
though, without this, since the execution of wrath
against the wicked does not begin till the righteous
are delivered, and as these vials "
fill up the wrath of
God," they must be placed after the appearing of
Christ, and the gathering of the saints.
Under the seventh trumpet,-(Rev. xi. I5-l9,)
after the great voices in heaven pour forth their strains
of joy that the kingdoms of this world are given to
Ghrist; and the four and twenty elders give thanks to
God, that he has taken to him his great power and
reigned, and that the time is come that he should
reward his saints, and destroy the wicked,-the actual
scene is introduced as follows: "
And the temple fy'
God was
opened in heaven, and there was seen in his
temple lhe ark of his testament; and there were
lightnings, and voices, and thunderings, and an earth-
quake, and great hail." The mission of the angels
of wrath, with their plagues, is brought to view at
the 5th verse of chapter 15: "And after that I
looked, and behold, the temple of the tabemacle of
the testimony in heaven was opened : and the seven
angels came out of the temple, having the seven
plagues, clothed in pure and white linen, and having
their breasts girded with golden girdles. And one
of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven
% CHRIST LEAVES Tl-IB HOLY OF HOLIES.
golden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for
ever and ever. And the tem le was filled with smoke
from the glory of God, and tgom his power ; and no
man was able to enter into the temple, till the seven
plapues
of the seven angels were fulhlled."
he vision of the last plagues is thus stated : "And
the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air;
and there came a great voice out of the temple of
heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done." Rev.
xvi. 17. ~
It is thus made very plain that all this work of
wrath against the wicked bears an important relation
to this view of the temple.
"The temple of the tabernacle of testimony in
heaven" agrees with the holy of holies in the ancient
tabemacle of Moses, and the temple of Solomon. It
is undoubtedly the "
true tabernacle which the Lord
gtched
and not man," into which our great High
riest has entered, and from which he is to
"
appear
to them that look for him, without sin (a sin ofering)
unto salvation." Heb. ix. 2-ll, 24-28. The
time of opening the holy of holies, and the right to
perfonn its service, were among the strictest reg-
ulations of the Mosaic law. Any intrusion was
death. Lev. xvi. 2. Heb. ix. 7. The opening
of the temple of God, so as to disclose the ark of his
testament, must denote that the work of "
our great
Hi%h
Priest in the presence of God," is ended.
he work of Christ,
"
the captain of the host of
the Lord,"-like that of Cyrus, (one of the most. emi-
nent
tygcal agents of Pro'idence,) in the case of
ancient abylon,-when he comes to the earth, is to
execute
"
the vengeance of the Lord, the vengeance
of his temple." Jer. li. ll. And the same power
which has trodden the earthly sanctuary and host
under foot, has also "
opened his month in blasphemy
against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tab-
ernacle, and them that dwell in heaven." Rev.
xiii. 6.
In the ancient theocracy, all the important move-
ments of the hosts of God were indicated in connec-
ins nx.u.'r1i'r1oN. 29
tion with the ark. Ex. xxv. 10-22. Num. ix.
15-23; x. 33-36. The standing formula, to be
repeated at the setting forward of the ark, which
eipressed their prayer to God, and their expectation
in reference to their and his enemies, was this:
f'RLs'c up, Lord, and let thine enemies be scattered,
aotd let them that hate theeflee bjore thee." Ps. lxviii.
12 This temple view of the revelator exhibits some-
thing of this character; and if what he sees is not
identical with the standing up of Christ, it is certainly
preparatory to it ; for by the standing up of Christ is
meant his actual exaltation to authority and power as
a king : and his exaltation is followed by the shdden
and certain destruction of all his enemies. In refer-
ence to them he standeth up tu execute judgment.
Isa iii. 13. Ps. lxxxii. Isa. ii. 11, 17, 19.21 ; xxxiii.
3,10. Micah v. 4, (margin) 15. Ps. lxxvi. 8, 9.
lxxxii., xciv., cx.
"
And at that time shall Michael stand up, the
great prince which standeth for the children of thy
people ; and there shall be a. time of trouble such as
never was since there was a nation, even to that same
time; and at that time thy people shall be delivered,
every one that shall be found written in the book."
Dan. xii. 1.
As soon as his exaltation takes place, and the
'deliverance of his people is effected, the work of ven-
geance begins. As to order and time, therefore, the
next view of our Lord is undoubtedly given, Rev.
xiv. 14; He comes forth from the holy of holies ; he
is seated on the white cloud, which is doubtless the
white throne also, with his golden crown ; and, at the
direction of "
another angel out of the temple,"
informing him that "
the time is come," he thrusts in
his sickle and the earth is reaped.
"
Unto them
that look for him shall he appear-unto salvation."
#The work of vengeance begins by "his angels ;"
iris closed up by the personal interposition of Christ.
This takes place at -"
the great battle," which syn-
chronizes with the treading of "
the wine-press of the
_ _
39
_...___-._.__.;._.
80 'rua sixrn sau..
wrath of God," under the sixth and seventh vials.
But the whole series of plagues follows the opening
of the temple of the tabernacle of testimony in heaven.
The period of silence seems to be necessarily con-
nected with the standing up of Christ, as the latter
also is with the vision of the ark and temple. A
command of silence to
"
all flesh before the Lord," il
issued, (Zech. ii. l,) in connection with his
coming
"
to dwell in the midst of the daughter of Zion. ~
And the reason given is, "far he is raised up out gf?
/us holy habitation." See Hab. ii. 20. lsa.~xli._l:
Such a silence was commanded by Joshua in the coli
guest
of Jericho, the lirst city of the Cauaauites which
ell before the presence of the ark, in the overthrew
of the enemies of God, of. his purposes and people.
Josh. vi. 1-16. This overthrow was
distinguished
by the presence of "
the captain of the host of the
Lord," as well as that of the ark ot' God. Joshua v.
13--15.
The possession of old Canaan, the'ioheritauce of
the old covenant, was the pledge of the possession of
the "
better country," the "
eternal inheritance
"
of
the new and everlasting covenant. Gen. xv.
May
not the conquest of the tiirmer bc typical, in some
respects, of what is to take place when thc Captain'
of our salvation shall interpose to bring the church uf
the first born unto Mount Zion, the city of the living
God, the heavenly Jerusalem? If it may, and we
may he guided in this particular by Zechariah, above,
the silence would coincide with the final overthrow of
great Babylon. But would this accord with the
order of events as brought to view by the seals, under
the 7th of which the silence takes place '! Let us see.
'l`he sixth seal unfolds the signs which were imme-
diately to precede the end of the world, with the end
itself, beginning with "
a
great earthquake." The'
order of events in the scene contemplated, as to their
character, and the parties introduced, is like that-
observetl bv Christ. Matt. xxiv.29-31. Luke
25-28. That is, it begins with the signs in thc.
physical world, Rev. vi. 12--14 ; passing next wth!-
'rua si~:veN'r1-1 san.. 31-
fate of the wicked, 15-17. The finishing of the
mystery of God is then brought to view, which
includes the sealing of the heirs, vii. I--8, and the
gathering together in one all things in Christ.
5* Therefore are
they before the throne," 9-17.
_- The presentation of the church, as here,
"
faultless
before the presence of his glory," is an
important
item in the grand series now under consideration.
Jude 24. Col. i. 22. Eph. v. 25-27. They are
to "
stand before the Son of man," to
"
be glorified
together." Is it not here that the organization of the
kingdom of Christ takes place! Matt. xx. 21-23.
5* And when he had opened the seventh seal, there
was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour.
"
No beast (living creature) says, come and see! No
earthquake or thunder! No loud voice or multitude
of voices! No song, or
harp, or trumpet! What
means this silence! ls it that "
God is raised u out
of his holy habitation 1" and has "
great Bablylon
come into remembrance, to give unto her the cup of
the wine of the Iierceness of his wrath 4 "
The tem-
ple in heaven has been
opened-the ark has been
seen-the Saviour has received his golden crown, and
has been seated upon his throne, the white cloud-
the earth has been reaped-the wheat, the righteous,
gathered; the church
'presented
before the throne:
the trouble ol' the wicke has begun ; but has the King
of kings entered upon the vindication of the sanctuary,
to execute
"
the vengeance of the Lord, the vengeance
of his temple!" It would seem that the destruction
of great Babylon must form a
parte/` that work; but
at what point of the process is it to fall!
Though much is said in reference to her by the reve~
later, perhaps there is not a single point that is so dif-
Iicult to settle as the chronological
position
of the final
doom of Babylon. That it is to e by
"
the Lord
Gad," we are distinctly told; that it is to be sudden
and violent, is indicated by the action of the "
angel
"
,with the millstone, the
casting down of w c
bureaus thatBab lon is "
no more.
"
Tlnswouli
lhnto fall under theseventh vial, Rev. xvi. 17-19,
32 DESTRUCTION OF GREAT BABYLON.
were it not for the phrase in verse 17,
"
It is
done," which seems to imply that the wrath of God,
which the seven plagues filled up, was completed by
the seventh vial, and that the remaining verses are a
recnpitulation, or statement, of the principal things
which had taken place in the process ofthe vials, but
which had not been noticed in the account of either;
When an event ol' this kind is left so obscure in the
text, we may be guided by the typical events of the
old system. In the conquest of old Canaan, Jericho
was the first city that fell, and her iiill was the pledge
of all the rest; the violent snndering of great Babys
lon is accompanied, or followed, by the liill of "the
cities of the nations." Seven days were occupied in
the overthrow of Jericho;
"
about hall' an hour," is
the period of the silence, which we have supposed to
be contemporaneous with the destruction of great
Babylon ; and, understood prophelically, would amount
to "about" seven and a. half days. But does her
destruction follow or precede the great battle?
'
The destruction nf "
Babylon the great" is to con-
stitute such an exhibition of the wrath of God as to
startle every beholder with terror. May it not imme-
diately precede the actual coming of Christ to Mount
Zion, and of course, the great battle ?-and thus her
destruction would be to the angry nations, what the fall
of Jericho was to the nations of Canaan. Joshua vi.
27 ; ix. I, 2. The silence would also he connected with
her destruction, as in the ease of Jericho, and he.:
fate precede the great battle, as the tall of Jericho did
the conquest of Canaan. __
This alfords a natural arrangement of events, and a
scriptural, though not direct, explanation of this por-
tion of prophecy. In :such a case, however, we can-
not be positive.
The history of the church, in the days of Moses
and Joshua, also fumishes an answer to the objection
that may arise, whether the wicked would marshal
themselves to .tight against .God, after they had wit~
messed so many wonders and plagues, as this view o£
the-subject` supposes. 'The 'answer is this. If the
DELIYERANCK OF THE RIG]-ITEOUS. 33
hosts of Egypt would pursue the annies of Israel,
after the judgments they had experienced, and if the
Canaanites would dare to fight against them, after
what they had seen at Jericho, what may we not
expect from those who are left to he destroyed by the
brightness
of Christ`s coming? Josh. xi. 20.
n settling this question of the order of events,
some light is alforded to us from the analogous cases
referred to in the word of God. As it was in the
days of Sodom, and the tlood, so shall it be in the
days of the Son of man. In these cases the deliver-
ance of the righteous was secured before the wicked
were destroyed.
We will notice the bearing of the words of Christ
upon the question, and we have done. He says,
"
Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may
be accounted worthy to escape all these things that
shall come to pass." How are we to escape 1 "
The
Son of man shall send forth his angels, with s
great sound of a trumpet; and they shall gather
together his elect from the four winds." When is it
to be done? "
The Lord himself shall descend from
heaven with a shout, with the voice of the Archangel
and the trump of, God; and the dead in Christ shall
rise first. Then we which are alive and remain, shall
be caught up together with them in the clouds."
Now if the watchful and prayerful are to
"
escape
all these things," in this manner, and at the time
Christ descends from heaven to the air, it must bn
that all these things are to come after the appearing of
Christ, and our gathering together unto him.
By every one o these general views, by the most
obvious bearing Q every one of the prominent events.
and more minute particulars, considered-by all the
analogous cases-and bythe only construction we can
put upon the
chain
words of Christ, it is clear, then,
that VVE HA E NOTHING TO LOOK FOR BUT
THE APPEARING OF OUR LORD TO THE
SALVATION OF THEM THAT LOOK FOR
HIM!
Q
B0
.gi
E
_s.
§2
gr-
"§
'3-
=§
s~
2%
ai
.-
2
.2
E
§
s
2
2
.
0
2
s
li
Q
2
§
é
2
s
E
U
55
'E
é
.¢:
2
.r:
B
§
o
4:
3
3
6
6
"_
E
§
2
2
E
i,
gi
QE
'ii
Sa
§3
"2
§=-:
Ei
§_§
és
gi
|a
éé
.i
z¢
S
E,
ag _
§°§
iéz
§§§
se"
=§%
§=?
E13
ga;
SES
'U=
EQ#
G $-
,=O¢
2%
a'U8.
éis
2§§
aaa
is;
§§s
sm
lndz
R?-
e°$
is
I
_
5
3
ai
_
l
_
3
Q
34
u
': *'.1°°S me \-<:» :..: ':'
'
E 5.-:un .Tg °§ _E . *El
». ._ ,. -._ ~ ,_ G-..
=|~»-= "': '=-
»F'5 :.
_gg ®:_= ",. EE sm ~':.=
d
:Eg e* E" m
Q:l
I
:"c 5; W6
Qg
"
2
_,_ fs -A ,
_
.: Cz: w-fx :S 32. xii
<: ,: -_
--:- ,:
'-
:'
=
Ezw ¢a ¢a E- 55;
O ":1 U; ': £73 >~r
~
§~~ xt ci Q u°J
S -5-32 '§ 3" 21; "E
E "J" Ev <3 EE g=§
V3
EEE IZ.: 52 --'S >i°-
o --
._~-- _,_-r
Q
_gg g;§2; E2 w"g
c . _"Q it :-
Q iii? .é_;==2'= ¢.. BG*
'
~:"§ »m §\-
5 ==2 I=Qs; 22 >§§
Q £12 f-~r: 1: Qés
Q .--1: gy-><»_ --=
.-c.-
°
3-§'" .,EE.11"_ if »~¢>"
Q .; :e1° H
yx-
_ - T --
-A ,
._
2 Qi" '=»-:°;'~'- "E *im
8 Q :gzgg 53 Q.:
E 32: EZ;~: cg EEC
~ »" »
:_ Z -'c
:
'*
Qc.-»~ .gn "E ,
>, cv __ _
~=>
§'-'rg -:Z?=`.°_i3!%: 2-:§'~°
.2 *
_ =»@
'_
"
~¥= Eéiaikéa Z=§Y
'§ °'§': -;@(}¢:.c.=5-5_ 55:-_IT.'.
n ¢ »
§=1'»u¢: ocmj
@G§
»
mmm u og
¢v;` "E '",._"':u:_§u s E
5 sh 2~=s="'5-2 "°o"2<#
~
~:I as;.E&2= 5 -T
g w=» Lau-=g&» 3;°
_._
Q23 ;;_¢».-;¢,,_ ,,
S./sh
_,J bn
= ¢,*;¢>¢-=-'==3§ ...-'ig-'
"
E;` þÿ§3Eq° ¬i
°@C>
E `5=g zugg-'fs-c`§ §c;.:§
» 3 H _~: Q
5 c s
¢>Q..»::¢a _:_ _
"
?¥3.E;=f3o;* egxg
m L; gg
#~ ~
E » :-
Q
:-:,¢§§,m@§~ H*
5: ~=,_,'-=£-¢¢=-==>-<2 =1~E.
:m3`*- " :*3 &>uv
m *""'¢°wc °~-
'_ ~,a¢°' ¢> =>v>.. -
Q.-»=
-_ _=¢,_'"=, `-m Q.
§_,; -_<__-éLo a_ T
»mmfxQ' »3:uc; »uE:
g;f'=;3 þÿ ¬:E*»i
2=g*
_:r:_~§& ncc; »§
"_U`=:'F=-"'?' "'°a. m:>`
§=~: §e~==§22° seg*
¢D;~'3c-~:.§_>g;»T;c.24: -532;
<:= : »
':~-=
'-
»-c"=>o'So:»=""=Z
:1::m;x@»c;"~ow:`~-
c& þÿ==-=3°"~K:@-§"» ¬
:5@»53 ::@¢:m§~Ec~
_gZ°uo¢E',_;.22§~n3S_>_:*
_`@:;>¢:-m -on :~c
~..<=*""'m'?"§i° '="""._I"_§`3¢<
o:f'=-rg--,;=336»_'§___5';-§'f_.g"@-c~z
rd- Q=__..»-,S
~.
-_ _
§';U;®==¥=i2'"~°£Eg
___v.»;»-:>w__-,:.. __.»m*=|\
Q
" ~~*~ h m~ n Q.
þÿ:::f ¬9&<~'=D3"'¥-='3':=»~':§.¢=>
g_L3 E2;5x3§='Z;m*~
u._E_=.»-_... _,ws O.»,_~¢ :vu
» m ~3 » s v
E >.__,', »n,, ..»_= _¢_»
43 <2 ¢¢»s 2'-...res oo
-="=°`=E2°"'.E '".¢:"°52-n:
, u Qc. ~.
Péi* _§_¢>[-<.E';D§.aP'§-'["4 :gui
°;"?=E°&2\s5"%é*2>\
":a» cm so -.-| Rn.-
<-
35
llillennlal and ovorlalting kingdom established.
_
5.
. .. _
A
3 3; _;§I§' T2 of
5 é.; i¥2"=s~ g E
-~
."'-~ --:.' >"TE° .m
_
_.cl
.`;_.,, -Q..
-1
S N5
Q -
.E._:'<'=>~g °' '
"4
N- .._...>¢ ....
_Lua M .
5
.><;:-;.-!<>3 mE ua
_,us
'* -1' ir ...;u5""'f~- u5""'f ~-
þÿ»'¬°¬~°=-5>.s;;E- Q iff.: _; =-2'i'§¢,;
;z§"§§¢®
4 °-
5:5 JN @25-
gn _
_
gi:--2 ><»<=> .ell ::._>,5
3:.Z"':S »-»-§-=> -|',2_ o 2 .§,-D "2'"><
¢z<'oe,_: Q _::< ,_,_ xg; ---2:-<
_;_;>x.
_ . __; »
,¢»5;><- _fel-4 ::e~
þÿ__:qL-;> ¬
__.-~ _;
,515 ::;{;>_. _;;,,- ,, __ ; .-1|.- >__,<._..._§m¢-om
5=<:><'.'§.;;=.»_g>i 2.5% w ><. *Ne
"
3¢§i§s7"iea.'¢= mxé =?2¢:_éE§
þÿ'!:a-~='s>¢z"'l~':=>I¢'::|.=:»<._>.Eggs,vg:_-:-F.Q,>_,r\g..;|,-;§~'-="~-~_,,3-°---4|:_f,<_-->._.:a_-E.-N554-sfo."2..»><.--J.3><:1¬2.=°~»-1v-_,;.é.;<;='°'we-J.;awv>;¢>¢,:r':c.~><.:'No-;5,._-¢c_.*.,E-...--myQ.:_._-A->.;.,;><-»_=-=3~u._'.>--"_-i'">'>=>>¢.<'--..r>f,..-_:vb-4--.:>»--¢=.-I>?'._|x--f-1:=F».:,~;=:N~-;¢.,,SE~3><>-'-.=>£>"->®o-T6_&'».=_2:'§=--:EE1'-'\1';.=-':><.u;>":s':°-|='f.';-_"ci:__}£:__é>2=§"7¢5\.';eaE-<."'n:...:¢§x§§§>" ¢z"'l~':=> I ¢'::| . =:»< ._>
.Eggs ,vg :_-:-F
.
Q, >_,r\ g
..;| ,
-;§
~'
-="~ -
~
_,,3-°---4| :_f,<_- -> ._.:
a_-E.
-
N554-sfo." 2. þÿ.»><.--J.3><:1 ¬2
.=°~»-1
v-_,;.é.;<;='°' we-J.; aw v>;¢>¢,:r':c.~ ><.:'No
-;5,._-¢c_.*.,E -...
--
my Q.: _._-A->.;.,;><-» _=
-
=3~u._
'
.>--"_ -i' ">'>=>>¢.< '--..
r>f,..- _:vb-4 --.:>»--¢= .-I>?'._| x- -f-1:
=F».:,~;=:N~-;¢.,,SE ~3><>
-' -
.
=>£>"->®o- " ->®o-
T6_&'».=_2:'§=--:EE 1'
-'\1';.=-':>< .u ;>":s':°
-|='f.';-_"ci: __}£:__é>2=§"7¢
5
\.';ea
E-<."'n:...:¢§x§§§>"
=_ -"
,_ "--
'
»--»-:_ -»~ ~.»
3"3§§=S~§z=hi.~ §k5=;-#3 §~ -mba
523° E="e:=<-e';N =\»»=', z=@e .=E§>-':
~.: mga 352: Q.
0| :.u_,,4 E~';¢_.=,:=>;=~¢
°_2;.2¢=-'52 ="2.=$:§3,;~">¢:' @Z'.;!::'5e¢-E
._.: T1°*- -
\`-:_".:'-"'
iéeéggiérgssgéf eM$;~z; §§§=1Ege
__
-
Ez*-'rf _: ».
:L.'r-.:=:¢é" "r:§-E
;;"O5§¢_g°».e2.'-EE _Q Q\_.j-&»>é'=-;r§2.;;e-25°'5-;
~r%'"°_Ef=2E-'°tL' §,\'<-it-'§`§u`\>2~E-'=!2F"'~1~
""¢,,¢=l->f;,'_;_QS.1;.¢::§"'. ,.':;:>
-E-*'§uu2\"¢<;"`
.- "='; r..=="£.` 3 T:3:;5?-°-n§mc- -_
2*=3é;":@§¥<-§=,1;2=2r-=P2
-O§§:;:.:5,': Q
E:r»;;\-en"g9<-
-
_.
_=¢.."=~ 'n__ -;\.-:<.g;G:s\u`_ --.
¢"'v -».'JI.2- \-"Js..':=e|,ep'='~-cgo
"w-=:.E§)3:1§' £."J§=';C';:;f'*
"'
°"=ZeE==s C~5E2¥»E=~®
°°5"'-=§'J.':`""- $1 EwE'E"9'"~'
|~F<¢,»'-?°§ '-`31;_,_3|~
:._,>..= =>\==f->,,,--
===O.:'5a E ;-b=»=>_:<=>
m.':'u;:-=A§ °L__;¢%lan:a
,Qgx 3 ::=>¢:;,,.
._
Pl .C
11 = ~.
mi-eg _5|;[-*ra
oz!-<
2{Q'N
-9-_
c ll. ls mn to he supposed mlm every particular of this eeene can bp
placed in the exact. nrder ln which it will occur, though the mein
points are evidently made known to us. The
ganiculnre
am
mlm
two branches, as the events stand related to 1 is world or to
yen.
By beginning with No. l in the upper branch, "The kingdom
slven
up," and passing to No. 1 ofthe lower branch,
"
Day ofgnwe en ed,"
and en from one to the other through the two lxancheu, the mtural
Jrder will be :een more plainly.
"
L
36 ARE ws READY?
Are we ready 2
The uestion will probably arise with our readers How
9 . .
_ .
lon a time is to mtervene between the appemjmg of éhnll,
am? the full establishment of the immortal kingdom? We
know not that there is any intimation of the period
Even.
It may be seven years, the time brought to view, zek.
xxxix. It
may
be more or less.
Some mu a so be perplexed with the question whether the
city of Ezekiel is not to he built, before, or about the time of
Christ's coming? We think not. The portion of his pm-
phecy in which it is spoken ol, appears to be of a class that
is not understood, because the probationary state of the Jews,
as a body politic, is not understood. They are evidentl con-
ditional, and as the conditions were never complied with dur-
ing their political probation, they have never been realized.
If the have any application to the future at
all, it can be only
Lypieal. Some of these portions are the following. Compare
zek. xliii. 6-ll. Jer. xvii. I9-27. Zech. viii. 9-22.
Mal. iii. to-12.
We now
oecutpy
the position to which we believe the word
of God points, or the opening of the drama which is to close
up our probationary-state. In this all should feel the deepest
interest. All that can be associated with the idea of "
dam-
nation "
ull that can be meantby
"§lory, immortality, and
eternal life," is then tu be realized! he (atc of all for eter-
nit is then to be decided!
g is a truly sublime and
alannini, though neccssa
'
posi-
tion into which every man is hroug t, when he is laiyunder
the necessity of
bein?
honest and humble enough before God,
to acknowledge the c aims of his truth, or base
enough to reject
it. At that moment his character and fate are decided by the
turn which his own hand must give the scale! "He that
jlndethhisli/leshallIosez1,andhe that loselh his lik shall
'ind it." Reader, you and I now
occupy that position!
'
WATCH
g therefore, and PRAY altoaysf" "And
TAKITKQHE
D to unelns, lest at ANY TIME your
hearts overchm- mlb and d1'tmkennaa,aad
cares of this li e, and to HA _ DAY COME UPOA
YOU [INA WARES."
-,_-nz mt)
