{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__harrison___discouraging_empiricism.pdf","mytitle":"Discouraging Empiricism","mylang":"de"}
A LECTURE,
BEST MODE OF DISCOURAGING
EMPIRICISM:
THE OHIO MEDICAL LYCEUM,
.1 1 \\ . i, \. in,
fay Xf
BY JOHN r. HARRISON, M. D.
CINCINNATI!
DONOGH, AT NO. 106 MAIN
1 3 .
I'i'oitmo* ot Materia Medicu in the JUtdUal College of Ohio.
g _O
I'
,_,,,_~_.W__M<_
.L W. ,
'
A m3c'1'U11|;-,
W
Q
ON THE
mzeffu.
' l=L>§'1' MODE 01-' D1sc0U11AG1Nu
'
EM*EP1RlC1SM:
DELI VERED BEFORE
T13 E OH1() MEDICAL LYCEUMA
' '
JiX1&l1.l~lL
u.-.,~.,-...~._~_-...-.-V.~-_--..~-»
~-_.~.".`.~,v~,,v
./~'>~
BY JOHN P. HARRISON, 1I. D.
Prilnur ol"||||.tcri! Hlrdican in the *Heal Csllrgc of 1 hio.
--.;_
I _"*_ __,;f:,
50;¢?é5Q
'}"T.~...,'
ulNciNN,'rn
l'l{l'R'l`l'lL) HY R I DO'Ot II 1 O lbG 'I!' 11Ll,1
| 1513.
I
V U
:1::.r».:a:¢4a.r~1;:r.lr».:;11.
I
4
MEDICAL COLLEGE OF OHIO, )
February 1st, 1843.
The Ohio Medical Lyceum has appointed us a Committee to
request for publication a copy of your able and interesting Lecture on the best
modes of discouraging Quackery. While performing the/ duty assigned us,
permit us to assure you of our profound regard and esteem, and that in complying
with the wish of the Society which wc represent, wc but express our own
entimentc _ ,
M. L. Brooks, III, J. J. Pennington, la.,
David A. Doniphan, ML, J- R. Mantle, JV. Y.,
\\m. J. BmcKHEAD, Va., A.G. Webb, Ky.,
D. B. Van Tuyle, Ohio, J. W. Harmon, Mo.,
Isaac Van Eaton, Ala., E. C. Tower, Pa.
Race Street, February 2nd, 1843.
Hi
In reply to your polite note of yesterday, I herewith send you a copy
of my lecture on Quackery , which was delivered before the Ohio Medical Lyceum.
Accept my assurances of great regard, Yours, &c.
John P. Harrison.
Messrs. Brooks, i
Do.NiniAN, &c. $
MEDICAL COLLEGE OF OHIO,
February lst, 1843.
Dem Sm :-
The Ohio Medical Lyceum has appointed us a Committee to
request for publication a
copy of your able und interesting Lecture on the best
modes oi' discouraging Qnackery. Vhile performing 'Lhc_' duty assigned us,
permit us to assure you of our profouml regard and esteem, and that in complying
with the wish of thc Society which we represent, ve but express our own
wmitimcixts.
M. L. Bnoous, Ill.,
Divm A. DoNu'||AN,1lIi.,
WM. J. Bincmiezm, Va.
D. B. VAN 'I'uYLr:. Ohio,
Tm/ic VAN l§.'roN, Ala.,
.~.~,vvvvv»~`~vv--v-~
Gr:<1'r.E.uEN:-
J. J. Prmsrucrox, Ia.,
J. R. M/N1~LE, N. Y,
A. G. Wm, KJ.,
J. W. Huuuos, Na.,
E. C. Towsn, Pa.
Race Street, February 21111, 1843.
In reply to your polite note of yesterday, I llCI'CVll.ll send you a
copy
of my lceturc on Qnackcry, which was delivered before the Ohio Medical Lyceum.
Accept my assurances of great regard, Yours, &c.
Pvirzssns. Bnooxs,
DOSIPIIAN, &.c.
Joris P. Ihluunos.
A LECTURE
ON THE BEST MODE OF DISCOURAGING
EMPIRICISM;
Delivered before the Ohio Medical Lyceum, January, 1843.
By JOHN P. HARRISON, M. D.
Proftuor of Materia Mcdica in the Mtdical College of Ohio.
Gentlemen of the Ohio Medical Lyceum :
In obedience to your request,I am, on this evening, to deliver
you a lecture on quackery. This is a fertile topic, and opens
a wide scope for the exercise of all the powers of a severe ani-
madversion. For the sad results of empirical pretension and
imposture haunt our daily steps, and its path is marked by the
ravages of death. But why is it, that quackery in medicine
receives so much countenance and support from an enlightened
community, if its essential character is replete with evils to
society ? Let us examine this question before we proceed to tbc
consideration of what constitute the leading, governing elements
of quackery, and how this great power of mischief in society
can best be counteracted and repressed.
Mankind arc enamoured of mystery, and delight in the
wonderful and extravagant. When, therefore, a man comes
forward with vast pretensions as regards the discovery of some
remedy, undivulged, and hidden from all others, and makes sol-
cmn asseverations of his great ability thus derived, to cure dis-
ease, he ever finds a very ready acceptance on the part of the
public to credit his declarations, and a soft yielding to his over-
tures of service. There is a captation about this matter, which
defrauds many minds of their accustomed capacity of examina-
tion A wise reserve, a prudent skepticism, in the ordinary
transactions of life, is looked upon as a proof of a discriminating
judgment, and of a sound understanding. But, in things per-
taining to medicine, good sense, and the exercise of reason, are
often kept in abeyance, and by the blandishment of a seductive
quackery, arc subdued into a practical denial of some of the
most obvious truths. .
There is another principle in the human mind, besides its
love of mystery, which is appealed to most successfully by the
£ri„g pretender in physic. The desire after novel modes of
practice, and the fondness of change, as grafted on this desire cf
A LECTURE
on THE BEST MODE os DISCOURAGING
EMPIRICISM;
Delivered be/'orc the Ohio .Medical Lyceum, Januar;/,1843.
BY JOHN P. HARRISON, M. D.
Profwar of Malaria Meduku in the Mzdiwl Colug: of Ohio.
..~.----,..,.~_---~
Gnxrnmmx or 'rim Omo Miamciu. Lvcnunx :-
IN obedience to your request,I am, on this evening, to deliver
you a lecture on quackery. This is a fertile topic, and opens
a wide scope for the exercise of all the powers of a severe ani-
madvcrsion. For the sad results of empirical pretcnsion and
imposturc haunt our daily steps, and its path is marked by the
ravages of death. But why is it, that qnackery in medicine
receives so much countenance and support from an
enlightened
community, if its essential character is replctc "ith evils to
society? Let us examine this question before we proceed to the
consideration of what constitute the leading, governing elements
of quackery, and how this great power of mischief in society
can best be counteracted and repressed.
Manlcind are cnamourcd of mystery, and delight in the
wonderful and extravagant. Vhcn, therefore, a man comes
forward with vast pretensions as
regards the discovery of some
remedy, nndivulged, and hidden from all others, and makes sol-
emn asseverations of his great ability thus derived, to eure dis-
ease, he ever finds a
very ready acceptance on the part of the
public to credit his declarations, and a soft yielding to his over-
tures of service. There is a
captivation about this matter, which
dcfrauds many minds of their accustomed capacity of examina-
tion. A wise reserve, a
prudent skepticism, in the ordinary
transactions of lite, is looked upon as a
proof of a discriminating
judgment, and of a sound understanding. But,in things per-
taining to medicine, good sense, and the exercise of reason, are
often kept in abcyanee, and by the blandishmcnt of a seductive
quackery, are subdued into a
practical denial of some of the
most obvious truths.
There is another principle in the human mind, besides its
love of mystery, which is appealed to most successfully by the
daring pretcnder in physic. The desire after novel modes of
practice, and the fondness of change, as grafted on tlns desire cf
ON THE BEST MODE OF
novelty, impel people to catch up and devour, without examina-
tion, all the impositions of the charlatan. In their conduct they
say, " We are tired of this everlasting repetition of your regular
administration of drugs, and we want a physician who will cure
us of our diseases by a more compendious method than that pur-
sued by the regular Faculty. Nay—it is certain, that in the
march of mind—it behooves us to patronize men who have risen
on the sublime wing of genius, to heights inaccessible to you
plodding, leaden spirits of the old system of medical practice
1 "
And then the pride of prosclytism mingles its delusion in
this cup of intoxication, and the mind becomes fired with a
glowing zeal for the reputation of the empiric employed, until,
at last, you find men eager to abet some ignorant, presumptious
dealer in physic, who would have disdained to permit such a man
to act as their guide, or counsellor in the lowest grades of human
service. But to visit the sick, to sit in authoritative decision
on the disordered states of that body so ingeniously wrought by
a Divine workmanship, and balanced in its various parts with
such nice adaptations and reciprocal ties, this is a work of such
attainment that any one may assume the office, irrespective
of special and protracted preparation for the task.
Credulity opens a wide door for the introduction of quackery
in society, and in a special degree does superstition lend its pow-
erful misdirecting influence in laying prostrate all the barriers
which common sense may raise against the machinations and
sordid purposes of the charlatan. Zimmerman tells us, that
among the Chilians, the whole duty of the doctor is comprised
in his blowing around the bed of his patient, and that to blow
well is the highest excellence of the medical attendant. A
physician who knows how to blow well among the people, even
here, is accounted a man of such cleverness, that to employ him
is considered a proof of clear sightedness.
But what is quackery ? First, we answer, that it is charac-
terized by four indubitable attributes,—ignorance, presumption,
cupidity, and inhumanity. The essential, predominant feature
of empiricism, is ignorance of the duties appropriately attached
to the responsible position assumed by the medical practitioner
in society. Instead of a careful and diligent cultivation of the
science of medicine, the quack speaks contemptuously of the
knowledge possessed by enlightened physicians, and arrogates to
himself some special exemption from the lot of mortality : the
acquisition of truth by an industrious application of the mind to
the objects of research, embraced by the science of medicine.
Not aware of the vast compass and variety of investigation
required to constitute an adequate foundation for the practice
of the profession, the irregular and reckless practitioner of medi-
cine rushes forward on the arena to display the wonders of his
skill in the cure of diseases with which he has no scientific
acquaintance. Ignorant of the very first elements of anatomy
2 ON TUE BFBT MODE or
novelty, impel people to catch up and devour, without examina-
tion, all the impositions of the charlatan. ]lllZl1C1l`COIldllCl they
say,
"
"fe are tired of this everlasting repetition of your regular
administration of drugs, and we want a
physician who will cure
us of our diseases by a more cempendious method than that pur-
sued by the regular Faculty. Nay-it is certain, that in the
march of mind--it behooves us to patronize men who have risen
on the sublime wing of genius, to heights inaccessible to you
plodding, leaden spirits of the old system of medical practice."
And then the pride of proselytism mingles its delusion in
this cup of intoxication, and the mind becomes lired with a
glowing zeal for the reputation of the empiric employed, until,
at last, you (ind men eager to abet some
ignorant, presumptious
dealer in physic, who would have disdained to permit such a man
to act as their guide, or counsellor in the lowest grades of human
service. But to visit the sick, to sit in authoritative decision
on the disordered states of that body so
ingeniously wrought by
a Divine workmanship, and balanced in its various parts with
such nice adaptations and reciprocal ties, this is a work of such
easy attainment that any one may assume the olliee, irrespective
of special and protracted preparation for the task.
Credulity opensa wide door forthe introduction of quackery
in society, and in a
special degree does superstition lend its pow-
erful misclirecting influence in laying prostrate all the barriers
which common sense may raise against the machinations and
sordid purposes of the charlatan. Zimmerman tells us, that
among the Chilians, the whole duty of the doctor is comprised
in his bloving around the bed of his patient, and that to blow
well is the highest excellence of the medical attendant. A
physician who knows how to blow well among the people, even
here, is accounted a man of such cleverness, that to employ him
is considered a
proof of clear sightedness.
But what is quackery? First, we answer, that it is charac-
terized by four indubitable attributes,-ignorance, presumption,
cupiclity, and inhumanity. The essential, predominant feature
of empiricism, is ignorance of the duties appropriately attached
to the responsible position assumed by the medical practitioner
in society. Instead of a careful and diligent cultivation of the
science of medicine, the quack speaks contemptuously of the
knowledge possessed by enlightened physicians, and arrogates to
himself some special exemption from the lot of mortality: the
acquisition of truth by an industrious application of the mind to
the objects of research, embraced by the science of medicine.
Not
_aware of the vast compass and variety of investigation
required to constitute an
adequate foundation for the practice
of the profession, the irregular and reckless practitioner of medi-
cine rushes forward on the arena to display the wonders of his
skill
ip the cure of diseases with which he has no scientific
acquaintance. Ignorant of the very Erst elements of anatomy
DISCOURAGING EMPIRICISM.
and physiology, (the branches of medical science which lie at
the very foundation of all correct knowledge of diseases) and
their appropriate methods of treatment, the empirical pretender,
with blind temerity deals out the instruments of death to his
unhappy patients. Nor can general culture of mind, nor en-
larged scientific inquiries, ever grow under the upas shade of
empiricism. With defective scholastic attainments, possessing
no literary taste, and no aspiration of thought after enlarged
conceptions of nature, the conceited and ignorant charlatan,
delights in depreciating the reputation of those whose days are
devoted to the practice and cultivation of a correct and scientific
art of healing.
The impudence of the bold pretender in medicine, is always
commensurate with his ignorance ;—they go hand in hand,
mutually sustaining each other. Mere ignorance, if felt, and
acknowledg3d, in an ingenuous, modest mind, would actuate to
strenuous efforts towards its removal. But ignorance, shielded
by presumption, is the acme of a voluntary debasement of spirit
and character. Boastful, proud, dogmatic ignorance, by con-
verting folly into guilt, deprives the empirical pretender of
all legitimate claims to our sympathy for his intellectual and
moral debasement, and renders it a duty on the part of every
benevolent man to spurn with contempt, all such vicious, pre-
meditated ignorance from the walks of life, along which it moves
in steps marked with blood.
But why should the forward pretender in physic, push his
way, with such determined obstinacy, in all the circles of hu-
man society. Docs the infatuated man rejoice over the ruins
which it is his daily work to scatter on every side ? Gratuitous
cruelty, perhaps, he may not delight in, but his cupidity prompts
him to urge on his dark career of depravity and wo. Base and
sordid feelings engross his entire nature. Too proud to seek
some worthy mechanical occupation, and too indolent to make
suitable preparation for the exercise of the functions of the
medical profession, with groveling views of responsibility, and
bereft of all elevating impulses of soul, the ignorant and daring
charlatan preys on the misery of his fellow men, and extracts
from the groans of tortured humanity the means of his subsistence.
Such is quackery, dark, ruinous, depraved : fattening on human
weakness and credulity ; and scattering the elements of disaster
around its daily course. Spurning knowledge,despising litera-
ture and science, blowing its polluted breath on the fair fame of
every regular physician, quackery is the offspring of ignorance
engendered by impudence and cupidity, and carries on its foul
brow a mark of reprobation affixed by the hand of scorn. Turn-
ing away from it with revolting, and filledjtjth deep abhorrence
at its abominations, let us enquire, during me remainder of this
lecture, What are the best modes of discouragement to its dark
and ruinous career?
DISCOURAGING rzmrrnxcxsu. 3
and physiology, (the branches of medical science which lie at
the very foundation of all correct knowledge of diseases) and
their appropriate methods of treatment, the empirical pretender,
with blind temerity deals out the instruments of death to his
unhappy patients. Nor can
general culture of mind, nor en-
larged scientific inquiries, ever
grow under the upas shade of
empiricism. Vith defective scholastic attainments, possessing
no
literary taste, and no
aspiration of thought after enlarged
conceptions of nature, the conceited and ignorant charlatan,
delights in
depreciating the reputation of those whose days are
devoted to the practice and cultivation of a correct and scientific
art of healing.
The impudence of the bold pretender in medicine, is always
commensurate with his ignorance ;-they go hand in hand,
mutually sustaining each other. Mere ignorance, if felt, and
acknowledged, in an
ingcnuous, modest mind, would actuate to
strenuous efforts towards its removal. But ignorance, shielded
by presumption, is the aeme of a
voluntary debasement of spirit
and character. Boastful, proud, dogmatic ignorance, by con-
verting folly into guilt, deprives the empirical pretender of
all legitimate claims to our sympathy for his intellectual and
moral debasemeut, and renders it a duty on the part of every
benevolent man to spurn with contempt,all such vieious,pre-
meglitaled ignorance from the walks of life, along which it moves
in steps marked with blood.
But why should the forward pretender in physic, push his
way, with such determined obstinacy, in all the circles of hu-
man society. Does the inlixtuated man
rejoice over the ruins
which it is his daily work to scatter on
every side 'I Gratuitous
Cruelty, perhaps, he may not delight in, but his cupidity prompts
him to urge on his dark career of depravity and wo. Base and
sordid feelings engross his entire nature. Too proud to seek
some worthy mechanical occupation, and too indolent to make
suitable preparation for the exercise of the functions of the
medical profession, with groveling views of responsibility, and
bereft of all elevating impulses of soul, the ignorant and daring
charlatan preys on the misery of his fcllov men, and extracts
from the groans oftortured humanity the means of his subsistence.
Such is quackery, dark, ruinous, depraved :
fattening on human
weakness and credulily; and scattering the elements of disaster
aroundils daily course. Spurning knowledge,despising litera-
ture and science, blowing its polluted breath on the fair fame of
every regular physician, quackery is the offspring of ignorance
engendered by impudence and cupidity, and carries on its foul
brow a mark of reprobation affixed hy the hand of scorn. Turn-
ing away from it with rcvolting, and
lil|ed_¥th'deep
abhorrencc
at its aboniinations, let us
enquire, during tie remainder of this
lecture, Vhat are the best modes of discouragement to its dark
and ruinous career?
ON THE BEST MODE OF
And in the first place, let us consider the profession of medi-
cine as established in all civilized and intelligent communities.
The plain question to be put to every thinking man, is this.
''acknowledging, as you must, that there should be a separate
body of individuals in every community, whose business it is to
exerciie the functions of medical advisers, and surgical operators,
for the mitigation and removal of the many diseases and acci-
dents to which mankind are liable, should these be well instructed,
thoroughly trained physicians, whose habits and modes of think-
ing have been moulded to the work, or shall this whole matter
be left at loose ends, and is every idle and foolish fellow to
be allowed to enter upon the responsible duties of doctor in
physic, to deal out remedies, and mutilate the limbs of men,
women, and children, at his pleasure, under the promptings of
ignorance, presumption, and cupidity ?"
To the attainment of all great and good ends, there must
be a special preparation given. No one comes into the world
qualified by miraculous gifts and graces, to practice medicine.
The science of healing has ever been, and still is, a cumulative
power put into the hands of physicians, to arrest disease, and
for a time to postpone the final catastrophe which threatens our
daily path. It is made up of the copious contributions of facts
and inquiries, and deductions, emanating from the cultivated and
vigorous intellects of a great multitude of men living through
several thousand years, and in every quarter of the globe. And
there are strong bonds of union which bind together all the
members of the regular profession of medicine over the earth,
as far as it is erected into a distinct and scientific avocation. In
the most rude and degraded conditions of society, medicine is
practiced as an art, but the pervading and binding influences
which unite all the members of the regular profession together,
do not exert any controlling action upon these scattered and
unenlightened portions of medical practitioners.
Medicine, wherever erected into a separate, regular and
scientific pursuit, owes its intellectual advancement, moral digni-
ty, social weight, and practical usefulness to three great, pene-
trating, and vivifying principles,—these are, the spirit of scientific
research, the spirit of honor—which may be properly named the
spirit of a gentleman—and the spirit of humanity. Deprived
of either of these fundamental principles, which confer upon the
profession of medicine all its excellence, and all its extensive and
varied capabilities of usefulness, it degenerates rapidly into a
low, and contemptible calling. For, were physicians ever so
well instructed in the scientific and practical truths of their
profession, still, destitute of the spirit of a gentleman and the
spirit of benevojpqq^jhey would be grovelling, in their motives
of conduct, and their profession would never reflect the glories
of moral greatness. We rejoice to reflect that our profession
1 OX THE BEST MODE OF
And in the first place,let us
consider the
profession of
medi-
cine as established in all civilized and intelligent communities.
The plain quggtion to be put to every thinking man, is this,
"acl<nowledging, as
you must, that
there should
be_ a
separate
body of individuals in every community, whose
business It is to
exercise the functions of medical advisers, and
surgical operators,
for the mitigation and removal of the many diseases_and ZICCI-
dents to which mankind are liable, should
these be well
instructed,
thoroughly trained physicians, whose habits and
inodes of think-
ing have been moulded to the work, or shall tlns
whole matter
be left at loose ends, and is evc1'y idle and
foolish fellow
to
be allowed to enter upon the
responsible duties of doctor in
physic, to deal out remedies, and mutrlate the limbs
of men,
women, and children, at his pleasure, under the promptings of
ignorance, presumption, and cupidity ?"
To the attainment of all great and good ends, there must
be a
special preparation given. No one comes into the
world
qualified by miraculous gifts and graces, to practice medicine.
The science of healing has ever been, and still is, a cumulative
power put into the hands of physicians, to arrest disease, and
for a time to postpone the final catastrophe which threatens our
daily path. lt is made up of the copious contributions of Eacts
and inquiries,and deductions, emanating from the cultivated and
vigorous intellects of a
great multitude of men living through
several thousand years, and in every quarter of the globe. And
there are
strong bonds of union which bind together all the
members of the regular profession of medicine over the earth,
as far as it is erected into a distinct and scientific avocaiion. In
the most rude and degraded conditions of society, medicine is
practiced as an art, but the pervading and binding influences
vhich unite all the members of the regular profession together,
do not exert any controlling action upon these scattered and
unenlightened portions of medical practitioners.
Medicine, wherever erected into aseparate, regular and
scientific pursuit, owes its intellectual advancement, moral digni-
ty, social weight, and practical usefulness to three great, penc-
trating, and vivifying principles,-these are, the spirit of scientific
research, the spirit of honor-which may be properly named the
spirit of a
gentleman-and the spirit of humanity. Deprived
of either of' these fundamental principles, which confer upon the
profession ol' medicine all its excellence, and all its extensive and
varied capabilities of usefulness, it degenerates rapidly into a
low, and contemptible calling. For, were
physicians ever so
well instructed in the scientific and practical truths of their
profession, still, destitute of the spirit of a
gentleman and the
spirit df
benevolpn%4hcy would be grovelling, in their motives
of conduct, and their profession would never reHect the glories
of moral greatness. Ve rejoice to reflect that our
profession
g.
DISCOURAGING EMPIRICISM.
has been adorned with some of the noblest specimens of human
excellence. That the page of history is luminous with the vir-
tues, and endownents of men who made medicine their practical
calling, and who, with gratitude acknowledged, that to the assidu-
ous culture of the science of medicine, they owed their fame
and their goodness. Call up to mind the high intellectual quali-
fications which are demanded in our profession, in order to attain
its highest honors. Reflect upon the accurate scholarship and
disciplined activity of mind, essential as a preliminary step to a
successful entrance upon the study of medicine. To become an
eminent physician a man must be a scholar, well grounded in
classical learning, and possessed of varied culture of mind. And
then advert to the very praecognita of the art of healing
anatomy, physiology, chemistry, materia medica, general and
special pathology and general and special therapeutics, which
are to be mastered to a considerable degree, before a man is ade-
quately qualified to practice medicine. What a vast and complex
scheme of inquiry is presented in the science of medicine, and
what strenuous toil of mind, and persevering devotion of time,
are required to fit a man for the successful exercise of skill in
the three departments of the ars curandi. Take the surgeon for
example, called on in an emergency, to secure by ligature a
bleeding vessel. If ignorant of anatomy, how can he explore
the site of the artery above the point where it bleeds, and thus
secure the main trunk, by which means alone the patient can be
snatched from a rapid dissolution.
Again, there is a case of midwifery which demands on the
part of the medical attendant a thorough knowledge of the
rules of the obstetric art, which always has anatomical facts for
its basis ; here the conceits of impudent ignorance are of
no avail in saving mother and child from a premature grave.
But why should we argue these points so open, so demonstrable
to the dullest capacity, and yet it is by losing sight of such
obvious truths that the public are deluded by the promises of
ignorant presumption, and circumvented by the evil designs of
empiricism.
Medicine is grounded on an enlarged, philosophic, view of
man, not merely in his organization, and in the fine adjustments of
his physical frame, but as endowed with various susceptibilities
of being acted upon by exterior agents. The laws which gov-
ern the modes of receiving such impressions, and the correspond-
ing phenomena thence arising, have to be carefully studied in
order to a just comprehension of physiology. Besides, thfc natu-
ral history of the various substances which can be mad* sub-
servient to the rectification of the disorders of the bodjjtowith
the chemical preparations educed from thog^p^to be subjected
to the inspection of disciplined powers of thought. *Vnd then
the noxious agents to which the system is liable, must be sought
1*
mscounsoum mmaicrsm. 5
has been adorned with some of the noblest specimens of human
excellence. That the page of history is luminous with the vir-
tues, and endownents ol' men who made medicine their practical
calling, and who, with gratitude acknowledged, that to the assidu-
ous culture of the science of medicine, they owed their fame
and their goodness. Call up to mind the high intelleetual quali-
fications which are demanded in our
profession, in order to attain
its highest honors. Reflect upon the accurate scholarship and
disciplined activity of mind, essential as a
preliminary step to a
successful entrance upon the stud of medicine. To become an
eminent physician a man must lic a scholar, well grounded in
classical learning, and possessed of varied culture of mind. And
then advert to thc very praecognlta of the art of healing;
anatomy, physiology, chemistry, materia mediea, general and
special pathology and general and special thcrapeutics,which
are to be mastered to a considerable degree, before a man is ade-
quately qualitied to practice medicine. Vhat a vast and complex
scheme of inquiry is presented in the science of medicine, and
what strenuous toil of mind,and pcrsevcring devotion of time,
are required to fit a man for the successful exercise of skill in
the three departments of the ars curandi. Take the surgeon for
example, called on in an
emergency, to sceure
by ligature a
bleeding vessel. If ignorant of anatomy, how can he explore
the site of the artery above the point where it bleeds, and thus
secure the main trunk, by which means alone the patient can be
snatched from a
rapid dissolution.
Again, there is a ease of midwifery which demands on the
part ol' the medical attendant a
thorough knowledge of the
rules of the obstetric art, which always has anatomical facts for
its basis; here the conceits of impndent ignoraneo are of
no avail in saving mother and child from a
premature grave.
But why should we
argue these points so
open,so demonstrable
to the dullest capacity, and yet it is by losing sight of sueh
obvious truths that the public are deluded bythe promises of
ignorant presumption, and eireumvented by the 0Yil designs of
empiricism.
Medicine is grounded on an
enlarged, philosophic, view of
man, not merely in his organization, and inthe fine adjustments of
his physical frame, but as endowed with various susceptibilitics
of being acted upon by exterior agents. The laws which gov-
ern the modes of receiving sneh impressions, and the correspond-
ing phenomena thencc arising. have to be carefully studied in
order to
ajust comprehension of physiology. Besides, thgnatu-
ral history of the various substances which can bc math sub-
servient to the rectification ofthe disorders of the
bodinvith
the chemical preparations educed from th o be subjected
to the inspection of disciplined powers o
tiought. And then
the noxious
agqnts
to which the system is liable, must be sought
>'
J
ON THE BEST MODE OF
out and detected in their larking places, that fevers and other
dangerous epidemic maladies may be prevented.
A spirit of philosophic modesty will always accompany
true science. "\Vhil-t pushing far her victories over the territories
of error and ignorance, science is humbled under a sense of what
vast accessions arc yet to be made that she may be enthroned on
the glories of the universe, and be decked with the spoils of
nature. Ignorance prates with infinite self-complacency over
its fancied treasures. Science weeps in secret over her defi-
ciencies. Ignorance measures its narrow attainments by a stand-
ard derived from pride. Science with modest look contemplates
the boundless opulence of creation, and like the great con-
queror of antiquity considers nothing gained, whilst any con-
quests remain to be made by her efforts. The science of
medicine cultivated aright, always tills the mind with a deep,
abiding consciousness of the imperfections attached to all human
knowledge. The true, scientific physician is a constant learner
in the school of nature, and as each day revolves, fresh disclosures
of truth spread their enlivening beams on his awakened faculties.
Independent of the love of truth, that urges the scientific phy-
sician to be ever alert and active in the investigation and obtain-
ment of knowledge, there is another principle at work in the
bosom, which greatly contributes towards rendering our profes-
sion one of dignity and commanding weight in society. The
principle or feeling, to which allusion is now made, is that which
prompts to an honorable bearing, and high minded conduct of
one physician towards another. This esprit du corps—this
refined and liberal sentiment, made up of personal respect and
politeness, with a just regard for the standing of the profession
in society, maintains an ascendant and harmonizing control
among all correct and scientific physicians. Without this hon-
orable principle pervading our profession, it would become a
mere heterogeneous mass of jarring and waning elements. A
physician should be not only a philosopher, a lover of truth, and
an earnest inquirer into the mysteries of nature, but a gentle-
man, and a philanthropist. He must be governed in his~intcr-
course with his professional brethren by the spirit of a liberal,
high minded man. Courtesy and comity will characterize his
interviews, professional and private with other physicians, and a
forbearing generous deportment, and respectful language towards
them, will ever accompany him among his patients. Such
a man will utterly detest the petty tricks, and mean indirections
of low and base minds, by which i.Uoy hope to supplant a rival.
INor •ill the honorable physician meanly insinuate charges
agaijt an absent medical attendant; and he will not allow pa-
tient^pjinder the instiga tion of resentment against another phy-
sician, betau :( .*^ap>(,primanded them on account of disobe-
dience of His injunctions, to rail out against a friend or even rival
li ON THE BEST NODE OF
out and detected in their lurking places, that fevers and other
dangerous epidemic maladies may be
prevented.
A spirit of philosophic modesty will always accompapy
true science. Vhilst pushing far her victories over the territories
of error and ignorance, science is humbled under a sense of what
vast accessions are
yet to be made that she may be
enthrone_d on
the glories of the universe, and be decked with the spoils of
nature. Ignorance prates with infinite selflcomplaccncy over
its fancied treasures. Science weeps in secret over her defi-
ciencies. Ignorance measures its narrow attainments by a stand~
ard derived from pride. Science with modest look contemplates
the boundless opulenec of creation, and like the great con-
queror of antiquity considers nothing gained, whilst any con-
quests remain to be made by her efforts. 'l`he science of
medicine cultivated aright, always fills the mind vith a
deep,
abiding consciousness of the imperfections attached to all human
knowledge. The true, scientific physician is a constant learner
in the school of nature, and as each day revolves, fresh disclosures
of truth spread their enlivening beams on his awakened faculties.
independent of the love of truth, that urges the scientific phy-
sician to be ever alert and active in the investigation and obtain-
ment of knowledge, there is another principle at work in the
bosom, which greatly contributes towards rendering our
profes-
sion one of dignity and commanding weight in society. The
principle or
feeling, to which allusion is now made,is that which
prompts to an honorable bearing, and high minded conduct of
one
physician towards another. This esprit du corps-this
refined and liberal sentiment, made up of personal respect and
politeness, with a
just regard for the standing of the profession
in society, maintains an ascendant and harmonizing control
among all correct and scientific physicians. Vilhout this hon-
orable principle pervading our
profession, it would become a
mere
heterogeneous mass of jarring and warring elements. A
physician should be not only a
philosopher, a lover of truth, and
an earnest inquirerinto the mysteries of nature, but a gentle-
man, and a
philanthropist. Ile must be governed in his-inter-
course with his professional brethren by the spirit of a
liberal,
high minded man.
Courtesy and comity will characterize his
interviews, professional and private with other physicians, and a
f`orbearin_g generous deportment, and respectful language towards
them, will ever
accompany hi1n
among his patients. Such
a man will utterly detest the petty tricks, and mean indirections
of l0\'.fll'l(l base minds, by which they hope to supplant a rival.
i0t *Ill U10
hOH0l'=1|Jlc physician meanly insinuate charges
agaift an absent medical attendant; and he will not allow pa-
tient`mder the
instigatiori of resentment against another phy-
slcian, becauseQrcprimanded them on account of disobe-
dience of his lH_]Y1HCl21OI]S,fO rail out against a friend or even rival
§
DISCOURAGING EMPIRICISM.
in the profession. A quick sense of obligation towards the profes-
sion and of gentlemanly feelings towards an absent medical man,
will induce the honorable physician to seek an interview with the
practitioner dismissed, in order to ascertain the real bearings and
difficulties of the case. In an especial degree does Christianity
come in to enforce the observance of such a line of procedure,
that the mouth be not opened in malediction, and the lips speak
no guile in matters involving the reputation of another physician.
There are, unhappily, for the dignity and standing of the pro-
fession, men in our ranks who wish to be considered, and treated
as gentlemen, and whose minds have never been lit up by a sin-
gle generous emotion towards the profession, but whose souls
are steeped in most abject, sinister views, and who rejoice, with
cormorant satisfaction, over the failures, real or fabricated, of
their professional brethren, and exultingly point the finger of
derision at the persecutions got up, perhaps, at their dark sug-
gestions, against those towards whom they entertain envious,
or vindictive feelings, because they stand in their way.
Superadded to the spirit of scientific investigation, and of
the high and generous sentiments of honor and of courtesy,
which medical men should possess ; their minds should be ani-
mated by an urgent desire of doing good. And to the glory of
the Medical Profession, civilized society every where is filled
with the multiplied demonstrations of the humane regard felt
by physicians, for the well being and happiness of their fellow
men. From the cradle, where sleeping innocence draws its
sweet infant breath, down to declining years, when tottering
age bends beneath its infirmities, through all periods of human
existence, the eye of medical skill in the prevention as well as
the cure of disease, is fixed in watchful earnestness over the
health of man.
But I must hasten to suggest the best mode of discour-
aging empiricism. There arc three aspects to this important
subject. First, how far should legislative interference be called
into requisition to discourage quackery. Second, how far, and
by what modes of action, should the discouragement of emperi-
cism, emanate from intelligent and good men in society. And
third, what is the bounden duty, of the Medical Profession it-
self, in this matter, and both in their collective, and in their
individual capacity, what are the most expedient and successful
modes by which regular and scientific physicians can arrest the
ruinous career of charlatanry in the land.
At the threshold of the general argument in favflr of legis-
lative action upon the subject of quackery, it may hesitated
that without a rectification of public feojin g^ nothing ettctive
can be attained by legal enactments. BuUJ|^tly. lejPlative
action can lie. made to bear most ellectiP^^^^e rent^ssion of
medical imposture—and that desirable result can*"e accom-
D1SCOURAGING EMPIRICISM. 7
in the profession. A quick sense
ofobligation towards the profes-
sion 'and of gentlemanly feelings towards an absent medical man,
will
induce the honorable physician to seek an interview with the
practitioner dismissed, in order to ascertain the real bearings and
difficulties of the case. In an
especial degree does christianity
come in to enforce the observance of such a line of procedure,
that the mouth be not opened in malediction,and the lips speak
po guile in matters involving the reputation of another physician.
I`here are, unhappily, for the dignity and standing of the pro-
fession, men in our ranks who wish to be considered, and treated
as
gentlemen, and whose minds have never been lit up by a sin-
gle generous emotion towards the profession, but whose souls
are
steeped in most abject, sinister views, and who rejoice, with
cormorant satisfaction, over the failures, real or
fabricated, of
their professional brethren, and exultingly point the finger of
derision at the persecutions got up, perhaps, at their dark sug-
gestions, against those towards whom they entertain envious,
or vindictive feelings, because they stand in their way.
Superadded to the spirit of scientific investigation, and of
the high and generous sentiments of honor and of courtesy,
which medical men should possess ; their minds should be ani-
mated by an
urgent desire of doing good. And to the glory of
the Medical I'rof`ession, civilized society every where is filled
with the multiplied demonstrations of the humane regard felt
by physicians, for the well being and happiness of their fellow
men. From the cradle, where sleeping innocence draws its
sweet infant breath, down to declining years, when tottering
age bends beneath its inlirmities, through all periods of human
existence, the eye of medical skill in the prevention as well as
the cure of disease, is fixed in watchful earnestness over the
health of man.
lint I must hasten to suggest the best mode of discour-
aging empiricism. There are three aspects to this important
subject. l~`irst, how far should legislative interference be called
into requisition to discourage quackery. Second, how far, and
by what modes of action, should the discouragelnent of emperi-
cism, einanate li'om intelligent and good men in society. And
third, what is the bounden duty, of the Medical Profession it-
self, in this matter, and both in their collective, and in their
individual capacity, what are the most expedient and successful
modes by which regular and scientific physicians can arrest the
ruiuous career of charlatanry in the land. '
At the threshold of the general argument in fatbr of legis-
lative action upon the subject of quackery, it niay h£tated
that without a rectification of public feding, n hing e ctive
can be attained by legal enactments. B it' tly, leg ative
action can be made to bear most effecti e re Pession of
medical iinposture-and that desirable result þÿan° ¬e
accom-
O
ON THE BEST MODE Of
plishcd by judicious encouragement, given to the cultivation of
the science of medicine, by the endowment of schools for teach-
ing medicine, arid by making all irregular practitioners amena-
ble to a loss of their demands for attendance on the sick. All
civilized governments have given encouragement (o the culti-
vation of the sciences, medicine among the rest, by affording
every facility to the teacher, by the way of illustration and
enforcement of his views through a well furnished apparatus, in
appropriate places of instruction. The mind—that living, im-
mortal, and prolific energy—whence is derived all the imper-
ishable glory, as well as varied prosperity and civilization, of a
nation—should be the special subject of patronizing legislation
among a free people. And whether the immortal energy of
thought is cultivated in our collegiate halls, where fust the bud-
ding promises of a bright manhood are exhibited—or in our
law or medical schools, where science trains the capabilities of
the mind to future exertion on the great moral and social rela-
tions of life, or opens before the eye the mysteries of the hu-
man frame, and imparts her precepts of health—still the ani-
mating principle of a sound legislation is at work in providing
the best means for advanceing the great and abiding interests of
a people.
Legislative superintendence and patronage will not go far,
however, in elevating the profession of medicine unless a co-
operation on the part of intelligent citizens, is given. How can
educated men in society aid in discouraging empiricism ? We
answer, in the first place, they can, in a negative manner do
much to discourage it, by abstaining from taking nostrums, and
employing quacks, and by refusing to lend the sanction of
their name to newspaper pull's in favor of secret remedies. In
the next place, educated men in Society, can give direct en-
couragement to scientific physicians by confiding in them, and
speaking favorably of their profession and skill. But to the
disgrace, as we conceive, of educated men in various depart-
ments of life, their names, their influence, their certificates have
been lavishly expended in upholding the cause of quackery:
yes—we must, and will speak out—many of our judges, law-
ycrs^and clergy, have brought a foul blot on their characters
as good members of society, by their publications in eulogy of
quack remedies. Can any candid, reflecting person doubt that
itjs a disparagement to a man's intellect, and his discretion,
aside fi-om^hc pernicious influence of such an example, to lend
his name, and influence to the upholding of imposture in medi-
cine, ^i these remedies are what their founders pretend them
to be^vhy noLouU^ philanthropy, divulge their secret com-
tioWto thej Hjj^^at the poor and suffering may freeh
positioWto tliej l^^al the poor and suffering may freely
and gratu^ujd^Sr^rT of the beneficial power. Besides, the
indiscriminate employment of secret remedies is calculated to
3 os 'run nrsr MODE or
lished b 'uclicious encouragement, given to the cultivation of
P .Y J
'
o
the science of medicine, by the endowment of
schools for teach-
inff medicine, and by making all irregular practitioners
amenai
ble: to a loss of their demands for attendance on the sick.
Al
civilized governments have given encouragement to the
culti-
vation of the sciences, medicine among the
rest,l1y affordln
every filcility to the teacher, by the way of illustration
an
enforcement of his views through a well furnished
apparatus, in
appropriate places of instruction.
The mind-that living, im-
mortal, and proline energy--whence is derived
all the imper-
ishable glory. as well as varied prosperity and
civilization, of a
nation-should be the special subject of patronizing legislation
among a free people. And whether the immortal energy of'
thought is cultivated in our
collegiate halls, where first the bud-
ding promises of a
bright manhood are exhibited-or in our
law or medical schools, where science trains the capabilities of
the mind to future exertion on the great moral and social rela-
tions of life, or
opens before the eye the mysteries of the hu-
man frame, and imparts her precepts of health-still the ani-
mating principle of a sound legislation is at work in providing
the best means for advaneeing the great and abiding interests of
a
people.
Legislative superintendence and patronage will not go far,
however, in elevating the profession of medicine unless a eii-
operation on the part ofintelligent citizens, is given. Ilow can
educated men in society aid in discouraging empiricism ? Ve
ansver,in the first place, they can, in a
negative manner do
much to discourage it, by abstaining from taking nostrums, and
employing quacks., and by refusing to lend the sanction of
their name to newspaper puffs in favor of secret remedies. In
the next place, educated men in Society, can
give direct en-
couragement to scientific physicians by eonfiding in them, and
speaking favorably of their profession and skill. But to the
disgrace, as we conceive, of educated men in various depart-
ments oflife, their names, their influence., their certificates have
been lavishly expended in upholding the cause of quackery:
yes-we must, and will speak out-many of our
judges, lav-
yers,_and clergy, have brought a foul blot on their characters
as
good members of society, by their publications in eulogy of
quack remedies. Can any candid, reflecting person doubt that
it
js a
disparagement to a man's intellect, and his discretion,
aside
fromilie pernicious influence of such an
example, to lend
his na e, and influence to the upholding of imposture in medi-
cine. -£ these remedies are what their founders pretend them
to be vhy no oi
ogfnphilantlnopy, divulge their secret com-
positio to the at the poor and suffering may freely
and
gratU'|&_u_s . . t of the benehcial power. Besides, the
indiscriminate employment of secret remedies is calculated to
's
DISCOURAGING EMPIRICISM.
do an incalculable amount of evil. All remedies are relative
agents, that is, they act curatively in reference to certain given
states of the general system, or of particular parts of the body.
Now, it is universally admitted by enlightened practitioners of
medicine, that there is no such thing as a specific in the cure of
disease. That is, there is no medicine that will act remedially
on a disease in all states of the system, and in all stages of that
disease, modified as it is so constantly, by temperament, climate,
sex, and age. Then take any nostrum that proposes to cure a
cough, such as Warren's Cough Drops, or Jayne's Expecto-
rant, and let it be administered to four patients affected with
cough. One of these patients, to whom it is given, has cough,
arising from a recent cold, which has produced inflammation of
the mucous surface of the bronchial tubes. In this case great
injury may be sustained; for the remedy being stimulating in its
character, by augmenting the inflammation, it enhances the pa-
tient's malady. Again, another of these patients has disease of
the heart, and the cough is merely symptomatic of the cordiae
malady; in this instance, injury is inflicted on the credulous
minded person by the nostrum. The third patient has a cough
connected with inflammatory dyspepsia, and he finds to his hurt
that the medicine by increasing the gastric distress renders his
cough more harassing.
But the fourth may be an asthmatic, nervous individual, who
has been troubled for somo timr^ with a, cough romediubla by
opiates and stimulants, such as those two nostrums cough mix-
tures contain, and with such a cough, relief may be afforded by
the quack medicine. Forthwith there is furnished by the Judge
Asthmatic or Reverend Easy Faith, a certificate, couched in the
most extravagent strain of laudation, setting forth the wonderful
virtues of this heaven derived remedy,—which was concocted
by cupidity, ignorance, and presumption, and stamped with the
imprimatur of clerical and legal stupidity, arrogance and sub-
serviency to quackish knavery!
But at last, our final reliance in the discouragement of em-
piricism, must be placed in the great body of enlightened phy-
sicians. They are the conservators of the honor and dignity of
the profession. From our predecessors in medicine, we have
received this legacy, and with sedulous vigilance should\>vc
guard it. It is worthy in all respects of our attachment, and
admiration, and of the unremitting consecration of all *y: best
powers to its high and august service. For reflc<^|uTO>r a
moment, upon the scope of action of our protes,i^^j||iety.
Contrast it with the art of war, in their jgsocctive desl^and
results. War inflames man against h
^ M -
d.-c.lalion wherever its iron heel has prW| ^M^ land
with widows and orphans. It turns all/mW^^J^nianjiw-
ture into hatred, arrests the progress of .civilization, and dries
DISCOURAGING }ZMPl`RlC1SM~ 9
do an
mcalc_ulable amount
of evil. All remedies are relative
agents, that is, they act curatively in reference to certain given
States
of the general system, or of particular parts of the body.
Now, it IS
universally admitted by enlightened practitioners of
medicine, that there is no such thing as a
specific in the cure of
disease. That is, there is no medicine that will act remedially
on a disease in all states of the system, and in all stages of that
disease, modified as it is so
constantly, by temperament, climate,
sex, and age. Then take any nostrum that proposes to cure a
cough, such as Varren's Cough Drops, or Jayne's Expecte-
rant, and let it be administered to four patients affected with
cough. One of these patients, to whom it is given, has cough,
arising from a recent cold, which has produced inflammation of
the mucous surface of the bronchial tubes. ln this case great
injury may be sustained; for the remedy being stimulating in its
character, by augmenting the inflammation, it enhances the pa-
tient's malady. Again, another of these patients has disease of
the heart, and the cough is merely symptomatic of the eordiac
malady; in this instance, injury is inflicted on the credulous
minded person by the nostrum. The third patient has a
cough
connected with inflammatory dyspepsia, and he finds to his hurt
that the medicine by increasing the gastric distress renders his
cough more
harassing.
But the fourth may be an asthmatic, nervous individual. who
117.15 bCCl° iZl'Ol]l)lC(l fhl' SONIC time with u.
cough romodiubla by
opiates and stimulants, such as those two nostrums cough mix-
tures contain, and with such a
cough, relief may be afforded by
the quack medicine. Forthwith there is furnished by the Judge
Asthmatic or Reverend Easy Faith, a certificate,couched in the
most extravagent strain of laudation, setting forth the wonderful
virtues of this heaven derived remedy,-which was concocted
by cupidity, ignorance, and presumption, and stamped with the
imprimatur of clerical and legal stupidity, arrogance and sub-
serviency to quackish knavery!
But at last, our final reliance in the discouragcment of em-
piricism, must be placed in the great body of enlightened phy-
sicians. They are the conservators of the honor and dignity of
the profession. From our predecessors in medicine, we ve
received this legacy, and with sedulous vigilance should gre
guard it. lt is worthy in all respects of our attachment, and
admiration, and ofthe unremitting consecration of all best
powers to its high and august service. For
refl_e u
_r
a
moment, upon the scope of action of our
profess; iety.
Contrast it with the art of war, in their "
iective de and
results. Var inflames man against h` an, eads
desolation wherever its iron heel has p
ls land
with widows and orphans. It turns al|_ 1 man*
-
ture into hatred, arrests the progress of_civi ization, and ries
1
0°
10 05 THE BEST MODE Of
up the fountains of domestic love and enjoyment. Our profes-
sion, in its designs and results, is one of benevolence—it visits
the haunts of raftering, and law its healing hand on the tortures
of the body, and restores the disordered intellect, tilled with the
horrible delusions of insanity, to the exercise of sound reason.
Ill beneficent power is felt in the mansions of opulence and in
the hovels of poverty ; by the tender frame of infancy, in woman's
child-bed agonies, in manhood's vigor, and life's evening hours.
The medical profession is a partnership in science, in honor, and
in humanity. Its commission is replete with high ends—and its
destiny is no )es< than the temporal well being of the race.
Such a profession should be guarded by its members from
the polluting touch of every thing calculated to rob it of its
essential dignity, eclipse its lustre, or degrade it in popular
estimation. In the keeping of physicians is placed the rich
depo>ite of its scientific Advancement, its honorable standing, and
\x neficent influence. How can we best protect the essential
interests of our profession from the inroads of empiricism and
vindicate its )u>t pretensions in the eyes of mankind ? We
answer—first, by cultivating assiduously the science of medicine,
and the collateral branches of knowledge. Physicians should
be literary, cultivated men ; —they should addict their powers to
the investigations of the natural sciences, and ever be earnest
in urging on the discoveries of philosophy. And it affords the
.T.ir.w ian a rich intellectual treat to con-
template the rapid conquests won within half a century by
medicine over disease. Within that period, the life saving
discovery of Jcnner has been made,—and now, all over the
globe, the name of that great man is sounded ; —infant lips lisp
hi- praise, and hoary hairs repeat the Hying echo,—the (Ganges
and the Tiber, the Thames and the Mississippi roll forth his
eulogy, and all nations attest the power and beneficence of that
profession, among the members of which he labored, and of
which he was so illustrious an ornament as a man of science, a
polished gentleman, and a philanthropist.
Every where in the ranks of our profession a keen and
exciting spirit of inquiry is at work, and every day the prolific
pre^wafts to us new discoveries achieved in the art of healing,
an^pTresh accessions made to our fund of facts and deductions in
this vast field of research. Speed on, thou bright, auspicious era
of irmypvement, till the science of medicine shall rise still higher
in if^Iojsmis triumphs over pain and mortality, and reflect w ith
augra|Bt^ftujtre the divine benevolence of its power. Addi-
tion^P^ an earnes^^tivation of the science of medicine, phy-
asv. ^fc Jfch ve to the diffused and active presence of
a fec-Wjuof
H^ tne P r° fess»on. And every disingenu-
° 4^no<!^«pjP^r
^pmMne~. and every appeal made to vulgar
prejudiceTor to tmrsoratd passions of the unreflecting in society,
10 os 'ras sm mon: or
up the fountains of domestic love and enjoyment. Our profes-
sion, in its designs and results, is one of benevolence-it visits
the haunts of sufl`ering,and lay's its healing hand on the
tortures
of the body. and restores the disordered intellect, filled with the
horrible delusions of insanity, to the exercise of sound
reason.
Its beneficent power is feltin the mansions of opulcnce and in
the hovels of poverty; by the tender frame ofinfancy, in wo|nan's
child-bed agonies, in manhood`s vigor, and life's
evening
hours.
The medical profession is a
partnership in science, in honor,and
in humanity. Its commission is replete with high ends-and its
destiny is no less than the temporal well being of the race.
Suchaprofession should be guarded hy its members from
the polluting touch of every thing calculated to rob it of its
essential dignity, eclipse its lustre, or
degrade it in popular
estimation. ln the keeping of physicians is placed the rich
deposite of its scientific advancement,its honorable standing, and
beneficent influence. llow can we hest protect the essential
intcre~ts of our profession from the inroads of empiricisni and
vindicate its just pretensions in the eyes of mankind? Ve
answer-first. by cultivating assiduously the science of medicine,
andthe collateral branches of knowledge. l'hysieians should
be literary, cultivated men ;-they should addict their powers to
the investigations of the natural sriences, and ever be earnest
in urging on the discoveries of philosophy. And it affords the
mind of the scientific playsician 11 15911 i'!lCl|CCill"| HGH# i0
CON;
template the rapid conquests von within half a
century by
medicine over disease. Vithin that period, the life saving
discovery of Jenner has been made,-and now, all over the
globe, the name of that great man is sounded ;-inhint lips lisp
his praise, and hoary hairs repeat the flying echo,-thc Ganges
andthe Tiber, the Thames and the Mississippi roll forth his
eulogy,and all nations attest the power and benefieenee of that
profession, among the members of which he labored, and of
which he was so illustrious an ornament as a man of science, a
polished gentleman, and a
philanthropist.
' l§very_ where in the ranks of our
profession a keen and
exciting spirit of
inquiry is
at worlc,.and every da_y the prolific
pre wvafts to us new discoveries aclneved in the art of healing,
a
resh accessions made to our fund of facts and deductions in
this vastfield of research. Speed on, thou bright, auspicious era
ofim
`
vement, till the science of medicine shall rise still higher
ll] 1 f
is
triumphs over
pain and mortality, and reflect with
dug lustre the_divine benevolence of its power. Addi-
tions an earncs tivation of the science of medicine, phy-
SlCl¢ houl live to the diffused and active presence of
a fee of f
the profession. And every disingenu.
OHQLTIQ _ usiness, and every appeal made to vulgar
prejudice, ,r tot esorcffd passions of the unrcflecting in society,
1
`
'
°§
DISC0T7B AGING EMPIRICISM. 11
must be discountenanced, and rebuked by high minded men in
the profession. No trickery, subterfuge, or indirection should
have scope among us. Neither should we associate with men
who play their tricks on popular credulity by pretensions to novel
modes of practice, or who cheat the populace by lying declara-
tions, announcing some grand discovery, which is to cure disease
by a new system of practice, or who strive to circumvent the
regular physician by pouring out a feculent mass of words, to
awaken vulgar prejudices against remedies employed by the
educated faculty.
Whenever you see a physician associating in consultation,
or in personal familiarity, with an empiric, that he may use the
poor creature to subserve his avaricious purposes by extracting
fees from the unfortunate victims of medical imposture, rely upon
it, that there is something rotten in that man's case. Either he
does not feel aright, as an honorable physician should, for the
dignity of the profession, or else he has a strong proclivity to the
character of the person with whom he associates.
" Heaven with secret principle endued
Mankind, to seek their own similitude."
A man who has once made a voluntary degradation of himself
by practicing according to the thunder and storm system, with its
fire and steam, lobelia and red pepper, or who is reeking with the
stains of some botanical bubble, or who has sneaked along the
by-paths of medicine, under the moonshine and mosquito system,
with its infinitesmal doses and cozening buzz,—such an one never
can put on the ennobling virtues of the thorough bred, educated
physician. "The dead fly will send forth a stinking savor,'" and
through all the plausibilities of his assumed character, there will
be revealed the pollution, deep and incurable, which reigns with-
in, and which diffuses its foul atmosphere around his steps.
Our profession does not want, nor should we recognise, these
rickety, misshapen, dwarfed creatures, begot of a hermaphrodite,
and brought forth in an eclipse,
•• As half formed insects on the banks of Nile,
Unfinished things,—one knows not what to call,
Their generation's so equivocal."
O no ! we want among us men of erect attitude, of hotttrable
bearing, "whose eye, even turned on empty space beafjrfBkeen
with honor," and whose path is that of the just, radjffntmth
the excellencies and virtues of an honest, benevolenjjponauct.
The medical profession is a unit. Regular physici
J
together by the strong links of science,
"'
interest in the cause of humanity. Eve|
the prostration of one of its true m§
may be, when in the discharge of ft
profession, and in strict conformity
should bind each physician to a co
nxscoumcmc mrrinlcrsm. 11
must be
discountenanced, and rebuked by high minded men in
the profession. No trickery, subterfuge, or indirection should
have scope among us. Neither should We associate with men
who play their
tricks on
popular credulity by pretensions to novel
modes of practice, or who cheat the populace by lying declara-
tions, announcing some
grand discovery, which is to cure disease
by a new
system of practice, or who strive to circumvent the
regular physician by pouring out a feculcnt mass of words, to
awaken vulgar prejudices against remedies employed by the
educated faculty.
Vhenever you see a
physician associating in consultation,
or in personal familiarity, with an
empiric, that he may use the
poor creature to subserve his avaricious purposes by extracting
fees from the unfortunate victims of medical imposture, rely upon
it, that there is something rotten in that man's case. Either he
does not feel aright, as an honorable physician should,for the
dignity of the profession, or else he has a
strong proclivity to the
character of the person with whom he associates.
"Heaven with secret principle enducd
Mankind, to seek their own similitude."
A man who has once made a
voluntary degradation of himself
by practicing according to the thunder and storm system, with its
fire and steam, lobelia and red pepper, or who is reeking with the
stains of some botanical bubble, or who has sneaked along the
by-paths of medicine, under the moonshinc and mosquito system,
with its infiuitesmal doses and cozening buzz,-such an one never
can put on the ennobling virtues ofthe thorough bred, educated
physician. "The dead fly will send forth a
stinking savor," and
through all the plausibilities of his assumed character, there will
be revealed the pollution, deep and incurable, which reigns with-
in, and which diffuses its foul atmosphere around his steps.
Our profession does not want, nor should we
recognise, these
rickety, misshapeu, dwarfed creatures, begot ofa hermaphrodite,
and brought forth in an eclipse,
"
As half formed insects on the banks of Nile,-
Unfinish'd things,-one knows not what to call,
Their gencr:tion's so equivocal."
O no! we want among us men of erect attitude,of ho rable
bearing, "whose eye, even turned on empty space bca 'een
with honor," and whose path is that ofthe just, radiant 'th
the excellencies and virtues of an honest, benevolen ° nduct.
The medical profession is aunit. Regular physic` ound
together by the strong links of science, of iono mutual
interest in the cause of humanity. Eve xg
f
at
tl1e prostration of one of its true m - le
_e
may be, when in the discharge of t 1 a
*J o_
is
profession, and in strict conformity to
4*
'
should bind each physician to a co -I f --
,Q ll
0
o
12 ON THE BEST MODE OF DISCOURAGING EMPIRICISM.
obligations, will, in the judgment of the world, tend to degrade
and vilify the whole profession. With true moral courage, then,
let the entire body speak out, in strong reprobation, against every
professional delinquency that tends to disparage, or reflect dis-
credit upon our noble calling. Intellectual power is a theme of
fond admiration and applause to all who arc capable of realizing
the beauties of literary excellence, or the far reaching conclusions
of logic, or the grandeur of philosophic discovery. But moral
power, in the sight of Him who rules all things by the counsels of
unsearchable wisdom, and who marshals all nature by a Divine
tactic, far exceeds mere mental capacity, however grand and
wonderful, in our view, may be the displays of human genius ; for
moral goodness assimilates man to the image of Him, by whose
breath the fires of genius are kindled, and from whose inspiration
cometh understanding. We glory in medicine, because it opens
such a wide and fertile field for the exercise of the powers of
mind ;
—because it elicits in all its true followers such a burning,
quenchless thirst after knowledge. But in a more especial man-
ner do we glory in our profession, because it is calculated to call
forth such a varied and rich exhibition in life of the best sensi-
bilities of the heart, and of the finest traits of moral goodness.
The dilFercnt parts which goto make up the oneness ol our pro-
f—inn mutually sustain each other. The love of science contri-
butes to the encouragement of the spirit of honor among us, and
these two operative elements of power, reflect light and confer
strength on the principle of humanity, which actuates the en-
lightened and high minded physician to forego all low selfish
aims, and freely open his views, and communicate his discoveries
for the benefit of mankind.
In the science of medicine there arc no double doctrines, as
among some of the ancient philosophers,—the exotcrick or
divulged doctrines for the vulgar, and the esoterick or secret,
for the initiated. "Come and see," is placed in blazing capitals
over the portals of the temple of Esculapius, and whatever
mysteries in nature we explore, and whatever heights of science
we climb, we never return with closed hands, but freely pour the
fruits of our labor before the whole world, through the teeming
andj^oaning press. Our science utterly repudiates concealment
'orhts in spreading wide its treasures to the sun.
felemcn ;
With elevated eye survey the wide cope be-
' we walk. See what a galaxy of illustrious names
indying fires along the heavens, and as their mingled
on your path, be encouraged to tread the ways of
:i
y and goodness, till your deeds of benc-
medical science, shall go to swell the
\txe scene ; then shall the hideous
now so much annoy our profession.
les of darkness, and find their con-
Ipectres of night.
12 ox Tm: nnsr Mons or niscoun/misc DIPIRICISM.
obligations, will. in the judgment of the world, tend to degrade
and vilify the whole profession. Vith true
moral courage, then,
let the entire body speak out, in strong reprobation, against every
professional delinquency that tends to
d|sparage,o_r reflect dis-
credit upon our noble calling. Intellectual power is a
theme of
fond admiration and applause to all who are
capable of
realising
the beauties of literary excellence, or the far reaclung conclusions
of logic. or the grandeur of philosophic discovery. But moral
power, in the sight ofIli1n who rules all things by the
counsels of
unsearchable wisdom, and who marshals all nature by a ])1v|ne
tactic, hir exceeds mere mental capacity, however
grand and
wonderful, in our
view, may be the displays of
human genius; for
moral goodness assimilates man to the image of llnn, by whose
breath the fires of genius are kiudled,a11d from whose inspiration
Cometh understanding. V`e glory in medicine, because it opens
such a wide and fertile field for the exercise of the powers of
mind ;-because it elicits in all its true followers such a
burning,
quenchless thirst after knowledge. But in a more
especial man-
ner do we
glory in our
profession, because it is calculated to call
forth such a varied and rich exhibition in life of the best sensi-
bilities ofthe heart, and of the finest traits of moral goodness.
'l`he different parts which go to make up the oneness ofonr pro-
fession mutually sustfiin each other. The love of science contri-
butes to the encouragement of the spirit of honor among us, and
these two operative elements of power, reflect light and confer
strength on the principle of humanity, which actuates the en-
lightened and high minded physician to forego all lov selfish
aims, and freely open his views, and communicate his discoveries
for the benefit of mankind.
ln the science of medicine there are no double doctrines, as
among some of the ancient philosophers,-the exotcrick or
divulged doctrines for the vulgar, and the esotcrick or secret,
for the initiated. "Come and see," is placed in blazing capitals
over the portals of the temple of Esculapius, and whatever
mysteries in nature we
explore, and whatever heights of science
we climb, we never return with closed hands, but freely pour the
fruits of our labor before the whole world, through the teeming
and _ oaning press. Our science utterly repudiates concealment
an
'
' hts in spreading wide its treasures to the sun.
F lemen- Vith elevated eye survey the wide cope bc-
n j
'
'
_h we "all .
See "hat '1
galaxy of illustrious names
di fu mdymg fires along the heavens, and as their mingled
or n
your path, be encouraged to tread the ways of
y and goodness, till your deeds of bene-
the scene , then shall the hideous
now so much annoy our
profession.
h'tdes of darkness, and find their con-
_
'
l 7
r
'
{
`
'
¢
|
~
, .'
gl
_ .1
(
I
' `
'i
'tt '_
ee
V`
o_medical science, shall goto swell the
(T
U H
.
fo
'
_
S*
,s _
_
, _
gc
.
-
-
pectres of night.
