{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__lee___report_on_phenomena_of_clairvoyance.pdf","mytitle":"Report On Phenomena Of Clairvoyance","mylang":"de"}
/I
, I
REPORT
UPON THE
PHENOMENA OF CLAIRVOYANCE
OR
WITH
ADDITIONAL
BY
EDWIN LEE, EsQ.
Ft.I.I.OW OP THE ROYAL MEOICO· CHIRUROIC .~L SOCIF.TY; CORltBSPONDISG
.41\U IIOI"ORARY M R .
\I~Eit o~· TliP. Mt'DICAT. AND C HIRURO I CAL S OCIRl'lt;S
OF PAillS , BE II LI:o\ 1 FLOIIKI\Cii, fiOI.OG!"A, :'IIAti SF. ILLI'S, l.YOI\51
DOilU I\A UX , ANI> TOULOUSR; 0 1' TIIR ltOYALA CADEMYOP
,\I E.DI CINE fiJI N4Pt,t-:s, THE DIPERIAL MKUI CAI. A!'ID
CHJRURG I C.~L ~CADKMY Of' VIE~NA.
AUTIIOil OF A "TRE:\IISB ON SO .UJ~ .NERVOUS DISORDERS,"&c.
AN APPENDIX TO THE THIRD EDITION OF
''ANIMAL MAGNETISM.''
•· This is all as true as it is strange.''
SnA K!'PEA RE.
LONDON:
JOHN CHURCHILL, PRINCES STREET, SOHO.
1843.
LONDON
PRJ~TED In' 0. J, PALMER, SAVOY ITREET, 8TRA~D.
PREFACE.
AwARE that the belief in the higher order of
plienomena in Magnetic Somnambulism is general
in Germany among those who have paid attention
to the subject, and hearing that there were in
Paris some Lucid Somnambulists of whom very
extraordinary things were related, I was desirous,
during my late brief sojourn in that city, of per-
sonal1y ascertaining how far reliance might be
placed upon the statements which had been pro-
mulgated respecting them, and although a complete
stranger, every facility of investigation was cour·
teously afforded me by those engaged in the ex-
periments, who seemed most solicitous to subject
them to the test of examination conducted in a
candid spirit ofinquiry.
June, 1843.
•
REPORT,
&c.
To THE PRESIDENT OF THE PARISIAN MEDICAL
SoCIETY.
Srn,
AT the meeting of the Society on the 13th in-
stant, the presentation of a copy of my work on
Animal Magnetisw and Homreopathy, and the
allusion which I made to the operations performed
in England and elsewhere upon patients while
under the influence of magnetism, without the ex-
pression of pain, having given rise to a discussion,
which tl1rned upon the more extraordinary phe-
nomena., the existence of which has been so fre-
quently a subject of controversy, I stated, that
having been promised an opportunity of personally
verifying the reality of these efrects of magnetic
somnambulism during the period of my sojourn in
Paris, I would, if. the promiRe were realised, n1ake
the result known to the Society. I therefore now
purpose to state, as briefly as possible, the circum-
stances which have presented themselves to my
notice during three magnetic seances, each of which
lasted upwards of two hours, confining myself to
the relation of the trit-tls which I made myself, and
6 RErORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE.
of the most remarkable effects which I witnessed in
those made by others; premising that I have no
interest in Animal Magnetism beyond that of the
advancement of science, and an investigation into
the truth of phenomena which have been acknow-
ledged by numerous individuals (among whom
might be enutnerated many celebrated and distin-
guished names) but that I was led to pay no incon-
siderable attention to the subject of late years from
the circumstance of my having published the first
account of it in England, eight or nine years ago,
as an Appendix to my work on the Medical Institu-
tions and Practice of the Continent.* In that
account I expressed myself incredulous of the facts
recorded, (as from their inexplicable nature would
be the case with most persons who had not them-
selves witnessed any of the experiments, or where
these experiments had failed,) but in the more
extended one which I had the honour to present
to the Society, I have not hesitated to avow my
conviction, from a more enlarged acquaintance with
the subject, and from the opportunities which I
have had during the periods of my residence in
Germany of ascertaining the opinions which are
entertained upon it in that country, that several of
the facts have been proved, and that unless others
which have been asserted and recorded by many
reputable individuals, and respecting which investi-
gation is courted and solicited, can be disproved,
the mere denial of them upon the assumed ground
of the impossibility of tl1eir occurrence, will not
invalidate them ; my object having beeu in that
work to present an impartial and unbiassed account
of Animal Magnetism in its present state. I must,
however, acknowledge that the opinions which I
have therein expressed are strongly confirmed by
• It appears that an account of Animal Magnetism was published
some years before this in a medical periodical by Mr. C~evenix•
•
REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE. 7
what I have myself witnessed in the experiments
which I am about to report.
According to an appointment, I went on the 16th
instant, accompanied by Dr. Davison, to No. 21,
in the Rue Neuve Coquenard, where about thirty
persons of the upper and middle classes, among
whom were three or four physicians, were assetn·
bled. The first somnambulist presented to the
meeting, a young woman named Julie, was the
person mentioned in the Paris Globe about a fort-
night ago, as having, at an evening assembly, de-
scribed, among other things, to the astonishment
of all present, a dissecting-room, with a subject
upon the table, where the physician, en rappo1·t
with her, had that day been; and on being further
questioned as to what peculiarity existed in the
foot of the same gentleman, she mentioned that two
of his toes had been adherent together from his
birth, which was also true; the extract from the
above paper having been published in the Morning
Herald on the 3rd instant, the day on which I left
London. I shall not, however, dwell upon the
trials made upon Julie, beyond stating that she told
a gentleman with whom she was placed in relation
in answer to his inquiries, that on his return home
from a former seance, he had occupied himself in the
evening in magnetising a person at a distance;
whom she subsequently said was herself; that al-
though it did not affect her at the time, she now,
on being again somnambulised, felt conscious of the
circumstance. This statement was acknowledged
by the gentlem~n to be true. On my being placed
iu relation with her she said, before I spoke, that I
came from a long way off; and on my producing a
letter to ascertain whether she could read it, she
said, before it was opened, that it was not signed,
which was the case. She was, however, wrong in
saying that it came from a lady, though the writing·
being very small and fine would have been taken
8 REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYA~CE.
for that of a lady by most persons. After some
efforts, and carrying the letter to her forehead, the
writing being reversed, she pronounced the two
first words, but could not make out rny name, which
followed, and complained that the writing was too
smalL As the eyes, though closed, were not co-
vered with a bandage, I expressed my dissatisfac-
tion to the magnetiser at the result thus far. At a
later period Dr. Davison drew from his pocket a
number of the Gazette des H opitaux, of which I
placed the title in contact with her occiput, and
asked her to read the line. She complained of
being fatigued by the previous questions of several
of the company, but said she would try-; and after
requesting me to think of the words, said the first
letter was a G. She could not, however, distinguish
the others, and desired to be awakened. Now, as
may be supposed, I had taken good care that she
could not possibly have a glimpse of the paper·, and
if, for argument's sake, it be conceded that she had
guessed the right letter, it must at least be allowed
that the guess was a good one, when the chances
were twenty-four to one against it. This result is,
however, injjignificant compared with those pre-
sented by the next subject, a young man about
twenty years of age, of spare habit and intelligent
countenance, named Alexis. This young· man, on
being magnetised, first presented the more ordinary
phenomena of cataleptic rigidity, insensi.bility to
pricking, &c. The arm was held out, at the same
time both legs were rigidly extended at a right
angle from the body, which was propelled forward
from the chair upon pressing forcibly upon them.
A hP.avy chair was supported upon the legs for
some time, the state of rigidity being continued
altogether for about twenty minutes, at the expira-
tion of which period the limbs were restored to their
natural pliability by the magnetiser, who then an-
nounced that Alexis was in a state of lucid sou1 nam-
REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE. 9
bulism, and observed that he presented the pecu-
liarity of hearing what was said by other persons
than the one en rapport with him. After some of
the visitors had questioned him, I placed myself in
relation with him, and while holding his hand, gave
him a card of Dr. Davison's, asking him to read
it, the printed part being reversed and in contact
with his hand; he carried it to his nose and fore-
head, and after some efforts mentioned the three
first letters. I then desired that his eyes should
be bandaged, and the magnetiser took from a
drawer a piece of thick woolly padding, such as is
used by tailors for padding of coats, about ten inches
long and six broad, and offered it to any of the
company to apply. I availed myself of the oppor-
tunity, and placed it over his closed eyes in such a
manner that the lower edg·e came down nearly to
the ·aperture of the nostrils ; over this a folded
handkerchief was tied firmly round the head, and it
was then proposed that he should play ecarte with
any of the company ; a gentleman accordingly
offered himself, and two packs of cards (one with
red, the other with green backs,) were produced,
and were used alternately every game. The som-
nambulist had, meanwhile, still continued his efforts
to read Dr. .Davison's card, which he at last accmn-
plished, calling it, however, Davignon. "'\\7
hile
playing, he named the cards which he cut or played,
followed the suit with correctness, and repeatedly
mentioned the card8 which his adversary held in
his hand, saying at the beginning that he had won
or lost, as the case might be, and was only mistaken
two or three times. During one of the games a
gentleman present who had not witnessed anything
of the kind before, substituted his card for that of
Dr. Davison's, which lay upon the table. The
somnambulist was soon aware of the exchange, and
after touching the gentleman's hand, mentioned the
first letter of the new one, though the name was In
B 5
10 REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE.
contact with the table, and was consequently un-
known to the company. After requesting the
owner of the card, (Le Cte. de Balincourt,) to think
of his name, he said he would tell a letter after each
deal. On pronouncing the two last letters of the
second word, and winning at the same time a game,
he said, cela fait le compte, thus punning upon the
word; and at last succeeded in mentioning the
name except the de, which he omitted. Another
yisiting card was likewise presented to him, which
he read more quickly, as his lucidity appeared to
increase. A lady then took the gentleman's place
as his adversary, and the results were repeated
during several games to the satisfaction and asto-
nishment of all present. On one occasion, after
he had proposed, the lady dealt him four fresh cards,
and while they lay with their faces upon the table,
he said, without touching them, " It is of no use
playing; I have lost; they are only spades anJ
diamonds." I turned the cards up, and there were
in fact two spades and two diamonds. During an
intermi8sion in the playing, I drew a card from the
pack without looking at it myself, and asked him to
name it; he said," It is a king;" but when I had
ascertained that he was mistaken, he said, " No, it
is a ten," which was true : I asked him which
ten; he said, a black ten, and first mentioned the
ten of clubs, whereas it was spades. I then folded
down the number of the Gazette des H6pitaux,
and asked him to read a line in moderately large
type. He first placed the paper upon his epigas-
trium, then to his forehead, and holding my hand,
said the first letter was an L. reque~ting me,- at the
same time, to think well of the words, which·I did,
and he pronounced them, Lit de Nicole, .this being
the heading of an advertisement. All the time of
the card-playing, the magnetiser was at a distance,
and only approached when called upon by the som-
nambulist to support him according as he felt him-
REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE. ll
self tired. These trials continued more than half-
an-hour, when complaining of the heat, he tore off
the bandage.
After he had reposed a little while near an
open window, attempts were made to test his ca-
pabilities of describing the residences' or friends of
the persons who placed themselves en rapport with
him; and although he made several mistakes,
and often corrected himself, his descriptions were
acknowledged by the parties to be generally true,
especially his account of the appearance and dis·
position of the father of one of the ladies, who
was at Abbeville, and also that of the apartment of
M. C., a physician, who placed himself en rapport;
in whose antechamber he perceived, among other
things, a skeleton, and stated its place with refer- ·
ence to other objects. He likewise described the
sitting-room, as well as a picture suspended in it,
in which last attempt, however, he had considerable
difficulty, though he at last succeeded, placing him-
self in the attitude of the persons represented, which
was that of an eminent physician, whose name, he
said, he saw beneath, though he could not read it.
A name was admitted to be beneath the picture,
but it was that of the painter. Ile could not for a
long time state what was in the hand, and first said
it was something round, a skull: after several
efforts, he exclaimed, " Ah ! he has something in
both hands, and that is what confuses me; some·
thing round in the left hand, and something lono-
in the right." It was then stated by the gentlema~
that the portrait was depicted holding a heart in
his left hand, and demonstrating it with an instru·
ment in his right.
Although there was no reason to doubt the good
faith of this gentleman any more than that of
others of the company, who had put questions to
him, and had been satisfied with the exactness of
his answers, I had not come merely to see what should
J2 REPOR'f UPO.N CLAIRVOYANCE.
be done by others, and accordingly placed myself
again in relationwith him, upon which he complained,
as he had likewise done while his eyes were ban-
daged, of being annoyed by the white and blue
stones on my breast, meaning the pins in my
cravat, which were pearls set in blue enamel. I
asked him to <lescribe my apartment, which, after
having been told the street, he proceeded to do,
saying at first it was upon the third floor. I re-
quested him to tell me the number, upon which he
counted slowly up to seven, at which he stopped,
and then said, •' How stupid I am! it is not so much,
it is No. 1, which was perfectly correct, this apart~
ment being on the ground-floor, to which I had
only moved a few days before from No. 7, on the
third floor. He then described the apartment
with tolerable accuracy, making, however, two or
three mistakes, such as saying at first that the bed
was on the right on entering, and the windows on
the left, though he speedily corrected himself, and
reversed their position, which was the right one.
He likewise stated the position of the secretaire,
but said it was open, which was not the case. He
mentioned, however, most of the peculiarities with-
out being questioned. For instance, he said there
were two rooms; that the smaller was reached by
passing through the larger one; that there was a
very small passage before entering the larger room
frorn the court ; that this room contained the bed,
and two windows, though when asked he did not
state correctly the position of the fireplace, with
respect to the windows. He said the smaller room
had but one window, that he saw in it a toilette
table, and a large black trunk, which was also true;
(the trunk having been left there by the former oc-
cupant of the apartment,) and that there was a sort
of passage between the two rooms. While describ-
ing, he told me two or three times to think well of
the apartment, as he had done with respect to the
REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE. 13
line which I had previously asked him to read. He,
moreover, said that I had left something on the
night-table close to the bed, and on my stating that
I was not aware of having done so, repeated with
decision that he saw something, he thought it
was some paper. As I could not fail to be struck
with his accuracy in other points of the description,
I was curious on arriving at home to see whether
there was in fact anything upon the night-table, to
which my first look was directed on entering, and on
the marble slab which forms its top, there lay a large
piece of the end of the white bed-curtain, which
usually hangs by its side, and which I had never
before observed to be there.
While describing, he wa.s very positive upon some
points, sometimes contradicting the person when
told he was wrong; upon some other points he was
not equally positive, and corrected himself. For
example, having mentioned that there was a well to
the right of the house of a gentleman en rappo1·t
with him, he was contradicted, but persisted in his
assertion, upon which the gentleman·s wife said the
somnambulist was correct, that the well was to the
right on coming from the house; on the husband
making some reply, the slight altercation was ter-
minated by the somnambulist saying that the well
lay north of the house, in which both husband and
wife agreed.
The card playing was carried on throughout with
a quickness which could not have been exceeded
by an expert player, and though he now and then
made a slight mistake, such as taking one court
card for another, he did not once revoke, but led
off the proper cards, followed his adversaries' suit
with precision, and generally after the first or
second card had been played, he told whether he
had gained or lost the other tricks, mention-
ing the cards in his adversary's hand, and once,
when some of the red cards got mixed with the
14 REPORT UPON CLA.IRVOYA.NCE.
green ones, he sorted them out without any hesita-
tion.
Two days afterwards I again saw him, at first
alone with the magnetiser, who proposed to magne-
tise him in order to make some further trials on his
clairvoyance and intuition. He at first objected,
stating that he did not then feel well-disposed, but
yielded to the request. After I had applied the
cotton and bandage to the eyes, I drew a paper
from my pocket, on which were some printed cha-
racters in moderately large type. He made out in
a little while the larger word, magnetisme, but had
more difficulty in decyphering the rest, which how-
ever he at length accomplished, " 1'raitement des
Maladies par le Magnetisme," being the words. I
then opened a book, and gave him the heading of a
chapter to read, three other people having mean-
while come in. He made out the words, Des Lot-
teries Allemandes, sooner than he had done the pre-
vious ones. The magnetiser then proposed that he
should describe some distant locality of which I
should think. I mentioned my apartments in Lon-
don, ofwhich the somnambulist proceeded to attempt
the description, and was correct in s~me points,
such as that the house was in a street which opened
into a very wide street or road, that they were on
the ground-floor, the staircase being continued be-
yond, that the entrance to the sitting-room was
to the left of the passage, and at the further end of
the rootn ; that there were two windows, and the
fire-place was to the right in entering, that there .
was only one window in the bed-room ; in the more
minute details, however, he was frequently at fault.
I next asked hi1n about Wiesbaden, where I have
passed the last five sumtners. He said on arriving
into the town, the passage was along a handsome
street, that the hotel at which I descended, was on
the left of the street and in a square : on my in-
quiry as to whether it was large or small, he said
REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE. 15
very large ; the Hotel des Quatre Saisons being in
'fact in the situation he described, forming a corner
of the Wilhelm Strasse and one side of the square,
and is, with one or two exceptions, the largest
hotel with which I am acquainted. I told him that
I did not remain more than a day or two in the
hotel but took apartments, which he said, with
truth, were in a lodging-house in the principal
street; that there were houses only on one side of
the street, that they were not high ; that the look-
out was upon some large trees and the promenade ;
which any one who has been there would acknow-
ledge to be a correct description. He further said
that the promenade turned off at an angle, and
that on each side of the other part he saw a raised
terrace; doubtless in allusion to the colonnades, to
which the ascent is by four or five steps. He said,
however, that there was a n1onun1ent or statue in
the square, which was incorrect, and made a mis-
take in two or three other particulars. A physi-
cian then came in, who spoke of the state of cata-
leptic rigidity, as being probably voluntary, and
put himself in the same position as the somnambu-
list had been; upon which the magnetiser asked
him if he would try to maintain that position as
long as Alexis, and support a heavy weight upon
his feet; the physician replied that he might be
able to do it after several trials. This appeared
to annoy the somnambulist, who desired to be
awakened. I then ·took a card, and asked him to
say what it was; he at first refused with some pe-
tulance, then said it was a club, and on the mague-
tiser placing himself in relation with him and mag-
netisiug, he named the nine of hearts, the card
being the nine of diamonds. The magnetiser said
this was frequently the case, the presence of persons
who were adverse to magnetism, or who tried to
discredit or ridicule it, having often the effect of
6
]6 REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE.
preventing the phenomena of lucid somnambulism
from being well manifested.
At the third seance, on the 19th, there was again
a tolerably large assemblage of persons, and among
them a gentleman who produced a sealed letter,
the contents of which he was pretty confident the
somnambulist would not be able to make out. I
had the day before mentioned to Dr. M'Carthy who
had not previously seen any similar experiments,
that they were to be repeated; he accordingly
came at the beginning, and Dr. Davidson after-
wards came in : there were likewise two or three
French physicians. After the exhibition ofrigidity
and insensibility to pricking the rigid limbs, I
again applied the padding over the eyes, while Dr.
M'Carthy tied the bandage; on some one's inquir-
ing if it could not slip, the somnambulist appeared
annoyed, and asked for a second hankerchief, which
I placed below the other, so as to leave only the
end of the nose free, and below this the padding
protruded on each side lower than the nostrils.
Dr. M'Carthy expressed himself satisfied that he
could not see anything, and the ecarte playing was
again proposed; a gentleman producing a pack of
cards which he had brought with him, enclosed in
the government en~elope. As the pack was entire,
the low cards had to be taken out, which the mag-
netiser asked the somnambulist to do; he said, how-
ever, that his lucidity was not yet sufficient, and
declined. On cutting for the first deal, he at once
said to his adversary, without turning the cards
towards himself, "It is your deal," and, as on the
former occasion, selected his cards, playing to his
adversary's suit, and leading off with precision,
naming the cards in his adversary's hand, and con-
sequently telling whether he had lost or won: now
antl then, however, mistaking a knave or a queen
4or a king, and once or twice at the beginning,
REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE. 17
throwing out a low trump, after having proposed.
During one deal, at the expressed wish of the
magnetiser, he played to his adversary's suit, and
led off correctly while the cards still lay with their
faces on the table, without taking them into his
hand. I then produced my passport, doubling it
down opposite the heading, and asked him to read
the first words; he first spelt the word nom, and
then began afresh, mentioning each letter of the
words, Au nom du roi, till the last, which he pro-
nounced without spelling. I then took a card, but
he said he would have no more cards, and tore off
the bandage. Dr. M'Carthy then took a paper
from his pocket, and asked him to read a line, he
took it for a moment, placed it to his epigastrium,
and then threw it aside, declining to attempt, say-
ing, it was the title of a paper; but as his eyes were
not bound, even if he had read correctly, the cir-
cumstance would not have added to his reputation
for lucidity, after what he had exhibited while the
eyes were blindfolded; I then placed myself en
rapport with him, and asked him again the number
of my apartment, which he repeated was No. l.
But, I said, there are two numbers one; what is
there to distinguish mine from the other, what is
there on the key ? he replied, there is a letter
hanging to the key. What letter? He first pro-
nounced A ; passing quickly over it, but hesitated
a little at B, then said C, and with decision, "It is
a C ;" whiCh was true. The gentleman had pre-
viously given him his sealed letter, which he un-
dertook to decypher, and after some trials, said it is
writing, which was denied; though it appeared on
opening the letter that the letters and figures were
in writing. He then said there is a picture and
some figures ; on Leing asked how many figures, he
said five. He was then asked the letters; of which
there were several small ones, not forming words,
and four capitals. Ile named three of the capi-
18 REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE.
tals, which on opening the paper were found to
be correct, as also a small coloured picture, which
had been enveloped in the paper containing the let-
ters and figures. He was then awakened, and a
female was somnambulised, who exhibited different
expressions and attitudes, according to the will of
the magnetiser, remaining with rigid limbs, and
with the same expression of countenance, till it
was altered by the magnetiser's passes. On this,
however, there was nothing but what has been
often seen; and it is true, as some present asserted,
that these attitudes, &c., might possibly have been
assumed voluntarily. Such, however, was not my
impression in this instance, but the test of this
would be the length of time for which the pm;itions
could be sustained, which by any one who was
deceiving could not be for more than a few minutes.
M. Ricard, who had arrived with his somnambulist
Virginie, who had repeatedly given proofs of great
lucidity in describing localities, and whose descrip-
tions were acknowIedged to be exact by Mr. Mac-
pherson Adams in the trials which he and his
friends made upon her, and of which he forwarded
an account to the Medical Times last October and
November. After being magetised by M. Ricard,
Virginie was placed en rapport wjth an ecclesiastic
ofthe seminary ofToulouse, two others being present,
and proceeded to describe the town, his church,
and residence. She was right in son1e particulars,
such as the street leading to the Place du Capitole,
the colour of the houses which are of brick, there
being no steeple to the church, &c., but was at
fault in several others. She was subsequently placed
in re1ation with an old gentleman, who wished her
to describe his chateau. After two or three gene-
ralities, which she answered correctly, she attempted
to enter more into particulars, and said truly that on
ascending two steps, a large room was on the right,
which be said was the billiard-room; she also said
REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE. 19
there were four windows in it, correctly described
the colour of the walls, around which were
pictures, but could not n1ake out some piece of
furniture, which was between the rooms, though
she appeared to try hard. She likewise said she
could not perceive any billiard-table ; though as the
gentleman had mentioned it was the billiard-room,
if there were any deception, one would suppose the
billiard-table would have been one of the first
things mentioned. She was, however, unsuccessful
in some of her other attempts to describe the same
place, so that her exhibition on this occasion may be
cons~dered a failure, as compared with some of her
previous ones.
Such is the account, to the best of my recollection,
of a part of the occurrences which took place before
numerous assemblages of persons, analogous ones
being daily shown in private parties; the somnam-
bulist with his eyes bandaged, playing with any one
who chooses to offer himself; reading printed and
written lines, and describing localities ; though
Alexis, as well as the other somnambulists, is often
at fault, of which I was told an instance at the party
of a lady, where he had failed to distinguish the
colour of flowers, but in my opinion the failures do
not disprove the instances of success.
Had I not proruised so to do, I should not
have stated these occurrences to the Society, feel-
ing that in the present state of our knowledge
they are such as not to admit of discussion, and
I think no one who has witnessed these experi-
ments so frequently repeated, would be disposed
to ascribe them to trickery or accidental guess-
ing, as might be the case were there only two or three
isolated instances; for with reference merely to the
trials which I myself made, and to the card playing,
will it be asserted that any one in their normal
state, and with the free use of their eyes, could have
performed the feats, a few of which I have enu-
20 REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE.
merated? that the female somnambulist should
have guessed the letter G, of the Gazette des H6-
pitaux? that Alexis should by chance, or from
seeing them, have reatl the words which I desired
him, that he should have mentioned several pecu-
liarities of my apartment, as well as that of others,
without any leading questions being· put to him;
for supposing, for instance, I had asked, is there a
trunk in my room, in which room is it, and what is
its colour? the chances would be at least equal to
his guessing wrong as right; whereas as regards
myself, his stating the circumstances correctly was
the rule, and the n1istakes, which he frequently cor-
rected, the rare exception. It must also be admitted.
after he positively affirmed that there was some-
thing on the night-table, without any allusion to this
piece of furniture on my part; and my perceiving
on arriving at home, the unusual circumstance of
its being covered with a piece of the curtain,
was at least a curious coincidence. I do not offer
any explanation of these extraordinary phenomena,
which have likewise been admitted and recorded
by numerous individuals, and with reference to
which the commission, appointed by the Aca-
demie de Medecine in 1826, to inquire into Ma.gne-
tism, thus expressed itself, before that body, after
five years of patient investigation, in the conclusion
of its report.
"Certainly we dare not flatter ourselves that we
shall make you share entirely our conviction of the
reality of the phenomena which we have observed,
aud which you have neither seen, nor followed, nor
studied with, or in opposition to us. We do not,
therefore, exact from you a blind belief in all which
we have reported. We conceive that a great part
of the facts are so extraordinary, that you cannot
grant it to us; perhaps we ourselves should have
refused you our belief if, changing places, you had
come to announce them before this tribunal, to us,
REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE. 21
who like you at present had seen nothing, observed
nothing, studied nothing, followed nothing· of them.
"We only require that you judge us as we should
have judged you, that is to say, that you remain
perfectly convinced that neither the love of the
marvellous, nor the desire of celebrity, nor any inte.
rest whate\rer, has influenced us in our labours. We
were animated by motives more elevated, more
worthy of you-by the love of science, and by the
wish to justify the hope which the Acadernie had
conceived of our zeal and devotedness."
Before concluding, I would remark, that in
my opinion, the consitleration of the physical in-
fluence, (so to speak,) transmitted from the mag-
netiser to the magnetised, inducing in the latter a
peculiar kind of sleep, a greater or less deg1·ee of
insensibility to external stimulants on t'!Je senses,
to pricking, cutting, ammonia held to the nostrils,
&c.; as also the state of cataleptic rigidity, which in-
fluence is likely to become more practicaJly useful
than heretofore as a therapeutic means, should be se-
parated from that ofthe psychological phenomena, as
clairvoyance, intuition, the divining the thoughts of
persons en rapport with somnambulists, &c.; which
are powers superadded iu a comparatively small
number of individuals while under the mag·netic
influence, and in whom the lucidity is not at al1
times in the same degree of perfection, whereas,
the former category of effects are producilJle upon
a large proportion of those who are magnetised, and
also upon seve1·al animals, accounts of the experi-
ments upon which have been published by some
persons.
It is very likely, however, that those members of
the society who may wish to see analogous pheno-
mena to those which I have recorded, will pro-
bably have an opportunity of doing so, as on a pro-
position of Dr. Davison, I asked M. 1\tlarcillet, the
magnetiser, if he would appear with his somnam-
22 REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYA.NCE.
bulist before the society, which he kindl[ consented
to do. Should such be the case, I fee convinced
that the members of the society will take care to
avoid giving any annoyance to the somnambulist by
which his lucidity might be impaired ; and that they
will be disposed to judge without prejudice or
undue bias from preconceived notions, of the facts
which they may witness: though I think it would
be more satisfactory as regards the results, if a com-
tnittee composed of a small number of members of
the society were previously to see and report upon
the phenomenon of clairvoyance, or the perception
of cards, printed or written characters, separately
from the other phenomena, by which its existence
might be verified.
EDWIN LEB•
.April 20, 1843.
Translated copy ofa letter addressed to M. Marcillet.
SIR,
I cannot remain satisfied with verbally thanking
you for l1aving enabled me to witness some mag·
netic phenomena ; more durable expressions of my
astonishment on perceivingeffectswhich areinexplic-
able by human intelligence than are words, ought to
serve to counterpoise the denials of an obstinate in-
credulity, and to reply triumphantly to those p~rsons
who will see nothing else than charlatanism In the
exercise of a new sense, which we vainly endeavour
to comprehend. Let such persons then perceive,
in the declaration which I feel pleasure in making
to you, Sir, the proof of a conviction which could
only be founded upon the wonderful experiments,
to which you had the kindness to admit me. .
Although I had formerly attended magnetic
seances, in which some surprising results had been
REPORT UPON CLAIRVOYANCE. 23
obtained, I had, I confes8, doubts respe<!ting the
reality of the faculty possessed by certain somnam-
bulists, of transporting themselves mentally, to
places which they had never seen, and which were
known only to those with whom they were placed
in relation. I was, therefore, strongly desirous of
ascertaining how far they might be relied upon in
this respect, and the . trial has been so satisfactory,
so complete, that I can scarcely believe that which
I haYe seen and heard. The young Alexis has, at
my request, described to me my country residence,
(situated an hundred leagues from Paris,) and the
details with a marvellous exactness; the appearance
of the country, the remarkable objects, the shape
of the buildings, the nature and the position of the
furniture, nothing escaped this second sight. It
seemed as if an immense picture was unfolded to
the eyes of the somnambulist, and that he had only
to indicate its different parts. He somethnes hesi-
tHted in his answers, but always in order to arrive
more surely at the truth, always leaving me in the
most extreme surprise, I may say in stupefaction.
Suffer, Sir, that this testimony df the sensations
which you have caused me to experience, be also
that of the gratitude due to your kindness, and
accept the expression o( the distinguished consi-
d~ration with which I am,
Your very humble servant,
GEORGE ONSLOW,
Member of the Institute.
Paris, April21, 1843.
24
ADDITIONAL REMARKS.
Since the above report was made, the phenomena
which it records, have been daily exhibiteu before
large assemblies by whom their correctness and
truth are acknowJedged; and in England, within
the last three months, animal magnet.isrr1 has made
rapid progress both as regards the public and the
medical profession; to which have greatly contri-
buted the relation of cases now more frequently
occurring, of operations performed without paiu
upon persons subjected to the influence of this
agent; the popular lectures which have been given
in London· and in the provincial towns, in which
are usually shown the ordinary effects, as also the
phenomena of phreno·ruagnetism ;* the large cir-
culation of the monthly and quarterly journals,
(nearly the whole impression, of the first number
of the Zoist having been sold off before the ap-
pearance of the second,) though as yet no very
striking instances of lucid somnambulism, similar to
those in Paris, have been made public on this side
the channel, and respecting which it is very natu-
• In a pamphlet just published by 1\Jr. Colquhoun,(" The Falla('y
of Phreno-Magnetism Detected and Exposed,") these manifestations
are ascribed to the community of feeling between the Ma&neti:er and
Somnambulist lending the latter to express the sentiments of the
former, in the same manner as the community of taste, when if the
magnetiser place any savoury substan('e in his mouth, the taste will
be immediately felt by the sleeping patient.
7
ADDITJONAL REMARKS. 25
ral that many of those who have not had the oppor-
tunity of personally verifying their existence, should
express their doubts or disbelief notwithstanding
the numerous attestations of their truth ; several of
which were made by persons of celebrity who were
themselves previously sceptical. Thus many years
ago, Mr. Cbevenix said," In 1803 and 1804, while
travelling in Germany, I heard many very enlight-
ened men of the universities talk of animal magne-
tism with nearly the same certainty as mineral mag-
netisin, but I set down their credulity to the account
of German mysticism. I remained an unbeliever."
At length after nineteen years, Mr. C. condescended
to witness mesmerism in the person of a young
lady at Paris. "I went to laugh," says he," and
came away convinced."-Zoist. The same gentle-
man further observed : " Wonderful, indeed, it may
appear, but what makes anything won.derful to us,
if not our ignorance? In my recollection they have
wondered at hydrogen and oxygen, at a dead frog,
j.umping between two plates of metal, at gas-lights
and steam-boats, and now they wonder at any one
who wonders at these familiar things. Everything
in creation is wonderful or nothing is. so, but the
last known truth always appears the most miracu-
lous to unreflecting minds. Since the world began
men have been wondering at everything, till habit
tamed their minds upon it."
" In receiving facts upon testimony," says Dr.
Abercombie, in his work on the Intellectual Powers,
"we are much influenced by their accordance with
facts with which we are already acquainted. This
is what in comrnou language, we call their proba-
bility, and statements which are probable, that is in
accordance with facts which we already know are
received upon a lower degree of evidence than those
which are not in such accordance. Now this is a
sound and salutary caution, but we should beware
of allowing it to influence us beyond its proper
spher~. It should lead us to examine carefully the
c
26 ADDITIONAL HEMARKS .
evidence upon which we receive facts, but we shonld
. beware of allowing it to engender scepticism. For
while an unbounded credulity is the part of a weak
mind which never thinks or reasons at all, an un-
limited scepticism is the part of a contracted mind
which reasons upon imperfect data, or makes
its own knowledge and extent of observation the
standard and test of probability. An ignorant
peasant may reject the testimony of a philosopher
in regard to the size of the moon, because he thinks
he has the evidence of his senses that it is only a
foot in diameter; and a person holding a respect-
able rank in society is said to have received with
contempt the doctrine of the revolution of the earth
on its axis because he was perfectly satisfied that
his house was never known to turn with its front to
the north. When the King of Siam was told by a
Dutch traveller, that in Hollaud at certain seasons
of the year water becomes so solid that an elephant
might walk over it, he replied, " I have believed
many extraordinary things which you have told me,
because I took you for a man of truth and veracity,
but now I am convinced that you lie." Had the
King of Siam once seen water in a frozen state, he
would not only have been put right in regard to
this fact, but his confidence would have been sLaken
in his own experience as the test of probability in
other things, and he w'ould have been more dis-
posed for the farther reception of truth upon the
evidence of testimony.
" The reception of facts upon the evidence of
testimony must therefore be considered as a funda-
Inental principle of our nature, to be act~d upon
whenever we are satisfied that the testimony pos·
sesses certain characters of credibility. These are
chiefly referable to three heads ;-that the indivi-
dual has had sufficient opportunity of ascertaining
the facts; that we have confidence in his power of
judging of their accuracy; and that we have no sus-
picion of his being influenced by passion or preju-
ADDITIONAL REMARKS. 27
dice in his testimony-or, in other words, that we
believe him to be an honest witness. Our confi-
dence is further strengthened by several witnesses
concurring in the same testimony, each of whom
has had the sa~e opportunitie3 of ascertaining the
facts, and presents the same characters of truth and
honesty. On such testimony we are in the constant
habit of receiving statements which are much
beyond the sphere of our personal observation, and
widely at variance with our experience. These are
the statements which for the sake of a name we
may call marvellous. In regard to such the foun-
dation of incredulity, as we have seen, is generally
ignorance, and it is interesting to trace the prin-
ciples by which a man of cultivated mind is influ-
enced in receiving upon testimony statements which
are rejected by the vulgar as totally incredible.
•, He is influenced by the recollections that many
things at one time appeared to him marvellous
which he now knows to be true; and he thence
concludes that there may still be in nature many
phenomena, and many principles with which he is
entirely unacquainted. In other words, he has
learned from experience not to 1nake his own
knowledge the test of probability."
On the occasion of the discussion at the Acade-
Inie Royale de Medecine, upon some a1leged decep-
tion in _
Magnetic Clairvoyance, brought forward by
M. Gerdy, notwithstanding that body had de-
cided they would not again discuss the subject,
M. J. Cloquet remarked: "There exist incontesti-
ble facts of Magnetism, doubtless we cannot explain
them, but these facts are not the only ones inex-
plicable in science. We cannot explain natural
somnambulism. It is not then philosophical nor
becoming in ·a learned body, like the Academie, to
oppose itself in this manner to facts, and to place a
veto upon further examination. I vote against the
decision." M.M. Adelon and Londe concurred in
the remarks of M. Cloquet. M. Bouvier certified
. c 2
28 ADDITIONAL REMARKS.
that for twenty years he had frequently had occasion
to witness magnetic somnambulism.
M. Londe said: "I was present at the experi-
ments to which M. Gerdy has alluded, and I must
say that out of five hundred persons who witnessed
them, M. Gerdy, one or ·two confreres, and myself,
were the only ones who retained any doubts re-
specting the reality of the phenomena of Magnetic
Clairvoyance in that seance. Facts which have
been declared to be true by so large a numher of
witnesses, ~o they not deserve to be again verified?"
M. Ferrus said: "Far from compromising itself,
the Academie renders a service to science in occu-
pying itself with the subject." For his part he be-
lieved both orders of phenomena, not only because
he had seen incontestible facts of magnetism, but
because he had been able to produce them him-
self. That very day he had seen some magnetic
phenomena and a very remarkable case of natural
somnambulism.
With reference to the production of insensibility
during operations by magnetising, M. Cloquet, who
is well known as one of the first surgeons in Paris,
re-asserted in a full assembly of the Acadernie, with
reference to the person on whom he had extirpated
a diseased breast without the feeling of pain, that
the insensibility was in consequence of the magne-
tisation ;* and the report of the Commission of the
Academie made in 1831, likewise says on this part
of the subject: "In this singular state the senses
have been closed to exterior impressions; a bottle
containing several ounces of ammonia, could be
held under the nose for five, ten, fifteen minutes, or
longer, without producing the least effect; the skin
has likewise been in such a state of complete insen-
sibility, so asto beinsensible to the hurning ofmoxa, to
the powerful excitation ofthe application of hotwater
• A report wasspread that the patient died in an hospital, and con-
fessed that she had deceived. This M. Colquet avers is altogether un-
true; the patient, who was the wife ofa wealthy person, never having
been b an hospital, or made any such contessiou.
ADDITIONAL REMARKS. 29
with mustard powder, which burning and irritation
were immediately felt and extremely painful,as soon
as the skin was restored to its normal sensibility.''*
• A few days ago I received a letter from Dr. Davison, in Paris, of
which the following is an extract.
'' I have been present at three seances magnetiques, but none of
the experiments were successful. Alexis failed in almost every in-
stance, and a new subject, the servant of Marcillet, ofwhom he related
marvels, was totally at fault.
" The president of our Society, Dr. Oliffe, engaged Marcillet and
Alexis to perform at his house about a fortnight since, and he invited
many of the members that they might have an oppOJtunity of forming
their own conclusions on the eubject. The rooms were warm and
crowded, and the people almost hemmed in the magnetiser and his
subject. Scarcely had the experiments commenced when one person,
D. L., made some absurd objections to them, and expressed his utter
dit~belief in mesmerism. In fact, the conduct of the majority was
such that it is not surprising Alexis was atlogether wanting in clair-
voyance; in place of one name he gave another; and the other ex-
periments were not more successful.''
Thus it would appear, either that Alexis is losing his powers of
lucidity, which generally happens to somnambulists after a longer or
shorter period,• or that they were impaired by the circumstance of
his knowing that he was to exhibit before an assembly, the majority of
whom were adverse to, and discredited magnetism, of which I have
related an instnnce in the report, and which magnetisers state to he
most frequently the case. At the time when I proposed that he should
appear before the Society M. Marcillet at once consented, but Alexis
objected, and stated his apprehension of not succeeding before a large
assembly of medical men, the greater number of whom he conceived
to be prejudiced against magnetism. This being known to be the
case, it was obviously unfair and illiberal, both as regards the som-
nambulist, and those who were disposed to witness the experiments
in good faith, in individuals to conduct themselves in such a manner
as almost certainly to cause them to fail. The failures, however, in
nowise invalidate the result of the successful trials, for if the experi-
ments were invariably to succeed, there would no longer be room for
scepticism, and no doubt could exist. As Mr. Chenevix long ago re-
marked in his papers in the Medical and Physical Journal," Things
which are so directly opposite to current opinions, should be witnessed
more than once before they are judged. Could these phenomena be
infullibly produced at will, and before an unlimited number of wit-
nesses, the question would be decided at once ; sentence might long
since have been pronounced upon a public theatre. At all events
nothing can more strongly evince the good faith and confidence of the
magnetiser than his readiness to allow the somnambulist to try l1is
powers under such unfavourable circumstances:'
* Madlle. Pigeaire, who exhibited powers of clairvoyance, much to
the astonishment and satisfaction ofmany highly distinguished persons
in Montpelier and Paris, has now entirely lost her lucidity.
...-
30 ADDITIO~AL REMARKS.
Thus not only the common effects of Animal
Magnetism, but also the more extraordinary phe-
nomena of lucid somnambulism, may be regarded
as proved; though this latter state is superadded
and met with in comparatively few instances, and
although these phenomena do not admit of satis·
factory explanation in the present state of science,
yet they must be considered as adding another link
to the chain ofknowledge, and as testifying that per-
ception may be occasionally acquired by other means
than the organs of sense which serve for this purpose
under ordinary circumstances. .As corroborative
of this opinion, I will extract a quotation from a
standard German work on PracticalReligion, by an
author no less esteemed in this respect, than from
his historical and other works.* '"fhis author ob-
serves : "Nevertheless, it is not· to be denied that
we are but learners in our investigations into the
secrets of nature, and that what appears to us to be
incomprehensible, is not, on that account, to be
denied altogether. We now know, for instance,
that the human soul, which employs for its instru-
ment, as regards earthly things, the nervous sys-
tem more particularly, can also feel and perceive
beyond the sphere of the nerves. We know that
in certain conditions of nervous disorder, man may
possess increased powers, may perceive distant
things, which are separated from him by an interval
of many miles. We know that in some states of
the nervous system, persons can see with firmly
closed eyes, can hear with closed ears. We have
examples of this in the so-called somnambulists,
who during the complete sleep of their bodies, per-
form things which in their waking state they were
unable to accomplish. Thus, herein shows itself
very clearly an activity ofthe human sou] altogethel'
independent of its outward senses. But in point
• Zscbocke. Stunden der Andacht, (Hours of Devot.ion,) twenty-
first edition.
ADDITIONAL REMARKS.
of fact, it is not the eyes which see, nor the Pars
which hear, it is the soul which sees, hears, and
perceives by means of the nerves, which are dis-
tributed over the whole surface of the body, and
the powers of which are at most redoubled in the
apparatus of the senses, smell, feeling." &c.
Again, he observes : " Undoubted observation
and experience likewise confirm the possibility of
an intimate union, of an influence of souls upon
souls without the interposition of bodily means of
assistance; (Hilfsmittel,) and to this extent, there is
also something credible in what are termed preseu-
tiruents, foreknowledge, and so forth.''*
" All this undoubted experience, however, l 1 a~
proved to us nothing else than that the human sonl
in certain states, possesses an increased power of
perception, but not that it has any power to act
upon bodies, external to its own body. The soul is
a spiritual essence, and can only act upon oth t~r
bodies through the intermedium of its own body.
Consequently, nothing should be thought of these
presentiment~, and still less of the foreknowledge
of particular destinies when the sig·ns of them appear·
to us in an earthly or corporeal form. Souls act
communicatively upon souls. Bodies also commu-
nicatively upon bodies."
With respect to the power of prediction, the same
author states in another part of his work, " Yet the
understanding and judgment are not the only means
by which God occasionally permits the future to
become evident to man. ll ere, likewise, exists in
• The following circumstance was·recently related to me as a posi-
tive fact. A young larly, perfectly awake, became suddenly very
much affected, and asserted that her father, who had left thorne in the
morning, had just met with an accident, having fallen from the car-
riage. A physician, who called in, endeavoured to reason her out of
her apprehension, and to impress upon her mind the unlikelihood of
such an occurrcuce. A few hours afterwards, however, her father ·was
brought home with a fractured leg, from the carriage having broken
do wn, and his falling out.
3:2 ADOITIONAL REMARKS.
the human soul another faculty for which, as yet,
no name has been applied, and the extent of which
we ourselves do not know, notwithstanding its ex-
istence cannot well be questioned. Under certain
circumstances, which, however, rarely occur, and
usually appear to accompany a disordered state or
an approaching dissolution of the body, the soul
enjoys a greater freedom than in ordinary cases.
It has the faculty, directly, and without inference,
both of perceiving occurrences at a distance, and
of being sensible of future events. The properties
of tnan's nature are too little known to us, for us to
pay no regard to, or to consider as erroneous, that
which we are not able to explain from ordinary and
known causes. The ancients, who knew as tnuch
as we do of the properties of the human soul, ob-
served this inexplicable power of perception and
foresight, especially in cases of nervous weakness,
and in the dying. Experience, and numberless
observations, in more recent times, up to our own
day, corroborate tbi~ opinion, viz. that there are cir-
cumstances under which the soul, less bound down
than usual by the body, passes out beyond the circle
ofoperation of the earthly senses."*
In tny work on Animal Magnetism, I have re-
corded, among others, the instance ofthe prediction
of the death of the King of Wurtemburg by two
different somnambulists; the one having foretold
the event four years beforehand, the other in the
spring of the same year, mentioned the exact day,
in the month of October, as also the disease, (apo-
plexy;) the exact coincidence of the event with the
predictions is not doubted at Stuttgard, and a fort-
night ago Dr. Klein, who is n~w in England ac-
companying the Crown Prince of W urtemburg,
having· been introduced to me, I took the opportu-
nity of asking him about the circumstance, which
• On Prophecies.
ADDITIONAL REMARKS. 33
he acknowlcdged was, as has been stated, saying,
moreover, that his father was physician to the king,
who, on the moruing of the day on which the attack
occurred, was in very good health and spirits.
The predictions of individuals from dreams, (between
which, and the phenomena of somnambulism, there
is great analogy,} as regards themselves or others,
Lave likewise, in many instances, been fulfilled in a
remarkable mauner. Mr. Borrow, on describing
his voyage out, in his work, the " Bible in Spain,"
relates one of these instances. " I was on the fore-
castle discoursing with two of the sailors: one of
them who had but just left his hammock, said,' I
have had a strange dream, which I do not much
like; for I dreamt that I fell into the sea from the
cross-trees.' He was beard to say this by several
of the crew beside myself, and shortly after, the
captain, perceiving that the squall was increasing,
ordered the topsails to be taken in, whereupon this
man, with several others, instantly ran aloft; the
yard was in the act of being hauled down, when a
suddden gust of wind whirled it round with vio-
lence, and a man was struck down from the cro.;s-
trees into the sea, which was working like yeast
below. In a few moments he emerged : I saw his
head on the crest of a billow, and instantly recog-
nised in the unfortunate man, the sailor who a few
moments before had related his dream. The poor
fellow who perished in this singular manner was a
fine young man of twenty-seven; the best sailor on
board, and beloved by all who were acquainted with
him. This event occurred on the 11th November,
18::35 ; the vessel was the London Merchant Steam
::;hip. Truly wonderful are the ways of Provi-
dence!"
A lady, a friend of mine, told me that one of her
friends dreamt three times the same nig·ht that her
child was taken by an angel; on awaking after the
third time, she found the child dead by her side,
notwithstanding it was previously in good health.
c 5
34 ADDITIONAL REMARKS.
Similar coincidences have generally been consi-
dered as accidental; but the circumstances will
doubtless admit of the same explanation as that
which has been offered upon the phenomena of
lucid somnambulism ; which, as they are likely to
be more particularly noted in future, will not occa-
sion so much surprise as hitherto, from their having
been only occasionally observed. As the author of
a standard work remarks with reference to the phe-
nomena which takes place during sleep : " Among
the astonishing appearances exhibited by the mind
in sleep, a very large proportion are precisely ana·
lagous to those of which we are every moment
conscious while awake. If the exciting causes,
for example, of our dreams seem mysterious and
inscrutable, is not the fact the same with the o1·igin
of every idea or thought which spontaneously solicits
our notice? The only difference is, that in the
latter instance, in consequence of long and con-
stant familiarity, they are surveyed by all with little
wonder, and by most with hardly any attention. In
the former instance, they rouse the curiosity of the
most illiterate, from their comparative infrequency,
and from the contrast which in some respects they
present to the results of our habitual experience.
It is thus that a peasant who has been accustoaJed
from his infancy to see without any emotion the
fall of heavy bodies to the grounu, never fails to
express the liveliest emotion when he first witnesses
the powers of the loadstone."
" In such cases the researches of genuine science
have a tendency to produce two 1noral effects equally
beneficial. The one is to illustrate the unity of
design in nature, by reconciling, what seems from
its rarity or singularity to be mysterious or incom-
prehensible, with the general laws which are fa-
miliarised to us by daily experience; the other to
counteract the effects of familiarity in blunting our
natural curiosity with respect to those laws by lead-
ADDITIONAL REMARKS. 35
ing the thoughts to some of their more curious and
apparently anomalous applications."*
The above passage might be dwelt upon with
much advantage by those persons who are disposed
to ascribe effects which appear to them miraculous,
because they li~ beyond the sphere of their circum-
scribed intelligence, to the direct intervention of a
supernatural agency, and it is with difficulty that a
smile is suppressed when we hear it gravely alleged,
that if the phenomena of magnetic somnambulism
were admitted to be true, they are only to be as-
cribed to satanic influence, though it would not be
easy for such persons to reconcile the co-existence
of an influence from such a source with the benefits
which are likely to result from the extended applica-
tion of Animal Magnetism :t for even allowing that
this power is liable to be occasionally abused,
where, it may be asked, are we to find any un-
mixed good? and the same objection might be
equally applied to any of the powerful agents of
nature or art. While the good from the employ-
ploytnent of magnetism is likely to be positive and
general, there is no reason to apprehend more
harm from its occasional abuse, than from that of
opium, arsenic, galvanism, or a:nything else which
admits of being employed either beneficially or pre-
judicially.
I have already alluded to the corroboration which
the doctrines of revealed religion receive ii·om the
!omnambulic phenomena, inasmuch as they go
to prove the separate existence of mind or soul
from matter, and its consequent independence ot
the organs by which its manifestations are made evi-
dent under ordinary circumstances; and I have men-
tioned the conversion of Georget from his opinions,
advocating materialism, in copsequence of his be-
• Notes to Stewart's Philosophy of the Human Mind.
t A well-written letter, taking an opposite view of the question,
•• Mesmerism the Gift ofGod, ' has just been published by n beneficed
clergyman. (Painter, 340, Strand.)
36 ADDITIONAL REMARKS.
coming acquainted with these phenomena. The
following extract is taken from the last will of this
celebrated physician and physiologist. " In 1821
I openly professed the doctrines of materialism in
my work on the nervous system. This work had
scarcely appeared, when renewed meditations on a
very extraordinary phenomenon, somnambulism, no
longer permitted me to entertain doubts of the ex~
istence within us, and external to us, of an intelli-
gent principle, altogether different from material
existences ; in a wol'd, of the soul and God. With ..
respect to this I entertain a profound conviction,
founded upon facts which I believe to be incon-
testible. This declaration will not see the light till
a period when its sincerity will not be doubted, or
uty intentions suspected. As I cannot publish it
myself, I request those persons who may read it, on
opening this will, that IS to say, after my death, to
give it all possible publicity."
" The mind," observes Dr. Abercrombie, " can
be compared to nothing in nature; it has been en-
dowed by its Creator with a power of perceiving
external things, but the manner in which it does
so is entirely beyond our comprehension." In
another part of his work, Dr. A. relates the case of
a boy, who, at the age of four, received a fracture
of the skull, for which he underwent the operation
of the trepan. He was at the time in a state of
perfect stupor, and after his recovery retained no
recollection either of the accident or the operation.
At the age of fifteen, during the delirium of a fever,
he gave hi~ mother an account of the operation,
and the persons who were present at it, with a ror-
rect description of their dress, and other minute
particulars. He had never been observed to allude
to it before, and no means were known by which
he could have acquired the circumstances which he
mentioned." After alluding to several instances
in which the brain has been extensively diseased
without the phenomena of mind being impaired in
ADDITIONAL REMARK8. 37
any sensible deg·ree, (among others that of a man
who dieJ with a pound of water in his brain, after
having been long in a state of idiocy, but who, a
very short time before his death, became perfectly
rational,) this distinguished physician further re-
marks, in illustration of the independent existence
of the thinking principle, " The facts which have
been thus briefly referred to present a series of
phenomena of the most remarkable kind, but on
which we cannot speculate in the smallest degree
without advancing beyond the sphere of our limited
faculties. One thing, however, is certain,-that
they give no countenance to the doctrine of ma-
terialism, which some have presumptuously deduced
from a very partial view, upon the influence of
cerebral disease upon the manifestations of mind.
They show us, indeed, in a very striking manner,
the mind holding intercourse with the external world
through the medium of the brain and nervous
system ; and by certain diseases of these organs,
they show this intercourse impaired or suspended,
but they show nothing more. In particular, they
warrant nothing in any degree analogous to those
partial deductions which form the basis of material-
ism; on the contrary, they show us the brain in-
jured and diseased to an extraordinary extent, with-
out the mental functions being affected in any
sensible degree. They show us, farther, the mani-
festations of mind obscured for a time, and yet
reviving in all their original vig·our almost at the
very moment of dissolution. Finally, they exhibit
to us the tnind, cut off from all intercourse with the
external world, recalling its old impressions, even of
things long forgotten, and exerci~ing its powers on
those which had long ceased to exist, in a manner
totally irreconcileable with any iuea we can form
of a material function." *
• On the Intellectual Powers.
38 ADDITIONAL REMARKS.
The following cases which I subjoin from the
same work, together with those of an analogous
nature which I have already recorded, tend, I think,
further to prove that under peculiar circumstances,
the mind may acquire perceptions, independently
of the material organs by means of which its mani-
festations are usually evidenced, and also to corro-
borate the numerous instances of mental rapport,
intuition, and the prediction of events by persons
while in magnetic somnambulism.
" A gentleman in Edinburgh was affected with
aneurism of the popliteal artery, for which he was
under the care of two eminent surgeons, and the
day was fixed for the operation. About two days
before the time appointed for it, the wife of the
patient dreamt that a change had taken place in
the disease, in consequence of which the operation
would .not be required. On examining the tumour
in the morning the gentleman was astonished to
find that the pulsation had entirely ceased ; and,
in short, this turned out to be a spontaneous cure.
To persons not professional it may be right to men-
tion that the cure of popliteal aneurism without an
operation is a very uncommon occurrence, not hap-
pening in one out of numerous instances, and never
to be looked upon as probable in any individual
case."
" I am enabled," says Dr. Abercrombie, to give
the following as entirely authentic in all its par·
ticulars.-' A most respectable clergyman in a
country parish in Scotland tnade a collection at his
church for an object of public benevolence in which
he felt deeply interested. The amount of the col-
lection, which was received in ladles carried through
the church, fell greatly short of his speculation, and
during the evening of that day he frequently alluded
to this with expressions of much disappointment.
In the following night he dreamt that three one
pound notes had been left in one of the ladles,
7
ADDITIONAL REMARKS. 39
having been so compressed by the money which
had been thrown in above them that they had stuck
in the corner when the ladle was emptied. He was
so impressed by the vision, that at an early hour in
the morning he went to the church,-found the ladle
which he had seen in his dream, and drew from one
of the corners of it three one pound notes."
" Many years ago there was mentioned in several
of the papers a dream which gave notice of the
murder of Mr. Percival. Through the kindness of
an eminent medical friend in England, I have re-
ceived the authentic particulars of this remarkable
case from the gentleman to whom the dream oc-
curred. He resides in Cornwall, and eight days
before the murder was committed dreamt that he
was in the lobby of the House of Commons, and saw
a small man enter dressed in a blue coat and wbite
waistcoat. Immediately after he saw a man dressed
in a brown coat with yellow basket metal buttons
draw a pistol from under his coat and discharge it
at the former, who instantly fell. The blood issueJ
from a wound a little below the left breast. He
saw the murderer seized by some gentlemen who
were present, and observed his countenance; and
on asking who the gentleman was who had been
shot, he was told it was the ChanceJlor, (Mr. Per-
cival was at the time Chancellor of the Exchequer.)
He then awoke, and mentioned the dream to his
wife, who made light of it; but in the course of the
night the dream occurred three times without the
least variation in any of the circumstances. He
was now so much impressed by it, that he felt much
inclined to give notice to Mr. Percival, but was
dissuaded by some friends whom he consulted, who
assured him he would only get himself treated as a
fanatic. On the evening of the eighth day after
.he received the account of the murder. Being in
London a short time after, he fountl in the print-
shops a representation of the scene, and recognised
40 ADDITIONAL REMARKS.
in it the countenances and dress of the parties, the
blood on Mr. Percival's waistcoat, and the peculiar
yellow basket-buttons on Bellingham's coat, pre-
cisely as he had seen them in his dream.''•
"The gentleman to whom I am indebted for the
fo1lowing case, was born in Madras, and was brought
from thence at the age of three years to be educated
in England, where he grew up without the least re-
collection of anything relating to Madras or to his
parents, who remained in India. At the age of four-
teen, he dreamt that he saw his mother sitting in
the dress of a widow, and apparently under deep
distress; and he gave a distinct account of the
apartment in which he saw her, with the position of
various prominent articles of furniture, which he
described minutely. It afterwards turned out that
his father died about the time of the dream ; and
that he had correctly described a drawing-room in
the house at Madras in which his mother was in
the habit of sitting."
"An instance of a very singular kind is menti-
oned by Mr. Joseph Taylor, and is given by him as
an undoubted fact. A young man who was at an
academy, a hundred miles fron1 home, dreamt that
he went to his father's house in the night, tried the
front door but found it locked ; got in by the back
door, and finding nobody out of bed, went directly
to the bed-room of his parents. He then said to
his mother, whom he found awake, 'Mother, I am
going a long journey, and am come to bid you good-
bye.' On this she answered, under much agitation,
'Oh, dear son, thou art dead!' He instantly awoke
and thought no more of his dream, until a few days
after, he received a letter from his father, inquiriu()'
very anxiously after his health, in consequence of~
frightful dream his mother ha~ on the same night
• It was assured by a person, on whose statement I place every reli-
ance, that the death- of the Duke of Orleans wa~ predicted by a som-
nambulist a fortnight before the event.
•
ADDITIONAL REMARKS. 41
in which the dream now mentioned occurred to
him. She dreamt that she heard some one attempt
to open the front-door, then go to the back-door,
and at last come into her bed-room ; she then saw it
was her son, who came to the side of her bed and
said, 'Mother, I am going a long journey, and am
come to bid you good bye.' On which she exclaimed,
' Oh, dear son, thou art dead !' Bnt nothing un-
usual happened to any of the parties."
I have mentioned in " Animal Magnetism,'' the
case related by Dr. Dyce; the following which is
likewise given in Dr. Abercrombie's work, under the
head of "somnambulism," is still more interesting,
and would suffer by any abbreviation. Dr. Aber-
crombie states that he received it fi·otn a lady of
high intelligence, who was herself a witness of the
facts.
'' A girl aged seven years, an orphan of the lowest
rank, residing in the house ofa farmer by whom she
was emplayed in tending cattle, was accustomed to
sleep in an apartment separated by a very thin par-
tition from one which was frequently occupied by
an itinerant fiddler. This person was a musician of
very considerable skill, and often spent a part of the
night in performing pieces of a refined description ;
but his performance was not taken notice of by the
child except as a disagreeable noise. After a resi-
dence of six months in this family, she fell into bad
health, and was removed to the house of a bene-
volent lady, where, on her recovery after a pro-
tracted illness, she was employed as a servant. Some
years after she came to reside with this lady, the
most beautiful music was often heard in the house
during the night, which excited no small interest
and wonder in the family, and many a waking hour
was spent in endeavours to discover the invisible
minstrel. At length the sound was traced to the
sleeping room of the girl, who was found fast asleep
but uttering from her lips a sound exactly resem-
42 ADDITIONAL REMARKS.
hling the sweetest tones of a small violin. On
further observation it was found, that after being
about two hours in bed, she became restless and
began to mutter to herself. She then uttered
sounds p1·ecisely resembling the tuning of a violin,
and at length after some prelude, dashed off into
elaborate pieces of music, which she performed in
a clear and accurate manner, and with a sound ex-
actly resembling the most delicate modulations of
that instrument. During the performance she
sometimes stopped, made the sound of retuning her
instrument, and then began exactly where she had
stopped in the most correct manner: thus these
paroxysms occurred at irregular intervals, varying
from one to fom·teen, or even twenty nights ; and
they were generally followed by a degree of fever
and pains over val'ious parts of her body.
After a year or two her music was not confined to
the imitation of the violin, but was often exchanged
for that of a piano of a very old description, which
she was accustomed to hear in the house where she
now lived; and she then also began to sing, imi-
tating exactly the voices of several ladies of the
family. In another year from this time she began
to talk a great deal in her sleep, in which she seemed
to fancy herself instructing a younger companion.
She often descanted with the utmost fluency and
correctness on a variety of topics, both political and
religious, the news of the day, the historical parts of
scripture, public characters, and particularly the
characters of memhers of the family and their visi-
tors. In these discussions she showed the most
wonderful discrimination often combined with sar-
casm and astonishing powers of mimicry. Her
language through the whole was fluent and correct,
and her illustrations often forcible and even elo-
quent. She was fond of illustrating her subjects by
what she called a fable, and in these her imagery
was both appropriate and elegant. " She wus by no
ADDITIONAL REMARKS. 43
means," says my informer, " limited in her range.
Buonaparte, Wellington, Blucher, and all the
kings ofthe earth,figured among the phantasmagoria
of her brain; and all were animadverted upon with
such freedom from restraint, as often made me think
poor Nancy bad been transported to Madame Genlis'
palace of truth. The justness and truth of her re-
marks on all subjects excited the utmost astonish-
ment in those who were acquainted with her limited
means of acquiring information.'' She has been
known to conjugate Latin verbs which she had pro-
bably heard in the school-room of the family : and
she was once heard to speak very correctly several
sentences in French-at the saine time stating that
she heard them ftom a foreign gentleman whom sh<~
had met accidentally in a shop. Being questioned
on this subject when awake, she remembered having
seen the g·entler_
nan, but could no-.repeat a word ot
what he said. During her paroxysms, it was almost
impossible to awake her; and when her eyelids
were raised, and a candle brought near the eye, the
pupil seemed insensible to the light. For several
years she was, during the paroxysms, enti1·ely un-
conscious of the presence of other persons; but
about the age of sixteen, she began to observe those
who were in the apartment, and she could tell cor-
rectly their numbers, though the utmost care was
taken to have the room darkened. She now also
became capable of answering questions that were
put to her, and of noticing remarks made in her pre-
sence, and with regard to both she showed astonish-
ing acuteness. Her observations, indeed, were often
of such a nature, and corresponded so accurately
with characters and events, that by the country-
people she was believed to be endowed with super-
natural power·s.
During the whole period of this remarkable affec-
tion, which seems to have gone on for at least ten
or eleven years, she was, when awake, a dull awk-
44 ADDITIONAL REMARKS.
ward girl, very slow in receiving any kind of in-
struction, though much care was bestowed upon
her; and in point of intellect, she was much inferior
to the other servants of the family.* In particular,
she showed no kind of turn for music. She did not
appear to have any recollection of what passed
during her sleep."
Another very remarkable modification of this af-
fection is referred to by Mr. Combe as described by
Major Elliot, Professor of Mathematics, in the
United States' Military Academy at West-point.
The patient was a young lady of cultivated mind,
and the affection began with an attack of somno-
lency, which was protracted several hours beyond
the usual time. When she came out of it, she was
found to have lost every kind of acquired know-
ledge. She immediately began to apply herself to
the first eleruents..of education, and was making con-
siderable progress, when, after several months, she
was seized with a second fit of somnolency. She
was now at once restored to all the knowledge which
she possesed before the first attack, but without the
least recollection of anything that had taken place
during the interval. After another interval, she had
a third attack of somnolency, which left hel' in the
same state as after the first. In this manner she
suffered these alternate conditions for a period of
four years with the very remarkable ciJ·cumstance,
that during the one state she retained all her origi-
nal knowletlge, but during the other, that only
which she had acquired since the first attack. During
the healthy interval, for example, she was remark-
able for the beauty of her penmanship, but during
the paroxysm wrote a poor, awkward hand. Per-
sons introduced to her during the paroxysm, she re-
cognised only in a subsequent paroxysm, but not in
• Magnetizers al!sert, that the best instances of lucid somnambulism
are met with in uneducated persons, and those not distinguished by
quickness ofparts.
ADDITIONAL REMARKS. 45
the interval; and persons whom she had seen for
the first time during the healthy interval, she did
not recognise during the attack."
Dr. Passavant, in the preface to the second edi-
tion ofhis Untersuchungen Uber den Lebeus Mag-
netismus und das Hellsehen, obse.rves, that," he who
has had an opportunity of frequently and carefully
examining the phenomena of Animal Magnetism
must have had the conviction forced upon him, that
they stand in the most. intimate connexion with the
highest powers of the human soul; and that an
individual in a state of pure ecstasy being ena-
bled to foresee future events with preci~ion, and
distinctly to recognise distant objects, manifestly af-
fords decisive evidence of the immaterial nature of
the soul, which even in this life is sometimes eman-
cipated from the fetters of material organization." •
Yet notwithstanding the almost universal convic-
tion ofthe reality ofthephenomena ofsomnambulis1n
in Germany, and the testimony of innumerable
persons of character in France, among whom may
be enumerated many names distinguished in the
scientific and medical world: as Orfila, Dean of the
Parisian faculty of medicine; Pariset, perpetual
secretary to the Royal Academy of Medicine;
Ribes, Rostan, Reveille-Parise, Fouquier, physi-
cian to the king, and many others-it is to be ex-
pected that incredulity must continue to p1·evail
with some exceptions in England, till such time as
frequent opportunities shall be afforded to the pub-
lic of personally verifying their truth, the admission
of which is opposed neither to the known laws of
nature, nor to reason, though not at present capa-
ble of being· satisfactorily explained. " Hence
comes the distinction,'' as a well known author ob-
serves, " between things contrary to, and things
above reason, that is beyond the limits of its reHch.
* Hints on Animal Magnetism, addressed to the Medical Profes-
sion. By J. C. Colquhoun. esq.
6
46 ADDJTIOKAL REMARKS.
But the great difficulty lies in ascertaining what is
above, and what contrary to reason; there are per-
petual di putes npon this article, some looking upon
their non-comprehension as a certain mark of the
cont1·ariety, wbile others would impose the most
palpable absurdities, under the notion of their being
above reason. rrhe vulgar are generally too credu-
lous, because their reason being narrow, there is
little room to contradict it; and the learned are too
indocile, because having extended theirs to a larger
field, they think everything a contradiction that will
not come within the sphere.''*
But although individuals may remain incredulous,
(either from not having witnessed any experiments1
from having refused so to do when opportunities
have offered, or from the failure or incompleteness
of the particular trials at which they may have been
present,) and are fully at liberty to entertain their
own opinions, it is scarcely justifiable to impugn
the testimony of so many and distinguished persons
upon these points, and to ascribe the successful re4
suit of the experiments to collusion, deception, and
imposture, unless they have sufficient grounds of
proving their assertions. After referring to the
solecisms in reasoning, and to the exaggerated con-
clusions in the work of an author who not only in-
dulges in an unqualified denial of animal magne-
tism, though he admits that he has seen nothing of
it himself, but also accuses magnetisers and som-
nambulists, of being impostors and not worthy of
credit, the critic in one of the London papers pro-
ceeds justly to remark, " We could wish before de-
nouncing he would take the fair-p1ay pains of doing
something in the way of disproving. Far be we
• Tucker. The J.ight ofNature pursued. Sixth edition.
Sir J. Clark justly observes, that the studies of those brought up
to the medical profession in England are too much circumscribed to
those subjects which are most immediately connected with it. This,
together with the material nature of those studies, would render the
majority, perhaps, not the most fit persons to investigate with impar-
tiality questions referring to the philosophy ofmind.
ADDITIONAL REMARKS. 47
from standing out as advocates of any unorthodox
doctrines in medicine be Hahnemann, or be who
may be the propounder, but let us honestly caution
writers of all grades, that it is not by flatly call-
ing a thing false, they will get sensible people
to take it for granted that it is false." There
must be something more than clap-trap hacknied
assertion; there must be facts and reason, and
the results of bona fide enquiry and examination.
Folks with brains in their heads will look for these
features of a discussion. and satisfy themselves on
which side they lie, ere they yield themselves to an
undoubting impression either way. The constant
broaching of new principles, makes it the more in-
dispensable, that as faithful watchers for the public
health, physicians should seriously apply themselves
to rneet these innovations, that quackery and im-
position may be more completely exposed, and that
anything of good may be separated from the plausi-
ble pretensions of deceit and error, that the latter
may be marked and flung aside to perish, and the
former retained for the benefit of ourselves and
successors.*
That the number of the incredulous is however
daily diminishing, is apparent from the rapid pro-
gress which animal magnetism has made within a
short period, not among the ignorant, and therefore
the more credulous part of the community, but
among the upper and middle classes, the more in-
telligent and the medical portion of the community,
ft·om whon1 alone rigid investigation is sought by
the propagators of this part of psychological science,
and many unprejudiced investigators; among whom
may be ranked several eminent names, both in the
medical and non-medical community, who were for-
merly opposed to magnetism from the apparently in-
credible nature ofthe phenomena, who have not hesi-
• Critique from the Morning Post, March '29, upon "The Great
Physician.''
4 ADDITIONAL REMARKS.
tated to admit their conviction of its truth, from the
incontrovertible evidence presented to them. The
following notice of a lecture recently given at the
Mechanics' Institution by Mr. Nyman, of Boston7
U nited States, from the Morning Cbronir.le, sho\vs
that in America the existence of the powers of mag-
netism are generally acknowledged by the majorit.y
of persons competent to judge of the matter. "The
lecturer read extracts from the report of a com-
mittee consisting of twenty-four gentlemen of Bos-
ton,compo ed ofan equal number of divines, lawyers,
and physicians, a great majority of wbon1 were
sceptics, and who were appointed in 1841 to examine
into the claims of mesmerism as put forth by Dr.
R. H. Collyer. This committee after investigating
the matter for five days, expressed their wish that
the Doctor shou]d operate upon an individual with
whom he was unacquainted, and on whom the com-
mittee could plare reliance. The individual was
brought forward by the sceptical portion of the
committee, and in the space of ten minutes the
perfect mesmeric state was produced, and results of
a far more satisfactory character w~re elicited than
from the Doctor's own subject. Upon that occasion
the following was unanimously resolved with a view
to publication.
"'That while this committee refrain from ex-
pressing any decided opinion upon the science or
principle of animal magnetism, they freely confess
that certain phenomena have been presented to them
which cannot be explained npon the supposition of
collusion or any physiological principle known to
them.'
" Agreeably to the lecturer's wish, a committee
of three was appointed from the audience, consisting
of two sceptics and one believer, all stJ·angers to
him, in order to examine the experiments and
detect collusion if any existed. The patient's pulse
was noted by the committee, and found to be 100
ADDITIONAL REMARKS. . 49
beats a minute. After being mesmerised, which
occupied two minutes, the pulse was found to be
120; the patient was then placed in the most awk-
ward and painful positions that could be imagined,
and several physicians declared the pupil of the eye
could not be seen. The experiments of stopping
the patient while walking, singing, &c., and exciting
the cerebral organs when in the abnormal, and local
effects attempted upon her while in the normal
state were equally successful. One gentleman of
the committee, expressed his firm opinion, that the
subject was in an abnormal state, and from the close
attention and scrutiny which he had paid, the
features could not be feigned. The second ex-
pressed a similar conviction, adding that he had
been acquainted with the subject for years, though
not to the extent he had that evening witnessed.
The third, not a medical gentleman, declared that
what he had seen was singularly strange, and to him
perfectly unaccountable. He could detect nothing
like collusion, but the subject being to him so novel,
and so startling, he should require the strongest
evidence; in fact, nothing short of having himself
or some of his friends operated upon, would convince
him. Great silence prevailed throughout the eve-
ning, being only interrupted by the expressions of
approbation which were occasionally given by all
present, &c.''
The above extracts and quotations from various
sources in Germany, France, and England, may
serve to show the opinions which are entertained
by those who have witnessed the experiments, ob-
served the phenomena, and are competent to judge
of the matter, and which I regard as better calcu-
lated to lead to an impartial consideration, and a
proper estimation of them, than the remarks of any
single individual.
As a remedial agent, Animal Magnetism appears
to be coming into inuch more general use both in
D _,
50 ADDITIONAL REMARKS.
France and England,• and numerous cases are re-
corded of its beneficial effects, especially in insanity,
neuralgic and spasmodic affections, epilepsy, St.
Vitus' dance, and others of the class of functional
nervous disorders; as also in deafness of long stand-
ing, of which one case of fifteen years' duration is
reported by Pr. Teste to have been cured, when all
other means had failed, after a few weeks' magneti-
zation, though the patient subsequently had a recur-
rence of the disease, in consequence of his getting
wet through. Several deaf and dumb patients are
likewise said to have derived advantage. In most
of these instances magnetization of the patients was
alone employed; in some, however, the indications
of somnambulists were followed, though of course
further experience by unprejudiced persons is requi-
site to determine upon the estimation to be attached
to magnetism as a curative means.
• An institution for the cure of diseases by magnetism has been esta-
blished in Paris, under the direction of M. Gauthier, author of the
" Histoire da Somnambulisme," which was approved by the King and
the Miniater ofthe interior.
..
ERRATUM IN " ANIMAL MAGNETISM."
For Bakewell's Natural Evidence of a Future Life, f"ead Bako-
well's Physical Evidence, &c.
LONDON:
PRINTED BY G. J. PALMBR, SAVOY STRRET, STRAND.
