{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__sunderland___pathetism.pdf","mytitle":"Pathetism","mylang":"de"}
PAT HE TISivi
1VITH
PR.i\.CTICAL INSTR UCT'IONS.
Demonstrating the Falsity of the hitherto prevalent a.ssum)!tions in
regard to wha.t has been called
"1\'IES~IERISl\P' AND "NEUROLOGY,"
.A.nd illustrating those Laws which induce
SO:liNAf?IBULISni, SECOND SIGHT, SLEEP, DREA:Jlli\G,
TRANCE, AXD CLA.IRVOYAI\CE,
\Vith numerous Facts. tending to show the Pathology of
r...~ONOMAN lA, I NSAN lTV, VI ITCHCRAFT,
AND VARIOUS OTH"CR
lriENT.llL OR NERVOUS PHEI!·/"Oi1IEN.~9..
BY LA ROY S1JNDERLAND.
"There cannot be a. sounder maxim of reasoning, than that which
points o'..lt to us the error of ~ttributing troe phenomena that occur to
remote and extraordinary causes, wnen t~ey may, with. equal propriety,
be referred to causes which obviously exist, and the results of which we
daily observe."
NEvV-YORI{:
PUBLISHED FOR THE AUTHOR BY P. P. GOOD, AT THE
"1\'IAGNET" OFFICE, 138 FULTON STREET,
A:-\D BY THE BOOKSELLERS GEXEF.ALLY THROUGHOUT THE COl:.:\TRY.
1843.
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 18-13, by La Roy
Stmderland, in the Clerk's office of lhe District Court of the Southern
District of the Stntc of N'ew-York.
J. Douglas, Ptinter, 34 Ann Street.
I I
I
} l
PREF_I-\._CE.
It is no'v generally admitted, that scme knowledge
of Pathetisn1 prevailed in Egypt, 1norc than three
thousand years ago. The celebrated Anthony Pluche,
in his account of the Ancient Egyptirrns, copies from
].fontfuucon a complex figure, "\vhich has been under-
stood to represent the Egyptian process of pathetis-
ing. .t'i. patient is stretched upon a couch, ·while a
large Anubis is painted in the act of 1naking the passes
over him, 'Yith one hand raised aboYe his head, and
the other placed upon his breast."*
It is said, that the priests of Chaldea practised pa-
thetism as a 1nedicinal agent, 1nany years before the
Christian era. Cehus, a philosopher of the first cen-
tury after Christ, spe:.!ks of a physician, who soothed
the ravings of the insane by 1n~nipulations; and he
adds, that his 1nanual operations, "\Yhen continued for
son1c ti1ne, produced a degree of sleep or lethargy.
Various author:;, from the e8.r1iest ages, have refer-
l'ed to cases of disease lrhich haYe been cured by si-
tnilar 1neans ; and ahnost every sect of enthusiasts
has had its records of cures performed, not, jndeed,
by 1niracle, but in so1nc instances, it 1nay haYe been~
by the touch or friction of the human hand ; as it is
well known that sin1ilar means "\Yere recon1mcnded for
• Did. des Sc. ],Jed. This picture is copied into "Fellow's Ex:"'
position of the l\Iysteries of the Ancient Egyptians," p. 304.
l 'l
\'I rREFACE..
the cure of certain diseases, long before the day~ of
~Icsmcr.
In no other country 'vhcrc this agency has beco1ne
kno".vn, has its therapeutic benefits been so little
sought aft2r, or so poorly appreciated, us in our O'\Vn ..
This 1nay be accounted for, in part, by the ~·nanner in
'vhich this subject has been exhibited, from time to
ti1ne, in different places. \Vherc people huYe to de~
pend upon public exhibitions, and kno·w nothing more
of its nse than "·hat they sec in cxpcrin1cnts made for
1nerccnary purposes, we arc not to expect thcn1 to
place a ''cry high cstin1atc upon any of its alleged
prc.ctical lJcnc5ts.
It is believed, ho\\'e,·er, that a ln.rgc nun1bcr of the
1nost intel1igent of the learned professions in this coun..
try, arc convinced of the truth of pathctis;n; and not
a fe"~ of these classes have seen and tested the valu-
able benefits to be anticipated from its use, in the cure
of disease.
Did the lin1its of this \Vork permit, we should gra..-
tify our readers ·with f.;Olnc accounts of the present
state of pathetis1n in France, Russia, Ge1·many1 and
Prussia, countries '"here its practice has long been
patronised by the learned, and especiully by the tne-·
dical profession. The goYcrnn1ent of Prussi(l, in 1817,
ntte1nptcd to guard its practice by legislative enact~
tncnts, prohibiting any but regu.larly organised physi~
cians frcnn its usc, and requiring them, when they did
so, to report their proceedings, quarterly, to the au-
thorities of the state. A society of Paris, from 181 4·
to 1820, publi~hcd two periodicals, deYotcd entirely trJ
the narration of facts, and the diffusion of intelligence
connected "·ith this subject. In Prussia and soln(·
PREFACE. vii
other countries, hospitals have ·been established for
the sole purpose of treating the sick by the use of pu..
thetism. And a decree of the IVIcdicai College of
Den1nark, passed in 1815, and anothe:· in 1817, in1~
posed upon physicians the duty of repol'ting the re..
suits of their pathetetic practice. But \Ve have not
the space nec~ssP-ry for ::!ny considerable proportion
of the testin1ony \v·hich 1night be quoted, showi~g the
estitnate placed upon it by the learned in other counft
tries, as a medicinal agent. And to deny it, as obser-
Yed by Dr. 1\Iarc, before the Paris Academy of lVIedi-
cine, (in 1825,) "to deny it, \vould be to suppose that
n1en of the g~eatest merit, t\vo learned bodies of the
first respectability, and gover~melits kno-;vn to have
surrounded then1se!ves \vith the best physicians, must
have, in various places, and at various perio.ds of time,
f~llen dupes of miserable jugglers, and propagated,
favored, and executed, labors 1nerely chi1nerical.*
In our own country, nothing, probably, has done
more to bring this subject into disrepute, than the
1nanner in '"'-'hich it has been treated by its professed
friends. Public attention 'vas first called to it under
a most disagreeable name, and the man.y silly stories
put in circ"Glation about its 'vonders, could but arouse
prejudice, and unfit the mind to give it a candid exaw
mination.
Though it y·~·ill be seen that the author of the present
volume clailiJ.S originality fer the theory advocated in
the follovv'ing pages, as 'vell as son1e of the processes
of ope1·ating, yet it n1ust be bo:·ne in mind, that no new
agency is ussu1ned, by ·whatever names this influence
n1ay have been known in previous ages of the 'vorld.
• Progress of Ani:nal .l\fagnetism. By Dr. C. Poyen, Boston,
1837, pp. 19-~2.
\'111 l'RBFACF..
The author's nmucrous cerebral c.xpcritnent_s, haYe
been conducted with the special design of nscc!'taiu-
j uo tnorc than sccn1cd to haYe been kno\\'n heretofore
0
of the functions of animal hfc. And the following
page::; contain the results of inYestigations connected
with ucn·ous difficulties, which haYe been continued
for a 11urnber of years. Upou n1ature consideration, it
was belic,·ed preferable t!wt the results of the author's
obsern1tions should be giYcu, rather than the details
of nutnerous experin1euts; as Yolmnes might easily be
filled with the latter, \Yithout affording any real benefit
to those for whon1 this 'york is designed. His oppor·
ttmities for observing tho~e clrrsses of n1ental pheno-
mena, supposed to be of the uttnost ilnportance in
forn1ing right conclusions as to the }ay~·s of 1nind, haY('
been ample; and the experiments in Phrcnopathy haY-
ing uow been repeated by a large llUtnber of operators.
on both !::ides of the Atlantic, no roon1 seems left to
lloubt as to ,,·hat son1e of those Ia,Ys 1nust be "·hich
goYenl the Yital, organic, and 111ental functions of the
hmnan systc1n.
It is easy to conceh·e how great the disappointrneut
of 1nauy ·will be, on finding that the author, after de-
Yotillg so long a ti1ne to the in\·estigation of this sub-
ject, should reject the hitherto prevalent assun1ptions
iu relation to \\·hat has been called the 1nagnetic or
nen·ons fluid. Bnt that these nssun1ptions haYe not
been rejected without sotne good reasons, the foJlo,\·-
ing pages \';ill show. N.or can the author entertain
:.tny UOUbt, that if prcYiOUS writers had taken up the
f'nbject as he has done, they 'vould haYe arrived at
similar results. Instead of attetnpting to test these as-
~nrnptions, it has been eYcry \Yhcrc taken for granted
PREFACE. IX
that a fluid \Vas elin1inn.ted f!·om the operator, into the
system of the patient ; and the various phenomena
have been explained a~cordingly. Indeed, the author
of what has been called '' Neu!.·ology," has frankly told
us, that he formed his theory first, and then conlmen-
ced his experiments in prcof of it! And in the smne
way the notion has so generally obtained, that the
agency t:t·eated of _in this 'votk "·as really a n1agnetic
or nervous fluid; and one gene1·ation has believed it
after another, because the necessnry pains have ne\·er
heen taken to arrh·e at the truth on this subject.
"rv~ew- Yode, J.fa.rch 1, 1843.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I.
Explanation of Terms.
CHAPTER II.
H1tman Life.
Pages
l-4
Life is an element. Its power over matter. Its control
over the imponderable fluids, magnetism, electricity, and heat.
Life is not electricity-these forces do not amount to what we
know of life. They do not modify or control life, as they
would were life nothing but electricity. The nerves are non-
auctors of electricity. Life has laws peculiar to itself. It has
motion, moisture-it is affected by mere Emmd. Life may, as
it were, be shaken out vf the s)·stem. It has the sense of
feeling. ~he nerves, themselves, are de3titutc of feeling, ex-
cept upon the surface. Hence, if electrkity -r:ere life, every
part, and especially the nerYe~, 'vould be alike ~ensitive to
pain from contact with any disturbing body. 5-15
CHAPTER III.
Susceptibility.
Peculiar to animal life. Enects of medicine. Differences
in the effects of the same medicine on the same persons. Idio-
syncrasy. Emotions of pleasure or pain. '""hat is the qua1ity
of the system operated on in producing pain ? How is conta-
gion or infection received? Rcciprocal influences between
the mind and one's own s:1sceptibility. 1-Vhat is the mind?
How is this question answered? The mind is dependent upon_
Xll CO::'\TENTS.
Pages
the development~ of this £:u~ceptibility. \Vherc is t!1c mind of
the fretus 1 It ~ymrathises with tl1c body. Gcx:ual diflcrC'ncc.
Temperament~. Djct. Tl;e health. The rower of thought
dcpc1vls upon the f:btc of the llClTous ~ystcrn. Efll-cts of the
atmosphere. In.fi'Jcnce of the mind oYer the susceJ>tihility.
The voice. Eflccls of the mental apprehen~ions on th~ S"JS-
~cptibility. Adapt1.tion of the different susceptiLilitic,c:. to the
general purposes of life. Hulcs for jt~dt;ing of this susceptibi-
lity. Temperament. Pl!rcnclogical de-velopments. 16-36
CHAPTER IV.
Sympath y-.!ln!ipathy.
These states do not depend. upon the judgment, but upon a
peculiarity in the physical lHtlt~re of c~ch person. The corre-
spondence of the di!ferent rarts of the body, and the general
sympathy of the whole with the minr.. f;ympathies recu!iar to
different parts of the ,c:.y~tcn, deptnding on the relation which
one part snstair..s t0 another. Physic2.l :-ympathy does not, ne-
cessarilr, i!epend upon continuity of surface, or the contiguity
of the parts affected. R eflex ncr\Ctls action. _f\~ o scnsaticm
independent of the brain, or medulla oblongata-hut sympa-
thies do exist independent of this organ. A ~ a!omy and func-
tions of the ganglia. Two separate liYing bodies arc some-
times affectC'u by the same s~·n-:po.tl1etic laws. The same laws
~hov.·n to extenJ to ~nima1s. Two pe!scns Hu apart, dream-
ing nt the same time predsely the sa:rr.e dream. These laws
of sympathy arc resoh·able ir.to whn.t we know to be the laws
of mind; and its infiuer.ce may i)e extended from one person
to another. Case of the children at t!te poor-lwusc hl Haer-
lem. Strange occurrences in K.c:ttncl'Y in 1801, and in Scot-
land, England, and Germany. Cablcrsy under religious ex-
citement, precisely li1{e that produced by pa.thetis::n. 37-57
CHAPTER V. V
Re!aUon.
Relation is the eonnection estqbli~hed between two things.
CONTE~TS. xiii
Pages
Chemical effects depend upon the qualities of two different bo-
dies broug!lt together. The relation which produces positive
results, depends upon certain contrarieties in two bodies
brought together. This law is universal. Kature WClrks by
contrarieties. Two things precisely alike in quality, produce
negative results. All the efl'ects of pathetism depend upon this
relation, establi::'hcd bet'i7een the patient, the operator, or the
process. This relation is increased by habit, and sometimes
it acquires supreme control over the mind of the subject.
Sometimes it depends wholly upon the mental appreh~nsions
{)f the patient,-and the mind transfers it from one object to
another. Persons have been killed by this power. It ex-
plains the phenomena produced by :Mesmer, which have never
been reasonably accounted for to this day, and shows how
sleep is induced by a mere process, adopted for this purpose. 58-67
CHAPTER VI.
Pathetism.
'Vhat pt~thetism is. No mor~ mys-tery in this agency than
in any other. Its efects upon the sense of to'Jch, the sight,
taste, smell, hearing. Effects upon the muscles, fhe nerves,
t he organs of animal life, the mental organs, consciousness,
the will. Disposition and character of the patient. Effects in
the cure of disease. Anomalous results, by pathetising, by the
imponderable fluid~. 68-93
CH.A.PTER VII.
Theory of Pathetism.
1Vhat is the nature of this agency? Is it a universal fluid?
These results are not the necessary effects of magnetism or
electricity. The magnetic forces reciprocally affect each other
-not so with the operator ancl his subject. The :e~nlts pro-
dueed by pn.thetism are raclicdly differel!t from any induced by
the mere electrical forces. Effects of metals arplied to the
body. Perkins~s tractors. Effects of pathetism on animal~.
The nen·es are non-conductors of electricity. Is it a nervou~
2
CONTENTS.
Page3
Jluill? How can this be, when !!lcep is induced without any
physical contact or mental exertion of the operator 1 Effects
produced on idiots and infants. Discrepancies in the results
pro,·c that it is not a .ll uid. Operators have been deceived by
what they supposed to be the effects of the will upon patients.
T he immediate agency for affecting the mind, must be the
same in all cases. 99-116
CHAPTER VIII.
Pathetising.
Have all person~ this power? The hand-passes-the ope-
rator. His health, temperament, age, mental character, good
motives.> skill. Balance of power. The patient. Tempera-
ments. Idiosyncrasy. Quiet. Sleep. Time and place for
operating. Process of pathetising. Cautions. 117-127
CHAPTER IX.
Phrenopathy.
Disco\·cries of Dr. Gall. Phrenology. The relation of the
encephalon to the body. Acephalous fretuses. Numerous
phenomena explained. F~nctions of the ganglia. Hemis-
pheres. Decussation. Sections of the encephalon. Cerebel-
lum. Base of the brain. Coronal region. Frontal region.
Occipital region. Cerebral'excitement by galvanh::m. Origin
of phrcnopathy. Theory of phrenopathy. l\fental organs.
Expcrimer.ts. 128-161
CHAPTER X.
Sleep and Dreaming.
The relation of sleep to wakefulness. The will in a state
of sleep. The external senses. Dreaming. Voluntary sleep.
Continued wakefulness. Excessive sleep. l\Ienns of inducing
natural sleep. 162-168
CO~TENTS. XV
CHAPTER XI.
Somniu,m, Trance, Somnambulism.
Pages
Similarity between these states. Case of a f:omnambulist at
East Bloomfield, N.Y. Case of a lady in the state of Maine.
1\umerous other cases stated. An account given by a som-
nambulist o( himself. Case of Rev. \V. Tennant. Conclu-
sions to be drawn from thece facts. 169-190
CHAPTER XII.
Second Sight, Transpcsiticn of the St.nst-s, Double Consciousness,
Presentiment;;, Prophetic Dreams, TVitchcrajt.
Cases of second ~ight stn.ted. Transpositicn of the external
5enses, tasting, smelling, he~.ring, &c. to the pit of the sto-
mach. Living in t\v-o states, alternately. Presentiments,
Prophetic Dreams, 1Vitchcraft. 191-210
CHAPTER XIII.
Clairvoyance.
Objectionable manner in whi~h this subject has been preo
sented. Human knowledge. The question s:tated. Sense of
perception without the external orgsns. Instinct. \Vhut is
clairvoyance? 1\Ianner of indu~ing this phenomenon. Speci-
mens of sympathetic perception. Cases of inC:ependent clair-
voyance. 211-230
CHAPTER XIV.
Conclusion.
The reality of this agency. Its nature. How operators
have be~n rleceiYed. \Vhat is the medium of thi.s agency?
Impossibility of tran~mitti::1g a ji11ic of auy kL'1d, ir: the man-
ner hitherto supposed. Vibratory medium. lTiental apprehen-
sions. Intrinsic importance of the subject. Its upp]jcation to
XVl CONTEXTS.
Pagt!
the purposes of education, and the different relations of life.
A well-balanced hcatl. \\yhat should be done when the organs
arc uncqnallr balanced 1 l'arcnls responsible for the mental
developments of their children. Conjugal union. 231-240
Appendix 241
ERRATA.
The reader is requested to make the following corrections:
Page 5, 4th line from the bottom, for "be composed," read "'is
composed."
Page 35, 9th line from the toll, "which" should be stricken out.
Pa0e 36, 2J line from the bottom, for "pathist" read "pathe-
lisl."
Page 42, 9th and 15th lines from the bottom, for "inflex," read
"reflex."
Page 44, 12th line from the t0p, for "fact" read "facts;" and
5th line from the bottom, for "sympathy:' read "somnipathy."
Page 81, 2d liue from the to1"J, for '{ i.t," read "them."
Page 108, 14th line from the bottom, for "thus," read "this."
Page 109, 13th line from the bottom, for "magnetic," read
"nwgnet."
Page 118, 2d line from the bottom, for "these" read c: there."
Page 128, 3d line from the top, for "Phrenis" read "Phren."
Page 133, 20th line from the top, for "venesection," read "ti-
t'isection."
P.A.THETISni~
CHAPTER I,
E:XPLA~A TIO~ OF TER~IS.
I\Iost persons, at all familiar with the subjects we propose
to investigate, have felt the \Vant of suitable terms, by which
to designate them; and some terms we have been in the habit
of using, have not been understood by all, and others, ha\·e
been used in a sense widely difrerent from what their radical
meaning would justify.-Somnambulism, from somnus and ~
ambulo, properly signifies walking in a state of sleep; but it is
often incorrectly used to signify a state of sleep, merely, and
without any reference to its peculiar nature, or the manner in
which it may have been induced. But, as there is manifestly
a marked distinction between natural sleep, and that which is
arcificially produced, we want some term suitable for designa-
ting the state of induced sleep, to distinguish it from any oth-
er. And so of the process for producing sleep. The term
"l\1agnetising," has been used for this purpose, to some con-
siderable extent, but all have been agreed that this was not,
by any means, so appropriate as could be desired. The truth
is, many of the phenomena common to a state of induced
sleep, are so new and unaccountable, that language does not
seem to have afforded the necessary terms for designating
them all; and though we offer the following, we must confess
that these do not, by any means, cover the entire field, nor,
indeed, are some of them quite so "classical" as we could de-
A
t
2 PATHETis~r.
:sire; yet they will, we are persuaded, answer a good purpo~e
till better terms can be founJ. It is well known that our term
.~ympathy is from two Greek words which signify fellow-feel-
ing, or a like feeling with another, as sumpasclw, was used
among the Greeks in this sense. And hence thr u~e which
l1as since been made, in medical theories of the Ierro patlws,
which ~ignifics not only disease, but passion, fe eling, eJ-'cite-
ment, emotion; and pathetikos, susceptible of emotion, that
which produces emotion or feeling. And, that, what has al-
ready been understood, among physicians by the term sympa·
thy and antipathy, has its foundation in that quality, or
nature of living bodies which is the ground-tco1·k, if we may
so speak, of all that has ever really been produced under the
name of l\iesmerism, there can be no doubt at all. I do not
say that the ph~l).omena of t~e induced sleep for instance, is
produced by nothing more nor less, than what has been knmYn
of the laws of s_ympat!ty, but, what I mean is, that all that
has been understood of phy~ical or mental sympatlzy~ lws
originated, or been founded in that same susceptibility, upon
which we operate in producing any mental or physical ef-
fects upon the sytem of another hy manipulation. No term,
therefore, so well expresses what is really meant ·when speak-
ing of the agency by which one person operates on the mental
or physical organs, of another, and for the production of all
those phenomena peculiar to the induced sleep, as one \vhich
gives the idea of sympathy, and a state of susceptibility, which
renders this influence efficient and successful in producing
the desired results"in any part of the system on which the op-
eration is performed. Every physician knows that disease is
often communicated by sympathy; and it will appear on ex-
amination, I think, that this same agency may be equal1y ef-
ficient in its cure. But the results brought about in tl1is way
amount to nothing more or less, than what has so long been
known under the term "animal magnetism." Hence my au-
thority for the adoption of the following terms; and I may
add, that they have not, heretofore, been appropriated to any
other ose, and hence there i~, there can be, no reasonaule ob--
jection to their application in the sense here proposed•
EXPLAXATIO~ OF TER)IS. 3
Pathetism.-I use this term to signify, not only the AGENCY
by which one person by manipulation, is enabled to produce v
enwtion, feeling, passion, or any physical or mental effects, in
the system of another, but also that suscEPTIBILITY ofemotion.
or feelin[{, ofany kind, from manipulation, in the subject op·
erat{'d upon, by the use of which these effects are produced; ~
as also the laws by which this agency is governed. I mean
it as a substitute for the terms herer.ofore in use, in connection
with this subject, and I respectfully submit it to all concerned,
'\V hether this be not a far better term for the thing signified,
than either l\1agnetism or l\Iesmerism. The former of these
h.as, for centuries, been appropriated, and which, when used,
expresses more than is necessarily included in its meaning,
when applied to the human body. The term Galvanism
would be far more appropriate, than that of l\Iesmerism, but,
I think it best to use one which answers my purpose, much
b-etter, and to which there can be no serious objections.
Patltttise.-The act of manipulating the human bbdy, for
the purpose of inducing sleep, the relief of pain or the cure of
disease. The act of applying the fingers to different parts of
the head, or the body, for the purpose of exciting, or control-
ling the mental organs.
Somnium.-This term was first used, I believe, by Dr.
]}li tchell, of New York, to designate what has been called by
some sleep-waking, that is, a state in which persons, in a pe-
culiar sleep, perform acts of which they are, at the time or
afterwards, wholly unconscious. The term is needed to des-
ignate the state of spontaneous sleep, merely in distinction,
from that state which is accompanied with walking, and also
from the other states, described below.
Somnist.-One who spontaneously falls into a state of som·
nium, or sleep-waking.
Somnipathy.-The induced sleep, brought on by the process
ofpathetising.
Somnipathist.-One in a state of sleep, induced by pathe-
tism.
Somnniloqw.st.-One who is made to talk, in a state of
somnipathy,
J•ATII ETIS.JI.
Plu·cnopatll!J·-The developement of the n1ental functions
by pathetism. The theory which teaches the susceptibilities
and influences of the human brain; the method of controling
the different cerebral organs, and the results produced on the
mind, by manipulating different parts of the body. Upon the
discovery of the susceptibility of the separate cerebral organ3,
to the control of pathetism, for the want of a better term~
these experiments were reported under the terms, "Phreno-
1\Iagnetism," "Cerebration," · &c. But as, from the first, I
have controlled the mental organs, not mf?rely by applications
directly over them, but also by manipulating different portions
of the face, neck, limbs, trunk, and indeed the teeth, fingers
and toes of the human S)~stem, I think the above term more
appropriate. 'Vhatever impression, therefore, is made upon
the mind, by applying this agency to any part ofthe body comes
within the sense, in which it is used in this work.
Clairvoyance.-Simp1y clear-sight; but it has come into
use to signify, sight without the eye.
Second-siglzt.-This term as is well known, is used to sig..
nify a sight of distant objects; or what would be called a su-
pernatural perc.eption of persons, or things at a distance. The
terms, supersentient, and somniscicnce are used, also, in th~
same sense.
CHAPTER II .
HU:\I.A.N LIFE.
As our enquiries relate to the nature of living bodies, it is
plain, that what we want to know, is most directly concerned
with human life, and the laws by which it affects and con-
trols matter. \Vhen it is said, that we never can know any-
thing with regard to the essential nature oflife, it is affirming
no more than we are forced to admit of matter itself. For,
who has ever been able to tell what matter is? Some of the
laws by which it is governed 've know, but who has been
able to demonstrate whether matter be composed of one or
more elements? Nor are our enquiries with regard to life,
really, any more difficult; for over the essential nature of both
life and matter, there bangs the same impenetrable shade of
mystery, and whether we shall ever be able to advance be-
yond the knowledge of our predecessors or not, on_these ques-
tions, remains to be seen.
If we merely use the term life, as expressive of a fact, like
th€ term attraction or repulsion, it may be as easily defined
a:s any known property of matter. The following are some
of the reasons which incline me to the op.inion, that life is not
the res.ult of organization, but that it is, itself, a distinct ele--
ment, and governed by laws of its own.
1. ITS POWER OVER THE LAWS OF TIIATTER.
The fluids of which the embryo is formed must be endowed
with life, because, from their union, or by one, when in contact,
or sufficiently ·influenced by the otl1er, it is certain, a living
substance, or b~ing is produced, which partakes ofthe qualities
ot its parents. If it be assumed that this fluid be composed
of particles, in an organized form, we might answer, that life
gave them this form, and hence they must be the results and
not the cause of life.
Al
G PATIIET1S)f.
From the scripture account it is plain, that the formation
of the human body preceded the gift of life. After man ·was
formed from the Just of the earth, we are told, (Gen. 2: 7,)
God "breathed into his nostrils the breath of lives, and man
l)ecame a living soul." And some ha\'C supposed that the
language of 1\loses, (Lev, 17: 11), is to be understood as af-
firming that the blood is alive, and that life is deposited in
this fluid. But, the meaning is simply, that the life depends
upon the blood, so that ·when it is withdrawn, life ceases. If
this be not his meaning, it would involve the absurd notion,
that the blood is the only part of the system which is aliV'e,
but this we know is not the fact.
\Vc admit, that without the constant operations of the
\vcll-known chemical affinities, life could not exist for a mo-
ment; but these affini tics are controlled by life, and hence de-
composition cannot take place; and the system is thus pre-
served from death and decay. And in .a word, we may say tlm t
almost every function of living bodies is performed in opposi-
tion to the all-pervading law of gravitation. The fluids as-
cend against this htw; and so of the sap in Ycgctablcs, it is
forced up by the principle of vital!ty, which controls matter,
and which, therefore, cannot Lc a mere result of its organiza-
tion. For, to suppose that this phenomenon, is the result mere-
ly of organization, would be to assume that matter has a self-
determining, sci f-con troling power. But it is an acknow1-
cdged l:nv ofmatter, that by itself, it is absolutely in€rt, and
any power it may manifest, must be derived; so that whate\r-
er changes may be obsenrcd in its different states, ther are
produced by some extrinsic cause; l1cnce the conclusion seems
reasonable thnt life is an clement, distinct from matter, as
much so as light or caloric.
This power of animal life may be seen also in its ·identity
and JJerpetuity, if we may c;o speak. It remains the same in
whatever clime, or color, or state, it appears. Since the
world existed, no change has been produced in this element.
It is the same in the human bodv-it is the same in the Ya-
rious forms of beasts, birds and ~eptilcs. True, some of the
11articu-lar features of the bodies which it animates, may
HU.:\IA::\ LifE. 7
change, but this principle remains the same, and from the
first, it has possessed the power of perpetuating itself, un·
changed, from generation to generation and from age to age.
But if life be nothing more than the result of organization, or
n1ere electricity, ir could not be shown how the life of one ani-
mal could be preserved distinct from another; or how man
could presen·e his identity, or \vhy the animals, birds and in-
sects do not so mix up their existences as to become lost in
one general amalgamatioJ.
2. LIFE POSSESSES THE PO\YER OF CONTKOLLJXG THE DI•
POXDERABLE :FLUIDS.
\Ve say -
life, because we know, that the £arne bodies when
derpived vf life, are immediately operated on by these agen-
cies, when, on the living system they produce no dfect at all.
The power of the human body to resist heat is \vell known.
Its natural temperature in this country is not far from 96J
Fahr. But Dr. Forilyce, formerly physician to St. Thomas'
Hospital, London, went into a room heated to 120°, where he
remained twenty minutes, and afterwards, into a room heated
to 130° and remained fifteen minutes while the thermometer
in his hand rose only to 100:). Sir Joseph Banks, Dr. Solan-
der and Sir Charles Blagden, remained several minutes in a
room heated to between 196° and 211°, the temperature at
which water boils; and the latter of the above gentlemen re-
mained eight minutes in a room heated to 260°. \Ve haYe
accounts of a young female at Rochefoucault, who \Yas in the
habit of staying ten and twelve minutes at a time in an oven
heated to 276°, and Tillet and Duhamel inform us that they
bore a heat of 290° for nearly five minutes.
Chantry, the sculptor, often entered his furnace, when
heated for ilrying his mould, to 320°, and his workmen did
the same with impunity when the thermometer was up to
3-10°.
A dog of moderate size was subjected to a heat of 220:).-
The only signs of distress was holding out the tongue, and in
30 minutes the heat was 236°. On being taken out, the bot-
tom of the basket was found wet 1vith sali-ra.. By the same
heat, beef steaks were cooked in thirty minutes, and in twenty,
eggs were roasted hard.
8 P ~\ TIIETIS:'II.
J\Iost of my readers, h:1ve probably, hean] of:\Ions. Chabert,
the" fire king," and who, as is stated by Dr. Dunglingson,
entered an O\'en when the heat \Vas raised above 400°.
And we find the living body pos.sesscd also, of the same
power to genera tc caloric. \Vc ha \'e seen that its natural
temperature is about D6° ; but in the account of Capt. Parry'::;
\'Oyage to the arctic seas, we are told that his erew were fre-
qu"ntly exposed to a temperature 50° below zero, and 150 be-
low that of their own bodies, without being frozen!
\Vc may be told, we know, that heat is resisted by the pro-
cess of C'\'aporation. But what carries on this process? Or,
what causes the living body to evaporate more than the urad
piece of flesh? The two put into the oven together, the lat-
ter is cooked, 1vhile the former remains in the same tempera-
ture unchanged.
This astonishing po\ver is attributable to nothing but the
laws of ani mal life.
It is also susceptible of the clearest. demonstration, that
life controls the' forces of the electric ftuiu. l\Iost persons have
uoticed the sparks which are often emitted from the hair of a
cat, when it is rubbed in very cold weather; and a similar
phenomenon is also se~n, on taking off flannel drawers, &c.
from the human hour.
A steel needle, plunged into a nen·e, becomes magnetic;
and on being withdrawn, it is found to hare the po\ver of at-
tracting Iight substances.
l\Iullcr afi1rms, that efficient gah·anic piles may be formed
from organic animal substances, without the use of metals.-
\Vienholn states that he has seen sparks obtained by bringing
the diYided ends of two nerves together. The electrical prc-
pcrtics of the torpedo, and a species of eel, are also well
known. The gymnotus, for instance, it 'voulu seem, possesses
a complC'te gah·anic battery. Two troughs are found on each
side of the spine, separated from each other by a ligament ex-
tending the whole length of the fish; and the resemblance of
thi5 apparatus to the galvanic pile, is certainly very remarka-
ble.
A lady whom I cured of a most severe attack of neurJ.l·
HU.:.U.X LIFE. 9
gia, by Patheti:::m, was often known to have noises in the front
part of her head, "\vhich sounded exactly like the discharge of
electrical sparks. And I know another lady, who, "\Yhen
indisposed a year or two since, gave off sparks from her body
"\vhenever she was approached by the physician who ~ttend­
ed her. She was, at the time, partially deranged.
Dr. \V. H. l\Iuller, of Pittsburg, Pa., has demonstrated the
evolutions of electricity from the human body, 'in certain con-
ditions, by a series of original experiments, a full account of
which may be seen in the l\Iagnet for February, 1843. As
those experiments seem to have been more decisive than any
others of the kind, so far as I know, ancJ as the conclusions
derivable fron1 them, are directly in favor of the theory now
under notice, I think it proper to give Dr. Muller's account,
in his own words. It is as follows:
"Before mentioning more particularly the conditions to be
attended to for a successful trial of the experiment, I must
state, that this evolution of electricity is entirely indepeqdent of
any friction between the elothes and skin. That so far from this
being the case, not the smallest appreciable quantity can be
produced by any friction that can be made by the clothes
against the skin, though the body and limbs be moved slowly
or quickly in every direction. I have, also, when undressed
and insulated, ·with one hand on the electrometer, rubbed the
surface of the body with flannel or cotton without causing the
slightest movement of the gold leaf.
"The connitions spoken of are as follows: First a proper
dryness of the air,-hence a situation in front of a good fire ig
preferable. As a very cold air is generally very dry, also, the
experiment has succeeded at an open window, when the ther-
Inometer stood at 38° ; but as here the air soon derived mois-
ture from the room or thE body, the electricity of the latter
was so soon carried off, that it was gone before I could touch
the electrometer twice, after rising from the ehair. But, be-
fore the fire, I could count slmvly forty or rlfty, after rising,
before I had parted with the electricity evolved by t:1e act of
rising. It ·was for want of attention to having the air dry,
and to my overlooking a cause of moisture, that I ·was, at
first, in doubt whether the electricity did in fact arise from
the body without the aid of clothing. I had succeeded once
or twice, perfectly, I thought, in affecting the electrometer,
'vhen trying the experiment before the fire, unuressed; but I
afterwards failed continually, until I ascertained th~t: b:.- •,v-;:dk~
10 PATIIETIS::'-I.
ing a few moments in the cool side of the room, and tl1cn
trying tbe experiment before the fire-I found it succeeued
completely. I repeated this often, aiHl always with the same
result. The cause of my former failure was owing to the in-
erea~cu cYaporation of moisture from the skin, produced by
the heat of the 11rc; by cooling the surface, and then trying
the experiment before the fire, where the air \VaS ury, I could
affect the electrometer each time I rose anu sat, until the l1eat
had produccu a too copious exhalation from the skin to allow
the electricity to remain on the body. For the same reason,
I have Yery rarely been able to affect the electrometer after
retuming from a walk, the cutaneous exhalation carrying off
the electric fluid as fast as it was formed.-Secondly, the po-
sition requisite. This is as tallows: place the electrometer
over the mantel-piece oYer a good fire. Take a common sized
chair, of such a height that the feet resting on the floor, the
thighs shall be horizontal. Sit towards the front edge of
the chair and lean back, so as to have the trunk of the body
quite relaxed; then rise quickly, and touch the cover of the
cleciromcter. The leaf or lea,·cs will scarcely fail to indicate
the presence of electricity. Jf the first trial should fail, it will
be owing to the non-observance of some of the above condi-
tions. A second or third attempt must succeed. The elcc·
trometer may be placed on a table before the fire; the experi-
menter, seated on a chair ncar it, may place his hand on the
cover, and then, after leaning back, he should lean a little for-
wards and rise quickly, or but partly assume the erect posi-
tion. At the instant of rising, and very often at that ofsitting
again, the electrometer will indicate a large amount of elec-
tricity. I ha,·e charged with as much as could be detected
by the instrument, by thus alternately rising and sitting. By
the application of the jar, however, the leaf has never moved
more than lu).lf an inch, while by keeping th£> finger on the
electrometer while I thus rose and sat, I could as before stat-
ed, cause a continual flight of the leaf to and fro thro' an inch
or more. I have hitherto found my own elec!ricity posith·e,
and I have a suspicion that the electricity is difTerent accord-
ing as I rise up or sit down. This shall be decided in future.
"It is indispensable, that the chair be neither too high nor
low. If the chair with which I succeed \vhen in its proper
position, be turned on its side, making it lower, and I then
sit down and rise, the electrometer is not affected. Neither
lta\'e I succeeded by rising from a rocking chair; at the sug-
gestion of a friend the effect of sitting upon pillows as upon
non-conductors, was tried; and it was found that, insulation
aside, the yielding nature of the articles diminishes the indica-
tion of electricity. If the chair be placed upon pillows, and
H"L"::'IIAX LIFE, 11
.also if the feet of the experimenter sit on a pillow placed in
the seat, or against the back or the chair, the effects on the
electrometer are irregular, or for the mm;t part small. Any
position in short which does not call into action the proper
muscles, or impedes their complete action, entirely prevents
or lessens the developement of electricity. Lowering the
body, so that it rests upon the heels, and then rising and
touching the instrument, will be as .voifl of influence on the
leaf. as movement from any other position than the one de-
scribed. Complete insulation, hy placing the legs of the
chair in glass tumblers, and the feet on pillow·s, seems to in-
crease tbe electricity."
NO\v, ifit should be assumed that the nbove experiments
go to show, that life itself is electricity, I reply:-
(1.) That this assumption does not enable us to explain how
it is that this (life) electricity is evolved merely by rising up from
a peculiar position, and stretching _
out the hand in the way
above described. If muscular action evolves life, why should
it not be much more evoh·ed, in the act of rising up from a
recumbent posture; or in the act of lifting some heavy body?
But in such acts, it does not appear that any electricity 'vas
evolved.
(2.) Th·e electrical, galYanic, or magnetic forces, as far as
knmvn, do not amount to "\vhat we do know of the 'Vital for-
ces.. No effects haYe been produced by the action of el~ctri­
city upon matter, which would render it capable of resisting
heat, as we have seen the living body has the power of doing.
(3.) Admitting life to be either ofthe ordinary imponderable
fluids, it should follow that it would be modified, controlled, de-
stroyed or restored by their application to the human system, in
innumerable cases, where they are not now known to produce
any effects 'vhatever. Friction ofan electric, produces electri-
city; but no such results follow the friction of the li \-·ing bodr.
The application of an ordinary magnet produces no effects,
though it be ever so powerful, except in a few isolated cases,
where there is a pe_
culiar state of susceptibility, developed by
disease, or the process of pathetising. And even, when per-
sons are susceptible to any peculiar influences from the im-
ponderable fluids, it is found that their effects do not agree in
any two cases, nor scarcely in any two experiments, at differ-
1~ r ATITF.TIS::'II.
cnt times, upon tltc same person; facts \vhirh can never be
accounted for on the, su pposition that animal life is nothing
more than electricity. And, on this hypothesis, how can it
be shown that in certain cases, at least, we should not be able
to restore life by a galvanic battery? It is not known that
death, or the mere cessation of life, produces any change of
structure in any part of the system; and in cases of death by
fright or excessive joy, why should not life be restored oy an
application of the ordinary electrical forces 1
(4.) The forces of the different imponderable fluids may
constitute some of the agencies by which life performs itsfunc-
tio~s; but this does not prove that these agencies constitute lif~,
any m ore than the pen \Vith which these lines are written
could be proved to be the mind by which it is moved.
(-5.) This assumption is sufficiently confuted by anatomy.
Bischoff has proved, that the nerves are among the worst pos-
sible conductors of electricity or galvanism; from which it
follows, that the fluids can neither be life, nor the sole agent
by w·hich its functions arc carried on. This fact will he
made to appear more fully in the chapter on Pathetism.
\Ve ob:::crve,
3. THAT LIFE HAS LA\'i""S OF ITS OWN, "\VRICH, TIIOUGH THEY
l\IAY BE SDilLAR TO THE ELECTRICAL FORCES, YET THEY CAX·
•
NOT TIE IDEXTIFrED \VITH A~YTHING BUT LIFE ITSELF.
(1.) All animal life has more or le~s motion. But it is not
necesssarily so 1.vith the imponderable fluids. The magnetic
forces may exist in any degree, without producing motion at
all. True, we can detect these forces only by their effects
on matter, as tl1ey may a71pear when two kinds of matter
without life, are brought into a particular relation to each
other; but no relation between different qualities of any inan·
imate matter has ever produced animal life.
(2.) l\1oisturc and heat arc often neces5ary conditions of
animal life. But the magnetic forces may exist where neithf'r
moisture nor heat can be detected.
(3.) It has ne\cr been pro,·etl that sound has any in~
fluence over the galvanic forces. But we know that mere
sound may not only produce all the passions and feelings of
HUl\IL'{ LIFE. 13
which the human mind is known to be susceptible, bnt it
has, in some cases, produced instant death, as in cases of
threats or fright, as will be fully shown in the succeeding
chapter.
These facts illustrate laws pecuHar to living bodies, and
which therefore, cannot be affirmed of the mere electric or
magnetic forces.
(4.) But it might be thought tltat these results are pecu-
liar, only to those who have minds or reason; and that it is
this faculty which is operated on by the magnetic forces, and
the mind reacts on these forces, and thus extinguishes life.-
This comes quite near to what is called reasoning in a circle.
'That the mind is not the life is plain; and we further admit,
that the n1ind may affect the life, but how this is done is the
thing to be proved. It has never been proved that the ordi-
- nary magnetic forces were ever controlled by mind, merely,
and hence it is not sufficient to assume, that the mind des-
troys life, by operating on these forces.
But to prove that life, may, as it were, be shaken or extin-
guished out of the system, by comparatively slight causes,
when the mind can have no agency in the result. Dr. R.
Nelson, of this city, states that he has noticed, that per-
sons hit by cannon or musket balls, after the balls had
spent their forces, are often n10st shocking1y mangled and
torn to pieces; but yet, they live, for a longer or shorter time.
But when the body is struck by the ball immediately on its
discharge rrmn the cannon, the person is killed instantly,
though the system may scarcely be injured at all.
(5.) Another law peculiar to animal life, may be found in
the sense offeeling. This peculiar sense seems to have been
given for the preservation of the systen1 from danger, and in-
jury of every kind. And yet, we find the more essential any
part in the vital economy is, the more insensible it is, and the
less susceptible to the sense of feeling from mere touch or vio-
lence from contact with any other substance. Even the heart,
the centre of the circulating organs which attracts and pro-
pels the blood throughout the entire system, does not seem to
possess, itself, any feeling, by \vhich it cari detect the touch
B
of any external object, and this same insrn3ibility seems h>
pervade all those organs most essen.tial to life and health.-
.t\ nd the brain, and indeed, the en tire nervous system, may be
injured to any extent, without any sensation or pain in those
organs. The brain may, and has been entirely destroyed,
without destroying life at the same time. In cases of difficult
labor, the brain of the fcrtus has been let out of the cranium
for the purpose of procuring delivery, and yet the infant
lived for some hours aftrr birth. Dr. N Plson before referred to,.
narrates one or two cases of this kind, which occurred in his
own practice. And a case is referred to in Graham's Sci-
ence of Human Life, where the feet us was born alive without
::my brain, or the least semblance of a spinal marrow."*'
Now, how docs it come to pass, if the gah·anic forces con-
stitute life, ~nd these forces are conducted by the nervous sys-
tem, we s&y how does it come to pass7 that the nen·es ha,·e
no sensation except on the surface of the system? \Vhy ha,·e
not the nerves, or the electric fluid in the nerres, as much
sensation in one place as another? How is it that the optic
nerve is so insensible to en~rything bnt light? How is it that
the brain, the grand organ of thought and the centre of all
feeling and sens~ tion, itself has no feeling at nll? Especially
if the brain be a,real galvanic battery, which eliminates the
Yital energy which }eels, how shall we account for it, that that
important organ may be cut and; in fact, taken out of the
cranium, without giving so much sense of pain even as the
mere prick of a pin on the surface of the hand? Is it not too
plain to be doubted, that if electricity constituted animal life,
every part of the system should he alike sensitive to pain from
contact with any disturbing body~ Indeed, we should sup·
pose, that in those portions where we could find the greateq
amount of nervons matter, we shou ld find the most electricity,
and consequentlr, the l1ighest sense of fcchng from touch.-
.. It is said that bra.inless fret uses arc not uncommon; and "·e haYe
the description of a case by Dr. Mayer, of Berlin, where one was
born without either brain, spinal chora, or encifJhalo-spinal nen·es.-
Thcre was one nervous twig accompanying the Yena] artery, anrl aris-
ing, apparently from the venal plexus. Other cases haYe been known
where, though some of the cerebral org:ms were e·.·oh-cd, yet no nerre-s
could l!.e discovered.
HU::\IA.X LIFE. 15
But, on examination we find the state of things directly the
re,·erse of this. The nerves themselves, have no tnore feel-
ing than dead matter, except upon the surface of the systen~,
and as we shall see, there are conditions of the living systern
in which the nerves of sensation are deprived of this function,
a phenomenon which can satisfactorily be accounted for, only
upon the supposition, that life is an element, governed and
perpetuated by laws of its own. If it be objected that this
element has never been seen, we answer, neither has the for-
ces of the magnet ever been seen. And yet, who doubts of
their existence 1
In the succeeding chapter, some of the laws will be made
to appear, by which living bodies are affected, and by which
those results are induced, which we class under the terms ex-·
p~ained in the preceding pages.
CHAPTER III .
SUSCEPTIBILITY".
In treating on the susceptibilities of the living body, we en-
ter upon a field, 'vhich has not, I believe, been so thorough-
ly explored, as many other questions involved in the subject
of human physiology. Anu yet, if I mistake not, it will be
. found to be one of immense importance, as it is connected
with everything, which relates to human weal or wo. There
is no pain or pleasure, no feeling, emotion, or passion com-
Jnon to our nature, but has to do with that quality of the liv-
ing body which I denominate susceptibility. And in a word,
all the results prorluced by any agency, whatever it may be,
'vhen exerted upon the mind or body, depend entirely, upon
this quality of the human system.
1. THIS SUSCEPTIBILITY IS PECULIAR TO ANniAL LIFE.
No agencies are known, by which any effects are prcduced,
of the kind now under consideration, upon a dead bodr.
Hence, it appears that all the influence ever excited upon the
human system by pathetism, depended upon this peculiar
quality of the system.
1. Jl.1edicine produces no effects except by its pou:er ol:er
this suscept£bility.
But why should not the stomach, and other portions of the
system, immediately after death, be affected by medicine 1
\Vho has ever been able to answer this question? Indeed,
'vc know, that while life remains, in certain cases, the most
powerful drugs in the materia meqica produce no effect at all.
A case is on record of a man being engaged in alchemy, who
cou]d take four ounces of sweetened and sublimated mercury,
'vithout being purged. The only reason that can be assigned
in such cases, is that the vital forces become so far destroyed
or annihilated, that medicine cannot reach them; and from
SL"SCErTIBILITY. 17
whic1t it follmvs that the principle or susceptibility on which
medicine operates in any case, is this quality, and which is
peculiar to animal life; and certainly, the various theories of
medicine are just as much responsible for their failure, as path-
etism, when this agency is found inadequate to produce any
desirable change in the health of the system. It will be found
on enquiry, that the beneficial results ofmedicine, in any giv-
en case, are nearly or quite as uncertain, as those attending
the ordinary process of pathetising for the cure of disease.
2. The effects of 1nedicine are not only known to be e.-r-
tremely uncertain, but 'videly different in dz~fferent persons,
and....the efrects vary at different times on the. same system.
This, we are told, depends upon the idiosyncrasy of the pa-
tient, or that peculiar state of the constitution by virtue of
which one feels a like or a dislike, or an indifference towards
any given object. It is preci~ely so with pathetism; and we
can no more account for these different dispositions in different
indiYiduals, than for the differen~e in the effects produced by
manipulating the human system.
3. All the enwtions of pleasu,.c or pain are produced
tltroug!t tl1is susceptibility.
I do nor, now., assume to tell, in \V hat peculiar qualities or
combinations of matter, this susceptibility consists; but I af-
firm what every one knO\v~, when I sar, that there is a vast
difi'erence in the degrees to which different persons will be af~
fected, agreeably or otherwi~e, by the ~ame agency. Sensa-
tion has been considered as the condition of_,self consciousness,
which presupposes nothing more than life, for its existence.
But we haYe seen that there may be life, where there is no
susceptibility; and this shows that sensation depends on ape-
culiar condition of life, which is nothing more nor less than
tl1e susceptibility, upon which \Ve operate in producing plea-
sure or pain. And when we pn. duce any kind of sen~ation
in the mind of another through the eye or ear, or by a blow
upoa the body, there is really just as much mystery in the im-
mediate agency by which an impression is produced upon the
mind, in this case, as there is when we put a person into a
~tate of sleep by merely holuing the hand on the head. All
\Ve know is, that certain re~ults follow certain means used.
•
18 P.\THETIS::'II.
~. J.Vo change of any kind ·is b1·oug ltt about zn tlw living
bod!J without opcrat1·ng on this susceptibilily.
It is not reached through any one organ alone, but is dif-
fused throughout the entire system. Nor is it reached with
equal facility hy the same means in different persons. One
is found quite difficult to be affected by the ordinary course of
1nedical treatment, and he is relieved at once by pathetising.
The strains of music which melt and move the soul of one,
have no effect at all upon another, who would at the same
time be affected to tears, at the sight of human suffering.
A knowledge of this quality of the living body will account
for the diseases produced by contagion or 1
"n[ection; for, whe-
ther the substance producing the change, be received in.to the
~ystem, through the stomach or lungs, or the pores of the
skin, this is the medium through which the change is made,
1.vhether the agents be material substances, or those only,
'vhich produce feeling, emotion, passion, or change of anr
1iind in the human ·mind.
2. THERE IS A RECIPIWCAL I~FLUENCE BETWEEX THIS S'C'S-
CEPTIBILITV Ai\"D THE HU.i\IA~ 1\IIND.
I use the term mind to signify an intellectual, £ntelligent
pou·er, which is not predicab]e of mere anil;llal life. Life is
not intelligence.. But that self-determining power in man, de-
nominated the mind, is certainly manifested through the body,
and all we knmv of its nature, we acquire through those or-
gans, upon the healthy functions of which, it is dependent,
from first to last, for the integrity of its deductions. For, to
'vhateYer standard we appeal, for the purpose of determining
its nature and pmvers, we do so in the exercise of the cerebral
functions, and whether we correctly apprehend what is admit-
ted to be a divine revelation on this question or not, must de-
pend upon the healthy state of those organs, through which
the conclusions of the mind arc manifested.
(1.) The dependence of mind upon the developments of
this susceptibility. '\There is the mind of the fmtus or of the
child just born? 'Vhere is the mind of the infant, or the id-
iot, fifty years old? It is agreed on all hands, that in these
cases, there arc no manzfcstations of mind. As in the vege-
SUSCEPTIBILITY. 19
table kingdom, those leaves which appear first, and are near-
est the earth, are less matured, and soonest decay, while the
flower and ripened seed require time for their full develop-
ment; ~o in the human species: in infancy we find little or
no appearance of mind, till, by age, diet and exercise, the phy-
sical organs become sufficiently developed for its various man-
ifestatioos. At first, its faint gleamings are perceived, ·which
correspond with the infantile proportions of the body, anu up
through childhood and youth, its powers may be traced in
connection \vith tl1e growth and health of the cerebral organs.
'Vhen the body has reached the meridian of its development,
in a healthy state, the mind also, is seen in the· full exercise
of its powers, and from this period, do\vn through the decrep-
itude of age, it sympathises with the infirmities of the body.
To notice a few things a little more in detail:
Sexual difference. In the male, the bones and muscles are
Stronger, and lllOre-regular, the arterial and Cerebral systems
are more de,-e}opcd; the lungs are stronger, and hence, more
compass of voice and respiration. On the contrary, women
will generally be found inferior in the bones and muscles, with
larg·er venous and ganglionic systems. In men, the coan:er,
rougher qualities-in women, the finer and more ·delicate.-
And hence, a corresponding psychological difference. l\Ian is
disposed for labor,_courage, liberty and power. 'Voman, for
purity, kindness and patience. ·
The temperaments. As there are as many temperaments,
properly speaking, as there are differences in the qualities of
the physical systems of different persons, 1.ve ha,·e no terms
by which they couhl be designated. The term temperament,
from tempera, to mix together, has been u::::ed to signify that
peculiar combination of the materials constituting the differ-
ence in th·e susceptibilities and dispositions of uifrerent indi-
viduals. Hence, we say that in a person of sanguine temper-
ament, there is a corresponding deye]opment of hope and joy.
In the ne1"z:ous, the cerehral portions correspond; in "the bi-
lious, hard muscle, large firmness and energy; in the lym-
phatic, deficiency in firmness and industry, loYe of ease and
inactiYity. Diet makes a differenee. It is well kno\Yn, that
~0 PATHETIS,:\f,
all substances taken into the human stomach, wl1ich pra'ducc
0\·er cxcitcmcn t, or cau::c any dcra ngerucn t in the ncrvou:::
system, invariably afrect the mental powers more or lcss.-
Instancc the cfrccts of alchohol, tobacco and opium. l\1ore
than one-third of all the cases of insam:ty, in this country and
in Europe, are produced by the usc of intoxicating lit1uors;
and in China, similar results follow the use of opium. And
will any one assume, tlmt insanity, in these cases, is not caus-
ed by the infincnce of the. physical organs over the mind?-
Poisonous food frequently cau8cs delirium. Two monks atf'
wa1cr-hemlock. Both immediately complained of thirst, and
plunged into. the water, one thinking himself a goose, and the
other that he was a duck, and both affirming, that they could
lire no where else but in the water.*
And who does not know the wenkcning effects of hungf'r
upon the mind, and the exhilaration which follows a full
1n~al? The difference between a flesh and a vegetable diet
is well known. Flesh is more stimulating, producing a bi-
lious, active, passionate, and ~ensual di~position; while a ve-
gctaule diet is fa vorablc to the cultivation of a meek, subdued,
childlike feeling, as is abundantly prm·cd by the accounts we
haYe of nations, communities, and indiviuuals who have con-
fined themselves to this ·way of living.
The state of the health. The power of tlwug!tt 'depends
upon the state of the nervous system. Every one knows how
difficult it is to put forth any considerable mental efl'ort when
the ston1ach or any of lhc vital organs are much cliseased.-
ScYere pain in the head distracts the thoughts, and fevers fre·
quently rage to such a degree, that mental derangement, and
c,·en ra,·ing madness ensues. A slight blow upon the heau.
changes entirely the activity of the mind, and at other time~.
instant death is the result.
'I'hc want of sleep enfeebles the mind, antl when wakeful-
n~ss is continued too long-, in some cases, it causes mental dc-
rangemen t.
The cffeots of the air, the new moon and planets, haye long
been known, and more or less acb10wlcdged, by all clas~e.s of
..
• Dr. H-auch.
SuSCEPTIBILITY. ~1
people. Indeed, the effects of climate are not 1nore visible,
scarcely, upon the vegetable or animal kingdoms, than upon
the minds of men. Insanity has often been known to follow,
what is called, a "stroke of tbe sun;" and that it has an in-
fluence on animal life seems now to be generally ac.Imittea.
l\1. Arago, in his account to the Academy of Sciences ofthe
solar eclipse ofSth Juiy, 1842, states, that he had often heard
accounts of birds dying from the 1nere influence of an eclipse
of the sun; but could scarcely credit the statement, as they
could only die from fear; and the discharge of a gun ought to
frighten them more, and yet it is certain that it does not kill
them, unless they are actually hit. One of M. Arago's friends
1nade the follo\ving experiment: He placed five linnets in a
cage, they were lively and active, and fed up to the moment
of the e_
clipse; when the ec!ipse had terminated three ofthem
were dead.
A dog was kept fasting from morning; immediately bef0re
the eclipse he was offered food, . and fell on it greedily; but
'When the dusk commenced he suddenly ceased eating.
The horned cattle in the fields see1ned affected with a kind
of vague terror; during the eclipse they lay down in a circle,
their heads being arranged toward the circumference, as if to
face a common danger.
The darkness influenced even the smaller animals. l\I.
Froisse observed a number of mice which were running brisk-
ly, become suddenly still when tlie eclipse began.
The notion prevailed among the ancients, that the influence
of the moon had a tendency to produce insanity, and hence
this disease has taken the nam'€ of lunacy from luna the n1oon.
The extremes of heat and cold are known to be unfavora-
ble to the development of extraordinary intellectual powers.
Too great a degree of heat relaxes the nervous and muscular~
systems; and by too much cold they are contracted, and cor-
responding effects are produced upon the mind. It is in the
temperate zones that we find the greatest exhibitions of intel-
lectual power. It is here that we find it luxuriating in the
majesty of its strength, and where, in the exercise of its attri-
butes, it explores the hidden mysteries of naturc,-soaring in
rATIIETIS:'-I.
illimitable space, with the stars and planetary 'vorld~, or com·
tnanuing the laws which control the red winged lightning of
hea ren.
(2.) The influence of the mind over the susceptiLility.-
The effects ofjoy are well known under this emotion, the res-
piration becornes easy, the face is flushed with color, and the
entire system seems animated with new life. Anger has been
known both to cure and produce disease. This emotion is no
sooner excited in the mind, than its influence is shmvn in the
fac(•, :md throughout the muscular system. Tbe eye is seen
to change quickly, the teeth grate, and the hand is clenched
in correspondence with this state of the mind. The vascular
systBm, also, partakes of the general excitement. The blood
is quickened in its circulation, and hence the heat of the body
is increased. The secretions become more copious; and in
some cases, their quality is perceptibly changed. Indeed,
most of the emotions· and passions of the human mind, are
usually shown in the countenance, and excite more or less in-
fluence over the nervous systen1; and hence the origin of the
Yarious theories of physiognomy which have been put forth
from time to time.
One of the most mysterious agencies in nature is that which
is communicated from the mind through the voice. All the
emotions of the heart have corresponding tones of voice. In
j oy it is clear and full; in anger loud arid rough; in fear, it is
tre:nulous and low, as it is, also, under deep and tender emo-
tions. And it is worthy of remark, that tho5e gestures which
are true to nature, are at first, perfe~tly involuntary. In fear,
the face grows pale; in fright; the liands are raised and drawn
Lack; in de,rotion or joy, the hands are ra"ised and clasped.-
So in the look of the eye, the turn of the lip, wrinkling of the
forehead, emotion is frequently expressed, with more empha-
sis than could be done in words, alone. One hand open, and
stretched out, salutes; both open and extended, invite; and
with one finger we direct, point out, or command. The head
affirms or assents by nodding, and denies by shaking. Bcnd-
ihg forward, it indicates devotion, or modesty, and thus the
whole body is m3.de to talk and express the emotions of the
mind.
Sl:SCEPTIBILIT\". :23.
Volumes might be filled, demonstrating this po·wer, but ~1y
limits will only allow a partial Yiew of this subject.
A skilful physicmn related to me the following:-
A man called on him for medical advice, complaining that
all the medicines he had taken for some time preYious, had
the effect of an aperient. He seemed to think he had been
imposed upon by the doctors, and be~ged to lmow of my
friend Dr. \V. if he could not give him something that would
benefit him without producing this effect. The Doctor assur-
ed him that he had no doubt at all, that he could gratify him
in this respect. Accordingly, he retired to another room, and
prepared a few pills, entirely of n·heat bread, and handed
them to the patient, '\Vith suitable directions. In the course
of a few days, the Doctor fell in with the patient, and received
from him a se\ere castigation. "\Vh,·, Doctor," said he,
''those pills you ga~e me._physicked m~ almost to death. I
never took any thing before so pmverful !"
I reminded the Doctor that he h3d made a mistake in giv-
it'g the patient pills of any kind. Had the same substance
been given in the form of powders, probably it would have
produced no effect at all.
I had the follo',ving from a scientific gentleman of this city.
...lt little daughter of his was indisposed, and he gave her, for
an aperient, a little pure '\Vater slightly coloured with wine.
She thought it was tincture of rhubarb, and it affected her
accordingly. -
I had a patient, a \ery intelligent lady, who was so susceptible
that she 'I.Vould drink from a tumbler of clear Yvater, and be·
' lieve what she drank to be lemonade, coffee, brandy, or any
other liquid \Vhich I told her it was; and this she did in the
waking state. I once gaye her a tumbler of water slightly
coloured with n1olasses, telling her it was senna; and she de·
clared it to be sE-nna, on drinking it, and it produced the desir-
ed effect.
Burton (Anat. l\Iel. vol. 1, p. 22L,) says, a person who has
often taken nauseating medicines, will be nauseated by the
thought of receiring it again ; and a thought has often proved
a powerful emetic. And not only has a thought proved an
PATIIETISI-I.
emetic, but the sight of a distasteful cathartic has for some
time operated the same, as when that medicine is actually ·
recei\·ed in to the stomach, as testified by many experienced
physicians, especially as related by Cornelius Agrippa (out of
G ulielmus Parisiensus). In another place he says:
"l\Ten, if they see but another man tremble, giddy, or sick
of some fearful disease·, their apprehension and fear are so
strong in this kind, that they will have such a disease. Or if
hy some soothsayer, wise man, fortune teller, or physician,
they be told they shall have such a disease, they will so se-
riously apprehend it, that they will instantly labour of it-a
thing familiar in China (saith Riccius the Jesuit). If it he
told them that they shall be sick on such a day, when that
day comes they will surely be sick, and will be so terribly af·
fticted, that sometimes they will die upon it."
A fact is stated in Lockhart's life of Sir \Valter Scott, 'vhich
shows the power of mind over the system, to prevent at will,
the usual effects of medicine. It.is related by Scott himself,
of ::t common farmer, whose f.'lther had given him a quantity
of laudanum, instead of some other medicine. This mistake
was instantly discovered; but the young man h<J.d sufficient
energy and force of mind to resist the operation of the drug.
\Vhile all around him were stupid with fear, he started up,
saddled his horse, and rode to Selkirk, a distance of six or
seven miles, thus saving the time that the doctor must have
taken in coroing to him. His agony of mind_prevented the
operation of the opielte until he had alighted, when it instant·
ly began to operate. He wa~, however, perfectly recovered.
Some ten years ago, while laboring under a severe inflamma-
tion of the throat and lungs, a friend prepared for me a mix-
ture of molasses and camphor. Soon after taking it I began
to feel strangely, and, on inquiry, found that I had actually
eaten a piece of the gum, larger than a nutmeg. I felt, of
course, a little alarmed, but immediately 1·csolved that it
should not overcome the nervous system, inasmuch as I had
an appointment to appear before a public meeting that even-
ing. I walked, durrng an hour or so, resisting all the while
the action of the camphor by a determined resolution not to
be overcome by it; and, without any difficulty, I succeeded,
SUSCEPTIBILITY.
to the no sn1all surprise of the friends who had beco1ne
cognizant of what I had done.
Dr. James Gregory ordered an opiate to a young man, to
relieve sleepless nights, under which he had suffered in con-
valescence from fever. He informed the patient that he had
prescribed an anodyne, to be taken at bedtime; but the invalid
being son1ewhat deaf, understood him to say an ape1·ient.
Next morning, on the doctor's inquiring whether he had slept
after the anodyne, he replied "Anodyne! I thought it was an
aperient, and it has indeed operated briskly." ...--.
A female lunatic was admitted into the county asylum, at
Hanwell, under Sir \Viliam Ellis. She imagined that she
was labouring under a complaint that required the use of
mercury; but Sir \Villiam, finding the idea of that disease
was an insane delusion, yet considering that flattering the
opinion of the lunatic to a certain degree, would be favorable
to the recovery of her reason, ordered bread pills for her, and
called them mercurial pills. After a few days she was sali-
vated, and the pills were discontinued. On again ordering
them after the sali-ration had subsided, she 'vas a second
time affected in the same manner; and this again happened
on the recurrence to the use of the pills a third time.
A physician states, that a lady under his care assured him
that opium, in any form, always caused headache, and rest-
lessness, and Yomiting on the follO\ving morning; and on pre-
~cribing laudanmn for her, under its usual name, "tinctura
opii/' he found that her account of its effects was correct;
but on prescribing it under the term "tinctura thebaica,"
1Yhich she did not understand, (she read every prescription,)
it produced its usual salutary effect, and was continued for
some time without inducing the smallest inordinate action.
I have heard of a case, in which the hair was changed,
from black to gray, in a few hours, merely by the effects of
fear.
And, numerous cases of death, have occurred, produced
merely by the influence of mind over this susceptibility.
The A1·eekee are a sect among the heathen in New Zea-
land, described by l\1r. \Vhite, a \Vesleyan :Missionary, who
c
26 PATIIETIS:i'I.
says: "They pretend to have intercourse with departed
spirits, hy which they are able to kill, by incantation, any
person on whom their anger may fall; and it is a fact," adds
l\Ir. \Vhite, "that numbers fall a prey to their confidence in
the efllcucies of the curses of these men, and pine under the
influence of despair and die."-.1\fiss. Her. -vol. 23, p. 314.
Burton, {Anat. of l\1el.) speaks of a Jew in Franc~, who
'valked by chance, in the dark, over a dangerous passage or
Jllanlr, that lay OYer a brook, without harm; the next day
perceiving what danger he had been in, he dropped down
dead. He further records that at Basil, a child died through
fright by seeing a malefactor hung in gibbets; and that in the
same town, beyond the Rhine, another child died on seeing a
carcase taken from the grave.
The case of the criminal who was condemned to die, is well
known. The physicians obtained leave to experiment upon
him in the following manner: He was blindfolded, and made
to believe that he 'vas to be bled to death. A vessel of water
was placed near him, and when his arm had been operated
upon, as if a vein had been opened, the water was set to run-
ning, so that the noise of the small stream £ounded like the
blood issuing from the arm. In a few minutes the patient
began to complain of faintness. His pulse grew more and
more feeble, till in a short time he actually expired, and this,
too, when not one drop of blood had been drawn from his
veins.
It is recorded of a Roman mother, that she instantly died of
joy, on meeting her son as he returned fron1 the battle ofCan-
n<£, where she supposed he had been slain by the veterans of
Hannibal.
A lady in Kentucky, the 'vife of David Prentiss, Esq. fell
dead in an instant, while reading a letter which brought her
the news of her husband's death.
\Veil authenticated cases are upon record, which go to
show that the mind may sometimes assume such an astonish-
ing degree of pbwer over this susceptibility, as to control the
iuvoluntary muscles, and indeed, suspend the entire functions
of the animal system. It is said of Betterton, an actor, that
SUSCEPTIBILITY".
he could, at will, render his face pale, and perfectly bloodless;
aod a case is mentioned by Blumenbach, ofa 1nan, who could
in the same '\vay, control the :tction of his own stomach. A
German, now living, by the name of Kerner, it is said,* pos-
sesses the power of suspending the action of his own heart;
anti I have frequently done the same thing for a few moments,
in some cases of somnipathy.
A most extraordinary instance, illus!rating this power, is
given by Dr. Cheyne.t It was in the case of Col. Townshend,
who, after having been sometime indisposed, sent for Drs.
Baynard and Cheyne, the latter of whom gives the following
account of what they heard and saw:-
"He told us he had sent for us to give him some account
of an odd sensation he had for some time observed and felt in
himself: he could die or expire when he pleased, and yet by
an effort, or somehow, he could come to life again; which it
Se€ms he had sometimes tried before he had sent for us. \Ve
heard this with surprise; but as it was not to be accounteu for
from any common principles, we could hardly believe the fact
as he related it, much less give any account of it, unless he
should please to make the experiment before us, which we
were unwilling he shoultl do, lest in his '\veak condition he
might carry it too far. He continued to talk very distinctly
and sensibly above a quarter of an hour about this (to him)
surprising sensation, and insisted so much on our seeing the
trial mnde, that '\ve were at last forced to comply. \Ve all
three felt his pulse first; it vvas distinct though small and
threadyr, and his heart had its usual beating. He composed
himself on his back, and lay in a still posture some time;
while I held his right hand, Dr. Baynard laid his hand on his
heart, and Mr. Skrine held a clean looking glass to his
mouth. I found his pulse sink gradually, till at last I could
not feel any by the most exact and nice touch. Dr. Baynard
could not feel the least motion of his heart, nor Mr. Skrine
the least soil of breath on the br1gh t mirror he held to his
1nouth; then each of us by turns examined his arm, heart,
and breath, but could not by the nicest scrutiny discover the
least symptoms of life in him. \Ve reasoned a long time about
this od·d appearance as well as we could, and all of usjudging
it inexplicable and unaccountable; and finding that he stiU
continued in that condition, '\Ve began to conclude that he had
* London Lancet, Feb. IS, lS-13.
t Treatise on Nertous Diseases, p. 307. •
'28 PATHETIS~I.
indeed carried the experiment too far, and at last wrre satisfied
he was actually dead, and W(:'re just ready to leave him. This
continued about half an hour, by 9 o'clock in the morning, in
autumn. As we were g0ing away, we observed some motion
about the body, and upon examination, found his pulse and
the motion of his heart returning; he began to breathe gently,
and speak softly: we ·were all astonished to the last degree
at this unexpected change, and after some further comrersa-
tion with him ana among ourselves, we went away fully sat·
isfied as to all the particulars of this fact, but confounded and
puzzled, and not able to form any rational scheme that might
account for it. He afterwards called for his attorney, added
a codicil to his wiH, settled legacies on his servants, received
the sacrament, and calmly and composedly expired about five
and six o'clock that evening."
A case was related some two years since by an eminent
physician to his medical class, in Boston, 1\Tass., substantially
as follow~. A lady applied to him for the treatment of a can-
cer upon the right side or" her face, about the size of a two-
quart bottle. Upon deciding that an operation lvould be ne-
cessary to save her life, she expressed great unwillingness to
submit to it, and asked hi1n if he could not give her some-
thing that would lessen the pain when it was performed. T o
gratify her he gave her something for this purpose. Three
days after, she came to him again, and informed him, that she
had fortunately, heard of a cure, and 1Yhich she would try~
'vith hi3 approval. It was this-that if she should apply the
hand of a dead nwn to the cancer, three mornings in succes-
sion, it would certainly prove effectual; a neighbor had just
<lied, thus affording an opportunity for the trial.
At first, the Dr. was disposed to laugh at her notions, hut
finally, concluded it best to yield to them, and so expressed a
hope that the means proposed might prove successful. In
about three weeks afterwards, this same woman returned,
and putting her hand up to her face where the cancer had
been, said, "Dr., look here!" And sure enough, the Dr. on
examination, found the cancer had wholly disappeared.
The above cases show most clearly, the astonishing influ-
ence which the mind often exerts over one's own nervous sys-
tem.. And that the n1ind of one person may exert an influ-
SUSCEPTIBILITY, 29
enre oYer the suscertibility of others, is just as plain as that
we are ever affected at all by what we hear or see done by
others. How often are whole assemblies ofpeople moved even
to tears, by what they see and hear from another, speaking or
actjng before them. But that peculiar agency by which the
speaker transfers his mvn feelings into the minds of his hear-
ers, is nothing more nor Jess thun thB subject of our present in-
qmry.
The following case will show the power which one mind
- 3ometimes acquires over the susceptibility of another, even
·when the latter does not seem to have any apprehension of
what is done to him.
lVIr. F orbes, in the .2d vaL of his oriental memoirs, says
that-'' he was acquainted with a Banian named Lullabhy,
the richest man in the city, who was universally believed to
possess the power of curing the bit~ of venomous serpents,
by a knowledge peculiar to himself, which he never impart-
€d to another. By this art, he certainly recovered many na-
tives from a desperate state, after being wounded by the cobra·
di-capello and the scarlet snake of Cubbeer-Burr, without
touching the patient, or prescribing any thing inwardly.
"1\'lr. Gambier, at that time chief of Earache, was extreme-
ly incredulous respecting talismans, charms, divinations and
preternatural pretensions of the Bramins; and his opinion of
Lullabhy was publicly known, when a circumstance in his
own garden afforded a fair opportunity of detecting its fallacy.
One of the under gardeners was bitten by a cobra-di-capello,
and pronounced to be in ,danger. 1\'Ir. Gambier was holding
a council in an upper pavilion, and at the desire of l\Tr. Per-
rott, their second council: immediately sent for Lullabhy,
without informing him of the incidents, of which he remain-
ed ignorant until ushered into the chief's presence. The gar·
dener was lying on a slight bed of cane rope, in a veranda
adjoining the council room.
"Being asked if he could effect a cure, Lullabhy tnodestly
replied, that by God's blessing he trusted he should succeed.
The poor wretch was at this time, in great agony and deliri-
ous; he afterwards became torpid and speechless; still Lul-
labhy was not permitted to commence his operations. The
members of council anxiously waited the chief's permission,
especially, when Lullabhy asserted, that any farther loss of
time would render it too late. l\Ir. Gambier examined the
man's pulse by a stop watch, amd when convinced that his
dissolution was inevitably approaching, he allowed Lullabhy
cl
30 PATHEl'IS~f~
to e:xert his influence. After a ~hort silent prayer, Lullabhr
in presence of all the company, moved his short dagger oyer
the head of the expiring man, without touching him. The
patient continued for some time, motionless; in half an hour
his heart began to beat, circulation quickened, and within the
hour he moved his limbs and recovered his senses. At the ex-
piration of the third hour, Lullabhy had effected his cure.-
The man was sent home to his fc1mily, and in a few days re-
covered from the weakness occasioned by convulsive parox..
isms, which probably would neither have been so severe nor
of such long continuance, had the counteracting power been
sooner applied."
Of the truth of this account there can be no reasonable
doubt, and it is scarcely more extraordinary than many well
att~sted cases of cure by pathctism; though it differs fr01n
the common cases of the latter kind, inasmuch as it does not
appear, that the operator in this cure, came in contact ·with
his patient, or that he even so much as touched him with his
dagger. The laws by which the minll, (and through this the
susceptibility,) is affected without contact, will appear in the
sequel.
The foregoing facts demonstrate the influence of the mind
over health and life. The following are of another c]as5, but
show as clearly the power of which I am now· speaking.-
Cases are 'veil known, where a sudden fright of the mother
has left an indelible impression upon the child. Dr. Howship
relates the case of a woman who was crossing a frozen river
in a state of pregnancy. The ice cracked and burst, and she
'vas terribly frightened. \Vhen the child was born, its skin
was gaped considerably in several places. The sight of un
epileptic has been known to transfer this disease to the fmtus;
and a case is reported by Dr. Joslin, in which a child was
born with small pox, in consequence of the exposure of it5
tnother, only thirty days previous to the birth. ofthe child, and
this too, when the mother had been perfectly secured from
varioloid, by vaccination, some thirty years before. There
were upon the body of the child, about one hundred and sev-
enty regularly formed small-pox pustules, of the usual size,
and filled with a yellowish purulent matter.*
• New York Lancet, ?.Iay 21, 1842.-Two similar cases arc given in
SUSCEPTIBILITY, 31
~
The sight of an ugly or disagreeable person has been known
to produce an effect upon the features of the embryo. Indeed,
this principle is recognised in the bible as governing. the sus-
ceptibilities of animals. [Gen. 30: 37.] It was acknow-
ledged by the Lacedemonians, when they placed beautiful sta-
tues in the rooms with their pregnant wives. It would seen1
that this susceptibility is greatly increased during the period
of gestation. I knew a mother, who, during this state, drank
two quarts of brandy in twenty-four hours, without showing
any degree of intoxication; and at another time, she ate two
quarts or more of raw rice, '\Vithout any injury. Tulpius
speaks of a lady who devoured 1400 herrings during pregnan-
cy; and of a woman who ate twenty pounds of pepper; and
another who ate a live carp from head to tail. .Another bit
off the heads of twelve mullets and ate them; and another
who actually. murdered her own husband, and after eating
'\Vhat she could, salted the rest for future u!3e.
There is another property of the living body, which it
would be unpardonable not to notice in this connection, and
especially as it ·would seem to be so directly connected with
the general subject now under consideration. The skin, which
covers the entire surface of the body, is filled with innumera-
ble pores, so inconceivably small, that in many places they
are scarcely visible to the naked eye. In this covering the
nerves of sensation are commenced, but the functions to which
I would call the attention of the reader, are those, simply,
which are known under the term perspiration and absorption,
or 'inhibition. Life.and health could not be continued for any
length of time, but for the constant exhalatiOn of a fluid
through these pores, amounting in weight to more than one-
the same work for l\Iarch 26, and April 26, 18-!2-; and another in the
London Lancet for Feb. 4, 1842. And from such facts as the following
it would seem, that the same law predominates over the susceptibili-
ties of the feather€d tribe also. "A ben belonging to Benj. Gallaway,
Esq, of \Veakley county, Tenn., was some time ago bitten by a rattle-
snake, but by proper attention the wound was cured. Howev~r, strange
1o tell, we are informed that e>ery egg laid since that time by this hen
h:1~ a picture of a rattlesnake r~presented upon the shell ! 1\Ir. Galla·
way, who is afraid to use these eggs in the family, has kept them, and
will ·with pleasure exhibit them to the inspection ofthe incredulous.-
N. Y. Sun1 April14, 1843.
3~ r ATIIETIS:'If ,
half of all the food nnd drink received into the stomach, and
larger, also, than that dis poset~ of by the other secretions.
That various substances are received into the system,
through the skin, or from the surface of the bodr, is as well
known as any fact connected with human physiology. The
hand, immersed in warm water, will absorb between seventr
and one hundred grains of the fluid, in the course ofone hour;
and the weigh t oft he entire system is proportionally increased,
by remaining for a short time, completely covered with wa-
ter.
Seamen, when suffering from thirst, have obtained relief by
applying wet clothes to the skin, or bathing even in salt wa-
ter.
Bathing the head with alchohol will produce intoxication,
and metallic quicksilver has been found even in the bones of
persons who had been subjected to mercurial frictions. Va-
rious medicines and poisons are received into the system by
being merely applied to the skin; and fron1 this well-known
disposition of the system to dr£nk in the substances applied
to the surface, a theory of medicine was commenced some
three or four cenluries before Christ, and which has sincere-
ceived the name of Iatroleptic, frmn the practice of anointing
the body, or appl)~in~· mc:dicine to the surface by friction.
If the system be thus pervious to fluids, how much more
so must it be to imponderable gases, or agencies as subtle as
magnetism or electricity? Ifa bladder be filled with hydro-
gen gas, and suspended in the air, it will be penetrated in a
short time by the air with which it is surrounded; and when
external agencies arc applied to the surface of the body, it is
not unreasonable to suppose, but that they may penetrate and
affect the vital forces, with equal facility.
Two of the mo~t important pathological facts, dcmonstrat·
ing this susceptibility, we find detailed in the London Lancet
for Jan. 14, 1843. They are given by Dr. \V. F. Bow, and
are as follows:-
"One remarkable phenomenon, incomprehensible without
the aid oft he law of nervous induction, results from the ac-
tion on the surface of the body produced by a blister. This
St:SCEPTIBILITY. 33
phenomenon I shall describe in the words of the author, wh o
first made n1e cognizant of it:-' Thus I have been informed
by a respectable surgeon, that he found on opening the cran·
ium of a patient who had died after a blister had been recent·
ly appiied, an inflamed mark, exactl71 corresponding in shape
and size u:itlt the external mark of the blister, which penetra·
ting the scalp, and the c1·an.ium, 1cas distinctly visible on -tlte
du1·a mater.'
"1\Tr. Porter, in his surgical observations on the diseases of
the Larynx and Trachea, expresses himself strongly against
the use of blisters in acute laryngites, particularly when ap·
plied to the neighborhood of the part. He says they cannot
be resorted to at an early period without doing considerable
1nischief. A case is related when, in acute pneumonia, the
application of a blister was followed by an aggravation of the
symptoms and death. On dissection, a portion of the surface
of the lung exactly corresponding to the size and shape of
the blzster, was found in a more advanced stage.of injlamma·
tion than the remaining pulmonary tissue.
"I have been told by a gentleman whose opportunities for
observation have been frequent, that he has repeatedly seen
nmrks on the pleura, covering the lungs, leaving the size and
shape of the blister which had been applied to the chest, and
the same on the intestinal peritoneum, of the size a;nd shape
of the blister which had been applied to the abclom.en."
And Dr. Bow adds:
"The knowledge of the fact, that a morbid action artificial·
ly produced on the skin, will excite a similar action on an in-
ternal surface, is of the highest practical importance; for if
've find, that by lessening the contr~ctile power of the capil·
]aries of an internal surface, we may .rest assured, that we
have also the power of increasing the contractile power of
the capillaries ofan internal surface, by applying to the adja·
cent external surface, agents which we know do augment the
contractile power of the capillaries of the skin."
The inferences to be drawn from the foregoing facts, will
be seen in the course of the following pages.
3. THE .ADAPTATION OF THE DIFFERENT SUSCEPTIBILITIES
TO THE ECOXG:\IY A~"D GE~ER.AL PURPOSES OF LIFE.
In no part of the Great Creator's works do we see his wis·
dom and goodness more strikingly exhibited, than in this pro-
perty of the human system. Thus we find the organic sus-
ceptibility of the stomach, is adapted to those articles of food
31· rATiiETIS:.'If.
'vhich by the same plastic hand, h::n·e been organized and
prepared for the nourishment of the body. And this import-
ant organ has with propriety enough, been denominated the
conscience of the system; for when in a healthy condition,
with what fidelity does the little feelers with which its inner
surfilce is endowed, detect the qualities of the different sub-
stances received into it 1 And with what surprising readi-
ness do its muscular fibres commence their action on these
substances, and the whole structure, as it were, becomes agi-
tated in its efforts to digest and dispose of them, according to
the wants of the various parts of the body. So if we exam·
ine the circulating organs, we shall see the same adaptation
in the susceptibility of the heart, veins, arteries, and capilla-
ries. \Ve find in the human species, what we may call a
double heart, as it certainly consists of two separate organ~,
each of which gives motion to a different kind of blood. And
as the blood is poured from one of them in to the arteries, the
extren1e elasticity of these little tubes, aid in sending that im-
portant fJuid into c\rery part of the system. And the same
force3 assist in circulating the lymph and chyle, and in some
ca~es this -subtile power has continued to act for some thirty
minutes after death had separated the head from the body.
And how susceptible are the respiratory organs to the pres-
ence and properties of air 1 If we examine the texture and
shape of the lungs, together with their functions, and the re-
lation they sustain to the other vital organs, we shall see the
truth of this remark.
The same may be said also, of. the sensorial functions.-
The nerves of sensation commence in the extremes of every
portion of the system, so that no part of the surface can be
found where they are not; and all centering in the brain, we
see their adaptation to the great and important purposes for
which they were designed. All the organs of motion also,
send their respPctive nerves up to the same centre, where the
mind takes cognizance of the impressions made upon the
nerves, and from w hic.h the 'viii gives out its mandates to be
obeyed by the various parts of the system which have been
subjected to its control. In a word, the whole of this suscep·
SUSCEPTIBILITY. 35
tibility may, perhaps, be traced, more or less, to the functions
of the nervous or ganglionic system. Consisting of so many
parts, so minutely and mysteriously constructed, and distribu-
ted over the entire body, and all concentrating in the brain, it
is curious enough, to see how insensible the brain, nerves and
ganglia, themselves are, 1vhile they are evidently the medium
through which all sensation, emotion, passion, or feeling of
any and every kind, which become subjects of recollection nnd
reflection in the human mind.
Renee, it is plain, that the different susceptibilities of the
living body, are exactly adapted to the real necessities of the
system; and it follows, that if 1ve find one susceptiule to the
influence of pathetism, it is because the system needs its aid
in the performance of its various functions; and, on the other
band, if the patient is not susceptible to any influence from this
agency: it is because the system does not need it, but having
other susceptibilities, it must be relieved by the most appro-
priate means.
'fhis chapter shall now be concluded, by a few observations
designed to assist in judging of what may be denominated the
pathetetic susceptibility; that quality of the system which
renders one susceptible of any influence from the process of
manipulation.
1. The Temperament.-! have before stated, that there
may be said to be as many temperaments as there are per-
sons in existence. \.Vhat I mean is, that the qualities ofno two
systems are exactly alike, or are affected precisely in the same
111anner under the same process. The temperament which is
n1ost susceptible to the influence of pathetism, is one, which,
for distinction's sakP., we may denominate the sympathic, be-
cause it most readily yields to the touch of the human hand.
l\Iost somnambulists, and somniloquists, will be found of
this temperament. It is most readily recognized as a mix-
ture of the nervous lymphatic, or lymphatic, sanguine, and
nervous. In such persons we shall generally notice a bland,
blue, or grey eye, with extended pupil; soft muscle; hair tend-
ing to hazel, or light sandy color. The mouth will be some-
what wider than ordinary, and the inside of the hand "\Vill be
found generally cold, or in a state of perspiration.
3G P.ATHETISM.
2. Phrenological Developments.-Thc organs of firmness
small, arid the occipital and basilar portions, inferior. Per-
sons highly susceptible will usually have the front portion
marked on the ordinary phrenological busts as Ideality, large, ~
and fully developed.
There are other marks, which every experienced operator
must have noticed, but they are not so easily described.
Various .diseases often develope this susceptibility, and ren-
der it quite easy to affect persons when indisposed, who are
not influenced, by this agency at all, in a state of good health.
The manner of testing a person's susceptibility, is described
in the process of pathetising, in a succeeding chapter. There
is, however, a still more simple process, as follows:
Let the subject be seated where one of the hands and arms
may lay perfectly easy. The patient should consent to give
you complete control of that hand, and cease to exercise his
will O\'er it in any way. Then pass your hand, gently, from the
shoulder cown inside ofhis: to the ends of the fingers. Bring
your fingers inside of his, gently, as if you would canse it to
follow your own. Let this process be continued, and if the
patient be susceptible, the effects will be felt, or seen, in the
course of five or ten minutes.*
• Since the ahoYe chapter was in type, my attention has been called
to!Hahneman's Organon ofHom~p3:thic medicine: PP.· xviii. xx. 193,199,
200,202,207,208, 211, from wh1ch 1t is perfectly evident, that Hahne-
man recognized the principle of pathetism, (or magnetism,) in the
preparation of his medicine; and not only so, but his infinitesimal doses,
when effectual; perform their cures hy this t:ery agency. So that every
consisteu~ Homrepathist is, in fact, a pathist, though he may not be
aware of lt.
CHAPTER IV.
SYliiPATHY AND ANTIPATHY.
It will facilitate the object ·we have in view, if we next in·
•1uire into the nature of those laws of the living body which
are concerned in producing what has generally been under-
stood by Sympathy and Antipathy. In the last chapter I have
merely taken a cursory view of a few psychological and path·
ological facts, the most of which have long been well known,
though, indeed, it will be acknowledged, I think, that they
have not been so well understood, nor has there been so much
use n1ade of them in the various medical theories as we might
now, suppose, would have been, had correct views more
generally obtained with regard to the true science of human
life. And, a similar retnark may be made ofwhati am about
to offer on the subject of sympathy_and antipathy.
I have before shown, that the term sympathy hus been used
to signify a state of fellow feeling or suffering; when applied
to the physical system it has been used to signify the suffer-
ing, or state of one part of the body, produced by the state or
:Suffering of another. \Vithout attempting a repetition of all
that may be found in medical works on this subject, it will
perhaps best subserve my purpose, if I bring to my aid the
conclusions to which previous writers have arrived, and
add, also, whatever may appear to be connected with these
laws, in the examination I have been enabled to give to this
part of human physiology. In the use, therefore, which I
here make of the term sympathy, it must not only be under-
stood to signify the state of one part which suffers, by the £n~
Jlucnce which another, in a previous state of suffering, extends
to it, but also, that influence which one organ, or portion
of the system, is found to exert upon another part, what~
ever its nature may' be; and further, the reciprocal iP;•
D
38 P ATHETJS::'II.
Oucnccs which arc extended from one part of the body to an-
other, and which harmonise in producing any one effect which
may be seen throughout the system generally.
By antipathy, must be understood, of course, the reYerse of
~rmpathy. The following remark is from Dr. Good:
., \Ve occasionally meet among- mankind, with a sort of
sen~ation altogether wonderful and inexplicable. There are
some persons so peculiarly affected by the presence of a partic-
ular object, that is neither seen, tasted, heard, smelt or touch-
ed, as not only to be conscious of its presence, but to be in ag-
ony till it is removed. The vicinity of a cat not unfrequently
produces such an effect, and I have been a witness to the
most decisive proofs of this in several instauces."
I knew a person who was so much affected with the smell
of onions, as to be unable to rernain in the house where they
were; and it is said, Henry the Third, of France, could not en-
dure the presence of a cat. Lord Chancellor Bacon fell down
in a fit whenever there was an eclipse of the moon; the phi-
losopher Boyle could not endure the sound of water drawn
from a cock. Erasmus trembled at the smell or sight of fish;
l\Iarshall d'Albert fainted at the sight of a sucking pig; La
l\iollie la Voyer could not endure the sound of music; and
Shakspeare speaks of some person in his day who could not
endure the sound of the bagpipe. The celebrated astronomer
Brahc, was totally paralyzed in his limhs at the sight of a
live hare; and we have known intelligent persons who could
not endtue the sight of a rat. Some persons are peculiarly af-
fected on touching certain kinds of metals, and others are af-
fected in the same way if they touch them only in their imagin-
ation. An intelligent lady of my acquaintance had such an
antipathy to spiders, that for eight years she retained the
Eense of disgust and horror, which it gave her, on finding one
upon her person.
Now, it is quite certain, that these states of feeling do not
depend upon the judgment, but they must have their origin
jn a peculiarity of the physical nature of each person. So it
is in common life. There is, as it were, an atmosphere sur-
rounding every individual, and which.you perceive at once,
'vhen you approach him. On the first sight of one person,
SYl\IPATHY AND ANTIPATHY. 3~
you feel instinctively repelled, and you do not find it possible
to feel pleased with being near to him, or to delight in his
company. But, with another person you are delighted at
once. You feel an attachment to him, for which you can
render no reason at all, no more than you could for the anti·
pathy you felt for the other. All our feelings oflove, friendship,
and dislike, are founded in this peculiarity of our nature. It is
a law of nature to work by opposite forces. Two poles of
the same denomination, repel and expand; two opposite poles
contract and attract. Two contiguous keys on the piano,
harmonise less, than two divided by a third. The attraction
grows out of the relation betu;een the two, \vhen one possesses
positively, what is possessed by the other negatively. So,
nature has provided the two sexes for the propagation of the
different species of living bodies, and, it will be found, that
parents of the same susceptibilities, have the least issue, and
their offspring, if they have any, is generally short }i,red.
This much premised, observe- .
1. THE CORRESPO:XDEXCE OF THE DIFFERENT PARTS, A~D
THE GE~~RAL SYl'IIPATHY OF TIIE WHOLE BODY WITH THE
)IIND.
I have: already, noticed the reciprocal influence of the body
and mind, and we have seen the effects 'vhich the one is
known to produce upon the other. This influence is shown
in the features and form of the body. Hence:, in the face of a
savage we see a savage mind. \Vith a well formed head we
anticipate underst~mding and streAgth of intellect. A low,
thick head, selfishness and stupidity; a small head, small mind.
A large, well developed body, fua chest-muscular strength.
Round, blunt features, obtuseness of mind ; sharp features,
hard muscle, correspond with quickness of temper, speech,
and action.
Per~ons of a bilious temperament, will, usually, be found
with large firmness, de.structiveneE>s, anJ combativeness.-
They may, indeed, have large pity, kindness, and friendship,
but the organs first named, either make this temperament,
or most generally accompany it. So, we find persons of the
~anguine temperament, with large hope; those of the lpn-
40 PATHETIS~I.
phatic, with inuu~try, firmness, and will, mouemte. And,
~light observation will con\'ince us that in every case, a mark-
eu corrcsponuence n1ay be tracell throughout the mental and
physical developments, extending to the face, limbs and trunk
of the body, and manifested in the tones, gestures, and gen·
cntl conduct.
2. THERE ARE SYiiiPATIIIES PECULIAr.. T O DIFFERE~T PARTS
OF TIIE SYSTE.i\I, DEPE~DlNG ON THE RELATION WHICH OXE P..lR T
SUSTAINS TO ANOTHER.
That is, the part that is said to suffer by sympathy, is af·
fectcd by its relation to some other part, in which the cause
of the difficulty really exists. Thus, titillation of the fauces
produces vomi-ting. In this case the stomach is not touched,
nor affected, only by sympathy. The ~arne means applied to
the nostrils produces motion in the exspiratory muscles in the
act of sneezing. The sight of food, excites the salivary glands··
A slight increase of action in the stomach, will frequently
diminish the action of the brain, and increased mental acti\rity
'vill decrease the action of the stomach. Injury of nerves, just
as of any other organs, in proportion to their importance, tnay
affect parts, which they do not supply; but with which they
arc connected; as amaurosis, and even cataract may follow
wounds of the nerves belonging, not to the eye, but to the
face; and convulsions may follow wounds of the acoustiG
nerve; and diseases of the kidneys, says Dr. Elliotson, some~
times produce inflammation in the corresponding portions of
the spinal chord.
Hence, it is evident that the effects of sympathy do not, al-
w ays, appca'r in the portions of the system which are mostly
affected. \Vhen a voluntary muscle is made to contract, the
suffering produced by sympathy, would seem· to be in the
nerves, peculiar to this agency, connected with the muscle,
while the effects are shmYn in the muscle. And hence, Bicha t
found that sympathy of animal cont1·actibility occurs only
1vhen the nerves connecting the affected muscle with the
brain, or spinal chord, 'vere entire. For, when he divided
them, the convulsions in the corresponding mu~cle ceased, as
the pt,Ipil of the f;!ye ceases to contract when the third pair
SYl\1PATHY AND ANTIPATHY". 41
have been divided, although light is made to glare upon the
optic nerve. It should be borne in mind, however, that great
uncertainty n1ust necessarily attend deductions made from re-
sults produced by such n1utilations of the living body. For,
in the very nature of things, it must be next to impossible for
us ever to know precisely, when the parts are injured in thi~
1nanner, just how far the sufferings of one organ may extend
to others, in different parts of the system.
3. PHYSICAL SYIIIPATHY DOES NOT DEPEND UPON CO~TIXG­
ITY OF SURF.ACE, OR THE CO~TIGUITY OF THE PARTS AFFECT•
ED BY IT.
It is well known, that vomiting may arise from a blow on
the head, disgust, sailing, pregnancy, or a stone in the kid-
ney. The effects of the blisters, detailed in the preceding
chapter, put this fact beyond all doubt. For, what connection
could be traced through the scalp to the dura mater? And
hence it must follow, that ifthe laws of sympathy, or that
.susceptibility of the system in which they have their founda-
tion, or on which they operate, may be acted on or controlled
by the touch of the human hand, we n1ay see, at once, how it
is, that the states ofthe systen1 may be changed from 'vake~
fulness to sleep, and vice versa, by mere manipulation.
\Ve are, certainly, not able to trace any nervous connection
between the organs of mirth, and the muscles of the mouth
concerned in the act of laughing. And yet, who doubts, but
that the act of laughing is produced by sympathy with the
mental organs? And so of the organs of self esteem, and sad-
ness, or grief. These, and many others, when excited, either
naturally or artificially, operate upon the muscles of the face
by sympathy; and yet, 've are not able to trace any nervous
connection between the organs, and the portions of the face,
corresponding in which these emotions are shown, when the
organs are excited. In the last stages ofpulmonary consump-
.tion, we see the hectic blush in a particular place in the face,
thus demonstrating that, between the lungs and those points
in the face, the vital forces have established a sympathetic
connection, as if to give notice by a visible sign of the suffer-
ing condition of the lungs within. In this case there is sym·
Dl
PATIIETIS~I.
pJ.thy without any continuity of surface, or any direct connec-
liotl by the motor and sensitive nerves. Hence we arrive at
the following conclusions.
4. THAT A PORTION OF TilE NERVOUS SUBSTANCE, I~CLU­
DTXG, IT l\IAY BE, THE GANGLIONIC SYSTEl\I, IS DEYOTED, EX-
CLUSIYELY, TO SYl\IPATHETIC FUNCTIONS.
It 'vould transcend my limits to enter upon an examination
of the physiology of the nervous system in all its parts, I
1nust therefore content myself with a mere statement ofthose
conclusions which are legitimately authorised by the few an-
atomical examinations, and pathological observations, which
seem to be directly connected with this view of the subject.
(1.) The nerves of sensation and motion cannot, in all ca-
ses, convey sympathy, because, we know that sympathy does
often occur independently of sensation or motion. Nor is this
all; some sympathising parts have no susceptibilitr at all. It_
1nar be objected that all vascular parts acquire sensibility un·
der infl:unmation. But in saying this, the objector overlooks
the fact, that there is no infiammation without sympathy. In-
flammation is, in all cases, the effects of sympathetic laws.
These sympathetic or antipathetic influences are what Dt~.
lVI. Hall and others have denominated the "morbid and 're-
flex actions of the spinal marrow." This distinguished anat-
omist, by a long series of experiments anu observations, thinks
he has proved, that these "injlex actions do not depend upon
sensation or volition, but upon some other principle of the an-
imal economy; the only known principle which remained,
and \Vhich could be the probable agent in these actions, was
the vis nervosa." The following are his conclusions. The
term sympathetic, or antipathetic action, might be substituted
for the term "inflex," in these conclusions, and the idea would
be as well, and perhaps better expressed:
1. It is proved by the series of facts which have been ob·
served in the human subject, that the excito-motory reflex ac-
tions are independent of sensation and volition, however the\'
lnay be accompanied by sensation, or influenced by volitimi,
in the perfect animal.
2. It is prmred as a consequence, that the reflex actions are
dependent on anotlter princi]Jle of tlte nervous system,; and it
4·3
is proveu by a series of experiments, that this principle is the
vis nervosa of Haller. acting according to a new reflex law.
3. The phenomena of the excito-motory reflex actions are
ob,·ious in cases of paralysis, in proportion as that paralysis
is more complete; they are therefore, more observable in par-
aplegia, than in hemplegia, in general, but in each of these
according to their intensity; they are therefore not only inde-
pendent of sensation and \·olition, but inversely as these, fre-
quently disappearing as these return.
4. In accidents, as in experiments, the excited reflex ac-
tions are not immediately observed, but are manifested onlr
after the lapse of certain intervals of time; it is plain, there-
fore, that the first influence of the shock is to diminish the ex-
cito-motory power; and this may remain until the patient falls
a prey to the accident; as in the case noticed in Dr. \V.
Budd's paper.
5. It is observed that at a subsequent period, in more fa-
vorable cases, the excito-motory power is not only restored to
its normal condilion, but morbidly augmented.
6. This is especially observed in certain diseases, as teta-
nus, the effects of strychnine, &c.
7. The reflex arcs of the nervous sys!em will be imperfect
in cases of disease or injury of the lumbar or other regions, as
in the case noticed in Dr. ,V. Budd's paper, and the reflex ac-
tions wilL consequently be absent; a faGt which affords in its
turn an important source of diagnosis, as to the seat of the
disease.
S. In certain cerebral affections attended by coma. the pres-
ence or absence of reflex actions, in the eyelids especially,
gives us an index of the degree of severity of disease.
9. Certain diseases, as hydrophobia, epilepsy, hysteria, and
certain remedies, as strychnine, cantharides, &c., not only in-
duce augmented excitability, but manifest their effects pre-
cisely upon the organs which are, physiologically, under the
influence and dominion of the excito-mutory power.
10. There are new forms of disease of the true spinal func-
tions, not hitherto described: such as the disphagia, the pecu-
culiar action of the rectum, &c. which have been briefiv no-
tice.d. ·
11. Certain parts, as the sides of the thorax, the soles of
the feet, &c., are more susceptible of the excitement in ques-
tion than others.
12. Dr. ,V. Budd has very justly observed, that in n1any
cases of violent reflex and even convulsive actions, there was
no sense of fatigue, and little emaciation of the muscles. In
fact, fatigue is a cerebml state, and cannot be expected to oc-
cur in the cases in which the reflex actions are most obserY-
PATHETIS.;\f,
ed ; antl cmacJatJon is most obvious in spinal paralysis, 1t1
which the reflex arcs being interruptctl, the reflex actions are
also prccluJcJ from taking place. Fatigue is felt severely af·
tcr violent attacks of epilepsy and other spasmodic diseases:
in which the cerebral functioi.1S arc afterwards rcstorcd.-
.1\fed. Cllir. R ev. Jan. 1S41.
The reader will readily perceive, how exactly the foregoing-
conclusions agree with the sympathetic phenomena, peculiar
to the results produced by pathetism.
Nor can I sec why these laws should not satisfactorily ac-
count for the following fact, stated in Dupuytren's lectures,
where he says:
"It is of almost constant occurrence, that diseases of the up-
per part of the thigh arc felt, so to speak, at the knee; and
also, that those of the upper part of the humerus arc felt at
the elbow.
"It is a curious circumstance, that in certain individuals
after lithotomy, or other great operations, an abscess is apt to
be formed in the calf of the leg. \Ve cannot fonn any idea
how this should be, but so it is.
''Generally, in affections of the brain, the effects of purga-
tives on the bowels, are much less powerful than usual; for
example, five or six grains of tartar emetic, and several oun-
ces of Epsom salts, will not often protluce either vomiting or
purging. In these cases, the oleagenous purgatives, such as
castor or croton oil, succeed best.
"Extensive and severe burns are almost always followed by
constipation."
(2.) There is no sensation independently of the brain.* But
sympathies may, and do exist, independently of that organ.-
Various portions of the system may be 1nade to sympathise
with the influence of pathetism, when the brain is not affect,
ed at all; and we have seen, that fmtuses have been born
alive without any brain. Communications of nerves exist
without any connection with the brain. And if the phen·om-
ena, common to a state of sympathy, be admitted, no fact
could be more clearly demonstrated, than that sympathy may,
and does exist independently of sensation, and sometimes in·
dependently of the brain. I have seen hundreds of cases,
• Or without the medulla oblongata.
SY.l\IPATHY AND A~TIPATHY . 45
where sympathy has been manifested in the highest degrees,
when at the same time, there was no evidence of sensation
whatever.
\Ve have also seen that disease has been cured by sympa-
thy; that is, cures of a most extraordinary kind have been ef-
fected, which could not be traced to any other known laws.-
And, the same m~y be said of the cause of disease. Everr
physician knows, not only that every part of the system ma~r
suffer from sympathy, but that diseases are sometim~s caused
by this agency, alone. For a few specimens of this kind, see
the American Journal of JVIedical Science for October, 1841,
in which a number of cases are stated by Dr. Zabriskie, dem-
onstrating the existence of "sympathetic paralyses." Six ca-
ses are enumerated, at length, and from them, the Dr. gives
the following reasons for believing that paralysis was sympa-
thetic of enteritis, when the encephala-spinal system was not
affected at all:-
" 1. The inflammation always precedes the paralysis, and
often for some time.
"This took place in Dr. vVaddel's case and in all the cases of
1\Ir. Abernethy, and in all the cases observed by myself.
'' 2. From the absence of all morbid appearances on dis-
section, the nervous apparatus appearing sound.
'' 3. From the inability of all remedies applied to the spine,
to the brain, or to the general nervous system.
"5. The remedies which gave the most relief, were those
which relieved the inflammatory systems."
Cases in support of the above conclusions might be quoted
in great numbers, if it were at all necessary.
(3.) All that is known of the anatomy and functions of the
ganglia, confirms the assumption as to their exclusive sympath-
etic functions. That communications are made from different
parts of the system, without particular reference to the ence·
phalo-spinal mass, is as certain, as that the mind takes no
cognizance of the processes constantly going on in the animal
economy, and there can be no room for doubt, out these im-
perceptible sympathetic influences are carried on by the gang-
lionic nerves; which may serve as so many little brains, as
it were, distributed throughout the system for the reception
4G PATHETIS.i\I.
and tranimission of sympathetic influences, the same as the
encephalon, receives impressions fron1 the nen•es of sensation,
and transmits, perhaps, through this medium, the motive pow-
er to the different pans of the system.
The Yital functions depend much more upon the ganglionic
~ystem, than upon the brain or spinal nerves. Fcetuses have
been born without any brain or spinal chord; but in these cases,
the ganglions were perfectly de,•eloped. Lobstein relates tl1e
cases of six fcrtuscs born with absent brain, and other organs,
in each of which the ganglionic system was perfect, and even
·wzusually large.* And Dr. Cayre relates the cases of nine
idiots dissected by him, in which the cncephalo-spinal sys-
tem was wasted or diseased, while the ganglionic was per-
fP.ctly healthy. From the~e facts, it follows, as will more ful-
lr appear hereafter, that breathing, and, in fact, all the animal
functions, have been carried on without a brain, but never, so
far as is known, without the ganglionic nerves. The func-
tions of the heart have never been performed without its gang-
lia, so that the cardiac ganglia, as the heart is the first or-
gan that comes into action, is the first process towards the
formation of a nervous system. But this assumption would
seem to be more fully confirmed by a recent discovery made
by Dr. Remak, of Berlin, who has elicited the following
facts:
•• The nervous substance is contained in tubes. The
tubes enclosing the medullary matter oft he sensitive nerves are
exceedingly thin and transp:uent, while those surrounding the
substance of the motor nerves are much more resisting and
dense; to which latter condition the greater whiteness and
opacitv of those nerves appears to be owing. It is well known,
that nen•ous filaments from the cerebro-spinal ::;ystem go to
join the ganglia of the sympathetic system; but according to
the researches of Dr. Ramak, they only traverse the ganglia
without forming, with them, any more intimate connection,
as was formerly supposed. The nervous 1natter of the sym·
pathetic system is distinguished by its pecul·
iar 'reddish tint, but
the nerves given off by the sym pa~hetic ganglia, carry both
reddish and white (cerebro-spinal) matter; the latter, howev-
er, exists in the least quantity in the nerves going to the ur-
gans removed from the agency of the will, as the liver, spleen,
&c. But, in nearly every bundle of nervous matter~ it
~ London Lancet for NoY. 191 1842.
SYl\IPATHY AND ANTIPATHY. 47
would seem, that motor, sensitive, and sympathetzc filaments
are present. Two kinds of functions are well established to
belong to the cerebro-spinal nervous system, a perception of
sensation and a motive power; and Dr. Remak supposes a dou-
ble function of a similar kind to belong to the sympathetic sys-
tem, thus rendering necessary the existence of a double sen-
soriwn comrnune, in the ~a me liYing being, one of organic or
vegetative, and the other of (so called) animal life." *
Here, then, we find the FOU~DATIOX of those susceptibilities,
described in a preceding chapter. The ganglia and sympa-
thetic nerves,form the union between mind and matter. They
constitute the medium through u·hich tlze mind operates, both
upon its own organs, and upon the mind, or or{fans of others ;
and also, by which one part of the same system, influences,
sympathetically, another part. They are the connecting link
between the mind and the nerves of motion and sensation,
and through which the functions ofall the other nerves may
be controlled, or suspended, or transposed from one organ to
another, in the same body, or transferred from one system to
another, as in somnipathy and the phenomena common to that
state.
5. T-1VO SEPARATE LIVIXG BODIES ARE SD:IIETIJHES GOYERXED
EY THE S.A.:\IE SYl\IPATHETIC LA'VS.
l\Ianr cases are on record, of two persons, having such an
1·dentity of life, that the health of both, and indeed, their men-
tal exercises, have been affected in precisely the same way,
even when they were not in the same place. A reputable
physician of this city informs me that he is well acquainted
with t\VO twin sisters, who were affected in this way. One
was always sick precisely at the same time with the other,
though some t\venty miles apart. One was married; and
having arrived at the full period of gestation without the know-
ledge of the other~ the single sister, was taken with slight la-
bor pains, at the very time they commenced with the other
sister. The following case was communicated to the Royal
Academy of Medicine, by 1\L Cagentre, in 1824.
"Twin brothers were affected, precisely alike, for a number
of years. \Vhatever indisposition one sufi~ered, was suffered
• De Neno Sympathetico, p. 25.
·1·8 PATHETISl\I.
by the other at the same time. Derangement ofthe alimentary
canal, intestinal worms, kc., always made their appearance, in
both, exactly at one ntHl the same moment, and the symptoms
in both were ofequal intensity. Dr. Nourel carefully watched
them, after their return from a fifteen month's stay in the coun-
rv, and \'erifled the observations of the nurses. l:Ie found that
rjuotidian intermittent fever commenced and terminated on
the same day in both; both had acute conjunctivities together,
and also colic, which lasted in each for twenty-four hours.-
Two molar teeth made their appearance in each, at the same
time. These things took place in 1831. In 1832 they had
different eruptions, hut both suffered contemporaneously. In
the winter both had bronchitis together. In 1S33, they were
attacked with measles, and after these, with scarlet fever; in
the8e diseases each twin had symptoms precisely similar to
the other, and the commencement and termination, in both,
were at precisely the same period. In 1834 they had ear
ache and intermi cting fever together; and also ,·esicular erup-
lion on the back of the neck. But their dispositions were en-
tirely opposite; one was thin and lively, the other robust and
indolent."
It is an old observation, that two persons are often known
to haYe similar affections, at the same time, or where tlte
sympathy is said to be so strong between them, that the sick-
ness of one necessarily a.fj'ects the other. But jn the above
remarkable case, it will be seen, the affection of one was uot
cau~ed by f::ympathy with the other, but, the same cause op-
erated on both, precise-ly alike, at one and the same time,
through a number of years.*
• The sam2 s:rmpathetic laws are supposed to goYcrn animals. The
charm of serpe1its has been proverbial fr0m immemorial time. A
t"a<.:.e in illustratiOn ofthis law, is giYen iu the New York Sun, for April
G, 18-13.
Some years since, a grntlcman, by the name of A. \V. was traYelling
in Mississippi, and found in the road side a rattlc-sn:.kc. The road
was narrow, al'ld it is impossible to say that the ~n~ke was. on the right
hand. 1\Ir. \V--- dismountPcl, and procured a sttck to kill th(' ~naTH·,
:,truck it aLlow, so as to di~able it, anrl to his astonishment, heard a
partridge flutter on the left lmr.cl side ofthe road at theimstant the blow
was inflicted on the snal<e. The partridge \vas eight or ten feet from
the snake, and he immediately went to it and picked it up, intending to
:-.ecure it first and then despatch the serpent. He recollcctcd,howeYer,
having heard that the charm of the bird was communicable, by contact
with it to any other living animal, and deposited it in the vlaee whenca
he had taken it, and resumed his' labors of love' on the 1
charmer.' To
ltis great astonishment, he observed that eYery blow on the snakl",
seemed to tell on the partridge, which fluttered at every one: and as
SY!,IPATHY A~D A:\TIPATHY.
Facts in abundance are at command, from which it would
·seem, that the same laws sometimes operate upon two differ·
ent minds, even when at a great distance apart. A case of
this kind is given by Dr. Abercn..mbie, where a mother and
her son, a hundred miles apart, had precisely the same dream,
at the same hour of the same night. The son was the Rev.
J. \Vilkins, dissenting minister i.lt \Veymouth, England, and
the particulars of his dream arc thus stated by himself:
" One night, soon after I was in bed, [ fell asleep, and
dreamed I was going to London. I thought it would not be
n1uch out of my way to go through GJoucestershire, and call
upon my friends there. Accordingly I set out, but remem·
bered nothing that happened on the \Yay, till' I came to my
father's house. when I went to the front door, and tried to
open it, but found it fast. I then went to the back door,
whieh I opened, and went in; but finding all the family were
in bed, I went across the rooms only, went up stairs, and en·
tered the chamber where my father and mother were in bed.
As I went that side of the bed in which mv father lav, I found
him asleep, or thought he was so; thf'n I· went to the other
iSide, and just turned the foot of the bed. I found my mother
awake, to whom I said these words, '~/I other, I am going a.
long journey, and I am come to bid you good bye.' Upon
which she answered me in a fright, '0 dear son, thou art
Jead !' \Vi th this I a woke, and took no notice of it, more
ihan a common dream, only it appeared to me very perfect,
as some dreams will. But in a few d:ws after, as soon as a.
letter could reach me, I received one by· post from my father,
upon the receipt of which I was a little surprised, and con-
cluded something extraordinary must ha\·e happened, as it
the work of death progressed with the snake, it seemed to proceed pari
passu with the bircl. 'Vhen the snake writlwd, the bird fluttered, anrl
when the snake was dead, the binl absolutely fell on its ~ide, made
sundry gapes and expired.
The following is from the Philadelphia Public Ledger :-A gentle-
manor great respectability in St. Croix, showed me a hen's egg which
has on it, in relief, the figiue of a goose. The annexed is a sketch of
the figure, taken in my presence, ancl. the fcllo\ving is his account oftht'
case:
The circumstances connectcn with this phenomenon may not be un-
worthy of notice. There was only one fine white goo~e on thC' place,
which constantly associat~rl with 'the other towls of the yard. Having
no other companion, he frequently seated him~elf in the yard, among
the rest of the fowls, precisely in the fMtnre of the figure in the egg,
which egg was laid by on<> of the h<>ns constantly in ~omptny with the
goose. The feathers on the borly of !he goose were 10 rather a rough
~:ts.!e, but the neck was co;·ered wah down an.1 no le:l.lhers.
E
50 r ATIIETISl\1.
was but a little before I had a letter from wv friends, atHl all
\Verc well. Upon opening it, I was more surprised still, for
my 1ttther ::Hldressed me as though I was dead, desiring me,
if alive, to write immediately; but if the letter should find
me livin.g, they conclulled I should not live long, and g-ave
this as the reason of their fears :-'I'hat on such a night, uam-
ing it, after they were in bed, my father asleep, and my
mother awake, she beard some one try to open the front door;
but finding it fhst, he went to the back door~ which he open-
ed, came iu, and came diiectly through the rooms up stairs,
rt.nd she pe1jectly !~new it to be m.11 step. I carne to he: bed-
sJde, and s~o ke to her the-se words, • l\Iother, I am gomg a
long journey, and am come to bid yon good-bye; upon 'vhich
she ans,Ycred me in a fri~ht, '0 dear son, thou art dead!'
which ·were the very words and circumstances of my dream ;
hut she heard nothing more, and saw nothing; neither did I
jn my dream, as it Yvas quite dark. Upon this she awoke
Jny father, and told him what had passed; but he endea\·our-
Pd to appease her, by persuading her it was only a dream;
~he insisted it was no dream, for that she was as perfectly
a'vake as ever she was, and had not the least inclination to
~Jeep since she had been in bed. Frmn these circumstances
I a~n apt to think it '\vas the very same instant when my
dream happened, though tliC distnn<.:e between us '\vas a hun-
ured miles; but of this I cannot speak positi\·e]y. This oc-
curred whilst I was at the acadcmv at Otten·, De\'011, in the
year 1754, and at this distance of time it is. still fresh upon
my minll. I hnve since had frequent opportunities of talkin~
over the affair with my. mother, and tltc whole was as fresh
upon her mind as it was upon mine. I have often thought
that her sensations as to this matter were stron~er than mine.
'\Vhat some may think strange, I cannot remen~ber that any
thing remarkable hnpper.ted hereupon. This is only a plain
simple narrative of a matter of fact."
Almost any person, indeed, '\vould be very apt to suspect, '·
that a dream so very remarkable as this seemed to be, was a
prognostication of something extraordinary, but the sequel
proved, that nothing out of the common course of events hap-
pened to either of the parties; for lVlr. \Vilkins lived nearly
fifty years afterwards, and died a natural death.
4. \VnAT \VE KNOW OF SYMPATHY AND ANTIPATHY IS RE-
SOLYABLE INTO THE LAWS WHICH AFFECT BOTH THE BODY A:-iD
TilE 1\IIND, AND ITS I.NFLUE:'iCE !IIAY BE EXTE?-."DED FROM O:iE
~ERSON TO ANOTHER.
SY)IPATH¥ AND A~TIPATllY. 51
Every Phrenologist knows, that the exercise of one organ
by one person, will excite the same organ in another. Thus,
for instance, combativene~s will excite combativeness, mirth-
fulne3s will excite mirthfulness, and so of the other organs.
This is according to a law of the human mind which explains
the aptitude of minds, in society, to assume a common train
of thought or feeling, grave or gay, as ifby contagion.
'\Ve could not, of course, find room for any considerahle por-
tion of the facts there are at command, elucidating this part
of our subject, hut the following, it is believed, ·will be suffi-
cient to bring it sufficiently before the mind of the reader:
"In a poor house at Harlem, under the inspection of the
learned Dr. Boerhaave, a girl, under an impression· of terror,
fell into a convulsive di8ease, which returned in regular par-
oxysms. An interested by-stander witnessing her, was seized
with a similar !it, which also recurred at inten'als. On the
Jay following, another was attacked; then a third, and a
fourth ; and finally, nearly the whole of the chifdren, both
girls and boys, came to be affected in the same manner.-
No sooner 'vas one seized than the paro.r.ysms pervaded near-
ly all the company." •
Here were the effects of sympathy; but the re1nedy, per-
haps. would be denominated antipathy.
The account proceeds:
"Every remedy was prescribed by attending physicians
'vhich their skill could suggest, but all in vain. They then
applied to Dr. Boerhaave to come and examine the nature of
this complaint, and to pre~ribe a remedy if possible. The
learned doctor immtdiatelv observed that the disease was
communicated from one to ~mother by sight; and he inferred
that it was the effect of the imagination soleh·, and that he
must applr his means to the rnCnds of these children, ra1her
than to their bodies. He resolved, therefore, on the experi-
ment of diverting their minds from those paroxysms by ren-
dering a fit extremely hazardous. Ha,·ing apprised the ma-
gistrate of his des!gn, he ordered in presence of ull the chil-
dren, that several portable furnaces should be placed in difl'cr-
ent parts of the chamber, containing burning coals, and that
irons, bent to a certain form, should• be placed in the fur-
naces. He then g::n·e these further commands :-that all me-
dicine would be entirely useless, and the only remedy with
which he was acquainted was, that the first which should be
seized with a fit, whether boy or girl, 1nust be burnt in the
52 PATIIETIS?ti.
arm, to the 'Very bone, by a red-hot iron. He spoke this with
uncommon dignity and gravity, antl it was completely sue~
cessful. The idea of burning in case of a fit, was enough to
enable them to counteract the tendency of their minds to fits,
or these spasmotlic affections, and the complaint occurred not
again." Rccs' Cyc. vol. 19, part 2, Art. Imitation.
1\lost of our readers h...'lve, probably, heard, or read, of the
strange occurrences which took place in Kentucky and Ten-
nessee, some forty years ago, during what was denominated
the Great Revival· there. A particular account of them is
giYcn in Lorenzo Dow's Journal, and in the Ed• .1."\fed. and
Surg. Jour. 1Jol. 3. p. 44G; and also by many others, 'vhich
n1ay be seen quoted in Powers'" Essay on the Influence of the
Imagination over the Nervous System." The following ac-
count is from Dr. F. Robinson, of Tenn.:
"The churches in these states, at that period (1800), w·erc
small and uncomfortable, and the people from necessity as-
srmbled in the open field at extraordiuary meetings. These
meetings lasted from three to five days. They remained up·
on the spot day and night, and worshipped their 1\:Iaker inces-
santly. The outward expres~ion of their worship consisted
chiefly in alternate crying, laughing, singing and f:lhouting;
and at the same time, performing that great variety of gestic·
ulation, which the muscular system is capable of prodttcing.
It was under these c!rcumstances that some found themselves
unaLlc, by voluntary d[orts, to suppress the contraction of
their muscles; and to their own astonishment, and the diver-
sion of many of the spectators, they eontinued to act frorn ne-
cessity, the curious character which they had commenced
from choice. The disease no sooner appeared, than it spread
with rapidity through the medium of imitation. Thus it was
not uncommon, for an affected person to communicate it to a
greater part ofa crowd, who from curiosity or other motives1
had collected around him. 1t attacks both sexes, and even~
constitution; but evidenlly, more readily those who are eii-
thusiasts in religion. The contraction!:5 arc sudden and vio-
lent, such as arc denominated convulsive; being sometimes
so powerful, when in the muscles of the back, that the pa-
tient is t hruwn on the grouncl, where for some time, his mo-
tions more resemble those of a ]ive fish, when thrown on land,
than any thing else to which I can compare them. During
the intermission, a paroxysm is often excited at the sight of a
person affected, but more frequent]y by the common salute of
shaking hands. The sen~atiuns of the patient in a paroxysm
are generally agreeable, which the enthusiastic class often (·U-
SY:;\ll'ATHY AND A.l'\TIPATHY. 53
u_eavo~ to express by laughing, shouting, dancing, &c. Fa-
ngue IS almost always complained of after violent paroxysms:
and sometimes a general soreness is experienced. It has not
praYed mortal in a single mstance wi~hin my knO\vledge, but
becomes lighter by degrees, and finally disappears." The
~uthor adds by a subjoined note,-" some who took the dis-
case in 1803, h::t.-rc not yet (1S0.5) entirely got rid of it; but
these instances of its long continuance, are very fe'\Y.:'
These com·ulsions were commonly called "the jerks."-
Another writer (l\IcNeman), quoted by l\Ir. Powers, giYes the
following account of them:
"At first appearance, these meetings exhibited nothing to
the spectator, but a scene of confusion, that could scarcely be
put into human language. They were generally opened \Vith
a sermon; near the close of 1vhich, there would be an unusual
outcry; some bursting forth into loud ejaculations of prayer or
thanksgi,·ing for the truth; e-thers flying to their careless
friends, 1vith tears of compassion, beseeching them to turn to
the Lord. Some, struck with terror, and hastening through
the crowd to make their e:;cape, or pulling away their rela-
tions ;-others trembling, v;eeping, and crying out for the
Lord Jesus to have mercy upon them, fainting and swooning
away, till every appearance of life was gone, and the extrenl-
ities of the body assumed the coldness of a dead corpse. Oth-
ers surrounding them with melodious songs, or fervent prayers
for their happy resurrection in the loYe of Christ.
" The rotting e:eercise consisted in being cast down in a
violent manner, doubled with the hea~ and feet together, and
rolled over and over like a wheel, or stretched in a prostrate
manner turned swiftly over like a dog. They were some-
times driven in this manner through the mud, and were sul-
lied from head to foot. l\othing in nature could better rep-
resent the jerks, than for one to goad an'other alternately on
every side ·with a piece of red hot iron. 'fhc exercise com-
monly began in the heafl, which would fly backward and for-
ward, and frmn side to side, with a quick jolt, \vhich the per-
son 1vonld naturally labor to suppre£s, but in vain. He must
necessarily go as he was stimulated, whether with a violent
dash on the ground, and bounce from place to place like a
foot-ball, or hop round, with bead, limbs and tnlhk t\vitching
and jolting in every direction, as if they must inevitably fly
asunder. Sometimes the head would be twitched riaht and
left, to a half round, with such velocity, that not a ~feature
could be discovered, but the face appear as much behind as
before. Head-dresses were of little account among the fe-
rnale jerkers. Even handkerchiefs bound tight round the
El
51 PATHETIS.i\I.
head, would be flirted off almost with the first twitch, and
the hair put iuto the utmost confusion; this was a great in-
convenience, to redress which, the generality were shorn,
though directly contrary to their confession of faith. The
bm·ks con~isted in being compelled to imilate the canine ani-
mal; and persons thus affrcted moved about on all fours,
g rowling and snapping the teeth, and barking in so persona-
ting a manner, as to set the eyes and the ears of the specta-
tor at variance. These persons, however, were the most gift-
ed in prophecies, in trances, dreams, visions, fragrant smells~
and dcligh tful singing in the hreast.. Some were favored
'Yith an interview with their departed friends, and learned
their different.allotments in the invisible world; some saw the
holy city, and heard the songs of the angelic hosts, others, in
their ,·i~ions were employed in crossing rivers, climbing moun-
tains, finding treasures, fighting serpents, or more delightfully
employed in eating the fruits of the tree of life, bathing in
clear water, casting off old garments and putting on new."
The following account of these singular occurrences is from
Do,v's Journal, before referred to. In the year 1805, he
preached in KnoxYille, Tenn. before the governor, when
-.tbout one hundred and fifty persons, (among whom were a
number of Quakers) lwd the jerks. He adds:
"I have seen all den omina tions of religion exercised by the
jerks, gentleman and lady, black and white, young and old,
without exception. I passed a meeting house, where I ob-
;;erved the undergrowth had been cut away 'for a camp meet-
ing, and from fifty to a hundred saplings were left, Lreast-hiah,
ou purpose for the people who \Yere jerked to hold by. I ~b­
:5erved where they had held on, they had kicked up the earth
.ts a horse stamping flies. A Presbyterian minister told me,
\\·hile he was preachin·.! the day before, some had the jerks.
I believe it docs not aiTect those naturalists, who wish to tlT
to get it to philosophisc upon it ;-and rarely those who arc
the most pious; but the luke-warm, lazy professor, is subject
wit. The wicked fear it, and are subject to it, but the per-
secutors are more subject to it than any; and they sometimes
have cursed and swore, and damned it whilejerking."
1\lr. Powers details the particulars of a family in Chelms-
ford, lVIass. where one of the children was affected with chorea,
and five others exercised themselves with imitating his odd
gestures until every one of them were irresistibly affected in
the same way. And the spell was not broken until the father
one day, brought a block and axe, and sternly threatened to
SY!\IPATHY A:-lD ANTIPATHY. 55
take off the head of the first child who should exhibit any
more of those singular gestures.
Dr. Haygarth gi\·es a similar account of tLe effects of _sym·
pathy, which took place in 179G among some peasants in the
Island of Anglesey. It commenced with one female, and in
a short time extended to some twenty others. And a similar
account may be found in the Edinburgh l\Iedical and Surgical
Journal, ,·ol. 3, p. 43S, gi\·cn by the Rev. l\Ir. Archibald, of
unst. He says, at first, the affection commenced '\YHh a fc·
male; but, on her manifesting the affection at church, it was
immediately communicated to others. And, in another par·
ish, some sixty persons w·ere seized in the same way; and be·
ing carried out and laid iu the yard, they would struggle and
roar with all their might, for five or ten minutes, and then
rise up, without remembering any thing that had happened
to them.
Afi'ections of the same kind prevailed among the Anabap·
tists in Germany, and the French Prophets in Dauphiny, and
in England; and af:er them the Quakers, and also among
the Puritans of Ne'v England, in 17-15, and mure recently
among the 1\Iethodists, Baptists, Presbyterians; and especi-
ally, among the :\Iormons. Nor are these affections confined
to Protestant sects; they have been equally prevalent among
the Papists~ and, indeed, among those, as we have before
seen, ·who are not relisiously disposed. I have been inform-
ecl of similar affections among the l\Iahometans. A gentle-
man \vho has been among- them during seasons of prayer.
stafes, that for some time, he had seen some of them con-
vuh:ed, and they would emit a kind of froth at their mouth.-
Those less fi1.vored, would take this foam from the mouths of
their companions, and by rubbing it upon their mvu bodies
would thus excite a similar state of feeling and action in
themselves.
That the affections above described, were communicated
by the laws of sympathy, there can be no doubt. And it
woult.l be equally easy to show, that many diseases deem·
ed contagious, have been communicated in the same way.
The history of the Asiatic Cholera, would as plainly demo~·
l'A'l'liETIS.M.
strate the truth of this position, as it would IHOYe, that any
such disease ever existed. And the same might Le said of
other diseases, and affections, both mental and physical,
which arc frcf]ucn tly known to gain upon inuividuals, fami-
lies, neighborhoods, and generally whole distric.ts of country.
Sometimes, an enormous crime ·will be committed; and its
flagrancy excitcs a kind of susceptibility in the mind of an-
other, and ::mother: until it has been followed by a dozen or
1nore of the same kind.
The same sympathetic panic often seizes upon large as-
semblies of people. A word or a hint from one individual
communicates a shock tl1rough the "-hole. In this way mobs
are frequently stimulated to ungovcrnaulc fury, and soldiers,
in the day _of battle, rush on in_the face of death; or panic
struck, the fear spreads from one to thousands, and tho~c "\Yho
but a moment before, were ready to brave the cannon's mouth,
are now trcmoling "\Yith fear, uud find it impossible to summon
either courage or self-possession. At other times, a word, c..r
look from somc_mastcr spirit, electrifies the mass around him,
and from one to another the impulse communicates a feeling
o[ heroism and intrepidity, which increases as it spreads, till
the entire mass are impatient to throw their liYes a"\vay in the
whirl wirid of their ambition.
If one person is said to sec a ghost, it not unfrequently
happens that a sensibility is awakened in the minds of many
others, till the infection has- spread, and ghosts arc multiplied
in proportion to the susceptibility of the people, who happen
to hear the strange details of the departed spirits. So, if one
in a family, or neighborhood, happens to haYe a singular
dream, it is followed with others of the same kiud. In a
word, whateYcr is rela}cd to the strange or manrellous, what-
ever is calculated to excite credulity or fear, ,9pcrates by sym-
pallty, and in this 'vay we may easily account for the preYa·
lence of many crimes, and the various forms of \Vi tchcraft
and delusion which have, from time to time, so 1nuch dis-
ttubed and cursed the world.
I know, indeed, that many pious people, attribute some of
the exercises I have described to the po,verful influence of the
Holy Spirit. That many persons afTcctccl in these ways, arc
SY,:\1l'ATHY A~D ANTIPATHY. 57
pious, sincere christians, there can he no doubt. But a lmow-
ledge of the susceptibility of which I have spoken, and th e
nature of the human mind, would leave us little lloubt, that
these things may be rationally accounted for in some other
way.
I haYe seen persons" lose their strength," as it is called,
at camp meetings, and other places of great religious excite-
ment; not pious people alone, but those also, who were not
professors ofreligion. In the spring of 1824, while perfonn-
ing pastoral labor, in Dennis, 1\'Iass., I saw more than twenty
men affected in this way. Two young men o( the name of
Crowel·came one day to a prayer meeting. They were quite
indifferent. I conversed with them freely. but they showed
no signs of penitence. From the meeting they went to their
(shoemaker's) shop to finish some work, before going to the
1neeting in the evening. On seating themselves, they were
both struck perfectiy stiff, as if paralyzeu by catalepsey.-
1 lvas immediately sent for, and found them sitting, p~ualyzed,
on their benches, with their work in their hands, unable to
sit up, or to move at all! And I have seen scores of persons
affected in the same.way.
I have, by pathetism, thrown numbers of persons into a
state precisely similar to that, in which they arc said to" lose
their strength" under religiuus excitement. They, themselves,
declare, that the two states are exactly alih:e, nor is there any
rea~on for supposing that there is any material d!fference be..
tween them.
CHAPTER V.
l~ELATJO:-;,
\Ve ha\·e seen that sympathy and antipathy, in the human
~ystcm, depends upon the Relation subsisting between two
organs. Tha_t is, there can be no sympathy, without two
persons, things or parts; and between which there must be
some connection estaLlishcd. If the brain is affected by the
stomach, or ','ice versa, it is because they sustain a peculiar 'l'C-
lation to each other, and so of every effect which comes to
pass, throughout universnl nature. 'I'wo things must not only
exist, before the third is produced, but there must be a rela·
tion brought nbout between them; for, without this, there
can be no cnuse, no effect of any kind. Some results muy re-
quire more than two things to be combined, but it is a fact so
well known, that no effect of any kind, c~n be produced with~
out a relation first estabtished between nn ngent and a sub~
stance to be acted upon, that we need not stop here, to argue
this point. It is one of those self-evident truths. which every
·where first meets the opening senses of the human mind, and
therefore is no more susceptible of proof than one's own con-
sciousness of thinking, speaking, or actinf!. It will be suffis
cic:nt, therefore, if I merely, in this connection, add, 'Yhat may
be necessary to show ho\v this first l:nv of nature applies to
the subject nmY under consideration.
L If you take two pieces of soft, smooth iron, and apply
them together, you will discoYer no attraction between them.
nut ifyou rub one upon the other, lengthwise, in one (Hrec~
tion, only for a few minutes, you will perceire a mutual at-
traction between them. Now, we say~ this attraction de~
pends on the rclal ion cstahl ished lwt ween those two pieces uf
iron, by bringing them in contact, in that peculiar manner.--
• 'For {f you merely rub one upon the other, as in the process of
REL-iTIOX. :J9
filing, no effects of this kind, are produced. So, if you take an
ordinary iron rod, and hold it horizontally, on applying the
needl€ it will not show any signs of polarity; but hold the rod
perpenuicularly to tl1e earth, and it acquires polarity, so as to
affect the needle. The reason to be a~signed for this, is, that
in the one case, the rod sustains a relation to the earth from
v:hich its polarity is deri,·ed, which it does not ~ustain in the
other.
Zinc and copper, prouuce no galvanic effect, till a relation is
established between them by a suitable fluid.
So we say of light and heat. No effects are produced by
the sun until his influence is extended to the earth, and a cer-
tain relation must be brought about between the earth and
the sun, before the process of vegetation is commenced; and
not then, even, unless the sun is brought-in contact with earth
of a CNtain quality.
.-\.ll chemical results come to pass, from relations establish-
ell between two or more substances; and the efrccts depend
always, upon the qualities of the bodies which are brought to-
gether.
2. This relation bctza:en tzco bodies, tclt£clc produces any
-positive results, depends upon certain contrarieties in tlleir
qualities. This law is universal. True, when you bring
t\\'O poles of the same denomination in contact, a result is
produced, but it is of a nJJgati-ve character: they mutually re-
pel or destroy each other. But, to bring about a po:::itive re-
sult, to change the state of one substance or body, it must be
brought into relation with another elf an opposite quality.-
\Ve have already observed, that nature works by contrarieties.
Throughout the animal kingdom, we see the species prouuced
by the union of male and female, and husbands and wives of
the same temperament usually, cateris paribus, will either
have no issue, or their children, should they have any, will be
found feeble an~ s-hort li\red. And the la'v of God, forbid-
ding the marriage of near relations, is hence seen to be faun-
dell upon a law .of our nature; and thus we may see why it
is, that the offspring ofsuch marriages are followell by cretin-
ism, or feeble mental enllowments. l\Ir. l\Iarchant, a physi-
60 llATIIETIS~.
cian and a native of the Pyrenees, says,* that the inhabitants
of a village in the region of the narrow valleys seldom marry
with others out of the neighborhood, and that the consequen..
ces of this custor:n are so powerful, that men tal imbecility is
quite common, even in the most noble and vv-ealthy fami-
lies.
As in the animal, so we find a correspondence in vegetable
life. The seed, fur instance, in the pod, is produced on the
line which unites two leaves, and tl1e same law governs
throughout the vegetable kingdmn.
All the changes produced in the human systen1 by medi·
cine, all the changes produced in any ~uhstance, in any way,
are brought about by establishing a relation between the thing
acted upon, and the other body brought into relation with it.
Changes are brought about in the mind by the same means.-
All our duties to God, and our fellow men, grow out of the rcla·
tions \Ve sustain to him and them. All our feelings of love
or compassion, or hatred, spring from these relations. And
so ofhope and fear, so of faith, and every fmotion ofwhich
the mind is susceptible, the whole depend on the qualities of
other persons, and things, between whom and ourselves
certain relations have been established. And hence we find,
that in order to produce any change in the human syste1n by
pathetism, it is always necessary to establish a relatig___n be-
tween the operator, the process, Oi the agent, and the patient
to be acted upon. Nothing is done until this relation has .
been formed, an<f upon its strength, if I may so speak, will
depend all the results which follow the process of pathetising
the human system, or any mental effort exerted over the sys·
tcm of another.
3. This ?'elation is increased by habit, and sometimes ac·
q11.ires s·
upreme cont1·ol over the mind. This fact explains
how it is, that some persons are made sick by the mere thought
of an emetic. The mind having hecomc ·accustomed to the
effects produced by this drug, the mere sight or tlwugld of it,
calls up this relation, and the sickness follows. So, when the
minti becomes habituated to the effects of any other medicine
• Gazette Des Hopiteau.x.
RELATION. 61
or any peculiar process for the production of certain results;
it is often effected hy this relation in the ~arne '"ay.
Instance the conui tion of one confirmed in habits of in taxi-
cation. 'Vhile the rum-houle is out ofsight, he remains qui-
et and sober; but on merely seeing the \'essel from which he
has so often quaffed the bewitching liquid, his ~usceptibility
is awakened at once, and his desire for it again becomes un-
governable, till he is carried, it may be agai:1st his will, into
the vortex of destruction.
\Vhat is called the" association of ideas," is attributable to
this same power. The sight of one object cr.!ls up another,
with which it had become associated.
The first note of a well-known tune, brings tg mind the en..
tire piece of mu~ic. Cases of severe tooth-ache, have often
been cured by the n1ere sight of the forceps. Persons injured
by fright, in cases of fire, or great danger, are sometimes
alarmed, on hearing similar sounds, or merely seeing any
place or object which brings the scene again before the mind.
Some will sink into a state of sleep, by merely sitting in the
chair where they have been often pUl to slPep before; and the
sight of any place, where the mind has been peculiarly im-
pressed, revives the same feelings, and we live m·er again the
scenes which, otherwise, had remained entirdy obliterated
from recollection.
4. Thzs relation, in some cases, seems to depend, wholly, up·
on the me.ntal apprehensions of its nature, and llti! rnind trans-
fers itfrom one object to anotlzer.-That the mind has this
power\ is proved by innumerable facts of the ~arne kind of
those we have already adduced, in the chapt~r on suscepti-
bility. How else did it come to pass, that the opiate given br
Dr. Gregory~ operated accordmg to what the patient thought
it was, and not accord in~ to its real nature? How else, did
it come to pass, that Sir \V. Ellis' patient was salivated with
bread pills? Indeed, almost eYery practitioner of any consid-
erable experience, will be found able to refer to cases of the
same kind, when the effects of medicine ha\·e been just in pro-
portion to the apprehension.~ ofthe patient, and not according
to their well-known medical properties.
F
62 PATIIET18!1!.
\Vhat made the criminal die, whc:n he thougltt himself
bleeding to death, and not a drop of blood had been drawn
from his veins? \Vhy, evidently, he.had transferred, in his
mind, to himself, the real danger, from actual bleeding; and
the consequence '\vas, he did just as l1e \vould, had his eyes
.been open, and he had seen the blood issuing from his own
arm. .Many persons have, unquestionably, died in this way.
The New Zealanders die under the same power, when cursed
by the Areekee. The mind, once fully impressed with a con-
viction of the UNERniNG CERTAINTY of death, 1he suscep-
tibility yields beyond the power of recovery, and death follows
as a inatter of course. Some years ago, a lady in this city
went to "Old Bones," as he '\vas called, to have her fortune
told. He told her she ·would be a corpse before three o'clock
the next day, and, if she would only go home and look into
the cistern,· she would there see her own coffin. The result
verified the prediction. On looking in to the cistern, with her
susceptibility excited beyond her control, as of course it. '\vould
be under such circumstances, she saw her coffin, and at the
appointed ho,n, laid down and died. And persons may be found
jn all classes of society, who might be killed in the same way,
indeed, as they no doubt have been, in time~ past. And the
history of witchcraft, would afford some of the most striking
illustrations of this law of the human mind, and most clearly
show how it is, that the susceptibility becomes affected by the
mental app1·elwnsions of danger, or infection from some unseen
or supe1·natural power.
)\Iany of the results, which followed the triaJs·made to test
the reality of lVIesmer's assumptions with regard to the '.' uni-
versal fluid," have often been ·refprred to for the purpose of
proving that the whole was a delusion. However, we shall
find, upon examination, that those results prove the truth of
pathetism, and demonstrate the reality of the law here laid
down. Let us notice a few of them, as stated in the lan-
guage of the opposition.
The report of the Royal Acadamy of Sciences, of which Dr.
Franklin was one, is well known. To understand the ac-
counts giYen by this committee, ofwhat they saw, it must be
RELATION. 63
borne in mind, that niesmer was in the habit of operating b)r
the means of ropes, trees, glass bottles, &c; and while we al-
low, that he was both: ignorant and avaricious, it is but jus-
tice to add, also, that the report of the commissioners does not
seem to eYince so much candor, on their part, as we should
judge necessary for the purposes of a true and impartial Yer·
dict on the subject of their investigations. But, to show that
all the effects were produced without the agency which was
assumed by l\Iesmer and his disciples, the follo,ving cases arc
given:-
"A female servant submitted to the same operation; and
she affirmed that she felt a heat in every part where the mag-
netised finger was pointed at her; that she experienced a
pain in her head, and during a continuance of the operation,
she became faint and swooneu. \Vhen she had fully recov-
ered, they ordered her eyes bandaged, and the operator was
remoYerl at a distance, when they made her belie1.:e she was
still un1ler the operation, and the efrects were the same, al-
though no one operated, either near her, or at a distance.
She could tell the very place wherein she '\Vas magnetised ;
she felt the same heat particularly about the back and"loins,
and the same pain in her eyes and ears. At the end of one
quarter of an hour, a sign was made for her to be magnetised,
but she ftlt nothing On the following day, a man and a \YO-
man were magnetised in a similar manner, and the result
was the same. It was found that to direct the imagination
to thnse parts ·where the sensations were to be felt, was all
that was neces~ary to produce these wonderful effects.
"~Iesmer and Delson, asserted that they could magnetise a
trPe, and every person approaching the tree in a given time
would be magnetized, and either fall in a swoon, or in con-
vulsions, provided the ::\Iagnetizer was permitted to stand at
a distance and direct his look and cane towards the tree. Ac·
cording-ly an apricot tree was selected in Dr. Franklin's gar-
den at Passy, for the experiment; and ::\I. Delson came and
magnetised the tree while the patient was retained in the
house. The patient was then brought out with a bandage
over his eyes and successively led to four trees, which were not
magnetised, and was directed to embrace each tree two min-
utes, while l\1. Delson at a distance, stood pointing his cane
to the tree actuallv . ma!!neti.;eu At the first tree, which
stood about twenty-se\·en -feet from the magnetised tree, the
patient S\Veat profusely, coughed, expectorated, and said he
felt a pain in his head. At the second tree, now thirty feet ..
•
rATIIETISl\r.
from the ma~netised tree, he found himself gidd}r, attended
with heaJache as before. At the third tree, his giddiness
and headache were much increased, and he said he believed
he wa~ approachin~ the mngnetised tree, although he was
still twe:lty-eight ft.•et from it. At length, when brought to
the fourth tree, not ma~nctiscd, and at the distance oftwenty~
four feet from that which was, the young man fell down in a
state or~ rerft.·ct insensibiliry; his limbs became rigid, and he
was carried to a grass-plor, where :i\I. Delson went to his as-
sistance ~nd recovered him; and yet in no instance, had he
appro~cheJ within a less distance than twenty-fum· feet pf the
magnetised tree.
"A similar rxperiment was soon after made on two poor
females at Dr. Franklin's l1ouse. 'l'hese women were separ-
ated: three of the comwissioners with one of them in one
chamber; and two of them with the other, in an adjoining
chamber. The first had a bandage over her eyes, and was
then maJe to believe that 1\i. Delson had commenced magne-
tising her, although he never entered the room. In three
minutes the woman began to shiver; she felt, in succession,
a pain in her head, and in her arms, and a pricking jn her
hands; she became stiff, her hands stuck together, got up and
stamped, etc. but nothing hall been done to her. The woman
jn the adjoinin~ chamber \Vas reqtH'StE'd to take her seat hy
the duor which was shut, w·irh her sight at liberty, and was
then made to believe that 1\I. Delson would magnetise ti1e
door on the oppusite side, while the commissioners would
wait to witness the result. She haJ scarcely heen seat-
ed a minute before she be~an to shiver, her breathing soon
became hurried; ~he stretched out her arms hehind her back,
writhin~ them srrong-ly, and bending her body forwards;' a
general tremor of the whole body cnme on; the chattering of
l1er teeth was so loud as to bf.' beard out of the room; and
she bit her hand so as to leave tJ1e marks of her teeth in it;
but lVI. Delson was not near the door. nor in either chamber;
nor was either of the women touched, not even their pulse
examined.
"Dr. Sigualt, an eminent physician of Pans, communicated
to the commissioners some etrects he witnessed upon his mere
pretence of his being an adept in the art of l'viesmer. Being
;:tt a great house one Jay, he caused it to be announced that
he could mag-nrtise. The voice and serious air he assumed,
had a sensi bfe effect on a lady pre3en t, althou~h she endeav-
ored to co:1ceal the fact. But ha·ling- carried his ha:1d to the
region of the heart, he found it palpitatinQ". She soon experi-
enced difficulty in respiration; the muscles of her face were
affected with convulsive twitches, her eyes rolled; she shortl:r
65
fell down in a fainting fit; vomited he) dinner, purged several
times, and experienced incretlible weakness and languor. He
further adds, that having met a celebrated artist one day on
the Pont·Royal, and being informed .by him 1hat he had been
afflicted several days with a severe head·ache, the Doctor
persuaded him that he was instructed in the mysteries of
:Mesmer, and by means of a few gestures, he almost immedi-
ately removed the pain, to the astonishment of the artist."
Now, on examination, it will be found, I think, that these
accpunts, so far from proving any thing against pathetisrn,
prove exactly the reverse. Observe:
1. The persons affected in the manner above described, had
all heard, more or less, of the effects said to be produced by
mesmeric operations. In this way their susceptibilities were
e,rcited, of course, and prepared to be controlled by the appre·-
hensions of the mind.
2. The relation established in their minds between them-
selves, and the agencies by which they 'vere supposed to be
produced, brought about the results above described. Just so,
if a hungry person fancies he sees an article of foou : the sa·
liv::t is at once excited, and his" mouth waters," from the as;.
sociation in his mind. But, on inspection, what he tlzo~ght
to be a mellow peach, perhaps, proves to be a painted piece
of stone!
I knew a lady who was seized with vomiting, on the arri-
val of the morning ·which she had appointed for goiug OIL
board a packet, for a few hours' sail. Long before she entered
on board, she was completely prostrated with" sea sickness."
Persons are often exceedingly frightened in the same way.
They think they see a ghost, which proves, ho\vever, to be a
lamp post. But these cases, so far from demonstrating the
mere ideality of the agency by which we operate on the human
system, in producing relief from pain, or inducing sleep, by a
1nere process, adopted for this purpose, they go rather to
prove the reYerse, and to show how it is, that the mind create~
or transfers this relation from one object to another, and ap-
propriates to itself all the influences which could, in any case,
he exerted by contact with physical causes.
Olhers have fhncied philosophy and science not a little in- .
Fl
6G PATHF.TT~M.
debted to themselves, when they have pointed to '~ases simi~
lar to the above, and assumed that the effects were produced
by the imagination. But what the "imagination" is, they
ha\'e not told us.
The knowledge of this Jaw of the human mind sufficiently
explains how it is, that sleep fol1ow~ from certain processes,
without contact with the patient; and, I humbly conceive, it
shows the rationale 0f this m}stery much more sati~factori1y
than the theory of 1\'lr. Baird, of 1\Ianchestcr, England, which
was published a year or two sin~e, and was as follows: ·
"The artificial morle of effecting sleep is to fatigue the rec·
tus and levator muscle of the P.lje, which is l'ffected by a con-
tinuously strained and intent gaze at an object viewed under
an acute angle. Under such circumstanc>es, the irritability of
those muscles oecomes exhausted, as well as the irritability of
the optic nerve; a mist rises up before the eye. and sleep·en-
sues.''
But this amounts to no more than what almost every per-
son may have ubserved and felt, when the attention has be..
come fixed under certnin circumstances. Any barber would
•ha,·e given as elear an account of cases of somnolency produ-
ced under the operation of shaving.
However, "physiology and anatomy'' uo not furnish us with
sufficient proof for demonstrating this theory, as has been
suppo~ed. An article may be found in the 18th vol. of the
Dublin Mc:d. Journal, p. 70. from lWr. G. f:!tokes, clearly de-
nwnstrating that the clo~ure of the eyelids is not a mere pas:.
si,re condition from fatigue, and relaxntion of the levator, as
taught by Bichat, but that mu.~r,ular a,~ency is employed in its
accomplishment. An interesting case is there given of para·
lysis of the po1·tio dura, occasioning Ingophtha1mos, in which,
as in similar case~, by no means n·ry uncommon, the upper.
eyelid as~umes that po~ition in wl1!ch the fol're of gravity, un-
aided hr muscular effort, would pbce it. lVIr. Stokes consi-
ders this muscle as :1 true sphincter, for the reasons that it pre-
sents all the anatomical and physiological charactedstics pe·
culiar to sueh muscles. ,·iz. a mixed function-the voluntary
power heing employed during a state of 'vakefulness, and the
involuntary during sleep. Aud, further, it does not appear
RELATIO:-i. 67
that th~ kind of sleep is induced merely by fatiguing the eye~
lids. Ordinary sleep may be brought on by fatigue, or a <lose
of laudanum; but in such cases it differs, widely, from that
sleep \vhich is induced by sympathy with any peculiar pro~
cess, adopted for its production. Somnipathy may be induct:d
without contact, or the passes, whenever a positive relation
is established between the susceptibility of the patient, aud
the process used to produce it. Nor is this all. According to
this theory, if the patient were to be seated with his eyl's
closed, sleep ·would not follow, because, in that case, the mus-
cles of the eye woulu not become fatigued. It is well known~
that menotony, or whatever tends to fix the attention, has a
tendency to induce sleep; and in persons of the right suscep-
tibility, somnipathy may be brought on in this way: or, in·
deed, any othe1· change p1·oduced in the system, \Yhich the
patient is Jed to anticipate, under the direction of the ope~
rator.
...
CHAI)TER VI .
P ATIIETIS)I,
From the foregoing pages it will haYe been seen, that hr
what I denominate pathetism, is meant susceptibility to the
influence of an agency which is concerned in every feeling or
emotion, or passion, or action which was ever felt, or put
forth by any human being. It has to do with the laws of an-
imal life-with nervous susceptibility to pleasure or to pain.
\Vithout it man is a lifeless body of n1atter. All the feelings
therefore \Vhich one human being may be able to excite in the
mind of another, ·whether pleasureable or otherwise, all the
influence he is enabled 'to exert over-mind, are identical with
this same agency. If they be from the materia medica, rcceir--
ed into the stomach, or agencies applied to the surface of the
body, their effects depend upon a susceptibility, pecnliar to the
living body. Or, if impressions be made upon the sensorium
through the eye or ear, or through the nerves of sensation,
the immediate agency which carries those impressions to th e
mind is patlzctism. It is heard in the tones of the voice, it is
seen in the look of the eye, and the features of the face; and
in its effects thus produced, nothing is thought of it, because
these arc common and always before the mind. But ·when
precisely the same thing, is felt fron1 the touch of the human
hand, those not familiar with the true philosophy of mind
start back and tell us this cannot be? But why not? \Vhat
has been known, or what is now known of the human system,
'vhich proves that the same influence may not be communi·
cated to one, from the touch of the hand, which at other times
reaches the·soul through the eye, or the ear? Or, who has
been aLlc to tell how it is that an impression is made upon
the mind through the em·? \Vhat is there in sound to af~
feet mind? Or, when the r~ys of light strike upon 'the optic
PATHETISi'f. 69
nerves, what makes the intellect take cognizance of the im·
age which they make there 1 In a \Yord, how is it that what
we call mind is impressed by natural agencies, in any way 1
Can mattrr con tro] spirit 1
And pressing these inquiries thus far, I might ask an objec-
tor to tell the difference between matter and spirit-\Vha tis
an element? \Vhat are the laws by which mind and matter
reciprocally affect each other? \Vhat is lift? \Vhat is dis-
ease and death 1
Do you say that we know nothing of these first principles ?
that we are in the dark as to the laws 'vhich operate in pro-
ducing the most common occurrences of life? Then it must
not, it will not be d~nied, but that there are other things as
mysterious and unaccountable, as the wonders of phrenopathy
or clainroyance. \Vhen I place my hand upon the head of
aaother, and he manifests a feeling of sadness or joy; when
by the same simple process, I cause him to weep or to sing,
laugh or to pray, to rave with madness or to soar in ecstacies
of pleasureable emotions, is there any more real mystery in
the agency by which these things are done, than when one is
made to weep by merelr looking upon a scene of 5uffering .:
or when he is induced to sing from the influence of certain
sounds which break upon the ear?
And thus of mental perceptions, when the external senses
are closed. It is not uncommon for persons to have more viY-
id and im pressi \·e views of objects in their natural sleep, than
they ever had in their waking state. The system being
composed and all the faculties at rest, except the one or two
whose excitement constitutes the dreaming, the energies of
the whole seem to be concentrated upon those organs, and an
impression is thus made more powerful than any which could
be produced when all the organs are in a state of general
wakefulness. The phenomenon of dreaming is common, and
therefore excites no surprise. But "-'"hen one is put into a
state of s]eep by artificial means, and in that slate he is found
to see with his eyes fast closed, and to have perceptions ofdis-
tant objects, the phenomenon is ne,v, and we cannot admit it.
If we take two pieces of smooth soft iron, and put them in
70 PATHETISI\1.
contact, we do not see that one has any influence upon the
other; but if we rub one piece upon the other, in one direc-
tion only, for a length of time, \Ve perceive that by this pro·
cess, we have establi::;hed such a 'relatzon bet\veen the two,
that they mutually attract each other. And yet we cannot
detect auy substance in either of them which was not there
before; nor do \VC sec that a fluid of any kind is actually com·
municated by one and recei?:ed by the other. All we know
about this phenomenon is, that by a certain process, a relation
has been established between those two pieces of iron, which
causes them to stick together in this manner. '\Vhat that re·
lation is we do not know. It would seem, however, that this
process had actually produced a difference in the qualitics of
iron; for before they were passed upon each other in the \Vay
I have stateu, they \Vere precisely alike in quality; for on
appiying either of them to either pole of an ordinary magnet,
they affected it exactly alike. But, not so, after they have
been rubbed together, as above; for, after this process, one of
them will be found to possess north polarity, and the other
south; thus proving that though they were precisely alike in
quality, before, yet, this process has changed the quality of
both, and rendered them susceptible of attraction or repulsion.
. But who, on seeing this simple phenomenon, \Yould set it
down as humbuggery; and yet, is there not precisely as much
of mystery and the marvellous in all this, as in any of the
alleged effects produced by pathetism?
Every one knows, that the health of a well person is endan-
gered, more or less, by comiug often in contact with another
who is diseased. But by what Jaw is disease communicated
in such cases? Children who sleep 'vith the aged and infirm~
are known to become enfeebled, and sometimes e\·en to as·
sume the decrepill appearance of old age. '\Vhen the little
one is hurt, by accident, the mother instinctively passes her
hand o\·er the place, as if it were an impulse of nature ·which
prompted the removal of pain by this simple process. And
you will see similar promptings of sympathy, even among
animals, when their young or their species give signs of pain
or suffering, so easy it is to trace this same law through the
PATHETIS~r. 71
various grades of animal existence. Yet in all these things
\\'e see one of the laws of this same agency and suscept£bility;
and we may understand how mistaken the views of those
persons are, who look upon the subjects discussed in the
pages of this work, as exclusively connected with the marvel-
lous, and confined to those who deal in jugglery, or fortune
telling, or the mysteries of the " black art."
\Ve see, moreover, how it is, that our labours present their
claims upon the benevolence of the philanthropist, and the
faith of the christian; inasmuch as the grand object is the il-
lustration of those causes which induce the most frightful
forms of disease and suffering which human beings are doom-
ed to endure. \Vhn.t disease is to be more dreaded than in-
sanity? \Vhat affliction more terrible than that which deran-
ges the mental functions, and unhinges the human mind?
\Vhat more appalling than a disease which makes shipwreck
of the intellect, and converts the reason into the ravings of
madness? \Vhat calamity like that which changes the dearest,
tenderest ties of the kindest heart, into the bitterness of gall,
and the furious paroxysms of hatred? \Vhat malady so
frightful, so pregnant with woes, so difficult to manage, so
painful to friends, and so fearful in its tendencies? Before the
blight of this dreadful affliction, the fairest, tenderest flowers
arc swept a\\·ay, as by the blast of the tornado. The loft-
iest minds, the stars and suns of our in tellcctual hcavens, are
blot ted out; neither age nor sex, nor profession, are spared.
Even the cunsolations of our holy religion, do not afford per-
fect security; the devoted christian, and the man of God, at
the altar, are alike liable, and as often fall beneath this
fatal scourge.
Alas! when, oh ! when will professed christians see and
know as they should do, that upon these laws, depend those
states of the mind, which render obedience to the Djvine Be-
ing, and religious enjoyment, even possible? that the laws of
mind, those laws by which mind is developed and made to
understand its various relations, are as really the laws of
God's appointing, as any contained in the sacred pages? and
that the violation of these laws unfits us tor the Divine will
as really as the commission of any other crime?
PAl'HETISM.
\Ve have, thus far, considered the mind only in its manifes-
tations through the physical organs; and this view of it will
be continued in ~peaking of the effects produced by pathetism;
so that I must always be understood as having reference to
the entire person compounded of mind and matter, and which,
as we have seen, reciprocally act upon each other.
It must he remembered also, that the effects I speak of in
this chapter arc produced on subjects both 'in the u·aking
and sleeping stale; though, in an infinite variety of degrees,
in different persons, and also by processes co tirely different in
producing the same effects. Let us eonsider a few of them
in detail.
1. Tlte fioe senses.
(1.) Touch and feeling. This sense seems to be the first,
nnd most perfectly developed, and hence, it is the first usually
affected hy this process. Passing the hand quietly down the
arm, and inside the hand of the patient, produces numbness,
or a sen~ation similar to that felt when the limb is said to be
adeep; and when particular portions of the brain are operated
upon, or the 1;ommon m'ode of p:lthetising is continued long
enough, the sensation of feeling is ccmp1Etely annihilated,
though, in such cases, sense wou!d seem to be transje1·red
and not destroyed. For, it not unfrequently happens, that
while the patient has no sensation of pain from any violence
done to his own system, yet his sens~ of feeling in other res-
pects, is increas(>d when asleep, a hundred fold. He becomes,
perhaps, exceedingly affected, on being touched by a strangEr,
or one who is disagreeable to him, or by any metallic or min-
eral substance.
Some persons, in a state of somnipathy, are agreeably affect-
ed by the touch of an ordinary magnet, others are di::;agreeably
affected by it, and others, still, are not sensible of any effect
when touched by it, at all. Somnipathi"!Sts not unfrequently
manifest a most singular sympathy of feeling with the opera-
tor; so that, while they are not conscious of any violence in-
flicted on tlteir own persons, they show the keenest sense of
feeling on the infliction of any pain upon the pathetiser, and
sometimes, also, when the pain is inflicted on any one who is
PATHETISM. 73
in contact with either of them. In such cases it would seem,
that the skin performs all its ordinary functions-, except that
the nerves of sensation do not convey impressions to the brain.
But where are the nerves of sense all this while? \Vhat
becomes of their functions 1 And if the influence by which
tbis result is produced. he, correctly speaking, "a nert:ous flu-
id," or an agency peculiar to the nerves ofmotion, and by which -
these organs perform tlteir function~, how comes it to pass,
that the patient, ·when brought under its influence, is at once,
deprived of this important function of the nervous system?-
It may be said, that this agency must be conveyed, and its in-
fluence received by the oruinary nerves, because, it takes away
their functions. But, this inference cannot, necessarily, follow,
because we know, that this result is seen only in particular
~ases. And, besides, if in the process ofpathetising, a nervous
fluid is actually communicated from the operator to the pa-
tient, the inference would be reasonable, that the power of
the nerves of sensation and motion, in the patient, would be
greatly increased. The increase of the power by which the
nen·es perform this office, should, certainly, increase the sus-
ceptibility, and make the patient more sensible to the inflic-
tion of pain, and, indeed, it should heighten, in every way, the
nervous powers of the system. \Ve rlnd. however, upon ex-
amination, that, generally, the results are directly the reverse
of this; for, instead of the patient's becoming more refined in
his sense. from touch or violence, he is wholly insensible;
and on the other hand, substances which produced no sensation.
from mere contact in the waking state, produce the strongest
impressions when the patient is asleep; and from mere con-
tact with the hand of some somnipathists, as well as others of
apeculiar temperament, when wide awake, they have a sense
of different substances, and are able by this process, alone;
without the sense of sight or hearing, to tell their qualities,
and the feelings which others seem to entertain towards them.
lJedicines held in the hand ofsuch persons, produce slight ef-
fects upon the stomach; and they will, frequently, be found
able to distinguish different persons by touching them, and not
.
only so, but to distinguish between different articles, placed
G
rATHETISM.
before them, while their eyes arc closed, and they will distri·
butc each one to its rightful owner. I have had a patient
who, when asleep, and half a dozen articles were thrown into
his lap, as hD.ndkerchiefs, penkni\rcs, pencils, pieces of mo.
ney, finger-rings, &c., with his eyes fast closed, \vould select
th~m one by one, and not only hand each to its owner, but he
would put the articles into the same hand from which they
had come to him. So t_
hat, if one held out the left hand to
receive a handkerchief which he had deposited with his right,
the patient, after touching it, would perceive it, and keep
back the article until he found the right hand.
l\1r. Cornwall, a recent graduate of the Wesleyan Universi·
ty, IVIiddletown, Ct., gives an account of two cases, in \vhich
this sense was developed, so as to distinguish colors in a most
remarkable degree. His subjects were two sisters, aged ~even
·and twelve years. They discovered· the color of any artic.le
handed them, merely by the sense of feeling. The youngest
would put the article in contact with her lips before fully de·
ciding. They told the color of things equally well in the dark
as in the light, with their eyes blind-folded, and without his
knowledge of the articles. Once, when they were both asleep
together, he presented to the eldest a piece of calico, with a
white ground, and minute diamond shaped figures upon it,
and asked her for the color, she replied, "it is white, but
there are little things in it, I don't know what." The calico
was then handed to her sister, and she was asked what shape
the "little things" were 1 After feeling it, she answered, "I
guess they are diamond shaped." When different articles of
different colors were presented, they invariably designated the
several colors of each.
And, at the present time, I have a subject who is able to
read words, and distinguish articles, apparently from this
sense alone. It is well known to what an astonishing degree
of acuteness the sense of touch has often been cultivated by
the blind; and the case of a mute in the Hartford Asylum,
{Ct.) is, perhaps, one of the most remarkable of this kind
upon record. She finds little or no difficulty in designating
persons by this sense, and she ·will even select her own cloth·
PATHETISM. 75
ing, at any time, from any number of other articles, even if
l]lade of precisely the· same materials. She performs various
kinds of needle work, and threads he7 needle in her mouth,
a most singular performance to be sure, but that she does it,
I know, from actual observation.
But it 'vill be noticed, that between the cases of the blind
and the sense of feeling in somnipathists, there is this marked
difference-the former have the sense of pain, from contact or
touch, in the latter it does not seem to exist, except by sym-
pathy with another; or when a particular organ in the brain
is excited, for this purpose.
There is a point between the organs of firmness and venera-
tion, which I have called the organ of sensation. It is very
small, and when excited, it renders the surface of the entire
system so inconceivably sensiti,re, that the patient manifests
the great~st dread of contact with any thing, and in persons
of the highest susceptibility it should never be touched, at all;
as I have known mischievous re~mlts to follow from its excite-
ment, and I doubt not, in some cases, it might produce death.
And yet, though the human ~ystem rnay be render€d so ex-
ceedingly sensitive by the influence of another, it seems still
more wonderful, that it can by the same agency, be so complete-
ly deprived of all sensation from the infliction of violence, to
such an extent, even, that the teeth hav~ been extracted, the
limbs amputated, and various difficult surgical operations
performed upon the system, without the patient's know-
ledge,-and without the infliction of the least imaginable de-
gree of suffering. A case is detailed in the 4th number of 1st
volume of the lVfagnet, of an adipose tumor, cut out of the
arm of a lady, while in a state of somnipathy. The tumor
was five inches long, and five in breadth, at the lower half;
and though the lady was exceedingly nervous and fearful in
her normal state, yet she knew nothing of what had been
done to her, till restored to her waking state.
l\Iore recently the papers have given an account of a pa-
tient in the \Yellow Hospital, Nottingham, England, who
hau his thigh amputated while in this state, and it is curious
enough, to see how unwilling some of the medical profession
76 PATHETISM.
seem to be, to admit any thing in favor of the agency ofpath·
etism in that case. Sir R. Dobson* adduces a number of ca-
sc3, to show, that patients have borne surgical operations
without giving any signs of suffering, without the aid of pa-
thetism or opium, and then adds:
. "If ever I ha'-·e wanted to magnetize a man who was about
to undergo a painful operation, l have done it by working up-
or; !tis mind through his ears, (not by moving my hand before
Ius eyes), and have, over and over again, succeeded in crea-
ting in my patients, a fortitude and resolution under which
they have never murmured during the operation."
Now, I should like to know, what Sir R. Dobson woulu
make the difference to be, between an effect, produced on the
mind, through the ears, and the same thing don~ through the
eyes, or through any other sense? The truth is, he does not
seem to know enough about the nature of the human mind,
to see that in whatever way the mind is affected, the in?medi-
ate agency is the same, and hence, when it is admitted that
the mind may be affected through the ear, enough is admitted
to prove all I ask, in behalf of pathetism.
(2.) The sight. This faculty m·ay be improved, we know,
in the waking state, by practice, as when mutes are compel-
led to depend upon this sense to supply the deficiency in hear-
ing. 'Ve have seen an account of one who, from long prac-
tice in reading the telegraphic language of the deaf and dumb,
had acquired a quickness of sight, which enabled him to read
the evanescent writ:ing, made by the. fore finger of another iu
the air, with the rapidity of thought.
The power of sight may be increased or diminished by pa-
thetism, and when the patient is thrown into a state of som-
nipathy, it would seem to be often taken from the eye and
transferred to the ends of the fingers, and some are said to be
able to see also, from the end of their toes. In most cases of
somnipathy, the pupil is turned upwards in an unnatural nlan-
ner, and if the lids be opened, nothing is discerned by the eye,
except, sometimes, the operator, or whatever else he may di-
rect the patient to look at. But, when somnipathists describe-
• London Lancet, Jan. 21st, 1843.
'PATHETISM. 77
thmgs sometimes, with the eyes wide open, it is not certam
that they exercise the functions of the eye; for, we know, that
often, when they are commanded to open the eye, no impres-
sion can be made upon the optic nerve, by the strongest light.
In some cases the power of sight would seem to be trans-
ferred to the epigastrium, and I had one patient who in this
state, could describe nothing without putting it to the pit of
the stomach; and many cases are reported where this sense
has been, by catalepsy, lost to the eye, and strongly developed
in the region of the solar plexus.
In two cases I have known, pathetism, as it would seem.
has given the power of sight, or perception, without touch.
to persons born blind. One of these patients when asleep,
I have known to read scores of names, without the sense of
touch or sight, or hearing; and she has done this in the pre-
sence of scores and hundreds of people, physicians and clergy..
men.
But her powers of clairvoyance are not equal to those of ordi-
nary somnipathist, who have the organs ofnatural vision unim-
paired. And she does not read, or describe what is altogether
unknown to the operator, except in cases of 5ickness, or when
she has been requested to describe the anatomy of the human
system; and this she hns done, when I had put her to sleep,
in the presence of medical and scientific gentlemen, and she
has done it in her own case with an accuracy which could not
be counterfeited. Often, when I have put her to sleep, she
has given the most minute and accur·ate description of the vi-
tal and 1nental·organs, and their various functions, and I kno'\Y
that ~he gave the~e descriptions without any direction from
me, or any other person, and without even having had any
previous knowledge of the things she described. She has de-
scribed things to me, in the presence of competent witne~ses,
which she could not have known before the moment when
her attention was called to them.
But in saying this, I should add, perhaps, that in these ca-
ses, this patient often made mistakes, and gave accounts more
or less fanciful, of most things which she was requested to
describe.
73 PATIIETISM,
The sight, also, may be increa~ed, in the waking state, by-
applying the fingers to portions of the brain, and we have
known patients whose power of vision by the eye would he-
come much augmented, also, by the mere direction of the op~
erator, ''"hen in the state ofsomnipathyr
(3.) Tasting. This sense may be controlled more or less in
the waking state, by applying the fingers to the organs of ali-
mentiveness, or their sympathetic points. In other cases, I
have controlled it without any contact, when the patient was
highly susceptible, and have known them to take water and
drclare it lemonade, tea, &c., merely on my offering it to then1
as such. But when the subject is in a state of somnipathy,
this faculty is often found to be most strangely perverted; for
anr substance put into the patient's mouth, is not tasted at all;
but whe11 taken by his pathctiser, it is tasted, and the patient
declares immediately, \vhat it is. If the operator eats an ap·
ple, or a meal, while his patient is in this state, the latter
gives evidence of the same sensations, as if he, himself, were
eating. And sometimes they may be mad~ to eat a hearty
meal, and being restored to wakefulness, .they are more hun-
gry than before; but if the operator cat, and command his pa-
tient to be satisfied with it, on waking up, the patient feels that
he has taken a full meal, though he has eaten nothing. Some-
times, the sympathy is so great, that if you give the patient
for instance, an apple, and if, after he commences eating it,
you eat ~alt or pepper, the patient instantly throws away the
apple, declaring it to be the substance you, yourself, are tast-
ing at the moment.
I placed a piece of copper and zinc in the mouth of a ~on1ni­
pathist, the one above and the other below the tongue; and
on bringing them in contact, he declared no sensation was pr<r
duced; but on putting them in my own mou1h, without his
- knmvledge, he seemed considerably affected by it. In the
~lagnet for February, 1843, the case of two mutes js described,
who were thrown into a state of somnipathy, and who, while
in this state, exhibited many of the phenomena developed 11p·
on others. They ·were susceptible oftaste anrl feeling through
the operator; exhibited some of the phen01nena in phrcno-
PATllETIS:rti. 79
p.athr, antl communicated with the operator by their usual
signs.
(4.) Smell. In some cases this sense may be excited by
holding the fingers to what the French call the "wings of the
nos~." 'Vhen asleep, hO\vever, and sometimes when awake,
like the other senses, already noticed, it seems to be perverted,
or singularly transferred, to different parts ofthe patient's own
system, or to the olfactory nerves of the operator. I have had
somnipathists, who could detect the smell of substances, by
holding them in the hand, and yet, th"e strongest ammonia,
held to their nostrils while they were breathing through them,
produced no visible effect, at all. But, on holding it to the
nostrils of the operator, they would be strangled, and thrown
into convulsions.
Being invited to operate before a private committee, the
following case occtnrPd. The chairman had requested a no·
ted physician to inspect the proceedings, and had taken with
him a phial of highly concentrated ammonia. After the
patient had been put to sleep, the chairman hanued the phial
to the physician, and (supposing she could hrar,) he said to
me,-" .Mr. S., let me pinch your hand.'' But instead of
pinching my hand, the Dr. held the open phial to the patient's
nOEe for some time, during which she gave no signs of the sen·
sation of smell at all. This experiment was repeated with
the same results. I then, (unknown to the patient) took the
phial, and on placing it to my own nose, the patient wns quite
strangled, and thrown into convulsions. Her face became
quite colored, and she begged she might not be" compellrd to
smell that hartshorn, again, as it ahvays took away her breath
so."
This attempt to deceive the patient should and would have
been successful, had she not been perfectly asleep; and had
there bPen no real sympathy hetween her nenrous system and
that of the operator, no one could be able to account satisfac·
torily, fO.r the manner in which she was nffected.
(5.) Hearing. This seems to be the last sense which is af.
fected by ordinary sleep, and the first which is reached in the
change from common sleep to wakefulness. And we find, al·
•
so PATHETIS.M.
so, that it is the most difficult one to be affected by pathetism,
for we are frequently able to produce somnipathy, and even
the highest degrees of ecstacy, while the patient retains this
sense, antl heightened to an extraordinary degree. During the
process of operating, patients are frequently annoyed by the
least noise, and in a large number of cases, where every other
sense seen1s to be closed by this process, the hearing remains
the same, or more generally improved, by having the other
senses subdued, so that the attention becomes wholly occu-
pied through this medium. 'Vhen it is completely subdued
in sleep, the patient hears nothing, except the voice of the op-
erator, and often, not this, unless it be directed to him. Thus
I have often called the names 0f my patients aloud, while they
were asleep, but they did not seem to hear, without I direct-
ed the voice to them, with the design that they should hear.
At other times I have directed patients to wake up without
the sense of hearing, and on coming back to the normal state,
they have been perfectly deaf. Others still, while they hear
the sound of the voice, are not able to understand what is said
to them by any beside the operator, and sometimes, though
they do understand, they lack tile power to answer, or to give
their attention to it.
But when this sense is perfectly subdued, the patient may
be made to hear any other persons, either by their coming in
contact 'vith him, or with the operator, or by being uirected
by the latter to hear what is said. On putting an intelligent
physician to sleep, he could not distinguish the notes of a pi-
ano, till I passed my hands over the keys; and at other times
the patient can hear the piano, if I lay my hands upon it when
at a distance from him.
Having considered the effects of pathetism upon the five
senses, in detail. let us now proceed to some of the changes
observed from this process upon :
2. The lVIuscles. One of the first effects noticed upon the
muscles is, that the will of the subject cannot control them.-
They are rendered perfectly rigid, and put into any imagina-
ble position, from which the patient finds it impossible to
change them. Passing the hand down the arm, and occa-
•
PATHETISM. 81
sionally clasping it with both hands, carrying it down\t'ard, at
the ~arne time, 'viii, often, render it so rigid that it w·ill re..
main an indefinite length of tirnc, in any position where the
· operator places it. And, when a sympathetic relation has be-
come sufficiently established between the operator and sub·
ject, the former may, by a mere effort of his will, render the
limbs, and the entire muscular system of the latter, as rigid as
if frozen, a·1d contract them or ('Xtend them to such a degree,
that they cannot be altered without manifest injury to the sys·
tern. This may be done, while the subject is either awake or
asl ecp, and the strength of the limbs may be increased some·
times ten-fold beyond what can be put forth by the subject in
the normal state.
3. The Nen·es. By a11 persons who haYe heretofore writ·
ten on this subject, it has been assumed, as a matter of intui..
tion, that what I denominate patlzetism, or the "human influ..
ence," is conveyed from one system to another lay thE> nerves
of sensation, or motion, or both. Hence it has been called the
"nervous fluid," "neuraura,'' &c. But no one of these theo--
rists have ever been able to tell which class of the nen·es,
convey or receive this influence. Are they the nerves of sen..
sation ~ • \Ve have already seen that the process of pathetis-
ing most generally su~pends the function of these nerves,
entirely. Are they the nen·es of motion? This process usu-
ally suspends the power of locomotion, and, indeed, all vol-
untary muscular motion throughout the system. Hence the
conclusion is inevitable, that a distinct class oforgans cr nerves
exist, constituting a part of the medullary matter, probably,
whose functions are purely sympathetic. This accounts fo.-
the effects of pathetism, and shows how it is that sensations
are conyeyed from the pathetiser to his somnipathist, without
contact, and when the latter is wholly insensiule to pain from ...
Yiolence done to the nerves of sensation. By this process the
function is suspended, and at the same time, the subject may
be made to suffer more from mere sympathy with the opera-
tor than he would from violence to his own sys'.em. All the
sympathetic nen·ous sensibilities are heightened to an extra..
ordinary degree, w bile the functions of the other nerves are
partially or wholly suspended.
82 l'ATHETISM.
·1. It is certain, that all the organs coucerned in the func-
tions of animal life may be affected, and their action modified
or increased by pathetism. The stomach, as we have seen, is
reached by operating on the organs of alimentiveness, and
in some persons we have found other contiguous, sympathe-
tic points, through which the same· effects coulu be produced,
or its action reversed, and fits of vomiting brought on.
The lungs are usually more or less affected, either directly
or sympathetically, by this process. By placing the fingers on
the points in the face where the hectic flush appears in phthi-
sis, I have often relieved the lungs; and by a similar process
the respiration and exspiration may be increased or diminished.
Nat urifrequently, patients will be affected more or less in the
organs ofrespiration, by the simple process ofpathetising with-
out any such design, and sometimes, severe convulsions en..
sue. These effects followed most of Mesmer's operations, but
they are not the necessar_y results, and see1n generally to come
on, either through the fear or anxiety of the patient, or the
want ofskill or health in the operator.
All the circulations may be affected, according to the sus..
ceptibility of the patient. I have increased the pulse to 150
or n1ore, and reduced it so low, that it could not be p~rceived
at all, and as far as I could judge, it ceased for a few moments
entirely.
I have also produced action in the kidneys, and defecation.
And, in a word, the functions of the different vital organs,
may be controlled by this agency in all susceptible subjects,
to a degree, which is truly astonishing to such as have not
made themselves familiar with its influence.
\Ve have only to ascertain the portions of the brain, or
those sympathetic points in the system, which· correspond
with any given organ, and it is just as easy to produce any
degree"of excitement or change in the functions of these organs,
as it is to affect the patient at all. Nor, indeed, is this always
necessary, for in many cases, the sympathetic relations of the
system, are so fully developed, that decided changes may be
produced in any of the animal functions, n1erely by operating
on the general susceptibilities of the system, and passing the
PATHETIS~r.- 83
hand over the part where the disease is located. In this way
many extraordinary cures have, undoubte·dly, been effected.
5. The I\Iental Organs. \Vhatever effects are produced by
operating directly upon the vital, or mechanical organs, the
cerebral organs, yield, more or less, by sympathy, in the gen·
eral results. Thus, if you make the passes over the arm till
it becomes rigid, the brain loses all control oYer that limb.-
And, if you operate on any other portion of the body, the brain
sympathises in the effects produced, more or less; and indeed,
there is no conceivable emotion, feeling or passion, nor any nc·
tion either ofthe humau body, or of animals, fowls, or fish, that
a susceptible subject may not be made to imitate by this agen·
cy. Dancing, laughing, singing, weeping, scolding, fighting,
praying, leaping with joy, or raving with madness, swimming
like a fish, crawling like a snake, hopping like the frog; and,
indeed, any other conceivable action or noise peculiar to any
living creature, may be brought out of subjects who are high·
ly susceptible. In one moment they may be rendered wholly
insensible to pain; and perfectly reckless as to their persons
and character; in the next, so exquisitely sensitive that they
feel like being crushed by the weight ofa feather, and so fear·
ful that the breath is \Yell nigh suspended, lest it should ex·
pose them to 5ome dreadful impending catastrophe.
The effects produced by operating directly upon the sepa·
rate cerebral functions, will be noticed in a succeeding chap·
ter, under the head of Phrenopathy.
6. Consciousness. l\'Iy control over the consciousness of
patients, is just in proportion to the susceptibility. The func·
tions of all the 1nental organs may be increased to insanity, or
subdued into a state of perfect repose, where the patient seems
lost to this world, as really as though he had ceased to liYe.
And from this state ofunconsciousness, he may be "\Vaked up,
as it were, into another world, where all his feelings, views and
perceptions, differ, toto crelo, from those peculiar to him in his
normal condition. In this state he may sometimes be made
to tal{e cognizance of the thoughts and feelings of his operator,
and those in relation with himself. Sometimes he perceives
distant persons, places, and things, and describes with accu·
84 PATHETISM.
ra.cy, objects of which neither he nor any other person prC«
~ent Lad any previous lmowledge. _
If he be diseased 11imself, he will often point out the seat
aod the cause of the difficulty, and direct to the appropriate
means for a cure. Or if his attention be called to the disease
of another, whether present or absent, he sometimes gives the
diagnosis with surprising accuracy; and the mental characters
and particular habits and peculiar dispositions of persons arc
described in the same way, of,vhom neither himself nor opera-
tor could have had any knowledge beforehand.
Sometimes somuipathists remember all that took place, in
the sleeping state; but generally, they remember nothing, ex-
cept such things as the operator impresses upon the memory.
And on the minds of some, almost any imaginable impressions
may be made, when asleep, and when in the normal state,
the whole seems to them as a reality. If directed to forget
their own names, or places of residence, 9r any thiog else,
which they had ever known, these results so~etimes follow,
n.nd I have known such impressions to remain for months,
and in one case, for a year, at least.
One of the most singular efrects produced upon the mind, is
the change in the feelings, peculiar to somnipathists, while in
this state. A lady, whom I cured of insanity, conversed with
me freely about her mental difficulties, and the causes which
bad contributed to bring them on, but she cautioned me so-
lemnly, against suffering her to know any thing about it in her
waking state; and she extended this i~junction to every thing
she said or saw in her sleep, as slw declared, that 1or her to
know in her normal state, anything of what she said or did in
her s~eep, would ha\'e a tendency to augment her mental aber-
rations; and ber predietions were, unhappily~ verified by the
Iualicious interference of a professed friend, who, wishing to
prejudice her mind against the process by which she had been
relieved, told her of things she had said in her sleep, and it
excited her mind to such a degree, that it induced partial in-
sanity; and since that, she has obstinately refused to submit
again to this method of cure.
Others will speak freely of the habits and feelings, when
PATHETISM. 85
asleep, and disclose matters which they would on no account
consent to have known when awake. This they will do, at
times, both of themselves and others.
Though the mental perceptions of moral relations and du-
ties seem to be considerably heightened in this state in the
generality of subjects, yet I have usually found that somnipa-
thists carry with them, into this state, many of their ordinary
views and peculiar prejudices. I knew.a ~keptic, who, when
asleep, maintained his deistical views, and ad vacated also, the
doctrine of the transmigratiOn of souls, affirming, that he had
lived in a number of bodies, previous to his appearance in the
one he now occupied.
But how does it come to pass, that while somnipathists are
found to be so clairvoyant, in respect to things at a distance,
they may be, at the same time, so strangely deceived with re-
gard to the nature of things they hold in their hand, or which
they can test by the sense of taste 1 A handkerchief thrown
into the lap of one, becomes a babe, or a cat, or a dog, or snake,
according to £he will of the operator, and the substance is han-
dled by the patient, with the same feelings which he would
have, on holding these various animals. And similar decep-
tions may be practised upon them with regard to persons,
time, and places. I have put them to sleep, and caused them
to hold conversation with imaginary persons, or persons at a
distance, which have been carried on with all the soberness
ofreality, while, at the same time, the patient was more con-
scious of the presence and characters of persons around him
than he could have been in the normal state.
If asked the time of day by any particular watch, the pa-
tient will tell accurately, a dozen times in succession; while
at the same time, if told to believe when he is waked up, that
he has been asleep a week, he implicitly obeys, and does not
suspect that any deception had been played upon him. I di-
rected a patient to remember on waking that he had lived in
the house where he had just been put to sleep for one rear,
though he had never lived there one day. On waking, the
hallucination remained, and three months afterwards, on being
asked how long he had lived in that family, he answered," one
H
86 PATllETISM.
year." 'Vhcn told to wake up, and remain awake, one, two,
or five minutes, some somnipathists will obey to a second, and
when in this sleep, if directed to.go into it again, at any fu..
ture time, ·without being pathetised for the purpose, they do
so, and without any seeming consciousness of the cause or the
connection of one state with the other. Some, by being di·
rected, forget the names of their friends, and, indeed, their
own names, and may be made to answer to any other name
as if it were their own.
And so of places. They may be made to believe them·
selves in any imaginable place, however distant, and when
told to remember the appearance of the things they saw, on
waking up, they describe them frequently, as the remembrance
of a dream, and sometimes with the vividness of waking con-
sciousness.
7. The \Viii. Nothing can be done without the will of
the operator, and the consent of the patient. That is, no re-
lation can be established, without the consent of the patient;
but when this relation has been once established, effects may
be produced without the patient's knowledge or consent.-
This statement, however, should be received 'vith some cau-
tion. It is not, by any means, true, in a generarsense, that
one person can put another to sleep against his will; especi-
ally if the subject has never been previously pathetised. Be-
fore the 'l.l..'ill of one person, without physical contact, can ex-
ert 1nuch of any influence upon another, so as to produce any
of the effects we have, now, under consideration, a posi-
tive rebtion must be established between the parties.
'\Ve have seen, that the will controls the susceptibility; and
hence, when a relation once exists between the susceptibility
of the sul)ject and the will of the operator, the former when
suftlciently developed, may he made to obey the latter. Some-
times the will1nay be maue known to the patient by words
or signs, or communicated through a piece of paper, or any
other substance; so that by sending a finger ring, for instance,
when the patient is a mile or more distant, I have produced a
state of somnipathy. At other times, this state may be in-
duced without any other means, than a 1nere effort of the will,
PA.THETISM. 87
when, as far as I have been able to judge, the patient could
have no knowledge, either of the presence or design ofthe op-
erator. \Vhen subjects have gone to sleep at a distance from
the operator, it is not easy to prove, that they may not have
been thinking of his designs, and thus have fallen into this
state from an apprehension of his wishes, as I have known
some to do. But other _
cases have come under my notice,
where, as far as could be known, the patient 'vent to sleep
without the slightest knowledge or apprehension of the oper-
ator's presence or design. So, that it must be confessed, that
a highly susceptible suhject may be p11t to sleep, sometimes,
at least, by mere volition, when the operator is not present:
but this can happen only in peculiar cases, as I have already
stated.
That some somnipathists may be made to obey the will~of
the operator, cannot admit of any doubt. I do not say, that
they can be willed to do things that are disagreeable to them,
bat they may be made willing to do many things they coulJ.
not be made willing to do in the normal state. And hence, it
should be known, that the person who submits to this process
by another, of whose lzealth, chcn-act~r, and other necessary
qualifications he is not well assured, runs a hazard far more
dangerous than the patient who merely swallows the nostrum
of the quack, of whom he knows nothing; and that just so far
as this operation is successful, just ·so far he receives the im·
press, as it were, of the operator's heart. The mental dispo-
sition ofthe latter has much to do with the impression made
on the person who is put into the somnipathic state. Of this
fact I have had numerous demonstrations, which leave no
room for the shadow of a doubt. All therefore should under-
stand what results may follow, and those which do alu·ays fol· '
low, the influence which is exerted llpon them by pathedsm.
That influence may, and should be good, and nothing but
good; but this will depend, of course, upon the health, skill7
and motives of the operator.
It is not yet agreed, among those familiar with this sub-
ject, whether the influence exerted on the subject when he is
put to sleep, be purely physical, or n1ental, or both. By men.,
ss PATIIETISM.
tal influence, is understood an effort, me7'ely, of the will, with·
out giving any Yisible signs of it to the patient. The truth
is, there is no such thing as an effort of the will without
an exercise of the physical, or cerebral organs. \Ve have al-
ready seen, th-
at the mind never acts without the brain, and
how it is, t.hat the mind and the susceptibility reciprocally
affect each other. \Ve have no evidence that a mere volition
without any previous physical contact, ever induced a real
case of somnipathy. Effects have been noticed, we know, that
seemed to come very near such a case; as it is well known,
how powerful an influence may sometimes be exerted by the
look of the eye, and from the features of the face; but I an1
not ready to believe, that the 'vill of one person could be ex-
erted to such an extent over the susceptibility of another
without any previous physical contact. Nor is it true, that
sleep could be induced without the operator's willing directly
or indiTectly to bring it on. But how much influence the will
may have excited, in certain cases, it would not be possible to
show. \Vhen I merely put a patient in a peculiar, sitting,
recumbent, or standing posture, and lead him to anticipate re-
jief from pain or sleep as the result, without willing him in
any other sense, ofcourse, my will has something to do with the
effects, if any are produced; but evidently, not what has been
supposed by many, heretofore. \Vhen the patient is in a state
of somnipathy, and the relation is sufficiently strong, he may
be made to ohey the n1ere volitions of the operator, in various
'vays, and hence it is quite common for the subject to \Valk,_
raise the limbs, open his eyes, and perform various evolutio~s
when simply willed to do so by the operator. Nor is this pow-
er confined to the sleeping state; as I have found it equally
easy to exert a similar influence oYer susceptible subjects
when awake. The only difference between them, is, in the
latter case it is not so easy to communicate the 'Wishes to the
s1:1bject without some visible or audible sign; but when he is
by any means, made to understand what my wishes are, they
are obeyed; and I have as 1nuch control over the limbs and
muscles, as in a state of perfect smnnipathy.
\Virhout the will of the operator, when restored to his wak·
PATHETISM. 89
io.g state, the patient sometimes remembers nothing said or done
to him in his state of somnipathy~· nay, his own will, the rna.,
chinery of his own mental operations, is frequrntly found to
have been completely under the will of the operator. For in-
stance: the operator says to his patient, w bile in a state of
somnipathy, "to-morrow, at nine o'clock, you must read the
14th chapter of St. John." The patient is waked up, but re-
nle:nbers notlting of this direction till precisely nine o'clock
the succeeding day, when he feels singularly inclined to read
that particular chapter, and when the moment arrives he opens
the Bible and reads it. ...~gain: the operator says to his pa-
tient, when asleep, " to-morrow, at such an hour, you n1ust
go into this state again1 or at such an hour you must fall into
a state of natural sleep, and sleep just so many hou~s and theu
wake up." The patient obeys to the very letter, and this, too,
without being, in the meantime, able to give any reason for
what he feels inclined to do.
In such case it is seen that the will of the operator is so
thoroughly impressed upon the subject, that he not only obeys
while asleep, but this obedi~nce is carried from his sleeping
to the natural state of wakefulness.
8. Disposition and Character. I ha\'e had numerous cases
which would seem to prove, that the disposition and charac-
ter of susceptible subjects may be controlled for some time af-
ter the operation of pathetising.
A gentleman called on me who appeared to be in great trou-
ble; and 'vith some reluctance stated, that his wife, (other-
wise an amiable woman) bad long been addicted to habits of
intoxication. On informing him that I thought it possible I
might help her, either by advice, or by the influence of pathe-
tism, or both, he brought her to see me. At the second sit-
ting she went into a sound sleep; and by suppressing the ac-
tivity of certain portions of the brain, and etrciting their nega-
tive organs, she declared that she had no conceivable disposi-
tion to taste or touch stimulating drink of any kind. It is now
a year since, and she has remained thus far perfectly cured.
I was called on to operate upon a patient who had been
quite insane, and strongly inclinei to suicide. In her sleep
H*
90 PATHETISr.r.
she frankly described her temptations, and declared, that she
would probably put an end to her existence, unless her feelings
upon that subject were very much changed, which she in-
formed me, was in my power to do. The effort proved suc-
cessful, and since that time it is not known that she has been
at all disposed in that way. Another ofmy patients had been
sunk in a state of mental despair, for six years. She had been
previously, quite zealous in religion, and during that time, she
was known frequently to "lose her strength," as it is called,
when she would appear to be exceedingly happy, and remain
hours in a state of apparent catalepsy. On pathetising her, I
not only removed· her despair, but by exciting some of the or·
gans, she declared herself perfectly happy, and what is re-
markable, when I excited a particular organ, she instantly lost
her strength and her limbs became rigid, precisely as ~he was
formerly affected, under religious excitement. ... Indeed, she
declared the two states to be precisely the s.ame. This was a
year ago, and thus far, I believe, her despair has not returned.
Other cases have come to my knowledge of a similar kind,
which leave no room to doubt,.but that the character, and
mental disposition of persons, 'vho are highly susceptible, may
be controlled, almost to any extent by this agency. And this
follows as a matter of course, if we may control the separate
cerebral organs; and just as far as we may be able to cause
the impressions to remain, the influence 1nust appear in the
character of the patient.
One or two cases of a similar influence are detailed in the
1\iiagnet for November, 1842, by l\Ir. L. N. Fowler. A highly
susceptible lady, had long complained of a poor appetite.-
He put her to sleep, excited alimentiveness, and after willing
her to have a good appetite, waked her up. On visiting her
a month afterwards, he was informed by her and her husband,
that she never had a better appetite, that she had not missed
. a meal since he last saw her, and that she had no de~ire 1or
tea, coffee, or cucumbers, of which before he put her mind
against them she was very fond. Her husband ·added, that
after being pathetised, she ate more in one day, thnn in three
before. Formerly, she had a great passion for reading, so
PATHETIS}I. 91
tnuch so, that it amounted to dissipation, and injured her
health. 1\Ir. F. willed her in the sleep not to read but little;
if she did he would cause her to be confused and sleepy.-
From that time she lost about two thirds of her relish for read·
ing. After reading a few minutes she became tired and sleepy,
and unable to finish the article she commenced.
1\Ir. F. pathetised a young lady with small veneration, which
organ he excited, and willed her to say her prayers every night
before retiring. She informed him afterwards, that she was
unable to go to bed until she had ~aid her prayers. He exci-
ted time and tune in another person, and the influence was ap-
parent three days afterwards.
9. Disease. It would swell this volume to an undue size
to attempt a detail of particular cases, which have yielded to
pathetism. That it has been ~uccessfully applied after the
usual courses of medical treatment had long been tried in vain,
is well known. And why not, when it i:3 a fundamental prin-
ciple laid down by the highest medical authors, that "all dis-
eases must be cured by tlze inherent energies of tlw living sys-
tem; and that medicine can do no more than place the body
in the most favorable circumstances for resisting disease."
\Vhatever, therefore, tends to assist the "inherent energies
of the living system," in the greatest degree, must be the
best remedial agent for the subject; and that pathetism does
this in many cases, is a fact susceptible of the clearest demon-
stration. And it is an observation common to the most intel-
ligent and experienced pathetisers, that the only legitimate
application of this influence is in the cure of disea~e and the
relief of human suffering. Hence .those efforts for the ac-
complishment of these objects have always proved far more
successful, than such experiments a? have been carried on
merely to gratify an unjustifiable curiosity. And hence, also,
somnipathists will, usually, be found more ready and able to
describe their own diseases, or the cases ofothers who need re-
lief, than to test their clairvoyance in describing pJaces or
things, mereJy.
The following are some of the diseases which, to my kno,,·.
ledge, have been successfulJy treated, or greatly relieved by this
•
PATIIETIS:rt.
process: H ead-ache, Sick I-Iend-achc, Rheumatism, Paralysis,
Pulmonary Affections, Pain in ditferen t parts of the system,
Spinal Affections, Swollen Throat, Laryngites, Chorea, Liver
Complaint, Neuralgia, Spasms, Fits, Hysteria, Cholera Mor-
bus, Burns, Loss of Voice, Hypochondria, Madness, Insanity,
1\'Ionomania, Inflammation, Tooth-ache, Contractions of the
1\-Iuscles, Troublesome Sleep, Epilepsy, Intoxication, Deliri-
um Tremens.
As an anodyne, or for producing a state of quietude, and
calming the nc.rvous system, pathetism may be used, prob-
ably, with greater advantage than almost any other remedy.
And, as an auxilliary to the common medical agents, it has
claims which should entitle it to the serious examination of all
who make any pretensions to knowledge of the healing art.
10. Anomalous Results. I say anomalous results, though
I am confident that all that could be put down under this head,
might be traced to the laws of Sympathy and Antipathy, ,
which, as we have seen, governs the various susceptibilities
of the living body.
But these different effects should be examined, in order to
determine lww far they may he supposed to be produced by
any of the known laws of magnetism or electricity; or whe-
ther they are produced by nervous induction. or the communi-
en tion of a nervous substance, from the operator into the sys-
tem ofthc patient.
(1.) By the process of pathetising. There are numerous
mysteries attending a state of somnipathy, not particularly
noticed in the preceding pages. For instance, numbers wh01n
I have put into this state have, while in it, inquired wiLy we
called it a state of sleep? They have insisted that it was not
a state ofslcep, at all. One patient while jn this state, does
not remember he was ever in any other state; and yet, at the
same time, all the ordinary avenues to the senses arc fast clo-
sed. He can neither sec, hear, smell, taste, nor feel, lvithout
the consent of the operator. How is this? He 1s alive; he
can be made conscious of things, can be made to have clear
and distinct perceptions of distant objects, which neither he
nor the operator ever sa\v!
•
PATHETISM. 93
And then, again, the various ways in which different per·
sons are affected by similar processes, would seen1 to set all
rules at defiance.
One has a sense of heat, another of cold; another is put to
sleep, and another is convulsed from head to foot. One pa·
tient remembers nothing in his waking state which took place
in his sleep, except what he is directed to remember by the
operator; another remembers every thing; a third remembers
nothing at one time in the somnipathic state, which took place
in a previous state of somnipathy; but it is not so with the
fourth, who remembers every thing done in the same state at
all previous sittings. Another patient remembers everything
in the sleeping state, from one time to another, except what
he is made to do by the excitement of any one of the mental
organs; but what he does under these excitements, he never
has any recollection of, except when the same organs are again
excited.
It is remarkable, that in some the somnipathic state differs
so essentially from the waking state, 1vhile in others it seems
scarcely to differ at all. Indeed, some, I know, seem to be in
a state resembling somnipathy nearly or quite all the time.-
I know an intelligent lady, who assures me that she is frequent·
ly conscious of being in two different states, in which her per-
ceptions of things are arrived at by entirely different mental
processes.
Many have, no doubt, been greatly misled by what has been
supposed to be the effects of the passes. But I am certain that
the best way ofputting persons to sleep, is without any passes,
or any contact with the patient at all; nor, indeed, are they
necessary in relieving pain, where the susceptibility is suffi-
ciently developed. I do not mean, that any one has ever been
put to sleep by a mere mental effort 'vho had never been op-
erated upon before, as I have already stated, for it is yet to be
determined, as to how much the wills of the operator and the
patient have to do in bringing about the results under notice.
I have frequently known persons to become con~iderably affect..
ed on witnessing for the first time, the ·process of pathetising
on others. This I can easily explain, on the supposition that
PATIIETISl\f.
this susceptibility, and the agency by which 've operate, are
traceable into that state of the system which gives rise to
what has been denominated sympathy. Some, we know, man~
ifcst sympathetic phenomena, who were never trained or in-
formed about it in any way; while others 1nanifest nothing of
it, and for the simpie reason, that their susceptibilities are not
of the right kind.
Every person mueh familiar with pathetism, knows that
the effects often produced on the cerebral organs do not depend
merely upon any influence conveyed from the hand of the op-
erator. Results of this kind vary, and these" variations" may
be carr!ed almost to any extent.
The same mental resu}tf.:, are produced in different cases, by
touchiug different places on the head, anrl in some cases, all
or most ofthe mental manifestations are brought out, by merely
touching the toes, joints, .fingers, and different portions ofthe
body-, with<?ut any contact with the head. Touching the fin~
gers of one patient, produces anger, love, mirth, &c. Touch-
ing the same fingers of another, the hand is moved in certain
mathematical lines; and a third, declares that touching his
fingers, each one gives off or receives a different influence, like,
or identical with electricity, magnetism and galvanism!
But, for these different and ever varying results, in subjects
both awake and asleep, neither the magnetic nor the neurau-
ra theories render any satisfactory account, as they do not,
indeed, for numberless other phenomena, which so complete-
ly annihilate many other beautiful castles, whic.h have been so
ingeniously constructed upon a few isolated facts. It has
been supposed, that the true reason for these different results,
is to be found in the different degrees in which the various
subjects may have been pathctised. And I might think so too,
probably, had I not performeu a vast \rariety of experiments
which go far, very far as I believe, towards demonstrating the
contrary. Instance the following. Here is a person whose
cerebral organs I can control, while he is awake, but he can~
not be put to sleep. Another may be put to sleep, and his
cerebral organs cannot be excited at all. Another is suscep-
tible of the excitement of any portion of the brain, provided he
PATHETISM. 95
understands before hand what the impression is you wish to
produce.
I shall a~sign in the sequel what I suppose to be the correct
solution of these mysteries.
The attraction produced by pathetising, though real, is not
rccipr<!.cal. The hand of the operator may, and often does
attract the subject, but the haud of the subject does not at-
tract that of the operator; and in some, there does not appear
to be any attraction at all, though the subject is in a state of
sound sleep.
Different results are produced by the same process on dif-
ferent individuals, both when awake, and aftet they are asleep.
There are points in the face and neck, and indeed, throughout
the entire system, which sympathise \Vith particular portions
of the brain, and this fact shows how it is, that when any or-
gan is controlled in any way, it speaks out through the eyes
or muscles of the face. But there is nothing to demonstrate
the existence of any connexion between the influence convey-
ed by manipulation, exclusively through the nerves either of
motion or sensation. I do not mean to be understood as conu
veying the idea, that they are not affected by this influence,
whatever it may be; but I know, and have demonstrated by
numerous experiments, that this agency is not confined to these
nerves, nor exclusively conveyed by them.
It is well known, that when the operator applies his hand
to any part of the system of a person in a state of somnipathy,
neither the nerves of motion nor sensation will be affected
·without he desig ns to produce some such result; and often,
when they are touched by a third person, the patient is not
sensible of it at all !
One somnipathist hears nothing said to him by any person
except the operator, unless they put their hands upon either
him or the pathetiser; another will hear anything said by one
whon1 tl1e pathetiser directs or wills him to hear, and nothing
else.
Another has the sense of feeling so much developed, that he
can tell the difference in colors by it, and uthers have nothino-
. 0
of this sense7 and scarcely of any other.
96 PATHETIS:M:.
The truth is, no two subjects arc affected in all respects,
:~like; and hence it is quite easy for an operator to be misled
in forming conclusions from experiments, performed on a score
or less ofindividuals. I have found what appeared to be a
correspondence, not only in the phenomena which are pro-
duced on certain classes of persons, but also a correspondence
•
in the results produced by the same operator on different sub-
jects.
Nor can there be any doubt, but that many subjects often,
undesignedly, deceive themselves and those ".vho operate up-
on them. I have known some to affirm they did not hear,
for instance, when I know they did hear; and others have ~aid
they did not hear because they would not, and consequently,
refused to answer when spoken to, not because they could not
hear, but simply because they did not choose to answer.
(2.) The Imponderable Fluids. I include under this term,
Electricity, l\iagnetism, and Galvanism. And one remark
should be made in the outset, with regard to them. It is this,
that I have never known any results produced by these agen-
cies upon the human system, which had any resemblance to
the phenomena described in the preceding pages, except in a few
cases, where the subjects had been previously patlzetised, and
a degree of susceptibility, had, by this process, been awaken-
ed in the system. I have performed.various experiments with
electricity and the magnet, but have never been able to pro-
duce any decided results, until I had pathetised the subject for
this purpose. And in all the effects I have ever known or
heard of, produced by these ageneies, on pathetised subjects,
I have not been able to reduce them to any ofthe known elec-
trical or magnetic forces, but they would seem to fall in with
what we denominate the sympathetic and antipathetic laws
of the human system, enumerated in the succeeding pages of
this work.
Applying a pointed steel to particular organs in the head
of some subjects, the function of one is eaxited, while by the
same means another is suppressed; and applying the instru-
ment to portions of the head, and noticing that one side was
repelled, while the opposite would be attracted, first led me to
PATHETISl\!. 97
the conclusion, that the different cerebral organs were bal-
anced in opposition to each other, and hence I called them
positive and negative. But nothing of this kind have I ever
observed, from persons who had not been previously pathetis-
ed. Persons of extraordinary susceptibility will be affected by
holding one end of an iron bar, jn the hand of another person;
but they are affected, usually,just as much, if no oneho]ds the
other end. Some have gone to sleep merely by holding a
natural magnet in the hand, or by having the passes made
over them with it; but such have first been influenced by pa-
thetism, and the same remark is true of the case described in
the first number of the l\Iagnet, where a lady, after having
been repeatedly pathetised, fell into a state of sleep on the ap-
proach ofa thunder cloud; but while in this state, her path-
etiser had the same influence over her, as if he, himself, had
operated in order to bring about the result.
A highly susceptible subject ofmy own, was affected direct-
ly the reverse of this, for when asleep, I had to wake her up
on the approach of a thunder cloud, and merely turning an
electrical machine, within forty feet of her, when asleep,
would throw her into spasms.
Some somnipathists are favorably affected by the touch of
a magnet or any metallic substance; and others are so much
disturbed by being touched by them, that it either wakes
them, or they become convulsed. One is attracted by it, and
another is repelled. The north pole attracts one portion of
the system of one patient, and repels the same portion of an-
other; and so also of the south pole; and, indeed, the same
effects are produced by the application of any metallic sub-
stance, and sometimes, when the pathetiser merely holds a
piece of iron, or steel, in his own hand, unknown to the pa-
tient. Nor is it always true, as has been supposed, that ef-
fects produced Ly the magnet, cannot be removed without it,
as we have had patients, when affected by the application of
any kind ofmetal, who could be relieved only by pathetism,
without any other means. The same is true, with regard to
minerals. They do not seem to be uniform in their effects
upon different patients, nor upon the same patient, at di.ffer-
I
98 PATRETIS:i\I.
ent times; and never having been able to produce any very
decided effects, either with minerals or electricity, until the
suLject had been previously patheti£ed, and thereby rendered
highly susceptible, or in a few cases where the susceptibility
had been supernaturally developed by disease, it would not,
perhaps, assist us much in this enquiry, to give the details of
these experiments. The history ofPerkins' Tractors would be
suflicient to show, that a susceptibility may be created in the
system, which yields as readily to a piece of wood, as to a
piece of steel or brass; and having now sufficiently prepared
the way, I proceed to state, what may be considered some of
those laws of life, which give the true reasons for these vari-
ous influences, exerted by so many apparently discordant
agents over the human body.
CHAPTER VI .
THEORY OF P ATHETISJI.
'\Vhat is the nature of that agency which has generally-
been known under the terms Living JUagnetism, JYiesmerism,
or Nervous Fluid? Is it any thing different from the ordinary
forces of Electricity, Galvanism, or .lV[agnetism? Or, does the
human brain eliminate a fluid or current, similar to the mag-
netic forces, and which is governed by laws peculiar to itself~
lVIauy theories heve been fabricated in answer to these ques-
tions; but still, the subject would seem to be fur from having
been satisfactorily settled. It is, certainly, one of some diffi-
culty; nor can we anticipate the time as very near, when sci-
entific minds will give it that attention which its importance
would seen1 to demand; and, much less, that they will very
soon agree as to the real nature of this influence, whatever it
may be.
It will not be necessary, perhaps, for me to attempt a detail
of the various theories which have, from time to time, obtain-
ed upon this subject. Having examined some of the effects of
the agency I denominate Pathetism, or, as lVIr. Townshend
calls it, "human influence," we may now be able to judge as
to what those laws must be, by which such results are pro-
duced. The following is a summary of the conclusions at
which I have arrived; and, whether they assign the true rea-
sons for the phenomena I have described, or not, will, of
course, be left to the decision of my readers.
THEORY.
I.
That Animal Life is an Element,-possessing attracting and
resisting forces, peculiar to itself; and which control matter
and the imponderable fluids.
100 PATITETIS.i\I.
II.
That these vital forces, give those qualities to 'the body
which constitute a sym7wtltetic system, and render all its
parts susceptible to sympathetic and antipathetic Laws.
III.
That these Laws depend upon certain Relations, which dif-
ferent substances, or entities, ~ustain to each other.
IV.
That the nature of these Relations, between two or more
substances, organs, or entities, depends upon the difference,
or likeness, in their qualities or functions.
v.
That the susceptibility of different persons depends upon
the developments of the ganglionic, or sympathetic system,
which unites the mind, and the nerves of sensation and mo-
tion.
VI.
That a peculiar connection between two entities, organs or
substances, which differ in certain qualities or functions, pro-
duces a positive relation or the law of sympathy. A connec-
tion between two which are precisely alike, produces a ne[(a·
tive relation, or the law of antipathy. And, where bodies or
substances are brought together which do not come up to a
certain degree of difference, in quality or functions, a neutral
Telation, or a state of apathy, is the result.
YII.
The functions of the n1ental organs are balanced by contra-
rieties, one against another. That is, they not only exist in
pairs, but in groups, or families, in each hemisphere of the
brain; and the pairs, and groups, arc balanced by other ?airs
and groups, whose functions are directly opposite. On the
due development of these normal relations does consciousness
and mental power depend. For, when they are deficient, or
become disturbed or exhausted, the results appear in the
states of tlte mind, such as idiotcy, monomania, insanity,_and
sleep... \Vhen the normal sympathetic relations are disturb.
THEORY OF PATHETIS~!. 101
ed between the cerebral organs and the nerves of motion or
sensation in other parts of the system, the results are shown
iu apoplexy, paralysis, and other physical irregularities.
VIIT.
The mind, and this susceptibility, or the sympathetic sys-
tem, reciprocally act upon each other. The latter is the me-
dium through which the emotions and volitions of 1\IIND are
manifested, and through the same medium all its impressions
are received.
:rx.
By establishing a positive relation between two persons,
the mind of one may thereby control the susceptibility of the
other; or by applying the hand of one to any part of the oth-
er, different me!ltal and physical changes, may thus be pro-
duced. Hence it follows, that the only influence extended
from one mind or body to another, depends upon the kind of
relation established between them, and the same is true,
with regard to any influence felt by the living body, from any
other cause.
:s::.
A. positive relation is kept up, between the vital organs and
the substances on which the system depends for its nourish-
ment, such as air ;;md food, and, also, by the different func-
tions ofthese organs; and upon the proper balance of all the dif..
ferent relations depends the health and vjgor of the body.
Their disturbance produces disease, and their annihilation,
death.
XI.
The muscles and limbs are moved through these relations,
which exist between different portions of the same muscles,
and also, between these and the sympathetic nerves, through
which the mind operates. From which it follows, that there
is a reciprocal influence between the different nerves and the
other organs of the entire system; and hence it is, that the
state of one organ, or part, is changed by the state of another,
with which it is in positive relation.
I•
102 r ATIIETIS:'It.
XII.
These sympathetic relations exist between the mental organs
and the nerves and muscles of the face; they shape the fea-
tures, and thus lay the foundation for all that may be known
of Physiognomy; they give the contour to the entire system,
so that relations may be traced between all the mental and
physical developments; and from corresponding points of
sympathy, throughout the body, the different cerebral organs
may be excited and controlled by those external agencies, be-
tween which and the susceptibility a positive relation has
been established.
XIII.
The positive and negative relations are controlled in cer-
tain cases, by tlte mind; so that the system is positively or
negatively affected according to the mental apprehensions.
In the same way relations may be created, or transferred
from one substance to another. \Vhen the mind has been
once impressed to a certain degree, from a mere app,
rehension
of an influence from any cause, it takes cognizance of this ?·e-
lation; and in cases of high susceptibility, it does sometimes
either create, or transfer it from one substance or agent, to
another; and hence the system is affected, precisely accord-
ing to the anticipations of the mind, and not according to the
real qualities of those things to which the relation has been
transferrell.
XIY.
The various vital. organic, and mental functions, are car-
ried on by these different relations; and from which it must
follow, that upon the latter docs the healtlifulness and integ-
1'ity of the former depend. And by applying those agencies
which change these relations, we may increase or modify the
mental or physical powers, and thus the five senses may be
transposed and concentrated entirely in the sympathetic sys-
tem; or they may be wholly suspended, or even transferred,
to the sympathetic system of the operator.
xv.
It is a universal law of nature, that positive results are
THEORY OF PATHETIS:i\I. 103
produced by a relation between an agent, and a subject, or
two or more substances, brought into relation with each other.
It is only by establishing a connection between two things, or
forms which differ in quality, that a positive result differing
in quality from either of the two is produced. This is the
first law of Pathetism, and from which we see how it is, that
one may not be able to produce the same efrects upon differ~
ent persons.
This theory, itself, presents my reasons for rejecting the
common views of a universal fluid. But yet, it may be neces-
sary, in order to do the subject justice, that I should add a
few remarks in answer to the following inquiries:-
1. Js IT A UXIVERSAL FLUID?
It is not necessary, here, to inquire whether there is anr
difference between galvanism, magnetism. and electricity. It
is generally admitted, that these terms designate, essentially,
one and the same agency; and in this sense I shall use them.
And it must be borne in mind, also, that these forces pervade
all matter, and hence they must, more or less, affect the hving
body. \Ve have further seen, that the elec:tricity of the air,
and the magnetism of the earth, may influence the vital phe-
nomena in a greater or less degree. The lunar and solar in·
fluences have been referred to; but, it is certain that the vital
forces control or resist these influences, as we have seen in
the cases of heat applied to the living body. If this power
were not inherent in vitality, it is not possible to determine
how life could be perpetuated for any time. And, I shall not
be expected, perhaps, to account for cases where, it is said,
the needle has been affected by the approach of the human
hand. BtH, though I have often tried, I have never seen any
results of this kind. And even if any such have been produ-
ced, a few of them could not outweigh the mass of preponder·
ating facts which every where meet us, v;hen examining this
subject. They would merely prove what we all know to be
true, that the huma:1 body has sometimes exhibited certain
galvanic properties, which, however, do not depend upon any
peculiar process, as far as is now known.
101 PATHETISl\1.
And, I mar also be referred to a few cases, where a state
of sleep has been brought on by the approach of an electrical
cloud, or the application of an ordinary magnet; and it may
be said, further, that many of the phenomena attending som-
nipathy are so very much like the effects of magnetism, that
it is reasonabl.e to conclude that this is lite. ngency by which
these results are produced. To which I reply:-
1. .LVo effects of this kind are known to lw?'e been produced,
until tlze system had been previously operated upon, and ren·
dered ltigldy susceptible by palltetism.
This fact, alone, is sufficient to forbid the assumption, that
the mere magnetic forces constitute the agency by which
these results are produced. \Vith a galvanic battery life may
be annihilated from the body; but, no one was ever put into
a real state of somnium, or somnipathy, by a battery, till the
system had been previously pathetised. \Ve know, that va-
rious effects may be produced upon the physical organs, even
after death, by galvanism; but nothing resembling the pheno-
Inena I have described in the preceding chapter, were ever
induced by electricity.
If it be said that "lVI:agnetism, in an organised form," pr<r
duces these results, I might ask, what magnetism is in an or-
ganised form? and what gives it this organisation? If it is
life, then there is something in animal life which controls the
tnagnetic forces, as I have already shown. If magnetism has
a different form in living bodies fron1 what it has in any other
substances, it must be owing to the vital forces; these, there-
fore, cannot be magnetism.
2. T!te magnetic forc es reciprocally affect each other.-
That is, the positive pole in magnetism attracts the negative.
Two pieces of iron differently magnetised, equally attract each
other. But we have seen, that in pathetising, though the sub-
ject is attracted by the operator, he, himself, produces no
such effects upon the latter. Nor, indeed, could such an ef-
fect be anticipated agreeably to one of the first laws of nature.
\Ve have seen that one must be the agent, the other the sub-
ject, and if the subject could affect the agent, to the same ex-
tent he, himself, is affected, it would be in direct opposition
THEORY OF PATHETISl\I. 105
to the well known course and constitution of things. Nothing
is known of the electrical laws, by which it could be shown,
why the physical attraction between the operator and patient
should not be reciprocal, if this agency were magnetism; nor
why the former should not be able to attract his patient, so as
to raise his body, entirely, against the force of its own gravi·
tation. It is well known, that the patient, in some cases,
may be so strengthened and excited by pathetism, that he
will be able to lift more than his own weight. But, in such
cases, no one was ever raised, entirely, by these forces,
which, however, the operator should be able to do, if the mag..
netic forces constitute the agency by which he attracts the
limbs or muscles of his patient. And in this case, if the oper·
ator were to place his patient alone in a boat a few rods from
himself, on shore, should he not be able to draw him that clis·
tance over the water 1 \Vhy not, if th1s attraction be mag·
netism? Nor is this all; if this agency be magnetism, it
should be just as easy for an operator to magnetise a piece of
iron by making the passes over it, as it is to affect a living
body in this way. But we all know, that this is not, by any
means, the case. The power which the operator is able,
many times, to exert over his patient, is truly astonishisg;
and yet this same influence, when directed to a few minu~e
iron filings, is not sufficient to produce the least imaginable
effect. And, though we know that electricity may be evolved
by the living body, sometimes in sufficient degrees so as to ef-
fect the electrometer, and eYen to give off sparks, yet, these
same bodies are not any the more susceptible to pathetism, on
this account, alone, nor do they seem to possess any more
than ordinary power for inducing the sleep in others. And be..
sides, if it were the natural tendency of magnetism to induce
sleep, it would always have this effect when the magnet was
applied to the system.
3. The radical dz:fference in the results produced by tltis
agt;ncy, pToves that it cannot be the magnetic forces.
The effects of the electrical forces, when t4ey can be pro-
duced at all, always agree, both as to their nature and in the
laws by which they are evolved. But, by manipulation,
lOG PATIIETISM.
scarcely any two bodies can be affected alike. By the same
process by which one may be put to sleep, another may be
waked up; and the same fingers which suppress the action of
one or more of the cerebral organs, excites them; and this,
too, when the patient is asleep. The e''er varying discrepan-
cies in the effects produced by manipulation can never be re-
conciled with the assumption that the agency is magnetism or
electricity.
4. The effects p1·oduced, it may be, by tlte application of
metallic substances to the living body, even lH:jore it may have
been pathetised, do not prnve the agency to be magnetism.
Precisely the same effects have been, and may be produced
by any other substance. \Vho has not heard of Perkins'
"Tractors," of whose potency thousands and tens ofthousands,
of all ranks and profession, but a few years ago, professed to
have experimental knowledge. Indeed, it is asserted on the
best authority, that Perkins returned from England possessed
of ten thousand pounds sterling, which he received for cures
performed by the use of two small pieces of different kinds of
metal, pointed and polished in a peculiar manner. And never,
perhaps, were so many of the medical profession, and other
intelligent persons, so egregiously deceived as to the true na-
ture of any medical agency, as in the matter of those tractors.
And at the present time, so general has this conviction be-
come, that these tractors seem never to be mentioned but in
derision, and to remind the unwary how easy it is to be led
astray by deduction!3 drawn from facts of this kind.
It was assumed by Perkins and his disciples, that the influ-
ence of those metallic points was electrical, and this accounted
most satisfactorily for numerous cures performed by- them,
some of which were, indeed, of a n1ost extraordinary charac-
ter. But Dr. Haygarth was the first to suggest, I believe, that
wooden tractors would, probably, have a similar effect; and
accordingly Dr. Falconer selected five persons for an experi-
ment, who were labouring under chronic rheumatism in the
hip, knee and wrist. \Vooden tractors had been prepared,
and painted to resemble those made of metal. Their first
.trial was made January 71 17991 and proved, of course, success-
THEORY OF PATHETISM. 107
ful. Three were much benefited. One felt his knee warm-
er, and could walk much better. Another was easier for nine
lwurs till he went to bed, and then his pain returned. An-
other had a tingling sensation for two hours. The next day,
the metallic tractors were employed with the same effect as
that of the prP.cecling day.
This led to further experiments of a similar kind; and they
were continued, until the physicians became fully satisfied,
that the wooden tractors were of the same utility with the
metallic, provided the patients supposed them 1netallic.
Similar experiments were shortly made at Edinburgh, and
the result was the same. A servant girl, afflicted with a most
acute head-ache, which had rendered her nights altogether
restless for nearly a fortnight, readily submitted to be pointed
at with these u..:o:Jden tractors. The operators moved them
round her heau, but never touched her. In a few minutes she
felt a chilliness in the head; in a minute or tl\'0 more, she
felt as though cold \Vater was running down the temples, and
the pain was diminisheu; in ten minutes more she declared
that the head-ache was entirely gone; and the next day she
returned to express her thanks to her benefactors for the good
sleep she enjoyed through the night.
It is to be regretted that the medical profession did not profit
by this discovery, instead, as they seem to have done, turning
the whole subject into ridicule, and attributing cures really
performed to a mere imaginary cause, that never had any real
existence. Though some of them thought, no doubt, that by
referring all that was done to the "imagination" they had giv-
en the true explanation of these phenomena, and placed the
subject where it would never again be agitated by the expres-
sion ofany doubt.
Perkins attributed the influence of his tractors to electricity/
-the physicians, afler the wooden tractors were found equally
efficacious, attributed it to the imagination of the patient.-
Neither party has given the true version of the mystery. The
facts detailed in the preceding pages, as well as the history of
these tractors, are abundantly sufficient to show, how it is
that the mind creates or transfers relations from one subject
108 PATHETISI\I.
to another, and by which the susceptibility becomes afre~ted
accoruing to the mental apprehensions, and not according to
the real quali tics of those things to which the relation may
have been transferred, as I have already shown. Indeed,
there is enough in the facts connected with Perkins' tractors
to annihilate, for ever, the notions which have prevailed with
regard to animal magnetism, or the influence of a "universal
fluid, over the living body, which is exerted, and modified,
n1ercly by manipulation or the mental efforts of the operator.
5. Its e_ffects on animals.
It is worthy of notice, that though this agency has so long
borne the name of" animal magnetism," no effects have ever
been produced upon animals which amount to any thing at
all. \Ve have seen, that animals have a degree of suscepti·
bility which is peculiar to the living body, but nothing upon
which you can operate by the magnetic forces. But if this
agency be magnetism, there is nothing to hinder its effects on
animals, in as great a variety of degrees, as on human beings.
We should not only be able to put them to sleep so that they
c.ould not hear, see, taste or feel, but should also cause them
to walk, ifnot to talk, in this state.
If it be objected, that animals have not the cerebral organs
for the same manifestations, then it is admitted, that this in·
fiuence is something more than magnetism; it is one which
is peculiar to cerebral developments. Thus admitted, I do
not see what objection could be successfully urged against the
preceding theory.
6. The nerves are non-conductors of electricity.
I have already aC.duced a number of admitted facts, in the
Chapter on susceptibility and sympathy, which can never be
reconciled to the assumption, that this influence, whatever it
may be, is evolved, 'received and transmitted by the nerves.-
And I may now add, that if the nerves should be found to be
non·conductors of electricity, this question must be considered
settled.
The following account of a paper recently read before the
Royal Society, by Dr. James Stark, is from the London Athe-
nreum for March 4, 1843:
THEORY OF PA THETISl\I. 109
"The author gives the result of his examinations, both mi-
croscopical and chemical, of the structure and composition of
the nerves; and concludes, that they consist in their whole
extent, of a congeries of membraneous tubes, cylindrical in
their form, place<:! parallel to one another, and united into
fasciculi of various sizes; but, that neither these fasciculi, nor
the individual tubes, are enveloped by any filamentous tissue;
that these tubular membranes are composed of extremely mi-
nute filaments, placed in a strictly longitudinal direction, in
exact parallelism with each other, and consisting of granules
of the same kind as those which form the base of alJ the solid
structure of the bodv; and that the matter which fills the
tubes is of an oily iwturc, differing in no essential respect
from butter or soft fat; and remaining of a fluici consistency,
during the life of the animal, or while it retains its natural
temperature, but becoming granular, or ~olid, when the ani-
mal dies, or its temperature is much reduced. As oily sub-
stances are well known to be non-conductors of electricity, and
as the nerves have been shown, by the experiments of Bischoff,
to be among the worst possible conductors of this agent, the
author contends, that the nervous agency can be neither elec-
tricity nor galvanism, nor any property related to these pow..
ers."
And we should probably arrive at the same result, from a
similar examination of the other tissues, and the fluids of the
living body. The blood has been said to be strongly impreg·
nated with iron, but it has never been satisfactorily proved.-
But even if it were so, this fact would not assist the magnetic
theory. \Ve do not find that the blood is attracted by the
magnetic any more than the nervous matter; and indeed, it
would be easy to show, that if this agency were electricity or
magnetism, surrounded as we constantly are, with such quan·
tities of metallic substances, it would be next to impossible to
restore either health or life, or to avoid, without the greatest
trouble, the ever attracting influences which they would be
constantly exciting over us.
2. Is IT A NERvous FLUID?
.Are the effects produced by manipulating the human system,
which appear in sleep, and mental excitements, caused hy the
communication of a neuraura, or fluid, fron1 the operator, and
received into the nervous system of the patient? The ques-
tion now under notice, is not, whether there is not what has
been called a fiuid, or substance, exhaled from the extremi-
K
110 :PATIIETIS.!\I.
tics ofthe nerves, though the highest medical authorities ad-
mit that if such a fluid exists, it is of so subtile a consistence,
as never yet to have heen detected, either by taste, sight or
smell. Nay, they further admit, that the constituent princi-
ples of this liquid are perfectly unknown, as they cannot be
rendered visible by art, or proved by experiment.* But it is
assumed, that such a fluid must exist, because, on making a
ligature on a nerve, the effects of volition or sensation arc sus-
pend2d. There may, indeed, be a fluid peculiar to the veins,
arteries, muscles, the viscera, and indeed the osseous parts of
the system.
Nor is the present enquiry as to whether there are certain
exhalations from the surface of the human body, of carbon, or
carbonic acid gas, or a peculiar oderous substance. 'Vhat we
wish to ascertain, is, whether the brain or nervous system
eliminates a fluid, which is received into the system of the
subject, who is affected by pathetism 1 \Vhen the fingers are
applied to the cerebral organs, and the subject manifests any
given emotion, is that emotion excited by the reception of a
nervous substance from the hand of the operator 1 Or when
one operates upon another, (as it is said,) by his will, merely,
is there in this case, a transmission of any fluid or substance
from the nerves of the operator, in1o the nerves of the patient?
The following are some of the reasons which incline me to
the negative of this question:-
1. The results produced without any physical contact, and
toithout any effort of the will.
It is susceptible of the clearest demonstration, that sleep,
for instance, may be induced without any physical contac.t, or
any mental effort of the will of another, whatever. And so
of many of the results already described in the preceding chap-
ter. To suppose the transmission of a finid in the case of the
·wooden tractors, or in the case of the non-magnetised tree of
lVIcsmer, is perfectly preposterous. \Vhen the patient touch4
cd a tree that had not been magnetised, he was seized with
convulsions; but when he came in contact with the tree upon
which the operator assumed to have thrown the magnetic fluid,
• Dr. Hooper.
THEORY OF PATHETIS~I. 111
he \\'aS not affected at all! No wonder the French comm1s·
sioners put the seal of their condemnation upon JYiesmer's the·
ory.*
Take the case of the cure of the cancer, effected by the ap·
plication of the hand of a corpse. Is the nervous fluid trans·
n1itted from the hand of a dead man 1 Or, the cure performed
by the East Indian. \Vho can believe, that in these and the
thousands of other similar cases, the change was effected by
the transmission of a nervous fluid 1 And so of the method
recommended for testing what has been called the "impres-
sibility" of persons to the "neurauric influence." The patient
is directed to take hold of an iron rod or bar, held in the hand
of the operator. If he feels any sensation in his hand or arm,
the "neuraura" is said to have been transmitted from the
hand of the operator, by means of the metallic conductor, into
the arm or hand of the subject. And I have seen numbers of
the medjcal profession operating in this way; and when they
found persons thus affected, they have taken it for granted,
that a nervous current was thus received by the patient from
the operator. And during this time, they seem never to have
once thought of the tt'ooden tract01·s; and what the disciples
• 'Vhen Dr. B., the originator of wbat is called the Neurauric theory,
was in this city, in the. fall and \vinter of 1~42J the following incidepts
occurred. He had a highly susceptible subject ; and whom he had tm-
pressed with a deep antipathy again~t an operator wbom I will call
l\Ir: S. It so happened, that the Dr. was inYited, one eYening, with his
subJect, to a house wliere there was a p~trson whom 1\Ir. S. had pathe-
tised some three months before. And, of course, his subject took it
into his head to become nry much convulsed on coming naar the per-
son 'vhom he thought 1\Ir. S. had operated upon, and he was so much
affected, that the Dr. found it somewhat difficult to relieve him. The
reason assigned was, that he could not touch or even come near per·
sons who had been operated upon by l\Ir. S., as the neuraum given off
by them was so offensive to him! A few evenings after, 1\Ir. S., (un-
known to the Dr. or his subject) came in contact with the latter, sat by
his side, anD put his hands' upon him, but it produced no effects at all.
This is one of many other facts which could be gi\en showing the fal-
lacy of the Dr's. assumptions about the transmission of a nervous cur-
rent. Ifhis subject was affected in the first case. as he thought he was
by a nen-ous current from the patient operated on by 1\Ir. s., w_hy was
he not still more affected when he came in contact with l\Ir. S.lumself?
Answ~r, because, in the first case an influence was apprehen_dcd,in the
othe~ It was not. In the:first case, effects W€_re produced without any
physical contact; in the other there was phys1cal contact, but no effects
followed as tbe result.
112 PATHETIS.rti.
of this theory will say, when they come to find out that the
same feeling in the hand or arm of the subject may be induced
with a wooden rod as well as with a metallic one, and, indeed,
without any rod at all, or any contact with the operator, re-
mains to be seen. Something must be allowed, of course, for
the habits to which patients may have been trained. If they
have been accustomed to a metallic rod, they will be most af-
fected by that instrument; and the same remark may be
made of ivory, wood, or anything else.
But, that persons often sink into a state of real somnipathy,
without any influence from physical contact or the will of an-
other, is a matter of certainty. I have known persons to fall
into this state, partiall)r, who had never been pathetised,
merely by seeing me operate on another; and, times without
number, l1avc I had my patients fall into this state, when
they have been in the same room, or in the same dwelling
where they knew I 'vas operating upon others, when I had
no volition at all upon the subject. Only the present week, a.
patient on whom I had not operated for more than si.x months,
happened to be present 'vhile I was pathetising another; and
though she was decidedly opposed to going to sleep herself,
and though I did not wish her to fall into this state, yet, she
did so. And what was remarkable, when asleep, she refused
to let me touch her for the purpose of waking her up; and
after remaining in this state all night, she remembered nothing
of what had happened, on waking up the next morning. Her
opposition to being pathetised arose from her dreau of ridi-
cule; but we see from this case how it is, that the mind of a
person overcomes the susceptibility, and induces sleep, with-
out any will on the part of another, and indeed, in so::ne cases,
even a~ainst the wishes of the patient himself:
But I may be referred to cases like the following :-the pa-
tient is blindfolded, and the operator merely brings his fingers
within an inch or so of any particular organ, and its function
is excited. Or, the patient places his finger near any given
organ in the head of another, and his own mind becomes af..
fected.
To this I answer:
THEC.•RY OF P.A.THETISM. 113
(1.) If the excitement of the separate organs is caused by
the actual transmission of a fluid, the results should always be
the same; that is, the emotions excjted in one subject should
be thB same as those excited from precisely the same place in
the head of another. But this is not the ca~e; for though the
cerebral organs may be excited without contact, in some sub..
jects, yet the same feelings are not always excited from the
same locations, in different heads. These discrepancies can
be accounted for, only, by the laws of sympathy before de-
scribed.
(2.) Exciting the cerebral organs without contact, no more
proves the transmission of a fluid, than the relief of pain, or
sleep, induced without contact.
(3.) The cases in which the cerebral organs can be control-
led by patheti~m, to any considerable degree, are very few;
and hence, it is hardly safe to deduce a generalla·w fron1 these
few cases.
(4.) Among the subjects susceptible of cerebral excitement,
by manipulation, the numb.er is fewer still whose organs can
be controlled ''"ithout any contact; and the world over, per-
haps, not one individual was ever found, in whom each of the
organs could be excited 'vithout contact. But, if one organ
tnay be excited in this way, and if there be an actual trans-
mission of a fluid into the brain of the subject, it is plain, that
we should be able to excite one organ as well as another. But
this is not, by any means, the case.
2. Effects produced on idiots and infants.
Every operHtor must ha,·e noticed, how much more difficult
it is to affect infants and idiots, than it is adults, and persons
in whom the cerebral organs are fully developed. But, if a
fluid be actually transmitted, why should it not be received
with equal readiness into the heads of idiots and children?-
Infants, who have all the organs proportionably large, are not
(other things being equal,) so easily affected as adults. Nor,
iQ.deed, a1n I aware that there has ever been an instance,
'vhere the cerebral organs have been separately excited in in-
fants. Btlt why not? \Vhy should not the finger of the ope-
rator transnlit the neuraura to the organ of Benevolence or
K*
•
•
114 PATHETISM.
Self-Esteem, in a brain six months old, as easily as into one
twenty-five or thirty years 1 The true reason is, these effects,
in many cases, depend much upon the mental apprehensions
of the subject, as I have already stated in the preceding the-
ory.
3. The different results from tlze same locations, and the
3ame 'results from different locations.
For instance: in one subject Combativeness is excited by
touching the "bridge of the nose," so called; in another, by
touching the muscles in the under lip; in another, by touch-
ing the scapula; and in another, by touching one of the fingers
or teeth! Can any one, in his senses, believe these results to
be produced by the transmission of a fluid 1
But, tu get rid of this difficulty, an advocate of the fluid
theory tells us, that in these cases the patient is under the
control of the operator's wn.L, and, therefore, these results
are not to be depended upon! Just as much as the man who
makes this objection, and no more. I have operated on hun-
dreds, and, I may say, thousands of cases, where I know that
the subjects were no more under the influence of my will, in
the ~ense above supposed, than any other person whom I
never saw. I have put them to sleep by my will, as it is
called, and without it-I have examined this agency in e\·ery
imaginable aspect, and tested it in every conceivable manner
possible, and affirm what I know, when I say, that I have in·
duced these different results from persons who were not asleep,
and from others who were, and yet, they were not caused or
modified by my will, in the least conceivable degree. The
inference, to my own mind, is irresistible, that the notion of a
fluid transmitted from the operator to the subject, is utterly
unfounded.
How could a subject be influenced by my will, when I had
no will about the result, as to what it should or would be ?
The truth is, many operators have, unquestionably, been most
egregiously deceived as to many things they have attributed
to their own wills. How the susceptibility is controlled by
the will, and how the will and the susceptibility reciprocally
net upon each other, I have already shown. But, to assume
THEORY OF PATHETISM. 115
that, when I touch the same organs in three different subjects,
and they every one manifest a different result, one must be
more in love with theories than I desire to be, to believe that
the results are either caused by tbe transmission of a fluid, or
that they are the results of my own volitions, when I know
that I exerted no will in the cases at all, and the patients
1vere no more controlled by my will than the chairs on ·which
they sat.
4. The immediate agencies for affecting the mind, must, in
all cases, be the same.
Titillation of the feet or sides, excites the organs of mirth.
Is there, in such cases, a fluid transmitted? And what is the
difference between the agency by which n1irth is excited,
either by tickling the soles of the feet, or by applying the fin-
gers to the organs of mirth in the head? A tread upon a
gouty toe, not unfrequently excites the organs of Combative·
ness. Is there a fluid transmitted in such cases?
How often do we feel our Hope, Faith, Courage, Devotion,
Love, and Benevolence exc.ited, by what we hear said in a
public a~sembly ; and in this way, thousands oforgans are all
excited at the same moment. Is there a fluid transmitted in
such cases? \Vho can bdiei'e it?
But I might ask, what excites emotion in any case? \Vhat
is the immediate agency which excites feeling of any kind?
If it be by a fluid eliminated in one case, "\vhy not in all? and
if the hand transmits this nervous current or fluid, on applying
it to the head, how is it to be rationally accounted for, that
this fact was nerer discovered before the nineteenth century?
How has it come to pass, that. among the millions of millions
who have had their hands upon each other's cerebral organs,
since the world began, not one of them ever received this fluid
in any perceptible degree, before the year 1841 ? Really, to
swallow such an assumption, one needs an organ of 1\'Iarvel-
lousness, to say the least, much larger than the one possessed
· by the writer of these pages.
The truth of the case is, most who have ever manifested
any interest in the investigation of this subject, under what-
ever name it has been presented, have taken it for granted, all
116 PATHETIS~I.
along, that there must be a magnetic or nervous fluid actually
transmittcll in order to produce these results, because those
who have gone before have sail! so. And thinking of no other
way for solving all the phenomena which followed the process
of manipulation, we have readily adopted the crude notions of
others. And this is the more remarkabl'e, when we examine
the results of the wooden tractors, together with the history
of l\Iesmer's operations, and observe what an abundance of
facts they present, which go directly to annihilate the fluid
theory. A few of these facts the reader will have seen in the
foregoing pages; and if, after digesting these, he can make
out an explanation n1ore to his mind than the one presented
in the present work, let him not withhold the light which it
may be in his power to shed upon this intricate subject.
CHAPTER VIII.
PATHETISING.
From an examination of the principles laid down in the
preceding chapter, an answer will have been obtained to the
question so frequently asked, "Have all persons the necessary
power for pathetising ?" It is plain, that this power depends,
not on the health and character of the operator merely. There
are many assisting and disturbing causes, and the whole must
be considered together, before \Ve shall be able to judge with
any tolerable accuracy as to the power of any one to produce
any given results. Some things depend upon the operator,
others upon the patient, and others, still, upon the persons or
circumstances with which they mny be surrounded during the
operation.
Before coming to particulars as to this process, it may be
necessary to explain, that by a pass is simply meant the act
of passing the hand over any part of tlle system. This is done
with the fingers loosely extended, and moved do''Tnward quite
lightly oYer the head or limbs. Reverse passes are made up-
wards.
The nervPs of sensation are more fully developed in the
hands, and hence the fingers become the principal organs of
touch, so called; and the Sacred Scriptures recognise its use
in the communication of blessings, as when the patriarch Ja-
cob placed his hands upon the heads of Joseph's children, and
pronounced his blessing upon them. The attempt to excite
kind feelings in the mind of a friend, is usually accompanied
by taking him by lhe hand and looking him in the eye. In
pathetising, therefore, the hand becomes the principal instru-
ment for exerting this agency, and applying its influence to
different parts of the system.
118 P.ATIIETIS:'It.
1. TnE OrER.\TOR.
It couhJ not be supposed to be a matter of indifference with
pNsons wishing to be treated by pathetism, whether the per-
son who is to perform this operation be qualified, or not. No
person willingly trusts his health with one whom he, himself,
considers a quack. Let us notice, then, a few things, of which
we should wish to be well satisfied, before submitting to this
method of treatment.
1. llealtll. Nothing can compensate for the want of sound
health in the operator. He should not only be free from all
constitutional or nervous difficulties, but he should be perfectly
\VELL. 'Ve have known a number of cases, where disease
has been communicated from the operator to the patient. If
the former be nervous, feeble, or sickly, as a matter of course,
we should expect the patient to sympathise with him, and
to become diseased, just in proportion to the influence exerted
upon him.
2. Temperament. Persons of what are called nervous or
lymphatic temperaments, do not usually succeed so well in
pathetising. The best temperament for the operator is that
called bilious, or nervo-bilious. The sanguine, or a mixture
of the bilious and sanguine, is also a good temperament. But
it ~hould be understood, that the temperall?ent, whatever it
may be, should be different j1·om that of tlze patient.
3. Age. The operator, of course, should be neither green
in youth, nor decrepid with age. During the first stages of
adolescence, the mental faculties are not sufficiently matured,
and the physical energies but imperfectly developed. The
vigor of manhood is the time for the full exercise of this pow-
er, and the period when the system can best endure the exer-
tion necessary for its application to the cure of disease. In
youth and old age, the physical and men tal strength become
soonest exhausted, and during these periods the vital forces
are barely sufficient to supply the wants of his own system.
4. Afental cllaraclcr. Large Pity, Benevolence, Firmne~s,
Self-Confidence, Concentration, Conscientiousness, and Perse-
verance, arc the necessary mental qualifications. These arc
other phrenological de,·clopments which go to constitute a
PATHETISIXG. 119
well-balanced head; but when either of the above qualities
are wanting, it makes a marked deficiency in the character of
an operator.
l\iuch may depend on the mental disposition. He should
be possessed, especially when operating, of undisturbed calm·
ness, decision, and kindness of heart. A rough word, or the
indulgence of any passion, while his patient is in a state of
somnipathy, might produce serious mischiefs, and such as he
n1ight find it impossible to control.
5. Good motives. EYery patient, of course, posse£ses the
undoubted right to judge of the motives of an operator, and
hence our chapter would be incomplete, without a statement
of what they should be. And be3ides, it has much to do with
the success of an operation. Is it not a rna tter of intuition,
that what we attempt from a sincere desire to do good, we
prosecute with far more confidence of success, than when,
conscience-smitten, one undertakes what he knows to be
wrong? Every sinner, when seeking an unworthy object, is
discouraged with more or less fear, and want of confidence;
and these are states of mind which are every way unfavorable
to that quiet and self-respect, which are necessary for opera·
tions of this kind. The more faith and expectation of success
the better. This is a principle of the Christian religion, and
it holds equally good of every judicious, well-meant effort, for
the relief of human suffering.
6. Skill. The knowledge of the pathetiser should be of this
:::ubject, and the laws by which it is to be applied for the cure
of disease. The most learned and intelligent in mathematics,
languages, medicine, and the various other branches of sci-
ence, may be perfectly ignorant of this agency. The skill ne-
cessary for its use, is not to be learned from ordinary works
on human physiology or medicine. This, if we may so speak,
is a science by itself; it has its peculiar laws,-is different
from all other subjects in so many respects, that a man does
not become qualified to operate merely by possessing good
health, and a desire to do good. He should become familiar
with the nature of the sympathic system, and study the dif-
ferent susceptibilities, sympathies and antipathies of the living
120 r ATHETIS:\!.
body. He should perceive how it is, that the mind and these
susceptibilities rPciprocally affect each other. A thorough
knowl edge of Physiognomy and Phrenology arc great helps,
though not indispensable. But there is what may be called
an aptness for this work, which enaLles the skilful o;:erator
to adapt himself to the condition, idiosyncrasy, and peculiar
views of his patient, and by which he causes different agen-
cies and circumstances to contribute to his assistance, in his
attempts to rclie,·e suffering humanity.
7. Balance nf powe1·. The operator may be either male or
female; but in what would be understood by nervous or sym-
pathetic po11.:er, the operator should be superior to the patient.
\Ve have seen, that positive efrects arc produced by establish-
ing a positive relation between two bodies that differ in tem-
perament, or some other physical qualities which render one
susceptible to an influence from the other. Of course, there-
fore, the stronger the operator may be in all those qualifica-
tions which give an influence, either physical or mental, over
others, the better for this agency. And so, also, when the
system of the patient is enfeebled by disease, or worn down
with suffering, it forms a greater contrast with the power
which is brought to bear upon it, and the results will gene-
rally correspond.
2. THE pATIENT.
1. Temperament. 'Ve have already seen, that everything,
as it were, depends on the susceptibility or sympathetic tem-
perament of the patient. True, there may be but few cases
where some slight relief could not be giYen, by an experienc-
ed operator; but we do not know enough of this agency to
induce the belief, that it may, at present, be considered a pan-
acea for" all the ills that flesh is heir t0." That different op- .
erators have succeeded in performing some Yery extraordinary
cures, is true, and I have been successful in a few remarkable
case~ of my own; but yet we know but little of the la\vs of
this agency. And this is saying no more than we might af-
firm of the materia medica. 'Vho has been able to tell, why
the same medicine does not produce the same results on dif-
erent persons, and at different times not even on the same
PATHETISING. 121
person? Does not eYery thing depend upon the idiosyncrasy
of the patient? And do we doubt the efficacy of any medi-
cine, merely because it does not always produce the same ef-
fect8, in the same time, upon different patients, or indeed up·
on the same patient?
There is a peculiarity in the temperament of those persons
most susceptible. They generally partake, more or less, of
what is understood by the sanguine, lymphatic, and nervous.
Persons highly nervous, as it is called, are not the best sub-
jects. Those in whom the above combinations seem to meet,
are of what we should denominate a sympathetic tempe1·ament.
2. Excitement-Quiet. All nervous or mental excitement
in the patient, as well as in the pathetiser, are decidedly un-
favorable. The entire system should be in a stale of perfect
quiet. The mine! should be unoccupied. There should be no
anxiety about the process, or its results. The patient should
be previously prepared, so that, when the operation i3 com-
menced, the mind may at once yield to its influence, without
any opposing or disturbing influences.
3. Sleep. \Vhen a state of somnipathy follows this process,
new responsibilities are imposed upon the pathetiser. In
cases of sickness, experiments, merely, should nc ver be at-
tempted; nor should the patient be worried with questions.
If he is properly managed, he 1vill be able to describe his own
case; and after some experience, that of others, 1vithout much
difficulty.
The time during which the sleep may be continued, must
be determined by the case. No definite rule can be gi\en-
the operator should use his own judgment. A few hours,
daily, may be sufficient.
3. TDIE A).ll PLACE FOR OPER.A.TJXG.
1. The patient and the operator should not only be in a
state of perfect quiet, but the process should be commenced
where they will not be likely to be disturbed. They should
not be entirely alone: one or more judicious friends should
always be present, when the operator and patient are of dif-
ferent sexes. Strangers should not be admitted. To the pre·
sence of persons who are disagreeable to the patient, or who
L
122 I'ATHETIS::\!.
nrc obstinately set against the agency which is to be applied
for his relief, there arc insuperable objections. Dcleuze, Dr.
Rostan, and the most intelligent operators in every part of the
world, have united in bearing this testimony.*
No conversation should be carried on within hearing; and
things should be so arranged, that persons may not be passing
in and out of the room, during the sitting.
2. The sittings should be protracted from thirty minutes to
one hour, and should be had, as .near as may be, at the same
hours every day. They should be repeated as often as once a
day; and when continued for thirty minutes only, they may
be repeated a number of times during the twenty-four hours.
4. PROCESS OF pATHETISING.
Different effects may he produced in various ways on highly
susceptible subjects; or, after the relation has been sufficiently
established between the pathetiser and patient; and it should
be remembered, that it is by no means necessary to produce
sleep, in oruer to relieve one from disease or pain.
The patient should be comfortably seated, where the head
may recline without fatigue. He should then be directed to
elevate his cye5, and immovably set them on something sta-
tionary, with his mind fixed upon the CERT..AJ~TY of tlle result
tehich you design to p1·oduce, whether it be sleep, or the relief
of bodily pain. The longer ana the more steady his eyes and
mind arc kept thus united, in anticipation of the designed re-
sults, the better. And in some subjects, the effects are in-
creased by their standing up, either against the side of the
room, or near a chair or sofa, where they may easily sit down
if they wish to do so.
At other times, the effects are very much increased if the
operator sits by the side of the patient during this process, and
holds one of his hands; or if he give him a piece of steel, or
any substance not offensiYe, which the patient should hold in
l1is hand.
* "Th(>re is," says Dr. Georget, "a Yery essential precaution to be
taken by those who wish to make useful experiments. It is, to avoid
surrouncling one's self with dish~nest and incredulous p~rsons. I bad
frequently to complain of them; and my somnambulists have experi- -
enced gl cat troubles from them, and, almost alwayt>, serious accidents."
-Phys. Nerv. System, vol. I, p. 270.
P..1THETISIKG. 123
In this manner I have put a room full of persons to sleep at
oo.ce, and believe I could operatP successfully upon twenty at
one time, without the least inconvenience to myself. The old
method of staring the patient in £he eyes, is highly objection-
able, especially when the parties are strangers, and of the dif-
ferent sexes; and the extreme menta! efforts put forth by some
operators, are as unnecessary as they are sometimes ludi-
crous. Indeed, I am confident, that the manner of passing the
hands about the persons of some patients, and gazing them in
the eye with such barbarous tenacity, has often prevented the
an ticipated results ; as I have often induced sleep in a few
minutes by the above process, in persons, where the other
method has failed after a dozen trials.
Of course, the attention should not be directed from the pa-
tient, any more than the patient's attention should be directed
from the process used for inducing sleep, or the relief of pain.
And the sleep, and r€sults, will become more and more sym-
pathetic as this process is repeated, as it must be for a length
of time before the susceptibility will be found sufficiently de-
veloped to be controlled, merely, by the will of the operator.
For increasing the sympathy, and also for relieving pain,
the passes may be made, or the hand applied in the following
manner. Standing by the side of the patient, when reclined
or seated as above directed, the operator should place one
hand over the whole of the forehead, from the super orbiter
plate upward, and the other directly above it; or, while you
hold the right hand over the frontal region as above, place
your thumb and middle finger directly back and a little below
the centre of the organs marked by Gall as Caution. If you
wish to vary the method, stand directly behind the patient,
and place your middle fingers on the points above named: by
this process alone sleep is often induced, and no other means
will, in some cases, succeed so well in producing a state of
mental tranquillity. \Vhen the patient seems to be more o~
less subdued, pass your hands gently from the coronal region
d<Jwn the sides of the head, extending them off in a circle to
the top of the head again. And, if you wish, you can pass
124 rATIIETISlti.
your hand slowly from the head do,vn, inside his arms and
hands, und extend them off and in a circle again, to the head,
as bC'fore.
As a sound state of somnipathy rarely follows the first sit-
ting, the process shoulJ be repeated till it is successful. \Vhen
the sympathetic relation is once establishetl, the patient will
sink into a state of sieep, or wake up, merely by the direction
of the operator, aml frequently \vithout any direction, if the
patient has a distinct apprehension of what he supposes the
operator's wishes arc.
'fo wake up the patient by tl!e passes, place one hand over
the hack part of the head, covering from the portion allotted
to Philoprogenitiveness down over the cerebellum; and \Vith
your other hand place your t\vo fingers upon Causality, or
pass the hand quickly upward, over the frontal region, as if
you wished to brush a\vay something collected there. Or,
standing in front of him, put your thumbs over his eyes, and
pass them upward quickly over his forehead. Put both hands
upon the sides of his heac..f, and pass them upward and off
quickly; and pass them from his hands, Upl\'arJ, and along
the arms. These processes should be continued till he is per-
fectly relieved.
For the relief of local pain, the hand should be held and
passed gently over the part affected. To cure the headache,
let the patient lean his head back, so as to rest it firmly in
your hand, your hand being sufficiently low to co\·er the cere-
bellum. \Vith your other hand, make the passes down and
over the forehead and temples. If the pain is in the frontal
region, cover the whole of the occipital, or those portions al-
lotted to Approbativeness, Self-Esteem, and Firmness. For
hypochondria and nervous derangements generally, the pa~ses
shoulu be made, more or less, over the portions marked for
Ideality anu Sublimity. In all cases of fainting, languor, &c.
the hands should be held upon the occipital region of the
head. 1\'lany nervous difficulties may be perfectly relieved, by
simply connecting the process ofinuucing sleep, 'vith an anti..
cipation in the mind of the patient of the certainty of the
cure.
PATHETISIXG. 1() ...
....~
5. CA-UTIONS.
On no account should the pathetiser ever become exc1ted or
alarmed, while operating, and especially while his patient is
in a state of somnipathy.
If it be found impossible to wake him up, let him alone:-
he will come out ofit in time, if left to himself.
Sometimes patients, after being rendered highly susceptible,
involuntarily sink into a state of sleep. This may be prevent·
ed by the fixed tDill and direction of the pathetiser. Direct the
patient, when asleep, never to sink into that state again. If
this be not effectual, leave him to himself. You should never
meddle with a patient, whom you find it impossible to con-
trol.
All excitement should always be removed, before the pa-
tient is waked up; and great care should be taken to remove
the excitement from each organ in which it may have been
produced. I have known mischievous results to follow these
excitements : they should therefore be attempted with great
caution, and only for good and justifiable purposes.
Nor should the stomach be loaded with food, during the ex·
citement of alimentativen€ss. These excitements, of course,
are morbid, or beyond the demands of nature, and should be
continued but a few moments at a time.
No liberties should be taken, or allowed, with the person
of a somnipathist, which he would not consent to, when
~wake. It is a great injustice and breach of confidence, when
your patient, after having trusted his life to your care, while
in a state of unconscious slumber, wakes up and finds his flesh
pricked with pins, and mangled in various ways, to satisfy the
incredulity of unreasonable minds.
It is quite common for those but partially familiar with
this subject, to recommend and urge their friends and others
to attempt the production of the somnipathic state, merely to
gratify their curiosity, or to satisfy themselves of its truth.
Tllis is certainly wrong; I have seen many mischievous
results from those attempts. \Vhen any injury follows the
use of medicine which has been administered by an intelli-
gent physician, people do not set it down to the discredit of
L*'
1=26 rATIIETISM.
science, but we infer from such cases, the necessity of care
and extensi\·e information, by which such injuries may be
aV'oided. Or, if the mischief be done by the ignorance of the
practitioner~ he is blamed, of course-and punished, it may
be, by the tribunals ofjustice.
But it i5 still worse when mischiefs follow from n1isman·
agement of pathetism. From the deep-rooted prejudice
which everywhere prevails against this agency, all the mis·
chiefs which may result from its misuse, are attributed to the
agency itself; and thus the greater injury seems to be done
to truth, than in the cases above stated.
I was recently calJed to the following case. An operator
had succeeded in putting a person to sleep. The attempt
had been made a number of times, and from curiosity merely.
-But, finally, he found it impossible to remove the sleep,
and convulsions and insanity followed. I hare known a
number of cases of this kind. The physicians and friends, of
course, lay all this mischief to pathetism. It should be attri-
buted to the ignorance, and in some cases to the imprudence
of the operators.
The most intelligent may sometimes fail; and if these are
not always successful, it should caution others never to at·
tempt to produce a state of feeling in another, which they
may find themselves unable to control. Ifyou have health, and
a heart for this work, and h:tve made yourself familiar with
its laws, commence with the sick: let your efforts be made
not to produce the sleep, nor any of its phenomena, but tore·
]ieve the suffering. Evil could scarcely be anticipated from
such attempts provided the motive were what it should be,
and the process were agreeable to the patient.
Pathetism has to do with the sympathetic system, not of
the operator and his patient merely, but with the nervous
sympathies and antipatlzies of every other person present.
And, the success of the operator's efforts must depend, more
or less, on the state of feeling with which he is surrounded.
And, it is an admitted law of this subject, that no one should
ever attem1=1t to operate on another, 1nerely to satisfy an idle
or a wicked curiosity. The motive should always be the re·
PATllETISING. 127
lief of the patient: or if it be for the benefit of the science,
the attempt should be made agreeably to the rules which the
subject itself prescribes for its own management.
I do not disapprove of all exhibitions of the sleep; there
are occasions enough for all benevolent and scientific purposes,
when this phenomenon may be seen and tested, without ex-
posing patients in the way they have been, by many hereto-
fore. Indeed it is a subject which every one should investi-
gate for himself, and this all may do without giving counte-
nance to its abuse by exhibitions, in the way some of them
have hitherto been managed.
CHAPTER IX.
PIIRE::-rOPATIIY.
Phrenopathy, from phrenis, mind, and paschos, to feel, ex-
perience, to be acted upon. I have already informed the reader
ns to the reasons for applying this term to those operations on
the human brain, by which we are enahled to control the ce-
rebral organs through the agency of pathetism. A term is
needed for the purpose of designating those operations which
control the mental functions; and this is as suitable as any
other, if we choose to use it for this purpose.
·But, before we come to the distinguishing principles of
Phrenopathy, it may be desirable that the reader should have
some general account of the brain and its fonctions, as far ag
they seem to have been determined, heretofore, by the labors
of previous ages. Of the discoveries of the immortal Gall, it
is not n1y design to speak here. The science which he had
the honor of founding, though still in its infancy, has well
nigh lived down the ridicule and opposition which were for-
n1erly waged against it. Had it not been true-had it not
been founded in fact-the name, talents, and wealth, which
have been arrayeu for its annihilation, would have proved
successful long ago! But what a glorious triumph has Phre-
nology achieved over the worlu, in arms against it! Its
claims, as a science of the first importance, arc at the pres·
ent time genetally admitted, and the best minds in the civi..
lized world are con·\'inccd of its truth. Not a class of the
learned. can be mentioned, not a party, in religion, medicine
or politics, but among ·whom we shall find numbers who
firmly believe its truth; and many who will acknowledge
themselves indebted to its hgltt, as much, or more, than to
any other science, for the knowledge they have of themselves
PHRENOPATHY. 129
or the mental character of others. Indeed, we do not be-
lieve that any other science could boast of men higher in the
scale of intelligence or learning, than arc now the firm adr(}o
cates of Phrenology.
To Dr. Gall, also, belongs the honor ofshedding more light
on the anatomy of the human brain, than, probably, to any
other man who has ever lived; and it '\Yould not be difficult to
show, that numbers have since written upon the physiology
of the nervous system, without giving that distinguished man
due credit for the obligations they 'vere under to his previous
discoveries.*
All that can be atte1npted here, 'vill be, merely to gh·e
some general obsen·ations on the anatomy and functions of
the encephalon, by which the reader may be the better pre-
pared to apprehend the principles of Phrenopathy.
1. Tn:c RELATrox oF THE ENcEPHALON To THE I-IunrAN
Bony.
\Ve have already seen, that fmtuses have been formed with·
out any brain. Of course, they could not live long. Other
cases have been stated, where the whole of the cerebral mass
has heen let out of the cranium, for the purpose of facilitating
delivery, and yet, life has remained some hours afterwards.
The fact, that fmtuses are sometimes born without any brain,
or spinal chord, does not, certainly, seem to favor the assump·
tion, that the brain is the point from which all the nerves ori·
ginate. It is far 1nore probable, that the nerves of sen~ation,
properly speaking, originate or commence in the extremes of
the system, and from the surface thus transmit impressions
up to the sensorial centre in the brain.t
That vitality does not depend so much upon the brain as
• Spurzheim exposed himself to this cen~ure, as the reader will sec
by consulting Dr. Elliotson's Human Physiology, 5th London edition,
lb49, 8vo., ]J. 1147.
t Dr. R. Kelson states, that on dissecting two moles, he found the
optic nerve rlid not extend to the brain. If these animals do not use
the eye, there is no necessity for connecting th~ eye \vith the brain.-
On the same principle of nature, we Lnrl the fish m the celebrated Mam-
moth Cave in Kentucky, haYe no eyes-simply because they have no
use for them.
130 PATHETIS.:'II
many have supposed,-and, indeed, that all the functions of
the vital or animal economy may be carried on, for a time,
without it, is further proved from the fact, that all the other
parts of the body are formed, and considerably developed, even
before the brain and spinal chord have assumed any degree of
consistence, more than the white of an egg, and, consequent·
ly, are utterly incapable of any functional power. lVIagendie
mentions the case of a girl, who lived to the age of eleven
years, with the use of her senses, and with feeble voluntary
motion, but sufficient for her 'vant~ :md progression. After
death, no cerebellum nor mesocephalon could be found. In
1673, M. Duverney removed the cerebrum and cerebellum
from a pigeon, and found that the animal lived for some time,
C'lnd searched for its food. Mr. Lawrence saw a child four
days old, without any encephalon except a mere bulb, which
was a continuation for about an ineh above the foramen occi-
pitale from the spinal chord. Its breathing and temperature
were :c.atural.* l\'Ir. Ollivier saw another case of the same
deficiency, and the child not only cried and sucked, but
squeezed with its hand; and another is mentioned by Lolle-
ruand, which lived three days.
Dr. Kaan, a century since, observed a frog move all its
limbs half an hour after its head had been cut off, and even
after its body had been divided in two. Fontana declares, that
after removing the brain of a turtle, and entirely emptying
the cranium, it lived six months, and walked as before. Mr.
Flurens took both hemispheres from a chicken, and yet it
walked, flew, shook its wings, and cleaned them with its beak,
as before. A viper, after decapitation, moved towards a heap
of stones where it had been accustom~d to hide itself. Rede
extracted the brain of a land tortoise, and it lived and walked
for SIX months afterwards. J.V[agendie says, "it is droll to see
animals skip and jump about of their own accord, after you
have taken ont all their brains, a little before the optic tuber-
cles. New born kittens tumble over in all directions, and
walk so nimbly, if you cut out their hemispheres, that it is
·• 1\Ied. Chir. Trans. vol. v. p. 166.
PHRENOPATHY. 131
quite astonishing." And he speaks of a hedgehog, which
gratified him in this way two hours after the operation !
\Ve are told, that in fcetnses full grown, without any ence-
phalon, or e\·en spinal chord, the circulation, nutrition, secre-
tions, &c. proceed equally as in others, which) besides a spinal
chord and ganglia, possess also a brain. The~e facts would
Eeem eonclusive against the supposition, that the brain is a
kind of galvanic battery, which supplies vitality or nervous
power to the other portions of the system. As it is the last
part formed or matured, it is reasonable to suppose, that its
relation to the body is secondary, when compared with the
heart and other organs in that region. It is, certainly, a law
of nature, that those organs, in living bodies, should be fir~t
:produced and developed, whose functions are most essential
in the vital economy; and hence, we find the formations com-
mence with the solar plexus, the ganglia of the dor~al region,
together with the heart and blood-vessels. And if what has
been offered in a preceding chapter be correct, with regard to
the peculiar functions of the ganglionic system, we may see
why it is that there seem to be more ganglia in the dorsal and
lumbar regions, than have been found in all the other parts of
the system; and it will explain a number of phenomena
which have hitherto remained in the dark. As, for instance:-
1. That the 5ensation of sympathy is generally felt in the
region of the solar plexus. \Vhen this feeling is powerfully
excited, the hand is instinctively placed upon the epigastrium.
2. That the five external senses are sometimes, by disease,
transposed and located in this region. In cases of catalepsy
and trance, persons have been unable to hear or see, except
from this region.
3. In many cases of somnipathy, I have been unable to
cause the patient to see or hear any thing, except from the pit
of the stomach.
4. A slight blow upon this region has frequently occasioned
instant death j while severe blows upon the head, or mutila-
tions, or even the destruction of the brain, did not immediately
destroy life.
5. These ganglia, and, indeed, the ganglionic ~ystem, as I
1~2 rATIIETISM.
have stated beforc, have been found fully developed in those
fmtu ses born without a brain or spinal marrow. Hence it is
plain, that the animal or vital functions can be carried on
without a brain, bnt not without the ganglia and solar plexus.
G. It explains the reasons l\-·hy the heart continues its func-
tions after the head has been struck from the body. Dr. Bor-
tels declares, that when he opened the chests of six men, in
1826, immediately after decapi!ation, near l\Iarbourg, he found
the he~nts bca ting regularly for half an hour afterwards; and,
when languishing, they were excited by irritating the great
sympathetic nervc,-and yet, irritation of the spinal chord had
no effect on the heart whatever, though it did affect the mus-
cles of the trunk. And he further informs us, that on dividing
the cardia plexu:;, the action of the heart ceased instantly.*
And after the cerebrum and cerebellum of a man had been
entirely blown off by an explosion of firearms, the circulation
and respiration continued for more than half an hour.
There arc many plausible reasons for supposing. that the
<lifferen t parts of the system are eommenced, in the process of
formation, independently of each other; and hence it is, that
fmtuses are born with parts wanting or redundant.t
2. }lE3IISPJIERES.
It seems necessary that we should take cognizance of the
division of the encephalon into two brains, as it were; for,
like the organs ofanimallife, it is double, and hence the im-
pressions made upon it, though they are, in fact, double, are
percei\·ed as one, the same as the double impressions made
upon the ep~s and ears are one. Hence, all the mental func-
tions must be double, so that when we speak ofan organ, the
term includes two, one in each hemisphere of the brain. This
accounts for the fact, that when one side of the brain is some-
times seriously injured, the efl"ects do not appear in the mind.
And it will be seen from ir, also, how careful we should be in
performing experiments in Phrenopathy, as, if the fingers are
• Bichat says he had observed no effects on dividing the cardiac fila.
m~nts.
t \Ve have ac('ounts of parts of f<I'tuses founrl in the bodies of males,
ont- nine, and another some twenty-six years of age.
PHRENOPATI.IY. 133
not placed on precisely the same organs on both sides of the
head, there must, of couse, be confusion in the results.
2. DECUSSATION.
The nerves extending from the brain to the body, or from
the body to the brain, cross each other in the medulla oblon-
gata, so that one side of the brain answers to the opposite side
of the body; and though cases do often happen where the op-
posite side of the Lody is affected from that of the head, as in
paralysis, yet this does not always occur. \Ve have exam-
ples of ague, affecting one entire perpendicular half of the sys-
tem; and of persons who sweated in one entire perpendicular
half; and of persons becoming pale and emaciated in one en-
tire perpe:1dicular haif, while the other remained healthy.
3. SECTIOXS OF THE ENCEPHALON.
1. Tlze Cerebellum.
Though this portion of the cerebral syste1n seems to be a
distinct brain of itself, and therefore peculiar in its functions,
it is usually considered as a part of the cerebrum, or generally
in connection with it. The light which Phrenology and Ve-
nesection have shed upon its functions, would seem to have
fully settled this question beyond all possible doubt; and yet,
we have recently heard of attempts, under the name of" Neu-
rology," to prove that Gall, 1\Iagendie, and a host of other
anatomists, whose labors have so much enlightened the world,
were most egre~iously mistaken in their views of the cerebel-
lum, and that this portion of the cerebral system, instead of
having any thing to do with the sexual propensity, is appro..
priaterl principally, or wholly, to the function of nutrition.
To give any considerable proportion of what might be said,
showing the real functions of this organ, would fill a volume
by itself. The following may be taken as the summary of
what seems, now, to have been generally demonstrated, by
Phrenology and pathological investigations. It is from Dr.
Jamison, a physician of high distinction in England:-
"Since I became acquainted \Vi th the science of phrenology,
some years ago, my attention ha~ been directed to the cond·i~
tion of the cert>bcllurn in those indiviuuals who have consult.
ed me for impotence, and in others. I have attentively ob..
M
J34t PATIIETIS:'II.
served and studied a great number of rases, and am led tore-
gard the foliO\ving conclnsions as c.orrect. I hope their pub-
lication may have the ctl'cct of dirccring medical practition-
ers more closely to observe the undoubted connection which
exists bet ween ·the state of the genital organs ancl the cerebel-
lum , and a disease which in its various degrees is much more
prevalent than is commonly imagined, and is the cause of a
great many evils.
1. The sexual passion has its scat in the cerebellum, and
is energetic or the reverse in proportion to the size and tone
of this organ.
2. Smallness of the cerebellum, much incqu::tlitv of its
lobes, and deficiency of iis tone, are the cause of impotence.
3. \Vhcn the cerebellum is very small, impotence is per-
manent.
4. \Vhcn the cerebellum is small, it soon suffers in tone if
made to preform its functions with vrdinary frequency.
5. \Vhen one lobe of the cerebellum is small and the other
]arge in a man, it is sometimes the case, that he, at in-
tervals distant in proportion to the size of the large lobe,
performs the generative act imperfectly, until the large lobe
which had been exhausted, recovers its tone.
6. \Vhen the cerebellum is very large and is much exerted,
as it usually is in such cases, it becomes impaired in tone,
and impotence is sometimes the result; but the generative
act may be well performed by a large cerebellum, even when
impaired in tone.
7. Average endowment of the cerebellum is most favoura·
ble to permanent potency.
8. \Vhen the cerL·hellum becomes much deficient in tone,
if it be not soon cured, the spinaln1arrow and its nerves, the
organic nervous system, the intellect and moral feelings, are
successively debilitatec.l.
9. Deficiency of tone of the cerebellum in the male or female
is often transmitted to the otfsprin~.
10. Impaired tone of the cerebellum is the cause of sperma-
torrhea.
11. The size of the genital organs exercises no influence
on their aetivity or vigour; tl1ey are often inert when large,
and vi~orous when small.
12. 'fhe father of a monstrosi~y, an accouHt of the post-
mortem examination of which I published some time ago,
had the cercbellnm small and debilitated, and had also sper-
matorrhea; he was permanently weak in the genital organs,
and was the means of making me acquainted with many
similar cases, and tht>ir peculiar symptoms. His wife be-
came jealous and went mad, in consequence of believing that
Pitl::.E~OPATHY. 135
he was unfaithful, and that what was the result of debility,
'vas caused by dislike of her. She died in a lunatic asylum.
These facts, in connexion with remark No.8, render it prob·
able, in my opinion, that the subJects of abnormal organiza-
tion are the products of parents whose generative apparatus
was diseased, and general health consequently impaired. I
think the condition of the cerebellum in the parents of n10n·
strosities should be observed.
13. Permanent or frequent impotence, or even continued
partial debility of the genital organs, in n1en who have large
self-esteem and destructiveness, and benevolence or con5cien-
tiousness not very large, often produces strongly selfishness
and malignity; and also cunning and falsity; tor though se-
cretiveness should not be large, it is so much exercised in
these cases to conceal the symptoms of their disease and pre-
serve the reputation of virility, that it operates as if it pre-
dominated in size. This is in accord~nce with the remark of
Dr. Cox," that it seemed to be a law of the human constitu-
tion, that when any of the faculties is pained or disagreeably
active," destructiveness instantly comes into play. Here am-
ativeness is mortified, and self-esteem and love ofapprobation
disagreeably a~;tive, and destructiveness becomes consequently
excited, secretiveness being active also, malevolence, cunning
and falsehood, result.
14. 0\'er exertion or exhaustion of the cerebellum robs ad-
hesiveness and combativeness of their po\ver, and thus causes
cowardice.
15. \Vhatever exhausts the power of the constitution,
seems not only to diminish the power of combati\'eness, but
also to stimulate cautiousness.
16. In some men an activity of the cerebellum greater than
what we would expect from their temperaments and devel-
opments, may exist for a long time without producing impo-
tence; here it seems to appropriate more than its own share
of the nervous energy of the system; the other organs of the
body suffering a diminution of power, apparently that the
generative apparatus may obtain an increase.
17. The cerebellum is in general too much exercised in the
married state.
18. \Vhen the cerebellum is too much exercised, no matter
what the size of it may be, it becomes impaired in tone.
19. l\'Ien and women who have the cerebellum much below
the average size should not marry.
20. Impotence is curable in all cases but where the cere·
bellum is very small and disorganized.
21. Fluor albus is causeu by deficient tone ofthe cerebellum
in many cases.
13G PATIIETISl\1:.
22. Deficient size and tone of the cerebellum in males or
females is a cause of want of liveliness, and sometimes of
melancholy and madness.
23. Disease of the cerebellum is often the real cause of ab-
surd eccentricities.
2-l. The treatment of impotence should always be directed
with a view of its origin from the cerebellum."
I doubt the correctness of the conclusions numbered 2 and
20, without some qualification, as I am convinced that impo-
tence is often caused by the sameness in the temperaments;
anu if so, it cannot be cured, even where there is no difficulty
in the cerebellum.
2. Base of the Brain.
Facts are at hand, also, to prove that the ccrebellmn and
lower portions of the cerebrum, are particularly related to the
muscles and limbs. Indeed, it would not be unreasonable to
infer this fact, from what is knol\'n of the functions appropri-
ate to other portions; for, as the upper and frontal organs an-
swer for intellectual functions, we n1ight suppose that the
lower ;>ortions would hold relations with the animal and lower
parts of the system. And hence we find, that a severe blow
upon the lower anu back part of the heau, rendered a man
paralytic in his arms and legs. And it may be noticed, that
paralysis of the lower part of the body, even when arising
fron1 lesion in the corresponuing portions of the brain, does not
affect the mental functions at all.
3. Co1·onal Region.
It has long been known to Phrenologists, that the lower the
organs in the head, the more their functions corresponded 'vith
the propensities common to the animal creation. And expe-
riments in Phrenopathy have tended to show, tnost conclu-
si\·ely, that one pair of the same organs are more elevated
and refined in their functions than the pair below it. Thus, I
find, the first pair of Amativeness arc common to animals;
the pair above appropriate to intellectual enjoyment. The
lower organs of Comparison take cognizance of things, the
upper ones compare ideas; the lower organs of Causality are
exercised on things, the upper on metaphysical subjects. And
P!IRENOPATIIY. 137
it is a remarkable fact, that from mere animal instincts,
which relate to the preservation of life, and selfish gratifica-
tion, the organs not only ascend in the head, but also in the
nature of their functions, till we come to the highest, which
take cognizance of our relation to the Deity, and a future
state, not excepting, perhaps, one which is appropriate to cal-
culating, or perceiving future contingencies!
4. Frontal Region.
Here w·e find those organs which are appropriated to sci-
ence, intelligence, and kno\vledge of men and things, and
which distinguish men from all other living animals. And,
not only so, but the size of some of these organs (others in
proportion) distinguish the intellectual powers of one mind
from another.
5. Occipital Region.
In this portion of the brain we find the balance of the fron..
tal region. A blow upon the lateral portion of the occiput,
has been known to restore the intellectual functions which a
previous blow upon the opposite region in the forehead had
destroyed. Here are those organs whose functions control the
Inuscles, and give the power of physical resistance.
The connection between the brain and stomach has already
been alluded to. The effects of a blow on the head, or from
S\vinging, or turning round, or the motions of the vessel at
sea, are well known. These arise in the stomach, from sym-
pathy \Vith the brain. And, in like manner, the brain is af-
fected by the state of the stomach, as in cases of indigestion,
poison, and intoxication.
The pathology of the heart is, in many cases, intimately
connected with the state of the brain. Hypertrophy of the
heart disposes to apoplexy.* Dr. Hudson, of NaYon, has pub-
lished a valuable paper, showing, most conclusively, that de-
lirium is connected with, or produced by, certain states of the
heart in fever. The excitement of some of the cerebral organs
increases the action of the heart, as for instance, fear or ex-
• An able paper on this subject may be seen in the Dublin ltfed.Jour.
lr[ay, 1840.
M*
138 PATHETISM.
cessi\'e joy. The same is true of the liver and lower inte3..
tines. I have known cases, where intense mental excitement
has produced action of the kidneys and defecation.
4. ExcrTEl\IENT oF TIIE SEPARATE CEREBRAL ORGANS BY
ExTER'NAL APPLICATIONS.
It was long since demonstrated by Professor lVIuller, that
some of the organ3 of external sense could be excited by gal-
vatusm. He says,
"The stimulus of galvanisn1 excites, in all the organs of
sense, different sensations in each or[[an, namely, the sensation
proper to it. In the eye, a feeble galvanic current excites the
special sensation of the optic nerve, namc~Iy, that of light. In
the auditory nerve, electricity protluces the sensation of sound.
I t has not, at present, been much observed, whether peculiar
smells are produced by the application ofgalvanism to the or-
gans of smell. Ritter, however, has perceived them; and it
is a known fact, that the electricity excited by friction, gives
rise to the smell of phosphorous."
This is, probably, ! he first account ever published of any
excitement of the cerebral functions, by direct extt:rnal appli-
cations to any part of the system.* Dr. ,V. Phillip declared,
many years since, that any substance, in its nature stimulat-
ing, applied to the brain about the origin of the nerves, excites
contraction of the muscles; and a substance, in its own nature
stimulating, excites the heart and capillaries when applied to
any part of the brain or spinal chord, if applied to a consider..
able portion of it.
And, considering how long these facts have been before the
world, and, also, what has been known for years, of the agen-
cy of pathetism, it is marvellous that the susceptibility of the
cerebral organs to this influence was not tested many years
ago.
Bichat describes a series of experiments which demonstrate,
as he thinks, that cerebral action does not directly interrupt
the organic functions. He says:-
"Acephalous fmtuscs, while in the uterus, possess an or-
• I quote from Walker's Patholrgy, p. 131. The extract from Mul-
ler first appeared, I believe, in 1834.
PHRENOPATHY. 139
ganic life altogethe:r as active as the nwst perfectly formed
fmtus; indeed, they sometimes discover, at birth, preternatu-
ral proportion of increase. This I have had an opportunity of
witnessing in two fmtuses of this description, that were
brought to my amphitheatre. Not only was the face better
developed, as is always the case, because the cerebral vascu-
lar systern being void, that of the face is ·proportionably in-
creased; but all the parts, those of generation particularly,
'vhich generally before birth are scarcely evolved, displayed a
correspondent plenitude of development. Nutrition, &c., aro
therefore as active in these as in ordinary cases, though tho
cerebral influence is actually wanting."*
The way is now prepared for some account of the origin of
those experiments upon the human brain, ·which have given
rise to the term Phrenopathy, and the principles by which it
is distinguished from Phrenology, Cranioscopy, and the former
known results of Pathetism.
lVIore than twenty years ago, my mind was interested on
seeing persons very strangely affected by religious excite-
ment, when they were said to "lose their strength," and
swoon away as in cases of catalepsy.
This phenomenon led me to suppose the existence of laws
which governed the nervous system, which had not been un~
derstood, and which afforded the only true foundation which
could be assigned for any thing real which had ever taken
place under the name of Mesmerism. Accordingly, I deter-
mined on an investigation of this subject, for the purpose of
sifting it to the bottom, and acertaining how far the nervous
system could be affected by pathetism.
In the New- York \Vatchman, for October 23, 1841, of
which I was then editor, I published the /i1·st account that
ever:appeared, as far as I know, of this process of operating
upon tiLe separate cerebral o1·gans. That account did not ap-
pear till more than two months after I made this discovery,
which occurred as it is there stated. I had been engaged in
collecting facts on various "lYIENTAL PHENmiEXA ;" and un~
• Bichat further shows, what I ha-re assumed in a preceding chaptert
that the ganglions do not transmit the cerebral action! (except, it may
be, sympathetically,) inasmuch as the nervous system b~long!ng to theso
bodies is perfectly independent of the cerebral nervous system.
1tO PATHETIS~.r.
der thi~ head, was then publishing a. series of articles, show-
ing the "influence of the mind over the nervous system."
And, while preparing those articles for the press, I commenc-
ed a course of experiments in Pathetism, for the purpose of
bringing out, in them, an account connected with the state of
somnipathy; and ·hence that account was not published until
it best fell with the other subjects under examination. The
first operation of the kind was on the 5th of August, 1841,
and my published account of its origin made in the paper as
above stated, and is as follows:
"If it has occurred to the reader, that there 1nigltt haYc
been some collusion in the matters detailed in our last, in re-
gard to what was done by the somnipathist, we ask him to
weigh, candidly, the following details, in some of which, it
will be seen, deception was scareely, if at all possible.
"As far as we know, the following phrenological tests
'vere the first of the }{ind ever tried, in this or any other
country; and as they did not originate with either of the par-
ties concerned, the reader will not suppose that it would re-
quire a very large development of marvellousness in us, to
believe that there was something extraordinary in these re-
sults. How far they may tend to demonstrate the truth of
pathetism or phrenology, in the mind of the reader, 'viii de-
pen(l altogether on his belief that there was, really, no decep-
tion in either of the persons concerned.
"I had noticed, as before stated, that the limbs of the pa4
tient could never be made to obey the will of the operator,
when the brain was not pathetised, and having tested this fact
a sufficient number of times to satisfy my~elf that I was not
deceived in this matter, it occu1·red to me, that particular por-
tions of the brain mi[fht be operatul upon in the same way. I
therefore, at the sitt(ng last mentioned [Aug. 5, 1841], re-
quested the operator, 'vhile the patient was asleep, and play-
ing at the piano, to reverse the passes 0ver those portions of
the brain appropriated by phrenologists to the organs of tune.
He did so, after I had designated the places to which I refer-
red. The passes were reversed a few times, simply with his
thumbs. She was now ordered to play; but she replied, that
'she could not think of the tune'.' She was repeatedly urged to
play, but uniformly made the same reply. Satisfied, as I was,
that there could not have been any collusion in this experi-
ment, the reader may easily imagine how deeply I was inter-
ested by it,-demonstrating, as it did, the truth of phrenology
in my own mind, beyond the shadow of doubt. The same
PHRE:-IOPATHY.
thing I have since done, and seen repeated, on different pa-
tients, and in various ways, and the results have always
been the same."
Though I have never atttached so much importance to this
discovery as some others seem to have done, yet I am thus
particular in stating the dates connrcted with the results of
my cerebral experiments, that, if any account of a similar
process of operating should have been previously published, I
may not seem to attempt a monopoly of what belongs to ano-
ther; as, since the above account \vas first published, it has
been said that others, in different places, had operated in a
similar manner; and, though, at the time, I had never heard
any thing of the kind, as no account of the process of operat-
ing had been published, previous to n1y own, yet I have no
doubt but the same thing may have been done perhaps, some
years before.
Dr. Cleaveland, of Providence, R. I., informs me, that, in
1837, he used thi3 sa1ne agency in exciting some of the men-
tal functions, though he did not apply it in the same way.
l'~or is it unreasonable to suppose that the same process of
operating may have suggested itself, about the same time, to
different persons, both in this country and England. Dr. Bu-
chanan, of Louisville, Ky., affirms, that he performed similar
experiments in the spring of 1841, by means of a "galvanic
fluid," on persons in the waking state. And in a work enti-
tled "Sketches of Buchanan's Discoveries," published by him-
self in 1842, professedly to gi\re an account of his discoveries,
he says:
"I determined to excite the different portions of the brain
by a galvanic or gal'l7anoid fluid, and calling tT1em separately
into action, to watch the resultant phenomena; or by excit-
ing them in myself, to enjoy at once a perfecl consciousness
of the nature of each faculty, and its organ. In tlzis attempt,
I have met with even a n10re glorious success than I had ev-
er anticipated."
And then he adds in a note, page 10-
" I say NOTHING of my mode of operation at present, as that
will be displayed hereafter, publicly." ·
PATIIETISl\f.
From this, it appears that Dr. B. himself, in presenting the
reports of his numerous experiments, tells us that he had not,
and wour.n NOT, then, reveal his met!tod of operating, or ap-
plying ·what he calls the "galvanoid fluid." And those who
have read his book, know that he does not disclose his method
of operating; nor, indeed, has he published any account of it,
that I know of, to this day. And I frankly confess, that I
never could form a satisfactory idea as to what his pe~uliar
tnethod was,* till I heard his lectures in this city, in Novem-
ber, 1842. The truth is, we were deceived by his professing
to have discovered "a new agency," which he claimed to
have "added to our therapeutic list," (page 21); and his
·disclaiming, so explicitly, all dependence upon what had been
called mesmerism. See his book, pages 55-62.
The origin of these experiments in England, is fully descri-
bed by Dr. Engledue, in the report of his address before the
London Phrenological Society, published in the Edinburgh
Phrenological Journal for October, l 842. It is there stated,
that they were first performed by a Mr. lVfansfield, December
18, 1841.
The manner in which this process of operating seems to
have been discovered by different persons, must be considered
in the light of a coincidence, and which must go very far to-
wards demonstrating the reality of that agency by which
these results have been induced.
The discovery of what I called the ''sympathetic points,"
or the susceptibility of the mental organs to the influence of
pathetism, when the hand or fingers are applied, not to tbe
head, but to any portions of the face, neck, trunk, limbs, fin-
gers, &c., was made on the 5th of January, 1842, and pub-
lished in the \Vatchman on the 29th of the same month. On
the 12th of February, 1842, I also published in the same pa-
' • Nor will the reader attribute this to our dulness of apprehension,
we think, if he has ever read the Doctor's book. And the editors of the
Edin9urgh Phrenological Journal, it seems, were equally dull; for in
that work for October, 1842, they speak of having received an account
of Dr. B.'s discoveries, from himself, (the same, probably, published in
his book, page SO,) hut which, they say, did not make it appear what
his method of operating was, otherwise thau his disclaimi11g mesmerism.
PHREXOPATHY'. 143
per, an account of what I denominated the sympathetic con·
ductors of the human system, whose functions I supposed to
differ from those of the nerves, both of motion and sensation.
And about the same time, I arrived at the conclusions stated
in the following- theory, in relation to the laws which balance
the organs into "positi·ue and negative," thus making one
opposed to the function of another; but no distinct a~count of
this fact \Vas published, till that which appeared in the
\Vatchman of l\Iarch 26, 1842.
Besides the principles generally invohed in my theory of
Pathetism, I consider the following as having been sufficiently
demonstrated, and settled, so far as this agency is concerned,
in proceeding from, or influencing in any way, the different.
faculties of the human mind.
5. THEORY OF PHRENOPATH¥.
r.
That the Cerebral system is appropriated to those functions:
which constitute Instinct, Intelligence, and Reason.
n.
That the Intellectual powers depend upon the size, creteris
paribus, and proportional developments of the different cere-
bral organs.
III.
That these organs are susceptible to the control of Pathe-
tism, by which their action may Le separately suppressed or
excited, at the will of the operator, by manipulation merelr.
n·.
The degree of their susceptibility depends on the develop..
ments and the state of the sympathetic system; and the con-
trariety between the temperament of the operator and the
subject.
,..
That the mental functions may be separately controlled, by
applying the fingers, or other appropriate agencies, directly
I'ATIIETISl\I.
over the organs in the hcau, or to different sympathetic points
in the face, ueck, limbs, &c. of the entire system.
VI.
That the cerebral organs exist in pairs, and corresponding
groups in each hemisphere of the brain, and their functions
arc balanced in opposition to each other.
VII.
That this principle of antagonism is not only common to all
the cerebral organs, but it extends to the functions of organie
life, and by it all changes in volition and motion are made.
\III.
That the cerebral organs hold such relations to different
parts of the entire system, that they reciprocally affect each
other.
IX.
That this connection .is kept up between the mental organs
and the muscles and nerves of the face, and thus is laid the
foundation for all that may be known of physiognomy.
x.
That the different mental and animal functions are control-
led by sympathetic and antipathetic laws, which may extend
their influences frmn one organ or from one person to another,
by the nerves appropriated to these influences.
XI.
That these laws do, sometimes, give perceptions, without
the use of the external senses.
XII.
That where the sympathetic system is sufficiently deve-
loped, any impression may be made upon it by pathetism,
which comes within the range of human conception.
Having, in a preceding chapter, given some of the reasons
which incline me against the prevalent notions with regard to
the agency of a magnetic or nervous fluid, supposed to be
PHRENOPATHY. 145
communicated from the hand of the operator, and received
into the ce'rebral system of the patient, it may here be suffi-
cient merely to add a few words, in confirmation of the fore-
going theory.
1. Each of the cerebral organs may be excited, as we know,
through the external sen~es; hut, excitements produced in
this way do not differ from those produced by pathetism, and
hence I infer, that the immediate agency is the same. If
there is no fluid communicated or received into the nervous
system of the patient, when his Caution is excited by a mere
sound, how does it appear to be by a fluid, when I excite that
organ by merely placing my finger upon it?
2. The cerebral organs reciprocally affect each other, in the
same person. Combativeness excites Destructiveness. Com-
passion excites Benevolence. But, is this done by a fluid ?
The sight often excites Combativeness: if this be done by a
fluid, bow comes it to pass, that this fluid, in passing from
the optic nerve, or the organ of sight, to Combativeness, does
not excite the numerous intermediate organs? \Vho can
tell?
3. \Ve have seen, that one must be the subject, and ano-
ther the agent or operator. But the agent may excite the or-
gans of the subject, either by touching him in any given point,
or the subject may touch the agent, and the effects are the
same. Now, when the subject touches, for instance, the organ
of Benevolence in the head of the operator, and feels his own
Benevolence excited, by what law is the influence directed to
that organ, rather than any other? I humbly conceive, that
the only rational answer that can be given here, is to be found
in the foregoing theory. For, even if it should be admitted
that a fluid is actually received by the patient from the ope-
rator, without the laws of pathetism we could not tell why it
should excite one organ any- more than another. Ifit should
be said, that the fluid passes from the cerebral organs of the
operator into the same organs in the brain of the subject, be-
cause organs affect their like, I answer, this is by no means
clear. For we have seen above, that one organ in the same
head excites others whose functions are entirely different.
N
146 PATllETISM.
4. It not unfrequently happens, that when a swbject is un~
der the operation of one person, his organs cannot be affected
at all by any one else. But why not, if the brain actually
receives a fluid from the hand of the operator~
7. 1\'IENTAL ORGANS.
In concluding this chapter, it may be desirable that I should
give some account of the bearings which this agency would
seem to have in determining the number and location, as well
as the functions, of the mental organs. From what has been
already stated, it will be seen, that we cannot with safety de-
part entirely frmn the Gallian method of determining these
questions. True, Pathetism affords new and extraordinary
facilities for bringing out the mental functions, both in the
sleeping and waking state; but it cannot, for the reasons al-
ready stated, be depended upon for fixing the precise location
of organs, to the entire exclusion of the old method. Nor are
the difficulties obviated, by operating on persons in the wak-
ing state. \Ve have seen, that in many cases it makes a de-
cided difference, when the operator or patient knows, or
anticipates beforehand, what the results should be. The bes~
way, therefore, is for thetn both to be ignorant of Phrenology,
and no questions should by any means be asked, or any thing
said or done, which could give the subject any idea of there-
sults which should follow any experiment in phrenopathy.
Operators should always be aware, that patients are very
apt to antzcipate the results and thus train themselves into
certain habits and susceptibilities peculia1· to each case. For
instance the operator makes a pass, or places his hand on the
head of the patient, with the design of controlling the arm,
and he says to his patient, 'Raise your arm.' Now this di·
rection gives, at once, the app1·ehens£on of the effect designed
to be produced; and the patient, it may be, makes the effort,
and finds it impossible to raise his hand. So, in exciting or-
gans. The fingers are placed on any given portion of the
head; and if he says he feels a certain emotion, he may be
easily led to associate that feeling with that place in his head;
but whether it be the appropriate place or not, must be deter-
mined by other things. I have seen heads both awake and
asleep, turned 'topsy-turvy' in this way.
PHRENOPATHY. l.t7
Nor are the accounts which patients give of themselves
to be depended on, alone; for though they may be remarka·
bly correct, in some respects, they do not prove to be so in all.
The inference 'vould at first thought seem to be well founded,
that when you excite any emotion, by placing your fingers
over a particular place in the head, that the corresponding or·
gan must certainly be in that place. But this does not follow.
You place your fingers on two points in the face, and excite
the lungs; but the lungs are not beneath the surface touched
in this case. And even if you should affect the mental organ,
directly under your finger, the laws of sympathy might cause
t..l}e results to appear from some other portion of the system.
It should be remembered, that all these excitements, from ex-
trinsic agencies, are more or less morbid; and, from the na-
ture of the case, it must be exceedingly difficult to distinguish
between these and the normal functions, or to tel], in each
case, precisely how rnuch is to be allowed for sympathy with
other excitements in the system, of which we know nothing
at all. Indeed, it should he known, that the phrenological
organs, in son1e subjects, may be excited by touching any
parts of the body. I have excited them in some patients, by
touching the different teeth, in others by touching the different
fingers~ and the joints, as the knees, elbows~ &c., and even
the toes of the feet; nor is this any more unaccountable than
that mirth, for instance, should be excited, by tickling under
the arms or any other parts of the hody.
The precise number ofmental faculties it will probably be
impossible to ascertain, as must appear, if we consider how
difficult it must be, to distinguish between simple and com-
pound functions, or the action of one anc! the combined func·
tions of two or more organs.
The only way, therefore, for rendering this agency available
in fixing the location of the organs, is the following:
1. Become familiar with the laws of sympathy and antipa..
thy; and what the exciting or disturbing causes are, which
may, in any case, interfere with their influences.
2. By comparing the results of different operators.,
3. By induction and observation..
148 PATIIETISl\1:.
Proceeding in this way, I have set down the following ad..
ditions to the discoveries of Gall, Rpurzheim, Vimont, and
others. True, I could have increased the number, ad infini-
tum; but cannot persuade myself, that if I were to put clown
all the manifestations which I have brought out from time to
time, that it would be of any specia! service to science; as it
is by no means perfectly evident, that all these manifestations
are from the normal functions of so many distinct cerebral or-
gans. For instance: is there a distinct organ for thinking?
Are there distinct organs for gaping, squinting, pouting, for
opening and clenching the hand, pointing the finger, turning
the head, nodding, whistling, deglutition, vomiting, shaking
the hand, looking up, opening the mouth, &c. &c. It has
been affirmed, I am aware, that "every fibre of tlte brain"
is a distinct organ, for some mental or physical manifestation,
and that every actual, possible, or imaginable emotion, per-
ception, apprehension, conception, or motion, mental or me-
chanical, is performed by a distinct cerebral organ. If so,
there must be an organ for every letter in every alphabet; an
organ for every word in every language; an organ for all
•
kintls of food and drink; and, in a word, an organ for every
science and every action which comes within the power of
man ! \Vho can believe this 1
But it 'vould seem, that this notion of the 'infinitude (so to
speak) of the cerebral organs, has arisen from a want of at·
tention to the nature of the mental functions. \Ve find, for
instance, an organ of Causality, or two if you please-one for
physical or mechanical cause-s, and the other for metaphysical
subjects; both together embracing, of course, all the causes of
all things. Now it 'vould be just as reasonable to assume the
necessity of an organ of Causality, for every individual effect
that has ever taken place, as it is to have one for every possi-
ble action or emotion. The truth is, no one can tell, precisely,
what emotions or conceptions come out as the results of one
simple function. \Ve cannot tell, in many cases, how many
organs sympathise with each other. And while I know that
the same results may be produced frmn different subjects, by
applying this agency to different parts of the system7 I do not
PHRENOPATHY. 149
see what is to be gained by putting down every manifestation
as the function of a distinct organ. It seems to me, therefore,
that the better way is, not to give up entirely the old method
for determining the number and location of the cerebral or-
gans. The chief assistance I have,,derived from this agency,
has been in the development of their functions. Their loca-
tion and precise number, must be left for time and observation
to determine.
In the following list (first published in the l\1agnet for Oc-
tober, 1842), I omit the results I have noticed since that time,
and also the old organs belonging to the system of Gall and
Spurzheim. All I have found do not, materially, deviate from
the locations marked by those distinguished men: they would
seem, rather, to confirm them. The antagonist organs are
also omitted in this enumeration, except in a few instancesa
They will readily he understood in each case, without a dis-
tinct specification.
1. Dread of Death. Fear of dying, unwillingness to pass
through the struggle of death, in distinction from Vitality.
2. Thirst. In the group of Alimentativeness.
3. Smell. In the same group.
4. Taste. The power of distinguishing flavors, as distinct
from Alimentativeness. Connected with Alimentativeness.
5. Acquativeness. Disposition for water, as in bathing and
s·wimming. Its antagonist function would seem to be Hydro-
phobia~· nor is it improbable that there is such a negative or-
gan, inasmuch as this disease does ~eem to have occurred
spontaneously.* That the brain is susceptible of such an ex·
citement, is certain.
6. Desire for Jl.foney. In distinction from Acquisitiveness.
7. Grief. A disposition to grieve, to sadness, melanch()ly,
gloom, despondency, and despair. It is the opposite of Joy.
8. Anger. Indignation, the feeling of anger, with or with-
out cause; and leading to opposition, resistance. In the
group of Destructiveness.
9. Raveno1lsness. When excited, it gives an appetite for
* See Mcd. Chir. Review, Jan. 1841, p. 231.
N~
150 r ATIIETISl\f..
gormandising snakes or reptiles of any kind. In the group
with Alimen tativencss.
10. Desire for lloarding up Treasures. 'Vhen excited
produces Covetousness, as distinguished from Acquisitiveness,
or the mere desire to procure, acquire. In the group with
Acquisitiveness.
11. Physical Fear. Fear of pain, physical suffering. In
the group with Caution.
12. Discontent. 'Vhen excited makes one discontented
with his condition, giving a desire for a change. In the fa-
mily of Combativeness.
13. Inquisitiveness. A desire to pry into, to find out, what
concerns the affairs of others.
14. Desire (01· Precious Things. l\Takes one fond of dia-
monds, jewels, &c.
15. Love of Stimulants. Gives an appetite for intoxicating
drinks and hot substances, such as vinegar, pepper, &c.
16. Desire for Protection. Giving a sense of dependence,
helplessness. Opposed to a sense of independence and safety.
17. Praise. Disposed to praise and flattery. lVI:akes one
delight in speaking well of those around him.
18. Censure. Disposed to find fault, to censure, criminate.
19. Decept£on. Gives the power of deceiving by falsehood.
20. Disguise. Gives the power of acting the hypocrite.
21. Boasting. Disposition for speaking in one's own praise.
22. Aversinn. The feeling which says, "Go away, let me
alone, do not trouble me, I do not like your company."
23. Rdribution. Disposition for punishing one who has
wronged or offended us. 'Vhen excited, it purposes sly mur-
der.
24. Covetousness. Tenacity in keeping money when it is
once possessed. Acquisitiveness procures it.
25. Cont-radiction. Disposed to contradict, to cavil.
26. lYatchfulncss. Constant solicitude, anticipation of
time and events.
27. Jealousy. Unwillingness to have any one else liked so
well as self.
28. Suspicion. Inclined to imagine evil without any rea-
son.
l'HRENOPATHY. 151
29. Sarcasm. Disposed to scornful, cutting expressions.
30. Hatred. The opposite of love, disposing, not merely to
dislike, but to a feeling of malignant opposition.
31. Courage. "\Vithout fear, reckless.
32. Parental Love. Love of parents.
33. Love of Pets. Giving fondness for little animals, dolls,
&c.
34. Love of Gzfts. A love for things because they are
gifts, keepsakes.
35. Love of Enemies. Gives a feeling ofpleasure in forgiv·
ing injuries.
36. Love of Country. Patriotism, opposed to treason.
37. The vVill. Giving a feeling of personal identity, and
the power of self-determination. \Vilfulness.
38. S elf-Confidence. As distinguished from self-esteem.-
Gives confidence in one's own talents, ability to accomplish.
39. Dignity. Giving a sense of propriety of conduct, re·
moved from meanness, or servility.
40. Ambition. Giving a disposition for excelling in occupa-
tion, profession, talents, or character.
41. Desire of Display. Dispo~ition to make one's self
known, and to show off to advantage.
42. Dread of Ridicule. I once examined the head of an
unmarried female, who had been tried for infanticide, in whom
this organ was unusually large. She acknowledged to me,
that she would rather die than be exposed to ridicule.
43. Vanity. As distinct from Love of Approbation. Giv-
ing an orerweening conceit ofone's self. \Vhen excited, the
words are minced, and the head kinked back, in characteristic
style.
44. l'rfodesty. Giving a £hamefaced, shrinking feeling, ac·
companied with blushing, and which leads one to hide or co-
ver the face.
45. Concentration-Recent. The power of confining the
attention to recent events or subjects.
46. Concentration-Ancient. Power of confining the at·
tention to past events.
Concentration was first discovered by Spurzheim or Vimont,
PATHETISM.
but I put it down here, as I do a few others, because I sup-
pose them to be double, as they seem to be from the results
of my experiments.
47. Perseverance. Pcrsistance against opposing influences.
In the family of Firmness.
48. Endurance. Power of enduring.
49. Responsibility. Sense of obligation, responsibility.
50. Indust1·y. Giving a disposition to industry, application
to labor. Opposed to laziness.
51. Comprehension. Power of viewing things in masses,
in their relations to one another.
52. Calculation. The power of calculating figures, as dis-
tinct from the organ of number.
53. System. Method, giving the disposition to be regular,
doing things systematically and at the time.
54. Conservativeness. As opposed to Destructh•eness.
55. Harmony. The power of combining and judging of the
harmony of sounds, as distinct from Tune or simple melody.
56. Things. As distinct from individuals, or Individuality.
57. Names. There would seem to be a number of organs
appropriate to language: one for words, one for ideas, and
another for names.
58. Light and Shade. The power of distinguishing be-
tween them.
59. Recent Events. The recollection of recent events.
60. Ancient Eventuality. The power of calling up re-
rniniscences.
61. Comparison of Ideas. There are two organs appropri-
ated to Comparison, one takes cognizance of things, the other
of ideas.
62. P1·evision. The power of perceiving and calculating
future contingencies.
63. Generalization. The power of extending the mind
from particulars to generals.
64. Analysis. The power of analyzing, taking to pieces,
viewing things in detail.
65. Remote Causality. As distinguished from Recent Cau-
sality. One enquires for the immediate, and the other for the
ji1·st cause.
PHRENOFATHY. 153
66. Sense of Direction. As distinct from Locality, or a
mere recollection of places. This gives a recollection of the
points of the Compass, and the relative position of one place
to another.
67. Desi1·e for Seeing New Places. Giving a disposition
to travel.
68. Desire fo1· Seeing Ancient Places.
69. Sublimity and Ideality. In the portions of the brain
where these organs have been marked, there seems to be a
large number, such, for instance, as give a taste for seeing
A1·clu"tectu1·e, HTaterfalls, Statum·y, Volcanoes, Cave1·ns, tile
Heavens, the Earth, Animals, Birds, Insects, Storms, Battles,
the Ocean, F1·uits, Flowe1·s, Jl[eteors, Landscapes, Pyramids,
g·c.
70. Antir;uities. Desire for knowledge of antiquities.
71. Sense of Perfection. Admiration of symmetry, com·
pleteness.
72. The Beautiful. Giving a sense of the fitness of proper·
ties and things.
73. Contentment. As opposed to discontent.
74. Cheerfulness. Di£posing to animation, good spirits.
75. Joy. Disposing to joy, in opposition to sadness.
76. Playfulness. Disposing to play, to fun, buffoonery.
77. Curiosity. Giving a desire to pry into things and af-
fairs which are not immediately made known.
78. Fiction. The power of creating ideal events.
79. Confidence. Disposed to trust, without fear.
80. vYit. The power of associating ideas in a new and
unexpected manner; as distinct from llfirth, or the disposi·
tion to laugh.
81. Worship. Gives a disposition to adore, to worship ;
appropriate to the Deity; Veneration is applied to men.
82. Obedience. Disposed to yield obedience to superior au·
thority.
83. Gratitude.
84. Pity. Compassion. This gives the feeling of com-
miseration. Benevolence bestows the gift. Many persons
have large Pity, but small Benevolence.
rATIIETISl\(.
85. Faith. Au organ appropriate to the exercise of faith ,
in the Deity, and a future state, as distinct from l\iarvellous-
ness.
86. Spirituality. Giving the power to distinguish between
spiritual, and material things.
87. Fear of God. As distinct from mere caution, or the
fear of borlily pain.
\Ve have seen how the action of the organs may be in-
creased, in certain persons, either awake or asleep; but that
the excitement, when it is extraneous, or when it is out of
proportion with the state of the other organs, or with the nat-
ural and healthy state of the brain, is morbid, cannot admit
of a doubt. Probably no one will feel disposed to deny, that
an unnatural or extraneous excitement, of any one or more of
the mental organs, is morbid. I say unnatural, because, some-
times, an organ may need exciting to its natural tone, or de-
gree of activity; in such cases, the action may be perfectly
healthy, though, indeed, not caused by any inherent stimulus.
But I refer, now, to those excitements of the mental organs
which produce the remarkable results which have so much
astonished all who have witnessed them; those excitements
which exceed the nature of the person in whom they are pro-
duced.
'Ve know what results follow Monomania. A man ofgood
education, and intelligent, called on me, and gave the follow-
ing account: "I see," said he, "constantly above me a man
walking upon the clouds!" But where is he, I inquired 1
"0," said he, ''there! there! tltere!! he is, see, see him!
See! he has a cloud wound around his hat." And I could
tnake nothing so real to the perception of that 1\ionomaniac,
as the sight of that man walking upon the clouds.
Another, suffering from an over excitement of Marvellous-
ness and Veneration, told me he sa'v the de·ril, and he even
showed me the spot where he had had a fight with his satan-
ic rnajesty; and pointed to the ground, torn up and scattered
in various directions, as evidence indisputable, of what he
stated. Now in these cases, the perceptions of these Mono-
maniacs were as real, and probably of the same character, as
PHRENOPATHY. 155
those produced by Pathetism. A short time since I excited
the Ideality of a very intelligent Ially, and she immediately
saw and described a very singularly looking man, dancin£:.
At another time she saw various odd looking animals and
persons, all of them, undoubtedly, the creations of this exci-
ted organ. Indeed volumes might be filled with accounts of
a similar character, describing visits to the sun, moon, and
stars; and of which we may make just as much, as of the
man seen walking upon the clouds.
I have stated that the action of the separate organs may be
either suppressed or excited, both in a state of somnipathy
and when the patient is awake, and I will now bring this
chapter to a close by giving a few specimens of the results of
these different effects.
Soon after discovering this susceptibility of the cerebral or-
gans, a meeting was called at my instance by the proprietor
of the New York 1.\Iuseum, of a number of scientific gentle-
men, for the purpose of testing, in all suitable ways, the real-
ity of this agency in controlling the cerebral organs. The
first meeting was held at the lVIuseum, September 8, 1841.
The experiments were conducted under the inspection and di-
rection of a committee, and the results were written down at
the time by one of the Committee, and published in the New
York \Vatchman for November 6, 1841.
The patient had been rerfectly blind, from the time she
was six weeks old, her eye sight having been destroyeJ by
accident. It was believed by those who knew this lady, that
she had no knowledge of Phrenology. Before suppressing or
exciting either of the organs, it will be noticed, the questions
were proposed to her to ascertC~.in what their action was in
the normal state, and, to see how it would correspond with
the effects produced upon them by pathetism. On being put
to sleep, the experiments proceeded as follows:-
Q. "Do you know me, l\lary ~"
A. "Yes, it is l\Ir. Sunderland."
Q. "l want to talk with you on the subject of religion. Do
_{OU love the Savior?"
A. "Yes, I love the Savior.''
156 PATHETISn!.
Q. "\Vhat are your views on the subject of religion ?"
A. "0, I think a grcat deal of it."
Q. "I-Iave you faith in God? "
A. "Yes."
Q. "\Vho baptized you and admitted you in to the church?"
A. "Dr. Eastburn."
Q. "\Vhat do you think of Dr. Eastburn 1"
A. "0, I think he if' a very good man,-I like him very
much."
Q. "\Vhere do you think you will go 'vhen you die 1"
A. "To heaven, I hope."
The organs involved in these questions, it 'vill be seen,
were Veneration, lVorship, Lore, Faith, Hope, and Adhesive·
ness. The action of these organs was now arrested, by mere-
ly reversing the passes over them. JVIy questions and her an-
swers were then as follows:-
Q. "Do you love the Savior any, 1\Iary ?"
A. "No, I don't know as I do."
Q. "Have you any regard for religion?"
A. "No, I don't cm·e much about it."
Q. "\Vhere do you think your soul will go when you die?"
A. "0, I don't know much about that."
Q. "\Vhat do you think of Dr. Eastburn?"
A. "I don't tltink ltc is any better than other folks."
Q. "Have you any desire to go to heaven?"
A. "I don't care any thing about it."
These organs were excited and brought back to their pre-
vious state, and the action of Acquisitireness was next arrest·
ed in the same way.
Q. "\Vould you like to have me make you a present ofmy
w atch?"
A. "I don't care much about it."
Q. "Do you care much about those rings on your fingers?"
A. "No, only for the sake of those who gave them to me.''
Q. "Suppose some one were to take all your money and
clothes from you?"
A. "\Veil, they might keep them."
These organs were then excited.:-
PRRENOPATHY. 157
Q. "What would you think if a person should take all
your clothes and money from you?"
A. "I 5hould think they \Vere very cruel to take them from
me, 'for I cannot get money so well as other folks.,,
Q. "Are you fond of property?"
A. "0, yes, if I could cnly have enough of it."
IIer action of\Vit was next arrested.
She \V2.S then asked numerou~ questions calculated to ex..
cite laughter, but \·.rithout effect. The operator now restored
those portions of the brain, by his will, 1nerely, and by the
feeling which he showed (by sig:J.s) in himself, she was thrown
into a violent fit of laughter. Ana when oue of the questions,
which had just been put to her without effect before, 'vas
now proposed to he:::-, she was co~vulsed with laughter, and
said she \Vas part:icularly fond of fun.
One of the spectators having ~uggested that the last exper-
iments were not satisfactory, inasmnch as the questions, in
some cases, would give her (admitting she was not asleep)
an idea of the obJect we h:::.d b view, Dr. Channing \Vrote
down the following questions. Adhcsiveness1 it is said, forms
attachments to friends. It will be seen, tha~ some of the
questions do not relate, at all, to this faculty. This 'vas de·
signed to deceive her, in case she was not really asleep:-
Q. " Do you }o,·e 1noney ?"
A. " Ycs, very w eil."
Q. "Are you fond of yow· friends?"
A. " Yes, sir."
Q. "Do you lmre dress?"
A. "Yes, sir, more than I wish I djd.,
Q. " Do you love your relation& better than any body
else?"
A. "I don't know; but I find friends who are not my
relations."
Q. "Do you admire beautiful things?"
A. "Yes, sir, anything I c~n get at, or hear, such as Poet·
ry, &c."
Q. "Do you love to be with your friend~?"
A. " Yes, ~ir."
0
158 PATHET!SM.
Q. "\Vh~n they nrc <'.bsent do you love to call them to
mind?,
A. "Ye~, I do."
The oprratcr POW rc,rer~ed the passes over Adhesiveness,
·when the qur~dons :.:nJ :1rt3\,~ers \Vere as fullo-;vs :-
Q. "D.:> yc•u love dr..::;s ?"
A. "0, yes, bct:l'r tha11 I ought to."
Q. "Do you lore your rclaiions bcltcr t.~an you do oth·
crs ?"
"I don't knoz~·."
A.
Q.
A.
Q.
A.
"De• you atlmire be~utiful thbgs ?"
"Yc~, such as 1 c:::n g•~t ut-I can't see."
"Do you. lot•e to be wiih yom· friends?"
'
The ans,vers were p•~ci~ely as before, in every particular
e:-:cept iu relation to th~ org2..ns whose functions had been ar..
r esttd:
It was now (s£crctly) propoF:ed to examine tl1e effects on
th e organ of Piu"!opTo.g·e?tzlzt'tJncss. 'l:'he qne:3tions were
'vritten, a1hl interm ix2d with others, in suc!1 a way, as to
preclude the rossibil:tr of deception on her l):!rt, as will be
seen. 'I'i,cy w·ac 11umk~rt.d forth'; pHipo~e ofcomparing her
answers, bn~h before mvl after the orgar. had been arrested.
A l~d al_"'ont tweJvc y~2rs old, was put in '3ommunication
with her, an::I a3kec.1 the qucslions; and her answers were
taken do·\,·rJ iu. her C'"".vn Yvor:is :-
1. Q. "I-Iow old :ue you ?"
A. " T \V··ei1 ty-six.''
2. Q. Do yot~ like mu2ic ?"
A. "Very mGch ?"
3. Q. "Do you love ebildre~ ?"
A. "Yes, d"'ady." (this \Vas said wi th great emphasis.)
4. Q. " \Vhirh ilo you love best, very little cllildren, or
those half grown?"
A. "I love ]it!lc !nfants bast."
5. Q. " Do yen choo~e yol..!r fi·iend!1 among the young?''
A. " No, not of course."
6. Q. " How do you like to hold little squalling baLies 1"
l>HRENOPATHY. 159
A. "I like to hold them to get them quiet, but do not like
to hear then1 cry."
· 7. Q. ":Do you prefer the music of the piano to the music
of babies 1"
A. "0, yes, I like the n1usic of the piano, but don't like to
hear the cry of babies."
The operator ncvl reversed the passes over Philoprogeni-
tiveness, and her answers to each of the questions were as
before, except the following, which were given to those cor-
responding to these nun1bers :-
3. ".LVo, I don't like them."
4. "I don't like little infants."
6. "I don't like to lzo!d them."
From which it 'vill be seen that her answers to those ques-
tions which involved Philoprogenitiveness, were directly the
reverse, after the functions of that organ had been suspenced,
as it seemed to be by the reverse passes.
The following example will sheu how the mind of the pa·
tient is affected under these excitements, as in this case no
questions were asked, by 'vhich any suggestion could have
been given of the anticipated effects; and besides, these re-
sults were produced upon 2. person Y:ho was blind, and with·
out even touching the head; so that it was utterly- impossible
for her to have any idea fL"om contact or by ~ny other sign,
'vhat organs were pointeJ at; for these exp;essions were
made by her, on my merely holding one of my fingers within
an inch or so of the different organs, marked below:-
Indi·vidualiiy.- " 0, I'm thinking of all .the individuals I
ever knew. 0, I have known more persons than ever you
did."
Size.-[Holding up her hands,] "This is ~o big-this is so
smali," &c.
Color.-'' 0, I want a beautiful pink shawl. 0, those
beautiful colors."
Et·entuality-Ancient.-" I remember-0, I remember ev-
ery thing that ever took place in my life."
_iV!tmbel·.-[Holding up her fingers she commenced count..
ing,] "One~ two, three, four," l'{c.
160 PATHETISl\l.
Calculation.-This excited, she commenced enumerating-
" Ten times ten are one hundred," &c.
Tunc.-She commenced singing, aad never did I hear sing-
ing in which there was so much real 1nusical expression, as
I have ofteu witnessec.l from persons in whmn these organs
had been excited.
Comparison.-" These hands are both alike. 0, I'll tell
you whom you are like," &c.
Causality.-[The head bent forward.] " H7zy is it that
this subject is so much misunderstood? 0, I can tell you, 'tis
because you do not understand it." And variou5 other ex-
pressions in 'vhich "'lt.'hy" anu " because" were used.
Supplication.-" 0, you must pray, I cannot-! want to
pray, but I cannot."
Self Esteem.-[Lifting the heau up, and bringing it up in
a haughty position.] "I am the greatest person living.
I a1n better than any of you. Yes, indeed I am.'' \Ve never
heard the emphasis put upon the pronoun '']" so to the very
life, as when this organ is excited by pathetism.
Wilfulness.-" I will have my way-0, I don't want to be
crossed by any of you-I will have it," &c.
· Ph!;sical Fear.-" 0, I am afraid, I shdl fall-help me,-
see there, I am afraid -- will come a!:ld kill me."
!tforal Fem·.-" 0, I am afraid to pray to God! He is an·
gry with 1ne," &c.
Gratitude.-" 0, I a1n so thankful-you have been so kind
to me-0, I <!o feel grateful.,,
Conscientiousness and .Aequisitiveness.-" 0, I want some
money-is it right to love 1noncy 1 0, no, I know it is not
right-but what shrJl I do 1"
Veneration and Combat£veness.-[The heod was imme·
diately thrown back, then forward, the h3nds clasped, as in
prayer, and then jerked apart again.J " 0, I want to pray
-but I am mad with you all-0, I feel so mad, and yet I
want to worship."
Iiop~, Joy, Veneration and .Faith.-[The head was slightly
bent forward, and the hauds cla3ped as in devotion.] "0, I
PHRENOPATHY. 161
am so happy! I do hope to be saved-yes, I believe in Jesus
Christ. 0, I am l:lcrfectly happy-0, I am in heaven/' &c.
Imitation and llfi·rthfulness.-She immediately comrnenced
mimicking differeat persons, \vith an immoderate fit oflaugh·
ter.
And so of the other organs. In each case, it n1ust be borne
in 1nind, that the excitement '\vas removed from one organ
before it was extended to another.
CHAPTER X .
SLEEP A::-m DI!.EA:.liNG.
It is curious enough to thjnk, how 1ittle ·we know of the
true nature of natural sleep, when about one-thi1d of our en-
tire existence is spe:tt in this state. '\V'e c~mnot, of course,
acquire a knowledge ofits cu.use aml laws, v~·hile in this state,
and hence we m:1st stand off' at a respectful di3tance from its
reach, in order to ascertain any thing s:1tisfactory ·with regard
to its nature, ·when contrasted with the waking st~te. The
first thought that occu!"s, on considering sleep, is, the rela-
tion which it holds to wakefulness, in :perfect correspondence
'vith the law of contrariety to which I have before so fre-
quently referred, and whid1 so beautifully alternates all the
states both of the mind and bod~r. Joy-Sadness J. Lot·e-A.-
version; Resistance-Submission; Patience-Discontent;
Confidence-Suspicion J. Intelleaual-Animal; lVa.hfulness
-Sleep; Life-Death. Sleep, therefore, is the negative of
the Yvaking state. But, as it docs not come within my plan .
to enter minutely into an examination ofthe anatomy of sleep,
my remarks will be confined to a few of its distinguishing
features, that we may the more easily see how, or in what
respects, it 'vould seem to agree with the states distinguished
by the terms Smnniun1 or Son1nipathy.
It has been said, that to dream is to sleep. But this need~
son1e qualification, inasmuch as by Pathetism we can often
cause persons to dream who are not asleep, and I have often
made patients dream of any given subject, after falling into a
state of common sleep, by giving them certain impressions or
directions while in a state of somnipathy. And others I have
prevented fro1n dreaming in tho satne way.
SLEEP A~D DREA~IiKG. 163
1. Tlte V/"ill.
In uronortion to the derrree of soundness of the sleep, is the
• 4 ~
control c{ the ·will over the muscles and mental f.-=tcalties sus-
pended. Nor is it in the power of the will, fiilally, to resist
sleep. It n1ay be deferred toi.· a v-.rhile, but, sooner or later,
the v>ill yield::, and ::leep o.ssumes control over the entire sys-
tem, so th.lt every muscle, nerve, tissue, and portion of the
bod,-1 is made to feel its influence.
S~mnipa.thy is never induced, at first, 3gainst the will of
the subject. And even when it h?.s once been bro~ght on, it
does net appear that the ·will of the patient is whotly destroy·
ed or suspended. Persons in this state have the power of self·
dctermiuation, thoagh not of self-control, and usually exert it
more or less accordmg to their own views and wishes.
2. The External Senses.
Sometimes tbe external sen~es are stolen away in a moe
ment, but·more •Jrdinariiy they cease their functions slowly
... and by degrees. But when ti1e sleep is perfect, the senses 3re
as really annihilated as though the body 'vere dead. 'Ihe
sense of f~;eling, seeing, tasting, smelling, hearing, and the
power of locomotion, are gone1 ana exist no more until ·wake·
fulne3s summon t~e various cerebral functions again to ac·
tion. Hence ~rc find the mind, when passing from wakeful·
ness to sleep, and from sleep to wakefulness, is in a state of
delirium. Things appear ccnfused; and it is easily misled in
its conceptions. The thoughts waader because the will no
longer c·ontrols tGem, until the power of thought is fully sus·
pended, aud the mental functions are completely reduced to a
negative condition.
In a state of somnipathy, generally, the senses do not seem
to be anr~ih1lated, but rather transferred, as we have seen.
And in these peculiar states they are sometimes heightened
and increased in their intensity, as it were, a hundred fold.
3. Dreaming.
\ Vhen one or rnore of the mental orga;1s are active during
sleep, it is called dreaming. But this ac~ivity is more or less
partial; and though we may be' able, frequently, to reason
164 PATiiETiSM.
corrc;ctly, to a limited extent, and tlwugh the mind may, <1nd
does, seem to ha\"e 1nnny very rcm:.ulw.ble perceptim"ls in
sleep, yet, it is ~}ways more or less incapable of distinguishing
the _
L'1ere ided from realities. Hence we have the grossest
incongruities in our sleeping mental conceptions, 'vitho"'J.t the
least !:~Urprise, and at oth~r times the Inost beautiful ideas flit
before the mind, when it h~s no power to retain them. I
have fo:1nd a number of intelligent persons who were unable,
at times, to distinguish ~ome of their dreams from what took
place during their waking st~te; and they would frequently
narrate their rlrcams, as tnatters of fact, without any suspi·
cion that tlley had mrrely dreamed the details they v:cre nar-
rating. And things dreamtd, ana forgotten, I have caused
some of my subjt;!cis to ren1ember, by exciting portions of the
braii1 for thi::; purpose.
It has been :supposed that there is a cerebral organ appro-
pri~te to the functio~ of dreaming, and if so, it will explain
how it is, that some persons drearn very little, and others not
at all.
In a number of cases where persons have been troubled
with frighi.ful dreams, I havo gi·ten perfect relief by Pathe..
tism; and in others, I have causzd persons to dream of any
given subject at pleasure. In sleep, the minll may have all
the emotions or conceptions which it ever had in the waking
state, and sometimes impressions are made upc·n it, far more
deep and affecting than nny received while aYV"ake. The rea·
son if:! obvious. In the \Yaking state of consc.iousness, the at-
tention is divided among the different faculties and senses;
but frequently, in deep, the forces of the brain seem to be
concentrated into one organ, and impre~E"ions n1ade upon it
arc deep and affccticg, just in proportion to its activity, while
all the others are dormant and inactive.
I have already referred to the relation v1hich sleep holds to
a state of \Yakcfulness, and ho".v st.riking!y these states alter-
nate in harmony Yrith one of the laws of nawrc. From this
fact it is not unreasonable to suppose, that there 1nay be an
organ of Wakefulness, of which sleep is the antagonism. \Vc
SLEEP AND DREA~UNG. 165
ha,·e seen that it is a la'v of the human system, that the ex·
citement of any one of the cerebral organs, suppresses the
action of its corresponding opposite organ. Lo·re suppresses
hatred; joy suppresses sorrow; consciousness, or wakefulness,
suppresses sleep, and 'lice versa. Thi3 supposition 'vould
sce1n to throw light on this 1nystery, and to be supported by
the following facts:-
1. That natural sleep 1nay become more or less voluntary.
Dr. Reid found no inconvenience from taking food, and imme..
diately aft8rwards falling into a state of sleep sufficient for
two days. And Quin, a celebrated actor, it is said, slept for
twenty-four hours successively. In such c~ses, this organ
may be supposed to be largely develop2d. And may not this
assumption explain the reason tor persons immediately wak-
ing up on the cessution ef any noise during which they fell
asleep~ A 1niller found it impossible to fall asleep without
the noise of the mill. A person has been known to fall asle(.?p
within a huge boiler, Yvhile others were constantly beating it
on the outside \vith thejr hamn1ers; aTJ.d on the cessation of
the noise W3.kefulness returned.
2. That it shculd be corrtinued in certain cases so very
long.
A 1~.dy is 1ncntioned by Dr. Mac Nish, who spent three..
fourths of her life in sleep. A woman in Henault slept from
sev-enteen to eighteen hours a day, for fifteen years. De
1\ioivre slept twenty hours out cf the twenty·f~ur; and Tho-
111as Parr Elept away the greater part ofhis life. Other c~ses
are well kDown, where persons have slept a week, a month,
and si:;,: weeks at a time. Of course, P..ourishment 'vas given
them during this time. But it does not solve the mystery to
say, that sleep, in these cases, was a disease. \Vhat part of
the system was diseased '?
3. 'l'hat persons are often able to live so long without
sleep.
A recent number of the Boston Medical and Stlrgical Jour-
nal, contains a letter from Mr. Robert F. Gourlay, now of
Boston, 1\Iass. giving au account of his extraordinary sleep·
lGG PATHETISji.
lc~sness. :rt'Ir. G. s.:tys he 'vas first bereft of <5leep in the year
1833 for six weeks, when about ·10 years of age. Prior to
that time he h~d never suffered for y;a·.1~ of sleep, nllhough at
times a little sufficed for refreshmt·nt. He was confineu in
London, as he alleges, by British tyranny, three years and
eight 1nonths, and it \Vas during this period, that a habit of
living without sleep began to form. During his confinement
he felt very little need of slrep, and the greater part of his
time in bed, which ,·;as never wore th~n six hours in the
twe11ty-four hours, was given to reveries.
Soon after his liberation, having first Yisited Scotland, he
left Edinburgh for America. He had no sleep until he
~rrivcd at Liverpool, where he took a wann bat{l brfo!'e go-
ing to bed. This l!ad the desired effect, anti rrocurE:d him
a few hours repose. The next morning he c111barked for N.
York, which he reac!J.ed in 42 days, without having one wink
of sleep.-Immediately 0::1 landing at :New York he procured
a W'arm bath, got into a comfortable bed and slept soundly.
Frorn that time fonvard he did not sleep for three years. He
took laudanum, bnt that had no efrcct; he drank whiskey in
the hope that it would induce sleep, but it only n1ade him.
sick.
In the early part of 1837, 'vhile in Ohio, he was attacked
with erysipelas in the leg, and during five mo~1ths Y.ras with..
out sleep. He had recovered his health in some degree whca
intelligence reached him of the death of two of his children.
-He then lay two weeks in great agony, and fron1 that time
to this, a period of four years and site 1nontlzs, he has be€n en-
tirely deprived of sleep. His health has much jmproved, and
he entertains a hope that as soon as he is c.ble to take e.xer·
cise, he 1vill rc~overv
A man is n1enticneu by Sir John Sinclair, who lived to
the age of ninety-one yecus, ::md, en an average, slept only
four hours in the t'\'lenty four. Dr.l\1:ac Nish says he knew a
lady, who enjoyed excellent hea!ih, and yet, the whole period
of her sleep did not exceed four hours in the twenty four, and
she never slept over thirty 1ninutes at a time. Frederick the
SLEEP AND DREAMING. 167
Great, nnd John Hunter, 2lept only five h~r..1rs during the
twenty~four. It is said, on the authority cf Sir Gilbert Bla~e,
that General Pichegru, during a whole yf',lf, while on an ac-
tive camp:-tig-n, did not u.v~r3gc over one hour's sleep during
the twenty~fc.nr.
That pt:>i.·sor.::: go a long time without sleep, f~·ecrue~tly, from
menLal oJ.· Eervous excit.er.:.1ent, "\Ye kno'-.v; but even these ca-
ses may C~V1firm the thzory ab•JVC Gtated.
4. The w~Il knov.ru effects of excessive sleep, or continued
wakefulnc~~.
Too mach sleep prouuces dulness, lassitude, hEadache, and
even death. Eoerhaa.ve speal;s of a stuucnt, who from a be·
lief that sleep w.13 the natural state of nmn, sl~pt eighteen
hours a day, which socn c::tnsed his death by apoplexy.
' Vakefu.lness, teo long continued, causes physical and 1nen·
tal imbecility. f2vcr, he?.dache: inflammati0n of the brain, rind
insar..ity. Tlu:se h~Lits would seem to destrcy the balance of
power a·~t\7een the organs of \Vakefhlncss and sleep, and
heuce the resul~s ap_r:Jear precisely as if the same Yiolence
were do!.1e to the relation betwet>n any two of the other~, by
'vhich the harmony of action and influence should become
perYerled o: de3ti.'oyec1.
5. Thi:; aS:sumptiou is favoref'l by what we 1
mmv of the dif-
ferent means fer producing artificial sleep.
Cerebr::-J effm.·t disp0ses to sleep. Hence ull peYsons who
cxerc1se the mental functious to e:{:ce~s, require more than
ordinary slee~. Every thing monotonous produ~es 3leep. Fill·
ing the stomaP-h with food, so as to druw the vitrrl forces from
the brain for the purpose or disposing of its contents, has the
same effects.
Comb11g 1he head, or f:having, or holding the hands upon
the fron~2l or coronal regions, proJuce dro..,.,.-sincss; and if the
subject be s~1sceptible, pl~ci11g the hands on r..imost any part
of the he~d or !:i)'Stem, with i.his avo'l.l.:ed purpose, will dispose
to drowsiness, r.nd ifco!ltioucd long enough will induce ~leep.
T he applieatinu to the ~em~]{'s of n small plu£ter, mr.de of
half an oi.mce of henbr..ne and cne scrui1le of cpium, disposes
lGS r .ATHETIS~!.
to sleep, and is ~aid to be an excellent n1ethou for removing
~lecpnessness, when it has been brought on by grief or ner-
Yous excitement. But for soothing the nervous system, and
re1noving difiiculties of this kind, 1here is no remedy equal to
Pathetism.
CHAPTER XI.
SOMNIU?>I-TRAXCE-S01\INA1\IBULIS)!.
There is a most striking similnrity in all these states, 'vhich
leaves no room to doubt, as to the agencies by which they are
brought on, or that peculiar state of the system favorable to
their development. And it is worthy of notice, that, while
many of the medical profession, as well as others, readily ad-
mit the reality of the phenomena which appear in a state of
somnium, or trance, they set the whole down as nothing bet-
ter than humbugging, if it be once alleged that this peculiar
state has been induced by artificial means.
In cases of smnnambulism, some of the intellectual organs
appear to be highly excited, and it is certain, that many som-
nambulists have been known to do things, of 'vhich they
were wholly ·incapable in the waking state. It is not unlikely
but that the medical profession will, ultimately, agree to call
this a state of insanity; for it is plain, that in many respects
it resembles insanity, both in the nature of some of the men·
tal exercises, and also in the muscular strength put forth.
The books contain many facts of this kind-enough, cer-
tainly, to satisfy the most sceptical as to the existence of
what, perhaps, may be denominated the independent sense-
a sense which sometimes enables certain persons to see, hear,
&c. without the use of the organs of seeing and hearing.
A correspondent of the author,'~< describes the case of his
brother, who, while asleep, would often arise and write poe-
try and long letters, in a roon1 perfectly dark. He would
make his lines straight, cross his t's and dot his i's, and make
it perfeetly legible. He seemed to be clairvoyant when in
• L. Collins, East Bloomfield, N.Y.
170 P.ATIIETISM.
that state; and would often tell what a sister and brother-in-
law were doing, and where they were, '\Vhcn several hundrcJ
miles off. They '\Vere traveliing for the health of his brother-
in-law, and the brother, while in his reveries, would tell the
state of the health of the invalid. His statements, though
many and often, were always found correct. This was in
1827.
The following particulars of a case of somnium and som-
nambulism, I have from an eye and ear witness, who was
l1imselfa resident of the family at the time.,~ It was that of
a young lady, '\vho was in the habit of rising in the night and
dressing herself, and ~t these times she '\vould con\·erse,
thoug-h she was evidently in a state differing very much from
her usual waking condition. She would instantly arise from
her bed at the sound of a violin; and after dressing, v;-ould
engage in conversation with her eyes open. At these times
she called every one of the family by a new name, which she
invariably applied to each when as1eep, but of which she had
no knowledge '-;>her.. awake. She could !See perfectly well in
the dark, and woald often read in any book in the darkest
night, when the shutters were fast closed, and the room as
dark as it possibly could be. At such times ~he not only read
correctly, but would tell the exact time by any watch, howe-
ver the hands might be moved bac1~ or fonvard. \Vh en in a
state of scmnium, it was common to go out with her to the
neighbors; and when once approaching a fence nearly as high
as her head, she put her hand upon the top, and leap~d over
it with perfect ease.
It '\VaE noticed that she would neYer read in one particular
book; and a neighbor, with the view of detectiug what he
supposed to be deception, cut out a paragraph from that book,
and p~stcd it into a pamphlet; this pamphlet he then put
with half a dozen others, and handed the whole to he..-, with-
out her kno·wing what he had done. She took them, nnd on
coming to the one '\vhich had the extmct in it, she instantly
threw it aside. He then :retired, and cut out one word, and
• Deacon N. Moody, llallowell, Maine.
SO:WI:\IUH-TRAXCE-SO!I!XA:'IIBULISl\I. 171
pasting it into another, put it '"ith the number, and again re·
quested her to read a paragraph from each. Tiut she instantly
detected the pamphlet into which the word had been pasted.
He then cut out one letter only, and pasting it inca one of the
pamphlets as before, she detected that one without opening
it, and cast it from her as before.
A lock ofher hair was cut off, and taken into another room.
On its being put into the fire she perceived it, and manifested
tnuch pain and uneasiness. Though she often .,_,?ent out
among the neighbors while in a state of somnium, there 'vas
one direction, in which, if she started to go, she was imme-
diately restored to consciousness. She \Yas finally relieved by
beiag taken across the 1\ferrimac river for this purpose, as it
'vas said by a reputed witch* that this process 'Yould prevent
her from falling into that state again. And I haYe found in
such cases, that almost any process, recommended by certain
persons, will be equally effectual in breaking these spells, and
arresting those abnormal dispositions to sleep and somnam-
bulism. The proces~, whatever it may be, will certainly
prove effectual, if the mind or susceptibility be sufficiently
impressed with an apprehension of the certainty of the cure.
Drs. Righellini and Pigatti describe, from their own obser·
vation, the somnism of a man sen·~mt named N eg-retti, twen-
ty-four years of age, who, from his eleventh year, had experi-
enced attacks of the disease in :March, not extending beyond
April. !\'larch 16th, 1740, after going to sleep on a. bench in
the kitchen, he first: began to talk, then walked about, went
to the dining- room and spread a. table for dinner, u~d placed
himself behind a chair with a plate in his hand, as if waiting
on his master the l\Iarquis Luigi Sale. After waiting till he
thought his master had dined, he cleared away, anu put all
the things into a basket, which he locked up in a cupboard.
Ife afterwards warmed a bed, locked up the housr, and pre·
pared for rest. Being then awakened, and asked if he re-
rnembered what he had been doli1g, he answered' No.' Of:
ten, ho·wever, he did remember. On the 18th of the same
* The far-famed " ~loll Pitcher," of Lynn, Mass.
17'2 PATHETIS.i\1.
n1onth, he went through the same process, but instead of go·
ing to bed, went into the kitchen and sat down to supper.
Dr. Righellini, with many others, were very curious to see
him cat. At once recollecting himself, the man said, 'How
can I so forget 1 to day-is Friday, and I must not dine.' He
then locked up every thing and went to bed. If 'vater was
thrown in his face or his eyes were forcibly opened, he would
awake, but remained some time faint and stupid. His eyes
were firmly closed in the paroxysm, and he took no notice of
a candle placed close to them. Sometimes he went against
the wall, and even hurt himself severely. If any body push-
ed him, he got out of the way, and moved his arms rapidly
on every side; and, if in a place with which he was not well
acquainted, he felt all the .objects around with his hand, and
showed much inaccuracy; but in places familiar to him, he
was not confused, and went through with his business well.
After Dr. Pigatti had shut a door through which he had pass·
ed, he struck himself against it on returning. Sometimes he
carried a candle about, but on a bottle beicg substituted, he
carried it about as if it were a candle. Dr. Pigatti was cer·
tain he could not sec. Once in his sleep he said he must go
and hold a light to his master in the coach. Dr. Righellini
followed him closely, and found that he stood at all the cor·
ners of the streets with his torch not lighted, waiting awhile
in order that the coach which he fancied ·was following
might pass, when the light was required. On one occasion
he ate several cakes and some salad for which he had just
asked tbe cook. He then \vent with a lighted candle into
the cellar and drew wine which he drank. He would earry
a tray with Yvine glasses and knives, and turn it obliquely, to
avoid an accident, on passing through a narrmv doorway.
Dr. Pigatti once substituted some very strongly seasoned
cabbage for a salad which he had prepared, and had sat
down to eat: he ate the cabbage, and then some pudding
which 'vas substituted for it, \vithout perceiving the differ-
ence. At another time, having asked for \vine, he drank wa-
ter which was given to him; and sniffed ground coffee aftet
asking for snuff.
SO:MN1U)i-TRA:\CE-SO:'IU\AI.IBULIS:'f{. 173
Dr. Francesco Soave relates the case of Castelli, the pupil
of an Italian apothecary. The youth was found asleep one
night, translating Italian into French, and looking out the
\vord3 in a dictionary. They put out his candle, when, find-
ing himself in the darl\, he began to grope for it, a!ld went to
light it at the kitchea fire, though other candles \Yere alight
Sn the room. At other times he had gone down to the shop
~nd weighed out medicines, and tal!\:ed to supposed custo-
mers. \Vhen n.ny one cmn·ersed with him on a subject on
'vhich his mind was bent, he gn.ve rational ans,vers. He had
been reading !\lacquer's Chemistry, and somebody altered his
marks. This puzzled him, a~d he said, "Bel piacere di tog-
liermi i segnL" He found his place and read aloud, but his
voice growing fainter, his master told hin1 to raise it, which
he did. Yet he perceived none of the persons standing round
him; 'and though he heard,' s~ys Dr. Soave, 'any conversa-
tion 'vhich was in conformity with the tr~in of his ideas, he
heard nothing of the discourse which these persons held on
other subjects. His eyes seemed to be very sensible to ob-
jects relating to his thoughts, but appeared to have no life in
them; and so fixed were they, that when he read, he was
obserred not to move his eyes, but his whole head from one
side of the page to the other.'
In 1686, Lord Culpepper's brother was indicted at the Old
Bailey, for shooting one of the guards and his horse. He
pleaded somna1nbulism, and was acquitted on prod-:.1eing ample
evidence of the extraordinary things he did in his sleep.
There is a someYv-hat sin1ilar sto:-r of a French gentleman,
who rose in his sleep, crossed the Seine, fcught a duel, and
killed his antagonist, without recollecting any of the circum-
stances when aw~ke.
A young man named Johns, at Cardrew, near Redruth,
England, being asleep in the sumpter-house of that mine,
was observed by tl,-;o boys to rise and walk to the door,
against which he leaned; shortly after, quitting this position,
he walked to the cngi:1e shaft, a!ld safe!y des~ended to the
depth of twenty fathoms, where he \vas found by his cmn-
radcs soon after vtith his back resting on the ladder. They·
r:\
174 PATIIETIS.i\r.
called to him to apprise hin1 of the perilous situation, but he
did not hear them, and they were oblige<l to shake hin1
roughly till he awoke,_when he appeared totally at a loss to
account for his situation.
In the following cases a partial increase of mental power
took place, as is sometimes noticed in insanity and common
dreams:-
A boy dreamed that he got out of bed, and ascended to the
sum1nit of an enormous rock, where he found an e~gle's nest,
which he brought away with him, and placed under his bed.
Now, the whole of these events actually took place; and
what he conceived, on awaking, to be a mere dream, was
found to have had an actual existence, by the nest being
found in the precise spot where he imagined he had put it,
and by the evidence of the spectators who behel<l his perilou3
adventure. The precipice which he ascended was of a na-
ture which must have baffied the most expert mountaineer,
and such as, at other times, he could not have scaled.
Gasseniii speaks of a man who often rose in his sleep, went
into a cellar and drew wine, appearing to see in the dark as
in the day; but when he awoke, either in the cellar or in the
street, was obliged to grope his way back to bell. He often
thought there was not light enough, and thought he had ris·
en too early, and therefore struck a light. He tells of another
who passed on stilts "over a torrent asleep one night, and on
awaking was afraid to return before daylight, and before the
'vatcr had subsided."
A female servant in the town of Chelmsford, England, sur..
prised the family at four o'clock one morning, by walking
down a flight of stairs in her sleep, and rapping at the bed-
room door of her master, who inquired what she wanted;
'\rhen, in her usual tone of voice she requested some cotton,
saying that she had torn her gown, but hoped that her mis-
tress would forgive her, at the same time bursting into tears.
Her fellow· servant, with 'iV h01n she had been conversing for
~ome time, obserrcd her get out of bed, and quickly followed
her, but not before she ltad related this pitiful story. She
th~n returne~ tQ hqr room, and a light having been procured,
SOl\INIU71I-TRANCE-SO~INAl\IBULISM. 175
she was found groping to find her cotton box. Another
person went to her, when, perceiving a diff~rence in the
voice, she called out, '~ That is a different voicc-tlmt is my
mistress;" which '\vas not the case-thus clearly showing
she did not see the object before, although her eyes were
wide open. Upon inquiry as to what was the matter, she
only said that she wanted some cotton, but that her fellow-
servant had been to her master and mistress making a fuss
about it.
A lad named George David, sixteen years old, in the ser-
vice of J.Vlr. Hewson, a butcher in Bridge Road, Lambeth, En·
gland, at about twenty minutes past nine, one morning, bent
forward in his chair, and rested his forehead on his hands,
and in ten 1ninutes started up, went for his whip, put on one
spur, and went thence iuto the stable; not finding his own
saddle in the proper place, he returned to the house and asl;:-
ed for it. Being Rs1L:ed what he wanted 1vith it, he replied to
go his rounds. lie returned to the stable, got on his horse
without the saddle, and was proceeding to leave the stable;
it was with much difficulty.and force that JYir. Hewson, assist-
ed by the other hul, could remove him from his horse; his
strength was great, and it was with difficulty he was brought
'vithin doors. The lad considered himself as stopped at the
turnpike-gate, and took sixpence out of his pocket to be
changed; and holding out his hand for the change, the six-
pence was returned to him. He immediately observed,
"None of your nonsense, that is the sixpence again; gi\·e n1e
1ny change." \Vhcn twopence halfpenny was given to l1im
he counted it over, and said, "None of your gammon, that is
not right; I ·want a penny more," 1naki::1g the three pence
halfpenny, which was the proper change. I-fe the:1 said,
''Give me my castor (meaning his hat), which slung term he
had been in the habit of u~ing, and then began to whip and
spur to get his horse on. His pulse was at this time 136, full
and hard; no change of countenance could be observed, nor
any spasmodic affection of the muscles, the eyes remaining
closed the whole of the time. During the time of bleeding,
JYI:r. Hewson related a circumstance of a 1\ir. Harris, optician,
17G PATIIETISi\I.
in Holborn, whose son, some years since walked out on the
parap~t of the house in his sleep. The boy joined in the con-
versation, and observed, "He lived at the corner of Brown-
low Street." Soon after the arm was tied up, he unlaced one
boot, and said he would go to hecl. In three minutes fron1
this time he awoke, got up, and asked what was the 1nattcr,
(having been then one hour in the trance,) not having the
slightest recollection of any thing that hatl passed, and won-
dered at his ann being tied up, an(i at the blood.
The case of Rachel Baker, or the sleeping preacher, as she
'va~ called, is well known. This Jad}' fell in!o bad health,
and under its influence she disturbed and amazed her family
br her sleeping eloquence. Her parents made a tour 'vith
her of some length, and.visited New-York and some other of
the cities of the Union. I know individuals who have heard
her preach during the night; and it was customary, at tea
parties in this city, to put the l:::.dy into bed in n room adja-
cent to the drawing-room, in order that the persons present
might hear her exhortations and prayers, delivered during a
state of profound sleep.
Dr. Darwin relates the case of a young lady about seventeen
years of age, who, every day for five or six weeks, had fits of
violent convulsions, then retchings, next equally violent hic-
cough5, then tetalius, and at last somniloquism and somnam-
bulism, becoming insensible, yet singing, quoting \Vhole pas-
sages of poetry, and holding conversations wjth imaginary
persons, and coming to herself with great surprise and fear,
but with no recollection of what had happened. At length,
she could \Valk about the room in the fit without running a-
gRinst the furniture, and evidently had some external sense;
for she took a cup of tea, and expres~ed a fca.r that there 'vas
poison in it; nnd seemed to smc!l at a tuberose, and delibera-
ted about breaking the stem, because it \vonJd make her sister
so charmingly anr,ry. She once heard a bell, y,ras less P-1elan-
choly \vhen the shutters w~:re open, and impatient if a hand
\Yas held o-ver her Gyes, or her bath.ls w·ere held do·wn, saying
" She could not tell \vhat to do, HS she cculd neither see nor
n1ove."
SO:'IIXIU:'II-TR.Al\CE-SOl\IN.Al\IBULIS~{. 177
Gall describes the case of a young man at Berlin, who had
extraordinary attacks from time to time. He was agitated in
bed Y>'ithout consciousness; his movements and gestures show-
ed a great activity of 1nany internal organs; whatever was
done to him, he did not perceive it; at length he jumped out
of bed, and walked hastily in the apartment; his eyes were
then fixed and open. He placed different obstacles in his
1\'"ay, 'vhich he removed with his hand or carefully avoided;
then he threw himself suddenly on his bed, was agitated there
some time, and at length awoke and sat up, very much asto-
nished at the number of curious persons who were about him.
l\i. Joseph de KoggenLach, at Friburg, in Brisgau, toJd Dr.
Gall, in the presence of many ·witnesses, that he had been a
somnambulist from his infancy. In this state his tutor had
made him read; made him look for places on the map, and
he found them more readily than when awake; his eyes were
always open and fixed; he did not move them, but turned his
whole head. l\Iany times they held him, but he felt the re-
straint, endeaYored to liberate himself, but did not wake.-
Sometimes he said he should wake if they led him into the
garden, and this alt{,·ays lwppened.*
Professor Upham, of Bowdoin College, speaks of a farmer
w·bo rose in his sleep, went to his barn, and threshed out fi\re
bushels of rye in the dark, separating the grain from the straw
'vith great exactness.
The Portland (l\Iaine) Bulletin ofNovember 1, 1S42, refers
to the case of Capt~in Jeren1iah Brown, of that place, who,
being sick ~.nd confined to his berth while at sea, saw dis-
tinctly all that transpired around him. He sa'v vessels as
they passed him, and others at anchor, told what took place
on board of them, the truth of which was attested by his mate
and others, to whom he related what he saw.
A scientific friend of the author's in this city, describes, in
the l\1agnet for November, 1842, the ca~e of his own sister,
who would become exceedingly alarmed in a sound state of
sleep. Her screams would arouse the whole family. Lights
• The above, with other similar cases, may be found also in Dr.
Elliotson's Human Physiology, with their respective authorities.
178 r ATHETIS:'!!.
brought to her shewed her eyes \Vide open, streaming with
tears, while all efforts to bring her to a state of co:1sciousness
proved unavailing.
A patient whom I recovered from a dreadful st~te of ner·
vous derangemen!, often conversed in her sleep, and I have
heard her repeat some of the most beautiful s1rains of poetry,
and of which she did not seem to have any knowledge en
waking up. The following verses I took do,Yn from her lips
in one of these states :
" Dost thou think, because I smil(',
And joy, and wit, and friends surround me,
There is no torturing tlwught the while,
That with its secret power can wound me?
Ah! know, then, I have schooled my heart
To stifle eYcry wayward feeling;
And dearly haYe I bought the art-
Not that of conquering, but concealing."
The case of the young ecclesiastic related by the Archbish·
op of Bordeaux, is well known. He imagined himself one
night, in the miust of winter, \val king on the bank of a river,
and seeing a child fall in, who was drowning. He instantlr
threw him~elf on his bed in the posture of swimming-per·
formed the motions of swimming, till he seemed to have fa·
tigued himself, when he felt on the corner of the bed a bu:1ch
of the covering, which he took for the child. I-:Ie seized it
with one hand, and continued to s\vim ·with the other, return·
ing, as it were, to the bank of the ri,rer. He then laid do\vn
his burden, and came out of the water shivering, and his
teeth chattering as if he had been really in a frozen river.
He said to those about him, that he was freezing-that he
~hould die with cold-that his blood was frozen. He asked
for a glass of brandy to \Varm him, but there being none at
hand, they gave hin1 water. He tasted it, perceived the
cheat, and demar;ded more sharply, telling them the danger
he was exposed to. They gave him some cordial, which he
drank with 1nuch satisfac tion, and said it ga,·e him great
comfort. He did not, hO\vever, awake, but went to bed
again and slept nwre tranquillr.
SO~IN!U)f-TRA~CE-SOilr!\AMBULISl\!. 17'9
The Bishop further informs us, that this young man would
arise from his sleep, go to his room, tal~e pen, ink and paper,
and compose good sermons. '\Vhen he had finished a page,
he would read it aloud, and correct it. Once, he had vnitten ce
dez:in enfant j in reading oYer the passage, he substituted
adorable for derin j but observing that ce could not stand be-
fore adorable, he added t. The archbishop held a piece of
pasteboard under ltis chin, to prerent him from seezng the pa-
per on tcllich lw u·as writing, but lw 'U.:rote on, not at all -in-
commoded.-The paper on \vhich he was writing was then
removed, and another piece substituted; but he instantly per-
ceived the change. He wrote pieces of music in this state,
with his eyes closed. The words were under the music, and
once, were too large, and not placed ex~1etly under the corres-
}JOnding notes. He soon perceived the error, blotted out the
part, and \vrote it over again with great exactness.
The following is interesting, as it is the account which a
somnambulist gives of himself, and his own feelings, as near
as he could recollect while in that state.
_ "From the age of ten to fifteen, it \vas almost a nightly
habit with me to get up from my bed and travel through the
"-'·hole house, unbarring the doors and walking through the
different apartments with the greatest ease in utter darkne~s,
E-Ometimes unlocking the back door, and travelling into the
yard and out-houses, stopping at different places, and examin-
ing, apparently with the nicest precision, such articles as
happened to fall in my way.
" Yet after heing a"•akened, not th e slightest recollection
remained of \Yhat had happened. During some of these noc-
turnal excursions, I opened a dormer window, and crawled
out thence to the very apex of the roof! On one of these oc-
casions, afte1· getting on the top of the hcnse, I was awaken-
ed by 2 slight shm,,-er of rain, and it Y
v"as with difficulty I
made a safe descent by '\Yay of the next neighbor's house,
\vhiclt obliged me to rou3c the family in order to get back to
mv bed a_zain.
."The nwst singular feat, howe,•er, that I performed in the
5omnambulic state, was a situation that I got into, out of
which I could not extricate myself again in a waking state,
neither c.ould I1 upon trial, without the assistance of some-
thing to step on fi rst, get into it ag<:!in. The room in wl1ich I
~lept at this time7 had in it an old-f.'lshioncd cradle of double
ISO PATilETISM.
length, made for twin babes. This was placed upon a long
narrow keg, which stood on its entls, so that wheu standing
alongside of it, the sides of the cradle came within two inches
of my chin, and it was so poised, that a slight preponderance
either ·way would capsize it. During one of my nocturnal
perambulations in the middle of the night, by some means I
got into this cradle, \Vithout the assistance of any thing that
would enable me to step up, save some strange inexplicable
cause. It was a cold winter night, and I became awakened
while in the act of pulling books from around me, which
were in the cradle at the time. After being perfectly awa-
kened, it required a great deal of caution to support my cen-
tre of gravity, until I had called the assistance of some of the
family to enable me to get down.
"In the somnambulic state, I am told my eyes are wHle
open, and have a glassy appearance. Although I would an-
swer questions, and talk freely on subjects that were indicat-
ed by mv conduct, yet it 'vas next to impossible to waken me
by any other process than the application of cold water. Af-
ter a more advanced nge, these symptoms have taken a dif-
ferent form, my nightly perambulations being confined to my
chamber, and they are n1orc particularly connected with the
organs of he(l.ring and vision. It does appear, that, like the
inner vision without the aid of the external eye, there is also
a distinct faculty of hearing, independent of the exterr.al ear.
This has been experienced by persons of my acquaintance. I
have frequently hastened to the place frmn whence sounds
appeared to come. Generally it appears to be the calling of
my name, by persons whose voice I can recognise; but the
most frequent delusions are through the eye. These symp-
toms from their frequency, although not fearful in themselves,
have been of late a source of annoyance, and they always oc-
cur in a half-waking- condition. The clearer and smoother
the chamber in which I sleep, the less am I annoyed with
these delusions. Of these symptoms and their operations, I
have a tolerable distinct recollection afterwards. I generally
find myself sitting up in bed, in the act of getting up and mo-
Ying towards the objects, which mostly appear to be human
beinO's, and often persons of my acquaintance. Although this
happens to me in a half-waking condition, still, I possess the
faculty of reasoning within myself upon the necessity of not
mindinO' these delusions, but seldom become perfectly satisfied
until r'get up and try to touch the object; but im·ariably get
awake on being touched by another per~on. After being awa-
kened, it has often appeared to me that a conflict had been
going on between the material and spiritual functions."*
* Letter of !\1r John \Vise, Lancaster, Penn.
SOZII~IUl\I-TRANCE-SOl\I~A1\IBULISl\I. 181
The term trance has long been used to signify a state, in
which the soul seems to have passed out of the body into the
celestial regions; and I have seen persons vrho were subject
to ecstacies which were thought peculiar, only, to those who
had actually left the body, and passed into heaven.
I have often produced this state by pathetism. The per-
sons in whom it is brought about, de:=cribe it as one of the
most delightful imaginable. But frequently they manifest an
unwillingness to describe it at all, as they say it so far ex-
ceeds all our ordinary conceptions of what is elevated, refined,
beautiful, and heavenly. It see1ns to differ fr0m the ordinary
states of somnium, merely in the degrees of abstraction of the ·
mind to which it is carried, and in respect to the locomotion
of the patient. In what is called trance, the patient usually
sits or is perfectly still, and the mind seems to be employed
upon what are considered immaterial subjects. Sometimes
we find such persons remarkably clairvoyant; they describe
'vith accuracy persons and places, without the use of the ex·
ternal se!lses. A ca.se of this kind has just come under my
notice in this city.
A young lady about sixteen years of age, made a public
profession of religion, and connected herself with one of the
l\Iethodist Episcopal Churches here. For the last ten days
(April 4, 1843,) she has been most of the time in a state of
tt·ance, as her religious friends call it. It commenced very
soon after she had been much excited, and hr.d professed to
become completely sanctified. She was observed to fall into
an apparently unconscious state, and the limbs becoming quite
rigid, precisely like the cases I have before described of natu-
ral somnambulists, or when I have induced the state by path-
etism.
This is, undoubtedly, a case of somnambulism, though her
friends (some of them) think it quite miraculous. She has,
occasim"lally, a correct perception of the characters of different
persons who enter her room, and will address them in re·
proofs, or exhortations to prayer and praise, according to their
various characters, though she is said to have had no previ-
ous knowledge of them beforehand. 'Vhen one enters her
Q
182 PA.THETI~T\f.
roon1 who is pious, or is believed to be so by her, she c1asp5
her hands into the form of what she calls "a crown," and
places them upon his head j and the statements she makes
about the characters, views, und frelings of those who have
been to see her, are considered by her friends as the lniracu-
lous interpositions of the Divine Being. And I confess, that
there is every way as much of the miraculous in this case, as
in those of the " Tyrol Virgins,'' noticed below.
One of her friends, a clerical lady, seemed to view it as
quite profane, when I informed her that I had put persons into
n state precisely similar, in which they had made descriptions
of the characters of strangers, every way as correct and re·
markable as in the present case. And it js curious enough,
to see how honestly many good people will believe in a case
of natural clairvoyance, when they are horror-struck at being
told that the same state may be artificially induced, without
any thing of the miraculous in it.*
One of the most remarkable trances upon record, is that of
the well-known 'Villiam Tennent, a Presbyterian clergyman,
then of Brunswick, N. J. There are persons now living who
knew this pious 1nan, and some who still believe he actually
died, or left the body, anu went to heaven. The following is
his own account of it :
"\Vhile I was conversing with my brother on the state of
my soul, and the fears I had entertained of my future welfare,
I found 1nyself in an instant in another state of existence, un·
der the direction of a superior Being, who ordered me to fol-
low him. I was accordingly wafted ~long I knmY not ho'"N,
till I beheld at a distance an ineffable glory, and the impres-
sions of which on my mind it is impossible to communicate
to mortal man. I immediately reflected on my happy change
and thought-vVell, blessed be God! I am safe at last, not-
withstanding all my fears. I saw an innumerable host of
happy beings surrounding the inexpressible glory, in acts of
* I ha\e been often reminded. that had I set up for " a prophet'' be.
fore I restored a lady to her ,·oice (Y:ho harl been mute for t\"tO years)
last summer, or before I bad performed some other remarlmble cures,
I might ba-;·e hclrl a succesl'lfu1 competition \'Vith Joe Smith, and shared
the chance~ with him of linil1g my pockets with gold, ingtead of work.
ing fer nothing, as I haYe done, and betng reported as a mere juggler,
or something worse.
SO:\INIUl\I-TRANCE-SOi\1:\Al'IBULISM. 183
udoration and joyous worship; but I did not see any bodily
shape or representation in the glorious appearance. I heard
things unutterable. I heard their songs and hallelujahs of
thanksgi-ving and prr.ise, with unspeakable rapture. I felt
joy unutterable and full of glory. I then applied to my con-
ductor, and requested leave to join the happy throng; on
which he tapped me on the shoulder, and said 'You mnst
return to earth.' This seemed like a sword through n1y
heart. In an instant I recollect to have seen my brother
disputing with the doctor. The three days during which I
had appe;;ued lifeless seemed to be not more than ten or
twenty minutes. The idea of returning to this world of sor-
row and trouble gave me such a shock, that I fainted repeat-
edly." He added: "Such 'vas the effect on my mind of
what I had seen and heard, that if it be possible for a human
being, to live entirely above the world and the things of it,
for sometime afterwards I was that person. The ravishing
sound of the songs and hallelujahs that I hearEl, and the very
words that were uttered, were not out of my ears for at least
three years. All the kingdoms of the earth were, in my
sight, as nothing an.d vanity; an.d so great were my ideas of
heavenly glory, that nothing which did not in some measure,
relate to it, could command my serious attention."
This extraordinary event is abundantly confirmed by the
worthy successor of l\1r. Tennent in the pastoral charge of
his church. He states that after hearing from lVIr. Tennent's
own n1outh a particular narration of this surprising trance,
he said to him, '' Sir, you seem to be one indeed raised from
the dead, and 1nc:..y tell us what it is to die, and what you
were sensible of while in that state." He replied in the fol-
lowing w·ords: 'As to dying-I found my fever increase,
3.nd I bacame weaker and weaker and weaker, until all at
once, I fo:.md myself in heaven as I thought. I saw no shape
as to the Deity, but glory all unutterable.' Here he paused,
as though unable to find words to express his views, and lift-
ing up his hands, 'proceeded: 'I c::t.n say as St. Paul did, I
heard and saw things unutterable. I saw a great multitude
before this glory, apparently in the height of bliss, singing
most melodiously. I was transported with my own situa-
tion, viewing all my· troubles ended, and my rest and glory
begun, and was about to join the happy multitude, when one
came to n1e, locked me full in the faee, laid his hands upon
my shoulder, and said, 'You must go back.' These words
ran through me; nothing could have shocked me more; I
cried out, 'Lord, must I go back?' \Vith this shock I open-
ed my eyes in this world. \Vhen I saw I was in this world
I faintedf then came to, and fainted for several times, as one
naturally would have done in so weak a situation.'
PATHETISl\I.
I am not able to state whether any cases of spontaneous
trance, or ecstasy, are on record of persons not religious; but
certain it is, that for ages past, persons in the different religi-
ous denominations have been known to fall into this state.-
The Papists have, from the beginning of their history, mani-
fested great enthusiasm in detailing accounts of what they
call "miraculous" ecstasy; and they have recently ~irculated
immense editions of a pamphlet, entitled "The Virgins of the
Tyrol," throughout this country and in Europe, which pur-
ports to give an account of two Austrian girls, who have been
in this state for some eight years past! The author of this
pamphlet is said to be the "Earl of Shrewsbury;'' but he
does not seem to be shrewd enough, whoever he may be, to
see, that he has been most egregiously deceived in supposing
that no such results as he describes could be traced to the
laws which induce a. spontaneous state ofsorunambulism. He
thinks, because these girls were not c: 1\lesmerised" by any
one, that their state must be miraculous. But that these vir-
gins are of the sy1npathetic temperament, like the cases al-
ready detailed in this chapter, is fully proved by the account
he himself has given of them. As these cases are deemed of
so much importance at the present time, no apology will be
necessary for attempting, here, to show their identity, so far
as there may be any thing real in them, with the co1nn1on ca-
ses of somnambulism. As, for instance:
1. Their health and temperament. It is well known, that
disease predisposes persons of a certain temperament to this
state. And it is said of these girls, 1\'Iaria, "in her early years,
had various attacks of illne:,s ;" and, it seen1s, from 1832 she
has been, most of the time, confined to her bed with indispo-
SitiOn. Her temperament is manifest, from expressions made
of her like these: "Her hazel eye," and "her look is so
open," &c. Similar expre8sions, also, occur of the other, Do-
nlenica, who, it is said, enjoyed good health till1828, since
w·hich time she has been indisposed, and for monf"than eight
years confined to he1· bed. Here, then, is the foundation for
all the wonders of their trances.
2. The 1nanner in which these states of trance were conl·
menccd. For instance, of lVIaria it is said,-
SOIILNIUM-TRANCE-SO:L\INAl\IBULISl\!. 185
<~ \Vhen, in 1832, she had attained her twentieth year, she
evinced the first symptoms of ecstacy, falling into that state
each time she received the holy communion."
Ang of Domenica it is also said,-
" In the year 1833, she was first observed to fall into ecsta·
cy after 1·eceiving tlte holy communion, but without rising
from her bed."
I have seen scores of persons~ after kneeling in prayer, and
others, when kneeling at the altar in Methodist churches for
receiving the sacrament, fall into this state, and become ap-
parently unconscious, precisely like what is said of these two
nuns.
3. Perceptions, without the use of the organs of sigltt or
hearing. Instances are given, where it is said these nuns had
perceptions of the approach of the mass; and one of them, it
is said, as it was carried through the town, " turned to it, as
the needle turns to the pole." And this, the pious Catholic is
taught to believe, is :rmRACULOUs, and demonstrative of the
~ruth of Popery! Now, admitting the aceount to be true, it
proves nothing for or against religion. Examine the preced-
ing cases described in this chapter, and you will find enough
of the same power of perception detailed, and which came on,
spontaneously, like these now so much wondered at by Pa-
pists, far and near.
4. State of unconsciousness. The authors of this book
think it quite miraculous, that these "virgins," during their
ecstacy, should have their "eyes wide open," without seeing,
so that when "a candle is held near the eye,'' or when a fly
lights upon the eye-ball, they do not \vink at all !-a pheno-
menon that every pathetiser has witnessed since the days of
1\Iesmer, and one which I will produce for his 1-Ioliness any
time, whenever he will do me the honor of a call. Persons in
a state of somnipathy become wholly insensible to pain; and
we have already seen cases, where the most difficult surgical
operations have been performed, without the patient's know-
ing anything about it at the time.
5. Surprising positions of the, body. It is mentioned as
Q.
'.
•
186 r ATIIETISM.
another tniraculous effort of the DiYine power, in the case of
these Yirgins, that their bodies frequently assume very singu·
lar positions; as, for instance, one says she
"Had seen l\1aria raised up in the air so far, at least, as
ouly to touch the bed with the very extremities of the feet."
The sarr:e thing is done by natural somnambulists; and I
have made some of my patients, while in a state of somnipa·
thy, €!ssume and maintain the body in a position, which could
not be borne in the waking state. In a preceding page is a
letter from a natural ~lecp-waker, who describes feats done
by himself in tl1is state, which he was utterly unable to do
'vhen wide awake.
6. Effects of contact tL·itlt otlters. Every pathetist must
have noticed the curious effects produced by n1erely touching
}1Cl·sons of this peculiar sensibility, whether they be touched
by the operator or any other person. By a 1nere touch I ha\·e,
times without number, given to the body of the patient, 'vhen
awake, any desirable tendency or motion, or even deprivetl it
of the power of locomotion entirely. So it is said of these
virgins:-
" The chaplain desired 1ne to touch her hand, when the
slightest pressure of my finger upon hers, 1nade her O\VU fall
several inches, acd put her into a s'vinging motion from side
to side. This 1novea1ent was considerably increased by the
- smne person blowing at her gently with his breath, so exceed·
ingly rerial and unsubstantial is her frame."
The above is a speci1nen of the manner of experimenting,
practised by the Papist priests on the "virgins of the Tyrol.,,
Again: we know how instinctively some somnipathists
shrink from the touch of persons. Just so these virgins:
"During this period, her right arm hung down partly be·
yond the bed; I touched her hand, when it shrunk from the
touch like the leaf of a sensitive plant, and then, like it, re·
mained in the new position which it had assumed."
7. ftfanncr of inducing and 1·cmoving the ecstacy. I have
had numerous patients, who would fall instantly into this
st~te by merely touching them, and some who would sink
S0~1XIU)I-TRANCE-SO::'IINAl\IBULISl\I. 187
into it by merely looking at them; and others, who fell into it
when seated in the same chair where they had frequently
been put to 5leep before. Precisely so these "Virgins of the
Tyrol" :
"\Vhcn her confessor [in another place the priests are
called "the keepers of lwr conscience,"] sees occasion to re-
quire it, she falls at !Lis biddinr: into this state."
And thus she is bTought out of it:
" Yet, with all this, it requires no effort, no noise, nor
hardly any ostensjble agency, to breah: the spell; a gentle
touch or whisper from her confes:wr, or any ecclesiastic with
whom she is acquainted, is sufficient to dissolve the charm)
completely rmd at once."
I might trace the identity between these cases and the or~
dinary cases of somnambuli~m still further, ,,.-ere it necessarr.
But the above is sufficient to put this fact beyond all doubt in
every candid, unprejudiced mind. But the devoted Papist
will remind me, that I have net noticed two of the most re·
n1arkable miracles described in these cases; and he will ask
how I account for the "Stig1nata" 1 For instance, there are
plates giving the appearance of thef:e virgins, and one of them
is represented as bleeding in the forel1ead and temples, the
outside and inside of the hands, and in the insteps cf the feet,
and also in the side, in reserablance of the places in the body
of our Lord Jesus Christ, \vhere he was wounded when cruci·
fied ! And we ~ue told, that the blood is seen to ooze from
these \Vounds ez:ery P1·iday, and ·while the patient lies upon
her back the blood from the insteps actuallr runs 7.tpu:ards to·
u·ards her toes, instead of following the laws of gravitation
downward. Nor is this the mo3t of this story, for it is added,
that one of these virgins "has neither eat, nor drank, nor
slept, for more tlwn eight '!;'ears!!!" And to prove this ac-
count true, the book refers to another case, where a Papist is
said to have lived "for tu.:enty years 1·n pe1ject llealtlt and
strength," without tasting food at all!!!
All I have to say to these representations is, to affirm their
falsehood. And lies so monstrous, puts the shade of doubt on
188 PATHETISM.
the other details in this book, though one could otherwise
readily admit the truth of rnany of them, and this, too, with·
out supposing there was anything of the 1niraculous in them.
The blood may have been produced by themselves, or
friends, by punctures or otherwise; or those appearances may
have been induced by the laws of sympathy described in a
preceding chapter-the same that produced the words, "Na-
poleon Empereur," in the eyes of a fmtus some years ago. A
state ofintense mental effort, loug continued, has been known
to cause the hair to change from black to gray or white, in a
few hours, and to produce other physical changes, remarkable
enough to be supposed "miraculous" by those who know no
better.*
The case of a lady in Vincennes, Indiana, has been described
to rne by a scientific gentleman of this city, presenting pheno-
nlena every way asm iraculous as the foregoing. After some
irregularities 1vhich had been noticed in her systen1, she had
frequent discharges of hard suhstances, of the consistency of
bone, from directly below the left eye. These discharges left
no fissures in the skin, and the bones, as they seemed to be,
exuded in a liquid form, and in a moment would fall hard
upon the floor.
The case of another lady in Salem, Mass. 1nay be referred
to, as exceeding the Tyrol Virgins in the miraculous. For
eleven years she has not been noticed to sleep at all; and the
various positions into which she is thrown by convulsions, are
said to be almost incredible. Sometimes she is elevated from
her bed, in an instant, perpendicularly; and at other times
pinned to the wall, or made to spin like a top, without the
least efrort.
• :Many of the Papists, who affect to deny that the above casf's h:ne
any resemblaRce to somnambulism, cannot 'certainly be ignorant of the
fact, that one of their priests, named F. Girard, was tried in France, in
1733, for the liberties he took with a female, whom he was in the habit
of throwing into a state of trance. That female dec.lared, that Girard
h~d bewitched her; and many of her feats, after being thrown into
trance by Girarll, were as remarkable as anything done by the Tyrol
Virgins. Nor \vas this al]. This female had the true "stigmata'' in
·her hands, side, feet, and forehead, and which, it is said, the Catholic
priest manifested his nd?ration for, by a:rplying his .lips to the places
1n Rpeculiar manner, qu1te teo gften for h1s 0\\11 cred1t.
SOMNIU~I-TRANCE-SOM~A::HBULIS:'tf. 189
l\Iy pntients possess the po·wer of throwing themselves into
these singular conditions. A g~ntleman, well known in Phi-
ladelphia, is remarkable for this susceptibility, as in a few
minutes he can voluntr.rily sink into a state of unconscious-
ness, precisely like those already described. I had the fol-
lowing account from Dr. Cleaveland, of Providence, R. I. :-
A roung lady of that city who had been pathetised, was
frequently known to throw herself into this condition, and
especially when anything offended her. At one time, she de-
sired the loan of a book of a near neighbor, but which she
could not obtain at the time she wanted it. Feeling some-
·what piqued, she retired to her room, and throwing hcr5elf
upon her bed, sunk to sleep. Soon after her friends heard her
voice, and on approaching her found that she was repeating
something, as if rE:ading. Suspecting what was going on, one
of the persons present was despatched to the house where
that book was, from which she was supposed to be reading.
The somnist soon after stopped her reading, and commenced
weeping, in a fit of anger declaring that son1e one had taken
the book away. The person, on entering, declared that she
found the book lying on the table, and had taken and removed
it into another room. The Bramins in India are said to pos-
sess this power; and the case of one is detailed,* who was
inclosed in a wooden box for thirteen dRys without food or
drink, and who was actually buried four weeks, and remained
without food, and almost without air, in a state of apparent
death. He was taken out of his grave perfectly senseless, his
eyes closed, his hands cramped and powerless, his stomach
shrunk very n1uch, and his teeth so completely jammed toge-
ther, that his mouth had to be opened with an iron instrument
before they could pour a little water down his threat.
A history of almost any ordinary case of somnipathy would
be the mere repetition of the foregoing facts, and of hundreds
of others of u similar character, the accounts of which have
been published from age to age, and never doubted by any
* India Jour. Med. and Phys. Science.
190 r .ATHETISM:.
one pretending to any knowledge of psrchology. But these
few cases are given here, to prove the following facts :-
1. That persons of a peculiar temperament are susceptible
to the influence of certain agencies, which bring on, at times,
a state resembling sleep, in which the external senses are
closed.
2. That while in this state, thei;c persons perform actions
which they could not do in the normal state.
3. That on suspension of the external senses, there is deve..
loped in them an independent sense-a sense which sometimes
takes accur:ite knowledge of things present and absent.
4. And yet, at the sa1ne time, this sense may be deceived,
so that tlJe person may fancy he sees or tastes, or even docs
things, which have no existence except in his own apprehen·
sion..
CHAPTER XII.
S:ECO~'"D SIGHT, TRANSPOSITION OF THE SENSES, DOUBLE CONSCI..
OUSNESS, PRESENTB:ENTS7 PROPHETIC DREAl\IS7 WITCHCRAFT.
It will answer my purpose to give a specimen of each of
these states; and when e=•amined in connection with the laws
of sympathy already defined, it is presumed the reader will
be at no loss in tracing them to those causes, whieh, it must
be acknowledged, are more orJess concerned in their produc-
tion.
1. SECOND SrGHT.
Thiany accounts of apparitions, visions, &c. which have been
published, are either so palpably false, or so mixed up with
superstitious fabrications, that they are not worth a moment's
notice. The following details are, no doubt, correctly given,
and may be depended upon as a faithful account of what ac-
tually took place. It was drawn up by M. Nicoli, of himself,
and shows but too plainly, how it was that his susceptibility
was wrought upon sufficiently to enable him to have the per-
ceptions he describes:
During the latter ten months of the year 1790, I had expe-
rienced several 1nelancholy events, which affected me par-
ticularly in September, from which time I suffered an almost
uninterrupted series of n1isfortunes, which afflicted me with
the most poignn.nt grief. I was accustomed to be bled twice
a year; this was done on the 9th of July, but was omitted
to be repeated at the end of the year. Less blood had conse-
quently been evacuated in 1790, than was usual with me;
and from September I was constantly occupied in business
which required the most unremitted exertion, and which was
rendered still n1ore perplexing by frequent interruptions.
In January and February of the year 1791, I had the addi-
192 I'ATIIETIS::'II.
tional misfortune to experience several unpleasant circum-
stances, wh!ch were follo,..Ted, on the 24th February, hy a most
violent altercation. l\fy wife and another per5ou came into my
apartment, at ten o'clock in the morning, in order to console
me, but I was too much agitated by a series of incidents
which had mof;t powerfuily affected my n1oral feelings, to be
capable of attending to them. On a sudden I perceived at a
distance of about ten paces, a form like that of a deceased
person. I pointed at it, asking my wife whether she did not
see it 1 It was but natural that she should not see anything;
my question therefore alarmed her much, and she sent directly
for a physician. The phantasm continued about eight min-
utes. I grew at length more calm, and being extremely ex-
hausted, fell into a restless ~lumber which lasted about half
an hour. The physician ascribed tue apparition to violent
mental excitement, and hoped there would be no return; but
the violent agitation of my 1nincl had in some way, disordered
my nerves, and produced further consequences, which de-
f:erve a 1nore minute description.
At four o'clock in the aftercoon, the form whieh I had seen
in the 1norning, re-appeared. I was by myself when this
happened, and being rather uneasy at the incident, went to
my '\Vifc's apartment; but there likewise I was followed by
the apparition, ·which however disappeared at intervals, and
always presented itselfin a standing posture. Abcut 6 o'clock
there appeared also walking figures, Y1hich had no connection
1vith the first.
I cnnnot assign any other cause for all this, than a contin-
ued rumination on the vexations I had endurEd, which,
though calmer, I could not forget, and the consequences of
which I meditated to counteract. These agitations occupied
my mind three hours after dinner, just v.rhen digestion com-
menced. I consoled myself at length with respect to the dis-
agreeable incident which had occasioned the first apparition;
but the phantasms continued to increase and change in the
most singular mmmer, though I had taken the proper medi-
cines, and found myself perfectly well.
\Vhen the first terror was O\'er, as I beheld these phan-
tasms 'vithout great emotion, whilst taking them for what
they really were-the remarkable consequences of an indi!a-
position, I endeavored to collect myself as 1nuch as possible,
that I might presen·e a ch'ar consciousness of the changes
that should inwardly take place in me. I observed these
phantasms vefy closely, and frequently reflected on my ante-
cedent thoughts, to discover, if possible, by means of what as-
sociation exactly these forms presented themselves !o my im-
agination. I thought at times I had found a clue; but tak-
SECO?{D SIGHT. 193
ing the whole together, I could not make out any natural
connection between the state of my rr1ind, my occupations,
train of thoughts, and the rnultifarious forms which now ap·
peared to me, and then again disappeared. After repeated
and close observations, and a cahn examination, I was unable
to form any conclusio:1 relative to the origin and duration of
the different phantasms which presented themselves to me.
All that I could infer was, that while 1ny nervous system
was in such an irregular state, such phantasms would appear
to me as if I actually saw and heard them, that these illusions
·were not modified by any known laws of reason, imagination,
or the co1nmon association of ideas,-and that probably other
people, who ma:( have had simila~ ~pparitio~s, :v.ere exactly
in the san1e predicament. The ongm of the mdividual forms
which appeared to me, was undoubtedly founded on the state
of my mind; but the 1nanner in which it was thus affected,
will probably remain as inscrutible as the origin of thought
and reflection.
After the first day, the form of the deceased person no
longer appeared, but in its place n1any other phantasms, some·
times representing acquaintances, but mostly strangers.
Those whom I knew, consisted of both living and deceased
persons, but the number of the latter was comparatively
small. I observed, that persons ·with whon1 I daily convers·
ed did not appear as phantasms, these representing chiefly
persons who lived at some distance from me. I attempted
to produce at pleasure phantasms of persons whom I knew,
by attentively reflecting on their countenanc~, shape, &c.;
but distinctly as I recalled to my lively imagination the resoa
pective shapes of these persons, I still laboured in vain to
make then1 appear to me as phantasms, though I had before
involuntarily seen them in that 1nanner, and perceived them
some time after, when I least thought of them. These
phantasms appeared to me contrary to my inclination, as if
they were presented to me from without like the phenomena
of nature, though they existed no where but '\Yithin my mind.
I couhl nt the same time, plainly distinguish between phan·
tasms and real objects; and the calmness with whieh I ex·
amined them, enabled me to avoid comn1itting the smallest
mistake. I knew it exactly when it only appeared to me
that the door was opening and a phantasm entering the room,
and when it actually opened, and a real person entered.
These phantasms appeared to me equally clear and di~­
tinct at all times and under all circumstances-both \':hen I
'vas alone and when I was in company, as well in the day
as at night, and in my own house as well as abroad. They
\Vere, however, less frequent when I was in the hou!e of a
R
19-1 PATTIETJS)f..
friend, and rarely appeared to me in the street. 'Vhen I
~hut my eyes, these phantasms would sometimes disappear
entirely, though there were instances when I beheld them
·with my eyes closed; yet when t}Iey disappeared on such
occasions, they generally re-appeared when I again openeu
1ny eyes. I conversed occasionally with the physician and
my wife, respecting the phantasms \vhich surrounded me at
the 1noment. They appeared more frequently walking than
at rest, nor were they constantly present. They frequently
did not appear for some time; but always re-appeared for a
longer or shorter period, either singly or in company, the lat~
ter, however, was n1ost often the case.
I generally saw human forms of both sexes; but they usu-
ally seemed not to take the smallest notice of each other,
moving as in a ma~·ket place, where all are eager to press
through a crowd. At times, however, they seemed to be
transacting business with each other. I also repeatedly sa\v
people on horseback, dogs, and birds. All these phantasms
appeared to me in their natural size, and as distinct as if
alive, exhibiting different ~hades of carnation in the uncover-
ed parts, as well as different colours and fashions of their
dress, though the colours seemed to me paler than in real na-
ture. None of the figures appeared particularly terrible,
comical, or disgusting; most of them being of an indifferent
shape, and some having a pleasing appearance. The longer
these phantasms continued to appear, the more frequently
did they return, \Yhilst at the sarne time they increased in
number.
About four \Yeeks after their first appearance, I began also
to hear them speak. They sometimes conversed among
themselves, but more frequently they directed their discourse
to tnc. Their speeches were commonly short, and never of
an unplea~G.nt tenor. Several times I saw beloved and sensi-
ble friends of both sexes, whose addresses tended to appease
my grief, which had not wholly subsided. These consolatory
speeches were in general addressed to me when I was alone;
smnetimes, ho\vever, I was accosted by these consoling
friends whilst in company, even while real persons were
speaking to 1ne. These consolatory addresses consisted some-
times of abrupt phrases, and at others they were regularly
connected.
Though both my mind and body were in a tolerable state
of sanity at this time, and these ph~_ntasms became so famil-
iar to tne, that they they did not cause 1ne the. slightest ';ln-
ea.siness-I even sometimes amused myself with surveymg
them, and spoke jocularly of them to the_ physician and my
TRANSPOSITION OF THE SENSES. 195
'\vife,-yet I did not neglect to use the proper medicines, es-
peciall]; when they began to haunt me the whole day, and
even at night as soon as I awoke.
At last it was agreed that leeches ~hould again be applied
to me, as formerly, which was accordingly done on the 20th
April, 1791, at eleven o'clock in the morning. No one
was with me besides the surgeon, but during the operation,
my chamber was crowded wilh human phantasms of all des-
criptiOiu. This continued without interruption, till about
half-past four, just when my digestion commenced. I then
perceived, that they began to move more slowly; soon after,
their colours began to fade; and at seven o'cloek they were
entirely white, and moved very little, though the forms were
as distinct us before; growing, however, by degrees more ob-
scure, yet not fewer in number, as had generally been the
case. The phantasms did not withdraw, nor did they vanish,
which previous to that time had frequently occurred. They
now seemed to dissolve in the air, whilst fragments of them
continued visible a considerable time. About eight o'clock
the room was entirely cleared of my fantastic visitors.
Since that period, I have felt twice or three times a sensa-
tion as if these phantasms were going to re-appear, without
however actually seeing any thing. The same sensation sur-
prised me just before I drew up this account, whilst I was
examining some papers relative to these apparitions, which I
had drawn up in the year 1791.-l!-
Can it be a matter of doubt, as to the true cause of these
visions? And if these sights arise from the derangement of
the cerebral functions, is it unreasonable to suppose, that
others have arisen from the same cause? By placing my fin-
gers on particular portions of the head, I have often caused
my ~ubjects to have similar visio:J.s,and which, to themselves,
appeared as 1-eal as any thing they ever saw in the normal
13tate.
2. TRAKSPOSITIO:N OF THE SENSES.
The following extraordinary case of catalepsy occurred at
Bologna, (ItaJy,) in 1841, I believe, and was witnessed by
Drs. Viscarti, Casina, and 1\Tazzacorati, who published the fol-
lowing account of it. Here we have "vision without the
eye," and that transposition of the senses referred to in the
preceding pages of this work.
* Theory of Pncumatology, p. 402.
196 P.A.TIIETIS~L
A young woman, aged twenty-five years, on the lOth of
September last, fell into a complete state of catalepsy, which
recurred regularly for forty-two days consecutively.
D~:~ring the first thirty days, the fit began at noon and ended
at rnidnight; but afterwards, it was of less duration. The
patient, so long as the paroxysm lastec, presented the ordinary
appearances of catalepsy; that is, au aptness to assume and
retain all manner of inconvenient and unnatural postures, and
a general insensibility to the most forcible physical impres·
sions. * * *
\Ve have said that her body was not capable of feeling the
most forcible impressions, nor such as were most calculated
to produce pain; but this was not the case with all parts of
her body. A most exquisite sensibility remained about the
epigastric region, in the palms of her hands, and the soles of
her feet. These parts became supplementary organs of the
senses, and through them she could receive external impres·
sions, not spontaneously, but only when her attention was
roused by the experimenters. At first, it was necessary to
speak immediately against the parts that retained their sensi-
bility; aftervrards, it was sufficient if the speaker merely
touched any one of those parts; and still later, it was"enough
if he were in communication, though at some distance, with
the person who was in actual contact with those parts. She
never spoke unless spoken to. \Vhen questioned in the man-
ner described, she ans·wered in the same tone of voice that
was used by the one who spolre to her; either high or low, or
very high. Her power of hearing through those parts, was
very extraordinary. If a person, touching her stomach with
one hand, grasped with his other the hand of a second person
standing further off, and the third and fourth formed in this
manner a chain, hand in hand, and the fourth questioned her
in the lowest possible tones, she would understand perfectly,
and reply in the same tone. The reply continued, always, so
long as the contact was maintained with the parts possessing
sensibility, and ceased when that contact was interrupted;
but she would resume the discourse when the contact was re-
stored, at the point to which it would have reached if there
had been no interruption. It seemed, therefore, that the reply
was continued internally; and, indeed, when she was asked
in such a case, why she had not spoken all the words, she al·
ways insisted that she had pronounced them all equally. * '*'
Her eyes, as we have said, were closed the first twenty-onta
days; but to be the more assured of their inactivity, the expe·
ri1nenters bound them with a handkerchief 'veil folded, and
yet she recognised immediately the color of different bodies
that 'vere presented to the parts having sensibility. She could
TRANSPOSITION OF THE SEl'\SES. 197
sometimes read in this way, and could always tell the hour b}~
a watch. Afterward, it was not even necessary that the ob-
jects should be in contact with her body; s!le couid tell them
in any part of the room; and it was only requisite for this,
that the experimenters who were in ccntact with her, should
direct her atter.tion to the proper point. Still later, she recog-
nised and described objects placed in ~moth~r room, or in the
street, or at a distance in pln.ces that she had never seen.
Being requested to give a description ofa convent at Bolog-
na, and of the vaults under a country house ia the neighbor-
hood of that city, of \Vhich neither the patient nor her interro-
gators had any knowledge, she described both minutely; and
her description being taken down, was found to correspond
exactly \vith the facts, even inciuding the number and posi-
tion of the \Vine vessels in the cellars.
She was once persuaded by a professor of the University, to
name the objects that were in a certain cabinet in the college;
.she complied, and enumerated the;.u exactly. She 'vas asked
what was on a cert8.in table there, 'vhich 'vas indicated to
her: she said, "a book.n "And \vhat on the book 1" She
answereJ, "A brain." "\Vhat brain 1" She said, '~ That of
some animal." "\Vhat ~..nim:tl!" She replied, that if he
·would name se\-ertll, she could tell him \vhich 'vas the ani-
mal, and accordingly she told cotTect1y-the ani::nal to 'vhich
the brain had belor.ged \Vas a leopard. She declared that she
saw distinctly;_ anu she certainly described the internal organs
of her own body, and those of othei.· persons. Being subjected
by the profe:5sor above mentio!:.ed toRn examim:.tion iu anato-
my, she described with astonishing precision the situation of
the heart, the pancreas, the spind murrovr, and the nerves-
their connections and uses. And when requested by the same
professor to examine the internal conditi0a of his female pa-
tient, 'vho lived ~tt some dist:1nce, she informed him that the
disease 'vas in her \"vomb, ~nd 'vas incurable.
The following account y;,,.as dn:rn-n up by Dr. DuYard, of
Caen, and published in the Gazztte r.1edicale at Paris, about
one year since.
1\'Iademoislc 1\Iehnb has enjoyed good health up to the age
of twe!lty-one, when she began to suffc.r from dry cough,
with pain in the chest and headache; in January 18--!1, she
\vas attacked on the right side, and since then has continued
to sutTer from pain in that region; the catamenia now de-
creased in quantity, and was finallr arrested.
In the montl1 of J ulv 1841, I was first culled on to visit the
patient; she then exhibited all the signs of pleuritic effusion.
n.*
198 PATIIETlSM.
After a variety of treatment continued for several v:eeks, a
seton was inserted in the patient's side and she was compel-
led to have an enema--a remedy which she had previously
refused to submit to. A few hours after the administration
of the enema she was seized with a n1ost violent attack of
hysteria, which continued for several hours. The attacks of
hysteria recurred, wit.h the same violence, for se"i'eral succes-
siYe days, and seemed to be excited by the ingestion of food,
which she continued to eat with avidity, in spite of renlon-
strances.
Six days after the first attack of hysteria, the patient be-
came suddenly dumb, and continued so for three days, being
unable to articulate a single word; on the f0urth day she re-
covereJ the power of speech, at the termination of a severe
hysterical attuck; the surprise, however, expressed by those
about her at hearing her speak, threw her into a fresh fit,
which lasted for three hours, and ended in catnlepsy; this
'vas on the 30th of August, 1841. From thi~ period the pa-
tient was seized every day with several attacks of catalepsv,
alternating with hysteria, and lasting about half an hour. ·
During the cataleptic accesses tht!re was complete insensi·
bility of every part of the body j the limbs remained in the
most fatig-uing po3itions '\vithout stirring; the respiratory
movements were imperceptible, and the pulsations of the
heart which cou]d scarcely be felt, '\vere from GO to 70 a min-
ute. AfLer a few days the cataleptic fits became longer, and
lasted for several hours, being, hoYTeYer, occasionally inter-
rupted for a minute cr tv-,ro, whe_never the girl. coughed.
Sometimes she would turn round In her bed or sit up; at
others she would suddenly start up, without opening her
eyes, and place herself on the edge of the bed, or on some
piece of furniture, in a most fatiguing posture; in this state
she would remain, until a fit of coughing came on, or until
she was brought back to her beil. Although the e\·es were
constantly shut, she avoided every obstacle carefully, and
seemed heedless of risks which would have alarmed anv one
in a normal state. On one occasion she left her bed dur-in()' a
fit of coughing, ran to the ~indo'iv and opened it; before ~1y
one could come to her assistance, she had one foot out of
the window, but the cough suddenly ceased, she became cat-
aleptic, and remained in the same position until some people
came and placed her in bed.
"\Vhen the fits of hysteria and catalepsy ceased, the pa-
tient recovered all her faculties, and 1nerely complained of fa-
tigue, and her ordinary pain at the side.
Five weeks after the first attack of catalepsy, lVJ:rlle. Me-
lanie fell several times into a state of natural somnambulism.
TRANSPOSITIO:-\ OF THE SE:-\SES. 199
She would get up without opening her eyes, walk about her
room, arrange her furniture, and enter into conversation with
those about her, oftEn mentioning circumstances '';lhich she
'vould have wished lO conceal; after remaining in this state
for several hours, she fell into a state of catalepsy, indicated
by apparent suspension of the respiration and complete si-
lence.
On the 12th of October, a few d~vs after her first access of
somnambulism, I found 1he patient in a state of catalepsy.
Having placed my hand on the epiga~tric region, I noticed
that her counten::mce became expressive of pain. I then placed
my lips on the pit of her stomaeh, and asked her several ques-
tions; to my astonishment she answered correctly, for al-
though I had read most of the histories of this kind, recorded
in different works, I did uot believe one of them. During
this first examination I made numerous experiments, which
led me to conclude that there 'vas a transposition of iltefu:e
senses to the r;it of tlte stomacit. On the evening of this day
I made fresh 'experiments, during three hours, in 1he presenc"e
of numerous witnesses, w·bo were not less surpri:::ed than my-
self. In a word, during ti'lO months, 1: renewed the experi·
n1ents dailr and often several times a day, making use of ev-
ery precaution to avoid deception, and having num€l'ous wit-
nesses around me. I shall nmv relate, the re~ul ts of these
experiments.
During the cataleptic state the mu~cles prc2ented tl~ree dif..
ferent eonditions :-Sometimes they were all relaxed, and the
limbs could be placed in any position, which they retained,
hmvever fatiguing the posture might be; at other times all
the muscles lVere in a state of rigid contraction; at others
again they were relaxed, and the limbs fell do,~·n ·when raised
from the body.
There ,v·as no sensibility in any part of the body, c.xcept
over the pit of the stoll!ach, the palms of the imnds, and ~oles
of the feet. Thus we might pinc!1 the skin or pierce it with
pins, pull out the hair, tickle the nose, &c., witho~t eliciting
any sign of feeling. On the contrary, if the pit of the stom-
ach, soles of the feet, or palms of the hands "·ere touched,
even 'vith the point of a feather, the girl immediately 'vith·
drew the part touched, and her countenance indi~atec1 displeas-
ure. \Vhen a Leyden jar 'vas placed in communication v.-ith
the parts just named, she had a violent commotion, or 'Yas
suddenly awa!i:ened, but the jar might he discharged on any
other part of the body without producing the s1ightest efrect.
The ears ~.ppeared to be inseGsible ro sonnd, the loudest
noise did not attract her attention; but when a small bell
was agitated over the sensiti\'e parts, her countenance show-
200 PATUETISl\I.
cd she heard the noise. If the lips '\vcre placed in contact
'\vith the sensitive parts, she heard every thiug that ·was said,
although the voice W:;tS ~o Io...-r that it could not possibly reach
her ears. lh·r answers were delivered ia an ~xceedingly lO'\\.
tone, and ~enerally sper..king, the perzon appointed to catch
them '\Yould repeat then1 without heari~lg the question
asked.
The patient nc,·er spoke, except when her limbs were in a
state of relaxation; during the rapid cataleptic state the
tongue and orga-:1s of sp•.?ech '\Vere immoveable.
The scoses of taste and smell '\Vei·e not exercised by their
natural organs, but 1vere 1·ery acute in the sensitive parts.
Thus we filled the nose with assafmtidn, or tobacco; placed
bottles of ether, concentrated ammonia, &c., under the nose
without producing the lea!]t effect; but when a smdl portion
of a sapid body '\V:l.3 placed in contact with the sensitive parts
the patient distinguished it· at once. Thus she recognised
and named, one aft.er another, the syrups of poppie3, vinegar,
gum, and c2.pillairc, wine, water, orange flower water, Seid-
litz water, -currant jelly, l-r,c., although oaly one or two drops
of each sub3tance '\\-as placed on the paln1 of her ~1and.
\Vhen n. few grains of snuff Yvcre placed on the sole of her
foot, she sneezed at once, and thus easily distinguished at
once French snuJf from English snuff.
Although the results o(1ny first experiments induced me
to think the sense of vision was transposed as well ~s other
senses, st1bsequeet tri~tb showed that ,Nh::I.t I had regarded as
vision, was nothing more than an e.xfiuisite sense of touch.
\Yhen an object was placed on any of the sensitive points,*
and she '\Vas asked if she sa'\v it, she aswered 'Yes,' and im·
1nediately named the object if she was acquainted with it, or
if not g2..ve a correct description of the body. Thus she al-
w::-..ys detected a watch, when placed over the pit of the liitom·
ach, and neyer failed to tell 1vhether it was made of gold m·
silver, going or stopping. If asked the hour, she Ytould an-
swer pretty correctly as to the true tirae of day; but if the
hands of the watch were dcsii£nedly char1ged, she always
failed to tell the time they r~mrked. She could distinguish
and nan1e every kind of French ccin placed in her hand, but
not the name of the soycrcign in whose reign they were
struck; she could distinguish a bit of silk frmn a bit of cloth,
but not their respective colors.
At the second nitting, she succeeded in spelling the \\"ord
commerce, 1vritten in larg.c letters, and placed upon the pit of
the stomach; this required considerable efforts, :1nd she com-
~ \Vhat I hare co.l~ccl the "sympathetie points.''
DOUBLE CONSCIOUSi-\ESS. 201
plained for a long time of fatigue; in subsequent experiments
however, she was never able to distinguish any of the letters
of the alphabet, when placed in contact with sensitive parts.
'Vhenever I asked her to point out the seat of her disease,
and indicate to us the appropriate remedies, she refused-an·
swering that such was my business, and not hers.
I have seen the foregoing account published in the London
:U1edico-Chirurgical Review, New-York Lancet, and other
medical works, without a ·word of doubt. But the same state,
induced by pathetism, ·would be treated as humbuggery.
3. DoliBLE Co~sciOUS).""ESS.
I kno'v a lady, who tells me she is frequently conscious of
being transferred, as it were, from one state to another, alto-
gether different, each of them haYing feelings and perceptions
of things entirely different from each other.
A case 'vas published in the l\1edical Repository a few years
ago, of a lady who fell into a profound sleep; and when she
waked up, she was found to have lost all recollection of her
previous life, even her memory of words and things was gone,
so that she had to learn every thing anew. And, after study-
ing for some time to acquire the use of words, she again fell
into a state of somnium, and on awaking from this she re·
membered every thing she had forgotten after the first fit of
sleeping; and what was still more singular, ~he now forgot
every thing which had transpired after the first attack. And
for a series of years she alternately passed from one of these
states to the other, in one of which her men1ory of things
was entirely distinct frmn the other.
Dr. Devan read to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, in Feb-
ruary, 1822, the history of a case, observed by Dr. Dyer of
Aberdeen, in a girl 16 years old, which lasted from 2d of
l\Iarch to 11th of June, 1815. The first symptom was an un·
common propensity to fall asleep in the eTeniugs. This was
followed by a habit of talking in her sleep on those occasions.
One evening she fell asleep in this manner: imagining her-
self an episcopal clergyman, she went through the ceremony
of baptising three children, and gave an appropriate prayer.
Her mistress · shook her bv the shoulders, on which she
awoke, and appeared unconscious of everything, except that
PATHETISM.
she hau fallen asleep, of which she showed herself ashamed.
She sometime5 dressed herself and the children while in this
state, oc, as l\'Iiss L. called it, 'dead asleep;' answered ques-
tions put to her in such a manner as to show that she under-
~tood the question; but the answers were often, though not
always, incongruous. One day in this state she sat at break-
fast, with perfect correctness, with her eyes ~hut. She after-
wards awoke with the child on her knees, and wondered how
she got on her clothes. Sometimes the cold air awakeJJed
her; at other times she was seized with the affection whilst
walking out with the children. She sang a hymn delight-
fully in this state; and from a comparison which Dr. Dyer
had an opportunity of making, it appeared incomparably bet-
ter done than when awake. In the mean time a still more
singular and interesting symptom began to make its appear-
ance. The circumstances which occurred during th~ par-
oxysm were completely forgotten by her \vhen the paroxysms
were over, but were perfectly remarked during subsequent
paroxysms. Her mistress said, that when in this stupor, on
subsequent occasions, she told her what was said to her on the
evening- when she baptised the children. A depraved fellow
servant, understanding that she who1ly forgot every transac-
tion that occurred during the fit, clandestinely introduced a
young man into the house, who treated her with the utmost
rudeness, whilst her fellow servant stopped her Inouth with
the bed-clothes, and otherwise overpowered a vigorous resist-
2-nce which was n1ade by her e\·en during the influence of her
complaint. Next day she had not the slightest recollection
even of that transaction; nor did any person interested in her
welfare know of it for several davs, till she was in one of her
paroxysms, when she related tlie whole fact to her mother.
Next Sunday she was taken to church by her mistress, while
the paroxysm was on her. She shed tears during the ser-
n1on, particularly durin~ the account given of the execution
of three young men at Edinburgh, who hnd described, in their
dying declarations, the dangerous steps in which their career
of vice and infamy took its commencement. \Vhen she re-
turned home, she recovered in a quarter of an hour, was quite
amazed at the questions put to her about the church sermon,
and denied that she had bee!l to any such place; but next
night, on being taken ill, she mentioned that she had been to
church, repeated the \'~:ords of the text, and, in Dr. Dyer's
hearing, gave an accurate account of the tragical narrative of
the three young men, by which her feelings had been so
powerfully affected.:¥.,
• Dr, Spurzheim1 Phren. p. 78, sqq.
?RESE~Til\tENTS. 203
A number of similar cases were stated before the Royal
:Medical and Chirurgical Society, Feb. 28, 1843. One by Dr.
'Vebster, of a patient who believed himself to be another per-
son, at the same time. In one state, he disavows the opinions
and proceedings of the second state; and in the second state,
inflicts puni~hments upon the body of the first, for imaginary
offences, and designates himself as another by bad names
and abuse.
Another case was referred to by Dr.l\Iayo, which lasted for
several months, and seemed to have been caused by the wo-
man's swallowing some ointment containing gunpowder. In
one state this woman learned and said things, which she "\\~as
quite incapable of doing in the other. In one state she was
pert and impudent, and in the other modest and re~iring.
This double consciousness is peculiar to many somnipath-
ists. I have one patient, who does not remember, "\vhen
asleep, that she was ever in any other state; and forgets all
she sees in her sleep, as soon as restored to the 'ivaking state.
6. PRESENTDIEXTS,
Presentiment is an anticipation of something about to take
place, to ourselves or friends. All that iE real of these forebo-
dings, may be traced to those mysterious laws of sympath~~,
which do, unquestionably, sometimes extend to n1inds at a
distance, and thus make impressions upon that independent
sense, which is more or less developed in persons of a peculiar
temperament, as we have before seen. Nor is there any more
difficulty in this supposition, than in the science ofoptics; for,
through what 1nedium is it, that the mind perceives those bo-
dies which are at such immense distances from this earth,
that it must have taken their rays of light more than thirty
thousand years to reach the optic nerv~ 1 And yet these rays,
after a journey of so many thousands of years, establish a rela·
tion between those bodies and the human mind, by which we
have perceptions of these distant bodies.
I have already referred to a cerebral organ, 'ivhich I have
called Prevision. 'Vhen excited, it does seem, sometimes, to
give a most remarkable perception of distant contingencies;
204 F.A.THETISM.
nor is it at all unreasonable to suppose the necessity of such
an organ, if "holy men of old" were once inspired of God to
foretell future events. I do not mean to be understood as
saying, that we could "inspire," in the same sense, any one
to foretell future events, or that the prophets ·were inspired
by pathetism. \Vhat I mean is, that if the Holy Spirit in..
spired the prophets to foretell, or have perceptions, of future
events, it proves that there is an organ appropriated to this
function-the same as \Ve have one for T1·utll, another for
Hope, and another for Love. For, how could man be made to
do things, for \Yhich he had no appropriate o1·gan?
I suppose the organ of Foresight to be located in the frontal
region, between the organs of Cc:.usality; and when it i$
largely developed, or excited in an extraordinary degree, it
may be reached from the laws of sympathy, from various
causes.
An intelligent gentleman of this city, and one, by the 'vay,
as little given to the belief in dreams as any one I ever knew,
gaTe me the following account. Business rendereu it ncces·
£ary for him to visit Albany. But, for some reasons to him
altogether unaccountable, he felt very n1uch disinclined to go.
After vascillating for some time, he finally took one of the
e"\"ening boats, and at the usual hour retired in his berth. He
soon fell asleep, and dreamed that he saw his wife pale, and
scarcelr ali\~e from the loss of blood. She \vas so near dead,
that she had become quite cold, and he built a fire, that by
warming the body he might bring her to life again. The sight
so distressed him, that it ·waked him up; but on falling again
to sleep, he had precisely the same dream again. The cause
of his wife's having bled to de-ath he did not perceive, but it
now appeared that 3he 'vas cold and dead, fr01n the loss of
blood.
On waking in the morning, he found it impossible to banish
the impression ·which these dreams had made upon his mind;
~nd soon after reaching Albany, he received a letter summon-
ing him to return, and stating that his wife, within one hour
after his departure, had met 'vith an accident, from which she
had well nigh flooded to death. On returning, he found that
:PRESENTIMENTS. 305
he had, indeed, been so near dying, that the physicians and
friends had given her up, supposing that nothing could by any
means save her life.
When he left her, he had not anticipated anything of the
kind, and is not conscious that such an accident ever entered
into his mind. And I should add, that this gentleman has no
faith in clairvoyance.
Nov.", if this were a solitary case, we could merely say it
was quite remarkable. But, when viewed in connection with
nul!lerous others still more remarkable, it does not seem alto-
gether unreasonable to suppose, that there may be in these
cases certain sympath€tic laws, 'vhich opera!e upon two or
more minds at the same time in giving presentiments of what
is passing, or about to take place, in other places. The fol·
lowing cases will illustrate the~e laws:
Junge Stilling, in his Almanac of 1808, relates a reina.rka-
ble presentim€nt of a minister, who was taking a walk with
the intention of visiting a rocky mountain near his house, and
of enjoying the beautiful view from it. \Yhile approaching
the summit of the n1ountain, he felt restless and uneasy; un-
able to explain this feeling, he asked him~elf, ·whether it was
right for him to spend his time thus idly, and, bus;ed in such
thoughts, he stepped aside for a moment to seek a cool place
under a wall fanned by the rock. He had scarcely left the
narrow path leading to the top of the mountain, when a large
stone, breaking loose from the rest of the rock, with great ve-
hemence struck the spot where one moment before he was
standing.
'rhe Rev. John Dodd, one evening, when already undressed,
felt a great agitation in his mind, which was altogether unac-
countable to him.. It seemed to him, that he ought to go and
visit a friend, who lived a mile or two off from him. His fa-
mily tried to dissuade him from going that night, but their
efforts were in vain. 1\Ir. Dodd went, darh: as it was, and on
arriving at the house of his friend, he found Lim ready to
commit suicide. His unexpected visit and counsel prevented
the deed for ever, .and his friend became converted by divine
grace.
Schiller, the gr~at poet, was in ~he habit of walking with
his steward. At one time, when passing on a rugged path
through a pine wood and between high rocks, he was seized
by a feeling that some person must be buried there. Some
s
206 PATIIETISl\!.
time after, he was informed of the murder ~fa wagoner cortl..
mittcd at the place, of which he had the presentiment.~
5. rnorHETIC DREAMS.
The same sympathetic la1vs which influence the suscepti-
bility so as to give obscure perceptions of future contingen-
cies, 1nay affect the mind during sleep, as is proved by what
have been called prophetic dream~. The murder of 1\Ir.
Adams; in this city, some two years since, by J. C. Colt, was
anticipated by the wife of the former, before it took placc.-
Two days before her husband's disappearance, she dreamcdt
twice, that he was 1nurdered, and that she saw his bouy cut
into pieces and packed in a box. The dreams gave her great
concern, from their vividness; and she '\Vent or.ce to relate
them to her mother, Lut did not, fron1 the apprehension of
being laughed at.t .
The following is quoted from the London Times ofAugust
16, 1828:-
In the night of the 11th of 1\iay, 1812, I\1:r. 'Villi'ams, of
Scoirier house, near Rcdruth, in Cornw::11l, awoke his wife,
and exceedingly agitated, told her, that he had dreamed that
he was iil the lobby of the House of Commons, and saw a
man shoot with a pistol, a gentleman who had just entered
the lobby, who was said to be the chancellor: to "rhich 1\Trs.
\Villiams naturally replied that it was only a dream, andre-
commended him to be composed, and go to sleep as soon as
he could. He did so, and shortly after again awoke her, and
said, that he had the second time had the same dream;
,vhereupon she observed, he had been so much agitated with
l1is former dream, that she suppos.ed it had dwelt on his mind,
1tnd beO'ged of him to try to compose himself, and go to sleep,
"'hich
0
he did. A third time the vision was repeated; ori
,vhich, notwithstanding her entreaties that he would be
quiet, and endeavor to forget it, he arose, being then between
one and two o'clock, and dressed himself. At breakfast,
the dreams 'vere the sole subject of conversation; and in the
forenoon l\1r. 'Villiams went to Falmouth, where he related
the particulars of them to all of his acquaintance. that he met.
On the following day, 1\lr. Tucker of Trematon Castle, ac-
* Rauch's Psychology, p. 132.
t Commercial AdV"ertiser of Oct. 11, 1841.
PROPHETIG, DREAMS. 207
~.ompanied by his wife, a daughter of :1\'Ir. \Villiams, went to
Scorrier house abourdusk.
Immediately after the first salutations, on their entering
the parlour, where were Mr., 1\Irs., and :Miss \Villiams, rvir.
\Viliiams began to relate to l\'ir. Tucker the circumstances of
his dream; and :Mrs. \Villiams observed to her daughter,
1\Irs. Tucker, laughingly, that her father could not even suffer
:Mr. Tucker to be seated, before he told him of his nocturnal
visitation: on the statement of which, l\fr. Tucker observed,
that it would do very well for a dream to have the chancellor
in the lobby of the House of Commons, but that he would
not be fourid there in reality; .and Thlr. Tucker then asked
·what sort of a man he appeared to be, when l\1r. \Villiams
minutely described him; to which 1\'Ir. Tucker replied: Your
description is not at all that of the chancellor, but it is cer-
tainly very exactly that of l\'Ir. Perceval, the chancellor of the
exchequer; and although he has been to Ine the greatest en-
emy I ever ·met with through life, for a supposed cause,
which had no foundation in truth, (or words to that effect,) I
should be exceedingly sorry indeed to hear of his being assas-
sinated, or of a!l injury of the kind happenjng to him. Mr.
Tucker then inquired of Mr. \Villiams if he had never seen
:Thlr. Perceval, and was told that he had never seen him, nor
had ever even written to him, either on public or private
business; in short, th;;J.t he never had any thing to do with
him, nor had he ever been in the lobby of the House of Com-
mons in his life. 'Vhilst I\"Ir. Williams and lYir. Tucker were
still standing, they heard a horse gallop to the door of the
house, and immediately after l\Ir. lVIichael \Villiams of Tre-
viner (son of :Mr. \V'illiams of Scorrier) entered the room, and
said, that he had gallopped out from Truro, (from which
Sc.orrier is distant seven miles,) having seen a gentleman
there, who had come b t e~'ening's mail from London,
who said that he had b the lobby of the Hom:e of COln-
mons on the evening of the 11th, when a man called Belling-
ham had shot Mr. Perceval; and thu.t as it might occasion
some great ministerial changes, and might affect JYir. Tuck- '
er's political friend~, he had come out as fast as he could, to
make him acquainted with it, having heard at Truro, that he
had passed through that place on his way to Scorrier. After
the astonishment which tbis intelligence had created, had a.
little subsided, l\1r. \VHliams described most particularly the
appearance and dress of the man that he saw in his dremn
fire the pistol, as he had before done of:Mr. Perceval. About
~ix weeks after, rt'Ir. \Villiams having business in town, went
accompanied by a friend, to the House of Commons, where.
~-s has been already observed, he had never before been.
!:!OS PATHETISM.
Immediately that he came to the steps at the entrance of the
lobby, he said, 'This place is as distinctly within my recollec-
tion, in my dream, as any room in tny house;' and he made
the sa!ne obsen~ation when he entered the lobby. He then
pointed out the exact spot ·where Bellingham stood when he
fired, and which l\1r. Perceval had reached when · he was
struck bv the ball, and 'vhere and how he fell. The dress,
both of iVIr. Perceval and Bellingham, agreed with the des-
criptions given by Mr. '\Villiams, eren to the most 1ninute
particular.
The Times states1 that Mr. '\Villiams was then alive, and
the witnesses, to whom he made known the particulars of
his dream, were also living; and that the editor had received
the statement from a correspondent of unquestionable ve-
racity.
Dr. Binns, after relating the case of Dr. \Valker, of Dublin,
who 'vas buried alive, observes-
" Here is a man who, as it 'vere, possessed an instinctive
knowledge that he should be buried alive, and who was so
convinced of it, that he wrote a treatise, 'vith a view if possi-
ble to avert so horrid a calamity; and still farther to assure
himself, entered into a compact with a second party, for the
fulfilment of certain precautions before he should be consigned
to earth, yet, disappointed in the end, and compelled to bow
to the inscrutible fiat of that law of natural contingencies
'vhich the imaginative Greeks erected into supertheism, and
consecrated by the tremendous name of Destiny."
The following case is quoted b same author, from Dr.
Abercrombie, who states, "tha accuracy may be relied
on in all its particulars."
Two sisters had been for some days attending their broth-
er, who was suffering from a common sore-throat, severe and
protracted, but not considered dangerous. At this time one
of the sisters had obtained the loan of a watch from a friend,
her own being out of repair. As this v.ratch 'vas a kind of heir-
loom 1n the family of the lady from 'vhmn it had been bor-
rowed, particular caution 'vas given lest it should meet w·ith
some injury. Both of the sisters slept in a room adjoining
that ot the brother's, and one night the elder a'voke the
younger in extreme alarm, and told her that she had drea1ned
that "Mary's 'vatch had stopped," and that when she had
PROPHETIC DRE.A~tS. !!09
told her of it, she had replied-" ::Much worse than that had
happened, for Charles's breath had stopped also.'' To quiet
her agitation, the younger imn1ediately arose, proceeded to
her brother's room, found him asleep, and the watch which
had been carefully put away in a drawer, going correctly..
The following ni~ht the same dream occurred, accompanied·
by the same agitation, and quieted in the same manner-the
brother being sound asleep, and the \V~tch going. In the
morning, after breakfast, one of these ladies having occasion
to v.rrite a note, proceeded to her desk, while the other sat
\Vith her brother in the adjoining room. Having ·written and
folded the note, she \Vas proceeding to take out the \Vatch·
\vhich was now in the desk, to use one of the seals ~ppended
to it, when she was astonished to find it had stopped, and at
the sa1ne instant a scream from her sister hurried her to the
bed side of her brother, who, to her grief: had just breathed
his last. The disea:;e was considered to be progressing fa.
vorably, when he was seized with a sudden spasm, and diecl
of suffocation. The coincidence between the stoppage of the
watch and the death of the b~·other, is the most perplexing
circumstance of the cr..se, since the mere stopping of the
watch, or the death of the brother, might have been explain..
ed on very rational principles; or had the watch stopped be..
fore or after the death ofthe brother, it might have been eas..
ily supposed to have bee:1 forgotten to be wound up; or it
may have suffered some injury from the hurry and trepida..
tion incident:.1l to anguish and bereavment, but ~s the case is
related, it is cert2.inly a most e);:traordinary, surprising, and
mysterious incident.
In the Life of Sir Henry \Votten, by Isaac \Valton, there is
a dream related of Sir Henry's father, Thom::ts \Votten. ·A
little before his de~th, he dreamed th::tt the University of
Oxford was robbed by townsmen and poor scholars five in num..
her; and being that day to write to his son Henry, at Oxford,
he thought it worth so much pains as by a postscript to his let-
ter to make a slight inquiry of it. The letter \Vas written
from Kent, and came into his son's hands the Yery morning
after the night on which the robbery was committed; for the
dream was true, and the circumstances, though not in the ex..
act time, and by it such light was given to this work of dark·
ness, that the five gllilty persons were presently discovered
and apprehended. \Valtqn also says, "that Thomas \Votten,
*s
210 r ATIIETIS!1f.
and his uncle Nicolas \Votten, 'vho 'vas Dean of Canterbury,
both foresaw and foretold the day of their deaths."
Dreams of this kind have been known from the earliest
ages of the world; and some of the most remarkable instances
ofwhich may be· found recorded in the Eible, Genesis xxxvii.
5-36.
6. \VITCHCRAFT.
Did the limits of the present work admit of it, it would be
an easy matter to explain all the mysteries of witchcraft, by
the laYrs of the human mind developed in a preceding chap·
ter. Take, for instance, the case of the woman who consult·
cd the fortune teller, and who ~ctually died the next day, ac·
cording to his prediction. Or, the cases of the children in
Holland, who 'vere seized with sympathetic convulsions; or
either of the fanaticisms before referred to; and notice, how
they 'vere spread by sympathy, or by excitement, or fear.-
The susceptibility becomes highly developed, and moulded
into almost any shape, which the fanaticism or whims of the
affected ones may please to give it.
There is not a case of witchcraft upon record, but which
would confirm this statement.
\Vhat more likely to bewitch an ignorant, fearful, and per•
· haps a highly susceptible person, than to charge him 'vith
·witchcraft, as many have been, from envy or hatred 1 The
bare suspicion spreads from ear to ear, and strikes terror
throughout the neighborhood and country where the beliefin
witches obtains. The suspected person is shunned, as being
worse, if possible, than the devil himself; and the horror and
fear attendant on the mere suspicion of a crime so monstrous,
and dreadful in its effects, prostrates all before it, and leaves
nothing but fear and witchery in its train.
CHAPTER XIII .
CLAIRVOYANCE.
Nothing, perhaps7 has tended more to check the confidence
ofintelligent people in Pathetism, than the assumptions which
have been put forth, at different times, in behalf of what has
been called Clairvoyance.. Nor is it at all surprising that per·
sons, not familiar w·ith the laws developed in such cases as
have been detailed in the preceding chapter, should be stum·
bled at these assumptions, and refuse their credence to reports
'vhich7 to them, are :?.s really extravagant, as if they asserted
the actual resurrection of the dead. 'l'he human mind, when
well balanced in tl1e cerebral developments, is not to be con·
vinced in this way; and hence, it is quite unphilosophical to
attempt to bring it over, by appeals, merely, to the organs of
marvellousness7 or belief. The intellect must first be inform·
ed-we must first have an apprehension of the laws ofmind,
and be able to see how it is, that the mind obtains its percep·
tions in a waking normal state, before we can readily admit
its power of seeing without the use of the eye.
In order to fully understand the human mind, and as far as
possible, the nature of its capabilities and exercises, of course
we must examine it in its different states. \Ve must dissect,
as it were, its numerous phenomena; 've must examine it in
its sleeping state; we must analyze its operations when they
are manifested through a diseased brain; we must know how
different states of the nervous ~rstem affect its mysterious
agency, and be able to show the difference betweEm the re·
sults of morbid and healthy cerebral action. And hence it be·
comes an inquiry, of the utmost importance, as to what kind
of action the brain is subjected in the production of clairvoy-
ance. Is it morbid, or healthy 1
_}Iuman knowledge is the con~dous perception of any posi·
tivc or relative existence. But this consciousness may exist
PATIIETISM.
in variou~ degrees in different persons, and in different de--:
grees in the same person at different times, according to the
size and proportions of the mental organs. Undoubtedly it
must exist in the greatest perfection in those persons, where
the cerebral developments are the nearest to perfection, not
only as it respects their size and proportion, but as it regards
their healthy exercise. It is therefore manifestly evident,
that knowledge must be highest in those cases, where
the brain is of the necessary size, and where the organs are
properly balanced, and sufficiently exercised with healthy ac·
tion; and we must admit the competency of the human mind
in a waking state, where the mental organs arc thus proper·
ly developed and balanced, to determine on the question
whether any given proposition be true or false. \Ve cannot
allo·w that the human mind may ever set up a standard of
its own attainments, in any but a healthy waking state. To
admit the reverse of this would be opening the door for the
annihilation of all knowledge, 'vithout leaving us any availa-
ble use of either sense or perception.
The question is not whether the mind, in a state of som·
nipathy, n1ay not have a perceptions of facts, which it
could not know in the waking state; but it is as !o whether
the knowledge said to be obtained in this state, should form
a standard by which all other knowledge possessed by the
human mind, in a waking state, should be tried and judged~
That is, shall we judge of the knowledge said to be possessed
by a person in this sleep, by the know ledge we have of the
mind, and the nature and li1nits of evidence in the waking
state, or shall we judge of the latter by the former 1
vVe have seen, tha.~ there are certainly two kinds of sleep.
At least the nervous system of certain persons, is susaeptible
of being put into a state, which in n1any respects resembles
sleep, enough to Le designated by this term. And n1any
have noticed the phenomena peculinr to somnium or som-
nambulism, who wholly reject all that is said to be peculiar
t'o a state of somnipathy, and this, too, when it will be seen,
at once, that there is scarcely anything more remarkabie in
the latter than has often been known to occur in the former
!tate. ·
CLAIRVOYANCE. 213
.
But in regard to the induced clairvoyance ofwhich such mar-
vellous stories have been circulated, there are many things to
be taken into the account, which should not be overlooked,
especially by those who thiak they have penetrated, by this
agency, as it were, into the secrets of another world. \Vhen
this subject becomes better understood, it will not, perhaps
be a matter of so much surprise, that different operators have
been so frequently deceived as to the real nature of the phe·
nomena ·which they may have, in some form or another,
been the means of producing. There is something quite cap-
tivating in 1nany of the aspects which this subject often as-
sumes. Of the reality of " the human influence" there
can be no reasonable doubt. \Vhere it is used for the relief
of human suffering, or in those cases where a state of sleep
is produced, the mind of the operator is frequently taken by1
surprise, and carried so far from its true bias, that it be·
comes quite ready to receive, as equal realities, whatever
may be, in any 'vay, associated with this strange state.
The facts detailed in the preceding chapters of this work,
are sufficient to demonstrate, beyond all question, that man
has a faculty, or sense, which in some cases sees, or has ac·
curate perceptions of things, 'vithout the use of the external
senses. Is it not this sense which guides the feathered tribes
in their migrations from one hemisphere to another 1 Is it
not this sen.se which guides the ox in selecting two hundred
and seventy-six kinds of herbs, and, at the same time, teaches
him to avoid two hundred and eighteen, as unfit for food 1
A species of spider digs a hole in the earth, about two feet
deep, and closes it wirh a curious trap door, so as to deceive
and keep out every intruder. tortoise, though h~tched
a mile from the water, no sooner eayes its shell, than it runs
directly to the ocean, without a guide. The sphex fabulosa,
as if lllOved by a prophetic instinct, prE>pares little cells in
the earth, then she fetches spiders and deposites oae with
each egg, that the little ones 1nay have food as soon as they
break forth from the shell. All animals, w!thcut instruction,
move with perfect skill from the time of their birth, from one
place to another; and they use their limbs, an<.! select their
PATIIETIS)l'• •
food at the proper time and place. l\1i.x salt and arsenic, and
it is said a sheep will select the former from the latter, a thing
which man could not do.
A gentleman on one of tho wharves at Edgartown, 1\Tass.,
noticed a large spider floating on a chip; the tide was run-
ning out of the harl:lOur, and the wind blowing on shore, and
the spider after surveying all parts of his vessel, found him-
self ne\lr the outer corner spile of the wharf, when, perceiving
that he should soon drift by, he immediately began to spin
his web. The threads were fortunately blown against the
spile and firmly fixed. Having thus succeeded in making fast
to the wharf, the ingenious voyager hauled along side and
landed in s~fety.
This sense has been called instmct, but it demonstrates the
power of sensation and perception, as really as these powers·
are known to exist in the human species. True, for the exer-
cise of pe1·ception in man, we have the largest cerebral deve·
lopments, the strength and activity of which depend on the
power of the vital forces, and the balan~e of the sympathetic
hnvs before referred to ; and that this perceptive power in man
is sometimes most extraordinarily developed, and transposed
from one part of the system to another, is well known. In
diseases of the nervous system, persons have been able to see
'Yithout the use of the eye~, and to do things which they
could not do when in a healthy or waking state. And ca3es
have often occurred, where persons long sick, and enfeebled
with disease, have, all at once, become so strong by an ex·
citement of the cerebral system, as successfully to resist the
strength of two or three able-bodied men. The nerves and
muscles, in such cases, s to possess superhuman power, .
and the brain to be en with a most unaccountable sus-
ceptibility.
The cases before the reader are abundantly sufficient to
sho,v, that what we call clain:oyancc is simply the exercise
of this sense, which is spontaneously developed in cases of
disease or nervous derangement. And, though I doubt not
but I have witnessE:d what would be considered some of the
1110st remarkable cases of induced_ clairvoyance ever knowut
215
yet, I should not be willing to assume beforehand, that one
person out of the whole would describe, without any mistake,
·what neither of us knew any thing about, till the time the
de~cription was given. True, I have had many such descrip-
tions; but they h~ve been given under circumstances which
have taught me to be car~ful how I presume upon this pow-
er, or report accounts of its exercise which will not bear the
most rigid inYestigation.
There ~re so many chances for mistakes, and there may be
so many disturbing causes, that I never like to giYe descrip-
tions from somnipathists, as demonstratiV"e evidences of clair-
voyance to those who know nothing of this phenomenon.-
Descriptions of what is in the mind of the operator might be
evidences of clairvoyance to him, while it '-rould not be evi-
dence to any other person. But these accounts, in order to
satisfy others, should be made of things under the following
circumstances:-
The patient sh9uld repeatedly describe accurately, what no
other person present knows, or what all the persons present
know; tlw.t neither the patient nor operator had any previous
knowledge of; and the things described should be examined
immediately afterwards by all who heard the description, that
they may see and judge of its accuracy.
I have before stated, that I have frequently rendered per-
sons clairvoyant, as it is called, without puttirlg them into a
state of sleep; and in some of these cases their descriptions
·were accurate, as near as could be ascertained, as much so as
those of persons perfectly asleep.
I have long been fully satisfied, that the most appropnate
and perhaps the only proper application of this power, is to
the description and cure of disease, and to the delineation of
1111:->D, and the best methods for ·its development; as it is
nothing more or less than the exercise of that sense by which
we become cognizant of mind and things; that sense by
which we obtain knowledge of every thing which is kno·wa-
ble, and \V hich seems to be peculiarly adapted to the inV'esti-
gations which relate to the human system.
There are two considerations which haTe produced the
216 P.ATIIETISM.
conviction above stated. The first is, that all persons in a
state of somnipathy, as well as those called natural sleep-
wal\ers, have always been known to describe diseases, and
the physiology of the human system, better than they could
describe anything else. E\rery person who is familiar with
the induced sleep, will agree in this statement. I have had
the testimony of some of the best and most experienced path-
ctisers, to this fact. They all agree, that their subjects des-
cribe, with the greatest ease and accuracy, when their atten-
tion is directed to the human body for benevolent purposes.
It is true, some allo\..Janc\! should be made for the manner in
which ·patients have been educated, as somnipathists may be
trained into ltabit." of doing various things; but I am certain
that when this sleep follows an effort for their own or anoth·
er's good, they will be more accurate in describing disease or
the mental powers, of themselves or others, than in their de-
scriptions of anything besides. If I am right in this supposi-
tion, it follows that it is a perversion of .this faculty when
it is made to atempt descriptions of various articles, merely to
gratify an idle curiosity. And it may account for the numer-
ous failures which always occur in the attempts to produce
Vlhat is called clairvoyance; as we know but few of what
are called claiTt'oyants, have ever been able to give descrip-
tions .of tltings which neither they nor the operator ever saw,
which were strictly true. Two thirds of these may be set
down as failures, and half the other third will be found to be
wholly or partially untrue, while the remainder is given in
such terms as often forbid our setting the description down as
plain, unmixed m!ltter of fact.
The other consideration to which I have alluded is the fact
that most somnipathists are not olny averse to any at-
tempts at clain·oyance of things, but these attempts not unfre-
quently are followe(l with injury to the patient. An operator
called on me a short time since, to relieve a patient from a fit
ot insanity, brought on by his attempt ·to make her clairvoy
ant; but no such rpischiefs follow the legitimate application
of this agency. \Vhere you find a somnist or one. in a state
of somnipathy, their descriptions of disease1 and of the men-
CLAIRVOYANCE. 217
tal character of others, will be spontaneous, or follow the ·
wish of the operator provided the patient be proper]y manag-
ed. One of the first :phenomena noticed by Puyseger, (the
first who produced a state of somnipathy of whom we have
any account), was the knowledge which his patient seemed
to have of his own disease; and from that time to the pres-
ent it has been found, that all persons in this state more read-
ily describe their own or another's disease, or the mental dis-
positions of others, than any thing \vhich is not connected
with the health or character of any one. I have subjects at
the present time, who describe diseases with an accuracy
truly.asto!:!ishing, and what is still more remarkable, they de-
scribe the diseases of persons whom they never saw. One
·lady in this city has described accurately the cases.of numbers
of persons, whom she never saw, and of whom she knows
nothing in the waking state; ~nd of part of this number, I
knew nothing at the time.
Sometimes we have the persons present who are to be ex-
amined. In these cases, the somnipathist puts his hands on
the head, and traces from different portions of the brai:1 to
the parts affected; and seldom have I ever known them
to fail in finding and describing the difficulty which con~ti­
tuted the disease; and this they have often done when phy-
sicians had failed altogether in their attempts to tell what the
malady was, 2.nd also in their attempts to remove it. They
• tell me, also, in many cases what will prove the most success-
ful in effecting a cure; and I could produce the testimony of
• scores whom I have examined in this way, who would affirm
that these descriptions of their cases by a pe:son in the som-
nipathic state, were more correct and satisfactory than any
ther ever had from physicians or others.
In this way I have obtained the most remarkable and accu-
rate delineations of character and the mental powctts of dif.
ferent persons. This may seem to be mere fancy to some,
I know, but I speak the words of truth and soberness.
The first thing of this kind that attracted my attention was
the fact, that one of my subjects never failed to tell me the
feelings and peculiar dispositions of every one who was put
l'
218 r ATIIETISM.
· in communicntion with her; and some time after I had com·
n1cnccd the course of cerebral experiments heretofore de-
scribed in this work, I found one of my patients excessively
fond of putting his hands on the head of different persons,
and when he did so he instantly sympathised with them in
the feelings of the different organs.
The following is a specimen: it is from the minutes of my
experiments commenced in December, 1841. It is the des-
cription of the head of a lecturer on phrenology, who was
present, and who had for the flrst time the day before, wit-
nessed the excitement of the phrenological organs by pnthe-
tism. After having given a correct description of his head,
she gave a specimen of the controversy which had been go-
ing on dur~ng the day between h'is mental organs, on the
truth of '\Vhat he had seen:-
Causality. "I don't know about it-1 must examine it fur-
ther."
Faith. "Yeo, it is true.''
Conscience. "But is it rigltt ?"
Human Nature. "I don't know, there may be deception
in all this."
Acquisitivcmcss. "Can I make any thing by magnetism?
How will it affect my purse 1 can I make money by it?"
FaitiL. "Ycs, I must believe it."
Causality; "Hold, I must inquire more about it.,
Comparison. "\Vait till I can compare ~t with other things •
I know, and then I can tell better."
Jt.Ii1·th. '' Ha, ha, ha! Faith has the majority."
"The organs had been in such a conflict, that his brain i3
much hC:;atcd and excited."
Language 'of Ideas. "Says nothing, but like the .girl's
beau, looks glorious thoughts."
The gt!ntleman bore us witness, that he was both anmsed
aBd not a little surprised, .on hearing the thoughts of his
mind, which he himself had never uttered, so correctly de-
scribed by another.
Nor is this power confined to persons in a state of somni-
pathy, or natural' somnambulism. :Persons have been known
..
CLAIRVOYAKCE. 219
in di1ferent ages, who have possessed a remarkable faculty
for arriving at a knowledge of the diseases and characters of
~thers. In soma this faculty seems to be natura], and in oth·
ers to have been acqui;ed.
The following are a few of the many cases of mr own,
which may be taken as specimens of the manner in which
this faculty is exercised.
1\Ir. T. applied to me, saying he had consulted physicians
in vain for some years, and was stiil at a loss in determining
what the cause of the difficulty was under which he was suf-
fering. Nothing ·was said to me of his sym.ptoms. He re-
tired, with the promise of calling again the foilowing day.-
On consulting my patient, he at once said he saw the person
to whom I referred, and de~cribed him as follows:-
Tall, small stature, light complexion, thin light hair. His
brain is somewhat diseased, but the difficulty of which he
complains, is a pain located in the calf of the right leg. It is
'(}Uite painful at times, and was caused by taking mercury
some years ago. JYiy patient, among other prescriptions, men·
tioned the medicated vapor bath.
On calling the next day, :Mr. T. declared the description to
be literally correct.
About three weeks ~fter 1\ir. T. called again, and o-:.1 urging
th~ privilege of an examination 'of another case, when he
might be present, the arrangement was made accordinglr.-
The time and place having been agreed on, ]le came, but was
not introduced to my patient. After putting the latter in a
state of somnipathy, I asked him if he saw any body in the
room with us? He answered, no. I then directed hin1 to
look in the direction in which l\Tr. T. was sitting, and at once
he said, "Oh, this is the gentleman whom I examined some
weeks ago, and who had the pain in the right leg. Oh, he is
better, much better now; he has done as I directed him to;
see, he is quite cheerful." The eyes of the patient were fast
dosed all this while. l\Tr. T. testified to the truth of what
was said; and then handed me a lock of hair. The patient
refused to touch the hair, but readily gave the following de-
1Scription of the person to whom it had belonged:-
220 .rATHETIS.!\!.
"It is from the head of a man. He seems to be a Christian,
a minister of the Gospel. He is troubled 'vith a difficulty in
his speech, he speaks in a monotonous tone of voice. His
throat is affected with-what do you call it? [I said, bron-
c!zitis ?J Yes, that is it. His throat is very much inflamed.
He is not in this city, but is at a distance. He has been in the
habit of taking some kind of stimulants, I should think tea
and coffee, perhaps, and speaking in crowded rooms. He is
very firm and self-confident." 'fhis account 1\ir. T. declared
to be literally correct; and he affirmed, that that person had
long been known to be a most inveterate tea-drinker, and his
1nonotonous style of speaking was known to every one who
had ever heard him; and as an evidence of his self-confidence,
he mentioned his boasting of his having carried his views
against ovenvhelming opposition, in a recent n1eeting of the
American Bible Society in this city.
An intelligent lady applied to me for inf<?nnation about her
own health; but lvithout giving me any idea as tow hat it
related. On putting my patient to sleep, she described the
lady, and stated distinctly what it was she wanted to know.
On giving this account to the lady, she was quite overcome,
and confessed the account was of the precise matter concern-
ing which she wished to be informed.
A lock of hair was sent me from Providence, R. I., with a
request that one of my patients should describe the person to
whom it had belilnged. There were two physicians present
on making the examination, and one of them took down the
following description from the lips of the somnipathist. She
refused to touc~ the hair, and begged that it might not be put
into her hand. However, I placed it in contact with her hand,
and she immediately became convulsed from head to foot.
She ~ried, and acted strangely, as if deranged. In a moment
she became so rigid throughout the muscular system, that it
was with some difficulty I could restore her. On being ren-
dered calm, she said:-
"I see him-he is a great way off. He has a good many
complaints, caused in the first place by sudden cold. I see
him sitting alone in ~ small room; he holds his hands strange-
CLAIRVOYANCE. 221
ly; now he is walking about. He once was intelligent, but
now he does not knotV-his reason t·s lost-he is deranged.
Oh, he is very pale. I do not like to look at him. I was af-
fected just now as he is. He seems to be aboQt thirty years of
age, and has been deranged more than eight years."
Two days alter, I obtained a second description of the same
case, from another subject, of course. This somnipathist
knew nothing of the person to be described. On requesting·
her to examine and see if she could find the person to whom
that hair belonged, she gave an involuntary shudder, and was
considerably convulsed; and described the case as follows :-
" Oh, he is crazy, he is crazy! Oh, do take him away-
do, do take him away from that place. They '11 kill him!
Oh, it will never do for him to stay there. They have almost
kil~ed him, by giving him so much medicine. Oh, w-hy did
they make him take so mnch medicine! His stomach is in a
dreadful state. He has been crazy for eight or nine years.
They must sweat it out of him. It would do him good to
sweat it out of him, especially if he could be pathetised. But
they must not keep him confined in that place; he must exer-
cise more."
During this descriptiOn the patient complained of sickness,
and seemed to suffer sympathetically with the person she
was describing.
These descriptions I sent to the sister of the person descri-
bed, and soon after received from her the following reply :-
Providence, R. I., Feb. 2, 1843.
1
!\fR. Su~DERLAND.
Sir,-The description of my brother's case, given by
your clairvoyants, as to the cause of his complaint, the time it
has been upon him, his condition, &c. is very correct.
At the time of your examim:.ticn, he had been confineu in
the county jail for six months; and in justice to your descrip-
-tion I would further state, that in the spring of 1835, when
we first became fully convincetl that he was decidedly deran-
ged, he was conYeyed to the Insane Hospital in --. \Ve
were not permitted to receive any intelligence of him in three
1nonths, when we learned that he was so far reduced by their
treatment, that they judged him unable even to ride home, a
distance of forty miles. At the end of about six months, we
t*
222 PATJIETIS~I.
brought him away, merelr skin and bones, and in a state of
complete uementation. He did not know one of his family,
and frequently crawled about on his hands and feet, like a
beast. As his mind gradually rvturned, he would speak of
l1is treatment at the Hmspital, and said they pumped medicine
into his stomach three or four times a week, and sometimes
this was done at midnight. By some means, while there he
'vas deprived of the use of his left arm and hand, and has not
been able to straighten three of his fingers on the other hand
from that time to this. Respectfully,
'VAITY A. MovlRY.
1\Tr. 0. Wilmarth, of Providence, R. I., may be called on
for a confirmation of the above account.
It has long been a question, upon which different patheti·
sers have found it difficult to agree, as to whether the patient
obtains his knowledge from the mind of the operator, or inde-
pendently of him. The true answer undoubtedly is, they ob-
tain their perceptions in different ways. That the foregoing
descriptions were not given from .sympathy with my own
mind, is certain; for I had no views of the cases. And yet, it
will be found that somnipathists do often sympathise with
the views and feelings of ·the operator to such a degree, that
he merely gives his views and feelings upon the subject in-
quired about. Nor do some pathetisers seem to be aware,
how very easy it is to give a somnipathist an apprehension of
the desired ansu·er, by the manner of pressing the question.
Hence I could place little or no dependence on the reported
descriptions of any patient, unless I knew all the circumstan-
ces of the case, anti especially as to how the questions were
put in order to get the jnformation.4
• I lw.ve known of a number of cases like the following:-
A vatient by some means h:J.d been thrown into severe convulsions,
"W"hile in the somnipathic state. The operator, unable to relieve her,
inquired of her (she was ~aid to be clai1·voyant) to know how she
could be rclie\ed; but -she could not tell. I was sent for, and relieved
bcr instantll, without, howe'.·€r, showing the operator how I did it. A
few days a.ter, the same pi!.tient was alarmmgly convulsed ag:1in; but
· now, s11c directed the open:tcr to relieve her in the verv way I had
done before. This was considered, by the operator, as a ialuuble dis.
cot·ery! .
Another operator put a patient of mine to sleep, and on questioning
her, she directed him as to the best proce~s for putting one to sleep,
and waking him up. It was the very process by whic.b I had always
CLAIRVOYANCE. 223
The following experiments are interesting, inasmuch as
they \Yere performed on a person perfectly blind, (the same
one referred to in a preceding chapter,) and under the inspec·
tion of an intelligent committee, as before stated.
Each of the patient's answers, except when the action of
the cerebral organs were suppressed or excited, were of the
things known to the operator; and hence it is certain, that she
got her knowledge, in these cases, by sympathy Yiith his
mind; as she could tell nothing, \vhen a~leep, which depend-
ed upon the ser.se of sight or hearing, which was not known
to him.
To render the proceedings more satisfactory, the committee
was appointed to determine on ·the order of proceeding, and
to see that there could be no collusion between the operator
and the patient..
On being put to sleep, a stranger went up and was put in
communication with her. In answer to the questions put co
her, she stated his name, (Eddy,) and' the number of his resi-
dence, 17 Park Place. ·
A card was held over her head; she told what it was, and
pronounced the name (Stewart) written upon it, correctly. .
A piece of paper was placed over her head which had the
following letters, prominently written upon it :-A. H. 0. R.
S. V. Z. She pronounced all the letters except one.
The followir1g figures were next read: 1. 3. 4. 7. 8. 0. 6.
A piece of paper with a red wafer was held over her head.
operated <?n that sam~ patient ; but the operator in this case, thought
it a most Important d:scovery.
Another ~till more important "discovery," was made in the follow-
in"' manner. '\Vith the patient in whom I first excited the mental or-
ga~s. by touching ':arious places in the face, I had had frequent con-
versations in the somnipathic stt!.te, to find out what she would state in
relation to Dr. II. H. Sherwood's hypothesis of the polarity of the
hu!nan brain. Soon after exciting her mental organs from different
points in the face and neck, another per:;on put her to sleep, and asked
her whr..t thc.se points in the face were. '' Oh,'' said the patient, c: they
are the poles of the mental organs." And ''upon this hint" thi1t same
pe'rson reported himself as having made the discovery of the " }JOles of
the cerebral organs ;" and I have seen his. claims thus announced in a
foreicrn Journal! But the manner in which that same man interfered
withc mv subject, for the purpose of interc~pting my experiments, may
be left for detail to another occasion.
PATHETISl\1:.
She was asked what colour the thing was; and answered,
"red."
A phial was handed, by one of the Committee, to the oper-
ator. \Vhen he ha_d tasted the liquid in it, the patient made
up quite a wry face. She was questioned, and answered as
follows;-
Q. ·' \Vhat is the m~tter, l\Iary ?"
A. "It tastes sour."
Q. "\Vhat is it?"
A. "Vinegar.:'
The phial contained vinegar.
The operator irritated his hand with a knife. She threw
her hand about, and manifested considerable uneasiness.
One of the Committee took her bonnet, and putting it on his
own h~ad, stepped behind her. On being asked, she told
who it was that stood behind her, as, also, what he had on
his head, and to whoin it belonged.
An Almanac was held over her head.~
Q. '' \Vhat is this, Mary?"
A. "An Almanac."
Q. "\Vhat i~ its date?"
A. '' 1842."
This was correct. The almanac was just from the press,
prepared for the next year.
Q. "\Vhat kind of Almanac is it?"
A. " Phrenological."
Q. "\Vhat is on the first page?"
A. "Picture of a man's head."
She was shown a part of a newspaper, and read a part of
its name.
One of the Committee took a finger ring-from Dr. L. and
handed it to the operator.
Q. "Vlhat is this, l\Iary 1"
A. "A ring.''
Q. "To whom does it belong?"
A. "To-L."
Dr. L. said it was not his, but Prof. l\I. had !aid to the op..
-erator, that it belonged to Dr. L.
CLAIRVOYANCE.
A cane was held over her head.
Q. "What is this, lVIary 1"
A. "A cane."
Q. "To whom does it belong."
A. ''To l\'rr. V."
Q. "\Vhat are the letters on the end of it 1"
A. "J. V."
This was tnle. Another cane was presented to her.
Q. "To whom doe5 this belong, lVI:ary ?''
A. "R-."
The letter "R." was all that could be heard in this an·
swer. The cane belonged to IV!r. Reed.
A number ofwatches were presented.
Q. "\Vhat is this, lVIary 1"
A. "A watch."
Q. "\Vhat time is it by this watch, :Mary ?"
A. "Twenty minutes past eight." The watch had stopped
at that hour.
Q. "\Vh~.t time is it by t,1£s watch 1"
A. " Half-past ten."
This answer was correct.
She was now seated at the Piano.
The tune, "Spring is not Spring to me," 'vas selected by
one of the audience. After repeating "They tell me Spring
is coming," at a signal given by one of the spectators, she
was suddenly stopped.
The Committee signified what they wi3hed the operator to
cause the patient to do by signs; no noise was made, and as
she was blind, of course she could not know what she was de-
sired to do, except by sympathy.
At a given sign to the operator the patient commenced
playing "The Old Arm Chair." Another sign, and she stop-
ped in the midst of a bar, as before. A sign was made again,
·and she commenced exactly where she left off in the first
tune. Another of the spectators then selected, "'Voodman,
Spare that Tree." A sign was given, and she stopped. An-
-
other sign, and she commenced exactly where she left off,
·"The Old Arm Chair."
226 PATHETIS::'Ir.
The operator reversed the passes over those portions of the
brain appropri:1,ted to tune.
(' J\1:ary, I want you to play this tune for me."
J"lfary. "I can't play it."
lC I 'vant you to play this, M:ary; you know it is a great
favorite of mine."
!\[. "I would play it if I could; but I can't think of the
air." •
"Can you repeat the words to me?"
1'1f. " 0 yes."
(C \Veil, repeat them."
}.f. "lVI:y sister uear," &c. (repeating the verse.)
And while she was repeating the verse, the operator excit-
ed the organs of tune; and while doing this she commenced
playing, and sung, "My Sister Dear," &c. And while she
was singing this, he reversed the passes over her head for the
purpose of waking it up. Rhe ceased playing, ai1d as if
awake, in her natural state, answered whatever questions
were put to her, by one of the spectators. \Vhile she was
conversing with her, the operator, (unknown to her) pathe-
tised her beau, and she immediately began where she left off
in the last tune.
I am aware that patients, in a state of somnipathy, may
often be made to hear at a great distance; but it is not clear,
a s to whether they hear by the ordinary sense of hearing, or
by the same sense by which they see in this state. I an1 in-
clined to the latter opinion.
These are a few of the many experiments of the'kind which
demonstrate the reality of a peculiar sympathy between the
patient and operator, and which shew beyond all reasonable
doubt the existence ofthat percepti1:e power, which, in certain
states of the physical system, may be exercised so as to give
accurate descriptions of things without the use of the external
senses.
The following details are furnished me by Dr. \V. B. Fah-
nestock, of Lancaster, Penn., and may be depended upon as a
faithful report of facts, which re~ulted from his own experi..
ments:-
CLYIRVOYANCE. 227
Subject, 1\Irs. H-, of most exemplary character, who
had been laboring under a nervous affection of the eyes and
lower extremities for nearly two years, but who has been en-
tirely restored by pathetism alone. She was requested to tell
what a certain gentleman had in his yard, at the distance of
several miles. \Vhen asked whether she \vould grati1}· the
gentleman by looking, she said she did not care; and &fter she
had looked, she asked me what kind of an animal it was. I
told her I did not know what was tb.ere, as the gentleman
had been very careful not to tell me. "\Vell," says she, "it
is a raccoon; he is fastened, and is now lying in a hex near
the oven, asleep." The gentleman frankly stated, that she
was correct. lie had placed it there, and came over in the
evening to test her powers. Some tir:1e previous to this, she
was requested by a sceptic to visit a gentleman's apiary at a
distance, and to tell the number of hives, and the co~diticn of
the bees, ·which he represented to be in a very flourishing con-
dition. After looking, she remarked that he had ~bout twenty
hives, Lut that the bees were all dead. This seemed strange
to me, and I asked her whether she was sure that they were
all dead. She said, "Yes, you will see they are all dead.n
The gentleman thea stated that such was the truth, and that
the fact had not been known to any but himself. On another
occasion; she w2.s requested by a neighbour to visit his house,
and to state where his wife was, and what she was doinO'.
After stating several things respecting her to his satisfactio~,
she asked me when the tree before l\'Ir. B.'s door had blo·wn
down. I asked Mr. B. whether that was the fact, and instead
of answering 1ny question, he requested me to ask her whee
ther it was all bluwn down. She said, "No, about the half
of it." Such was the fact. Half of the tree, a very large
willow, wl1ich stood before the door, had blown down the .
evening before, and next morning early the fa~t was stated to
the owner, unasl;:ed, and independent of ~my communication
betwee:1 the two houses. His intended visit was unexpected
to us, and the distance bet ween the two houses is about four
miles.
·Patients are always in sympathy with the operator, Yet, as
they frequently relapse into that peculiar state of for~etful­
ness winch they call sleep, it is necessary, when the op::::.erator
is desirous of perfo!·ming a.n experiment, first to draw their at-
tention, &nd to obtain their full consent, before he can succeed.
They have the power ef placing themselves in communica-
tion with any one they pleasP., even at a distance, and can
read or know their mind, if they be so disposed. They ean
do this at any "angle," '7itbout the aid of "that bowl of mo-
lasses/' or any other agent.
228 PATliETISl\t.
This peculiar power enables them to know the mind of any
one in the roorri, and is the reason why all unfair and ungen-
tlemanly skcpti~s are unable to receive such proofs of their
abilities as wcu]d be satisfactory. I have no lloubt, some will
smile at this assertion; and yet, I can assure those who are
interested, that in good subjects this power is very .evident,
and tl~at it w·ill be impossible for any one to receive satisfac-
tion, unless they prosecute their experiments with the right
spirit.
. It now·gives me pleasure to state, that I am able to give
you the result of some of my experiments, which were prose-
cuted to test the powers of the other senses, under like cir-
cumstances, in the same state, and more particularly the
sense of hearing, which, together with the other senses,
strange and unnatural as it may seem, they are enabled to
trn.nslate and use at a distance.
\Vhen the sense of hearing is pathetised, the subject docs
not hear unless there is an. express desire on his or her part
to do so; and when that desire ceases, the sense relapses into
its former forgetfulness, and is then deaf to every sound but
the voice of the operator. They are always ob1iged to hear
him, and if they are "\Villing to listen he can direct them to do
so, and they will hear others speak, &c. without any other
com1nunication. This they can do, independent of his will;
and when they desire to listen, they can hear the slightest
whisper even at a distance, and I have as yet not been able
to set any bounds to it, if, indeed_, there be any.
JVI:y experiments have been conducted with the utmost
care; and I am confident, that if similar experiments be re-
peated by others) with proper care, the results will be as sa·
tisfactory to them, as mine have been to me.
ExpPrimcnt 1st. Subject, a young lady. Three persons
were requested to retire into a distant part of the yard, and to
speak of something which they should bear in mind. 'Vhen
asked what they were speaking about, she said, "they are
talking about the kitchen and the piazza;" and when request·
ed to state 1he exact words they were sperrking at that mo-
ment, she replied, that "Mr. Z. just now said that it will do
verv well," alluding to the manner of the trimming of the
trees, &c. They were then requested to come in; and when
told what she said, they declared that those were the subjects
spoken about, and the exact words that had been uttered.
Experiment 2d. Subject, a lady in the country. Vfas re·
quested to state, what they were speaking about in the house
of a neighbor about one hundred yards distant, and the doors
being both closed. She said they were speaking about a lVIr.
M--, who lived at a distance. Answer ascertained to be
CLAIRVOYANCE. 229
correct. This experiment was performed on the spur of the
moment, wiihout any previous arrangement, and therefore
puts the possibility of collu~ion out of the questicn.
Experin:ent 3d. Subject, a young lady. \Yas requested to
state 'vhat two young ladies were speaking about in the next
room, who had retired fer that purpose. They were directed
to whisper barc!y loud enough for the one to hear the other.
I-Ier answer "\vas correct.
Experiment 4th. Subject, a Indy. \Vas requested to listen
to some music at a. distance. Said she heard it, named the
tunes that were plared in succession, and the bnu of instru-
n1ent upon which they were performed, &c. This was also
performed without any p~cvious arrangement. Her state-
nlents were ascertained to be corr€ct.
Experiment 5th. Subject, a lady. \Vas requested to listen
to what a young lady was sin6ing, ..~vho lmd been sent out
into the woods for that purpose by certain skeptics, ·with di-
rections to ~ing merely loud enough to hrar herself, and to
note ·which piece she ~ang first, &c. Ans\ve:::: "She is sing-
ing, 'lVIy soul is hea-ren boupd, glory, hallelujah !'" and after
a pause of perhap~ half a minute she said, "and now she has
commenced the Promised Land." Answer correct. She sang
but two pieces, and thos~ so low, that (to use the young la-
dy's own expression,) it was impcssible for any person to
have heard at the dis~ance of three vards.
I have two subjects, both geutle.;.nen, in vv-b01n the sense
of seeing is not pathetised, at the same time that the sense of
hearing is, and "\Vho are both able in that state to tran~late
themselves, or ra thcr their senses, to a dista:Jce; and a]o
though they can see nothing, they are enabled to heur every
thing that is said, &c. Tl1ey have freqne:11tly tolJ what waz
spoken at the distnn~e of seYeml n1iles; and when taken to
a cocoonery at tl1e distance of four miles, they declared they
could hear the \vorms feeding as di5tinctlv as if their ears
had been '\Vithin :J.n i~'lch of them. ·
Both of these gentlemen '\Vere a.t one time slrepties, and en..
tered this state out of curiosity. One of them has lately en-
tered into this state more perfectly, and upon tl~e tenth tfia!
was enabled to see, and has now become a. most excellent
clairvoyant.
\Vith these and several other subjects, I h<::\"e performed
many like cxpei·imcnts at even n much greater distance; and
so far as I have been able to ascertain, they have ahvavs been
correct. If, thru, they can hear and repeat the exact words
spoken, or the music played, &c. at a distance so far exceed·
ing the powers of the -same se!~se in a natural state, how can
u
230 r ATIIETIS:i\1.
we limit their abilities? I have also made many experiments
to test the powers of the senses of tou~h, taste, feeling, smell,
&c. at :1. uistance, with the most decided success; and I am
now perfectly convinced, that they can translate all their fa·
culties to a distance, and use them, ~s correctly and with as
much judgment as in their natural state.
CHAPTER XIV.
CO:XCLUSIO~.
If the reader has made ~- candid and impartial examination
of the facts and arguments detailed in the preceding pages, I
cannot doubt as to the conclusions to which he must already
have arri~led. And if he has accompanied his observations
with experiments, for the purpose of testing the soundness of
the theory I have advocated in this work, I nm quite confi..
dent that, though he should not agree with me in some minor
points, yet we ~ha1l not diller in the more important princi..
pies. As, for instance :-
1. \Vith regard to the 1·eality of that agency which I have
denominated pathetism. No fact in physiology is more clearly
demonstrated, than the existence of that susceptibility of the
human system, en which impre~sions are made by mere men..
tal or physical sympathy. To doubt this, with the evidences
before him, which are always available to the candid inquirer
after truth, one must, indeed, doubt his own sens~s; and he
might as well distrust his own competency to arrive at the
truth upon any subject.
2. As to the nature of this agency. I have fully shown, I
think, that it is not, and cannot be, any kind of fluid elin1ina..
ted fr01n the operator into the subject, either magnetic, elec-
trical, galvanic, or nervous. And since I becr.me quite fami-
liar with this agency, it has appeared to me a matter of no
small astonishment, that the many intelligect and scientific
minds who have hitherto investigated this subject, should not
have seen tLe reasons which demonstrate, as I think they do,
so clzar!y, the fallacy of the old theory of a universal fluid.
Indeed, the difficulties in the way of this notion are insupera-
ble: they can never be reconciled to what we know to be
tnatter of fact.
232 PATIIETIS~f.
Nor is there any ne~essity for such a medium. If it be
asked, how the cerebral system of one pen·on can be impress·
cd by the cerebral influence of another, withotit a connecting
fluid, I might ans·w·cr :-
How docs the brain become impressed, or how does the
mind have perceptions of distant objects, such as the planets,
or distant friends 1 Is the mind so constituted, tl1at it cannot
have perceptions and vi8'\YS of distant things wi~hcut a con-
necting n1eclium, through 'lchiclt those view·s are conveyed
from the objects to the brain? If so, how does it come to
pass, that every mind has views of things which never did
actually exist? IIow easy for the n1incl to form to itself pic·
tures of ideal existences, which cannot, in th~ nature of things,
ever Lecome real. But these impressions are not caused by
any fluid, as a connecting medium between these objects and
the brain, for this is impossi!;le. These impressicns are spon·
taneous, and cau~ed by the mind's own inherent action, or by
external agencies by which its functions become excited to
action.
An operator sits down before his patient, and wills him, as
it is said, to go to sleep. The sleep follows tl1is effort, and he
concludes, of course, that his will has caused the elimination
of a fluid 'vhich has pene~rated the nervous system of the pa-
tient, and produced the desired result. But suppose the san1e
results follow, when he wills that the subject should not fall
into a state of sleep? \Vhat then? vVhat becomes of the
will and the fluid in this case 1 And I have had scores of
patients, who would go to sleep just as soon against my will,
as with it. That is: if you give the ~ubject an a}"]Jrehension
that sleep is the anti~ipated result, if he be susceptible it will
follow the process adopted for its production, \vhether you
will it or not. And '\Yith thousands of such facts as these be-
fore us, how can we subscribe to the hitherto prevalent no·
tions upon this subject 1 I have no doubt that many ope-
rators have been decei-v·ed, (as I know some of them have
been n1ost egregiously,) both in respect to the r•:ality of the
results, as well as tl1e agency by which they were supposed
to have Lecn induced. It is quite an easy thi!Jg for some per..
CO~CLUSION. 233
sons to feign this sleep, as well as the mental e~citements in
phrecopathy; and I have known instances where sub~ects,
under the mJ.nagement of these considered experienced opera-
tors, who feigned, to admirable perfection, all the phenomena.
peculiar to a state of somnipathy. And some such subjects
ha,·e even been exhibited before public audiences as the finest
specimens of this singi.!lar state!
Admitting all that has been assulr!ed in those cases, in
·which we are told by operators that they have put their
subjects to sleep whhout their knowledge, when miles dis-
tant fron1 them, it by no means proves the exis:e!1ce of the
assumed fluid. \Ve have seen that two minds, at a great dis-
tance apart, do sonetimes yield to the same influences or
symp~thetic laws, as L"l the C3.~e of 11r. \Vilkin's dream. Nor
is it unrcascnable to suppose that this influence depends upon
a peculiar relation previously established between two minds.
If I were asked "\vhat the medium of this sympathy is, I
might answer, that there is no 1nore necessity for a medium
for the trans1nission of this s:.rmpathy, than there is for the
transmission of thought from one place to another. Sympa-
thr, itself, is a medium, if 've may so speak, which always
exists Phere\er there is a relation establi~hed between the
right perseus or things.
Nor is it pos~ible to show, how thoughts may be communi-
cated from one miad to another, at a distance, without the
use of the ex~ernal senses, by such a pervacli:1g medium as is
supposed to sunound the earth, and even to fill universal
space. \Vith this medium, all the imponder~ble fluids, such
as light, heat, and electricity, have more or less connection.
Nor do we see how thought codd be transmitted thr.ough this
medium to a g;eat distance, and be received into the nervous
system of another, where there were sv many all-pervading.
disturbing causes. And especially, if this be a vibratory me-
dium, does nothing but thought cause the vibrations 1 If so,
it is impcssible to see hovJ mere thought should be received
from a~other at a distance, inasmuch as an thought must have
more or less effect in produci:1g the vibrations, a~d, conse-
quently, the medium itself must be kept iu unending confusion
u:)('
234 PATIIETIS:\f.
by the ever varying vibrations which arc caused by e-rcry
thinking being in eYery part of uniYersal space. Imagine, if
possible, the condition of tltis medium in a room full of peo-
J1le. \Vhat currcuts and counter·currents, vibrations and cross
vibrations, must be kept in perpetual motion, b such a place.
And hew is the straggling thought to be vibrated through so
many inconceivaLly ~ubtile and ever changing vibrations in
the surrounding medium, already filled and crowded with
other thoughts and influence~, which cause innumerable vi·
brations in other and contra1y directions~
Or, suppose we allow th:tt it may be in the nature of this
medium to adr!lit and transmit mere thought, without any
limits to their nature or numbers. Then it wi1l follow, that
we should be able to transmit our mere volitions whenever
and wherever we pleased. It should Le jus~ as easy for me,
while in the city of !'1ew-York, to put any person to ~leep in
London, :ts to do it in this city, where I can reach the subject
by my voice? \Yhy not? \Ve should be able to put any one
to sleep, not o~ly as distant as the e~t.ent ofthis medium, but
any one who is susceptible, though the patient had never
seen or heard of the operator. Thi~, however, cannot be
done, as every opeiator lmov1s. You cannot put a £tranger to
sleep, h0wever susceptible he may be, whom you never saw,
and who never has l1ad any apprehension of your influence.
And while this fact is enou~h to annihilate the fluid or "vi-
bratory medium" theo:y, it presents no difficulty in the way
of Patheti~m; for, according to this theory, a patient may be
put to sleep as wdl n. million of mileG rlistant, as one, provi-
ded he be in a suitable condition at the time, and !mve the ne-
cessary apprehension of the anticipated or designed result.
\Vhere the relation has been sufficiently established between
, two pe:;.·sans, the subject may be put to sleep at any distance
1 from the operator, provided the former have an <!pprehension
of the influe~ce to be exected upon him.
The vibratory, or fluid medium theory, has been :ngued
from the :r-e:ccptions which some subjects have been fou:1d to
have of articles breathed upon or touched by tlJe op~rator;
but I have, I think, in the preceding pages, satisfactorily ac•
CONCLUSION. 235
couGted for this perception, by cl.emons~ratiDg the existence of
a peculiar sense, which is developed in c~~es of catalepsy and
natural or induced somnambulism. \Vlw.t is it tlwt enables
the dog to trac'~ the footsteps of his nu1ster, or the course of
the fox, for mHes together? The feet of the former may be
covered, so that no imaginable effiuvia could be lt:!ft frc.m the
hasty steps upon the surface of the ground pa::secl orer; and
yet, to the dog is given a sense by which the steps and the di·
re~tion taken by his master is traceJ. flJr IT.ilcs and days toge·
ther, y;ith unerring ~ccumcy. Is this done by a vibrating
medium 1 I grant, that the conta,.!t of any article with the
operator, or the e!Tects of his breath upon it, mar so change
its quality as to rendrr it pe;cep!i~le by the Rbove sense; Lut
this does not involve r<.ny necc~s~ity for a fiL,ici, nor for any vi·
brating nu~dium, as h:1s bcea ~uppo~ed. It rather relieves the
subject from any su~h necessity; as this change in the quality
of substances is brought nbout by th~t first hnv of patl1E.tism
alrear.!y descr~bed, 'vh!ch requires that a relation should be
esta0lished bztween t\vo diff2rent things, i!l order to produce
any change in the quality of either.
But this '' vibr~tory mediun1" affo:·ds no solution for the
peculiar sympatl:y which is found to exist, in most cases, be-
tween the opcra(or ar:t:! his patient. V{hy !:·hould not CJ.ny pa-
tient be as rnuch affected ~hrough this universal mPdium, bv
the will of on~ person as of another, provided the operato;s
have an equal fo:ce of will~
In all the reported experiments with magnets, electricity,
the gG.lvanic battery, the eye, and the \vill, we can deduce lit-
tle or nothing in f.·n·or of this fluiJ theory, because we cannot
know how much the mentd appreltensions of the patients were
impressed. These are of no av~il in proving any hypothesis,
until you have succeeded by these proc€sses on a nz'v patient,
one"' ho had eo mental apprehension or auticipaticn of the
process, or its r.nticipated resu] ts. So of opErating by mine·
ra!s and metaliil'! sub~t::mces, or tl1rough any otl1er medium.
I\1uch depends upon the apprehensions of the patient, and
much, also, upo!l the apprehensions of the operator. Hence,
some ahvays complain of fatigue after opera~i~g, and great
236 1'.ATHETIS:d:.
exhaustion: the reason is, they concei\·c great mental effort
necess~.ny to induce any results. I never fl.':el exhausted,
though I h~ve put fiflcen or twenty persons to sleep in a day,
and coul:J just as 'Yell put fifty or five h~ndreJ to sleep in the
same time, without feeling any exhaustion at ail.* !f the
operator fancies himself weak, or that the state of the atmos·
phere is unfavorable, and e8pccially if he gives his ~cbjeet any
idea of these suppcsed disturbing c~usc.~, of course l-;.e will ~ot
succeed so well. It is not denied, but that an opm~tor n1ay
exhaust his own 1nental and physical energies, by efforts of
this kind; bilt there is no more necessity for this, thun there
is of becomin~ exhausted by giving the attention to any other
subject or effort. I have often been cousciou::; of relief, afier
writing all day, by operatin:; in the erening for an hour or so;
and I can easily sec how this comes to pass. The mind al..
ways suffers w·hcn one or more of the organs are kept long
directed to one objc~t; and relief ensues, when the action of
these organs is suspended, by the excitement of other por-
tions of tlie bro.in.
I-!aving in the preceding pages spoken so freely on the na-
ture of this agency, and assigned v:lJ~t I considered to be some
conclusive rcusons, to show that it is not a nervous fluid, or
current, transmitted from the operator into the syste!Il of the
sabject, it is not necessary for me to enter 1nore at large upon
the examication of this question. The more I see and hear
on the subject, the more I urn cor.flrmed in the conclusions al·
ready expressed upon it. One :1dcii~io:Ial f:tct, omitted in the
proper place, n1ay he stated here. It is this: I find it equally
easy to ca::.tse patients to excite their oum mental organs. I
have only to cause the subject to place his finger upon his own
head, and just as certain as he apprel1encls what the result
should be, he will manifest the appropriate function! Is
there a "neurau'ra" elimin:1ted in these cases 1"t
Finally, as to the intrinsic importance of this subject. It
must be understood, of court:e, to be fully appreciated. It is
~ I h<!.YP- put a number into a stn.tc cf somnip:x.thy in my ofiice1 while
sitting n.t my de:sk comr-osin3 tllC puges of thw wotk.
t Sec Appendix.
CONCLUSION. 237
in this field of inquirr, that 've are to become familiar with
the laws of mind. From this source is to emanate that light,
which is indispensable to tlJC right understanding of the men·
tal functions, and the nature of those agencies which control
or modify them.
Hence its application to the purposes of education and the
tnanagement of children. Is it not plain, that the mental dis·
positions and susceptibilities of children should be perfectly
u!ldcrstood, before they can be managed and controlled to the
best possible advantage? And what greater injury could be
inflicted on a child, than that impression made upon his sus·
ceptibility by the undue e~citement, perhaps, of an organ,
when at the same time its opposite function should be aroused
and brought into action? The whole difficulty lies here: if
the parent or tea~her be ignorant of the avenues to those men·
tal functions on which Good Nature, Kindness, Zeal, Benevo-
lence, and A1nbition depend, he will be as likely to excite An-
ger, Aversion, Deception, and those other passions which ren·
der children so exceedingly difficult to m~nage, as the former.
And is it no injury to the child, \Vhen you excite his anger in·
stead of l1is love, and his revenge instead of kindness? In
this way the disposition may become radically changed in a
very short time, and impressions made upon the mind that
will last as long as the power of thought endures.
This subject gives a most clear and s:::.tisfactory account of
the different relations of life, and the manner in 1.vhich they
should be fulfilled. Suppose we take a perfectly balanced
head, for an example. Here is a congeries of various mental
functions, for every relation which it is possible for man to
sustain,-one giviP.g n. sense of obligation to the Deity, and
others for the vario!.Is duties of life, disposing him to the avoid-
ance of all evil, and the pur3uit of the best ends, by the most
appropriate mean~e
These organs are balanced by opposi!1g functions, so thnt
the best n1i.1ds nre susceptible to temptations to swerve from
duty. If thiE ·were !lOt the case, it is not easy to sec how one
could be tempted ~t all, Qr what would constitute the virtue
of obedience.
238 l'ATIIETISl\f.
For instance, if a lnan commits an act of injustice, it surely
is not the organ of Conscientiousne~s which perpetrates that
'vrong, but its opposi~e, which can be excited to action only
when the former is suppressed. And hence we see what con·
stitutcs the perfection of any o~e cllar~cter. It is the indul·
gence or exercise of all the organs, -in harmony with each
otlze·r. Acquisitiveness is not so excited as to control Consci·
entiousr!ess; Revenge is not sufrered to control the vVill, nor
to become excited above the actiYity of Compassion. The
111an has Benevolence, but th~s organ is not to be excited to the
injury of others, and hence, with all the olher org::tns it isba..
lanced with an opposing functio:1, wl:.ich regulates its activity,
when necessary, in pe1ject harmony with the re~t. All the
laws of Gud agree; hence, when the mind is properly balan·
ced, and all the mental and physical functions harmoniously
exercised, His la".vs are obeyed in the use of the one, two,
three, or five "talents>" according to the cercbr?.l endowments
of the individual. \Vhatever is done, will be in accordance
with the Divine La\v, and the best interests of all.
\Ve sec, also, what shoultl be done when the cerebral func-
tions are deficient in any respect. Tile person should be made
acquaiiltcd 1vith these laws; and, knowing his own 1nental
constitution, he may guard ::tg::lin5t those agencies which arc
calculated to excite l~is susceptibjlities to wrong doing. If he
knows he has l2.rge Anger, large Resistance, large Destruc·
tivcness, and little Suavity, and small Benevolence, he may
and should govern himself in view of these facts. He is just
as really responsible (though not to the same degree,) as if
his functions were perfectly balanced, and in the Scripture
langua2;c he were possessed of the "five talents."
The principles here advocated make parents responsible for
the mental characters of their children. \Ve have seen how
wonclerfnlly the susceptibility is dereloped in fcmnles during
the time of gestation, and to what an extent the fG'tuS sh~res
in this q_"Gality of the living bolly,-so much so, that it is in
the power of the mothei: by a knowledge of these laws, and
the government of herself according to t!-Jem, to transmit to
her offspring mental qualities far superior to her own. If,
CONCLUSION. 239
during that interesting and hnportant perjod, her mind be oc-
cupi2d by the contemplation of the good, the kind, and benc-
vol~Jnt,-if all tb e b:1ser functions and passions he suppressed,
ancl no u~haJlc71ed emotions be permitted to find a lodgment
in her disp0sition, the laws of God must be re\·er::ed, or the
good effects will appear in the cerebral developments of the
children botn of such mothers. No intelligent physiologist
cun conscientiously doubt this doctrine. It is recognised in
the Inspiretl Scriptures, as I have before shown; an\!l it might
be seen demonstrate<l in the case of eYery c!1ild, if we could
know the history- of its mother's mental exercises duri~g the
time above named.
I cannot doubt but that the cbaractej_·s of many children are
affected very much, by the want of what I 1nay denominate a
real conjugal unicn beh·
Y€en the parents; and were the sub·
jects treatzd of in this work sufficiently understood, I firmly
believe, far less of those marriages would take place, 'vhere
conjugal union between the parties was ''anting. It is now
generallr admitted, that a large proportion of tbe marriages
which to.kc place, prove unhappy. The parties are united for
life, before they find out that they are not the persons they
thought they were: in other word~, that they have little or
no conjugal love for each other. Hence, each is displeased,
more or less, with the habits, the mental endowments, the
tastes and views of the other, which constitutes a source of
unending difference, aud perhaps strife and tliscontent. Now
all this l::nowledge tbe parties shotild have of ea~h o~her be-
fore the union is formed; and it might and would be obtained,
were the necessary means used for this purpose. There are
some persons so constituted, that their minds can never be
1nade perfectly to harn1onise. They may be too much alike
in some respects, thn.t is, if each have large Aversion, Self-
Esteem, \VilJ, Self-Confidence, and Firmness, the conjugal
love must be very strong indeed, to secure them against fre-
quent collisicns. But when persons find themselves married
'vith this unhappy balance of vie1vs and tastes, they need not
be miserable, cecessarily, on this account. By an acquaint-
ance with the r.~ature and laws of mind1 and a fixed resolution
r ATIIETlS~I.
to fulfil all the d1,1ties of every relation, the action of these
predominant organs may Le 1nore or less modified, and the
mind rendered comparatively lwppy, in its efforts to n1ake the
best of its susceptibilities. It is a 1"!.1atter of reason, for every
unpen'erted mind to desire the greatest amount of good; and
when once convinced that the greatest good of the 1vhole is
the greatest possible good to each individual, the mind should
not hesitate in coming to the decision, to make usc of all the
available helps to secure this end.
Such are so1ne of the practical purposes to which these
principles arc to be applied. They are concerned in all the
passions, emotions, feelir;gs, perceptions, and volitions of hu-
lnan existence. They show how one 1nind affects another,
for good or for evil; and not, merely, how the body may be
relieved from pain, but how the mind 1nay be governed und
developed, so as to szcure the greatest amount of holiness
and I1appiness which it is possible for each one to enjoy.
'HIE END.
APPENDIX.
Since the sheets of this work were in press, I h~ve seen
what purports to be a "Diagram of the Phrenological portion
of Neurology, by Dr. James R. Buchanan." It is a little larger
than life, and is sold for one dollar each. It has his assumed
new or~ans marked upon the head, face, and neck, besides a
number ofletters and hieroglyi1hics, which are not explained,
but \vhich, to the uninitiated, will of course give quite an im-
pressive sense of the mysteriousness of the science.
All the locations of the organs on this chart, di.frer in almost
every respect fron1 the busts marked by Dr. Gall and his suc-
cessors; and as Dr. B. has drawn up this chart from the re-
sults of experiments made by the agency treated of in the
preceding pages, it may not be out of place for me to offer a
few remarks here concerning his assmnptions, though I am
by no means disposed to spend much time upon it, or to notice
(Jny considerable proportion of the many and IXSURl'IOU~T­
ABI.E difficulties which lie in the wav of Dr. B.'s theorv.
. .
The Doctor, himself, made a remark about his system, in
one of his public lectures in this city, last winter, which at
the time surprised many who hcarJ it; but it will afford no
little assistance in accounting for the arrange~ent of the dif~
ferent organs in this diagram. The remark was this: that he
-zm:ented his theory first, and then commencell his experimepts
in its confirmation! That is, he first decided how the phre-
nological organs slwuld be loc3.tcd, and afterwards commenced
his experiments to prove his theory correct! To those who
know any thing of the sympathies of the human system, or
its susceptibilitie.'i, I certainly need not undertake, here, to
say, how rrmch dependence they should place on the assump-
v
.A.PPENDIX.
tions of one who gees to work in thi~ manner to find out the
functions and localities of the cercbrnl organs.
Indeed, I cannot withhold an expression ofmy astonishment,
that a man of Dr. Buchanan's apparent intelligence. should
haYe been so completely bewildered in the labarynths of his
o\vn fancy, as he has evidently been, in building up his theory
of" I\curology." This \Vas to have been expected, to be sure,
frmn the manner in which he boasts of having begun his in-
vestigations; lJUt the marvel is, as to how he could be as fa-
miliar as he assumes to have been, \vith the functions of the
nervons system, for some h'TO years or more, and yet neve-r
have been able to discover, during all thi~ time, the 1·eal na-
ture of that agency by which his experiments upon the cere-
bral system were performed. He tells us, that he has experi-
nlented upon some ~ixty different subjects, who WCJ."e highly
susceptible to what he calls his neuraura, and from these exw
periments he has drawn up this chart. And as I do not at all
agree with the Doctor in his conclusions, either ~s to his lo·
cations of the different organs, or the nature of that agency by
which he operates, it is due to truth that I should state, can~
didly, the rensons for dissent. Of course, I cannot go fully
into thi;:; subject here, nor is it ncce~sary, as I have already
done this in the preceding pages of this work.
The following is one of Dr. Buchanan's fundamental princi-
ples-it is the foundation of what he <?ails "Neurology":-
That a nervous fluid is eliminated from the operator into
the subject, and this fluid, when the finger of the former is
applied to the cranium of tlze latter, etccites the mental organ
/()cated in tlze place touched by the operator.
Thus, if the operator place his finger on what Dr. B. calls
the organ of "lgno1·ance," the subject becomes ignorant; if
on the organ of "Stupidity," he becon1es stupid; if on the
organ of'' Awkwardness," he becomes awkward; if upon the
organ of "Disease," he becom9s sick; if upon the organ of .
"ldiotcy," he becomes idiotic; ifnpon the organ of" lnto.r-
it:ation," he becomes drunk, not with alcohol, to be sure, but
with the neuraura eliminated into him from the hands of the
operator.
APPE~DIX. 243
Now it will be admitted, on all hands, as I have already stat-
ed, that the immediate agency which excites the organs in
any case, must be the same, by whatever cause that agency
is brought to bear upon the mental functions. For instance,
you titilhte the sole of the foot, or under the arms, and you
excite the organs of mirth. But, is there a fluid eliminated,
in this case, from the haml of the operator? Is there a fluid
in this case elim~nated frvm the finger of the operator, into
the foot of the subject, and from thence up into the organs of
mirth? \Yhat conveys tb~.t fluid to those organs instead of
any other part of the system?
You tread upon the patient's toe, and it excites his organ
of Combativeness. But is there a fluid communicated from
the foot of the opera tor, into the toe of the subject, and thence
up the limb into his organ of Combativer.ess?
Again, in the base of the brain Dr. B. locates an organ of
Calorification, and the fluid reaches the organ, he tells us,
when the hand of the operator is applied to th~ chin of the
patient. But what hinders the fluid, in this case, fr01n being
con'{eyed to other portions ofthe brain 1 The truth is, how-
eY~r, that every susceptible person, the world ever, if he is
left in total ignorance on the subject, will be just as likelv to
ha'{e any other sensation, on taking hold of the c~1in, as ihat
of heat; and if you tell the patient before hand, that the de·
sign is to give a sc~sation of cold, in a majority of cases, that
sensation will be produced. If the subject ha ~,.e no idea of
the design, or anticipated results, he will be as likely to ha·rc
one sensatio;) as another. This I know and have demonstra-
ted, not by experiments upon "sixty or seventy impressible
subjects, but upon hundreJs. Indeed, I have demonstrated
this fact, by experiments upon some of the Yery subjects to
whom Dr. B. refers; and I am well persuaded, that he could
not find a subject, but from ~.vhom I could bring out resnlts,
directly opposed to his own nssumptions. And to show how
egregiously the Dr. may have been deceiyed in his conclusions,
it may ue proper here to state a few facts.
1. It is 'vell known, that while iu this city and in Boston,
Dr. B. experimented mostly, not upon new subjects, but upon
APPENDIX.
those who had been frequently pathetised, and experimented
upon before, with very di.ffcrt:nt results. Two lengthy re-
ports were dra\vn up, and published in the Evening Post of
this city, of his cxperjments here-the most of which were
performed on two well-kno\vn subjects-frmn both of whmn
altogether difTercnt results were brought out, by different op-
erators, long before Dr. B. arrived in this city. And that he
'vas deceived in one of them, is a matte'r well known here.
Of this fact the gentleman was informed, after he drew up
the account for the Boston 1\Iedical and Surgical Journal, and
w·hich was published, also, in the Evening Post, in January
last.
2~ Dr. B. was understood to nffirm, that l\fr. I. whom he
brought here from Cincinnati, was one of the best, and
the very best subject he evei' had. And if I am correctly in-
formed, I\Ir. I was Dr. B.'s oracle. He was often heard to
say, that l\'Ir. I.'~ "impressibility" was so great, that he could
give a perfect diagnosis, by merely touching the subject to
be exan1incJ; and he carried this to a delineation of the men-
tal powers, the passions, emotions, and thoughts of the mind,
even to telling husbands whether their afiections for their
wives had changed \Yit!1in one or two years.
The following is a specimen. It is from the pen of Dr. B.
himself, and may he found in the first number of the Journal
of the Cincinnati Phreno-J\IIagnetic Society. He is giving an
account of t·he manner in which I~1r. I. and 1\!Ir. C. (his "stu-
dents,") examine heads, and adds,-
" \Ve hear them say-You arc not so much attached to
your wife as you were once; your conjugal feelings ha,·e
heen 1nuch excited; you haYe been to see your wife lately,
and are very n1uch attached to her," &c.
Now, we put it to the .reader to draw his ow:1 inference,
'vhen we inform him, that the character of one of the sub-
jects on whom Dr. B. operated for some week~, in this city,
(and once before a committee appointed by a public meeting)
and v;rho was frequently exan"!ined by l\Ir. I., and whose con-
dition was quite J1eculia1· all the while, 'vas never found out
APPEXDIX.
by him, nor do we suppose it was even suspected-for certain
we are, if it had been, no 1·eport of any experiments perform-
ed on such a subject would eYer have been made public.
And, what is worthy of notice, l\'Ir. I. and this subject 'vere
cfte!1 understood to affirm that the sympathy betweE'n them
'vas so great, that if one were sick at a distance, it rendered
the other sick also! And yet, the neuraura did not enable
Dr. B. or his oracle to discover, that ther were both humbug-
ged and deceived by that subject, as it is well lmown they
most assuredly were. To ~how still further, that Dr. B. \Vas
really deceived in his assumptions about l\Ir. I.'s power, I
will state one other fact.
Dr. B. long before he reached this city, from some causes,
which it may not be necessary to explain here, conceived a
very strong prejudice against a gentleman, y.;hom we will
here calllVIr. S.* As might be r:xpected he imbuerl J\Ir. I.
his highly impr~ssible subject, \Yith the same feeling, and l\Ir.
I. fr01n the circumstances of his situation, of course, would be
very apt to manifest his sympathy with his teacher.
Hence when in Albany, 1\Ir. I. happened to see a bust,
which he was told ca1ne from I\Ir. S., and (will the reader
believe It,) it actually threw hitn into convulsions; [Dr. B.
was heard to say repeatedly, that l\'Ir. S.'s "neuraura" was
decidedly pernicious, £!] and ho\V could poor M:r. I. who was
so "highly impressible," help falling into fits whenever he
came near any thing, or person touched by lVIr. S. ?l
The reader has seen another case, stated in the note on
page 111, where Dr. B. and his oracle were most egregiously
deceiYed in the same way, while in this city. The facts there
stated, I had from persons present ·when they occurred; and
they put the matter beyond all doubt as to whether Dr. B.
was not deceived in his a~sumpticns, both as to the "impres-
sibility" of his subjects, and also as to the real nature of that
agency by which they were affected. And yet, it is from the
results brought out from such a subject, that Dr. D. h~s founded
his science of "1\eurology," and scattered to the four winds
* For proof, see Journal of the Phreno-:Jiagnetic Society, No, 1,
page 13.
APPENDIX.
the protracted labors of Gall and Spurzheim.* There are not
more than five or six of Gall's locations, which are allowed as
correct in this chart. vVhere Gall places Destructiveness,
Buchanan puts Conservativeness; ,,..rhere Gall locates Love
of Children, Buchanan places Tyranny; and where Union
for Life should be, Buchanan places Cruelty.
I do not see how it can be possible, that Dr. B. has experi-
mented on seventy good subjects, as h~ says, and yet has re-
mained, till now, ignorant of the fact, that no two of them
could be affected precisely alike in all respects. I venture to
say, there is not an operator to be found, of any experiences
who will not agree in this staten1ent. True, the results mar
agree in part; as for instance, you can excite the Eame func-
tions in two or more subjects, but you cannot ahvays do it
from precisely the same locations. But, if these excitements
are produced by a fluid they should agree, and not only so,
but we should be able to excite all the different organs in ev-
ery subject in 'vhich we can excite one by this agency. But
this is not the case, as I know. These excitements depend,
in a g1·eat degree, oa the mental apprehensions of the subject;
and hence the answers, in most of the cases experimented on
in this city by Dr. B. were ~mggested by the manner in which
the questions were put, so that the subject apprehended the
anticipated results. Indeed what could be U10re evident, than
this fact, knowing as I do, that patients may be taught to ex-
cite thei,· own organs, by touching them, just as well as an·
other could do it for them; and this fact~ alone, is enough
to annihilate, forever, the laboured theory of" Neurology."
For these and other reasons I have but very little confidence
in Dr. Buchanan's chart. I am satisfied beyond all doubt,
that his notions about the elimination of a fluid from the oper-
ator into the subject are totally unfounded. The phenOine-
* The following is a specimen of the estimate which one of the me-
dica! profession of this city, (but we believe he ,,,;as the onl:y one who
rece1ved Dr. B.'s theory,) put upon these monstrous assumptions. D_r.
S: Forry, -;peaking of Dr. ~uchanan's discoveries, says: " Before t_Jus
d1scovery, on the assum\Jtlons of its truth, those of Gall, Spurzhe1m,
Majendie, and Sir Chanes Bell, dwind1e into comparath·e insignifi·
cance/' Sure]y the age of Tractors is not past!
.APP:EXDIX. 24-7
na induced by his experiments, and those also under the name
of l\Iesmerism, are produced by the laws of sympathy or ner-
vous induction. I ha,·e a thousand times produced these phe-
nomena, without contact with the subject, and without v.:il-
ling them as it has been called, and consequeatly without any
fluid, magnetic o_
r nervous.
