{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1843__thornton___the_theory_of_the_second_advent.pdf","mytitle":"The Theory Of The Second Advent","mylang":"de"}
i-
THE THEORY
OP THB
SECOND ADVENT IN 1843,
SCRIPTURALLY EXAMINED,
AND ITS
von Tdlt^Pl^r^^lf IKlFOilPp
w
A LECTURE,
BY R. H. THORNTON,
MINISTER 0? THE GOSPEL, WHITBT.
©tlatnalls treinieteti, anH note publlatetJ bs tequest.
PRINTED BY J. CLELAND, 15, CITY BUILDINGS.
1843.
THE THEORY
SECOND ADVENT IN 1843
SCRIPTURALLY EXAMINED,
AND IT!
EVUL 'TFEINIEIDECNIQY EXlF©SE@,
A LECTURE,
BY R. H. THORNTON,
MINISTER 0? THE GOSPEL, Wlll1'BY»
_________..____-1-1-
®rtginalIp Uelthereu, ann nah: publisher by requzst.
________._._....__.--
T
©
[R
©
[N TI'
©
I
PRINTED BY J. CLELAND, 15, CITY BUILDINGS.
1843.
r
i
I
J
PREFACE.
I
I
J
The following Lecture i> made public, with no .mall reluctance on the
Ir. I Author, conscous ,e he is, that the «=-P'»'>""y;;"'
"^t
U was received, by the nun.erou, ; .dividuals from among .11 denomma-
•.ions, who requested its delivery, must have been owtng m«cA ».or«Jo
the unprecedented excitement occasioned by the subjec of »vh,ch .t treats,
Tan to any intrinsic eKcellency. The call for its P"""-'"'"' '-° "'^;''
was made in such a manner, and to such eKtent, tt could not be w,A-
Ld, lest it might have been supposed, thai was deUvered, wh.ch could
not bear more minute investigation.
Should it find its way into the hands of any, beyond the sphere of
that excitement which has given it importance, there is no doubt but the
r tt:is, will command that respect which -th^lw^^^^^^^^
from its friends; while its numerous
^-P^^^f
-"^"'"' '*
'
^^^^^^^^^^^
charitably attributed to their real cause-the getting up of it hastily
and unexpectedly, amid engagements already greaU
With the exception of a few notes, furnishing matter ot^ explanation
or intlst, it is not,'so far as he is conscious, -terially el^er alt^^^^^^^^^^
enlarged since it was delivered. Wherever ,t may go, that it may have
the beslg of Him, who cays with regard to human instrumental.ty,
« not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit," is the earnest prayer of
THE AUTHOR.
Whitby, ^th Aprily 1843.
PREFACE.
THE following Lecture is made public, with no small reluctance on the
part of the Author, conscious as he is, that the acceptability with which
it was received, by the numerous i idividuals from among all denomina-
tions, who requested its delivery, must have been owing, much more to
the unprecedented excitement occasioned by the subject ot' which it treats,
than to any intrinsic excellency. The call for its publication, however,
was made in such a manner, and to such extent, it could not be with-
held, lest it might have been supposed, that was delivered, which could
not bear more minute investigation.
Should it find its way into the hands of any, beyond the sphere of
that excitementwhich has given it importance, there is no doubt but the
truth it contains, will command that respect which truth always receives
from its friends; while its numerous imperfections will, it is hoped, be
charitably attributed to their real cause-the getting up ot' it hastily
and unexpectedly, amid engagements already great.
With the exception of a few notes, furnishing matter of explanation
or interest, it is not, so far as he is conscious, materially either altered or
enlarged since it wa delivered. Wherever it may go, that it may have
the blessing of Him, who nays with regard to human instrumentality,
"
not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit," is the earnest prayer cf
THE AUTHOR.
Wnrrnv, 44/1 ./Qpril, 1843.
«» I
\
. .i.
i
LECTURE.
\
< *
Acts, i. 7.—" It is not for you to 'mow the times or the ie^sons which the Father
halh put in his own power."
Times and seasons are terms which occur very often in Scripture, and
stand for periods of time indefinitely. They are almost universally
employed to denote those great eras in the dispensations of Divine Pro-
vidcicr. connected with some peculiar change or revolution in the state
of afinirs in this lower world. The terms are employed in peculiar
aii'-.GrdAnce with the way in which He thinks of time, with whom « one
d- y is as a i.houriand years, and a thousand years as one day." What
" lirr.es <xna stasoiis" are alluded to in this passage, it is not difficult to
ascertain. Ti:e vords are an answer to a question put by the disciples
to their risen Lord, in the preceding verses. « They asked him," saying,
"Lord, wilt thou at this time, restore again the kingdom to Israel ?"
But, to ascertain more distinctly what is referred to, in both the
question and answer, we must turn to Matt. xxiv. 3, where we are told,
that when Jesus was with his disciples upon the Mount of Olives, and
foretelling the destruction of the Temple, to the splendours of which they
had directed his attention, they said, " Tell us when shall these things
bet and what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of
the world r What ideas the disciples had of the « coming" here
referred to, it is impossible for us to say ;
for, till a considerable time
after his resurrection, their views regarding the nature and objects of
his mission, were imperfect and confused. But when He speaks of the
subject, it is uniformly in reference to some signal display of his glory-
some remarkable ey.ercise of his power—or some notable change or
revolution in the state of affairs. His coming, therefore, sometimes
means a spiritual manifestation of himself, by his Gospel, either to his
disciples or to the world j it also denotes his invisible, but powerful
agency as Judge, in bringing total destruction upon the impenitent nation
of the Jews, by the instrumentality of the Roman armies ;
or, it is
employed literally, in reference to his final, visible, and glorious Second
Advent to judge the world. Now, of this final season, closing up all the
events of time, He makes the prophecy throughout this chapter, a type,
and a prophecy ; hence the prophecy runs on in a twofold reference.
ns
9
JL
A
l
I
J
LECTURE.
Acrs, r. 7.-" It is not for you to know the times or the
aepsons which the Father
hath put in his own power."
TIMES and seasons are terms which occur very often in Scripture, and
stand for periods of time indefinitely. They are almost universally
employed to denote those great eras in the dispensations of Divine Pro-
vidence, connected with some peculiar change or revolution in the state
of affairs in this lower world. The terms are employed in peculiar
accordance with the way in which He thinks of time, with whom "
one
d'.y Es as a thatusand years, and a thousand years as one day." What
"
times and seasons" are alluded to in this passage, it is not difficult to
ascertain. The words are an answer to a question put by the disciples
to their risen Lord, in the preceding verses.
"
They asked him," saying,
"
Lord, wilt thou at this time, restore again the kingdom to Israel 'l"
But, to ascertain more distinctly what is referred to, in both the
question and answer, we must turn to Matt. xxiv. 3, where we are told,
that when Jesus was with his disciples upon the Mount of Olives, and.
foretelling the destruction of the Temple, to the splendours of wltich they
had directed his attention, they said, "
Tell us when shall these things
he'l and what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of
the world T" What ideas the disciples had of the "
coming" here
referred to, it is impossible for us to say; for, till a considerable time
after his resurrection, their views regarding the nature and objects of
his mission, were imperfect and confused. But when He speaks of the
subject, it is uniformly in reference to some signal display of hi glory-
some remarkable exercise of his power-or some notable change or
revolution in the state of affairs. His coming, therefore, sometimes
means a spiritual manifestation of himself, by his Gospel, either to his
disciples or to the world; it also denotes his invisible, but powerful
agency as Judge, in bringing total destruction upon the impenitent nation
of the Jews, by the instrumentality of the Roman armies ; or, it is
employed literally, in reference to his final, visible, and glorious Second
Advent to judge the world. Now, of this final season, closing up all the
events of time, He makes the prophecy throughout this chapter, a type,
and a
prophecy; hence the prophecy runs on in a twofold reference,
^
6
intermingling the desciipiiona of the destruction of Jerusalem and of the
end of the world. " The principle on which this combined description
of two events was 8p(.4en, appears to be, that they could be described
in the same words, and therefore the accounts are interiiungled. Simi-
lar lanffuagc is frequently employed by Isaiah, where the descripl on of
the return from the Babylonish captivity siils also that accomplished by
the Messiah. This will serve to explain what has seemed an inconsist-
ency to many—that certain things which seem capable of being realized
only at the last day, are yet connected with declarations which can have
a reference only to the prior event. Thus, in the 34th verse it is said,
« This generation shall not pass, till all those things be fulfilled. Ihe
meaning of which is, that generation should not pass, till events took
place that should be a complete fulfilment, if there were nothing farther
intended. Yet the day of judgment was not thereby excluded ;
but only,
that the destrucilon of Jerusalem would be such, as to make appropriate
the words of the prediction, were there nothing beyond. In like man-
ner, when death was threatened to Adam, the propriety of the threaten-
ing would have been seen, and its truth vindicated, had men been
subjected only to hmporal death ;
yet it had a fulness of ^i^^ningy
extending also to spiritual and eternal death, or the "pains of hell.
So the words of Christ had a fulness cf import, which would meet also
the e.c-tsof the final judgment ; and the meaning, therefore, would not
he filled up till the end of time. Now, it is in reference to these descrip-
tions, that the disciples put the question already noticed, exactly similar
to that in Acts i, 6 ; and our Lord declares, verse 36, « that the precise
time of their fulfilment is unknown to men, yea, even to the angels.
The general signs betokening its approach, were distinctly given, jus*^
as the budding of the fig-tree, when the juices have returned from the
roots to the branches, is a certain indication that summer is near ;
but
ihe precise time is not indicated. To say, as some have done, that our
Lord's statement « does not prevent the year being known, is too much
of quibble to merit serious notice.
These remarks, although somewhat lengthened, are called for, m
order to clear up the fallacies of Milli^r's views upon this chapter, as
well as to illustrate the passage in the Acts. You will now perceive,
that in the latter passage, the same truth is declared regarding man a
ignorance oUhat day ; and with this important addition, that the know-
ledge of it is not becoming or proper for man. " It is not for you to
know the times and the seasons which the Father hath put in his own
power." None need to be informed how much has been done in our
neighbourhood, and elsewhere, to explain away these solemn declara-
tions, nor how boldly " the same word of prophecy" has been pressed
into the service, as having all along foretold the very thing wnich our
Lord, as we have just seen, both before his death, and after his resurrec-
tion, emphatically declared was not to be, communicated, to man. The
1
6
intermingllng the descriptions of the destruction of Jerusalem and of the
end of the world. "
The principle on which this combined description
of two events was spoken, appears to he, that they could be described
in the same words, and theret`ore the accounts are intermingled." Simi-
lar language is frequently employed by Isaiah, where the descripfon of
the return from the Babylonish captivity suits also that accomplished by
the Messiah. This will serve to explain what has seemed an inconsist-
ency to many--that certain things which seem capable of being realized
only at the last day, are
yet connected with declarations which can have
a reference only to the prior event. Thus, in the 3~1~th verse it is said,
"
This generation shall not pass, till all these things be fulfilled." The
meaning of which is, that generalion should not pass, till events tool:
place that should be a complete fulfilment, if there were nothing farther
intended. Yet the day ofjudgment was not thereby excluded ; but only,
that the destruction of Jerusalem would be such, as to make appropriate
the words of the prediction, were there nothing beyond. In like man-
ner, when deal/a was threatened to Adam, the propriety ofthe threaten~
ing would have been seen, and its truth vindicated, had men been
subjected only to fcmporal death ; yet it had a
fulness of meam'ng,_
extending also to spiritual and eternal death, or the "pains of hell.'
So the words of Christ had a fulness ofimport, which would meet also
the events of the final judgment; and the meaning, therefore, would not
bejilled up till the end of time. Now, it is in reference to i/zcse descrip-
tions, that the disciples put the question already noticed, exactly similar:
to that in Acts i, 6 ; and our Lord declares, verse 36, "that the precise
time of their fulfilment is unknown to men, yea, even to the angels.f'
The general signs betokening its approach, were distinctly given, just
as the budding of the fig-tree, when the juices have returned from the
roots to the branches, is a certain indication that summer is near; but
the precise time is not indicated. To say, as some have done, that our
Lord's statement "
does not prevent the year being known," is too much,
of guibble to merit serious notice.
These remarks, although somewhat lengthened, are called for, in
order to clear up the fallacies of Miller's views upon this chapter, as
well as to illustrate the passage in the Acts. You will now perceive,
that in the latter passage, the same truth is declared regarding man's
ignorance oft/:at day; and with this important addition, that the know-
ledge of it is not becoming or proper for man.
"
It is not for you to
know the times and the seasons which the Father hath put in his own
power." None need to be informed how much has been done in our
neighbourhood, and elsewhere, to explain away these solemn declara-
tions, nor how boldly
"
the same word of prophecy" has been pressed
into the service, as having all along foretold the very thing which our
Lord, as we have just seen, both before his death, and after his resurrec-
tion, emphatically declared was not to be communicated to man. The
+
consequence has been, that many, like the Thessaloaians, are " shaken
in mind, as though the day of Christ,'* the lerminaiion of the Hmea and
seasons, *' were at hand."
To advert publicly to this theory, I for a considerable time felt reluc-
tant, not only because of the difficulty of muKing any subject, so much
connected as this is with the reasonings of men, as useful as J wish all
my feeble efforts in the pulpit to be, but also, because I regarded it as
one of those visionary theories which, when most unheeded, are most
speedily numbered among the things of the past. Opposition in such
casesy not only attracts a notice which is not merited, but is almost cer-
tain to giv3 them \\h and form. But as not only an earnest request has
been made over the Township to take it up, but as it has of late been
promulgated with all the characteristics of insidious infidelity, 1 am ready
—if there is the prospect of aiding one mind involved in perplexity,
or of stopping the flood-gates of error—I am ready to " contend for
the faith once delivered to the saints."
It lias been the mode of some to dismiss the whole subject with
affected ridicule; but while this may be, and I believe is very appli-
cable to no small part of the reasonings by which it is supported, yet,
as scripture is appealed to with such confidence, we must come to it
after the manner of the Bereans, and search " whether these things a' i
so." And instead, therefore, of dwelling much upon the calculations
connected with it, which few in a mixed audience could follow, it will
be more satisfactory I trust, and certainly more useful, to turn our atten-
tion chiefly to the yet unfulfilled outline in the Prophetic Word. This
is what every one who " can read in his own tongue" may examine ;
and it is that of which the " faithful and true Witness" has affirmed^
" all shall be fulfilled." And when we " search the Scriptures," it must
never be with a view to support any preconceived theory, but to make
every theory bend, and every thought and affection submit, to the dictates
of the unerring Spirit speaking in the Word
In what remains, I shall endeavour to proceed in the following
order :
—
I. bhew that every attempt to interpret unfulfilleu ^.rophecy, should
be characterised by great modesty and caution.
II. That in the interpretation of that outline prophecy has present-
ed, and which the events of time fill up. Miller and his followers have
greatly erred.
III. Advert to some of the fundamental errors of the system, exhi-
bit a few of its numerous inconsistencies, and expose its dangerous ten-
dency.
IV. Notice the end for which we should examine prophecy, in
tracing the dispensations of Divine Providence.
First. I am to shew that our attempts to interpret unfulfilled- pro-
phecy, should be peculiarly cautious.
7
consequence has been, that many, like the Thessalonians, are
"
shaken
in mind, as though the day of Christ," the termination of the limes and
seasons,
"
were at hand."
'l`o advert publicly to this theory, I for a considerable time felt reluc-
tant, not only because ofthe dimcnlty of making any subject, so much
connected as this is with the reasonings of men, as
useful as I wish all
my feeble efforts in the pulpit to be, but also, because Iregarded itas
one of those visionary theories which, when most unheeded, are most
speedily numbered among the things of the past. Opposition in such
cases, not only attracts a notice which is not merited, but is almost cer-
tain to give them life and form. But as not only an earnest request has
been made over the Township to take it up, but as it has of late been
nromulgated with all the characteristics ofinsidiousintidelity,l am
ready
Z-if there is the prospect of aiding one mind involved in perplexity,
or of stopping the Ilood»gates of error-I am ready to "contend for
the faith once delivered to the saints."
It has been the mode of some to dismiss the whole subject with
affected ridicule; but while this may bc, and Ibelieve is very appli-
cable to no small part ofthe reasonings by which it is supported, yet,
as scripture is appealed to with such confidence, we must come to it
after the manner ofthe Bereans, and Search "
whether these things ai 1
so." And instead, therefore, of dwelling much upon the calculations
connected with it, which few in a mixed audience could follow, it will
be more satisfactory I trust, and certainly more useful, to turn our atten-
tion chielly to the yet unfulfilled outline in the Prop/telic Word. This
is what every one who "can read in his own tongue" may examine ;
and it is that of which the "faithful and true Witness" ~has affirmed,
"
all shall be fulfilled." And when we
"
search the Scriptures," itmust
never be with a view to support any preconceived theory, but to make
every theory bend, and every thought and affection submit, to the dictates
ofthe unerring Spirit speaking in the Word
In what remains, I shall endeavour to proceed in the following
order :-
I. bhew that every attempt to interpret unfulfilled prophecy, should*
be characterised by great modesty and caution.
II. That in the interpretation of that outline prophecy has present-
ed, and which the events of time till up, Miller and his followers have
greatly erred.
IIT. Advert to some ofthe fundamental errors of the system, exhi-
bit a few of its numerous inconsistencies, and expose its dangerous ten-
denc .
liv. Notice the end for which we should examine prophecy, in
tracing the dispensations of Divine Providence.
First. I am to shew that our
attempts to interpret unfulfilled' pro-
phecy, should be peculiarly cautious.
'
8
The necemty of this, many will doubtlenK consider so obvious, as
\o deem any confirmation of it unneceMary. Such, however, is the dis-
position in modern times, to apoculate upon the unfulfilled part of the
train of prophecy, and BU''h the want of modesty and caution many
have displayed, that we cannot have the truth of this proposition too
strongly impressed upon our minds.
Within the last twenty-five years, numerous have been the attempts
to establish systems of calculation, in reference to the obscure language
of prediction, by which the most interesting events may, with accuracy,
be determined; and the means which ingenuity and learning, conserra-
ted by piety, have brought to our hands, are very great. But while we
are encouraged by the numerous and triumphant vindications of Divine
Providence, vvlich writers upon the subject have furnlsheu, we must
ever bear. in mind, that there is always an imminent danger of over
•tepping that boundary assigned by Him, to whom all time is but a
point. To this boundary he has directed our particular attention, by
saying to us, '**
things that are revealed belong to us and to our children ;
but secret things belong to the Lord our God."
This line, I hesitate not to say, has been ever-stepped '::/ those
who presumptuously declare, that within the limits of the current year,
the consummation of all things shall lake place,—or from Vth to 14'h
April next, as tHey have at length more positively determined. The
very design c. prophecy, as interpreted and eniployed by them, has
been, I conceive, entirely misunderstood. Its design was surely not io
impart foreknowledge to man, but to deraonstiate inat God possesses it
and as time rolls on, along the prophetic ou'line, to present from age to
age the most incontrovertible evidence that "Jehovah reigneth," and
thus furnish the believing with so many ple^Jges Xh^Xallf.hall be fulfilled,
"Time has ever been ihe great interpreter of prophecy;" and the
Divine Wisdom has been displayed by that obscurity which rests upon
prophecy, till time declare it. Things future are commonly announced
in terms sufficiently obscure to check presumption in a pious mind, and
yet sufficiently clear to afford satisfactory evidence, when once the events
have taken place, that every circumstance was fore-ordained, foreseen,
and foretold. But those who start ahead of time, the great revealer of
secrets, must grope their way by a wisdom above what is written, and in
a '^perpetual mist, through which indeed a variety of objects are visible,
but none of them distinctly seen."
Now, I apprehend, we need no better evidence that the Theorists
already alluded to, have proceeded too quickly, vhan the almost distract-
ing variety of hypothesis which have already been broached upon the
subject of prophecy. When we have before us so many instances of
wide disagreement, between those of equal industry and talent—of the
oft-repeated failure of calculations, upon which the greatest stress has
beien laid—it Ib surely high time to bieware, and <' not lean to our own
8
The necessity of this, many will doubtless consider so
obvious, as
to deem any confirmation oi' it unnecessary. Such, however, is the dis-
position in modern times, to speculate upon the unfullilled part of the
train ol' prophecy, and such the want of modesty and caution many
have displayed, that we cannot have the truth ot` this proposition too
strongly impressed upon our minds.
Within the last twenty-five years, numerous have been the attempts
to establish systems of calculation, in reference to the obscure language
ol' prediction, by which the most interesting events may, with accuracy,
be determined; and the means which ingenuity and learning, consecra-
ted by piety, have brought to our hands, are very great. But while we
are
encouraged by the numerous and triumphant vindications of Divine
Providence, wllch writers upon the subject have furnished, we must
ever bear_in mind, that there is always an imminent danger of over
stepping that boundary assigned by Him, to whom all time is but a
point. To this boundary he has directed our particular attention, by
saying to us,
"
things that are revealed belong to us and to our children ;
but secret things belong to the Lord our God."
T/tis line, I hesitate not to say, has been cver-stepped 'xy those
who presumptuously declare, that within the limits ol' the current year,
the consummation ol' all things shall take place,-or from '-'th to 14-th
April next, as
they have at length more
positively determined. The
very design c. prophecy, as
interpreted and employed by them, has
been, I conceive, entirely misunderstood. Its design was
surely not ia
impart foreknowledge to man, but to demonstrate that God possesses it;
and as time rolls on, along the prophetic outline, to present from age to
age the most~`incontrovertible evidence that "Jehovah reigneth," and
thus furnish the believing with so
many pledges that all s/tall befulfilled,
"Time has ever been the great interpreter of prophecy ;" and the
Divine Wisdom has been displayed by that obscurity which rests upon
prophecy, till time declare it. Things future are
commonly announced
in terms sufiiciently obscure to check presumption in a
pious mind, and
yet sudiciently clear to afford satisfactory evidence, when once the events
have taken place, that every circumstance was
fore-ordained, foreseen,
and foretold. But those who start ahead ot' time, the great revealer of
secrets, must grope their way by a wisdom above what is written, and in
a.
"perpetual mist, through which indeed a
variety ol' objects are visible,
but none of them distinctly seen."
Now, I apprehend, we need no better evidence that the Tlzeorists
already alluded to, have proceeded too quickly, than the almost distract-
ing variety of hypothesis which have already been broached upon the
subject of prophecy. When we have before us so
many instances of
wide disagreement, between those of equal industry and talent-ofthe
oft-repeated failure of calculations, upon which the greatest stress has
been laid--it is surely high time to beware, and "not lean to our own
9
undertj'.pnding," by allerr.ptitig lo "give the stan.p and currency of
in!S|)ire;J truili" t'l those conjectures wtiicli litne may ere long deftion-
Btrate to havfj spriinj; iVoin our prfsuuiplion, iuipaliciue, or ignorance.
Apart, ilierclore, iVoin l!ia solcintuty of ilic ca.;o —apart from the
dec[)ly responsible' attempt lo docyplier with accuracy the sketching.^ out
oftiie Elernai Spirit, in his prot^peciivo oull'ue of the world's history,
suiely the consideration, that we treau upon the ground where many of
the wise and mighty have gone astray, shouhl lend us to advafice with
that humility and caution, whicli accord witli the entreaty ''''had me
God in (hy truths (each wt." Were any specific illustration required,
I might adduce tiie fact, which many here will recollect w'lli me, that a
little more than ten years ago. the followers of Irving, in lllngland, and
of Cnnipbell, of Row, in Sco d, for a tinie, e}:pected frorr* day to day,
the Second Advent of the Ai,.f.siah, as confidenMy as the fullovyers of
3^iillcr do tuis year in Ameriea. And th;^ir expectation wat? founded
upon a system of calciilatiop. characterised by much greater placibdily,
and in the snipport of whicu, the plain words of Scripture were not so
unceremoniously wrested.
But the necessity of caution appears, not only from tho K;Uure of
the investigation, but from our situation and character, VViiaiever ex-
pectations man may form, he never knows '• what a day may bring
forth." Accordingly, it has been well said, that it is neither by "a
light issuing from the earth, nor by the meteor-gleam of high imagina-
tions, that the nage of history can be read, or the dark recesses of futurity
disclosed."* The Ruler among the nations, whose omniscient eye pene-
trates alike through space ami time, can alone shew " the 'hings that are
not, as though they were." He hath the " times and seasons in his own
power," and the signs of them can be known only by his vvcul. From
ancient times he hath declared by his servants the propheis, the things
that are nw passing, and that are yet to come. And if we v^^ould
trace the final resiilts, and ultimate consequences of existing events and
movements which agitate the worlds we must turn to the Word of
God, with all submissiveness and child-like docility,
It may appear to some rem.arkable, that upon no part of unfidfdled
prophecy perhaps, has iru-re been such boldness of exposition, as upon
that which respects th-* Second Jldvent. Although, f,-om the obs'iurity
which still enshrouds many statements regarding it, mistakes have been
made since the days of Paul, by all who have tried to fix limes and
seasons, yet the confidence of the most recet.t theorists is not in the least
checked. The cause of this boldness, however, is, in the present case
at least, not difficult to account for. The system exhibits either no or-
dinary display of ignorance, or of wilful perversion ; t J ignorance has
always been more assuming than knowledge. But audacity in such
Keith.
E
9
untlcrslanding," hy attempting to "give the stamp and currency ot'
inspired truth" to those conjectures which time may crc long derr.on~
strutu to ltavt; sprung front our
presttiuptiou, iu»patient'e, or ignorance.
Apart, tlicixslbiv, l'ruu| the solcmmty ol' the case-apart from the
deeply responsible attempt to tlecypher with accuracy the s/celc/tingsout
ofthe Eternal Spirit, in his prospective outline ot` thc worl.i's history,
surely the consideration, that we tread upon the ground wl1ere many of
the wise and migttty have gone astray, should lead its to advance with
that humility and csutimi, which accortl with the eutreaty--"leatl me 0
God in I/ty tru!/t, teach, me." Were any spear;/ic illustration required,
I might udduce the lhct, which many here will recollect with me, that 9.
little inm'o than ten years ago. the folloivers ot' Irving, in
Ilnglaud, and
of Campbell, ol' Row, in Sou fd, thr a time, expected froen day to day,
the Seuottd Advent ot' the fuessiali. as confidently as the lbliowers of
Miller do t/its year in America. And their expectation was founded
upon a system nl' calculation, characterised hy much greater piatribility,
and in the support nl`wliich, the plain words ol' Scripture were not so
unoeremoniously wresteil.
But the necessity ot' caution appears, not only from thx tt. ,are oi'
the investigation, but from our situation and character. i"v'nate.'er ex-
pectations man may form, he never knows "
what a day may bring
forth." Accordingly, it has been well said, that it is neither by "a
light issuing from the earth, nor by the meteor-gleam ot' high imagina-
tions, that the page ol' history can be read, orthe dark recesses of futurity
disclosed."* The Ruler among; the nations, whose omniscient eye pene-
trates alilte thrnugli space and time, can alone shew "the *hings that are
not, as though they were." He hath the "
times and seasons in his own
power," and the signs ofthein can be known only by his word. From
ancient times he hath declared by his servants the prophets, the things
that are mtv
passing, and that are
yet to come. And if we would
trace the final results, and ultimate consequences ofexisting events and
movements which agitate the world, we must turn to the Word of
God, with all suhmissiveness and child-like docility.
It may appear to some remarkable, that upon no part ofunftiliilled
prophecy perhaps, has tat-re been such boldness of exposition, as upon
that which respects the Second ./Ycivent. Although, from the obscurity
which still enshrouds many statements regarding it, mistakes have _been
made since the days of Paul, by all who have tried to fix limes and
seasons, yet the eonhdenee ofthe most recenttheorists is not in the least
checked. The cause of this boldness, however, is, in the present case
at least, not difficult to account for. The system exhibits either no or-
dinary display ofignorance, or of wilful perversion ; c ti ignorance has
always been more assuming than knowledge. But audacity in such
"
Keith.
B
I
theories is to be expected, from the ve\y circumstance that they overstep
the line stretched b /ore iis, by Him '•'
who hath ihe times and seasons
in his own power ;*' and we need not wonder, that those who have the
hardihood todisregnrd it, should iiave boldness enough to assert anything
lo their fellow worms That peculiar confidence, therefore, which has
surprised many and staggered and perplexed others, is anything but a
favourable feature in the supporters of the Millen'an schen;e.
Second. I have next to shew, that in the interpretation of that out-
line which prophecy hos presented, and which the events of time are
filling up, Miller and his followers have greatly erred.
Prophecy stretches over the whole period of the world's duration.
It was first employed immediately after man had sinned, and it reaches
on to "the consummation of all things." And in all the grand events
it sketches out, and the times and seasons it passes through, there is one
notable personage who is kept ever before us, and who, from the time
he was first revealed as the ^^Seed of the Wonian," down to the era of
" the restitution of all things," is the uniform subject of prophetic testi-
mony. Now, it is important to keep in view the lact, that all the great
and leading events included in the prophetic outline, down to the Se-
cond Advent, have been partially fulfilled ; and whatever prophecy is
partially fulfilled, is just as capable of demonstration as any prophecy
relating to things wholly past. In other words, the begun accomplish-
ment of any prophecy, is the best of all evidence of its complete Jllling
up in future.
With this principle in view then, let us select for examination, a
few of the leading events foretold in the outline referred to, in order to
discover how far the way is prepared for " the coming of the day of the
Lord." And let us remember, that as with Him nothmg can be retard-
ed, so nothing is premature ; and, therefore, however much we may
suppose the way is prepared, " the Heavens will retain Him till the
times of the restitution of all things."
1st. We learn from the prophetic outline, that the power and do-
minion of Antichrist shall cease previous to the Saviour's " visible and
glorious appearing." Arnid the various conjectures, who, or what is
referred to, by tliis name of ominous import, the general definition given
by John, 1st" Epistle, ii 22, is explicit enough for any general purpose,
—« He that denieth that Jesus is the Christ, he is Antichrist that denieth
the Father and the Son." This general, yet forcible description, is ap-
plicable to every thing that is an opponent to the Gospel of Christ ; and
that the Apostle refers to various sects of apostates, and not to any indi-
vidual teachers, seems incontrovertible. Each sect was an Antichrist,
and there were, even in that age, "many Antichrists." And it is
equally applicable still, to Papal, to Mahomedan. or Infidel opponents to
Christ. But almost all nominal Christians restrict the name to the great
Power which was, according to prophecy, to ariso in the Christian
I
I()
theories is to he expected, from the very circumstance that they overstep
the line stretched lt .ore us, by Him "
who hath the times and seasons
in his own power ;" and we need not wonder, that those who have the
hardihood to disregard it, should have boldness enough to assert anything
to their fellow worms That peculiar conjldenre, therefore, which has
surprised many and staggered and perplexed others, is anything but a
favourable feature in the supporters of the ./`lIiller1`on scheme.
Second. l have next to shew, that in the interpretation ofthat out-
line which prophecy has presented, and which the events of time are
filling up, Miller and his followers have greatly erred.
Prophecy stretches over the whole period of the vorld's duration.
It was first employed immediately after man had sinned, and it reaches
on to "the consummation of all things." And in all the grand events
it sketches out, and the times and seasons it passes through, there is one
notable personage who is kept ever before us, and vho, from the time
he was Hrst revealed as the "Seed ofthe Woman," down to the era of
"
the restitution of all things," is the uniform subject of prophetic testi-
mony. Now, it is important to keep in view the fact, that all the great
and leading events included in the prophetic outline, down to the Se-
cond ./fdvent, have been partially fulfilled; and whatever prophecy is
partially fulfilled, is just as capable of dcmonsltolion as
any prophecy
relating to things wholly past. In other words, the begun accomplish-
ment of any prophecy, is the best of all evidence ofits complete _filling
up in future.
With this principle in view then, let us select for examination, a
few ofthe leading events foretold in the outline referred to, in order to
discover how far the way is prepared for "the coming ofthe day of the
Lord." And let us remember, that as with Him nothing can be retard-
ed, so nothing is premature ; and, therefore, however much we may
suppose the way is prepared, "the Heavens will retain Him till the
limes of the restitution ofall things."
lst. We learn from the prophetic outline, that the power and do-
minion of Antichrist shall cease
previous to the Saviour's "visible and
glorious appearing." A mid the various conjectures, who, or what is
referred to, by this name ofominous import, the general definition given
by John, lst Epistle, ii 22, is explicit enough for any general purpose,
-" He that denieth that Jesus is the Christ, he is Antichristthatdenieth
the Father and the Son." 'l`his general, yet fbrcible description, is ap-
plicable to every thing that is an
opponent to the Gospel of Christ; and
that the Apostle refers to various sects of apostates, and not to any indi-
vidual tenchers, seems incontrovertible. Each sect was an Antichrist,
and there were, even in that age, "many Antichrists." And it is
equally applicable still. to Papal, to hlahomedan, or Infidel opponents fo
Christ. But almost all nominal Christians restrict the name to the great
Power which was, according to prophecy, to arise in the Christian
11
Church, after the death of the Apostles ; and which they solemnly char-
ged the disciples to observe with all vigilance, and to resist with all for-
titude, patience, and hope. This Power is evidently spoken of also, by
the peculia- appellation, " Man of Sin^
The rise of this Power, it is generally allowed, is matter oC history,
but its downfal, seems yet to be the subject of prophecy. Although ihe
limits of its duration, seem to be distinctly assigned in the prophetic
word, yet, all who have come to the examination of the subject, with
becoming humility, have felt no small difficulty in calculating the date of
its fall ; and, as might be expected, they have exhibited considerable
diversity of opinion in their respective conclusions. This difficulty
arises from the obscurity, which of necessity, attends prophecy, and from
the fact that although the duration is spoken of, as being for 1260 day3
or years, no circumstance is specified to mark with certainty, the date
from which the number of his days is to be compu'^d. One thing,
however, seems obvious, that the 1260 cannot begin at any period prior
to the full establishment of the Papal Power; for nothing less surely,
can be implied by the expression in Daniel, vii. 25, "the saints of the
Most High,. shall be given into his hunds^ until a time, and times,
and the dividing of time." Without presuming to decide then, where
wiser and abler men have been uncertain, 1 simply state as matter of
history, that in A. D. 533, the spiritual power of the P«ipe was declared
by the civil authority, viz : the emperor Justinian. From this date as
shall afterwards appear, Miller and his followers, proceed to calculate
the 1260 days of his existence. But it is equally a fact, which they
have overlooked or disregarded, tb"t Justinian's edict, did not then corre
into full operation.* For we find thrt after his death, when the Pope
was still advancing in influence and authority, his supremacy was still
disputed by the bishop of Constantinople ; and the case was not formally
settled, tilfA. D. 606, when the emperor Phocas, a usurper and a tyrant,
renewed and confirmed the edict referred to. As, therefore, an earlier
period cannot with propriety be fixed upon, if we take 606, and add
1260, it will bring us down to the year 18G6. The correctness of this,
I do not assert ; it is opinion only.
* It is not from any private complimentary letter to the Pope, such as the edict
properly was, but from the public law of the empire, that we can learn the true im-
port of the titles which Justinian applied to the Pope. In the Novella; Constitu-
tiones, treating of ecclesiastical titles and privileges, Justinian declares, " that the
most holy Pope of Ptome shall be the tirst of all Priests, but that the most blessed
Archbishop of Constantinople, shall be second, or next to him." If Justinian had
meant him to have a dominion over the Bishop of Constantinople, there would have
been no necessity for this special regulation, respecting the order to be observed by
those dignatariefl on public occasions.
ll
Church, after the death ot'theApostles; and which t.l.ey solemnly char-
ged the disciples to observe with all vigilance, and to resist with all for-
titude, patience, and hope. This Power is evidently spoken of also, by
the peculiar appellation,
"
.Man of Sin."
The rise of this Power, it is generally allowed, is matter of history,
but its dowrtjill, seems
yet to be the subject of prophecy. Although the
limits ofits duration, seem to be distinctly assigned in the prophetic
word, yet, all wlto have come to the exairiination ofthe subject, with
becoming humility, have felt no small dilliculty in calculating the date of
its fall; and, as might be expected, they have exhibited considerable
diversity of opinion in their respective conclttsions. This difficulty
arises from the obsctirity, which of necessity, attends prophecy, and from
the fact that although the duration is spoken of, as being for 1260 days
or
years, no circumstance is specified to mark with certainty, the date
from which the number of his days is to be compu'ed. One thing,
however, seems obvious, that the 1260 cannot begin at any period prior
tc the full establishment ofthe Papal Power; for nothing less surely,
can be implied by the expression in Daniel, vii. 25, "the saints ofthe
Most High ,--shall be given into /11's /funds, until a time, and times,
and the dividing of time." Without presuming to decide then, where
wiser and abler men have been uncertain, I simply state as matter of
history, that in A. D. 533, the spiritual power ofthe Pope was declared
by the civil authority, viz: the emperor Justinian. From this date as
shall afterwards appear, Miller and his followers, proceed to calculate
the 1260 days ofhis existence. But it is equally a fact, which they
have overlooked or disregarded, that Justinian's edict, did not then come
into full operation.* For we find that after his death, when the Pope
was still advancing in influence and authority., his supremacy was still
disputed by the bishop of Constantinople ; and the case was not formally
settled, till A. D. 606, when the emperor Pliocas, a usurper and a tyrant,
renewed and confirmed the edict referred to. As, therefore, an earlier
period cannot with propriety be fixed upon, ifwe take 606, and add
1260, it will bring us down to the year 1866. The correctness of this,
I do not assert; it is opinion only.
"
It is not from any private complimentary letter to the Pope, snch as the edict
properly was, but from the public law ofthe empire, that wc can learn the true im-
port of thc titles which Justinian applied to the Pope. In tlte Novcllaa Constitu-
tiones, treating nf ecclesiastical titles and privileges, Justinian declares,
"
that the
most holy Pope of Home shall be the first of all Priests, but that the most blessed
Archbishop of Constantinople, shall be second, or ncxt to him." If Jnstiuian had
meant him to have a dominion over the Bishop of Constantinople, there would have
been no necessity for this special regulation, respecting the order to be observed by
those dignataries on public occasions.
! •
12
But if, as many have supposed, his duration is to be computed from
the full establishment of his power, as a temporal prince, when he was
noi on]y a spiritual despot, "opposing and exaltitig himself above all
that is called God," but a haughty tyrant, holding crowns and empires
at hij disposal, then, a considerably later period still, must be thai from
which we must date his rise. In reference to this, the year 666, has by
several been supposed to be the commencement of the 1260. This idea,
however, seems to be derived, not so much from any historical evidence,
regarding this date, as from the supposition that in Rev. xiii. 18, iheie
is a key given in the statement that " t'.e number of the beast is 666."*
As I have already shewn, we should be extremely cautious not to speak
too positively upon such subjects. I state it, however, as matter of
opinion merebj, that notwithstanding what has just been said respecting
different views, that civil power is not essential to the Papal character,
any more than it is essential to the character of a sovereign prince, that
he be declaroi! head, over all matters ecclesiastical as well as civil,
within the limits of his dominions, There was an emperor of Rome
when there was no Pope, and there mny Le a Pope without his being
possessed of an inch of territorj-, which he can call his own. "It is the
Antichristian or spurious ecclesiastical authority, and not the civil power
of the Popes, which makes them both the head of the mystery of ini-
quity, and the curse and disgrace of human beings."
The theory we are considering, takes such grounds on this impor-'
tant subject, as has rendered it necessary to go at some length into these
divers views. This diversity of opinion, let me caution you to observe,
arises not from confusion in the prophetic sketches, nor from any inc -n-
sistency in the statements of the " holy men of God, who spake as they
were moved by the Holy Ghost." It arises as was already said, from
the fact that it is outline only, and comes to be developed as time fills it
up. Besides, the prophetic features of Antichrist, became gradually
unfolded, till they blazed forth in characters of light, "seen and read of
\
* It may be interesting to observe, regarding 1260, that in Daniel, xii. we have
two express additional numbers,—30 and 45,~relative to the close of the latter of
which Daniel says, " Blessed is he that waiteth and cometh ;" meaning probably
that this gives the rise of the Millenium. " To what purpose," it has l)een asked,
" are these numbers given, unless a fourth be somevVhtre furnished to inform us of
the commencement of the noted 1260 years? for men would never agree where
they should commence. But if such a number be given, it may be expected to at-
tend the description of the papal beast, whose rise commences the 12G0. And here
such a number is in fact found."— See Smith's Key to the Rev, Lect, xviii.
Take then on this supposition, A. D. 666 and add the numbers referred to,—
666 ^ 1260 X 30 « 45= 2001, or the close of 2000; this will give 2000 before
Abraham, 2000 to Christ, and 2000 to the Millenium; so the natural week. Thus
also it has been observed, is according to analogy in the natural week, viz '
six days
fur labour, and the seventh for rest.
i
I2
But if, as many have supposed, his duration is to be computed from
the full establishment of his power, as a
temporal prince, when he was
not only a spiritual despot, "opposing and exalting himself above all
that is called God," but a haughty tyrant, holding crowns and empires
at his disposal, then, a considerably later period still, must be that from
which we ruust date his rise. In reference to this, the year 666, has by
several been supposed to be the commencement ofthe 1'l6(l. This idea,
however, seems to be derived, not so much from any historical evidence,
regarding this date, as from the supposition that in Rev. xiii. 18, there
is a key given in the statement that "
the number of the beast is 666.""'
As I have already shevvn, we should be extremely cautious not to speak
too positively upon such subjects. I state it, however, as matter of
opinion merely, that notwithstanding what basjust been said respecting
different views, that civil power is not essential to the Papal character,
any more than it is essential to the character of a sovereign prince, that
he be declared head, over all matters ecclesiastical as well as civil,
within the limits of his dominions. There was an emperor of Rome
when there was no Pope, and there may be a Pope withouthis being
possessed of an inch of`territory, which he can call his own.
'*
It is the
Antichristian or spurious ecclesiastical authority, and not the civil power
of the Popes, which makes them both the head of the mystery of ini-
quity, and the curse and disgrace ofhuman beings."
The theory we are considering, takes such grounds on this impor-
tant subject, as has rendered it necessary to go at some length into these
divers views. This diversity of opinion, let me caution you to observe,
arises not from confusion in the prophetic sketches, nor from any int' »n-
sistency in the statements ofthe "holy men of God, who spake as they
were moved by the Holy Ghost." It arises as was already said, from
the fact that it is outline only, and comes to be developed as time fills it
up. Besides, the prophetic features of Antichrist, became gradually
unfolded, till they blazed forth in characters of light,
"
seen and read of
*
It may be interesting to observe, regarding 1260, that in Daniel. xii. wc have
two express additional numbers,-30 and ¢l5,-relative to the close of the latter of
which Daniel says, "Blessed is he that vaiteth and cometh ;" meaning probably
that this gives the rise ufthc Millenium. "
To what purpose," it has been nslted,
"
are these numbers givcn, unless n fourth bc somewhere furnished to inform us of
the þÿ C 0 | I l l l ] E | l C ¬ l 1 ] C l ] l Z
of the noted 1260 years? for tncu would ncver agree wherc
they should commence. But ifsnch a number he given, it may he expected to at-
tend the description ofthe papal beast, whose rise commences the 1260. And here
such a number is in tact found."-Sec Smith's Key to thc Rev. Lcct. xviii.
Take then on this supposition, A. D. 666 and add the numbers referred to,-
666 tn 1260 >e 30 >¢ 45= 2001, or the close of 2000; this will givc 2000 before
Abraham, 52000 to Christ, and 51000 to the iililleuinm; so the natural week. Thus
also it has been observed, is according to analogy in the natural week, viz '
six days
for labour, and the seventh for rest.
13
\
all men." And tliiis, from small beginnings in the time of Paul, do we
behold him advancing, till, " sitting in tl.t temple of God," he receives
at his footstool the homage of vassal sovereigns, astBuniing to himseif the
prerogative of Him, " by whom kinfis reign." And while therefore,
maney circumstances of strong probabilHy, might be adduced in sun[)ort
of ihe correctness of some of the dates rel'erred to, as the period of his
rise, yei, it may, till the day declare it, rest upcm an ij\ winch may
stamp with arrogance and vanity, the most boldly promulgated theories.
And those who may live, to Lj able to say in reference to the final
overthrow, " what haih God wrought" will not be without evidences,
that " it is the glory of God to conceal a thing." Hence the venerable
Ireneus wisely said, " it is surer and safer, to wait for the accomplish-
ment, than loo much to conjecture, and divine about it. When the end
shall come, then we shall know belter whence to date the beginning."
It has been amply shewn, I trust, that uncertainty yet rests upon the
date of Antichrist's rise, and the conclusion is in-^vitable, that we are yet
unprepared to assign xoith certainty, the period of its final overthrow.
But all difficulties and uncerlamiies vanivsh, before those far-sighted
men, who confiJently predict, thai in a few days " there shall be time no
longer." They have made the interesting discovery, that Antichrist, in
reference to all his prophetic characteristics, is now no more. This event
we are told, took place in 1798. And in proof thereof, we are further
told, that "since Napoleon then do'hroned the Pope, he has ceased to
persecute.^'' This idea rests upon the supposition, that temporal power,
is an essential Antiohristian feature ; an idea which, as shall be shewn
in the sequel is untenable, if 1798 be the time of his downfall. The
assertion, however, that this power, hath either ceased to persecute since
the time of Napoleon, or haih no more the genuine Antichristian features,
is wholly untrue.
Indeed the error is too glaring to require a formal refutation. It may
suffice to say, that, frequently since that time, has the Inquisition been
in operation.* And to what influence, but the genuine Antichristian,
are we to attribute the burning of the Bible of Protestants, in the most
public manner, but a ie\w months ago ; and that too in the immediate
vicinity of him who confidently declares Antichrist is fallen 7 It is
readily granted, ihat it is no more what it once was. In many countries
for example, where the pomp of ceremonies was once revered, it has
lost now, its imposing charm. No king now stands, as Henry IV. did,
bare-headed and bare-fooled, at the gate of his Holiness ; at»d none do
» The re-institution of the Inquisition of the Jesuits, and of monastic orders in
the 19tb century, is a retrogm 'o step in the progress of society. "—Rome in the 19th
century, vol. ill. p. 174.
" By the re-institution of the Inquisition, tlie roost diabolical engine of oppres-
sion and torture was brought into action again."—Keith's Signs of the Times.
J _
l
l
9
t I
'i
l
1
13
all men." And thus, from small 'beginnings in the time of Paul, do we
behold him advancing, till, "sitting in tht. temple ol' God," he receives
at his footstuol the homage of vassal sovereigus, assuming to himseif the
prerogative of Him,
"
by whom kings reign." And while therefore,
maney circumstances ot'slr0ngp1'0babiliIy, might be adduced in support
of the correctness ol` some of the dates reterretl to, as the period of his
rise, yet, it may, till the day declare it, rest upon an which may
stamp with arrogance and vanity, the most boldly promulgated theories.
And those who may live, to L_: able to say in relerence to the final
overthrow,
"
what hath Got] wrought" will not be without evidences.
that "
it is the glory ofGod to conceal a thing." Hence the venerable
Ireneus wisely said, "it is surer and safer, to wait for the accomplish-
ment, than too much to conjecture, and divine about it. When the end
shall come, then we shall know better whence to date the beginning."
It has been amply sliewn, I trust, that uncertainty yet rests upon the
date of Antichrist's rise, and the conclusion is in wvitable, that we are yet
unprepared to assign with certainly, the period ot' its tinal overthrow.
But all difficulties and uncertainties vanish, before those far-sighted
men, who confidently predict, that in a few days
"
there shall be time no
longer." They have made the interesting discovery, that Antichrist, in
reference to all his prophetic characteristics, is now no more. This event
we are told, took place in 1798. And in proof thereof, we are further
told, that "since Napoleon then dethroned the Pope, he has ceased to
persecute." This idea rests upon the supposition, that temporal power,
is an essential Antiohrlstian feature ; an idea which, as shall be shewu
in the sequel is untenabie, if 1798 be the time ofhis downfall. The
assertion, however, that this power, hath either ceased to persecute since
the time of Napoleon, or hath no more the genuine Anticliristiau features,
is wholly untrue.
Indeed the error is too glaring to require a formal refutntion. It may
suffice to say, that, frequently since that time, has the Inquisition been
in operatiou.* And to what influence, but the genuine Antichristian,
are we to attribute the burning ofthe Bible ol` Protestants, in the most
public manner, but a few months ago ; and that too in the immediate
vicinity of him who confidently declares Antichrist is fallen? It is
readily granted, that it is no more what it once was. In many countries
for example, where the pomp of ceremonies was once revered,it has
lost now, its imposing charm. No king now stands, as Henry IV. did,
bare-headed and bare-fooled, at the gate of his Holiness; and none do
* The 'rc-institution ofthe Inquisition ofthe Jesuits, and of monastic orders in
the 19th century, is a
retrograde step in the progress ofsociety."-Romein the 19th
century, vol. iii. p. 174.
"
By the re-institution ofthe Inquisition, the most diabolical engine of oppres-
sion aud torture was brought into action again."-Keitb's Signs ofthe Times.
14
nenance as of old, at his mandate. But even vet, Antichristlan fea-
tures as delineated by Paul and others, dislinctly appear. Is not the
name blasphemy yet written in his foreheaii 1 Does he not yet literally
" sit in the te(ni)le of God"] At his election he is enthroned sull, in the
temple of St. Peter, and ''adoration is not only the act, but still the
word in use, when on that occa.sion, the Cardinals and Prices of the
church, prostrate themselves before him." In short, he still "exalts
himselfabovea".! that is called God, and worshiped." The consecrated
wafer called the host, is not God, but it is called God', when laid on tne
aitar in St. Peters, it is said to be " the very body ol Christ, and when
it is borne through the Streets, all true Catholics prostrate themselves in
adoration of it, yet the altar, upon which the host is la'd, is but the/oo^
stool of him, who is thus " exalted above all that is calle.', God. Ue-
Bpite of all such evidence however, we are told that the number of his
days is completed. , . ^ •
I have been thus particular, both because the subject is new to
manv and without considerable illustration could not be comprehended,
and also because 1260 being part of the 2300 which Miller savs rer.ches
to the end of all time, and terminates this year, it plainly follows, that
80 long as the smaller number is not completed, the end cannot come.
But here it may be observed, that as in almost every main feature,
the theory is inconsistent with itself. It is often maintained, for exam-
pie thai ihe "time of the end" mentioned in Daniel, is the end of all
things, when Christ shaU appear ; but in other cases, ii is granted that
it means theendofthe Papal power, terminating 1798; nevertheless it
is plainly said, this power shall pros?per "till the indignation be accom-
plished."-Daniel, xi, 36. If, upon this principle, we admit that 2300
reaches to the end of all things, and that 1260 extends to the clcs3 of the
* There is a circumstance connacted with the propliotic numbers regarding the
beast, or Papal power, which has not only been generally overlooked but inatten-
tion to which has doubtless been the cause of the great discrepancy which I'astnnrk.
ed the various treatises upon the subject. The cuTumstauce is this, that the 1260
days are almost universally spoken of, as if they took their begmnmg from the rwe
of the tyranny so often described. Yet the words of Daniel, vu. 24, 2i>, plamly re-
late r.o/ to his rise, but to the time, when, having made war with the saints, they
were given into his hand. Accordingly, one learned author remarks that John ex-
pressly says, that " The time not of the witnesses prophesying, (for in part ol that
lime thev had power) but of their prophesying in sackcloth, should be twelve hun-
dred and sixty day8."-Rev. xi. 3. " And the persocuted wouian aftf •• her flight,
was to be actually in the wilderness," the same time, chap. x.i. G. Wherefore also
the 42 months, (the very same period), during which power was given to the beast,
Rev. xiii. 5, evidently ought not to be reckoned from his rise, or when the ten horns
received power with him, chap. ..vii. 12; but from the iuue oHn. having overcome
the saints, and of his being worshipped by all that dwell upon the earth, ch. xm. 7, i.
—Clarke's Evid. of Nat. and Rev. Religion.
14
penance as of old, at his mandate. But even vet, Antichristian fea-
tures, as delineated by Paul and others, distinctly appear. ls not the
name blasphemy yet written in his ioreheatl? Does he not yet literally
"
sit in the temple ot`God"? At his election he is enthroned still, in the
temple ol' St. Peter, and "arlomlion is not only the acl, but still the
word in use, when on that occasion, the ('arzlz`-:urls and Princes of the
church, prostrate themselves before him." In short, he still "exalts
himsell` above all that is called God, and worshiped." The consecrated
wafer called the host, is not God, but it is called God: when laid on the
altar in St. Peters, it is said to be "the very body ol' Christ," and when
it is borne through the Streets, all true Catholics prostrate themselves in
adoration ofil, yet the altar, upon which the host is laid, is but the _/bo!~
stool of him, who is thus "
exalted above all that is called God." De-
spite ot` all such evidence however, we are told that the number ofhis
days is completed.
I have been thus particular, both because the subject is new to
many, and without considerable illustration could not he comprehended,
and also because 1260 being part ot" the 2300 which Miller says reaches
to the end ol' all time, and terminates this year, it plainly follows, that
so long as the smaller numher is not completed, the and cannot co|ne.*
But here it may be observed, that as in almost every main feature,
the theory is inconsistent with itself. It is often maintained, for exam~
ple, that the "time ofthe end" mentioned in Daniel, is the end of all
things, when Christ shall appear; but in other cases. it is granted that
it means theend ol' the Papal power, terminating l'79S; nevertheless it
is plainly said, this power shall prosper "till the indignation be accom-
plished."--Daniel, xi. 36. It`, upon this principle, we admit that '2300
reaches to the end of all things,and that 1260 extends to the close of the
*
There is a circumstance connected with the prophetic numbers regarding the
beast, or Papal power, which has not only been generally overlooked. but iuatten-
tion to vhich has doubtless been the cause ofthe great discrepancy which has mark-
ed the various treatises upon the subiect. The circtunstnuce is this, that the 1260
days are almost universally spoken ol`, as it' they took their beginning from the rise
0l`the tyranny so often described. Yet the words ol` Daniel, vii. 24, 25, plainly re-
late not to his rise, hut to the time, when, having made war with the saints, they
were given into his hand. Accordingly, one learned author remarks that John ex-
pressly says, that "
The time not of the witnesses propliesyiug, (for in part ol' that
time they had power) but oftheir prophesying in sncltcloth, should be twelve hun-
dred and sixty days."-'Rev. xi. 3. "And the persecuted woman alif-r her flight,
was to be actually in the \'il1|erness," the sntnc time, chap. xii. 6. Vhercl`ore also
the 42 mouths. (the very same period). during which power was given to the beast,
Rev. xiii. 5, evidently ought not to be reckoned l`rom his rise, or when the ten horns
received power with hint, chap. xvii. 12; but trout the time ol`his having overcome
the saints, and ot' his being worshipped by all that dwell upon the earth, ch. xiii. 7, 3.
-Clarke'a Evid. ot`Nat. and Rev. Religion.
15
larger number, then, if the Papal years terminated 1798, so did the pre-
sent state of tlvngs. When this inconsistency is pressed, il .s a owed
that Antichrist is not g ^te destroyed ; for he is to - be destroyed nop
Miller, " l.y the brighm... of the Saviour's commg"-but he has let h s
dislinctive characters, having no civil power 1 h.s explanat.on only
involves the scheme more inextricably still ; for not only is .t opposed
lo oft^repeated assertions, re.ardmg his fall in 1798, but U rests upon the
supposition, that his essenlvd characteristic always has been the pos-
session of :hat power. We shall .rant it, .rnl what ,s rhe 7^"'^'; ^^j'
that we must come down at least to a date /ar beyond that wh.ch was
fixed on to make his days terminate wi l79S.
The foundation of the civil power of the Popes, was doubtless atd
in the revolution, in the year 728, yet, till th.at rule was acknowledged
by some foreign power, they could ordy be regarded as usurpers, whom
the first who had the means, might dethrone at pleasure At what
period then did this recognition take plac^ ] It v.^s not td ^^0'
^ !^"'
in the treatv between Gregory HI. and Charles Martel, plenipotentiary
of the Kir.g of France, the evil power of the Pope was plamly recog-
nized. This then is doubtless the era of the secular throne, and hu.
the date assigned by Miller, is untenable upon his P"";^-'r^« «//';'
power hrmiessential. As it has been already shewn, however, that
the possession of it is not essential to the Papal character, then observe
though it should be wrested before the spiritual dominion expire, or the
1260 years of the apostacy run out, the predictions of John wo"l; "oton
that account be affected ;
becaus<^, he describes the duration of the spi~
ritual or ecclesiastical, and not the secular power of the Pope.
ond. I proceed to notice another important part of the prophetic
outline to be filled up by events yet future I allude to ^^ J^rk'^^^^
power, which is idenlified with the religion of Mahome The charac er
Lnd downfall of this dreadful enemy are also repeatedly and distmctly
given, both in Daniel and the Revelation. It is also to " perish with-
out h;nd," before the mystery of God be finished. This power, hough
but the shadow of what it once was, has not yet ceased to be "nJer the
influence of the ''
king of fierce countenance, and understanding dark
sentences." IN'lore requires therefore to he done here, recording to the
prophetic word, before '' he that shall come will come. H^''^ «g^'"'
however, we are told, all we are to expect m reference to this, has been
* Most writers have adopted a later date, viz : A. D. 75o when he Pope a^^"
huelv shook off the authority of the Emperor; and Pep.n "^ France sent thU^^^^^^
Ravenna and Pen.enapoli. to the Pope. B.U the civ.l power was aa pla.uly recog
nized in 740, as by any subseijuent transacuou.
15
larger number, then, it' the Papal years terminated 1798, so did the pre-
sent state of th'ngs. When this inconsistency is pressed, it is allowed
that Antichrist is not Q 'ite destroyed 3 for he is to
'i
be destroyed" says
Miller,
"
hy the brightue_s ofthe Saviour's coming"-but he has lost his
distinctive c/zaracters, having no civil power. This explanation only
involves the scheme tuore inextricably still; for not only is it opposed
to oft-repeated assertions, regarding his fall in 1798, but it rests upon the
supposition, that his essential characteristic always has been the pos-»
session ofihat power. We shall grant it, and what is the result? Why,
that we must come down at least to a date far beyond that which was
fixed on to make his days terminate in 1793.
-
The foundation of the civil power of the Popes, was doubtless laid
in the revolution, in the year 723, yet, till that rule was acknowledged
by some foreign power, they could only he regarded as usurpers, whom,
the first who had the means, might dethrnue at pleasure. At what
period then did this recognition take place! It was not till '74~0,* when,
in the treaty hetween Gregory III. and Charles Martel, plenipotentiary
of the King of France, the evil power of the Pope was plainly recog-
nized. This then is douhtless the era of the secular throne, and thus
the date assigned by Miller, is untenahle upon [tis principle of civil
power bring essential. As it has been already shewn, however, that
the possession ot' it is not essential to the Papal character, then observe,
though it should be wrested before the spiritual dominion expire, or the
1260 years ot the apostacy ruu out, the predictions of John would uoton
that account he afI`ected ; because, he describes the duration of the spi-
ritual or ecclesiastical, and not the secular power ofthe Pope.
2-nd. Iproceed to notice another important part of the prophetic
outline to he filled up hy events yet future. I allude to the Turkish
power, which is identified with the religion of Mahomet The character
and downfall of this dreadful enemy are also repeatedly and distinctly
given, both in Daniel and the Revelation. It is also to "perish with-
out hand," hefore the mystery of God befinis/ted. This power, though
but tlte shadow of what it once was, has not yet ceased to be under the
influence of the "
king of fierce countenance, and understanding dark
sentences." More requires therefore to he done here, according to the
prophetic word, before "
he that shall come y
will come." Here again,
however, we are told, all we are to expect in reference to this, has been
* Most writers have adopted a later date, viz: A. D. 755, when the Pope abso-
lutely shook ofl`the authority ofthe Emperor; and Pepin ofFrauce sent the lteys of'
Ravenna and Penleuapolis to the Pope. But the civil power was as plainly recog-
nized iu 740, as by any subsequent transaction.
10
accompli«he.l. The Turkish power, like the Antichristian, is number- •
ed, according to Miller, o.w.ng
^!;«;|>!"g^J^^^;^^!:,, Singly (bretold, un-
The grad-ial wasting of the 1 iirlo^h power is
^'r'^^'^J')
'
derthe e rd.lem of drying up
'^^^^f r"''''~^H;ment\ f thi Z-
though few will believe with Miller the ful «ccon,pl..hment of this
p o
nhecw, every d.scerner of the iirnes will acknovvledge it to be ti a course
S c^wi'us ulfihnent. The kings, however, have not yet passed Us
channel. Who '•
the Kings of the East" are, 1 shall not at present a^-
temo to shevv, because it is unimporlant in our present inquiry. I be^
Ucvetrem, however, to be different characters f.om w^^.t they are taken
o le Iv Mi lerT-lH> supposes them to be all the znfiuel powersj gatl-
rin uJge'her, to decide 'tL final conflict with tl^ su .ects o. he M s-
«iah Waiving this, however, and supposing with
'"'V^'*^ f
^^" ''^'
no ^doutand the 'river dried up, what are ^»-, '-'^^
-"\%JX.
is the field of muster? and what indications are there that '" a/cu; rfays
h conlt't shall be terminated? If the
f
.-->' ^
^S tfaId
commenced three or four years ago. Speaking of the sixth v al, and
qurng the above passage he says, "This preparations f^J
^ « la t
Teat battle which wdl take place at the pouring oui of the seventh v.al,
in the V a 839 or 40. At \he pouring out of the seventh vial, a vo ce
frorn tl e'Lne will pronounce the word, it is done. The kmgdoms of
irearh rd the go ernn.ents of the world, will be earned away, and
tir places not fou'nd,-Lect. xviii. Agab. alluding to ^^e -- ^^^^^
he states the case more fully; quoting Rev. ^^'j.;^^' ^^^ '";;^^^^
stranae assertion, that this gathering is the same spoken of n Mat .
xxiv.
30 .fAnd before him shall be gathered all nations ;
and he «hall sepa-
ra^;," &c It is unnecessary surely, to point out to any one, vv, h tle
B ble in his hand, this reckless confounding of things so obvioi^sly dis-
^nct The .^athe ing in Malt, is that subsequent to the resurrection,-'.t
is tl *e a ,peaHn7df " all before the judgment-seat of Christ
;
'
whereas
he othTaccoding to Miller himself, precedes the 'y-e^;^ '^^
t-
This hovvever, is aside from our main argument. In the context m
r Ibat'l ?<^1owing that just alluded to, he says "the seventh and la
vial of God's wrath will be poured into the air, about the >ea ly^O^ U
mv former calculations are correct, when this judgn en
^ U have a
quick and rapid circulation over the globe. Like the air, 'tj' Frv^^^
evLry kingdom, circulate into every nation, sow the seeds of anarchy m
* It is remarkable that Mahon,et began his imposture in
^'^.^wVer Mahlme't
Empei^r consututcd the Pope universal Bi.hop. This was 606, when Mahomet
retired to his cave to forge his impostures.
+ This idea of the Kings of the East is inconsistent with verse 14, where there
,.e 1 ipl« oft diffllent cLuaCor in.ro.lnced. and are placed in contrast wUhKuigs
of the r^st Tho^e in verse J4, ueing tenned Kir>gs oj ihe cam, appear n.nch n,ore
ulely what he supposes, especially as they we-e to be mustered by the unclean sprnts
__,_.
i.`___
lti
accomplished. The Turkish power, like the Antichristian, is number-
ed, according to Miller, among the things that were.*
The gradual wasting ofthe Turltislt power is strikingly foretold, un-
der the emblem of LlI'y77`l.g up I/te Eupitrrztes,-Rev. xvi. 12. Now,
though few will believe with Miller the full accomplishment of this pro-
phecy, every discerner ofthe limes will acknowledge it to be in a course
of obvious fulfilment. The kings, however, have not yet passed its
channel. Who '°
the Kings ofthe East" are, 1 shall not at present at-
tempt to shew, because it is unimportant in our present inquiry. I be-
lieve them, however, to he different characters from what they are taken
to he by Miller; who supposes them to he all I/te inji<¢'elpowe1'sj' gath-
ering together, to decide the final conflict with the subjects of the Mes-
siah. Waiving this, ltowever, and supposing with him the sixth vial
poured out, and the river dried up, what are the kings doing? Where
is the field of muster? and what indications are there that in a
few days
the conhiut shall be terminated? If the theory is correct, the battle
commenced three or four years ago. Speaking of the sixth vial, and
quoting the above passage, lte says,
"
This preparation is for the last
great battle which will take place at the pouring out of the seventh vial,
in the year 1839 or 40. At the pouring out ofthe seventh vial, a voice
from the throne will pronounce the word, it 'is done. The kingdoms of
the earth, and the governments ofthe world, will be carried away, and
their places not found,-Lect. xviii. Again, alluding to the same events,
he states the case more fully; quoting Rev. xvl. 16, he makes the
strange assertion, that this gathering is the same spoken ofin Matt. xxiv.
322,
"
And before him shall be gathered all nations ; and he shall sepa-
rate," Ste. lt is unnecessary surely, to point ottt to any one, with the
Bible in his hand, this reckless confounding of things so obviously dis-
tinct. The gathering in Matt. is that subsequent to the resurrection,-it
is the appearing of "
all before the judgment-seat of Christ ;" whereas,
the other, according to Miller himself, precedes the "time of the end."
This, however, is aside from our main argument. In the context im-
mediately following that just alluded to, he says
"
the seventh and last
vial of God's wrath will be poured into the air, about the year 1840, if
my former calculations are correct, when this judgment will have a
quick and rapid circulation over the globe. Like the air, it will pervadc
every kingdom, circulate into every nation, sow the seeds of anarchy in
*
It is remarkable that Maltomet began his impostnre in the very year that the
Etuperor constituted the Pope universal Bishop. This was 606, when Mahomet.
retired to his cave to forge his impostures.
t This idea ofthe Kings of the East is inconsistent with verse 14, where theto
are kings ofa different character introduced, and are placed in contrast with Kings
ofthe East. Those iu verse 14, using termed Kings of lite north, appear much more
likely what he supposes, especially as they we-'e to be mustered bythe unclean spirits
17
re
re
ts
every society, and disorganize every bond of union antiong men."—Lect.
*
XV. p. 321. Whether ail these things have taken place, every one can
judge. Observe, however, tliey were predicted, according to that sys-
tem of calculation, which exhibits ail things as accomplished in 43. If,
therefore, these conjectures have turned out to be incorrect, then out of
his own mouth is his theory refuted. And since the events he so confi-
dently expected, have not happened in 40, 41, nor even in 42, then,
apart from all other reasons, it is difficult to conceive how, with this fail-
ure in view, the consummation of all things can be looked for in 1843.
Before leaving this, I shall allow the author to adduce another confirma-
tion of what has just been advanced. Speaking of the " time of trouble"
noticed in Daniel, xii. 1, he remarks, " Mankind will, for a short sea-
son, give loose to all the corrupt passions of the human heart. No laws,
human or divine, will be regarded ; all authority will be trampled under
foot; anarchy will be the order of governments, and confusion fill the
world with horror and despair. Murder, treason, and crime, will be
common law, and division and disunion the only bond of fellowship.
Christians will be persecuted unto death, and dens and caves of the
earth will be their retreat. All things which are not eternal will be
shaken to pieces, that that which cannot be shaken may remain. And
this, if I am right in my calculations, will begin on or before A. D.
1839. And at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that
shall be found written in the book."—Lect. vii. How obviously does
the theory furnish the means of its own refutation !*
3rd. Another great event which, according to the outline of pro-
phecy, is to precede the Second Advent, is the extension of the kingdom
of Christ in the worldP This is a topic, respecting which, it is unne-
cessary much to enlarge ; because the promises upon the subject are so
mimerous, and the indications of their rapid accomplishment, are becom-
ing every day more abundant ; so much so, indeed, that many who fully
believe the Bible, may regard it as needless to adduce any proof. But
strange as it may seem to such, vsre are told, that here also all is now-
done that can be expected. All the « great and precious promises" of
the knowledge of the Lord covering the earth, are set aside by i\\e asser-
tion^ that the gospel has been preached to all the world. And this, we
are further told, is all that is implied, previous to " the end coming.''''—
* It cannot be deemed unfair to adduce these Lectures as authority, i-ather than
more receut publications, because they are the Text-hook still, notwithstanding ail
their inconsistencies. None of his followers found their conclusions on any other
ground than his " Chronology" and scheme of computing the 2300. Indeed the
Lectures furnish the whole materiel of the Lectures of others, as I have had ample
proof, by reading the Lecture as it was re-delivering. As might be expected, his au-
thority goes with many beyond the Bible.
17
every society, and disorganize every bond ot' union among men."--Lect.
xv. p. 321. Whether all these things have taken place, every one can
judge. Observe, however, they were predicted, according to that sys-
tem of calculation, which exhibits ail things as accomplished in 4-3. Il,
therefore, these conjectures have turned out to be incorrect, then out of
his own mouth is his theory refuted. And since the events he so conti-
dently expected, have not happened in 40, 41, nor even in 42, then,
apart from all other reasons, it is ditlicult to conceive how, with this fail-
ure in view, the consummation of all things can be looked for in 1843.
Before leaving this, I shall allow the author to adduce another confirma-
tion ot` what has just been advanced. Speaking ofthe "time of trouble"
noticed in Daniel, xii. 1, he remarks,
"
Mankind will, for a short sea-
son, give loose to all the corrupt passions of the human heart. No laws,
lturnan or divine, will be regarded ; all authority will be trampled under
foot; anarchy will be the order of governments, and confusion till the
world with horror and despair. Murder, treason, and crime, will be
common law, and division and disunion the only bond of fellowship.
Christians will.he persecuted unto death, and dens and caves ofthe
earth will be their retreat. All things which are not eternal will be
shaken to pieces, that that which cannot be shaken may remain. And
this, il`I am right in my calculations, will begin on or before A. D.
1839. And at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that
shall be found written in the book."-Lect. vii. How obviously does
the theory furnish the means ofits own refutation l*
3rd, Another great event which, according to the outline of pro-
phecy, is to precede the Second Advent, is the extension of the kingdom
of C/trist in the world." This is a topic, respecting which, it is unne-
cessary much to enlarge ; because the promises upon the subject are so
numerous, and the indications of their rapid accomplishment, are becom-
ing every day more abundant; so much so, indeed, that many who fully
believe the Bible, may regard it as needless to adduce any prooji But
strange as it may seem to such, we are told, that here also all is now
done that can be expected. All the "
great and precious promises" ot'
the knowledge ofthe Lord covering the earth, are set aside by the asser-
tion, that the gospel has been preached to all the world. And this, we
are further told, is all that is implied, previous to "
the end c0mi1tg."--
"
It cannot be deemed unfair to adduce these Lectures as authority, rather than
more receutpublications, because they are the Text-I/oak still, notwithstanding ail
their inconsistencies. None ot" his followers found their conclusions on any other
ground than his "Chronology" and scheme ol' computing the 2300. Indeed the
Lectures furnish the whole materiel of the Lectures of others, as I have had ample
proof, by reading the Lecture as it was ro-delivering. As might be expected, 'tis au~
thority goes with many beyond the Bible.
C
ir
It would be endless to attempt to adduce half the amazing variety of
paetjciges, which relate to the grouing empire, of the Redeemer on earth,
its universal extent and miraculous etVects. It if, however, very difacult,
from BO splendid and harmonious a list, to make a selection. To render
this more easy, as well as present the evidence iri a more distinct t-hape,
I shall iirrange my quotations under diflerent heads; and before proceed-
ing, let me urge the consideration, that what is to be adduced, is rtot the
opinion of man, but the " true word of God." I solicit attention, then,
1st. To the promises of the cn/ar^'-c7?icn^of the Church, and the
spreading of the gospel throughout the tvorld. But here, I may first
observe, that the proof adduced, in reference to the end of time by the
spread of the gos^pel, is simply the assertion, that to some of all nations,
the gospel has been preached ; and besides, that it has been translated
into all the various languages of the world, with the exception hi one or
two. Hear now the testimony of Scripture —"Ask of me, and I will
give the heathen for thine inheritance, and the utmost parts of the earth
for thy possession."—Paul, ii. 3. " All the ends of the world shall re-
membei., and turn unto the Lord : and all the kindreds of the nations
shall worship before thee."—Psalms, xxii. 27. " All nations whom
thou hast made, shall come and worship before thee, Lord ; and shall
glorify thy name."—Ixxxvi. 9. Mark this language—they shall not on-
ly all her —God's " way" shall not only be known among all nations
but they shall all remember^ all turn, and all worship before him. Nay,
as if on purpose, to build up his people's faith, in reference to those
*' glorious things spoken of in Zion," and preclude all possibility of mis-
take, by any general accomplishment merely of the " things spoken,"
God even specifies by name some of those places, otherwise the most
unlikely, ever to be blessed by the joyful sound. " The Lord shall be
known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know the Lord in that day,and
shall do sacrilice and oblation ;
yea they shall vow a vow unto the Lord,
and shall perform it, &c. Again, in that day shall Israel be the third
with Egypt and with Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land j
whom the Lord of hosts shall bless, saying, blessed be Egypt my people,
and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance."
Isaiah, xix. 21—25. Again, we are told, that the kingdom of the Mes-
siah should reach " from sea to sea," from the Meditennean that is, to
the Indian Ocean, " and from the river (Euphrates) to the ends of the
earth," or to China and the isles of Japan, known of old as the "ends of
the earth."
In like manner, when we turn to the New Testament, we are told,
that Christ endured the cross, and despised its shame, animated by the
joyful prospect of "bringing many sons to glory."—Heb. ii. 10. This
joy was prominently set before, him, in the ancient promise o( ' a people
willing in the day of his powci," resembling in number, as well aa in
I3
It would he endless to attempt to adduce half the amazing variety of
passages, which relate to the growing empire, of the Redeemer on earth,
its universal extent and miraculous elliects. It is, however, very drtlieult,
from so splendid and harmonious a list, to make a selection. To render
this more easy, as well as
present the evidence in a more distinct shape,
I shall arrange my quotations under dill`erent heads; and bellrre proceed-
ing, let me
urge the consideration, that what is to be adduced, is not the
opinion of man, but the "true word of God." Isolieit attention, then,
lst. To the promises of the en/argememof the Church, and the
spreading of the gospel throughout the world. But here, I may first
observe, that the proof adduced, in reference to the end of time by the
spread ofthe gospel, is simply the assertion, that to some of all nations,
the gospel has been preached; and besides, that it has been translated
into all the various languages ofthe world, with the exception of one or
two. Hear now the testimony ol`Scripture-" Ask of me, and I will
give the heathen for thine inheritance, and the utmost parts of the earth
for thy possession."-Paul, ii. 3. "
All the ends of the world shall re-
member, and turn unto the Lord: and all the kindreds of the nations
shall worship before thee."-Psalms, xxii. 27. "
All nations whom
thou hast made, shall come and worship before thee, O Lord ; and shall
glorify thy narne."-lxxxvi. 9. Mark this language-they shall not on-
ly all /zero'-God's "
way" shall not only be known among all nations-
but they shall all remember, all turn, and all wors/11,12 before him. Nay,
as if on purpose, to build up his people's faith, in reference to those
"glorious things spoken ofin Zion," and preclude all possibility ofmis-
take, by any general accomplishment merely of the "things spoken,"
God even
specyles by name some of those places, otherwise the most
unli/rely, ever to be blessed by the joyful sound. "
The Lord shall he
known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know the Lord in that day,and
shall do sacrilice and oblation ; yea they shall vow a vow unto the Lord,
and shall perlirrm it, &.o. Again, in that day shall Israel he the third
with Egypt and with Assyria, even a
blessing in the midst ofthe land ;
whom the Lord of hosts shall bless, saying, blessed be Egypt my people,
and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance."
Isaiah, xix. 21-25. Again, we are told, that the kingdom ofthe Mes-
siah should reach "
Hom sea to sea," from the Mediternnean that is, to
the Indian Ocean, "and from the river (Euphrates) to the ends of the
earth," or to China and the isles of.Iapan, known of nhl as the "ends of
the earth."
In like manner, when we turn to the New Testament, we are told,
that Christ endured the cross, and despised its shame, animated by the
joyful prospect of "bringing many sons to glory."-Heb. ii. 10. This
joy was
prominently set before /rim, in the ancient promise ol "
a
people
willing in the day of his power," resembling in number, as well as in
19
»>ii
glory and beauty, " the dew-drops from the womb of the morning
Psalms, ex. 3. Accordingly, he himself said, " I, if I be lifted up, will
draw all men to me." And to sum up this part of the evidence, we are^
told, that just before the final appearing of the Messiah, in the clouds of
Heaven, the Seventh Angel sounded, " and there were great voices ir
Heaven, saying, The kingdoms of the world are become the kingdoms of
our Lord, and of his Christ."— Rev. xi. 15, Have these promises been
yet fulfilled'? Shall we believe the assertion of man^ or the testimony
of God 1 Judge ye.
I pass over those promises which relate to the glory of the church,
because, they occupy what may be called disputed ground. Millenarians,
as well as Millerites, may insist upon their application, to the period,
when they expect Christ to re\gn personally upon the earth.
2'1. Turn next then, to the promises of light, -nd knowledge, and
means of grace. And the time shall yet come we let ? , vhen " the earth
shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the waters cover the earth''^
Hab. ii. 14. And in this mountain shall the Lord of hosts maKe unto all
people, (or, as in the orignal ;3eo;j/e*)t a feast of fat things—full of
marrow and of wines on the lees well refined. And he will de .roy in
this mountain the face of the covering cast over all peoples, and the veil
that is spread over all nations."— Isa. xxv. 6, 7. As no terms could
more appropriately point out the darkening effects upon the mind of igno-
rance, delusion and idolatry, than veil or covering, so nothing could more
unequivocally point out their ultimate and entire removal than the term
destroy, and as applied to all nations and people. In addition to this
may be noticed the declaration in Daniel, xii. 4, that " many shall run
It and frojand knowledge shall be increased ;" and in the present accom-
plishment of which, by the many active labours of faithful ministers
and missionaries, and the numerous Societies for the advancement of all
useful, as well as saving knowledge, we have a present pledge of the
filling up of all the rest.
Now glance briefly at the Effects of all this, as indicated in the
Word of Promise. They shall be most beneficial, extensive, and glo-
rious. The distressed conscience shall be comforted, the barren heart
made fruitful, and the beauties of holiness communicated, where former-
ly vice and deformity, alone were visible.—Psalms, xxii. 2, 3, 7. " The
wolf also shall dwell with tht lamb, and the leopard shall lie down
with the kid ana the calf and the young lion and the fatling together, and
a little child shall lead them," &c. &c.—Isa. xi. 6, 9. The advocates of
the Second Advent in 43, hesitate not to ridicule the expectation of
Christians, in reference to such promises, and they have shamelessly
asserted, that we expect a literal accomplishment of all this. Nothing
can be moro contrary to truth : any person of ordinary understanding
* Lowth'a Trans. t Plainly pointing out Gentiles as well as Jews.
A-_
'Q'
19
glory and beauty, "the dew-drops from the womb of the morning."*
Psalms, cx. 3. Accordingly, he himself said, "
I, ifI be lifted up, will
draw all men to me." And to sum
up this part of the evidence, we are
told, that just before the tinal appearing ofthe Messiah, in the clouds of
Heaven, the Seventh Angel sounded,
"
and there were great voices in
Heaven, saying, 'I`he kingdoms ofthe world are become the kingdoms of
our Lord, and ofhis Christ."-Rev. xi. 15. Have these promises been
yet fulfilled? Shall we believe the assertion of man, or the testimony
of God? Judge ye.
I pass over those promises which relate to the glory of the church,
because, they occupy what may be called disputed ground. Millenarians,
as well as Millerites, may insist upon their application, to the period,
when they expect Christ to reign personally upon the earth.
Qfl. 'I`urn next then, to the promises of light, "rid knowledge, and
means of grace. And the time shall yet come we lea .~i~.,'<.s'lie|i
"
the earth
shall he full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the waters cover the earth"
Hab. ii. 14~. And in this mountain shall the Lord of hosts make unto all
people, (or, as in the orignal peo_ples)'l' a feast of fat things-full of
marrow and of wines on the lees well refined. And he will de..'roy in
this mountain the face of the covering cast over all peoples, and the veil
that is spread over all nations."-Isa. xxv. 6, 7. As no terms could
more appropriately point out the darkening eifects upon the mind ofigno-
rance, delusion and idolatry, than veil or covering, so nothing could more
unequivocally point out their ultimate and entire removal than the term
destroy, and as applied to all nations and people. In addition to this
may be noticed the declaration in Daniel, xii. 4, that "
many shall run
tc and fro,and knowledge shall be increased ;" and in the present accom-
plishment of which, by the many active labours of faithful ministers
and missionaries, and the numerous Societies for the advancement of all
useful, as well as saving knowledge, we have a present pledge of the
filling up ofall the rest.
Now glance briefly at the Euffecls of all this, as indicated in the
Word of Promise. They shall he most beneficial, extensive, and glo-
rious. The distressed conscience shall be comforted, the barren heart
made fruitful, and the beauties ofholiness communicated, where former-
ly vice and deformity, alone were visible.-Psalms, xxii. 2, 3, 7. "
The
wolfalso shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down
with the kid andthe calf and the young lion and the fatling together, and
a little child shall lead them," &c. Sac.-Isa. xi. 6, 9. The advocates of
the Second Advent in 43, hesitate not to ridicule the expectation of
Christians, in reference to such promises, and they have shamelessly
asserted, that we expect a literal accomplishment of all this. Nothing
can be more contrary to truth: any person of ordinary understanding
"
L0wth's Trans. i' Plainly pointing out Gentiles as well as Jews.
20
may see, that from the nature of the case, such a passage must hejiiru-
ralive. All 'the animals alluded to, are wisely adapted m every respect,
for their several modes of life; and the iii.uincls with which they are
severally endowed, direct them to act in accordance ,vilh their organiz-
ation. Hence any change in their piiysical construction, is not for a
moment supposed :
'' Every creature on earth, man alone excepted,
continues to the last, of that disposition, and retains unchanged, those
propensities which belong to its lature." But this beautiful imagery is
nevertheless, happily fitted to express the renovation of human passions
and the completeness of moral transformation. They beautifully illus-
trate the reign of peace on earth, vvhen men shall beat their swords into
plough-shares, ^..J their spears into pruning-hooks,— when they shall
" Hang the trumpet in the hall,
And study war no more."—!• u ii- 4. Hos. ii. 18.
Such are the general outlines of a great variety of most interesting
prophecies, partly accomplished, partly fulfilling, but which remain to
be completed; nor can we doubt that every part of this sublim'^ outline
the hand oUiine will fill up ; for thus sailh the InielVHness, " my word
shall not pass till all shall be fulfilled." The certainty is founded upon
the clearness of the prediction, and the absoluteness of the promise. It
is not a subject of mere ojnnioji, nor is it beset with obscurity and svp-
posilion, like the theory I oppose, but is exhibited in terms as simple as
the events predicted are desirable and glorious.
But suppose for a moment, that none of these promises exist, still,
the publication of the Gospel, which they affirm with such confidence
has been made to all the world, cannot be proven. I trust none here
are so ignorant of the world's history, and of missionary enterprise, as to
deny that the Gospel has been published in all the great divisions of the
world. But this is far from enough, to meet the terms of the promise j
for the Gospel is not merely to run through a country, or a continent,
and then disappear—leaving no better effects from its presence, than
what is seen in the empty channel of a deceitful brook-~\t is to become
water " to swim in, a river that cannot be passed over.'' Or, to change
the emblem, the stone cut out of the mountain is to fill the whole earth.
So the knowledge of the Lord is to cover the earih, we have seen, as
completely, as the channels of the sea.'^ But besides the want of con*
* Some faint idea of the state of the world, in this respect, may be obtained by
a single instance. The Island of Bombay, near the west coast of Hindoostan, has
a population, according to a late census, of 161,550 ; besides 4,300 British, who may
be called Christian, there are 11,500 Portuguese, Catholics and Armenians; still
leaving 145,750 in heathen darkness. Yet, owing to its situation in reference to the
trading world, its state cannot be so dark as inland places. The knowledge of the
Lord has not yet W/covered the earth.
•
» t
-
7
20
may see, tltat from the nature ofthe case, such a
passage must bejigu-
relive. All'the animals alluded to, are
wisely adapted in every respect,
for their several modes oflife; and the instincts with which they are
severally endowed, direct them to act in accordance with their organiz-
ation. Hence arty change in their physical construction, is not for a
moment supposed :
"
Every creature on earth, mon alone excepted,
continues to the last, of thatdisposition, and retains unchanged, those
propensities which belong to its nature." But this beautiful imagery is
nevertheless, happily fitted to express the renovation of human passions
andthe completeness of moral transformation. They beautifully illus-
trate the reign of peace on earth, when men shall beat their swords into
plough-shares, .mtl their spears into pruning-books,-when they shall
"II:1ngthe trumpet in the hall,
And study war no more."-lf.1. ii. tl. lios. ii. 18.
Such are the general outlines of a great variety of most interesting
prophecies, partly accomplished, partly fulfilling, but which remain to
be completed; nor can we doubt that every part of this sublime outline
the hand of time will fill up ; for thus saith the lruelVilness,
"
my word
shall not pass till all shall be fultilletl." The certainly is founded upon
the clearness of the prediction, and the al/solutcness of the protnise. It
is not a subject of mere opinion, nor is it beset with obscurity and sup-
jlosition, like the theory I oppose, but is exhibited in terms as simple as
the events predicted are desirable and glorious.
But suppose for a moment, that none of these promises exist, still,
the publication of the Gospel, which they aflirm with such confidence
has been made to all the world, cannot be proven. I trust none here
are so ignorant ofthe world's history, and of missionary enterprise, as to
deny that the Gospel has been published in all the great divisions of the
World. But this is far from enough, to meet the terms ofthe promise ;
forthe Gospel is not merely to run through a country, or a continent,
and then disappear-leaving no better effects from its presence, than
what is seen in the empty channel ofa deceitful brook-it is to become
water "to swim in, a river that cannot be passed over."' Or, to change
the emblem, the stone cut out oft/ze mountain is io_/ill the w/iolc earl/z.
So the knowledge of the Lord is to cover the earl/L, we have seen, as
completely, as the channels of the sea.* But besides the want of con-
*
Some faint idea ofthe state ofthe world, in this respect, may be obtained by
ll single instance. The Islaitd of Bombay, near the West coast of I'llllCl00SI£l], has
u
popttlation, according to a late census, ot`1Gl,550; besides 4,300 British, who may
be called Christian, there are 11,500 Portuguese, Catholics and Arnienians; still
leaving 145,750 in heathen darkness. Yet, owing to its situation iu reference to the
trading world, its state cannot be so dark as inland places. The knowledge of the
Lord has not yet ltalfcorerecl the earth,
"
» •»
21
cord with the terms of the proinisoH, the asseriioii catuiot ho made good.
When, and by what iiistrumcntnlitieis was the Gospel proclaimed to the
many darkened tribes of the North American Indians'? or to ifie equally
benighted tribes of Central and Soulher.i America? to iho great mass of
the New Zealanders ? or to the iidiabitants of Central Africa ? When
did Ethiopia, in the fulnesa of the promise, *'
stretch out her hands to
God 1" When did the millions in Independent Tartary, China, and
Jjpan, "remember and turn to the Lord f When did the numerous
is/es of the Pacific and Southern Oceans W(til for Messiah's law? or
when did the various castes and kindieds of the Hindoos and the
Aflghans worship before him? The oidy reply they can return must
be unfounded assertion s,\\\\. Certairdy, those who can believe what is
so destitute of all evidence must have a credulity nearly as hurtful as
infidelity itself; for in this case it is belief in that which is not only-
unsupported by faclj but which gives the lie to the promises of God.
Similar remarks might be made regarding the publication of the Scrip-
tures into the various languages of the nations. What a pity it is that
the British and Foreign and American Bible Societies, throughout all
their numerous branches, should not have been made aware of the fact,
that they might be prevented from wasting their gigantic eilorts and
misapply their means, in attenpting to accoiiiplish that regarc ;)g which
the notable words are employtJ, " It is done .'"
4M. I proceed now to the last event in the \ |>lietic ouUine which
I can notice at present ; and it is one presenting « field of vast and im-
pressive dispensations of Providence in the world, before the " second
and glorious appearing of our Lord." I refer to the outcast house of Is-
rael. Although Scripture were silent respecting the future history ofthia
singular people, a mind accustomed to reflect upon the Divine disper>sa-
tions, would almost naturally, I think, infer that something very remark-
able remains to be developed res^necting them. For who can behold
them scattered, according to prophxy, among all, yet remaining separa-
tedfrom all. and not see a constant miracle in operation? And when
we turn to the Gospel, and find it written that " all Israel shall be
saved," we have, in their present condition, a sure [)ledge of its accom-
plishment. We are told, however, the conversion of the Jews is never
to be expected;" that there is not in the Bible a promise regarding them
as a people;" that all the prophetic intimatious respecting them, refer to
spiritual Israel only—the seed of Abraham by faith. Of the agreement
of such assertions with the Word of God, I shall proiluce such evide' .j
as may enable every one to judge. And observe, that here again, the
case is to be met by documentary evidence, and not by my opinion^
which is worth nothing, except in so far as it is borne out by the Lav)
and the Testimony: if I speak not according to them, it is because there
is no truth in me. It should also be observed, that all that ought to be
expected is but a meagre selection from the many references to this in-
teresting subject with which the VVord of God abounds.
21
cord with the terms of the promises, the assertion cannot be made good.
When, and by what instrtnuentnlities was the Gospel proclaimed to the
many darkened tribes of the North American Indians? or to the equally
henighted tribes of Central and Southern America? to the great mass of
the New Zealanders? or to the inhabitants of Central Africa 'l When
did Ethiopia, in the fulness of the promise,
"
strctcli out her hands to
God T" When did the millions in Independent Tartary, China, and
Japan, "remember and turn to the Lord T' When did the numerous
isles ofthe Pacific and Southern Oceans 'wnit for Messiah's law? cz'
when did the various casles and /rind/cds of the Ilindoos and the
Affghans wars/zip Jefo/'c /lim? The only reply they can rcturn must
be unfounded assertion still. Certainly, those who can believe what is
so destitute of all evidence must have a cretlulity nearly as hurtliil as
infidelity itself; for in this case it is belief in that which is not only
unsupported by facl, but which gives the lie to the promises of God.
Similar remarks might; be made regarding the publication of the Scrip-
tures into the various languages of the nations. What a pity it is that
the British and Foreign and American Bible Societies, throughout all
their numerous branches, should not have been made av. are of the fact,
that they might be prevented from wasting their gigantic efforts and
misapply their means, in attempting to accomplish that regarc :ig which
the notable words are employed,
"
It is donef"
it/z. I proceed now to the last event in the p~ phetic outline which
Ican notice at present; and it is one presenting .. lield of vast and im-
pressive dispensations of Providence in the world, belbre the "second
and glorious appearing of our Lord." I refer to the outcast house of Is-
rael. Although Scripture were silent respecting the future history ofthis
singular people, a mind accustomed to reflect upon the Divine dispensa-
tions, would almost naturally, I think, infer that something very remark-
able remains to be developed respecting them. For who can behold
them scattered, according to prophecy, among all, yet remaining separa-
terljiom all, and not see a constant miracle in operation? And when
we turn to the Gospel, and find it written that "all Israel shall be
saved," we have, in their present condition, a sure pledge ofits accom-
plishment. "Te are told, however, the conversion ofthe Jews is never
to be expected ;" that there is not in the Bible a promise regarding them
as a
people;" that allthe prophetic intimations respecting them, refer to
spiritual Israel only-the seed ofAbraham by faith. Of the agreement
of such assertions with the Word of God, I shall produce such eviden.:
as may enable every one to judge. And observe, that here again, the
case is to be met by documentary evidence, and not by my opinion,
which is worth nothing, except in so far as it is borne out by the Law
and the Testimony: iflspeak not accordmg to them, it is because there
is no truth in me. It should also be observed, that all that ought to be
expected is but a meagre seleclion li'om the many references to this in-
teresting subject with which tile Word of God abounds.
22
Before aJducn.g at.y evidence, it is requisite to lay down a Bimp e
nrinciplo for an in)puilial inteiprctaiiou of such prophecies; a pnnc.ple
U ohvious and rea^'onahle as to cumn.end itself to every mte .gent m.nd,
ond which has accordingly been, I believe, universally admitted by those
who seek to understand -what the will of the Lord is" upon such points.
The principle is this-that those portions of prop .ecy which have
a'ron<. . betM. fulfilled in ;!'.e l.istor- of the Jewish peoi-le, are to be taken
as" the surest guide for ascertaining the meaning ol those porUons which
yet remain to be accomplished ; so that if in the one part the lulfilment
be literal, we mu.t l-ok for a literal fulfilment in the other also. To
suppose that one part of a prediction is to be taken /<^erfl% and the
other part of it converted into an allegory, would be to maKC ihe Bible
the most inexplicable of all writings, and indocd would confound al
language. Upon the same principle, the d;tTorent parts of a>gwre must
have a uniformity of interpretation instead of relemng the first part to
one subject, and 'the rest of it to another.
,.. i-
Now, then, ii on reading prophecy, we find it predicted in most
express terms, that the Jeus were to be cast off from being God s pecu-
liar people- t.^rn from their beloved land, scatterer' among all nations,
yet separ..ed from all, treated with scorn, and loaded with reproach ;--
and if, on -.oning the page of history, we find the whole venfitd with
surprising mi.H'tene.s, can we hesitate to believe, that what remauis of
the^r prop, -^tic history shall be accomplished as fully 1 Yet, in follow-
ing the outline of their history, as sketched by the seers of old, we find
it declared in the same explicit manner, that they shall be reinstated in
the Church of God, and invested with an honour and a glory which had
no parallel even in ihtir days of bygone magnificence. « When we see,
says a late writer, ''
that God has magnified his faithfulness in giving the
dark side of their prospective history so complete a verification, shalvve
think so harshly of his chaiacter, or so meanly of the prophetic word, as
to suppose that he will not verify to the letter the other also ?
Guided by this principle then, I assert, «nd now proceed io prove,
that the Jews a5 a people, shnll become the people of God-in one vast
body members of the Chrisium Clwrch. Till the pretended discoveries
bearincr upon '43, few, if -
- ---. rs in ScKpture ever doubted this.—
Whether they shall be restored to their ancient heritage or not, has occa-
sioned, and may vet cause diversity of opinion ;
but as to their uItinriate
conversion, there' has been no difference of senhment, nor would there
now I believe, had not th r propiietic history stood m ihe way of a
fond theory. It is declared then, that the Jewish people as such, shall
« no more be termed Forsaken ;
neither shall their land any more be
termed Desolate ; but thou shalt be called Hephzi-bah, and thy land
Beulah for the Lord delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be married,
&c —Isa Ixii. 4, 5. That the Jews are the subject of the prophecy is
' '• 'inf'.tinn between them and
piam to every one vv ho will observe the
22
Before adducing any evidence, it is requisite to lay down a simple
principle for an impartial interpretation of' such prophecies; a
principle
so obvious and reasonable as to commend itself to every intelligent mind,
and which has accordingly been, I believe, universally admitted by those
who seek to understand "what the will ofthe Lord is" upon such points.
'l`he principle is this-that those postions of propzecy which have
already been fulfilled in the histort' ofthe Jewish people, are to be taken
as the surest guide for ascertaining the meaning ol those portions which
yet remain to be accomplished; so tltat it` in the one part the fulfilment
be literal,we must look for a literal fixltilntent in the other also. To
suppose that one part of a
prediction is to be taken literally and the
other part ol' it converted into an allegory, would be to make the Bible
the most inexplicable of all writings, and indeed would confound all
language. Upon the same principle, the ditlerent parts ofajigure must.
have a uniforrnity of interpretation instead of referring the first part to
one subject, and the rest ol' it to another.
Now, then, it on reading prophecy, we find it predicted in most
express terms, that the Jeus were to be cast oft' from being God's pew..
liar people, torn from their beloved land, scattered among all nations,
yet separated from all, treated with scorn, and loaded with reproach ;--
and if`, on onctiittg the page ol' history, we find the whole verified with
surprising minttteness, can we hesitate to believe, that what remains of
their propietic history shall be accomplished as fully? Yet, in follow-
ing the outline of their history, as sketched by the seers ofold, we find
it declared in the same explicit manner, that they shall be reinstated in
the Church of God, and invested with an honour and a glory which had
no
parallel even in their days ol' bygone magnificence.
"
When we see,"
says a late writer, "that God ltas magnified his f`aithl'ulness in giving the
dark side of' their prospective history so complete a verification, shall we
think so harshly of his character, or so meanly ofthe prophetic word, as
to suppose that he will not verify to the letter the other also ?"
Guided by this principle then, I assert, and now proceed to prove,
that the Jews as apeople, shall ltccome the people of`God-in one vast
body members ofthe Christi; -»
'.`h»reh. Till the pretended discoveries
bearing upon '4~3, few, if`:~,n" r- rs in Scripture ever doubted this-
Whether they shall be restored to their ancient heritage or not, has occa-
sioned, and may yet cause diversity of opinion ; but as to their ultimate
conversion, there has been no difference oi' sentiment, nor would them
notvl believe, had not th 'r prophetic history stood -in i/ze way of` a
fond f/zeory. It is declared then, that the Jewish people as such, shall
"
no more be termed Forsaken; neither shall their land any more be
termed Desolate; but thou shalt be called Hephzi-bah, and thy land
Beulah_ for the Lord delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be married,"
Ste.--Isa. lxii. 4+, 5. That the Jews are the subject of the prophecy is
plain to every one who will observe the distinction between them and
-rh 23
ihe Genlilee, in the second verse. Turn ! ack to chapter xi. of the same
hook, anil the same truth i'- leclnred in langunge not exhibiiing the lea
eeniblance of poetical structure or of figurative caibellishniuiit. but in all
the distinciness of historical narrtitive ; vciise II," It stmll come to pass
in that day that tlie Lord sliall set his hand again t!ie second time, to
recover the remnant of liis people, which «hull he left from Assyria, and
from Egypt, and from Pat'iroe and from Cush,and from Elam, and from
Shinar, and from Hamalh. and from t!ie islands of the sea j and he shall
set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the oulcnsts of Ib-
rael, and gather together the di.-pcrsed of Judah, from \\h' four corners
of the ear;h." This cannot even be twisted to apply to iheir deliverance
from the Babylonish captivity, or to any event in Xhe'wpast historv. The
reuirn from Babvlon was confined, \> 'h a few exccptitins, to the house
of Judah ; and even in reference to tlt..-i, it was «o far from extending
to those lands here specified, that it scarcely uache'.'; beyond Assyria.
—
Notl.ing then can be more certain, than this glorious restoration to the
Church of God, in their yet undeveloped li'^oiy , Even that ancient
promise, that in them "all nations shall he blesst'd," has never yet been
fully verified. T.^e Gentile world has indeed by their means had many
benefits imparte '
to them, but they are but a partial fulfilment of the -•-
nr.ise, compared with that " unrivalled glory wh'ch is yet to be con n-
Irated in them, and to emanate //"Ci them." In proof of wh'ch, turn to
Hos. i. 10, 11, " Yet the number of the children of Israel ohall bo as the
sand o*" the sea which cannot be measured or numbered; audit shall
come to pabs, that in the place where it was said unto them, ' Ye are
not my people,' there it shall be said unto them, ' Ye are the sons of
t'le living God,' " &c. Who are the subjects of this prophecy no un-
biased enquirer can doubt ; for they are spoken of under the names of
Judah, and Israel, the two distinctive branches of the Jewish nation, in-
cluding the whole natural seed of Israel. Of them it is plainly testified
that they shall become "the sons of the living God." But surely it is
unnecessary to multiply evidence in a case so plain. Turn then for a
little, to the testimony of the Spirit upon the subject, in the New
Testament, and an instance or two here may s-iffice. Paul address-
ing the Corinthians, 2d epistle, iii. 16, and speaking directly of the Jews,
plainly afhrms, that the rciV of spiritual blindness which for ages has
covered their hearts, sh.dl be iuken away., when they shall iurn to the
Lord. And that they shall turn, he distinctly shews, Rom. xi. 26, 27.
For nr; vily is it there affirmed that nil Israel shall be saved, but that
an im^'iant stipulation in God's ancient covenant with tl em was, to
turn away ungodliness from Jacob.*
"
The Aposlle. in alluding to Isaiah lix. 20. 21, abri('ges, or giv's the general
«^se of the original.
23
the Gentiles, in the second verse. Turn lack to chapter xi. ofthe same
hook, and the same truth i~' leclared in language not exhibiting the lea
sernblancc ol' poetical struct.nre or oflignratixe embellishment, but in ntl
the distinclness of historical narrative; verse ll,
"
lt shall come to pass
in that day that thc Lord shall set his haml again the second time, to
recover the remnant ofhis people, which shall hc lelt from Assyrin, and
from Egypt, and from Patlzros, and from Cush, and from Elam, and from
Shinar, and l`rom Humath, and from the islands ofthe sea; and he shall
set up un
ensign lbr the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts of Ia-
ruel, and gather together the dispersed ot' Judah, from the four corners
ol' the earth." This cannot even be twisted to apply to their deliverance
from the Bahylonish captivity, or to any event in theirpasl histor_'. The
return front Babylon was confined, ."h a few exceptions, to the house
oflndah; and even in reference to th..:, it was so far from extending
to those lands here specified, that it scarcely ufnclted beyond Assyria.-
Nothing then can be more certain, than this glorious restoration to the
Church ol' God, in their yet undeveloped lr 'o~y. Even that ancient
promise, that in them "all nations shall he blessed," has never yet heen
fully verified. The Gentile world has indeed hy their means had many
bcnelits imparted to them, but they are but a
partial fnllilment ofthe 1-
mise, compared with that "unrivalled glory which is yet to be con n-
trated in them, and to emanate front them." In proof ol' which, turn to
Hos. i. 10, ll,
"
Yet the numher ol' the children of Israel shall bc as the
sand ofthe sea which cannot be measured or numbered ; and it shall
come to pass, that in the place where it was said unto them,
'
Ye are
not my people,' there it shall be said unto them, 'Ye are the sons ot'
tue living God,'
"
Sac. Who are the subjects of this prophecy no un-
biased enquirer can doubt; for they are spoken of under the names of
Judah, and Israel, the two distinctive branches of the Jewish nation, in-
cluding the whole natural seed oflsrael. Of them it is plainly testified
that they shall become "the sons of the living God." But surely it is
unnecessary to multiply evidence in a ease so
plain. Turn then for a
little, to the testimony ot' the Spirit upon the subject, in the New
Testament, and an instance or two here may sitllice. Paul address-
ing the Corinthians, 2d epistle, iii. 16, and speaking directly of the Jews,
plainly aflirms, that the veil of spiritual blindness which for ages has
covered their hearts, s/ull be taken away, u'/zen 1/:ey s/tall fum to the
Lord. And that they shall turn, he distinctly shews, Rom. xi. 26, 537.
For nrt only is it there atlirmed 1/tat all Israel s/zall be sawed, but that
an imyrtant stipulation in God's ancient covenant with tl-,em was, to
turn away ungodliness from Jacob.*
'
The Apostle, in alluding to Isaiah lix. 20, 21, abridges, or
gives the general
sense ofthe original.
J
-
24
The case then is so plain, that we cannot wonder it should have
been hitherto universailv admitted. The only question which may natu-
rally arise ..-arding the things promised, is-When ? By what specific
means, or at "what particular time, the " De'iverer shall turn away un-
godliness troni Jacob," we are not inforn.ed ;
but we can ascerlam that
it will be attended with most glorious results unto the Gentdes :
which
shews that it will be previous to the universal diffusion of the bospel
among the latter. For. says the Aposde, i:! the preceding context, v. Id,
" if the casting away of them be the reconciling of the world, what shall
the receiving of them be but life from the .lead ?» How the return of the
Jews will thus conduce to the conversion of the remaining heathen, we
cannot vet fully understand ; but this we learn, that they shall be a
blessing in no ordinary way, to those ignorant ol God. " The remnant
of Jacob shall be in the midst of many people as a dew from the Lord.
—Mich V 7 One respect in which they shall have this influence !3
obvious,'from the circumstance that, in the character of Twm^onanw,
they will be the honoured instruments of converting many to God. In
past times, none were so efficient in this wodc, as appears from the little
DPocrress made in evangelizing the world since the christianized Jews
Went forth and fesfjfied ihat Jesus urns C/irisL « I will send those that
escape of them into the naiions, to Tarshish, Pul and Lud, that dravv the
bow to Tubal and Javan, to the isles afar otV, that have not heard my
fame, that have not seen my glory ; and they shall declare my glory
among the Gentiles. --h^. Ixvi."l9.* This illustrious event then-" the
gatheSna" of outcast Israel, is what may be expected with the utmost
confidence and the time determined in the Divine counsels, the "signs
of the times" seem to say is not far distant. In the meantime, it be-
comes u« to wait in silent" awe, but with assured expectation, lor the
determinations of infinite wisdom Thus far then, I trust, it has been
proved, that in the interpretation of tiie prophetic outline, those who
entertain the expectation of the Second Advent at present, do g.-eatly err.
We come then to the Third Department, viz :—To advert to some
of the fundamental errors of the system, exhibit a few of Us numerous
inconsistencies, and expose its dangerous tendency.
Were it not that the theory of Miller has been so extensively em-
braced, and its diflerenl points so tenaciously adher-l to, this division ot
the subiect might be dispensed with, at least in so far as it is designed to
point out the errors of the svstem. For surely whatever is so opposed
to the most express declaration of the Word of God, must ue untrue.—
* The converts to Christianity in the latter days will be proud to acknowledge
their relation to t!>e J nv., as their fathers and mothers in Cluist The follownig
!ex!s merit particular attention : haiah xlix, 18,22: liv.1,3; Iv.o; almost all xv.
mid Zech. viii. 23.
I
24
The case then is so
plain, that We cannot wonder it should have
been hitherto universally admitted. The only question which may natu-
rally arise regarding the things promised, is-When? By what specific
means, or at what particular lime, the "
Deliverer shall turn away un-
godliness front Jacob," we are not informed ; hut we can ascertain that
it will be attended with most glorious results unto the Gentiles: which
shezvs that it will he previous to the universal diffusion of the Gospel
among the latter. For, says the Apostle, in the preceding context, v. 13,
"
ifthe casting away ofthem he the reconciling ofthe world, what shall
the :eceiving of them be but lite from the dead T" How the return of the
Jews will thus condtrce to the conversion ofthe remaining heathen, we
cannot yet fully understand; hut this we learn, that they shall be a
blessing in no ordinary way, to those ignorant ot`God. "
The remnant
of Jacob shall he in the midst of many people as a dew from the Lord."
-Mich. v. 7. One respect in which they shall have this influence is
obvious, from the circumstance that, in the character of missionaries,
they will be the honoured instruments of converting many to God. In
past times, none were so efticient in this work, as appears from the little
progress made in cvangeliziug the world since the christianized Jews
went forth and leshjictl I/tat .Iesus was C/trz`.s!. "
I will send those that
escape of them into the nations, to Tarshish, Pnl and Lud, that draw the
bow, to Tuhal and Javan, to the isles afar off, that have not heard my
fame, that have not seen my glory; and they .s/tall declare my glory
among t/ze Gentiles.--Isa. lxvi. 19.* This illustrious event then-" the
gathering" of outcast Israel, is what may be expected with the utmost
confidence 2 and the time determined in the Divine counsels, the "signs
of the times" seem to say is not far distant. In the meantime, it be-
comes us to wait in silent awe, but with assured expectation, for the
determinations ofintinite wisdom Thus far then, I trust, it has been
proved, that in the interpretation of the prophetic outline, those who
entertain the expectation ofthe Second Adventat present, do greatly err.
We come then to the Third Department, viz :-To advert to some
of the fundamental errors of the system, exhibit a few of its numerous
inconsistencies, and expose its dangerous tendency.
Were it not that the theory of Miller has been so extensively em-
braced, and its dillerent points so tenaciously adher"-l to, this division of
the suhject might be dispensed with, at least in so far as it is designed to
point out the errors of the system. For surely whatever is so opposed
to the most express declaration of the Word of God, must he untrue.-
* The converts to Christianity in the latter days will he proud to acknowledge
their relation tn the .I'\'S, as their fathers and mothers in Christ. The following
texts merit particular attention: Isaiah xlix. 18, 22; liv. 1, 3; lv. 5; almost all xv.;
and Zech. viii. 23.
25
^
Leat, however, it may be supposed that the basis of the scheme is
correct if we leave it unas-^ailed, we shall refer at once to those passages
in Daniel out of which the whole theory seems to be drawn. Turning
then to vii. 25, 20, we find an account of the extent and duration of the
anti-christian power ; and the latter is said to be " a time, and times,
and the diviJing of lime." A year is universally the measure of time ;
and, according to the usual scriptural computation, there are 12 months
in a year and 30 days in a month. The period spoken of therefore, as
Miller has correctly enough shown, in common with all writers upon
the subject, is three and a half prophetic years. Thus time—360 days,
i. e. years, times just the double or 720 years, and half a time or half a
prophetic year— 180, and their sum of course 1'260. We have thus the
number which occurs so often both in Daniel and Revelations, as we
have formerly seen. And it is to be observed that it is applied alike to
the Anti-christian and Mahometan powers.
Three years after this vision, another was revealed to Daniel, viii.
ch., where, under different emblems, the same powers noticed in the vii.
are represented as rising and falling in succession ; till we come to v. 9,
which introduces another power not noticed before, and which I shall
in a little very briefly explain. In the mean time, we are entering upon
the consideration of Miller's scheme of compnting the numbers which
are given in v. 14, as maruing the term during which the power alluded
to was to trample under foot " the sanctuary and host." Of this large
number, 2300, the 1260 are, I believe, universally allowed to constitute
a part; and most likely they terminate at the same time. Now, to
prove that this large number terminates in 1843, we must proceed with
the author of the theory to the next ch. v. 24- ; and as this constitutes
properly the j^>5^ step, or starting point, of die whole, it merits very
particular examination. The 70 weeks here noticed are equal to 490
years, and are atlirmed by Miller to be the fr':t part of the 2300 ; and
since the commencement of the former is g'ven, by the reference to the
" (/ecvee," there can be no difficulty in ascertaining when the latter will
terminate. Now, mark the process by which we are to come to the
conviction of the truth of this theory. 1st. We are recpiired to believe,
upon the aulhor''s oaaurance, that the reference is to the former vision.
2nd. That the 70 weeks, or 490 years, are to be subtracted from 2300.
By doing so, the result will be 1810 ; and as the 490 reach from the
decree to the death of Christ, add 33 years for his life, and of course the
result will be 1843. All the theory wants, then, is ^foundation, which,
however is a very important thing. Observe then 1st. That there is no
ground for the idea that the two numbers alluded to have any connection.
The things connected with the large number were revealed to Daniel no
less than fifteen years before those connected with the seventy weeks,
which makes tlie supposition at least very improbable. But to make
the case look more plausible, we must bear in mind that Miller has also
25
Lest, however, it may be supposed that the basis of the scheme is
correct if we leave it unassailed, we shall refer at once to those passages
in Daniel out of which the whole theory seems to be drawn. Turning
then to vii. 25, 526, we find an account ofthe extent and duration of the
anti-christian power; and the latter is said to be "a time, and times,
and the dividing oftirne." A year is universally the measure of time ;
and, according to the usual scriptural computation, there are 12 months
in a
year and 30 days in a month. The period spoken of therefore, as
Miller has correctly enough shown, in common with all writers upon
the subject, is three and a
halfprophetic years. Thus time-360 days,
i. e. years, times just the double or 79.0 years, and half a time or halt' a
prophetic year--180, and their stint of course 1260. We have thus the
number which occurs so often both in Daniel and Revelations, as we
have formerly seen. And it is to be observed that it is applied alike to
tl1e Anti-christian and Mahometan powers.
'I`hree years after this vision, another was revealed to Daniel, viii.
ch., where, uncler different emblems, the same
powers noticed in the vii.
are
represented as
rising and falling in succession ; till we come to v. 9,
which introduces another power not noticed before, and which I shall
in a little very briefly explain. In the mean time, we are entering upon
the consideration of Miller's scheme of computing the numbers which
are
given in v. l4~, as
marking the term during which the power alluded
to was to
trample under foot "the sanctuary and host." Of this large
number, 2300, tlte 1260 are, I believe, universally allowed to constitute
a part ; and most liltely they terminate at the same time. Now, to
prove that this large number terminates in 1843, we must proceed with
the author of the theory to the next ch. v. '2»1< 5 and as this constitutes
properly the _first step, or
starting point, ofthe whole, it merits very
particular examination. The 70 weeks here noticed are
equal to 490
years, and are
aliirmedby Miller to be the first part of the 2300 ; and
since the commencement of the former is given, by the reference to the
"
decree," tltere can be no
ditlicnlty in ascertaining when the latter will
terminate. Now, mark the process by which we are to come to the
conviction ofthe tr-ufb of this theory. lst. We are required to believe,
upon :be au//zor's nssurrmce, that the reference is to the former vision.
flnd. That the 70 weeks, or 490 years, are to be subtracted from 2300.
By doing so, the result will be 1810; and as the 490 reach from the
decree to the death of Christ, add 33 years for his life, and of course the
result will he 18143. All the theory wants, then, is afozmdaliorz, which,
however is a very important thing. Observe then 1st. That there is no
ground tor the idea that the two numbers alluded to have any connection.
The things connected with the large number were revealed to Daniel no
less than _fifteen years before those connected with the seventy weeks,
which makes the supposition at least very improbable. But to make
the case look more
plausible, we must bear in mind that Miller has also
D
26
discovered thai Daniel vn-s meditating upon the former vision and had
fallen into a mistake upon the subject, and that Gabriel was sent for the
express purpose of putting liini right. And we are further told, ihat if
he did not give Daniel the starting point oi' ihe 2301). ihen he did not do
what he was sent to do. This might all seem satisfactory enough if we
had any evidence of its Iruih, which we have not. It happened to be
the |)rophecy of Jeremlali, and not \\\q previous vision at all, that Daniel
was meditating upon, ix. 2. In the lace of this, however, Miller inti-
mates it was no such thing; and if he has better means of judging,
respecting the pious exercises of the " man greatly beloved," then you
will agree with me in concluding, he is '• wiser tha,! Daniel." Great
stress 'is also laid upon the definite expression, ike vidon, which the
angel wished him to consider. But if this indicates a reference to any
preceding visior:, then the probability is far greater that it was a still
prior vision, as Paniel remarks that it was the same angel he had seen
in " ihe vision at the beginning;' which was i!:*^ one in which the
" time, times, and dividing of time" occurs, and not 2300.
Again, as to the authority for subtracting the 490 years, it rests upon
a stray criticism of a Hebrew word which Miller and his followers have
in{ hold of (for they cannot examine for themselves generally). The
term rendered " de!ermined'''' it is said means cvt off, and hence the
thought struck them to cat it of from 2300 ; for, says Miller, " I cannot
see any thing else to cut it off from." The fiict then that he cannot see
any thing else suitable, is a second argument. Now although it is, I
think. aTorced rendering of the term, I have no objection to admit it;
and what ihen ? Why only look to the words of the angel, and you can
see, I trust, what filler couhl not, viz. that it is cut off'' upon Daniel's
people, aiid the holy city." That is, plainly, set off w appointed for
them, as the period in which certain things specified would take place.*
The term evidently implies appointing or making out, the limits of a
thing. And this is at once consistent with the terms employed, and
with the acceptation of it where it any where else occurs, and also with
the corresponding Greek term employed in translating it.f
**
The, e are six distinct events, for the accomplishing of which the 70 vvep'is are
said U- ''-
ffetcrmincd. Isl. To finish Inuisgression ;
probably nitMning the filling
up, on me part of the Jews, of the cnp o^ their iniquity. 2n(i. To make an end of
am, or sin ofering. 3rd. To make expiation or reconciliation for iniquity. 4th. To
bring in everlasting righteousness. 5th. ".'o seal up or I'nlfil the vision and prophecy
(orig. prophet), by the accomplishment ot all i.i himself. Cth. To anoint the most
holy. (See Pridean.x Connex. P. I. B. V.)
f Mkliadis, whose nnthoritv in such n case every scholar will admit to begrea%
says the term means wlifit is ih'ddo.d vpon (Snpplem. p. 484) ;
and the Targnm o»
Esth. iv. 5. says Esther called Daniel ll/iUich (i. e. ddcrmintrl), because accorduig to
the word of hid uioulh were determined the affltira of the Kingdom.
245
discovered that Daniel was meditating upon the _former vision and had
fallen into a mistake upon the subject, and that Gabriel was sent lor the
express purpose of putting him right. And we are further told, that if
he did not give Daniel the starting point of the 23011, then he did not do
what he was sent to do. This might all seem satisfactory enough if we
had any evidence of its lruih, which we have not. lt happened to be
the prophecy ,il`.Ieremiah, and not the jlreviou-9 vision at all, that Daniel
was meditating upon, ix. 2. ln the face of this, however, Miller inti-
xnates it was no sin-li thing; and if he has better means of judging,
respecting the pious exercises of the "man greatly beloved," then you
will agree with me in concluding, he is "
wiser than Daniel." Great
stress is also laid upon the definite expression,1/ze vision, which the
angel wished him to consider. But if this indicates a reference to any
preceding vision, then the probability is far greater that it was a still
prior vision, as llaniel remarks that it was the same angel he had seen
in "
1/ie vision at the beg:`naz`n.g," which was the one in which the
"
time, times, and dividing of time" occurs, and not 2300.
Again, as to the authority for subtracting the 490 years, it rests upon
a
stray criticism of a l~lebrew word which Miller and his followers have
got hold of (for they cannot examine for themselves generally). The
term rendered "u'e/crmined" it is said means cut off, and hence the
thought struck them to cut il of from 2300; for, says Miller, "I cannot
see any thing else to rut it oti" from." The fact than that he cannot sec
anything else suitable, is a second angnmenl. Now although it is,I
think, a forced rendering of the term, I have no objection to admit it;
and what then? Why only look to the words of the angel, and you can
see, I trust. what ll.-'fillet' could not, viz. that it is cnt off
"
upon Daniel°s
people, and the holy city." That is, plainly, se/ off or
appointed for
them, as the pr-riotl in ut/:ic/L certain things specified would take plaoe.*
The term evidently implies nppointing or making auf, the limits of a
thing. And this is at once consistent with the terms employed, and
with the aceeptation of it where it any where else occurs, and also with
the corresponding Greek term employed in translating it.'l'
"
'The.e are sixdistinct events, for the accomplishing of' which the 70 weeks are
said lt'
"f
/lelcrminfd. lst. To finish transgression; prohably meaning the filling
np, on the part of the Jews. oftite cnp of their iniquity. Qud. To make an end of
sin. or sin offbring. 3rd. To make expiatinn or reconciliation for iniquity. 4th. To
bring in everlasting rigliteonsness. 5th, 'To seal up or l`nlfil the vision and prophecy
(orig. prophet). by the :iccmnplislnnnntnt all in hintselll (ith. 'l'o anoint the most
holy. (See Prideanx Connex. P. I. B. V.)
l llfivrliaclis. wltose antlinrity in such a case every scholar will admit to he grea',
ays the term means lr/mt is rleciflerl upon (Snpplem. p. 1134); and the 'l`argnm on
Esth. iv. 5. says Esther called Daniel lhltnch (i. e. flctermincrl), because according to
the word ofhis month zrcrc determined the aliiiirs ofthe Kingdom.
27
'
It has thus been shown that the Jirst, and of necessity the most
important, position in the scheme is assum€d,and that m carrying it out
violence is done to the plain words of Scripture.
, , i
I proceed next to notice briefly that power already alluded to,
respecting which these numbers are given; and I allude to it, not so
much because of any peculiar bearing it has in this case, as on account
of the obvious misapplication of it, which has been made in Millers
scheme. The power is described, ch. viii. 9, H, and !^3, 2d. Ihis
power, or little horn, was fur long pretty generally understood ol Anti-
ochus Epiphanes, in whose career, though brief, it was thought there
were so many remarkable coincidences that he must have been intended.
This api)lication of it is now, as the case has been more examined, about
as universally discarded. Indeed the objections to it seem insuperable,
and too numerous to be noticed here. It may be observed, however,
that a horn is never taken for a single person ;
it always s gnifies a new
kinerdom ; that of Antiochus was an old one. He reigned over one ol
ihe^ four horns, whereas the little horn was a fifth. Again, tlus horn
cast the sanctuary to the gmund ;
Antiochus left it standing. Besides,
when he stood up, the Jewish transgressors had not come to the lull.
Miller, following some others, applies it to the Papal poiccr. Now, it
h remarkable that the locality in which the horn rose did not prevent
this misapplication. It arose within the boundaries of the lormer empire
c'- Alexander ; whereas the Papal power, it is well known, arose in the
west. Faber, in his learned dissertations, has adduced the mo^t abun-
dant evidence of the api)lication to the Mahometan power. One ol the
Second Advent writers seems to have observed the inconsistency re-
garding locality, and he gets quit of i* by the assertion that Alexander s
dominion did not include the region where the false Prophet began, lo
this it i*« enough to oppose the high authority of Gibbon, that ''when
Mahomei reared his holy standard, Yemen was a Provinceof the Persinu
empire." And, accordingly, ever since that time, Mahometanism has
been the exceeding great, prospering and prevailing power, os'er the
countries that formed the various kingdon.s that succeeded to the
Grecian empire of Alexander, the conqueror of Persi... Were it neces-
Barv, the api»lication of the various characteristics might be pointed out
at 'length, but to all acquainted with his history they will be quickly
obvious. , ^ . •
.u o»«m
Another very conspicuous error, and of great moment in the systenj
of Miller, is the mistaking or substituting of the Pagan ^ot ihe Jewisfi
sacrifice. This error is so obvious, from a companion of tne ditlerent
text«, that every one must see it at a glance. All the nonces '" Daniel,
as well as those in Revelation that are parallel, show that 1-260 is the
term of the church's desolation, if the Pagan sacrifice is intended, tne
Pagan sanctuary must also be meant. The application of our Lord ol
the prophecy to the holy place at Jerusdem, is more to the purpose
27
It has thus been shown that the _/irst, and of necessity the mos!
important, position in the scheme is assumed, and that in carrying itout
violence is done to the plain words ol' Scripture.
I proceed next to notice brielly that power already alluded to,
respecting which these numbers are given; and l allude to it, not so
much because of any peculiar bearing it has in this case, as on account
of the obvious misapplication of it, which has been made in Miller's
scheme. The power is described, ch. viii. 9, 14, and 223, 25. This
power, or little horn, was for long pretty generally understood of Anti-
ochus Epiphanes,in whose career, though brief, it was thought there
were so many remarkable coincidences that he must have been intended.
This application of it is now, as the case has been more examined, about
as universally discarded. lndecd the objections to it seem insuperable,
and too numerous to be noticed here. It may be observed, however,
that a horn, is never taken for a single person ; it always s'gnifies a new
kingdom; that ol' Antiochns was an old one. l-le reigned over one ot'
the _four horns, whereas the little horn was a
_jifl/1. Again, this /zorn,
cast the sanctuary to the ground; Antiochus left it standing. Besides,
when /ze sloocl up, the Jewish transgressors had not come to the full.
Miller, following some others, applies it to the Papal power. Now, it
is remarkable that the locality in which the horn rose did not prevent
this misapplication. It arose within the boundaries nl' the former empire
of Alexander; whereas the Papal power, it is well known, arose in the
west. Faber, in his learned dissertations, has adduced the most abun-
dant evidcnce of the application to l/ze .Ma/zovnelan, power. One ol' the
Second Advent writers seems to have observed the inconsistency re-
garding locality, and he gels quit of i' by the osserlion that Alexander's
dominion did not include the region where the false Prophet began. To
this it is enough to oppose the high authority of Gibbon, that "
when
Mahomet reared his holy standard, Yemen was a Province ofthe Persian
empire." And, accordingly, ever since that time, Mnhnmetanism has
been the exceeding great, prospering and pz'evai/1'/tg power, over the
countries that formed the various kingdoms that succeeded to the
Grecian empire ol' Alexander, the conqueror ot' Persia. Were it neces-
sary, the application of the various characteristics might he pointed out
at length, but to all acquainted with his history they will be quickly
obvious.
Another very conspicuous error, and of great moment in the system
of Miller, is the mistaking or substituting ol' the Pagan for the Jewish
sacrifice. This error is so obvious, from a comparison ol` the dill`erent
texts, that every one must see it at a
glance. All the notices in Daniel,
as well as those in Revelation that are parallel, show that 1260 is the
term of the C}l?,Ll'C/Z`S desolation. lf the Pagan sacrzr/Zee is intended, the
Pagan sanctuary must also be meant. The application of our Lord of
the prophecy to the holy plane at Jerusalem, is more to the purpose
28
than any refutation however lengthened. And I have noticed the case,
as an illustration of the manner by which the tiieory is built up by a
series of supposilicns and assertions^ opposed by the letter as well as
the terror of the word of God.
Once more here, it is very generally known that great stress is laid
upon the words time of the end, already mentioned. Let ch. xii, 6, be
examined, and it will at once be seen that it is not the ei'd of a period,
but of the wonders, which is the object of inquiry. It is not the ejid of
the ii?ne, but the time of the end. And accordingly the duration is
specified, evidently indicating the duration from the rise to the ex'in^tion
of the power spoken of.* Hence it cannot with any propriety be applied
to the end of all things.
I have now to observe that there is another period of 1335, reach-
ing on other 45 years, and with rei^ard to this period, when spoken of
at the close of Daniel's [)-tphccy, it is very remarkable, and as if to
quash ah premature and presumptuous sjjeculation, it is only said in
general terms, " blessed is he that waiteth and cometh ;" whereas in
reference to the preceding numbers, there is uniformly some event of
importance connected witli them. But as it approaches the closing up
of the /ision, it becomes more and more indistinct —the Father keeping
the " times and seasons'' still more comj)letfly " in his own hand."
Till this jieriod, or the final developement of the whole scheme of
prophecy, the seasons may not be perfectly seen in all their due relations
and proportions. But this we ought to be certain of, that God *' will do
his work, his strai ^e work ;" and after the instances which have been
adduced of mis-^ itement and mis-application, this pait of the subject
cannot be better concluded than in the words of Keith, in his Signs of
the Times, where, alluding to Daniel's position after being partially
strengthened by the angel, he says, '" The sight (set upon his knees and
the palms of his hands) may well shew us hov human imaginations
have here to he prostrated ; how tiie idle strife rewords befits not such
a subject, and that it becomes not any man to vaunt of any interpreta-
tion of any word of his. And whoever may here receive strength to
stand, may well remember that Daniel stood trembling, and sympathise
with his emotion. It is not at least for the pen of muu to niter or mis-
place that which was spoken by the tongue of an angel at the command
of Christ."
From the numerous inconsistencies with which the theory abounds
I shall select one other feature here.
I
* And that Miller himself understands it in no other light, except when to serve
a purpose, appears from Ills statement that it i-i tlie term the Pope had " to tread
upon th Church by his civil authority" (Lect. vi. p. 93) ; but this time of tlie end he
has made 1798 ! !
28
than any refntation however lengthened. And I have noticed the case,
as an illustration of the manner by which the theory is built up by a
series of supposilicns and assertions, opposed by the letter as well as
the terror ofthe word ol' God.
Once more here, it is very generally known that great stress is laid
upon the words time of t/ze emi, already mentioned. Let ch. xii, 6, be
examined, and it will at once be seen that it is not i/ze and of a
period,
but ol' I/'Le wonders, which is the object of inquiry. It is not the end of
the time, but the time of the c/td. And accordingly the duration is
specified, evidently indicating the (l1l7't7il'0Tll'l`l)lIl the rise to the extin :tion
of' the power spoken ol`.* Hence it cannot with any propriety be applied
to the end of all I/iings.
I have now to observe that there is another period of' 1335, reach-
ing on other 45 years, and with regard to this period, when spoken of
at the close ol' Daniel's p"1phecy, it is very remarkable, and as if to
quash all premature and presumptuous speculation, it is only said in
general terms, "blessed is he that woiteth and cometh ;" whereas in
reference to the preceding numbers, there is uniforrnly some event of
importance connected with them. But as it approaches the closing up
ol' the vision, it becomes more and more indistinet-the Father keeping
the "times and seasons" still more completely "in his own hand."
Till this period, or the iinal developement; of the whole scheme of
prophecy, the SCIISOUS may not be perl`e<ftly seen in all their due relations
and proportions. But this we ought to be Certain of, that God "
will do
his work, his stra' 'e work ;" and al`ter the instances which have been
adduced of mis-s rtement and niis-application, this part ol' the subject
cannot be better concluded than in the words ol' Keith, in his Signs of
i/ie Times, where, alluding to Daniel's position after being partially
strengthened by the angel, he says,
"
The sight (set upon his knees and
the palms ol' his hands) may well shew us how human imaginations
have here to be prostrated ; how tl|e idle strife r~~' words hetits not such
a subject, and that it becomes not any man to vaunt of' any interpreta-»
tion ol' any word of his. And whoever may here receive strength to
stand, may well remember that Daniel stood trembling, and sympathise
with his emotion. It is not at least for the pen ol' mnn io eller or mis-
place that whlch was spoken by the tongue of an angel at the command
of Christ."
From the numerous inconsistencies with which the theory abounds
I shall select one other feature here.
'*
And that Miller himself' understands it in no other light, except when to serve
a purpose, appears from his statement that it is the term the Pope had "
to tread
upon tb Church by his civil autlzority" (Lect. vi. p. 95); but this time of the enrl he
has made 1798 ! Z !
29
It is a prominent part of the theory, that when tlie Saviour comes
the ricrhteous dead will be raised and the righteous living changed, the
wicke° d destroyed, and all the raised and changed shall live and reign
with Christ lUOO years. To this I shall attend as brieny as possible.
The point long in dispute, whether Christ shall reign personally, is
not of much moment here. The passage upon which the idea just
alluded to rests, is Rev. xx. 4, 5. The passage is highly figurative, and
too obscure to be made the foundation of a positive opiiuon. " I^o wise
man would oppose a vision in which the descrii)tion is professedly figu-
rative to the plain declaration of Scripture, that the rosurrection will tal:e
place at the second coming of Christ." But supposing IMiller's vie'v
correct respecting \he first resurrection, unfortunately for the theory, it
is a resurrection of souls, not of bodies. The \erm first is probably used
here, as it often is, for the best, or that which is excellent ;
" bring forth
the best (literally the first) robe, Luke xv. 22. The literal resurrection
is of bodies, this of spirits. U a " living dog" be more excellent than
a "dead lion," because it is animated, how great is that excellency
which is communicated to the soul when it is made spiritually alive, and
has the divine image impressed upon it. What can it then mean but a
figurative or spiritual resurrection 1 A resurrsciion of the "cause for
which the martyrs died, and included with them of course are all the
righteous dead. They shall live in their successors, as Elijah did in
John : which is quite a common figure in the Bible. Now, Miller and
h's followers just flatlv deny that there is any such thing as a « figurative
resurrection" in Scripture. Does not Paul, as we have already seen,
describe the restoration of his kinsmen to the Church, oy this figure?
Isaiah makes use of the same figure, ch. xxvi. 19 ;
and E^^ekiel des-
cribes in the same way the remarkable reviving which was to take place
in the Church upon her return from Babylon, ch. :<xxix. 11, 1>. And
as to these " souls" reigning with Christ, it is supposed that he is to
dwell " bodily" with them during 1000 years. Did not Enoch walk
<«
with" God ] But who ever supposed that Enoch was either then in
heaven, or God ''with him" on earth, otherwise than by his gracious
presence f But the idea is groundless : 1st. Because there are only two
appearances of Christ on earth mentioned, and they are always spoken
of so as to exclude a third. The second is always connected with the
final judgment. 2nd. Such a reign is incompatible with the glory into
which he has now entered. The personal reign is also supposeu ;
hovv-
ever, from ch. xxi. p, " the tabernacle of God is with men." Yet the
words seem emploved as if on purpose lo remind us of an ancient pro-
mise thus fulfilled, Ez.ch xxxvii. 27, "My tabernacle also shall be with
them." And it has been the privilege of genuine beuevers, in ail ages,
to have Him,'-wlio dwells in the high and holy place," with them.
The saints then, in the times spoken of, shall reign " with Ch-,st, in
their government of themselves by his spirit and laws, and shall have
09
It is a
prominent part of' the theory, that when the Saviour comes
the righteous dead will be raised and the righteous living changed, the
wicked destroyed, and all the raised and c/longed shall live and reign
with Christ 1000 years. To this I shall attend as briefly as possible.
The point long in dispute, whetlter Christ shall reign personally, is
not of much moment here. 'l`he passage upon which the idea just
alluded to rests, is Rev. xx. 4~, 5. The passage is highly figurative, and
too obscure to be made the foundation ol' a
positive opinion.
"
No wise
man would oppose a vision in which the description is professedly figu-
rative to the plain declaration of Scripture, that the resurrection will talze
place at the second coming of' Christ." But supposing hliller's view
correct respecting the ji/'st resurrection, unfortunately for the theory, it
is a resurrection of souls, not o!` bodies. The term _first is probably used
here, as it often is, for the best, or that which is excellent ; "bring forth
the best (literally the first) robe, Luke xv. 22. The literal resurrection
is of bodies, this of spirits. 1f` a "living dog" be more excellent than
a. "dead lion," because it is animated, hotv great is that excellency
which is communicated to the soul when it is made spiritually alive, and
has the divine image impressed upon it. What can it then mean but a
figurative or spiritual resurrection? A resurrection of the "cause" for
which the martyrs died, and included with them ofcourse are all the
righteous dead. They shall live in their successors, as Elijah did in
John; which is quite a common figure in the Bible. Now, Millerland
his followers just flatly deny that there is any such thing as a
"
figurative
resurrection" in Scripture. Does not Paul, as we have already seen,
describe the restoration ot' his hinsmen to the Church, by this figure?
Isaiah makes use of the same figure, ch. xxvi. 19; and Ezekiel des-
cribes in the same way the remarkable reviving which was to take place
in the Church upon her return t`rom Babylon, ch. xxxix. ll, 12. And
as to these "souls" reigning with Christ,it is supposed that he is to
dwell "bodily" with them during 1000 years. Did not Enoch walk
"
with" God? But who ever supposed that Enoch was either then in
heaven, or God "
with him" on earth, otherwise than by ltis gracious
presence? But the idea is grounclless: lst. Because there are only two
appearances of Christ on earth mentioned, and they are always spoken
of' so as to exclude a t/iirtl. The second is always connected with the
final judgment. Qnd. Such a reign is incompatible with the glory into
which he has now entered. The personal reign is also supposed; how-
ever, from ch. xxi. 9,
"
the tabernacle of God is with men." Yet the
words seem employed as if' on purpose to remind us of' an ancient pro-
mise thus i`ulftlled, Ez.ch xxxvii. 27, "My tabernacle also shall be with
them." And it has been the privilege of' genuine believers, in all ages,
to have Him, "who dwells in the high and holy place," with them.
The saints then, in the times spoken of, shall reign "with Ch'ist," in
their government of themselves by his spirit and laws, and shall have
t
30
fellowship " '.vith him" in his spiritual and invisible government of the
world. As might bi3 expected after what has beeti said, the texts
adduced, as "direct" proof of Clirist's personal reign with his people,
seem io me at least to say nothing to the purpose. But you car. judge.
They are such as, " If I go and |)iepare a i)lace for you, I will come
again and receive you to myself," &c. And did he not intimute the
"locality" of this abode, "with him," when he went to his Father's
house "to prepare mansions 1" And when he comes again, it is not
to dwell "vviih them" here, but in the very terms of the texts adduced
by Miller and others, "to receive them to himself." And as to the
"second" resurrection, implied by the fi;st alluded to, it is supposed
to be that of the wicUed dead to be raised after 1000 years, when
Satan sh;ill be loosed It seems equally plain, however, that it is a
resurrection of the " spirits" of the wicked ; they in their turn shall live
in their successors. Like S:itan himself, they were put under restraint
for a season ;
but by his influence, when let loose, the enemies of the
Church will again speedily appear. And they, doubtless, " will consti-
tute the spawn or germ from which the mighly army of Gog will be
raised. During the 1000 years they shall be like serpents stiffened with
the cold, and incajjable of harm ; but at the end of that period they will
revive." Bui, supposing we admit thf> theory, I ask
—
1st. What is Satan to work upon, when let loose? The whole
populr.tion is then to be not only holy, but immorfal, and of course glo-
riou-j. This Miller expressly says, and quotes as evidence the promise
that " when the chief Shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown
of glory that (tideth not away." If this is to be their condition, how can
Satan deceive them? We are gravely told, he " will only try, and
would deceive if possible the very elect, but it is not possible." Yet
words cannot be more plain than those which declare he shall succeed,
—and Gog and Mngog are mentioned as those he shall beguile, and with
them compass tlie camp of the saints of the Most High.*
2d. It is at variance with many intimations r^gnrding the resurrec-
tion and judgment scenes. " Man both down and riselh not again, till
the Heavens be no more."—Job, xiv. 12 5 but according to the theory,
the righteous at least are o be raised before this event. We read only
of one summons, and " the hour cometh when all that are in their
* To .suppose, as the Miiierites do, that Gog and Magog are the wicked, long
dead and " gone to their own place,"' whom Satan is to deceive as he was wont to
do on earth, conveys ideas regarding the Divine being and the state of mind of those
who had gone to etein;il death, too sliocking and unscriptiiral to be adequately
characterised. Long before tiiis period will the multitudes of the lost have Irnrned,
by awful experience, the woes which rest on those who " strive with Uieir Maker."
Besides, Satan'3 end in their deception shall have by that time been completely
sferved.
30
fellowship
"'
with ltim" in his spiritual and invisible government of the
world. As might be expected alter what has been said, the texts
adduced, as "direct" pruol' ol' Clirist's personal reign with his people,
seem to me at least to
say nothing to the purpose. But you car.
judge.
They are such as, "Il`I goand prepare a
place for you, lwillcome
again and receive you to myself," &c. And did he not intimate the
"locality" ol` this abode, "with him," when he went to his Father's
house "to prepare maosicns'?" And when he comes
again, it is not
to dwell "with them" herc,bnt in the very termsol` the texts adduced
by Miller and others, "to receive them to himself." And as to the
"second" resurrection, implied hy the first alluded to, it is supposed
to he that ol' the wictced dead to be raised after 1000 years, when
Satan shall be ioosed. lt seems
equally plain, however, that it is a
resurrection of the '°
spirits" ol` the wicked ; they in their turn shall live
in their successors. Lilte Satan himselt§ they were ptli under restraint
for a
season; hut by his intlnence, when let loose. the enemies ol' the
Church will again speedily appear. And they, donhtless, "will consti-
tute the spawn or
germ from which the mighty army of Gog will be
raised. During the |000 years they shall he like serpents stiil`ened with
the cold, and incapable of harm ; hut at the end ol' that period they will
revive." But, supposing we admit the theory, I ask-»
lst. What is Satan to work upon, when let loose? The whole
population is then to he not only holy, hut immortal, and ol' course glo-
rious. This Miller expressly says, and quotes as evidence the promise
that "
when the chief Shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown
ofglory that lhdeth not away." If this is to be their condition, how can
Satan deceive them? We are gravely told, he "will only try, and
would deceive if possible the very elect, but it is not possible." Yet
words cannot he more plain than those which declare he s/'tall succeed,
-and Gog and Magog are mentioned as those he shall beguile, and with
them compass the camp ofthe saints ofthe Most High*
Qd. It is at variance with many tntimations regarding the resurrec-
tion and judgment scenes. "Man lieth dovn and risetlt not
again, till
the Heavens be no more."-Joh, xiv. 12; but according to the theory,
the rig/lleous at least are to he raised before this event. We read only
of one summons, and "the hour cometh when all that are in their
"
To suppose, as the Millerites do, that Gog and Magog are the wicked, long
dead and "
gone to their own place," whom Satan is to deceive as he was wont to
do on earth. conveys ideas regarding the Divine being and the state ol' mind ofthose
who had gone to eternal death, too shocking and nnscriptural to he adequately
characterised. Long hefore this period will the multitudes of the lost have learned,
by av|`nl experience, the woes which rest on those who "strive with their Maker."
Besides, Satan's end in their deception shall have by that time been completely
served.
O
31
graves shall hear, and come foith—some to ihe resurrection of life, and
others to damnation ;" evidence enough, that at that hour there shall
still be two cAmes of bodies to raisti. I am aware that the words of
Scripture are adduced to ihc contrary : and if words only, without con-
nection is to be regarded, it can be proved. The pas^sage adduced, how-
ever, is nothing to the purpose. 1st Tliess iv. 16, 17. There are just
two things spoken of here, viz: the mm^ of the righteous dead, ai)(\
the changing of the righteous living; the Apostle says, the latter shall
not an^c/>afe the former ;" the dead in Christ shall ms first ;" and
« then" after that, but how long he does not say, " we which art- alive
and remain, shall be caught up logedier with them in the clouds." VVhe-
ther the wicked shall be raised with, or ages after the righteous, this pas-
sage gives no information—\.\\^i must be drawn from other sources.—
Such, however, is the reckless manner in which Scripture is made to
teach the doctrine of men.* ^
It now only remains for me, under this division, to allude to trie
evils of this system ; and after what has been exhibited of its departure
from scripture testimony, what requires to be said ? Yet hundreds are
still receiving it, despite of all the disregard manifested to the Word.—
-
Had not the lamentable fiict been so obvious, one might have supposed
it must have condemned itself wherever the light of the Bible shone upon
it. 1st. We have seen it is maintained by a series of assertions with-
out evidence, and with manifest wres//no- of the Scripture; and what
must be the result t In every age there have been some, alas ! who
have daringlv called in question the truth of the Bil)le, and from time to
time, with scorn, have demanded <' where is the promise of His conri-
ing?" and when the day shall declare the error of this scheme, as speed-
ily it will do, these scoffers shall be fur. ished with another weapon
atrainst the truth, which they may employ with peculiar force. It has
been maintained, with a boldness seldom, if ever displayed before, ^not
only that the theory is supported by the Bible, but that " it is Bible. —
-
And as infidelity will not have the candour to examine the sacred book,
nor discriminate between the real messenger of God and those who run
unsent, it will boldly conclude that all are alike false,—that since this
has failed, the Bible is " a cunningly devised fable."
» Another notable instance of tliis kind, is tlie a'tempt to 3et aside the reference
of some ter-ns In Matt. xxiv. to the destriiclion of Jenisalem. Foi instance, " this
generation" is not, we are told, the generation then living ; but Christ's disciples,
the generation of the faithful to the end of time. Suppose they were, why exhort
such to flee to the mountains at his coming, since their redemption would tlien be
nigh. Or if it was the wicked who were told to flee, reconcile that with Christ s
assurance that "hills and mountains" would be a vain resort in that day. But
applied to the desttuction of Jerusalem, all is consistent and harmomons; and
accordingly the event did happen about 40 years after, when John at least had not
tasted death. And opportunity was also given to flee, when CesUus Callus besieged
the city.
31
graves shall hear, and come forth-soine to the resurrection ol' life, and
others to damnation ;" evidence enough, that at that hour there shall
still be Iwo classes of bodies to raise. I aiu aware that the words ol'
Scripture are adduced to the contrary: and il' words only, without con-
nection is to be regarded, it can be proved. The passage adduced, how-
ever, is nothing to the purpose. lst 'I`hess_ iv. 16, 17. There are
just
two things spoken ol' here, viz: the ~risz`n.g ol' the righteous dead, and
the changing ol' the righteous living; the Apostle says, the latter shall
not anticipate the former; "the dead in Christ shall rise first g" and
"
tlen" after I/tat, but how long he does not say,
"
we which are alive
and remain, shall be caught up together with them in the clouds." Whe-
ther tl|e wicked shall be raised with, or ages after the righteous, this pas-
sage gives no informalion--that must be drawn from other sources.-
Such, however, is the reckless manner in which Scripture is made to
teach the doctrine of men.*
It now only remains for me, under this division, to allude to the
evils of this system ; and after what has been exhibited of' its departure
from scripture testimony, what requires to be said? Yet hundreds are
still receiving it, despite of all the disregard manifested to the Word.--
Had not the lamentable fact been so obvious, one might have supposed
it must have condemned itself wherever the light ofthe Bible shone upon
it. lst. We have seen it is maintained by a series ol' assertions with-
out evidence, and with manifest wresfing of the Scripture; and what
must be the result? In every age there have been some, alas! who
have daringly called in question the truth ofthe Bible, and from time to
time, with scorn, have demanded "
where is the promise of His com-
ing 2" and when the day shall declare the error ol' this scheme, as speed-
ily it will do, these scol'l`ers shali be l`urr;ished with anal/zer weapon
against the truth, which they may employ with peculiar lbrce. It has
been maintained, with a boldness seldom, if ever displayed before, not
only that the theory is supported by the Bible, but that "
it is Bible."--
And as infidelity will not have the candour to examine the sacred book,
nor discriminate between the real messenger ol' God and those who run
unsent, it will boldly conclude that all are alike false,-that since this
has failed, the Bible is "
a cunningly devised fable."
* Another notable instance ofthis kind, is the attempt to set aside the reference
ol' some terms in Matt. xxiv. to the destruction ol' Jerusalem. For instance, "this
generation" is not, we are told, the generation then living: bitt Christ`s disciples.
the generation of the fiiithlitl to the end ot' time. Suppose they were, why exhort
such to Hee to the mountains at his coming, since their redemption would then be
nigh. Or it' it was the wicked who were told to _/lac, reconcile that with Christ's
assurance that "hills and mountains" would be uvnin resort in that day. But
applied to the destruction of Jerusalem, all is consistent and harmonious; and
accordingly the event did happen about 40 years after, when John at least had not
tasted death. And opportunity was also given to jlee, when Cestius Gallns besieged
the city.
2(1. But infidelity is sfamped upon the svstem itself, and the whole
mode of carrying it out in public. This is a serious charge, hut I ad-
(lii(-e the proof. Can reverence for tlie Word of God l)e found where its
plainest lan^Miagc is thus set n-^ido, or made to bend to every crook in
this devious scheme? But besides this, it is well known that its sup-
porters have often, and publicly declared, that if it is not this year veri-
fied, they will no longer believe the I3ihle! nav, that it niav then be
burnt !
!
ilere is infidelity, if over that monster reared its impious head
on earth. And has it come to this, that after the blessed book has com-
forted the distressed, bound up the broken-hearted, dispelled with its
gleams of heavenly light the shadows which rest upon the valley of
Death, and upheld, yea, caused to triumph, bv its "exceeding great'and
precious promises," the tormented martyr, 'through -II the ages that
are past, is it now, In the nineteenth century, to stand or fall, to be priz-
ed or destroyed by its coincidence or otherwise with the presumptuous
speculations of men, displaying either a wilful pervernty, or the grosses-
ignorance of some of t!ie -' first principles of the oracles of God f The
more this feauire of it is considered, the more serious must it appear to
every pious mind, and have a tendency to rouse the dark suspicion, that
some hidden plot of infidelity must be ;it the basis of the whole. At all
events, as much is seen of its spirit and tendency as ought lo be suffi-
cient to lead every one to act upon the warningof our Lord, in reference
io similar sentiments of old, " Take heed that no man deceive you."*
Srd. The mode in which It is held forth to public attention, is sub-
versive of the Go.^pel scheme of salvation. It is not only exhibited as a
point ol immc.se importance to be believed, but as absoJuiely essential
to salvation ; so much so, that the doom of all who do not receive it has
been announced repeatedly, in terms which I cannot in this place re-
peat. We learn, my hearers, that " one thing is needful ;" and that
doubtless Paul had in view when he counted'" all things but loss, for
the excellency of the knowledge that is in Christ Jesus," and " his blood
cleanseth (rom all sin." But here we have something in addition, exhi-
bited as the only means of mercy to perishing sinners. And what can
come more plainly under the designation of " another gospel ?" which,
if even an Angel from Heaven should publish, the Apostle says he shall
" be accursed when the Lord shall come." We should therefore dread
having any fellowship with it.
*/
That vvliat is advanced is no breach of the " charity which thinking no evil,"
will appear to any one who can jndire of impioty, wh^n it is stated and can be
proted by many witnesses that a prcarhcr. so called, p-ibiicly look the name of God
mvain. If this is to be done in sncii ciiciimstances and by those who call them-
selves '•
Mcssnisrcrs of dod," then why, not only in the bar-room or any other "high
place" of wickedness, bnt any where, may not the swearer raise his shameless fro'nt
and blaspheme ins Maker ? And what awful evidence is it of blind infalr.aiion that
an ear should be given to individuals of such a stamp!
'
33
211. But infidelity is stamped upon the system itsell, and the whole
mode ol' carryiugit out in public. 'l`his is a serious charge, hutl ad-
tluce the proof. Can reverent'e for the Word of God he fbuud whereils
plaiuest language is thus set aside, or uuule to heutl to
every crook in
this devious scheme? _ljut besides this, it is well known that its sup-
porters have oltcn, and publicly declared, that il`it is not this year veri-
fied, they will no
longer believe the Bible! nay, that it may then be
burnt ll Here is iuli-lelity, il`ever that monster reared its impious head
on earth. And has it come to this, that aller the blessed book has com-
lbrted the distressed, bound up the hrolteu-hearted, dispelled with its
gleams of heavenly light the shadows which rest upon the valley ol'
Death, and upheld, yea, caused tn triumph, by its "
exceeding great and
precious promises," the tormented martyr, through "ll the ages that
are past, is it now, in the uiueteenth century, to stand or lhll, to be priz-
ed or
destroyed by its coirufitleucc or otherwise with the presumptuous
speculations ol' men, displaying either a wilt`ul perversity, or the grosses-
ignoranee ofsome ofthe "
lirst
principles ol` the oracles ol' God '!" The
more this leature ofit is t~ousitlered, the more serious must it appear to
every pious mind, and have a
tendency to rouse the dork suspicion, that
some hidden plot ol`iulidelity must be at the basis ofthe whole. At all
events, as much is ,seen of its spz'rz'[ and tendency as
ought to he suffi-
cient to lead every one to act
upon the warning ol' our Lord, iu reference
io similar sentiments ol' old, "
'l`alse heed that no niau deceive you."*
3/'rl. Tile mode in which it is held lbrth to public attention, is sub-
versive ol`the Gospel schemeol`salvation. It is not only exhibited as a
point ol`immc..se importance to he believed, but as
absolutely csseniial
to salvation; so much so, that the doom ol`all who do not receive it has
been announced repeatedly, in terms which I cannot in this place re-»
peat. We learn, my hearers, that "
one
thing is neetlful ;" and 1/lat
doubtless Paul had in view when he counted "
all things hut loss, for
the excellency ofthe knowledge that is in Christ Jesus," and "his blood
cleanseth from all sin." But here we have something in addition, exhi-
bited as the only means ol' mercy to
perishiog sinners. And what can
come more plainly under the designation ol' "
another gospel fl" which,
ifeven an Angel from Heaven should publish, the Apostle says he shall
"
be accursed when the Lord shall come." We should therelbre dread
having any l`ellowship with it.
*
That what is advanced is no breach of the "charity which thinking no evil,"
will appear to any one who cart judge of impioty, when it is stated and can be
proved by many witnesses that a
prcuuhrr. so called, publicly took the name ol' God
in vain. lfthis is to he done iu such Cl|'Ct|llSillllCOS and by those who call them-
selves "
lllcssfzngcrs of Gull," then why, not only in the hat'-morn or any other "high
place" ol`wichedues~t, but any where, may not the swenrer raise his shameless front
and blaspheme his Maker? And what awl'ul evidence is it ofblind infatuation, that
an ear should be given to individuals ol' such n
stamp !
*l
33
Lastly. Tlu8 theory has l)ocn often defcmlcd upon this princinlo,
that as should the end not now happen, the excitement is doing good.-**
Il 18 not a new idea to do evil that good may come ; but let the nature
of the evil, aa already pointed out, be consider-J, and then enquire, can
ivo, vvith the light we have, be guiltless, if we should prorr^ote it, even
with good in view? The means of grace which God has engaged to
blesa, are pointed out, and it is at our peril if we substitute others : but
It IS P daring I cannot characterise, to adopt that which does violence to
that « Word by which we shall be justified, or >/ which we shall bo
condemneil. ^ut I deny its good results. It is in the great majority
of uistances merely the alarm of a guilty conscience, scared at the proi
pect of speedy ruin. Let the « exciting cause be removed, and the dan -
ger 18 great mdeed, that many will spoeilily becoir.3 tenfold more the
children of the devil than before. Nothing is done to impart light ; to
the most grossly ignorant the reception of this one sentiment furnishes
the passport to tne realms of blies.
4./A. I v^'as to notice the ends for which we should keen our eve
upon prophecy, in tracing the dispensations of Divine Providence. ' •
Prophecy, and time as it rolls on, should be carefully compared; not
to discover what is concealed, but what is gradually unfolding. And in
this view, the *' Signs of the Times" l>ecomo every day more inleresting
and momentous. Antichrist is gradually expiring under repented fissaults
—tiie disease is mortal. Yet it is a question there is ground for proTiosine,
may vye not anticipate a partial recovery—a last deadly struggle--before
no sink to rise no more?
J^
55
The seat of the Turkish Prophet is also shaken ; and that empire
which has so long cherished this dreadful enemy to truth, may well trem-
ble. 1 he doom of the empire is certain ; when.or by what means it shall
be inflicted, it belongs to God in his own time to shew. Infidelity, in all
IS withering forms, must also perish, destroyed by the Spirit of the Lord,
and then cometh the end :" but as « yet we see not ail things put unde?
iim, and our posture should be that of resigne. ', and teachable expecta.
lion. While the " vision" is yet for an appointed time, we ought ever
to recollect that it is « at the end it shall speak and not lie ;" and ihouoh
It may tarry, according to our mistaken calculations, vet we are to wJit
lor It, because it surely will oome and not tarrv Hab. ii. 3.
Thus I have endeavoured, as proposed, to illustrate and prove, the
different parts of the subject. If some po-ts exhibit a want of that ar-
range.Tiei:t anv method, so essential to clearness, let it be considered as
unavoidable in sketching and exposing a few features of a theory which
IS comnhcakd and inconsistent in the extreme. For the dillerent posi-
tions! nave taken I have, I trust, adduced evidence from the holy oracles.
i now beseech you therefore, to examine that evidence, and « hold fast
hat which ,s good." And now, dlow me in justice to mvself, and that
tru.h I h?ve endeavoured to exhibit, to say, that it is neidicr mv ivish,
33
Lastly. This theory has been often defended upon this principle,
that as'shonld the end notnow happen, the excitement is doing good.-
It is not a new idea to do evil that good may come; hut let the nature
ofthe cvil, as
already pointed out,'-lxifconsiderid, and then enquire, can
wo, with thelight we have, bet guiltless, if we should promote it, even
with good in view? The means of grace which God ~has engaged to
bless, are pointed out,-and it is at our- peril if we substitute others; but
it is a
daring Icannot characterise; to adopt that whiinh-does violence to
that "
Word by which we shall =bo justitied, or
by which' we shall be
condemned." Eat I deny its good results. -'It is' in the great majority
of instances merely the alarm of a gailty»tsonscienceyscared at the pros-
pect of speedy ruin. Let the "
exciting cause be removed, and the dun-
ger is great indeed, that' many ~wil-l speedily become tenfold more the
children ofthe devilthan before. ""
Nothing isdone to- impart light ;= td
the most grossly ignorant the reception of this one sentiment furnishes
the passport to tne realms of bliss. ~ 1" *
4
_
4-t/z. I was 'to notice .the ends for which we should keep oureye
upon prophecy, in tracing the dispensations of Divine Providence. `l
Prophecy, and time as it rolls on, should be carefully comparedynot
to discover what is concealed, but what is gradually unfolding. And in
this view, the "Signs of the Times" become e'very day moreinteresting
and momentous. Antichrist is gradually expiring under repeated assaults
--the disease is mortal. Yet itisa question there is ground for proposing,
may we not anticipate a
partial recoveryi-a last deadly struggle-before
ne sink to"rise no more? »
'
»
The seat of the Turkish Prophet is also shaken ; .
and that empire
which has so long cherished this dreadful enemy to truth, may well'tren1-
ble. The doom of the empire is certain; when,or by what means it shall
be inflicted, it belongs to G-od in his own time to shew. Infidelity, in'all
its
withering forms, must also perish; destroyed by the-Spirit of the Lord,
"and then cometh the end :" but as "yet we see not all things put _under
him," and our
posture should be that of resigned, and teachable expecta-
tion. While the "vision" is yet for an
appointed time, we ought ever
to recollect that it is "at the end it shall speak and not lie ;" and though
it may tarry, according to our mistaken calculations, yet we are to wait
for it, because it surely will come and not tarry.--Hab. ii. 3.
Thus I have endeavoured, as
proposed, to illustrate and' prove, the
different parts ofthe subject. If seine pa-'ts exhibit `a want ofthat ar~
range.ne|:t ant
method, so essential to clearness, let it be considered 'as
unavoidable in sketching and exposing a few features ofa theory which
is comnliczzled and inconsistent in the extreme. For the dillerent posi~
tionsl navetalren I have, I trust, adduced evidence from the holy oracles.
I now beseech you therefore, to examine that evitlcnce, and "hold fast
that which is good." And now, allow me in justice to myself, and that
truth I have endeavoured to
exhibit, to
say, that it is neither my wish,
34
nor lUe tenvkncif of any Uiing I have (roat Scripture, apposed to th«
theory so eCien noOced, to leod io security and tinconocra about yovr
eternal intereuts. This remark is mc99*aryf because, in ail that is writ-
ten and proclaimed on the other Bide,weare B\\ffwli2odn9fals>6 prophets
and ageiiit of ihe devil* If we utter v^, word ia oppoai^ooy Jt ii Sax ^
purpose of saying /i«cc9, peace/ lo "if, •
.7 w .; f o. •: I'l ,/
jij,: So far f«wi this, I seek to improsa every one before nme^ with thd
itu^X 3f ihat Holy B«ok, wbich proclaims a Mwe io the wickedfor it shall
bit ill with him; and which presses upon all, the absolute necessity of
inttant attention' to the thii^gs th«t belong to their peace. Peace ! no
iodeied, '* there is no peace saitii.iny God to the wieked)" and I would
earnestly embrace this opportuaiiy, the like of which I may never agaiii
enjoy, to urge you every one to give ail diligence^ to be found in Chri8t4
We have all tfe« motives to activity and watchfulness presented, which
can be supposed ic influence iatelligent beings. What security would
any one have were we informed now hy Divirje Aiiihcity, that this world
altould last for everl would it change for onv moment^.ihe solemn truth,
that life is but a vapour ' which continueth but ** for a titUe season and
then vanisheth away t" Noy for *< no manknowetb what a day may
bring forth ;" and whenever we may be called on> to give in the account
of 0ur stewardship, then with regard to us "there shall be time no longer,"
and in whatever state we leave this world) that shall eternity stamp upoti
us for ever. <<
He that is filthy, siiall then be filthy still, and he thaf is
holy shall be My atill." Oh ! while It is called to-day" then, let every
one hear the voice of mercy, and "seek theLord while.be may be found,''
Ojr this night your soul may be required of youl .
.;,! Yon have asked my opAnion; it has been given freely ; it ntay not
I trust be thought out of place ifl now offer an advice. Retire to "search
the Scriptures, which contain the things <^ eternal life ;" examine them,
to learn thejeftom " what is good, and acceptable in the sight of God.''
IHxamtne: them, to understand how thoroughly every thought and afTec-
tlon should be subjected to Christ, And if you have only the word of
God dwelling in yoft richly, you will not be exposed to the pernicious
influence of "every wind of doctrine," but "established, strengthened and
sf^ttled," you will be enabled, not only to look for, with holy hope, but
also with patience to imit for the, coming of the Lord. Then too would
you learn, that since he first " ascended far above aii Heavens," leaving
the promise to come again, never has there bean reason to ..ly, he
« del'"^th his coming." Let every one thea who has not already set-
tled ' inquiry, settle it immediately—" where shall you stand when
he ap, -eth ?'
'./fu TioHK ,./iiiii mi/'.
34
nor_ the
(endencyof any- thing Eihzwo from Scripture, qwposedto the
tlreory so eiten _not1ced,-to lead, le seetlrityfandz tznconoera about your
eternal interests. This remark is necessary, because,-in all»thntris_writ-
tenlandproclaimed on ,the other side,we nreistigmglifzod asfalqeynopheta
and agcnlt Of l/te devil. -If we utter n~ word in;oppo|iion,iit it|J'or,the
purpose ot`~sayingpucs,p¢acel i lu -_ -1. . v' -
~
I » ~
.l
°= of So far,fr0'n`this,-I seek to impress every one*-be{oro~me, with the
(mot at' that Holy Book,.which proelaims~n~woe1othc wickedfor in/ml!
be; illiwil/ivlcim ;f sndfwhiclvprssses upon all,.tho~ absolute necessity of
i1l¢¢11r1t.lallentio1|» to theithingsthat belong (to their peaco."'i'Poace"! no
indeed," theroiia -no peace saiti1,my_God.to~~the; wieked;'~'» andfl. would
earnestly embrace this opportunityglthelilro ol' which I may neveriagain
enjoy, to urge you-el!0!Y~ one'to.give Qollndiligmce, to he.found.iu Christ.
We have all the motives to activityfand watchfulness presented; which
Can belsupposed rc influence iatelligensboings.-A-What security -would
any one have were we informed now hy Divlr.e>Au&ho1'ity, that thiaivvorld
aliwld last-for ever! would itichangofeu-one moinent,:1ho,|olemn1truth,
that life,is, but a. vapour !whiuh» l
uontinueth. but "
fm: as
littlef season and
theltvanisheth uwayfli' No, (01:55 no mahknoweth whstlai day? may
bring forth ;" and whenever-we mayfbe=called.onyto givelinrheaocount
of our stewardship, then with regex-dto us 'Ethere shall be timeino longer,"
and yimwhatevor state .ive leave»this world, that shall leernity'st|mp.upott
4s-for ever. .' "
He-that is filthy, shall then. be;'filthy#still,and»ha that is
iiohnshallfhellioly atill.7';f~0li! whileiit is call dtofday?"then,<letevery
one hear the voire of mercy, and "seek theLordwhilehe maybe foand,!'
forthis nightyour soulmtaylhe requirqdwof yout»n'=' ~ _
<
_
_
;~
`
.;You.have1_asked mylopinion; ithas_been~given freely ; <it~n1ey-not
Ltrust be -thought _out lol`.placeiil`1 nowioiler an advisor Retire to"iiearch
the; Serip_turea,lwhioh contain fthe. things ol' eternal lii`e_;'?. examine them,
to |Q%'n.:lhe!9f¥9mf,5i iwhat is good, and acceptable inthe sight of God."
Examine them,_tt1-understand_fhovv~ thoroughly every thoughtand affec-
tion shouid be subjected to Christ, 'And if' you have only..-the word. of
God dwelling,-in-you richly, yon will not, he expoaodwo the pernicious
ind.uenoe_ol'";every wind of doctrine," but ','eatablished, strengthened and
settled," you will be enabled, not only to lookl for, with holy h0pe,~but,
also with patience hrwait forthe. coming oi2theLo1'd.: Then too would
youlearn, that since he first_" ascended far above'aii-Heavens# leaving
the promise to /come again, never has§ there heenroason ,toy hay, he
þÿ ' ¬
deimsth his coming." l
Let every One then lwhof has not already set--
tled
~
inquiry, settle it :immediately--" where shall you stand when
he uq,_ reth 2" »
_
L- .
