{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__anonymous___mesmerism_or_the_new_school_of_arts.pdf","mytitle":"Mesmerism Or The New School Of Arts","mylang":"de"}
MESMERISM:
OR,
THE NEW SCHOOL OF ARTS. ·
wt;a
CASES IN POINT.
" He will malre
Nature aaham'd of her long sleep1 when Art,
Who's but a seep.dame, shall do more than she,
In her best love to manlrlnd, ever could."
BEN JONSON.
LONDON:
HUGH CUNNINGHAM,
193, STRAND.
1841-.
o,,,,,,d byCoogle
(
CITY STEAK P:llll:l., LONG LANB :
D. A. DOUDNEY,
INTRODUCTORY
l'tiESIIIEIUSH •
CASBS IN PoiNT
CON TENTS.
CONTENTS OF THE CASES.
Early Impressions
The Blue Light
Delicate Investigation
Annihilation of Time and Space
Herod Out-Heroded
Tontvoyance
Sharpness ofVision
Obliquity of Vision
A Thorough Search
Extra-judicial Police
Duplex Individuality
Unique Duplicity
The Time o'Day
A Strange Tongue
Vaticination
Elements of Thought
A Metaphysical Luminary
l'.t.O¥
7
31
33
35
38
39
41
45
46
47
48
49
50
53
56
57
58
61
62
...-
iv CONTENTS.
'fhe Senee1 Acting by Pro¥Y
Dangeroud Ground
Pl\tterns of Patience
Tho Invisible Hand
Instruments of Art
Internal Prevision
External Prevision
VIlluti in Speoulum
A Cloar Ctuse •
&If-Knowledge
Fino Tute
Annihilation of Matter
Something like C1·cation
A Questionable Shape
The Stetue of .Flesh
Tho Way to Win
Vegetable Ml\gnetism
Zoologioel Resoarchee
Tho Sixth Senee
Ne Plua Ultra
...._ DigilizedbyGoogle
PA.Giil
64
66
68
70
73
75
76
'l'l
'19
80
81
82
83
85
8'1
88
91
93
96
97
" This fellow's of exceeding honesty,
And knows all qualities, with a learned spirit,
Of human dealings."
OTIII:LLO.
Anson MBBJIBa, whose acumen detected that truth of nature
on which the ecience of Mesmerism has since been established, first
eaw the light at Mersburgh, in the year 1734. The powers of hia
mind were devoted to the study of the Art of Healing. He took
his degi-ee of doctor in the University of Vienna, in the year 1766;
the subject of hia inaugural thesis was the " InjltW~Ce of~ Planet8
011 1M Hvmtm Body." The master-hand of Chaucer sketched his
likeness nearly five hundred years ago:-
" With us there was a Doctour of Phisike,
In all this world ne wu there non him like
To speke of phisike, and of surgerie ;
For he was grounded in astronomie.
He kept his patient a full great dell
ln boureo by hi• magike natureU ;
B
o,,, .,,,Coogle
INTRODUCTORY.
He knew the cause of every maladie,
Were it of cold, or heate, or moist, or dric,
And whcrof engcndred was eche humour,
He was a veray partite practisour."
There was in Vienna, at the period of Mesmer's entrance upon
public dutiea, a professor of astronomy, named HEm., who was
busily engaged in curing all sorts of maladies by the use of steel
plates impregnated with the essence of loadstone. Mesmer, who
was himself a believer in the curetive powers of the magnet, availed
himselfof Hehl's apparatus, for the purpose of exhibiting the remedy
according to his own notions of propriety; and the use of the new
formula in his hands was attended by the most extraordinary suc-
cess. " Two of a trade can never a.gree"-the jealousy of the
astronomer involved him in a quarrel with the physician; the former
was the better tactician, and in the end Hehl and his myrmidons
drove Mesmer out of Vienna. Scotched but not killed, Mesmer
wended his way towards France, scattering blessings on the road;
and in the year 1778 he established himself in the more genial at-
mosphere of Paris. There he was soon surrounded by crowds of
patients; the happiest results again followed his manipulati9ns, and
he conciliated the gretitude of multitudes; but his popularity excited
the envy of ·some of ·the less worthy members of the medical pro-
fession, and Deslon with some of his confreres broke in upon the
grounds which Mesmer had cultivated with indefatigable assiduity
and consummate skill, and carried away the crop. Bitterly disap-
pointed, Mesmer applied to the ruling powers for compensation, and
he succeeded in obtaining the patronage of the Queen, and the pro-
mise of an annuity of thirty thousand francs, on condition that his
processes should be submitted to the examination of three persons
named by the government ; he however suddenly let\ Paris, and
went to Spa, and thither he was followed by a host of patients of
rank and fortune. At Spa he soon amassed a sum of money suf-
ficiently large to enable him to return to Paris, and recommence his
professional career in a becoming style ; but the formation of a so-
ciety for the gretuitous propagation of his principles contracted the
o,,, .,,,Coogle
INTRODUCTOR!.
sphere of his usefulness, and he withdrew from " the madding
crowd " and the public walks of life, and retired to " the coot
sequestered vale"-the place of his nativity. Thus genius roee
and set,
" And ahot a day-spring into diAtant elime&-
Thos lovely halcyons dive into the main,
Then show faz off their shining plumes again."
The ~scovery-aooording to Mesmer's own account of it-intro-
duced " an universal method of healing and preserving mankind."
The active principle he represented as " a fluid universally diffused.
It perfects the action of medicines ; it excites and directs salutary
crises in such a manner that the physician may render himself
master of them ; by its means he knows the state of health of each
individual, and judges with certainty of the origin, the nature, and
the progress of the most complicated diseases " This fluid is " the
medium of a mutual influence between the heavenly bodies, the
earth, and animated bodies; it is continuous, so as to leave no void;
ita subtilty admits of no comparison; it is capable of receiving, pro-
pagating, and communicating all the impressions of motion ; it is
smceptible of flux and of reflux. The animal body experiences the
effects of this agent ; by insinuating itself into the substance of the
nerves it affects them immediately. This action takes place at a
remote distance without the aid of any intermediate body ; it is in-
creased and reflected by mirrors ; communicated, propagated, and
augmented by sound; its virtues may be accumulated, concentrated,
and passed from body to body." But " although this fluid is uni-
versal, all animal bodies are not equally susceptible of it ; there are
even some, though a very small number, which have properties so
opposite, that their very presence destroys all the effects of it on
other bodies." The mogt susceptible subjects, in the opinion of a
writer in the Phreno-rt101Jf11Jt, are those who have " a temperament
composed of about three parts nervous, and one bilious ;" according
to another authority, " women are incompambly more susceptible
of the magnetic influence than men."
Some years Bf!O, an ingenious individual, named Perkins, devised
B ~
. o,,, .,,,Coogle
INTRODUCTORY.
an Instrument which he called the Metallic Tractor, and for which
he obtained patent rights, for the purpose of collecililg the fluid and
applying it to the body; these instruments caused great temporary'
excitement, but fell into desuetude in consequence of the discovery
by Dr. Falconer, that tra.cton of wood were quite as efficacious as
tractorB of metal This circumstance was regarded by many as
affording sufficient grounds for the rejection of the entire system ;
but, in point of fact, the intervention of wooden media-such are the
peculiar properties ~f the fluid-is in no way incompatible with the
aucceeeful. adminiatration of the J101Mr· There exists some differ-
ence of opinion among profeeeon on the subject of this fluid; but ita
real existence has lately been demonstrated by Meuieur• Tkirlorier
and Lafontaine. In a recent number of the Gazette de8 HOpitauz it
is stated that these gentlemen " have at length discovered the third
imponderable fluid, 80 long and vainly sought a.ft.er by othen, and
have proved its existence by making passes at the Galvanometer ;"
while in Kent it has actnally been seen in the semblance of a lam-
bent blcle flame ;
" Oh that the chemist's magic art
Could cryatallize this sacred treasure !''
In England the ecience is now advancing, .in the face of sturdy
opposition, with mighty strides ; in the words of the editor of the
Ph~, it ia " becoming rupectable, and will ere long, no
doubt, be fashionable;" its present "dignified position" is attributed,
by another public character, to the " exertions of the phrenologists."
The Phreno-mesmerists do indeed appear to have fallen upon a rich
vein; for although their works hitherto can scarcely be eaid to be
oarried below the s•perficies, yet they are daily astonishing the
world by the display of their great and increasing riches. The
Magnetiets must not however, as a school, be confounded with the
Phrenologists; many receive the dogmas of Gall who reject those of
Mesmer ; and many, again, admit the value of Gall's anatomical
discoveries who regard his mental system as delusive. AJs a whole,
Mesmerism still presents many moot cases, many knotty points ;
there are yet many depths to 'lie sounded, many mysteries to be un-
o,,, .,,,Coogle
INTRODUCTORY. 5
veiled; but, trampling upon difficulties, its course is still onward.
" In Mesmer's tub there lay a mighty science in its cradle "-what
may we not expect when the infant becomes a man?
" Most things hae a sma' beginning,
But wha kens how things will end?"
In his search among the authorities for illustrations of the general
truth of his own representations, the writer met with many narra-
tives of philosophical phenomena and mesmeric facts, which dis-
played the wonders of modem science in vastly more vivid lights
than any of those in which he had endeavoured to exhibit them ;
brief notices of a few of the more striking of these narratives will
be found in the sequel. The historical facts involved in the Ca~es
in Point may fail to annihilate dogged scepticism, but they will not
fail, it is presumed, to excite deep thought in the minds of all un-
prejudiced readers ; and to the extent that they do this will they
have a tendency to subserve the cause of true philosophy-of the
liberal sciences and the useful arts.
n :1
o,,, .,,,Coogle
MESMERISM.
EuREXA! Eurilcal sure under the sun
There never till now were such prodigies done !
By the Mesmerist's fiat the blackness of night
Is rendered diaphanous-brilliant 88 light!
Wails of stock, stone, or brick-
No matter how thick-
To the clairvoyant Seer
As crystals are clear ;
While, without intervenient optical gear,
He kens the remote quite 88 well 88 the near ;
What a vast field of vision is open'd to view !
Mind no longer will march, but with impetus new,
Will dash on at a rate, which were Babbage to strain
His machine to find out, 'twould be labour·in vain;
From the flight of the sunbeam in vain should we seek
For light or for data-the matter's unique;
o,,, .,,,Coogle
8 MESMERISM.
What an age do we live in ! in matters of mind
We're leaving the ancients some cent'ries behind;
But nil nisi bonum of men that are dead-
We all shall be ancients some cent'ries ahead.
All matter is seen through, and so is all·mind,-
The Essence of Spirit philosophers find
In cerebral bumps,
And frontal lumps ;
Men's ossified humps
A:re thinking clumps !
Our five common senses the spirit encumber,
The modems forge tools which lop off all the lumber;
Then the mind's eye can view,
By lens transcendental,
And see through and through
The simple and gentle,
All forces and entities now in creation,
Nay--tlC8.ll the profouuds of efficient causation.
The modem Philosopher raises his band,
He doesn't incant, or make use of a wand,
But, wielding more pow'r than did Archimaue ever,
By a ccup de main PASS soul from body does sever* ;
• Sometimes by a coup d'ail pass-a species of fascinating regard;
sometimes by simple " volition;" and it is thought tbst the effect
can also " be secured by the party fixing his own gaze upon some
o,,, .,,,Coogle
MESMERISM.
Or else he subjects to the former the latter,
So that no more the thrall, mind's the master of matter,
(An issue instructive to those who essay
To mend the world's morals, but this by the way,)
And free from its clog,
It feels all agog
To be off, and disseminate light for the million,
Make the Universe bright as Aladdin's pavilion,
Annihilate Error, exterminate Doubt,
Put charlatans-knaves of all sorts-to the rout.
What the Traveller is it were hard to declare,
Though not a ghost proper, 'tis certes as rare,
point above or below the plane of easy vision." This however is
mysterioU&-if the active principle, thus excited, is disposed to go
astray, who is to call it home again? Would there not be some
danger of its going on-like the artificial leg that wanted a catch-
till it lost itself, leaving its own relics in a state of indescribable
destitution? The trait however, if carefully pnrsued, may possibly
lead to the detection of the volatile intelligence that now wanders
about unseen.
It behooves the Professor himself to be very wary, lest some day
-raising a spirit that refused to be laid-he share the fate of
F~ ar of Acta.on; the writer has seen a young girl, under
the demesmeriaing hand, go off into what would have been termed
a fit of hysterics, by those who knew no better ; and, says a recent
writer, " all in the trance, if any attempt be made to puzzle them,
are wroth, and will not reply to impertinent question&-they will
have their own way."
MU1711lf' certainly made use of a wand, though such utensils are
DOW regarded as useless; in the demesmeri.siug process, pulling is
freqaeutly brought into operation.
10 MESMERISM.
For it glides to and fro in complete incognition-
, (It at least can defy,
When it chooses, the eye-)
Volition its motive, its light Intuition.
With ease, by mere digital contact *• one-half
Of the soul is excited to fondle and laugh ;
While the other, thrown into synchronical dumps,
Discloses its feelings by threat'nings and thumps!
You may finger what organs you like-in the mind
Any vis-ii-vis powers may with ease be combin'd;
Things not at all fitted for pulling together,
By Art are attached to a singular tether ;
Pro and Con in a compact are subtilely bound,
In a tete-a-tete Virtue and Vice may be found ;-
Such facts may elucidate ethical gloom,
May serve to illustrate the Travel8 of Br-m,
The Prestiges de Joinville, and Bulfs Civil Wars,
The Castles of Owen, and Family Jars.
It may be that Science yet lower will go,
And light on the brutal economy throw t.-
.
• The organs are sometimes excited by the effiuent finger of the
Flamen, " without contact."
f If any one should feel disposed to regard this speculation as n
mere Utopianism, let him remember that very recently, as the Edin-
burgh Revie1Der tells us, " we have seen the aspect of all chemical,
and a great part of physical science changed, in consequence of'the
eonvulaions excited in the limbs of a DEAD frog."
o,,, .,,,Coogle
MESMERISM.
That birds, beasts, and fishes-the nether creation-
Subjected to mesmeric manipulation,
May show mind and matter in rare catenation ;
Cataleptical dogs,
Quasi clairvoyant hogs,
The fowl of the skies,
Geese, popinjays, pies,
Bees, ants, Spanish flies,
E'en the watery fries,
May bristle our hair
With their tales full of wonder,
Aud make people stare,
As they do at loud thunder !
Who knows, but that Imtinct if taken in hand,
And well educated,
May put on new attributes, take a new stand,
And with Reason be rated !
11
lJuml affectionately apostrophized a mouse as his " fellow-mortal;"
Bgrora declared that the only friend he ever knew was his dog ; and
GoldmaiUa oelebrated the moral qualities of brutes generally, in the
following language,-
" Who ever knew an honeat brute
At Jaw hia neighbour prosecute ?
Bring action for 88S&ult aad battery?
Or friend beguile with lies and flattery ?
Brutes never meet in bloody fray,
Nor cut each other's throats for pay;
They undertake no dirty job,
Nor draw the quill to write for Bob!"
o,,, .,,,Coogle /
12 HESHEBISK.
Now screw up your courage, and just take a glance
At a wight in the Coma-a sort of a trance ;
Imprimia you doubt
Whether life's in or out,
So make an experiment-give him the stick,-
What ! does n't he feel it ? you looked for a kick !
Try something more potent, his skin may be thick-
A knife or a needle,-he heeds not the prick !
Now you fancy he's dead, but he isn't-he's quick,-
Second thoughts supervene -you're convinced 'tis a
trick,-
But lastly, you're sure he's in league with Old Nick!
Your visage is ashy, you look at the wick-
There's blueness about it-you turn away sick.
Stop ! Savam, on tiptoe, are pressing around,
All " rigid in thought;" hark ! the subject has found
The use of his tongue, ecce signum-'tis sound;
His body-his case-long a riddle has been,
Now he sees his own bowels-lungs, liver, and spleen;
He sees through that pain in his side, and discovers
What pills he must gulp ere his health he recovers !
The Doctrinaire's cheered,
The Doctors are queered ;
'l'hey fear lest these new ..Eseulapians should seize
All their practice and patients, and pocket the fees.
o,,, .,,,Coogle
XESXERISM, 13
That boy is describing the statues at large,
Which in Baker Street Madame Tussaud has in charge,
He never looked on them with bodily eyes,
He's not muffied up in conspirator's guise,
.On the table before you his character lies ;
What can this new power, or new Entity be? *
Matter, demi-demented, is all we can see,
How can it incite the odd fellow that's gone
To the waxen assembly in Marylebone?
Who-what-is the •Scout which it works to ita ends?
The Alteram Partem to which it attends ?
The Esprit du CQT']JB which on errands it sends?
The Mting Co-partner that goes on the journey ?
The Pow'r that does more than a pow'r of attorney?
Does it own any stamina? is it the ape
Of manhood, or womanhood? has it a shape
Which a mortal to question might liberty take ?
Which question'd, a sensible answer could make?
Does it move, without physical motive, per se f
Did it put down ita shilling the wax-men to see ?
• The American magnetiata entertain very conll.icting opinions
respecting the nature of the agent ; one of them is confident that it
" is nothing more nor less than electricity "-another declares that
it is " a nervous fluid," or emanation--iLild a third says " it is not a
fluid elemenated from the operator, or from a machine," but " nervous
induction, or sympathy." Imv!. Bacon is of opinion that "the regis-
tering of doubts hath two exoellent uses ; the one, that it saveth
pbiloeopby from falsehoods; the other, that the entry of doubts is as
10 many suckers or sponges to draw use of knowledge."
c
o,,, .,,,Coogle
14 MESMERISM.
The face of the module just shows a result,
Like the face of a clock. with its wheel-work occult,
But what is the matter1 the mass that remains?
Caput Mortuum 1 Nay-for there's life in the veins,
The brains are in loco, the muscles and all !
What's the THING that's now stalking through Effigy
Hall?
Pythag'raa* or Berlceley might furnish the clew
Of which we are painfully feeling the dearth,
But the bishop and sage have both quitted the earth,
And both have, we trust, something better to do ;
And 't were futile our brains any further to teaze
With subtilties-recondite questions like these;
The answers from Time we, perchance, may exact,
He figures but poorly who fights with a fact,
And he that affects to deny a result-
Who treats his own senses as knaves, who defies
The nose in his face, disbelieves hisown eyes-
(1 make a name for him-) is simply a Stult I
We gaze on the compass, and follow its cue,
Where lies its attraction no mortal e'er knew;
We plow, and we sow, and we husband the grain,
Not Lourkin the life of the blade could explain;
• This" taciturn old bachelor," as Dr. Walsh-from the oddness
of his notions of the fair sex-presumes to call him, thought that
the soul of a woman wu merely the immigrant lOrd of a man doing
IICIIBDoe.
o,,, .,,,Coogle
MESMERISM.
We bask in the sunshine, but who can disclose
What the matter of heat is? not Faraday knows.
That woman is reading a book with her soul,
For the book, devant derriere, faces the poll !
15
Prodigious ! such deeds, when the Tudors were kings,
Would have brought men to stakes, or equivalent things;
What"s to keep her from reading a book in one's pocket?
Or billets, for safety laid by under locket ?
What a helpmate a clair-voyante woman would be
To th' Statesman whose duty requires him to see
The insides of our letters, though " private," ere we
Can be trusted to see them ourselves ; for would he
But keep such a woman, at once she'd reveal
All embryo-plots without breaking a seal !
There's one point of danger-that troublesome elf
Tom Duncombe, might get such a helpmate himself.
This spell, or afBatus,
Puts men in a status
For losing a member-an arm or a leg-
And getting a cork in its place, or a peg,
Without interfering with comfort a whit;
A nod, and anon
The member is gone,
And the cut did n't hurt the man's feelings a bit!
A happy discov'ry, a capital hit,
As touching a wretch that must either submit
c 2
o,,, .,,,Coogle · "
16 liiESllfERISlll.
To be mortified,
Or have a lop-side !
No longer is tooth-ache a matter of dread,
Before you're aware, every tooth in your head
May be out on the table ; and when you awake
You may get a new set in that never will ache!
If BurnJJ were in Ayr he might write a FareweU
To what of "a' dools" he declar'd " bore the bell...
It must make a man start
To behold his own heart;
Not a few at the sight
Would shriek with affright !
The imps that it holds,
The slime of its folds,
Few the vision would dare,
Few the vision could bear!
The turgid and fester'd, the wither'd, the hard,
The gnaw'd and the dirty, the seam'd and the scarr'd.
The ugly, the hollow, the black, and the rotten,
Could hearts such as these are be ever forgotten ?
The best of us all would feel somewhat distrest,
And wake up, I opine, in the fidgets at best.
But mirabile dictu I conjoundingly odd is
The power of the Pass to pierce other men's bodies t
The power of Adepts to lay open the breast,
And rummage, occultly, another man's chest!
o,,, .,,,Coogle
MESMERISM,
Who knows but some day,
They may find out the way
To analyze motives? ideas dissect?
And the " heart of heart" secrets of all to detect? *
To think that a carle with shut eyes, far away,
In Sligo, or Sego, the heart might waylay !
17
Might catch all your thoughts, all your feelings survey,
You thinking in Saxon, he perhaps in Malay!
Who, if you spoke to him, would certainly need
A verbal translation,
But who, by some mystical modus, could read
Off hand, cogitation !
· · The thought is horrific,
'Tis all but petrific !
If the heart at its wO'I'lc can so clearly be seen,
What it does may be got at as clearly, I ween.
As it is, a man's doings are pervious to sight,
Maugre distance, and thick mural strata, and night;
And if Tlwught should de mhne be dragged forth into
light,
What rubbing and scrubbing there11 be by and by,
To render it passably clean to the eye !
• " Quoth Hudibras, you lie so ope,
That I, without a telescope,
Can find your faults out, and de.•cry,
Where you tellt:rutl•, and where you lie."
Bad that great man any knowledge of the principles of what is
now called Mesmerism ?
c 3
18 JlESKERISM.
My Lord Aberdetn strictest vigils should keep,
Lest into the Cabinet slyly should creep
Some (Jharge d' affaires, full of thievish intents,
And rifle the drawers of their precious contents ;
How the watch should be kept 'tis n't easy to say-
Let Vernon be catechised as to the way.
His lordship, I trow,
Would esteem it too low
For nobility on such an errand to go,
Or else what discov'ries his lordship might make,
What light on our foreign relations might throw,
If to Paris, Vienna, or Rio, he'd take,
By mesmeric sleight,
A professional flight I
If his lordship wants nerve, 't would be safer to choose
A Familiar, and send him incog. on the cruise.
Men that are knowing-the widely awake-
Should shut up their eyes and advantage take,
In cases of doubt, of this wonderful light ;
For instance-a bachelor wishing to wed,
Should look at the heart of his sweetheart, instead
Of the bloom on her face, or the flax on her head,
Though often the view might unsettle him quite! *
• Ben«lick'• " bachelor of threescore" might then be more fre-
quently met with than he is at present.
o,,, .,,,Coogle
liESHERISll.
De la Beche should set out on an under-ground trip,
And see how the coal-measures grow;
And Lloyds' should insist that in every ship
A clairvoyant pilot should go ;
Herschel affiated might reach to the stars,
And for comets in coma dive;
And learn ifin Mercury, Venus, or Mars,
Any bodies to live can contrive ;
Liebig the loadstone quarries should roam,
In quest of secrets magnetic ;
He'd be BUl'e to bring wonderful principles home,
He might give us the loadstone synthetic !
In coma,* the Rhymster might poetry write,
The Preacher find tlwught for his lecture,
The Lawyer-he verily puzzles one quite,
The Doctor-it passes col\iecture,
The class must decline, or-cut up by chirurgeons-
Be turned into dentists, or cuppers, or surgeons; t
10
• TeMnicollg, the coma may be considered 88 initiatory to the
haute clairvoyance; in both states the subject is asleep, but the aleep
of the IIOIIUI8mbulist is lptCificallv termed-by Dr. Elliotson-
" sleep-waking." It is cllilicult-e.t least for the normal eye-to
diatinguiah the boundaries of the different colours ofligM ; and the
111e11111eric ftUIIIIC8I run almost 88 imperceptibly into esch other.
t Perhaps it is the apprehension of some catastrophe of this kind
that impels the facul&y to such half-mad attempts to stay the pro-
greY of science, and to put down " every respectable magnetist." A
popular lecturer statea, that " during his public experiments in
London, the conduct of whole troops of practitioners was worse than
20 MESMERISM.
No inference surer did logic e'er draw,
For now all the functions of liver and maw,
Glands, kidneys, secretions-while quite at our ease-
May be seen in full action as busy as bees.
On the age·stained college walls,
See, a beam of brightness falls !
Now the rising, struggling ray,
To the cloister wins its way ;
Hail we the prelusive sight !
Soon a flood of glorious light,
Shall from academic glades
Chase the last, the lingering shades ;
Startled by the eye of day,
Night's tuneless birds shall flee away,
And-mind ascendant-this retreat
Shall be a " greenery " tout de suite !
Not the high seats of Learning alone, but the nether
Will all be enlightened-" reformed altogether; "
tha.t of a. crowd in the gallery of a. common theatre;" a.nd that at
Nottingham, " they came in a. ga.ng, with Dr. Robertson a.t their
hea.d, a.nd by clamour, cla.pping, yells, a.nd hisses, interrupted the
lecture for two hours." This ba.rbarism is sa.id to perva.de " the
general body," though there a.re some honoura.ble exceptions-few:
enough, it a.ppcars, to esta.blish the rule.
M- wa.s trea.ted in a simila.r ma.nner, but he did not a.lwan
act very prudently; to some extent he provoked, the spirit of perse-
cution-" medical men he called poisoners, and all their drugs
poisons."
Digitized by Coogle
MESMERISM.
Old rules will be routed,
Old principles scouted,
The College, the Hall, and the"School, now incrusted
With layers of dust, in a trice will be dusted ;
An em prolific of changes arise,
21
And a "New Moml World," will forthwith bless our eyes!
All in vain were the husbandman's trouble and toil,
H his seed did n't suit both the climate and soil;
Would all the guano of Ichaboe Isle
Work the Desert of Araby up to a smile ?
Could Ducie make mangoes or oranges bloom
On the mountains of Scotland-the home of the broom?
" How is it that masters, and science, and art,
One spark of intelligence fail to impart?"
How is it'I because they bestow all their pains
On cold, muddy, heavy, ungenial brains-
On rocky, or sandy, or boggy domains I
They toil to raise myrtles on soils that, with care,
Might be cropped at a profit-might cabbages bear ;
While often, au contraire, the esculent grows
In nooks that invite the Sweet William and Rose ;
And withal many fl.ow'rets are" blushing unseen,"
And wasting their sweets on a desolate scene.
Such blunders will all by and by be corrected-
The plough, spade, and rake, be by science directed ;
First the head will be.handled-the surface dissected,
o,,, .,,,Coogle
22 MESKERISI'Il.
The sub-soil be sounded, the aspect inspected,-
Its good or bad properties all be detected;
Then promising skulls will be wistfully tended,
Bare, ill-favoured specimens skilfully mended,
And numskulls be done by as nature intended ;
Si sic, mind will bourgeon, and quickly assume
Its pristine, its paradisiacal bloom! *
Si sic 1 can we doubt it? the Dullards may frown,
And the Doctors may rage, but can mind be put down ?
Men may mob a Professor, and call him a fool,
May snub him, and push him away from his stool-
Opinion is often the Lord of misrule ; t
The Doctors dubbed Harvey a dolt for his pains,
When he told them their blood ran about in their veins ;
Galileo was forced by the blockheads to lie,
As touching the world's running round in the sky;
Yet the globules of blood are still beating their bounds,
And the globe in the sky is still running his rounds !
• " T'lwmMm was no echoolmaster," said a venerable tutor to the
writer some time ago, " or he never would have written Delig'IIJful
task to n~ar tk tender thoug'IIJ!" But when tender thoughts are
reared, and young ideas taught to shoot, on scientific principles, it
will be found that there is as much of truth in the words of the
bard as there is of poetry. Oxford and Cambridge must have their
Profe880rs of Mesmerism, and put the Alma Marer of Gower Street
to the blush.
+" Why is opinion, singly as it atands,
So much inherited as house i:nd lands?
Whence comes it that from sire to son it goes,
Ltke a dark eye-brow, or a Roman nose?" MiN Tavlor.
o,,, .,,,Coogle
MESMERISM.
Philosophers, standing on vantage ground,
Look down, as their foreheads with rapture glow,
On the hubbub, the fight of opinion below,-
23
They know that the world, by degrees, will come round.
What's become of the Ghosts, which, as all of us know,
Peopled England so thickly a cent'ry ago ?
Have the spectres been ousted by civilization ?
Or are they nomadic--a wandering nation ? *
I throw out the questions, but shall not pursue
The vista of thought which they open to view ;
The foll'wers of MesmeT' may stumble soine day
On the haunts of the Sprites, but be this as it may,
'Tis evident modem Philosophy's nod--
( Ignorami may jeer,
And sceptics may sneer,
And nine out of ten may consider it odd-)
Can endue gifted souls with the requisite skill
To see Apparitions whenever they will;
They have but to nod, in an apposite way,
And nature and things sub and super obey ;
And here a cui bono is easily shown-
A murder's committed by" some one unknown,"
A nodding policeman at once might disclose
Who loaded the pistol, or dealt out the blows ;
Or an amateur, drawn by a tempting placard,
Such as often are seen, headed MURDER! REWARD!
• "We do not know the laws of that country." C. Lamb.
"''' ,,,Coogle
24 llESlllERISlll.
Might befriend Number One and Society too,
By taking a doze with the felon in view !
" The Statutes at Large " might be largely amended,
All the blessings of law might, in sooth, be extended,
Bad cases foreclos'd, and bad actions forefended,
And rods made to fall just where Justice intended,-*
But utility's stamp is so clearly imprest
On the Art, that 't were vain further hints to suggest ;
And as probab\y vain were a notification
Of what, in his rebus, Peel owes to the nation ; t
There never occurred such a crisis, I wis,
For picking up laurels and glory, as this;
Well-magna e&t veritas I statesmen may rail,
But" knowledge is power "-"the truth shall prevail.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
Upward to the starlit skies ! !
Gorgeous grandeur meets my eyes ;
The "ample road" my feet essay,
*
*
" Powder'd with stars "-the milky way ;
• " Boys, dear, wont ye give one shout for justice ? 'tim't oflm it
troublu ge!" Mr1, 8. C. Hall.
t Mumer "advocated a political revolution and reorganization on
magnetical principles." Quarterly Rct!ieta.
t " I was so light, almost
I thought that I had died in sleep,
And was a blessed ghost I"
Cokridge.
MESMERISM.
Now I scale, with high intents,
Heaven's adamantine battlements ;
Now o'er cerulean hills I bound!
Luciferous fountains shed around
A pure, serene, a sunless light,
A day that nothing knows of night ;
Here the leaf is never sere,
Balmy is the atmosphere ;
Here in " feathery palm-tree bowers "-
Bedight with amaranthine flowers
Whose odours rain nectareous showers- *
Symphonious voices, softly clear
And richly sweet, entrance the ear,
And " with such concert as they keep,
Entice the dewy feather'd sleep."
But what has sleep to do with day ?
Do spirits doze, like things of clay ?
This can't be Paradise ! Away!
Downward to the hearts of things !
Ponder nature's secret springs-
Underneath are diamond-rocks,
Topaz-boulders, ruby-blocks,
Golden rivers, silver-streams,
Richer sights than visit dreams ;t
• " A rare courtier I rain odour• ! welL" Slw:/upeare.
t " In spots like these it is we prize
Our memory-feel that she hath eyes."
word.ntoOrtk.
D
Digitized by Coogle
26 !IESMEIDSM.
I trace the roots of granite-hills,
I see the fuel piled which fills
lEtna, V~vius, Stromboli,*
Whose storms of fire fright earth and sea.
Now with curious eye I pore
On ocean's tesselated floor-
Wealth untold,
Pearls and gold,
Precious stones,
Inlaid with bones !
Dismal, deathful, is the scene,
Cheerless all its gemmy sheen!
From these catacombs away
Through Ocean's zones of life I stray ;
In nature's freaks the scene is rife-
Quaint plants, and quainter moving life ;
Strange unnamed monsters of the deep,
Before me swim, around me creep.
Now, far removed from coral groves,
My eye o'er other objects roves;
Viz.-a table, a desk, and a couple of chairs,
With sundry odd volumes, up three pair ofstairs !
• " A salamander-gathering down JEtna-woree than samphire-
picking by some odds," says Lamh ; but fooilil ducetl8tl8 in coma-
quite as facile, certainly, as a passage through a waterspout dry-Mwd,
a mesmeric privilege, or power, which a learned writer claims on
behalf of his clients.
o,,, .,,,Coogle
MESMERISM.
No doubt I've been off in a technical doze,
To Self I was just on the point to propose
A tour on tlie surfaee; * I purposed to roam
First of all to the Louvre, thence onward to Rome ;
In Shiraz I hoped to regale ears and noze
With the song of the bulbul, the scent of the rose,-
In the palm-groves of India I meant to repose ;
The great in-walled Empire I thought to survey,
And the great enchained Settlement-Botany Bay ;
Thence to glanee at the New World I purposed to go,
To look at the Andes, where nature of snow
Forms " avalanche-thunderbolts ! " thence to survey
Brother Jonathan's States +--see Niagara's spray;
27
• T"une was, when enamoured of tropical waterscapes, the writer
ignorantly penned the following lines ;-
Sunriae and suruet ! ye are glorious thiDgs
All round the world, hen exquisitely 10;
To watch the earliest pearly gleam that aprins&
From out the deep, till all the heavens glow
With " m88ic tints,"-to watch when darlmees f1iDga
Shade after shade on glory,-voumrut go
Touatoueit-
But it is not so-Science can introduce an Atlantic dawn into a
back attick in Lower Fogbury, or anywhere, at the very noon of
night I
f And visit, for mesmeric ~. the philosopher mentioned in
the nnpublished Lift and .A.dventvru ofJoolc Tar ;-
He knew a Pennaylvania..man,
Whooe tongue 110 very smoothly ran,
He could, in languages diverse,
With three men all at once convene!
D 2
o,,, .,,,Coogle
28 Kl!:SliiERISM.
All this was involved in my plan, and some more,
But in lieu of a glimpse of the classical shore
Of Egypt, or Attica-up in my attick,
Common places, and things any thing but emphatic,*
Bespeak my attention-Ill double the doze!
And 111 have the trip yet, for 'twere weak to suppose
That Me:rmer was either a knave or a fool,
Or a hybrid between them-a. hi-footed mule;
If the Coma at Deptford so clearly makes known
All that Madame Tussaud hides in Marylebone,
(A fact so notorious 'tis question'd by none,)
It were facile by ergo in logic to show,
By the same mode of transit, that others might go
And look over the Sultan's Seraglio,
Or Her Majesty's Palace at Pimlico !
(Not as did the Boy Jones,
Who went in flesh and bones ;
For the personal vagabond, missing his way,
Was nabb'd, and for peeping made dearly to pay !)
There's one disadvantage, a little drawback,
Attep.ding such journies-you carry no sack,
You never can bring any specimens back ;
But Science omnific will fill up the lack-
• For-in its normal state-
" There's very Jiu!e landacape in & garret."
Peur Pindar.
o,,, .,,,Coogle
MESMERISM.
Aerial coaches will shortly be out,
Aerial wagons will follow, no doubt,
Io I Triumphe I all join in the shout !
What an age do we live in for going a-head !
The ancients--Nil nisi--'Tis well they are dead.
n a
o,,, .,,,Coogle
29
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT.
" Sadl a deal of wonder is broken out wilhin Ibis hour, lhat balJad.
makera C&DDOt be able to upreu iL"
Willlcr'• T..U.
0''' .,,,Coogle
EARLY IMPRESSIONS.
" And he ia one,
The truest manner"d; such a holy witch,
That he enchauta eocleties untG him,
Halfall men"a healta are bla.~
"THE elfects produced by the hands of the primitive mesmerists, are
described by the Commissioners who were appointed by the French
Government to investigate the matter, in the following terms ;-
" The patients in their different conditions present a varied pic-
ture. Some are calm, tranquil, and experience no elfect ; others
cough, spit, feel slight pains, local or general heat, and sweat ; others
again are &iitated and tormented with convulsions. These con-
vnlsions are remarkable in regard to the number alfected, and to
their duration and force ; and are characterized by the precipitous
involuntary motions of all the limbs and of the whole body, by the
coll8triction of the throat, by the leaping motions of the hypochon-
dria and the epigutrium ; by the dimn888 and wandering of the
eyes ; by piercing shrieks, tears, sobs, and immoderate laughter.
Tbey are preceded or followed by a state of languor or reverie, a
kind of depression, and even drowsiness. The smallest unfnreseen
noise occasions shudderings ; even a change of tone and measure in
the ain played on the piano-forte influences the patients, a quicker
motion agitating them more and renewing the vivacity of their con-
vnlsiOII.L Nothing is more astonishing than the spectacle of these
convulaioua ; one who has not -n them can form no idea of them.
o,,, .,,,Coogle
34 CASES IN POINT.
The epectator is equally utonished at the profound repoee of one
part of the patients and the agitation of the rest ; at the various
accidents which are repeated and the symPathies which are est&~
lished. Some patients devote their exclusive attention to each other,
rushing towards one another, llllliling, speaking with affection and
mutually soothing their crises. All are under the power ·of the
magnetizer ; it matters not in what state of drowsiness they may be
-his voice, a look, a gesture, brings them out of it."
In order to form " ·a chain of connexion," Mesmer passed cords
round the bodies of his patients ; .and Sometimes, for the same pur-
poee, he made each one take hold of his neighbour's thumb with one
hand, while the other grasped a rod, one end of which was plunged
into a tub filled with pOwdered glass, iron filings, and water. Among
the other oper&tical means originally employed, that of music was
very conspicuous ; & person was kept constantly playing upon a
pian<>-forte, which having previously been charged with prepared
water, flooded the atmosphere with sweet sounds in combination
with ·epecific virtue. But above all other means, Mesmer relied
principally for making salutary impressions, on " the application of
his hands and the pressure of his fingers on the hypochondria and
on the regions of the abdomen ; an application oft.en continued for a
long time, sometimes for several hours."
NOUIJ atwr~~ chamge tout oela. The rod is broken, and the crisis-
chamber shut up-patients now are not fumigated-it is found un-
neceSS&rY to darken the theatre, or let loose the soul of music ;
indeed a late writer declares that all sorts ofmanual and mechanical
appliances are supererogatory, and that the tDill of the mesmerist, if
accompanied by appropriate " gesture," is perfectly irresistible.
Moreover the gesticulations may be performed in a closet, and with-
out the ·leave or even the knowledge of the " BUjet," and yet lose
none of their potency. A truly amazing power I and one that might
be most awfully abused ; though liability to abuse, it must be con-
fessed, might be predicated of almost every other blessing we enjoy.
o.,. .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT.
THE BLUE LIGHT.
" This is a most majestic vision-
May I be bold to call these opirits? ••
Tempell.
35
The existence of" the third imponderable fluid" was demonstrated
in England on Friday, July 21st. 1843, by· Mr. Benjamin Dann,
of Maidstone; "an experimental philosopher, whose whole energies,
as opportunities have been afforded him, have been devoted to
scientific discoveries." The mysterious agent manifested itself in
the shape of a flame of blue fire; the subjoined account of its first
appearance is exb;lwted from a work just published by Mr. Richard-
son of Combill.
"On the evening of Friday, July 21st., I again put E. W. into
the mesmeric sleep, in a room where another patient had already ·
been subjected to it; when the lads began remarking upon each
other at the very singular appearance each exhibited. E. W. said
that W. C. was cevered all over with fire; and W. C. said that he
compared E. W. to a blue devil. At the ea.me time a very powerful
attraction was exerted between them; they conversed freely together
at the distance of three yards, though their ears were closed to those
who were nearer. One of them now beckoned to the other to
come to him, and tho other said he as much wanted to go to him;
.at last we allowed them to go together, when a most interesting
efFect was produced, evinced not merely by a feeling of pleasure
visible in their countenances, but more powerfully verified by their
movements-taking each other by the arm with manifest delight,
o,,, .,,,Coogle m
CASES IN POINT.
drawing their chairs cl011e to one another, and talking together in
the most familiar manner." •
" On the 24th., having the two young men before alluded to in.
my room together, I first put one of them only into the sleep, and
directed his attention to the other; when he remarked that 'that
was the person he had been looking for, but he did not now look as
he did when he saw him before '-meaning at the pre~ou.s experi-
ment, which he would not do as then he was in the mesmeric sleep,
now he had not yet been mesmerized-' he was then covered all
over with blue .fire like unto phosphorus, and was so plump and fat;
but uow he was so thin and such a little chap, he hardly knew
him,'-a clear proof that without the envelope of fire, or the being
covered with magnetic fluid, he W.Ould still have appeared in his
normal state. On directing my eyes to my other patient to induce
the sleep, E. W. exclaimed, 'Ohl look! he is coming all over fire
llgllin; lookI it is a flowing from his eyes, down his face and over_
his face!' And when I began to make the pauu, he said, 'there it
goes, it is now spreading all over him;' and when I had made two
or three passes down to his feet, he said, •see! just look, he is now
covered all over with it, just as he was when I saw him before-he
is looking so plump and so fat!' They then drew their seats near
each other, and congratulated themselves that they had met again;
at last they proposed to take a journey together, and it proved very
• interesting to me, but as it does not relate to my present object, I
leave it."
On other occasions E. W. made various pertinent and deeply
_interesting communications; for instance-" I excited the organ of
language by pointing to his eyes with my fingers, when he exclaimed,
•lookI lookI there is fire coming from your fingers, and from his
eyes, and they join togetherI'-proving the joint co-operation of
operator and patient in producing the effect." Again,-" •I will
now tell yon just how it is-that fire shoots up through the skin,
• " As if the gnomon on his ne:ghbour"s phiz,
T'!"ched with the magnet had attracted hi....
Cowper.
- .. o,,, edb; Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 37
out of tAe pqre~, and comes through the sleeve of the jacket, shooting
out all around when you draw your hand down his ann.' W. C.'s
ann was now quite stiffened, catalepsed, as it is termed, bm still
awake, • and said that he could feel his ann powerfully attracted to
E. W. as ifdrawn to him by a wind. His ann was now touched by
a spectator, to ascertain its stiffness, when E. W. instantly called
out 'You should not let him do so-he has taken away nearly all
the fire; I saw the blue fire run to his hand, up his own, and now
there is but little of it let\.' But when I had made another pass,
E. W. said, ' it is come again.' .And when I had demesmerised the
ann by blowing upon it, E. W. said, 'there! look! the fire is all
gone again-you have blown it all away!'"
Fearless of the eye of scrutiny, Mr. Dann announces that E. W
is "Edward WUenden, a young man 19 years of age; who has spent
the greater part of his time at New Romney, in Kent, and at a small
village near Maidstone; he has had but little opportunity of ob-
taining a knowledge of the world.''
The writer has not heard that the blue fire has been visible
anywhere out of Kent.
• Mr. Dann does not appear in this particular to express himself with his
nsua1 perspicuity; unless indeed he really means to say that the ann was
awake and vocal. In the nomenclature of Science, as in the language of
poe1ry, the eye-not the tongue-is set down as the organ of language ; and
the annals of Mesmerism show that hands and feet may be qualified for
fulfilling the functions of eyes and ears.
o,,, .,,,Coogle
38 CASES IN POINT.
DELICATE INVESTIGATION.
" Make me to see it; or, at the least so prove it,
That the probation bear no hinge, nor loop,
To hang a doubt on."
Otllello.
Once npon a time it happened that Mr. Dann was anxious to
know what his wife was doing at that particular moment; and be
requested Mr. Wisenden to go and see. Happily for the peace of
the family, the envoy found the lady "at work;" but an incident
occurred immediately after his arrival, of which he gave an account
n the following words;-
" A customer coming into the shop, I saw her give a woman
something, but did not observe what it was, and the woman gave
her some halfpence for it; yet when she gave it over the counter,
I saw a. cockroach run from i~ towards the woman, when she
squeaked out, being frightened."
And so it a.ctua.lly was; but it is obvious that experiments of
this nature ought always to be conducted with very great caution.
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT.
ANNIHILATION OF TIME AND SPACE.
" See him set on to London.
So sv.it\ a pace hath thought, that even now
You may imagine him upon Blackheath."
King Henrv V.
39
The annexed narrative of a Trip to London, perfonned by Mr.
Wisenden " while in the sleep," is from the pen of the gentleman
who wrote the history of the discovery of the blue light. Bodily, the
traveller "has never been in London, or ever read any aeconnt of its
public buildings."
" I desired E. W. to go to London by the railway. He soon en-
tered on the rail. After about three minutes had elapsed, he called
out, 'Hallo! I have overtaken you, have I?' I enquired what had
happened. He said, 'I have just paued the train on the rail.' Soon
al\er this he shivered, and buttoned up his coat, saying, ' I don't
like going under gronnd, it strikes so coldI ' but immediately un-
buttoned it again. In a short time he said, 'I have got to the end
c( the rail; which way shall I go? for its all confusion here.' He
then passed over London Bridge, describing it as a large and hand-
IIODle structure; and here ho noticed a very lof\y building, which
proved to be the Monument. At my request, he ascended to the
top, complaining that it made hil legs acke. Ho then placed him-
self on the flame-and gave me a very pretty description of all that
he could see; saying that 'the people appeared to be very small.'
He then descended, connting the steps as he came down. I nt)w
told him, that when last in London, a young woman threw herself
from the top; when my patient immediately said,' I cannot.see how
ahc could do so, there is no place for her to get out at, it is all en-
closed like a cage.' From the Monument he wont up King William
Street, into the Bank of England, giving a description of some of
E 2
o,,, .,,,Coogle
40 CASES IN POINT.
the oftice&-<>f large quantities of writings deposited in a strong iron
closet, on shelves-and of a great quantity of sovereigns in a chest,
in anothercloset, the closet and the chest as being ofiron, and the date
on those sovereigns to be 1842. But as I was not able to say
whether his observations on the Bank were correct or not, I directed
him to St. Paul's. Passing on, he said, ' I cannot get along, there
are so many people in the way; the streets are full of people and
carriages, and such a noise!' Presently he said, 'Oh, I suppose
this is St. Paul's, a very large building with iron fencing round it;
which way shall I go in? But stop! is there not a clock? Oh,
here it is; how high up! It is twelve minutes past ten. I will now
go inside. OhI is not this a large place? Talk of buildings-this
is oneI ' I then directed him to find a way up stairs; he did so, and
found the wheelwork of the clock, giving a description of it and of
the large bell, saying, 'How large it is, and so thick! I would
measure how thick, but have not time now-it is wider acrose than
l can reach-! suppose this lump lifts up when the clock strikes.'
(Operator.-! have never seen the clockwork or the bell.) He
then went into the body of the building, not by the stairs, but at
once, and gave a description of some of the monuments-but it
being nearly eleven o'clock, Saturday night, I woke him up."
Mr. Dann is of opinion that " the aerial clairvoyant transit mW!t
be mnde through the strata of the atmosphere, occupying the space
between the mast-head of a ship and the water's edge;" and he
supports this opinion with arguments of a very cogent character.
But he gives no opinion as to what part of Mr. Wisenden it was that
performed the journey; it seems to have been something material,
inasmuch as it experienced great inconvenience from the pressure
of the crowd in Cheapside. Yet how was it--travelling so rapidly-
that it did not experience inconvenience from the ~re of tA6
atmosphere 1 Had Mr. Dann subjected his patient to a skilful
cross-examination on this point, he might have elicited information
that would have opened the eyes, and stopped the mouths, of all the
sceptics in the world.
...
CASES IN POIN1'.
HEROD OUT-HERODED.
" All hail, great master! grave Sir, hail! I come
To an•wer thy best ple88urc ; be't to fly,
To swim, to dive into the fire, to ride
On the curl"d clouds...
TempeII.
41
When the writer suggested the possibility of getting a distant
interior view of " Her Majesty's Palace at Pimlico," by me!Uls of
the new light, he was really not aware that the deed had been done
-but it has. The following revelation is enough to " fright the isle
from her propriety;" its circumstantiality is perfectly astounding-:-
ecce iterom DANN. On the 13th of July, Mr. Dann "put E. W.
to sleep again," Md directed him to go to Westminster. Roachin
the Bird-cage Walk, E. W. said, "'This is a very pretty place-
1 don't want to be hurried on. I can see yonder some iron-gates.
is that Buckingham Palace, the place you want me to go to? ' I
said, yes; when he paused, and said, ' I don't like to go in here, for
there are soldiers walking to and fro-such tall men-I don't like
to pass them I ' I told him they would not touch him, when he
presently said, ' I have passed those tall soldiers, and got to the
steps, but I don't want to go inside.' By persuasion he enters, and
exclaims, 'How grand! tAu u not a fit placefw mel' I persuaded
him to stay and look about him, when he soon finds a large room,
and said-' What a grand place this is! I can count fourteen gen-
tlemen and ladies round a table, o.nd one man appears to be older
than the rest; he has a long visage, and is dressed like a soldier.
There are some ladies, and one of them appears younger than the
others; and that young lady has a watch at her side, on the outside
of her clothes; the face is turned inwards; it is six minutes past ten
by it. I will now look at that gentleman's-it is in his waistcon.,
.1:: 3
CASES IN POINT.
pocket; it is four minutes and a half past ten by this watch. But I
don't like to be here, it is so fine a place; wonld rather be outside;
I only came in here because you wanted me to do so.'"
On the ensuing day E. W. again perambulated the Palace. "At
my request," says his editor, "he looked into several rooms, and
says, ' Here is that young lady I saw before, and the young gen-
tleman too; they are now in a room by themselves, but it is only
a ~mall room; but there are many people on the outside.' " .
No doubt Mr. Wisenden felt that the Queen's ~r was "not
a fit place" for him; for, apparently without interrupting the royal
tete-il-tete, he passed thence into the gardens. Here however he
manifested something very much like a want of delicacy in following
Her Majesty everywhere as closely as her shadow; yet it must not
be forgotten that he entered the royal precincts "as rated spaniel
takes his burden up;" and that he possessed but little " knowledge
of the world;"
" He little dreamt when he set out,
Of running such a rig! ••
" I shall stop here, and look at all the flowers, they appear to be all
new. Here is a handsome one, standing on a stalk by itself; this
flower is like a large cup, of an orange colour, with red stripes.
Here is a seat, I shall stop here! That young lady has been
walking about here to-day, and the gentleman too; some ladies
wnlked behind her, and held up her gown, but I went on before her
-where she went I went. How very smooth the paths are; but I
do not walk on the paths when by myself, but from one flower to
another, across the beds. The young lady sat down once-and
when she went back to the Palace I went in with her; but sh did
not go in by the door I come out of, but went in by a door r-to a
room, and I went in with her; and as she went from one room to
another, I went with her!"
Prodigious! On a subsequent occaslon the visitor had "a prime
ride," as he expressed it, in an open carriage with a lady and gen-
tleman, who " laughed much as they rode along; " and one day he
took an airing with them "on horseback.'' Once he introduocd a
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 48
companion, and led "him into various apartments;" he afterwards
attended a State Ball, and gave minute and accurate descriptions of
the company and the cheer. " When they got into the ball-room
they began to move about amongst one another in a huddling man-
ner for some time, and then they danced." If he wished to know
the name of a guest, he " looked into his pocket." While admiring
Tippoo Sail/a tent, "the Duke of Wellington came up and talked
about the siege; and said that the officers displayed great courage
there, and the Duke appeared much pleased to talk about it." The
tent was" filled with refreshments; when any one chose, they went
in and took what they pleased; some of them took a pretty good
share too!" Mr. Dann rem!ll"ks that "some of the observations.
were made on the same evening that the ball took place, and that
Edward had" not read a newspaper for six months."
.Assuredly this feat is more calculated to agitate even the strong
mind than any thing that has ever been achieved-except the
blowing up of John o' Gaunt off Brighton by Captain Warner. •
And, cum aliU, it is suggestive of many interesting questions-what
are the limits of a Clairvoyant's sensibilities? He delights in a
garden--ean he relish a remote jelly ? He buttons up his coat in
a cold tunnel-is he proof against a pistol-ball? He does what
Falstaff refused to do, he acts " upon compulsion"-why is he thus
abject ? But for the present we must repose upon the facta of the
cue, and exercise patience; we shall know more anon;-
" This is as strange a maze as e'er was trod;
And there is in this business more than nature
Was ever conduct of; some oracle
Must rectify our knowledge."
• The writer would not rob labour of its reward, or merit of its palm ; but
before Sir Robert Peel consents to pay .£800,000 for blowing up a ship of
the line, he ought to be thoroughly oatisfied that it is not effected by
mesmeric sleight; for if it be, the Prince tk Joinville will must surely
posaeaa himself of the imitabile fulmm, le grand muvrt, without paying for
n-iDdeed the process must soon become patent to all the world. Already
does Brolher Jonathan threaten to "thunder us in pieces;" ifthe newspapen
44 CASES IN POINT.
In the garden wo catch a glimpse of Fairyland, the realm whither
the ancients were wont to repair, "to play with the light-to listen
to the sol\ language of the flowers and cateh their secrets," and tc1'
enjoy the music of their "sol\ bells pealing,"
" With faint sweet tones on night serene,
When glow.worm lamps illume the scene."
Mr. Wisenden did not "walk on the paths," bat flitted "from one
flower to another, across the beds." Our grandsires all were be-
lievers in the veritable existence of Oberon and Titania, Robin
Goodfellow and Pigwiggin, Tib and Fib, and " the crew that never
rest;" and who will now dare to write FOOL on his grandfather's
grave on account of his creed? We have had our laugh at the
witcheries and diahkriu of the olden times-the Mesmerist is now
laughing at the superstitions and reveries of Yonng England. Our
traveller has restored a long lost gem to the British Crown, and
immortalized the reign of Queen Victoria, the gardens of Pimlico,
and hi1118elfI
" Come, follow, follow me,
You fairy elves that be ;
On tops of dewie grasse
So nimbly do we passe,
The young and tender stalk
Ne'er bends when we do walk."
report truly, Mr. Colt, "in the Potomac, in the presence of the President,"
has blown up " a ship of IJOO tons at a distance of two miles, while she was
going through the water at the rate of eight miles an hour, under a full presa
of canvass." What was the tbip's ensign? What became of the crew?
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 45
TOUTVOYANCE.
" Daylight and champian discover not more; this is open."
Twelfth Night.
" A gentleman previously wholly incredulous as to the truth of
Mesmerism, said that if any mesmerised subject, who had never
entered his house, would describe to him the furniture of his draw-
ing-room, he should be convinced. The challenge was accepted.
The subject was mesmerised at some distance from the residence-
the lad was desired to describe the furniture. After looking it care-
fully ot~er, he enumerated the articles one by one, bnt said, ' there is
one, I cannot tell what it is.' It was a splendid upright piano,
an instrument the boy had possibly never seen before ; whether so
or no, he must have actually seen it then, or he could not have
said there is one article, I cannot tell what it is."
" The lad was asked what a gentleman present had in his trows-
en' pocket? 'He would see.' In a minute he told us,' I think he
has a little box.' Query from a spectator, made known to him
through the operator-' Is it like a snuff-box?' He said, ' I will
see.' In another minute he said ' there was a glass in it.' It was a
pocket magniJying glass. ' Is that all in the gentleman's pocket ? '
• I do not know, but will see.' In half a minute he said, ' In the
bottom there is gold, but whether a sovereign or a half-sovereign I
am not sure I' lu a few minutes he announced it to be a half-
sovereign, the date of 1824. ' You are not correct.' ' I will look
again.' A minute and a half passed, when he said, ' the last figure
is nearly out, I see it now, 1828.' It was so. Had there been
any deception, he would naturally have said at first 1824, and after-
wards 1828 ; thus proving to demonstration that be must have seen
and contemplated the figures separately, combining them seriatim
in his progress." Sptwrell'e Rationale.
o,,, .,,,Coogle
46 CASES IN POINT.
Science, by and by, may perchance render half-sovereigns, under
button, 88 " sensible to feeling 88 to sight ;" if it should, what cu-
rious points in jurisprudence, what nice cases for counsel, it would
originate I The Clairvoyant-as in the caae of Mr. Wieenden-is
clearly susceptible of fatigue, physical suffering ; but is he capable
of physical ill-doing ? Could he pick a pocket-or a lock ? Fire
a gun-or a house ? Give a blow-or a bruise ? And is he ca-
pable of moral ill-doing ? Is he responsible-amenable to law ?
Subjected 88 he is to the despotism of a superior power, should he
not be regarded, at the worst, rather 88 a tool than a particeps1
But, in caae of need, how could he be arraigned? By what canon
could his personal identity be established? What kind, what amount
of evidence would satisfY twelve simple minded men of his guilt?
And is he punishable? Could he be confined within stone-walls?
Would triple iron hold him ? Could he be attached to a tread-
mill? He could transport himself to Botany Bay in a twinkling,
or less ; but could the High Sheriff transport him thither?
It would not be reasonable, at the present moment, to expect
answers to questions of this nature ; the science though Herculean
is still infantile, still " in its cradle ;" time alone can unfold its pro-
portions, and develope its mighty powers.
SHARPNESS OF VISION.
" Some strWige CODIDlot.ion io in his brain." King Henry VIll.
" I continued to point with my finger, when my patient ex:.
claimed, ' See I see I he is now going to speak, I can see that he is
getting ready for it I' I then aaked him how he knew that he was
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 47
going to speak ? He answered, ' Oh, I can see it by his looks, for
I can see ku head inaide-the brain all in motion ! ' " Dann.
This incident elucidates an obscure passage in the speech of
Henry V. to the army before llarfleur ;-
" Then lend the eye a terrible aspect;
Let it pry through the portage of the bead ! "'
OBLIQUITY OF VISION.
" 0, that yon could tum your eyes towards the napes of your necks ! 0
that yon could!"' Coriolanu1.
" Our next experiments were holding several articles over the
back of his head, and questioning as to what they were. The first
thing was a snuffers, which he told without the least hesitation ;
then a brass candlestick, which he told directly ; then an Italian
iron, which he called a round box. A pocket book was then pre-
sented shut, which he called a square box, but when open he told
what it was with a few particulars relating to it."
I tried " ifcards could not be named as readily as persons, with
the organ of Individuality. I placed six or seven in her hands, they
were all read ; likewise over the head and at her back."
Corrupondents ofPkreno...fT!lJ!fflet.
The great Sir Jolm--the " round man "-were he now living,
might at any time get a sight of" his own knee."
o,,, .,,,Coogle
48 CASES IN POINT.
A THOROUGH SEARCH.
" Let them anatomize Regan, and see what breeds about her heart."
Lear.
" During the progress of one of his investigations, the lad sud-
denly appeared to me to be what in his waking moments would
have been deemed a brown study; the Operator asked him if be was
comfortable? Yes ; and said be had been examining the health of
the company; this put us all on the qui flive, the very tiptoe of ex-
pectation, as to what might transpire. Query by the Operator-
Do you see any thing particular the matter ? 'Nothing "el'!l.par-
ticnlar.' Fully satisfied with the reply, we thanked our .stars that
it were no worse with any of us." Rationale ofMagneti4m.
The Life Assurance Companies must soon be in a state of com-
plete revolution; the value of life will shortly cease to depend, to the
extent that it now does, on algebraic signs and bills of mortality ;
and insurers whose hearts and livers will bear the eye, will save
fifty pounds per centum per annum, more or less. This will indeed
be a BONUS pro bono publico-0 1Jitm Philo8ophia du:x: !
Is it the force of habit, or a weak deference to popular prejudice,
or the order ofthe Directors, that induces Dr. E-- to peraist in
the use of the Stethoscope, as he does, when investigating the state
of health of parties proposing to insure their lives ? Let not this
question be denounced as impertinent-the inconsistencies of pro-
fessed friends do more injury to the cause of truth than the ob-
streperous hostility of avowed enemies. Besides-is not demon8tra-
tion more satisfactory, more philosophical, than inference f
.... o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 49
EXTRA-JUDICIAL POLICE.
" Pray yoo, sir, was 't not the wise woman of Brentford? My master,
sir, my lll88ter Slender, sent to her to know, sir, whether one Nym, sir, that
begoiled him of a chain, had the chain, or no."
Merry Wiv<~ of Wi1UWw.
In the preceding part of this work the writer indicated a scienti£c
method of increasing the efficiency of the detective police force of
the oonntry ; he has since learnt that his plan has been actually put
to the test, and that its practicability has been placed beyond a
doubt. In the case now referred to the subject was employed in a
" &beep-stealing investigation at Harrietsham ; " he gave " a minute
description of the men-and said they were talking about the rob-
bery." He stated that "the man looking out of window, with black
hair, and a frock on," was innocent ; that it was another that " com-
mitted the robbery, and the third assisted him in lifting the sheep
over the gate." Spvrrelr• RatiO'IIOle.
It is not very probable that a jury could at present be found who
would convict on such evidence as this ; for though we have emerged
from the gross darkness that enveloped our ancestors, we yet enjoy
only the light of dawn. Scarcely two centuries have passed since
" Simon Read of St. George's, Southwark, professor of physick, was
indicted for the invocation of wicked spirits, in order to find out the
IUIUie of the person who had stolen £37 from Tobias Matthews of
St. Mary Steynings in London ; " bnt the philosopher of the pre-
aent day enjoys all the immunities which knowledge and virtue can
confin-.-for him the law has no fang, while the " clamour " of jea-
lousy is nothing more than an innocuous brutum fulmen--the insti-
tutes of society are favourable to the progress of truth.
There will be a question by and by as to tho Clairvoyant's reli-
gionemjuriljtwaMi; but we need not anticipate difficulties.
F
..
60 CASES IN POINT.
" I have taken you napping," as Tranio said to Bianca, will eoon
oease to be regarded as a mere trope ; while Dogberry's ckarge to tile
VKJtch, which bas been laughed at for ages, will be seen to be rich in
traits, indicative on the part of its author, of a profound knowledge
of human nature ;-
"WATCBJUN.-We will rather aleep than talk; we know what belongs to
a watch.
Dooaaaar.-Why you speak like au ancient and moat quiet watcbman."
How appositely is Jt~~tice symbolized as a Clairvoyante with ban-
daged eyes l
The writings of men of genius of all age& teem with indicatioDB
of the prevalence of mesmeric power ; although, as a science, Mes-
merism bas not long bad an existence. Talus, the " yron man" of
Spencer, is clearly the f1W!~Mtic man, or magnetist, of more recent
times; while his" yron ftayle" and the rod of Mesmer arc evidently
correlatives ;-
" And that eame yrou man, which could reveale
All bidden crimes, through all that realme he sent
To search out those that used to rob and steale;
On whom be did inllict most grievous punishment."
Having, of course, first made the rogues restore all their ill-gotten
gain.
DUPLEX INDIVIDUALITY.
" Come, we'll have you merry; I'll bring you where you shall see the
gentleman that you aaked for."' Two Gentumen of Vtr0114.
" In Philadelphia there dwelt a solitary man, in a lonely bouse.
He was very benevolent, but extremely retired ; and strange things
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 51
were narrated of him, amongst which were his being able to tell a
penon things that were unknown to every one else. The captain
of a veNel. belonging to Philadelphia, when about to sail, promised
his wife that he would return again in a certain time, and that he
would write to her frequently. She waited long, but no letter ar-
rived; the time appointed passed over, but her beloved husband did
not return. She was deeply distressed, and knew not where to look
for consolation ; at length a friend advised her to go to the pious
solitary, and tell him her grie£ The woman went to him; after she
had told him all her troubles, he desired her to wait awhile there,
until he returned and brought her an answer. She sat down to
wait, and the man, opening a door, went into his closet. But the
woman thinking he staid a long time, rose up, went to the window
in the door, Jil\ed up the curtain, and saw him lying on the couch
lik;e a ~ She immediately went back to her place. At length
he came, and told her that her huaband was in London, in a coffee-
house which he named, and that he would return very soon ; he
then told her the reason why he had been unable to write. The
WODI&Il went home, pretty much at ease. What the solitary had
told her was minutely fulfilled-her huaband returned, and the
reason of his delay, and his not writing, were just as the man had
atated. The woman was now curioua to know what would be the
result, if she visited the friendly solitary in company with her hus-
band. The visit was arranged ; but when the captain saw the man
he Willi struck with astonishment. He al\erwards told his wife that
.W !tad._ tJuu very moo, on such a day-the very day the woman
had been with him-in a coffee-house in London; that he had then
stated the reason why his return was delayed, and of his not writing,
and that he would shortly come back; on which he lost sight of the
man among the company I" Rationale ofMagnetinn.
The Mirror ofMerlin which brought into view
" Whatever 1hing was in the world contaynd,
Betwixt the lowest earth and heavens hightt
mu.et have been a tantalising instrument at the bost-more adapted
to Qclte t.\6 paiM of hope than confer t.\6 ploalwel; we are much
F 2
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT.
better oft' without it. Thia case has completely annihilated a half-
formed theory of Clairvoyant Vision which the writer was con-
structing ; the revelations of Mr. Dann first suggested doubts as to
its stability, but nowit ia proved to have been altogether a "baseless
fabric." There is no longer any occasion to talk about aberration,
or ~frvu;ticn; we need no light from the mirage; neither are we
under the neceseity of presuming on the existence of any occult law
of dioptrics, by means of which the mesmerist might be enabled to
pa88 rays of light through opaque substances-the American Soli-
taire was corporally in two places at the same time. " Truth is
stranger than fiction," and fact "makes fancy lame." Conder !li&-
culates
" 0 that in u!Uttn commtmion,
Thought could hold the diatantfriend !"
Science can do more than the poet imagined, or sighed after-it can
bring distant friends together to all intents and purposes.
The practicability of holding personal intercoursewith correspond-
ents afar oft' and across seas, must aft'ect, eventually, the value of
investments in railways and steamers, and it will destroy altogether
the revenue of the Post Office; but these are partial evils only, while
all the changes will be conducive to " universal good." Moreover,
the facts of the case will serve to elucidate a vast number of alibi
questions ; and if a body can be in two places at once, why not in
three1 or more ? Philosophy makes light of imposeibilities; at pre-
sent we catch only " the distant tops of thoughts "-time will bring
up the rest. What a multiform mystery is human nature I
" Who the secrets can unravel
Of the body's mystic guest?"
CASES IN POINT.
UNIQUE DUPLICITY.
" Who can be wise, amaz'd, temperate and furious,
Loyal and neutral, in a moment? ..
Macbeth.
53
Tm: inhabitants of most of the chief tcwns of England have lately
been privileged with opportunities of becoming familiar with speci-
mens of this singnla.r duplicity, of seeing "two faces under a hood"-
the agonistic features of a body possessed of two spirits. The writer
lately encountered a double minded man, whose tcngue, doing
double duty, ejaculated alternately, but in one breath, such phrases
as the following-suiting the action tc the word-" Come here/
come/ You mult n't leafJe mel Do CIJ1M!-rU C1Wh ye to a.torMI I
fl!illl" Bellum, paz nwmm. In the Ate that Spencer drew, this
dual animw is strikingly embodied;-
" Her tongue was in two parts divided,
And both the parts did speake, and both contended ;
And as her tongue so was her bertdiscided,
That never thought one thing, but doubly still was guided.
Likewi~~e unequal were her handes twaine,
The one did reach, the other pusht away,
The one did make, the other mar'd againe."
The spirit of moral deformity still haunts the world.
Ou the same occasion, a girl under excitement was desired tc sing;
abe objected, declaring that she "could n't sing ''-she " never
could." It was suggested by a spectator that if the organ of eclf-
esteem were excited conjointly with the organ of tunc, the difficulty
F3
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN PO~T.
might be overcome; the hint was taken, the device succeeded, the
organs of articulation reaponded, and they
" Forced a girl to sing a sang,
That ne'er could sing a sang ava !"
" I touched the organ of Benevolence," says Mr. Stevenson, in
the Phreno-magnet, when the subject "immediately said she would
like to give her uncle all she had, and wished she could give more.
On my touching Veneration she expressed herself as being very
happy, and seeing angels. I placed a finger on Tune, and she
directly said, ' I should like to sing the Evening Hymn.' I re-
quested her to sing a song, but she said ' No, I must not sing a song
here, but I will sing the Evening Hymn.' When she had completed
the third line, I removed my finger from the organ of Tune, and she
was instantly silent. On replacing the finger she re-com1D.enced
singing exactly where she had lef\ off. After demesmerising these
parts, I touched Ideality and Language, and was alike surprised and
delighted at the fine poetic style in which she described the sky, the
sun, moon, and stars, as also the surrounding landscape; on touch-
ing Colour in co~unction with Ideality, she described the picture as
the most sublime, and apoke of the colours of the surrounding ob-
jects with all the impa.ssioned fervour of an enthusiastic admirer of
nature. On removing the finger from Colour to Individuality she
said, ' Oh, I see those beautiful trees, and a many people walking
there!' The question I now asked was, How many people are
there? Answer-' I cannot count them.' I touched the organ of
Number, and she instantly said, ' Oh, yes, I can count them-ilne,
two,' &c., up to twelve, when I took my finger off the part, and she
instantly ceased. I next tried the effect of suggestions, and found
that the patient would 1ay Qf' do any thing l1N!Jgutedl"
With respect to the last-mentioned trait, an American writer de-
clares that "there is no conceivable feeling or condition of the hu-
man body, no sounds or motions peculiar to human beings, or indeed
to animals, fish, or birds, which we are not, in some cases, able to
induce in some persons;"-
" Here is a wonder, if you talk of wonder--
1 wonder what it bodea!"
CASES IN POINT. 55
Whatever is may bode, it brings into mind one of Milton's heroes,-
" I shall ere long
Be well stock'd with 88 fair a herd 88 graz'd
About my mother Circe."
Mesmerists, however, have nothing to:do with Circe; they" work
by wit, and not by witchcraft."
Gall's diagrams indicate the localities of about thirty primitives;
Phreno-mesmerists have discovered the seats of many more; for
instance, says Mr. Pembroke, "Riding in Locality, Averskm near
Benevolence, and one-I am not sure whether .Relaxation or Good
Fe11otNAip, but the manifestation is as follows-She sits in a lolling
position, imitates smoking, and calls for cigars. Wbat will the sug-
gestive whisperers say to this, when I declare that cigars are never
used in my house? With respect to the organ of .Dancing-the
instant I put my finger on this organ, she said I am going tA:J aparty;
abe then rose up and danced round the room."
Du Cartu said " Il n'g a que lizpa88ioolprimiti~JU;" Plato placed
the understanding in the brain, anger in the heart, and concupiscence
in the liver; and Latmter regarded the nose as amost significantgno-
mon. Modernscienceconfines its attention to the cranium; buthas the
brain even now been thoroughly explored? Is it certain that there
is no remaining Te?Ta Incognita in either of its hemispheres? Ie
the last edition of the Chart of the Skull perfectly correct? Blun-
ders have heretofore been committed in this matter, as egregious as
thoee chronicled in the distich-
" Geographers, on pathless downs
Place elephants, for want of towns ; ••
and it is very remarkable, that organs often " come out in parte
foreign to their proper situations," the result of " the infusion into
the patient's system of an influence antagonistic to that of the
original operator."
" The action of a single organ," says Mr. Poohett, "if such can
act alone, is a sort of blind impulse, but combined with others dif-
ferent results follow. Twenty-four will allow of 621,654,561,827,
891,919,360,000 ditfersnt ~combinati9ns ; as far as variety is con-
o,,, .,,,Coogle
66 CASES IN POINT.
oerned, these may be considered amply sufllcient for all the- pur-
poses we can conceive necessary."
This is somewhat unphiloscphical; first, because it is obvious
that we have not yet passed beyond the vestibule of the Temple of
Mental Philosophy, and therefore are not competent to say what
f!ariety of organs is essential to the maintenance of a correct balance
of power; secondly, because we have nothing to do with the fabrica-
tion of the organs-we have no power either to increase or diminish
their number-we are bound to take the complement as nature pre-
sents it, and to make the best of it; and lastly, because the calcu-
lation seems to involve the supposition that twenty-four organs may
be in full excitement at the same moment. Were this possible, the
multitudinous manifutatiom of the case would certainly assimilate
the grave philosophers " ranged around" to the gazing rustica of
Auburn-
" And still they gazed, and still the wonder grew,
That one small head could carry all he knew."
THE TIME O'DAY.
" I sec no reason why thou should"st be so superfluous t.o demand the
time of the day."" King Henry IV. p. I.
DR. TESTE one day magnetized a young lady in the RU£ Sainte 1Jo..
miniqu£, and asked her the time o'day; "Three quarters past four,"
He pulled out his watch, and that was the " precise time."
" You have then seen the hour on my watch, madam?-No, sir.
-Where then have you seen it?-Nowhere.-Then how do you
know it?-1 know it.-But again?-lfeel it! "-Man11el Pratique.
Tramlated by D. Spillan, M.D., A.Af.
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT.
This is not the first young lady who has felt time !
" Stay, hoary sage ! one moment deign
To hear t.by duteous child complain;
Thy fearful scythe in pity bide,
And that oldhour-glass throw aside!"
A STRANGE TONGUE.
" This is your devoted friend, sir, t.be manifold linguist."
.A.ll'1 Well that E...U Well.
57
DB. TBsTB magnetised a young lady living in the Rue~Enfer, who,
before being put to sleep, was engaged in arranging some lace. The
doctor took it into his head to ask her where she got the lace ; in
reply she said-
" It is a present from my sister-in law, a present which gives
double pleasure; for dolci in ogni tempo 6 il benejizio, ma t1i8 piu dolce
qwmdo eaccompagnato dalla Borpre8a/ "
"Ahl yon understand Italian, madam?"-" Yes."
" Not a word, monsieur! she understands not a word of it!" ex-
claimed M--, who appeared almost agluut at seeing.his lady so
learned. .
" Madam, however, has studied this language? "
"Never! certainly never!"
" Madame M---, when she awoke, was totally unable to trans-
late this phrase, which she certainly understood in her sleep, since
abe quoted it quite aJYI'OPOI·"
The manifestations in the RUB ~Enfer must ere long lead to the
discovery of a mode of mastering unknown tongues with a rapidity
o,,,u,,b,Google
CASES IN POINT.
never before dreamt ofin anybody's philosophy. Madame M--
might perhaps have conversed in Chinese, or Hebrew, with as much
facility as in Italian, had she or the operator willed it; and although
the newly-acquired faculty departed when sense regained its seat,
yet future experiments will no doubt result in deteoiing the means of
fixing the mesmeric adumbrations in the brain---iiB the hyposulphite
of soda fixes the tracings of the rays of light upon photogenic paper.
VATICINATION.
" Ask me what question thou canst poeaible,
And I will anawer unpremeditated."
King Hett'7/ VI. p. 1.
J . F., "on many occasions when in the trance, has desenDed re-.
markable events which have occurred some time aft.er, and also the
time of their occurrence, as then present to him."
The same person, in another lucid interval, " read verbatim two
letters then coming to him by post, one from London, and the other
from Sheffield."-Pkreno..fiU.Igllet.
The gift t>f prescience which mesmerism bestows, will surely lead
to the revival of the Art of Fortune Telling, to eradicate which the
Justices have long been striving with as much energy as our an-
cestors did to eradicate the Jews. We justly denounce the barbarity
that subjected to torture persons of a certain class, in order to extort
from their weakness a confession of commerce with Satan; yet there
are still among us not a few who cherish a spirit of persecution, al-
though they are shorn of the power to inflict the lash, or fire the
fagot. In a newspaper, at the moment of wriiing wet from the
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 59
presa, there occun the following passage, in reference to a book on
mesmerism jnst published by an eminent bookseller in the city;-
" It is not snrprising, that after such strange statements as these
abould find their place in printed books, mesmerists should be
charged with holding communion with tile dellill "
The power of looking into closed letter-bags, although civilly it
may be attended with some conveniences, yet 80cia1/g it may open
the door to many evils. And how is the good to be secured, and the
evil avoided? Can letter-bags and boxes be sealed mesmerically?
or placed under efficient mesmeric surveillance ? Could unau-
thorized interference with the private affairs of the community be
&topped by puttingmail-guards and other public servants into a state
of" aleep-waking?" or would one clairvoyant surveyor suffice for
a district? These are questions that demand the instant attention
of the profession; the public mind ought to be set at rest upon points
of such vast importance, without any delay or waste of time.
Some years ago the celebrated Thomas Moore published a series
of metrical epistles, which have hitherto been always regarded as
his own compositions ; but it is now become a question, whether the
poet did not surreptitioualy obtain poese88ion of the original matter,
merely "Cringing with rhyme" the prose of the real authors. Recent
dilcoTeriee show that such a plagiarism was clearly within the range
ofpouibility; the question, at this distance of time, is mainly one
of cbaracter; Mr. Moore stands on high ground,'and the judgment of
poeterity will probably be in his favour; nevertheless, tlie kUen in
pmiota mag be rwtAing monJ tAtm Fudge.
In the Republic of Letters, the rising of mesmerism will be as the
opening of a diamond-mine in Cimmerie. The lurking places of all
the miMiDg works of the ancients that are still extant will be found
oat--we may recover piles of the physics of Archimedes, and the
five hundred tomes of Galen. The literary treasures of Pom-
peii will be unfolded by mesmeric hands-we shall need no Young
to teach us the grammar of Ancient Egypt. Geographical pur-
suits will not necessitate the sacrifice of human life-the Niger and
the North Sea will be navigable in an easy chair-the modern tra-
veller may explore the old cities of Yutucan without danger, diffi-
o,,, .,,,Coogle
60 CASES IN POINT.
eulty, expense, or waste of time. These exhilarating anticipations
are all legitimately deducible from mesmeric premises; in truth, the
premises would bear deductions which for brilliancy would dim
them all. Let the sober-minded reader glance at the exploits of
mind as exhibited in the various casea inpoint--let him thoroughly
eatisfy himself that tlwught is legible by the mind's eye-and then
let him ask himeelf, whether, when science shall have permeated the
world,printed boola fDill be ofang we wkate1Jer1
There are other striking lights in which the attributes possessed
by such persons as J. F. may be viewed; it would probably be as
facile for the clairvoya.nt-Janus-like--to look into the past aa to
pry into the future--the thieves previouslynoticed, were seen in the
act of robbing the fold, some time after the villany had been perpe-
trated. By the well-directed use of such gifts, what mistakes in
history might be rectified I and whatjustice done to the memory of
many now in their graves, and to the characters of some still above
ground!
But again-Endowments of this order might be rendered still
more useful .to the world, in the prer~entioo of evil. One of the
patients of Foissac-an epileptic whose paroxysms were almost of
daily oceurrence-waa accustomed to foretell the hour ofattack; but
on one occasion, the fit did not arrive at the fixed time-the mag-
netist actually intercepted it by throwing the patient into a timely
crisis. " Prevention is better than cure;" it is quite impossible to ap-
preciate the benefit that may accrue to society from the exercise of
this wonderful power, provided it be placed under the control of ·
men of virtue and intelligence--as Cowley says,-
" This is, this is the only way
To outlive Nestor in a day!"
CASES IN POINT.
ELEMENTS OF THOUGHT.
" Channian.-Io this the man? ls't you, sir, that know things?
Sootluavtf'.-In nature's infinite book of secrecy,
A liule I can read."
.Antlwnv and Ckopatra.
61
'! All somnambulists are not lucid ; but most of them become so,
more or less, aft;er a certain number of experiments, They feel and
announce several days in advance, the day and hour when they shall
see. That which happens to them then astonishes them-it is al-
most always a bright light with which they are inundated, a Bplendid
eun, according to the expression of Catherine Samson." Dupotet.
"Her face,
As the great eye of heaven, shyned bright,
And made a sunshine in the shady place."
It is worthy of studious consideration, whethcr this " bright light"
might not be rendered subservient to the illumination of the physi-
cally blind. Mr. Wisenden saw and described the monuments in
St. Paul's Cathedral, although he had " never been in London," and
had " never read any account of its public bnildings;" in this matter
he could have received assistance in no conceivable way from the
eye of the body. Can there then be any absurdity in supposing it
possible, that the born-blind, by means of magnetic light, may be
enabled to see the world, and look upon the works of nature and of
art ? Where u 1M difficulty f The unhappy persons alluded to
only want that which Mr. Wisenden, and all clairvoyants, find to
be of no use ; which some even-as will appear in the sequel-find
to be a positive encumbrance. The hypothesis is at least worthy of
G
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES nl POINT.
eareful enmirwtioD; and to my DOthing ol the psychological know-
ledge, the exciting descripOoa.s ol things by persons whose ideas
were all acquired in the dark, which its verification would produce,
the pleasure tlw would arise from " pouring the day upon the sight-
less eye-ball "-or ralher, upon the "mind's eye "-of a fellow cre&-
tare whose whole previous life had been one unbroken night, would
surely be more than a compensation for any time, or exertion, or
money, thai migh~ have been expended in the investigation.
A :METAPHYSICAL LUMINARY.
" 0 \his learning! what a thing it is !"
Tataing of the Shrew.
" Madame Hortense ---, during her sleep, reasons and con-
verses with me on the most refined metaphysical subjects; she often
puzzles me by the quickness of her repartees, and the subtilty of her
arguments. Her language is brilliant, easy, often metaphorical, and
sometimes picturesque, but still, for all that, trne."
Manuel Pratique.
" A great perturbation in nature," as another doctor declares, " to
receive at once the benefit of sleep, and do the effects of watching ; "
but the hi8t<»iette illustrates the feasibility of a previous suggestion,
that
In coma, the rhymster might poetry write,
The preacher find 1/wug/it for his lecture.
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 63
Various other professors might avail themselves of the same fa-
cilities for increasing their intellectual stores ;-
The painter might spread o'er his canvass the glow
Of tints brought from regions above, or below ;
And the minstrel might gather ideas of tune,
As novel as ifthey fetch'd from the moon.
No longer can distance interpose any difficulty, or strangeness of
tongue any impediment, to the diffusion of knowledge ; neither can
ehill penury any more freeze up " the genial current of the soul;"
nay, the mesmerist can invest the idiot-brow, in spite of Spurzheim,
with a refulgence that would have heightened the glories of La Place.
Pny!6gUr had a patient, idiotic when awake, but of whom he said,
that " when in a crisis, I know no one more profound ;" and the
philosopher fondly called the idiot his " Iflf£lligence I" The Maid-
stone clairvoyant descn'bed the " forked lightning to the life ;" and
to Hat$ffe " the electrical fluid was visible and palpable!" Major
rervn miAi MICitur tmlo. Ere long, the Chemist will be able to
detect that which has hitherto defied his eye-an atom. All the
guea will be solidified, and all the tallow-chandlers and all the gas-
companies in the world will be ruined ; for a stick of hydrogen-
not worth perhaps a penny, so abundant is the raw material-may
ltlffice to eulighten a lecture-room for a season. Pure carbon will
be crystallised ; the diamond will soon be recognised as the true phi-
losopher's stone, and brilliants will be reduced to the value of Bra-
zilian pebbles.
In Geology, a profound view of the bottom of the ocean would
realize a scene wholly destitute of every thing capable of being a.s-
IIOCiated with human existence or activity. Steel, at the centre of
the earth, would be compressed into one fourth of the space which it
occupies on the surface ; there may therefore be ocean-depths which
the heaviest bower-anchor, all &loose, would never reach; but which
the Geologist, in the crisis, might be able to visit with perfect safety.
Wbat heterogeneous masses must now be accumulating at different
depths of tho sea, !ICCording to their relative specific gravities! What
strata must there be in those still regions, in suspense, in a transition
G 2
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT.
state, undergoing a long-drawn process of conglomeration I This
notion was turned up by the writer some years ago, when plowing
the Southern Ocean; and he handed it over to a learned geologist,
who expected, by its light, to find among the obscure carboniferous
rooks the materials for constructing a satisfactory theory of the
growth of coal. But does not Mesmerism indicate a vastly better
method of exploring those regions of darkness, and of bringing up
perfectly fresh knowledge de profundu f
In Astronomy, the telescope is clearly a doomed thing ; ere long
it will be found only in musel1IIl8, among " the spoils of time"-
Roman pottery, Egyptian mummery, and other relics of semi-civi-
lized nations. The parallax. of the particles of " star-dust" that
powder the milky-way will be calculable without the intervention
of optical gear of any kind ; at an early period we may expect to be
introduced to an acquaintance with the Lunarians, and to a know-
ledge of their literature. The peerless telescope of Lord Rosse will
be a monument of shortneBB of sight.
THE SENSES ACTING BY PROXY.
" There's two or three of U3 have seen strange sights."
Juliu1 C<q,ar.
Sophia Laroche, " when in the crisis, hears, sees, reads, feel8, t<uteB,
and t<Juchel, by means of the feet and hand&."
Petetin made a lady " taste bread and milk by placing it on the
epigastrium ; he also made her name several cards by placing them
on the same region." Teste.
" Nature hath formed strange fellows in her time ! "
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 65
There exists a striking analogy between mesmeric energy, with
regard to its growth, and all the ordinary powers of man, both phy-
sioal and mental; the following exemplification of this truth is taken
from the Raliofude ofMagnetilm;-
" When I directed him to go into the street, he complained of his
inability to •-he could hear the people talk, but could not see
them. And this defect made him very unhappy, when asleep; but
I encouraged him by persuading him that he would obtain the
power; and he gradvallg obtained his sight. First he could see the
light of the sun, thep. the gas-lamps, and soon after the shape of
objects, when at length he could minutely describe every thing he
saw, 1Ditlumt limit a8 to tM distance of objects from him. It was still
a fortnight before he fully obtained his sight--his clairvoyant and
ultra.-anditnm powers."
This narrative shows that if Society is to derive extensive benefit
from the discoveries of science, arrangements must be made for
giving the people a scientific education-a point worthy the con-
Bideration of Lord Wharncliffe.
Mr. Jabez Inwards, in a letter published in the Phreno-magnet,
eays that some·patients " see from nearly all parts of their bodies;"
and he particularizes two " who can read from their finger-ends, one
of which can command the power when in a na.t.ural Btate." In the
eame publication parties are mentioned " who can distinguish the
most delicate scents at any distance whatever ;" and a Miss ---
is introduced " who can see much better with the mind than the
eye ; she could see any thing through the wall when she looked with
the mind,.but cO'Uld not when she looked wil4 tM e!les I" Eo ipBo
prrefulgebant quod non visebantur.
When Aristippus was reproved for insulting Philosophy by falling
down at the feet of Dionysius, he declared that " it was not his fault,
but the fault of Diouysins, who had his ear• in his feet I"
" rm sure it may be justly so.id,
His feet were useful as his head."
G 3
o,,, .,,,Coogle
66 CASES IN POINT.
DANGEROUS GROUND.
" Something may be done that we wiU not,
And sometimes we are devils to otl1'8elvea,
When we will tempt the frailty of our powers."
TroilUI aN<l Creuida.
The American pathetist, La Roy Suntkrland, says " it often hap-
pens that persons succeed in putting others to sleep, and find it im-
possible to wake them again. What shall be done in such cases ?
Learn to be more careful how you meddle with an agency of which
you know so little. We have known serious results to follow the
operations of persons when the motive has been mere curiosity."
And R.D anonymous writer in the Phreno-magnet d~lares that iB-
Ianity " has often been the fatal result of an injudicious course of
mesmerism.''
" Mr. Poyser allowed a medical man to try his 110 -called tests
upon one of his patients-a fine athletic young fellow-who became
in consequence both mentally and physically deranged, and con-
tinued in a state of madness till the afternoon of the following day.
Mr. Poyser came and requested our attendance; by an arduous pro-
cess we released the patient from his awful sufferings in half an
hour. The Doctor had been forewarned of the consequences of his
interference ; and when he had produced the effects described, threw
the ontll on the lecturer, and afterwards endeavoured to excuse him-
self by representing the whole as a sham; thus proving himselfeither
grossly unfeeling, ignorant, or false •." Spencer T. Hall.
* For the treatment of the mental distnrbance which results from what is
technically called cro&~-magnelilm, the editor of the Phreno-magnet pre-
scribes "plenty of cold water," which is to be poured upon the middle of
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 67
There are sections of dangerous ground which cannot here be
opened. The French Commissioners, in their secret report, stated
that magnetism " ought to be prohibited," on the ground of its im-
moral tendencies ; and a recent writer on Mesmerism has deemed it
his duty to devote a chapter of his book to the inculcation of purity
of conduct on the part of professors. There is reason to believe that,
on the continent, scenes have been enacted, under the guise of sci-
ence and philanthropy, full of the
" Horrible and awfu',
Which e'en to name wad be unlawfu'."
In the Raticmale of Magnetirm " the expediency of having direc-
tion-posts for clairvoyants, as well as for other travellers," is insisted
upon ; otherwise, it is remarked, " circuitous routes will often be
taken, and sometimes the way may be missed altogether." It is not
likely that such polyglot-posts will be put up until the world is
more enlightened; and the clairvoyant whose powers are mature can
never need them.
the back, the head, etc. " If there be any foreign intluence in the system,
u will be all drawn together, and Bitting about with a throbbing sensation,
from one locality to another. And if good judgment be exercised in pouring
water upon any point in direct magnetic sympathy with that part the inllu-
ence may for the moment occupy, it will be speedily expelled-unless the
abnormality has been induced by complex causes." This method has been
111ccesaful, it is stated even in cases of madness occasioned by "crou-
injlueru!t!."
The process very much resembles that followed by the regular physician
in the early and furious stage of mania ; but the eye of the man of mere
routine is not keen enough to detect the virus of madness which Bits about
from spot to spot to avoid the cold affusion.
La Roy Sunderland says " if your subject should become convulsed do
not be alarmed ; keep calm and indulge no unkind or impure feeling-it
leA entirely to himself the inl!uence will in time disappear."
Digi1zed by Coogle
68 CASES IN POINT.
PATTERNS OF PATIENCE.
" I had thought to have strucken him with a cudgel; and yet my mind
gave me, his clothes made a false report." Coriola111u.
" Madame B is 25 years of age and of an extremely sen-
sitive character; she has an intense dread of the least pain. I had
several times produced somnambulism in her, and ascertained her
insensibility in this state. I pricked her several times with a pin ;
I held one of her fingers for some seconds in the flame of a candle;
she gave not the least sign of pain. During these tria.la she an-
swered my questions with her usual ~·"
" She sat like Patience on a monument."
K Madame Plantain, aged 64, consulted M. Clocquet .about a
cancer in her breast, which she had had for severu.l years. M. Cha-
pelain, the lady's physician, proposed to M. Clocquet to operate
during ma.,anetic sleep ; the latter, who considered the operation in-
dispensable, consented, and fixed the day for performing it. The
operation lasted twelve minutes ; during this time the patient con-
tinued to converse tranquilly, and gave not the least sign of sensi-
bility. When awoke, she did not appear to have any idea or feeling
of what had paRSed; but on ascertaining that she had been operated
upon, and seeing her children around her, she evinced considerable
emotion, which the magnetiser checked by immediately putting her
to sleep." ClocfJfll!t.
Reports of cases resembling the foregoing are to be found in all
books on Mesmerism, •md in the newspapers of the day; these two
..... o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 69
will suffice to illustrnte the soothing power which the magnetist has
at command;-
" Is not this something more lhan fantasy?
What think you of it ?"
In attempting to answer questions of this kind, the sceptic usually
refers to the ordinary effects of physical stimulants, telling us that
they excite the vascular and nervous systems, and then induce in-
sensibility or collapse; the subject of them, like Tam o'Shanter, sees
" unco' sights," and rises " o'er a' the ills o' life victorious;" or, he
is utterly prostrated, so that one is obliged to ask whether he is
"dead or drunk "-as was the case with Christop'Mr Sly-in which
state the loss of a set of teeth would not excite a murmur. He then
expatiates on the passions of the mind, and the power they possess
of producing similar results ; he says the lever of the dentist often
scares away the tooth-ache-that /MJi'/1{/ performed various cures on
nervous women-that the French Commissioners reported that they
found, after a full investigation, that man could act upon man at all
times, and almost at will, by striking his imagination ; and that this
action upon the mind was reducible to an art-that an excited ima
gination often induces insanity, and sometimes death. Then is pro-
posed a series of inferential questions, somewhat resembling those
that follow ;--does not the mesmerist always look out for the ex-
tremely sensitive, and admit that women succumb to his power
more regularly than men ? does he not sometimes excite the brain
until delirium ensues? are not epileptic patients known to be more
susceptible than any others ? has not the mgsteriou.B an almost ma-
gical power of charming the crowd ? do not men of strong mind and
firm health, keeping their eyes in the plane of easy vision, and not
fixed on one spot, set the pass at defiance with invariable success ?
did not Dr. Elliotson prevent men of science from sounding the
depths of Mesmerism, by proposing conditions of inquiry to which
the Fellows of the Royal Society refused to assent ? yon blazon
your lucky strokes-what do yon do with your non liquets1 To all
anch queries, and to others broadly suggestive of suspicions of ve-
oelity, proftl88ional and plebeian, the mesmerist contents himself by
o,,, .,,,Coogle
70 CASES IN POINT.
replying-" out o( all your eleigbts," and take the evidence of your
senll88 ! Did Herr Dobler or Katterfelto ever try the combll8tl"bility
of a live finger ?
" There are more things in bea•en and earth, Horaao,
Than are dreamt oCin your pbilooophy.'"
THE INVISIBLE HAND.
"Hold It in!
For I am almost ready to diaaolve,
Hearing of this."
uar.
"M. Husson came to apprise me that M. Recamier desired to see
me put Catharine to eleep tkrotJflh tluJparlition. I at once expressed
my wish that 80 respectable an evidence should be admitted. I
passed into the closet, in ·which I was shut up. The woman was
then brought forward, and placed at a distance of more than six
feet from the closet. They tell her that I am not to come. I set
myself to work. In three minutes she is asleep. Three minutes
af\er, M. Recamier touches her, raises her eyelids, shakes her by
the hands, questions her, pinches her, strikes the furniture to make
as much noise as possible; he pinches her again, and with all his
force, five times; again he begins to torment her; he raises her up
threo different times, and lets her fall back again; the patient con-
tinues Insensible to 80 much violence, which I could not witness
w!t.hout pain, knowing that the painful sensations -which were not
ovluce<l at this moment, would be reproduced on awaking, and would
OO\laalou convulsions. During her probation, I put several questions
w bill', tu which she returned answers; M. Recamier interpoeed his
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 71
own, on which she Wll8 invariably mute. I return to the closet,
and the signal for awaking her having been given, she awoke in two
minutes." DupoW-.
" Every man's house is his castle;" but the moat and the port-
cnllis oppose no obstacles to the ingress of Science, and Science
may, now and then, give the privilege of entree to Ferocity-the nee
.trait eue fero4 is not invariably true. This is one of the terrific
attributes of Mesmerism.
The indications of this case do not quadrate with the Rev. La
Roy Sunderland's theory of Pathetilm, so called " because the term
gives an idea of the susceptibility to change, induced by contact or
mental apprehension, or sympathy with the process adopted to
bring it about." This writer says, " take any sul\iect who is highly
su.soeptible, and cause him to apprehend you are willing him to
go to sleep, and during the sitting, you will him not w 90 w sle£p,
and you will find that he will fall into the somnipathetic state, in
despite of your will." This doctrine contravenes those taught by
the majority of mesmerists concerning the power of volition, and the
force of gesture; and also those promulgated by another section of
prof81180rs relating to the fluidity of the agent. In express terms,
dle reverend gentleman declares that the agent in mesmerism " is
not a fluid;" and this, he 888erts, "any one may demonstrate in
five minutes." What then becomes of the magnetic fluid of Mesmer?
the nervous fluid of Buchanan? the galvanic fluid of Lafontaine?
the blue fluid of Dann? Mr. La Roy Sunderland ascribes all the
efFects produced by mesmerism to "nervous induction or sympathy;"
aud considers it as " amazing that scientific gentlemen should be so
often deceived with regard to this agency-it was ignorance of this
law," he says," that led Mesmer into so many egregious blunders,
aud caused the commissioners of the French Academy to decide in
such strong terms against this subject.' "
Thus does this reverend magnetist seek to stultify and defame all
his acientific predecessors, and give plausibility to the objections of
those opponents who attribute the results of mesmerism to nervous
irritation, and mental excitement.
Dr. Sigmond says tho somnific "art seems to me to consi.at in
o·,, .,,,Coogle >. .
72 CASES VC POI!{T.
obliging the individasl to inspire, by the DOitril, the carbon he hM
already expired, wbilet the earrema at llir cauaed by the extended
fiogen produce some etJ'ect npon the f'acial nerves, thns inducing
the eyelids to fall dowu. I hue exercised this art with very general
8tlCce88 in the fairer pan of cre~tion."
The theory of the author of u .A~ti....U J£agrtdimt" may here be
noticed; it is proponnded as accounting for the power claimed by
the magnetist of forcing sleep. The persons u over whom mag-
netism exerts such control have marked alfecti0118 of some part of
the nervons system, a fact which leads ns to infer that there may
be some corresponding strnctnral chauge or lesion, by which an
enfeebled resistance, on the part of the organs of &ense is made to
yield to ordinary mental excitement, and a train of strange pheno-
mena to restut." To account for the insensi"bil.ity evinced by many,
In the comatose stage, the same writer suggests that it may result
from " vigorous resistance for purposes of deception;" or, where.
Imposture cannot he charged npon the patient, u from compression
oftho nervous filaments, and disturbance ofthe central nervous organ,
tho brain." He supports the first supposition by referring to the
Jo'lorontine Witches-after the application of the mogical uacnon,
" tho pretended witch lies down, and immediately goes to sleep;
~ho lA bound to her bed; pnnctnres, blows, and even cauterization,
t1onlcl not interrupt her deep slumbers." (Sohute-Du Scimcu
o,,...,tw.-) The second hypothesis is based on the fact, that all the
11orvu1 " are in somo parts so situated, that they may he compressed
hy muaouln.r 1111d other contractile tissues. The effect of snch
oompreaa!on upon these nervous threads is to Jessen their power as
oonduotora. This insensibility is most frequently coexistent with
the oataleptio stage, when all the contractile tissues are in a state of
teniiO l'lgidlty; from which it is obvious that the nervous apparatus
buoome• 110 <Jompressed that, as in some instances, a high degree of
temporiU'y Insensibility may be obtained. We have witnessed again
and RglUII, during an attack of hysteria., hartshorn applied to the
llOII"'il11-the ~kip pinol~ed-the hair most violently pulled-the
tongue bitten-and noises made in the apartment, without being in
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 73
the slightest degree heeded; the patients are afterwards ignorant of
what .occurred during the paroxysm."
"Who sba.ll decide when doctors disagree? " The unlearned
cannot do better than meditate on the words of Bacon-" if you
take out an axiom, as the sticks of a fagot one by one, you may
bend them, and break them at pleasure; quastionum minutiis scienti ·
arumfrangunt Boliditatem."
INSTRUMENTS OF ART.
" The genius, &Jhl the mortal instruments,
Are then in council; and the state of man,
Like to a little kingdom, su1ft rs then
The nature of an insurrection."
JuliUI Cd:sar.
To comparative value of magnetic instruments was subjected to
a severe test, in the case of O'Key, by the Editor of the Lancet. Dr.
Elliotson ascribed extraordinary virtues to nickel but considered that
lead possessed none. Mr. Wakley succeeded in repeatedly pro-
ducing the same effects by using lead, that others had producod by
using nickel; and subsequently, when be substituted the nickel for
the lead, be produced no effect whatever. Dr. Elliotson, however,
thought that it was the nickel after all that excited the girl, the lead
merely arousing latent virtues previously lodged in her system; but
the case excited doubt, and retarded for a while the progress of Mes-
merism. Men of science, almost universally, believe that the inter-
vention of mechanical media is needless; wands especially, are
deemed of no more actna.J. efficiency than the civic mace-an instru-
ment to which our forefathers looked up with so much reverence.
Contrariety of opinion has ever pervaded all the departments of
H
o,,, .,,,Coogle
74 CASES IN POI'ST.
~~~~g~~etic lore; proofs of this are numerously ..ttered through011t
these pages. A few more instances may be noticed-they will serve
to show the activity or the mind in the pursuit of knowledge; ar•
~ adolucit eva i-u.. Georget preecribee that " both the
magnetil!8r and the magnetieed should direct as intently as possible
all their cerebral action towards the prodootion of eomnambuliam;"
Fabneetock never knew experiments to fail " when the desire to per-
form them originated with the petients;" and Dr. Holland says that
" by mental efforts, sensation& of beat and cold may readily be
created," and in hysterical habits such effects produced "as may ap-
pear to beloug to a more mysterioua cause." Dr. Elliotson claims
1 for Mesmerism a specific infiuence-" a power acting conetantly in
all living things, vegetable and animal;" the second French Com-
miasion reported that " magnetism bad no effect upon peraons in a
sound state of health." Dr. Sigmond speculated on a " nervoue elec-
tricity," or emanation, analogous to the odoriferoue exhalations of
certain beasts; John Hunter regarded the imagination as alone ac-
countable for magnetic phenomena. Kluge deemed himself in pos-
eession of an inherent power," discharged and directed by will"-
but knew not whether it was " material or spiritual;" Bailly believed
that all the phenomena attributed to Mesmerism might be referred
to known causes. Dupotet states that the magnetic agency " may
oe said to be almost intellectual-succeas depends on the energy of
the will;" Mr. Mayo asserts that the " infiuence depends upon the
proximity and motion of the band of the operator, and cannot be ef-
fected by mere motion and intention." Mr. S. T. Hall finds " in man
a eentient principle, amenable neither to the laws of time, spaoe, 01"
matter, but having the power of cognizance without the aid of cor-
poreal agents; " Dr. Macaulay considers the products of magnetism
as the offspring of " a credulous imagination deceived by artful im-
posture." The Rev. Mr. Townshend thinks that we live in a ape-
cHic " elastic ether," the equilibrium of which can be disturbed by
the mind, and made to produce " mental effects through unusual
stimulation of the brain and nerves; " and another reverend gentle-
man ascribes, or did ascribe, mesmeric operations to the energy of
Beelzebub!
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT.
" Seal up the mouth of outrage for a while,
Till we can clear these ambiguities,
And know their spring, their head, their true descent''
" INTERNAL PREVISION."
' 4 0 , speak no mol'c ;
Thou turn'st my eyes into my very soul,
And there I see such black and grained spots,
As will not leave their tinct"
Hamht.
75
CL.lltY D-- was the daughter of a bookseller residing in the
Rue Pa~Saint-Andree. "On the 6th of May, 1840, I saw her
for the first time. She was magnetised-she saw her disease, de-
acribed it accurately, but the imtinct of remedie8 was wanting, and
she never could succeed in prescribing for herself."
"Do you see your intestines?-Yes, sir.-And what do you see?
-Red spots of blood, and others blackish; in one place a number of
red pimples.-How will you go on to-morrow?-A little better.-
How will you be on the 1st of June?-Worse, my entire body will
be swollen.-And then?-On the third, oh! how sick I sha.ll bel-
And then?-Wait! the fourth I cea.;c to see!"
The patient was aroused, she had " no recollection of what she
had said, and on the fourth she died."-TESTB.
o.,, .,,,Coogle
7U C.\!SES I~ POI~T.
" EXTERNAL PREVISION."
Valenti...,.-" Are all these thill(!ll perceived in me?
Sp«tl.-Tbey are all perceived without you.•
Two Gnt1~11 of Ver011<1.
" SomuJOJULJBTB have as well the consciousness of that which takes
place in the system of indhiduals brought e11 rapport with them, as of
that which passes within themselves. I was coll8Ulted regarding a
child labouring under pulmonary aft'ection; after one previous exa-
mination, I present the child to my somnambulist. She examines
the child toitlwut touchillfl him, and says-
" This child is very bad-worse than you .wpect. Its lungs are
gorged with blood aud mucosity that is almost purulent.-Do you see
any ulcerations there?-Yes; in the lower part of the right luug.-
But what is to done for it?-Placo a blister on the chest, et catera.-
And with this do you think the symptoms will subside?-Please
God."
" When the relations had retired the Somnambulist said-' This
child is lost, it will die in twenty days.' On the 26th of the month
the child diod."-Jfanuel Pratique.
Did it never occur to tho worthy Doctor to avail himself of the
Aervices of Madame C---, with a view to discover the proximate
cause of gout? There can be no reasonable doubt of her ability to
do this. Moreover, she might be able easily to solve the great
problem of pathology, to see whether inflammation arises from a
thickening of fluid, or a constriction of vessel-whether it is caused
by increased action, or the very reverse. She should be instructed
to keep her eye-using the word as a figure-upon the opium-eater,
and watch the modw operandi of the drug, from the first moment of
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 77
impression till impression had destroyed sensibility; her own expe-
rience of the power of the poppy, for which her taste is well known,
might form a contribution to medical literature as instructive as the
Confeuion& of De Quincy. It would be very satisfactory to know
that the plague is not contagious-to learn what contagion really is
-to have within reach a cure for hydrophobia-to get a clearer
insight into the nature of tubercles, and the natural history of hy-
datids; why does the Doctor allow the gifted lady to waste her time
upon details, and not drive her at once into great principles?
Happily Madame C--- is not the only clairvoyante in the
world; in truth, we have reason to hope that the Art of Healing will
soon be as universally known and practised as the Art of Cookery
now is.
VELUTI IN SPECULUM.
" Come, come, and sit you down; you sbaU not budge,
You go not, till I set yon up a glass
Where you may see the inmost part ofyou:·
Hamlt'l.
" WHEN a patient presents himself to me for consultation, I ex-
pressly recommend him to tell me nothing-interrogatory is banished
from my bouse-nothing is asked, but all that is necessnry is re-
vealed. The patient gives his band to the somnambulist, sits beside
her, and still observes silence. To a madman she will say, You have
fiOt your reman; to a phthisical patient, You cough, and 8pit bUxxl,
and you have a pain tlu!re, putting her finger upon the apex of the
ulcerated lung. Now after this I ask any person of common sense
whether, with such facts, there is a possibility of mistake, or of de-
ception!"
u a
o,,, .,,,Coogle
i8 CASES ~ POTh"T.
So writes Dr. Teste in the Mat&Uel Pratique; and the l!tatement
and question preface the annexed graphic illustration of a cme itJ
point;-
" About three months since M. X., a wealthy banker, came to
consult my somnambulist. This gentleman did not believe in mag-
netism-I still see the poetic but jeering expression of his counte-
nance when be presented his hand to Madame C---, saying to
her, ' The physicians, Madam, do not appear to comprehend the
nature of my disease; let us see if you will be more successful.'
Madame C--- took the patient's hand, and after half a minute's
attention, she turns to him and says-
" You know it, sir, the nature of your disease; but you are afraid
to own it to yourself ! "
"1-Well!-Yes-1 think I have an affection of the heart."
" No, sir; it is not there you have it; neither is that what you
think you have!"
" What is it then?"
" I do not wish to tell you; but here is what yoo feel."
" Now at each symptom which she mentioned, M. X., who no
longer smiled, seemed to become paler, and appeared to pronounce
only with horror the terrible affirmation which a sort of magic
power forced from him. 'Well, sir; since you no longer think of
calling in question my power of seeing your disease, I hope you will
bolieve in the power I possess of curing it.' On this she dictated his
prescription, which I wrote.out; and M. X. quitted us at once
terrified, consoled, and converted.''
" Her treatment, I confe~~&, is often strange enough; and without
tho least resemblance tc that adopted by physicians; but what mat-
tel" if it be good? "
To which question every reasonable mim, not being" a regular
physician, will answel'-11()M.
" How she solicits heaven
Herself best knows ; but strangely visited people,
All swollen and ulcerous, p1tiful to the eye,
The mere despair of surgery, she cures."
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POlNT.
A CLEAR CASE.
" 0 happy fair I Your eyes are Iod(lostars ! "
Mi<Uumnoer Night'• Dream.
79
" How do you find yourself, Josephine ? Very welL Do you
see? Not yet, but I shall presently. In how many minutes? In
seven."
The seven minutes elapse, and Josephine, astonished at her nas-
cent lucidity, cries out-
" Oh I there I there I I see it as clear as in the open day ! I see
within you as if you were a lantern I Oh I there is fire at the ends
of your fingers. Weill how astonishing I But I see something
within myself also. It is certain-it is my heart I Tic, tac-tic,
toe-how curiously it beats I And my blood, there ! hold, hold-
red on one side, and black on the other ! And my abdomen I there
are entrails I Oh I how disgusting ! "
" And, Josephine, do you see your own disease ?"
" No, I don't see it, because I think it is every where ; but no
matter, I feel right well what it will be necessary to do to me in
order to cure me."
" What will it be necessary to do to you ? "
" To magnetise me, trJ l1l4ke me drink wine and eal roa~t beef."
" Is that all ? "
" Ycs, for the present.''
o,,, .,,,Coogle
80 CASES IN POINT.
SELF-KNOWLEDGE.
" Give me leave
To speak my mind, and I will through and through
Cleanse the foul body." •
..b You Like It.
A namelese physician " had been treating a woman named Perry
for an intermittent disease by Mesmerism ; during sleep, she was
asked what would cure her. She replied, ' the same medicine that
Will employed by Dr. Sigmond-it is a mineral ; I know you have it
in your house ; it is the sixth bottle on the second shelf in your
medicin&-<lhest' The bottle alluded to contained the ammonia-
chloride of iron, which was administered, and by it the patient was
cured." Animal Magneti8m.
" I have seen a .woman insist on taking substances which ap-
peared to me to be dangerous for one in her condition. Thinking
her in error, I opposed her opinion. I directed her attention to the
state of her organs, such as it seemed to me. I ordered several drugs
to be brought, among which were those which she desired; 1M recog-
ni&ed tkem, and insisted on taking them. I struggled with her for
uverallwurs, and I at length gave way ; the alarming symptom of
her malady was instantly arrested, without any thing unpleasant
occurring." M. Kore.lf.
Surely the Elirir Vitm, after which the ancients ~iled so vainly,
cannot be very far off I
" I assure you
He that has once the dower of the sun,
The perfect ruby, which he ca.ll8 Elixir,
Can confer honour, love, respect, long life,
Give aafety, valour, yea, and victory,
To whom he will:'
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 8l
FINE TASTE.
" You rogue, here·s lime in this ssck too ! ..
King Henry IV.. p. I.
" The magnetiser took hold of the patient's hand; Mr. Crofts,
?.!r. Roberts, Mr. Josh. Hollings, and I, fonned a chain. I, being
at the extreme point, put a little ale into my mouth, and on asking
what made her 111011e her lips, she said she tasted ale. After rinsing
my mouth, I swallowed a little mint-water, which she could not so
readily distinguish, but she said it was tee-total drink. Mr. Roberts
then took hold of the magnetiser and put salt into his mouth, when
she instantly ' set aface ' and spit out, saying it was salt."
I>r. Cryer.
" Would a patient be affected by an emetic taken by the ope-
rator ? " This question was opened in the tenth number of the
Phreno-magnet ; and correspondents were requested to reply by
" stating facts." It would be satisfactory to know whether the query
met the eye of any one possessed of sufficient philosophy, or good
humour, to induce him to swallow three grains of tartar emetic; but
the periodical is now extinct, and the writer is unable to supply any
information as to the result of the inquiry. It is, however, more
than probable that medicines ofevery kind may be taken vicariously;
" every physician knows," says a transatlantic magnetist, " that dis-
ease is often communicated by sympathy; and it will appear on ex-
amination, we think, that the same agent may be equally efficient
in ita cure." The spirit of the age would frustrate any attempt to
bring the question to an issue, by experimenting ~pon convicted
criminals; but could there be any reasonable objection to the offer
of a free pardon, in certain cases, as the recompe118e of voluntary
mbjection to a blister ?
o,,, .,,,Coogle
82 CASES lN POINT.
Digby could heal the wounds of men at a distance, by applying
his " sympathetic ointment" to their bloody clothes; and Kluge, a
Pruaaiau surgeon, states that au emetic, taken by a magnetiser, cre-
ates a wondrous" fellow feeling" in his patient's stomach.
ANNIHILATION OF MATTER.
.. Art thou any thing?.. JttliiU c-r.
" A simple magnetic paaa is snfficient for a piece of furniture, a
person, a portion of a room, to disappear from the eyes of a som-
nambulist. Question her by surprise, lay for her all the snares you
will, never will ahe see any of the persona or things that her mag-
netiaer ahall have rendered invisl"ble." Du Ponceau.
" Care avaunt, with all thy crew,
Goblins dire and devils blue !-
Whether Kirke White succeeded in exorcising the tiebds b sim
pie deprecation is doubtful-blue devils are not easily charmed.
Those who are similarly tormented should fly to Mesmerism ;
" 'Tis tjle secret
Cures all diseases, coming ofall causes;
A month's grief in a day, a year's in twelve,
And, of what age soever, in a month ;
Past all the doses of your drugging doctors."
.
" There is," said Mesmer, " one health, one disease, one remedy,
aud one physician ; and that physician am I ! "
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 83
SOMETHING LIKE CREATION.
" Snug.-You never can bring in a wall. What say you Bottom ?
Boltom.-Some one must present wall."
Mid•ummer Niglit'1 Dream.
" Roso.lia is in her closet, adjoining a drawing-room, in a state of
aomnambnlism ; the communication between these apartments is
closed, but another door giving egress from the drawing-room to a
staircase is open. The magnetiser places a barrier there magneti-
cally ; then Rosalia is introduced by a stranger. She is requested
to go out to the staircase ; but she declares that she cannot do eo,
because, says she, ' thi8 door i8 barred !' "
It is not therefore impossible to 1m one's domicile against the
obtrusive clairvoyant, though it is clear that perfect security cannot
be attained but by the exercise of incessant vigilance. The excited
eye of specnlation may, it appears, be prevented frcm examining the
budget before the time, aud that of the charge tlaffairu from inspect-
jUg private papers in the Foreign Office ; but in operations of such
speciality, snccess will obviously depend as much upon the premier
pal as it does in au encounter with the basilisk-the beau ideal of
pqeitive aud negative magnetism-" if he see you first, you die for it;
but ifyou see him first, he dieth." The day cannot be very distant
when the statesman will have to
" Burn his useless Machiavel, and lletp."
" After having magnetised Rosalia in the closet of Madame --,
I ask what it is they desire I should make her see. ' A little girl.•
I approach a chair, aud strive in making some passes to fix my idea
to it. Rosalia, whom I bring before me, concludes by saying, ' It is
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT.
little Hortense I ' Having sent her into another room, I remove the
chair, in order that she may not recognise it ; bnt I hesitate, and
place it in several different places before fixing it. I then go to
awake Rosalia in the closet, and proceed with her into the little
room. Now that she is tDeU atDal:e, what docs she see? Not oue
little girl, but 6iz little gir/8 ! In vain I try by transverse passes to
abolish my manifold creation ; it is impossible. Curious to have au
explanation, I again put Rosalia to sleep, and ask her the solution
of the enigma;-' In good faith, sir, you need not have removed the
chair, then I should have seen but one child ; but every where you
put it down, the fluid passed through, and formed a child like the
one that is above." .Du POtiCeau.
" Were such things here as we do speak about?
Or have we eaten ofthe insane rool.,
That takea the rea.«>n prisoner? "
The feat of Pygmalion, which hitherto has been vulgarly consi-
dered as a figure of the creative energy of genius, may turn out
after all to have been a bald matter of fact. The Welshman could
" call spirits from the vasty deep ;" the Frenchman called six yoWlg
ladies a nihilo. .Du POtiCeau invited his audience to task him to
their" strongbidding ;" his power of production appears to have boon
mightier than that of Ben Jonson's shop-boy-" what do you lack,
what is 't you lack ? A:ny fine fancies, figures, humours, charac-
ters, ideas, definitions of ladies and gentlemen? Waiting-women,
parasites, knights, captains, courtiers, lawyers, what do you lack ?"
That which yesterday was looked upon as satire, may to-day-
making liberal allowance for the gloss of caricature-be viewed as
prophecy,-
" Thus science distorted, and tom into bits,
Art tortur'd, and frighten'd half out of her wits,
In portions and patches, some light and some shady,
A:re stitched up together, and make a vouug lady."
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 85
A QUESTIONABLE SHAPE.
" I'll take the Ghost's word for a thousand pound." Hamlet.
The writer is compelled to admit that he was ignorant, when he
wrote the metrical essay, of the recent appearance of ghosts in
Europe; the following statement is extracted from " Animal Mo.g-
netVm," where it appears as a quotation from a work written by a
magnetist of Wurtemburg, who is well known to be " a shrewd
man." The history thoroughly unfolds the mode of life of these
creatures ; and abounds with novel details relative to their moral
habitudes and capabiliti-their sympathies and antipathie11-their
mutual relationships and infiuence&-their physical organization,
(for they are not all spirit,) and their bodily powers. Altogether,
the narrative is one of the most instmctive of the kind that has ever
challenged the attention of the world.
" The spirit of all things was perceptible to her, more particularly
the spirits of metals, herbs, men, and animals. The different co-
lours of the rays of light, produced upon her particular effects. To
her the electrical fluid was visible and palpable. Her gnests were
frequently visitors from the unseen world ; and amongst them were
sometimes the unhappy ghosts of murderers, who sought her in-
struction. One ghost in particular was an irresistible importunate,
until she consented to a conversation. He confessed to having mur·
dered his brother, and that he was a Knight of the Weiler family, of
Lichtenberg. She taught him to pray, and prayed for hours with
him kneeling by his side. On the seventh night, the apparition
told her that his hour of liberation was near. On a sudden seven of
his children joined the party, all white, shining, and joyful ; they
,,, ""'Coogle
Rfl CASES I~ POJ!>T.
formed a circle round him, and sang in exquisite melody •. The
knight wished to mark her hand in remembrance of him, and re-
fused to quit her until obliged to do so by the timely arrival and
interference of the ghost of her grandmother."
" Ghosts look like thin clouds ; but are not transparent, though
they at first seem so ; still I never saw one that cast a shadow.
Their shape is like that which they bad during lif~nly colourless
and grey ; so is their clothing, but it is also colourless, as if made of
cloud. The brighter and better spirits have a long garment, with a
girdle. Their expression is generall,y solemn and sad. Their eyes
are like fire. None of them bad hair on their head. They make
noises to excite attention-sounds in the air, sometimes sudden and
sharp, producing a shock; sometimes musical; at others resembling
the rustling of paper, the rolling of a ball, &c. They can carry
heavy substances, overturn tables, knock plates about, &o. The
better spirits are brighter than the bad ones, and their voice is not
so strong. The darker ones sucked in my words of religious con-
versation, and I saw them become brighter in consequence; but I
was rendered weaker. Most who come to see me are in the lowes'
regions, which are in our atmosphere; they were the grovelling ones
of this world, or such as did not die in the Christian faith. In these
inferior regions the spirits are still exposed to the temptations of the
devil. Children grow after death ; the sonl expands its vest until it
is as large as it wonld have become on earth."
For further particnlars the reader must consnlt the original work
of Kerner; it is comprised in two large volumes, one of them de-
scribes the magnetic state of the subject-whose name was Hau.ffe-
and the other details her ghostly experience.
The well known ghost of the royal Dane-unlike these bald
spirits-was allowed to retain his " sable silvered" beard, though
doomed to " fast in fires ;" and be differed in almost every point
• The supernaturals of Bw,.,., were all musical,-
" To gie them music was his charge;
He acrew'd the pipes and gart them akirl,
Till roof an" rafters a" did dirl.'"
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES ~N POINT. 87
from his German congeners. He had, it is true, "a countenance
more in aorrow than in &nger; " yet he Wll8 full of revenge; and, ex-
cept where his private interests were involved, very incommuni-
cative, revealing few of the " secrets of his prison-house." Alto-
gether, his marked inferiority, in character and accomplishments, to
these genuine ghosts, excites a doubt as to his veritable existence ;
he may be merely a " being of the mind," the creature of man's
imagination.
If science should establish a regular communication with ghostly
powers, dreams will lose much of their importance; but the subject
is inscrutable-the ghosts must be lea to unfold their own tales.
THE STATUE OF FLESH.
" Why should a man whose blood is warm within,
Sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster?
Sleep when he wakes? "
Merchant of Venice.
" Rosalia is sleeping calmly on the sofa. Her magnetiser raises
her feet, then passes his hand between them and the floor; this signal
is to place a stool under her feet. Actually from this moment the
two feet of Rosalia remain in the air as if they were supported by
an object placed beneath them. When &troflg pre&sure is made on
them, they are forced to yield ; but then the entire body follows the
movement, and instantly as the action ceases the two feet rise to-
gether in the position given them by the magnetiser."
" Aft.er having remained a long time in this way without evincing
any fatigue, Rosalia is asked why she keeps her feet raised; because,
says she, ' I have placed them on a stooL'" Dv Ponceau.
I 2
o,,, .,,,Coogle
88 CASES IN POINT.
"Limbe IOIIet
Aa it they had aome voluntary act
Withoot IIWI·a motion, and mu.st move ju.st 10
In apite oftheir creation."
This experiment might have been varied ; the operator, no donbt,
might easily have psssed the sofa away from Rosalia, leaving t1te
tchole of her rigid body " in the air "-like the material part of Ma-
homed-without any visible means of support.
THE WAY TO WIN.
"Nay, sol\, I pray ye; I know a trick worth two of that, i"faith.""
King Htn"'l IV. p. 1.
" CALLIXTE is one of those rare and valuable subjects whom science
may work on with confidence. Put to sleep by M. Ricard, and his
eyes covered with a bandage, he commences by forming several ca.rd
parties. The cards are new, and for the greater regularity, we were
reqoested to supply them ourselves. All this precaution does not
prevent him from winning on his adversary. The rapidity with
which he plays is incredible, so much so, that it would astonish any
one even if observed in a man broad awake.
" Sometimes, before his adversary had time to look at his game,
Ce.llixte throws his on the table, saying, ' I play without proposing,
and you have lost, for you have such and such ca.rds in your band.'
Nor was be mistaken on any one occasion."
" On a number of small cards were written beforehand the dif-
ferent movements which the spectators may make him perform.
M. Ricard-after this plain admonition-Calli.l:te, pay a~, I atrJ
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 80
goiltg to 8pt;IJlc to you-reads KEli'TALLY the phrase, adds not a word,
makes no gesture, and Ca.Ilixte obeys his tlwught."
"On one card was written, ' Let the 110mnambulist rise, take four
steps, and touch with his right hand the chest of the magnetiser.'
The mental order is given; Ca.Ilixte reflects an instant, rises, walks,
counts his steps, hesitates 110me seconds, then finishes by completing
the performance of the mysterious order."
" I myself drew, at hazard, three cards from a hat where they
were mixed; their united sense forms this phrase-' Let the I!Om-
nambulist rise, mount on a chair, and fall backwards into the arms
of his magnetiser.' Ca.Ilixte rises, mounts on a chair, hesitates, and
then lets himselffall at once into the arms of M. Ricard, who fanclea
himself upset by he violence of the shock.''
"Let us remind our readers that our Juggler has his eyelids
covered with combed cotton, and over this a thick handkerchief."
M~ Pratique.
And yet 110me per110ns are cynical enough to compare "our Juggler"
with the Great Wizard ofthe North, or Travitanto Tudesko-Hype-
rion to a SatyrI
" Green heads as void of wit as thought,
Suppose thefluel~• monopolists of IICD86,
And other men's abilities pretence."
Why did not Callixte become a competitor for the prize offered
by Burdin to any one who could read without eyes? Pigcaire, a
venal physician, was tempted, on this occasion, to descend to trickery,
employing as his tool his own daughter," who could never read with
her finger," as the umpires declared, unless when placed in such a
polition that 110me light might pass between the edge of the bandage
and her nose. Sordid impostors are always on the alert to seize
upon any temporary advantage which the lights of science may give
them. Not long ago a boy was exhibited in London who " inva-
riably gave correct answers concerning objects which he could not
see;" but it was soon disoovered that his father, when speaking to
him, " began each suoeeaaive sentence with a word, the first letters
1 3
o,,, .,,,Coogle
{10 CASES IN POTh'T.
of which put together formed the answer; fur instance-if the object
wa.s of silk, the father might thus address him;-
' S ee now you speak c~rrectly­
/ know you will-
L ook well before you speak-
K now now what you are about.' ~
Ben Jonson refers to a cognate coaenage in hia Volpone;-
" The meat was cut
So like his chlll8Cter, and 10 laid, as he
Must easily read the cypher."
The path of the mesmerist, unhappily for the cause of science,
has been beset by unprincipled pretenders; and tools for doing any
kind of dirty work are always easily found, or fabricated. The
facility with which many of the effects of mesmerism may be simu-
lated, has suggested temptations too strong for corrupt human nature
to withstand;-
" Feign a distemper
or walking i' your sleep, or talking in 't
A little idly, butao much, as on it
The doctor may have ground to raise a cure
For's reputation:·
The mesmerist not unfrequently damages his own cause by un-
wisely giving to facts a higher colouring than truth requires; the
details of the Leioester case-the great mesmeric fact of the day-
have provoked public disclaimers, on the part of some gentlemen who
witnes8ed the operation, of their concurrence in the accuracy of the
published report. Mr. Shaw declares, that " unquestionably, the
patient exhibited strong marks of sensibility to pain;" and Mr.
Paget says " there wa.s a considerable groaning, writhing, and an
approach to screaming. I have seen those who, under operations
equally severe, have, without mesmerism, given far less indication&
of pain; and, but for the after declarations of the patient herself, I
should have concluded that she had endured with no very unruual
fo~itude the ordinary amount of suffering." It has occasionally
CASES IN POINT. IH
happened that, after a battle, both the belligerent parties have laid
claim to the victory; it is evident that, in this contest, the palm
must be loft at the disposal of the patient; but then comes the que~~o
tion-WRAT 18 THE CHA.RA.CTER OF THE WOl!U.NP
A few months ago, a man was charged at one of the police courts
of the metropolis, with committing a theft; the defence set up Wll8
that the party at the tinie was in a magnetic crisis; but as no re-
spectable magnetist was called to establish the truth of the 11886rtion•
the magistrate refused to listen to the plea; and the probability is
that the accused was a normal thief. Such knavish practices have
always a bad tendency, although they greatly affect only minds of
small caliber; Rochefoucauld says fkgpocrilie ut un llommage que k
t>iceM¥1 a1.a !lel'tu.
VEGETABLE MAGNETISM.
n The blest 1NPU810N8 tho.t dwell in vegetives, in metals, stones."
Ptriclel.
" Tn famous tree of Busancy-magneti!ed from tune immemorial
by the love of pleasure, is so now by the love of humanity. M.
Puy~ has imparted to it a salutary, active, penetrating virtue.
Its emanations are distributed by means of cords, with which tho
bodyand branches are surrounded, whichare o.ffixed to it all around,
and are prolonged at pleasure. Several stone seats have been placed
around this mysterious tree, on which all the sick persons are seated,
who twist the cord round the affected part of the body. Then the
operation commences, every one fonning the chain and holding each
otherby the thumb. The magnetic fluid circulates at these momenta
CASES llC POilCT.
witll grealilr hedom. If 8111 ODe breKa the cbain by lettiDg go
hia neighbour's hand, 110111e of the pst.ienU feel a ClOil8trioging eene&-
tion, and declare aloud that the cbain ia broken."
" Ask all the unfortunate pereooa who come to implore the as&iat-
anee of the Lord of BUII&Ilcy, they will all tell you, he has consoled
ua, he has cured ua; several among ua wanted bread, we dared not
appeal to hia beneficence-he divined our thoughts, and relieved our
wants." Clooqwt.
In the treatment of many w-an attention to regimen ia often
of more importance than the administration of medicine, while in
no instanoe can diet be neglected with impunity. It is evident b
the case now under review, that the reetorative influencee of mesme-
rism may be greatly enhanced by judicious alimeDW"y regulation.e;
some of these patients " tDOIII«l br«zd,"
" And fmhwi1h \hen 1h"7 a" down clank,
Upon 1he green, and rank by rank
Tak what'a to gic ; for which !hey thank,
And make nae fyke,
For aome o' !hem are e'en right lank,
And hungry.Jike."
The celebrated tree of Passy threw one of Deslon's patients into a
crisis at the distance of eight yards from the centre of power; the
commissioners considered that the man, in this matter, played the
part ofa blunderer; but Deslon explained the circumstance by show-
ing.that there had been a radiation of virtue from the apricot-tree,
which had affected all the other trees in the orchard. According to
Mesmer, not only trees, but water, articles of food, " all bodies in
nature," are &118Ceptible of magnetism. He informed Dr. Von Elle-
kon in 1804, that twenty years previously he had " magnetiaed the
-," which was the reason why" water exposed to ita raya wae
superior to all other water."
" Had old Hippocrates or Galen,
(That to !heir books put modicinea all in,)
But known this secret, !hey had never
(Of which !hey will be guill.y C\'er)
CASES IN POINT.
Been murderers ofso much paper,
Or wasted many a burtless taper;
No Indian drug bad e'er been famed,
Tobacco, Sassafras not named;
Ne yet, of guacum one small stick, sir,
Nor Raymond Lullie's great elixir,
Ne bad been kno\\'tl the Danish Gonswart,
Or Paracelsus, with his long sword."
ZOOLOGICAL RESEARCHES.
"To whom do lions cast their gentle looks?"
King Henrv VI. p. S.
1)3
"Is it a magnetic power which VanAmburgh, Carter, and others,
exercise over their lions and tigers ? This is commonly said, but
how to prove it? "
" It has been said that certain animals magnetise by the look
others that are weaker than themselves, and which they make
their prey; now it is exceedingly probable that this hypothesis is well
founded; and, for my own part, I consider it worthy of credit."
" It happened to me one day to magnetise a cat for an entire hour.
I sweated large drops of sweat at it; but at length I fancied I had
succeeded, when the noise;of a dish suddenly dissipated my illusion,
by making the villanous beast who feigned to be asleep on them fly
off from my knees." Tute.
This rencontre with disappointment brings to mind that expe-
rienced by the gndcman of Auchtcrmuchty, who crabbedly sent bill
wife " to the plengh the morn,"-
o,,, .,,,Coogle ...
94 CASES IN POINT.
" Then to the kim that be did atour,
Andjummilt at it while be swat;
When be badjummilt a full lang hour,
The sorrow crap of buller be gaL"
Jacquelin is said to have ma.nipulated his h01'1Ml8, in order to prove
that the imagination was in no way ministrant to the production of
mesmeric phenomena; and it is understood that the animals exhi-
bited " all the 118118.1. magnetic phases, even to somnambulism." So
we read that " one Smug made his horse laugh, and broke his
halter."
Is it a magnetic power that snake..cllarmers exercise over their
Cobras and Leffas? Did St. Goorge derive any aid from magnetism
when he " shaved the dragon's beard?" or Una, when she cowed
" the ramping lion " that-
" With gaping mouth at her ran greedily? •
By what mystic means was Bellerophon enabled to annihllate the
Chinuera, and Perseus the Gorgon? By what resistless energy did
Orpheus subject Cerberus to his will, when, returning from the
palace of Pluto, the " swaine"
" Brought forth with him that dreadful dog of bell
.AgaiDat his will, faat bound in yron.dlaine,
And roring horribly ?"
The few records of antiquity that have floated down to us are en-
veloped in" shadows, clouds, and darkness;" but brought forth into
the strong light of modern science, much of the obscurity that aur-
rounds them might be dissipated. The deeds ascn'bed to some Of
the old pseudo-gods must have had a foundation in fact; sheer false-
hood never obtains extensive currency-fiction always needs some
amalgam of truth to make it passable. The Heathen Mythology,
sul\iected to a refining, or to a sifting process, under the supervision
of a modern philosopher, might produce results that would incalcu-
... o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 95
!ably increase the worth of the litervy remains of the ancients ;•
if there is but one grain of wheat in a bushel of chaff, the value of
the particle makes it worth while to sift the mass;-
"Seize upon troth where'er 'tis found,
On Christian, or on heathen ground."
Attempts have lately been made to rob Mesmer of his laurels, by
insinuating that he was a mere feliz doctriru8 prado; a charlatan,
who did nothing more than " grind old science down into modem
use." Paracelsus healed wounds by a " sympathetic ointment,"
and " cured gout, jaundice, and many other diseases, by means of
the magnet"-but does not this prove Mesmerism to be a trnth of
nature? Copernicus went out of the world before Galileo came into
it; does this circumstance tarnish the fame of the Tuscan? Ia the
glory of Newton sullied by the poetry of Ovid-
" Circumfuso pendebat in ere Tellua
Ponderibua librata suis ?"
The spirit of the literary Sibyls and the writhing Pythonesa were
poeaibly of the same genus as thoee that animate our own convulsed
augurs ; Argus and Briareus-par nobUe fmtrvm-were perhaps
nothing more than personifications of Animal Magnetism ; and
Hercules destroying monsters with his club, wu-it may be-a
mere figure of the power that we call Mesmerism triumphing over
fierce diseasea. Tho trees of Dodona may have their actual equiva.
Ients in those of PIWy; the caduceus of Mercury and the dart of
blind-folded Cupid their counterparts in the patent tractors; and the
pipes of Pan their representatives in the armonicas of Mesmer him-
eel£ But Mesmer has, at least, the honour which arises from giving
a name to a system, which, it is pouiJJle, he may have formed by
• In alllllian to the notiODB aC the ReY. Mr. Townshend, the au1hor of
bimal Mt~grwlint aaya, " It would appear that the ancient doctrine of
lbe ..bi.a Madi ia atill retained, and, wish aJisbt modiJiealioo, the conel-
Uin h1Jl01haia orbodilJ polarizalion..
o.,. .,,,Coogle
96 CASES IN POI:\T.
binding together a n1Ullber of scattered hypothel!e8; at all events,
who baa done more than he to render knowledge subsidiary to the
promotion of the Arts of Life?
" He io a rare physician, do him right,
An esceUcnt Paracelsian and baa done
Strange cures with mineral physic.
Doctor ! proceed with your cure, I'll make thee famous,
Famous among the sons of the physicians,
Machaon, Podalirius, Eoculapius."
THE SIXTH SENSE.
" Keen ao the razor's edge, invisible-
Above the sense of sense; so sensible
Seemeth their conference."
.Lo•~t'• LIJbour Lo1t.
BERTRAND, unmagnetising a patient, had at the same time the de-
termi~ toilh that he •hould oot atoalce; convulsive movements fol-
lowed,-
" What ails you? "
" Why do you tell me to awake, and you do not wish that I
shonld ?"
Bertrand also cites the 91186 of a poor and uneducated woman
who understood the·meaning of wQI'ds when asleep which she could
not understand when awake--a phenomenon, he says, which " can
only be explained by acknowledging that she read in my very
thoughts the meaning of the word."
Quomque tandem abutere patientid t101trd 1 PaW'e tua COOiilia
fiOII leflti81 When will it be oaeleaa for a .man to " emile, and smile,
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. !)7
and be a villain?" · When will no one find it difficult to make out
a correct list of his fntm~Uf How much longer will men addict
themselves to deceptive Professions? How much longer will they
continue to wear masks and cloaks?
NE PLUS ULTRA.
" Murd'ring impossibility, to make
What cannot be, slight work."
Ctwiol<Jnur.
" MADAllE HORTENSE takes three minutes and a half to enter into
IIODlilambulism. The bandage which is to cover her eyes is folded
up and applied by M. Bonillard, an illustrious unbeliever. In an
hour she reads a verse in a book printed in small Roman type. The
bandage which comes down to the al~ ruui W88Ilot displaced even
a single line."
"All the lights are put out, and profound darkness reigns through
the apartment. M. H. is then dise~ed from her bandage."
"Could you read this, Madame ?-Yes, sir.-Well, what is the
title of the book?-M. Cormac several times says in a low voice,
lWuu«J.u'• Work#.-No, sir, they are the Poems of Malherbe I"
" Here is a box, let one of you write legibly whatever phrase he
likes; let the box be corded, and sealed, and if on the morrow I send
yon the whole untouched, with an accurate copy of the phrase, will
you believe7-Yes."
" On the next day I wrote to Dr. Frapart--'There is in your box,
' le po83ibk ut immer~~e.' M. Frapart aaid, ' We have gained; for M.
K
98 CASES IN POINT.
HorteDJe baa really read the hemistich of Lamartine.' Aa M. La.-
tour, who till then dietrnsted only magnetism, now did us the ho-
nour of distrusting us, it became necessary to re-commence the
experiment for him. It was he, then, who wrote the phrase, and
without revealing what he had written, deposited the scroll in the
box. Three days al\er I called on Dr. A. Latour, and returned him
the box; he examined it, and recognised the seals.-" Well? "-
" L'et:JU ut compo&e tlhgdrogene et tlozggene."-" Well, you are the
devil, or magnetism is true." Manuel Pratique.
Truly, le pomble EST i~; which means, in plain Latin, nihil
fiKirlQlibul ordUWJ ut; or, still better, in the vernacnlar,-
" Now bid me run,
And I will strive with things imposaible,
Yea, get the better of them! What"• to do1""
There seems to be no reason for suspecting that this box was ever
passed through the Post Office.
Many of the arguments put forward in opposition to the truth of
Mesmerism, wonld be quite as apposite, m!Jtati8 mutandU, if advanced
in opposition to the truth of Homreopathy, or Hydropathy, or any
other medical improvement or reform. The mesmeriat recollects
the rancour with which Vaccination was aseailed on its advent; and
considers it as no wonder " that a subject which opposes the pecu-
niary interests of the more unworthy members of the medical pro-
fession, threatening at once their pudding and their praise, shonld be
assanlted with malignant virulence." Not many years have passed
since the writer himself, undergoing the purgatorial process of qua-
o,,, .,,,Coogle
CASES IN POINT. 99
rantine oft' the ooast of Brazil, did not ecruple to allude to the di&-
ciples of Mesmer in very depreciating language; he is not afraid to
confesa this-Southey, when a reformed character, was not aShamed
to own Wat Tyler;-
0 ye who handle the mesmeric t.oola,
Fright'ning the ladies into fits and starta,-
Whose powers are great in somnifying fools,
Who masters are, par tzceUence, of art.s,-
0 come and visit the Olind4 schools !
0 come and paw that monster!-
A. fonnal recommendation of Ba.oon in the present day 'lfonld
uvour of the ooxcomical; yet his lordship's works are sadly neg-
lected by some of our echoolmen. " Every medicine is an inno-
vation; and he that will not apply new remedies must expect new
evils. A. frow&rd retention of a custem is as turbulent a thing as
an innovation; and they that reverence too much old times, are but
a scorn to the new. I know it will be imposaible for me, by any
pleading of mine, to reverse the judgment of Esop's cock, that pre-
ferred the barley-com before the gem; being a fignre of those which
prefer custom and habit before all exoellency." These are the men
t.o whom the poet refens,-
" Philosophers who da:ken and put out
Eternal truth by everlasting doubt."
But the mesmerist fixes his eye upon the magnet, and holds on his
course in defiance of obecurity, vulgar prejudioe, and professional
hostility;
" Extremes are only in the master-mind!"
On the other hand, the great public eeems to stand in need of a
llitle gentle admonition; ttrtica prozttTUJ ~ f'OBa eat-the most
distinguished magnetists proclaim this. Many events of daily oc-
currence are characterized by mystery, to an extent calculated to
awake suspicion, that the occult power " univenally diffused," in
aome undefinable manner, is contributory to their production. What
K 2
o,,, .,,,Coogle
100 CASES IN POINT.
atrangely mystic power does the gamester exercise over the dupe I
the echemer over the capitalist ! the quack over the valetudinariau !
the editor over the world I Is there nothing magnetic in gold-
" the world's soul, that makes men do all things?" Do not BOme
juries deliver their verdict as if the address of the advocate had put
them to sleep? Sir Thomas Wylde was pleased very recently to
excite the rim
ole muscles of grave judges at the expense of the mes-
merists; but in spite of his protestations, is it not manifest that there
is some occult power lurking beueath that wig of his ? Is not the
learned Sergeant's power of face frequently petrific ? the effect of his
words and gestures oftencatalepticalt By"'!J!Je81ioo8, does he notsome-
times" make the patient(witness) 6aJ any tking" that suits his client's
purpose ? by crou-not leading-questions, ol\en " entangle him in
another man's mind?" Then again, are not the pulpit-attitudes of
some divines almost proverbially somniferous? Cowper, pointing to
the rector in his place, exclaims,
" Sweet sleep enjoys the curate in his desk-
And sweet the clerk below! "
And Ben Jonson says, " we had a preacher that would preach folk
~eep still; and so they were prescribed to go to church, by an old
woman that was their physician, thrice a week." And in the senate-
house of the land, what is the charm that so frequently COR8tringu
the senses of many of the members, covering the benches with the
supine, while business of importance (to their constituents) is being
forwarded a stage? And what the wggutitJe cause of that medley
of queer sounds, of noises " peculiar to animals, fish, and birds,"
which some of the junior senators occasionally indulge in? And
has not Sir Robert Peel been accused of throwing a 8pdl over all
the farmers in the country ? and all the bankers too? .Are not the
landed interest, and the sugar interest, and various other interests,
now in contnd6iotu from an influence-&nalogous in its effects to
cross-mesmerism-put forth by the Premier, the noble leader of her
Majesty's Opposition, and the head of the League ? Is not the ac-
oomplished politician-like the American solitaire-frequently the
occupant of more than one place at a time ? The magnetist boasts
o,,, .,,,Coogle
-
]II]
u.t lie em> w.ke a ~ ~ tiv lillY tDiDg :· ...-Da: i3 tile~
t.eriiJII!' powrr u.r DDt Dl'eiy~ rna: J.riequin in
6tiJIPI- aDd~?
'· ltl!l~Jik.·. .-,~a:lyomiEI:J!in..
Anci !!~~eaRS tv ~· ~all m ci&itc .
r, ...-it!. ..;m,.. .;.,. ,_;,.,. :"""' au.ci<.
H•, Ww-o. UDm .._..:. -.i ~ _, S iu Wad'
y ml pam.a.n. .m--in ..,_,.
P.,;,p.. 1<> ~eye. ~:lite-~:
Yet ..n.:u a., ~s lm!aU '""""'" ~ - ·
H~ uzm, ulci -...aDd~" im1om' ··
G~ .
The truthis that 1lsmer.imu iE '" an ~ of which ..,.. kllml- ao
little,~ that tmtila ~ iDd:uctioD lliJa1l 8ave mo-l oar in-
timacy with it. it Dehocnoe• every cme t.t> - &bom with pat cir-
C1llll8pfiCI;ia Tllere is an ftiOOnl the Cllllt of a lady no ._ u.g-
:aetiled by - of a lect.er, emn r.o .br:r from a ltiltaace by an
~ Jlnlf-r: awl there is 1.-m for~ that ladies
azoe oli;en mb.;-1 ro o&imilar tnlalmell1. while twery cme ~that
a beak f:requmnly exerciael; a eopllrific Jlll"'!=r· H II11Ch Gould bar-
pen to be the - witb ~ iD thil; --- the wrilll!r- ...
rioasly - that it will DDt -w frum ~ ......; and fur &he
~ of lillY who may be amght DOdding DVllr hi<; J>af!t'S, hi-
deems it ritdn to dtlclare. that m~ such m-ce. to the l'l!'8t (\f
his belief, the &leeper will be ia a lliJmlal care, ad the &leap itet>lf
perfectly --..L
