{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__elizabeth___mesmerism_a_letter_to_miss_martineau.pdf","mytitle":"Mesmerism A Letter To Miss Martineau","mylang":"de"}
W »« ‘ табл -‘
MESMERISM.
е.
.ä
А LETTER T0 MISS MARTINEAU,
BY
CHARLOTTE ELIZABETH. `_
а
l
@fx1-ß
LONDON:
SEELEY, BURNSIDE, AND SEELEY,
FLEET STREET.
Mncccylimylm
F ` *_:Í'È
‘ ` LONDON l J
BAILLIERE TINÜALL & COX, '
кВт WILLIAM BT., вузу). l
’l
MESMERISM.
MADAM,
IT was not my intention to break in upon the series of
your published communications on the sub'ect of Mes
merism; but having now seen your third etter in the
“ Athenœum,” I cannot longer delay addressing you.
You are m countrywoman; We are natives of the same
town; an though personally unknown, we must ere
long appear at the same tribunal, to render up our
respective accounts of talents committed to our trust.
Deeply impressed with this, I forego my previous urpose
of offering a few comments to the publie generaily, and
address myself to you. May the all-seeing God be
present with my spirit while I write, and with yours, and
those of all others, while they read what I feel con
strained to say! `
Into the nature of Mesmerism, as practised and recom
mended by you, I shall no otherwise enter than as an '
unlearned person. With its supposed medicinal effects,
described in your iirst letter, I shall not now interfere.
If it be what I firmly believe it to be, this is indeed but
а small танец—а mere bait to lure the unwary into a
deeper snare. My business is not with what you state
to have been your own experience of its efiicacious
powers in soothing pain and overcoming obstinate
diseases ; but with the supernatural manifestations in the
case of another individual, which forms the subject of
your second and third papers. I saysupernatural, be
cause you are so placed as t2o constrain me to come to,
A
4
one of the following conclusions, in the affair of the
person whom you call “ J. z” either,
I. You are guilty of wilful falsehood; or,
II. You are the victim of a cunning deception prac
tised by others ; or, х
III. The effects produced are beyond the scope of any
existing agencies in nature, unless operated upon by
some power altogether superhuman.
The first of these suppositions you will indignantly
disavow; and I also acquit you of it.
The second you will bc scarcely less eager to reject;
and I freely admit that our statements do not warrant
such a conclusion. You ave known the individual for
years; you are acquainted with the amount of her
intellect., and the extent of her acquiremeuts; and are,
therefore, a competent judge of her capacity for enacting
such a part as, under this su position, she must con~
tinually sustain. I do not dis elieve any part of your
narrative, therefore I am reduced to the necessity of
regarding the affair as one of a supernatural com lexion.
And, if supernatural, it is most assuredly diabo 'cal.
This, of course, you do not admit: you profess yourself
wholly unable to offer any explanation of what is daily
occurring in your own experience, and under your careful
observation. You say, “ I hope we shall have wisdom
and self-command henceforth to prescribe nothing to a
ower so obscure, and at present beyond our dictation.
e can summon and dismiss it, and may therefore con
template it without fear. But we have no power over
the nature of its manifestations.” All your remarks have
the same inconsistent tendency. You testify to the
presence of some mysterious influence, originating, as
you believe, in your own will, or that of other persons;
obeying а summons, the nature of which seems to consist
in an earnest desire for the presence of that power, an
acquiescence in its actings, and an unqualified submission
to its behests. You believe that you can dismiss it also
at will; yet it is easy to prove, on your own showing,
that the invoked influence is not always so passive
under your hands; that it does not invariably go at your
bidding; and in the same breath in which you boast of
this command over your invisible attendant, you
deprecate the assumption of authority to prescribe to a
f5
>power so obscure and beyond mortal dictation. 'l'hat
it is the policy of this agent to yield a general obedience,
no less to our mandate of dismissal than to your sum
moning w' , I can well believe. May God in his infinito
mercy open your eyes to the tremen ous character of thc
“ power” to whom you feel that you cannot authorita
tively prescribe, but with which you are so dangerously
tampering!
You are, of course, a believer in Divine revelation;
you receive the Bible as the Word of God, and are con
tent to bow to its inspired enunciations? I ut this
'internogatively, because I know not enough o you to
assert it positively. If ou have been ensnared by
Infidel principles, then, aas! you 'are led captive by
Satan at> his will, and he can use you in whatsoever way
he shall choose for the furtherance of his dark designs;
but if, with me, you hold that the Word of God is the
one sure and certain test; that it is at all times, and in
all cases, “ profitable for doctrine, for re roof, for cor
rection, for instruction in righteousness; ’* if you be
lieve that “ to the law and to the testimony” all disputed
points, touching spiritual things, should be brought, and
admit that, “ if they speak not according to this Word,
there is no light in them;”1­ then we have a common
and a firm ground on which to stand, and I can with
confidence invite you to investigate the matter by the
beams of the Sun of Righteousness.
There exists a Wide-spread practical disbelief in the
existence, or, at least 1n the vast power and active
agency, of Satan: and even among those who do not
question his being or designs, there is a too general
rejection of Scripture testimony, as applicable to our
times, nf the devices by which he can extend his influ
.ence over man. The very mention of unlawful arts,
vpractised by means of infernal aid, now excites a smile,
`even on the countenances of those who are taught con
stantly to pray, “ Deliver us from the evil one.” Accord
ingly, when Mesmerism is stigmatized as a branch of
sorcery, we are met with an exclamation, “ How can you
be so weak as to believe in witchcraftP” I confess
myself so weak, I glory in being so weak, as to believe in
every word that the Lord God hath spoken. I believe
' - Y* 2 Tim. iii. 16. ’r Isa- viii- 20
6
and am sure that Pharaoh’s magicians did, by the ower
of the devil, imitate the miracles wrought by the ands
of Moses and Aaron, up to a point at which the Lord
. arrested them.* I believe that when the Israelites were
Divinely commanded-“ Thou shalt not suffer a witch to
live,” 1- witchcraft existed, and wa within the reach of
those to whom the command was given. I believe that
the woman at Ender, to whom Saul in his extremity had
recourse, maintained unlawful commerce with evil spirits,
and by their help did many marvellous thingsï I be
lieve that when Simon Magus is said to have bewitched
the people with his sorceries, he really did what the
Scripture declares him to have done.§ I believe, because
the Bible says it, that the damsel who followed Paul and
Silas, with an artful testimony to the truth of their
doctrine, was possessed with a spirit of divination; which
spirit being cast out, the gains of her masters were gone. ]|
I believe that when the Apostle wrote his enumeration
of the works of the flesh,” including therein “ witch
craft,” he wrote it for us, for you and for me, as much as
for the Churches in Galatia. And, finally, I believe, and
I pray God to imprint the truth on your heart also, that
without the gate of the heavenly city, excluded for ever
from the presence of God, are “ sorcerers,” together with
“ whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and
whosoever loveth and maketh a lie.” ** This is an awful
sentence. Those who falsely pretend to the exercise of
supernatural powers, are condemned, together with their
' actual possessors.
Thus compelled to believe, not as a matter of opinion,
but of faith, that the crime of sorcery is within the reach
of man’s daring wickedness, and that Satan, when it
suits his policy, will labour to entra us into it, as readily
4as into any other form of rebe ion against God, I
.proceed to notice some of the most prominent charac
teristics of this devilish device, as developed in the case
that you are bringing before the public. But I must
`first state a fact that cannot be too generally known,-­­­
one that I shudder to record; for it amounts to the one
‘* Exodus viii. 18. 'f Exodus xxìi. 18. Deut. xviii. 10—12.
1 Sam. xviii. 9. § Acts viii. 9.
| Acts xvi. 16_-l9. 1l Gal. v. 20. _** Rev. xxii. 15.
+0
-7
unpardonable sin that cannot be blotted out,-­blasphemy
against the Holy Ghost.’
’ A book on Mesmerism, published in French, and
written by a Frenchman, contains this fearful assertion:
after stating ­that Mesmerism prevailed among the ancient
Egyptians, the wretched writer proceeds to remind his
readers that Jesus was in Egypt; and then asserts, that
there he learned the magic art by which he effected the
miraculous cures recorded in the Gospels. The magic
arts practised in Egypt of old were those which the God
`of heaven denounced as involving in the penalty of death
every Israelite who should participate in them. The '
were positively declared to be of the devil; and as suc
they are described, and the people of God warned against
them as damnable, even to the last page, almost the
last sentence, of the “Гоп! of God. By this Satanic
power, by the power.of Bcelzebub, our Mesmerist
asserts, that Jesus cast out devils, an performed his
wonderful works; and do you not shrink from iden
tifying yourself, from connecting yourself in an way,
with a system that treads so near upon the awfu verge
of “Blaspkemy against the Holy Ghost.” Oh! can you
dare to lead the steps of the unwary to such a gulf as
this? ÑVill you assist to bring upon the souls of our
unbelieving multitudes in these days, who might but too
readily catch at the horrible suggestion, the condemna
tion that fell upon some, who of old spake words like
these? Surely you cannot know the depths of Satan to
which you are now enticed. Pause, ere it be too late.
This French Infidel, in the same spirit, and to the same
end, proceeds, as he vaunts, to prove from Mesmerism,
that the soul of man is a material substance. In the
English translations of these diabolical books, prepared
for circulation among us, such passages are omitted:
the time is not yet come for stripping the hideous demon
of all his disguises. England is not yet ripe for a pro
fessed rejection of God, and an o en acknowledgment of
Satan, like that which speedily fo owed upon the recep
tion of Mesmerism in France.
You give us, in your statement, first, a marvellous
account of the cure wrought upon yourself by Mesmeric
influences. This I pass over, merely observing, that
' Mark iii. 22~­30­
'8
what man, by deep research and practised skill can do,
it would be strange indeed if the supematurally gifted
author of Mesmerism, a fallen angel, could not easily
accomplish. I wish now to enter upon the case of “ .I.,”
an uneducated young girl of fourteen, five years resident
in the house with you, to whose simply honest and
artless character you bear strong witness, and who
became the second subject of these Mesmeric manifesta
tions in your household. She was first treated for a
pain in the face; and this led to your making her the
object of daily, or rather nightly, experiments, the result
of which you detail. Now of this girl, I do not hesitate
to say, that she is, at those times, “ ossessed by a spirit
of divination,” as was the damse who followed the
apostles; and the character of the possessin spirit must
-be gathered from some brief, but very start ing, notices
of what occasionally transpired.
Of these, I select three. First, the girl was enabled
accurately, minutely, to describe an event that had
`occurred at sea, but the particulars of which could not
yet have reached her. This she saw, as in a vision.
'Who doubts that she might have seen it all, within an
almost unspeakably short space of its occurrence, by
“ the Prince of the power of the ай?“ Не, of course,
moves with the swrftness of spirit unincumbered with
matter, and he, or any of his subordinate angels, could
have set before the mental eye of the possessed person
what he had just witnessed. Cases of this kind are
authenticated beyond э. reasonable cavil, in the history of
the Delphic and other oracles among the Pagans of old;
and, upon such hypothesis, the thing is at once explained:
upon any other, unless a revelation from above, it is, if
not a cheat, utterly inexplicable. I am ready to admit,
that so far as the simple phenomenon is concerned, of
alleviating bodily pain, and of so lulling into repose the
nervous system as to induce a torpid state, there may be
nothin supernatural. Influences, not yet fully dis
covere by the investigations of philosoph , may exist,
and be communicable from one individua to another,
operating, (perhaps, by electricity, to an extent hitherto
unsuspecte . The marvellous conformation, the sur
prising power, acting by deliberate volition, in the
e Eph. ii. 2.
9
electric cel, confirm this theory ;' but I beseech you to
mark the limit of my admission,-it is strictly confined
within the boundaries of physical and mental operation.
When your somnambules describe events occurring at a
distance; when they reveal the seat, and the nature, and
probable termination .of diseases impenetrable by mortal
skill; when the uneducated and uninformed express
themselves with elegance and pers icuity, in terms the
signification of which the are stillJ ignorant of in their
natural waking state; an . above all, when they prove,
as invariably they do, that mind and memory present а
perfect blank with regard to the transactions of their
entranced hours; then, Madam, I tell you, without hesi
tation, that the body, which you have thrown into auch
tol-por, becomes the helpless, passive, unconscious, pol
luted receptacle of an evil spint, who uses the or ans of
speech and motion in that wretched individual or the
>manifestation of his own craft, and subtlety, and super
human powers.
In proof of this, i.e., that the spirit so acting is the
rebellious spirit of all evil, I roceed to transcribe two
passages, one from your first, e other from your second
communication, concerning this poor girl. I beseech
you to note them well, with their inevitable inferences,
as bearing upon revelation and faith; for I would fain
hope that you are not knowingly spreading among your
countrymen and countrywomen the worst venom of asps,
the very poison of hell.
First,-­­and I give the statement entire,­-you say,
“ It is almost an established o inion among some of the
wisest students of Mesmerism, at the mind of the som
nambule mirrors that of the Mesmerist. Of course, this
explains nothing of the operation of Mesmerism, but it
is a supposition most important to be established or
disprove . One naturally wishes to find it true, as it
disposes of much that, with the hasty, passes for revela
tion of other unseen things than those which lic in
another person’s mind. It certainly is true to a con~
siderable extent, as is pretty clearly proved, when an
ignorant child,-ignorant es ecially of the Bible,-dis­
courses of the Seri tures an divinit ¿when mesmerized
by. a. clergyman, an of the nebulae w en mesmerized by
an astronomer; but we have evidence in ‘ J.’ that this
10
is, though often, not universally true. I will give an
example of each.
“ 0n Saturday, October 12, she had told us that she
now ‘ saw the shades of things’ that she wanted to know,
and that she should ‘ soon see clearer.’ The next even
ing she went into a great rapture about the ‘gleams’
becoming brighter, so that she should soon see all she
wished. The light came through the brain,-not like
sunlight, nor moonlight ;——‘ no, there is no light on earth
like this :'-the knowledge she got ‘ comes astonishingly,
amazingly, so pleasantlyl’ ‘ How is the Mesmerizing
done which causes thisì" ‘ By all the powers at once.’
‘What powersì” ‘ The soul, and the mind, and the
vital powers of the body.’ Then, as we inquired, ‘The
mind is not the same as the soul. All are required in
Mesmerizing, but the mind most, though Mesmerism is
still something else.’ ‘ Those three things exist in every
human being (the soul, the mind, and the body), separate
from one another; but the faculties belonging to them
are not the same in everybody; some have more, some
less. The body dies, and the mind dies with it, but the
soul lives after it. The soul is independent and self
existent, and, therefore, lives for ever. It depends upon
nothing.’
“ Here I prompted the question, ‘What, then, is its
relationlto GodP’ She hastin replied, ‘He takes care
of it, to re-unite it with the body in the day ofjudgment.’
Here I was forcibly and painfully struck with the incom
patibility of theformer and latter saying, not (as I ho e
it is needless to explain) for any waiting on her lips or
revelations on this class of subjects, but because it was
painful to jimi ker _faculties working FAULTILY. As I
felt this disappointment come over me, an expression of
trouble disturbed .I_’s face, so ineffany happy always
during her sleep. ‘ Stop,’ said she, ‘ I am not sure about
that last. All I said before was true-the real Mesmeríc
truth. But I cannot make out about that last. I heard
it when I was awake-I heard it in church,­-that all the
particles of our body, however they may be scattered,
will be gathered together at the day of judgment; but I
am not sure.’ And she became excited, saying that, ‘it
bothered her,’ what she knew and what she had heard
being ­mixed up. Her Mesmerist dispersed that set of
11
ideas, and she ,was presently happy again, talking of ‘ the
lights.’ This was the occasion on which some traces
remained in her waking state, and she told a fellow
servant that she had been dreaming and talking about
the day of judgment.
“ Now here her mind seemed to reflect those of both
her companions (though I was not aware of being en
mp]th with her). Her Mesmerist had it in her mind
that a somnambule at Cheltenham had declared man to
consist of three elements; and J.’s troubling at her
own min ling of ideas from two sources, seems to have
been an immediate echo of mine. Such an incident as
this, shows how watchful the reason should be over such
henomcna, and explains the rise of many pretensions to
ms iration. It requires some self-control for the most
phi osophical to look on a erson of moderate abilities
and confined education, in t e attitude of sleep, and un
aware of passing incidents, but speaking on high subjects
with animated delight, exceeding anything witnessed in
ordinary life,-it requires some coo ness and command
of self to remember, that what is said may be of no
authority as truth, however valuable as manifestation.”
I have given the passage entire, Madam, without
omission or interpolation, merely marking with italics
that on which I desire to tix the attention of every person
who reads these pages. It seems to me, that the spirit
whom you had summoned to this nocturnal conference,
being startled and agitated by the sudden introduction
of the name of God, “ hastily,” as you ex ress it, uttered
a known truth; and because for once t e devil spoke
truth, you would not believe him. Can it be that you
deny the doctrine of the resurrection of the body? I am
utterly at a loss to comprehend you here. Do ou doubt
that “the trumpetshall sound, and the dead sha1 be raised
incorruptible.”* Do you forget that “ 'ruis connUr'rIBLr.
must put on incorruption; and Tms MORTAL must put
on immortality.” Your 'fted instructor, the sleeping
servant girl, most truly tell; you that the soul lives after
the body’s death-lives for ever; to this ou do not
object, but when, in the next breath, she te ou that
God Will, at the last day, re-unite the soul to its risen
body, you are troubled, you are pained, you conceive
' 1 Cor. xy. 52, 53,
12
that her faculties are working faultz'ly; and the` evil
spirit loses his self-possession too, for he “believes and
trembles.”’ He dreads what you may next say, for
there is an inseparable connexion between “JESUS and
the resurrection;” 'l' and a ,flash of heavenly glory
threatens to invade, to extin ish in deepest darkness
the “gleams” from beneath t at dance about your poor
abused victim. Nay, Jesus Is the ­resurrection and the
life;1 and had not 'our Mesmerizing companion “ dis
persed that set of 1deas;” or, in plaincr words, ceased
to terrif the evil spirit, some “manifestation” might
have followed that would have shaken your nerves
he ond the soothing powers of any operator.
Iconfess that what I have now quoted confirmed me
beyond the admission of any reasonable doubt, both as to
the reality and the nature of these manifestations. The
awkward attempts of the spirit to neutralize the truth
inadvertently or compulsorily- uttered; the troubled, half
aroused state of the poor somnambule; the observation
that she was incited to make on the following day, to a
fellow-menial, and which was duly reported to you.
together with your own very unphilosophical and incon
sistent endeavour' to reconcile contradictions; and far
worse, the sly, subtle, yet palpable hit that you aim at
all real inspiration, by means of this remarkable inter
ruption of your proceedings, all will, I humbly hope, be
laid to heart by such as fear to transgress, and prove
that HE, whose great and terrible name was lightly
introduced, is overruling the excess of evil to the pro
duction of some good.
I am come to another instance of what I must call the
truly devilish tendency of the work; an onward step in
the career where I pray God you may have grace
given you to pause and turn. Remember, I am taking
1t for granted that your veracity is unimpeachable. I
believevwhat you state to be exactly what you have
experienced, and seen, and heard. If deception exist
anywhere, it proceeds, of course, in the first instance,
from the father of lies; but this appears to be a deeper
work, fulfilling our Lord’s prediction of those who should
arise, and “show signs and wonders, to seduce, if
­it were possible, even the elect.”§
' Jamesii.19. t Actl xvii. 18. ’i John xi. 25. § Мак xiii. 22.
13
Again, I allow you to speak for ourself; and again, l
demand close attention to what fol ows :H
“ One singular instance of rapport between J. and lier
Mesmerist I have witnessed, under such unexceptionablc
circumstances as to be absolutely sure of it. When J.
was dancing, and taking this room for a ball-room, she
took her Mesmerist for lier partner, allowed herself to
be conducted to a seat, 8m., assuming a ball-room air,
which was amusing enou h in one with lier eyes- sealed
up as motionless as if t ey were never again to open.
Being offered refreshment, she chose some mesmerized
water, a glass of which was on the table, prepared for
me. It seemed to exhilarate her, and she expressed great
relish of the ‘refreshment.’ It struck us that we would
try, another evening, whether her Mesmerist’s will could
affect her sense of taste, In her absence we agreed that
the water should be silently willed to be sherry the next
night. То make the experiment as clear as )ossible, the
water was first offered to her, and a little o it drank as
water. Then the rest was, while still in her-hands,
silently' willed to be sherry; she drank it oñ`~half a
tumbler full-«declared it was very good; but, presently,
that it made her tipsy. W'hat was it? ‘Wine-white
wine.’ And she became exceedingly merry and voluble,
but refused to rise from her chair, or dance any more, or
go down stairs, for she could not walk steadily, and should
fall, and spoil her face, and, moreover, frighten them all
below. I afterwards asked her Mesmerist to let it be
porter the next night. J. knew nothing of porter, it
seems, but called her refreshment ‘ a nasty sort of beer.’ ”
Here I pause: the Lord hath said, “It is impossible
but that offences will come; but woe unto him by
whom they соте!” Are you, Madam, prepared to
encounter the “woe” annexed to the placing of such
an “ offence,” such a stumbling-block as this, in the way
of weak believers, and of giving to the enemies of the
Gospel so fearful an occasion to blaspheme? \Vhether
you are conscious of it or not, this last incident was
devised by Satan to pour contempt, or to throw a soul
destroying doubt, on the miracle of Cana in Galileesl'
You, or your companion in these perilous doings, acted
upon a suggestion of the Evil One, to will a glass of
. ' Luke xvii. I. 'l Joh“ ' `
14
water into wine: and though no change took lace, perv
ceptible to any mortal sense, the same presi ' spirit
had power over the possessed girl to imitate in er the
effects of an intoxicating draught; and by her mouth he
told lyou that what he had tempted you to will was
actua y accomplished. When I read this passage, horror
itself gave way ю the burning indignation of my soul at
so infernal a travestie on the work of the Lord Jesus
Christ; branding at once your familiar spirit as one of
the false Christs, whose aim it is to try to deceive the
very elect. Perhaps this did not even occur to you; perhaps
in the infinite and unsearchable mercy of Him whom
you thus wrong, it may be made the means of opening
our eyes to the real character of what you are en ed
ш. I erceive that the devil apprehended the rousing of
some 'stian to an open protest against such covert
blasphemies, and told you the tale of an old woman
makin cataplasms for a monk’s feet two centuries since,
with e reward of her benevolence; and encouraged
you by contrasting the liberality of these days with the
igotry of former times, adroitly insinuating that witch
craft is not now amenable to the law of the land; or at
least, that nobody would revive the operation of such
cruel, and, in one sense, truly absurd statutes: but re
member, there is a law, eternal, immutable, and which
can by no means be evaded,­­a law that will try us all
when that hour comes of which the Scripture speaks,
when the dead, small and great, shall stand before God ;
and not one soul shall escape the condemnation that we
all have incurred, exce ting those whose names are found
written in the Book о Life*
The one object of Christ’s first coming into this world
was to destroy the works of' the devil;1' and the one
object of Satan is to mar, and, so far as he can, to defeat,
the work of Christ. It is impossible to read your state
ment of what has befallen those of our own household
without being struck with its mani est tendency, apart
from all the foreign theories that openly blaspheme the
Lord, to undermine the first principles of the Christian
faith. Whether the facts be as you believe them to be,
or whether all may at last turn out but o. cunning decep
tion practised upon you, still wherever your statement is'
l ° Rev. xx. 12, 15. . f l John iii. 8.
15
received as true, the effect is equally pernicious; and
therefore, if it be a lie, it is no common he; but one that
perils the salvation of such as believe it. I am aware
that gross deceptions of this kind are practised, and from
time to time publicly exposed, rendering the whole craft
a matter of ridicule to many: but this also serves to
throw the unwary ofi­ their guard; and where they go to
laugh, they may remain to doubt, to disbelieve the
Gospel, and to perish. Oh that I could impress your
mind with the thrilling reality of your present danger!
Deceiving, deceived, or possessed, surely presents a very
awful alternative. You do not appear to have gone so
far as others into these depths, and your way of escape is
more open. I ask of you to bow the knee in believing
rayer to Him before whom every knee must and shall
gnally bow, even Jesus, “ who through death destroyed
him that had the power of death, that is the devil,” *
Jesus, who “hath ascended on high, leading captivity
captive, and received gifts for men, eren for the rebel
¿fous ;”­]­ Jesus, to whom “ all power is given, both in
heaven and on earth,” and who will yet, appear in great
glory to sit on a throne of judgment before which both
you and I must standï I beseech you to ask of him
power to free yourself from every snare, and grace to
elp in this day of need-the greater need because you
seem unconscious of it. Do not reject my words; they
are those of truth and soberness, and I have no motive
in writing them but the earnest desire that I feel to warn
my fellow-Christians of the nets spread for their feet;
,and this I have done by submitting to their investigation
two or three fragments of those nets, in extracts from
your published statements. Believing, as I do, the
existence of diabolical arts at this day in Egy t, in India,
and other lands of darkness, and seeing w at was the
birth-place, who were the promulgators of this Mesmeric
delusion, I cannot but raise even my feeble hand to resist
its spread in my own country; more especially' when the
hand of another female is employed to scatter it far and
wide.
I request your pardon, if, in any instance, I have
appeared personally uncourteous: the cause of my
g Orious Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ, is very dear
' Heb. il. 14. ‘f Psalm lxviii. 18. I 2 Cor. v. 10.
16
to my soul, and I cannot but be grieved with those'who
rise up ainst him. To him who is Ki of kings, and
Lord of 01115;* to him whom the ange s of God wor
ship#­ while the whole power of hell lies rostmte at his
fcet,I be glory and dominion, honour an majesty, now
and for ever. May you bc enabled bo say, Amen!
I am,
MADAM,
‹ ­ One who would gladly serve you,
CHARLOTTE ELIZABETH'TONNA.
.- ­ . ‘..4
Blcwkhcalh, Dec. 10, 1844. l ‘ ‚
* Rev. xix. 11:'. 'l Heb. i. 6. I Col. i'. lf'.
‹ г; '.
д:
‚ '\ Г Ь
_ ‚ ' . „
о ' . (
I v
_ î ‘ ’\ л »avm . . 410. -
и» ч ‚ l . ’ '.
' 1
':­.
