{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__forman___elements_of_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Elements Of Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
ELEMENTS
APPLIED TO THE
HUMAN CHARACTER,
SHOWING THE
TALENTS AND DISPOSITION.
BY J. G. FORMAN, L. B.
*
5 CINCINNATI:
PRINTED BY WM. L. MKNDEXHALI.
1844.
-< u
n .F
O > V i
L..-
10 i 9 inrM
CLASSIFICATION OF THE ORGANS.
Domestic Propensities.
fl. Amativeness.
2. Philoprogenitivencss.
3. Adhesiveness.
4. Inhabitiveness.
5. Concentrativcness.
SELFisn Propensities.
6. Combativeness.
7. Destructiveness.
8. Alimentiveness.
9. Acquisitiveness.
30. Socretiveness.
Semi Intellectual Faculties.
20. Constructiveness.
21. Ideality.
B. Sublimity.
22. Imitation.
23. Mirthfulness.
Intellectual Poweks.
perceptive or knowing FACULTIES
24. Individuality.
25. Form.
26. Size.
27. Weight.
Elevating Sentiments. 28. Color.
11. Cautiousness. 29. Order.
12. Approbativeness. 30. Number.
13. Self-esteem. 31. Locality.
14. Firmness. 32. Eventuality
33. Time.
Moral Sent? mi a i
31. Tune.
ir>. Conscientiousness. 35. Language.
16. Hope.
17. Marvellousness Reflective Fa< ulties
19. Veneration. 36, Causality.
l'» Benevolence. 37. Comparison.
ELEMENTS OF PHRENOLOGY
Phrenology is a system of mental philosophy, founded
upon the organization of the brain, and established by
observation and induction. It explains the functions of thai
delicate organ in the same maimer that Physiology discloses
t<> us tlii- functions and uses of the various organs contained
m the thorax and abdomen, and those- that are employed in
locomotion. It may, therefore, be properly teemed, not
only, a science of mind, but the true physiology of the brain.
Its founders, Gall and Spurzheim, devoted their lives to
its discovery ami perfection, and pursued a mode of investi-
gation that is infallible. They w<iv intimately acquainted
with the anatomy of the brain, and commenced their obser-
vations upon the living head. Whenever they found a per-
son remarkable for any particular quality of mind, they
examined closely the form of the cranium, and soon disco-
vered that certain conformations of brain uniformly accom-
panied particular traits of character. Painters, poets,
sculptors, and musicians were always found to have a form
of bead peculiar to each; and the same observation applied
to philosophers, astronomers, and men in all the different
walks of life.
The field of observation was not confined alone to the
human character, but extended to the animal kingdom. After
having visited the various prisons and hospitals of Europe,
and attended the courts of Princes, making observations
upon all grades of character, from the prince to the pea-
sant, and from the philosopher to the idiot, they turned
their attention to the study of animals. Here they found
many proofs in support of their previous discoveries. Dif-
ferent ra<-«'s i^{ animals exhibited" a structure of brain in
harmony with their nature, and all possessed feelings and
propensities common to man. The brain of the fox show-
ed a large development of that part corresponding to the
organ of cunning or secrctiveness in the human head. The
tiger, leopard and cat, possessed a similar form of brain,
-with more destructiveness. The lion, tiger, wolf, hyena,
and all the race of ferocious animals, were broad at the base
of the braii], the seat of combativeness and destructive-
ness ; while the hare, rabbit, sheep, and all those animals
known as timid and harmless, showed a narrow head in this
region.
According to phrenological observation, the forehead, or
anterior lobe of the brain, is considered the seat of the
intellectual faculties, but the lower animals were found
comparatively deficient in this region. From the reptiles,
through all the different grades of animals up to man, there
appeared a successive development of brain, till in the mon-
key, it approaches that form found in the human head;
and here is thought to be the connecting link between the
animal and the human species.
Gall and Spurzheim did not rest here, but engaged ex-
tensively in dissections of the human brain. They discov-
ered the functions of many of the nerves, and originated a
mode of dissecting this organ that is continued in the medi-
cal schools to this day. They found the brains of idiots
mal-formed, and deficient in that firmness of texture met
with in a healthy brain ; and if we examine the works of
these two distinguished philosophers, we shall find that
phrenology rests upon a greater mass of facts for its sup-
port, than any other science that has stood the test of in-
vestigation.
Thus have all the phrenological organs been disco\ereu
and located ; and from this collection of materials, phreno-
logy has been reduced to a science of mind in which we
rrieet with a perfect analysis mu\ classification of all the
mental powers. Growing out of the system arc two fun-
damental principles.
First. The brain is the ofgan of the timid.
SecoHd. Each distinct and primary power of the mind
has its own appropriate organ in the brain, or in other
words, the brain consists of a plurality of organs.
The first proposition is never disputed: as all admit that
the brain is the scat of all our feelings, sentiments-, and in-
tellectual powers. The second is nor s<> generally admitted;
and as with this, phrenology either stands or falls.it may
he well to consider, briefly, a few of the facts upon which it
s for support. The same individuals often possess some
faculties in a hiirli degree and arc deficient in others. (
I
this kind are all men of partial genius. I me man excels as
a mechanic, but fails as a peel <>r an orator; another ex-
cels in music, hut never can learn to be skilful with tools.
One is a deep thinker but has a poor memory; and another
remembers one clai CtS well and i' v thing
else. One man is naturally mild, amiable and is in
his feeling ther is \ Ifisfa and depraved.
These facts ail prove that the different feelings and senti-
ments depend ondifferenl |
ling
as one is developed more than anoth< the character
various.
Another class of facts that prov< :.<• principle, is
familiar to every one. Partial insanity and partial idiocy.
Men become insane on one subject and remain rational on
every other. Insanity results from a diseased brain, and
when the religions organs become deranged from religious
excitement, the man is insane on that subject. If a man is
disappointed in his affections, the portion of brain appropri-
ated to those organs may become inflamed, and then wo
have insanity upon that subject. £ en have been
known to imagine themselves kings, and require the sub-
mission of others to their authority; others have supposed
themselves (rod, or Jesus Christ. This would result from
diseased self-esteem and veneration. If the brain were a
unit or single organ, as anti-phrenologists contend, the per-
son should he cither wholly insane, or of a sound mind.
\ rase was latch mentioned to me bv Mr. William TV
Gallager, a merchant of Cincinnati, of a partial idiot that
liw knew in Kensington. Philadelphia. His name was
Thomas Teese. He was entirely wanting in the reflective
organs, and had no intelligence whatever—could call one or
two names indistinctly, but could not talk. He was entirely
incapable of taking care of himself, and a complete idiot,
except in one thing. He had the organ of music, and could
sing any tune he heard—not in words, but merely the tune.
Sometimes he became violent, and could be soothed im-
mediately by music. On one occasion he heard a gentle
man sing, and when the person went away, sang the turn;
correctly. Several years afterwr
ards that gentleman return-
ed, and when he came in the door the idiot commenced
singing the same tune, and sang it through correctly. The
limits of this work will not admit of a further detail of the
many facts that have been collected, of this description.
The brain completely fills the cavity of the skull, and the
external form of the head is a true index of its form and
shape. This language may be met with in many works on
physiology, so that by examining the form of the head we
can ascertain the size of the different organs. It is not
true, as stated by some anti-phrenologists, that it is impossi-
ble to ascertain from the form of the head, the size and form
of the brain. The thickness of the skull can be estimated
from the other bones of the body, and the fineness of the
temperament; and it, never varies so much as to present any
difficulty. Its average thickness is about three-eighths of
an inch; and sometimes one pcrsoivs head is two inches
higher, or broader, or longer than another's. Wherever
the skull varies much in thickness, it is the result of dis-
ease; and the skulls collected together by Dr. Sewall and
others, and offered as objections to phrenology, were of
this description. We do not judge of the character from
particular elevations and d< , called "bumps," as w
generally supposed, so much as from the general shape and
configuration of the head, as well as from the temperament
and size of ihe vital and muscular sysl
Neithler is tlit- character estimated bv the separate 01
garif but IV on) \arious ibinat ions, IIK.H lifying giv
a particular direction to the mind and feelings. Thus, de
structiveness is the propensity to destroy, but combined with
the moral organs, it gives a proper degree of severity to the
character, and punishes the wrong-doer. Conscientiousness
and intellect frame laws, and destmctiveness adds the pen
ally. Death and destruction enter into the very constitu
tion of things, and this faculty brings us in harmony with
that law of our being. Combined, however, with the other
animal organs, and a deficiency of the moral region, it leads
to cruelty, murder, and crime. Acquisitiveness is the dis-
position to acquire; but one faculty must not outrage another,
and therefore, if conscientiousness be lame, the person
will acquire honestly, and both faculties will be gratified;
but if conscientiousness he deficient, the person may then be
tempted to steal, unless restrained by self-esteem and ap-
probativeness, or some other governing organ. ( lombative
ness is the propensity to attack or defend; and combined
with the moral sentiments gives moral courage and fbro
character. If unrestrained by the higher feelings, it leads
to quarreling and strife. Veneration is the tendency to
adore; and when enlightened by intellect, leads to the wor-
ship of the one living and true God. If allowed to act
blindly, it displays itself in superstition and fanaticism, and
yields submission to the dignitaries of the Church and the
authority of men in high places.
These observations arc sufficient to show that we do nol
estimate character by any one organ taken separately. The
physical constitution, embracing the temperaments—the
size and form of the brain, and the combination of its van
ous organs, arc all important considerations in judging of
character. No one, certainly, will dispute, that a well
formed and healthy organization of brain is more favora-
ble to the manifestation of high mental qualities than one
diseased or imperfectly organized. The quality of the
brain is quite as important an element in the mental consti-
s
lution as size, and this condition is ascertained by a know-
ledge of the temperaments. If the textures and fibres of
the body are finely organized, indicating a nervous temper-
ament, the quality of the brain is of the same description;
and with a smaller head, such an individual will evince
more mind and more intelligence than another, with a larger
brain of a coarser organization. If the fibres and muscles
of the body arc soft and coarsely organized, the brain is of
the same description, and however large, the manifesta-
tions of mind will be dull and inactive. But, where size
and a fine quality of brain are both united, then we have
mental power as well as talent and sprightliness. Men of
small but active brains, are generally smart men, as they are
called, and often men of learning and talent—though gene-
rally better adapted to business pursuits and a moderate
sphere of life, in which they will often shine more brilli-
antly than men of superior minds.
Others, having large brains, are frequently dull, heavy
men, because they are deficient in activity or some other
necessary condition. It is only where these are all united
that we find men of the highest order of minds. Webster,
Clay, Calhoun, and many others, might be given as exam-
ples of this class. To such it belongs to mould public
opinion, and sway the destinies of the Republic. They are
of
• l
The few, the immortal names.
That were not born to die."
A knowledge of phrenology, then, embraces more than a
mere examination of the head. It requires an intimate ac-
quaintance with those physiological conditions of the body,
that modify the quality, health, and activity of the brain.
These conditions are ascertained by an examination of cer-
tain classes of the bodily organs, and this arrangement has
given rise to the division of the temperaments.
EXPLANATION.
Here begins the application of this subject to the exami-
nation of the head and temperament; and for the purpose
of indicating the different degrees of development, the fol-
lowing scale of figures will be used, and when placed oppo-
site an organ, by the pen, will indicate its comparative size
with the other organs in the same head :
1. Very SMALL, or almost entirely absent,
I. Small, at inactive.
.'>.
Moderate, hiif capable of cultivation.
4. Average, possessing but little strength, but frequent-
ly ac
5. FuLLj B reasons *ee of strength and
activity.
0. Large, exercising a controlling influence on the
character.
7. Very large, having a marked and powerful influence,
and great liability to ab
These different degrees will be placed oppositesuch com-
binations of organs and temperaments as arc found in the
person's brad. When individuals compare charts together
they should not be surprised to find many of the organs
marked, by the phrenologist, of the same size, although
they may be entirely different in their general characters.
A slight difference in a few organs, or a difference of tem-
perament, frequently changes all the combinations; and it is
from these combinations that the character is formed, modi-
fied too by different circumstances. .Moreover, the great
mass of mankind, are much alike, having the same elements
of character, yet frequently differing in some material point
that gives an entirely different direction to the mind. Per-
sons should not, therefore, simply compare the numbers on
their charts, and because many are alike, infer that their
phrenological characters are the same. To neglect consid'
ering the combinations, and the effect a difference in a few
Organs might have upon the character, shows a weakness
10
of mind thai they should be ashamed of, instead of makini
it an objection to phrenology.
THE TEMPEKAMENTS.
Upon that division in physiology, which embraces the se-
creting glands, the viscera, and the fleshy parts of the system,
is based the
Lymphatic Temperament :
—The external indications of
this temperament are easily recognized. The muscles are
soft, and the person inclined to corpulency and an abun-
dance of. flesh. The complexion is of a pale inanimate
color, and the eyes of a sleepy expression. They are what
Shakspeare calls
!
" fat,
Sleek headed men, and such as sleep o' nights.""
It gives an ease-seeking disposition, and an aversion to
bodily or mental effort. Indolence and a good natured, hap
py disposition flow from this temperament. Such persons
take the world at their ease, and pass down the current of
life smoothly. When blended with the sanguine and ner-
vous, the complexion is more florid, and the person more
devoted to his pursuits; but has his intervals of indolence.
and enjoys some situation well, that does not require hard
labor. Landlords, Bankers, and Aldermen, frequently have
this combination of temperaments.
The Sanguine Temperament : —This temperament is
based on that class of organs contained in the thorax, em-
bracing the vital functions. It includes the arterial portions
of the system, and gives a florid complexion, and rudd)
glow of countenance. The shoulders are broad, and the
chest large and expanded. This is the active busin
temperament, and imparls a love of physical exercise and
enjoyment.
Blended with the nervous, u constitutes the perfection of
11
female beauty. The well defined form and rounded limbs—
the swelling bust—the sparkling eye, and auburn hair, fall-
ing in rich profusion upon the neck and temples, all belong
to this temperament.
Those in whom it predominates, arc of a restless, impa-
tient disposition, and arc better adapted to the active pur-
suits of life than the study of books. If the intellectual
faculties ar<> large, they arc men of general informa-
tion rather than l»<.ck learning; and learn much from obser-
vation and experience. Where the intellectual powers are
<»uly average, they Bhould pursue some of the common and
useful duties of life, and qoI aspire to be statesmen nor
philosophers.
'Pur. Bilious T ment: — The bones and muscles
form the basis ^( this temperament! It constitutes the
frame work of the system, and is to the human body what
the timbers arc to the house, giving strength and endu-
rance. Its predominance is easily recognized by the size
of the hours and muscles, and a strongly marked out-
line of person. The complexion is generally dark, and
the hair coarse and black. The muscles arc hard, and
the person capable of trance. The effecl which
this temperament has on the mind and character, depends
on its combination with the sanguine or nervous, ami will
l)c explained in those combinations.
The Nervocs Tbmfehament:—This constitutes the men-
tal organization, and is hascd on the brain and nervous
system. Its predominance is indicated by a light, pale,
complexion, and a delicate constitution. The bones arc
small, and the person of a thin, spare form—often tall and
slender, with rather a large brain, and the organs all
sharp and pointed. The features are sharp, and all the
fibres of the body fine and delicate: the hair fine, and fre-
quently auburn, with an intellectual expression of coun-
tenance, and a clear blue, or hazel eye. This is the
temperament of feeling and sentiment, and imparts fine
sensibilities, and a groat SUSCeptibilit) to pain and pleasure.
12
Those in whom it predominates suffer and enjoy intensely,
and are apt to have a rough voyage through life, and see
many of its changes and vicissitudes. If the head be
smooth, and evenly developed, the person will be of an even,
uniform character and disposition, and will not be likely to
experience these reverses of feeling and fortune; but this
form of head is seldom found in one of a highly nervous
temperament. It is generally accompanied by a large de-
velopment of the organs in the upper and lateral portions
of the head^ideality, the moral sentiments and intellect,
and gives a flow of pure and virtuous feeling. This is the
temperament of genius, and with the appropriate organs
gives a talent for poetry, painting, polite literature, and the
fine arts. It imparts a great amount of refinement and del-
icacy of feeling, and a fondness for reading and intellectual
enjoyment—sometimes of a light and trifling description,
or the more substantial subjects of thought and reflection,
according to the ascendancy of particular organs. This
was the temperament of Henry Kirk White, the Misses
Davidson, and of every other precocious genius.
Sanguine Nervous:—This combination of temperaments
is frequently met with in musicians, poets and orators. It
gives a great flow of feeling and sympathy, with more
passion than the nervous. Its manifestations are various,
according to the organization of the brain. Sometimes it
is met with in business men, with a large development of
those organs that make them understand their own interests
well. Others, with this combination, are fond of exciting
pleasures, and have the appetites and passions in a high
state of activity; some are sentimental and fond of love
tales, novels and light reading; and again it is found in men
of learning, wisdom and ability.
Sanguine Bilious:—This combination of temperaments
gives physical power. It is more frequently met with in la-
boring men than elsewhere; and one having it predominant
with but little of the nervous, had better follow the plough
than attempt to tread the paths of literature and science
Willi a large brain, the person will have strength of mind,
but lack those fine sensibilities, and that refinement which
is necessary 10 literary taste and talent. Men of this tem-
perament make good soldiers, laborers, stage drivers, heat-
men, mechanics, tanners, and constitute a large portion of
our substantial citizens. It is the hard working tempera-
ment, and is unfavorable to dose application and attention
to books. If the animal organs greatly preponderate, the
associations are low and vulgar, and the person apt to form
habits of a vicious and degrading character. With a large
development of the moral and intellectual organs, the indi-
vidual will sustain a good character for morality, judgment)
and industry; but will lack those fine feelings and senti-
ments that llow from the nervous temperament
Nervous Bilious:—This combination is found in men
Of the highest order of minds. It imparts the highest de-
gree of physical and mental energy, and with a large and
well organized brain, gives its possessor a I'nvci- and mental
power that drives every thing before him. Such men have
" A Kan and hungry look."
Their features arc prominent, and the brain and muscles
densely organized. They can endure any amount of
hardship, and the greater the occasion the higher their en-
ergies. They do not belong to the genteel, exquisite class
of fashionable men; but they take hold of their projects
with energy, and drive forward in spite of obstacles. They
seldom stand about trifles, but engage in great and arduous
enterprises. Such an one, cast upon the world alone, with-
out advantages or assistance, will rise above every obstacle
and every difficulty, till success has crowned his efforts, and
he has reached the highest attainments. This is the tem-
perament of John C. Calhoun, Daniel Webster, Lord
Brougham, and many others remarkable for the qualities
here described. It is not always indicated by a large
stature, but more by the density and compactness of the
brain and muscles. Aaron Burr, Alexander Hamilton, and
John Quincy Adams, belong to this class.
14
I f the brain is of moderate dimensions, and not well bal-
anced, as is frequently the case, these high qualities of mind
and body are lost; and we have a person of less mental
capacity, but with a strong, enduring constitution.
Bilious Sanguine and Nervous:—When these are all
combined it imparts a healthy, vigorous constitution, and
renders one almost proof against disease. The person may
be intellectual or otherwise, according to the direction given
to his faculties by circumstances. If the brain is large and
well balanced, he will possess the high mental endowments
ascribed to the Nervous Bilious: if only average or mode-
rate, he will be adapted to some moderate sphere of busi-
ness, and should be careful how he embarks in too great an
enterprise. This combination of temperaments gives manly
beauty, and qualifies one for a large class of enjoyments.
The form is well defined, the outline rounded and full; and
the body moves with an ease and grace that captivates all
observers.
Size of the Brain :
—The size of the brain, other con-
ditions being equal, is a measure of power.
Combination 1. With a fine temperament and a well
balanced head, the person will possess a mind of the high-
est order, and attain eminence in any pursuit to which his
talents are directed. A large brain with these conditions will
give him momentum and power, and adapt him to great and
important enterprises. Such an individual will exercise a
controlling influence in a community, and attain the highest
offices in the gift of the people. Military and naval com-
manders, statesmen and jurists, always have this combina-
tion.
Combination 2. A large brain with a sanguine tempera-
ment, or a combination of organs adapted to business, will
enable one to conduct a large enterprise, and become emi-
nenl as a business man, ;i speculator, or an agriculturalist;
but he will not excel in ilu.se qualities described under the first
combination. .l<>im Jacob Astor and Stephen Girard, belong
to this cla
15
Combination 3. A large brain, with small perceptive or-
gans, and an inactive temperament, will render one slow,
and dull of perception —incapable of shining in any sphere,
ami bettor adapted to some of the common and every day
duties of life, ll" the perceptive organs are large, the per-
son may see more n adily what is passing and what should
be done; but without an active, well organized temperament
should not venture oul of a plain and industrious sphere of
life.
Combination 4. Ac a. .
I brain, with a
tine temperament and a well balanced head, will impart
sprightliness and activity of mind, with line talents for bu-
siness, and frequently a readiness in the acquisition of
knowledge that surpasses those of superior minds. This
combination is often met with in men of business talent,
literary men, and others; and with a good intellect, self-
esteem, and unmarked deficiency in other n . the)
frequently make a great display, and for aw bile, acquire the
reputation of great men; but they do not belong to that
class of great minds who become the authors and founders
of new systems in science and philosophy, and leave their
marks upon the world.
Combination 5. One of an average or moderate sized
brain, and an inactive temperament will be but a slight
remove above idiocy; and even with a front head fairly
developed, will display weakness and imbecility of mind.
CLASSIFICATION OF THE ORGANS.
Domestic Propensities:—These arc located together in
a group, in the posterior lobe of the brain, or back part of
the head. They give rise to those social feelings, which
make us delight in the society of friends, and bind mankind
together in families, societies, and nations'.
Combination 1. An individual with these organs large,
10
and u line temperament, with large ideality, moral selitf-
incuts, and intellect, will form his social and domestic rela-<
tions among the virtuous and intelligent. His affections
will be refined and elevated; and if self-esteem and appro-
bativeness are large, he will be too proud to mingle with
the lower classes of society.
Combination 2. One with these organs large, and less of
the nervous temperament and ideality, will be less particu-
lar in his associations; and with the passions and feelings
strong, will be swayed by the society he keeps. If the
moral sentiments and intellect are large, and self-esteem
only full or average, he will be less aristocratic in his social
feelings, and enjoy himself with the virtuous and good
among all classes of men. He will appreciate and love the
society of the intellectual, but will not despise the poor and
ignorant.
Combination 3. Where these organs are only average
or full, there will be less warmth of feeling, and more in-
difference to social enjoyment. If the selfish and business
organs are large, the domestic relations will be subordi-
nate to them, and business will claim more attention than
family or friends.
Combination 4. A moderate development of these feel-
ings renders one cold, unsocial, and indifferent to the plea-
sures of society or domestic life.
1. Amativexess:—The sentiment and feeling of love
proceed from this organ. It is the basis of matrimonial
life, and gives rise to the amorous desires and passions.
Combination 1 . Intellect, moral sentiment, and ideality,
give a direction to this organ that renders it one of the
most sacred and holy feelings of our nature. Such a com-
bination prompts to all those little attentions, and acts of
kindness, that endear the sexes to each other. It gives to
love all its romance and poetry, and throws around the dear
one, a charm, that is ever before us. It is an important ele-
ment in giving courage and manliness to the character, and
stimulates to high and noble deeds. The feeling and Benti-
17
ment are beautifully portrayed in the following Hues,
written by B. Halleck.
u To love, and to be lov'd again: to feel
That one heart heats responsive to our own:
To cherish joys thai words can ne'er reveal,
Gentle and lovely, as the dying tone
Of far ofl* music. To no itrongly forth
On life's rough journey, girt with woman's love,
And woman's truth, jewels of priceless worth,
That sorrows dim not, trials can hut prove;
To stand with her beside the shrines were lie
Our household gods; to feel her true hand press
Our own in silence, while within h< I
Glistens the t< u of tench r
To listen to the voice, whose every tone,
Tells us that we on earth are. not alom ."
Combination 2. When this organ is large, and the (em
perament sanguine, with not so great a predominance of
the moral and intellectual powers, there is more of tin-
nninial passion, and a greater tendency t<> indulge in abu
and immoral gratifications of this feeling. The person will
find it difficult to resist temptation, and be in danger of
going astray from the path of virtue. With moderate con-
scientiousness] and concentrativeness. and large self-esteem
and approbativenesSj this combination leads to coquetry and
inconstancy.
Combination 3. If the base of the brain l>c large, with a
coarse temperament, and a deficient moral region, it leads
to obscene allusions, and indulgences that could not be de-
scribed in a work of this description.
Combination 4. When the organ is only average or lull.
blended with ideality, moral sentiment and intellect, there
will be more of the sentiment of love than the passion
The person will express his attachment in a refined and
delicate manner; and manifest a pure and virtuous feeling
towards the other sex. If adhesiveness he large, his affec
lion will be lasting and constant, and he will fulfil the mar
riage relations with fidelity. This combination is m<>si
frequently met with in (he female head.
3
18
Combination 5. A moderate, or small development of
this organ, with ideality moderate, renders one indifferent
to the charms and beauties of the other sex.
2. Philoprogenjtiveness : —The love of offspring is the
natural function of this organ. It frequently gives a fond-
ness for pets, animals, and every young and tender thing
that receives our care and attention.
Combination 1. When this organ is very large, and ad-
hesiveness strong, with a mild and even temper, the person
will have an excessive fondness for children, and pets, and
be disposed to caress and fondle them—will bear much
from them, and frequently indulge their wishes and caprices.
Combination 2. If combativeness and ideality be large,
with a large development of this organ, the person will be
fond of children, and take much interest in those that are
beautiful, sprightly, and well dressed—will make a fond
parent; but will have no patience with those that are cross
and ill-natured, and dislike spoiled and pampered children.
Combination 3. An average or moderate development of
this organ, with combativeness large, will lead to a general
dislike of children. If a parent, the person may be fond of
his own, from the relation of blood and kindred, but will
have very little patience even with them, and take but little
pleasure in their fondness and caresses.
3. Adhesiveness : —The ties of friendship, and the bonds
of social life are formed by this organ. It gives ardor and
depth of feeling, and renders one willing to sacrifice much
on the altar of friendship. Its natural language is to cling
to the objects of our affections, and meet them with fond ca-
resses. The feeling is beautifully presented in the follow-
ing lines from Moore:
"The heart like n tendril, accustomed to cling,
I,, t
'>.
grow whore it will, cannol flourish alone,
Hut will lean t<> the nearest am! loveliest thing,
It can twine with itself, and make closely its' own."
Combination 1. With ideality, moral sentiment and m
t. the person will 1m 1
choice in the selection oi' friends;
19
Mid with cautiousness and secretiveness, will make confi-
dants of very few—will test them well first, but will lore
them with deep and lasting affection.
Combination 2. Where this organ is large, with small
concentrativeness and no predominance of ideality and self-
esteem, the person will be more general in his social at-
tachments; and while in the society of his friends, exhibit
the strongest marks of friendship; but when thrown into
another sphere, though he may aol forget his old associations,
will readily form others; ami with large approbativeness,
beneTolence and mirthfulnesS, get along smoothly and plea-
santly with all.
Combination 3, A moderate development of this organ,
with large selfish organs, renders one mid and indifferent
to the ties of friendship; and if ho displays the apparent
qualities of this feeling, it i^ from interested motives. Such
persons are fond of using their friends, and so |ou<_r ;i< (heir
interests are prompted by it, they seem to enjoy your soci-
ety; but when you cease to benefit them, thej have no
further need of your acquaintance. These are the false
friends, who enjoy our friendship in prosperity, but forsake
us in adversity.
4. Inhabitivbnbss:—The lose of home and country, is
the natural function of this organ. It is always large in
that class of men who live and die in the same town and
neighborhood, upon the same farm; while it is generally
not so large in cities, where people do not live long enough
in one place to become attached to a particular residence.
Combination 1. With adhesiveness large the person will
grieve much on leaving home and friends, and while away,
think often of returning. If all the domestic organs are
large, and the perceptive faculties only full, will enjoy his
meals better at home than elsewhere, and his sleep will
seem more refreshing under his own roof. To him there
will be no place like home.
Combination 2. With this organ large, and weak con-
centrativeness, the person may love home dearly, and r«-
•20
member, with fondness, all its pleasant associations; but it'
his disposition be enterprising, and his nature ambitious.
flowing from hope and approbativeness, be may seek other
places to attain the objects of that ambition. If he possess
versatility of talent, and have no family ties to connect
him with a particular region of country, he may even be-
come a wanderer, and yet not forget the home of his child-
hood, The author of this pamphlet is acquainted with a
person of this description who has been a rambler from an
early age, but recollects with peculiar fondness his early
home. In all his wanderings he has indulged the hope of
revisiting[his native land. The smooth and flowing river; the
trees that adorn his childhood's home; the hills and verdant
fields; and the running brook that murmured by, are all
among the most pleasing objects of his remembrance.
Combination 3. One with this organ average or mode-
rate, will not be much influenced by this feeling—will be
at home wherever his friends and business call him, and
form no attachments to a place on its own account. If con-
centrativeness be weak, and locality, hope, and approbative-
ness strong, may become a traveller and adventurer—will
stay but a short time in one place, and sacrifice every other
consideration to see the world.
5. Concentrativeness : —This organ gives continuity
of thought and feeling, and keeps the attention fixed upon
one thing till it is completely finished. When large it
leads to great prolixity and tediousness in giving details,
and dwells upon one subject till it becomes exhausted.
Combination 1. With large intellectual organs it gives
application to study, and is favorable to the mathematician
and logician. It never leaves a point unfinished, and the
mind cannot give its attention to more than one thing at
once. It renders the feelings and impressions lasting, and
with conscientiousness, gives constancy to the affections.
Combination 2. An average development, with the per-
ceptive organs large, is more favorable to business pursuits
\t gives one a love of change and variety, and renders him
attentive to all his various duties and interests ;it the same
time With an active temperament, it renders one impa-
tient and restless in his disposition.
Combination 3. When the organ is small, there is a
STetS tendency to do too many things at the same time, and
to change rapidly from one object to another. The person
becomes tired of one thing and seeks novelty and change.
With a strong intellect, he will l>e apt to become a kind of
universal genius, and possess great versatility of talent.
His mind condenses rapidly, and is impatient of a long and
tedious account of any thing. With large causality, will
reason with point and logic, hut fail to connect and carry
out his ideas in detail —will prefer extemr* raneous Bpeak-
ing to the labor of writing and committing to memory, ami
generally l>e ready and oil-hand in all he says and does.
This combination is frequently met with in lawyers and bu-
siness men, hut is nut favorable to hard study. A sufficient
number of studies at the same time, to afford a change and
relieve the mind, is an advantage to those possessing this
combination.
Selfish Propensities:—These are located together in a
group around the ears, and when large, give a rounded ful-
- to the sides of the head. They adapt us to a world
where selfishness abounds, and where every cue must pro-
vide for his own wants and necessities. Our bodies are so
organized as to need nourishment and protection, and these
faculties arc necessary to our animal existence, and prompt
us to seek our own enjoyment.
Combination 1. With large moral organs and intellect
the person may be attentive to his own interests and enjoy-
ments, and yet disposed to share it with others, and make all
around him happy.
Combination 2. When these organs are large, and the
elevating and moral sentiments moderate, the person will
be strongly tempted to give way to his animal nature, and
indulge in low and degrading vices.
Combination 3. A moderate development of this class
83
of organs, with a line temperament, and the moral senti-
ments large, renders" one too mild and inefficient for the
active duties and business of life. Such have not selfish-
ness enough to take care of their own interests, in a com-
munity where each one is struggling for his own elevation,
and should have some one to aid and assist them in such a
state of society.
6. CombatiVENESS :
—This is the propensity to oppose,
defend and attack; and from it flows courage and boldness
in the defence of our rights and principles. It is an im-
portant element in giving force and energy to the char-
acter.
Combination 1. With large moral sentiments and intel-
lect, it imparts moral courage, and blended with firmness
and destructivencss, gives force and energy of character.
If cautiousness be large, and the physical powers weak, the
person will possess more moral than animal courage,
but will not shrink from opposition, and when aroused,
will defend his rights boldly, and, perhaps, be fond of argu-
ment and debate. With an excitable temperament, he will
be easily vexed, and irritated by any thing that crosses his
path, and sometimes exhibit too much anger.
Combination 2. Where the moral organs are moderate,
this propensity is sometimes restrained by cautiousness, but
otherwise it gives a love of contention, and a quarrelsome
disposition. The person will frequently provoke difficulties
and be too ready to resent an injury.
Combination 3. With this organ onlv average or full,
and large cautiousness, approbativencss ami self-esteem,
with the moral sentiments and intellect, the person will
never seek a difficulty, but if necessary will defend himself
boldly. If his character is assailed, he will display more
anger than on ordinary occasions, and be considered re-
fill. Destruetiveness added to the combination, might ren-
der him revengeful, and if provoked to anger, or placed in
a difficult situation, even desperate; but under ordinary cir-
cumstances, he would he a mild and peaceable citizen. With
23
large thinking faculties, firmness, and self-esteem, he would
be fond of argument, and would contend strongly for his
(.pinions.
Combination 4. "With this organ moderately developed,
and large cautiousness, the person is generally too timid to
brave danger, and shrinks from difficulty and opposition.
7. Destrui riVBNEss :—The propensity to destroy is the
proper function of this organ. .Alan's progress through the
world is often impeded by obstacles and difficulties. The
forest must be cut down to prepare a way lor his habita-
tion: and beasts of prey destroyed to secure his safety.
Animal food must 1m- provided for his sustenance, and this
requires the infliction of sudden death to prepare it for his
nourishment. The organ of destructiveneSS, then, is im-
planted in our nature for a useful purpose, and does not
-arily lead to cruelty, murder and crime.
Combination l. When blended with benevolence and
conscientiousness, the person s/ill Ik- opposed t<> the inflic-
tion of unnecessary pain; and if the temperament be ner-
vous, will have too much sympathy to witness Buffering or
death; \ et if necessary for the preservation of life, would
net hesitate to inflict pain to attain that end. This combi-
nation renders one very indignant at any violation of jus-
tice or humanity, and gives rise to the feeling, that the
guilty ought to be punished. When provoked, it gives deep-
toned anger; and if firmness and intellect are added to the
combination, the person will possess great force and energy
of character.
Combination '2. A large development of this organ with a
strong temperament, and not a great ascendancy of the moral
sentiments, renders one severe in punishing the offender;
and if self-esteem and approbativeness are large, revenge-
ful in redressing an injury. It gives the desire for satisfac-
tion, and cannot rest contented without atonement. With
large adhesiveness, the person will be a warm friend and
bitter enemy; and if the preceptives are large, will be
fond of hunting, gaming, and killing ;mimnls. This orgnn
is ul ways found large in the heads of surgeons, butchers,
and duellists; though real courage, the function of combat-
iveness, is frequently as deficient in the latter class of per-
sons as any other set of men. One with this combination
will possess a destructive temper, that cannot be appeased
without destroying or hurting something.
Combination 3. An average or moderate development of
this organ, with benevolence, and a nervous temperament,
renders its possessor mild and humane in his disposition.
Unless combativeness and firmness are large, he will be too
harmless and inefficient for the ordinary pursuits of life;
and with the affections large, will be too effeminate and
woman-like in his character and disposition, to succeed well
in any great enterprise.
8. Alimentiveness : —This organ is the seat of the ap-
petite, and prompts the intellect to secure that kind of food
that is most agreeable and nourishing to the body.
Combination i. With firmness, conscientiousness and in-
tellect, the person will have a good appetite, and relish his
food well, but will not indulge in excesses or intemperate
habits.
Combination 2. A large development of this organ, with
a sanguine temperament, and a predominance of the organs
in the base of the brain, leads to habits of intemperance,
and the indulgences of appetite.
Combination 3. One with a moderate degree of this or-
gan, and a nervous temperament, will be naturally tempe-
rate in the use of food; and if the intellect be large- will
frequently neglect his meals to finish what he is reading or
doing. Intemperate men have been found with this organ
moderately developed, but having the social organs large,
and but little self-government, have yielded to the force of
social habit and custom. Others have become intemperate
Id drown their sorrows, or to procure excitement, and do nol
form the habit from the force of appetite.
9. Acquisitiveness:
—'The propensity to acquire, is the
proper function of ibis organ It does not, necessarilyy
4
JJ
render one penurious or avaricious in his feelings; but
seeks to acquire property, for the gratilication of the other
feelings and faculties, or for its own enjoyment.
Combination 1. With acquisitiveness large, and a well
balanced head, the person will be economical, and place a
high value upon property. In business, will be strict and
close in his dealings, and always ready to make a good bar-
gain. With good business talents, will be likely to acquire
property and become wealthy ; but if benevolence and the
moral sentiments arc large, will appropriate much to religi-
ous and charitable purpo
Combination 2. One witli this organ lar«jo. and benevo-
lence, ideality, approbativeness, and the social organs large,
will be disposed t<> make apidly, but cannot keep it.
His social enjoyments; his love of the beautiful ; his gene-
rositv; and his appear t<> advantage, will make
such large drafts upon bis acquisitiveness, that it will be ex-
ceedingly difficult for him to be economical. The same
combination, with this organ moderately developed, would
render him a perfect spendthrift.
Combinatioji 3. A moderate development of this organ,
renders one disposed to place a low estimate upon the value
of money. It is to such of small consideration, compared
with other things; and they require it only to supply their
wants, and to secure the enjoyments of life. They may be
either extravagant or economical in its use, according to
other combinations, as these two qualities do not depend on
this organ. One with a plain, practical mind, and large
cautiousness, will be saving and frugal with moderate ac-
quisitiveness, and often be charged with psnuriousness;
while another with the organ large, and ideality, approba-
tiveness, hope and benevolence predominant, will be much
more extravagant in the use of money.
10. Sfxretiveness :
—This is the propensity to conceal;
and enables us to suppress the different feelings and emo-
tions of thp mind till th^ judconpnt approves of living thf»m
utterance.
i
Combination 1. Under the influence of the moral senti-
ments, this organ renders one discreet and prudent in all
he says and does. He keeps his plans and business to him-
self, and makes very few confidants even among his friends.
Combination 2. If large, with moderate conscientious-
ness, it leads to evasion and deception. The person cannot
be relied on, and too often disregards the truth, it makes
one disposed to hide his feelings and conduct, and throw a
mystery around every thing he says and does. Individuals
that are sly, secretive, and cunning, have this combination
Combination 3. A moderate development of this organ,
with large conscientiousness, renders one candid, open-
hearted, and free in the expression of his feelings. He has
but few secrets of his own, and cares but little to learn the
secrets of others. If anything is told him in coniidence,
and is thus addressed to his moral sense and intellect, he
keeps it faithfully—not because he is fond of secret things, but
that it would be a breach of good faith towards his friend.
It is generally supposed that large secretiveness is necessary
to keep a secret, but there is no greater mistake made in
phrenology. One with this organ large, and small consci-
entiousness, is the last person in the world to place confi-
dence in.
Elevating Sentiments:—These organs are located a
little back and upon the crown of the head. They g
elevation and importance to the character, and are essential
to a high-minded, honorable man.
Combination 1. One with these organs very large, blen-
ded with moral sentiment and intellect, will take a high
stand among his fellow men, and render himself conspicu-
ous in church or state. He makes character a test of merit,
and esteems his own above every other consideration. With
the domestic organs large, will display sonic family pride,
and have a high regard for his ancestors and family name.
Combination 2. \{' these organs are large with a strong
intellect and weak moral sentiments, the person will lake
'2?
more; interest in politics than religion, and will have high
aspirations for fame and political distinction.
Combination 5. A moderate development of this class of
sentiments, renders one too unassuming, and too indifferent
to his political rights and privileges. He does not possess
character enough, and never attains any consideration
among his fellow men. because he does not desire it.
11. Cau s:—The sentiment of fear, and the ap-
prehension of danger, flow from this organ.
bination 1. One with this organ large, and a well
balanced head, will exhibit care and prudence m the man-
agement of his business; and with large causality, will
weigh consequences well, and estimate the final result of
his undertakings. With large firmness, combativeness,
and intellect, he will p< -
it fortitude and presence of
mind, and although sensible of danger, will the more suc-
cessfully meet and brave it. or take the secures! means of
protecting himself against it.
Combination 2. When this organ is very large, and
firmness, self-esteem, and combativeness weak, it produees
indecision and instability of mind. The person hesitates,
and wavers between different motives and opinions, and
leans too much upon others for advice and assistance. It
gives great anxiety about consequences, and disposes one to
look on the dark side of things. With philoprogenitiveness
or acquisitiveness, the person will be tilled with apprehen-
sion if his children arc in danger, or his business unsuccess-
ful, and will be likely to avail himself of every means of
safety within his power.
Combination 3. If the temperament is very excitable,
and self-esteem, firmness and combativeness large, cautious-
ness will not hold its sway over the mind; and though ever
so large, the person will frequently be rash and impulsive,
and involve himself in difficulty —will be sensible of per-
sonal danger, but, unless causality is very large, will be
imprudent and rash in many things, and see its folly after-
wards. With a moderate development of this organ, the
28
person will lack caution, prudence and forethought, and
frequently suffer from its deficiency.
12. Approbativeness :
—The natural function of this
organ is the love of praise; the desire to be esteemed, and
the disposition to please; and is an important element in an
amiable character. It prompts to affability and politeness
in our attentions to others; and is the great motive to ambi-
tion, fame, and distinction.
Combination 1. One having this organ large, with a fine
temperament, and large conscientiousness, will be extreme-
ly sensitive to praise and censure ; will be exceedingly
wounded at any reflection upon his character or honor, and
regard his good name above every other consideration;
will be affable and polite in his intercourse with others;
and under new circumstances and responsibilities, feel a
great amount of diffidence; but with a strong intellect and
firmness, will overcome his bashfulness, and appear to be
self-possessed. If self-esteem be deficient, and cautiousness
and conscientiousness very large, will be retired, unassu-
ming, and modest in his deportment, and shrink from re-
sponsibility and public attention.
Combination 2. With this organ large, blended with
large combativeness and self-esteem, the person will be fond
of praise, but not modest nor unassuming; will make but
few efforts to obtain it, but enjoy it well when it comes to
him indirectly. With secrctiveness large, will appear to
care very little for approbation, but enjoy it well notwith-
standing; will frequently speak of himself and relate his
adventures—ask what others say about him, and what, they
think of him, and yet apparently care nothing for their
opinion. Such an individual will be too proud to seek praise
directly, and yet will betray a great desire for the good
opinion of others. Ideality, self-esteem and approbative-
ness, all large, frequently display themselves in vanity,
pride, egotism, and a love of display.
Combination 3. A moderate development of this organ
with large self-esteem, renders onn indifferent to prnise or
39
censure, and very independent in his feelings. 1 1 « 5 i*
equally contented whether praised or not, and will move
on in his own way. without regard to the frowns or smiles
of any one.
13. Self-esteem : —Self-respect, independence, and self-
confidence, flow from this organ. It gives weight, impor-
tance, and dignity to the character, and imparts an upright
walk and attitude to the man. It is an important element
to the character of a great or public man. and makes him
claim for himself that consideration which his character
deserves. The 1<>\<- of power and authority . and the difi
sition to rule, flow from the exercise of this orga 1.
Combination l. With lame firmness and combative
it renders one wilful and tenacious of his own opinions.
Such individuals have strong prejudices and prepossessions,
strong likes ami dislikes; and are apt to feel that they are
right, and require the submission of others to their authority.
This combination disposes one to be arroganl and overbear-
ing in his ways and opinions, and inclined to dictate and
assume the lead. It imparts confidence and self-importance
to the character, and does not regard the feelings of others
sufficiently.
Combination 2. When the organ is full or large, with
approbativeness, moral sentiment and intellect, the person
will evince a becoming degree of self-respect and indepen-
dence of character; will esteem his own opinions and rights
highly, but express himself in such a manner as not to
wound the pride of others; will be high minded, honorable
and proud, and look upon meanness and littleness with
great contempt.
Combination 3. When this organ is moderately devel-
oped, with large approbativeness, and the social organs, the
person will be undignified, and with large mirthfulness,
given to trifling and playfulness; will assume dignity and
self-respect among equals, and superiors, or among stran-
gers, but it will be unnatural; and the person will long to
throw off restraint, and feel at his ease.
30
14. Firmness:—Decision, {stability, will, and firmness
of purpose, are the natural manifestations of this organ.
It imparts fortitude, resolution, and determination to the
character, and is essential to the success of those who en-
gage in great and arduous enterprises.
Combination 1. Those in whom this organ predominates.
with large self-esteem, and destructiveness. are remarkable
for force and energy of character. They are generally
wilful and unbending in their purposes; and if veneration
be moderate, cannot submit to others, or be led. Such men
must be their own masters; and find it exceedingly difficult
to yield, or act a subordinate part. This combination leads
to obstinacy, and great tenacity of will and purpose; but
with large conscientiousness, they can always be relied on
in any emergency, and generally fulfil their obligations.
Combination 2. One with this organ full or large, and
•conscientiousness large, will not make up his mind, and
form his purposes so rapidly, but will take time to consider
the matter well. Having formed his judgment, however,
he will be firm and unyielding in his opinion and purposes.
Combination 3. A moderate development of this or-
gan, with small concentrativeness, renders one fickle and
changeable in his purposes, and unfit for any situation or
duty, requiring firmness, perseverance, and decision of
character.
Moral Sentiments : —These organs are located in the
upper or coronal region of the brain, and render us moral
and religious beings. They adapt us to the moral law--,
and upon this adaptation rests our accountability.
Combination 1. When these organs are large, with n
good intellect, we have an upright, moral, and intellectual
man. Under the influence of revealed religion, he will he
:i consistent and upright christian, and command the esteem
and respect of those who know him. If veneration be defi-
'•iciit. he may pay loss attention to the forms and ceremo-
nies of the church, and place religion in virlue and natural
morality; but will sustain a good character, for honestj
and integrity, among his fellow men. This combination.,
with small marvellousness. is found even among inlidels;
and there are man\ moral, upright men, who do not ern-
braee revealed religion, from their want of faith and von-j
ration.
Combination 2. Where thai is are on;
or full, with strong propensities, there is a wavering some-
times, between vice and virtue. With large cautiousness,
such men become
or from some other motive. They find it difficult to resist
temptation, and with largo acquisitiveness, notwithstanding
their religion, will take the advantage m business, and be
guilty of man) little improprieties, not considered actually
immoral.
Combination .>. A moderate ffgens,
with la 11
restrained by pride and app
depraved and immoral chare
15. Conscish :
—Our sense of justice and con-
scientious f long to i.
It gives the desire to do right, because i
;
. is right, and not
from the expectation of reward. It is the sense of right
and wrong, and may be perverted or enlightened by intel-
lect, according to our education.
Combination 1. One with this organ large, and a well
balanced head, will possess a high regard for truth, honesty
and justice. If firmness be large, will be immoveable in
all matters involving his .-ense of justice, and though it
may be unpopular, will advocate his principles as long as
he believes them to be true. With large benevolence, he
will be a philanthropist, and advocate the rights of mau-
kind.
Combination 2. One having this organ large, with strong
propensities, and weak veneration, will yield to tempta-
tion at times, and be exceedingly penitent lor it afterwards;
will have his besetting sins, but have more conscientious •
ness, and more penitence, ihan people arc aware of.
33
Combination 3. A moderate development of this organ-
,
with large self-esteem, renders one disposed to justify him-
self, and unwilling to acknowledge his errors. He seldom
feels any compunctions of conscience, and with secretive-
ness, will often evade or conceal the truth.
16. Hope:—Expectations of future happiness, and the
anticipation of realizing our hopes and prospects, flow from
this organ. It prompts us to look on the bright side of
the picture, and draw an image of the future that is pleas-
ing to the mind.
Combination 1. One with this organ large, blended with
approbativeness, ideality, and the affections, will have many
day dreams of love and fancy,- will be fond of reverie, and
enjoy the pleasures of hope in an eminent degree. He will
almost live in the future; and form many plans and under-
takings. With large reflective organs, will be visionary,
and if his adhesiveness is very large, will confide to his
friends many schemes and projects that he intends to carry
into effect, but before the time arrives, is prevented by
some other prospect. Thus he will be allured on from one
object to another, till finally he rests upon something sub-
stantial, and learns from experience to become more prac-
tical. With large cautiousness and a fine temperament, he
will frequently be very much elevated, and again depress-
ed; will have his extremes of feeling, and with large firm-
ness and self-esteem, will rise above every disappointment,
and hope on still. This combination renders one ambitious,
and encourages the highest aspirations for fame and dis-
tinction.
Combination 2. Large hope, with only full ideality,
and the perceptive organs large, would render one reason-
able in his expectations, and dispose him to base his hopes
upon something practical and substantial. With large
mirthfuliK'ss ami a sanguine temperament, would posses
cheerful disposition, and look upon the world as it is, with
out exaggeration.
Combination 3. \ moderate development o$ the organ,
with large cautiousness, renders one desponding and mel-
ancholy. He looks too much on the dark side of every
thing; magnifies evil, and is too easily discouraged.
17. MArvbllousness: —The love of the new and won-
derful is the natural 1*1111. -tit. 11 of this organ; and Mr.
Combe calls it the organ of Wonder. It gives us a love of
fiction ; and leads to faith in the supernatural and extraordi-
nary .
Combination 1. One with this organ large, and a strong
intellect, will take pleasure in investigating marvellous sub-
jects, and will find his feelings inclining him to believe, and
his intellect checking his faith for want of proof. Il
secrctivenes--. and the perceptive organs are moderate, he
will be credulous in receiving the statements of men, ami be
often deceived.
Combination 1. Tin- organ is generally -mall in the
American head, and with the reasoning organs large, leads
to skepticism and inercdulit \ . This combination will dis-
pose one to reject ever) new and marvellous doctrine; and
to believe no further than facts and argument.- can establish.
18. VENERATION: —The feeling of reverence and adora-
tion flows from thi of this organ. It gives the ten-
dency to reverence whatever is old or ancient, and treats
with great respect established forms and customs. There
are many objects in Nature that inspire the feeling) as well
as works of art. \n old temple or cathedral, or the ruins
of an ancient city —a grave yard, or an old battle ground,
all bring op associations that awaken our reverence. It
gives respect for old age, and attaches one t<> the forms and
ceremonies of his religion. Its direction depends on the
other faculties and an enlightened intellect. It may lead to
ihe worship of idols, and heathen images, or of the true
God; or it may how in reverence to men. and yield sub
mission to their authority. This organ is nol large m the
American head, and hence their republicanism and want of
respect for great names.
Combination 1. One with this organ large will |
the feeling of reverence in a high degree. It dues not de-
termine whether he is a christian or not, but gives him re-
spect for the great and good. With large conscientiousness)
marvellousncss, and hope, lie will be disposed to embrace
some system of religion, and be a consistent member of the
church.
Combination 2. A person with this organ large, and a
great deficiency of marvellousncss, will possess feelings of
reverence, but be so deficient in faith as to render it diffi-
cult for him to give it a religious direction, lie will be
disposed to pay little attention to creeds and ceremonies;
though he will not lack veneration for whatever is good
and holy. If conscientiousness be moderate, he may be
irreligious, and with large destructiveness, even profane.
Combination 3. An average or moderate development of
this organ, with large reasoning faculties, self-esteem and
firmness, renders one republican in his feelings. He will
be no respecter of persons, and receive no opinions upon
the authority of great names; will claim the right to think
for himself, in religion, as well as politics; and with large
conscientiousness, though he may be a christian, he will
disregard religious creeds, forms and ceremonies. If be-
nevolence be added to the combination, he will think reli-
gion to consist more in the practice of virtue and bene
lence, than in attendance on the church and its ceremonies.
If the organ be small with deficient conscientiousness and
large destructiveness and combativeness. the person will be
profane, wicked and irreligious.
19. Benevolence:—This organ is the seat of the kind
and benevolent feelings. It prompts us to the exercise of
charity and kindness towards our fellow beings; and gives
us compassion for their frailties and afflictions. It is the
source of generosity and good will, and gives the desire t<>
make others happy.
Combination 1. One with benevolence and the atii/clious
large, will seek to make ihose he loves happy, and will dis-
play the feeling in little attentions and acts pf kindness. If
85
acquisitiveness be large, he may not waste hi* money upon
them, unless prompted by large approbativeness and ideali-
ty.- but will do many things to oblige and render them
happy.
Combination 2. With this organ large, and a predomi-
nance of approbativeness, adhesiveness, and ideality, the
person will be generous to an extreme and sacrifice his
OWTJ interests and feelings, to please and make others hap-
py. He will be lavish and extravagant in his kindness, and
will find it difficult to refuse a favor; will seldom deny Ins
family any reasonable enjoyment, and will find this organ
a great disadvantage to Ids interests and busin<
Combination 3. One with this organ only full, average,
OT moderate, and the selfish organs large, will display but
1 It tit- active benevolence; will confine his charity and kind-
ness to a narrow sphere, and Seldom allow it to extend be-
v ond his own family or friends ; will be penurious in nNurj
things, and will only be saved by his pride, from doing
many mean and little things.
Skmi-Intellbctual Facitltibs: —These organs are loca-
ted above the temples, and around the lateral and upper
portions of the forehead. They border on the region of
the intellectual faculties, and come in between them and the
feelings and sentiments. Hence they partake partly of the
nature of both classes of Organs, and are called the somi-
intellectual faculties or sentiments. 'They seem to impart
a high degree of excellence to the produetions of the
other faculties and aim at improvement in the arts and
manufactures.
r
l no combinations of these organs Mill fall
under the analysis of each particular organ, and henre is
•omitted in this place.
'20. C0NSTRUCTIVENES8: — The power of const ruction.
and the love of the mechanical arts, is the proper function
of this organ. It requires other organ' in combination to
make the practical mechanic
Combination 1. With large perceptive organs and imi-
tation, it imparts a great fondness for merhnnicnl pursuits,
36
and a talent tor inventing, building, and making improve
ments in machinery.
Combination 2. When large, but without imitation and
perceptive intellect, the person will have a good idea of
mechanical operations; will be able to suggest improve-
ments, and show how he wants a thing made; but will fail
in the mechanical execution himself, without great practice.
Where this combination exists, the mind is frequently
directed in some other channel, and the person will be un-
conscious of possessing the faculty. It displays itself in u
fair legible hand writing; and in the female head, with imi-
tation, gives female ingenuity.
Combination 3, An average or moderate development is
sometimes found in practical mechanics; but it will be as-
certained that they have large imitation, size and form, and
work from imitation rather than constructive power. Very
skilful men sometimes have this combination; but if imita-
tion, size, and form arc moderate, the person will be awk-
ward and unskilful in the use of tools; will be slow in
learning to do any thing, and lack mechanical ingenuity.
21. Ideality:—From this organ proceeds our sense of
the beautiful. Like all other faculties, it bears an intimate
relation to the surrounding world, and is delighted with
those objects that inspire its activity. The beauties of na-
ture are all addressed to this faculty. The trees, the fields,
the leaves ancl flowers; the murmuring streams with their
s\yeet music, and the carol of birds, all give to this senti
mer\t its highest inspiration. It dwells with rapture on
the starry heavens, and the dewy night; the moonlight
scene, or the shades of evening; and in its boundless rang-
embraces rivers and lakes, mountains and valleys, and Links
with them all, ideal images of the beautiful and perfect.
Tins organ is the fruitful source of romance and poetry,
and makes us delight in the pleasures of the imagination.
It prompts many a day dream of love and fancy, and soar-
above and beyond the regions of reality.
The |oya of improvement proceeds from this farult)
87
It seems in barmen) with the sentiment, thai man is s pro
gressive being; and as the arts and sciences advance t.
wards perfection, the organ becomes more and more active.
It is the source of refinement, and is found larger in tin-
more elevated states of society, than among the nide and
uncultivated nations of the earth. It has been found nrii-
formly large in distinguished poets, painters and am
An infidel writer has made an amusing remark on the defi
eieocy of this faculty in the religion of the Friends, in their
plainness of dress and manners, and their strict adheren. <
to utility in every t i i i 1 1 1: . ( >f course he does DO< mean that
there are no exceptions in the character of that people;
hut he says: —
u I have always admired tin religion of the quakers, tol-
as simplicity : but have often smiled at the conceit, that if
a quaker had been consulted at the creation, what a silent
and drah colored creation it would have been. Nut a
rose would ha\e blossomed, nor a bird have been peT
mitted to sing."
Combination 1. One with this organ large, and a fine
temperament, will he refined in Ins manners and feelings;
wall be displeased with anything low or grovelling, and
aim at perfection ami improvement in every thing. If lan-
guage and the perceptive organs are moderate, will not be
able to write poetry, hut will enjoy it much, and be fond of
eloquence, literature, and the fine arts. If individuality,
eventuality, comparison, and language, are large, ami self-
esteem, approbativeness, and hope. full, he will then aspire
to excellence in speaking "mu\ writing, and with strong a!'
feet ions, will be very likely to attempt poetry; and if his
mind is well disciplined and educated, can make himself a
poet or an orator. If the intellectual organs are only
average or full, his large ideality will lead to sickly »
mentalism: and with approhath love of dress and
display.
Combination %. Large ideality, with a coarse tempera-
pjeat, will not display this refined and active manifestation
38
of the faculty. A fine quality of brain, which is imparted
only by a fine temperament, is necessary to the highest e.\-
ereiseof the organ; and hence those who are deficient in
this quality, though ideality may be large, will not evince
much fancy nor imagination. In their own sphere of life.
however, they will pay much attention to good taste, and
will have an internal sense of the beautiful and perfect.
With large perceptive organs, will be men of plain, practi-
cal understandings, and not fond of display.
Comhinatioi; 3. An average or full development of this
organ, with a fine temperament, and the elevating senti-
ments large, will impart a high degree of refinement and
delicacy of feeling. With large individuality, eventuality-
comparison, and language, the person will manifest much
taste for poetry and literature, but will fail in producing
Jasting works of the imagination. The taste and fancy in
such cases, is rather acquired than original.
Combination 4. An average or moderate organ of ideal-
ity, with a coarse temperament, will render one coarse and
vulgar in his associations. His language will be common-
place and unrefined; and his manners exceedingly rough
and uncultivated.
B. Sublimity:—This organ is located iiotween cautious
n'ess and ideality, and seems to blend the functions of both
these organs in one. producing the sentiment of sublimity.
Those objects in nature, that mingle the awful with the
beautiful, are addressed to this faculty; and this seems to
lie the best definition of the sublime. The towering cliff
and mountain scene, the roaring cataract, and the distant
thunder, all inspire the activity of this organ. One with
i! large, would dwell with rapture upon a storm at sea; and
amidst all its fury; surrounded by the angry billows, and the
surges of the mighty deep, Would feel the inspirations of
lids sentiment. The combinations of this <>»-cyrm are the
- .-line as those of ide ility.
I
The power i
imitation is the proper
function of this organ. \\ takes its direction from the
other faculties
39
Combination I. With mirthfulness, individuality, eveut
ualiiy, and Language, it gives a talenl fur mimicry and dra-
tnatio representations.
Combination 2. With ideality, form, siie, locality, color
and constructiveness, it gives a talent for painting, drawing,
and pencilling, and is aeeesaar} to the artist and limner.
Combination ;>. It may be large* and yet from the deli
cieacy of language, descriptive power, and the other com-
binations, the person will have no talent for mimierx if
painting. With constructiveness, such an individual would
displaj it in the mechanicd arts.
Combination 4, With a amoderate or Bmall developmenl
of this organ, and those organs thai act in ition with
nail, the pereon will ho incapable of any effort at imi-
tation.
MiKTin ii.m ->: —
i
of mirth proceeds from
this organ. It gives a tine perception of the Ludicrous, and
produces humor and wit. Its direction depends on thi
other organ*.
Combination 1. With imitation and Language, the p
will make a great amounl of fun, and sec every thing in a
Ludicrous light; will he fond of humor, and with ben
lence and the social organs Large, bea good oatured, jovial
man.
i not ma J. With !ar. and self
in, ihe person will he sarcastic, and bitter in his
inpts at w it. It* causality In- large, and individuality and
eventuality m< be will not Laugh much, nor excite it
in others, but will perceive the point of a witticism battel
than many who Laugh at it nmre heartily, but do not know
what they are Laughing at. When main of the faculties
are agreeably affected, it produces Laughter, nn>\ hence it is
no evidence of wit. Man) gan large,
are serious and -'.kite.
Combination .'>. h may !•< moderately developed, and
\ei the person having Language, imitation, and the percep
live faculties large, with an excitable temperament, will
10
laugh heartily and produce mirth, but will b(; deficient u»
pure and genuine wit. If small, with large causality and
the perceptive organs moderate, the person will be serious
and sedate; will seldom sec the point of a witticism, and be
given to mirth only in a moderate degree.
Intellectual Faculties:—The organs of these faculties
occupy the region of the forehead, and constitute us intelli-
gent beings. They are divided into two classes, perceptive
and reflective; and the character of the intellect depends
upon the predominance of one or the other of these classes,
and the temperament. Their size is not judged of so much
by the expansion of the forehead, as by the depth and
prominence of the particular intellectual organs. The
forehead is often obscured by hair, and sometimes appears
larger than it is, from baldness. These things should be
considered in estimating the size of the front head.
Combination 1. When these organs arc large, with a
large brain and a nervous bilious temperament, or a san-
guine nervous temperament, the person will display high
intellectual qualities, and attain excellence in any branch of
human knowledge. If these organs are very large, he will
become pre-eminent as a scholar, and a man of intellectual
power.
Combination 2. The intellectual organs may be large,
but if the temperament is sanguine or bilious, without
much of the nervous; or if the mind is devoted to business
instead of books, the person will be a sensible man, and
learn much from observation and experience: but will not
excel as a scholar, nor shine in the literary walks of life.
Combination 3. When the intellectual organs are full, and
the temperament very active, the person will display a high
degree of intelligence and frequently be talented, hut will
not possess depth and power of mind.
Combination 4. With these organs full,anda sluggish
temperament, the person will he slow in his mental opera
tions, and make bul little progress in human knowledge. It
ihey are onlj moderate oi small, he will he imbecile oi
idiotic
1)
Pbrcettive Faculties:—The organs of these faculties
sure located about the eyes and lower parts of the forehead
Oh them we depend for our knowledge of external objects.
They determine the qualities and conditions of matter, as
well U record the observation "f passing events. Hence
they are necessar) to the scholar and man of general infor-
mation: and a lull development, at least, is indispensable
tor success in any intellectual pursuit. Tliey collect the
materials from which we manufacture thought; and though
a man ma\ have the reflective organs large, without thi
he will have nothing to think about.
Cotuf/iiui/ioii 1. With a tine temperament, they render
one a close observe! of men and things; and a person with
ihese organs large, will possess great amount of general
information. He will exhibit a clear and accurate know-
ledge of things, and display a scientific mind. Large re-
nectives added to the combination, would give him a high
order of mind, and a philosophical understanding.
Combination 2. With a !<•-<> intellectual temperament,
.md small eoncentrativeness, the individual will manifest
these organs more in business, and general observation,
than in books; will possess much acquired information, but
u will be more general than accurate and scientific. Il<
will understand the value of property; and have a bettei
memor\ of what be sees than what he reads With -mall
ideality, w ill have a plain matter of fad mind, and make
hut little display of his intellectual powers.
bination I If th areonlj average oj lull,
person will not excel in a knowledge of details and
minutiae, and will be likely to have a poor memory of da
names, and particular events. With large reflective land
ms, however, the person will possess a philosophical mind,
and reason correct)) from the tacts within his knowledge.
By hard studj and close application, he will frequentlj
i ol thow with 'the
labor he has performed. 9u binatton is mon favor-
iblc to writing than extemporaneous speaking; and unices
<i
i'2
language is very large, the person will find it difficult to
arrange his thoughts rapidly for delivery. Great prac-
tice, however, would overcome this difficulty.
A small development of these organs would render one
unobserving and inattentive to any thing passing around
him, and make it exceedingly difficult for him to learn from
books rapidly, or acquire any kind of extensive or accu-
rate information. In the analysis of many of the percep-
tive organs, the combinations will be omitted, as unnecessa-
ry to an understanding of the character.
24. Individuality:—The power of observation, and the
memory of individual objects, depend on this faculty. A
man, a house, or a tree, are all objects of this organ ; but it
does not determine the form, size, color, or any of the
particular qualities of things. The knowledge of these
conditions depends on the organs following this, and are lo-
cated along the arch of the eyebrow, upon each side of
this telescope of the mind.
When large, it gives a great desire to see and examine
minutely those objects that come under our observation.
When deficient, with large reflective organs, the person is
absent minded, and given to reverie and abstraction.
25. Form:—Form, shape, and configuration, are objects
of this faculty. It enables us to remember faces, and per-
sons, from the form of their features and the general con-
tour of their bodies.
26. Size:—Dimension and proportion, are objects of
this faculty. It gives a correct eye, and enables us to
judge of distance, perspective and perpendicularity. It is
large in builders, mechanics and marksmen.
27. WEIGHT:—The law of gravitation, and the momen-
tum and weight of bodies, arc objects of this faculty. It
enables us to balance ourselves well, and walk in high
and difficult positions. It is large in circus rulers, tight rope
dancers, sailors, ami marksmen. When deficient, the per-
son becomes diy/y in a high place, and often stumbles and
Jails.
13
28. Color:—The various colors of objects, and their
delicate tints and shades, are objects of this faculty. It is
large in the painter, and enables him to compare and ar-
range his colors with taste and skill. When deficient, the
person can only judge of the plain and ordinary colors.
and seldom notices the color of his friends dresses, hair.
or eyes.
29. Order:—System and arrangement belong to the
rcise of this faculty. With ideality, it renders one par-
ticular and fastidious; and with combativeness, easily an-
noyed by disorder and confusion. One with it large, and
a well balanced mind, with a line temperament, will keep
his papers and business well arranged; and in a lady, it
will render her neat and tidy in her dress and domestic
arrangements.
30. Number:—The relation of numbers arc embraced
by this organ. It gives a talent for arithmetic, and the
power of computing figures. With huge size, weight,
locality, and causality, it constitutes the mathematician, and
is found large in that class of men.
31. Locality:—The memory of places, and the posi-
tion of objects, depends on this organ. It embraces the
points of the compass, and the location of countries; and
gives ;i talent for geography. It is found large in the
heads of celebrated travelers; and any one in traveling
our western rivers, will see its prominence on the fore-
heads of the pilots and boatmen of the Ohio and Mississip-
pi, in whom it has become developed by continual exercise.
It gives a love of traveling; and those who have it large,
have a vivid recollection of the roads, towns, cities, villa-
ges, rivers and mountains they pass on their journey.
32. Eventuality :
—The memory of passing events and
occurrences, depends on this organ. With individuality
and language large, it gives a talent for narration and de-
scription; and enables one to excel in the study of history.
On this organ depends the most useful kind of memory we
require, though there are as many different kinds of memo-
44
i> u there ace intellectual organs. There is no special
organ for memory, embracing ever> thing, but each laeulu
remembers for itself. This organ, then, remembers events
and passing occurrences; time remembers dates: and locali-
ty remembers places. Tunc remembers music; language re-
members words; and causality remembers ideas and prin-
ciples.
With eventuality small, the person will fail in telling an
anecdote or story, and cannot give the particulars of
any occurrence; will have a poor memory of details, and
be obliged to depend on notes or memoranda for t\w«
things.
33. Time:—This organ, as already mentioned, gives the
memory of dates, and takes cognizance of the lapse of
time. It is necessary to the musician in the execution of
harmony and melody, and keeps the beat in music.
34. Tune:—The conception of harmony and mclod\
depends on this faculty; but alone it does not give the
power of executing music. Combined with large ideality,
imitation, perceptive powers, and a fine temperament, it
produces the highest order of music; but there are main
who play and sing well, without having the organ large.
from the combination of organs necessary in perform-
ing; and hence this organ will be frequently left unmark-
ed; or, from the difficulty of ascertaining its size, will have
a note of interrogation placed opposite.
35. Language:—The power of using verbal language.
of expressing our ideas in words, or arbitrary signs, de
pends on this organ.
Combination 1. It may be large and the person disin
clined to talk much, from diffidence, or a secretive rese.
or from a want of social feeling. Others again, with small
language, talk much, because they have the social feelings,
and the disposition to talk. One's conversational p0W(
therefore, depend on other organs OS well as language. A
person with large self-esteem, loves to talk to be heard;
another from the activity of his intellect, and social f
45
logs, is fond of conversation. Hut it is simply the powei
of verbal communication that depends on thia organ. It
renders the language used, copious and abundant in words.
and it flows with ease and fluency. Moulin and compari
BOM) added to the combination, render it beautiful and flow
cry; and the person will express himself in a chaste and
eloquent style.
Combination 2. One with language large, and a coarse,
hard working temperament, with moderate ideality and
larirc perceptive organs, will use; plain and COmmon-ptao
words, and express himself in a blunt, straight- forward
manner. His language will not l>e refined, hut an abun
dance of it, such as it is.
Combination 3. When moderate <>r small, the person
will hesitate for words, and be at a great less te express
himself. With large intellectual organs, and ideality, will
write well, and may become a good critical linguist, a line
scholar, and a man of scientific acquirements; but will fail
as an extemporaneous speaker, and cannot ezeel as an era
tor without great lal^or.
Rf.flfxtive Faculties:—These organs are Located in tin
upper region of the forehead, and when very large render
it prominent and projecting. The power of argument and
logical induction depends on these faculties. They render
the person thoughtful and rellective: fond oi
%
meditation,
and of a philosophical turn of mind.
Combination 1. With these organs large, full perceptive
powers, and a well balanced head, the person will display
good sense and judgment in every thing he says and docs;
will reason well, and make high attainments as a scholar oi
a business man. If these organs are very large, he will
be profound in his thoughts, and reason with a fore'.- and
clearness that will seem to unravel every mysterj IJi^
views will be original, and his mind adapted to explore tlu
paths of science, law, government, or morals.
Combination 2. One having large reflective organs, and
small perceptive faculties, will reason well from general
46
principles, bul i'ail in carrying out and remembering details.
Jf his temperament be inactive, or deficient in nervous
structure, he will be slow and dull in his mental operations,
and be reputed a man of less intelligence than he really is.
Combination 3. One with moderate reflective organs,
large perceptives and an active temperament, will be ready
and quick in communicating his knowledge, and will seem
to know more than he really does. With self-esteem large,
will assume to know much, but will frequently exhibit a
want of reflection and thought; will be moved by his im-
pulses and passions more than his reason, and will talk
more about what he has seen and heard than what he
thinks. Such individuals are knowing men, and frequently
pass for men of talent, but are really deficient in depth of
thought and soundness of understanding.
36. Causality:—Upon this organ depends our ideas of
rciuse and effect. It reasons by logical induction and neces-
sary inference, and brings the mind to conclusions that it
cannot resist. When a certain state of facts is presented
to the mind, it intuitively and irres\stably forms certain
conclusions. This process belongs to the exercise of cau-
sality. It seeks the why and wherefore of every thing,
and imparts a profound, cause discovering mind.
Combination 1. One with it very large, reasons from
first principles, and investigates every subject that comes
before him. He will not be contented with a superficial
view of any thing, and must have a complete and full un-
derstanding of the matter before he can rest satisfied. It is
the thinking faculty, and disposes a person to theorize and
explain every thing that he meets with. With large moral
organs, it gives a love of metaphysics, and moral and men-
tal philosophy. It takes its direction sometimes in the
study of government, and is large in all deep and profound
reasoners. It is very large in the heads of Daniel Webster,
John C. Calhoun, and others.
Combination 2. When full or average, the person will
often think rapidly, but will not embrace a wide field o\'
17
thought; and if the perceptive organs arc large will possess
a ready business talent, and an intelligent mind; will be su-
perficial in his knowledge of many things, hut pass for a
man of talent.
Combination 3. It' only lull, and the peroeptivea average,
with a temperament cot very active, the person will displaj
hut moderate talents, and should select some useful sphere
in life for the exercise of his faculties. With causality
only moderately developed, w ill possess a weak mind, and a
narrow understanding.
37. Comparison:—The power of tracing analogies, and
reasoning bj comparison, belongs to the exercise of this
organ. It discovers differences and resemblances; gives a
critical talent, and the [tower nf analysis, ami comparison.
Combination 1. One with the organ large, and individu
ality and eventuality full, with large ideality, will possessa
literary mind, and excel in the Stud) of the languages, and
history; will delight in beautiful comparisons, allegories,
and figures of speech, and use many hyperbolical expivs-
b; will convince by beautiful and striking illustrations,
and if individuality he very large, Will relate many an ap
propriate anecdote in point.
Combination 2. Large comparison, with modi-rate indi-
viduality and eventuality, will render one clear and eon
vincing in his mode of argument, hut he will not bav<
large a stock of materials in the Storehouse of his mind, as
those with large individuality and eventuality; and hence
will not be as ready in bringing up illustrations and c.i
in point; hut will see when they are in point; and posst
close discriminating mind.
Combination 3. With comparison moderate or only full.
and causality large, the person will think clearly himself,
hut will he unable so to arrang< and classify his thoughts
as to present them in a convincing light to others; will fire
quently fail to perceive the force of an analogy, and seldom
make use of many comparisons.
48
CONCLUSION.
The various organs and their functions, as they have
been analysed in this work, have been spoken of in the sin-
gular number, for the sake of convenience; but they all ex
ist in pairs in opposite hemispheres of the brain. Thos^
upon the middle line of the head touch each other, and pre-
sent but one development on the external plate of the skull
but they are divided in the brain by a fold of the membranes,
lhat drops down along the mesial line of the head, and sep
crates the hemispheres from each other. It sometimes hap-
pens that one of the organs on one side of the head becomes
impaired by injury or disease, and the one on the opposite
side of the brain, which is not affected by the injury, con-
tinues to manifest the faculty as before; in the same man-
ner that one eye performs the office of vision when the
other is destroyed. This simple fact refutes many objec
tions that are made to phrenology, by such medical writers
as Dr. Scwall, and others, respecting injuries of the brain.
Phrenology has only to be understood, and it refutes all ob-
jections itself. Will these anti-phrenologists explain their
own facts upon their own hypothesis that the brain is a
single organ; and that yet large portions of it have been
lost without impairing the mind? No well established fact
has yet been produced where both organs of a faculty have
been destroyed without impairing the function; but phre-
nologists have collected thousands, where injuries have
affected the mind by deranging a double organ.
The utility of phrenology would be a fruitful theme, if
-.in- little work would admit of a discussion of that subject;
but the Space allotted t<> the analysis of the organs has al
ready been extended, and we must content ourselves with
referring t<> £he works of Mr. Combe, ou physical ami men«
ial education; ami to the Asylums in tin- East, where phre
uology has been applied o successfully to the cure of the
insane. Ii is proved thai insanitj is the result of a di
ed braiu ry to produce b health} condi
49
lu_.ii of that organ before the mind can ho restored. It has
too long been considered a disease of the mind; and reme-
dies, that are only mental, relied on for its cure. If a
musical instrument were out of tune, and its strings broken,
we should think strange to see the musician altering the
music, expecting the instrument to be repaired itself. But
this is the way medical science has hitherto treated insani-
ty. It will be found that when the organs of the mind are
restored to a healthy condition, the person will be cured,
and not till then.
Those who make the objection that phrenology leads to
fatalism, should consider, that men have the propensities
and passions which this system ascril>es to them, whether it
be true or not. Phrenology ought not, then-fore, to be made:
responsible for what exists independent of it. That men
will indulge in crime, in falsehood,;' ind pride, ap-
peals too forcibly to our observation to be denied. Our
state prisons and penitentiaries atlbrd many lamentable
proofs of incorrigible criminals; and will the objector ex-
plain these facts himself? He may say that they had the
power to resist temptation; but will he not admit that in
them the tendency to crime predominates, inasmuch as their
conduct affords conclusive evidence of the fact? Phrenology
only shows, then, that they have acted in conformity with
their organization ; and if it showed any thing else, it would
not be in harmony with our experience and observation;
and would prove itself untrue. But while it shows this, it
establishes still more clearly, that this organization can be
modified and improved, by a proper system of education
and mental culture. In the same manner that we can
strengthen our muscles by exercise, or weaken them by
neglect, so the organs of the brain, and the faculties of the
mind, can be improved or neglected by the same process of
exercise and cultivation. The fact then, that some men are
vicious and depraved in their feelings, and others virtuous
and upright, leads to fatalism as much as any thing taught
in phrenology, and if our explanation is not satisfactory to
7
50
the objector, we ask him, then, to answer the objection
himself.
One of the objects of this little book, is to excite men to
a more intimate study of themselves, that they may correct
the defects of their organization in some measure, by re-
straining their excesses and cultivating their deficiencies.
There is no principle better established in phrenology, than
that the organs are susceptible of growth and cultivation,
by the habitual and proper exercise of the mind. The mor-
al sentiments and intellect are given us for the regulation
and government of our animal nature; and if we neglect
the cultivation of our higher powers, we are sensible of the
wrong we do ourselves, and accountable to the great laws of
Nature, from whose penalties we cannot escape.
Hoping these pages may prove useful in promoting men-
tal science, and a knowledge of human nature, the author
here closes his labors in this department of knowledge.
