{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__fowler___religion_natural_and_revealed.pdf","mytitle":"Religion Natural And Revealed","mylang":"de"}
. RELIGW.N;\ \
NATURAL AN~ .REMLED:
·. oa, THE
..
NATURAL THEOLOGY
KORAL BEARINGS OF PHRENOLOGY
AND PHYSIOLOGY) .
INCLUDING THE
. ' . .
DOCTRINES :£'AUGHT·AND IYUTIES INCULCA'Nm
THEREBY,
OOJIPA.B.ED WITH THOSE
ENJOINED~ IN THE. SCIUPT.URE~.
ltiA.TE&IALISM, HOLINESS, SIN,
REWARD~, PUNISHMENTS, DEPRAVI1'Y
A CHANGE OF HEART, WILL, FOREORDINATION,
FATALISM, ETCt.ETC.
~!>-(\. ~i
BY <f. s.'\iFOWLER. ·
PRACTICAL PHRENOLOGIST, EDl~~R OF THE AM. PB.B.. JOUB.Nll
•
..
•
•
• •
J.trrllO& OF FOWJ.K&'S PH.RENOLOGT, HEREDITARY DESCKNT, PH.RENw.oGT 0
.A.l'l'LJED TO EDVC.ATlON AND SELF•lJIIPROVElltENT, :Do. TO H.ATJUo •
' MONT, DO. TO MEIIO&T, TEMPIUU.NCE, ETC.
Tro.th Alwava harmoniaea with iti4!1C.
..
'lENTH BDI'J'ION-ENLARGED AND IMP&OVJID
llP!W YORK:
~ br 0 . 8. J'owler, 131 Nuaau St., CllntoD Hall ;'Sutoa & Peirce,a ··~
• Co, WulUIIaten St., bn-ooa: Colon & ~.. Area~e. l'hiladelphla1 J. A. Hap.
kiM & Co., 8~. Jl. Y.: E. A. Smith, Erwmton, 8. C.; M. J. Grier,
lluidJt,..o. c-..cra Weott ouul BoobeUera generalt7• ,
q-
o,9,,,zed ~yGoogle ·
..
..
•
•
..
11/8.t.
..
BnterecJ, ICOOrdhlg to Act of'CoDp~~~, iJ;l the year 1844,
BY FOWLERS & WELLS,
ID theClerk's OfBoeof.t.he Dimiot Court f'ortheSo1dhemDiatriot of'New-York.
• •
•
• •
..
DigitiZed by GoogIe
..
CONTENTS.
'
CHAPTER 1.·
TRJ!l mAJIENT.U. PJUNcfi.u:s OP HAN'S MORAL AJO) &ELIGIOtJit
NATURE.
'·
SECT. L-Man constitutionally moral and religious, .
- IL-The foundation of m.an's moral and religious natilre,
- IIl-The Ioctttion of the moral organs, and general re-
. dections on their faculties,
•
CHAPTER IL
..
15
29
• 33
•
'l'BE AN..U.YSIII o-. Til.& IIOB.AL PACWJlES, AlQ) ~ IlUEB.EifCq
. .
CONSEQUENT 'l'BEJtBON.
SECT. 1-Veneration.-Its analysis, and the exil&ence ofa God. 46
- .11.-The true religion and the false. 61
- . Ill:-The Sabbath, 77
- -. IV.-Revivals of religion, • . 79
--. V.-Religious teachers, or preachers, 83
- -
. VI.-Religious societiea or 8111ociationa, @8
- VIL-Prayer.-Its duty.-Its efficacy. • 89
- - VIII.-Religious creeds, ceremonies, observaqcee, &c. 92
CHAP'l'ER Ill
SECT. I.-Spirituality, or marvellousness.- Its analysis and
bearings. 94
SECT. H.-Spirituality continued.-Inferences, . · , 102
SEQT. III........Special providence8. • 106
SEcT. IV.-Conversion; the operations of the Holy Ghost;
Divine grace ; faith, &c. 109
SECT. V.-A change of heart commued--obJecnom answered. Ill
EEcT. Vl-M!Merialism.-Objection answered. • 114
Digrtrzed by Coogle
•
~.
--------------- ------------
•
••
•
•
.'
'•
. $)~
CUAhER IV~
ROPE, AND ft8 BEARINGS.-A P1J'1'b.E ITNI'E.
..
SBOT: L-Analysis, location,·and- ~ o. Hope. • I11
S:zc:r. U-Hope continued.-Miseellaneous infereneea: • • 126
' CHAPTER V.·
s.ar. L_;'l'he funetioa Of llenevolence, and·the duty and pia•
• 1n1re ofdoing good. 128
•
SeeT. 1.-Con.Seienee innate. 140
SEVTl 'H.....The nature·ed rationale-of right aBd-wrong j or,
the foundation ofmoral'obligation. 144
·SECT•.Ill-What is right, and what wrongII • • 154
-.SWJT. IV.-Depmvity.-Its origin--4ts extent-ita·conditiona-
its eausee-.its remedy. • 161
' SECT. V.-Punishment, here anti her•fter, • 166
• 8BCT. VI.-Penitenee and pardon. • .•' • 169
-
CotfcluaiOD. • 174
•
· o,9,,,zedbyGoogle
..
•
..
'··- .' '
~r ·DO;·~b,iect wbate-.~l~dia.-,.,••,..••uwaa•
..~:Qr,~ed with,CQD&eqtmJ,Cef ...-em~·~tbaJa&>~·
~.Qf;.., ~oetr;in- in~ulcateG,-.1 ~e dutP1reqQ~ ~ Plai.o.
.l$fy,.with. th0111e·~·ed by tllaBible.
Pol. about 1800 years,.hal the·:religioa do JeetJI ~·· aildvftr ·
16Ver.al ~ years, hla.ve &.. SeriptJUEIB eDrtecl•an·aB.amtroJ.
q influence over the ,iatelleQ~ the emotiDna, and &e:mmc\uct ef.
mankind-engrossing the feelin~,.ahapingAbe.liv.,;-ooe~1b
•
min<ls, and filling the souls, ef. untold. DUllions.of, 1ae.h'12maa.family. "
Nor does, or should tbia iritereet.diminish
Phrenology :fa also.now every wh.el:e beccmlinAt a auijett o£illll· .
absorbing interest; a:M well it may, for it ia- founded in !llW.t It' .. •
WUit, it toill prevail. . It is a aeWIJ1tltralive scieaoe. lt~f.s.btrilt ttpon
PACTS, infinite .in both.vari.ety and nuu\her. It developea and e"Vt?lm
those laws in hal'lDfD.y with which God cl'ellted both llJ8D and the • •
whole range or' animated nature. Every living creature·that·now
inhabits earth, air; or water, is a living, incontestibl~tt·evidtMCe ·of
ita truth, aa are also all that ever have lived, or that Wlijl':ever inhabit
• our globe. ~ad men have ·eyes to see these facd!, as we]Las iRtellect
enough to perceive that they establish the trqth .,rPhrenology beyond
all cavil or controversy. And they are fast opening \Qeir eyes to
these facts, and yielding to the irr&sist.ible eYidence t}pit Phrenology
is true. Nor is it possible for any intelligent mind caadiiHy to exam·
inedlrer the facts or the principles of this ·science, wilhout beoomibg
convinced of its truth, ancl.enan;l.Ored with i\8 lloetrinell. Men·aomot
helfi believing it, any more than they can help seeing what they look
at, or feeling fire ;when they touch it All 'mut and will admit a
•
. . • o;91t1zed byGoogle
..
,
•
..
••••
I
.
•
..
'
'
.··" .'
•
nii
truth. ManY, already believe it. In4eed, it'is now aeqllirfug.-....
exerting a moral power which nothing-absolutely nothing-caD-
gainsay or resist. It is eruahing beueath the car of ita triumphal pro
gress whatever and whoever resist or oppose its advancement. In
connexion with a sister science, it is sweeping into oblivion those old
theories, unnatural customs, and erroneous institutions, by which past
ages have been enthralled, ap.d even the present is yet spell-bound.
So great is its moral power, that it will prostrate and ride over what·
ever religious doctrines, forms, or practices conflict with it. If even
ilie Bible could be fbund to clash therewith, then would the Bible go by
the board. Nothing could save it; for it would war with Truth, and
must suffer defeat. But, if it be found to harmonize with Phrenology,
then is it based upon the rock of Truth, and defended and supported
by those immutable laws of Nature which the all-wise Creator has
instituted for its government; so that neither can infidelity scathe ita
walls, nor atheism find the least support for its monstrocities ; both
being overthrown by this science.
In this view of the subject, how all-absorbing the interest, how over·
whelming the importance, how momentous the results, of a compari.
son of the religion of Phrenology with the religion of the Bible I My
pen falters I Must I proceed 1 I feel utterly inadequate to the task,
and yet I feel that this neglected task should be and must be under·
taken. Though the objections that Phrenology favors infidelity and
fatalism, have been often and ably refuted, yet th~ real principles de·
veloped, doctrines taught, and life required by Phrenology, have never
yet been fully and fairly compared or contrasted with the theology
and code of morals of the Bible. That is, the natural theology and
moral bearings of Phrenology, and the theology and requirements of
the Scriptures, have never yet been placed side by side, to see
wherein they harmonize, or wherein they differ. This ought cer·
tainly to be done. It has been studiously, if not improperly, avoided.
No one has stood in the breach, while erring humanity demands
the TRUTH on this all-important subject. No leaning to infidelity
on the one hand-no truckling to sectarianisms on the other. Let' ns
-
•• •
• ' .
' ~
• .,. ' •
• •
• Digitize~y {;
•
ogle
aweaJ. to PHILoSOPHY. The TRUTH is r~ed, witliout fe.tr, without
avor, without stint.
I know full well that no other task requites more moral courage
than this. I know that men cling with more tenacity to their religion
than to all else besides. What enmity is as strong, w~t prejudices
are as inveterate, as those awakened by tearing one's religion from
him1 Like Micah, he exclaims, "Ye have taken away my GODS,
what haTe·I more 1"
Still, I despait not. My hope of success in this arduous and hu·
ardQus undertaking, rests in tlle power of truth. This power will ul·
timately bear down all prejudice, and break through all opposition~
lt will force men to abandon their religious errors, and to plant them·
aelves upon the broad platform of the nature of man. That nature,
Phrenology unfolds. Sooner or later, must the religion of Phrenolo-
gy become the religion of man. The outlines of that religion, will be
pointed out in this work. The present generation may slumber over •
these truths--may even scout and reject them. Even future genera·
tbns may live uncheered by the sun of moral science, and die unen·
lightened by its rays. But the time will come when its general
principles will govern the religious creed and the practices of man·
kind. Then will the fiery star of sectarianism set ;.. -· :nal night,
never more to torment mankind with its n. _
0 ....m rays. Then will
religious bigotry and mtolerance cease for ever. Then will unre·
, strained religious liberty pervade our happy earth. Then will all
men see eye to eye and face to face. Then w1ll a holy life and a
spotlell8 soul in this world, be but tlie enterance Qf man into the enjoy·
ment of the immortal and boundless bliss which his moral faculties are
calculated to pour into the human soul, both here and hereafter. Come,
glorious day I come quickly.
And I derive no little encouragement, that it is " nigh, even at the
deor,'' from the fact that the religious belie( of. very many good peo-
ple, is extremely ansettled. Now, m•nkind h.ardly know what to
believe. Too long already have they been getting their thinking
done out ; and they begin to see it. They are no longer willing: ~
• bave it done by p~oxy. They are unw¥ling, as formerly, to pin theiJ
•• DigI IZed by.GoogIe
&lth on the sleeve even ofthe parson. They dellrt to:thiak forth...,.
.eelves. They are even determined to think for themselves. But they
have no dala--no ltarti•g "pointl1 no ba~e line, no fixed and settled
flr" prittt:ipln-at which to oommence, and with which to compare.
These first principles are to bti fOilDd in"the N.A.TU&AL THEOLOGY, ana
the IUTtlltAL RELIGioN,of Phrenology: This science disseet.s and una
mlds man's Inoral nature-its primary faculties, its original elemente.
It does this so clearly that man cannot fail to perceive and adopt the
r.Iigious doctrines it teaches, and to practice the duties it requires..
Rid any mind ofpreconceived prejudices, and in one year will the truth
of Phrenology thoroughly renovate that mind, and purify the lif&.
Thete prejudices are giving way. The last ten yean have liberal-
ized mankiDd ronre than ages have ever done before. The next ten
years, will witnP.Ss a moral and a religious revolution greater than all
past ages put together have yet witnessed. Antiquated errors are tot•
terlDg at their base. The darkness of the past is fleeing before the
dawn of Millennial truth. That truth is now being developed by the
daily and astonishingly rapid spread of that knowledge of the moral
nature and constitution of man im~rted by Phrenology. To expoltnd
this m()ral nature, and to show what religious fruit grows thereon, is
the end and aim of this little volume. Imperfect in authorship, but
rich in subject matter. Defective in style, but.deep in fundamental
truth. Requiring some minor qualifications, but tenable in every ma-
terial position, as well as unanswetable in every lllllding argument.
It asks no favor, but investigation-it yields nothing to the religions
that be. Its pathway is pltilosoplty. Its goal is eternal right. Strew·
ed behind it in all its course, are the nauseating carcasses. of hydra.
headed error in all its forms. It stands high on the hill.of Science.
Its roots run deep into the nature of man. Its branches yield all man-
ner of delicious fruits, for the healing of the nations, and the renova·
tion of mankind. . Its moral truths are food to the hungry, a cooli~g
beverage to the thirsty soul, a foundation to those whom the tides of
I •
error are sweeping onward to destruction, and a feast of reason, with
a flow ofsoul, to all-sight to the blind, feet to the lame, health to the
111valid, vitality to the dying, and life to the dead•
..
• DIQIIZedbyG ogle
..
•
..
Aworl ia refereaee &o·the~not ii&''Editor.for- ~J
presenting thi&mijleet; Thath&ia•thoeoughly:TezsedJo·.PM-erwlou,
.•d eepecially in tlat ~&l·depamnent ofit which glVe& him jus&
'U&t vert knowledge or the wor.kiDgs or,maaifelltationa of. the moral
fileullies, in all their phqesoand. QOabirwiOJlS,.thatis reqtJiYed, almoa&
8'VW'f American r~ will-,umred; from ,,hat he:already knowe
ofhis works and standing. That_no other man, his brother excepted,
is equally well qualified in this respect, is a matter of fact, and not of
egotism.
Nor is he ignorant, either theorutically or experimentally, of what
ia considered genuine religion. Brought up by a mother eminently
godly and devout, and by a father long a dea~on and a staunch pillar
in the Congregational Churches, religious. from cWdhood, and fa-
miliar with both the Bible and the pecuila.. loctrines of most of the
sects ; he brings to the discussion of this subject not only an intimate
knowledge ofthat science in which his deductions are based, but also
a minute acquaintance with the commonly received religious notions
and practices ofthe age.
Nor will these deductions be materially affected by their authorship.
That affects only the manner in which they are presented. Still, the
only drawback experienced by the work consists in the haste with
which it has been sent to pres~ haste induced by a literal pressure
of professional engagements, lecturing, business, &c., which must
otherwise have postponed it indefinitely. To this, the public would
not consent The public have said with emphasis, "LET us B.&.VB
THE WORK. Be it imperfect as to·style-be its authorship defectiw-
still, at IOflle rat~t all events, GIVE us THE WORK." And the Author
feels that it will, that it must, oo oooD-the sole object for which it
was written. He feels that no one can rise from a careful perusal of
its contents, without being benefitted thereby.
It remains only to add, that the Author takes it for granted, that thi
reader admits and ·understands the fundamental doctrines of Phre·
nology. Taking for granted that the truths established by th1a
aoience are admitted, he proceeds to investigate the moral and religio•
oig•tozedbyGoogle
..
. ..
lUJ
priDe.iples·laid dowa, and the datiee pointed. out, therelly, and.to COJD.o
prethemwith the t'ttndamepf41 aoctrinea taught, and duties.enjQined,
by the Bible. Nor will there ~ aay ension of knotty points; ~1
temporizing with popw prejudiCe.. But it will CODtain a full,fear·
less, manly, .expowid.ing of tr9lh, and upoeition of error. DWW.
prejudice. Read; ponder ; in1'81tipte. Decide. Receive the rood
Reject the W. . .
DigitiZed by GoogIe
;
PREFACE TO TH·E SECOND EDITION.
IN less than nine months after the publi..:ation of this wonc, an ed1·
tion of over two thousand copies has been exhausted. This unex·
pected sale makes it necessary to put a second edition to press too
soon to allow the Author the requisite time to revise it for that pur-
pose and make as extensive improvements as he has hitherto contem·
plated. Still, he has taken scraps of time from other labors to rewrite
some portions of it, transpose others, make copious additiollf!1 and, as
1\ whole, greatly to improve it.
The chapter on the nature of right and wrong, and the origin or
foundation of moral obligation, (or on the constitutional elements of
the sinfulneu of sin and the virtae of holiness,) as well as on the
r.aases and cure of human depravity, will be not only new, but also
directly in the teeth of all prevailing notions on this subject. Of
r.ourse, therefore, it will be unpopular. Be it so. Be it as it may.
With that matter, the Author does not concern himself. It concerna
the reader-it affects his happiness, not mine-whether it be accepted •
n rejected. That this 8.llalysis of virtue and sin cannot be contro-
Yerted, is certain. That . it will plough a deep and wide furrow
through the field of truth, now overgrown with the thorns and the
brambles of popular error, is also certain. But it will prepare that •
field for a rich harvest of human happiness and virtue. In short, let
not the reader be startled with any thing contained in these pages ;
but let him come up With bold, manly thought to.an unbiased e~­
nation of their entire contents.
The first editiou was received with a much better spirit than the
Aa&hor anticipated. He expected that its fearless exposition of secta-
rianimn, its ·reproving the churches for admitting the fashions into
•
DigitiZe~ by GoogIe
•
•
•
thom on the Sabbath, &e., aa well aa U. bold acbancement ol ICIIIle
aopalatable truthl, and fearless expoaition of some glaring but gene-
tally received errors ; would have subjected it and him tO odium.
But he1ilidi ihltmen•can 'beat ttie tnith®ueh' bett~ tlian1be aup-
posed they could. He finds that they even low it. He expected infi·
delity would come down upon him on the one hand, for eXposing
10me ofita errors ; and religionists upon the other, for tearing from
them some of their darling dogmas. But he finds that nearly all like it.
Hti findS, that·in matters of religion, men·dUfet much'less than they.
..Uppo8e they do; Theydivide on: namu more thari on thing1. And·
wliiU is'niote, there ate some nm<Iariiental religioiis truthS which all'
.e and-admit-a broad platform· of coinmon· grotind1 which ·all re-- · ·
cogniZe assuch. And Phrenology willorfug allon-to this ptatform.
Aiaa may this little volume gi:i forth upon- tlie arigryaea of seeta~
nan:contention, to:calm;itS tro~bied water! : to liarmonize conflicting
elements, and to iiaseminate truth. and J.Ove, and-moral purltf amoq
JDIIaiUia. •
..
...
Digitized by GoogIe
RELIGION,
NATURA.L !ND REVE·ALED, ET·C.
CHAPTER I.
Til& FUNDAMENTAL PBINCrPLES OF MAN'S MOKAL AND
RWGIGV8 NA.TUBE.
BB.CTION I.
IUJf CONSTn'UTION.ALLY IIO&AL .tJID Jt.t!LIGI0118.
M.ur JS conatitl,t\ionally a moral beiDJ.> _lJa.js also natura1lyteJi.
flOUS. Indeed, piety of some kind, and ·~ in some iOrm, ha.w
enr constituted, and lltill constitute, OJle orthe leading motift81 ODe of
&he all-engroeaiug pursuits, ofmu]rind. Strike from the page of JUa.
wey, and from the mind and conduct of mankiftd, fl'fery thing apper·
tainiog to mQI'als and religion, and the identity of lleth will be de-
l&royed. Take hla religion from the conceited Chioese, or from the
~ted Hindoo, or from the degrtded Ethiopean, or fro~ the
noble 1011 o( the forest, and each in hia tum, with Micah, would
exclaim, " Ye have taken aw., my G 0 D S I what Alule I
more1" In tlct, where.is the nation or tribe-when and where have
aay existed-whose religion did not enter·into the very texture ortheir
minds, fOlD\ their habits, qould their cheraoten, shape and perpetuate
their government and inetitationa, and .e\li8D guide their intellect, u
well aa govern their whole conduct1 Without these moral eltmeDtl.
~w ignoble, how d&Jm~.ved, '"uld.JUD have beenI But, with them,
bow eultedl how ~gelic, bow godlike, is he capable ofbeing and of..
becoming! .
Nor is there aay dan8"f; or eYeD pb811bility1 that man will ftl8r
b.ecom~ leu religio\11.than he now ia and always has been, any mere.
..._ ~· • lhnpr of hi$ ceuiDg to become hung:ry or to breatlie i
•
l3igii1Zed by GoogIe
#
•
16 ltELMION: NATURAL ~ REVEALED. 171)
for religion is engrafted upon his very nat~re, or, rather, forms no
inconsiderable portion thereof. This fact, established by the whole
history of man, is demonstrated by Phrenology, 1n its s)lowing that a
large portion ofthe brain iSappropriate to the development ofthe moral
and religious organs. Till, therefore, the nature of man is essentially
rerr.odelled, that nature will compel him to baTe.a religion of some
kind. The great danger is, not that manki~d can ever become irre-
ligious, for that is impossible, but tllat his religious faculties will !!till
contmue to combine, as 'they always have combined, with his predo-
minant prope.nsities, instead of with his feebler intellect For it is a
fully established law of Phrenology, that large organs combine in ac-
tion more readily and powerfully with the other organs that are large,
than with those that are smaller. Man's intellectual lobe being usu-
ally much inferior in size to his animal, the great danger is that his
moral faculties will still continue to unite with his propensities; and
hence, that he will still make his religion the scape-goat of his sins.
Always has his religion been the servant of his pride, of his unbri-
dled lusts, of his sinful passions. It continues to do this. So that
his religion, designed and calculated to make him better, actually
makes him the worse, and the more miserable. But, let the moral
sentiments combine with a vigorous and an unperverted ·intellect, in
conjunction with a healthy organization, and incalculably will they
ennoble, adorn, and happify mankind. That their power, both for
gOod and for evil, exceeds all computation, is evident from the whole
history of man, as well as from the nature of the faculties themselves.
How important, then, that man should understand his moral nature,
and obey its laws I In common with every other department of his
• nature, it has its laws. To suppose otherwise, is to charge God fool·
ishly, by supposing that he has neglected to establish the dominion
of laws, and to arrange first.principles in one of the most important
departments of the nature of man. With this neglect, the Almighty
is not chargeable. Of the benefitS resulting from the establishment of
these laws, man is not deprived. So far therefrom, fixed laws, im.
mutable first principles, reign supreme in this, as they do in every
other, departmen; of nature.
Nor are these laws a sealed book to man. They are not locked up
from his moral visioc. Like the glorious sun of the natural day,
they were made to rise upon every son and daughter of creation
and to throw a clear beam of light and truth throughout every human
soul Not a single dark corner exists but is capable of being illumin-
ed by the sun of moral truth. AU have moral eyes. All ean perceift
•
Digitized by GoogIe
111 JU1'I .l KOJUT. Al'ID RELIGIOUS BEING
lllOl'lll tr.th. All can follow in the paths of morality and virtue. None
need ever tt11111ble upon th• dark mountains of error, or be lost in the
mist of superstition, or make shipwreck upon the rock of bigotry, or
be swallowed up in the vortex of illfidelity. Moral science exista as
much as physical Moral science is even as demMStra/Jk as math81Jlati·
cal or anatoinica4 or any other science. The very fact that man has a
moral nature, is prima facie e~dence that nature hns its laws, and that
those Iawvs ca" be known aad Jea4 of alLmankind. To suppose that
man cannol arrive at a certain knowledge of moral and religious
truth, is to suppose that.the Deity has sealed or blinded the eyes ot
man touching this important·matter. Who believes this1 No one,
surely. Allmen can come to the moral lightofour nature. Sectarian·
ism need not e.rist. It 1/wuJd. not e.rist. Truth is the sure light.
Truth is COfiU·at·able, to use a common, but appropriate, word.
Error in this matter is a most grievous evil Moral and religious
truth is most desirable. If moral laws exist. They mlllt not be
violated. They must be obeyed. They may be known. They are
not a candle hid under a busheL They are a light set upon an hill.
All c(.ln come, 1/wuld come, to this light, and be saved from religious
enor and sin. This light can be seen afar oil; even unto the ends ot
the earth, arul by all flesh. Diversity of religious belief or prae·
tice, need not and·should not exist. Diversity pre-aupposes error, and
the greater this diversity, the greater the consequent enor. And the
greater this error, the more sinful, the more unhappy, the subject of
that error. Sectarianism has no excuse. It il mo1t per11iciov.s; for •
errors of practice grow out of errors in belief. And the greater either,
the greater the other, and tho more ruinous. Ifall would use unbias-
ed uason along with their moral sentiments, all would ~ to the
same results; for, truth is one, and always consistent with .It: )t
men would only employ intellect in connexion with their moral na·
ture, they would always believe right, and do right, and be perfect.
Oh I if man would but live in accordance with his moral constitution.
how holy, how happy, would he be I Religious errors, and dogmu
would disappear like the morning fog ilefore the rising sun, to oe fol·
lowed by a devotional spirit, anti a virtuous life. But now, alas I we
grope our way in the midnight of supcrstltion. We stwnble upon
the dark mountains of enor on the'QQ8 hand, while on the other, we
plunge headlong into the miry slough of superstition, bigotry, and
zeal without knowledge. And most sinful, most miserable, does this
our religious nature, render us. ·
. 2 .
•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
18
But. hght is breaking in upon the 4ark milts of all past agee. H'\
y• who would return from your wandemngs and be delivered fropt
your thraldroms and your errors, i>llow the beacon light of truth
hoisted by Phrenology. It will clear up all difficulties. It will soh·e
all DlOral problems. It will point crut thaneligion which harmonizes
Witn tne nature of man, and is moat cond'lleive to person8.1 happines!
and general moral purity. For it it self-.vident-is a phitosopl!:ical
axiom-that the moral natuJe of JX).&Jt m•st neeeasarily be • perfect
harmony with the moral government of God, aa well as with the
moral constitution of the universe. If, therefore, Phrenology be true,
it of course unfolds the moral nature of man, and1 consequently, must
be in perfect harmony therewith. So that, on the principle that any
two things, each e.xactly like a third, are therefOre like each other; it
tblio"P that the moral doctrines taught, and the duties inculcttted, by
Phr.enology, must harmonize perfectly with the moral constitution ot
the universe ; because each, by supposition, accords with the nature of
man. If Phrenology develope and harmonize withthe nature of man,
(which it must do if true,) and if this moral nature of man accord
wit&. fi\e,moral constitution of things, (which it must do, or nature will
be found at war with herself,) then Phrenology, if true, must necel'o
sarily harmonize perfectly with the moral constitution ofthings. Anlf
n~e 11er~ So that the moral constitution of things, the moral anll
religious nature of man, :md the natural theology, the moral precept~~.
and the religious teachings, of Phrenology, must each harmonize per
fectly with all the others.
And what is more, the moral constitution of the universe, and thn
government of God, must of eeurse each harmonize with the moral
character· and attributes of the Deity, as wf'll as with his natural
kingdom. Hence, Phrenology, iftrue, must of necessity be found to
harmonize perfectly with the moral character, attnoutes, and govern·
ment of the great Creator and Governor of the universe. And if the
Bible be also true, it• doetrines, too, must tally exactly with those
taught by Phrenology. But, if it be untrue, or, as far as it is erro·
neous, will this science expose its errors, and point out" a more excel-
lent way." Ifthe original, constitutional, moral nature ofman, as point·
ed out by Phrenology, be found to harmonize with the Scriptures,
!hey ar& confirmed by Phrenology, and derive an accession of evi·
denee therefrom which no sophist can evade, or skeptic gainsay. Bat
):they clash, then are they building their hopes of immortality upori a
rotten foundation, which this science can and will sweep away. In other
words ; ifthe Bible and Phrenology both be true, the moral preeepe.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
B.\OH ·UQtlltES THE AID 0!' THE O'J!ku. 19
aad duties inculcated in 'either, will harmonize perfectly with those
twght in the other, and with the fundamental principles by which the
ftivel'le itself, 88 well· 88 the great Creator of all things, are
• governed ; but if either be erroneo~m, it will conflict with the other.
Renee, Christianity haa nothing fo fear, but every thing to hope.
[{it be built upon the roek at truth, it will be confirmed and demon-
ttrated. Ifit ttand on a sandy foundation, the IOQiler it is swept from
niader it, the better. And if its foundation, like the feet and toes of
Nebuchadnezzar's image, be partly iron and partly miry clay-partly
strong and partly weak, partly true and partly erroneoll5-we here
.baTe a moral touch-stone by which to try and test every moral creed
and practice. Let us embrace it. Let all study .its principles and
tollow its precepts, and they will be the better, and the more happv
and useful
[fit be objected, that the Bible is already an unerring moral guide,
and a perfect standard of religious faith and practice, I answer. Then,
why does every religious denomination in Christendom, and every
member of every religious seet, besides multitudes of private indivi·
cluala, all claim to draw their peculiar doctrines and practices from ·
the Bible, llnd even quote Scripture therefor, and that thougb. their dif..
ference be heaven wide. Do not Universalists quote chapter and
'fel'le 88 plausibly and as sincerely to prove the final salvation of all
men, as do the orthodox in proof of the opposite doctrine that some
will be assigned to eternal condemnation~ The Unitarian and the
Trinitarian both claim to prove their respective but conflicting doe- •
trines each to the perfect satistltction of himself and to the overthrow
of the other, from the same Bible, and from not a few ofthe very saJDe
texts. .The Baptist draws his doctrine of immersion from the same
Bible from which sprinklers draw their opposite doctrine. Contro-
versies without end have been held, and volumes without number
written, to prove and to diaprove, from the same Bible, doe~rines as op-
posite to each·other as light and darkness, or heat and cold. Nor dO
the schisms of the Christian churches diminish. Indeed, they are iit-
~reaaing in number, and widening in extent continually. Every re-
volving year gives birth to some new sect, and each ofthese opposing
.~ects alone claim to have the Bible on their side, and give it as autho·
rity against all who differ from them ; and from the same pages of
the Bame Bible, each is reading himself into heaven, and all who dif-
fer from him, into perdition.
Now, ifthe Biblf!, " without note or comment," be an all-su1Bcieu&
guide in matters of religious faith and practice, why this religious di-
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
•
20 n:aiGION. lUTO'&AJ, AND llBVEAI.El),. l'7f
veraity and eontention 1 Why.does it x.&t comp6l all to ad<>}lt the
Bame doctrines and practices, and these th~ only correct ones1 Ifex·
periment, continued for four thousand years, and tried in all ages aod
by a vast majority of christendom, CIUl prove any thing, that ¥peri· ·
ment, or, rather, its total failure, and that too, under all.circumstances,
hits proved incontestibly, that, takiag man as he is, and the Bible as
it is, the latter is nqt, and can never be, the all-suffi~entreliglous guide
and standard of the former. Nor is it po11ible for it ever to be so. Not
that the fault is in the Bible. It is in man. But the Bible requires a
htlp-meet-6omething to accompany, explain, and interpret it, as well
as to enforce its doctrines and precepts. That help-meet is to be found
in Phrenology. This science gives the natural c'mstitution of man's
moral and religious nature. That constitution is right Whatever
differs from it, is wrong. Whatever harmonizes with it, is right.
Whatever construction may be put upon the Bible, not in strict actord·
ance with that nature, is a wrong constructioQ. Phrenology covers
the same ground that the Bible claims to cover-that of man's mo,.al
nature. Wherein the lines of the two run parallel to each other, both
are correct But wherein the Bible is so construed as to diverge in
the least from Phrenology, though the Bible itself may be right, yet
the construction put upon it, is wrong. Hence, with the book of
Phrenology as the elements, and the Bible as the supplement, of reli·
gion, it is to decypher out what is true, and to expose what is errone-
ous. Each will interpret and enforce the other, nnd the two together
will give a far more consistent and enlightened view of the true reli·
gion, an:l of co1·r.ect conduct, than either could do alone, as well as
rectify all ignorant or bigoted perversions of either.
It is worthy of remark in this connexion, that the Bible no where
attempts to prove either the existence of a God, or any of the funda·
mental truths of natural religion, such as of a future state, or the exist
ence of first principles of right ~ong, &c. It takes these mat·
ters for granted, assuming in the start, that man already admits and
understands them. This is fully evinced by the manner of its com·
mencement It opens with the statement, that " In the beginning,
God created the heavens and the earth," and proceeds to tell what God
said and did, thus presupposing that his existence is already admitted.
and his attributes understood. I do not now recollect a single argu-
mentative attempt to prove his existence throughout the whole Bible.
True, David breaks forth in the rapture, "The heavens declare the
glory of God, and the earth showeth forth his hapdi.·work," &c. ; but
this is only an exclamation of adoration in view of the wonderoua
DigitiZed by GoogIe
t .
l'l& DIPORT.ANCE OJ' NATUB..U. THEOLOGY. 21
works of God. not an ar{fUment to prove his existence. Indeed, the
one distinctive object ofRevelation, seems to be to make known the wa'!l
ofsalvation b!J Christ, not to prove the existence or attributes of God.
The latter was.left for natu.ral theology-for the very principles we
are W'ging. Modern Christianity makes too much of her Bible, by
ascribing to it more than it claims, or was ever designed to accomplish.
Christianity, or the doctrines of the Bible, are only the supplement of
religion, while natural theology, or the existence of a God, or the fun·
damental principles of religion to be presented in this essay, are the
foundation. Revealed religion is to natural reigion, what Algebra
is to Arithmetic-what the foundation is to the superstructure, or the
tree to its roots. The latter unfolds the moral nature of man, and
with it, the moral constitution of the universe; the former, builds on
it the system, doctrines, and conditions of salvation. Now the true
policy of Christians ihould be to give to natural theology all the im-
portance that really belongs to it, and to claim no more for Revelation
than it clrums for itself. It nowhere claims to be the whole of reli·
gion. The Bible itself maintains that the nature of man teaches
him natural religion. Thus: " Because that which may be known
of God, is manifest in them." "For the invisible things of him from
the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the
thlngs that are made, even hiS eternal power and Godhead ; so that
they are without excuse." "For as many as have sinned without law,
ahal.l also perish without law: and as many as have sinned in the
law, shall be judged by the law." "For when the Gentiles, which.
have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these
having not the law, are a law unto themselves." · " Which shew the
work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing
witness, and t!,eir thoughts the mean while accusing, or else excusing
one another." "And shall not uncircumcision which is by nature,
itit fulfil the Iaw, judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision doet
tt:ansgress the law1" Rom. c. i. & ii. And before the great truths of
Revelation can be fully enforced, or even understood, those of natural
religion must be studied. And this is the great error of the Christian
world. They ma,ke the Bible the Alpha and the Omega, the all and.
all of religion, and thrust its handmaid and twin sister, natural the-
otogy, away into the back ground, clear down out of sight and hear·
ing, and they pay the forfeit of this unholy temerity in those sectarian
dogmas which now disgrace the name and profession of Christianity.
Take natural theology along as an interpreter of Revelation, and thia
religion! zeal without knowledge, this superstitious bigotry nnd oar-
o,g,,,,_."dby GoogIe
..
. .
&ELIOlON : N.lTUB..U. AND BEVlULED.
row·mindedness1 and these lame and distorted religious op.iuon1 and
practices, which now dishonor the Christian name, and degrade :man,
and exist every where in such rich abundance, would be swept from
religion, and be supplanted by moral purity and correct condoct.
Millions on millions of works on didactic and sectaria.Jl theology, are
pouring forth bigotry and sectarianism from the teeming preaa in
every civilized and in many pagan lands, while only here and thert
one on natural theology is published or read. Paley's "Evidences
and "Natural Theology," Butler's "Analogy." Good's "Book ot
Nature," and the " Bridgewater Treatise," (each of which, if based on
Phrenology, the natural basis of all works on natural theology, would
be infinitely more valuable,) with Alcott's "The house I live in," con·
ltitute nearly or quite all the valuable works on natural theology e.s·
tant, and yet their circulation is insignificant compared with that ot
some party religico-politico works on some creed or doctrinal poinL
Witness the sale of works on the PLtseyite controversy. No worb
ever sold with equal rapidity in New-York. And yet, every man of
understanding, ought to be ashamed to e-ive a moment's attention to
the points in discussion.
Not that I would underrate the importance of the study of the Bible.
But I would exalt the study of natural religion. I would see God,
atudy God, in clouds, in winds, in storms, in calms, in sunshine, iD
darkness, in vegetation, in mineralization, in every rill, in every fioW'o
er, in every tree, and bird, and beast, and thing that lives or is j and,
above all, in HAN, anatomically, physiologically, and phrenologically.
I would make natural theology the basis of aU theology, and natural
religion, the baaia of,all religion. I would teach natural religion to
children, along with all that is taught them, and before .the doctrines
and precepts of the Bible are taught ; and for the same 1eason that J
would teach arithmetic before astronomy. I would teach them to
" Look through N.uvu up to N!lture'a GoD.'•
.lnd, afterwards, would teach them the plan of Redemption broughl to
light in the gospel They cannot understand, they cannot appreci-
ate, the latter till they have studied the former. And, what is quite aa
important, the human mind requires somewhat more ofproofthan ~
finds in the Bible. The Bible gives us its ipse dixit simply; but the
~ mind requires mdence--requires to understand the tD!ly, and
the 'IDkerefore, and. the piilosopky, of that which it receives. ~
P,hilo1ophy1 the Bible does not give; does not even pretend to ~
It requires belief on the ground f?f a " Thus saith tb.e Lorcl_
'• ~d
DigitiZed by GoogIe
..
17.1
•~ leaTea·it. As man ia endoWed with reuon, 1t is proper, it ill
imperative, that his rea10n be satisfied. He 111ill reason. He 1h.dulil
reaeon And natural religion will give him his fill of reason. It a
all reason, and reason the most clear, the most comprehensive, 1he
most satisfactory. Reason, which, while it exalts and fill.t the iR-
rellect, al10 feasts the soul with the most sublime ideas of God it caa
pB~~Sibly receive or contain. · And, think you, that infidelity, and irre-
ligion, and impiety, anli profanity, wouW stalk abroad thus un'b~Nsh­
ingly, if natural religion w•re taught more, a11d taught to childrei'l9
No, never. The ideas ofGod thus inculcated, woold be too IIII.Cred te
allow them ever to take his name iB vain, or wantonly to break hit
lawa. After the human mind Aas studied the hook of nature, il 18
prepazed to tum to the pages of the Scriptures. And to attempt •
teaeh Bible religion before natural religion is taught, is to plant with-
out preparing the ground-to build before laying the foundation-to
run before you can stand-or to be a man before you are a child. NOI'
can any thing else account for the growing impiety of the age; and
lbat, too, in the very teeth of those mighty religious efforts now pDt
forth, de fide propaganJ,a,. We have religious teaching enough, but
it isnot of the rig/a kind. Enough of Sabbath schools, and Bible
daaes, and preaching, and revival!!; but not of the rigkt Cl\aracter,
We require more pkito&opky, in which to base it, and with whieh to
!MliOrce it. Phrenology shows, that .all the other faculties mUst be
JfUided and governed by enlightened intellect. That all impre118ions
1!)1lde upon mankind, to be either permanent or useful, must be made
1hrough rtum&. Nor will the greatest stickler for Revelation, be dis-
)?OI'ed to question the great point I now urge-the necessity of em•
'ployiug ri!IJIOfl to enfuree religion. Stilllell8 will he maintain that
the Bible 1Jf'O'Dei1 or even attempts to prove, even the fundamentals of
religion, mueh le&ll its details. Bo that he is compelled either to take •
utural r~ligion along 111ith his Bible, or else to :.a~e his religion along ·
with<na hie intellect.
And, surely, no field within the range ot human ~nquity ia p rieb
ia pure pbilflsophy, as religion. None more deep or eonclu11ive in ita
fltndamental principles ; more vast or variegated in the pure; unadul-
~rated truth brought to light. In other words: The morol nature of
man lw its laW!! equally with every other department of nature. Itis
roots strikedeep into the constitution ofthe human mind. Its branche11
cmn-ahadow no alight portion of that nature. Its fruit is the IIWeetelt
and the richest borne by that nature. So is its philosophy. So is itll
~Mrality. :Nor wa$ this tree or the moral nature ofman ever design·
DigitiZed by Google
1\ELIGION: NATVJLU. A!fD UVE.t.LEJ:. 178
ed to bear the thoUBa.D.ds of different and conflicting kinds t f fruit it
now bears. Some, bitter ; aome, sour ; some, rotten ; some, green ;
10me, hollow; some, bloated ; some, shrivelled ; some, rank poison.
Little healthy. Most of it injurious. All of it defeetive. And none
of it fully adapted to the nature of man. But each sect, and most in·
dividuals, have cut off the original branch or twig, on which they
each hang their souls, and engrafted thereon a w~d scion, whittled out
by their own defective or depraved religious organization, and hang
on it, fight for it, die on it-tucking to the last the poisonous fruit it
bears, and rotting in every limb, every joint, with the moral disease
derived therefrom. Such is not the order of nature. That order is,
that the tree of natural religion, planted by the God of heaven, earth,
and man in the soil of the human heart, is all that it ought to be. AU
that it can be. All that it can ever be made. Bearing fruit inconceiva-
. ble in abundance. The richest possible in flavor. The most nour
.iahing possible to the nature of man. All that is desired. All that can
be required. Filling the soul to its uunost capacity with an exstacy of
joy which the world can neither give nor take away. The original
constitution of man 18 1'ight. It is all that even GoD could make it.
Every primary faculty is all that it oug~ to be; and, the whole com-
bined, surpass in excellence all the rest of creation. Man ,ja the lut,
the greatest work of God. Man's moral nature, is the last, the great-
est, part of man. Last to be developed. Last to die on earth; and the
heart, the centre, of his immortality. Nor can the study of any de-
partment of nature, equal, in either importance or beauty, the study
of' that nature. Beauty inimitable, characterizes every joint ; every
muscle ; every physical organ ; every propensity ; every element of
M.ur. But THou, oh I thou moral nature of man, "excellest them all"
They, the tree; thou, the fruit. They, the subjects j' thou, the queen.
• Perfect in every feature. Immaculate in every part. And thy faCA
·reflecting the image of thy God. If we may pot see God and live,
yet we may see thee, his prototype, in whom dwelleth all the perfec-
tioD3 of the Divinity, as far as man may see them.
Metaphor aside. Whatever man can know of God, of hunself, of
any thing, he must know through his faculties. No one will for a
moment deny, that man waa created perfect in every conceivable re-
spect. To suppose otherwise, is not Bible; is not ~ture ; is not truth.
No one supposeiJ that his alleged fall took away any original moral
element, or added any new element or faculty of depravity. This
fiill could only have peroerted his nature. It could not possibly either
add or destroy or.,e jot or tittle of nature. It took away no limb, nG
DigitiZed by GoogIe
l79
muscle, no W,iyaical organ. .It'added no phrenological or other meo-
lal or moral faculty or power. As far as his origiu c01Witutiott
was coJlcemed, it left him just where it found him. It .aimply per-
wried his nature, but did not, could not, change ita originoJ ingr«li·
'"''· Tiley are what they were in the beginning. And Phrenology
tells us precilely what they are by constitution. It puts the finger of
1eience on every element of our nature-animal, intellectual, moral.
h gives us both the warp and the woof of that nature. Every item
of it separately. All of it collectively. This, none will deny who
adqlit, what this work presupposes to be admitted, namely, that Phre-
nology is true. Hence, in telling us precisely in what the moral na·
ture ofman consists, it reveals all the doctrines, all the plBCtices, th,Lt
grow on that nature. Thatare adapted to that nature. That that nature
teaches or requires. Dispute this, and you charge God foolishly, and
show your own i.D.capacity and bigotry. Allow it, and you allow that
that nature fully known, gives us a knowledge of every moral duty,
doctrine, requirement That obeyed, we shoulll, _~ - every moral
duty. That perfect, in development and i.D. action, ~-fhould be per·
feet in doctrine, i.D. practice, in every thing.
" What," says an objector, "but this throws the whole plan of sal-
vation overboard." Then overboard it must go. "It does away with
the Bible. It does away with the Savior. It abrogates the Sabbath.
It sweeps the board of revealed religion, lengtqw:ise, breadthwise, all
wise." Then, must the Bible be done away. So must the Savior.
So must all connected therewith. But, this is not my logic. It ia
yours. I argue thus:-The fall was I'Ub1eqiU'II.I to the nature ofulan.
So was the plan of salvation by Christ So the whole paraphranalia
ofaccompanying doctrin~ the doctri.D.es connected with that sal·
vation, or growing out of it. They are eztraneOfU to the nature of
man. They are added to it as far as they are connected with it This
is clearly the doctrine of the Bible. Nothing can be more plain or .
unequivocal than its assertion that man was made perfect at first. He
toas created perfect Hia original constitution was perfection 1tsel£
That constitution, Phrenology unfolds. It reveals it alt-every shade,
Every' phase. Every line. Every item. It teaches every doctrine
man needs to know· Every duty he ia required to perform. Of
course, this remark excepts every doctrine and duty connected with
the fall And ifman will but fulfil all the precepts, and obey all the
requirements of his original nature-of Phrenology-the fall, and all .
ill e1fects, will pass him by. He will need no Sarior, for he will com.-
,.
or~tlzed by Googl
•
•
Blit8> lin. .And,. bf·OODieC(Uence, die flet&rfr- be·lliret .up-tg,;tJu&t 'll•
~the He8 aiat41, end the more kely aBi happy, "frii Ae be. •
~teU:igqt readerC ifthese tmtha 1'un llthwut atiy,ef thy pecon·
ceiud religliQlll views, tab the ID.iltter ·oooUy, Go- over the groand
again. Sc:rutinD:e ~ bues of these i.nfetrenc:ee. -Scrutiaale tlle irrter·
ences thcmaei.Ta. Give l'easen her perfeat work. !1ear net fm- t'he
Bible. Fear not for Ola:riltianity. Care only f8ir ~f'U'I1. There is no
danger that tnai will ever OTertlwow ~ither (lhristianity or the Bible.
Ji they confti<!t with it, let them go. If tl\ey will stand the test dl
scieo.oe, all well. Ifnot, *'lrely you eanaot wish to build your eter-
nal all on a eandy found&'tion. Prove aR things. And remember,
that the moment you cast o...erboard the chart of intellect, and the
compass of re~Hen, you are left completely at the mercy ofthe watery)
windy elements of mere religioua feeling..-...are carried back at once
to paganism-to idolatry. The vf!ry fact, &tt the reasoning organ!
are located by the side of the moral, is proof positive that the two were
designed to act together. Indeed, he who will·not 'Teason on religion,
eannot-and should ftOt know or enjoy religion. Why reason with a
man who says in the start, that he will not re880n l It cannot be wp-
posed, that any sensible person will be afraid to investigate the philo-
'61'/v§ of religion, or throw away the unequivocal deductions of reason,
.n order to cling to preconceived, but erroneous, doctrines. Who-
ever docs, let them. They are the sinners ; they the sufferers.
Let not the preceding'be construed into a denial of the fall of man,
the need of a Savior, and the doctrines consequent thereon. 'I am per·
sl!1lded, thatthe reader will find them confirmed by natural religion, as
pointed out by Phrenology, and analyzed in these pages. At all events,
we waive these points fur the present. They will be discussed here-
after. Our object now is simply to state the fundamental truths of na·
tural religion, not to array them for or against the doctrines of the Bi-
ble. Nor do we wish to place them above the Bible, but only to lUI-
sign to each its true sphere and boundaries. We value.the Bible.
We roue natural religion. " These ~gs ought ye to have done,
but not to have left the other undone." We require both.. N~ither,
without the other. Both, with the other. "United, w:e stand; divid-
ed) we fall."
In view of these premises, whet. can be. m.ore in,teJest.ing, wh11.t,
more important, than the study of man's moral J1ature and relatio~ 1
Standing, as they do, (in connexion with reason,) ~ the very ~ o(
nabtre, the mbjt.ct matter of 110 study can equal that of their study.
The interest, the value, the importance. of any study, is proportion,att
• o191t1zed by GoogI ·
..
.. . •
181
•
'w the e.evation, in the rang~ of ..;eati<m, of tbe 11/J;eel of tllat atucly.
Thus: to etwly vepatieD, its qualities, laws, and.conditiona, tegether
with the-m~ of improving it, is deeply'intereatieg.and highly im·
partant, beeauae tJU. study is calculated to promote human happineee,
both ia the intrinsic interest ofthe ltudy itseJl, and alao in ~ apphca·
tion of the truths revealed thereby co the promotil)n of vegetation.
So, the .study .of mineralogy, geology, geogrllphy, utzonomy, mathe-
mancs, &c., are interesting in themselves, and the truths they teach
are highly beneneial in their applicabon » the pr<motion of general
happiness. So, ~ ltUdy of chemistry, is both deeply interesting,
and capable of being applied perhaps aa eDenaivel.y aa uy of the
..OOve-named acienees, to the promotion of human happiDela. So, the
zJtudy of natural history-of birda, animala, and whatever lives ancl
moveS-is still more interelting aad important ; because living matter
lB employed for a higher plRpOM, and has expended upon ita Conet.rue·
tio~:t and laws a greater amount of Divine willdop1 and goodness, thu
11 ahared by inanimate matter. These laws, also, are quite ealogoua
ro those that govern man; so that the study of living tlllngs, teaehel
•.1.1 many a useful lMBon u to the laws that ~'Yel'D our own nature,
.nd open into a field so near home that we can gathu from it many a
rich ac:ientific boqa.et of beautiful fiowera ; many a golden apple of
truth to gratify our taete, and to impart health and strength to u.a •
we Jl888 ~n through life. So, also, the atudy of man physically-of
the woaderfid mec'hanieal atrangementa of bones, mu.acles, jo.ima,
tendona, &e.-of the :heart, lunge, stomach, eyes, head, brain, &c....o..ie
ltill more interesting and impprtant; tmt, becauae ita subject made~',
(man), is more important than the aubjec:t matter of any of the other
studies; and, secondly, because it Opeall up ricbel- m.ioet of truth, &be
application ot which is every way calculated to augment hunaan J.ap-
piness, more than any ofthe olher studies yfl'. named.
But, it is the 1tudy of man's immortal miM-of his eleJJleot.e of
feeling !md i11UUect.-which eonatitutes tbe climaxofall studies, botla
as to the intrinaic interelt connected with its aubject matter, and as tt
the great and glorioua truths revealed thereby. Thestudy ofappetite-
of food, nutritioo, tile etfects of different kinda of food, and times of.
taking it, and tlleir reepective mfluences on intellect ud. feeling, u
well aa of the belt way of ao nouriahiog the body as to prepare itio
the best possible manuer mr experiencillgenjoymeDt,ud prom~
pleasurable action of mind~f the acqa.iring propensi~, the oijlcaa
·on which it shoulc1 be expeadecl, the ooriditiorls of right and 'W1'0n3 aa
to propet1y1 lmgains, dues, &c., and thia whole subject ofacquiaitioa.
•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
..
•
·•
• .•. 1ft
...:.Of ma:a's social, copnubial,·.pa~tntal, 1llial, and politic.al relatlon.i,
and aU that ela11 oJ dudes and· relations eoaBeqUQDt Uaereon j 88 welJ
as oC resistance, fear, character, ,praise-worth.i!less, and M'!me1 and
every thing connected with the commendaBle and ~raceful,-riae
still higher in the seale of interest and value, both as a study·and·as
to the 8Ublime philosophical truths elicited thereby. Still more im·
portant, still more useful, is the study of intellect, of reason, of mental
philosophy.
But, since the mfWal nature aud relations of man stand at the head ot
man's nature, its equal and twin silter, reason alone, always excepted,
it follows, that the proper study ofman's fi&Of'al nature and relation-of
religion, theology, duty, religious doctrines, precepts, and practices-
stands at the head of all other subjects ofstudy, both as to IV!Jjeet mat·
ter, and as to the yractical utility of such studies. From this study
alone it is, that we can learn the m~ sublime philosophical truths,
and those the most praetieal which it is possible for God to teach, or
man to know. Though this study is not the 8Ubetitute of all other
knowledge, yet it is the crowning excellence of every other. The
grand focus to which all others tf'nd. The great mirror of nature,
which reflects not alone all that is beautiful and perfect in nature, but
even Gon himself, in all his beauty ; in all his glory I If man .but
1mderstand and obey the laws and requisitions of his moral nature,
and those only, he will be more virtuous and happy than if,h~ under·
stand and obey those of any other single department.of W. ~ture.
But, if he violate these, he will be rendered more sinf'lll.and mi!erable
than he could by violatirig any other. . To know them, is the very
perfection of knowledge. To obey them, the climax of virtue. To
violate them, the quintelieenee ofvice.
Will ye, then, Christians, infidels; and neutrals, one and all, give a
listening ear, a reasoning mind, and unbiased feelings, to the 8Ublime
!D.oral truth and precepts unfolded by Phrenology, and then to a com·
parison of them with those of Revelation. And ye who are prejudic·
ed, "strike, but .hear." I sball doubtless cross the track of many, and
offend nearly all ; but wait, and " think on theae things" one whole
year, pondering, point by point, and then" receive the good into ves·
~~els, but east the bad away." Few agree in matters of religious faith
and :practice ; therefore most are necesaarily in error. Yet all think
theJ are right, and are positive that all .who differ from them, are
wroag. Who, then, will take it upon himself to 8816rt that he alftt
il right, and that all the world besides i1 wr9Dgt What candid.mind·
•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
bnt will rather say: l t114J alao be in eRor, u.d will examine care-
fully, ,and judge impartially. ·
Taking Phrenology for our religious chart and eompus, then, let ta
set aail on our moral exploring expedition, and~to what religioas ha-
ven it may conduct us-whether into the angry waters of sectarian
contention and recrimination, or into the peaceful and delightful haven
of truth, and the promised land, fruitful in happiness, and abounding
in every virtue.
BBC'liO! n.
'mE FOUNDATION 0!' :MA.N18 MORAL AND BELIQI0118 lU'(O:U:.
..
As already seen, man is created with a moral nature. He baa a
moral constitution. He cannot, therefore, be otherwise than moral
and religious. As well live without air, or food, or life, as live with-
out moral sentiments ofsome kind, and religious practices of spme sort j
beea~e they are just as much a part of his eollltitution as reason, or
appetite, or affection, or breathing. Nor can he live without them
any more than without a stomach or a brain. This .filet is set com·
pletely at rest by Phrenology. This science shows, that his moral
feelings, his religious susceptibilities, are not creatures of education ;
are not temporary and.liable to fiuc,tuation; but that they constitute a
very considerable p81l end parcel of his original nature. It shows
that a large section of the brain is set apart exclusively for the exer-
cise of the moral and religious feelings. And this shows, that he has
corresponding moral and religious faculties, or primary elements of
mind, the spontaneous action of which both constitutes and rendePS
him a moral and religious being.
Ifthis question be pushed back another step. If it be asked, what
is, the foundation of man's moral nature1 In what is it based1 What
relation do these moral fneulties hold to the nature of things1 In
what do these moral elements consist1 What lies at the entire bottom
of that nature 1 In what does this religious nature origiMte ? An,d
what are its relations to the nature of things1 What is its rationale 1
1 answer: The same, precisely, that eaueality holds to the laws and
causes of things. The same that the construction and constitution of
the eye does to light and the principles of vision. The same that
Amativeness does to the existence of the sexes and the proJlllilltion of
the race. The same that Parental love does to the infantile state.
The !ame that any, every phrenological organ and {acuity do to their
DigitiZed by GoogIe
184
counterpart, or tl} that to whiclt they are adapted. ·Thus: An·origt
nal arrangement in the nature of man, requires that ·he· partake of
food. Hence, adapted to this constitutional arnmgement and requisi-
tion tbr tbod, he· is crated with the faculty" and· organ of Alimelitive-
ness or appetite;
On this eating basisl}(minJ's natUTe, grow an those laws, conditions,
requirements, pleasures, pains, &c., connected with eating, or de~
pendent thereon, or affected thereby. Is it difficult, in tl'lis view of
the subject, to see what is the foundation, the rationale of appetite 1
It is so, that man requires to lay up fur future use a supply of food,
clothing, and various necessaries of life. Hence the existence of the
faculty of acquisitiveness, and' of its organ and relations. Nor will
any one dispute the self-evident inference, that all the functions, laws,
benefits, evils-all that can be said, aU that there is;, all that there
can be, touching appetite, touching property, is based in, grows out
of, this primitive, constitutional adaptation of the nature of man to
eating, or to acquiring. It being the nature of man to eat, there are
certain conditions of eating; some beneficial, others injurious; some
in harmony with its constitutional relations, and others in opposition
thereto. And that out of these constitutional relations, grow all that
is,good and bad, virtuous and vicious, right and wrong, of eating.. So
ofacquiring. So, also, it is so, that individual things exist, and that
it becomes necessary for man to take ~o1J1iizance of these things.
To enable him to do this, he is endowed with the faculty and organ of
individuality, the constitutional·tendency of which is action ; and thil-1
action brings to his notice those things which it is necessary for him tn
observe. And every thing connected with these things, or dependent
thereon, has its foundation and counterpart in this constitutional
existence and function ofindividuality. In these relations, consist the
rationale of this faculty, and of all connected therewith. It is so,
that man enters the world in a condition so utterly helpless, that help
of some kind, assistance from some quarter, must be had. Otherwise
all children must die, and our race soon become extinct. Hence the
rationale, the fundamental basis, of philoprogenitiveness. Nor will
it be disputed for a moment, that all the relations of parents as pa.
rents, to their children aschildren, grow out of this constitutional ex.
istence, function, and adaptation of this faculty to its counterpart.
And all that we bnve to do for our children, or to them, or with them,
is simply to do what the constitutional function of' this faculty, pro-
oerly developed and enlightened, would do, or requires should be done·.
So the element of beauty exists. Some things are beautiful ; otb.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
186 'iiiB•~ CON8'ftT1'11'10K OF JUN's M<m.&.L KATUJLB. 81
mare the opposite. And if it be asked, what is the natur~ ofbeau.
· ty-what is•
its·ralionah 1· the- answer is ready-is perfectly simple.
It is this. It is so comtituled, so it il, that the condition or quality
of'beauty-a~rt4ins neees!iarily to things~ Adapted to this exist.
enoe ot beaaty, man is created Wid\ the faculty of 'ideality, the pri.
mitlve fln\ction· of whiCh is t~ appreciate· and admire this element of
nature. And all iii so arranged, that this faculty acts spontaneously
ill the perception and admiration of this beauty, whenever it is pre.
sented; and·wherever it can be t'ound. And what is more-what is
most---all th'at can be known or conceived of beauty, is what this
fa'oolty teaches. Fully to undeNJtand the whole nature of this facul.
ty1 is to know all that can be known, all that is, of this beauty. And
this knowledge would give us a perfectly full and correct estimate of
all the conditions; all the qualities, all the degrees, all of every thing
oormect~d with beauty~ We need to know nothing more, we can
itnow nothing mote, of beauty, than that constitutional nature of' It
which this faculty unfolds. I am aware that this is dee,p. But I
trust it is also plain. It goes down to the last round of the ladder
' efthings. There is but one thing below it~hat on which ~his lad
der rests, to which we shall come presently.
Similar illustrations of the foundation, the basis, the constitutional.
ity, the rationale of things, might be drawn from each of the oth~r
faculties. Bttt the principle aimed at, the thought presented, is now •
clear; sufficiently so at least to enable us to descry the bottOin,
the fundamental principle, of man's moral nature. That applica.
tion is this. !t so is, that man suffers and enjoys. And it also eo
is; that mankind can both promote the enjoyment, and enhance the
sufferings, of mankind; Hence the existence of benevolence. Its
adaptation, its rationale is, to promote human happiness, and pre.
vent human suffering; This is its foundation, its beginning, its en<f.
its constitutionality, its all and all. And every thing there is
about benevolence-every thing appertaining to the way in which it
should be exercised, to what are, and what are not, fit objects of its ex-
ercise, to its degrees, its kinds; to punishment, here or hereafter-
every thing coooepted with this element, depends upon the primary
function, the constitutional arrangement of this faculty. When we
know fully the r&tionale of this faculty, in aU its ramifications and
modifications, we shall Imow all that can be known, all that il,
concerning this facuhy; its duties, its requirements, its rights, ita
wrongs, and every thing any way related to this whole class of
man's nature or relations. In other words, the complete phrenologi
•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
18e
cal analysis of this faculty will tell us all that is, all that can be,
concerning this entire department of the nature of mao, and .all ita
dependencies.
So of veneration. It so il, that man worships, just as it so is,
that he eats and sleeps. He worships a Supreme Being. He is 10
constituted. He cannot do otherwise, any more than he can do oth-
erwise than eat, or sleep, or die. And when we know all that
Phrenology can tell us concerning this faculty, we shall know all
that is (at least all that is to us,) concerning the worship of a
God. All that can be known of times, places, and modes of this wor.
ship. All that can be known, all that is, concerning its frequency,
its character, and its effects. All that it is possible for man to know
concerning the existence, character, attributes, works, and govern.
ment of this Being. In short, man's whole duty touching this en-
tire department of his nature. So of conscientiousness. This facul-
ty exists. Its rationale, its fundamental principle, is exactly on a
footing with that of appetite, and acquisition, and parental love, and
the beautiful, &c., 8!1 already seen. That foundation is, the consti-
tutional arrangement of right and wrong, .of holiness and sin, per"·
And when we know all that Phrenology can teach us of this faculty
-ofthe conditions of its action, of its combination in action, of its dic-
tates, iw requirements, and its nature,-wQ shall know all that man
can know as to what is right and wrong, good and bad, sinful and
holy. All that can be known of duty, of penitence, of pardon, of re-
wards, of punishments,* natural and artificial, and of every thing,
little and great, connected with this whole department of the nature
of men. Similar remarks will apply to hope and a future state. To
marvellousness, and a world of spirits, spiritual monitions, impres.
sions, existences, &c. But, as to present a few of these relations of
&be faculties to their counterpart, is to constitute the main body of
the work, they will not be enlarged upon here. Thus much baa
been given, because it was deemed necessary to explore the Jou11f1a..
tion of morals and religion, before we began to examine the super-
structure. Nor have I ever before seen a successful att~mpt to go
back to the beginning of the moral and religious nature of man, and
• Benevplence waa also aaid to tetech ua all about punishment. Let me e.1
plain. I do not mean that the function or knowledge of either of theee orgau
liaglf, without reference to their combinations and other relatione, will do tllil.
I meanthat all which canbeknown ofbenevolencein combination with conecien·
tioumeu, and all the other orgaria, and every thing else bearing on it, will do
dlia. So of conecientiouanea. So of aU tlle otqer faculties•
• DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
l8f JUlll OONSTI'l'tJTIONALLY MORAL A..."Rl RELICIOUS. 88
the reader is earnestly 110licited to become thoroughly master of tbts
point before he proceeds. Re-perusal and mature reflection, it will
certainly require. But give them. Tl e subject itself will repay you.
So will the great truth unfolded. So will subsequent pages.
It was promised above, to go still one step lower down into the bo!-
torn of the subject-to the very bottom of its bottom. And that bot.
tom of the bottom, is the luappintlss enjoyed in the right exercise of
these moral faculties. What is the reason of the existence of any
and every faculty of man 1 What the cause of this cause 1 The
sub.stratum of all ! It is to render man happy in the exercise of
each. Thus, as philoprogenitiveness is based in the infantile condi.
tion of man, this infantile condition is based in the happiness of both
children and parent. As appetite is based in that arrangement of
man's nature which requires food, this arrangement itself is based in
the happiness of man. As ideality is based in the constitutional ex.
istence of the beautiful, this existence is based in the happiness its
exerciae confers on man. So of each of the moral facultiea. The
reason of the rationale of benevolence, is, that its exercise is condu.
cive to the best interests of man. But as this has been fully shown
in the first chapter of the author's work on Education, it need only
be stated here, not exemplified.
And now, reader, being at the bottom of this whole subject, let
us commence our ascent, that we may examine, step by step,
piece by piece, individually and collectively, all the constituent
ve119els and portions of this wonderful temple of the moral and ro-
ligious nature and constitution of man.
SECTION III.
ftB LOCATION OF THE MORAL ORGANS, AND GENERAL REPLEcTIOIQ
ON THRIR FACULTIES.
As already implied, though not yet presented with sufficient
clearness and force, Phrenology renders the great truth demon.
strative and certain, that man is both a moral and a religious being,
and that by creation, by original constitution. It shows that this
religious tendency before mentioned, is not wholly the creature ot
education, or habit, but of the spontaneous action of his primary
elements. The demonstration of this point is all important; It should
not be left at loose enas. Nor is it. No one who admits the
truth ~f Phrenology, can for a moment deny the therefore, that
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
II4J( OONSTlTOTION.ALLY KDJUL .AliD :am.JGIOtl& 188
man is con1titutionally moral and religious-eo by e1'tJI.d~ D040
merely by education or habit. This truth is inseparable from tbia
science. It is not necessary-it is too plain, too self.evident to re-
quire any thing more than the mere statement--that the admission
of the truth of this scienoe, necessarily brings along with it an ad.
mission that man has moral organs and. faculties, and 1s therefore
a moral and a religious being. The existence of this moral na.
ture of man, constitutes a part and parcel of Phrenology. Since,
therefore, this work proceeds upon the supposition that this science
is true, and since the admission of the truth of this science implies
and accompanies the admission of the moral organs and faculties,
the very existence merely of which both constitutes and proves man
a moral being, it is no more necessary to argue this point than, the
truth of arithmetic being admitted, it is necessary to prove by ar•
gument that two and three make five ; or the existence of. the eyet'
being admitted, it is necessary to prove that man is a seeing being ;
or the existence of the reasoning faculty in man being admitted, it it•
necessary to support, by facts and arguments, the fact already and b)
supposition admitted.
Another preliminary remark. Religion being constitutional, h
must have its laws, and be governed by its first principle~,,
There are three important phrenological principles that bear on
this point, which require elucidation here. The first is, the pllylie&l
po.,ition of the moral organs ; the second, their size ; and the third,
their function, relatively, as to the animal propensities and intellect.
First. The fact is worthy of remark, merely as a faet--as a
beautiful illustration of the adaptation of the location of organs to
their function-as well as teaching us an important lesson touching
their function, that the moral organs occupy the wlwle of the top of
the head. This denotes the elevation of their function. No one will
fail to observe, that organs are higher and higher in the body, th~
more important and elevated their function. Thus the feet are the
menial1 of the body, and accordingly, are placed at the bottom ofall,
because they are the servant of all, and beoause they can discharge
their appropriate function there better than if placed any where else.
So, the organs of the abdomen are still more serviceable, still more
essential to life, and productive of a still higher order and more ex-
alted quality of happiness, than the feet. But they perform a func.
tion less essential to life, and less exalted, than the stomach, lungs,
and heart, situated higher up, and as high up as they can well be,
and yet be contained within the body. But the head is the higheet
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
'189 &1D.I010N! N.A.TVU.L AJm RBVEALBD.
ohll, and its function-the function of mind, of fteling1 intelleot,
,reaaon-is the highest function of the nature of man, as well as the
• moe( pleasun.ble 01' painful. And then, too, different sections of thl'
• brain, petf'lrm functions still m'>re elevated,* still more pleasurable,
i~ pleasurable at all, still more painful, if painful, in proportion as
they are looated higher and still higher up in the head. Thus,
auppose a woman to be endowed with as much of affection, relatively,
as Webster is of intellect. Though we should honor her, yet this
ff'lality could not command as high a meed of praise, or be as exten.
!lively useful to mankind, as the talents of a Webster, if propeh1 di.
~ted, are capable of becoming. So, let two men be each equally
remarkable, the one for high-toned moral feeling and conduct, the
other, for libertinism, or gluttony, or any animal propensity, and we
honor the moral man more than the sensualist. It is the con11titution
of man so to do. It is not possiblt for a well-organized mind to do
otherwise. A similar comparison of any of the upper faculties aod
organs with any of the lower, will be productive of the same results.
This point has been fully presented in the Phrenological Journal,
Vol. Yi. No. 1, Art. II., and requires only to be stated, certainly not
to be argtUtl.
This truth oooe admitted, and the relative importance of the moral
faculties rises to the superlative degree, and assumes the front rank
in the nature of man, having by their side, and on a par with them-
aelvee, the rea110ning intellect, but eclipsing every other element in
the· nature of man. They become the natural goYernors of man.
They exercise the very highest functions of his nature-the throne I
ofthe kingdom of man. They ally man to his Maker, giving him
the same kind of excellence as that possessed by the great Giver of
every good and perfect gift, and differing from him in this respect
only in degree of function, and, therefore, of glory. So, also, their
exercise renders him incomparably more happy than the proportion.
ate exercise of any animal pleasure. Who does not feel more exak.
ed pleasure in the doing, as well as from having done, a benevolent
aot, than in eating, or in having eaten a hearty meal? Who doelt
• If I am aaked what it ia that conatitutes one function more elevated than
another, I answer, the amount of happiness produced thereby. And this amount
Ia governed by two conditions; the one, the quantity of function; the other, ita
quality, or the purity, and the 1tDetlne11 of the pleasure afforded. Thus; let a
man exercise au eqUill degree of appo:rtite and ofcoDJCience, and he will be rea-
·dfllled more bappy by the latter than by the former, besidee also feeling that the
·f!IGUt1 of the pleasure afforded by the latter ia more exquisite, more rich, more
4elirable every way, than that of the former.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
86 JUN1
8 HOJU.L NATifllE AND RJ:LAT.IllNI.
Dot feel a higher order of pleasure, as well as a greater degree of it,
in the exercise of.justice, and from the reflection oi having _donp
right, than in the mere acquisition of property, or in the exercise of •
anger, or cunning, or from having exercised them 1 Need this point ·•
be further enforced 1 Does not every well-constituted mind yiel~ a
cordial assent to it1 Is it not self-evident 1 A moral axiom, even 1
Not the offspring of habit, but of constitutitm 1 Not taught, but felt,
inherent, an original arrangement ofour nature 1
This h~rmonizes beautifully with the fact that the moral organs
oceu~y a large amount of brain. It is a law of Phrenology, and, in-
deed also, of Physiology, that the greater the amount of brain brought
into action, the greater the pleasure or pain caused by that action.
Thus ; not only does a large organ yield more pleasure, when its
aouon is pleasurable, than a small one, and more pain, when that
action is painful-large benevolence, more than small benevolence ;
large friendship, than small friendship; large ideality, than small
ideality ; large reasoning organs, than small reasoning organs, &c.
-but, some organs are larger, when large or very large, than oth-
ers when equally developed. Thus; the amount of brain occupied
by, and the periphera of scull above, benevolence, or conscientious.
ness, or marvellousness, or any moral organ, are muoh greater than
those ofsize, or w13ight, or order ; though not greater than thoee oc.
copied by many of the propensities.
But this is not all, nor even the most important pbreno-philosophf.
cal fact bearing on this point. There is something in the very con.
stitution ofthe moral faculties, which places them at the head of the
propensities ; at the helm of man, reason alone excepted ; or, rather,
in conjunction with reason. It is so, that, to be productive of happi·
ness, every animal propensity requires to be governed by the dictates
of enlighte,ned moral sentiment-that is, by the moral and intellectual
faculties in conjunction. As this is one of the great laws of the mo-
ral constitution of man-a perfect standard of virtue, and touch.stone
of what is right and wrong in conduct and feeling, its full elucidation
here is very desirable, to say the least, if not absolutely indispensa
ble. It has been already presented at some length in the author's
work on Education and SP.lf-Improvement, p. 149, but, as many of
the readers of these pages will not be able to refer to the passage
mentioned, and as many who can refer to it will not be seriously
injured by its re-perusal, but, especially, as much that we have to
say in this work touching the nature of holiness and sin, virtue and
rice, good and bad, right and wrong, happiness and misery-till but
Digitized by Coogle
"191 Jm'OllT.AlfCJ: M THE MOJUL P~CULTIES. 37
t lliifltrent names fOr subetantially one and the same thing--depend up-
on i~ a few quotations from the passage mentioned, will not only be
pardoned, but are even required, and therefore given, in connexion
• however, with some important additions, improvements, and infer-
e;ces:- ..
" Without re~dering obedience to this law, there is no virtue, no en-
joyment in life; but, this law obeyed, all is peace and happiness. A
few illustrations will serve to explain both the Jaw itself, and its im-
portance. Let it still be borne m mind, that we live to be happy-
that whatever augments our pleasures, both temporarily and ulti-
mately, furthers the ends of our being, and that whatever causes pain
is wrong, and should be avoided. In short, we need only to be seljish
-to promote our own greatest ultimate good. Our own happiness,
then, and also that of our fellow-men, require that we govern our con-
duct by the moral sentiments and intellect-that we never exercise the
propensities but "by and with*the consent," and under the direction,
of the mtellectual and moral faculties-that every exercise of the
propensities not thus governed, results in misery, both to the indivi-
dual, and also to all concerned. -
" Thus: the exercise of Appetite, by itself, indulged for the mere
pleasures of the palate, and without the intellect to choose the kind
and quality of our food, or the moral sentiments to restrain its exces-
sive action, will often eat unwholesome food, and in excessive quantities,
which will derange the stomach, undermine the health, blunt the
moral sensibilities, benumb the intellect, and sap the fountain-head of .
nearly all our physical Ill'· well as mental and moral pleasures, besides
greatly abridge those very pleasures of the palate sought in its indul-
gence. But, let it be exercised under the control of intellect-let the
latter choose the best kind, and dictate the proper amount, offood, and
let the moral sentiments restrain its excess, and the consequence will
be, the greatest gustatory enjoyment that we are capable of experi-
encing, as well as abundant sustenance to all the other physical facul·
ties, and the greatest pleasures in the expenditure of this sustenance.
"If Combativeness be exercised alone, without the sanctifying influ-
ences of the moral sentiments, and in opposition to the dictates of rea-
son, It becomes mere brute force, mere bravado and physical fight,
bursting forth on all occasions, quarrelling with every body, not only
without cause, but in opposition to right, and making its possessor and
ell around him miserable. But, let this organ be exercised under the
direction and control of the intellectual and moral faculties, and it be-
comes moral courage, a defence ofrigAt and truth, and ofthe oppressed,
and opposes whatever is wrong and pernicious in its tendency-than
which no element of our nature yields its possessor a richer harvest of
the most pure and exalted pleasure, in addition to the pleasure felt in
e:urciling this feeling, and the beneficial ends obtained thereby.
"Let a man exercise Acquisitiveness as the robber and knave exer·
eiae it, without intellect, to tell him that this course, in the long run,
will prevent his becoming rich, and without the moral sentiments to
DigitiZed by GoogIe
88 'I'UE LOC..LTl0111 OJ' rim .lfOJI.AL OJtGAM. 191
1how how WFg and unjiUt this course, (that is, Jet hun .eur,..~~e ~ '
organ without intellect to point out the most successful CQurs~, or tb•
moral sentiments to prevent his getting it by extortion and robbery,
and other similar means, however unjust,) and this organ will make
him wretched, and also all whom he wrongs by his dishonesty. Ill- •
.gotten wealth injures all and benefits none. But let intellect guide.:a
man so that he choose the best course to make money, and then let
Conscientiousness cause him to make money honestly, and pay all he
owes, and Benevolence prevent his distressing any one by hiS efforts
to acquire property, and that man will enjoy his money, and enjoy
life, infinitely more than will he whose Acquisitiveness is not thus
governed. The merchants in a town in which I once resided, held
their goods at so enormous a price, that they drove all the valuable
custom to a neighboring town, where the merchants had moral feel-
ing enough to ask only a fair, living profit, and intellect enough to
see that "a nimble sixpence is better than a slow shilling." The for-
mer merchants failed, and thus defeated their own object, but the lat-
ter are very prosperous, and enjoy mucli more, (both in the possession
of their wealth, and in the thought that they obtained it honestly) than
the former class." ·
Let a mother be ever so fond of her darling boy, bnt let her not
guide and govern her maternal love by the dictates of the intellectual
and the moral faculties combined, and she will not knO'IJJ hO'IJJ to keep
her child healthy; and therefore will suffer a world of anxiety on ac-
-count of his bemg sick, and still more if he should die. She will not
bow hO'IJJ to operate on his intellect or moral feelings, and thus una
ble to govern him, will be rendered miserable for life on account of
his mischievous, wicked propensities and conduct. Or, she will spoil
her child by over-indulgenc&-an occurrence as lamentable as it is
common-and thereby cause unutterable anguish to mother, child,
father, society, all in any way capable .of being affected by the child
or the man. But let intellect tell her what physical laws she must
obey, to keep her child always well, and all the suffering of mother,
of boy, of all concerned, on account of sickness or premature death,
can be avoided, and, in their stead, the perfect health, the sprightli-
ness, happiness, beauty, ~nd growing maturity of the boy, will fill the
boy himself, will swell the bosom of the mother, with joy unspeakable,
and be always inereasing ; thus enabling the boy himself to bec.ome a
boon, a blessing, to his fellow men. And the more so, if the mother's
intellect enables her to cultivate and develope the boy's intellect in tbe
best possible manner, and pour a continual etream of useful know·
ledge, and sage maxims, into his young mind, both to guide his oon
duct, to call out and develope all the ps:>wers of his mind, and to stert
the object <1f h!lr deep-rooted, but well guided, maternal 111fec~on ~to
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
(93 8lJPB.EJ(A(JY OP TBB •llOIUL .AND 1M'l"BLLEET11.U. FACULTIES. i9
the paths,of wisdom, and learning, and influence, ~standing en a
commanding intellectual eminence, be controls the opinions, and
moulds tht:l .:haracters, of thousands of his fellow men ; he himself en-
Joying all th..Lt mind can confer ; his mother being happy beyond de-
scription in her son; and society owing and paying a tribute ofpraia.e
1or the happiness spread abroad by this well educated son of intellect.
Still mote will these results be heightened, if the mother add high·
ton~ moral feeling to this,powerful and well directed intellectual edu-
cation. Then will she educate him morally, as well as intellectmilly
and physically. She will train him up in the way he should go.
She will imbue ,him early and thoroughly with the principles of-vir·
tue afl.d morality. She will elevate all his aims. Will chasten all
his feelings. Wilt write as with the point ofa diamond, upon the tablet
ofhis yet plastic and susceptible mind, and in living, burning characters:
never to be erased : "My son, walk thou in the paths of virtue. 1'urn
thou away from every sinful indulgence," and he will obey her. Not
only will his moral character be unblemished, and he live in accord·
1tnc~ with the principle we are presenting, and therefore be happy him-
Melf, but he will elevate a:ll those talents already presupposed to the
:~use of humanity and virtue, and thus do an invaluable amount ot
~ood. All this rich harvest of happiness to him, to herself,to mankind:
trill be the legitimate, the necessary harvest ofthe .intellectt.~al and moJal
~d sown by his mother. It will all flow naturally from the mother's
:!Ollowing the law we are urging, ofgoverning her philoprogenitiveness
~y the dictates of intellectual and moral feeling. And these fruits will
he still farther sweetened and augmented, if the parents go still farther
~ck, and so apply the laws of hereditary descent as to secure a good
original, phystcal, moral, and intellectual foundation in their child, on
which to erect this glorious superstructure.
The importance ofthis principle can be measured only by the heavl!n·
wide contrast between the effects, on the happiness of the parent, of the
goodness and badness, of the health and sickness, the life and death, of
the child. Ifbut this law were observed, we should have no premature
sick11ess or death, no ebullitions of passion, n: waywardness, disobedi·
e11ce, or immorality in children, to wring the hearts of parents with
anguish unutterable, and to carry them down to their graves mourning.
"Even if the parent love his child morally, and seek to make him
better, but, unguided by intellect, actually makes him worse, a course
very common, then his child is a torment to himself, his parents, and
all concerned. We must love our children intellectually an.d mqraUy,
if we would eitber have thulr. enjoy life, or we eojoy our ehildren.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
THE LOCATI:>N OF TBB IIOJI.AL OJWAKI. 19t
"If a rna~exercise his friendship, without the goveming mfia-
eneea of inteTlect and the sanctions of the moral sen~ents, he will
choose low and immoral associates, who will lower down the tone of
his moral feelings, and lead him into the paths of sin, and thus make
him unhappy. But, if he exercise his friendship under the sanction
of the moral faculties and intellect-if he choose intellectual and
moral companions, they will expand his intellect and strengthen his
virtuous feelings and this will make him and them the more harpy.
Friendship, founded on intellect and virtuous feeling, is far more ex·
alted in its character, and beneficial in its influence, than when found
ed on any other considerations, while friendship founded on the pro-
pensities, will increase the depravity and misery of all concerned.
" Let Approbativeness, or love ofthe good opinion of others, be go·
vemed bf the moral sentiments, and it becomes ambitious to elft:el in
works 0 philanthropy, and seeks to 'keep the mval character pure
aDd spotless ; and let it be guided by the mtellect, and it becomes in-
tellectual ambition, and seeks eminence in the walks of literature or
the fields of science ; but when not thus governed, it degenerates into
a low, animal, grovelling, sensual ambition1 an ambition to become fhe
greatest eater, or fighter, or duellist, or dandr, or coquette, which
causes unhappiness to the possessor and to al concerned. If Self-
Esteem be governed by intellect and moral feeling, it imparts noble-
ness and elevation to the character and conduct, which sheds a beam
of exalted pleasure on its possessor and on all around him ; but when
not thus governed, it degenerates into egotism, self-conceit, imperatiye-
ness, and superciliousness, which gives pain to himself and to all af:.
fected by thie quality in him.
"Let Cautiousness be exercised without intellect, that is, when there
is no reason for being afraid, and it produces evil onl;r; but let intel·
lect govern it, so that it is exercised only when there IS real danger to
be avoided, or let it be exercised with Benevolence, or Justice, making
us fearful lest we do wrong, or careful not to injure others, and its
product is most beneficial. This principle might be illustrated and
enforced by Amativeness, and indeed by every one of the lower or-
gans, and also reversed by showing how happy is the man who gov-
erns his principles and conduct by enlightened intellect and high-toned
moral sentiments, but it is already rendered too plain to require it In
short, man is constituted to be governed thoughout by his higher fac-
ulties, and there is no enjoyment for him unless he puts intellect on
the throne and the moral sentimemts as joint rulers of the kinO'dom of
his animal nature. Much of the evil exisung in society, much of the
suffering which stares at us wherever we turn our eyes, haTe the1r
origin in the violation of this law. Nor is the misery, so extensive,
to be wondered at, if we consider that nineteen-twentieth of the time,
desires, pursui~s, pleasures, anxieties, &c., of mankined are consumed
in feeding and ~$ratifying his animal nature merely; in scrambling
after property; m getting something to eat, and drink, and wear, and
live in, and show off with ; in gratifying his love or power, his graap-
iog ambition ; in politics, frien.dship, and family cares ; in ·combaliDg
Digitized by Coogle
195 Ul81UOB 0., JIOJLAL LAWIJ. 41
contending; bdekbiting laacivio1111le881 and like animal 'gratification&
War, love, money, a~ display, sum up the history of man since hit
creation to the present time. Before man can become virtuous and
happy, his animal nature mtut be subjected to the control of his moral
and intellectual faculties.
"This animality of man is in striking harmony with the fact, that
a large proportion of the human brain is in the region of the feelings1
while but a small moiety is found in the region of the intellect." Ancl
before man can enjoy life; he must take time from the iilsb.ionable
world, from the money-making world, from the red-hot pursuit of
animal gratification, to exercise, cultivate, and adorn his moral nature.
To be happy, man mtut be eminently ni.oral and religiOtu-must sub-
jugate the entire animal, to the moral and the intellectual. And he
is the most happy, who does this the most habitually, the most·effec·
tually.
For three reasons, then,·(the first, that the moral organs occupy the
highest position in the head, the crowning portion of man ; the second,
that they ooeupy so large a section of the brain, and the third, that they
are the natural, constitutional guides and governors ofthe propensities,)
should the moral nature of man be known, and its laws be obeyed: ' No
tongue can tell, no finite mind can conceive, the amount of pleasure and
pain it is in the power ofthe moral faculties to occasion. All the abom-
inations ofPaganism are caused by their perversion. All the blessings
of that religion which is peaceable, pure, and undefiled, and that faded,
not away, it is in the power of the. moral faculties to bestow. Theirs
it is, to sweeten every pleasure of life, and to blacken and deepen every
crime which it is possible for man to commit.
How all-important, then, that we understand their true function-that
we derive therefrom all the happiness they are capable ofaffording, and
escape all the pains it is in their power to inflict. This knowledge will
set us right. It will banish sectarianism. It will tell us just how to live
in hannony with our nature. It will tell us what is right and what is
wrong. And Phrenology will certainly impart this knowledge. It will
give us the science of man's moral nature. It will tell us every liiie,
every lineament ofour moral constitution. In telling us this, it will also
tell us what doctrines, what practices, hannonize with that nature, and,
what conflict therewith. It will unravel the whole web oftrue religion,
of pure morality. That man's moral natUre hal! its lam, there is no
question. Some things are right:' some things are wrong. The for·
mer are right because they hannonize with these laws. There is a mO-
ral science, as much as physical. Wherever there are laws, there sci·
enee exists. And to suppose that this department of man's nature is
11Dg0Verned bv law, is to suppose tl1at the Author ofnaturebas torgotteD
• Dlgotozed by Google
IN
~·~~Jp i~·tbAt ~~!Jl.9fJiiWIBt'~ and .ehll1in;thtule-
JIIIIl1UlBnt of his wo.vks which a~e so emill4Jltly wise and ·beneficial in
&very other department of nat"Jre. ·Is this whole field of human nature
indeed a barren waste1 No right1 No wrong1 No laws.'? No
cause.>1 No b,ipppiness1 No suffering1 J>r~poaterous ~ theory I
Contradicted by fact I . No I Ther~ ,
is a·right. There il a wrong.
Right is right, beeauJe it harmonizes with these lOADs, just shownto·emt.
The ·wtong ill wrong, and wrong because it vialates these iaws. Nor
are these laws either above his comprehension, or benell.th hi.!~ notice.
Neither too abstruce to be d,ecipher~, nor tpo sin)ple .to be worth
~v~ti~ They ue completely within the acope of his menal
vision, the range .of ;his intellectual pGwers. He can even-comprehend
all that is necessary for him to know. Nor need any more doubt bang
aroun!l th.is subj~t than now ~ .QiQow !l mathematical problem, or
abo;u.t any other scientific trAt4, N<lt only Qoes there .ewt .a meral
science, but that science is dem<mStrable. I uaethe w~rd dernonmsble
jn its t111e sijwitication. .I mean.that we canFove.,.,.,ean /kwm~Jr-ate.­
@Y ~ral truth j:q¢ ~ clwly, justas qonolusiv.ely, as we can demon-
strate any mathlliJlll1ic11l proble&Jl, ~ny an~~ic.$1 fact, ~y scieotiae
truth. Of all this .~#~ conten~ion, there .~ Q.O need. lt is .evwm
culpable. :!'here is a rig~t, ,11.nd man r.an. a,ft;Uia•~ right. Trutk
¥ists. It is obtainable. And when ~ined, it wiU .haPmonize .every
discordant opinion, every conflictiJlg feellng. Wherever there .is op-
position of views, ~here ~nor axis~. Trut4 Ill oae. Truth ,alway•
harmonizes with truth. Error ~ways claN-..e'J with.tn¢1J.., lln4 ~f
wiW. errcn. If there be .two COJ;ltijc~g npi.n.ioJJ.S -toucll:mg the AlJle
pqint, on~ oft)J.el;ll is certai.ZJJ wrpng. 'l'he otb.er is liable to be. .A.nci
iftb.ere be ten., then nine of t)J.e ten ~o e~r.;neous, ~ncl ,pe.rhafll ~
a.Iao. ';['his is .certain So ,that all WI tme ofthe cppftic~ng er~s ~
see\$ QtU ofthewhole two tho11~ ~t.exist,~re wrpng, !},gdtAAt~ne w
• not sw:e to be right. .And outof theae errqr,s ofbzij,ef~ow. all m&Jln~
oferrors of praoticeJ all sorts a11d sizes ofsiJ}s t>.nd wffcring13. ff!l m~
·believe rnqrder to be ,.;~ght,;erro~of cqr,dur~ and.com;equent~appj.
n~s to birn, to .m~rs,fi.ro:w outcfth.es,.t.rrpreofbelief. If ~r ~
lieves it rig,b.tt•~ 0,: lie, h,is e~,onf.~''lli ooliefwilllea4 ~ ~tay,in
®t,l<l.uc~ and. r~er,lliln miserabl~J~'Hl all alfet#4 J>y this belief, or.~p
ecmli.\lqt;ind~c:~ tbe;r,eby,al~ ~~a~. The an~~ts pel~ved·mtbiii·
dW .li~nti9ll411le8S w'Pe·~jg~. or,...~ ~~' ,rn~e p1,1bl~ !}lll'OSlit~tipn .f'
ll':~ ofU!.eir ~IJ!jgio.Q,. ~Wd .{lllff~~,...he ,~q~$lt ,~JWJ.ty of .~lu.l .Q
iP.d~~ W.~rl)bJ. T,.,'1,fiJ 4~ .riBh~ it~~ !U•y.a,~ry.w ~w
-.b#t~.l1&b~fOfllmDJI~~O,JfBJ;l,tt(rQJJ~.i.t;lt.J~i-~~,; ~.,W
•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
~ li~plyCoUp~ the Q~inal impu]aes ofhis tature. Still,to beheft
;wro-.g to lie;rigbt, js .~ certain to induce ;mrong ~nduct, the ne-
.:~y OOJ]IIeqllences of whieh are pain.
But lwtD shall we know whoa& is .right, and what wrong. By wh,at
.standard sba,ll w:e try ~llour cN$la1 all our practices 1 By the stand-
ard of the.nature of JMn. That MtiJle is all right-is perfection itself
-.as ~rfeet $S e¥en aGod could make.it. T~ stippose otherwise is to
arraign.t}le wodoJ)!Iluship of the Deity. Hence, to follow that natme ..
in belief, in practice, is to believefigAt-,4o do rig1lt. That natu.re Bas
~ lawa. The.fqlfilling .ofthese laws is the cause ofright, the cause of
.Pappi~. ·Their viQlati,on, is the cause of.in, the cause of suffering.
&t whate ll® we tind an ~erring exposition of the mo•l nature
of ll14n.1 Such an .expositor, once fGaDd, is our talisman, our philoeo·
p~'&.st!)Jle, in all matters of religious:beliefand practice. That found,
we need nothing else. That obeyed, we are as perfect in conduct-as
we are by creation. Where, then, can that stone be found 1 In heaven1
No, for we cannot get at it there. In the decalogue 1 No, it is too
-~hort. In the Bible 1 No, not all of it. But in the pages ofPlweno·
fogy. That dissects, it lays man's moral nature completely open, and
reveals every shread and fibre of it. Every law, every requirement,
•\very doctrine, every action,· required by the nature of man, will be
found in this book of man's moral and religious l)ature. 4t;l<J thls #!Ci-
•mce puts all these doctrines, all ~ ,'{eqWreiJli!Dts, on a scientific
hasis, on that same basis of positive, actualf~t, gn which the science.of
• mathematics places every matllemotical tru$; or of ~pomy, any
astronomical truth; or ,of anatomy, any ~to~al truth.; M of
<
:hymistry, any chym1cal fact; or of induction,any .~er .of ~uctiTe
philosophy. It is all put upon this basis.. Not~ is Ie(t4tl®Se.6Diie.
It is aU exact. All demonstrab{~· All ce~. ..l.n!l .U pJain,,too.
No mist envelopes any point of it. No c4u-k apo~ ~ ~PQn .its
horizon. Every fact is as light as the noon da.y s.un of ete:rnlll tnsth,and
unquestionable science, can m.akdt. And l rha.il withjoy the-science
tht can do this. That is '!J,o1i p,c.t'IJ.{J),ly doing,all t,his. 'rhat is des-
tined, ultimately, to do all tlue, Y~!l, even gr~ ,worb!tbe.n ~ese.
That will both ba~J,ish all sectarian d"fof11»~ aQAI p.artisit~, .so that
not a 8ect1 not a sectarian, shal). exist, ~t whit:t>, wjU ·t~w >&.literal
flood of light and tlllth on this whole de~nt rJf t\l.e~ of man,
whjch it would daz.~le our now benighted viwon to .~old. .
Gracious heaven I Is there indeed such a treasure within Ofll'l'eacht·
Has eo glorious ,a mer.al sun inde~ daWJl.Cd u~ me -~•dark·
~awl bigotry o.f .a,ges1 Aye, ve:.;ily.· ;Let ~s .p~~ qutiOUily
•
..
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
'l'BE MOllAL !'ACOLTlES PECULUJI. TO MAN; \98
bulthorovghly, to 11nra•el this thread of man's moral and rel1giou
texture and constitution. Let us bury preconceived doctrmes. Let111
come up to this work as sincere inquirers after truth. Let us learn
from it our moral duties, our moral delt,inies.
But, in order fully to comprehend. the moral bearings, precepts,-and
principles taught by Phrenology., we must analyze the moral faculties.
This will teach us their nature_and true functions, and, therewith, the
;, moral nature and constitution of man, as well as show what doctrines
.~y ~ch; what conduct they requirt.
It should here be added, what has all along been implied, that the
moral faculties themselves, unenlightened by reason, are but blind feel·
ings, Dllre religious impulses. To produce the good effects above
ascribed to them, it is indispensably necessary that they be guided by
enlightened intellect, and governed entirely by the dictates of reason,
as will be more fully seen hereafter.
CH;APTER II.
THE ANALYSIS OF THE MbRAL FACULTIES, AND THE INFER
· ENCES CONSEQUENT THEREON•
• i •
Tm: organs of the moral faculties are all located together in a kind
of family group, upon the top of the head. They are thus removed aa
ar as potll!lible from the body, so that their bland, mild, softening, hea·
venly, harmenious action may be interrupted as little as possible by
those causes which disease, disorder, or inflamethe body, and, thereby,
the propensitie1 in particul.a.r. When fully i:leveloped, they cause the
head to rise far above the ears, and become elongated upon the top,
thereby rendering it high and long upon the top, rather than wide and
conical. They may be very correctly measured, by observing the
amount of brain located above Cautiousness and Caunlity. They are
much larger in woman than in man, and their faculties are stronger, as
is ·evinced by the fact, thai about twn-tltirds of our church members are
females, and that piety in woman is the crowning excellence of her
sex, while its abstmce is a moral blemish which no cluster of virtuet
ean efface.
They are peculiar to man. In the brute creation, they are wanting
or too much so to be taken into the account They are equally deli.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
A."(JJ.YSJS OF VENERA'ftOJi., 45
-
eient in their character. Thus, a dog canllfl .be taught to wol'lhip
God; nor a tiger, to pray ; because neither is endowed by nature
with either the moral or ~elig.io~ organs or faculties. And this dou·
ble absence of both organ .and faculty, foriilB a strong proof of the
truth of Phrenology, while the presence of ,either, without the other,
would prostrate the science. But, it so is, that man is both the only
animal possessed of the moral organs, and also the only terrestrial be-
ing endowed with the moral and religious facultiee that aecompany •
them. This fact furnishes a positive proof ofthe truth of Phrenology
as ~nsive, as diversified, as the whole human family, on the one
hapd, and the entire brute creation, on the other, can render it.
SECTION I.
VENEJU'l'ION.-ITS ANALY8IS1 AND THE EXISTENCE OF A GOD.
Adoration of a God; the Spiritual worship of a Supreme Being; Devotion;
Reverence for religion and things sacred; Disposition to pray and to observe
religious rites and ordinances.
GALL, the discoverer of this organ and faculty, observed, that )lit
brother, whom his father intended and had fitted for the mercantilt'
calling, but whose religious feelings were so strong as to tear bin:.
from all other pursuits, overcome all obstacles, and finally for.ce him
to enter the clerical profession, was largely developed upon the top of
his head. He afterwards observed, that the.heads of thos4 who visit·
ed the temples for prayer and religious obse"¥ces mestfreqwently,
and remained longest at their devotions, were similuly deve~JM4
He at first, called it the organ of Theosophy, or the science of reJ.i..
gion.
It creates the feeling of awe of God. It excites the spirit of prayer
and praise to the Supreme Ruler of the universe. It delights to me-
ditate on his character, and to study his works. It induces a general,
spiritual state of mind, a devout, religious feeling, which fills the soul
with holy aspirations and heavenly pleasures, and attaches its' posses-
sor to those religious observances which are considered as an expres-
sion of these feelings. It creates a sense of the Divine presence, a feel·
ing of nearness to God, and desire to bold communion with the Crea-
tor of all things. It elevates the soul above the things of earth: and
places it on Divine things, and delights to contemplate his character.
uacl to bow before his throne in devout adoration and praise.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
•
•
•
t6 d.U.YSlS OP VENERATION.
This orgaD is divide& While tl!e back part, next to Fi'rmnel8 awd
Conscientiousness, gives the devout, religious feeling jtist ascribed to
• it, the frontal portion, creates res~t forelde:rs and superiors; and vene-
rates the ancient and sa«!red. It is the o~ervative faculty, and, wbil~
the other faculties refornl atmses, this faculty prevents suddimi changeij
and discountenances radicallsm. lt is usually small in the American
head and character; being rendered so, doubtless, by the necessary'ten-
• dency of our republican institutions~ I wotild not urge adheYence tn
what is wrong, but I would, reoiipett, aye, pay deference to supetioJ!Sj
and show respect'towards all.- Let a defel'ential feeling be cuhl\'trtM
in our youth. Let impudence; a'fi'd dis6rd$-~ be discountenanced. Let
this faculty be cultivated, or our liberty will become lawlessness, and
our republic but an unmeaning name.
The existence and analysis of this organ, establishes, past all cavil
and controversy, the existance of a God. The argument, or rather
fact, by which this- great truth is established, is this: E'fery orgaD
has its own primitive, natural function, and also adaptation. Or,
rather, the primordial function of every organ, is adapted to some one
law of nature or want of man. Thus, Parental Love is adapted.to
the infantile condWon'of man. Causality adapts man to a world
governed by causes and ef!eets, and enables him to apply these
causes to the production of desired results. Cautiousness is adapted
to a world of danger. Combativeness, to difficulties. Individuality,
to the'identity or existence of things. Form, to the great arrange-
ment of shape or configuration. Size, to that of' bulk, or of big and
little. Color, to the primitive colors. Weight, to the laws of gravity
Orde'P, to that ·perfect system which characterizes all nature. Locality
so space: . Ideality, to the beautiful in nature and art. Constfuctive-
ness, to our need of garments, houses, tools and things made. Appetite,
to the great arrangement, or demand and Stlpply, of nutrition. Ac-
quisitiveness, to our need of property. Amativeness, to the different
seleS, &e.
Ven:entti.on, therefore, has its adaptation or counterpart in the na
tiil'e of things ; and that adaptation is to the txistence and worship of
a Dimne Being. This argumeat is short, but perfectly demonstra-
lit;t. It cannot be evaded. It leavf'\!l' no chance for cavil. Phreno-
logy establishes the existence of the organ, and the nature of its func-
tion, namely, the worship of Gotl. ' Therefore, there is a God to be
worshipped-a Spiritual Being, adapted to Veneretion, to whom thia
organ can lift up Its prayers, and with whom hold sweet communion.
Throughout all nature, whenever and whereTer dne thing esista aai
, o,9,,,zedbyGoogle
• •
201 ,. EXISttNC'E OF A OOD. D
is·adapt~~o a·seeond, the existenl:e of the seeond is n.re1 elSe na:fure
would be at fault If this argumeat is not proof positive, then there
u no proof, and no argument can evet prove any thing; for this is
proof of the strongest possible kind. An anomaly like the existence
o( any one thing in nature, adapted to that .which never existed, can
no where be found. No axiom in philosophy is more fully establish·
ed than this, that wh.en one thing exists, and is adapted to a second,
the second also exists, or has existed. ·Ransack all nature, and not
one solitary instance can be found, either in the world of mind or
matter, of one thing's being adapted to another thing.which does not ex-
ist,.~t'has not existed. Thus: If you find a tooth, you feel as sure that a
socket exists or has existed, to which this tooth is adapted, as of' your
own existence. If you find an eye adapted to its socket, or a bone
adapted to articulate upon another bone, you feel.quite certain of the
present or past existence of the socket, or the bone to which it is
adapted. So of every thing else in the world of either mind or matter.
Veneration, therefore, has its adaptation, and that adaptation is to
the existence and worship of a God, as much as the eye is adapted to
seeing, or the ear to hearing. As the existence of the eye, and its
adaptation to light, pre-suppose and necessarily imply the existence of
that light to which it is adapted; as the existence of the stomach, and
its adaptation to food, pre-suppose and necessarily imply the existence
of food adapted to it; the adaptation of the lungs to air, and the air to
the lungs; of Causality to the laws of Causation, and laws' of Causa-
tion to Causality; and so ofillustrations innumerable scattered through·
ou~ nature, and indee~ constitu~ing a gre~t portion. ~f n• . .e ':so the
ex1stence of Venerat10n1 and 1ts adaptation to Dtvme htp,, pre-
suppose and necessarily imply the existence of a Deity to be wor
!hipped. _.
This argument is short, but on that very account, the .more• unan
swerable. It has but two points: the one, that one thing's being
adapted to another, proves the existence of the other-a principle of
philosophy which allows of no exceptions ; and the other point, the
fact of the adaptation of Veneration to this Divine worship. The first
admits of no cavil whatever, and the second of none that is available.
Ifit be objected, that its adaptation is to superiors, and that its fnnction
i!l that of deference and obedience to men; I answer: We have ano- ~
ther facnlty expressly adapted to that office; namely, the jo1·1 part of :-,~ ·
Veneration. &.:
Besides, man does certainly worship a: God. Where is the htlll18U
being who has never feared, loved, or worshipped a Divine spirit, the
great Arehiteet of heaven and earth, the great prime-moving' Cawie
'
•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
•
•
.
•
WORSHIP OF GOD A. Pn.Jli([T.[VE FACULTY. 202
:Jf causes. Standing upon the top of some lofty eminence which .;om-
mands a view of some vast, variegated, indescribably beentl."'u plain
below, loaded with nature's choicest treasures, and skirted witl& yon-
der bold cliffs and rugged mountains, rising one above another till
they hide theu majestic heads in the clouds; or beholding, in mute
HStonishment, the cataract of Niagara, in all its sublimity and gran-
deur; or watching the swift lightning, and heltring peal on peal of
roaring thunder ; or witnessing the commotion of the elements, and the
raging and dashing of the angry seas ; or examining minutely the
parts of the flower, and the adaptation of every part to the perform-
ance of its own appropriate function ; or the organs and adaptions of
our own wonderful mechanism ; or, indeed, scrutinizing any of the
innumerable contrivances and adaptations with which all nature is
teeming; where is the moral man, endowed with an intellect capable
of perceiving these won~rs and beauties, whose heart does notkindle
with glowing emotions of adoration and praise, rising, not alone to
nature herself, but mainly to the Architect and Author of nature 1
Who that has never felt-never realized-the existence of a spirit in na .
ture analogous to the God of the Christian 1 And if, perchance, in
some dark corner of our earth, a human soul should be found, which
never felt this sentiment of Divine worship, just as there are some
whose organs of Color are too small to perceive the colors of the rain-
bow, does this prove that this sentiment does not exist in any other
soul1 Shall the blind man who can see no sun, assert that therefore
there is none 1 Shall those who cannot see, guide those who can 7
Shall those who experience this heaven-born emotion, be argued
out of the existence·or this emotion, because, forsooth, some self-made
Atheist says he has never experi~nced it1 If one does not experi-
ence this sentiment, another does, and this argument rests not on the
~act that all experience this emotion, but on the fact that any do. If,
from the first opening of the eyes of Adam upon the surrounding
beauties of creation, down to the present time, a single human soul
has poured forth a single heart-felt offering of prayer and thanksgiv-
ing to a Divine spirit, he has exercised some organ in this worship, and
that organ is Veneration. This organ, this alone, worships a God.
.Each of the other organs has its own specific function to perform, so
that no other organ can perform this function. But the function
of Divine worship is exercised by man. As well tell me that the
sun never shined, as to tell me that man has never worshipped a
Spiritual Being. What mean yonder towering steeples, yonaer
houses erected in every town and hamlet, in Christian and in Pagan
lands, to the worship of God~ What means yonder Hindoo wido\l·,
o,9,,,zedbyGoogle '
.. ..
. '
EXISTENCE OF A GOD. 49
Toluntarily ueending the funeral pile of her departed husband, or yon·
der mother committing her darling child to the deified waters of the
Ganges 1 Seest thou yonder towering pagoda ; yonder temple of
Juggernaut; yonder thronged mosque ; yonder altar, reeking with
human gore, just offered up in sacrifice to God ; yonder solemn con·
vent ; yonder crowded sanctuary 1 Hark I Hearest thou, in yonder
· secret closet, the soft accents of heart-felt prayer and praise to the AI·
mighty Giver of every good 1 Look again. Dost thou see yonder
domestic group, bowed down around the family altar, all offering up
their morning or evening sacrifices of prayer and thanksgiving to the
God of every mercy and blessing, and supplicating their continuancet
Tellest thou me, these do not sincerely wor1hip a Deity? Indeed,
nothing is more plain, no fact is·more apparent and universal than
this, that man doe1 wor1hip a God ; and the amount of this .WOrship is
inconceivably great. It is natural for man thus to worship. He can
no more live and be happy without adoring a God, than without rea·
son, or any other equally essential faculty. Man worships a Deity,
and has an organ of Veneration adapting him to that worship ; there-
fore, there i1 a God adapted to this organ.
Besides: every other organ and faculty are completely engrossed ill
performing each its own function, leaving no other one but Venera·
tion to exercise this devotional feeling. Thus, Philoprogenitiveness
is completely engrossed in loving and providing for children. It has
no time, no capacity to worship. Combativeness is all engrossed in
resisting and defending, so that it cannot worship, nor is it capable of
exercising any other than its own appropriate feeling. So, Appetite
is all taken up with table luxuries. It is too greedy ever to think of
exercising the feeling of worship. And, besides, it could not if it
would. So, Acquisitiveness is exclusively occupied in hoarding, and
does nothing else. Cautiousness is full of its alarms. It does not, it
cannot, worship. Ideality is so completely absorbed in contemplating
and admiring the glowing beauties that throng in upon its delighted,
extatic vision from every quarter, that, though i~ may admire the beau·
ties of creation, yet it cannot worship their Author. Causality does
not, cannot worship a God. It is completely engrossed in searching
out and applying cataes. Though it m:1y reason out the fact of the
existence of a great first cause, yet it goes no farther. It can do no
more. It does not, it never can, fall down on the bended knees of de-
votion, and worship Him ; because, to investigate and apply causes, it
its sole function. Its constitutJon precludes its exercising any oth lt.
Similar remarks apply to Benevo~ce, to Compar~ to each oft~~
'
'·
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
EJJSTENCE OP .A GOD.
intelleetual faculties, to each of the propensities and feelings, and 110
every mental and moral element ~f man. So that there is no other
organ or faculty but Veneration left to exercise this worshipping
function. But this function is exercised as just seen. And the tuJWUnt
of its e.xercise is inconceivably great. Too great to be the result of
habit. Too universal to be the product of education. If this senti
ment were not engrafted upon the nature of man, it would not be pOl
sible for education to perpetuate it. It would be as if eating were not
constitutional, and therefore a perfect drudge, all up-hill work, and H
.thoroughly irksome as to be soon forgotten and lost in the oblivion Qf
the past. I repeat: Nothing but the fact that the sentiment of wor
ship is c01Utitu.tional, is inwrooght int:~ the nature of man, is a conati
tuent part and parcel of his very self, just as is br.e1Uhif4g1 or sleepi•g.
or eating, could account for either its perpetuity or its universality, or
its power over the feelings and conduct ofman¥ind. It must be consti·
tutioual. It is constitutional. And rendered so by the existence, in
man, of a primitive faculty, the sole office of which is to worship a Su·
preme Being, the great Cause of causes, the God of heaven and
earth.
.Again, every organ performs some i11&portant function. Without
any Causality, or power of reasoning and adapting means to ends,
what a great hiatus would exist in the human mind 1 If all power
• of observation were destroyed; or if Individuality were wholly wan·
ting; if Weight were entirely inert, so that we could not stand or
move; if any one of man's faculties were annihilated, the chasm, the
aching void thus formed, would be great indeed ; because, every
organ performs a function indispensable to man's happiness. Vener·
ation has some function, some important function, some function, tho
loss of which would create an aching void quite as great as the loss
Qf those already mentioned. What, then, is that function1 Deference
for man 1 But this is preformed by another faculty. There is no
function left, important or unimportant, for Veneration to exercise but
that of worshipping God..
Turning to the history of its discovery, we find this ne\\ reiterated
and confirmed. Gall and Spurzheim, our highest authoniies m this
matter, both regarded its function as that of worship ofGod, and so does
every Phrenologist worth referring to. In fact, that is its function.
Man dtm worship his God by mpns of it, and that worship is its llll ·
tural, not its distorted, perverted, exotic function. It uadapted to the
worahip of a God ; therefore, there is a God adapted to this faculty, or
to recei~B' the. homage it was czeated to offer up.
'TBB EXERCISB QF THE I'UNcnON OF WOB.SBIJ', ' at
IfIUly doubt remain on this poipt, rt is obviated by Phreno-Magn5-
mn. On magnetizing any organ, the spontaneous function of its fac-
~ty .bursts forth instantaneously and powerfully. Every faculty is
.thus ~ripped ofall artificial influences, and exhibits itself in its naked,
·primitive state. I have never seen the back part of V~neration mag·
netized, without also seeing the subject clasp and raise the hands in the
.,sttitude of worship, assume a devotional aspect and tone of voice, and
.~ress a desire to pray, or else break forth in the worship ofGod, en·
.raptured in contemplating him. Thus is the worshipping function of
.1his.faculty estab).ished by Phrenology beyQDd all dispute. No pro-
ption in Geometry is more fully proved than this ; and the infer·
~ace that therefore there is a God, follows as a necessary eonsequence.
If to this it be objected that " most men adopt those religious ~ews
nJld practices in which they were educated," and that therefore religion
is taught, I answer, that before any one can be taught any thing, he
must have some original, primary quality capable of being taught
.Can you teach a dog t(\be solemn in church, or a swine to pray 1 But
f!lhy not7 For the same reason that you cannot teach a blind man to
~ or a deafman to hear, or a man without limbs to use them ; namely,
because he has no ori.ginal, primitive faculty, capable of being taught.
And the very fact ~hat men can be taught to pray and to worship
God, proves that they have that very primitive faculty of prayer con·
teJl(led for.
In thus establishing the function of worship as appertaining to the
h\lman mind, Phrenology also establishes and enforces the duty and
.·Jrlility of its e,;ercise. Every organ was made to be exercised, and
Jtence that exercise becomes a duty, and also a pri'!Jilege; for, the
right exercise of every faculty, gives pleasure in proportion to th9
•ize of it$ organ. Veneration is a large organ, and as such, its exer
-cise aft'Qt·ds a fountain of the richet~t and most exalted pleasure.
Every li•ing mortal, then, should daily and hourly breathe forth holy
~iratiops of prayer and praise to his Maker-should " keep the
fear of God c011ti1Wally before his eyes;" should cultivate pious
feelings al·ways. Thus saith Phrenology.
- And no••, reader, art thou satisfied as to whether Phrenology leads
. tG infidelity and atheism 7 Is not its moral bearing in this respect
in heautiful harmony with the requirements of Revelation1 The
one requires all human beings to worship God in spirit and in truth,
and to remen1ber that " Thou God seest me," uud the other, by im-
pluting this iOivine seutiment in the breast of every man, also re.
DigitiZed by Google
•
..
8ECTAR1ANI8M-rts CAUS!;: lND .RJ;:.MED1".
quires of him that he exercise it daily and habitually in rellgioua
worship.
·To this doctrine that Phrenology proves the existence .of a God,
by pointing out a natural sentiment of worshipping a God, it 'is often
objected, that, " If this religious sentiment were natural, it would lead
all men to entertain similar and correct religious opinions, and giv4."
all the same views in regard to right and wrong. But men's relig-
ious opinions differ as much as do their face11; producing'all our sec-
tarian diversities, as well as every form of Pagan worship, however
revolting and crimimil., To this I answer, (and this answer not only
satisfactorily explains the cause of these religious differences, but also
developes the only true religion, and teaches us the true attributes of
the Deity,) that every phrenological faculty constitutes a medium, or·
as, it were, the colored glass, through which the mind looks at all ob-
jects. As, when we look at objects through green glasses, they look
green ; when through yellow glasses, they look yellow ; when
through dark shaded or smoky glasses, the' look dark, gloomy, or
smoky; when through glasses that are light shaded, they look light ;
when through red glasses, every thing beheld assumes a fiery red!
aspect, and that, too, whatever may be the actual color of those ob-
jects observed-so the phrenological organs constitute the menta.
glasses through which we look at mental and moral objects. ~hus,
those in whom Acquisitiveness or love of money, prevails, look ar
fvery thing, whether matters of science, or religion, or politics, C1l
buisness, not in the light of philosophy, or the welfare of man, or el
right and moral obligation, but in the light of'dollar~ a11.d cents alorae.
But he in whom Benevolence predominates, looks at all matters, not
in the light of their effects on his pockets, but in their bearing on the
happiness of man. He in whom Conscientiousness predominates,
looks at, and judges of, things; neither in the light of expediency, nor
of their pecuniary advantages, nor self.interest or popularity, but in
that of right and duty, and abstract ju.stice. But he in whom AppJOo
bativeness prevails, seeks popular favor, and when any ~ew·thing is
presented to his mind, say Phrenology, or Magnetism, or any thing
whatever, asks, as the first and main question, not, ".Is it t1"111t ?' nor,
"Is it philosophical?" but, " Wlat will the folks sAY about tt, atMi •
about me for embracing it 1" The man in whom the Reasoniog
organs predominate, asks, " Is it reasonable t What are its law t
Is it conmtant with itself and with nature1" and loob at every thlllJ
through the glasses of philosopAy.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
-We find an additional illustration of this principle, in appetite for
4i1ferent kinds of food. The argument is jt1st as concll,lSive that ap-
petite is not a natural, constitutional element of the human mind he-
cause eome men love some things and dislike others, while others
like what is disliked by the former, and dislike what is liked by them
8S that the element of worship is not a primitive faculty, because men's
religious tastes and opinions differ. Unless appetite were natural, •
there eould be no diversity even. No such idea could b~ entertained
lor conceiv«<d. And the very fact of such diversity, proves the point
at issue, and leavea us to accouat for the fact of this diversity, just as
we are left to account for diversity in appetite~! opioions, &c.,
_a story in point:-A man born blind, was once asked, what fllea
he had of eolors. He answered by saying, that he had no very dis·
tif!Cl idea of them any way. Pressed ttill farther, and asked to com·
pare his idea of them to something as nearly like them as possible,
he said that he might not perhaps be right, but he thought they very
much resembled the·sov.M of a trumpet. Without some primitive
faculty for perceiving the existence of a.God, and experiencing the
sentiment of Divine worship, men could no more form an estimate of
this whole matter, than the blind man did of colors. And the f~ct,
that men do form these ideas, proyes the existence of the primary fa-
culty of devotion; while the faet, that men di.ftr as to their ideas of a
God, shows that they have these idea~, and therefore have the faculty
in question, while the fact that they differ is perfectly explaimi.ble on
the ground that the other faculties modify these ideas, and the~efore
that this is caused by diversity in other faculties.
To illustrate still father: A minister, or speaker, has the motive
or powerful temperament, yet with none of the pathetic, together with
large reasoning organs, and large conscientiousness, but small ideality,
eventuality, and language. He is therefore a strong reasoner, and a
good writer and theologian, yet he has no eloquence, no emotion, and
no beauty ofstyle, together with a most unfortunate delivery. Those
beoren who are simila.rly organized, have their organs called out and
grahfied, jncl therefore like him much. But othen who have an op-
posite organilatioa, finding no food for their prevailing faculties, but
eeeing the full force of every defect, dislike him as much as the others
like him-the one liking, the other disliking him, for precisely the
eame qualities. Another· minister, having an opposite organization,
will be liked by thoee who disliked the former, and disliked by those
who like him. This shows why some men think a given man
~hly talented, while others, who know him equally well, think him
•
•
Ulll'l'ElfCB OP A 001).
-
a aiinpleton..-why, in short, men d.itler in t:.\eir tastea, desirfj, pui·
auita, opinions. Still, as this diversity of opinion in' mattera of taste,
does not prove that there are no first principles of taste in things, or fa·
culty of taste in men, &c. ; so, the corresponding diversity of opinions ·
as to the character of a God, does not prove that there d no :?rimary
element in man for the worship of God.
· Should a picture, pE~rfect in every respect, be·hung up tor inspeetlon,
if the beholder have the organ of size only,, he wiU take cbgnizanc•
of the proportion of its parts and admirable per.pective cJtly; all ita
other qualities being R dead letter to him, because he has' not the fac.
ulties that perceive or admire them. But, add the organ of color, and
he perceives a new beauty in the picture; namely, ita rich.and ftliega-
ted shades, tints, hues, ~ni&hes, &c.; and is now doublydelighted be-
cause two organs are agreeably exercised. Add large form, and a
third beauty now breaks in upon him, namely, the perfection of the-
likeness, and the exquisiteness ofjigu.re1 or 1hape given to the persoM
and things represented in the p!cturc. Add ideality, and still anothe1
source of beauty opens upon him-its richness of taste, it3 admirabl•
designs, its creations of fancy, i!8 perfection and harmony of part!.
Ad<! causality, and he sees the moral taught and the 1en.tiuaent ex-
pressed in it, and so of the other organs. His views of the pictureare
more and more perfect, and his delight gre&tilr, and still greater, by
every new organ added.
So of Judgment. The man who haS la:rge color, iS a good jtxdge
of colors, but if 'causality be small, he is a poor judge of ways and
means ; but he in whom causality is large and color small, is a good
judge of plans, ways and means, the feasibility of meesttres, ll'!ld
every thing requiring the exercise of causality, but a poot :tJdge of
every thing appertaining to colors. H ideality be large and con-
structiveness be small, his judgment of poetry, propriety, and matters
of taste, will be good, but of mechanics, poor. If size be large and
conscientiousness be small, he iS a good judge of buik, and thij
weight of things by looking at them, of height, per};endicularity, &e;
yft a poor one in_ matters of right. and ~rong. lf one's peteepflfi!
organs and acquisitiveness be Iatge, and conseientiousneiiS iihll
causality be moderate, h~ judgmemi of the value of property, th~
qualities of goods, a good bargain, or horse, or any thing appertliining
to those organs, will be good, btit of mol'lil reasoning and ot what is
rigltt between man and man, poor indeed. But he wlio baa &lllhe
otgabs fully and evenly developed will take eon8iatent ~d eC>niel
riewa of all subjects, have good judgthent abOut e-Viity thing, and W.
• Dlgllc
zed P.Y GoogIe
- •
tertain eompreheuive GDcl CCJMiatent opinions. This prim:iple of
Phranology is cleu1 and ita applieatiol\ uaiversal. Hence the Phre-
nelogiealdevelOpments of a man, tell ue what is the color of the glassea
through wl!icll he loob; and what kind of judgment is poor and
natgood. . ·
Now let us apply this priDciple to taereligioui opinions of mankind,
for it holds equally true of his reli~ judgment, feelings, and opin-
ions. Venerauon worsh~ God, but tM other organs color our views
of the character ud atuibutes ofGod. Thus) the ancient Greeks and
Romans had lar~ venemdOI'I, 11nd were very.religious, bat their otlier
moral organs were small, ud their ani!Ml propensities were strong,
110 U.. they worshipped gods of various animal passions. Tl\eir
lar8'e veneration, combining with their 'Very large amativeness,
worshipped a Venus, or the goddesa of love and beauty ; combiaing
with their very large eombativenesa and demuctivenesa, wotshipped
a Mars, or the god of war, and carnage, and blood; with their pow-
erful alimeniivenea, worshipped a Bacchu.t, or the ~ al feasting,
revelry, and wine; with their large acquisitiveness, worshipped the
god TermiDus, who guarded their boundariee, and protected their
gooda from pillage ; with large secretiveneil81 worshipped a Mercury,
or the god of cunning, fineele, duplicity, theft, dte. But they had
large intellectual organs; as well as powerful, unbridled passions.
Hence, they worshipped a Jupiter, the great dir~or and manager of
the universe, and the governor of the god$ ; but a god full of moat
disgusting amours, moet vindictive and revengeful, without moral
principle, and swayed by a power of animal paaaions as much above
that of mortals u he himself was rated superior to them.
And now, ye sectarians, do ye see why ye dii'er and quarrel about
religion~ Your organ~ cliffer, and this diversifies and distracts your
religioos viewa and feelings. One sect has one set oforgans, or loob
through glasaes of one color, and another sect has on glasses ofanoth·
er color, and both are looking at the same object and. quarrelling.
about its colH. One has got on green glaases, and is stoutly contend·
ing that God is gr-eet.; another, with yellow glaaees on, ie a1 stoutly
contradicting the gr~enne11• ofthe Deity, and maintaining that he is
ttellotD. But the Atheist has black glasste on, which shut outalllirht,
and therefore he maintains that ~re uno God, because he can ue
noae. Foolishall. T~e off your glasses. Look at God with the
t1 htbe itfrom me to make light of things IIIU:l'ed, but I do design to ridicule
~tot malataming abeurditiea u great aa that God ia green, or yellcw.
DigitiZed by GoogIe.
T
UISTENCE OF A GOD. tlO
D81Ural eye oJ fully and evenly developed mon. organs, and you will
"be1lold him as he is," and "worship him in spirit and in truth."
In accordance with this principle, each modem religious sect has
its own peculiar set of phrenological developments, which harmonizes
perfectly which the peculiarities of its creed. To show minutely tolul'
developments characterize each, and their departures from the only
true stan4Md of religious Jillth and practice involved in this principle,
would be to thrust my face into a hornet's nest of the worst character,
which is unnecessary, yet I will give a few illustrations. Universa-
lists almost invariably have large veneration, combined with predom·
inant benevolence and adhesiveness, and moderate deatructivenel!ll,
and hence they adore God for his goodnm mainly, and dwell in
glowing colors upon his lov~ ; while the old-fashioned Calvinists
usually have large veneration, with predominant self-esteem and
firmness, and large conscientiousness, and accordingly adore the
IOVereignty and unbending justice of God. Has not the reader often
seen·stifforthodox deacons, whose heads rose rapidly from the intellec·
tual organs to firmness and ·self-esteem, showing more reverence
than benevolence, and more firmness and conscieutiousness than
either, with a tolerably wide head~ But did a Methodist, or Univer-
salist, or Unitarian, or Episcoll'lian, ever have this form of head~
These remarks do not apply, however, to Congregationalists, nor to be-
lievers in the" New School'' doctrines, whose conscientiousness usu·
ally predominates and self-esteem is only moderate, and destructive-
ness seldom more than full, and whose high-toned, or rather ultra
Calvinistic notions, are mat1lrially softened down. In them, amative-
ness is usually moderate, and accordingly they abhor no sin more than
its perversion. Episcopalians usually have . large veneration1 with
predominant benevolence and large ideality, firmness, self-esteem
and social faculties, consicentiousness being not always large, though
often full j and hence they place their religion in works of charity:
and in attending " the church," rather than in penitence, and are not
as strict and rigid as the orthodox j yet they are always gtmteel, rather
exclusive, and eminently social. Nearly all their women have su•
perior heads, are remarkable for devotion, good sense, for the domes
tic qualities, and especially for bentoolence. The Quakers have no
characteristic moral developments, and accordingly allow their mem-
bers to hold uy and every belief, provided they do thus and so. In-
fidels, Deists, &c., usually have moderate hope, small veneration,
IC&rcely tho least marvellousness, large benevolence, and eor.'ICien-
'DigitiZed by GoogIe
Ill
tioume11 n.riable. I never saw one of Infidel l!elltimenta who had nat
a poorly balanced morBI head.•
Those who have eonscientio118Jles predominant, with IIDll1ll vener·
ation and marvello118Jless, place their religion in doing rigit, or in
honesty and morality, but disregard the eztern.all of religion, while
those in whom these organa are reYeraed, attend to ita ovtward forms.
and ceremonies: but, though they are devout, yet they are often unjust
and immoral. Those ia whom benevoleace predominates, place their
religion in doing good1to the neglect ofother ChrisQan duties ; those in
whom marveYo118Desa is great, regard religion as consisting in faiiA,
and implicit reliance upon Divine providenee'; but those ia whom this
organ is small, do not feel that ••of G~ .thalaense of the Divine
preseoce, which this facul~ inlpires, bUt atlribute all events to cause
and effect But those in whom ell these ergans are folly and eoealy
developed, "put ~·.MJ,e tDlwle armor of righteousne8f.11 They do
good, do rigkl, tHfWiip their God, and trud ia hiB provideace ;
which, united, constitute the very perfection of the Christian charac·
ter. Such live a blameless life, worthy of admiration an4 imitation ;
whilst imperfect religious faith or practice is the natural f~ of UD-
evenly developed moral organs. . • ·
In harmony with this principle, .:bat each phrenological organ.
lltamps its impresa upon the religious Qpinions of its possessor, it fol-
lows, that those in whom all the moral organs are fully and eoeflly
developed, will entertain comiltent and cO'I'rect religious opinions,
and view the character and attributes of the Deity tU they are. If, u ·
already seen, veneration, with predominant benevolence, worship •
God of kindness ; with predominant conscientio118Jless, a God of un·
bending jfutice ; with large causality, JLI the great first CGtue of all
things ; with large self-esteem and firmness, aa the great SONreign of
the uniftrae, immutable, omnipotent, unchanging and. unthangallle ;·
clothed with authority, and doing his o~ will and pleasure in the
,
.
• The proverb that we judge othen by o1U'118lve., ia in harm011y Witlt tlrUt
principle, and illaatrates it. Thoaaanda of timee in my prof-wa.l practice,
when Ihave ucribed to a man a 1trong rating pauion,Ay love ofpraia&, m
example, telling him that hew· exceMively eenakive to praiae ad reproach,
•' And. eo ia every one," ia the una!. reply. Perllape tbe next man I elWIIine,
willhave mWl Approbativen811 and large Self.Eateem. I tell him that he doet ·
notcare a atraw for the opiniUDI of othen. "Well, who doeef tor I'm lUre I
don't," or," He'a a fool who doee," ie'&pt to be the reeponae. What we lo-.e
clelire, liMe, &c , we are almoet IUI'e to think otherllo,_, deeire, hate, &e.,
o,9,;,zed by GoogIe
•
•
• 1Ull8'l'IDICB1 fir: 1L HO•. .11
• allllliiii; W · be&Ye•abont~ abd,smo• · .tae ~ts· efj;&e, ..u.,~
neath, &c. ; then one in whom benefdleode. ia·1111'te;' w.ill: wolllbip
him-for bia great 8l'fldriA!' te thtt clmdren oi Bftn; irl wbera bettev-
olenoe aft<l Cotl8oieiWionaoe boCih pretiOihill.llt&ta ·l&d.but jU.; ·IUIIl
w\ith fil'llimtiLf7 oardbatiTe!resa1 dllltruotivenesa, and BBlf"811t8em ..W'
ad, ai' "a GGIG merciful and grasieust ~eriagi and ablJiltiaJil;
in goodneSitand t!lithr and wilD will by lie meaD8 •
cle&li·the guilty;"
aSperfectly holy lrim•elf; 11111111 requiring J.Dtine6s· iDan hilt aHBturae.
aa·creating tUid gOTenring' tMl1li with a wi88 rafettenca &it their, great•
eielwtimate gooO,. and in·do~ ilJ&sJ.U r&Warding those•who obey·ln.
lMn~ ant aa·puoisbing· tbo86 w}q .-bay:; or, mh~ 88 ibfioitely
beri:avalenlj yet u a:Ggd vl'lHI .,ViJ1Jt,:aot'let· ~·wicliecl go unpuniah~
od;" with large ca:acicrils!WI!S•llhd philoprQ-enhlvenes,. 88 exeroiaiag
a r.therly ure oval' his chil4reti,- aDd proriding a··boUB.tiful litlpply
for all tbelr ·Wilntl1 &e. H~ce; one having fill, these orgidll' fully
and evenly del'l!loJMld,.will taP. ~ the·tihata~~Ceristics .of the· Deity
intt 100o.eel give each their· ~ p-rop6t~; be~ tile .mo:f\V
d01li!8titlition .r·tJringt ni\&St neuemly ~a with th. moral
ciM&eter lmd attribtlUs ef Goo1and ~'II moral ch&raeeer1 88 A~
aa it goes, must tally with the attributes-~f the b.,•abeady~.
~dMtly~:ifan individual j,balli a. well-lnualic8d and a p6rft!ttly
dmlopdd phtenblogieal (Ytgllniution,t tJr bavl! all the Mgatil ~­
a«~:d tJtaptt-ettt'erl; hie 'ViEmrs ot the ch&tacter1 attribtttes1 al1d ~vern..
nteht of God; Will be ~ment and oorrett Aad-the aearer ene'll he!Ut
· approacheS to tlii§ phtenolog:icalsta-ndatd'ot perf~etion; the ro(lre- cot
rlcf Will be hiS moral fuelings and condlict, as well as hie religioWill
opiliiofi& and worship, But tlia fliither l>iie'l! head deptrrts from ~
aiand~ttd; that ~' the riiore uffiltlm one's head; and more impe~·
b«<aneed hili orgam, th~ in'tire litronoous Will be hli religious o~L
ieti;·Bird' proporti(1pally imperflict ~ tirOi'ftl·candlii!f aBd hia·Wo~
• For ought we know, the Deity may have other attributea u conspi011oua in
W.ehllrkteru·lUe·beli.ole~~t:il• erjulllit:e1 ot> wildom, whio!J man hu.uw ao
faoalty.for ,..uei'fins, llllli to wWch he baa :M h:ulf¥ ~pted, Jnetas the brute
CMitiGil<
Jlayt,no,fadullJ !~Mpted te.ot eapable ~ pereeiving,.eitherhieell!ittenoe
or DJ ofm. .-riblliM. Thla1 hewl!lfer1 is ~ C!~Djectme ; but 111 far u man'a
faeultiee clo:ge1 a1:H9 b.taooiH- 'Vfith .a lEN.biul."' adlt~ ~- QC. u u to
a.BI .
·tIn m1 w&llk GD Ji'lll.nAtioJ~.sl8el£-llllfllt.._l< p.ll4, the rNder will W
thil·-~anied Ollt.aed flppliedr tQ, ablt ,._.le,iold deiaitiDDofa ·~uod,
or rather perfet:t,.iiead IIDI1cbanle~ priaei]:Ne.tha4·wbio~ none is mare im
portant, and the application ofwhich will heal moat of the religious and oth•
dift'erencee eaiating among men.
DigitiZed by Goog
tiS
By the application oftllil priaeiple to his owu head, e'ti!l'Y indirll-
ual ea'n i~ at a gla.rme th~ depil.l't1lres of his oWir religio~ opiriioaa
and practices from this the true lllllndard ofour nature! pointed out by
Phrenology. If ~ veneration be moderate ot emall; he fhink.S tOO
little of divine things, and should cultivate his sentiment of devotion.
lf his firmness, self·esteem, combativeness, and conscientiousness
predominate over his benevolence, that is, if his head rise higher on
the back part of the top than on the fore part of the top, and form a
kind of apex near the crown, his notions of the character and govern
ment of God are too austere and orthodox. But, on the other
hand; if his benevolence rise high, and his conscientiousness, cau-
tiousness and destructiveness be only moderately developed, he
takes the other extreme, and regards God as all kindness, but not
retributive. Ifcausality aM conscientiousness predominate, and venera-
tion and marvellousness be moderate or small, lle is too radical and ultra.
He is speculative, hypothetical, and more moral than pious. Let him
pray more, and theorise less. So, if veneration be larger thah reason,
let him remember, that he is too apt to believe as he is told to believe,
and requires to use more intellect along with his religious feeling.
But the principle is before the reader. Let each apply accordingly
as his developments may require, and let all profit by the great lesson
taught thereby. By this standard-this moral formular-any and
every one should test his religion, and then should both cultivate the
deficient moral organs, and also put his intellect over against his
warped and contracted feelings. By analyzing the phrenological or-
gans, his intellect can and should inform him what is the true and
natural standard of religious belief and practice, and to this standard
let all conform. Then will sectarianism hide its hydra head. Then
will all embrace the same doctrines of tmth, and " do works meet for
repentance." "He that is wise, is wise for himseif."
It should be added that the physical position or location of venera
tion, as regards the other moral organs, is in beautiful keeping with
its powerful influence over the feelings and conduct of man. As al-
ready seen, the moral organs are grouped together in ..he top of the
head, and veneration occupies the centre of this group, where it cal'
unite and control, in no small degree, the action of the others. In
narmony with this fact it is, that no organ in the human head is more
promotive of virtue and happiness, none exerts a greater or more salu-
tary influence over the animal passions of man, or modifies his conduct
more, than the worship of God, and his religious opinions. What
exalts, ennobles, and purifies the soul of man more--what more effec.
DigitiZed by Google
·
.
•
•
-.......
10 21,
..uy relt1'IUDI' hia boiling, furious pusiont, than the thought, 1 Thou,
God, 1eest me" 1 Who, while realizing that the eye of hia Maker
and final Judge is steadfastly fixed upon him, can knowingly commit
.m1 And ifyou wish effectually to restrain childhood and youth,pray
with the erring sinner, and you will subdue him and his passions.
Or if your own animal lustings requ4"e reatraint, if temptation be
strong and resistance be weak, pray to thy Father who seeth in seer~
pray fervently and cultivate an abiding sense of his presence, and he
willsuccor thee, and give thee the victory over thy easilydesettmg sins ;
for, veneration is the natural antagonist of the animal propen~ities.
Nor is it till the propensities have wheedled and cajoled veneration into
the adoption of a religion in which they can find gratification, that
man can be wicked and yet he devout. Think you, that, unless the
excessive approbativness, or the besetting vanity of modern, so called,
Christians, had cast dust in the eyes of intellect, and coaxed veneration
into a tacit admission that decent attire is promotive of worship, ven·
eration would have at all tolerated the disgnsting and wicked vanity,
and show, and fashionable glitter of our fashionable worshipers1
But for this perversion of veneration, long ago would she have
driven every fashonable bonnet, and dress, and cloak, and coat, and
hat, and corset, and bustle from the sanctuary, and mterdicted church
fellowship to every fashion-loving man and woman, and beeause they
loved the fashilms more than the plain-dressed Savior of mankind.
Ye fashion-loving, gaudy religionists, let this merited rebuke sink
·deep into your hearts ; for, remember, that the more you think of oat·
ftde anearancu, the less you think of the true, spiritual worship of
God
Digitized by GoogIe
TUB TittlE RELIOtOK AND TBB FALSB. II
BBCTIOI n.
TBB TittlE :aELIGtoN AND TBB f.ALSE.
AND now, reader, dost thou ask, what kind of religion is that re-
quired by Phrenology~ I answer, unhesitatingly-I a.nawer, in the
name of this great principle of man's nature-That which harmo-
mzes with all the faculties of man in their normal, constitutional ae-
tion. l'hat which calls out all; which blends with all; which satis-
fies alL Thus, the socal and domestic feelings should each, all, be
exercised in conjunction with the religious sentiments. Connubial
love-that sacred, heaven-born emotion of the soul of man-should
be exercised with prayer. Animal love-lust-may not-does not-
invoke the blessing of heaven. But I believe it to be natural for those
who feel the sacrad fires of pure, connubial love warming their ill-
most souls, and cementing their affections, to pray for, to pray with,
the object of their lov:e. Husbands and wives, and also lovers, ought
always, as their hearts go out to each other, to let them also go out
after God. They ought to hold sweet communion together upon hea-
ven and heavenly things; ought to excite each other to holy deeds
and heavenly aspirations, as well as to season all tUir conversation,
their whole conduct, with the savor of religion. I do aver, in the
light of this clearly established principle, about which there can be DO
question, that true love cannot exist, in all its power and loveliness,
without co-existing with religion, and, mce 11ersa, that true religion
cannot exist in all its glory and power, without commingling with thia
sacred element. To be truly pious, and to the fullest extent, it is in·
dispensable, not only that the person be married, really if not nomi-
nally, but that the partner of his joys and sorrows, be also a partaker
in his holy aspirations. This principle e.xhorts, commands husbands
and wives to cultivate this reciprocity of religioU8 feeling. And it
admonishes those who talk rehgion to others, but not to th~:tr families,
that they are inconsistent. That where .they require tho most, there
they have the least.
It also, and for the same reason, requires parents to cultivate
the religious sentiment in their children. Parents can do this far bet·
ter than the clergyman can. The latter see children but seldom, and
then do not -always improve every opportunity to excite the religious
feelings. And then, too, it is not possible for any one but those.who
have the care of childhood, and are con~lan.tly with then, to culti-.te
•
•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
thit element The Sabbath school teacher sees the pupil but once a
week, and then but an hour, and :w~ is more, he spends that hour
in expounding some religico-doctrinal point He rarely excites the re-
ligious spirit To teach .a child -l'eligion, .you l1),q8t ·get the lot~e of
that child. Parents can do this more effectually than all others com·
bined. Cl~rgymen .~t Jd.' it Sa.b.b.!Wl ).¥(hool ~d Bible plaaa
teachers cannot tlo it ..P~ref'lq"ust .do ~t. #d I fear t\J.at t\l~e re-
ligious schools cAlled.~1:il!p,th ~qo!,a ~ . :aib~e cl~~&ses, will ~o ~o~e
harm than good ; ~u,se P!¥"eJlts will rely on Jhe'f!l .to do up ~he reli·
gion for their ~en, !UJ.d th'\18 filii to 9,ischarge that ~aily duty, or,
rather piea.ure, wh,ich devolves E~Specially on .par~ts. ~nd then, too,
they are gen~!llLy .~d to teach secf!trianism. ~h,is, I abominate. 1
would have Jlfor~pts teach their chAd~en J:eligion along wi~h scie~ce.
I w.ould have them ,teach God in all that is taught. Would have p,~.·
rents explain tile book of .nature to their children-expound God in
every thing. I .would have them taught science, but I would have no
fact taught th~ without .teaching natural theology along with sci-
ence, pari p~
So, Phrenology recommends, .e:ven epjoins, family prayer. Family
prayer blends the .social and the devotional so bP-autifully l It pro·
.motes family affection. It secures family obedience. It, especially
in the evening, caLms and quiets the mind, and prepares it for sleep.
1ndeed, families should set as much by the family altar, as by the fa.
mily table. So, Phreoology recommends saying grace before meals--
that is, of e.xercising devotion along with appetite. Social, neighbor·
hood prayer meetings, ,and the ~citing ofour neighboUrs and friends to
.religious exercises, .&c., are.also recommended, even enjoinedt by this
principle. At the ,~~th, wllere neighboxs live .too far apart to .see
each other often, it is quite tile c~etom to stay an hour after service,
and gratify the social feeling, b.y .~changing compliments, news,
friendly feelings, neighborhood incidents, &c., and its participators
describe it as moet delightful. So the Quaker, strict to attend church,
asks his. friends home to clWler or supper; and then a cordial, friend·
ly .interchange of sentiments aQd pleasureablefeeling eusues, where
all ceremony, all restraint, are banished, and you indeed feel at home
.aad happy. This is as it should be. At all events, let us have con-
nubial religion, parental religion, fa,J;D.ily religion, a.nd. friendly reh·
gion, and let neither be se}ll\rated from the other.
So, we should make money, but we should never let love of riches
interfere with religion. It should indeed be a part of our religion to
acquire sufficient of thia world-; gOods to live comfortably. ~ I
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
llWB -:u:uerex. ••
•-aut !)~sin to llt'j, that I &ink givin!-money inoroel'to ·premete -l'illi-
-gion, ia c!cerly engrded on thil principle. I believe it-to be right-
·.io'be p1amotiTil of our own happiness---that we give money to ad
·1'8nce-the 1)11'1J8e ofreligion.
1
1t wotrld 'be quite in place here to animad-vert upon the prevailing
spirit of m,()ftey-maieing which characterizes our age and nation, and
is not wholly unknown to professors of religion. Well has the Bible
J>ronounced the love of money to be the" root of all evil." Many-
most-of·the other vices·that disgrace and torment man, come from
this prolific source. All our robberies, burglaries, defalcations, dis-
·honesty, forgeries, gambling, racing, betting, &c. &c. to an unlimited
extent. 'Many of our murders. Much of the vice and wretchedness
of the rich, and most ofthe grasping, shark-like selfishness and rapa·
city of all classes. This is not Bible religion. It is not phrenologi·
cal religion. The former is full of denunciations against it. The
latter reiterates these denunciations, and enforces them by the sa~c­
tions of the natural laws. Why is it, then, that those who bear the
name of Christ, and profess to be his followers, should, in the very
teeth of the Bible, in the face of natural religion, and in _
the eyea of
thP.ir own and their children's virtue and happiness, allow them·
selves to amass immense wealth, and so set their hea%1S upon it~ I
do not see but that there is about as much of this worldly spirit, this
lusting after " mammon," and this idol!ttrous worship of it, too, in tlle
church as there is out qf it. I do not see but tllat the pretended fol·
lowers of the meek and lowly Jesus, who .was so poor that he had not
where to lay his head, have as much aristocratical exclusiveness on
account of wealth, as those who make no such pretentions. I do not
see that -they give more-that they give as much-for the promulga-
tion of the peace-givjng, soul-cleansing " gospel of the son of man," as
paliticinns do to secure party elections ; as pleasure lovers do to se-
cure pleasure; as other men do to secure other objects. This ought
not so to be. Surely, the objects, ends, of the true Christian, infinitely
supersede those of the man of the world. Why, then, should not ef.
forts to promote the ends of religion, be made with corresponding vi
gor 1 I do not say but that religionists often give liberally to promote
their sectarian creeds-to build up their church.,.,...to secufe the ser·
vices of some renowned minister, a_nd all that sort of thing. But, is
that piety? Does it really promote the cause of ~idler true rel~ion
or human happiness1 ·
So, too, I do not see but that wealth gives a man as much CW4(.•
wr in the church as out of it. Be a man but rich r.n the church, 8DCI
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
•
PEB.NIClOV8 INFLUENOB OF IUMKOK. 218
he has the say. He is the leader. Ministers, be they ever so good,
are his play·things. The managing committee know full well, tJ:..at
they must choose ~md dismiss such ministers aa he says, or, possibly~
which his sinful propensities say, or else lose his subscription; and
that of course must be secured, right or wrong, come what may.
And ministers, too, sometimes bow to the rich men of their parishel'.
Sometimes-hush I "Tell it not in Oath." Let such church mana-
gers, and such ministers, too, humble themselves in sackcloth and
ashes. Behold the spectacle I Religion, with all its high and holy
claims-all its eternal sanctions-kneeling down and doing homage
to the idol of mammon I Bowing her sacred neck to his infernal
chains ! Oh I Jesus, are these thy sheep1 Do they bear thy image,
and hear thy voice1 I now submit, whether this pretty widely ex-
tended fact, as to the religion of the day, does not say, and in the Jsn.
guage of the Bible, " Ye have no part nor lot'in this matter." This
mammon-loving, or the Christ-following spirit and conduct, form a
kind of test of true Christitlnity, and, tried by this test, weighed in
this balance, I submit to nine-tenths of the professed followers of Jesus
Christ, whether you are really his followers or his betrayers. I know
this is plain talk, but, remember, it hal both science and the Bible on
its side, and only a miserly, penurious, bauble-loving propensity
against it. The Bible says, " Be ye not conformed to this world.''
" Unless ye forsake all, and follow me, ye cannot· be my disciples,''
&c., to almost any number of like passages. And Phrenology says,
never let animal Acquisitiveness rule spiritual Devotion: Subject
thy love of money to thy love of God. Exercise thy love of money
never, but in obedience to thy moral sentiments.
Reader I Allow me to call your attention to the harmony between
this precept of the Bible, and this requisition of Phrenology ; and then
to ask how many tares there are growing within tke folds of the
Christian churches to every stalk ofwheat1 I recommend those whose
names are enrolled on our church records, to read a small work enti-
tled " Mammon, the Sin of the Christian Church,'' and then read the
great law of the nature of man, which requires that all the animal
propensities be subjected to the royal family of the moral sentiments,
whose President is, Veneration. I call upon rich Christians 1J hot ice!J
to empty their coffers, or erase their names. I tell ministers-! tell
churches-but yc know, now. See that ye do.
It was said above, that appetite should be exercised in conjunction
with veneration, as well as all the other organs. The Jewish passover
itrnishes an illustrauon of this principle, and so does or should our
DigitiZed by GoogIe
219 INTELLECTUAL llELlGION
thanksgivings. It i~ proper that we eat \Vith special referen:e to the
exercise of the religious feelings. I do not say that all our eating
should be of that class, nor that we should, or should not, have par-
ticular days and seasons-annual, periodical or otherwise, for reli-
gious festivals. I rather think, however, that we should; partly as
tallismen of the lapse of time, and partly that friends at a distance may
know that on particular days, a gathering of old friends will take
place, as on thanksgiving, or christmas, or other occasions.
So, also, tune should be exercised with veneration. It is proper
that we sing religion, as well as converse religion, &e. Sacred mu·
sic is natural to man-grows spontaneously on the tree of man's na·
ture. Remarks on the character of church music would be in place
here, but suffice it for the present merely, that we have called the at·
tention to this doctrine of Phrenology.
In like manner, man should exercise his mirthfulness along with
his religious feelings. Let us have no gloomy, acetic piety. No fears
that we are too great sinners to be pardoned-no oppressive feelings
of self-condemnation. Let us mingle cheerfulness, and even a spor·
tive mirth-making disposition, perhaps evenlaughter,along with reli-
gion. The idea that to make fun is wrong-to be jocose and witty
are sinful-is erroneous, and yet quite common. Mnny, in ignoranc~
of this principle, sutfer great condemnation for doing what it is per·
feetly right that they should do, namely, being lively and jocose. If
to be witty and funny had been sinful in itself, God would never have
created the organ and faculty in man. But the exercise of this faeul·
ty, besides being so rich a source. of enjoyment1 is pre-eminently
healthy and promotive of all the grllat functions of life-digestion, re·
spiration, circulation, vitality, and all their attendant blessings. I re·
gard the proper exercise of mirthfulness as pre-eminently a religous
duty, as well as most happy in all its effects.
So, also, we should exercise our intellect along with our religion. •
We should study the works of God, and thP. character of God as ex·
hibited in his works. And we- should especially exercise reason along
with our religion. It is entirely proper also to open literary societiee
with prayer, and to introduce natural theology into the pulpit. If our
clergymen would take the eye, and by unfolding itl! constructioDJ,
show how beautifully and wonderfully every part of it is adapted to
seeing, and to light-if they would unfold mnn anatomically, physio-
logically, phrenologically-would expound and preeent nature in her
uewr-encijng adaptations and contrivances, and then ·lead the delight·
ed auc:Uence :UP from those wonderful works to their Author, showiDg
them hia e:Nt'"e and cltartuter. as evinced :n those worb, what a
• o,9,,,zedbyGoogle
THE TRUE li.ELIGION .AND 'IHE FALS"£. 220
vast amount of information would they thus scatter I How ~raw iu
the thoughtless and the ungodly to their meetings, for the sake of the
intellectual feasts thus served up to them, and then convince and per·
suad their intellects, and draw out their souls in devout adoration
nnd praise. I
The phrenology of this course is this. The more organs brought
into combined and harmonious action, the greater the pleasure and
profit experienced thereby. By thus introducing natural facts, the
perceptive organs are delighted and gratified ; so are also those of rea-
son, in tracing out their adaptations, or their fitness in relation to their
ends. And this high intellectual action reacts upon the moral feel·
ings, greatly increasing their intensity and flow, and thus, blended
into one harmonious whole, gratify and improve the human mind
more than any other class of emotions it can experience. For my
own part, nothing gives me such exalted views of God, of his charac
ter, wisdom, goodness, &c, as does the study of his works. Nothing
kindles my veneration to its highest pitch of delighted and exalted
action, equal to a beautiful landscape, a lofty summit: a wonderful
adaptation of means to ends. Under the open canopy of heaven, sur·
rounded by the beauties ofnature, admiring the glories of the rising or
aetting sun, or gazing at the starry expanse over my head, it is thal
my soul is lifted up to the third heaven of delight and devotion, while
sectarian religious worship is stale and insipid compared with it.
And yet our clergymen rarely ever think of introducing natural the-
ology into their sermons, at least, except by passing allusions. They
too often assume--some one doctrine, or, more properly, dogma, and
another, another, to thousands of isms, and then go on and build up
dogma upon dogma ; the blind leading the blind into the dark laby-
rinths of error and superstition.
I insist upon it, that science should be taught along with religion,
and particularly, the laws of Physiology and Phrenology. Without
obeying the laws they unfold, it is impossible to be virtuous or happy.
And to facilitate this obedience, let them be taught, along with our ot-
our moral duties, which it most assuredly is, the duty of preserving
health. Indeed, I know of no virtue, no duty, that will compare in
point of importance with that of obeying the laws of Physiology-pre-
serving health, prolonging life, and keeping the body in that state
which is most promotive of virtue and enjoyment. 'I'hat to be sick is
to be sinful, and sinful in proportion as you are sick, hns been demon-
strated in my work on Education, and will be still further enforced in
the forthcoming works on Physiology and o\mativeness. I have
Digitized by Coogle
til A SHORT CATECJIISJ(. 67
there shown t.ltat sin is genel'lllly the product of physical duorder.
This pooint I deem all-important. I s~ll enforce this point, also, iD
tkis work. At all events, I considet clergymen almost culpable fo1
not preaching more Physiology and ·Phrenology. I would have
tqem carry their. manikin into the desk, in the one hand, and their
anatomical and physiological preparations in the other, to be followed
by herbariums, specimens of animals, qf all kinds-birds, beasts, in
sects, fish, and .the whole range of nature, animate and inanimate,
and preach on astronomy, on electricity, on chemistry, natural history.
&c.-on all the works of God-his noblest work of course the most.
" Oh, horrible I Blasphemy I What a profanation of the Sabbath,
of the sanctuary, of things sacred, would this be!'' Indee<11 indeed!
The house of God so 1Jery holy, that the works of God will profane it 1
Very holy, that. Somewhat holiPr than heaven itself, I doubt. not I
Why was aot nature packed up and put out of sight every seventh
day, lest its presence should profane the Sabbath1 But, as I shall
take up this matter of the Sabbath, of religious teachers, &c. hereafter, ·
I dismiss it with a short catechism.
Question. Phren.-" Well, Mr. Universalist, please take the stand,
and tell the jury, whether you do or do not think that every orthodox
minister in Christendom would preach more truth and less error, and
do much more good'in the world, if he should preach natural theolo-
gy-God, as manifested in his works-than he now does by preach-
ing orthodoxy."
Answer. Universalist.-" Most certainly I do ; because now he is
preaching a doctrine erroneous in itself, injurious in its tendency, de-
rogatory to God-an outrage"- •
Q. P.-" That will do. Mr. Orthodox, do you not think that
Mr. Universalist would do more good and less injury if he should
lecture to his people on science, and especially, on science as connect-
«! with religion, than he now does 1"
A. 0.-" Beyond all question. Then he would certainly do no
harm. He would even dispel ignortnce, and do good; whereas now,
he is tearing up the good old land-marks; is a stepping stone to infi-
delity j is even fast ruining souls, by crying peace to the wicked
when there is no peace. No ten infidels in this place are doing as
much damage to the cause of virtue, and to young people in particu-
lar, as he is doing.''
Q. P.-" And, Mr. Unitarian, what do you thiuk1 Would the
Rev. Mr. Trinitarian d : more good or evil than he nO"V does, if he
DigitiZed by GoogIe
68 TBl: TRUE RBLIGION.. A1h> _TJIB PALR
\Vould eeawe preaching the peettlianty" t1f hia cree<ij tnc. ~reach Mii-
ence and natural religion 1'' .
A. U. -" I ·think this truth is always beneficial. Error is ad·
ways pernicious. He is aow preaching error, and therefore ·doing
harm. Then, he would at lea8t preach truth, and t!Ohvey much wlu·
able information. Now, he is 'qoing a positive injury to soeiety. Then,
he would do a positive good." · ·
Q. P.-" And, Mr. Trinitarian, what think you as to the preaeh·
ing of the Rev. Mr. Unitarian. Would he profane the Sabbath and
the sanctuary more or less by adopting th& course under discussion 1"
A. T-'·Less, decidedly. I consider error to be a profanation of
things sacred ; but truth can never profane any thing. He might
then do some good, but now he is certainly doing immense injury to
soeiety. He is sowing the seeds of a fatal error, that cannot fail to
make shipwreck of many an immortal soul. 1 advocate the change
most cordially."
Q. P.-" And, Mr. Pope, what say you 1" " Say I? Why, I say
you cannot possibly profane what is not holy. Their churches"-
· -·
Q. P.-" Whose churches1" "Why, all the churches-all thtr
orthodox churches, (and a pretty application of names indeed, to call
those orthodox, [1] who maintain errors as palpable, as fundamental,
as do those to whom this title is usually applied. A rose by any
other name would smell as sweetly-all Episcopalian churches, all
Unitarian churches, all Methodist churches, all Baptist churches, all
churches, of all names and kinds, not consecrated by the apostolic sue·
cession, are no more sacred than so many old barns, To talk about
profaning them, therefore,•is to talk of spoiling rotten eggs. I consl·
der them all heretics, enemies of--."
That will do; Mr. Catholic. Your opinion is all we want.
Q. P.-" Come up to the stand, all ye Protestants, in a row. AU
answer together: Do you think that Catholics would profane the
'Sabbath as IJlUch, the house of God as much, if they should carry
their philosophical aparatus into their pulpits, and explain the laws
and phenomena of nature ; should expound man, and tell the people
the laws of life, health, mind, and virtue, as deduced therefrom, M
they now do 1"
A. All-" NO," with one loud, long, united, emphatic responee,
which makes the gates of Rome tremble, and thunders in the ears a(
the Pope and the Vatican, that they think him just about as holy (1
u he thinka them.
C!_IQIIIZed by GoogIe
. ..
, .
6()
. 'I'flis cateeldsiu might be conthtued till it embraced every religwua
gd anti·religious sect, ~Wd every fragment of everY- sect in Christen·
' ciom, and in pagand9m too. And, what ia more. what is most, all but
• Olfe must of couae be'(lvrong,and that one might not be right. If
such sablime, intelle.ctual, and moral truths as· those presented in
"Good's Book of Nature," Culmer's work 011 a similar subject,
"Qpmbe on the Constitution of Man," 'f Paley's Natural Theology,"
&.c., ~re not good enough for the Sabbath and the sanctuary, then
mu~ the latter be too good, too holy, for man, for earth! But they
are net. We sh&ll soon see how holy the Sabbath is-how holy the
churches are-and can then judge whether they are so holy that na-
~.re, pure, immaculate, God-made Nature, will profane them. The
plain English of this whole matter is simply this: Our Sabbaths, and
our pulpits, are wanted for another and a meaner purpose than to pre.
sent the sublime principles of natural religion. They are wanted as
pq,rty religico-kacks, to be mounted and rode to deatk, for the exclu-
sive purpose of propagating those particular religious tenets that built
them up. Every Unitarian pulpit is wanted to propagate Unitarian-
~. Every Calvinistic pulpit, is plied to its utmost to defend and
extend Calvinism. Every Methodist pulpit, is wanted exclusively to
propagate the mith delivered to the saints by John Wesley. So of
Universalists. So of all those even who pretend to be liberal. Nor
do I remember ever to have heard a single sermon from any sectarian
pulpit-that is, in any pulpit; for, where is the pulpit that is not a
1ectarian pulpit, except where a church is owned by all in common,
and is therefore dressed out in orthodoxy one Sabbath, in Universal·
tml the next, in Trinitarianism the next, &c.-the nub or butt-end,
·drift, and texture of which did not consist of the particular tenets of the
seet that owned the pulpit. Or, if some of the "Evangelicals" ex·
~hange, those points are urged which are held in common by both
sects. Indeed, this is tke object of sectarian pulpits and sectarian
churches--an object so much more" holy," and" sacred," and" so-
lemn," .
than the preaching of God in kis works, that the latter actually
fi'TofaM the former. The holiness of heaven itself is but as a flicker·
ing rnsh-light, compared with the transcendantly dazzling glorifica-
tion of sectarian pulpits I
I,rony aside. The moral sentiments themselves .are atone blind,
mere impuls~, and as capable of receiving a bad direction as a good
one. We have already seen, that they combine with the other organa
~ are the l~Ug~ If, therefore, they do not combine with intellect,
they muat of course combine with the propensitiea. lt ctMnct be otA-
DigitiZed by GoogIe
70 THE MOIUL SENTIMENTS R];.'QUlll.ll INTELLEVI'UAL GUIDANCE. 224
erwise. And when they thus combine, we have a religion of entire
animal propensity. When, as in the· ancients, they combinE• with
amativeness, we have a religion made up, in warp and woof, of J•ublic, •
shameless, unbridled prostitution, to the temples of which crowds o( .
worshippers throng; of both sexes, and all ages ; each more eager
than the other in th,e unblushing in4ulgenee of unhallowed lust, he
or she being the most pious who indulge the most in venerial inter·
course. Combining with appetite, and unguided by intellect:, they
make a religion of their bachanalian revels, he being the mo;st reli~
gious who can drink and carouse most Combining with secretive-
nelS and acquisitiveness, they make religion to consist in stealing, and
lying, and knavery. Combining with cautiousness, and ungoverned
by intellect, they look upon God with dread, and trembling fear, in·
.stead of with love, and offer sacrifices to appease the wrath of offended
Deity-a species of animal religion, not entirely unknown to some of
the pious of the present day. And so of its other animal combinations.
Look at the animal religion of the ignorant, superstitious negro of
southern slavery. His intellect untrained. His prayers perfect blas-
phemy. His preaching-look, ye who can look, at the negro's reli
gion. And all, because he cannot, must not, read ; cannot, must not,
think ; and hence, by a necessary consequence, that combination of
veneration with the propensities which produces his heathenish nts
tions of religion. And all solely because he bas no intellect, to ele-
vate, and enlighten, and direct his blind religious impulses. I wiah
to be fully understood. I say, in broad, unequivocal terms, that the
moral sentiments, to be productive of good, and not to be the worst
engines of depravity extant, MUST in ALL CASEs, be enlightened, and
guided by intellect, by lcienct1 by realon1 by kMwledge. And, sure
ly, no species of knowledge--neither political knowledge, nor nov~
knowledge, nor polite literature knowledge, nor any other form of
knowledge--will sanctify and direct the moral sentiments as effeetu·
ally as will a knowledge of Nature, so presented as to teach us God,
his character, his laws, his government-mar s duty. I say, in the
name of this incontrovertible principle, that we .;tumot have a religion
" pure and undefiled," without basing it in natural seience, and rnak·
ing it consist of natural theology. No other views of religion ean be
correct. No other can make man better. All others render him
blind, bigoted, sinful, miserable. They satisfy the religious sentiment,
without improving the morals, or seasoning the conduct.
And now, intelligent reader, let us test the religion ofthe day, by tlis
fully .establiehed law of Phrenology and of mind. Does the religion
Dogotozed by GoogIe
225 MODERN JtELIGION TEIITED BY THIS PRINCIPU:. 11
o(the day call out and expand the intellects of men 1 Does it impart
lmowledge, particularly the knowledge already shown to be nee<led
by the moral sentiments-a knowledge of nature1 No ; not at all.
As mute as a mole on all matters of science. And I always find ten
times more difficulty in getting religionists, particularly old-fashioned,
old-school Baptists and Presbyterians, to look at Phrenology, than 1
do to get all the world besides to examine it. I find, that where reli·
gion reigns with the most complete sway, there Phrenology is inter-
dicted; Physiology, excluded ; Geology, rejected ; and the other na-
tural sciences are uncultivated! The new-school men, of all denomi-
nations, and reformers of all kinds, go in, heart and soul, for Phreno-
logy ; but dea.!ons-and these furnish a better test than clergymen-
and the leaders m our churches--as well as the ladies of church ton-
I submit to the reader, where, in the ranks of science, are they to be
found 1 Last, always. And not at all, till popularity compels their
tacit ascent.' I submit, who, but clergymen, and those,_
too, made up
of doubled-and-twisted orthodoxy, have ever raised a dissenting voice
against Geology 1 Who imprisoned Gallileo 1 Who are the most
illiberal, the most bigoted, narrow-minded, anti-scientific men of any
and every community1 And, per contra, who are the most scientific1
Who patronize scientific lectures most1 Who are the most liberal
minded 1 The most candid inquirers after truth, as well as its moat
cordial devotees 1 I leave the fact to answer. I leave this principle
to draw the inference. I leave the two united, to say, whether men
are rendered more wise, or more ignorant, (that is, the better or the
worse,) by the religion that is. If that religion advances science, it
makes men's moral faculties exp:md more generally and powerfully
than they otherwise would, with the intellectual-which, as just seen,
sanctifies the moral, and alone prevents their doing injury. But, if it
retard the progress of science (which is, beyond all question, the fact,)
it is a damage to mankind. Nothing can be more injurious. And no·
thing more beneficial than that which cultivates the intellectual facul-
ties, in connexion with the moral.
Another test of the anti-scientific spirit of the religion of the day,
and of course, proof that it is injurious, is to be found in the refusal of
the great majority to allow their churches to be used for scientific lec-
tures. These churches mig!tt be, ought to be, the promoters of science,
by offering those facilities which their spacious walls, comfortable
pews, and central locations, always and every where might afford ft>r
lectures on science--particularly the science of man. But, the blue-
atocking orthodoxy utterly refuse their houses to all and every thing,
DigitiZed by GoogIe
--•
72 OBJECTION Tll4T R!:UGIOoflJTS UASON.
except the promulgation of their contra.cted tenets. Andover rel1gion
would not open her doors to lectures on Phrenology. Hence, <dler
denominations, who otherwise would ~pen their churches, follow
auit, in order to keep up the dignity of the house of God, till even
Unitarians and Univerl!llli$8, who claim to be liberal, also lock aU
but Universalism and Unitarianism out of their houses. And yet,
they claim to be liberal ! Away with professions without practice I
It is in your power, if you would but improve the noble opportl,Jnity
offered, to steal the march on bigotry and intolerance, to show your
liberality, and thus commend your sect, by opening your doors to the
cause of science, and even paying something as s9cieties, to promote
the cause of science. But, suit yourselves. Pursue the illiberal
course, and it will ruin you. Pursue the liberal policy, and it will
save you. The views here presented, 'JDill prevail. Oppose them,
and you die. Science asks no odds at y,our hands. Take care of
yourselves. That is all. That is quite enough for you. ·
I ought here to state unequivocally, that I find clergymen much in
advance of the deacons, and those church ari1tocrats who govern
both priest and people. I also find that those called "new school,'
men of each of the sects, particularly of the orthodox, generally take
liberal views of things, are generally ready to open their churches,
and are decided advocates of Physiology, Phrenology. Magnetism, &c.
This is right. They are the salt of the churches. God grant that
they may go on to banish bigotry and invite science into the sane·
tuary, and thus purify the religion of the day from the dross, the in·
tolerance, the ignorance of the dark ages, and of the present age, and
bring intellect into delightful action with the moral sentiments.
"But," says an advocate of the religions that be, "does not much
of the preaching of the day,· particularly orthodox preaching, employ
reason, and appeal to reason 1 Where do you find more logic, more
of consecutive argumentation than is found in much of the preaching
of the day1"
Theorizing, you mean. I grant that they employ a 1htnJJ of reason
--a mushroon, spurious, deceptive species of reasoning, but it is a spe·
cies of reasoning that proves and disproves any thing and everything.
It proves orthodoxy, and the decrees, and partial salvation, and the
trinity, to a perfect demonstration, while it is at the same instant, in "
pulpit over the way there, engaged in dis[J'1oving these very doctrines,
and proving their opposites. In one pulpit, it proves mo~ conclu·
aively the final perseverance of the saints, and in the next pulpit, is
DigitiZed by GoogIe
DltESilNG ON THE SABBATH. 73
disproving this doctrine, and proves• that U is po~ble; ~ fall tiwn
gxace. Indeed, that there is great danger of it. In' a Meth~
pulpit, it reasons out to a demonstration, that Armenianism is the true
doctrine of the "word of God," while in an orthodox pulpit, it is
proved quite as logically and incontestibly, ~the opposite doctrines
of rigid Calvinism are true. In a Trinitarian pulpit, the divinity of
Christ is proved to be bible, to be reuon. In a Unitarian pulpit, the
same doctrine is overthrown-shown to be antirreason, anti-bib!~
its opposite doctrine established as truth. So of the peculiarities ,of
all Qther creeds. I submit to one, to all of the believers of these doc·
trines, whether ministers 4o not each reason out their peculiar teA~
logically, and forcibly, and also show by reason the absgJ:dity of~
doctrines opposed thereto1 I ask Trinitarians if they dQ not thinlc
their ministers reason out th~- three-fold natuxe of the Oo.dhea,4 ,..
cl(lal'ly and cogently as Unitarians think their ministers reaso11-- Oil.\
their opposite doctrine1 So of each sect, as to its peculiar WJ1.etB. -+.~
yet the fact, that truth ftlways harmop.izes with tiutP, and Ie&$.On ~m,
reason, renders it self-evident and certain that most of theM" re~oning
is spurious. They do not reason. They simply theorize. 1'h~y
give a therefore without a wherefore. They reason through colored
glas!!es. Diversities in their religious and other organs, w~ i~telle~.
and render~ reasoning unreasonable. _
1\.fy coi1Science constrains me here to censure, what I wish I epuld
let pass,;n silence. I refer to the gay, dressy religion of the age. If
dress had no moral character, or were harmless in its etiects, wost
gladly would I say nothing about it. But, it is not so. It if moat
pernicious. Scarcely any thing is more so. To two points, ilW.stra- •
tive of its evils, allow me to advert. First, to the amount of e~Jr4
sewing r$ired thereby, and to the deleterious·influence 9{ so m~c~
.ewing on the female constitution, and thereby on .the raGC. l do fee)
that a vast many of our blooroing daughters, first lose their health ~nd • -
are rendered miserable for life by sitting apd sewing so s,teadily. I
call attention to this point. Ye who regard suicide as sjnful, open
your eyes, I beseech you, to this lamentable subject. If our fabrics
were made strong, and a uniform fashio1:1 pre~led, I ven~ure to .
u,ffipn
• I uae the word prOfling here and occaeionaUy eleewhere, aot by any-meaM
in ia true •-· but ironically. '1'bU ill 10 palpable, that theaeadedwoHy ft.
cpiras to be put on bja gnanl by t.bie note. I selllll'lllly nee worde i,l their-
881Uiel alway•, indeed, except where the subject itll_
elfC8Dllot fail to sive ~
the eigui&oation intended. ro eave circtunloc:ution, I generally uae fbe 1F,Ord
orthodox, however, in itll popular_senerally received eenae, rather than in ~
ftei8JIIe,
'
.. • o,9,,,zedbyGoogle
. I .
.
'
74 DaESSING ON THE 8A.BB.lTJl
that at the lqwest estinuition, nine-tenths o:the sewing now periormed.
might be nvgided, and men and women be just as comfortable as now,
and infinitely more happy than following these fashions can poss1bl}
render them.
Secondly : Look, and weep. in view ofthe vast sacrifice of life und
virtue, caW!ed ·by tight-lacing. I will not enlarge. Nearly half of
the ·deaths of women and children, are caused by this accursed fashion;
.besides an amount and aggravation of misery which no tongue can
tell, no finite mind conceive.
- " And what has religion to do with this, or this to do with religion'111
aays one. A story. In making a recent Phrenological examination
of a wom.an, I saw and told her that she had almost ruined both body
and mind by tight-lacing. She answered, thnt she never laced more
• thai) one day in the week. IJ.eader, what day do you suppose·that
•one was1 In what one day of the week is committed more suicidal
and infanticidal corsetting, than in all the other six, and that by hun·
dreds to one 1 And yet miniSters administer the sacrament to wo
men by thousands, while in tke very act of committing both suicide
and infanticide. I pity clergymen. An excellent class ormen, taken
by and large. They would fain do their duty, and spenk out. But
the daughter of the rich church-member mentioned above, exercises
her pious Approbativeness, by attending church richly dressed and
tightly corsetted, in order to be the ton of the meeting. Let the cler·
gymnn open his mouth against this life-destroying sin if he dare, and
he will get his walking papers pretty soon. Sometimes ministers defy
• conserfuences, but alas,,what can they do1 A living they must have,
' : and they yield to stern necessity. They put on the shackles, and bow
their knees. But, ye.ininisters ofGod and of truth, I subn-Vt whether
it is right thus to let this crying sin pass unrebuked 1 Star;e if you
• must, but tell the .troth; "whether they will hear, or whether they
will forbear." Be no longer "dead dogs" in reference to this subject
of lifo and death. Your silence gives consent. Bond yourselves to-
gether, and you can rid our land, our world, of a far greater sin than
intemperance is or ever was. If you do not know both tts evils
and their extent, it is high time for you to learn them. If you
do kaow them, but dare not, .or do not, sound the alarm, aban-
don your calling. Yield your poJ~t to those who will not let a sin as
glaring as this go unrebuked. Do your duty. ImplorirJg millions
yet unborn, say, do your duty.
But, I have not yet lashed this lacing and these fashions on where
they belong. They go along with, ·they are propagated by, f"tligiow
'
229 TIIB DIFLUENOB OP F.ASJDON. 75
meetings, particularly on the sabbath. Where do th~e who wish to
learn the fushions as soon as they are out, go 1 To church, of C')U1'86.
Nor need they go any where else. Neither the ball-room ncr the
theatre, nor the social .party, get the fashions as soon, or propagate
them a hundreth part as effectually, as do our religious meetings on·
the 11abbath. I am plain to declare; what every miQJi of common in-
telligence will admit, that ifI wished to amass a fortune by the popu·
larity of some fashion, even though it might be pernicious, I would
not attempt to introduce it into the ball-room or theatre, but if I could ·
introduce it among the ton of some D. D.'s church, in some populoUI
city, my end would b11 attained, for then all the other dressingly religious
maids and matrons must also have it, both in that church, and in all
the churches of the land. And if they have it, surely those who do
not profess religion must also have it. Besides, who does not know, .
that unless a woman dresses well at church, she loses caste. And, I
submit to any candid observer of the facts of the case, whether nine-
tenths of those women who labor for wft.e'es, do not spend nine-tenths df
these scanty earnings, for somethmg " descent," (that is, fashionable,)
·with which to. appear in church on the sabbath. Nearly every new
toat, new hat, new bonnet, new dress, new fashion, new every thing,
goes to church first-goes to church mainly. And sometimes the piti·
ful wages paid to our laboring women, do not allow them to get u
many " decent" things as fashion requires, with which to go to meet-
ing on sunday; and, not having fathers or brothers on whom to rely for
" pin-meney,, much as they love virtue, much as they abhor moral
pollution, bedeck their persons on the sab'bath with the wages of sin I
If even religion did not compel them to dress, they had retained their
virtue ; and I verily believe more than half of the prostitution of tlle
land, private as well as public, is chargeable e:> the sabbath drusing
sanctioned, aye, even demanded, by the religion of the day. But not'
by the religion of Juus Chrnt. He no where requires his followers
.o wear bustles, or corsets, or fashionable attire. He dressed in swad
dling clothes. He loves you none the better, ye painted, padded, bus-
tled, ribboned, milliner-made lady-christians, because you go up to the
sanctuary attired in the latest fashions, with your gilt-edged prayer-
book or Bible in hand, &e.-in that nipping, swinging, artificial walk,
and affected manners -the natural language of self-eeteem and Ap-
probativeness. Indeed, such he does not love al all. Ye cannot
serve two masters. If ye will dress fashior:ably, ye ea:mot be the
t1..iaciples of the meek and lowly l'ilSUII.
6
..
•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
·..
•
•
76 l'JDI JNr&LLJilCTU<\L A.Jm KO~.¥,. l'AOTJL.~ SHOULD GOV.Elllt. 230
lrletho4iats I I llf.ve ope word ¥l say.w y;o\L ¥e aifl .run well
What ~ hinciered you1 Ye on~ ipterdi.cted ch~rch fellowship to
the daughters of fashion. But "ye have fallen (tom ~ce. Have
glided along down that llwift current of faahion which is sweeping
away all that is pure ~d lovely in the religion of the Bible, of the
erosa. Wateh~en I to yo11r postl. Sollnd the ala,rm I
Ifany reade~ stupecta \ll!it l have.c,hained the W!hion!J Qll to the ear
of religion a little more closely Y1an trqth will .waqaat, I defend, I
even ~banoo, zny P91J~~ by c~lling Y<l~ .aJtention to Satfl/rday af
ur~on an.4 AV4ni'IJK ; ~nd ln'iqg shop-}ceepers, millill11rs, seamstresses
&e., aa my witn~!l. ThllSe ~ s~ v!>l~ Th&y tell o
tale ,which religion .~ould bltah to hear.
. It remains to add, that th~s the «~J8lited hellV«>~ly :Gill-otiPns of Vene-
J.:ation, a~;e not en.hancsd, but griev~usly ~~rdll(} by thit parasite of
4lpprobativeness. Jt is that prope~1"r«Mig,i~, ~ll .Iong shown to ~
so j.njwioqe in its eif~~, •nd so urW.oly in ,its exercise. True, it is
~t q11ite as WWti tl}.e )i<;eJ,ltiOtJB worship of VenlU!, t4e revelling WOl•
~hip of a 13llcchus, or the murderoqa wors~ of a Mara, of the an·
ciepts ; bi>Clluse Ven~tion pow combines .with .org~ a little higher
in the head, and lll!88 ani~ in charaeter1 than with th~m. &ill, it in
•imczl religion yet. It is not t,lle religion ofaither enlightened imel
Ject or high moral •enti~Jlent. It .is in ~he teeth of the nature of man,
ad of the requiremen~ of PhreuQ).ogy.
I might say more. I roay ~ue my ~Y~ .aid eo much. Be i~ so
But it is true-.-only that" the .balf.is not .told."
From these few appliea.tioWI d. tbis gr~ principle, that correct re
tigious doctrines and practices involve the COtnWiled and harmouioU\
ution ofall the moulties, ;with the mQral and intell~al in the aseen ·
dellCy, the reader willtJee its &\Veep, its pqwer. ';l'hat it forms a cor
·ceet test and touc~ou.e of true and false religion, cannot be doub~ed.
That it criticises effectually much that t;~ow passes for religion, is self·
evitlent. That these few are ~uhe beginnings of its applica.tion, i~
allo apparent. Still, as these applications will be ~el)dered much mon
clear, general, and powerful after,we have ~yr,red a few ~ore of the
moral facu~ and damoDBtrated. a fe:w moJ;e fund!une_. pr.inciplrs,
.
we poatpoo.e thea for the pref~M,t. Pellhaps 6Jltirely; for ~ reascns :
~ the reader can apply them...,.....(l@not help appl~ them {()r hi1n
lelf; aod secoacily, the.task is most painful thua to c~~ :w~;~.t :o
many good peoJle lwld. .u eo sacred.
..
•
• • o,9,,,zedbyGoogle
231 'l'BE SABBATJL 71
BBCTION W.
THE SABBATH.
Having proved the ittiatence of a God, and the duty of man to we>•·
ship him, and laid open the great principle, by applying which w~
may form correct views of the character, attributes, and worship of
God ; the inquiry comes home with great force, " What in regurd to
the SABBATH1 What says the nature of man touching this religious
institution~ Does Phrenology recognize any sabbath1 If so, which't
'fhe Jewish, or the Christian~ Does the nature of man set apart, or
J.equire to be set apart, any portion of time for religious worship~ If
uo, what portion ~
Phrenology answers this question thus : " Man, worship thy God.
Worship daily. Worship habitually. Exercise thy religious feel-
ings, not by fits and starts, not at gbren times and seasons, but continu-
ally. Make this worship a part and parcel of thy daily avocations, or,
rather, pleasures." It saith, "Arise, thee, in the morning betimes, and
as the glorious sun is lighting up and animating all nature with hie
presence, do thou pour forth thy heart in praise and adoration to the
Maker ofthe sun, and to the Author ofall those btauties that surround
thee. And when the -'etting sun is shedding on delighted earth his
last rays of glory for the day, and spreading his golden hues over na-
ture, to wrap her in the mantle of night, do thou offer thy evening
orisons of thanksgiving for the mercies of the day, and supplicate pro-
tection for the night.'' Instead of spending all thy energies in amasa-
ing wealth, or in pursuing merely animal, worldly objects, Phrenology
saith, " Take a little time to feed thy immortal soul." Phrenology
says, thou mayest go to church if thou pleasest, or not go if thou ob-
j£-ctest. It says, that place and mode are nothing; that the worship is
the main thing. · We should think as much of thus feasting our im-
mortal souls with thoughts of God and heaven, as of feeding our frail
bodies with our daily orea.l Should exercise worship as often and
as much as we exercise appetite or viSion. Should take time-should
make a business of one as much as of the other. I ertjoyneither food.
nor sleep, nor life its~lf, more than I enjoy this communion with m}
Ood. I look upon these seasons as the brightest spots upon the page
of life. The most pleasurable. The most profitable.
5. At least, it is lawful to walk abroad in the fields on the sabbatby
enjoy the fresh breezes, and pick and eat fruit, and what we like.
This shutting ourselves up in-doors, is positively wrong. It ~
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
282 NO SABBATH ACCORDING T\1 PHRENOLOGY, 7S
i1hes circulation, ancl this deadens the action ofthe brain and nervotll
system, and, by consequence, of the mind and religious feelings. In
order that the worshipping feeling should be most active, the body also
must be in motion. This is founded clearly m a physiological prin-
ciple. It is as necessary that we take exercise on the. sabbath as
that we eal If the day be indeed so very holy, why are not all the
physiological laws suspended on that day~ If the day is too holy in
which to take exercise, it is, of course, too holy in which to eat, or
breathe, or live. Why does not the heart stop its wanted pulsations
the moment sunday begins, and resume them the instant' it terminates 1
For, if it be right to eat or breath on the sabbath it is equally, and for
preciselythe same reason, right that we exercise, recreate, pick flowers
and fruits, enjoy nature, enjoy life.
Besides, this enormous stuffing on the sabbath, is ruinous alike
to the religious sentiment, to the whole mind. Baked beans and .
pork, the most indigestible of all things, is the Yankee di~h for a sun
day dinner as sure as sunday comes. Precious little piety, at least,
in pork. Above all things, children should not be confined on the
sabbath, nor on any day. The law of their nature that demands phy-
sical exercise almost constantly during the waking hours of childhood
and youth, is imperious, inexorable, even on the sabbath, and must
not be violated. Cannot be, with impunity.
"Oh, but,'' says o~e, "let us at least have a sabbath as a day of rest
from the toils and burdens of the week. As acivil institution, it has
no parallel in value. Our horses and servants need rest. We all
require one day to clean up, refresh our weary bodies, banish the cares
and vexations of business, and place our distracted minds on heaven
and heavenly things." I know, indeed, that ifmen will work-too hard
one day, they require to rest the next. Not so if they do not over do.
Indeed, perfect health requires a given, equal amount of labor daily.
So, if a man will eat too much, he will be benefitted by fasting. Not,
however, when he has eaten just enough. If you will not work your
beasts too much week days, they will need no rest sundays. If you
do not follow the world too closely six days in the week, you will
not feel the need of resting from it on the seventh, but will l e the bet
ter for not resting. So, if you will exercise Veneration s lfficiently
during the week, you will need no sabbath to increase its energi£s.
Live just as you ought to during the week, and you will require to
lli'e just the same on the sabbath. I might enforce this point, by al·
luding to the force of habit, but, as habit only requires the applica
o;91t1zed by Google •
79 UVIVA.UI Oi' R:LIGI<m.
ticlll of that ~~~~me gr'uIJ.w of pr.>1
'<'ltilnate action already pomted out
and is therefore a\.:~~'<i'y anbracel in f'.rfect, enlargement is hardly
necessary. ,
.J~~ruN n.
RBHV.U.S OF RFLIGl,).l'l,
GoVERNBo by the same principles, an3 .l.l r.t6rlJ related as to de-
lerve notice in the same connexiou witb.l.he Wlbbath, is the doctrine
of" -r~i11als." Phrenology discard~ them entirely. First, on the fun-
damental principle of Phrenology, a;ul the great law of mind already
brought to bear on the Sabbath, (namely, th!lt vniformity, p-roporliO'I&-
ate actbn, is the great law of perfec:,tion,) revivals are to the mind
what artificial stimulants are to the body. They elate only propor-
tionably to depress. It is a law of mind, that iextreme action induces
the opposite extreme. Now, if it be desireable to render our religion
purely periodical-the ebbing and flowing tide, or the mountain torrent
--rather than the quiet, steady, stem, then get up reyiva}s. But,
we have sho\vn, that these extremes violate a law ofmind, and that a
moat important one. "To the law and to the testimony" of man·s
nature, I submit this point, as also the kindred one, tauching sudden
convictions. Quick convertions, on the principle that" the hottest love
is soonest cold,'' is like a fire made of shavings, blaze.~,and scorches,
and dies, leaving no valuable influences behind. To be productive or
permanent good the moral organs must be exercised habitually. No-
thing but continual, long continued exenise, can essentially eith~r
promote the growth of the organs,. or improve the tone and vigor of
the faculities. Let this great truth, elsewhere demonstrated, (that all
improvement of the faculties must be brought about by improving
their organs,) be borne constantly in mind, and also that this improve-
ment can be effected only by a perpetual exercise of both faculty and
organ. Fitful action will not, cannot do this. Pe-rmamnt action
alone can do 1t. This doctrine is opposed tp revivals. That is, the
revival prmciple. . · , .
Besides: These revivals are sometimes got wp ; and, indeed, I
rpeak the sentiments of all their advocates, when I say that they are
always got up by means of protracted meetings, powerful appeals, &c.
l know 10metb.ing about this, for I have got up revi~ and religious
•
..
Digitized by Coogle
.·
.
.~
·'
..
EVILS OF I'El!.IODIOA.L ABLtGION.
excitements myself. I say, then, without any fear of .contradictiOn,
that t'eligious «mitement8 are produced just as we produce impree~om
. or excitements about Physiology, Magnetism, Singing, Temperance,
&e. They are induced by their own apptopriate tNeam, just as any
and every thing else in the physical and the moral world. The
means used bring them to their crisis sooner, or protract them longer,
according to the 'nmure of the meana used. I advocate, then, that
they be protracted so as to have a parmanent revival. I do not object
to revivals, as creating too much religious feeling. I would have as
tnuch religion always as there is in any revival, divested, perhaps, of
som~ extraneous matter. But ! .uncompromisingly oppose periodical
religion; or, rather, annual religion; .for, reVival matters are so man·
aged as to "get up'' revivals at stated seasons of the year. It will'not
take muc~ of the spirit of prophecy to foretell, that about next January
revival meetings and efforts will begin to multiply, and begin to pro-
duce copious showers of" Divine grace" by February, only to be
completely dissipated by April
But, why do April showers, peraaps the chilly winds of March,
dissipate or supersede the showers of Divine grace~ Because revivals
must give ww:y to business. January brings leisure to merchants,
tratiesmen, &e., to get up revivals till the money·making season again
return!!. I submit, to Christian and to al~ if this periodicity of revi-
VII.ls, and at -· ~es and seasons, too, does not tell a story touching
revivala thaUfteum make those blush whom it may concern.
Let me not; by any means, be understood to sp~ agaipst man's
exercising the religious feeling. So far from it, I would advocate our
exercising the religious .sentiments more all the time, than they are
now exerciSed even in. revivals. But, I would not have these exer·
cises fitful, but perennial. The day of Pentecost should have lasted
till now, and even swept down tlle vista of all coming time, till the
lasr human being gave up the ghost. The principles !idvocated in
this essay, show that !(lligion should be the paramount feeling, pur·
suit, occupation, of man, and ·not a winter's coat, that he can put on
when he cannot makQ money, only to be put off when he can. Mo·
ney should be the one to give place to religion, and not religion to .
money·IMking. And this subjecting the "Spirit of God," as revival
influences are ealled, to th_. worldly spirit, tells a deep, dark story on
the religi,on of the day-tells.it that it is both animal, and secondary at
that, while it sfuJuld be primary, and in-wrought into the very texture
of all we do, say, feel. This is the revival doctrine. and spirit of
Phrenology, and of the nature of man, ifnot ofthe pages of the Bible.
o191t1zed by·Goo Ie
~I -&I."VTVALS .·GOT Ct'. 185
~deed, I ~ £atioy perslllldM,:!that ·the :mole•doee not int:ulcute, doe~
"Gilt.e._uanetion' tbe tenlflll spirit, O'l' ·tnQa&t'lr.es, or oonvlYrte, of •e
day. For, thc8e that aile .:ont1trl6d ·by impulse, must, l>y a ·law·~(
·mind, b<t impaieive,• periodical Christians, IRld A!hcrefore d'iequalimld •
1o enjoy cOMttnt, perma.nerrt reti.glon, as well as to l!hine as a steady
' Christianli~ht upon the siruul darkneSs of the surrounding world.
-
But; ·if others entertain other views, let them. Let those cuki'fftte
WAioual religion wh.o ha·
ve no beerer religioa. ·But, let me live near _to
lily God n,lwtii!JS. Let me pray witkov,t ctuing. Like Blaeldum\;
let me never 1ake the refreshing draft from the bubbling spring, wifh•
f)Ut offering up thanksgiving and praise to the Allthor of all goOCL
I ..et me be as religious in August as iri February. Let ~y r~igioo
nut be the changeable garment ; but, let it be in me, and Jonn We
tnajor part of n:te. No annual piety. No weekly, Sunday 'piety,
evf)n. But daily, and hourly, and constantly, may nty soul hold
sweet communion with the God bf nature. And I ·am persuaded,
that theae views will accord with both the intellect and the better Jeel·
ings of tb.ose who have either. At le~ I shall ·not concern myself
with those who differ from me; for the very good reason, that I consi-
der them in error.
I know that I have ROW touched two of the four tender -places of the
religion of the day--4he Sabbath, and ·R~vivals. I·know that lshail
exeite against me the proscriptive ·spirit• of th~ t'~n of the age.
Be it so. I stand where even their anathemas, ·(I bow they are
more powerful, more unrelenting than the anathemas, the proscrip-
tions, the tyrany, of any thing else in t1ris world,) cannot essentially
harm me. The truth of Phrenology is above their reach. So is my
professional reputation. If they say 1 do not understand my business,
\he spontaneous voice of the entire community will give \hem the lie,
md react against them, not me. So that if they commend, or if they
eonJemn, my patrimony is beyond their reach. I fear them not.
\\'hy, then, should l turn aside for them, or even bow and serape to
evrry their favor. l have more business on hand constantly than ten
men can exeoute. So that, if they even do operate against ·me, they
cannot hurt me. My bread and butter is beyond their reach. 'J...et
them do their worst. I bow not. I ask no favors. I grant none.
• There is no better proof that the religion o[ the day· is no b~tter than it
ought to be, than the way it treats its opposel'S. When one C'beek ia smitten,
it does not tum the other also. It proscribes, anathamizea, 11ye, even pr~M.lae•
And punilhe8, too, thoae who are fi.uef'e in their .belie£. Bat I may take Olf
this po~t separately.
~,9,,,zed by GoogIe
136 APOLOGY FOR TELLING THE TRUTH. 82
And, ohI it I ever thanked my God for any thing, it ia that I stand
in a position where I can tell the troth, and defy the cons~uences.
It is awful, to have truth struggling within one's soul, reel and rum·
\lin~ like the earth, when its pent-up fires are seeking vent I appea
to ministers, who ache to tell truths which they know will cost them
their saiar:(l(l: 'But, it is glorious to be able to utter truth, in all ita
dignity, in ••ll its power. To see it cut its own way, and prostAte
whatever opposes it. To &ee it make those in error wince and writhe
under its folds,. only to be over.
come and prostrated by their own vam
struggles. To see the human mind delivered from those thraldomJ
by which it has been spell-bound, and come out free as air into the
glorious liberty of the sons of truth. To see error and misery sup-
planted by virtue and happmess. To see thirsty souls drink in truth.
and be refreshed, and to be re-invigorated, and become regenerated
thereby. That glory, I enjoy. I glory in the mere utterance of
truth. I glory in being the instrument of good to man thereby. 4
glory in not being obliged to truckle even to religious bigotry and t)
ranny, the worst form oftyranny, proscription, intolerance on our globe .
Even it, cannot harm me. I snuffthe wind of its threats in my nostrili ,
and sing, aha, aha I And I tell all whom it may concern, that I ash
no odds of any one. I have got the American ear; the confidenc •
of Americans. And I sqall use that confidence without abusing it .
and so as even to increase it. It cannot be taken from me. There i «
a power in TRUTH which will make ten friends to one ~nemy. ~
can live without ever making another cent. I c8n satisfy my con ·
science, by telling the whole truthl and am able to father its conse
quences. So, reader, you may hear or forbear. You may laud or
cavil . What you say and do for or against these things, will reae~;
on ytn~ for good or for evil. Better take it kindly, then, and profit by
the lessons it teac'hes.
Hence, when I come to the other two places--(corns! on the feet
of modem Religion, .that make her limp and hobble along)-! shalt
tread on them just as though they were not there. Temporize, I need
not. Suppress.truth) 1will not So that the reader may calculate on
atra.ight-forward, thorough work.
237
SECTION l.
llELIGIOUS TEA.OHERS1 OR PB.EACBEI If.
BmoE it mbeneficial, necessary, for man to be religious, the question
recurs on the expediency of having religious teachers, preachers, &.c.
Phrenology, I thing, favors the existence of thi.~ profession. Man is
capable of being influenced by his fellow men. Hence, those who
are truly religious, are capable of infusing the religious spirit into their
fellow men. Still, that profession, as now conducted, is sadly faulty,
and comes far short of effecting the good it is capable of accom·
plishing. :Ministers are able to do immense good, but they not un·
frequently wield their tremendous influence to the injury of mankind·
How often do they become dogs in the manger, neither eating the hay
of sci'=lnce themselves, nor letting those under their influence eat it.
This is strikingly true, in rebllrd to Phrenology. And, indeed, no&
unfrequently in regard to other great reforms in mankind. Their in
fluence is entirely too conservative. They hold society back from
effecting those changes that are evidently beneficial to society. As a
class, they hang on too tenaciously to the old ways, and set their faces
against Phrenology, Magnetism, Science, Geology included, &.c. &c.
and thus greatly ret!lrd human improvement, whereas they should
be the first to descry improvements, and urge their adoption.
A single illustration : Let there be one stiff, hard-headed orthodox
in any place, and he will be the nucleus around which all the anti-re-
form influence of the place will gather; and will make many bigoted
t~•ho would otherwise take liberal views of subjects. A D. D., cler·
gyman in a certain old-fashioned town in New England, is a cordia~
whole-souled opponent of Phrenology, and censures severely some of
his family who have been compelled to believe it; besides keeping
it out of .other ministers' churches, who, but that he is a leader or ex-
ampler among them, would favor it, and open their churches for lec-
tures, &c. But they must keep up their dignity by doing as he does;
thus employing the same principle of augmentation mentioned on p.
71, to appertain to the opening of churches.
And then there is something radically wrong in their education.
They are educated to be sectarian, and they are sectarian-the main
propagators of)!ectarian influences. I confess, I have no faith what·
ever in the present method of manufacturing ministers. They are
DIQI IZed by GoogIe
/
84
made to order as a tailor would make a coat. They must all go
through certain mills, called the Academy, the College, tl e Seminary
and be ground out, all ready for taking holy orders, and cooking up
sectarian sermons. They must know nothing of Physiology. Oh, no;
they have other more impOrtant things to which to attend. They
come out of College, the Seminary, and all, ignorant of nearly every
law of health, and generally with impaired constitutions; and, often,
aoon become confirmed invalids, and die young. They do not even
know, that to preserve the health is a moral duty ; or even that life and
health can be preserved. They even generally think that sick-
ness and premature death are providential, and n~ the products of
causation. And if, perchance, some of them do find out that to be
sick is to be sinful, they must not priJach on health, its duty, or it$ con
ditions, but must preach sectarianism. The palpable ignorance, or
else culpable neglect of both Physiology and Phrenology, is the
main fiUllt I have to find with them. As a class, they are excellent,
· They mean better than they do. They have been look-
. gars, &e. till they have contracted the scope of their in-
. l!lion into the arena oftheir own sectarian dogmas, and there·
they 'stay. Still, as a class, their motives are as good as those of any
other class. They do as well as they know how. I pity their ignor·
ance and contraction more than blame their motives. I say ignorance.
Not of sectarianism. Not of Theological lore. Not of old-fash·
ioned science, " falsely so call." But of that P!actical knowledge o(
men and things, and plain common sense, which constitutes the basit
ofall true knowledge. Of mind, its laws,its elements, and the means o(
operating on it, they know very little, and most of that little they need
to unlearn. . To ·lte good ministers, it is necessary that they all be good
Phrenologists. Then will they understand the human mind, and
how to operate on it And I tell Clergymen that they can turn then·
attention to no branch of study that will equally fit them for the etation
they occupy.
• It is customary for the professors at Andover to let their chapels to such
lectures as they think it proper for their unfledged ministers to attend. I ar.
cordingly applied for it, in which to lecture on Phrenology and Physiology, and
their bearings. My applJCatwn was t>rought forward nt n regwar meeting of the
faculty, and negatived. The answer returned was, that the attention of the
students was pre-occupied with other more important matters. THs refusal w111
I%Qtallj01lt to a -;~nblic condemnation of Phrenology. Bo much Aulover knows
~9 DEPENDENCE OF IIIOOSTER8
Jrepeat : They are generally honest, sincere, well-meaning men:
and most oftheir faults are faults of eduation, (or rather, the want o/
1t1} not of motives. I am far from joining in the general tirade
against ministers, or trumpeting their faults. Faults they certainly
have. But they are faults that grow out of their habits, and the
temptations to which they are e.x:pOsed.
The second fault of ministers, is that they do not labor sufficiently
either for health, or talent, or moral feeling. They are feasted to death,
because they eat much from home, and must live on the fat of £he land ;
every table to which they are set being loaded with the good things.
'fllen they write and preach too much, and allow themselves very little
time for recreation or exercise. Every minister ought to have several
acres of land, and to work enough on it to raise most of the eatables
for his family. This, besides vastly improving his health, and;"Conse-
quently, his talents, will render him more independent than he now
is. I do say1 that no religious teacher should depend on his preach-
Ing for his living, for two reasons:......: :~c
· ·.'
First: It renders them more: mercenary than ia consistent. · ·_ ·
161ltion-hirelings, that preach for wage.,. &w can this help. · . ;"
ing their preaching, and making them have an eye to higher salarfll!1
But the main reason is, that it incapacitates them for telling the truth.
And hl!nce, though consicous that certain unpopular doctrines are
true, and ought to be preached, they yet keep one eye upon the
loaves and fishes. It cannot be otherwise. This makes them
temporize with the sins of the rich men of their parish, or with the
sins of their wives, or sons, or daughters, so as to augment their own
salaries. Let those who IU'e so disposed, give. But let the minister be
abk to mpport himself, ifhe must, so that he may be free and bold to
declare the whole truth, without fear or favor.
I would also have them mingle somewhat more with their flock
and be more familiar with them, and talk religion, and li11e religion,
to them daily. · Having these set seasons for religion is not the thing.
It renders it formal. Besides, we require _, have our religtous feel-
ings kept perpetually in action ; and these organa can be operated
upon only as can all the o&hers, namely, by presenting their ·appro-
priate &od, daily, hourly. And, particulary, by li'!Jing religiQn. I
eonfelll!, the Quaker notions as to ministers, come nearer to ·the cioc· ·•
'rinea of. Phrenology, in this respect, than any others. '
One thing more: Preachers of morals shauld also be teachen of
lllflllCe. Religion and Nience ought neTer to be teparated. They
are twm allten. Their or!JilnS occupy~onti~ous portions of the he..t·
o,g,~z~d by GoogIe
..
..
86 MJNJS1'ERS SJIOULD iiiiNGLE MORE WIT~ l'HEDt n.ocx.
'rheir functions 'll.aturally blend, and extite ea~h other. I have U.
monstrated the principle which settles this matter. All their hom·
ilies should be based in science, and mixed through science, and all
seience should be accompanied with religion. Thus says Phenology.
Tt also saith: Let no man become a religious teacher, unless prompt·
eel by the religious feelings ; and let him never attempt to preach,
pray, exhort, unless when imbued with this sentiment; so that it
will gush forth in every word, in evei'y action. Let us have no jtw-
mal preacping or praying.
I think one evil grows out of our having a set ministry: And th1at
1~, that the people rely on them to do up their preaching, praying
piety. They do not exhort their neighbors to love and good worlul,
because they pay their minister to do that. And so of many other re·
ligious duties and feelings. Now piety cannot be done up by proxy.
Every one must be religious for himself. Ifto shurk this private,
personal piety offon to the ministers, were the natural, necessary con
sequence of having ministers, Phrenology would utterly condemn
having any minister, yet I do not think it is necesary, only accidental,
r.aused by a low state of teligious feelings.
But, after al~ though religious teachers are good in their places,
and though Mtey may perhaps do good by exciting their fellow men
to religious feeling and good works, still no one can pray or be reli·
gious for any other. Every one must be good and do good for him·
self. Ministers cannot pray instead of their flock, and thus excuse
the latter. Nor believe for them. Nor be benevolent for them. Nor
do works meet for repentance for them. "Every man for himself."
And I really fear, that the mere fact of the existence of ministers of
religion, is generally abused in this way. We would fain be reli
ligious by proxy. Better not have any ministers at all. Then, wt
shall not rely upon them to our soul's injury. Nor need the fact bt
disguised, that many do rely upon their minister to do up their reli·
gious thinking, and their religious feeling for them. As well get your
minister to eat for you, or 1le'fl for you, or live for you. And let us
be religious for. 01~r ot.Dn selves, and also do all that in us lies to pro·
mote holy feeling and godly wnduct among mankind.
As to the way they make ministers, by laying on of hands, ordain·
~ng, &c. it is all useless. All the ordinations and.holy .orders of all
Christendom, from St-Peter down to the latest dates, cannot make a
. persoa one whit the better man, the better minister. But they some-
times work injury, by leading the people to suppose a man to be good
becaw he bas been ordained. As to laying on of bands, mentwnecl
•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
JI.BLIGJOUS 8001ETIES 011. ASa>Cil ftONS. 81
in the Bible, it was evidently, simply a magnetizing of the ui.oraleeo-
timents. As far as the "fathers" in the ministry actually charge the
moral organs of their seminary-mode minister with the religious
fluid or impulse, by holding their hands en the top of his head, this
ordaining process may do some good. In no other way.
A word in this connexion, about the COflSecration of lwwes of wor·
ship. How much more holy, sacred, is that church as a church, or
the wood and morter that compose it, after its consecration than be·
fore 1 Does the quality of holiness belong to matter1 Does it not
belong cxclusively to mind1 Perfect nonsense to consecrate, holify
wood, plaster, pews, steeple I Too absurd to require exposition.
And yet, to make it a profanation of holy things, a desecration of the
sanctuary, to allow any but an ordained minister to mount the pulpit,
or any thing but the sectarian dogma that consecrated it may allow to be
11ttered within irs walls I Science-Nature-Man I Oh: horrible I what
Profanity I Desecration I And then too, a bishop, a church. conse-
crated. by Catholics: is catholic-holy, but t~n-holy to all Protestants;
while priests and churches consecrated by Trinitarians, are trinitari·
1Ul·4oly, but unitartan-tinholy ; and so on of all the sects.. I have no
patience with sectarian religion, sectarian holiness, sectarian church·
ne, ministers, doctrines, any thing sectarian.
SECTION n.
llELIGIOOS SOCIETIES, 011. A.SSOCU110NS.
NEXT to Cle:-gyman, come Religious Socieues, or bodies of relig-
ionists associated together for religious objects. Is this Phrenologi·
caU Clearly so. The principle already explained, that the social
affections should combine with the moral sentiments, decides this
matter m favor of rehgious organizations. But, it also says, that the
basis of such organizations should be 1Joluntary usociatwn, and
without one iota of compulsion or restraint. Phrenology goes in for
the largest liberty, especially as regards the moral sentiments. It
does Mt believe in creeds, in any form ; for this implies that they
must govern our belief, and this trammels that perfect liherty which the
nature of man requires. All preeeription, all proscription, are abhor
rent to this science. I wtll not here stop to inquiry whJrein. but shall
Dlgi~IZed by GoogIe
--"---~---~ --- --
prolaably.damonatrate this principle hereafter. ~e it for the ~
._ t. obeerve, that the faculty of will, in lib manner with all tht-
oth.er fseulttes, should comhine with the moral faeuJties. Where the~
is.ccmpalaion. ofany kind, a any form, there liberty is al:-idged, and
with it virtue aad. en-joyment. Man was never made tv think by
proxy, or to pia his fiUth: on Cl'eeds -or on leaders, Every man has or
should have,- religious feelings, intellect, and will, and should ·exerclee
nll tluee togdln'. Should think jM ht1111elf, without let or hindrance,
and-take the consequern:es. Perfect -liberty of thought and action is
a cardinal doctrine of Phrenology. But all creeds, and all the reli-
giol18 organizations Qfthe day, operate against this liberty. Think of
it~ The Council of Trent legislating for the consciences of men ! The
General Assembly, telling their churches and members what they
shall believe, and what not! The Pope of Rome, telling intelligent
beings what is heresy, and what not! Or the Methodist Conference
saying, believe this, reject that! Every thing of this kind-the entire
pnraphrenalm of modem religious associations-in character, is on
a par with the fires of Smithfield, and the Inquisition. There are fag·
g~ antl'!rtquisitions in our day, in our midst, and I doubt not bot that
some readers have been scorched. I have, and expect to be again
But, having on the coat of truth, woven with asbestos, I tell them tu
fire away, for they are only scorching themselves. I boldly aver, th~
there is more of religious tyranny than ofall·other kinds of tyranny
put together. Men must think in the traces-must belie-oe by rule-Qr
•else have all their business, all their influence, taken from them.
We declaim against the intolerance of the Catholics. They are in·
tolerant But the Proteatanta are aooutas-mueh 8G. I verily believe!
that if the civil law did not step in and prevent, religionists of our day
wo~ld burn·-eadl other at the Make. fOil' opiaion'a eako-u the hoDell
and virtoous•QuUer baa been -
bwnt......as . Salem witches were-mur.
dered I 'rhey do aU but hang and.burn now. They.do even woree.
They rob ofchuacter. T.hey slander; and do the wom they can. In·
staee the treanent of the Come-omera.*- Ifthey had been·very devils;
• I do not choose this illustration.U. order to aide with, th.e Come-ou~ra. I
IBY they are peraecmed, but I also IBY that they ahow precisely the mtolerent
spirit towards their enemies that their enemies do towards them. Both deserve
ceDIIlre. At leut, it is all wrong for them to dittnrb the meetiDga of othere.
Ifoth- waat meetinS't or minilten, 011 wflat not,. be ft e¥811 JiqaoP, let tJaea.
ha• dliinn. ~all men do eac:tlf:aa -pi~. !illlpiy poi.lt P'Clt ~-·•
ron,.m.the spirit of lr.ind.uoiB or co~, wl ~ 1. thelll cbolo ~ ' ect fQz-
themlelvet.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
89
alley. mould DOt haft been treated 8.8 many of thlm 'll'adoubtedly
were. Would·
.not aome.folkl like to burn a Rodgers now alive, na
80Rlebody burnt his aneestor1 Shame t a burning shame I Forbid·
den by the Bible.I In.the.teeth of PhenologyI And for opinion's sake !
Put OB the .straight·jacket of creeds, and hew every man's mind
dowa to·it, lengthwiae, breadthwise, all wise (if you hew him in
piecee} 10 tflat you but make him fit into the hole dug out for him !
And then call that f'dt~ I Religion it is, but it is that of popery.
It is pr~religioa. It ha& not.one· generou tnut to recom·
memi:il And what is more, eaeh sect has gPt·ita own straigM..jacket,
aaci is trying to fil not ooly their own members to it, boo·alto all the
~}dlbeaidt&.
But.fhe worat «all is, dlat·they req11ire us to believe tiee, and ttlea
pnt·us ·into th~ lllquisitlotl, because we will not comply. rr., be ~
pelled to believe any thing, even the truth, is horrible. lluf to- be
obliged to believe error, or else to be put upon the rack!-don't call
youreelvee Cllriltiam ! " A roee by any other name IDllY small u
aweetly." The Bible speaks of that day as most glorious, when every
man shall worship God" unier hia own vine and fig·tree." And so
it will be ; but, though man is a little nearer to that blessed period than
in the dark ages, he is a long way from it yet. Men are yet at·
tempting to cram their creeds down each others throats ; and " might
it· righV' What moral man but dispises the politics of the day, for
Iuming men out of·office, and•putting them in, for opinioiYs Bilk~, and
thus destr&ying the freedom o! the elective franchise. Contemptibkrt-
1\:ndmuch the very same spirit of proscription runs through- nearly
Mer'f sect, oniy that it is plied·with greater minuteness and efilcacy
brthe latter·tban by the former. Why~id not Jesus Christ catch·
Judas by his collar, and, after jerking and twiehing him about, cuBing
aad'pelting him alm06t to deatll, pitch him out of the pale of dieeipl&-.
thip.
, A'lid what would yoo have thought.of ·biJri if .h& ha,hhae.
tJeatal. even· Jadast What do~ think olyourselvest and that tee-
though your opponent& are u sincere in 'belief,· irreproachallle in,
lifer u yourself; perhaps more 1181 Away t 11 is not.Christianily-it
i.e· nanow-minded1 bigotted1 tymmieal, sectarian deviltry, l ,m...,
to· esteem, or treat ,.~ tQatuny·tho be~eer ~ W4J188· lJeeau.,
he does ~ do.no~ belW..u you do.. I4et him,. b..._q..b pleatet,.
&ad you,believe u ·1Dtf please, 1«· beth eon~ to be as· cerdial•
frieda u .tW'tlf.. But· eaoqgh of tWs pai.WU,.· ditgustiftg· 81ibji!Cit•
X..•ua aU do anto·odlen • we weuld·Q'fe·them do WDJo u . .48 ·
1f8-
aD JJb10 tbmkancl~Jer.ou_.., lee •yield.th6aae~-.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
LUX ET VERiTAS .
,.
:"'DIANA UNIVERSIT'l '· {
..............). .......,,. -.. .,...,
t 0. ..
90 PIU..YD.-JTS IIUTY.-n11 D'J'ICACY. 244
others, and yet not thmk any the worse of them therefore. And let
o
ntellect be the only weapon with which to propagate the peaceful re-
ligion of Jesus ,Christ. Let Mahomet make men religious by the
sword. Let the Pope propagate popery by means ofthe Inquisition.
Let Protestant dissenters employ in effect the same odious, antMepub
lican, anti-christian spirit against which they themselves protested and
rebelled. But let Phrenologists take the atheist by the hand as cor.
dially as they do the faithful, and give and take the largest liberty.
The only principle on which all religious associations, and indeed
all associations, should proceed, is that of the natural attractions of
kindred minds for each other. No formal reception. No expulsion.
Let members come and go at pleasure, and believe and do what they
please, infiuenc~ only through the medium of intellect. Let the
pleasure taken in each others society be our only creed-our only
bond of union.
IBCTIOI m.
PJlAYEL-rrs IIUTY.-rrs EFFICACY,
, VBNBIU.TION prays. Prayer is then our duty, as it certainly •
• our pleasure. This has been already shown. But it remains to an.
ewer the question : Does praying for any given thing have any tenden-
cy to bring about the end desired 1 Does it alter the course of the De.
ity 1 Does it change the immutable plans of the AlmifJhty 1 Does it
aet aside the laws ofoause and effect 1 No, neither. Then, "How can
it be efficacious, which the Bible abundantly assures us it is 1" Sim.
ply thus: We cannot pray for a thing very earnestly without ~iritw
it as earnestly. Indeed, prayer is but desire, and each is propoltion-
ate to the other. Now, who does not know that when we dem-e a
given thing very much, we naturally, necessarily put forth corres.
ponding efforts to obtain the thing desired ; or, what is the same
thing, prayed. for 1· And who does not know that this effort, this ap.
plication of appropriate causes to the production of the effects desired,
tends to·bring about the.end prayed for just as we produce a oropof
com, or wheat, or peas, or.whatever else we pray for. We pray ~r
every thing we want, and every single thing we effect, is but an answer
to prayer. To pray for a thing and not to put forth the corresponding
eft'ort is but mockery-is no prayer, no desire. for desire and eftbrt
245 91
go together pari ,...u.• Neither cam be without the .:>ther, and tne
degree of either is the measure of the other, and generally, ofthe ejfo-
cacy of the prayer; though that is aliQ affected by the amount of
cawality brought to bear upon the end prayed and labored for.
Causality must accom'p&Dy veneration-a doctrine already urged.
"But," says a truly pious Christian, "we sometimes pray for
things beyond our power to effeot, and on which causes cannot be,
and are not, brought to bear. For instance, I prayed eamestly for
the conversion of a certain impenitent sinner. I said not a word to
bim. I used no means. But he was converted, and in answer to
my prayers." Agreed. "A mother prays for her son who is far
off, and wrestles in spirit for days, but holds no communication with
him. Still, he is converted. So, with hardened sinners sometimes in
l'evivals. So, in regard to praying for the sick, and their almost mi.
1aculous recovery, and in cases innumerable where your plausible
exposition will not apply." .
First : In the next chapter, I shall present a doctrine in relation to
r.piritual influences which will show how it is that your prayers for
1\n impenitent sinner operated as causes, to bring him to repentance.
Men commune with each other lf1irilually as well as sensibly. Man
has a spiritual nature, a magnetic, immaterial nature, that is not al.
·IVays chained down to his body, but, bursting the shackles of clay,
reaps over immeasurable space, and knows neither time nor distance,
F1ut is indeed and in truth a spirit. This state is pre.eminently a state of
1•rayer. And in this state, though the mother sees not her son with
roaterial eyes, or addresses him with her voice, jet her spirit holds
oommunion with his spirit, and his with hers. Though you see not,,
speak not to the impenitent sinner for whom you pray, yet your spirit
yea!'lls for his spirit, and impresses him with that religious feeling
which pervades, engrosses, your own soul, whioh becomes the
cause, and his convertion, tbe effect. The organs are all catching.
The exercise of any faculty in one; naturally, necessarily, ex.
cites the same faculty in another. Anger in one electrifies all
around him with the same angry feeling. So with the religious
t~pirit. The religious feelings becoming roused in one, excite the
same in another. These two combine and reaugment and rekindle
similar feelings in the souls of others, and thus the " revival" goes
'on till the very atmosphere becomes charged with the religious fluid
« " With even pace," I 10111etimes quote Latin becBUBe it is often appropriate
uul eapreeaive, and because I could wish men pnerally knew more about ]m.
....-
DigitiZed by GoogIe
PII.AYEII. a.tJIIIOIIF: .OIUJIQII 'JIIB, lliiU'OIII:I i OJ' OO.D,
tlarown oi'.by so~, wbioh.apidt·impreasea.U..im~itent aDd ,fi.
na,lly OODVerta t~
Secondly: 01u worltl.is.goveraed tbrollfhaut hf· Cllll.fe and r.feet.
Nothing oecilrs that is Dot caue4. And this ia u true of tbe world
of mind as o£tiat of ·mattEll'r Foz: oae, l·am'not atMiat enough to
believe that thefia'a tiling ever aocUI'red without being CtJJUe.d. Nor
caa I admit that, after. .the Deity..h.-.~t his plua1
all 1
laid right in jn.
finite .wisdom uti·r. the greatest pel of,the greatest number, that
the prayers of ·mortals will either chpge the purpose of high Hea
ven,* or nullify the. l•ws. of causation as ta tbe thing prayed for.
Such are not.my Yiewa.of·Go41 oruture. lfj rea~er, they are yours,
I pity yol.l. I pray that yo11 may see .your enor, aod I will do my
best to get my prayer a.D8Wsed .; tlau,& is, to convince you tha1 such
notiona show you views of. God to be ~xtremely.l~ed IUld er-
I'8MOU8.
Intelligent reader; while this view of p~r dimillisllee nought
from the eftloaoy of prayer, h pre11811ts the Clharaccer of.God in a dig-
difted light; and·sullhiine. tbe great· arJ'&IIgement of·cauae and ·clfect
in all its power, in a\1 it& univenality.
lt-l'e~ to a4cl,. that·b~ .,,.~prayer. alid a1ID f'dlie prayer,
find -their coanterpart.a Phrenology ; the.imner.in tbeapontaneo1111
disposition of.language ~ clotbe .thoughts and feelings in appropriate
Qpreesioos, and of adhesiveneu, which, with venemtion, inculcates
~w ·prayer. On tke!se two. principles, gtow both voeal prayer and
that ·IDcial prayer in wbieh OD.e is spokeeman 1br tbe others. PrayiJig
W'ith and fer others, inteaifies tbe-acticm. and ·extend& the scope of
•eneration, and .thereby increasea the pleaan11e and tire profit to 'be
deriveHrom ~ exerpise.
'·r.~, ~ .aJ1lllion ~ th~~: Mc:mn~ of Di~ decree._ ldo DQt wUk ~
btl! ~woi. to !14v~~ . the ~t.ei!"-Pr B!JP.h decreet; ~C?r du I nqw ~
to be ual.entood. u abl'!>gating thia d~e. laiDJply•Y let it al;and untouc"'.
e4 (or~ pre18AL , . .
Digitized by Google
24i
SJ&TION VIII .
.WE cannot well close our observations on this facuky without re-
marking upon ·religioUs forma, ceremonies, rites, observances &e.
Do they·aid veueration, 'Or augment its action~ If so, they are good.
If not, they are useless, besides beiag liable to cheat ·ua with the
ahad'ow With:out the substance.
Phrenology answers this question ~gatibely. It says, that Jl8 friend-
ship is impeded by ceremonies, ao is veneiation. Guabing friendship
is all cort!iality. lt knows no intervention between the feeling and the
expression. It' requir~ to go through no ceremony in order to express
itllelf. •
So ~dl th~ religous fealings. And as, when· a would-bq,
friend reeeiftl! you very politely and ceremtmi(lfUly, you may know
thilt he does not feel friendship, but only puts on its semblance, so
when religious ceremonies are rigidly observed; take it for granted,
that it is mainly ceremony. · That there is very little soul or religion
in it.
And I cannot but think this to be the New Testament view of this
matter. I dothink, that Christ took special pains to do away with all
rites, Cl)temonies, forms, &c. except the two baptism and the comm-
union, and has not left one forn~, except a short prayer, on record.
Re d.oes not say that we shall begin our set worship,.(or even that we
shall have any set, formal worship,) with asking a blessing; to be fol-
lowed by reading a portion ofthe Bible, and this, by singing, and this
by a long prayer; this again by singing, this by a sermon, and this by
'l 1hort prayer, a sing, and the benediction. One would think thia
'IJecific routine, if not .absolutely necessary to sa:lvatioo, at least 'had
!lOme saving virtue in it, and hence its nniver8al adoption. Phreaol-
ogy sees no special virtue in the Episcopalian or ·catholic fdrm of ser-
vice.-(No heaven-wide difference between them~) It sets no 8tale
by creeds, by councils, by religious liturgies, prayer-books, harm·
lies, and all the attache of modem 'religion. Away with fhem etl.
They but interncpt thy communion with Ood from thy heart. .A:ttd
ifthy religious feelings and aspirations tire 'So weak 'thttt these pritited
·prayers and set forms are necessary, are 'even helps to devotion, wily
thy religion is wtak indeed I and thou art making it still we!l'ker.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
94 VOLUNTARY .ASSOOIATION TBB OI'LT PBOPEB. BOND 01' VMON, 248
Break away from all shadows. Regard only the mbltance. Exer·
elSe the religious feelings. Forms or no forms, printed prayers ol\
vocal prayers, or no formal, outward expression of prayers at all, so
that thy heart but communes with God. So that thy feelings are
but softened down by prayer's subduing influences; so that thy soul
is bedewed with the holy, happy, soul-satisfying worship of thy God.
But, beware that these ceremonies do not leave thee the shadow for
the substance.
Quite analogous · to ceremonies, are creeds, articles of faith, &e.
Phrenology discards them. It is like measuring ou~a given kind of
food to each and all members of the human family, and then compel-
ling them to eat this particular dish, (perhaps dose,) and to eat no more,
no less, nothing else. And that dish, too, all embittered and even
poisoned with some ilm. It ia like making a bedstead, and stretching
those who are too short to fill it, and cutting off unfeelingly those who
are too long till they come within its iron dimensions. It also abridges
• liberty of thought. Above all things, it is odious to coerce belief.
Many a hypocrite do these creeds make; for he who is true to the faith,
gets patronized, and he who is not, is not only neglected, but ia pru-
scribed, by a silent iQfiuenee to be sure, but " by a mighty hand and
a stretched out arm'' notwithstanding. And modern religion gets paid.
for rhis in her having so many tares, and so little wheat. Phrenolog)·
says, patronize men none the less, respect them none the less for opin
ion's sake. Let a man be an infidel, so that he is sincere, treat him
juet as though he believed with you. Agree to disagree. Proserip·
tions for opinion's sake, are detestable. Out upon politicians for giv-
ing offices exclusively to their own partizans. It is a direct and pal.
pable interference with the elective franchise, with that pretended, air-
bubble liberty, in which we .glorify ourselves. It must bring even
politics, (scandalous, contemptible, as they are any how,) into disgrace
with every sensible man. But, to carry this proscription into religion
-to buy up religion as they buy up votes;-shameful, despicable I
And yet this is the nature of all creeds.
"Oh, but,'' say you, "we want it as a test of their belief. We waut
aone with us who do not believe with us." I repeat: Let members
oome and go at pleasure. Let the natural bonds of friendship and
adhesion alone operate. Let those form themeselves into religioUI!
ass9eiations whose opinions and feelings naturally, mutually, attract
each other. Let those go elsewhere whose pleasure in the association
will not bind them to it. Let those come in who are attracted to 1t,
just as the literary seek the society of the literary ; and so of othe.c
Digitized by Coogle
•
249 IJP'IlUTUALlTY OF .lUllVELLOUSl'f.r:sd. 95
instanees of assoe:atlon. Phrenology advocates the largest libertr.
This liberty, especially of opinion, is the glorious birth-right of every
human being. Upon this liberty, creeds trespass. It sets articles of
faith to thinking for those who subscribe thereto. They can be val-
uable only as they are minute ; and if they are minute, they divide,
bewilder, injure their subscribers, injure all.
This train ofremark, or these applications ofPhrenology, might be
eJtended at pleasure, but I forbear. Reader, carry them out for your-
stlf. Drink in the fundamental principles, and then run them up
aud out for yourself in their most beautiful, most interesting appli-
c:.Uions.
CHAPTER III.
THE SPIRITUAL.
God is a Spirit ; and they that worift.ip Him, must wonhip Hlm in apirit
ed in truth.
SECTION I.
IPUUTUJ.LITY1 OR .IURVELLOUSNE8S.-ITS ANALYSIS AND BEARING&
Perception and feeling of the ~piritual ; belief in the superhuman ; ~atin Divine•
pro\idences for guidance ; intuitive perception of future events ; the spirit of
prophecy; prescience ; that spiritual state of mind and feeling, which, aa it
were, sep11rates the soul from the flody, and perceives things independently
of the phye~cal seneee or other faculties ; Faith.
MAN has a soul--a spiritual essence-which sees without eyes:
hears without ears, operates disembodied, and connects him with
heaven, and with God. Without this soul, this spirituality, this dis-
embodied susceptibility, how could he form the least idea of a spiritual
state, of spiritual beings, or of God as a Spirit, or of any thing at all
related to the spiritual1 What better idea of any thing spiritual, of
any thing material, than the blind man, (mentioned on p. 53,) did of
colors1 How complete]y foreign to all his perceptions would be
even the being of a God1 He could conceive of him only as a ma-
teral being or thing, and could form no conception whatever, either
right or wrong, of any being, thing, state, independent of matter, any
DigitiZed by Google
•
96 ANALY8I8 OF JI'ARVELLO'G811J!118, 25G
more than the blind man could. of colers, or the tetal idiot of··fil'lt
principles.
But, man.hal these perceptiona and feelings. Tiley "re in-w~t
·into his moral ·constitution, his very being. They.ue ·aot creatUres
ef education; for how can that be educated which· dees not etis\1
How cultivate the spiritual, when we can form ao idea whatever of
the thing to be cultivated1 And the universality ohhis &entiment, in
the form of a belief.in ghosts, in an hereafter, in .tr.msmigration, a
b.ea:ven, a heU, and the like, in all ages, and among all mailkind, ~­
,bHshes the existence of some faculty analogous to tlte definition given
above, from the exercise of which these perceptions and feelings:pro-
ceed. Precisely the same argument, mutalis mutandis,* which prov-
ed the existence of veneration, will equally prove the existence of this
faculty. And this existence and analogy established, the same argu·
ment of adaptation which established the existence·of a God, (p. 47,)
will establish both the existence of a spiritual state, the spiritual exist-
ence' of God, and the existence of spiritual beings. Let us apply it.
Belief in a spiritual existence, is universal From the earliest re·
cords of man, he hO:S held converse with spiritaal beings, and has had
his heaven and hell. Adam, Cain, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Isaac,
Jacob, Hagar; Eeau, Moses, Aaron, Joshua, David, Solomon, the
Prophets, in sacred history ; the druids of our ancestors ; Eneas, and
all the ancients; aU paganism, all Christendom, all mankind, in all
ages, have talked with Jehovah, or with gods, or angels, ·or devilt, or
departed spirils. Indeed, the entire texture and frame-work of tho
·Bible, of ancient mythology, of Hindoo worship, of Indian worship,
of all religion, is a spiritual existence. To deny that man has the sen
timent of the spiritual, is utter folly. To assert that it is formed by
education, is equal folly; for education can never create any thtng,
only develop primary powers. Education must have some original
faculty upon which to operate; else it is powerless. And, as of vene-
ration, so of the spiritual feeling: If it were not i"digexow, it would
soon be eradicated. At least, it could not pervade the whole human
•family, and govem them, too, so energetically. A foreign element, a
parasite, a feeling for which man had no predisposition, and that was
foreign, and therefore repugnant, to the nature of man, could not pos·
·sibly fasten itself upon that nature and 1tay fastened, and then infuse
itself all through that nature as this faculty has done. The
supposition is preposterous. For, the mental nature of man, like hi'l
physical, would soon expell a foreign intruder, or else merely furnish
• " ThOle thiDga being changed that reqnire to be cb~mged.•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
151 MAN REQt:litES A SrlllmJAL NATUli.E.
it room., but would separate itself therefrom completely. I can11ot see
thht this point requires argument; namely, that this sentitnent of the
apiritual is COXSTITUTIONAL in man.
Besides : Man requires such a fitculty. Many things can be known
on\y by its instrumentality. We often re<tuire to know what causality
cannot reach, because it has no data on which to operate, or because
unknown contingencies will render the results unknown ; in short,
which can be arrived at through no other faculty, but which can be
by this. Which often is by this. Man has a power of vision which
the light of the sun cannot enlighten, cannot bedim. Which thick
darkness cannot obstruct. Which penetrptes the unknown future.
Which dives deep into the sea of time, and gnthers pearls from ·-
bottomless abyss. Which distance does not intercept. Which sees,
not with the natural eye, but uses the telescope of angels. Which
reads the book of fate before time has' broken its seals. Which de-
scries danger, and either shuns it or prepares therefor. Which pre-
cedes time and plucks many a golden apple, a delicious fruit, before
Saturn* opens them to the gaze and the contemplation of all. Which
looks down the long vista of time, and surveys all coming ages at one
great view. Which soars above the clouds of heaven. Which leaps
death's dark hiatus, an'd reveals to man what shall be hereafter, when
the moon dies, the sun goes out, and rolling ages speed their onward
flight through eternity!
But to be specific. First: Man needs some element in his nature
to $pirita&lize that nature. To throw off its terrestriality, and ethereal-
ize his soul. To shalce off the materiality of his nature, and clothe
himself with immateriality, as with a g:irment of glory. To elevate
his entire nature. To whisper constantly in his ears that God is a
~pirit ; that he himself is a spirit ; that anon, he will join a spiritu·at
throng which no man can number, whose bodies will not wear out;
will only brighten with age. Oh! thou God of spirits innumerable!
Can we ever duly love Thee, duly praise Thee: for this the most glo·
rious department of our nature 1 Oh! do Thou spiritualize our in-
m.ost souls, that we may sec Thee, worship ThP.e, as Thou art! That
we may cheer on earth by tastes, by bountiful repasts, of hea,•en." I
do CE'rtainly regard this view of the nature of man as beaunti:ul, glo·
rious, beyond all expression, all conception. Without it, existence,
how tume! lJeath, our extinction I Life, transient I Eternity, ban·
ishcd! No conception of un hereafter, of a God! But, blessed oo
Cod. fol' thts element of Spirituality. For the leasona of immortality,
of divinity :t te.aches.
• Ti:'.e god of time,
DigitiZed by GoogIe
98 I'OREWA.RNING8.-Ul'SHER.-KEN:'fO"If.
Secondly: The spirit of ~an does certainly reve::.. b;s coming
destiny. Man is often forewarned. Often impressed with the feeling
that that will happen which is about to happen. A few examples:-.
. 'rhe lamented Upsher, at the very time whe~ the fatal gun waa
loading that blew him to atoms, and immediately before its disaa-
terous explosion, in drinking a toast, took up an empty bottl,e, and
remarked, thut these dead bodies, (empty bottles,) must be cleared away
oefore he could drink his toast. Setting it aside, he took up, by chanr.e,
nother empty bottle, • repeated, that he eould not give his toast till the
dead bodies were cleared away. Nor did he. In a few seconds his
own dead body, along with many other$, were indeed " clea?"ed away."
In conjunction, read what"follows from a co~respondent of the Boston
Daily Advertiser, who s!!lys:-
" It is worthy of remark, as a singular instance of pre-supposed
Janger, that the late Secretary of ~tate, Mr. Upshur, could not be pre-
!ililed upon to join in either of the previous excurl:!ions in the Prince-
ton down the Potomac, assigning as a reason his fears ofsome disaster
from the big cannon. It was only by much persuasion that his preju·
dices were surmounted, and he prevailed upon to unite with other
members of the Cabinet, a;nd many personal friends, in accompanying
the· Pl'esident on .that greatly to be deplored occasion. Of this re·
markable £1ct there can be no doubt, for I have it from one who hearo
it .from the Secretary's own lips, wondering at the same time that an
· nvidual possessed of so much good sense, and strong nerve, should
permit his fears or prejudices thus to influence him."
While goinR" down to the Prmceton in t!1e morning, CoHl. Kennon,
another of the killed, remarked to Capt. Saunders, that if any acciden'
should befall him on this occasion, he [Capt. S.] would be the next il\
command at the Navy Yard.
Judge Wilkins had a similar premonition, to which he took heed,
and by which his life was saved. As the fatal gun was about to be fired,
he remarked, pleasantly," Though Secretary of War, I don't like this
firing, and believe I shall run ;" and suiting the action to the word,
he retreated to a place of safety. If Judge Upsher or Com. KennQu
had heeded their premonitions, so plain, so powerful that they wer3
uttered, and in the face of the ridicule with which they were met, they
too would have been saved. So loud was the voice of this spiritual
monitor in Juc!.ge Upsher, that he could hardly be persuaded to go oa
.• From all accounts, it would seem, that they had a real drinkin; frolic on
board, and that many were intoxicated. I do not mean entirelydronk, hul "e&-
~entially comed." What examples for our rulers to set! What a national
oune each rulers! And whose moneJ bought that fatal wiro"" 1 ~'"'r it wu
-a, Comment each for himself.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•.
259 I'.&C'IB IN ILLUSTR.&nON OF DITUITIVE PERCEPTION. 9~
&ard, and, when on board, could talk only of" dead bodies." Theae
fi.cta are undoubted. Their mferences are palpable. These facts are
recent and striking, but they are by no means alone. Another :
8udde11 Deatll.. The Bay State Democrat of fast evening announces
the death, on Sunday morning, of the ·Rev. DIIVid DamoD. Pastor
of the UnitariaD Society at West Cambridge. He. was engaged at
Reading on Friday afternoon l<LSt, in preaching a funeral sermon
when he was attacked with a fit of apoplexy, which has thus prov;l
fittal. A short time since, while delivering an address at a consecration
of a rural cemetery at West Cambridge, he made the remark, that
poesibly he should be the first to repose in death beneath its shade.s;
Ed the words of the speaker have literally proved true !-Courier.
'
Maria Martin was killed by.her sweetheart, William Corder, arid
buried in a barn at Ipswich, England; and he left for. London. Her
mother-in-law dreamed three nights in succession, that she had been
killed, and her body buried m a certain red barn. Her d1·eams alent.
induced a search in the barn, where they discovered the body, and in
the exact place where she dreamed it was, and dressed in men's
clothes, as she dreamed it was dressed. He was executed in 1827.
The mother of McCoy, the Sabbath before he was killed in the ring
at White Plains, while lying doWil to rest was awakened by a.horrible
dream which so terrified her that she sprung from her bed, and run
into the room where the rest of the family were, exclaiming, '·' I see
him horribly beaten the blood gushing from his head with great
fury." The next Tuesday, he was heaten till he was blind, and died'
from profuse bleeding.
A highly nervous woman, insisted that her sons should tackle up one
cold night, and go a given distance In a certain direction, where they'
would find some persons in distress. She had had other premonitions,
which they had found to be as she directed, and therefore went, and
found some persons who had been turned over 'in the snow, and but
for this timely assistance, would ha;-e perished. With her, such pro-
phesies were so common, and so certain, that her family always fol-
lowed her visions, because they always found them so uniformly cor·
r~ct.
The wife of the Adams who was murdered by Colt, dreamed, two
successive nights, before the murder, that she saw the lifeless corpse
of her husband, all mangled, wr£.pped in a sail, and packed away in
.a boL She told this to her husband, and remo~strated almost with
frantic earnestness the last time he went out, to prevent .his .going,
urging as her sole reason, that he wotld be murdered. So deep wu-
Digitized by Coogle
100
.he saddening impression left'Upon her mind, that she felt little llll'-
prise at his not returning, alleging that he had been murdered.
Mr. R. S. says, he alway_s 4reams out any thing remarkable before
it happens. He dreamed one night that he atruck a young friend of
hia, and that the blood g\lshed otit of the wol)Jld. ·In a day or two
after.wards, this same young friend of whom he dreamed, becoming
intoxicated, demanded his wages. Mr. 8. refused to give tilem to him
till he got sober, because he knew he would waste them, and iold him
to come sober to-morrow, and he should, have them. But no, he mUll
have them then, and took up a club to beat Mr. S., who was obliged
to clinch in with him, in order to save himeelf. This ·youn8' friend
embraded his hands in the hair of Mr. S., auf tried to choke him, til!
Mr. S., after remonstrating with him, and telling him he should have
to hurt him, finally struck, and ruptured a blood vessel, which caused
copious bleeding. The young man, however, recovered, and thank·
ed Mr. S. for not paying him.
A friend of mine, living in Albion, Orleans co~nty, N. Y., tackled
up his horses to go a few miles, and, before.starting, called his family
together, and, what he had never before been known to do, kissing
them affectionately, bid them all good by. "Why, husband, whatin
· the matter 1 Are you not coming back soon 1" said his wife. " Yes,
I calculate to return about three o'clock; but, somehow or other, it
seems to me just as though I never should see you again,'' was his·
answer. He started. His horses took fright, ran away, and killed
him, and he was brought back to his family a corpse. This I had
from his wife.
Abercombie states several analogous facts. Time would fail me to
narrate what l have seen, felt, and heard fully authenticated. Indeed.
the world is full of them. So full, that it require!! a greater stretch of
Marvellonsness to disbelieve and account fur them, than to ascribe
them to the natural workings of this faculty. How often, when our
sky is cloudless, and every prospect bright, does a strange feeling flit
lightly cross our mind, whisping bad news or trouble in our ears-
faintly, perhaps, but so that we feel it, and so it turns out to be. An~,
again, how often, when hope is blasted, our way is hedged in with
thorns, and no bright spot appears on our horizon, do we int<:rnally
feel that all will yet be well, and so it comes to pal's 1 So .strong is
this !!entiment in man, that it has given rise to the proverb, "I feel it
in my bones."
. But more : The canon of prophecy is not yet sea!cld. Men pro-
phesy in this our day. Thefr spiritual vision preced'-1! the rapid
tight of time and fore-shadows comina- events. A few faa. :-
DigI IZed by GoogIe
01
Elias Hicks propb~ed mnny. years' ago, that, in 18·12, England
would be without a King, the United States without a President, and
the times hard in the extreme. And so it came to pass.
There are many now living hi Boston, who, eleven years ago,
heard Dr.' Beecher prophesy, that, in ten year8, Tremont Theatre
weald be converte4 into a church, and he should preach in it. " And
it was ,;o." Just ten years after Uttering this prophesy, he preached
ita dedication sennon. And what is more, he uttered the prophesy
when there wU no shaClow of a prospect of its being fulfilled. The
main theatre of Boston-of New-England-popular; every· thint
tJgainst the prophecy. But it has literally been fulfilled, and " at the
time appointed.'' And what is still more, this prophecy was uttered
during a revival, in whieh this faculty was of course unusually act1ve.
Josephine was Bonaparte's prophetess. He generally followed her
advice. She told nim 110t to go to Russia that year. He disobeyed.
He fell. Indeed, I do not believe the great man ever lived who had
not some bosom friend, generally a female, a wife, a sister, a mother,
a friend of childhood, or some female friend, whose whole soul is in
the cause to which he devotes his life, to give the required advice.
'rhis spirituality, this intuition, is in the orga11ization of woman, in
the head of woman. But enough. I shall not be believed. Thou' I do
not put forth these views as positively as most others that I advance,
still, I think them correct. I think I find them advanced by Phreno·
logy. If others think otherwise, they have as good a right to their
opinion as I have to mine.
THIRDLY. Man reqwres and .uses this faculty as a guide to truth.
" There i4a divinity within" some men that siezes truth by a kind of
mtuition, and without the aid of intellect. That scents truth, as the
hound, the fox. That drinks it in as the fish drinks in the water, and
with. evidence, without evidence, in spite of fallacious evidence, ar-
rives at truth. It aids causality in reasoning. It helps comparison
propound analogies. It joins ideality in her sublime reveries, and
opens a door for the reception of truth through that channel. It guides
the social affections upon proper objects. It warns us of hypocrites,
and tells us whom to shun, whom to trust. Man bas, or can have, in
his own soul, a directory and a compass, to spy out his coming destiny,
which, .unperverted and properly cultivated, will warn him of ap-
proaching danger and point out the road to success and happiness.
But I am talking Greek to 1nany. To most. Few have this organ,
except very ~ebly deft!oped. Miserably small in the American head!
Usually, a deep cattily, and that in so-culled Christian~. They even
,U. themselveat in rejecting Phrenology, Magnetism, every thing, '
DigitiZed by GoogIe
102 TBH Pli.OOI' Tru.T ~E IS A WOIUtJ> OF 81'Dt1T8.
tip they r,an ue and '!"ndersta.nd. T!l the reM6ns, and the tJJky• and . 1
lwws, are given, and so fully as to ltJ:eakdo}VIl all d~belie£ Why the
existence of this orga.n, unlea to be exercised l l\J ~~nee ia a great
defect. Its presence co~titut~ a part of, ~ry 'w~!l balancfld and
truly philosophic,al mind. If the human miJ¥1 werfJ ·~ c91\stituwd at
to a.drillt ~othing which it d\d not see, or else (ully comprehend aNI
understand, its progress in knowledge w:ould be e~eedingly slE~w,
and its attainments very.lli,nited. Childr•n. could ~ow: little or no-
thing, for they are inca}>ll-ble of profoup,d reasoning Qr extentive Q~
servation. Ind~, we are obliged to _
receive ~P of lgwwledge on
testimony. The importance of t;he fu~;~~ of thi!! ~ulty, and fJf
duly exercising it, and the u,tter folly of tJl<?le w~o re.(u~ to believEJ
till they can see, know, au.d under~tand, is thus tqo &ppilrent to require
comment.
But, since we take Phrenology for granted in ~e 8t!lrt, why at~
tempt to prove w~at this science has alrea.dy proved. at l)ur hands'I
The existence of the faculty, and its analysis ~ S\lllstan~, as I have
given it, or what is .tanamount to it, iS set at rest by f'}lrenology. It
not only showl!1 1lf! in the ~e of vener.Uion. th~ aU tPe other {Jlcuitiea
are exclusively engross,ed each with other f~p~()Bs, lmt that theae
apparitions and spiritual impressions are ma<ie \l}>Qn thl! ~nd by
means of this faculty. Phrenology drives _
the nail, of i\8 elPStenee and
then clinches it. lt rende1s its eltisten~e and fup.ctions clem~trahl,
certain.
And glorious indeed are the results to w.hich \ll~e inferenc• eon·
dnct us ! They open immorta,lity upon our vision. They reveal a
spiritual principle i~ tnan which age only invigorates, .~~ w)lich will
oo young far into the vista of e,ternity. Veneration tall• Ull lha1 there
. is a God. Spiri,tuality tells us ~ }le ill 'r- ,Spirit, ~d hpp(l ~ella ua
that we shall one day see him ~ he is, aD!i be lik~ hhn. Infinitely
does it exalt the cl>.uacte~ IUld. ·ennoble .Pe D!ltu,re of man! GloryI
Uallaluia I . .
' The a.rgvment by which this e~~ of a w~l<l of spirit$ ia ea~
blished, is t\milogotJs to th!lt e,IJlploy~ ~ proving the existence of a
GOd, from the adaptation of veneratio~ to $8J ~xi~~n~. Spiritualily
eXists in man. Jt even forJw,S 110 inco11sideral>le a po;.l't of hie primi-
tive constitution~one of h~ original elements o~ rni.nd. This facuhy
hos its oounterPart, its adaptation. That adaptation i• to a spiritbal
ats,te. Therefore there is a spiritual 8tll.te o( beiug adapted.to thia fl.
culty. Short, but detnonstrati:ve. But two pointJ. ~he ~:Uateo~oE
ilis faculty. in rpan, whieh Phreno]pgy "ts completely at re$; &nd:
lbat gre~ law ~t on_e thiJ!i ~eing ~~P~4 to a sec;QniJ, p~:~~ th'•.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
103
..-nee of t!ils !ecbricl. Phr~llology aays tfu..t this facuhy emata, aud
the inference that a spiritual etate also exists, that God is a spirit, that
man has a spirittia.l department in his nature, that man can commune
With God, with spirits, and with eternity, and kindi:ed inferences, fol·
lOw as a necessary C()nsequenee.
llfJTION II.
.. .
SPIIUTIJ.ALI!rr CONTINUED. lN7EJI.ENCEII.
" Tb be apiritiuiny minded, ia lite."
IUYING demotislrated the eXist&hce of tb..S faculty, it remains to
point out its legitimate'function, and then to draw those inferences de-
pendent thereon.
Prayer-spiritual communion with God-is one of its functions. 1
I have my doubts whether the spiiit of prayer is fully understood-
whether its true analyais haii yetbeen given. The general impreil·
sion is that its main object should be to brinK about something-to
supplicate some blesaing, obtain some gift fiorii God. This interpre·
tation cannot be sanctioned by Phrenology. ThiS science shows-all
nature shows-that the whole universe, God himself included, is go·
verned by immutable, unaherable laws-that causes and effects reign
•!lPreme, and a1low not the 1ea8t chiirice for prayer to effect the least
change in effects, because it cannot change their causes. And to
euppose that hUman entreatie$ can change the inind, the will, the eter·
nal purpOse of the Almighty, is utter folly-is downright blasphemy.
These n«hms are revolting to correct notions of the Supreme Ruler
of the universe. But, haling already refuted the doctrine, let us in·
quire, What is the tnie function ofprayer, and what its effect7
Its function is the eXercise of the seiCsame spiritual feeling alrewly
pointed out; The value of thiS' spiritual feeling, has been already
ahown, and prayer itiducel! thiS spiritUal stnie of mind~ "No man
. . . ..
bath seen God at any time; sO that we do not, perhaps cannot, know
his natUre, or the triode of Iilli eXistence; but, be he what he may,
prayer usirlillatM oul' sbuls tahis soul, and, by frequently throwini
uill' iDtO a spiritual; holy frame of mind, it inducee a~rmt~nmcy of
this spiritual MatewiHeh foreknows the future, and perceives ~he t~u~
as ifby magie. When particularly anxioils to perceive and enforce
truth, I feel like praying, perhaps not audibly, but l~e throwhig .~i:
_,intothit api~ lkata in which truth flows into my own aul,
DigitiZed by Google
104 'WJIDE 1) EXERCISE THE PIUYERFUL ll'IB.l'f, ,258
from which it radiates into the souls of all who hear me. I hope I
am fully understood as to the effect of prayer on the souL Hence
Paul says, t< If any man lack wiadom, let him ask of God, who 'giveth
to all liberally and upbraideth not.'' We see, in this aspect of prayer,
how it is that God giveth wisdom, namely, that by and in the very act
of praying, we throw our minds into that spiritual state in which we
perceive truth as if by intuition. As a means of arriving at truth,
nothing equals prayer, and he who does not pray, is compelled to fol-
low on after truth through the paths of intellect merely, and plod and
dig for that which a prayerful spirit perceives at once, and with per-
fect certainty. And, then, how happy, holy, pure is the praying soul!
How transported from earth into that blessed state that awaits the pure
in heart! Let scoffers laugh at prayer. Let the sons of sin and lu~:;t
forget to pray. But let me bow the knee of humble prayer, and lift
the eyes of devotion to my God, and hold sweet communion with him
till I become embued with his spirit, and am transformed into his
image!
I cannot forbear expressing the conviction not only that prayer i21
not generally understood, but also that there is much leSI prayer in
the world than is supposed. Many of our clergymen 1reack in their
prayers, and pray as if trying to impress some #rutk upon the mind
ofthe bearers rather than to call out their soul in pure devotion. Let
ministers preach when they preach, and pray when they pray. These
preaching prayers are out of place. Besides, they substitute the fonn
for the thing, and thus satisfy the praying appetite, without feeding the
praying spirit.
As to the best place for exercising the prayerful spirit, Phrenology
is unequivocal in recommending nature, the open fields, the velvet
lawn bedecked with flowers, the shaded brook, the mountain cliff
The works of God are wonderfully calculated to impress his being,
his attributes upon the soul. They call out the spiritual feeling.
They bring us near to God. They assimilate us to him. And 1
fully believe, that our churches should be generally in the fields of
flowers, in the bosom of nature, rather than in houses made with
hands. If I were to erect a ehurch, upon the plan propounded by
Phrenology, I should build it of trees unsawed rather than of timbers,
and of flowers, not with nails. Verdant leavea should be my roof.
Paths among flowers should be my aisles. A projecting rock should
be my pulpit. Fragrant trees and flowers should be·my perfumery.
&quets should be my psalm-books. The chirping soagsters of the
grove should echo to my notes of praise, and the balmy bre~
tbould waft my prayers to heaven. Suppose &hat immense sum u..
8
o;9,t,zect by Coogle
105
pended in buildiag Trinity Church, in New-York, had been 8peot in
making a magnificent pleasure park, adapted expreesly to call out the
religious aentimenta, how infinitely more real homage would be of-
fered up to God than will ever be exercised within ita Jll388ive, fitah·
ionable walls ! I have no objection to having churches. If they pro·
mote the religious feelings, they are useful. If not, they are injurious.
But, be they good or bad, to spend so much money in their erection,
IS making but a poor use of what, if properly applied, spent in works
of charity, would do a vast amount of good.
By spiritualizing the soul, prayer prevents grossness and sinful ani·
mal indulgence, and refines, elevates, purifies, and exalts the soul more
than words can tell, but not more than may every reader experienc~.
The reader will see an additional reason, from the analysis of this
faculty, .vhy revivals of religion and religious exercises should be
permanent, not transcient. The prevalence of a belief in ghosts is in
point, and strengthens our position of spiritual premonitions. If yoa
ask me whether I believe in the existence and appearance of ghosts, I
~ay yes, with emphasis. Not that I ever saw one. Nor is it the tes-
timony of others that imparts this confidence. It is this principle. 1
never saw an apparition. My organ of spirituality is too small ever
to see one. But 1 believe this principle. It will not lie. I believe that
the spirits of departed friends hover over us, and conduct our choice,
our course. I believe the spirit of my departed mother has watched
over her son, guided his footsteps into the paths of Phrenology, and
still continues to throw around him those spiritual impres ions which
tells him what is truth, and guides him in its exposition. She prayed
for her oldest son on her dying bed, and even while death was sever-
ing hrt spirit from her body. To these spiritual exercises, reader,
you may possibly owe a small debt of gratitude. And if this be delu-
sion, let me be deluded. Let me be joined to this idol, if idol it be.
I believe farther : If we were sufficiently spiritualized, we might
hold converse with the spirits of our departed friends, with angels,
and with God I I believe they might become our guardian angels, to
tell us all what we should do, anu what avoid. I believe we migl.t
talk with them, as did Abraham, Moses, and the prophets ! And
when our friends die, we need not be separated from them, though
we live and they are dead. They are in a state more exalted than
ours, but, if we were as spiritually minded as we are capable of being,
we could still hold direct communion with them, and they would be-
come spiritual conductors, carrying a torch-light by which we could
guide our erring footsteps into the paths of success, of'holiness, of hap-
piness.
106
IJ this ~-10, 1ltlu:i ht* in·lit <>Wif ·~Yn ~ dlr~; fi ~Y on ht,
coming deetihy; 'W'hieh, unprettvetted and .ptq;edy cttltivated; will
w!trn him l:lf awrotding danger, and-point 0\it ~ ~~e ofsucee9&
a1kl"happiluiell.
Anfmli.l 'Magnlitl8tti als6 ellt&btishe8 the ~ immaterial exiSt.
ence of mind in a·stiate eepamte from :iiiiltter, aa eleatly as uny fact irt
natute ean be tterUon§rtated by e:xperimetit; ror, fiirllt,-it throws the
mind into hlllte ~bly atuitogolll ~ th!t llfter d~th; in which the
body has little control oret it, In which time aftd !paee are unknown,
in which it ·sees with·out the ey~, nr ll8 clisentbtidie\1 mind sees by
a spiritual cognizance; and itt its indepen~nt eapaeity·u mind ; and;
2dly, when the magneti:tet and the tnagn~tiZed are bOth pure mind-
ed, the latter ~ and holds converse with t~ ~~t>ititS·Of the departed,
and reeeives frotn them warnings, ditl!etioi\s; eotlneil, for those who
make the proper inquiry. Wards eanhbt e%prm what I bate seen
in this respect A:nd; oh I If I have ef'et ~n aJlappy l!knll, it waa
one in this' state; with the mollil organs highly thlltged, arid all ex-
citement temom from the propensitieli. Descriptloii would be 8aCri-
lige 1 And dum to httve this holy spell broken Hi upon b'y e:ioiting
one M mote of the propenSitieS at ihe saitle time1. Bttt I am utterty
ineapable o( describing ihe scene. Btr1l, t saw how mtAal:lly litily ani:l
happy the human soul eeruld becOme by the e:terci~e c1fthe mont! sen'
timents, and particdlarly th'at faculty titld6r corisidetatiori. Th'e ttM:
erend Mt. Tenant of New Jei'Se)T, who Wa8 in attanCI~ thtee days, and
who, in that state saw and hellTd what iilottid tongne may ndt, could
not tell, was·in this spiritual state. So aTe those at religious nieetirigs,
• p&rticularly eatnp-meetings, who pray and sing rill they" !iave the
pt>wer," a8 it wu fatmetly caned. This hmng tll'e power, fanatical
as most religiOUS' men call it, is san<!tioned by :Pmemilogy. It require's'
guiding, bnt it could, should be exercised tlll it transfofrn'M earth ibto
heaven, and feasted OUI' sou'fs With rich foretast~ ofthose joys wruch
" eye hath not lleen, nor ear lieard, ri<ir liat'ft it entered into the heart
of man tO conceive,·•·but which are laid up for the sptritualty minded.
But enough, I am treading ori holy ground. Few wnl appreciate.
Fewer still experience. But 10oman 10iil appreciate, wm feel. .To
her I commend these remarks. Her 1 exllort to breathe forth these
holy aspirations, ,,for in due tiine, ye shall' reap if ye t~ni not~,;
And, oh f such a-liarvest. A feast on the food ot angela I A.ban-
quet served Up in the palaces ofheaven I Fruit from the tree of eter·
nity r Reach tort,P. It is within your g1asp. Plucl~:and eat;arld give
to others, tbl\t they may eat and live.
..
DigitiZed by GoogIe
2131 107
,
QCTION .nJ.
IPBOIAL PiovtnB~OBS
CLosELY eo~ected. with this subject, and.deaervipg of.remarkin.lb.•
connection,is the doctrine of" DIVINE P&OVIDENOEB" so eallad. Spiri·
tual guidance, has ab;eady been .seen to be reeognized.by Pluenoli)&Y·
But about providential interposilionl it knowa nothing. Wha&ev~r
effects do not result from causation, or,.espeei!tlly, whatever iu""""
causation, it discards. Nature never .allows anythin& to step.ip. ,1!&-
tween causes and effects. Spiritual impressions.maypide,IUld fum~
may be called providential interpositions by their guiding our choice ;
but, they never eut offlegitimate effects from their tl'\le ca11168, and ..
ititate others. Still, .an event is ~ne theJe$8 providential·\\',hen a .api.
Jitual precaution or monition forewarns us to escape ~er,.er indw:ea
!illS to choose our best good, than if the laws ofnature were interru~
e.nd the great arrangement of cause and effect ren.dere<l,null qd v~~i
lion the results are ~ually beneficial to us. If our .o,rg'l1nizati~ ~
tme, and if this feeling of spirituality be cllltivated., we .ahaU h~ W,..
!'terved from all harm thereby, and a;.uided into the rigJ;u courae, ~ ~
vur happiness be~ecured. And the filet is beautiful to .philosoph,y,~
"ncouraging to mort.als, that th011' wbo ar,e the :rn~t perfec,tly P"N
:ted, should receive most of this heavenly gWP..an'""' By au.J,ti~
those highest elements of OUJ' na~ure, alr.~~y ~~ :"'e ~JW]. .M:
m011t effectually promo~:ng ou.r own higbeat hap~
But we cannot dismiss this subjeat of provid6QC8 ~ ~-­
a prevailing error in re~rd to wbJu, •re CQD8id,e~ pro~t~e. Spi·
rituality pe~;eeives, follo\VS, and trust3 ~ ~ IJUi~ &PWinp; Ja•
expec~ good to .rtsult therefr'¥Q; veJ¥l~ ~~ ·Qe4: -~;
and benevqleoeeado!.'ing G<!d for hia kipd~ tlU8t4 iD hiathaa...
epiritual ~dipg3 will be fo!.' ~od; ~4 ~ g_qWed by ~t that
thef will harmonize with fu:ed lams. 'fl»e Pf•~ lead.t fo·th~ m.
~ren~ th~ aJl eN.ritual gujd~ !IJld.prov~!Sti,-W u ~ ,_.
videnecs exiat, are /fYf tqaJr...-..-,fl never. ~"'-' • al•lJI'p. . .
ble. Nqr does th& b~o~nt Cleatqr ~£ .U tbUtgttlo,nihbat pM
~f come. lf,e. doea DRl gin ~· ~~. tn. he. ma1 si• p..ua
at\erwarc)e. In e.very sipgle m.t&aee. ~~ut areatio-, ~e) 1t1 flit.
~Qgel it a.s to i?-ve allJ!~llre, awL no p.ia io ords• aniw af.tMt
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
108 OB'AltGIHG TO l'BOVJDENCE WHAT WE JNPLlCT Otlli.SELVD. 261
pleasure. What right hat& .we, then, to suppose that he makua us
aufi'er in order afterward to cause us enjoyment, for this would be a
loto celo departure from '-very principle, every fact of his entire gov-
ernment, and in direct con1bc.. with that view ofthe divine character and
government already evolved from Phrenology. No ; afflictive pro-
vidence& do not e:risl All pain is but punishment, not providences-
the natural consequences of violated law, not divine chastisements.
God does not carelessly dip the arrow ofafftiction in the wormwood of
his malignity or wrath, and thrust it causelessly into the soul of man.
All that God does, from beginning to end, is all promotive of happi-
ness. The idea, so often held fonh from the pulpit, that sickness and
death in the prime of life, areafftictive providences, sent to ckastise us, is
onerous ; for they are the penalties of violated physical laws. Sick-
ness and premature death are as much the effectl of their legitimate •
causes, as any other event is an effect of its cause. A child dies, and
the parents, while bleeding under the wounds of lacerated parental
love, console themselves by " The Lord gave, the Lord hath taken
away. Blessed be the name of the Lord." "It is the Lord'sdoings,"
&e. ; whereas they killed their child. They allowed it to disorder ita
stomach and ·bowels by eating cucumbers, or green com, o! unripe
f'ruit, or too much fruit, and then it was exposed and took cold, wat
badly doctored, had the summer complaint, and died. Or, in the fall
and spring, it was exposed till it took a violent cold ; a fever set in,
and fastening upon the throat, it had the croup and died. Or, upon
the head, and itdied ofbrain fever. Its sickness and death were cawed,
and that by violntions of the physical laws. It was murdered by neg·
lect or impropet treatment, and then all this b~:une is thrown off from
the guilty perpetrat:>ts, by charging it to the providence of God. Ju&t
u though God killed your child I
An anecdote in poinl One Christmas evening, the parents of a
~ tickled it mightily with the idea, that if it would hang up its
slocking, Seta Claus would conie in the night and fill it full of good
dUngs. She did so, and in the morning while yet in bed called for
her stocking, which she found filled with raisins, nuts, rich cakes, &c.,
and which.she continued to eat till she had swallowed the whole.
She Will plied through the early part of the day with additional good
things ; till at three o'clock she was taken in a fit, an.i died at night
Diaeection showed the catlie of her death to have been simply, solely,
u. everloaded atomach, and yet, at her funeral, the good old minister
IOOlhed the lacerated feelings of parental anguish by telling the pa·
rete that "lt waa tho Lortl•doing~, to whichthey must bow in silence
DigitiZed by GoogIe
I
·.
t63 SPEOI.AL P.ROVIDBNCR 109
-that it was a mysteriotll providence, sent as a chastisement, to wean
them from earth and earthly things, and place their souls on heaven
and heavenly things." And yet both the gormandizing of the child
and also the dissection, showed its death to ha.Ye been caused solely
by parental indulgence. I doubt not but every reader has seen cases
m point. And then, what idea must he have of God, who suppose1he
killed the child, not only without law, but directly in the teeth of those
very laws which he himself has established. And even if they think
he meant it for their good, just as though he did not know how to
seek their good without making them thus miserable.
Similar remarks appertain to the sickness of adults. We go on to
violate every law of physiology, and for a series of years, and then,
when nature would fain vindicate herlaws by punishing their aggres-
sion, we deafen our ears and harden our hearts to her remonstrances
by accusing the Deity of stepping aside from his laws, and tormenting
us by his afflictive providences. The plain fact is this, that we need
never be sick. We have no right to be sick. We are culpable for
being sick, for all of every thing is caused. All sickness is caused,
nnd caused directly by the violation of some physiological law. Let
parents as parents, obey these laws, and then let children be brought
up in their obedience, and then continue therein all the days of their
lives, no sickness, no pain, would, coULD occur. Every organ of the
body was made to be healthy, none to be sickly. Health is but the
nat1tral, primitive, action of them all, while sickness is their abnormal
or painful action. Let them alone, save giving them their unnatural
stimulants, and they will all go on to perform their normal, healthy
function from the cradle to the grave. No truth is more self-evident,
than that health is the natural function of every faculty, and sickness
their perverted function. If we do not make ourselves sick, we shall
always be well. Teeth were never made to ache. They were made
to masticate food. They give us pain only when we cause their decay
by abusing them. The Indian never has decayed or aching teeth, nor
need we if we take proper care of them. So witn every other o-.:gan
of the body. They all give us pain only after we have abused them,
and in consequence of that abuse. And the natural order of death is,
that, like the setting sun, we should gradually descend the hill of life
and die by slow and imperceptible degrees, just as the western sky be-
comes less and less bright, till, finally, the last rays have taken their
departure. Violent death, in the prime of life, is most abhorrent-is
mconceivably shocking to Benevolence, ani forms no part of the natu-
rt:J order of things, or of the Providence of Gcrl. We die in spite of
Digitized by GoogIe
110
Prcmdende, irlitead of by·its ·band; 11 W& g~ otenehts·the wOtindl"
we feel. We drink tbe·poisoMua gaU, and•t~n lioknellllllllid Mll1
punish us for our tmnagyeesions.
U the~~~t principles· were•not renderM ~feedy thmonnratitle by•
physiology, I woald eut•ri"my right hand rather than pen thilm ; fm1
t~ are moetullpGpttlar, aad e~peeislly will exeite religious prejudidt'
against me; But th~y are t'l'fie; and will· ultirilldely bear BW'ty.
Reader;-let me elltreat thee to eamine this point earetully one fotf.•
year, and·t.heu yoa Will coineide with·mei I grani'thatsiekneu ·aud:
death Rre often indir.ced by pUents, either u rparents; in their hsviag·
some herediary diaease; orby their 110t 11ndetstanding how to·preserve
the· heahlls of their drildren ; etlll, they are never providential, bGI
always p¥aismatnll; and·imply guilt 101111 vlere.
If,I be ukecl, ·whyl bring forwlml ·a :point so unpopulaz, I a111wer,
to ~aue life. .As.long ae men coritioue to regard sieknees and death as•
proridential, they .will not be led to obey the natural lawr. Buttbe
doetrine tirged above, ealinot be beliel'ed: witho•t po-Mttfully enfOreiDg
obedienceto those laws ; and I doubt not but a knotw-ledge of thievery
principle wiU enable many a reader to·UCtJPe many an aSJictive prori-
deaee; and; to enjby:the society of his children, companions, aDd
friertds many ,.-ra lorigvthan: he:othenrisewoubl-reaeen·enough,
•urely.
SBCTIOI IY.
COXVER8ION j 'l'R£ OPERATIONS OP THE HOLY GHOST j DIVINE OllAOK;
FAITH, ETC.
"Un'leu y~ be converted;·&c. ye cldlnot see the kingdom or God.'•
THE principles thus represented teach us the true doctrine of those
spiritual influences called conversion, the operation of Divine grace,
the Holy Spirit, &c. That a Divine Spirit exists, has been alr~ady
shbwn. Also, that it is in every place. And that prayer communes
with him, &c. But, the tendency ofthe principles already preset~ted1
shows that we reek him, not he us. He does not tum aside from the
Ulltllll operations of nature, to pour out his spirit upon mankind. Or,
rather, that spirit is like the wind that blows every where, except
where it is excluded, and that will blow even there, and with the sam$
&eedom, if the doors and windows of the human soul be but openect
•
OONVBRSION,-~·~'W@JI.~ lim DOLT GHOST, 111
for its reception. In conversion, I believe. It consists simply in tha
spiritualization of our natures already pointed out, the main medium
of which is marvellousness. By operating upon this faculty and or-
gan, it extends the range of its action so as to quicken benevolence,
veneration, hope, conscientiousness, and the whole moral group; and
this gives them that ascendency over the propensities which we have
~feady shown to constitute virtue, the product (Jf which is "joy in the.
~;{ply Ghost,'' mor11\ P\lfity, and consequently happiness. Natural~ it is ;
S\lJle n,at\!ralJ it is not·. Not for the chos~n few-the elect. But as
fr~ as the air pf heaven,, pr the gushing fountain. All can, who will,
drink in these heavenly influences-be converteci-be hoLy-be hap-
py. Nor should any wait to be operated on. They must operate on
themselves-must pray-must spiritualize them8eh·es. And so we
must spiritualize, convert, one.another; for all the organs are capable
of being excited. The exercise of these spiritual feelings in one, will
tend to excite them in others, and then again in others; thus widening
their influences and happifying mankind beyond what tongue can ex
press or mind conceive. ,
Prayer, bei.ng an exercise of this spiritual feeling, is eminently cal·
culp.ted to promote it in others; that is, to .convert others-to convert
ourselves. So, praying for the impenitent is equally calculated, as al·
ready shown, to spiritualize, convert, them. And let all seek these
religious, elevatipg influences, for the same reason that they should eat,
or think, or talk; namely, to be happy in their exercise.
But, let these exercises be permanent, not transient. To sudden
conversiqns, the same principles apply that are already shown to go·
vern revivals. But, the mere statement of the print:iple is sufficient.
Is it not highly proqable, that these principles throw some light on
the existence of what is called the Holy Spirit; the Holy Ghost; the
Spirit of God, &c.1 Do not these phrases refer simply, solely, to that
spiritual existence of God already pointed out, and refer to the mode
of Divine existence, rather than to separate personages of the Deity 1
At all events, other than this, Phrenology, as far as I am now able to
interpret it, knows nothing of the existence of a separate part or per.
son of the Deity corresponding with the usual doctrines of the Holy
Gb!)lt.
Digitized by Coogle
•
...
112 A OIUKGB O'P mwt'l'.
IICTIOI T
.•. CHA.."i'GE OF HEAli.T CONTINUED.--oBIECTION L.fSWEJL.BD.
MANY believers in the doc:trine ofa change of heart and life, are UD•
llble to reconcile this doctrine with the principles ofPhrenology And
as the following quotation from page 410 of " Fowler's Practtcal .Phre-
nology,, states and answers this objection satisfactorily, it is inserted
accordingly.
" ' To the Mesll1'8. Fowlers:
"'Sirs,-At your next lecture, I wish you to explain, according tn the
principles of phrenology, bow any material or radical change in a man'• mt~tal
character, disposition, or conduct, can take place. For example; we frequently
eee the infidel and irreligious man, suddenly and radically cban!Se hie eentimenll
and practiceR in life, and become pious, reverential and devouonalo Now, ac-
cording to the principles of your eyatem, it seems to follow, that, in reality, there
are no such changes, and that they are wholly imaginary or hypocritical, or else,
that there muat be a corresponding change of the phrenological organs, namely,
a sudden .Umi•wtion of one claae of organa, and an equally sudden efllargef!Wfll
of another cl88B, whoae functions are directly oppoaite.
" • That men do often experience these changes, is evident to every one ; but
that the bumps of the eramum, are subject to such sodden growth and deJ?rell-
aion, is certainlr moat doubtful : and, if tbeae organa do not cotreepond wtth a
man's changes m conduct and disposition, how cun they have any reciprocal
relation to hie true character? D. J. MALLISON, M. D.'"
"Admitting this doctrine ofa change ofcharacter and conduct, called
regeneration, as believed in and taught by orthodox Christians, to be
correct, and the first question to be considered in relation to its bearings
upon the doctrines of Phrenologyhis, in wl.at does this chanqe consist 1
From even a superficial view of t e subject, it is evident, that it does
fiiJt consist either in a S?JlJstitution of one primary mental faculty for an
other opposite faculty, or in a change of the original nature and ch&-
racter of the faculties, or of their proportional strtngth; for, if the
subject of this change possessed a strong and original intellect before
conversion, he has just as strong and as original an intellect after con·
version ; but, if he is weak-minded before, he still ~emains so. Even
h.is leading peculiarititf of mind, thought, and feeling, remain unal-
tered. If, before conversion, he possessed a remarkably retentive me.
.::tory of incidents, of faces, of dates, of principles, and .of places, his
memory of these things is equally tenacious afterwards ; but, if his
memory of any of these things was weak before, it IS equally so after·
wards. If, before, he was remarkable for his merhanical or any other
talents, he is unifonnly found to possess these very same talents, and in
the same degree, afterwards. If he be possessed of a tuperior musical
talent before he meets this change, he possesses the -rary same talent,
and in the same degree of f'.xceUence, after this event.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
~67 A CHANGE OF HEAl!.'!. H3
. " In wlia~ tllen, does th~ ch.tnge consiSt 1 .Simply and $Ol~ly ia..
r;~an.ge ofthe DIRECT :oN of tktse respective Jt;iculties, or oft/le oqjecu
upon whick they are exercised, and not in a change of their nat'!l-r•
nnd character, or of their relative power. For example:. if the per·
son converted, had a great talent for mtisic, the effect of his conversion
i3 to change the direction of this faculiy: thus1 be(ore c-.'nversion, it
was.chiefly exercised in singing songs, lively mrs, &c., whereas, it is
now chiefly exercised upon pieces of sacred music. If, before corwer-
sion, his reasoning {JOWers were great, but exercised principally upoll
political, philo'sophical, or scientific subjects, they are afterwards
equally polverful, but directed mainly to religious and theological sub.
je!!tS. Benevolence, which was before manifested in relieving the
physical suffering, and promoting the temporal wants and earthly hap-
piness of his fellow-men, is now directed to a different and far more
elevated object, namely, the salvation and eternal happiness of
mankind. And so of every other feeling, faculty, and talent. of the
individual
"No\v, inasmuch as the relati'l1e power of the faculties themselves,
remains unchanged, though directed to different objects, there is no
call for alteration in the proportionate size of the organs, and, ofcourse,
no need of a: sudden diminution of one class of organs, and an equally
:sudden enlargement of another class. But, if this change of heart
:lid necessarily involve a change of the nature and the constitution of
lhe primary mental powers the inevitable conclusion would be, that
these faculties were not well made at the first, and therefore, require
remodelling, or, rather, re-creating, which would necessarily implr
1mperfection on the part of the Creator; and, not only so, but this radi·
calchange in the nature of the faculties themselves, would certainly ·
destroy the identity of the person converted, thus making him, not a
new, but another, being.
" Again: if this conversion were to change the relative power ofthe
primary faculties, the same inferences hold good. Whilst, then, the
nature ofthe faculties themselves remain unchanged, and their propor·
tionate strength the same as it was before, the amount ofit is1 that divine
grace simply gives to the faculties as they originally or previously were,
a NEW DffiECTlON.
"An illustration will, perhaps, make the point clear. A steamboat,
which is made perfect and beautiful throughout, is being propelled
down a river, by the power of steam. The rudder is turned, and the
same boat is now propelled up the river, by the same power, and by
means ofthe same apparatus. But the boat is not changed, or trans-
formed ; for it is, by supposition, made perfect ; nor is the nature of
the steam changed, nor the character or proportionate strength of any
one thing about the boat. This is not necessary. The boat is perfect.
Its direction, merely, is altered ; and that by means of the co-operation
of the power of the boat and that of her commander. So it is in the
matter of conl!ersion. The rinner is sailing smoothly down the rapid
eurrent of sin and worldly pleasure. He is arrested, and changes, not
the feature ofthe thinkingfaculties themselves, but merely the direclilnl
DigitiZed by GoogIe
114 OBJEcnONS ANSWERED. 268
ofthe thoughts produced-not the nature ofthe prop.:llingpOtDtTI tMm-
telt1ei, but the drift llnd current of the feelings that jlOUJ from those
powers, by setting beforethem a d1trerent object to stimulate llLld occupy
lhoae powers.
" The analogy of the steamboat, does not, of course, bold good
throughout; ror man is a moral agent, the steambof..t, a mere machine.
It, however, holds good as far as I have occasion to apply it. Men are
depraved, not because they have depraved faculties, but because they
mate a depraved use of good faculties: see last proposition under the
last objection, p. 403 of Fowler's Practical Phrenology.
" You allude to a 'sudden' change. So far as the change is sud.
den, it is not a change, either offaculties, or of their RELATIVE strengtA.
This change of the proportionate strength of the faculties is !llwaya
gradual. The man whose besetting sin before conversion, was an
inordinate craving for money, has the same craving afterwards, witln
this difference merely, that, by the grace given him at conversion, it
is restrained from breaking out into overt acts of wickedness. The.
same is true ofthe passionate man, &c. Paul speaks of carrying on,,
'warfare against the lusts of the flesh ;' and the Bible everywhen·
holds out the idea that victory over our depraved propensities, must bF.
gradual, and can be obtained only by long continued and laboriout
t.Jfort-by watching and praying, and severe self-denial. Christian
experience is compared to the 'rising light, which,' from a feebl4
gleaming, 'groweth brighter and brighter till the perfect day'-' to a
grain of mustard seed, which,' from the smallest of seeds, 'becomes a
great tree ;' plainly implying, that, as far as the relative strength of the
faculties is changed, so far the change is ~radual.
" I would ask any true Christian, if he IS not obliged to hold in with
a strong rein, those propensities that predominated before his conver·
sion ; and, if a long time is not requisite effectually to subdue " those
sins that most easily beset him," so that their instinctive promptings
are not plainly felt. By the time, then, that he has subdued h1s pro-
pensities, or altered the relative strength of his faculties, the organs
will have time to adjust themselves accordingly : see pp. 123, to 140, ot
Education and Self-Improvement ; second edition, 1844.
" If Imistake not, then, I have clearly shown, that the doctrines and
principles of phrenology, are not at all inconsistent with the doctrine
of regeneration ; and, also, that phrenology enables us to tell1chat had
of Christians particular individuals are."
DigitiZed by GoogIe
liU.TERIALISII. 115
SECTION VL
IIATBlUALISIL--oBJECTION A.NSWEll:ED,
THE doctrine of the immateriality of the soul, of an eternal existence
beyond the grave, is glorious, is beatific, in the·highest degree, and
holds out the blessed hope that that eternity may be infinitely happy, a~
well as of infinite duration. · But, it is alleged, that Phrenology mili-
tates seriously against this soul-inspiring doctrine, by demonstrating
the existence of relations between the body and the mind so intimatt>,
so perfectly reciprocal, in nearly or quite every and all conceivable cir-
cumstances, as to leave room for the inference-as even to force the in-
evitable conclusion upon u11 that, when the body dies, the soul diet~
also. The intimacy of the relation existing between the body and the
mind, I admit. But I do not admit the therefore, that mind is mate-
c-ial. This therefore depends, not on the intimacy ofthe relation be-
•ween the body and the mind, but on the fact of the existence of any
~elation whatever. Whether this intimacy be great or little; uniform,
?r occasional ; perfectly reciprocal, or !lOt so at nil ; does not affect the
question. Be the relation ever so distz.nt, so that it but exist at all,
that existence goes just as far in proof of either doctrine, materiality or
immateriality, ns would the mof>t intimate relation. But, I cannot see
that the existence ofthis relation, be it more or less perfectly reciprocal,
proves any thing either way. Even if matter should be shown to be
the cause, and mind the effect, the doctrine of materialism would not
ueeessarilly follow. If it could even be shown, that organization wu
the cause of mind, and that mind was simply the product or function
of organization in operation, I cannot see that this product is necessa-
rily material because its machine or manufacturer is matenal. And
the more so: since we cannot say for certain that the physiology is the
cause, and the mentality the effect, rather than mind the cause, and
physioJ.ogy the effect. That laws of cause and effect exist between the
!wo, or even govern all the relations of either to the other, is demon-
strated by Phrenology ; but whether it is the original cast and charac-
ter of the mind which gives the form and texture to the body, to the
brain, or the size and other conditions ofthe latter, that govern the for-
mer, has not yet been fully established. And even if mind could be
8hown to be the product of organized matter in action, the materiality
or immateriality of that mind remains still undecided, that depending
-on the nature of mind itself, and not on its material agent.
But it is 1\ardly necessary to discuss this whole subject of matenal
oig,tized by Coogle
. .
.!
" .,.
ODJECT10N8 ANSWER't!>. 270
ilrn itself, but simply to show that Phr.cnology d'ea not lead thereto.
The great truth is admitted, that we lrn.ow nothing of mind in thil
world, except as it manifests itself,,and 1;1c~ by means ofthe corporeal
organs. Ancl particularlythebrain and mind ani'perfectly ~eciprocal, is
plain matter of fact, which aUsee .ndfeel e•err hour, mo~ oftheir
waking existence. " The whole'questioa, then~ seems to,reliolve it-
selfinto this :-Whether or not the conexioa of.milld.awl matter ne
cu~arily involves the doctrine of materialism.
"But, decide this question as we may, this much is certain,.that
fJMenolon is no more liable to the charge of materialism, than ia
e.,ery systemboth of physicks an~ metaphysicke e~nt. If~r-enology
is chargenble with materialism, the science. of anaJOIXly, of medicine, •
ofphysiology, ofnatural and moral philosophy,and, in short, of evef'J
thing which treats of the human body or mind, is equally chargeable
'with supporting the same doct.rine; for they, one and all, equally with
phrenology, admit, and even demonstrate, this l!llme great principle of
the intimate connexion and relation between the physical organization
and the mtmifestations of thought and.feeling. N~ty, even the Bible
itself is chargeable with this heresy of materialism. But, if there IS
any more materialism in the proposition, that one fJOrtilm of the brain
is employed to perform one class of mental functions, and anoth~r por-
tion, another class, than thereis in the.proposition, that thew!I,Qk br!Un
is brought into action by every operation ofthe mind, .1/~en, indeed, is
phrenology guihy,but not otherwise.
Allsystems ofphysiology support the doctrine, thatthe brain. is the
corporeal instrument by means ofwhich the mind performs its varioas
functions ; and this doctrine constitutes the data, and the oaly data,
upon which the charge of materialism, as urged against phrenology
is founded. Hence, so far as the objection has any force1 it ,n,.w,allJ
lies against the existence of any connection between, not only the
brain and the operatiom ofthe mind, but between any portions ofmat·
ter whatever and the mind. But it has already been shown, that we
know nothing of the· existence or operations of mind in this life, as a
~eparate rntity, or e. thingthat exists or acts apart from organized or
animate matter ; but of its existence and operation in connection with
organized and animate matter, we do knOUJ, just as well as we know
that matter itselfexists.
" But this objection is not urged by iq,fidelity against the Christian
,religion so much as it is by professing Christians against phrenology.
Th~:.y argue that" Materialism is false, because it is contrary to divine
l&velatioa j but that phrenology leads to materialiam; ,nd, therefCir"
oig111zed by Google
2il 11
phrenology must be untrue." But let those who are zealous for the
truth of the Chri:rtian religion, beware, lest, by proving materialism
upon phrenology, they thereby prove it upon themselves, and thus fall
into the snare which they bd stt for.phrenologists. They infer that, •
ifphr~n~lo~ is tru~, it necessari~y im,Pli~s t~"e tr~th. of.the doctrine ~(
matenahsm, and, consequently, overthrows Chtlstlanity. Now, if,
after aU, phrenology slwuld become (as it unquestionably will) fully
established, materialists and ipqd~ ;
1fi}l prove their doctrines ,by the
very arguments furnished by Christians themselves.
" They w.itl reaaon thus : ' According to your own arguments, if
phrenology is true it establishes the truth ofmaterialism, infidelity, fatal-
. ism, &c. : phrenology iS 'de11tonstrably true; therefore the doctrines or
materialism, infidelity, fatalism, &c., are undeniable.' And thus, even
though their arguments are sophistical, Christians will be 'condemned
out of their own fuooth,' or efse driven to the di!agreeable alternative
· of admitting that their arguments are fallacious, and the ofiBpring of
religious bigotry."*
But, so far from bearing m the least in favor of materialism, Phre
nology rti'tnishes the strongest argument that exists in favor of -
the
iminateriality of the soul, and of a spiritual state. No argument can
be stronger in proof of any thing whatever, than the existence of this
organ and faculty of spirituality is proof that man has an immaterial
nature, a spiritual existence. What proofcan be stronger that man is
a seeing being than the fact that he possesses eyes, adapting him·tc
seeing, and constituting him a seeing being1 What, that he is a ~ea~
sQning being, than his possession of the primary element or faculty of
re~son ~ ·What that he has a spiritual nature than the analysis of the
primary element of spirituality just shown to form a constituent portion
b( 'h\s nature 1 It is demonstrative proof. 'It is the highest possibie
order of. proof. It settles the matter completely. It leaves no eva~on,
no cavilling, no room for the shadow ofa doubt. Man has a spiritual,
immaterial nature, just as much as he has a friendly nature, or an ob-
Serving nature, or a moving nature, or any other nature, and is there-
fore, and thereby, and therein, an immaterial being, just as much as he
is 1J. thinking being, a talking being a parental being, a remembering
being, or possessed of any other constitutional quality whatever. Am
pqneation·will not slrengthen the argument. There it is, in the plain-
est te:rlns..Whoever admits the truth ofPhrenology, attd denies that the
&o~.i is i~~~erial, is incapable'of reasoning. To admit the truth of
~ ~ie~ ' is of necessity to admit the spirituality and the immaterial·
tJof man. 'No middle ground, no other positi?n exists. · .
• Fowler's Practical Phrenolosr.
Digitized by Coogle
,
•
•
•
.'
CHAPTER IV.
HOPE, AND ITS BEABINGS.-A FUTURE STAT"I
81CfiON I.
Expectation.-Anticipation offature &ood.
MAN .ive1 a th1ee-fold life. Through the agency of memory, he 1ve..
over, again and again, the past, for the ten thousandth time. He ~vea
in the present by actual sensation. He lives in the future as ofte;11 u
luxuriantly as he pleases, by mounting his glowing imagiuation upon
the pinions of hope, and soaring aloft, and afar, to that blissfl!l period
.in the future to which he expects ere long to arrive. But for hope, the
heart would break, the hands hang down. Little would be attempted,
because little would be expected. In trouble, we should be unwilling
to change lest it but increase our misfortunes. In prosperity, we should
not expect its continuance, but stand in perpetual fear ofadversity. In·
deed, words can but feebly portray the condition of the human mind,
without the enlivening, invigorating influences of hope. Thankful
•hoald we be for its existence. Careful, lest we abuse it. And assid
uous in its proper cultivation. ·
But, what is its legitimate function t What its true sph~Jre 7 What
ita bearings 1 What great practical truths does it unfold1
IMMORTALITY A state ofbeing beyond the narrow confines ofearth,
and extending down the endless vista of eternity, infinitely heyond the
conception of imagination's remotest stretch I And nn eternity of Ao,tp-
fliness, too, ifwe but fulfil its conditions. And to an extent, the height,
the boundaries of which, Hope, mounted on her loftiest pinions, cannot
environ-cannot reach. Oh I the height, the length, the depth, the
richness, of that ocean of love, of unalloytd bli881 l)pened up to .~
liaretaste of mortals by this fuculty ! . , ·
• o,9,,,zedbyGoogle
275 110PB, AND ITS BEAll.INOS.-A. FUTURE STATE. 119
"Ittt,1r 1ays one, "is not tits world the natural sphere, the legitimate
termiaatimi of hope 1 Have we.not earth.!y desires and prospects, iD
our children, in property, fame, intellectual attainments, and kindred o~
jects, sufficient to satiate this faculty1 without reaoit.ing to these far·
fetched, and a~ best only visionary reveries, of this organ 1 'Vhat is
your proof that another state, and not this, constitutes its legitimate
sphere of exercise t We knm,, that to hope for this world's goods, il!
its true and natural function. Why, then, abandon its real, known
function, for one that is both uncertain and 'chimerical1"
Look, first, at its location. Location is a certain guide to direction
and C..LSt of function. Though every organ is designed to act with
every other, yet ~ill the orga!ls.,re designed to act most with those locat,
ed nearest to them. As ~ heart and lungs, designed to act with
perfe~t reciprocity, are therefore placed close to each other, and so
of the eyes and brain, and of all the organs of the body; so, ofappetite
r.nd acquisitiveness, that we may lay up eatables ; so, of the social, of
the intellectual,.of the moral, of all the organs of man. We will not
demon~e this principle here, but simply refer the reader to that se-
ries ofarticles in Vol. VI., entitled, " The Philosophy of Phrenology,"
where it is fully stated and so applied as to develop many beautiful
and valuable principles. (See also p. 34 of this work.) But, taking
th.is principle of juxta position as admitted, and applying it to hope,
we find its organ located among the moral organs; and not among
the propensities. Now, if in the great economy of nature, the legi-
timate function of this faculty had been originally intended to be re-
stricted to this world, (that is, been designed to operate with the pro-
pensities mainly,) it would have been located among the propensities.
lf man's hopes have been originally intend~ to fasten on property,
and to in~pire the hope of becoming immen8ely rich, or to operate with
ambition so as to create a hope for fame ; or with appetite, to make us
anticipate rapturously every coming meal, or to work principally with
the domestic organs, and inspire hopes appertaining to the family,
&c., this organ would have been located by the s1de of acquisitive-
ness, or approbativeness, or appetite, or the domestic group. But it ill
located ILl! far from these animal organs as possible, showing that ita
main function is not to be restricted to the things of time and sense,
but it is !ocated in the moral group, showing that its main office is to
hope for moral pleasures, not animal. And what is more, is most, it
is located by the side of spirituality on the one hand, so that it may faa.
ten its anticipations mainly upon a spiritual state ; and on the other.
by the aide of conacientiousneas, so that it may expect the rewards of
. .
Dig1t1zed by Googlt
120 UOPE1 Al'o"'D ITS BEAJllNO!. 276
our good deeds. It is this juxta position of hope and conscientious- .
ness which makes us satisfied that when'we have done right, we shall
be the gainers thereby.
' An example:- Let the Author, actuated purely by conscien-
tious scruples, ·put forth truths in this work, or !n Jtis Icctur('.!1 ·
which he knows will be unpopular for the time being, and be a
mean.~~ of retarding its sale, as well u :>f seriously injurmg h~m for the
present, yet, the very fact that he is' conscious of having done his .
duty thereby, makes him feel that he shall ultimately be the gainer
by thus telling the truth. That man whose ,conscience is clear, fears
'little. A clear conscience makes a stout heart. It renders its posses
sor bold, and makes him not only feel safe, but encourages hope to
predict ukimate success. Truly "are the righteous as bold as a lion:"
That is, when conscience is in its normal, self-approving state of ~c
rion, it quiets cautiousness, and stimulates hope to expect happiMss
therefrom. · ·
But, reverse this principle, and we see why it is that " the wicked
flee when no man pursueth." For, when conscience is distu!bed by
the compunctions of guilt, t~is its painful action throws cautiousness
also into a painful, fearing state, a state of alarm and terror, be-
sides withdrawing all stimulous from hope. Hence it is that when
a man feels guilty, he is conscious that he is continually exposed to
punishment. Walled in on all sides, he could not feel safe. Protect·
ed by armies of true body-guards, he would live in continual fear.
Let A. steal, or commit any crime, a~d let B. step up to him familiarly,
and tap him on the shoulder: "l did not steal that," exclaims A.
" No one supposed you did ; but 'a guilty conscience needs no accus
er,' I now think you did steal it, else you would not be so anxious to
exonerate yourself," replies B. The plain fact is, that if a man would
be happy, he must keep his conscience clear, and if he does this, he
will rarely be miserable. · · ' · ·
··Secondly : Man expects to exist herea~er. No other faculty <;an
exercise this feeling. As shown under the head of ven~ration, ·(p. 49,)
all the other faculties are exclusively pre-occupied, and wholly en-
grossed, each in performing its own legitimate fu1,1ction. No one will
question the position, that those who exv~ct to exi~t hl)reaft\)r, do so bJ
exercising the ·organ and faculty of hope. ,Now, is tPis expectati9D
~ of immortality the legitimate function of hope~ or i\S !\bpormal1exot~
.i;matural function 1 If the latter, then m~ this expectation of
•mity be repulsive, and all up·hi~l work, ~ontra.ry' to' the ·~~tlff41
timan, and therefore certain not to C;(>ntinu,_
e lop~~~ ~~p,d .far. ~
DigitiZed by GoogIe
I 4 ITl'UB.E ·STAT& .
..
'"'onger proof can exist, that to hope for a future state of being is the
natural function of.this faculty, than the uiniversality of this expecta·
tion in all ages, among all flesh. In short, the same argument by
which the function of Divine worship was proved to be constitu·
ttonal, [p. 46 to 531] mutatis mutandis, proves, with equal clearness,
hat to expect to exist hereafter is the legitimate, primitive func·
.ion of hope, and not its perverted function. And that same branch
of this argument by which it was shown that worship was not
l4yght, but was innate, also proves the innateness of this expecta·
ti.9Jl of eternity. Without this faculty, and unless to hope for eter·
l}.ity were its true function, man could form no more conception or
idea of a future state than the blind man could of colors. In shol1,
all the ramifications of that argument, apply to this. The premiseS, ·
the data, the application, the answers to objections, the all of either,
are every way alike.
But, again: (And this argument applies equally to veneration.) -U
to expect to live herea~er, be the true function of hope, that func-
~n, that hope, must be every way beneficial to man ; for every
organ, faculty, element of our nature, exercised in harmony with
its normal, primitive constitution, is every way promotive of happi-
ness, because in obedience to the laws of its constitution. But what-
ever exercise of any faculty is not in harmony with its normal, primi·
tive constitution, violates the natural laws, and thus induces their pen·
alty. Now, I submit to any reflecting mind, what pain, what penalty
is there that grows naturally, necessarily, out of this hope of immor-
tality 1 So far from experiencing pain in the act itself, the human
mind even exults in the pleasures of such anticipation as much as in,
perhaps, any other mental exercise whatever. If I wished to give
the human mind a literal banquet of pleasure, I would feast it on
thoughts of immortality. lf I wished to make the strongest possibl~
and the most impressive, appeal to the mind or soul df man, I would
found that appeal on eternity! Reader I does thy hope of existing
hereafter, give thee pleasure or give thee pain? And if pain, is
that pain the necessary, or the accidental, accompaniment of hope1
That is, is it absolutely impossible for hope to be exercised without
inducing this pain? Surely not. Nor do any painful after conse·
quences grow necessarily out of this exercise of'hope. Both the exer·
cise of hope in this way, and all the products of that exercise, are
pleasurable only, and pleasurable, too, in the highest possible degree.
There is no pain, no punishment growing out of this exercise of hope,
but a certain reward. Therefore, this exercise is in obedience to the
..
o;g, ized by Lroogle
•.
..
.
.
•
fiucllawa of our being, and the:eforc in harmony with the pnainw
fUnction of this faculty. Nor can this argument be evaded.
Ifit be objected, that thinking so mnch of another world, unfill 118
for this, I say thinking just enough about anr.ther world is the ~
possible preparation for enjoying this. I go farther: I say that, mere.
ly.in order to enjoy this life fully, we require to hope for another, and
l sv.bmit this remark to the oonsciousnelll!l of every reader. I pa
it home to the feelings of all, whether Pnjoying another world in anti-
cipation, does not sweeten every pleasure ofthis ; and whether a p:rae-
tieal belief that there is no hereafter, does not render the pleasure~
of this life insipid ; besides, weakening a most powerful motive for
good, a powerful restraint upon evil. Nor do I feel that this position
oan be shaken or evaded.
If it be still further objected, that many, that even the majority of,
professing Christians, spend so much thought upon another world~
that they fail to study and obey the organic laws, and both shorten
life and render it miserable ; whereas, if they did not hope for another
life, they would study to make themselves happy in this ; I answer, bj'
admitting the ftut, but denying that it is a neee11ary consequence of
believ,ing in an hereafter. So far from it, the highest possible prepa-
ration for enjoyment in this life, constitutes the best possible prepara-
tion for enjoying immortality ; and 'Dice 'llt'Titt, the highest possible
pJeparation for eternity, involves the very state which will best fit ui
to enjoy time. I know, indeed, that perhaps the majority of our truly
religiQus people, neglect health, and often hasten their death, solely in
COilleqaence ·of their religious zeal But, is this the necu1ary, the
a71i-Dusa.l, ine'Ditable consequence of this hope of immortality~ Js A
uiterly impossible to indulge the latt81 without inducing the formert
Surely not, and he is simple who asserts otherwise.
In short : Viewed in any light, in all aspects, the inference is CUD-
elusive-is established by the highest order of evidence-that the II\
gitimate, normal function of hope is to expect to exist beyond the
grave.
'rhis established, and the inference becomes clear and even demon-
strative, that there is a future state adapted to this facuhy. If not-if
there be no hereafter, why was this faculty, or at least this maDifesta·
tion or exercise of it, ever planted in the breast of man~ Would a
God of truth and mercy thus deceive us1 Would he cruelly raise the
cup of immorwlity to our lips qnly to tantalize u11 therewith while alive,
and then to dece1ve us with the hope of immortality thereby raised in
qur souls, while no immortality exists to await or fill this natuml cleo
•
• Digitized by Goo ~~. - .·_
A Ft1TUJLB 'J'l'ATil. 128
1ire and expectation1 In case there were no hereafter, man would
have no hope adapted thereto, or capable of creating this expectation.
And, surely, the location of hope by the side of spirituality, so that
the two may naturally act together, and thereby create the desire, the
feeling, that there is a spiritual state, and that we shall exist therein
forever, forms the strongest kind of proof that there is an hereafter, a
spiritual, never-ending state, adapted to that constitutional arrangement
of the nature of man. Who can doubt the concentration of proof that
goes to establish this glorious result~ Who can say that this radiat-
mg focus of truth is but midnight darkness, or only the glare of the
delusive ignis fatuus~ Nor have I ever seen the man who could inva-
lidate this blessed conclusion. It is plainly grafted on the nature of
man, or, rather, founded in it. The admission of the truth of Phre- •
nology, presupposes, and necessarily implies, the conclusion to which
we haYe thus been brought. And I am free to confess, that, faith
aside, and as a matter of reason and argument, I pin my hopes of im·
mortality (and they are neither few nor weak,) on this argument
No other argument that I have ever seen at all compares with it in
point of clearness and force. I repeat it. A natural, spontaneous ex-
ercise of the faculty of hope, is an expectation of existing hereafter.
This is its natural, legitimate, primitive function ; therefore, this
faculty is adapted, and adapts man, to an hereafter. Hence there is
'!.n hereafter adapted to this organ.
Many infidels have been converted from Atheism, or at least from
scepticism thereby. Among the thousands that have come to my
ICnowledge, the following are given as samples :-
"New-Fairfield, March, 1848.
"Mr. Editor-During the little leisure I could get from the duties
of 11 private school under my charge for about eighteen months past, I
have been studying Phrenology. From the first, I was so deeplf
interested in its principles, its application to morals, religion, and a .
most every other subject of public importance, that I determined to
become its public advocate as soon as I could command time and
means to acquire that practical proficiency adequate to the accom-
plishment of the duties involved in so responsible an undertaking.
Aml I think, of all other persons, I have the greatest reason to love
and to reverence Phrenology, inasmuch as it has been one of the prin-
cipal instruments in saving me from the rock of infidelity, on whtch I
had ~truck. When I saw, that the mind was constitutionally adapted
to thP. great and leading principles of Christianity, I was enabled to
comprehend the fallacy of the base and servile doctrines of the infidel
Instead of inculcating or encoura~ing any thing anti-Christ'tm, as
eome m their ignorance and oppos1tion haYe said, Phrenology beauti-
DigitiZed by Google
)iJlly ~~ns ~d ~l?lisl1es all the ~l'f.Rnt ~i,.cipl~ of l'filigiua.
!fefin<f1
' that cel't?In organs of t?e briUJl. ar~ ~cessaryf~r ~ e~w·
~tse .of tho~e feehngs of worsh~p an~ adoratwn o~ ,the·De1tr, tr~1st
tn' his proVIdences, ··and confidence m the revelations of h1s will.
Hence,·the'infidel m1,1at, at·least, ·be deficielnt in the organs -of venera·
tiQn and matvellouaneas, arid, accordinglly, this was the·case with mf>•
.And now, tp obv~ this tendency .~ ·di.spelief, I set lnteHect over
against it, and take the revelations o( God for gran,ted, without on~
·frying to'doubtthem.:.:_knowirig that my doubts are 'the-residi of SIM,ll
~ou'shess. ·To me, the fuc4 that there is an organ whose func·
!tii:in is, trust in Divine providence, and belief•in the spii:itual, proves a
ltJtqJe ~'and an oye.r·Juling:hand. If thii ne •not •the -cue, then
ibe Creator has.given ~.a faculty for perce~rin'f, ap4,ha}fing faith ill,
'a'state which does .not e;xisi---a thl,ng entirel~ lllCOIJ!~ble With ,the
i:haracter of Omnipotence. · · · ··· · · · ··
• - '"Now,·tbe confirmed infidel or atheist 'requires some plain, posi
~live, and.•tangible evidence, that lmay be brought under the cogniz-
8MC of 4i.s ~~ ; and .\bi8 is the kind of:eyidence afforded by Fhre· '
;¥?l?,iY1 for h~ ~n bot~ see and f~el it. lt.~~ ~s prp~ of reuon·
mg tli'at eonvmced me of the' quth of Chnst~antty, and the enor d
ihlid~lity, and I feel 'bound by love to the science; a.na the interest·l
·~for those who have ·urifottunately stranded upon the shoals of in
Jdelity,,to•JD4ke thili•pulllic statement. "B. J. GRAY."
EUrai:t' oh letter ·rrom a gentleman in 'R. 1., dated May, 1844.
"' .,.. little ·inore :than ayeaninee, an aiquiry arose in my mind re
.~g.tJ!.e·t;tut~ '?f.:the fundame~tale of Jt!ligaon, such as. the ·being
oT a God-the diVJmty of the SCriptures, 1ft,~. But, rriy mmd becom
ing e~c,!ted on these poi~~' 11pd getting ipto .$ d~ubting, s~e~cal
·~;·dxd not stop here. I asked after the foundation and ong1n pf
pvemments, the uAlity of the soCial State,·&c. I would know wl-at
eonetituted an action vu:bt.ons, or if there 'W88 actually tiny propriety
in thtl distincti<m of right and wrong. I ruminated over all the 'scenes
of tm.n,' ~o •inq?ire into the el~ments of. eve~y ~hi~g, to see if, in spite
<Of'Prtde,1n·-errxng reason's spite,' whatever xs, u nght'-1 feared ·wha~
eftr is, is '111'fO'If;g; or, 'at 'least, ~ felt I 'must se¢ the reasons 'for Pope'~
.p~ition. ' Time would'ifail me' to give you a detailed account 'of
•e 8tate,of mind into which I was 'hurled. What I have said must
euffioe. But I !began to rea~ enerisivcly. I procured the·best boo~
I could obtain on the subjects which looked most inomentou~ to me.
I be~ to meditate also ·mefhooically and rigidly, to determine plir·
ple questions with the precision of a philosopher. But l found,
what had partly realized before, that authors differed, and that'I was
in waat of ftr•t principle$. In my distrest~, I turned ·my attention tO
Phrenology, of which 'I had already a little knowledge, for salvation
fraql uniVersal scepticism's painful confusion or derangement-which
lut .I ·very much fear,
ed. And, blessed be God, I found it a u~"
.,., U,~c, an inidlm dictionary, ackart'Of the 'IJ:fl,iverse1 and'
Bo4 of jir1t principle1. . Before ~e revelations 'of Phrenqlogy, ·' .
if>1DJ'doubls and pettle:Ories fled :like mcirhing vapors chaied away
DigitiZed by GoogIe
28l
by the rising sun, and left my soul to enjoy a great amount of truth,
established in the certainty of,den,wn_stration. And it was during the
time of my emancipation front ·tile thrilldom of corroding, !OUI·killing
uncertainues, that I became acquainted with your writings. I feel10
rejoice that you have- ever been raisedrup tirlllMr at If Phrenologist.
• • • • • • • •
.I.must'•Yi.befolle·.l cl~er I aa·'lni~ng :whh ~el}ee int,ereaHo see
what you shall say.11pon th~gyiA ~ 'Jo~JX418il' pf this year. Hun-
dreds and thousanda are doing the same. Among these, I know of
~~~er~l ~stingqished ministers of the gospe~. Do your b~t. ,Be
tlloroug~. . Your work, 'Natural Theory of .~~renology,' 111 good;
but too hmtted, as I wrote you.several months Slnce. Do~'t kl1ve a
p,intnotthoroughly trea~"
Letter$, ap.d state~enl$ of this ch.a;racter, flow in continually fiom aU
quanel',, Th~e who accu,se Phrenology of lell.ding.~o infidelity and
scep~cis~, either practically or theoretically, have either but a smat·
tering ,of this sublime, this religious science, or else are incapable of
comprehending it. Its influence on my own niind has been tiJ deepen
my ~eligi(jluS 1 feelings, and enlarge their bmmdaries, not to enfeeble
them. . True, it has enfeebled my narrow minded sectarian notions.
r thank God that it has. Much that was bigoted, jntolorant, contracted;
l!lld err(!neOU$1 it has,abolished. But the gold of Ophir, the wealth of
India, the treasures of the who~ earth, could be but a drop in the buck-
et compareq,with the value of those .religious doctrines,.and feeling•
i~ has add~d to my former reLigious s.tnck. Nothing would tempt me to
return back to l;hat state of semi-darkness from,which.Phrenology~
delivered .19-e. I consider t~ true religious feeling has been multi-
plied within -me a hundred fold by this science. Nor, in all my ex-
~nlied acqaintance, do I know the man .whom Phrenology bas ren-
der;fd intl.~el. I know those whom it.has liberalized. Whose bigotry
ithas slain: But not whose soul it has hardened to religious imprea-
sions. It will melt the hearts of all who drink in its doctrines. Fear
,not, then, intellectual reader. Fear not, pious rE;Ilder.. It will make
you bettpr Christians. It will purify your souls. It will elevate your
religious nature. .It will make you more holy-minded, more exalted
in your views of the character anq gpv.emment of God, and go far.~
.wa.rds preparing you fqr a bl~ imQ11>$1iiy.
Drglllzed by GoogIe
•
..
•
.,
126 228
BBCTION II.
BOPB OONTlKUEI.-MISCELLANEOUS INPEB.ENCB8,
• Which • we have aa an anchor ofthe eoul, both IU1'e and etedr.t, 111111
which eutereth into that within the veil."
HAVING pointed out the general function of hope, it remains to add
a few suggestions relative to its exercise.
1. It is very large in the American head-larger than in the heada
of any other nation which it has been my good fortune to examine j
caused, doubtless, by that continual inflation of it, growing out of the
very nature of our institutions. (See Hereditary Descent, p. 47.)
2. It combines mainly with acquisitiveness ; whereas it should com·
bine mainly with the moral faculties. We confine our hopes mainly
to the things of this world; whereas we should place them mostly on
heaven and heavenly things. On thia root of the violation of man's
nature, grow the inflations and depressions of trade in this country
which have overthrown so many, and set ou:r whole nation upon th€!
full gallop after riches. Our pecuniary embarrassments were not
caused, cannot be cured, by either political party, or leader, by ana·
tional bank, or the want of it, but simply, solely, by the over-exerci~N
of hope, and by confining it to this world ; whereas it should soar tu
another. And as long as men go on to violate this law of their na·
tures, by this wrong exercise of this moral faculty, they must suffer
the penalties of its infraction. But, when they will obey this law,
not only will our pecuniary embarrassments cease, and our worldly
spirit be subdued, but all the glorious, soul·inspiring fruits of its pro-
per exercise, will be ours in this life, along with a preparation for that
which is to come.
3. This organ is sometimes too small. Those professing Chris-
tians in whom it is small, with small self-esteem, and large cautious-
ness and conscientiousness, suffer much from gloomy religious feelings,
feel extremely unworthy, and too guilty to be saved, and indulge
doubts and fears as to their future salvation. Let such remember that
these gloomy doubts and fears are not piety, but are inconsistent with
it--that the absence of hope is a defect, and that, if this organ were
larger, and conscientiousnesS smaller, though their conduct would be
no better, and heart perhaps worse, yet their hopes of heaven would
be much stronger, while their prospecuo of future happiness would be
DigitiZed by GoogIe
I H8 THE PROPS& CULTIVATION 0'1' HOPE. 127
Jess bright. To such, Phrenology says, that theae gloomy feelinga
are caused, not by any actual danger, but simply by their organs. I
tells them to cultivate this organ, and not to indulge these rc!igtour
doubts and fears.
4. I find, that most disbelievers in a future state, have moderate or
small hope, and hence their expectation of existing hereafter is feeble.
They say and feel, " well, I neither know, nor care much, whether l
am to live hereafter or not, but I will take my chance with the rest
of mankind." To such, this science says, your doubts as to a future
state grow out of your imperfect phrenological organization, and not
out of the fact that a future state is doubtful. Cultivate and properly
direct this faculty, and your doubts will vanish, your soul be cheered
with hopes of immortality.
5. The proper cultivation and exercise of hope, becomes a matter
of great importance. To show l£ow to enlarge and direct this faculty.
does not come within the compass of this work, they having been
treated in 'Education and Self-Improvement."• Suffice it to say, that
in order to enlarge it, it must be exercised, and to effect this, its appro-
priate food, (immortality,) must be kept continually before it; it being
feasted thereon, and ravished thereby.
6. It is a little remarkable that the exercise of this faculty, in refer·
ence to a future state, is so often commended and enforced in the Bible.
In this, the Bible harmonizes with Phrenology, and is right.
7. Some beautiful inferences grow out of the combinations of hope
and marl'ellousness, but being in possession of the requiste data, the
reader can carry them out for himself.
• Directions for cultivating all the moral faculties, and indeed all tho facultie.,
will be found in that work, so that their repetition here would be out of t:lace.
Digitized by Coogle
/
CHAPTER V.
BENEVOLENCE.-ITS ANALYSIS, AND THE TRUTHS TAUGHt
THEREBY.
SECTION J,
THE FUNCTioN OP BENEVOLENCE1 AND ·T!tB D'O'l'T AND PL~ · fill '
1
DOING GOOD.
"It ilmore bl.eed to o1n than to receiYe."-CMVI.
PAIK e:r:JSts1 and man is the subject of it Governed by Jaws, the
vio1ation of which induces pain, man often sins and suffers. Instead m
placing us in a world of chaos, confusion, uncertainty, and chance,
Infinite Wisdom has seen fit to throw laws around us, and to sant::tion
those laws, by rewarding their obedience with pleasure, and punish·
ing their infraction with pain. But for these laws, man could have
calculated upon nothing, could have enjoyed, could have effected no-
thing ; and without the reward of pleasure attached to their obedience,
and a penalty of suffering affixed to their infraction, these laws would
have been utterly powerless, and therefore perfectly useless. Indeed,
self-contradictory though it may seem, no feature of the Divine charac·
ter or government is more benevolent than in the institution of pain ;
for, without it, we should be liable, carelessly or ignorantly, to lean
upon a red hot stove, or put our hands into prusic acid, and destroy
them, and indeed to destroy all parts of our frame a hundred times
over, if possible; as we now are, the instant we injure ourselves, or
violate any physical law, we feel pain, and are thereby warned of our
sin, and seek relief. So in the world of mind. We may even take
it for granted, that every pain ever experienced, or ever to be experi.
enced by man, is a consequence of the violation of some law of his
being. And on the other hand, that evary pleasure we experience,
... .vhether mental or physical, flows from our voluntary or involuntary
obedience of some law.
But, if this institution of pain existed, unless man had some faculty
analogous to that of benevolence, to dispose him to pour the oil of con·
solation into the soul of the sufferer, and assuage his pain, how deso-
late would our world have been ! Callous to the sufferings of our
fellow-beings, and not disposed to lift a finger to relieve them I R&
DigitiZed by GoogIe
TBB DUTY AND PLEASUJtB OF DOING GOOD. 129
prdless of how much pain we inflicted, how much trouble we caused !
not one kind feeling in the soul of man! How utterly desolate! How
shorn of its blesssings, would be our earth I Or, if man had been
created an isolated being, incapable of bestowing or receiving favors,
or of augmenting or effecting tte happiness of his fellow-men, this
faculty would have been out of place, and only tormented its possessor
with the sight of suffering which could not be relieved. But, a bene-
volent God has instituted pain for a wise and beneficial purpose. But
lest suffering unrelieved should blast, or at least mar, his works, he has
offset it by planting in the soul of man this kindly feeling for his fellow-
:nen. And then, in addition to this, he has put man into that relation
with his fellow-men by which he can both assuage their suffering and
promote their happiness.
Again, the exercise of every organ gives its possessor pleasure in
proportion to its size and activity. Benevolence is a large organ, and
therefore fills the heart of the truly benevolent man with as pure
and enalted pleasure as he is capable of experiencing; for, "it is more
blessed to give than to receive." Thus does it double the pleasure of
man; first, by pouring the oil of consolation into the wounded heart;
!lnd, secondly, by filling the benevolent soul with a pure fountain of
pleasure, " which the world can neither give nor take away." But
for the existence of suffering, this faculty would have had no sphere of
action, and must have been in the way; but, with the existence of pain,
man is rendered, as already seen, much more happy than he could
possibly have been without either law or consequent suffering; and
doubly happy: first, in bestowing charity, and in doing acts of kind-
ness ; and secondly, in becoming the ncipient ot these favors, and
responding to them with heart-felt gratitude. Oh, God! in infinite
wisrlom hast Thou made us! Thou hast bound us to Thee and to one
another by a three-fold cord of love and wisdom: first, by the institu-
tion of pain ; secondly, by off-setting this institution with this faculty,
and, thereby, by making its exercise so pleasurable to hoth giver and
receiver! Wanting in either, Thy government would have been im-
perfect. But possessed of all combined, it is infinite in itself, and infi
nitely promotive cf the happiness of all Thy terrestrial creatures I
The existence ilf this faculty, makes it our imperious duty to exer-
cise it in doing good, and to exercise it much, because it is a large or-
gan; that is, it occupies, when large, a greater periphera or surface
on the scull, and a greater amount of brain, that. perhaps any otbet
organ; and, as already observed, Phrenology requires us to exercise
lflery organ kabitually, and in proportion to its relative size when
Digitized by Coogle
130 THE J'ONCTION OF BENEVOI.ENOE.
'
large. Man is t)o selfish, even for his own interes If he were 1•
selfisl:, he would be more selfish: that is, if he were more benevolent,
he would be more happy. This organ saith; "Throw open the dooxa
of thy house to the benighted wanderer. Be more hospitable, for thou
mayest entertain angels unawares. 'Make sacrifices to do good, and
thou wilt thus cast thy bread upon the waters, to be·gathered in great·
ly increased. Nay, in the very tut of doing good, thou hast thy reo
ward.''
But, not to dismiss this subject with the mere abstract inference.
that it is our duty to do good, let us look at some of its practical illus·
trations ; tha,t is, to the advantages to be derived from its general and
proper exercise. To draw an illustration from hospitality : To enter·
tain friends, and even strangers, is one of our greatest pleasures. It
is not the order of nature, that we should have so many public 'houses.
For, besides their being the greatest nuisances that curse any commu·
nity, the recepticles of gambling, drinking, and all sorts of wicl,ced
ness, which, but for them, could not exist, they deprive us of that pri
vilege of exercising the hospitable feeling which would result frort
throwing open our doors to our fellow-men, and loading our tables tc;
feed the hungry. In a tavern, little social feeling is exercised, and
but little benevolence. It is purely a dollar and cent affuir, and very
dear does it cost those who are entertained; because -a few of the
guests want a great deal of waiting upon, which raises the price, and
then those who want but little, have to pay just as much; thus wound·
ing acquisitiveness and conscientiousness.
Familiar as I am with the principle, that the violation of any of the
natural laws punishes the disobedient, I am, notwithstanding, often
surprised and delighted to see it practically illustrated in ways innu·
merable, which escape general observation. The violation of the
law of hospitality is a case in point. Taverns are the direct, legiti·
mate product of the violation of the law of hospitality. And "eye hath
not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath·it entered into the heart of man
to conceive," the number and the aggravation of the public and pri·
vate sinfulness and vice, of all descriptions and degrees of heineous·
ness, that grow on this root of violated natural law. Drinking, and
all the vices that accompany it, " whose name is legion," are their le-
gitimate offspring. If taverns produced but this single sin, it would be
punishment enough in all conscience, yet this is but the beginmng.
Balls ~tre another. Not that dancing itself is wrong. Indulged in at
proper seasons, say in the day time, or till nine or ten o'clock in the
evening, dancing would be the best recreations to be found, and
DigitiZed by GoogIe
..
18
moat healthy, especially for woman ; but, carried to'excea, and eoo-
neeted, as it usually is, with drinking and many other objectionable
things, especially the exercise of amativeness, in various combinations,
I deem it most objectionable. Besides, dancing being carried to
auc.n excess, generally continued all night, trespasses too much upon
time that should be allotted to sleep, of which young people require a
great amount. They also cultivate artificial manners. These balla
are almoet always held in taverns, and go to support them.
Another is, tavern associations-tavern stories, (almOIIt always ob-
scene,) tavern lingo, of which profane swearing furnishes the warp
and considerable of the filling,* betting, political discussions,
horse-racing, and this whole class of evils. I should rather bury my
zhildren than have them brought up in a tavern where liquor is sold.
I would make al\ exception in tavor of temperance taverns, and I urge
it upon every temperance man, upon all moral men, to patronize tea-
perance taverns wherever they cal\ be found. I never go to any other
when there is one in the place, and I am sometimes almost tempted even
to solicit entertainment in private families, rather than to put up at a
liquor-selling house however "respectable.''
My brother urges that taverns should be supported at public ex-
pense, as we support a minister, for example, so that they may not be
allowsd to sell liquor. He argues, that we properly pay taxes to sup-
port the poor; that these poor are almost all IMde by taverns ; and
that we should be gainers by supporting taverns at public expense
rather than the poor made by these taverns. That they are a great
public curse, cannot be questioned. That we can do without them, I
fully believe. Quakers make perfectly free to call on each other for
entertainment wherever they are. I doubt not they call it a great
prit1ilege both to entertain each other, though perfect strangers, and
certainly it is most grateful to be thus entertained. Let us all mani-
fest the quaker spirit, and we shal. rid our land of its most blighting
• Swearing is unquestionably a great ein, not 10 much againet Gcd, •• tilt
ewearer. If, u is often, perhaps uauallJ, the case, it ia mainly the dialect of u-
rr and blackgutrdiem, it aimply ebowt the disposition of the one who swean, and
tends to increase his rough, wrathful atate of mind. If it hu become habitual, it
ahows that theae feeling• are habitual, and Indicate• permanent depravity. It also
tends to increue these unhappy feeling• in the minds of those who hear iL
Swearing before children ie very bad ; becauae all children will imitate, and by i•
utlr.g the language of awearers, they soan come to (eel the accompanyillf f'ael.
inr, and thoe grow up under the dominion of the propeneities. I put ewearing up-
on the ground of the injury it does to the awearer and to the community, rather
tUI1 on ita being an ofl'ence againet God. It alao indicate• voiJVitJ.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
•32
airoe<»-public houses-and both give and receive a ~ amoupt of
pleasure. This doctrine is correct in theory, aDd beautiful in pmc~
and I hereby e$nd the rites of hospitality to all who may chanctll tt
pass my door,• and want victuals or lodging, as free as t.he air w~
breathe. By this meant, vast accessions of knowledge would ~ d.e-
nved by that interchange of views, experience, feelings, &e., coni&
quet thereon. Acquaintances would be extended, friende t.nultip!ied:
and ~ciety linked together by the strongest of bonds. In short, it is
impossible to count or estimate the bl~ings that would grow on th1E
tree of the nature of ffi!Ul,
Another illustration of the beneficial effects of exerciaiag benevo
ence, is to be found in providing for the poor. The way they are
now supported, almost entirely precludes the exercise of this faculty.
This should not be. I doubt whether there need evet be !Ulf
poor. To do away with taverns alone would obviate probably two
thirds of their number. And most of the balance would never be-
come poor but for this grasping love of money which actuates all
• classes, and hoards immense weahh in the h!Ulds of the few, awl
thereby ever over-reaches the rnsny. Property is only another name
for the necessaries and comforts of life. Now it is plain, that if a few
have a great amount of them, the many must be proportionally de-
prived thereof. I believe it wrong to become very rich, and that it
should be prohibited by law, just aa we prohibit other things that in-
jure the public. ·
Especially, if we give the poor an opportunity to help themselves,
nearly all would embrace it. To be supported ~ public expense, ia
most humiliating. How many poor widows have workoo themselves
into their graves to support a starving family, rather than to go upon
the town! Reader, writer! how would you like to go to the poo1-
Aouse t But, when poor, and needing help, ifsome more fortunate neigh
bor would give you an opportunity to help yourself, to till land, or to
do other work, how would your lightened heart leap.for joy ! The
prettiest way to h'elp a poor neighbor is to employ him, and to give
him ample, bountiful if you please, wages.
A story :-A fortunate, but benevolent man, had a poor colored
neighbor too infirm to do much, but very deserving. The former
would sell to the latter, but postpone the reception of pay, or tell him
that he would give him a certain sum per capot for whatever tare1
• Three milee north of Fishkill village, on the road to Pooghkeepeie, Dotcbee .
oan11ty, N. Y. I call it • The Bild'• Neat."
DigitiZed by GoogIe
BOW TO :U:EILOIIB BElUVOLBI'I:S.
••
or nnnin he wished exterminated ; say, a round sum for the head of
every c10w1 or squirrel, or muskrat, &c., or tOr every thistle-ro.:Jt, or
dock-root, &c. In this way, the poo.r man nominally paid for what
he had, so as to be relieved from that oppreaai~feeling of obligation
and dependence that always accompanies the reception of gifts, and
yet was as much benefited as though he had not paid a cent. Thou
sands of ways which every reader can devise for himself, may be
contrived in which to bestow charity and yet relieve the recipient from
all feelings of obligation.
Making christmas, new-year, and other holiday presents, furnishes
another delightful exercise of tlua faCulty. Phrenology recommends
it most cordially, and also the general interchange of neighborly acts,
Thus : "neighbor A. come over into my orchard whenever you like and
help yourself to such apples, pears, plums, cherries, peaches, and the
like as you please." ·'Thank you, neighbor, I will avail myselfof your
kind otfer. I have a fine lot of currents, more, probably, than will be
wanted. Come over or send any of your folks, and pick what you
like. My grapes come on finely, and when ripe, make free to pick
what you want." Or, as you pick a fine watermellon for your din-
ner, send one in to your neighbor, or a dish offruit, or a quarter of
veal, or a few pounds of butter, or a large loaf of cake, on what·
ever you can conveniently spare. Neighbors should not count dollars
and cents as often as they now do ; nor as many thousands.
My uncle and my father, living on adjoining fanns, were in the habi
of" changing works,'' whenever either needed help and the other could
spare it. If;either had a lot of hay down and needed .help, and the
other was not driven with work, they would both turn too and help
each other; and so in reference to grain, or hoeing, or·ploughing-
every thing that seemed to require it ; neither ever thinking of ke~
lng any account, or putting the matter on the ground of debt or credit,
but on that of neighborly accommodation. Nor did I ever hear a
word of complaint from either, ~t the other had not helped his part,
or any thing of this kind. So that neighbors can interchange thae
aets of kindness greatly to the accommodation of a.ch other, and with-
out any thing to mar the good resulting therefrom.
Again. Many more things should be regarded as common prop-
erty than now rile. Say, let every town own considerable public
fl'l>u&d, on which any who pleased are allowed to raise potatoes, or
com, or what they like or need. So, also, let there be much more
public spirit than now exists. Let every town have its pleaaure park,
(all of fruit and ornamental trees, the fntit <{which shall be c:ommoa
•
o,9,~zed by GoogIe
a
134 mE DUTY AND PLEA8ll1E OF DOING GOOD.
property, and where the whole. town may congregate, say at SJnset for
recreation and an interchange of good feeling-where our yeuth may
meet for play, where our boys may drive tht: ball, our girls the hoop,
our maidens take the fresh air, and give vent to their youthful, buoy·
ant, sportive, merry, happy feelings. There is no telling how mucil
pleasure, profit, might be derived from such an arrangement.
Analogous to this would be that of lining our roads with fruit trees
of all kinds. Let the inhabitants of any town, of all our towns, 8ave
the pits and seeds of all the fruit eaten in but a single year, and plant
them by'the way.side, and then graft theiJ,l with the very best of fruits
when old enough, and what vut quantities of fruits would they pro-
duce in twenty years, sufficient to supply every family in town, and
thousands to spare. 1'he poor could pick and sell to our cities, and
thus live comfortably, or at least be relieved from pinching want.
What a vast blessing might be conferred on coming ages by a little
pains on the part ofa few. For one, I shall line the road that passes
across my little farm in this manner, pro bono publico, and persuade
all I can to do the same. Let all the believers in Phrenology do this,
and long would posterity extol that science which prompted so wise,
so philanthropic a deed.
If it be objected, that in this case, each, eager to get his share, or
perhaps all he can, will scramble for it before it is ripe, I answer,
Have Mough for all. If it be further objected, that the cattle will
browse off the trees, I reply, Still, the trees will get above them, gra·
dually to be sure, but ultimately. Or, they may be protected till above
their reach. Or a town ordinance might easily exclude them from
t,he streets.
An additional motive for moving in this good cause, is to be found
in the fact, that bread and fruit are the two main supporters of ani·
mal life, or at least, the belt. Bread is emphatically the staff of life-
the very best article of diet that our earth produces. Fruit is most
wholesome, besides being so·very delicious. But it is the two tmitul
which constitutes the diet for man. A meal made of good home-made
bread manufactured of flour not killed in being ground and bolted,
eaten with first-rate apples, either raw, or baked, or stewed, or made
into sauce, is the most palatable, the most wholesome, that can p088i·
bly be eaten. Few are aware of the fact, that a meal of this kind
gives more gustatory pleasure in eating than a meal made up of any
other sort of food. Fruit should always be eaten toith meals, and aa
a part of them. The juice of fruit, either boi.ed down into a jelly
aad eaten on bread in place of buuer, or the juice of fntit with bread
. .
• o,9, 1ze~ by GoogIe
BENEVOLENCE SHOULD BE EXERCYSED PROPEJil.Y. 13!;
crumbled i~to it, and eaton as we eat bread and milk, is most delicious,
most wllolesome. No better article of diet can be had. Butter is most
injurious. A poor family need not starve, ifthey can get nothing else,
especial,ly if they had some handy press for mashing and pressing
the fruit, say every day or two, as it is wanted for use, so that it
need not ferment. The juice of all fruit after fermentation has taken
place, is most injurious. But apples can easily be kept till straw-
berries are ripe. Cherries, blackberries, currants, &c., last 81 early
apples and peaches come again, and thus nature has so arranged it
that we may have fruit the year round. Has the reader never ob-
served how wholesome and palatable strawberries are to the sick, es·
pecially to consumptive patients1 And if I had a consumptive patient
in the strawberry season, I should order as many as the patient pleas·
ed to eat. I should not only prescribe them in pl~e of medicine, but
as medicine. They will even effect cures where medicine will not.
The diet above recommended, would prevent most our of sickness, by
which so many are made poor, and would in nine cases out of ten
restore health.
An arrangement for raising abundance of bread-stuff might easily
'>e made, or in its absence, potatoes, easily raised in any abundance,
might be substituted, and thus the poor be relieved.
Besides, there is such a thing as saving at the spigot, but letting it
run out•at the bung-as giving to the poor by Iittles, and yet allow·
ing causes to remain in action--to even augment-which increase
poverty by wholesale. Giving a shilling here, a dollar there, five
dollars yonder, &c., may do a moiety of good ; but one well directed
effortto obviate the ca.se of human suffering, will be productive ofgreat·
~r results than thousands of acts of individual charity. For one, let my
,happy lot be to espy and point out these causes-to cut away at the
root ofthis fruitful tree of human suffering, and "dig about and dung"
the tree of humanity.
Bearing on a kindred point, my brother, in his lecture on the mo-
ral bearings of Phrenology, makes ·some excellent remarks on the
proper exercise of this .faculty; in illustration ·of which he tells the
following story :-A medical student from the south, in going from
New·York city to Pittafield, Mass., gave away, in the form of trtiiJII
mainly, seventy dollars-all he had ; so that he not had enough to pay
his fare the last part of the way. Though he was so very generous,
yet his liberality did more harm than good. He says, a.nd with pro-
priety, that men have yet to learn lww to do good. In other words:
there is much more benevolence in the world than is exercised pro-
DigitiZed by GoogIe
136 VIOWTIONS OF BEm:VOLENCB.
'J'ffl!l.• . To be effective, it -must always be governed by mtelleet, aad
blend with all tbe other moral sentiments.
We cannot be too careful how we oceas1on pain to our fellow-men,
or even to brutes. We cannot be too ll88iduous to promote their hap-
piness. We can never exercise enough of th~ kindly spirit, of good
fa-ling, of gushing benevolence, in expression, in action. Let all who
are at all affected by us, be the worse in nothing, be the better in many
things, on our account.
The reader must excuse another quotation or two from Education
and Self-Improvement. They are made because the ideas there pre-
sented require to be inserted in this connexion,and because they might
not gain by recomposition.
" It should be added that the killing of ammals, is directly calcu-
lated to sear and weaken this faculty; and should therefore rarely
take place. Were a flesh diet product1ve of no other evil consequences
than lowering down and haidening benevolenee, that alone should
forever annihilate so barbarous a practice.• Destructiveness should
seldom be allowed to conflict with benevolence. The cruelties pra~
ticed upon our animals that are slaughtered for the meat market, are
11ckenin~ and incredible. ~ee the poor c~lve~, sheep, &c., tumbled
together m the smallest poss1ble space ; theu limbs tied ; unfed, bel·
lowing continually, and ln a most piteous tone, their eyes rolled up ill
agony, taken to the slaughter-house, and whipped, or rather pelted
hy the hour with a most torturing instrument, and then 1111.1116 'UifJ 6J
the hind legs, a vein opened, and they dying by inches from the gra·
dual loss of blood, the unnatural suspension, and cruel felting-and
all to make their meat white and tender. A friend o the author
who lived near one of those places of torment, blood, and stench, bad
his Benevolence, uaturally very large, wrought up to its highest pitch
of action, by the horrid groans and piteous exclamations of these
&ying animals, and was compelled lo hear the blows with which they
were beaten. At last he went to the butcher arid remonstrated. This
produced no effect. He went again anti threatened him, telling him
that i( he heard another groan from dying animals, he woald make
him groan, and in so positive a manner that the cruelties were aban-
doned. To kill animals outright, is horrible, but words are inadequate
to express the enormity: of the refined cruelty now generally practiced
• My brother'• lecture on the moral bearings or J'hrenology, ie sweet, lovely,
beyond almo•t any thing el.ae I ever .heard tall from the lipe ol man. Ita
amalgamation with thia work would greatly eahance ita value. Aayet, he ha
been unable to present it to the public in a printed form.
t A young lady or high moral feelings. and predominaut benevolence, eeeiq
a oallled to the slaughter, urged and pleaded with her father to purchue it
an.d epve ita life. He did ao. She never allowe benelf to eat anything that
Jlu ever had life iD it, ud thia uripl.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
. m.LING OF AIUIULS-BARBAROUS P1U.cTICEt. tar
updn helpless dumb beasts by these murderers of the brute creatJOIL
Look at the hideous and indescribably painful expression left on the
h!!Ms of calves, sheep, hogs, &e., that we.see in market, or See tum·
bled into a cart for the glue manufacturer."
Allow ashort argument in reference to flesh eating. It is a clearly
established principle of Phrenology, that no one faculty should ever
be so exercised as to contlict with the leigtimate function ·of my
other ; and that, wherever the exercise of two or more do thua come
in contact, one of them is wrongly exerciaed. Is not this principle
too self-evident. to require argument, and too plain even to require
illustration1 But if either is wanted; the reader is referred to " Ed11r
cation," p. 157. Now sympathy for distress is OJle of the normal
functions of benevolence. So is that pain consequent on witness~
distress which cannot be relieved, or beholding death, or the killipg
or animals. in short, to kill animals without wounding benevolence
-without cruelly tormenting it-is Ut!erly impossible. Nothing but
killing nUinan beings is equally painful. . And now I submit to eTtrq
re11ecting mind, whether it is possible to butcher animals for food
without thus calling benevolence into painful action 1 But this pain-
fu:l action Of any organ, and especially of so high an organ, is W!o~g.
Therefore is the killing of animals wrong. Or thus: The exercise
of destructiveness, in killing animals for the taWe, neceBIIlrily tlOJDIJt
in direct and powerful contlict with the normal fllitc:tion of beaeio·
lenoo. This quarrelling of the fiaculties gives us pain, arid is there
fore wrong. Hence, meat as an article of"diet confticfs with the till
lare of man.
Now; since the killing of animals violates the nature of man, sont.t
great evil must grow out of it ; for we cannot break Daltute's lawt,
without e~riencing pain, and that tOo in the direct line 6f tfle t~
gression.• And I think it would not be difficult to show •ht-r~,._;_
uow-flesh eating punishes the transgressor. But as diatetica ·do
not come within the sphere. of this work, having stated the principle
I leave it, for the present at least.
" Another barbarous practice againsf which Phrenology loudly
exclaims, ~ slwolir&g birtll. This u._
, if.possible, a~ll w~J'Ie, especitd!!
when the little warblers are of DO -.nee after being killed. To ldi'J
them suddenly by a shot, is n9t •particub.rly barbarou., becaq1e they
suffer little, and . only lose .tho pleasure of living; but to loll thCII;\
from the love of killing, must harden the heart ana sear benevolence
beyoad meuure. Its influence on the cruel f'trptlrator, is the·main
• Bee EdllCidioD, p. 21.
o;9itizedbyGoogle ·
Ill TilE Pli.INC!PLE OF GIVING TO PBOII:~ Ul.IGlOI!I', ...
motive 1urge. Another motive is, do not kill bma of sang j for you
thereby deprive :your fellow-men of the great amount of pleasure de·
rived trom listerung to their warblings. And then again, they feed
on worms and insects, and thereby preserve vegetation. I doubt not
but much of that destruction of wheat, of late so general and fatal to
the wheat crop, would be prevented by an abundance and variety of
birds. In otlier words, take heed to the monitions of benevolence,
and commit no cruelties, but scatter happiness in all your path, and
you will be the happier, and greatly augment the happiness of all
concerned." · ·
The exercise of benevolence in connection with veneration, ia
,ar exeeUence,• a doctrine of Phrenology, as it also is of the Bible.
To do good is our duty, our privilege ; but to do good by promoting
the canse of morality and virtue, is one of our highest moral duties- ·
one of our greatest personal pleasures. We should try to make our
fellow-men happier by making them better,-ehould seek their spiri·
tual good more, even than their temporal. This is the very highest
exercise of benevolence, which is one of the largest organs and high-
eat faculties of man. This principle is plain in its application, and
yet multifarious.
" Above all things, this enlarged kindness is the duty and privilege
of Christianity. But do professors live wp to this law of their Lord
and Master, who "went about doing good." They, of all others,
should not go about with their gold spectacles, riding in their splen-
did carriages, living in palaces, furnished after the manner·of princes,
and then begging money to spread the gospel among the lteat!la.
Away with your proud Christianity (1)-your ariltoeratieal Chris·
tianity1 your 1-am-better-tltan-tltou-because-1-am-rich-Christianity ;
your money-making and money-hoarding or miserly Christianity.
Ae well talk about hot ice, or cold fire, or honest rascality, as talk
about ricA Christians, fashionably dressed Christians, or Christians
who do not spend their ALL1 their time, properly, en.ergiu, and LJPE
in doing good, and in the exercise of the sentiments.t ·
Remarks on missionary operations would be in place here. The
,nneipk of giving, to promote religion, Phrenology demonstrates-
enforces. But it sees much in these foreign and domestic missionary
societies to censure. Still, every reader can judge for himself as well
as othen can for him, when he knows as much about them.
Those mieaionariea who have left the American Board, have not done
10 wholly without canae. That Board dictates quite too much. Be-
eiclea ; it was eatabliehe~, and is now conducted, to propagate secU..
,.~nil•, as much, perhaps, as any thing else. IIPhrenologiata would
• Pre-eminently• t Education and Self-Improvement.
•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
ClJLTIVA'D KINDLY FEEI.INOI. 189
'um a society, to aeod out m.iuionaries to teach PAren.olon limply,
" without note or comment,'' more·good and :esa harm would be the
result ; for not even the heathen could long know how tsJ find the
organs, without moralizing thereon, and deducing inferences aa to
how we should live, the nature of man, and the opinions and conduct
that harmonize therewith, and are therefore right, &c. If the Ame·
rican Board would introduce 1"''~'' Chrutianity, they would do im·
mense good. But they propagate a strange mixture of truth and error,
along with those false tastes a~d habits of civilized, artificial, unn.atu·.
rallife, which cannot fail to do more harm than their mongrel Chrie·
tianity will do good. In these views, very many excellent religious
men concur ; and more would do so if they knew more, and were
deceived less.
Much as might be said upon this faculty, we will diamiaa it with
the remark, that the kindly, benevolent spirit just commended, wo-.Id
do more to banish crime than all the laws, lawyers, courts, civil officers,
jails, prisons, penitentiaries and executions on earth. The punili-
•ent of crime will be treated under Conseienciousnesa. Ita prevea-
lwn is infinitely better, and can be effected by kindnees and philan·.
thropy, a thousand times more effectually than by all the means now
in operation. Let criminals discover a kindly spirit in the commu·
nity as a whole, and they could not have a heart to commit offimees
against its laws or its happiness. Kindness will kill enmity; will
kill lawlessness; will kill the revengeful spirit, and implant the same
good feeling in the souls of those who otherwise would be peeta to.
society.
Let us all, then, cultivate the kindly. Let it shine forth in all we
ay, in all we do, in all we feeL Harshness, severity, invective, are
not Phrenology,-are not Christianity,-are the ascendancy of the
propensities over benevolence, which is forbidden by th~ Bible,-for·
bidden by Phrenology. It intercepts our own happiness ;-it doea
not promote that of our fellow-men. 7Yu la1D of lO'Oe. is the law of
the nature of man,-the law of Christ. The mantle of chanty COT·
ereth a multitude of sins. It will hide our sins from others. It will
hide the sins of others from us. It w1ll put the but construction Oil
their errors, not the worst. It is the greatest of the Christian virtues.
It is the distinguishing feature of all the works of God. To 1"f'OtiiOU
Mppin.u1 is the end of creation. And shall not 1De do by othera aa
God has done by us1 Shall we not evince our gratitade for the con·
liDual shower of blessings he is pouring out upon us, by doing what
we can to promote the happiness of otlten1 Infinite are our own
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
l •
•
•
CONSOJ.ENTIOUSNESS.-0 Ali'At YslS ' AND BEAli.JNOS.
capacitieS for enjoyment, and God d~>es continually aU that a God can
do, to fill them to the full. Let us imitate our Heavenly Father in
this labor of love. Let us seconi his great design in creation ; for in
so doing, we shall be co-workers with. God, be even like God. Glo-
rioua, this opportunity of doing good. Let every dny, every hour, find
ua employed in this great work-the work ofGod-the work of man I
CHAPTER VI.
CONSCIENTIOUSNES8-ITS ANALYSIS AND BEARINGS
8BCTION I.
CONSCI&NCE ~ATE.
lli\ia~ aeilie of moral aeoonntabllity I intbgrity of ino\\w;·pereeption ot right
• 'Iliad wrong, and fediDg that rlgllt ia rewardable; Uld wtoDg pon;.bable;
• - of "'loral bbliptiea; love of jualice, tnuh, aDCl Jtight, aa anoh ; regatd
for daty, promisee, &c.; deaire for mol'!~~ purity, and blameleuness of COil-
duct: that internal moral JDODitor which BI>provea the right, and condemna
the wrong; gratitude for favoril; sense of guilt ; penitence for sin; contrition;
dema to reform ; disposition to forgive t'be penitent.
"Thrice armed ia he who hath hia q11arrel JUIT."-Bhak.
So constituted is the human mind, that it regards-that it can1101
&at tegard---inost of our feelings, actions, expressions, conduct~that
We do and say, or ate capable of doing and sayi'll'g-----as either RIGB'l'
or 'Wao:No. 'True, it regards some things as destitute of moral charae
ter, because 4one without motive, cir by accident, or prO'mpted by de-
rangement, &c. ; but these form so small a portion of their aggregate
as to deserve menuon merely. As we look upon smne things as re-
putable, and others as disgraceful; upon some its dangerous, atttl
othets as safe j upon Some as beautiful, and others liS deformed j some
all past, others as present; some as ludicrous, others as serious ; &arne
as eauses, othel'S as effects, &e. ; so we consider---cannot help consi-
~ting...-.m.ost that we do, say, feel, as right or'IJJ1'on.g; and that perii
lo;O.()D its own aceount, and in .its very nature ·and eonstitution. Desti-
~ ofthis faculty, the soul of man would be wanting in its brightelt
jewel, its crowning excellence. Let a human being 'bloJ endowed wit\
Bl:e tale'irts ofa WebSt~r, a Fran.ldin, a Bacon, but bt! destitute of' ~
DigitiZed by GoogIe
CONICIENCE INl'fATE. 141
ntl principle, he dese"es but contempt; for he employs them to fur·
ther what is wrong aa soon as what is right ; to serve his propensities,
to injure mankind, to augment his own sinfulness and misery. How
changed I when those talents are governed by high-toned moral prin·
cipJ.e.-.are employed to subserve the cause of justice ; to oppose what·
ever is wrong, and urge on what is right I How infinitely more ex·
~ted the character, more benefiCial the conduct I
· Not only do these perceptiol)s and feelings of right and wrong ex·
ist,.)ut they are innate. Not creatures of education. Not fitful, but
pem~anent. In-wrought into the very nature and constitution of the
human soul, and forming a prominent department thereo£ Pervad·
1n~ and almost governing, the whole human family, in all condi-
tions and countries, in all past ages, mall coming time. Man feell
it, and knows it, that there is a right and a wrong in the very nature
and constitution of things.
And not only are these feelings constitutional, but man intuitively
feels that the right must govern, and the wrong be discarded. Nor it
this feeling of moral obligation a tame, passive element, that simply
whispers this moral sentiment gently in the ears. But it is clothed with .
autkority, and felt to be imperious. Strong, doubly armed, is he
whose conscience sanctions all he does.; but faint and feeble is he who
f~.ls that he is wrong. Barely able to hold up his head, and power·
less in all he says and does. Conscience is designed to govern. It
is the primier of the human soul, while all the other faculties are but
representatives or subjects. Its edicts constitute the supreme law of
the man. Its prohibitions are imperative, inexorable.
The existence of this moral sense has always and every where
been admitted, but its innateness has long been a subject of universal
discussion. Its advocates urge its innateness from its universality,
and appeal to every one whether he is not conscious Qf its existence ;
whether his own soul does not feel its internal monitions daily and
erintipually, while its opposers aver that it is wholly the creature of
ed~ati.Mi, as is evinced by the diversified and even conflicting opin-
.lons of men as to what is right, arguing that men think and practice
in this matter as they are taught. Phrenology, however, demons-
trates that man has, hy nature, an innate faculty, which forms a part
and parcel of his original nature, the specific function of which ~
to create the eentiments of right and wrong; and to apprcwe the right,
and ?Ondemn the wrong,,and accounts for this diver~ity of opinion u
to right and wrong, by showing that men's opinione and practices ,.
wright and wrong vary as their phnnological developments rufft;r,
DigitiZed by GoogIe
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.-ACCOVNTABIL.lrY OF HA."''. 297
While, therefore, this fact completely overthrows the doctrine that con·
science is the creature of education, it fully establishes the filet that
conscience is innate-that every man has, by nature, an internal
monitor to accuse him w~en he does wrong, to approve him when
he does right, to warn him against committing sin, and to entice him
into the paths of virtue and happiness.
Phrenology even goes farther. By pointing out the existence Iii
this primary sentiment of right and justice in the soul of lllllD,
it proves, beyond all cavil and controversy, the existence of certain
PRIMA.a.Y1 ABSTRACT PRINCIPLES of right and moral fitness1 lying back
in the very nature and constitution of things, and forming a consti·
tuent part of that nature, to which this faculty in man is adapted.
Under the head of veneration, (p. 46,} it was shown that the existence
of one thing and its being adapted to another, proved the existence of
the other. That same argument, "mutatis mutandis,'' or changing
it fro:n venerati..>n to conscientiousness, shows that the latter, by being
adapted to right, proves the existence of certain great and first prin·
ciples of eternal right and justice, founded in, and forming a part of,
the original nature and constitution of things. It proves that somtt
things are right and others wrong, in tltemselves,-in their very na·
ture and essence. This adaptation of conscientiousness to these firsc
principle!'\ of right, is indisputable, and even demonstrative: therefore,
these primary principles of right exist, adapted to this organ in man.
More and better. Besides establishing the innateness of conscience
and the consequent existence of right and wrong in themselvee,
Phrenology also demonstrates the moral accountability of man, and,
therefore, that he is a fit subject of rewards and punishments. As
the existence in man of eyes, both constitutes him a seeing being, and
also proves him to be such :-as the fact of his having lungs, both
renders him a breathing being and proves him to be such ; the exis·
tence of a stomach, both makes him a digesting being, and proves
conclusively that he is such ; the existence of bones and muscles, a
moving being ; of teeth, a masticating being ; of the social faculties,
a social being ; of the intellectual elements, an intellectual being ; of
the reasoning faculties, a reasoning being, and so of all his other
primary powers-so the fact that he possesses the organ and faculty
of conscientiousness both constitutes and renders him a moral and an
accountable being, and deserving of rewards and punishments, at the
same time that it conclusively proves him to be such. No proof it
stronger. It is demonstration, and in the fullest, strongest sense of
the term. Proof that appeals to the senses is not strcnger. The ~
DigitiZed by GoogIe
THE PJI.tNCII'LE OF RIGHT .AND WRONG, 141
:that mankind exist, is not more fully, certainly es<.abliahed by out
~tti11g them, than the truth of Phrenology being admitted, is the fact
that man is a moral, ar.countable, rewardable, punishable being, reno
dered incontestable, dem01l$tration, CERTAIN. If required to provt
that man was cotut#utionally a seeing being, and not so by education,
I should be unwise to at~ the point, but simply appeal to the fact that
be is created with eyes~ kind of ad lwminem home proof, which
it is impossible to gainsay or resist. The highest order of proof that
reason is innate rather than taught, is the fact that man possesses ori-
ginal elements of reason. The human mind is so constituted that it
cannot possibly resist or evade this kind of proof, any more than it
can resist the evidence of the senses. It is, in fact, proof drawn from
the senses, and founded on them ; for we SEE that he has originally
a primary organ and faculty of conscience. We also see its workings.
We su that he possesses the primary power of conscience, just as we
see that he possesses the primary elements of walking ; and we also
see and feel the workings of this faculty, just,as we see and know
that he walks and talks. If his having feet proves him to be a
walking being ; his pos&ession of lungs, a breathing being ; of a sto-
mach, a nutritive being; of eyes, a fleeing being; of· causality, a
reasoning being ; of sexes, a sexual being; of benevolence, a humane
being ; of veneration, a devotional being ; of language, a communi-
cative being, then does the existence in him of conscientiousness prove
him to be a moral, accountable, rewardable, punishable being. Ma-
thematical demonstration is not clearer, stronger, more demonstrative,
ad hominem, infallible, than is this species of reasoning. Indeed,
whoever rejects its conclusions, is incapable of reasoning-incapable
of arriving at anyconclusions, or knowing any thing whatever; and
as such, he is unworthy of notice.
How unjust, then, the accusation that Phrenology establishes fate.l-
ism, when it overtltrO'IJJs that doctrine, and establishes the moral ac-
countability of man! And if any thing were wanting to complete
this argument, the fact that there is an organ of will, (the lower por-
tion of self-esteem,) goes, if possible, still farther ; and the two toge-
ther establish the additional doctrine, not only that he is a moral and
!lccountable being, but also free to choose, will, decide, and act for
himself; which completes his punishability as well as accountability.
Those, therefore, who accuse Phrenology of favoring fatalism, are
either Ignorant or bigoted. So far from it, it even furnishes this mo,raJ
~ountability of man, to the Christian already proved~ clear!y
·iemonatrated as any proposition in geometry. Receive it, then. At
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
. .
MORAL ACCOUNTABC.J.TY OF IUK.
least stop these c.am()rous imputation~. Let it also be rnmem~r«..,
that under the head of veneration, by proving the exinence of a God,
Atheism was proved to be false ; of marvelloUBness, the immateriality
or the spirituality of the soul was proved ; and of hope, ~ fn~u.re st$1
of being was also proved to exist. No refutation of theae objectioDI
ran be more complete, and even demonstrative.
To every reflecting rea~er, I have now two point.s tosubmit.. Fint,
whether the innateness of conscience, al}d the moral acoountah'lity of
man, has I}Ot been set completely at rest by being lkmonalf'atd, u we
would demonstrate that two and two make four. Secondly, ·.vhether
the accusation that Phrenology leads to fatalism, is not ru:st unjust
ad even reprehensible; for if those who bring it, do not kno.v eoough
about it to know better, they know notking about it, and should •GJ
nothing; but if they do Jl:now better, they are actually culpole. &
tD.at whoever brings it, is censurable, and should be estee~llll!l l.e ._
therefore. Nor will it be long before this will be the case.
SICTIO:N II.
'1BB J!U.'l'UJm .&JfD .B.ATlONALE OF RIGHT AND WRONG j OR TBB FOtnf·
DATION OF IIO.B.AL OBLIGATION.
HAVING established the morai accountability of man, and the exil-
tence of FIRST PRINCIPLES of right and wrong, two questions natu.rally
present themselves to the re11.ecting mind. Since the quality of right
and wrong necessarily appertain to our opinions, conduct, e:r.presaions,
feelings, &c.
First: WHAT things are right, and what wrong~ that we may choose
the former, but refqse the latter.
Secondly: Wky is that right which is right, and wherefore is that
wrong which is wrong1 In what does this quality comilt 1 In what
fundamental principles is it based 1 What are the constitutional. ele-
ments of right and wrong ; of sin and holiness ; of virtue and vice1
Though the first question naturally comes first, yet 1ts answer de-
pends ~pon that given to the latter question. Hence, the last shall be
discussed first.
In July, 1843, the author listeued to an able discourse, preached by
dle Rev. Mr. Culver, of the Tremont Temple, Borton, from t!i.e test;
o;91t1zed by Coogle
300 'l'HE l'l'ATU&E OP ltiGJlT .AND WROHG, 145
" Tholl shalt love the Lord thy God with aU thy heart, and with all
thy soul, and with all thy mind,*" in which he urged that the co11- •
lUND oF GoD constituted the ground·toO'Tk of right, and his prohibi-
tioa, that of wrong ;-that the Jews were commanded on certain occa-
sions, to BaJ:rdice a tokite heifer, not because a white heifer was
better than one of any othel' color, not because there was any fitness
in a white heifer m01e than in others; but simply, solely because Goo
ooMIUNDBD a white heifer to be sacrificed ;-that baptism by immer-
sio• was right-not because there was any inherent virtue, either in it
itself, or in it more than in sprinkling; but simply, wholly, becaUJe
CHB.IsT coJOUNDED it-that we should love God supremely, and our
neighbors as ourselves, for no other reason whatever than beeaue
God commtJnaed it ;-that a " 7Y&tu s&ith the Lord," was what coasti-
ttued that right, which was right,-that wrong, which it prohibited, and
not the NJ.tu.re of the thing commanded. Aud my impression is, tbat
this is the doctrine maintained by the great majority of ministers and·
laymen.
But, from this doctrine Phrenology dissents in toto. It shows that
the rightnesa of right, and the wrong of wrong, are constitutioaal,
being based in the Tery nature and fitness of things, withQut any
reference to either command or prohibition of God on the one hand,
or to the want of them on the other. Suppose it possible for God to
command that which was wrong in itself;-suppose it wrong in the
very nature of things for a man to seize a virgin by force, carry her
off by main strength, and compel her to live with him in opposition
to her wishes, such a course being repugnant to her, besides sundering
those social ties that bound parents to her and her to the home of her
youth, would that command render it right-render any thing right
that is wrong in itself-necessarily constitutionally wrong 1 I trow
not. Phrenology shows, as fully, conclusively as it shows any thing
--a:nd we have seen that this is perfectly demonstrative, and from
precisely the same data, that the right is right, and the wrong is wrong;
no~ at all because commanded or forbidden by God, but solely, wholly, '
because so by CIJnstitution,--by nature, in and cj ~tsdj, and without
any reference whatever to the commands or prohibitions of God. If
things are rendered right or wrong by the word of God merely, then
are ~here many things which are right constitutionally, but wrong
in fact ; and others wrong by nature, but right by cor.1mand ; while.
the great majority of our every day feelings and doir.gs are destitute
of all moral character, because neither commanded or forbidden, a&
• Matt. :uii, 39.
Dlg.:.zed by GoogIe
•
146 R:.GBT AND 'VltONG Ali.E B.ENDERED SO BY THEIR DTECTS. 8() .
least explicitly. 'How can a fiat of the Bible render any thing r:gbt
or wrong, good or 'oad, not right or wrong, good or bad, ill and of
iUelf? Is it possible for a command of the Bible to ~Iter, add to, ab-
rogate, one iota of the original constitutionality of right aud wrong~
This would be to array the Bible against nature-against even the
fundamentals of that nature. It would make the Bible ay, "Obser·
ring this ordinance, is right, is a moral duty obligatory upon every
member of the human family, from the moment of its institution ; its
neglect wrong, sinful, punishable;" while the voice of nature responds:
"No such thing. There is no right or wrong about it either way."
.1caution believers in the Bible not to array 1t against nature, for the
latter will not yield one hair's breadth to the former, and what is more:
.what is most, nothing will equally lower the estimation of the Bible
in intelligent minds, or more effectually advance infidelity.
· It requires considerable patience even to argue a point so pal·
pably fallacious in itself, and so directly in the teeth of the nature
of man. The fact of the existenee of the faculty of conscientiousnesa
as an innate, primary element of the human mind, proves both tbtt
existence of right and wrong, and also their constitutionality-that
they are so of necersity and in tluir oum inherent nlr.tv.re, not by th11
requirements of the Scriptures. Though the Deity commands us tu
do w•at is right, and forbids us to do what is wrong; yet, things arn
right and wrong in and of tlumselves and prior to all command1
independently of all prohibition. Phrenology demonstrates this point
in and toith its demonstration of the existence of conscience. The
two necessarily go together. They can never be separated without
doing violence.
To argue the point, that things are often rendered right or wrong
by legislation, by law, &c., such as that hanging is right when it is
ltgal, and because of its legality,:__because we are commanded to
obey our rulers, &c., is folly; for he whose conscience is so weak as
to imbibe such a doctrine has not sufficient conscience·to yield assent
. to the right when he knows it. And yet, there are those, and those
ioo who have considerable influence, weak enough, intellectually as
well as morally: to advocate a doctrine that strips right of all its high
and holy sanctions, and makes it a mere thing-a mere play·thing,
even-with which mortals may tamper and even sport-a perfect
weather-vane: shifting continually with every shift of legislation, how·
ever corrupt.
But~ to the point : Wly is the right, right1 Wherefore is the wrong,
wrongt • I anewer: They are reTJdered so by their conseguence,__bv
DigitiZed by GoogIe
147
.taeir eff«t~ on the happiDeaa and the misery of ourselves a•d others.
This is rendered evident, by that fundamental principle on which
tt.TJery dep&rlme.t of the nature of man proceeds. That principle JS
laiJppinu1. I will not here illustrate this doctrine in detail The
reader ·will find it run out in part in the few first pages of " Education
and 8elf-Improvemeot.11 It is there shown, that the fundamental basis
of the nature of man-THE only end, object, function, and entire con-
stitutitm of every organ of the body, every faculty of the mind, every
element of our nature, is happiness, all happiness, and nothing bu:
happiness. .A.s this is an important point, the reader must pardon an-
other quotation from "Education and Self-Improvement," p. 18, in
which this fundamental principle is, perh!lpl, expressed better th!tn it
could be if re-written.
" That HAPPINESS is the eole object of Man's creation, is rendered
evident by its being the only legitimate product of f!!'lery organ of his
body, of every faculty of his mind, of every element of his nature.
What but happiness is the end sought and obtained in the creation of
every bone, of every joint, of every muscle ?-happiness in their exer-
cise, happiness in locomotion, labor, &c., and happiness in the results
obtained by this motion. What but pleasure is the legitimate func-
tion of the eye ?-the most exquisite pleasure in the exercise of sight
itself, and an inexhaustible fund of happiness in the ends attained by
seeing-in its enabling us to find our way1 and in pouring into the
mind a vast fund of information, and also furnishing an inexhaustible
range of materials for thought and mental action. What but enjoy-
!11Pl1' is the end sought and secured by the creation of lungs1-enjoy-
m.:nt in breathing freely the fresh air of heaven, and enjoyment m
the expenditure of that vitality furnished thereby ; few realizing the
amount of pleasure ~....,hie of being taken in quaffing luxuriantly
and abundantly the hea)th-inspiring breeze! What other object than
pleasure dictated the creation of the stomach ?-pleasure in the act of
digestion, and pleasure in the expenditure of tho5e vital energies pro-
duced thereby. And what is the object sou~ht and obtained in the
creation of the brain and nervous f'ystem-what but happiness is the
only legitimate product of their primitive function ?-happiness in
then exercise itself, and inexhaustible happiness in that boundless ·
range of mental and moral ends secured by their creation. ·
Narrowing down our observations to the mental facultie!!, we finq
the same sole end sought and obtained by the creation of each one
separately, and all collectively. Benevolence was created both to pour
the oil of consolation into the wounded heart, to avoid occasions ot
pain, and to beautify and bless mankind ; and also to pour still greater
blessings into the soul of the giver; for, it is even "more blessed to
give than to receive.'' Parental love, while it renders the parent hap-
i>Y in P.roviding for darling infancy and lovely chillhood, alsa renders
the chtld most happy in receiving the bleBf'·mgs showered down upon
DigitiZed by GoogIe
f48 lUN WAS XADE TO BE PDil"BCTLT HA.PPY. '808
it by this happifying faculty. The legitimate function of idwty it
pleasure ; both in contem_Plating the beautiful and the e:sqlilsite in na
ture and in art, and also m refining and purifying all the grosser ele·
menta of our nature. and softening and gracing all our conduct. Ac·
qui.sitiveness was created to afford pleasure, both in the mere acquisi.
· t10n of property, edibles, and the comforts and conveniences af life;
and also to furnish all the other factdties with the mealll of gratifica·
tion : appetite, with fOOd ; benevolence1 with the means of bestowing
charity ; cautiousness, with instruments of defence j the social feel·
ings, with comforts for the family; inhabitiveness, w1th a home; con·
structiveness, with tools, farming utensils, &c. ; intellect, with books1
philosophical apparatus, and the means of prosecuting the study of
nature and her laws &c. Appetite, while it gives us gustat:>ry plea-
sure in partaking of food, also furnishes the .stomach with the mate·
rials required for manufacturing that nourishment and strength with·
out which every enjoyment would be cut off, and life itself soon cease.
Causality was created, not only to produce the richest harvest of plea·
· sure in studying the laws and operations of nature, but also, that we
might adapt ways and means to ends, and secure our own highest
good, by applying the laws of causation to the production of whatever
results we might desire. The legitimate function of language is to
furnish a world of pleasure, merely in the act of talking, and then to
add to it that inexhaustible fountain of happiness which flows from
imparting and receiving knowledge, ideas, motives for action, &c.,
and in reading, in hearing lectures, sermons, &c., &c. Memory en·
ables us to recollect what gave us pleasure, and what pain, that we
might repeat the former and avoid the latter; that we might remember
fu.ces, places, numbers, &c., and recall our knowledge at pleasure, so
as to apply it to beneficial purposes. Veneration naturally gives us
pleasure, both in worshipping God, and it: those holy, purifying
mfluences which prayer sheds abroad in the soul. The same p,.inci·
pie applies to FriendShip, to Connubial Love, to Ambition, to hrse-
verance, to Sense of Justice, to Hope, to lrlliLUuon, and to every utht:t
element of the human mind. I repeat : The legitimate function
every physical organ, of every mental faculty, of every element ('f
of man, is HAPPINEss, ALL happiness, pure, unalloyed, umnitigated
happiness, and nothing else. Man was made solely to be happy, to
be PERFECTLY happy, and for that alone.-Nor does the needle point
to its pole more uniformly and certainly, than does every p<lrt of man
point to this one result. No truth can be more plain, more universal,
more self-evident.''
I call upon all who doubt this great truth, to specify a single organ,
faculty, function, any thing, of the nature of man, of which thiS is not
the palpable, self-evident filet. No truth is more appar.ent. It rut1!1
throughout all nature. It is the substratum of every dung 'belon~
to the nature of man.
...
DigitiZed by GoogIe
WJL\TEVEJI. IS JllGBT J8 PllOKOTIVE OF HAPPJKE88. 149
Right, of course, then, harmonizes with this great arrangement of
nature, is founded in it, is designed to carry it out. Wrong conflicts
therewith, and violates it. And whatever does conflict therewith, (that
is, whatev-er occasions pain,) is wrong, and wrong because of this con-
flict-because it causes pain. So, also, whatever harmonizes with it,
(that is, whatever causes happiness,) is right, and right oocause it pro-
duces pleasure-because it fulfils not merely a law, but THE Iaw-ALL
THE LAWS IN oNE--Of the primitive nature and constitution of man.
How this principle can be controverted, I see not. So constituted
is the human mind as to see, and feel, that the normal action of every
department of its nature is pleasure, and pleasure only; and that all
pain proceeds from-is caused by-a violation of that nature. It is
also so constituted as to see that right consists in obeying the laws of
our being, and wrong in their violation, as well as that their observ·
ance is right-their infraction wrong. Put these two points together,
and the result is clear, satisfactory, that the fundamental basis of right,
-its rationale, the r~ason why right is right, is-the happiness that
flows therefrom-the furtherance of THE end of our being occasioned
thereby ; it amounting to the same thing as an augmentation, or in-
~t-ease, of ourselves, namely, happiness. And, per contra, the reason
rohy wrong is wrong, is, that it violates, or counteracts, that naturt>-
mars the work of God, by inducing suffering.
One phase more of this argument: That whatever is right, is pro-
motive of happiness, no one will for a moment denl, and, vice versa,
that whatever is promotive of happiness, is right, as well as that the
opposite is true as to wrong. Otherwise, the nature of man is at war
with happiness; and nature, with nature. And what is more, happi·
ness and .right, on the one hand, and suffering and sinfulness on the
other, stand related to each other in the light of cause and effect. That
either obedienc-e to law, that is, virtue, causes happiness, or else that
virtuf) is caused by, or else consists in, obedience to law, and, per con·
tra, that the violation of law, (that is, sinfulness,) causes pain, or else
that sinfulness is caused by suffering, is self-evident, from the fact, that
the one is the cause, and the other the effect The first impression is,
that obedience to law is the cause, and happiness the effect. But whJ
is obedience the cause1 To secure the effect, (happiness,) of course.
Hence, it is self-evident, that it is this effect, (namely, happiness,) that
governs. Right would not be right if it did not secure this effect
Hence, as happiness governs virtue, it of course is the cause of virtue.
The contrary is true of pain and sinfulness. In sinning, or disobey-
ing law, we suffer in order to make us ouey. To avoid suffering, iA
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
•
tH 305
the goftrning motive, aDd not merely or mainlyto aYOid doingwroag,
1er 1e. Wrong in itself, and aside from the suffeting it causes, is 11
Mlter of little account. It is to MtOIJ1' nlj'emg that eont~titutea taa'
pnrning motive, so that it ia this sufferiug which governa, :mdr
tlletefora, becomes the cause and the essence ofthe ainfulnees of eia.
Finally, and mainly: Man has a Datural aptitude for pleuure, aucl
t: natural shrinking from pain. This armngernent of his nature, it
the whole of him~l there is in him, and of him, and about him.
This is the git and quinteSsence of his entire constitution,and of e"very
adaptation, and organ, and function, of which he is compoaed. Thia
is the neocleus. Eyery thing elae in him, and of him, is at.UKhed to
-is gathered on this. Along \Vith that of all hi& other elements;. it
fCinnB the centre of right and wrong. Right and wl:ong, like every
thiag else, are tlur:eltrsiled inl()-fraw.ed. upm-this standard, this foun·
dation timber, of the man. Hence, right becomes right when, aDd
because, it squares and plums with this staftdard : and wrong be~ee
wrong solely in consequence of its deviating therefrom. In short,
the pith and summary of the whole argument, is simply this : Happi·
nea, along with suffering as ita natuml antagonist,. forms the govern·
mg principle or element of the nature ofman. This gonmling. prin·
cip1.e ofhis nature, ofCOU1'8e govema reason, friendship, appetite, praiee,
censure, kindness, connubial and parental love, truth, refinement, wl-
garity, hope, fear, virtue, sinfulne81'1 right, wrong, sin, holiness, good-
au., badness-th\WHOLE of man; and, by consequence, becomes ta.
c..ue, aDd the rtJtiimo.le1 of them al~ right and wrong, goodness and
badneis, of course included. '
To take a few example$:-It fB right that we exercise benel'Oienee.
But1¥Ay right1 Simply, because that, by so doing, we further the
ead of our creation-enjoyment-both our own, and that of the fellow-
being whom we help. Nor ia there any other rwon why it is right
to enreise it. There is but one other fH*ible reUon why it is right ;
aDd that is1 the command or will gf God, to which we shall come pre-
sently. The opposite holds true ofcausing pain. To cause suffering
for the •like ofearuring it, is wrong. This, all admit. But, wAy wrong'I
Beeituse it rmrdl the end of creation by producing its opposite. Nor
is there any other reason why it is wrong to inftiet pain as such.
·Jt is right .to eat. It is our bounden duty. It IS wrong to starTe.
But, wky t Solely because not eating causes pain to ourselves and
others, which does viol~nee to thisfundiUnentallaw of our natur&-the
Jaw dC happiness. Our eating doo- not efleet the Deity. We cannoti
oSud llitlf by not eating. Nor by eating too mueh. lle is .ntinitely
DigitiZed by GoogIe
806 DOW JUJI1S CONDUCT 8TAllll6 IN Jll.m'..tTION TO 'me QOJ), .&JJ
1.bove all influences which it is possible for mortals to exert. To sup-
pose it possible for our sinfulness to affect the ALMIGH'l'Y, is to degrade
him by putting him upon a par with man I I am loath to argue a
point so &eJf-eVldent. [ can hardly believe that any intelligent mind
really entertains such an idea, except by tradition, or fi:om supersti-
tion. Certainly not from intellect. Its absurdity could be easily de-
monstrated, but to state it is refutation sufficient. It is at war with
every principle of common sense-at war with the Bible, which saith :
-" Can a man be profitable unto God, as he that is wise may be profit-
able unto himseln Is it any pleasure to the Almighty, that thou art
righteous 1 Or, is it gain to him, that thou makest thy ways perfect'P'
-Job xxii. 2, 3. "If thou sinnest, what doest thou against him 1 or,
if thy transgressions be multiplied, what doest thou unto him1 If
thou be righteous, what givest thou to him1 or, what receiveth he of
thine hand? Thy wiclmess may hurt a man as thou art; and thy
righteousness may profit the son of man.''-Job x.xxv. 6, 7, 8. ''What
is man, that thou art mindful of him," &c. &c.
lf by sinning against God be meant simply a breach of his laws,
-the laws of nature, then may man be truly said to sin against God,
but not in the sense of offending him literally. Man can indeed
break the law of God; b~cause all the laws of our being may be
considered as laws of God; and man being capable of obeying and
breaking these laws, he is, of course, capable of obeying or of dis-
obeying God. In this sense, but in no other, does the conduct of
mortals stand related to their God.
But, to proceed with our illustrations : It is right to worship God
in spirit and in truth, not at all because our righteousness affects the
Almighty, or our impiety injures him, but simply because in so doing
we secure to our own souls the beneficial effects of our prayer.
Prayer softens down the p>opensities, subdues the soul, elevates the
higher faculties, and makes us happy. Therefore It IS right, but not
because it in the least affects the Deity. It is wrong to take the name
of God in vain, not because profaniry injures the Almighty, but be-
cause ir renders the swearer unhappy, by debasing his feelings,,
cultivating the propensities, searing the moral sentiments, and thus
rendering him and those affected thereby miserable. It is 1·ight to
keep our word ; because a liar is not to be believed though he speak
the truth, and therefore loses all the advantages of confidence ; but
he who keeps his word inviolate, his character spotless, his credit
good, reaps all the benefits of thus fulfilling this law of his being,
(and they aTe• many and great,) besides rendering his fellow-men.
Digitized by Coogle
•
lfi ILLVITL\TIONS Of THE PJUNCJPLEB C1l' RIGUT .AlfD WII.OMO. 30'i
happy in 8o doing ; whereas he who does not regard his promisei
occasions pain to his fellow-men. It is the pain consequent on disho-
nesty, a breach of truth, pr?mises, &c., which constitu~ them wrong.
And the more pain they occasion, the more wicked they are. So
murder is a most Mi1&0tU crime, because it occasions 80 much misery
80 much to the one deprived of life and all its blessings, to his fiuntly
or friends, to community, besiaes it so effectually hardens the heart
of its wicked perpetrator. So of stealing. So of every crime that
can be named.
We might thus take up one after another, any and all of the laws
of our being, physical or moral, and show that the heinousness of
their violation consists in the pain consequent on such enfraction ;
that the virtse of their obedience consist;~ in the happiness caused
thereby. But this is unnecessary ; for if this is the case of one, it is
80 of all. To the principle alone reference is had ; and if that prin·
ciple applies to the above illustrations, it applies to all illustrations--
to all possible shades and phases of both sin and holiness.
If to this it be objected, that it is motive alont which constitutes the
virtue or the sinfulness of acts, I answer : This bas nothing whatever
to do with the nature of right and wrong. We are now discussing
the constituent elements of right and wrong. Motive may make an
action which is right in itself, wrong in the doer, or one wrong in
itaelf, right in the doer. Thus, in attempting to deceive or wrong my
neighbor, I might do him an actual favor. My wrong intention might
make it wrong in me, and yet the act done did not eventuate in wrong
to him, but the reverse. Or, if in attempting to shoot a furious bull
which was tearing my friend in pieces, I should shoot my friend, I
should do wrong, while I meant 7igM. This ki1ling my neighbor is
ttWong in itself, but not wrong to me, because done by accident. Still,
this is foreign from the real point under discussion ; namely, the etm-
llituent element• of right and wrong, in and of themstlvu. The
question of motive will be discussed hereafter.
This principle, that the nature of right and wrong is founded m
the pleasure or pain consequent thereon, does not tally with the prin-
ciple of deism, which maintains that there is no such thi11g as right
and wrong in the abstract; for it demonstrates that there is a right,
a wrong, in itself-in the abstract-in its 0'/JJn naeure, and in the
nature of things. This difference is fundamental-as toto crzlo as
the admission of the principle ofa conscience is from its total denial-
u the admission of the existence of right and wrong pe7 ae is different
from ill denial This doctrine enforces the moral accountrbility of
DigitiZed by GoogIe
308 TBE1U1 IS CON8Tl'l'tlTIONALLY A ·.RIGHT AND A WB.OBG, IN
man. That denies il In short ; light does not differ fror: darknese,
or heat from cold, more than this deistical doctrine of no right, no
wrong, does from the phrenological doctrine of the existence of both,
per se. Touching the morality, the accountability, and the punish-
ability of men, it makes all the difference of a positive and a negative.
To Christianity, this principle, that conscience is innate, as well as
the one that right is right in its very nature and constitution, is very
important. Not only does it harmonize with a similar dor.trine taught
in the Bible, " Deal justly," " Owe no man any thing," "Whatsoever
ye would that others should do unto you, do ye even so unto them,"
" Lie not, but obey the truth," " Righteousness exalteth a nation,''
&c. &c., in texts without number; but what is still more, it greatly
enhances the moral virtue of doing right, as well as the heinousness
of doing wrong. It gives to the right a distinctive character, a spe-
cific nature of its own, thereby impartmg to it a moral beauty, power,
and grandeur which, if it did not possess, it would be tame and pow·
erless, as well as destitute of all inherent, specific character, while it
reveals in bold relief the naked deformity and inherent moral turpi·
tude and heinousness of sin. This principle renders right and wrong
positive in their characters. In maintaining the doctrines of Christ-
ianity, this inherentness of right and wrong, of virtue and sin, IS all-
important, and even fundamental. It is, indeed, a corner stone of the
whole superstructure of Christianity. Overthrow this original
constitutionality of right and wrong, and you take away the corner
stone of Christianity, and overthrow its whole superstructure; but
establish it, and at one fell swoop, infidelity is overthrown. On this
radical point the victory turns, and Phrenology gives it to Christ-
ianity. Christian I dost thou fully appreciate this scientific confirma-
tion of thy foundation stone 1 And ye religionists who oppose
Phrenology, " know not what ye do," and are crucifying your best
friend. Let me warn Christianity that she is fast losing intellectual
ground, and that nothing but a scientific proof of her fundamental
doctrines will arrest this onward march and these rapid strides of
infidelity and scepticism. But Phrenology, if promulgated, will stop
it. Its proof of this fundamental doctrine, infidelity cannot reach,
nor scepticism resist. They are ad hominem-they go home to the
understanding, and innate consciousness of one and all. Christianity I
wilt thou embrace this thy twin sister and handmaid, or wilt thou,
unwise, ungrateful, bigoted, turn her coldly or contemptuously away1
There is, then, constitutionally, a right, a wrong. And that right
il enforced, is invited, by all the happiness it is possible for man to ex·
Digitized by Coogle
~ce in doioe:right.;, that wJWJg is prcthibitedi '>1 r.!t,tt,, \-UtWO
~nl ais poesible for.man,to mtfar in.btea.kjng tM ]awe of hte Millg.
NQr is•it imm!lterial wh~el' w& de rig&t. or WJU~g.. NM are dat;
.,..a, f0J1 do.iag tight far removed f:com u,a ; nor the peaallies Gi d•:
iJ~« ~· They are· not w heaven, aot in-~ exfolWiitely, ll.8
QWD maialy. Tlt~ are i" ua---U. tha h~, i,. iM IW.ff~ri•K, w~
Md eapaik ofea:,uitminK· They go rigbt home to the iMJDII •oau
o£ every member of the human mmily. To do right, is OW' own
hig~est poaible weTeU. To dowr.o-.g, is dilectly, n~y; in tM
wty teeth ofthat int.er61lt.
Let. 111 all,.thm, strive. ~be r~ tha.t we may be happy, U ••
aU eecll.ew evil, tllat we may e11cape pain. l..Qt ua.avoid. sia for pre~.
~1- the eame realQa that we wQU}d lt!Ot put our hands into tile
~naiJMly, beeaue& in doibg wrong, we suifer its consequent peaa).
tyr Wonderful t-di.e work:rnan.hit,of a Goe:l-iB this OOiltriYII!lflt7
tlail<·~nugement, of righti ad wrong. Calcul~ in the ~·
pGIIibla-~ to iDikce men t.:Hlo right, and tG prennHheir doialtr
....
·•• 'l'beN'II but one 1#ay to do a thing, and that ia the right way."-• .~.
IL.vmG thWI shown that great first principles of riglU exist,,and are·
founded in the very nature and constitution ofthings i 8lldJ also1 what
ie ~ f&Q,tur~ of right and wrong ; we pass, naturally,.to the appU.c.
O,n of this principle to what.i.r right and wrong. On tbis subject,
much diversity ofopinion exists, llDd its proper decision will do mort!
f.ir mankind than the mowledge of any other thing wh1Ueve.r. In
, decidmg it,, Phrenologysays: " Thal is right ~hi.ch hariDOniz,es wiih
the primary nature and origimd eODBtitut.ion of all our faculties,
and whatever violates this primary nature of any faculty, .is. t.lierefOXQ.
wrong." It moreover affirms, that all tho86 actions, feelini8t eGi
opinioa. which ha:r:moQi~e with the. prinulry nature. and legitialate
&!,ction of any or aU the OllgulS~ aQd violate none, i.$ right i but that
'Jbatever violates any faculty is wro~t tile ~tC4J:<tl, leg,iti..,.
•rci.e of any faculty ie r~t, 1111d i~ p!I"V~ actioll wt~ I&
· Dig•t•zedbyGoogle
I 810
allo showa what is the Mtural,and what the perverted functi011 olany
faculty ; and thereby furnishes ua with an unerring test o( eWJry
opinion, feeling,.and action of our whole lives. For example: You
wish to decide whether a givt:n business or bargain be right or wrong.
Conscientiousness summons a moral court martial, and subpamas the
other faculties as witnesses. It says : ' Well, benevolence, what say-
est thou to this bargain, or business, or act, or practice, or whatever
is to be judged 1'' If this faculty respond: " I say it will distress yon·
der innocent man, or make that widow or orphan more wretched,
or will grind the face of the poor, or is oppressive and cruel, or even
is in the way of human enjoyment ;'' conscientiousness then says, " It
is wrong. Do not this wicked thing." " And, causality, what sayest
thou?" "I say its effect will be unfavorable," or, "such and such an
effect will be unfavorable," or, "such and such a law will be violated
thereby." Conscientiousness again puts its ban upon it. " And,
ideality, what sayest thou 1" "I say it is coarse, vulgar, disgusting,
repulsive, and offensive to taste, as well as degrading and debasing."
~' No," responds conscientiousness, "this thing is wicked, and must
not be done." If veneration sees that the thing proposed will conflict
with the worship of the true God; or friendship complains that its
legitimate exercise will be circumscribed or wounded, oT parental love
mourns over its injury to offspring and the young, or self-interest
complains that it will eonflict with enlightened selfishness, by injuz-
ing the h<:alth or circumscribing legitimate enjoyments ; or time says,
"I have more important matters on hand;'' or the organ of mus-
cular motion says, "It will not allow me sufficient exercise ;" or
vitativeness says, "It will shorten my days"-if any of the organs
rise up and testify against the thing to be judged, conscientiousness
vetoes it, and then firmness and all the other faculties combine to re-
sist il But if enlightened benevolence says, " It will do thee good, and
him also;" if friendship says, "It will deepen my roots and strength-
en my cords ;" if ideality be charmed with its beauty, causality com-
mend its effects, time can make room for lt, veneration be gratified,
life prolonged, self·enjoyment secured, and all the other faculties
sanction, none condemning, conscientiousness, as judge, says, "Nei•
ther do I condemn thee ; all is right ;" and the other faculties aid in
its execution. This is predicated on the supposition that all the facul-
ties act in harmo-:1y with their primary natures and legitimate func-
tions. When any act, opinion, or feeling has .'hus been once decided
npon, eventuality recollects it, and firmness abides by it.
10
DigitiZed by GoogIe
..
156 J'llln)AJIENTAL PIUNCJI'LES OF JllGBT AJID wac>NO• Sll
.In still another way-by another of its principles, already explainrd
~oes Phrenology tell us what is right, and what not ; as well ns ex·
plain the cause of that diversity of opinions and ptice as to the
right and wrong in opinion, feeling, and conduct. It says that the tt~en,
equable, or proportionate action ofall the organs, is right, and the e:r-
cusiw action of any, wr011.g. ThWI, if acquisitiveness be too large,
and benevolence too small, Phrenology saith: "Wake up, benevo-
lence, thou art too sluggish ; hold up, acquisitiveness, thou art too
grasping, and dOlt over-reach." If cautiousness predominate, and
.combativeness be weak, it eaith: "Thy fear prevents thy enjoyment,
and retards thy success: do not thW! procrastinate ;'' but, if Phreno-
logy finds cautiousness small, she saith : " Take care, take care there,
Mr. Reckless, thou art continually injuring thyself and others, for
want of prudence." H she find benevolence predominant, she saith :
".Do not thus give away thy all, but reserve for thyself the means
·of sustaining life, and capital enough to acquire more property, with
which to do still more good.'' If she find ideality small, she chides
her for allowing improprieties of feeling and expression, and for not
enjoying those rich md ever-varying lleautiu with which nature
et-erywhere shines 80 resplendent. If veneration be small, or mar·
wllOW!ness, (faith,) be feeble, she saith to the former: ''Lengthen
1hy prayers, and pour out thy soul oftener in worship and praise to the
God who made thee ;" and to the latter she saith : " Away with thy
a:epticisin, and let thy faith grow till from a mustard seed it becometh
a:great tree." And 80 of all the other faculties. It saith to the feeble
'Giles~ "Qwcken your actions;" and, to the predominant one: "Re-
main your excesses." It would fain keep them all nlong together,
pMi f141Ja, and combine all into one harmonious whole.
· By anotller of its fundamental principles, and one already given,
Aloes·Phrenology proclaim·the right, and point out the wrong ; name-
ly, by that of the supremacy of the moral sentiments and intellect over
the propensities; or, at least, as the constitutional guide• and gtnJe'fff·
on of the latter ; but, having already explained the principle fully, its
application, ·in this connexion, is left for every reader to make. Let him
who would know whether a given thing be right or wrong, stop and
uk, whether the thing to be adjudged be in harmony \lith the dictates
of enlightened intellect, and the normal constitution, or the primitive
Cuntions of the moral sentiments, and the answer will soon tell hin;
what il right, and what wrong:
I have said ·that Phrenology shows 'fJJAy men differ in tra.ttters of
ficht and duty. Men's llpinions and practices as to right, duty, k,
DigitiZed by GoogIe
312 WHY JIEN DII'FEB. :qf JIATl'BJUI 0' JUGHT J.ND DUTY. 157
will accord with their ph'enological development& That is, different
phrenological developments caUJe men to think and feel differently on
these subjectl. To illuatrate : Suppoee conscientiousness be alike in
two persons, A. and B., and full in both, or five in a scale from 1 to 7.
A has large benevolence, and small acquisitiveness and veneration ;
while B. has amaH benevolence, and large acquisitiveness and vene-
.ration. A.'s conscientiousness combines with his large benevolence,
.and mali:es him feel that he is in duty bound to do all the good he can,
and that it is wrong to take a large price from a poor man because he
can get it; while his small acquisitiveness induees him to give the
poor man more for an article than it is really worth ; yet, as his vene-
ration is small, his conscience does not require him to go to church.
But -the large acqW&itiveness and small benevolence of B. warpe his
lesser organ of conscientionsness, and allow him to take from the
same poor man more money for a thing than it is really worth, be-
cause the poor man can do no better. His large acquisitiveness throws
dust into the eyes of smaller conscientiousness and benevolence, and
hushes up their feebler remonstrances, while he grinds the face of the
poor, takes advantage of their distress, and extorts money from them,
because they are in his power, though he is wringing out their very
heart's blood. Still, this same conscience, though it allows acquisi·
tiveness to cheat and extort, alao combines with veneration, and com·
pels him to go to meeting the next Sabbath, to read his Bible, say his
prayers, and go to the communion table--to "sand the rice, water
the gin, and then come in to prayers." The conscientiousness of A.
would torment him for extorting the money extorted by B., just as
much as that of B. would torment him for not praying and going to
. church ; while the conseientiousness of B. would acquit him for ex·
torting this money from the poor man, or taking the advantage of
him in a bargain, as much as that of A. acquits him for not praying
and attending church. The opinions of these two men as to what ia
right and wrong, are directly opposite ; each condemning what the
other approves, and each approving what the other condemns, and both
reading each other out of heaven, the one for the other's extortion,
and the other for the other:s impiety. Now, Phrenology condemDS
them both, and yet approves both. It saith unto A., " Thou art right
in thy humanity, (provided thou dost not injure thyself and those de-
pendent on thee, by giving too much,) but wrong in thy impiety,
Give to the poor, but worship also thy God." Phrenology then tui'D8
to B. and saith, " Thy devotion is right, but thy extortio:a is wrong.
Reduce thy acquisitiveness; incrt!llse thy benrvolence; for it is wrOJtg
DigitiZed by GoogIe
..
•
·:
1'58 Sl'l
·for thee thus to opproa and dittress the&Q poor tofferers." But D.
has all·these organa large.and activo. He makes money, but always
makes it lwntltly. and never distt.acs ~thel'8. •He also gives to the
poor, but not to his own injury, or that of tholle depeodent .on him;
and worships his GOO, both socially and in secret. Hil oondttct
Phrenology fully appr~es, and his coneeienoe makes him happy.
Thus, large conscientiousness, combining with large domestie or-
gans, and wee.kfll' inteller.tual and moral faculties, tells its posseesor
that his mOiin duty conlists in taking care of his family ; and adds,
" He that provideth .not for his family is worae than an infidel ;'' but
this organ, when it combines with small domestic organs and large·be-
nevolence,.tells its possessor that Ai• duty consists mainiy in doing
good to the he«.tkef& or to mankind in gMWra.l, though, in so doing h;s
family suffer, and quotea the leriptur.e, " He that giveth to the poor
lendeth to the Lord.'' lte who has largeeonscientiousaess and ideal-
ity thinks it ·M,s duty to keep his per1on neat and nice-to shave and
change his linnen often, though he make some poor slave worlc
half the time in order to keep himself clean and nice. A fashiona·
ble lady, (and all fashionable women are ladies, of course, however ill
bred, for fashion" hideth" (and maketh) "a multitude of sins,") witb
more vanity than sense, but having large veneration, full conscien·
tiousness, large ideality, very large Approbativeness, a silly mother,
and a soft·aoap preacher, feels it to be her imperiou1 duty to go to
church, always provitkd that she can go dressed in the very top or
the fushion, show a wasplike waste, and wear a half bushel bag of
bran or a small bale of cotton ; but if she can not go thus fashiona·
bly, foolishly, and wickedly attired, she does not feel it her duty to go
at all, because her dreas is not decent ; for i~ would be very wrong in·
deed for her to go to church without being decently (fashionably;
dressed, lellt her dress should attract attention ; though if her extreme
fashions should attract the gaze of all present, that would be all right ,
(how very tender some people's consciences are, though, about certam
matters I) but the conscientiousness of another lady, who has large in·
tellectual and moral organs, feels it to be her duty not to dress, and
frowns upon our scrupulous fashionables. Conscientiousness with
acquisitiveness makes one feel it to be his duty to make and hoard mo·
ney ; but with acquisitiveness small, that it is wrong to devote all his
energies to amassing paltry wealth ; with self-esteem large, that it is
his first duty to take care of self-but with this organ small and be·
n8Volcnce large, that it is his duty to serve others first, to the neglect
•nd even injury of self. And the greater the number of facultiel
DigitiZed by GoogIe
"
·IU 'DU: Pll.llfCIPLE pF RIGHT AND WRONG. 169
·llrougnt into ldn~ui or eombiaed adion, the greater the Jivem·
ty of opinion ...~ conduct as to whatis right and wrong. .
• . 1 The reader 1hJ thas perceive that the same prmciple which wae
pointed out in l'eg"l>..~d to veneration, showing that the organs give us
our Views ofthe chan...ter of God, while veneration falls down and wor·
ehips, applies also to eo-..~eieatiousne!s ; the other faculties biasing our
moral opinion and condto-.'1, and then conscientiousness impelling us
to do what these <Sther orgat.s tell us is right. And as this principle,
when applied to veneration, te~.t us the true character and attributes
of God, ·when all are equally d~>Jeloped and not perverted ; so when
it is applied to conscientiousne!!S, it ..~lis us what il right and wrong
mitself; for he who has all the o•.rans equally developed and un·
perverted, will take correcl.-tiews of n~{ht, and do accordingly-will
·think it right to take care of his fa\nily, t.. make money, to defend the
truth, and the poor, to be guarded and ca1..fulto dress respectably, to
worship1rls GOd, to observe and admire the hea1Jtifnl; to do good .nt
home and abroad, to take care of self, but no\ 'P be too selfish, and so
of all other faculties. He, therefore, whose oaogans are most uniform
and not perverted by education, will form the wost correct opinions as
to right, and live the beet life ; but he whose hen1 is uneven, some ofhis
organs large and others small, will be lame, and warped, and bruised,
and zig-zag· in his moral conduct and opinions. Hence, also, by ex·
amining his own head, every individual can see wherein his own
"Standard of right .and wrong in conduct and belief, departs from this
the only true standard; and wherein it accords with it; so that, by
putting his intellect over against his excesses and defects, he can see
and remedy defects. This moral formula is the test and touch·stone,
by which to try every opinion, and judge every act of his whole life.
If any organ be deficient, Phrenology will analyze that organ, and
tell bow much more of that ingredient he requires in his composition,
and also help him to supply it in theory if not in fact, and also tell him
what organs are too large, and therefore what kind of feelings and ac-
tions to suppress in order to be virtuous and happy. This single prin·
ciple, this moral formula, is worth more than all the works on ethics
and speculative theology ever written. It shows every man what
colored glasses he h88 on, and what ingredients are requisite to restore
10 them the color of truth and the practice of right. Guided by this
principle, men will no longer regard themselves as infallible, any
more than when they know that they have on green glasses, or pink
glasses, or dark glasses, will they contend that every thing at which
thr.y look is green, or pink, or d11rk, j~:st because it lookl so to t1em:
DigitiZed by GoogIe
•
•
160 ILLUSTRATIONS OF THB l'li.INCIPr.ES OF JI.IOHT ',llQ) WRONG. 315
.
but they will say, " I kno~ that my glasses are green, and yo\l know
that y()fJ,r glasses are pink, and you know that !JO'Urs are dark, so that
the same objects look green to me, but pink to you and dark to you.
Though it :really seems to me tiaat these objects are green, to yon, that
they are all pink, and to you that they are all dark, still we can none
of us tell what the real color is, till we get off our colored glasses-
till our organs are equa,lly acti'De, or else till intellect can make all
necessary allowances. Then all objects will ap~r alike. Till then,
we will not each read the others out of heaven, just because we wear
different colored glasses. No, we will be charitable-will each re·
collect our own liabilities to error, and not condemn those who differ
from us. Will not this principle, if applied, heal over and effectually
cure those sectarian isms--those " wounds, and bruises, and putrify·
mg sores," which now cover poor, sickly, feeble Christianity" from
the crown of the head to the sole of her foot 1'' Each will not then
say to his neighbor, " know ye the Lord" as I ~ow him, or I'll not
have you in my heaven, " but all shall know him" ri&llt and alike.
" Fly awifter round, ye wheels of time,
And J,..Wg thia welcome day."
Shine brighter yet tho11 atar of~:
Teach ue thy better way.
This principle also shows how it is, that some men can be very
wicked, and yet very religious, and even pious. A few anecdote.s, by
"118.Y of illustration : A certain deacon, that lived less than fifty miles
above Troy, N. Y., the leader of his society, earnest, gifted, sincere
in prayer, eloquent in exhortation, the right-hand man of the minister,
and forw&.rd and zealous in all matters appertaioing to religion, but
somewhat slippery in money matters ; set up a store, and, in buying
his goods in Troy, gave his minister, Mr. L., who was well known in
that city, as his reference. Shortly afterwar~s this minister being
down to Troy, was beset by the pious deacon's creditors, to know
what for a man he was, and whether he could be safely trusted, &c.
The reverend gentleman hesitated and evaded, but, finally, answered:
" To tell you the truth-God-ward, he is honest ; but, towards man,
rather twistical."
Mr. S., being hired by a neighbor to help move a family to the west,
&tole several things, axes and other things, as he could lay hands on
them along the road; and some things from his employer ; and yet,
all the way along, he talked reliGion to those he met, both in the bar-
rooms, and stopping them by the way-side.
DigitiZed by GoogIe
..
• •
..
•
• • .
3l6 I>EP&AVlTT• 16
.
Other stmilar cues have been reported in the Jounal. (See thai
ofthe girl who would steal, and also that of Mr. N., of U., who pray·
ed so fervently sabbath days, and wns converted by every re-rival that
came along, a'nd yet sought and took every opportunity to cheat his
neighbors-both of which are given in Vol. IV.] Henry A. Wise
is both a zealous Christian, 4nd yet a great duellist. Cases analogous
to these occur in e•ery conttnunity, and m nearly every church.
Nor are these pious sinners hypocrites. They are sincere in both
their sinfulness and their religion. And the reason why some men
are both great sinners, and yet great religionists, is two fold : first,
Rome of their animal propensities are powerfully developed, along
with some st~ong religious organs, which act by turns, and thus ren·
der them very zealous in religion at one time, and yet very immoral at
other times.
Much has been said of late in denunciation of those ministers who
have been guilty of immoral conduct, as if they had all along been
guilty of the most consummate hypocricy from the commencement of
their career until the disclosure of their criines. This is by no mean!
neceesarily the case. They may have been truly religious, sincerely
godly, at the very time in which they were indulging unbridled lust;
for it is possible, it is not uncommon, for the prop~nsities ·to act at thJ
same time that the moral faculties are in exercise, and even in combi-
nation therewith, thereby producing animal religion. Secondly
their organs may differ, are likely to differ, from your own-causing
them to regard that as allowable which your organs condemn. Be
charitable, therefore. Put the best constTUction possible on the faults,
foibles, errors, selfishness, sinfulness of yoH · .,,now-men. But, more
of this hereafter. ·
SECTiflN IV.
DEt'RAVlTY.-ITS ORIGIN-ITS EXTENT-ITS CONDITIONS--ITS CAUSES-
ITS REMEDY.
HAVING proved the existence of sin, as well as shown its rationale,
we pnss naturally to consider its origin ; its extent, whether total or
partial ; its conditions ; its causes ; and how to obviate them, and thus
dimini~h it-questions on which the religious world have been divid-
ed, and yet questions which the happiness of man requirea to be
DigitiZed by GoogIe
..
•
• •
162 DE!.II.AVlTY.-1'1"8 ORIGIR. 317
aettlcd. What, then, saith the nature of man, touching these points7
First, its totcJity; or what is called total depravity; crigiul .n-.
. &c. I will not attempt to state, refute, or establish any of the num·
berleea views of this doctrine entertained by the different ·religio"
sects : but shall proceed to show the phrenological doctrine touchim
this poinl It knows nothmg about any other original sin than thn
contained in the doc:.rines ofhereditary descent, presented in the last anc.
present volumes of the Phrenological Journal. That the iniquities of
parenl8-the violations of both the natural and the moral law~e
trp,mmitted ~ ""~.rents to chil~ren, it fully establishes. If a parent,
or a succession ci parentS, violate the laws of physiology so as to
induce a consuw.ptive· tendency, the children are born with ~t dis.
ease actually fasttl.!led upon them. So of cancerous, apoplectic, bilious,
nervous, and ot!:~r affections, and indeed, of all physical diseases, and
of all predispositions. A similar principle applies to the transmis·
sion of moral maladies, be it insanity, or inordinate love of money, Ol'
love of liquor, or revenge, or irritability, or lust, or· deception, and
~ith all forma and degrees of sinful predispositions. And so also of
iengm of life, health, strength, buoyancy of spirits, and also kindness,
amiableness, integrity, devotion, talents of all kinds. So, indeed, <{
of all the qualities and tendencies of our nature. The conditions
goodness, badness, sinfulness, virtue, of the parents, and inded of t}u·
ancestors for generationa back, effect the nature, goodness, badness.
of the children, to giVe them originally a good or a bad tone or dire~
tion.• Like parents, like children, is its mouo, as it certainly is tht
motto of truth. But,,about any other kind or degree of original sin,
or total, innate depravity, it knows nothing. It says, that the sin of
the first parents of o~r race, is capable of tainting all their posterity
-"the sins of the parents are visited upon their children unto the
third and fourth generations of the disobedient," (when the race runs
out,) but, otherwise, unto thousands of the disobedient. Aside frore
this original sin, it ]mows no other.t Still, it does not positively say·
there is no other. But if there be, it is a revelation of the Bible, not
of Phrenology.
• For a full exposition of the doctrine of the ltereditary iuftnences, the reader
ia referred to the Author's work f!ntitled, "Hereditarv Descent." its laws and
f'8cts. •
tIn conversing recently with a Dutch Reformed, though formerly Congrep
nona!, clergyman, on hereditary descent, he stated it 1111 his full belief that origi
Jllll ein, or innate depravity. consisted in this doctrine of hereditary descent, and
waa explained by it. No one who knows him, will for a moment doubt hil
" tolal" Orthodoxy aa to Calvinism. I alao heanl it from a staunch orthocloz
o,9,,,zedbyGoo Ie
-818 ITS EXTENT AND COND1TION8• 163
.Another plinciple of Phrenology deserves at least mention here,
tiloough it may not bear much upon the original sin advocated by
orthodoxy. , It is tllls· Every primary faculty of man, i8 good, and ita
normal, coostitutional fpnction, is virtuous. Man's original nature is·
right.
The depravity of man, however, Phrenology certainly recognize•,
in the fact that the natural exercise-and function of all his faculties are
more or less perverted and distorted in neady or quite all mankind.
. Few, if any,.live up to their original natures, or are any thing near as
good in c/,aracter as they are in their devel~mems. The perverted
and excessive action of the faculties in children is much less than in
· adults, and their heads are better. No one can look upon a healthy
child born of really good parents, without seeing much to admire-
very much that is sweet, !ovqly, angelic. A man's business and cir-
cumstances tend greatly to increase his virtue or vice, as do also his
physical habits, what he eats and drinks, teJDperance and intemperance,
UBOciates, &c. &c. The artificial state of society in which we live,
the i~ducements and temptations to sin which every where beset Ul!1
the universal scrambling after money, and rus_h for place$ of profit and
power, corrupting exampl~>,a1 wrong education, and thousands of simi- •
lar causes that are co~tinuous and powerful in their action, greatly
eahance this depr!lvity1 if they do not cause much of it, by distorting
and perverting the natur~ and conduct of man. But, as to either the
innate or the total depravity of man, Phrenology is clear and demon-
strative. It says that every primary faculty of man, as originally con-
stituted, is good and right, and that the legitimate exercise of any and
every faculty, upon its own appropriate object, and in a proper degree,
is virtuous-that no faculty is constitutionally bad ; that all are good
i" themselves, and in their primitive action and function, and that de-
pravity forms no constituent or neeessarily accompanying part of the
nature of man, but is a perversion and violation of that nature. Far-
ther than the hereditary descent of qualities from parents to their de-
scendants, already alluded to, Phrenology knows nothing of map's
depravity, either total or innate. If this fully established doctrine of
Phrenology is found to embrace or explain the doctrines of "original
pulpit, and an Andover educated clergyman in June 1844, and also in a recent
conversation, found it to coincide with the views of another leading Congrega-
tional clergyman in New England. Yet, whether thie sentiment be orthocloay
Cll' not, is left for others to say. I give it merely aa 1M opiltNirt, and leave it tD
odaen for consideration.
Digitized by Coogle
•
..
·.
164 CAUSE OF DEPR.A'VlTY. Sit
sin" or "total depravity," by showing that children inherit from their
parents particular predispositions, propensities, tas{es, aptitudes, pas-.
sions, t~ndencies, and mental and physical qualities, then Phrenology
may possibly be said to recognize these doctrines.
At all events, children do inherit depraved propensities from their
parents, and also virtuous predispositions. Still, these hereditary ten- ·
dencies may be counteracted. Though insanity, which consists in th6
over or exalted action of one or more faculties, and liability to lie
wrought up to this exalted pitch of derangement, be hereditary; yet,
by avoiding those causes of excitement which are calculated to devel-
ope and increase this naturally ~xcessive susceptibility~ as we'l as by
· applying causes calculated to allay constitutional excitability, and to
soothe and relax; no one, however crazy his abcestors may have been:
need become deranged. Indeed, t4i11 very susceptibility, instead of
degenerating into insanity, if properly managed, is calculated to ang-
ment his talents and happiness ; for derangement is only the excess of
that very action whieh, when healthy, gives talent apd enjoyment.
If this be construed so as to militate against the doctt:ine of innate
depravity and original sin, still it is clearly a doctrine of Phrenology,
and as such I state it and leave it. Whatever other doctrines con-
flict with it are erronoous. It is·not necessary for Phrenology to con-
tain this doctrine of original sin, only that it should not conflict with
it; for, M already observed, it is not foundecl in the original nature of
man, and therefore is not a doctrine of either Phrenology or Natural
Theology. Its advocates claim it to be a doctrine of Revelation, and
regard it as one ofthe doctrines of salvation by Christ. To this claim,
Phrenology willingly accedes.
One origin, one great procuring cause of human depravity, is to be
found in a disordered physiology. In my work on Education, p. 94;
I have shown, fully and eonclusively, that there exist the most inti-
mate relations between the body and the base of the brain, or the or- ·
gans of the propensities--that whatever stimulates the former, natu-
.rally, necessarily excites the latter. This law is unquestionably a
timdamental principle of the nature of man. I have also shown in
this work, p. -, that the ascendency of the moral sentiments and in·
tellect, is one of the leading conditions of virtue, while the action of the
propensities without the direction and government of intellect and the
moral sentiments, is sinfuL Now put that and that tt.-gether, that
physical inflammation and disease often excite the propensities till they
predominate, and thus induce sinfulness, and we see that physical
ualth is indispensable to moral purity; while one p;olific causr of
•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
• !
.. •. .
.·. ' .
.. .
. 32Q ITS R1!1JiE»I• . 1G6
•hat widely ettended depravity ofour race is tO. be looked for in the
. diet and pkyiical habits 9f mtlnkind-in the enormous quantities oi
ardent spirits, ale, beer, flesh; cucumbers, hot bread and butter, &c. -
&c., .co~umed. That alco~olic drinks ~ly enhance the sinfulness
and s. .
1ng of the drinker, is a matter of tact which stares WI all ·
ru..lly ~the face. Tliat it does so by disordering the physiology, is·
self-evide~ ,. In no other Way is it possible for matter to effect mind..
Then why- should not aU physical disorder produce moral disorder ~
Indeed, I regard sin as not unfrequently the product of a disordered
brain, while the normal function of a healthy brain, is al'IJJQ,ys virtuous.
Iregard flesh as highly corrupting to the blood, as highly inflammatory,
and thereby, as d\rectly Cfilculated to inflame the base of the brain;
thereby producing _"ino.-al, impurity. ~n is a pkgsical, as well as a
moral being. He is undeljl&he ~ominion of physical laws, as well as
of those that are moral. Why, then, should not the violation of the
physical laws be as sinful as that of the moral, and vice versa of their
obedi~nce ~ Indeed, the moral cannot possibly be obeyed unless the
physical are first obeyed. Virtue and vice, sin and holiness, happi-
ness and misery, depend far more on the conditions of the body~n
health and sickness, what, and how much we eat and drink, how
much, and where we sleep, whether we exercise or not, &c. &c., than
is generally supposed. A child .is more cross and fretful, and there-
fore more depraved, when a little unwell, than when not so. Eating
green fruit, therefore, or doing anything else to impair·Ms health, in-
duces this fretfulness, and therefore augments depra~ity. Similar
illustrations innumerable, apply to adults-to the whole human family.
And the way to reform men morally, is to reform them physically.
But the principle is probably clear, and the inference roost important.
Let me not be understood, however, to ascribe all sin to physical
diseases. Volition also enters into the composition of sin. An act
cannot be called culpable unless it was done voluntarily. This is a
matter of consciousness. The motive, as well as the act committed,
goes far towards rendering the doer criminal or innocent We can-
not feel really guilty for any act, however wrong in itself, when our
intentions were right Nor can we help feeling condemned for an act
good in itself, but committed \vith wrong intentions. When we have
injured others unintentionally, we may feel sorry, but we cannot feel
condemned. Conscientiousness can act only in conjunction with •
the power of will
Intellect, is also a necessary ingredient in accountability. An idiot
cannot be morally accourmble, for, by supposition, he has no intellect
to guide his choice.
166 PUN18BMENT.
So de;angement diminishi(B accountability : and so doe~r al~ lhos¢'
physical disorders already gpoken of, 118 inducing sin(ul actions. As
far as they affect us they are upon a par with derangement. . ' '
.In short, the great· Phrenol~gicallaw i~ this. As the even, unifoim'
action of all the fa~tilties,· constitutes virtue, and also gives us correct·
ideas of what'is right, so our accountability is greater or less, accord-
ing as'all our physical an,d moral faculties are more'.or less perfectly
d~veloped~. The parable of the tlile~~· is. a happy illustration ef th~~·
same doctrine. OUr moral accountab1hty mcreases as does our moral .
and intellectu~l capa,city. , In Phrenological language : the more fullJ ,
and evenly developed our faculties, the more material has conscien~e
with which to operate, and ther¥ore the more accountable the subject,
and tnce versa. ThiS is the phren~logical principle. Every reador
can run it out rn i_
ts 'ramified applications for himseit
SECTION V.
HAvufG allelJ.dydemonstrated the ex~tence of right and wrong, orily
~er niunes for Yirtue and sinfulness, it remains to discuss the rewards
of virtue and the punishment tifsin. It has all along been implied, it
has been even demonstrated, that goodness is rewardable, and sin pun·
ishable. That is, obeying anr and every bnv of our being, a1ways
induces a given kind and amount of pleasure as a reward, while vi~
lating them inevitably brings down upo~ th_e transgressor, and upon aii
affected thereby, a given kind and degree of pain, as a penalty con8e
quent upon such violations. In the very act ofsuch obedience and in
all its consequences, to ourselves, to all con~emed, we enjoy, whilst m
and by the transgression, and in all its consequences, we suffer. .This
is a certain, uniform, ·universal fact. The penalty goes along with the
transgression. The reward, with the obedience. Each are Jirikeil
together as causes and .effects, and are therefore certain. They at~
inseparable each from the other. It is not possible to sin without silt~
fering, or to suffer without somebody haVing sinned to cause it. N6r
ia it possible'? do right without receiVi~g pleas.ure therein ourselv~
and also making happy as far as the act m quest1on at all affects oth~fi;
· Fartherm<>re. Different kinds and degrt:es of reWa.rds and puni4h-
ment accompany the obedience arid 'Violation of the several Ia~
And these are propqrtionate to the value or ~portance ot the
• o;g1t1zed by Coogle
I
I
167
cbeyed or broken. As, the greater any blessing, the greater the Clll'le
of its perversion, so the obedience or violation of the several laws, for
both amount in fact to the same thing.
Not only does this doctrine of proportion exist between the impor-
tance of the several laws and the penalty of their infraction, and vice
versa of their obedience, but there is something in the very charac-
ter of the pain or pleasure, analogous to the nature of the law broken
or obeyed. Thus the obedience or violation of the natural laws, bring
physical happiness or suffering, while the violation or obedience of the
mental or moral laws, brings mental or moral suffering or pleasure.
The violation of the law of reason, induces error., and this error plm-
ishes us in a variety of ways, according to the nature of the error im-
bibed; and vice versa of correct reasoning. Obeying the law of
friendship, induces pleasure in that department of our nature, and in
all its dependencies, and vice versa of its infraction.
But this whole range of thought is condensed in this-the self-acting
of the various laws. Every obedience to law rewards itself. Every
violation of law punishes itself. In the·very act of obedience consists
the pleasure. In and by the transgression occurs the pain. Hence,
the analogy between the two on the one hand, and the pleasures of
obedience, or the pains of its disobedience on the other. Hence, also,
the universality, of the rewards and punishments.
This doctrine of the self-acting of all the laws of our being, shows
how it is that we shall be punished, both here and hereafter. It repu-
diates the doctrine of a literal hell of fire and brimstone: we shall be
as it were, chained to ourselves--chained to the c!taracters we form
here, and to their consequences. This will coustitute all the hell we
shall ever experience. Heaven consists in doing right, and heU in
doing wrong. Both are conditions, rather than places. They are in
us, and form a part of us ; so that we need not wait for them hereafter.
. ·. , Not that Phrenology repudiates the doctrine of a heaven and a hell
hereafter, but it shows what constitutes heaven, namely, obedience to
the laws of our being, and what makes a hell, namely, the violatio"
of these laws, both here and also hereafter.
~in : virtue and vice are aelf-pe?']letuatmg and self-progressiu..
The Phrenological doctrine of the increase of organs by exercise, and
of their diminution by inaction, establishes this point beyond a doubt.
As already shown, Phrenology establishes the doctrine of a future
atate of being, and that to us, as us-to us in our oum appropriate per·
sonality; and as the same beings then that we are now ; for the argu·
m.ent already shown to prove a tuture ll!tlte of existence, when applied
DigitiZed by GoogIe
168
to our own personal existence, also proves that personal emter.ee-
proves that we ourselves here, shall be ourselves hereafter--shall be the
same beings here 88 there, except important changes ; yet these chan·
ges will not affect our identity, or our personality, or our existence tu
o.rselt~es. That is, we shall be the same beings there that we are
here, except changes analogous to those that occur between infiincy
and old agP.
Since, then, we shall exi~t hereafter in our own appropriate per·
sons, and be the same beings there 88 here, we must of course be mo-
Nl(?J accountable there 88 well 88 here, and also, as SUch, punishable.
Otherwise, one fundamental condition of our present existence will be .
wanting, which will destroy our identity and personality. Now, add
to this the Phrenological doctrine of progression in virtue and vice-
the doctrine that the natural tendency of goodness is to grow better,
and of depravity to become worse, and we have all the principal mate-
rials of all the heaven and hell that await us hereafter. What influ·
ences may be thrown around us to induce (not compel) us to choose
the good and eschew the wrong, Phrenology saith not. These influ.
ences may be ve1y powerful, and be calculated to make the good bet-
ter and the bad worse, or to make all better, and of course the more
happy; but I am aware of but one Phrenological principle that bOO:n
on this point. That principle is, that as sin consists in the predomi-
. nance of the propensities, and as death is likely to weaken them, per·
haps destroy many of them, and also relieve us of all those causes of
depravity which come thro~h a disordered physiology, the propen·
- sities will not then predominate. Therefore 1ve sbll cC88e to sin ;
'eease to suffer. Still, there is too much of theory about both thea&
opposing inferences to r~nder either flemomtrative. But I cannot
resist the conviction, to which Phrenology brings us by several roads,
that 88 long 88 we exist, that is forever, we shall.reap the rewards of
our conduct in this life. In the chapter on hope, when showing the
juxta position of hope and conscientiousness, I think I deroonstrated
a principle that bears on this point. Still the principle being before the
reader, he will draw his own deductions. Let it qe borne in mind that
this work purports to give, not the theology of its aulkor, but of Pltre-
nology; supposing this science to be true. lndiv-l opinions should ·
. have no place in the work. The author has sedulously endeavored to
deduce every doctrine presented.in these pages legitimately from some
fully established principle of Phrenology.
Let it also be distinctly remembered, however, a8 all aiong implied,
that Phrenology teaches NATURAL theology om.Y--the ~oral NATUU
•
..
PENITENCE AND PJJUlON, 189
and OUlliSiitutxoN of man ALO~nd not the doctrine or mlln8 ofaal-
Yatlon by Christ. Though it teaches the doctxine of penitence uncl
pardon, on which salvation by Christ is founded, yet it neither reveala
.a SaVIor, nor shows what we must do to be saved. The one specific
· object of Revelation, appears to me to be, to •re.,eal a Savior and dis·
close the means of salvation, .not to furnish a cocle of morals for the
guidance of man's condt~ct. ..Th-e mllofAdam and salvation by Christ..
l)ccurred after the #attWI et)Pn was completed, and are extraneouJ
to that nature ; so• Ph'&nology, which unfolds the constitution ancl
raws of man's nature, eould not have any specific bearing on theee
points. The code of Pluenology was sealed before a Savior was
needed, 110 that those doctxines connected with salvation, such as the
doctrines of ~e trinity, atonement, total depravity, special divine infiu·
enees, and kindred doctrines, are all left to be developed by revelation.
For Phrenology to cla.iiD their revelation, would be plagillrism, and< .
· derogatory to the Bible, to reveal which is its main design. Whether
Phren«>logy developes principles relative to the atonement a( offences
by a third person or not, I know not, but I believe that this also is left
to be 1evealed by the Bible. •
SECTION VI.
PENITENCE AND PARDON,
"Then came Peterto him azw!said, Lord bow ofteusball mybrothersin agaiDa
me 8Dd I forgive him f Till seven times? Jesus aith imto him, I eay not UJlto
t~ee, uatilseven times, but, until s:&VIUITT TIXJ:S ~even."
IN.morall!, the doctrine of penitence and pardon. is one of great im·
. por.tance-is even fundamentaL It IS also undecided. Christianity
• . maint!lioa, or rather is basetl in the doctxine of the forgiveness of sin,
.or of ·atoaement and salvation by Christ. Infidelity scouts this doc-
• trine on the ground that it directly contravenes every law of nature, and
a,gues that the viola1ion of every law of nature induces its own penalty,
~ w1ille its obeernmce ~ with it its own reward---that this doctxine
of penitence and forgiveness shields the guilty from deserved punillh·
ment, allowinr them to violate the inexorable laws of their being, and
yet escape their penaltiee-and there is nothing in sorrow for sin atall
calculated·to ward off ita fea:rful pplties-that it a man take areeDia
. .
.
•
.. '
• ' ~ ' !
- • DigI IZed by GoogIe
, ·
ffO
orJe.~ aDd.·.heiDOmentefterwarda is deeply pemtentt1se.f, yet
thaHbia,penitenee dof:e:·not -in the least stay the effeeta,o£ the:d.ny
~iaoa--&btt eTen:when .
we,sin ·ignorantly,·the·effeet lB· the.aame·anw
the penaUy·811l~1 and tbaHherefoJe.this doctrine oHorgi:reneaa·of8iQ,.
is,utterly unphiloaophieal, and right in the- velf teeth·of·all that we
know to be true in nature toudung this'point
And•now1Christian1whet&is iliyanswer1 A" thus IIlith the Lor<i"
will not•do, for the infidel does ·not admifthe tnltb. of revelation, but'
~'llires•an• &DSWerdra.Wil ·from: ~l and'founded in the oonetitu·
tiop,of ~ .or in SOm& fully·eatalilished moral principle; It may
safely b&aaid that nature·D.o·wher~ furniahes :atiy:evidence·ofrthisleacL.
ing;Ghriltian.doctrine; but so far ·from it;.is·directly opposed to it, be+
cause:her Datutaland phyaiologieal, as well iiB moral laws, are intmo-
~ablft, and·the paniahment attached to.them 'riolation. url«h. The·
Cb.ristiali·ill nonplus8eiL Nothing in IllitW!e•tdfcbdtt him any ailt, but
ev.etythibg iugaibat him;. Phrenology DOw:•kindly stepe fol'Wa1d·to
hia-~.a~· ~:to:Infidelity;."·Ceai!e" thytriuinplw,t1
boutil)g, .tOrchili
Ghtilwmr dottriae 'baa it&- eoilnterput in· the namrre:of ~~'· &4 qf•
the functions ofconscientiousness is to be sony'wheJl•weIll'~ oottrinctltt
ofhaving done wrong, and another is forgiveness of the penitent. I
have examined fens o£ thousands of heads, and am plain to say, that
large conscientiousness not only experiences deep remorse and eontri- •
tion when sensible of having sinned, but alto freely and fully forgives-
,the penitent ; but, with combativeness·aDii destructiveness also large, it
never t.Dill forgive the sinner till he shows penitence. TID .he breab
down with sorrow for sib, it pursues him with unrelenting moral ,in·
diguatioa, and fhe mor.
e so the larg~r tUJ o;pll~ \~\, th$,.QI.Q~ettt it
dilwn~& penitence; it SllJ8~ " l forgive,"·" go tby way,. sin DQ ~~
It is not in the heart of a conscientious and beneTo.l~ man to punish
an erring but penitent sinner, who is humbly supplicating pardon for
sins committed. U.ijtil it d0i!IW.vel.'tbi.s1
peaile....,hoi11Wer,.it_,.,
"Let la.w have its course. He W~, Qil hiti pumilaent it....
served. Let it be·iruticted witho\i :'lderey:'1 Bat tae very U..tut· ia· . •
dilcovertt sorrow·fot lim,'its aword of·juatice is ·sheathedJ ha priftlt. ,
tive feelings are subdued. Its moral indigilatidn is ·ditarlned llQil •
. smdlhered, anhueceed.d by full fOrgiveness. Blrt l nner yet Nw• ,
fo'lltl.d tlie ·man With small oomcientiousness,.aod hirp~Wivea• :
8DiCl deetlilctiYeness, who showed signs either«' peniteinte for ·ltte·*'*
llfnt, or oftbrgi1-ene811 ofothers. A. ltOty ofollowflt 86J1tefor alL. At
Ciam.llridge;•in 1838, I eai:Ji.ined·the head:of~·e14~leptttatfl ~· ': .
.w.OfPDbation. 'l'heUight eono.mg,'be~eema·ldmaelf......... ,
. .. : ""' .
· •,
... ... ·) .
..
•
'Dig~·,zed.byGOog{e>
926 1T JB <iDB. D'OTY-OUB. PJUVJI.EGE-TO FORGIVE THE PENtl'D'l', Jft
by .a friend, whom he aceordirlgly cf.allensed: · ~ friend apolo~,
"But what does your apology have to do with my wounded l&onor t
'Does your sorrow atone for your insult1 No I Apology or no
-,.pology1 I will !&ave satisfaction.'' lf·benevolence be large, it may
stay the uplifted hand ofvengeance; but the old grudge will still rankle
in the bosom. Acordial recon<:iliation is" impossible, however hum-
'Jle and P<lnitent the transgressor. But large conscientiousness fully
and freely forgives, freely restores the guilty to confidence and affeC-
tion, and even bestows increased favors upon him. •
The doctrine ofpenitence and pardon then, so essential to the lilaiD'
tenance of Christianity, is proved by Phrenology to form a part·antt
oarcel of the nature of man; arid to be consistent with that nature:.
True, Phrenology says nothing about forgiveness and s8lvation bJ
Cl&rist. It proves that the great element or principle of forgiveness ·is
'lot only not inconsistent with the nature of man, but is actually en-'
~ted on that nature. It proves the basis or ground toork of this
~hristian doctrine, and leaves it for the Bible to say l&oto and by tbW
Ne are to be forgiven. Overthrow- this doctrine of forgiveness', an'tf
Christianity is overthrown, and even razed from its very foundations;
but establish it, and you thereby establish the fundamental basis'of fdf!;
giveness by Christ Phrenology, as already seen, proves th~'doc;
trine of forgiveness to be a functfon of conscientiousness; arid tti bts
engrafted in the nature of man,·and then leaves it for the Bible totell
as hOtD we are to be saved from the conPeq_uences of sin. Tell rlii,
Christian, art thou sufficiently thankful for this timely aid 1 Wiltthbu·
not embrace and kiss thy twin sister and thy handmaid 1 How Uh•
grateful is this nineteenth century Christianity (falSely so called;) iii
thus turning ilitw1n siSter out of door8 t · ·
Let me not be unde~~ to~,. that we ca1l sin and·noi be pumdiel
at all. But not t(/ the.f¥ll ...l~· In and bt) tl&i very act 'of tfa1W.
gression, w(,~: But «uit ftffering often continues'throughout tfliii
life. Anil,:~hat i8 tn,ore; th& .
.....tendency of sin iS to aujftlem
i#Jelf. &.t pen~lee {Jiclu&ls ~-alwayS, necessarily, .and thae.
both arrests dllf~a._o't''tbt 'tfid~Wg~iori, nnd conseqbentfy ataya
' the penaltf t11isi wo'tild 'Ctth~ ftd'\;e occurred, as well liS tenda
'-»wards heaiilg1llJ ~~eJrWt irilid~;
This princip~.howa thlt it. ~ y~fduty, our privilege, to forgive the
penitent Our fellQw men. ~-Q_; wrong others. At first, we feel
clilposed to pursue them·Yilh t1ae·u}>liftecl ·hand of panishm~l Btl
this principle stays that hlmd. It teaches t1s that to " err is human l ti
l,u-aive, diVine.'· 'J..et him that _iB without iin, caat the fitst *iii~.•
•
DigitiZed by GoogIe
172 WE IBQULD FORGIVE THE PJ;:NITENT. 327
Sinful man should notbe censorious. Why is he so mn:h so1 Do
they who condemn other~ thlnk they are perfect 1 Should not they
forgive who pray to be forghren·1 How many, themselves no incon-
siderable sinners, eseay to pray "Forgive us our sins as we fctgive
those who trespass against us," and yet are unsparing not in their ceo-
sore ~erely, but in their ceaseless condemnation of those wh<? are even
no worse than they a:re. Th~ is not Phrenology. It is not Bible.
It is not Christianity. FoRGIVENEss was one of the greatest lessons
taught by the great Teacher and Exemplar of mankind. "If thine
enemy hunger, feed him." "He that smiteth thee on the one cheek, .
tnm to him the other also." This is Christianity. This is Phreno-
logy. And he IS the best Christian who is the most forgiving. One
of the very best of men it was my happy lot ever to know, was one of
the most forgiving. He will take an erring brother by the hand and
tell him: "sin no more," but not cast him off because he had fallen.
Above all things, because a man has one" easily besetting sin," should
·he not be condemned as a bad man in al. thmgs. And yet the general
say is, " He that will lie, will steal" As though a man could' not be
guilty of one sin without being black-hearted throughout, and given to
all manner of wickedness. One propensity may be strong, yet others
not so, and the moral organs generally large. That propensity mny
ove.rcome him, and yet he be at heart good, and correct in all other
respects. Or, under some powerful temptation, he may give way for a
single moment, only to repent and abhor himself in sackcloth and ashes
therefor, and yet be cast out of society, and by those, too, who call
themselves Christians; though a rose by any other name would smell
as sweetly. Especially should this forgiving spirit be manifested to-
wards the young. They often sin from impulse merely. Forgive
and restore them, and they will reform, whereas, if not forgiven, but
blamed and cast off, they would plunge again into the vortex of sin
and misery, from which they might otherwise have been saved.
. Look again at the practical utility of the application of this principle
•of forgiveness. As long as the drunkard was cast out of society for
being a drunkard, and treated with contempt therefor, he continued
to drink. But when he was taken by the hand of brotherly feeling by
Washingtonianism,• and re~oted to .J.is lost standing in society, and
" By many good men, and even Temperance advocates, Washingtonianism ie
held tn light esteem. They say, " Oh yes, it has done good to be ailre, but, but,
bat." Allow me to say, that ne!lll)yevery distincuve feature of Washingtooiau.·
ilm ia founded in a principle of the nature of man. Its forgiving spirit pr~mi­
aeotly. Ita whole1011led benevolence. Its brotherly feeling. Its practical
328 TBlS CHRIS£'1A.."( VmTtJE SHOULD BE CULTIVATED.
made again to feel that he 'l.D/.1$ a inan,he reformed. But twit aWash·
ingtonian of having been a drunklud, and you take the most effectual
method possible to re-plunge bim into that altyss of ruin from which
he would otherwise have escaped. As gteat a reform is yet destine((
to be effected among the daughters of sin, as is now in progress among
the inebriates. It cannot be that this whole class of unfortunates must
perish. Benevolence will not permit it. Humanity, flushed with the
triumphs site is'now achieving for the intemperate, aa well aa in other
departments of philanthropy, will not allow so numerous, so miserable
a class of hunum beings, to perish in their sins. And in this greatest·
of works she will not be buffeted. Success will even incretUe upon
her. But, how-by what weapons-is she to achieve her conquests 1
By forgiveness. By love. Now, when a woman sins, be she ever so
penitent, be it that her seducer is almost wholly in fault, as is almost
always the case, be it even that she sinned under the most solemn.pro-
mises of marriage, or by mock marriage, still, she is cast out of" gen-
teel'' society. All the respectahles point at her the finger of scorn.
Even so-called Christians are loudest in her condemnation. Every
friend forsakes her. All employment forsakes her. Theugh willing
to earn her living by any occupation however laborious, however me- •
nial, yet even that is takeiJ from her. .She must starve, or else live com-
pletely abandoned, however repulsive such a life. Nobly, immortal
Mrs. Childs! hast thou done by Amelia Norman. Beyond.all praise,
thy conduct! Worthy of all imitation, thy example I And it wiU he
follO'Wed. It will rescue from " hell" thousands who must otherwise ·
perish in untold misery I A worthy sister of the great apostle and
martyr of moral reform t Go oo. Persevere, 'ye sisters of ~oral re-
form. Teach men practical forgiveness. Rather re-teach thern ;
for, by precept upon precept, by parable after parable,* by example
after example, did Christ Jesus inculcate, enforce, command, his disci-
ples to exercise this pre-eminently Christian virtue. I long to see the
1Vashingtonian movement extended to the moral reform cau.se. Won·
ders, will this forgiving principle work. Let its virtues be tried. Let
this rarest of Christian virtues be cultivated. And i~easurably will
the fruits thereof gladden mankind, as well as fill the forgiving soul to
efFects BDd practical workings. Its narration. Hardly any thing interests the
human mmd moro: convinces, argues, persuades, instructs, or calls out all the
faculties of the human mind, more thannarratjtle,factl ,experie11Cc1, storibs, &:c.
And it is destined to teach even the learned many a le11110n ofhuman nature whicla
metaphysics does not reveal.
• See Matthew :u:i.
Digitized by Coogle
·.
ata utmost capacity with a Joy which it hath not.entered into the heart
{){man to conceive.
These, and,otherfUJld,une~tal ,princriples,,develo}¥ld by Phrenology, •
both expose ~e ~tter folly of sec~rianiam, and reveal its remedy.
Its disciples can hrdly fail.to agree in .Jlllltters of religious belief and
practice ; for. i~ problems.@d .coroJ.Iwies are so reasonable, are eD
forced so clearly, as literally to compel belief 'J;'!'lclng the worst .sec-
tarian bone of contention that exists-that of originalsin, or total de- •
pravity-letus see h1>w this science will bring harmony out of Babel.
This doctrine is by fill .the most knotty point of controversy that
divides.the warring sects from each other, and separates them all from
infidelity. Payne assails this doctrine of nnputed sin with all the ri-
dicule, all the opprobrium, which his satirical pen could command.
He even arraigns that part of the vel)erable decalogue which declares
that God will visinhe iaiquities of the fathers upon the children unto
the third and fourth generations of them that hate him, but showing
mercy unto thousands of them that love him and keep his command•
ments. He argues, that this horrible doctrine of punishing innocena
children fer the- sins of their guilty parents is an outrage upon every
• principle Dfjustice and ~nevolence, a,s well as direct!y at war with thu
whole knowncharacter of Qod ; and hef!ce, that .God. could not btt
the author either of the decalogue, or of the Bible. Many even ot'
those who believe the Bible, side with him far enough to discard thct
doctrine of imputed sin. Unitarians, Universalists, and even Method'
ists, reject its orthodox version: "In Adam's fall we sinned all." ·
Even Dr. Taylor avows that we are not punishable for the sin of
A~; and this is. substantially the new school doctrine. This sin·
gle point, and those doctrines that grow out of it, occasion more secta· .
rian discord than proba})ly all others united, it being the great divid·
mg line between them.· Now, if Phrenology can so far solve even
· this problem as to restore harmony of belief here, it can surely recon·
·eile minor differences, and calm the troubled waters of sectarian strife.
This doctrine of original sin, is set at rest by the phrenological doc·
trine of hereditary descent, or the transmission of qualities from gene·
. ration tD generation as far as this matter can be traced, which is often
for ten generations ; and, in the case of love of property and facility
. of acquiring it, the religious sentiment, mechanical ingenuity, and su•
~ior natural abilities, it can be traced from Abraham, all along down
throughout the whole JewiSh nation, te the present time. The law by
whtch children inherit both the virtues and the vices of their ancestors,
running back even to the beginning of time, is demonstrated by this
teience. (See the Author's work, entitled, " Hereditary Descent,'' io
I .
..
•
•
COilelotliJOJi' 01' JI.B¥ICIN.
which this transmission is shown to appertain ta the whole man, both
mental and physical-to diseases of both body and mind-virtues an.:l
vices included.) Now, in this doctrine is embodied all the original
sin known to Phrenology, if not to man. Nor is this version of that
doctrine repulsive to either reason or justice, for it is as right that chi!
dren inherit the mental and moral virtues, vices, and capabilities
of their parents, as their lands and property. Payne, then, was too
fast. So are all those who declaim against this doctrine. The fun-
damental doctrine of Orthodoxy is therefore sustained by Phrenology ;
and yet this doctrine is so modified by this its only true version as to
be objectionable to none-to be readily admitted by all. Payne him- • ·
self would have been cornpelled to admit, would cheerfully have admit
ted, both the doctrine itself and its utility, and even its absolute neus-
sity. This principle of hereditary descent would have compelled him
to eat his own words. It will compel assent to this Calvinistic doc- 1
trine as thus modified. Still, while it sustains the fundamental doc- ~
trine of orthodoxy, it materially modifies it; so much so, that now it
both compels our assent and calls forth our admiration, whereas then
it outraged both our justice and our reason. Thus does Phrenology
harmonize even infulelity and oTthodoxy, and that too on th!l very •
point in \vhich they difler most 'videly and fundamentally. And in •
doing this, it will settle by mutual consent many a minor point now
controverted. It will also essentially illustrate other orthodox doctrines
based on this point, thereby bringing all into the same (and that the
right) ground concerning them. Similar remarks will be found to
apply to nearly or quite every sectarian doctrine now in dispute. A •
great religious peace-maker will Phrenology be found to be. But, •
why particularize? for ifit can harmonize this the greatest and mostfun- '
damental difference so easily and perfectly, surely it can the lesser onfls.
To recapitulate the numerous and striking coincidences between the
religious doctrines taught, and practices required by Phrenology, and
those enjoined in the Bible, is scarcely necessary, for every intellec •
tual reader must have observed them in passing. To take a few !l~
samples: The Bible enjoins continually and positively, the worship •
of God. So docs Phrenology, in its pointing out the existence of ven- '
eration, and the fact of its existence rendering its exercise ~mperative
-our highest duty, our greatest privilege. And the attributes of God •
as pointed out by Phrenology, harmonize beautifully with those con- •
tained especially in the New Testament-such as his benevolence, his
JuStice, his wisdom, his paternity, his spirituality, his firmness, his so-
vereignty, &c. As the Bible requires us to do good, and represent&
charity as the greatest of the Christian virtues, and our great Exam·
.. .
..
•
•
.•
DigitizedbyGoqgle ~
•
•
•
•
•
.
.
•
•
176 CQJ:CLUSION or :a.ELIGIO!f. 381 •
pier as tD!olly devoted to the cause of humanity; so Phrenology also •
.incubtes the same sentiment, by poin~g out the existeD.e~ of bene·• '
volence, and our consequent duty to exercise it
Both the Bible and Phrenology recognize ~e doctrine of spirit11.4l
ity as appertaining botll. to man and to angels, as well as to God. See the
whole tenor of the Bible touehing this point, especially its requisitionof
flrith, a$ compared with those views of spiritualitJ found in this work.
Phrenology and the Bible both enjoin the stntimtnts of junice, of
penitence, of forgiveness. Both inculcate the hope of immortality, and
require its exercise. Both interdict llHit, profanity, drunkenness, glut·
tony, covetousneu, stealing, fraud, malice, rev~nge, false swearing,
lying, murder, and kindred vices; while .both inculcate filial piety,
moral purity, chastity, honesty, good works, parental and .connubial
love, friendship, industry, manual labor, self-government, patience,
• perseverance, hospitality, sincerity, cheerfulness, faith, spiritual~mind·
~ness, intellectual culture, and the whole cluster of the moral virtues.
I do not, however, hesitate to say, that the Old Testament allows
some doctrines which are at war with Phrenology, such as war, capi·
tal puniahment, the '' life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for
hand, foot for foot" doctrine, &c.--(Deut. xix. 21.) These, however, the
~ew Tesjament abrogates, supplanting them by the law of kindness-
• a law so signally in harmony with the teachings of Phrenology. In·
deed, the doctrines and teachings of Christ, are found to harmonize ·
perfectly, and in all their shades and phases with the doctrines and
teachings of. Phrenology. His doctrines .are perfect. Wonderfully
calculated to reform and adorn f!lankind. Every doctrin&, either an
• • '' expos~ion of some law of mind, or ~lse founded on some law. Every
' • 'precept, calculated to promote moral purity and human happiness. A
•
perfect pattern in both precept and example, of that ascendancy of the
niOral sentiments so clearly demonstrated and so forcibly enjoined by
Phrenology, as the sine qua non of virtue and happiness. Phrenology ·
doe'S not suggest a single error or improvement either in his doctrines'
or examples, or in that inimitable exemplifi<."etion of them in practice'
described in ~e first few chapters of the Acts of the Apostles: where
they went from house to house, healing the Stc.k, oestO)Ving alms,
brt>,aking bread, and having all things in common. Oh, ~hat his be-
nign and heavenly doctrines were but comprehended and practiced by
his professed followers-by the whole world. A holv atld a happy
~·orld would then be ours! Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither
.lath it entered into the heart of man to conceive, the joy, the ineffable
gaory, that obedience to his prf.cepts and practices would confer on man I
' '
Digitized by GoogIe
