{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__ryan___secrets_of_generation.pdf","mytitle":"Secrets Of Generation","mylang":"de"}
THE
SECRETS OF GENERATION!
COMPRISING THE ART OF
PROCREATING THE SEXES AT WILL,
Of Begetting Sound and Vigorous Infants, &c. &c.
WITH DIRECTIONS FOR
SELF-MANAGEMENT
IN SEXUAL AND VENEREAL DISEASES.
BY MICHAEL RYAN, M.D.
• * »
MEMBER Or THE ROYAL COLLEGE OP PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS IN
LONDON, PHYSICIAN TO THE METROPOLITAN FREE HOSPITAL, ETC.
iDith, illnstrattoe Pates.
PROM THE FOURTH LONDON EDITION,
REVISED AND ENLARGED BY THE AMERICAN EJW
./*?■"
NEW YORK:
JOHN DOUGLA S^
AND SOLD BY ALL PERIODICAL AGENTS IN Tff
UNITED STATES.
1844.
Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1844, by
John Douglass, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court
of the Southern District of the State of New York.
ap
1*4- +
PREFACE.
The very favorable reception of two editions
of this work, in a short time, has induced its au
thor to revise, enlarge, and, he hopes, improve,
the present impression.
The subject considered, is one of universal
interest, and was
investigated from the most
remote period of antiquity to the present time ;
but most particularly from the origin of medi
cine, as an art or science. Considered in all its
relations, religious, moral, social, legal, physical,
philosophical, and medical, it will be found of
the greatest importance to mankind. This will
be manifest to all on the perusal of the introduc
tory remarks, and the succeeding pages.
A philosophical, social, physical, and medical
history of the reproductive function of the Vege
table and Animal Kingdoms, and of the abuses
VI PREFACE.
and disorders resulting from it in the latter, will,
it is hoped, prove instructive and interesting to
the majority of general, as well as medical,
readers.
The function of reproduction has been exam
ined and inquired into, by the most virtuous
theologians, moralists, naturalists, philosophers,
physiologists, legislators, and jurisconsults, as
the most influential of all the functions of human
economy, on every class of society, both civil
ised and savage. It must be almost superfluous
to observe that it is the duty of every lecturer
on
physiology, on obstetric and on
legal medi
cine, to describe it according to the ancient and
modern conclusions ; because it materially influ
ences
population, morals, public health, disease,
mortality ; as well as
personal reputation, pro
perty, legitimacy, and even life, together with a
vast number of other questions, hereafter enu
merated.
The illustrious and indefatigable Haller pro
pounded the axiom before describing the physi
ology of generation : —
"
There are no secrets in
physiology ;" and our immortal Harvey and
Hunters, and all their eminent successors, were
of the same
opinion.
Moral and legal authors in all ages adopted it.
PREFACE. va
On a recent and memorable occasion, that astute
and enlightened judge, Lord Denman, declared,
in his judicial capacity, that the subject was
most important when described and expounded
by medical authority. This is also the opinion
of every rational individual, who has arrived at
the adult age, unless the mock-modest and pha-
risaicaL
These facts are mentioned, to reconcile the
prudish and the ignorant to the consideration of
a subject, highly conducive to the preservation
of the health of parents and offspring, to the im
provement of morals and population, and to the
correction of numerous evils inflicted on
society
in all countries. Whether the author has suc
ceeded in the task he has undertaken, after seve
ral years' research and study, remains for the
public to determine ; but of this he is convinced,
that his motives and endeavors are well intended,
and solely guided by the mens conscia recti.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
PAGE.
Preface, . v
Ancient and Modern Theories of Haman Genera
tion—
Opinions of Plato and others—
Carious Sup
positions —
Experiments —
Received Opinion of
Modern Physiologists, . .
, . . 13
CHAPTER II.
Generation—
Procreation of the Germs—
The Act of
Copulation—
The Fallopian Tube—
Process of Fe
cundation, 26
CHAPTER III.
Changes after Conception—
Experiments by Harvey
—
Impregnation where the Hymen is Perfect-
Most Remarkable Cases —
Case of Copulation
during Inebriety on the Woman's part
—
Curious
Result—
Singular Instances of Impregnation, . 34
X CONTENTS.
CHAPTER IV.
A OK
Procreation of the Sexes at Will—And of Vigorous
Population—
Instances of the Success of Millott's
System for Regulating the Sex of Infants—
Ve-
nette's Rules—
General Conclusions, . . .41
CHAPTER V.
Rules for Begetting a
Vigorous Offspring—
Combe's
Observations—
Dr. Pritchard's Experiments—
Mix
ture of Breeds—
Birth of Napoleon—
Illustrations
of the Law of Descent—
Results of Marrying
Young—
Laws of Hereditary Disease—Their Con
formity to Justice, ,-.... 48
CHAPTER VI.
Pathology of the Generative Organs—
Malformations
and Diseases of both Sexes, which Disqualify for
Marriage, Cause Impotence and Sterility, or which "
Injure or Destroy the Offspring—
Illustrative Anec
dotes—
Conditions Essential to Copulation on the
part of the Male—
Causes of want of Erection—
Treatment of this form of Disease—
Cure of Seminal
Weakness—Masturbation, its Evils and its Cure, 63
CHAPTER VII.
Abuse of the Reproductive Functions—
Means of Cure
—
Effects of Severe Study on the Generative Or-
CONTENTS. XI
PAGE.
gans
—
Evils of Excessive Venery
—
Dr. Hunter's
Advice to Timid Bridegrooms, . . , .81
CHAPTER VIII.
Causes of Impotence in Females—
Proper Treatment
—
Interesting Cases—
Diseases opposed to Mar
riage—
General Principles—
List of Drugs Affect
ing the Genital Organs—
Venereal Abuses—
Means
of Curing Impotence, &c. Sac 97
CHAPTER IX.
Of the Symptoms and Treatment of Gonorrhoea (or
Clap,) Gleet, Stricture, Irritablo Bladder, swelled
Testicle, &c.—
Dr. Skey's Directions, Cases, &c. 118
CHAPTER X.
On the Symptoms and Treatment of the Venereal Dis
ease in its Local and Constitutional Forms—
The
Use and Abuse of Mercury—
Interesting Cases—
Venerola (or Pox) and its Cure—
Means of Pre
venting Syphilitic Infection—
Conclusion, . . 143
**■•
THE
SECRETS OF GENERATION, &c.
CHAPTER I.
ANCIENT AND MODERN THEORIES OP HUMAN
GENERATION OPINION OP PLATO, AND OTHERS
CURIOUS SUPPOSITIONS EXPERIMENTS RE
CEIVED OPINION OF MODERN PHYSIOLOGISTS.
The animation of the first ofthe human species
presents a
question of physiology, full of interest,
on which men of the greatest genius have com
mented, though they have completely failed to
solve it. The continuation and reproduction of
our
species have also occupied the reflections
and investigations of the greatest philosophers
and physiologists of modern times, some of
whom have proposed hypotheses and theories re
plete with the grossest absurdities and errors.
These hypotheses are about two hundred and
fifty in number, and a briefnotice of those which
were best received, may not be uninteresting to
the modern physiologist as well as
general reader.
14 ANCIENT AND MODERN THEORIES
Plato thought that the reproduction of man,
as well as of almost all organised beings, was
effected by spectres and images extracted from
the creative Divinity, which, by a harmonic
movement, were arranged in certain numbers
into perfect order. It was in the unity of the
number three, that this great philosopher made
the essence of all generation to consist. That
which engendered, or the father, formed the first
number ; the being in which the conception was
effected, the second number ; and that which
resulted, the offspring, the third number.
The opinion of Plato was, that all generation
emanated from the Divinity himself, who, by a
perpetual course of miracles, maintains and re
news the living world; and, consequently, that
man is, in the phenomena of reproduction, but
an instrument of the consummate wisdom of
power which govern the universe ; and secondly,
that generation can only be effected by a male
who furnishes certain principles to a female, in
whose womb the result or new
being, is develop
ed ; and that this law equally governs the whole
of the animal and vegetable kingdoms. This
tripartite harmony was considered an
image of
that mysterious power, the Trinity in Unity,
which created and perpetuates all organised be
ings.
Pythagoras supposed that a
vapour descended
from the brain and nerves
during coition, and
formed the embryo, which developed according
to the laws of harmony.
Epicurus held that perpetuation of man was
OF HUMAN UEN RATION. 15
effected by a mixture of the fluids of both sexes,
which were united in the sexual organs of the
female, animated, developed, and changed into
a being resembling those who furnished them.
Lucretius and a
great number of ancient phy
siologists admitted this doctrine. That great
poet considered that there was a mixture of
fluids, and that the most vigorous determined the
sex, which is now the general opinion. His
words are :—
Et comtniscendo, cum semen forte virile
Foemina commulsit eubita vi corripuitque,
* * # # *
Temper enimpartus duplice de semine constat.
Atque utrique simile est magis id quodcunque creator.
De Natura Rerum, 1. iv.
He explained the resemblance of infants to their
parents in the following manner :—
he thought
that which ever
parent furnished the most ela
borated and abundant seminal fluid, would im
press the lineaments and form on the offspring
—
that the most vigorous parent who would pos
sess most
genital power, would determine the
sex and physical characters of the infant, and,
consequently, that the offspring would most re
semble this parent, both in mind and body. But
if the father and mother possessed equal power,
the infant would resemble both.
Hippocrates and a vast number of his succes
sors, as well as all modern physiologists, admit
this doctrine.
Hippocrates, Pythagoras, Democritus, Aris
totle, Anaxagoras, Alcmeon, Parmenides, Em-
16 ANCIENT AND MODERN THEORIES
pedocles, Epicurus, Galen, Avicenna, Zacutus,
Lusitanus, Decartes, Venette, Rousel, and Buf-
fon, acknowledged the existence of a fecunda
ting sperm in woman ; while Zeno, the Stoics,
Hippon, and Fallopius, with many other cele
brated anatomists, denied it. It is important to
observe in passing, that die mucous fluid which
is generally, but not always, effused by the ute
rus and vagina, during copulation, is not seminal
or
prolific, nor does it contribute to the forma
tion of the new being. It is furnished by the
lacunas and glands of the vagina and neck of the
womb, and by the lining or mucous membrane
of these organs, and the Fallopian or uterine
tubes. This fluid may be more or less abund
ant ; and according to Magendie and others, is
not effused by some individuals, and by others
only very sparingly. Moreover, it does not oc
cur during the greatest excitement, which is
during and immediately after the male emission.
Galen related the case of a
hysterical woman,
who on the slightest excitement of the genitals
had a mucous evacuation, accompanied by volup
tuousness, and this also happened during sleep.
Sauvage mentions the case of a young girl of the
most rigid chastity, who suffered from abundant
vaginal discharges, even at the foot of a decre-
pid and disgusting confessor. (T. iii. p. 227.)
tier disease was leucorrhoea or whites. Loyer-
Villermay describes a similar occurrence at the
access of hysteria. Such evacuations may also
be induced by an excited imagination, by relax
ation of the mucous membrane of the vagina, as
OF HUMAN GENERATION. 17
in leucorrhoea or
vaginal debility, and they may
also occur in those who are sterile from diseases
of the womb or ovaries ; so that they cannot be
considered seminal or
prolific.
The prolific fluid is supplied by a small vesi
cle or
egg in the ovary, and is too
trifling to be
appreciated during coition, and scarcely even in
the ovary on
inspection after death. The an
cient anatomists were therefore right, when they
termed the ovaries, testes muliebres—
the organs
which secreted the seed in woman, as the testi
cles do in man. This fact is also attested by
Divine authority.
"
I will place an irrecon
cilable bar between the seed of a woman and
the seed of the serpent."
Hippocrates, who was
unacquainted with hu
man
anatomy, supposed that the spermatic fluid
of man was furnished by all parts of the body,
and especially by the brain, as the principles of
generation formed a new
being, a miniature of
our entire organization. As to the opinion that
the spermatic fluid was formed by the brain, that
it descended along the spine to the loins and sex
ual organs, it is decidedly erroneous, for when
the testicles which secrete it are removed, there
is no seminal secretion. It is a remarkable fact,
that the organ of love is now
placed in the cere
bellum by the followers of Gall and Spurzheim.
The father of physic also entertained the opinion
of Lucretius, that the resemblance of infants to
either parent depended on a
greater or less quan
tity of seed furnished by either. He held that a
male resulted from a mixture of both seeds
B*
18 ANCIENT AND MODERN THEORIES
equally hot and elaborated ; whilst a female
was
produced when the father or mother sup
plied a weak fluid, or one which is suddenly se
creted. He supposed that on the mixture of
both sexes, the new
being was formed in the
womb. That this mixture absorbed heat, and
passed from a state of fluidity to a certain con
sistence. Acted on by continued heat and vi
tality, the germ or new
being, evolved a vapour
which formed a round pellicle that enveloped it,
and that it always received a new principle of
life from the author.
This pellicle or fine membrane foraied an
entire covering of the body, which finally was
the skin, gave out a
vapour which was condens
ed, and formed another membrane, and this part
condensed a
vapour into a fluid by which the
embryo was surrounded. In fine, he held that
one
point of this sac attached itself to the womb
by a
spongy, vascular union, through which nu
trition was derived and carried to the navel of
the foetus by means of the umbilical cord or
navel-string.
It will appear hereafter, that this view of
human ovology, though promulgated more than
three centuries before the Christian era, does
not differ essentially, as
regards the connexioa
between the embryo and mother, though other*
wise erroneous, from that of the latest writers
on
embryology.
Aristotle admitted the female ejaculation, but
denied that it contributed to the new
being, in
which he was right j that the male alone furnish-
OF HUMAN GENERATION. 19
ed the principles, while the female supplied the
necessary materials for their development, and
these he considered, with Hippocrates, resided
in the menstrual fluid. This was an error. The
menstrual fluid is a natural secretion, the result
of a
periodical determination of blood to the
womb, which prepares it for conception, and
when this happens, the foetus is nourished by
blood. He said that woman furnished the mar
ble, man was the sculptor, and the embryo the
statue. (De Generat. Animal.)
Averrhoes, Avicenna, and many others
adopted this doctrine ; but the greatest number
embraced the system of Hippocrates.
Galen held that the embryo was
produced by
the seed of man, and that the materials afforded
by woman nourished it. Diogenes, Hippon,
and the Stoics, concluded that the embryo was
produced by the male seed alone, and that the
mother only served for its development, as the
earth does for the germination of grain.
Decartes supposed that the mixture of the
two seeds produced a fermentation, in which
the embryo was formed; while Pascal and other
chemists held that the spermatic fluid of man
was acid, and that of woman alkaline. (De For-
matione Foetus.)
Viussens maintained that both seeds contain
ed spirits ; and Van Helmont held that the fe
male furnished seminal fluid, and the male a
spirit or vital principle.
Maupertius was of opinion that each seed con-
20 ANCIENT AND MODERN THEORIES
tained an
imperfect animal, or
parts of an ani
mal, which it finally resembled.
Empedocles had previously supposed, with
Aristotle, that the embryo existed in separate
parts, in the seeds of both sexes, which, on
being
united, formed a
regular order and a
perfect
whole. (Delamethria. Inst. Boerhaave.)
Harvey concluded, after innumerable experi
ments, that the germ was in the ovary in ani
mals and plants ; and was the first who main
tained the doctrine now
universally admitted as
correct—
Omnia ex ovo. He supposed impreg
nation was effected by a kind of magnetic influ
ence.
De Graafe contended that all animals were
produced from an
egg, maintaining the opinion
omnia ex ovo, that germs existed in the ovary in
the form of small transparent vesicles or ovules.
(De Mulier. Organis, &c. 1677.) This doctrine
was also admitted by Steno, Van Horn, Swam-
merdam, Malphigi, Harvey, Valisnieri, Plouquet,
and many other celebrated physiologists, and is
now
generally received.
The next
hypothesis was
proposed by Ham-
me, and advocated by Hartsoecker, Leuwen-
hoeck, Boerhaave, Keil, Cheyne, Geoffroi, Car
dinal de Polignac, Lieutaud.and a host of others,
who maintained, that the germ existed in the se
minal fluid of man, in the form of small
living
worms, which they called animalcules ; that one
drop of sperm contained millions of them ; that
projected into the cavity of the uterus
during
coition, one or more of them ascended into the
OF HUMAN GENERATION. 21
uterine tube, arrived at the ovary, entered a
vesicle, caused impregnation, and returned into
the womb under the form of a small ovum or
egg ; and finally developed into an
embryo.
MM. Prevost and Dumas also maintain this doc
trine in their recent work. They allege that
in a vast number of artificial fecundations, they
never effected vivification when the animalcules
were killed or
destroyed. Spallanzani stated
that he mixed three grains of the spermatic fluid
of a
frog with seventeen ounces of water, im
mersed the point of a fine needle in this fluid,
and having applied it to the spawn of the female,
caused impregnation. According to Pritchard's
Microscopic Researches, 1834, a
drop of fluid
contains myriads of animalcules of different
forms, which corroborates the former opinion.
M. Raspail contends that the animalcules are
organic remains, or the product of the decom
position of the sperm. M. Virey regards them
as bladders distended by a sort of pollen, which
burst when they arrive at the organs of the other
sex.
The objections against this doctrine are, the
hybrid productions ; as the mule, proci'eated by
different animals ; the procreations between the
stallion and the ass, and the ass and the mare ;
and the error in supposing that only one of many
million animalcules would be vivified and the
rest destroyed. This would be contrary to the
wisdom of the Author of nature. Nevertheless,
it has been lately supposed by an
anti-popula
tion American, that a woman who wishes to
22 OF HUMAN GENERATION.
prevent conception, should inject the vagina
immediately after coition, to destroy the ani
malcules. This recommendation displays great
ignorance and still greater depravity ; and it is
as ineffectual as it is impracticable.
Vallisnieri supposed that man commenced his
existence as a worm, which developed itself by
degrees, as an insect metamorphoses itself.—
This hypothesis was also entertained by Bour-
guet, Woodward, Lyonnet Rai, Schelhammer,
Paitoni, Launai, Duverney, Schlichting, Plouc-
quet, Hamberger, Senac, &c, and even Lin
naeus and Buffon seemed inclined to adopt it.
But Spallanzani has shown the falsity of this
hypotheses by fecundating the ova or
eggs of a
frog without these spermatic worms.
The succeeding hypothesis was
designated
epigenesis, or the partial and successive forma
tion of the foetus, a system maintained by Aris
totle and Galen, revived by Decartes, Harvey,
Needham, Muller, &c. This was called essen
tial power (vis essentialis) by Wolf, nisus forma-
tivus by Blumenbach, and plastic form by Cud-
worth, and is analagous to the attraction of parts
and superstructure of organs proposed by Mau-
pertuis. (Venus Physique, 1745.) Buffon al
most revived this hypothesis. He held that dur
ing the most vivid enjoyment a number of or
ganic molecules was
separated from every part
of the bodies of both sexes, that they resembled
the parts which supplied them, that when they
arrived in the womb they approached each other
and united ; but that those supplied by the eye,
ANCIENT AND MODERN THEORIES 23
lhe nose, the heart, &c. of man, could only unite
with those supplied by the same
organs in wo
man. Every one
acquainted with anatomy
knows, that there is no
passage for such parts to
the womb, and that this supposition is ima
ginary.
Bonnet, Spallanzani, and the Italian schools,
maintained that the germs pre-existed and were
created since the beginning of the world, and
were successively transmitted through innumer
able individuals. According to this doctrine,
Eve, the mother of mankind, possessed all the
germs of men bora, and to be born on the face of
the earth ; and every species of animals and
plants must possess the same
power. Such is
the system of evolution. MM. Virey and Vel-
peau object to this theory, on the grounds of the
infinite divisions of matter, that a
grain of corn
might reproduce until it covered the earth; and
the latter concludes that the ovary secretes the
germ, (Traite Elementaire de l'Art des Ac-
couchemens, &c, 1829), which is now the gene
rally received opinion.
Sthal considered that the soul had the power
of creating and organizing the foetus ; and Van
Helmont admitted a formative spirit, a seminal
being in the womb ; and of the same
genus of
spirits as his Archssus in the stomach ; both au
thors attributed marks and deformities to men
tal emotions. According to these authorities,
the sperm is a
living fluid, which transmits the
soul and the moral and physical qualities of the
father to the foetus.
24 OF HUMAN GENERATION.
The ancients were ofopinion, that the ovaries
hi women were
analogous to the testicles in
man, and supplied a seminal fluid proper for
|
reproduction. This opinion prevailed until the
time of Steno, a Danish anatomist, who first
maintained that the vesicles in the ovary contain
ed a
liquid resembling that in the eggs of birds,
were ova or
eggs, which contained the design and
lineaments of the embryo, which after having
been fecundated by the seed of the male, swel
led, burst, escaped into the uterine (Fallopian)
tube, fell into the uterus, there to undergo all the
development of which the new
being was ca
pable.
The experiments of Fabricus ab Aquapen-
dente, on the eggs of pullets, those of Harvey on
bitches, sheep, and deer, already described, con
firmed the opinion, and left no doubt that vivi- I
parous animals were
produced from an
egg like i
oviparous. De Graafe, Malphigi, Haller, Bon
net, and Spallanzani, after an immense number
of experiments, confirmed the opinion of the
pre-existence of germs in the ovaries. They
concluded that the fecundation of the germ takes
place in the ovary, and that the development
of the product of fecundation is a
simple evolu
tion, and not an
epigenesis, as
formerly suppo
sed. Harvey was the first who maintained that
an ovum, egg, or vesicle, dropped from the ova
ry after impregnation, and De Graafe subse
quently proved this fact by precise experiments.
Dumas and Prevost have lately confirmed it by
recent experiments. Brissiere saw this egg
ANCIENT AND MODERN THEORIES 25
or ovule partly in the interior of the uterine
tube, whilst it still adhered to the ovary. This
is the received opinion of all modern phy
siologists.
26 MYSTERIES
CHAPTER II.
GENERATION PROCREATION OF THE GERMS
THE ACT OF COPULATION THE FALLOPIAN
TUBE PROWESS OF FECUNDATION.
The mysterious function of reproduction is
still involved in obscurity. The transmission of
life by parents in the animal and vegetable king
doms remains as
incomprehensible as ever.
Fecundation is effected differently, in different
animated beings. We have already observed
that the generation in animals, insects, fishes,
reptiles, birds, and vegetables, occurs from the
existence of a
germ or ovum, and hence the
truth of the ancient axiom, omnia ex ovo—
all
generation is from an
egg.
A question has been discussed, but not as
yet
satisfactorily determined, what is the seat of gen
eration in the human subject ; is it in the womb,
is it in the oviduct or uterine tube, or is it in
the ovary ?
Almost all the ancients believed that the germs
of the male and female came into contact in the
womb, and formed the new
being. Dr. Blun-
dell, and many recent
physiologists, suppose
there is an electrical, or
galvanic, or
magnetic
influence which effects generation.
OF HUMAN GENERATION. 27
"
Has galvanism or electricity any share in the
consideration of the Great Designer? Time,
the discoverer of truth, may perhaps solve this
important question !" This was previously ad
vanced in the French Encyclopaedia, Art. Gen
eration. The great majority of modern physiol
ogists entertain the opinion that fecundation is
effected in the ovary. Prevost and Dumas
adopt the idea of Buffon, Maupertuis, Aristotle,
and Hippocrates, that the cavity of the womb is
the seat of fecundation. Dr. Blundell concludes
that the rudiments (ovum) and fecundating flu
id meet in the uterus. This is contrary to the
received opinion ; and would not account for
tubal, ovarian, and extra-uterine, or abdominal
pregnancies. He admits "
that the secretions
of our sex reach to the ovaries, that there can be
no full formation of the foetus without the mix
ture of the two substances (male and female.)
And it is clear that in ovarian pregnancy such
deep penetration must occur. Perhaps the over-
action of the genitals and the conveyance of the
semen too far, may be the exciting cause on
which extra-uterine pregnancy depends." I
cannot assent to the last notion, for were it true,
extra-uterine pregnancy would be of common
and not of rare occurrence ; and I agree with
those who ascribe it to relaxation of the uterine
tube, after impregnation in the ovary. More
over, conception has followed the slightest pos
sible penetration within the labia externa, even
when the penis was not more than half an inch
in length after amputation.
28 MYSTERIES
In support of this hypothesis, some allege
that in all their experiments, they never found
the animalcules in the uterine tubes or ovaries,
that they found them in the cavity of the womb,
that ovules must be imbedded in mucus which
is supplied by the tube while conveying the
ovum to the uterus ; that they never could arti
ficially fecundate ovules taken directly from the
ovary, though nothing was more
easily done on
those which had passed into the womb.
In refutation of this conclusion, it is only ne
cessary to state, that Ruysch asserted, that he
found the spermatic fluid in the uterine tube of a
young woman who was
caught in the act of adul
tery by her husband, and stabbed to death ; and
Haller discovered the fluid in the tubes of sheep
after having been slaughtered. This was
pro
bably the mucous fluid supplied by the lining
membrane of the uterus and uterine tubes. Re
cent cases of semen being found in the cavity of
the womb, are
open to the same
objection.
M. Velpeau well observes, in commenting on
the preceding statements, that it does not follow,
because the ova of a
frog could not be impreg
nated unless enveloped in mucus, the same
thing
happens to women. It was not to be expected
that the removal of an ovum with an instrument
could be effected without such violence as would
injure it and unfit it for impregnation. We
must also bear in mind the existence of ovarian,
tubal, and extra-uterine pregnancies which clear
ly prove that fecundation occurs in the ovary
and not in the uterus. Mr. Stanley recorded a
OF HUMAN GENERATION. 29
case of ovarian pregnancy (Med. Trans, vol. vi.)
and Dr. Granville another, in which the foetus
was four months old. (Phil. Trans. 1820.) M.
Brissiere relates a case in which one half of the
embryo was in the ovary and the other in the
uterine tube. Others attest the development
of the foetus in the ovary, tube, and abdomen,
among whom are
Verheyen, Cyprianus, Saint
Maurice, Courtial, Littre, Haller, &c. Every
woman and every female of the mammiferae is
ban-en, if deprived of both ovaries, or when
these are
completely disorganised, or when the
tubes are
impervious or
ligatures applied to
them before impregnation.
The experiments of Nuck, Haighton, and
Blundell, afford the most conclusive evidence in
support of the opinion, that fecundation occurs
in the ovary. Nuck applied a
ligature round
the tube between the womb and the ovary, im
mediately after copulation ; he killed the animal
a few days afterwards and found the ovum arres
ted by the thread. Dr. Haighton tied and also
divided the tube in rabbits, and invariably ob
served that no fecundation occurred in the ovary
on the side on which he operated (Phil. Trans.
vol. lxxxvii). Dr. Blundell's experiments are
described in the Medico Chirurgical Transac
tions, in his work on Generation, and also in the
edition of his Obstetricy, by Dr. Castle. He
divided the uterus of a rabbit, so as to obliterate
its cavity ; and he also obliterated the upper
part of the vagina. The animal recovered, and
was
subjected to the male, but no fecundation
c*
30 MYSTERIES
took place, though there was an
attempt at it,
for corpora lutea were
developed, and a
quan
tity of water found in the uterus ! His experi
ments were numerous : and led him to the
conclusion that the germs of male and female
rabbits, and perhaps of all other animals, must
come in contact to effect impregnation. From
these experiments he infers, that corpora lutea
may form in rabbits independently of the full ex
citement of the genitals—
that the mere
absorp
tion of the semen from the vagina by means of
the lymphatics is insufficient for the purposes of
formation. In one
vaginal experiment, the ac
cess of the semen to the ovaries being interrupt
ed, impregnation was not accomplished, though
the animal admitted the male as
many as
fifty
times, mostly at intervals of two or three days or
more—
a
quantity ofwater was found in the ute
rus, as in the other experiments. In this case,
the male fluid must have been frequently absor
bed from the vagina.
The theories of generation now maintained,
are three :—
1. The transmission of the sper
matic fluid of the male through the uterus, ute
rine tube, or oviduct to the ovary, a vesicle,
ovum, or
egg of which is vivified and passes into
the womb to be developed, until the expiration
of the ninth month, when it is born and becomes
an
independent being. 2. The transmission of •
a subtile vapour or effluvium from the male
semen
{aura seminalis) through the same
parts
to the ovary, the impregnated ovum
passing in
to the uterus to be developed in the manner be-
OF HUMAN GENERATION. 31
fore stated. 3. The absorption of the seminal
fluid of the male from the surface of the vagina.
The transmission of the spermatic fluid
through the uterus, uterine, tube, or oviduct to
the ovary, a vesicle, ovum, or
egg, is vivified or
fecundated, and passes into the womb to be de
veloped until the expiration of the ninth month
or fortieth week, when it is born, and becomes
an
independent being. This is the general
opinion.
During the act of copulation, the external
and internal genital organs of both sexes, which
are all supplied by nerves from the same source,
are excited and stimulated, the vagina closes
tightly on the penis, the uterine orifice is in
close contact with the orifice of the male ure
thra, the tube or oviduct becomes straightened
and erected, and its loose or
floating extremity
(corpus fimbriatum) seizes on the ovary, and
allows the male fluid after its injection into the
cavity of the womb, to advance through the
tube to the ovary, by a
species of vital attraction
or suction. The moment the spermatic fluid
arrives at the ovary, which is seized by the ex
tremity of the uterine tube, it acts on and vivi
fies one or more ova or ovules, and forms the
new
being, or
beings.
The fecundated ovule is now the seat of a
new
vitality, it becomes swollen, reddish, and fi
nally bursts its membrane, and detaches itself
from the ovary. The fimbriated extremity of
the uterine or
Fallopian tube is still in contact
with the ovary, and favours the passage of the
32 MYSTERIES
newly formed being, the embryo, into the uterus
to be developed until the expiration of the ninth
month, by a series of the most extraordinary
changes. When the extremity of the tube lo
ses its hold of the ovary, which may happen ac
cording to some writers, from excessive vo
luptuousness, fear, &c; the ovule on bursting its
covering will fall into the abdomen, there de-
velope itself as an extra-uterine pregnancy, and
finally destroy the patient unless relieved by
gastrotomy or the first part of the Caesarean
operation. It is, however, a fortunate circum
stance that abdominal and tubal pregnancies
are of very rare occurrence. A case of this
kind was successfully treated in London, 1836.
Almost all physiologists are of opinion that
the uterus possesses a power of suction, and im
bibes the semen after its ejaculation or a
vapour
arising from it. Ruysh, Haller, Lewenhoeck,
Hunter, and others discriminated the spermatic
fluid of the male in the uterus ; a fact which is
denied by others, as cases are on record in which
the orifice of the womb was
permanently fixed
external to the genital aperture, through which
fecundation happened. Dr. Ashwell and Mr.
Kingdon mentioned cases of this kind at the
Medical Society of London a few years since.
I have also seen cases of this description.
The Fallopian tube is said to become erected
during the orgasm of coition, to embrace the
ovary, which embracement was observed in dif
ferent animals killed after coition, by Haller,
De Graafe, and Cruikshank; in women, who
OF HUMAN GENERATION. 33
died soon after coition, by Littre; and in a vir
gin, who died of hysteria, by Vallisnieri. The
peristaltic and antiperistaltic motion of the tube,
the conveyance of the semen to the ovary, and
the re-conveyance of the impregnated ovum to
the womb, have been proved by occular demon
stration, by Beclard, De Graafe, Provost and
Dumas, and by the experiments of Nuck and
Duverney, who arrested the impregnated ovum
in the tube, by a ligature applied three days
after coition ; again by the tubular and abdo
minal pregnancy, in which the tube has allowed
an ovule to escape (Lallemand). It is probable
that the increased dilatation of the tube, after
fecundation, is intended for the retention of the
ovum for some time. How can we
explain the
fact, that but one tube only is concerned in con
ception ? What was the object of nature, in
forming two tubes, two ovaries, two testes, two
seminal receptacles, if one
organ in each sex be
sufficient for the propogation of the species 1
Or are the double organs in each sex intended
for the formation of the distinct sexes 1
The same orgasm that affects the ovary and
tube is said to render the womb vascular, and
lightly congested (Harvey, Ruysh, Hunter and
otliers). Its internal surface, thus irritated, se
cretes the albuminous concretion, called dici-
dua, which becomes a membrane according to
Hunter, and epichorion according to Chaussier.
These effects are
purely sympathetic, because
they exist in extra-uterine pregnancies ; they
are more perfect, however, when produced by
the presence of the ovule.
34 MYSTERIES
CHAPTER III.
CHANGES AFTER CONCEPTION EXPERIMENTS BY
HARVEY IMPREGNATION WHERE THE HYMEN
IS PERFECT MOST REMARKABLE CASES CASE
OF COPULATION DURING INEBRIETY ON THE
WOMAN'S PART STRANGE RESULT CURIOUS
INSTANCES OF IMPREGNATION.
The volume, form, and direction of the uterus
are
gradually changed after conception ; its pa-
rietes are enormously thickened ; its weight, at
the completion of the term of gestation, is two
or three pounds, and compared with that of a
woman who has been a mother (two ounces),
and with that of a
virgin (half an ounce), we find
it multiplied by nearly twelve and twenty-four.
Its fibres are muscular (Lobstein) ; but not in
variably so, as attested by Dr. Malins and myself,
in a case we
published (London Medical and
Surgical Journal, January, 1831, vol. vi.)
The opening through which the ovum or
germ
escapes becomes cicatrized, and is called corpus
luteum; it is described by Fallopius, Malpighi,
De Graafe, and Roederer; and its development
is not the effect of the male semen, but is a
pe
culiar function of the ovary ; it is an indispen-
OF HUMAN GENERATION. 35
sable consequence of conception ; though some
assert that it has been found in women who had
not conceived, by Roederer, and in virgins by
Haighton, Vallisnieri, Santorini, Bertrandi, Sir
E. Home, Brugnone, and Cruikshank ; in mules,
by Brugnone, and in animals whose Fallopian
tubes were tied before coition, by Haighton.—
Dr. Montgomery has lately proved, that the true
corpus luteum is never found unless after con
ception. The male semen is said to be earned
by absorption, or
by a
peristaltic motion of the
womb and tubes (Galen, Fallopius, Morgagni,
Hunter, Magendie, Richerand, Blumenbach, and
Ruysch).
The transmission of a subtile vapour or efflu
vium from the male semen
(aura 6eminalis)
through the womb, one of its tubes, to the ovary
which impregnates an ovum, egg, or vesicle,
which passes through the tube into the womb
and is there developed, is a
disputed theory.
The illustrious Harvey made a vast number
of dissections of hinds after copulation, andnev-
er discovered the male fluid in the womb ; hence
the opinion was confirmed, that a
vapour arose
from it—
aura seminalis—
which passed through
the womb and tube to the ovary, one of whose
ova or vesicles it impregnated ; and that the
ovule was conveyed through the tube into the
womb to be nourished.
In support of this theory it is urged that im
pregnation has happened though the hymen was
perfect, and closed up the orifice of the vagina,
except at the upper part, when no
penetration
36 MYSTERIES
of the male, further than between the external
labia, took place. There are many cases of this
kind on record ; and a most remarkable one
was
lately described by Dr. Kennedy, of Dub
lin: I have also been consulted in similar ex
amples. The penis does not enter the orifice of
the womb, which is not much larger, in the un-
impregnated state than that of the male urethra.
I have known several instances in which the ap
plication of the male fluid between the external
labia caused impregnation ; a fact also attested
by Dr. Blundell in his lectures in the Lancet: "I
know three cases in which the male organ was
not suffered to enter the vagina at all, and where,
nevertheless, I suppose, from the mere
deposi
tion of the semen, upon the labia, impregnation
took place. I have known women astonished to
find themselves pregnant, being persuaded that
impregnation was
impossible, until, to their sor
row, the unwelcome truth was unfolded. In a
word, from several facts of this kind, too delicate
for a fuller disclosure, I am satisfied that very
small quantities of the semen introduced into
the lower part of the vagina, where there is an
aptitude to become pregnant, will give rise to
the new structure." (Principles and Practice
of Obstetricy, &c. 1834). I have also recorded
cases of imperfect penetration and prolific con
nexions, when the penis was so
destroyed by
disease that it was no more than half an inch in
length.
I have been confidently assured by a
gentle
man of veracity, that he impregnated a woman
OF HUMAN GENERATION. 37
although he barely penetrated the vagina ; his
paramour consulted me, perfectly unconscious
of what had happened, for she was inebriated at
the time, and she most positively denied, when
I stated she was
pregnant, that it was
possible,
as she had never known man. My opinion was,
however, unaltered, and I advised her to con
sult other obstetricians as to her condition. Sev
eral eminent obstetricians told her she was not
pregnant ; she called on me
again and again,
and every time, the womb was more
developed,
and at last she felt the motion of the foetus. Her
paramour at length made the above confession ;
she recollected the circumstance of their having
been together, and of his having induced her to
take too much wine ; and at the end of the ninth
month, I delivered her of a healthful full-grown
infant. Her case attests a fact I have stated in
my work on Medical Jurisprudence,—
that a
healthful woman may be impregnated uncon
sciously, during inebriation, narcotism, catalep
sy, and profound sleep. I have also known ca
ses in which the greater part of the penis was
destroyed by disease, or
amputated close to the
pubis, and yet persons so mutilated continued to
propagate. In such cases, there can be but very
imperfect penetration, but it is to be remember
ed that the expulsive power of the ejaculatory
muscles of the penis remains in its natural con
dition. These and similar cases
prove that per
fect or
deep penetration is not necessary for pro
creation, and they also favour the third theory of
absorption ofthe semen from the vagina.
D
38 MYSTERIES
These cases show that it is not
necessary that
the male semen should be injected into the
womb. Dr. Blundell supposes that, when there
is a
deposition on the vulva, generation depends
on the admixture of the male fluid with the se
cretions of the female :
"
for dilution does not
destroy the fecundating power. If a
glass of a
certain height were filled with water, should su
gar be thrown into the bottom of it, this on solu
tion, might soon be perceived in the upper part
of the fluid, especially if agitation occurred ; so
the fecundating secretion may, by admixture,
have penetrated to the inmost recesses of the
genitals, more
especially if the secretion of the
genital surface be copious." He goes on to ob-
■serve, that children are sometimes not
procrea
ted for want of sufficient penetrative power in
the male organ, which I very much question foT
the reasons
just stated. He alludes to the exper
iments of Spallanzani, who found that three
grains of the semen of a
frog dissolved in two
pints of water, were sufficient to
give it a fecun
dating power : even that small quantity taken
upon the point of a fine needle ; from which Dr.
Blundell infers, "
if the female genitals be apt
for conception, the requisite quantity of the male
material is small," p. 67.
In reviewing Dr. Blundell's opinions, I am
bound by the many facts I have adduced in this J
chapter, to observe, that they are, in my opinion,
liable to
many unanswerable objections. The
results of repeated consultations enable me to
state, that a
complete emission of the male fluid
OF HUMAN GENERATION. 39
at the interval of twenty-four hours, will rarely,
if ever, cause
impregnation : nor do I
compre
hend the possibility of the germ or ovarian fluid
passing into the womb to mix with the sperma
tic fluid of the male ; and, therefore, the requi
site quantity of the male material for impregna
tion is not so small as is above supposed. Nei
ther can I perceive any analogy between the
mixture of sugar and water and the spermatic
and ovarian fluids ; nor do I believe that chil
dren are sometimes not procreated for want of
sufficient penetrative power in the male organ.
The orifice of the uterus is generally within two
inches or two inches and a half of the external
genital aperture, though it may be more distant,
or be elevated under certain circumstances, and
the slightest penetration, in the opinion of all
physiologists, when the semen is elaborate, is
sufficient for impregnation.
Lastly, it is to be recollected that the conclu
sions of Spallanzani refer to
frogs, and not to
human species, and therefore it does not follow
that such extreme dilution, as in the former ca
ses, can ever
happen in the latter, though there
is generally, butnot always, some dilution of the
male fluid. If this were the fact, the male ma
terial would be always prolific ; but this is not
the case, unless it has remained in the seminal
receptacles for some hours, as observed by Har
vey and others. Many proofs of this fact have
fallen under my own consideration.
The mucus of the seminal receptacles, the
orostatic fluid and urethral mucus, dilute the
40 MYSTERIES
male fluid, as well as the vaginal and uterine
mucus, inmost cases
during the seminal emis
sion ; but this last dilution does not always hap
pen.
The case mentioned by Mr. Hunter, in which
his patient injected semen into the vagina and
caused impregnation, appears to me
open to
serious objection ; and I should be very much
disposed to think there was a more
legitimate
cause for the procreation.
On a careful review of all the theories of hu
man
generation, we can
only arrive at a con
clusion admitted by all, that a union of the sexes
is necessary, that both should be in good or tole
rably good health, and that the function ought
only to be performed when dictated by nature.
There is a vast deal of injury done to health
and public morals by the excesses and abuses
of the reproductive functions, some of which I
have slightly alluded to in my works on Mid
wifery, Jurisprudence, and on the Comparative
State ofProstitution, Sf-c. The primitive fathers
and physicians have duly noticed the evils to
which I allude ; and every experienced medical
practitioner can
prove their frequent occurrence.
It is all well for the sentimentalists and the mock-
modest to declaim about a notice of them •
but
nature, justice, morality, and the preservation
of health, as well as the perpetuation of the hu
man race, demand it. Such, however, is the hy
pocrisy of the day, that even a notice in a dead
language is abused and condemned by ignorant
intolerant bigots and fools, who are unable to
appreciate the imoortance of the subject.
OF HUMAN GENERATION. 41
CHAPTER IV.
PROCREATION OF THE SEXES AT WILL AND OF
VIGOROUS POPULATION INSTANCES OF THE
SUCCESS OF MILLOT'S SYSTEM FOR REGULATING
THQ SEX OF INFANTS VENETTE's RULES
GENERAL CONCLUSIONS.
Another curious inquiry was
attempted by
the ancient authors, whether it was
impossible
to procreate the sexes at will: and this has
been long determined in the negative by a
pre
ponderating majority of physiologists. Every
one knows there are some families who are
most desirous of male offspring, and others who
are anxious for female : and even some who go
so far as to expect that the sex of the foetus in
utero may be determined by their medical at
tendants, midwives, and fortune tellers. A few
remarks upon this subject are therefore neces
sary and allowable.
The ancients supposed that the right testicle
and right side of the womb, produced male,
and the left, female offspring. (See Plate.)
Hippocrates, Aristotle, and Galen, entertained
this opinion ; which was in time combated by
Pare, Diemembroeck, Verhagen, Alberti, Fran
co, Hoffman, Bartholin, Vesalius, Harvey, and
42 PROCREATION OF THE SEXES.
many others. These writers demonstrated that
men who had one testicle produced infants of
both sexes ; and they also found male foetuses
in the left side of the womb, and females in the
right ; and finally, that the right Fallopian or
uterine tube had been destroyed in women who
had begotten both boys and girls.
This exploded opinion of the ancients was,
however, lately revived by M. Millot, who has
offered the following hypothesis, which, though
apparently feasible, is generally considered er
roneous : —
He states, that he made numerous
experiments on human generation, and was
well convinced that it is possible to
procreate
either sex at will. His views are, however, de
nied by all modern physiologists. He enter
tained the exploded opinion, that the rudiments
of male infants are in the ova of the right ovary,
and those of the female in the left ovary. He
concludes, upon this mere
assumption, that a
certain position ought to be assumed during the
act of reproduction to produce a
boy or
girl.
"Si inclinetur levitur mulier in coitu in latus
dextrum generat mas, in sinistrum fcemina."
He mentions the case of a noble lady, who
brought forth twins both males, after having
followed his advice. Three other countesses
obtained the same success
by the same method.
He proceeds to attest his physiology by the
following statements :—
"
The virtuous wife of the last Duke of Or
leans, having given birth to two
boys, consulted
me, through the medium of Madame de Blat,
PROCREATION OF THE SEXES. 43
her maid of honour, to inform her of the mode
of procreating a
daughter instead of another
son. I gave the
necessary information, and she
brought two daughters into the world. This
estimable princess wished again for a son, and
she obtained one by following my directions.
Five other ladies of rank obtained the sex they
desired, by the same method."
Venette, the author of the Tableau de
l'Amour Conjugal, a work always in great cir
culation in France, is of the same opinion.
The same fact is also attested by Rhazes, an
Arabian writer. Plato, and others, affirmed
that the womb sucked in the male fluid by a
hydraulic power, and conveyed it through the
uterine tube to the ovary, which it fecundated ;
but many deny this hypothesis, on the authority
of the illustrious Harvey, who made numerous
experiments on deer, after copulation, but never
discovered the male fluid in the uterus.
According to this hypothesis, the seminal
vapour, so far from falling by its weight towards
the right side of the womb or tube, would al
ways tend to ascend ; and by the simple incli
nation, it would necessarily be directed towards
the orifice of the uterine tube, proceeding to
the ovary which was not to be fecundated;
whilst in placing the woman on the side or
back, the relative situation of the organs would
be changed. But the last position is that in
which generation is usually accomplished, and
each side of the uterus, each ovary and tube,
are in the same relative situation to the sperma-
44 PROCREATION OF THE SEXES.
tic fluid ; and, therefore, we cannot explain how
opposite sexes are
procreated by the same in
dividuals. If the semen
passes to the ovaries,
as is generally supposed, it must ascend against
its own
gravity ; and therefore this is a
negative
proof in favour of the ascent of a vapour from
it. The experiments of Spallanzani, and oth
ers, who impregnated bitches by injecting the
spermatic fluid very warm, as furnished by the
male, were unsuccessful when they allowed it
to cool, and its volatile part to evaporate. But
in many other experiments, the male fluid of
frogs, which was not only allowed to cool, but
was
largely diluted with water, caused impreg
nation. A remarkable case is mentioned by
Mr. Hunter, relating to the human subject. A
patient of his had fistula in perineo, through
which the semen
escaped during sexual inter
course, and Mr. Hunter advised him to collect (
it, and inject it into the vagina, which was done, \
and caused impregnation. I think this state
ment by no means
satisfactorily proved ; for it
is not easy to conceive how the fluid could be
prolific after its exposure to the air.
M. Venette lays down seven rules for the art
of procreating the sexes at will : —
1. That per
sons should not
procreate until the body is fully
developed at the adult age, a6 the most vigorous
generate more males than females : 2. They
should use
nourishing food and drink; 3. They
should avoid all excesses of the table ; 4. To
obtain male infants the pleasure of love must be
used moderately; for after reiterated enjoy-
PROCREATION OF THE SEXES. 45
ment girls are conceived ; 5. That women who
menstruate moderately should not deliver them
selves to sexual pleasure, until after the end of
each period ; those who menstruate
profusely
or too frequently, should not deliver themselves
to enjoy the same function but only a short
time before or after the evacuation ; 6. That
girls are begotten most frequently when the
heat of the weather is excessive ; 7. To obtain
sons, the act should be performed when the
wind is northerly.
High mental endowments and physical beau
ty are
requisite for the procreation of infants of
vigour and of genius. Men of great minds
generally unite themselves to women of high
mental endowments, and prefer these to
pecu
niary considerations, family connexions, titles,
and transient advantages. The nobility of this
country have often married their inferiors in
rank ; and men of the greatest minds have pre
ferred physical and moral endowments to riches.
Many modern instances might be quoted, and
some are recorded very frequently in the daily
journals. It is admitted that the moral and
physical powers of parents, as well as their dis
eases, are transmitted to their infants.
Now there are unanswerable objections to
the preceding hypothesis of procreation of the
sexes at will. Jadelot and Velpeau have ex
amined the bodies of women who had but one
ovary, though they have brought forth infants of
both sexes ; birds have but one
ovary. The
extirpation of one
ovary of a sow or other
46 PROCREATION OF THE SEXES.
mammiferous animal does not prevent the gen
eration of offspring of both sexes. But I am
not aware of any case on record where the
parents had but the right or left testis or cor
responding ovary, and produced infants of both
sexes ; and, therefore, the existence of both or
gans in either, and but one in the other, does
not disprove the hypothesis in question.
All that can be said at present on the procrea
tion of the sexes, amounts to this, that the
most vigorous men of a strong constitution
have generally engendered more boys than
girls ; and that the most vigorous of the sexes
determines the sex of the offspring.—
(Velpeau
and others). There are, however, numerous ex
ceptions to this general rule, of which repeated
observations have convinced me. It is by no
means
proved, however, in my opinion, that
athletic men are the most prolific, or procreate
a
greater proportion of their own sex. We
often observe the contrary, even when these
are united to delicate women ; and frequent
observations have led me to this conclusion.
I have observed in many families the physi
cal power of parents, and also ascertained the
comparative proportion of the sex of their
children. But from my limited enquiries I can
not admit that the vigour of either parent inva
riably determines the sex of the offspring ; for
though this appears to be the case in some in
stances, it certainly is not so in others. Thus,
we see delicate women and robust husbands
produce more boys than girls, and vice versa ;
PROCREATION OF THE SEXES. 47
and this is also the result when young and aged
persons are united in marriage.
M. Girou de Buzareingues, whose observa
tions on the breeding of cattle are very exten
sive, states in his work on Generation, 1828,
with a
copy of which he very politely favoured
me, that very young and old mothers, whether
cows, mares, or
sheep, produce more males
than females ; whilst mothers of a middle age
produce for the most part more females than
males, especially if the first were coupled with
old males and the second with young males,
which he considers in accordance with the views
of nature.
48 PROCREATION OF THE SEXES.
CHAPTER V.
RULES FOR BEGETTING A VIGOROUS OFFSPRING—
COMBE'S OBSERVATIONS DR. PRITCHARD's EX
PERIMENTS MIXTURE OF BREEDS BIRTH OF
NAPOLEON ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE LAW RE
SULTS OF MARRYING YOUNG LAWS OF HERE
DITARY DESCENT THEIR CONFORMITY TO JUS
TICE.
The surest means
by which sound and vigo
rous infants may be engendered, is a
good con
stitution unenfeebled by excessive intellectual
or
corporeal exertion, or
any chronic disease.
It is universally admitted that the moral and
physical dispositions are transmitted by genera
tion ; and hence we
may conclude that health
ful and vigorous parents can alone produce
healthful and vigorous infants. It is also gener
ally concluded that diseased or delicate parents
procreate diseased or delicate offspring. The
same results are observed in plants and animals.
Every one knows the truth of these statements.
How often do we observe a fine, a beautiful
woman of an excellent constitution, united to
a small, diminutive, aged, broken-down, or de
formed companion, or the reverse ; and can it
be supposed that the physical powers, the sym
pathies of such individuals, are favourable to
PROCREATION OF THE SEXES. 49
the proper performance of the function of gen
eration 1 Love cannot be reciprocal in such
cases ; and animal or
organic impulse will pre
fer that which is more accordant with itself;
even brutes prefer males which are
possessed
of vigour, power, and beauty ; and this instinct
is implanted by nature in all animals. What
ever
perversion civilization may effect in our
hearts, tastes, and manners, it cannot extinguish
this instinct. Even social or
parental authori
ty fails to destroy it; and though this often
leads to unsuited conjugal unions, to the pro
creation of feeble offspring, which are doomed
to constant sufferings, a miserable existence, in
supportable to themselves and others of society,
—
still the rights of nature exist inviolate.
Unequal and unsuited alliances are contrary
to nature and to sound policy, because highly
detrimental to population. Ample proof is
afforded of the validity of this opinion, by a
reference to the physiology of the various ages
of life, and the difference in the genital power
in each.
The observations of Mr. Combe on this
point are graphically correct.
"
One organic law is, that the germ of the
infant being must be complete in all its parts,
and perfectly sound in its condition, as an in
dispensable requisite to its vigorous develop
ment and full enjoyment of existence. If the
corn that is sown is weak, wasted, and damaged,
the plants that spring from it will be feeble,
and liable to
speedy decay. The same law
E
50 PROCREATION OP THE SEXES.
holds in the animal kingdom ; and I would ask,
has it hitherto been observed by man 1 It is
notorious that it has not ; indeed, its existence
has been either altogether unknown, or in a
very high degree disregarded by human beings.
The feeble, sickly, the exhausted with age, and
the incompletely developed, through extreme
youth, many, and, without the least compunc
tion regarding the organization which they
shall transmit to their offspring, send into the
world miserable beings, the very rudiments of
whose existence are tainted with disease. If
we trace such conduct to its source, we shall
find it to originate either in animal propensity,
intellectual ignorance, or more
frequently in
both. The inspiring motives are
generally
mere sensual appetite, avarice, or ambition,
operating in the absence of all just conceptions
of the impending evils. The punishment of
this offence is debility and pain transmitted to
the children, and reflected back in anxiety and
sorrow on the parents. Still the great point
to be kept in view is, that these miseries are
not
legitimate consequences of observance of the
organic laws, but the direct chastisement of
their infringement. These laws are
unbending,
and admit of no
exception ; they must be ful
filled, or the penalties of disobedience will fol
low. On this subject profound ignorance reigns
in society. From such observations as I have
been able to make, 1 am convinced that the
union of certain temperaments and combina
tions of mental organs in the parents, are
highly
rROCREATION OF THE SEXES. 51
conducive to health, talent, and morality in the
offspring, and vice versa; and that these condi
tions may be discovered and taught with far
greater certainty, facility, and advantage, than
is generally imagined. It will be time to con
clude that men are naturally incapable of obedi
ence to the organic laws, when, after their in
tellectual faculties and moral sentiments have
been trained to observance of the Creator's in
stitution, as at once their duty, their interest,
and a
grand source of their enjoyment, they
shall be found to continue to rebel." (The Con
stitution of man considered in Relation to Ex
ternal Objects, 1835.)
Dr. Pritchard, in his learned and valuable
"
Researches into the Physical History of
Mankind,
"
has accumulated a vast number of
facts and opinions on the subject of hereditary
qualities and diseases in our
species. Among
these he states —
"
Children resemble, in feature and constitu
tion, both parents, but I think more
generally
the father. In the breeding of horses and oxen,
great importance is attached by experienced
propagators, to the male. In sheep, it is com
monly observed that black rams
beget black
lambs. In the human species, also, the com
plexion chiefly follows that of the father ; and I
believe it to be a
general fact, that the offspring
of a black father and white mother is much
darker than a whitefather and a dark mother."
—Vol. ii. p. 551.
52 PROCREATION OF THE SEXES.
Mr. Combe comments upon these facts in
the following manner : —
"
These facts appear to me to be referable to
both causes. The stock must have had some in
fluence, but the mother, in all these cases, is not
impressed by her own colour, because she does
not look on herself; while the father's complex
ion must strikingly attract her attention, and
may, in this way, give a darker tinge to the
offspring." Black hens lay dark coloured eggs,
but the reverse is much more
generally the
case.
"
Dr. Pritchard states the result of his invest
igations to be, first,
'
That the organization of
the offspring is always modelled according to
the type of the original structure of the parent;'
and, secondly,
'
That changes produced by ex
ternal causes, in the appearance or constitution
of the individual, are
temporary, and, in general,
acquired characters are transient :
they termi
nate with the individual, and have no influence
on the progeny.'—
vol. ii. p. 536. Jlo supports
the first of these propositions by a
variety of
facts occurring
'
in the porcupine family,'
'
in
the hereditary nature of complexion,' and '
in
the growth of supernumerary fingers or toes,
and corresponding deficiencies.' '
Maupertuis
has mentioned this phenomenon; he assures us,
that there were two families in Germany, who
have been distinguished for several generations
by six fingers on each hand, and the same num
ber of toes on each foot,' &c. He admits, at the
same time, that '
the second proposition is of
PROCREATION OF THE SEXES. 53
more difficult proof, and that an
opinion con
trary to it has been maintained by some writers,
and a variety of single facts have been related
iu support of it.' But many of these relations,
as he justly observes, are obviously fables.
"
In regard to the foregoing propositions, I
would observe that a manifest distinction exists
between the transmission of monstrosities or
mutilations, which constitute additions to, or
abstractions from, the natural lineaments of the
body, and transmission of a mere tendency in
particular organs to a
greater or less develop
ment in point of size, and energy in their natu
ral functions. This last appears to me to be
influenced by the state of the parents at the time
when existence is communicated to the off
spring. On this point Dr. Pritchard says,
'
The
opinion which formerly prevailed, and which
has been entertained by some modern writers,
among whom is Dr. Darwin, that at the period
when organization commences in the ovum,
that is, at or soon after the time of conception,
the structure of the foetus is capable of under
going modification from impressions on the
mind of the parent, does not appear altogether
so improbable. It is contradicted, at least, by
no fact in physiology. It is an opinion of very
ancient prevalence, and may be traced to so re
mote a
period, that its rise cannot be attributed
to the speculations of philosophers, and it is
difficult to account for the origin of such a
persuasion, unless we ascribe it to the facts
which happened to be observed.'
"
—
p. 556.
54 PROCREATION OF THE SEXES.
"
A striking and undeniable proof of the ef
fect on the character and dispositions of chil
dren, produced by the form of brain transmitted
to them by hereditary descent, is to be found in
the progeny of marriages between Europeans,
whose brains possess a favourable development
of the moral and intellectual organs, and Hin
doos, and native Americans, whose brains are
inferior. All authors agree, and report the cir
cumstance as
singularly striking, that the chil
dren of such unions are decidedly superior in
mental qualities to the native, while they are
still inferior to the European parent. Captain
Franklin says, that half-breed American In
dians '
are upon the whole a
good-looking peo
ple, and, where the experiments have been
made, have shown much expertness in learning,
and willingness to be taught ; they have, how
ever, been sadly neglected'—
p. 86. He adds,
'
It has been remarked, I do not know with
what truth, that half breeds show more
personal
courage than the pure breeds.' Captain Basil
Hall, and other writers on South America, men
tion, that the offspring of native American and
Spanish parents, constitute the most active,'
vigorous, and powerful portion of the inhabi
tants of these countries ; and many of them
rose to high commands during the revolutiona
ry war. So much is this the case in Hindostan,
that several writers have already pointed to the
mixed race there, as
obviously destined to be
come the future sovereigns of India. These
individuals inherit ftom the native parent a cer-
PROCREATION OF THE SEXES. 55
tain adaptation to the climate, and from the
European parent a
higher development of
brain, the two combined c
nstituting their su
periority.
"
Another example of the same law occurs
in Persia. In that country, it is said that the
custom has existed for ages among the nobles,
of purchasing beautiful female Circassian cap
tives, and forming alliances with them as wives.
It is ascertained that the Circassian form of
brain stands comparatively high in the develop
ment of the moral and intellectual organs. And
it is mentioned by some travellers, that the race
of nobles in Persia is the most gifted in natural
qualities, bodily and mental, of any class of that
people ; a fact diametrically opposite to that
which takes place in Spain and other European
countries, where the nobles intermarry con
stantly with each other, and set the organic laws
altogether at defiance.
"
The degeneracy and even
idiocy of some of
the noble and royal families of Spain and Por
tugal, from marrying nieces, and other near re
lations, is well known ; and defective brains, in
all these cases, are observed.
"
Many facts illustrate the influence of the
state of the parents, particularly of the mother,
at the time when the existence of the child com
menced, on its mental talents and dispositions.
" '
The father of Napoleon Buonaparte,' says
Sir Walter Scott,
'
is stated to have possessed
a
very handsome person, a talent for eloquence,
and a vivacity of intellect, which he transmitted
56 PROCREATION OF THE SEXES.
to his son. It was in the middle of civil dis
cord, fights, and skirmishes, that Charles Buona
parte married Laetitia Ramolini, one of the most
beautiful young women of the island, and pos
sessed of a
great deal of firmness of character.
She partook of the dangers of her husband
durincr the years of civil war ; and is said to
have accompanied him on horseback on some
military expeditions, or
perhaps hasty flights,
shortly before her being delivered of the future
emperor.'
"
The murder of David Rizzio was
perpe
trated by armed nobles, with many circum
stances of violence and terror, in the presence
of Mary, Queen of Scotland, shortly before the
birth of her son, afterwards James the First of
England. The constitutional liability of this
monarch to emotions of fear, is recorded as a
characteristic of his mind ; and it has been men
tioned that he even started involuntarily at the
sight of a drawn sword. Queen Mary was not
deficient in courage, and the Stuarts, both be
fore and after James the First, were distin
guished for this quality ; so that his dispositions
were an
exception to the family character. Na
poleon and James form striking contrasts ; and
it maybe remarked that the mind of Napoleon's
mother appears to have risen to the danger to
which she was
exposed, and braved it : while
the circumstances in which Queen Mary was
placed, were calculated to
inspire her with fear
alone.
"
Further evidence of the same law may still
PROCREATION OF THE SEXES, 57
be mentioned. Esquirol, the celebrated French
medical writer, in adverting to the causes of
madness, mentions that many children whose
existence dated frpm periods when the horrors
of the French Revolution were at their height,
turned out subsequently to be weak, nervous,
and irritable in mind, extremely susceptible of
impressions, and liable, by the least extraordi
nary excitement, to be thrown into absolute in
sanity. A medical practitioner of Douglas, in
the Isle of Man, mentions the following case : —
A man's first child was of sound mind ; after
wards he had a fall from his horse, by which
his head was much injured. His next two
children proved to be both idiots. After this
he was
trepanned, and had other children, and
they turned out to be of sound mind. A lady
of considerable talent wrote as follows to a
phrenological friend :—
'
From the age of two,
I foresaw that my eldest son's restlessness would
ruin him ; and it has been even so. Yet he was
kind, brave, and affectionate. I read the Iliad
for six months before he saw the light, and have
often wondered if that could have any influence
on him. He was
actually an Achilles.'
"
In a case which fell under my own observa
tion, the father of a
family had been sick, had a
partial recovery, but relapsed, declined in health,
and in two months died. Seven months after
his death, a son was born, of the full age ; and
the origin of whose existence was referable of
the period of the partial recovery. At that time,
and during the subsequent two months, the fa-
58 PROCREATION OF THE SEXES.
culties of the mother were in high excitement,
in ministering to her husband, to whom she was
greatly attached ; and, after his death, the same
excitement continued to
operate, as she was then
loaded with the charge of a numerous family,
but not
depressed ; for her circumstances were
comfortable. The son is now a
young man ;
and, while his constitution is the most delicate,
the development and activity of the mental or
gans are decidedly greater in him than in any
other member of the family.
"
Another illustration of the same law is found
in the fact, that when two
parties marry very
young, the eldest of their children inherits a less
favourable development of the moral and intel
lectual organs, than those produced in more ma
ture age. The animal organs in men, in gene
ral, are most vigorous in early life, and this ener
gy appears to cause them to be then most read
ily transmitted to offspring. Indeed it is diffi
cult to account for the wide varieties in the form
of the brain in children of the same
family, un
less on the principle, that the organs which pre
dominate in vigour and activity in the parents,
at the time when existence is communicated, de
termine the tendency of corresponding organs
to
develope themselves largely in the children.
Since the first edition of this work was
prepar
ed, so
many facts illustrative of the truth of this
principle have been communicated to me, and
observed by myself, that I now
regard it as
pro
bable.
"
If this be really the law of nature, as there
PROCREATION OF THE SEXES. 59
is great reason for believing, then parents, in
whom combativeness and destructiveness are in
habitual activity, will transmit these organs, in a
state of high development and excitement, to
their children ; and those in whom the moral
and intellectual organs exist in supreme vigour,
will transmit these in greatest perfection.
"
This view is in harmony with the fact, that
children generally, although not universally, re
semble their parents in their mental qualities ;
because the largest organs being naturally the
most active, the general and habitual state of the
parents will be determined by those which pre
dominate in size in their own brains ; and on
the principle that predominance in activity and
energy causes the transmission of similar quali
ties to the offspring, the children will, in this
way, very generally resemble the parents. But
they will not always do so ; because, even the
very inferior characters, in whom the moral and
intellectual organs are deficient, may be occa
sionally exposed to external influences, which,
for the time, may excite these organs to unwont
ed vivacity ; and, according to the rule now ex
plained, a child dating its existence from that
period, may inherit a
higher organization of
brain than the parent. Or, a
person with an ex
cellent moral developement, may, by some par
ticular occurrence, have his animal propensities
roused to unwonted vigour, and his moral sen
timents thrown, for the time, into the shade ;
and any offspring connected with this condition
would prove inferior to himself in the develop-
60 PROCREATION OF THE SEXES.
ment of the moral organs, and greatly surpass
him in the size of those of the propensities. I
"
I repeat, that I do not present these views
as ascertained phrenological science, but as in
ferences strongly supported by facts, and consis
tent with known phenomena. If we
suppose
them to be true, they will greatly strengthen \
the motives for preserving the habitual suprem
acy of the moral sentiments and intellect, when,
by doing so, improved moral and intellectual
capacities may be conferred on
offspring. If it
be true that this lower world is arranged in har
mony with the supremacy of the higher facul
ties, what a noble prospect would tnis law open
up of the possibility of man
ultimately becom
ing capable of placing himself more
fully in ac
cordance with the Divine institutions, than he
has hitherto been able to do ; and, in conse
quence, of reaping numberless enjoyments that
'
appear destined for him by his Creator, and'
avoiding thousands ofmiseries that now render
life too often only a series of calamities. The
views here expounded also harmonise with the
second principle of this Essay; namely, that, as
activity in the faculties is the fountain of enjoy
ment, the whole constitution of nature is design
edly framed to
support them in ceaseless action.
What scope for observation, reflection, the ex
ercise ofmoral sentiments, and the regulation of
animal impulse, does not this picture of nature
present !
"
I cordially agree, however, with Dr. Pritch-
ard, that this subject is still involved in great
PROCREATION OF THE SEXES. 61
obscurity.
'
We know not,' says he,
'
by what
means any of the facts we remark are
effected}
and the utmost we can
hope to attain is, by tra
cing the connexion of circumstances, to learn
from what combinations of them we
may expect
particular results.'
"
—
Vol. ii. p. 542.
Mr. Combe further judiciously observes :—
"
A man and woman about to marry have, in the
generality of cases, the health and happiness
of five or more human beings depending on their
attention to considerations, essentially the same
as the foregoing, and yet how much less scrupu
lous are
they than the mere
speculators in mo
ney 1 It is pleasing, however, to observe, that in
Wurtemburg there are two excellent laws calcu
lated to improve the moral and physical condi
tion of the people, which other states would do
well to adopt. First :
'
It is illegal for any young
man to marry before he is twenty-five, or
any
young woman before she is eighteen ; and a
young man, at whatever age he wishes to marry,
must show to the police and the priest of the
commune where he resides, that he is able, and
has the prospect, to provide for a wife and fami
ly.' The second law compels parents to send
their children to school from the age of six to
fourteen.
"
There is no moral difficulty in admitting
or admiring the wisdom and benevolence of the
institution by which good qualities are transmit
ted from parents to children ; but it is frequent
ly held as unjust to the latter, that they should
inherit parental deficiencies, and so be made to
F
62 PROCREATION OF THE SEXES.
suffer for sins which they did not commit. In
treating of this difficulty, I must again refer to
the supremacy of the moral sentiments, as the
theory of the constitution ofthe world. The an
imal propensities are all selfish, and regard only
the immediate and apparent interest of the indi
vidual ; while the higher sentiments delight in
that which communicates the greatest quantity
of enjoyment to the greatest number. Now, let
us
suppose the law of hereditary descent to be
abrogated altogether, that is to say, that each in
dividual of the race was, at birth, endowed with
fixed natural qualities, without the slightest re
ference to what his parents had been or done !
this form of constitution would obviously cut off
every possibility of improvement in the race."
I have made these long quotations from a vast
number of others equally pertinent to the sub
ject under consideration, but I must refer to Mr.
Combe's work, all who are desirous of valuable
information on the requisites, both moral and
physical, for matrimonial engagements, and the
propagation of healthful offspring. Every phy
siologist will agree with this talented author,
"
that the children of the individuals who have
obeyed the organic, the moral, and the intellec
tual laws, will not
only start from the highest
level of their parents in acquired knowledge, but
they will inherit atendency towards an
enlarged
development of the moral and intellectual organs,
and thereby enjoy an
increasing capability of dis
covering and obeying the Creator's institutions."
6D
CHAPTER VI.
PATHOLOGY OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS—
MAE-
FORMATIONS AND DISEASES OF BOTH SEXES, WHICH
DISQUALIFYFOR MARRIAGE, CAUSE IMPOTENCE AND
STERILITY, OR WHICH INJURE OR DESTROY THE
OFFSPRING ILLUSTRATIVE ANECDOTES CONDI
TIONS NECESSARY FOR COPULATION ON THE
PART OF THE MALE CAUSES OF WANT OF EREC
TION TREATMENT OF THIS FORM OF DISEASE
CURE OF SEMNINAL WEAKNESS HORRORS OF MAS
TURBATION IMPORTANCE OF OVERCOMING THE
HABIT DIRECTIONS FOR CURE.
Some complaints are
aggravated by marriage,
such as inveterate scrofula, epilepsy, confirmed
phthisis, caries of the vertebrae, distortion of
the spine, diseases of the heart and large vessels,
&c. The deformity of the bones, termed rick
ets or rachitis, is often transmitted to infants ;
and this predisposition in the female exposes
her to spinal and pelvic deviations ; and it too
often happens, in such cases, that the very mo
ment she hopes to become a mother, she is con
signed to the tomb.
Fodere says, marriage should be interdicted
when the sacro-pubic diameter of the entrance
to the pelvis is less than four inches ; Orfila,
64 MANAGEMENT OF THE
when it is less than three inches ; but contrac
tions of the outlet or
perineal aperture are as
strong objections. When the deformity is such,
that an infant cannot be bora through the natu
ral passage, must be dismembered, or extract
ed by the Caesarian operation, marriage ought
to be interdicted, according to theologians and
physicians. Mania, and other forms of mental
imbecility, are
impediments to the marriage con
tract, because it is necessary for the proper
formation of this compact, that there should be
capacity to contract, and the consent of both
parties.
It is well known to all practical obstetricians,
that women who become mothers at an
early
age, purchase the honour of maternity at a
very
dear rate. Such persons are liable to numerous
disorders during pregnancy ; the pelvis is badly
able to support the gravid uterus—
it is too
small for the passage of the infant ; consequent
ly, parturition will be laborious and protracted,
and must frequently be completed by artificial
means ; while the degree of pressure produced
by this process on the important organs, or soft
parts, covering the bones, as the bladder, vagi
na, and rectum, causes
great suffering and
danger to the woman, inflammation, gangrene,
or
sloughing, and may be followed by deplora
ble diseases, which prevent cohabitation, and
even cause death itself.
It is also generally admitted, by the most
eminent modern writers, that the present mode
of female education is highly injurious to health,
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 65
predisposes to spinal curvature, and, consequent
ly, to deformity of the hip and other bones,
thereby often rendering parturition highly dan
gerous and fatal. -
Again, great injury*^ inflicted on the natural
development of children and young females, by
the foolish custom of tight lacing, which impedes
the functions of the thoracic and abdominal vis
cera ; prevents the development of the breasts
and nipples ; for these organs are considerably
absorbed from pressure
—
the lactiferous ducts
are almost obliterated—
the nipples will be un
developed at the end of pregnancy
—
lactation
will be impeded or absent after delivery—
the
natural food of the offspring greatly diminished
—
while the mother will be affected with in
flamed breasts, or sore
nipples, which may lay
the foundation of cancer. It has been already
observed, that the human female is unfit to co
operate in the function of procreation until after
the twelfth or fourteenth year in this climate, or
until menstruation is established ; for, at an
earlier age, the sexual organs are
imperfectly
developed ; there is no venereal desire ; and
sexual intercourse is extremely painful. Hence
the cruelty and barbarity of violating female
children of a tender age.
The male is also incapable of performing his
part in the mysterious pi-ocess of reproduction
until after puberty, and, according to the law
of this country, before the fourteenth year.
There are, however, some few exceptions, as
will appear hereafter.
66 MANAGEMENT OF THE
There is no
subject which distresses most
married persons so severely, as want of offspring,
or which leads to so much domestic unhappi-
ness, or so often to infidelity. It is therefore
necessary for the medical practitioner to be
well informed on all the causes which prevent
both sexes from accomplishing the act of pro
creation. Indeed this knowledge is valuable to
all classes of society. Impotence may be urged
to obtain a divorce, or to repel a
charge of bas
tardy or
rape, and also in disputed cases of pa
ternity, legitimacy, or
right to succession. The
multiplication of the species being the real end
of marriage, the laws of many countries allowed
a divorce in case of incurable impotence in
either party, at the time of marriage. The ex
istence of this state must be proved by medical
witnesses, and matrons are also appointed to
investigate it in women.
Marriage is not dis
solved when sexual imbecility occurs after the
ceremonial, because the contract was fair and
just between the parties. Divorce is never
granted at
present, in this country, but on the
grounds of adultery or mal-treatment. Never
theless, it is important to those about to form
matrimonial alliances, to know the causes of im
potence and sterility.
All disqualifications for matrimonial union
may be divided into two classes. First, those
caused by defect of mental power ; and second
ly, those caused by defect of sexual organiza
tion. The disqualifications are, therefore, mor
al and physical, and are
usually expressed by
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 67
the terms impotence and sterility. These
terms are often used synonymously, though
widely different. Impotence consists in the inca
pacity for copulation, or in the impossibility of
exercising the venereal act ; sterility consists in
the aptitude of the organs for procreation, with
out the power of reproduction. Thus a
person
may be impotent but not sterile, and vice versa.
Some writers apply the term impotence to the
male ; but such a distinction is arbitrary and un
scientific. The female may be impotent from
malformation, and the male sterile from exces
sive venery, onanism, self-pollution, and diseases
of the testicles. A man who is impotent is ne-
cessaiily sterile ; but a woman
may be impotent
and not sterile. I need scarcely remark, that
sterility does not afford a
just plea for the nullity
of marriage. The manifest causes of impotence
in both sexes, may be divided into physical and
moral.
Physical, manifest, natural, or accidental im
potence of the male.—
The causes of manifest im
potence of the male, are absence of the penis or
testicles. There must be total loss of the penis,
as the slightest penetration into the vagina is
sufficient for procreation. There may be con
genital want of the penis, or it may be partially
lost by accident, as
by the bites of animals, burns,
wounds, or
surgical operations. It may be re
moved close to the pubes, yet the ejaculatory
muscles retain their power, and will propel the
semen with sufficient, indeed the natural force,
so that it may effect impregnation. A case was
68 MANAGEMENT OF THE
published a short timesince, in our public police
reports, of a
young woman who was
jealous, and
who concealed a razor, with which she removed
the penis, while in the sexual act, close to the
pubes. The mutilated husband recovered, not
withstanding the hemorrhage, and went to coha
bit with another woman, whom he illegally mar
ried. His first wife ascertained that his second
was
pregnant, expressed great sorrow for her
act, and induced him to return to her. He did
so, and then the second wife appeared before a
magistrate to swear or affiliate the infant to him,
of which she was
pregnant. In this case the
ejaculatory power remained perfect, though a
large portion of the penis was removed ; and I
have known other cases in point.
The absence of one or both the testicles from
the scrotum, is no
proof of their non-existence
in the abdomen, unless the penis be small, the
voice puerile, the beard absent, the form delicate,
and the whole physical and moral constitution
feminine. It is well known, that the testicles
may not descend into the scrotum, though they
may be fully developed in the abdomen, and
perform their functions perfectly ; indeed, ac
cording to some writers, much better than in the
natural situation, but this is questionable.
Rolfinck relates the case of a libertine who
was
executed, and in whose abdomen the testi
cles were found fully developed. This author
advised a
young man in a similar situation to
marry, and a numerous
offspringproved the cor
rectness of the advice (Mahon). It is stated by
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 69
Bichat, on the authority of Roux, that the testes
do not descend in some of the natives of Hunga
ry, until some months, or even
years, after birth
(Brewster's Enc.) Pope Sextus V. decreed, in
1587, in a letter to his Nuncio in Spain, that
those destitute of them in the usual situation,
should remain unmarried ; and Philip II. confir
med the order, which affected many in that king
dom. The Parliament of Paris made a similar
law in 1665 (Mahon.) I was once consulted by
a robust and healthful young gentleman, aged
twenty-six years, who had but one testicle in the
usual situation, as to the propriety of his marry
ing a young lady, whose fortune was 70,000Z.—
There was no cicatrix on the vacant portion of
the scrotum, the other testicle had never descen
ded ; and he was otherwise well developed. I
advised him to marry. He did so, and has had
children. Simon states, that he knew a soldier
who had no testicles in the scrotum, though he
had children, and very much disappointed his
paramours. (Rolfinck.)
The destruction of one testicle by castration
or disease is no
impediment to procreation, no
more than the loss of one
eye is to the vision.
But when both testicles are
completely diseas
ed, their secretion is injured or
suppressed, and
incurable sterility is the consequence. Fre
quent seminal emissions, or the sudden secretion
of semen during coition, is generally an effectual
bar to reproduction. The secreting power of
the testes may be very much increased or dimin
ished. The more fluid parts of the spermatic
70 MANAGEMENT OF THE
fluid must be absorbed, and the semen must be
retained some hours to effect procreation. Both
parties must also have been for some time con
tinent, and likewise in good health.
Both testicles may be removed by castration,
yet procreation may be accomplished, as the ve-
siculae seminales, or seminal receptacles, may
contain at the time of the operation, a sufficient
quantity of semen for one or two prolific emis
sions, after which the person will be sterile, but
not impotent, Baron Boyer was consulted by a
man whose testicles were removed in conse
quence of scirrhous enlargement. He afterwards
knew his wife, and she became pregnant. He
feared that he was not the father of the infant
she carried ; but M. Boyer assured him that he
might be, and if so, this would be his last infant,
It is scarcely necessary to observe that dogs,
Bwine, horses, bullocks, &c, generate with one
testicle. Even eunuchs have erections and
emissions, but the latter consist of the prostatic
fluid, the mucus ofthe seminal vesicles and ure
thra, and are
unprolific.
The celebrated John Hunter advised a man
whose urethra opened in the perineum to collect
the seminal fluid when effused, under the scro
tum, and inject it into the vagina with a
syringe,
Impregnation was said to have followed ; an in
dividual was born, whose grand-daughter is now
living in London. I very much doubt the au
thenticity of this case, and do not believe it; be
cause the emission should be very profuse before •
it could be drawn into a
syringe, and even in
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 71
such case, when cooled by the instrument, could
scarcely be prolific.
It is certain, however, that animals have been
impregnated by injecting the male sperm into
the vagina.
The dimensions of the penis, such as extra
ordinary thickness and length, are considered by
some writers as causes of impotence. Fodere
is of opinion, that the respective sexual organs
may be so
disproportionate as never to be adapt
ed to each other ; and the physical inconvenien
ces are such as to expose the female to great in
jury and danger to her health. A case
lately
occurred in this metropolis, the particulars of
which were, that though the female was of or
dinary stature and well formed, the marriage
could not be consummated. The case was men
tioned to me by a medical friend, but he could
not state whether any malformation or disease
existed. The husband received her fortune,
and refused to restore any part of it, though the
woman returned to her family. There was a
model of the genital aperture of this individual
in the collection of the late Mr. Miller, of Theo
bald's Road. There was a
fleshy growth pro
jecting at the vulva, which nearly closed it, and
would not admit a goose-quill.
"
It must be admitted, however," M. Fodere
sbserves,
"
that thickness of the penis, which
^xcites great pain in some women, procures vo
luptuous sensations in others, and that the vagina
is capable of great dilatation, which may be ef
fected by gentle and gradual efforts, and re-
72 MANAGEMENT OF THE
duced to a state capable of receiving the virile
member. "
Though extreme length of the pe
nis," he continues,
"
may produce contusion of
the os and cervix uteri, it cannot be deemed a
just cause of impotence, because, by certain
precautions, this danger may be avoided, unless
there is great difference between the age of the
parties."
A woman, aged thirty-eight, was a
patient of
mine, at the Western Dispensary, Westminster,
in the summer of 1835 ; and is now under ray
care in the Metropolitan Free Hospital, 1839;
who gives the following history of her condition.
She is married eighteen years, but never men
struated. She suffered great pain after mar
riage, and consummation could not be effected.
Dr. Elliotson examined her at St. Thomas' Hw-I
pital, and referred her to the late Mr. Cline, who
J
operated upon her, and told her the passage!
(vagina) was contracted. Four years after-l
wards, Mr. White, of Parliament Street, open-
ted on her, and told her that the mouth of the
womb was closed, and turned "the wrong way."
Her husband has repeatedly said to her, that she
differs from other women. On examination,!
discovered the vagina about an inch in length
and no trace whatever of the orifice of the womb
She states, that she suffers great pain durim
conjugal intimacy, unless her husband is cau
tious. She suffers severe
pain in the pelvis ev
ery month, which is relieved by opium. Jos*
of Arc was in a similar condition. I have know
three cases of vesico-vaginal fistula, in whirl
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 73
the vagina was so contraacted, by inflammation
and its consequences, that sexual congress was
impracticable.
Diminutiveness or shortness of the penis is no
proof of impotence, as the slightest penetration
and emission are sufficient for impregnation. I
have known several cases of this description, in
which the greater part of the organ had been
destroyed by sloughing.
Obliquity, tortuosity, or bifurcation of the pe
nis, bad stricture of the urethra, phymosis, para-
phymosis, warts, chordee, chancres, or excessive
length of the froRnum, cannot be considered ab
solute causes of impotence, as
they can be re
medied by surgical operations.
Three conditions are
necessary on the part of
the male for copulation—
erectio, et intromissio
penis, cum seminis cmissione. Impotence in men
depends on defect of some one or more of these
conditions; erection, intromission, and ejacula
tion of the spermatic fluid. The causes of im
potence are more commonly observed in man
than in the other sex; and this is easily ac
counted for, by the greater part the male has to
perform in nuptial congress. This is evident
from the phenomena which give the virile mem
ber the form and disposition proper for erection,
the introduction of the organ, and the ejacula
tion of the semen, which are effected by a vio
lent and complicated action, which requires a
concurrence of many indispensable conditions,
as the organs not only contract spasmodically to
effect the expulsion of the male fluid, but all the
G
74 MANAGEMENT OF THE
body participates in the convulsion at the mo
ment of the emission, as if nature at this instant
forgot every other function. The causes of im
potence in man arise from two sources, from
malformation of the genitals, or from want of
action in them; but in females, impotence can
only depend on malformation, either natural or
acquired.
The causes of want of erection may be divi
ded into physical and moral. The physical
causes
depend on defects of the body, as
para
lysis of the penis, curvature of the spine, frigid
and apathetic temperament. The moral causei
are such as act powerfully on the imagination,
and suddenly produce an
atony of the genitals,
or induce an
inactivity in organs properly de
veloped.
"
The genital organs," says M. Virey,
"
offer two states in the young and old, which
are the frozen zones of existence ; the interme
diate state is the torrid zone of life. The infant
has nothing to give, the old has lost all." Im
maturity of age, and senescence, are often causes
of want of erection. This doctrine, though ge
nerally con-ect, admits of exceptions, as children
have been precociously developed even before
the fourth year, examples of which have often
been cited ; and this celebrated author describes
a
boy, aged seven
years, a native of the depart
ment of Lot, who was as
fully developed as an
adult, and who made the most
comically furious
attacks on his female acquaintance, and abso
lutely deprived one of them of that which she
could never
regain. It is also stated, that a boy
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 75
of ten
years of age became a father during the
excitement of the French revolution.
Among
the causes of want of erection we must reckon
a
frigid or
apathetic constitution, a total insen
sibility to sexual desire, and this is said to be of
a
profound lymphatic temperament. Descour-
litz describes persons of this temperament in
these words : —
"
The hair is white, fair, and
thin, no beard, countenance pale, flesh soft and
without hair, voice clear, sharp, and piercing ;
the eyes sorrowful and dull, the form round, the
shoulders straight, perspiration acid, testicles
small, withered, pendulous, and soft, the sper
matic cords small, the scrotum flaccid, the glands
of the testicle insensible, no capillary growth on
the pubes, a moral apathy, pusillanimity and
fear on the least occasion, are
symptoms of ana-
phrodisia, or
impotence, or
sterility ; and any
one
having the majority of these signs is inca
pable of copulation or
generation."
A habitude of chastity is another opponent
to erection, such as characterised the ancient
fathers of the desert, and those who, by fasting
and other forms of the church discipline, gen
erally, but not always, extinguish certain de
sires implanted by nature, but in their opinion,
contrary to that purity which should distinguish
those who have made vows of chastity. The sex
ual organs of such persons decay, like all other
organs whose functions are not exerted. Long
continued debauchery, whether with women or
by masturbation, will also cause
impotence.
"
The
impotence," says Pinal, "
caused by the latter
76 MANAGEMENT OF THE
excess, reduces youth to the nullity of old age,
and is too often incurable." Impotence is often
caused by debility of the genital organs, in
duced by precocious venereal enjoyments ; or
by the abuse of the sexual function by solitary
indulgence or masturbation. In these cases,
there is often want of erection, and should a
seminal emission take place, the semen does not
possess its prolific power. This form of impo
tence is often irremediable, though I have cured
many persons of it, who had several involunta
ry emissions of the spermatic fluid daily, with
and without erections or amorous
impulse. One
of these patient6 was treated by Professor
Colles of Dublin, and myself. I could give the
histories of several cases of this description, did
not delicacy forbid it. This is the disease term
ed seminal weakness, or debility, by advertising
empirics, and is accurately described in a late
number of the Medical Gazette of Paris, by
Professor Lallemand of Montpellier ; M. Tissot
on onanism and the diseases caused by mastur
bation, or
self-pollution ; and M. Desglandes on
onanism and the other venereal abuses, in their
relations to health. It is a
practice of the most
destructive tendency, pregnant with mental and
physical evils. The concurrent testimonies of
all writers on the subject amply illustrate its
baneful consequences. Hippocrates, in his
works, notices it : Celsus also, in his book on
the Preservation of Health, remarks,
"
These
habits are
always hurtful, and the indulgence
in them weakens the strengest constitution."
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 77
Actius gives a dreadful picture of their evils :—
"
Young people (says he) have the air and ap
pearance of old age ; they become pale, effemi
nate, lazy, benumbed, base, stupid, and even
imbecile ; they have an utter distaste for every
thing, are
totally incapacitated, and many become
paralytic." Galen, also, mentions similar evils
as resulting from this destructive habit. Hoff
man says,
"
After frequent nocturnal pollutions,
not only the powers are lost, the body falls
away, and the face turns pale ; but, moreover,
the memory fails, a cold sensation seizes all the
limbs, the sight is clouded, and the voice be
comes hoarse ; all the body languishes by de
grees ; disturbing dreams t revent sleep admin
istering any relief." Boerhaave remarks, that
"
The loss of too much semen occasions lassi
tude, debilitates, and renders exercise difficult ;
it causes convulsions, emaciation and pains in
the membrane of the brain ; it deadens the
senses, and particularly the sight. I have seen
(he continues) a
patient whose disorder began
by lassitude, and a weakness in all parts of the
body, particularly towards the loins ; it is at
tended with an
involuntary motion of the ten
dons, periodical spasms, and bodily decay, inso
much as to destroy the whole corporeal frame."
Let the community be enlightened on this
subject, and let the young know that if they
indulge in this odious vice, the secret will out ;
and that not
only their physicians, but their
friends, will know the shameful cause of their
disease, and it shall operate as a
powerful re-
G*
78 MANAGEMENT OF THE
straint. It should be remarked, however, that
the indications are not always infallible, and we
should not form a hasty judgment.
Predisposing causes should be removed.
Let the diet and regimen be such as to prevent
premature development of the passions and all
physical precocity. If children are brought up
in an idle, effeminate, and luxurious manner,
their persons are, Like tinder, ignited by the
first spark that falls upon them. If the laws of
physiology were obeyed, and external excite
ments removed, the sexual appetite' would sleep
on, as nature designed, till the transition from
boyhood to manhood, instead of being forced
into action at from five to ten years of ago, as
we have seen.
It is not only in private schools that this sin
rages ; our
public seminaries and colleges are
not exempt from it. The heads of our univer
sities are
particularly scrupulous in driving
from their neighborhood the frail fair, lest they
should contaminate the votaries of learning;
whilst a vice far more
degrading in its practice,
and infinitely more baneful in its effects, rages
within the very sanctuaries of classic lore.
Many a brilliant genius has sunk into fatuity
beneath its degrading influence. Loss of mem
ory, idiocy, blindness, total impotence, nervous
debility, paralysis, stranguary, &c. are among
the unerring consequences of an
indulgence in
this criminal passion.
Numerous instances are mentioned by medi
cal writers, where this horrid habit of mastur
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 79
bation has been implanted in the young, when
infants, by nurses and servants, who to still
their cries, or
prevent fretfulness, would titillate
the genital parts. What a
responsibility rests
upon parents to see that no such vile and de
structive outrage is perpetrated upon their chil
dren !
To overcome this detestable habit, engage in
some absorbing subject or enterprise, in which
self will be forgotten. Shun solitude ; seek the
restraints of company ; lust evaporates in the
presence of virtuous society. Avoid idleness,
especially all vacuity of mind—
"
The idle man's
brain is the Devil's work-shop."
If other motives fail to cure the voluntary
practice, consider the dreadful consequences of
continuing in it.
La6t, and most important, cultivate abiding
religious impressions, and a sense of the pre
sence of God, and consider his threatenings
against all impurity.
To restore the health and vigor of the body,
"
the regimen," says Dr. Woodward,
"
must be
6trict, the diet should be simple and nutritious,
and sufficient in quantity ; it should be rather
plain than light and abstemious ; no stimulating
condiments should be used, the suppers should
be particularly light, and late suppers should be
wholly avoided. All stimulating drinks, even
strong tea and coffee, should be discarded ;
cider and wine are very pernicious ; tobacco,
in all its forms, not less so."
Cold bathing is an important auxiliary—
fric-
80 MANAGEMENT OF THE
tion of the skin with a coarse towel or
brush;
labor or other exercise in the open air is abso
lutely necessary to increase the strength, and
cause an
equal circulation of blood ; the amount
must not be too great, but sufficient to produce
such a
degree of fatigue as will favor quiet rest.
Let the bed be hard—
the covering not too
warm. Avoid all mental and nervous excite
ment in the evening, and everything that might
prevent undisturbed repose. Retire to rest, not
till inclined to fall asleep, and arise as soon as
awake.
This course must be persevered in, and
health will gradually return. If the exigency
of the case demands active medicines, they
should be prescribed by an experienced physij
cian ; but these are to be considered only tem
porary auxiliaries. The only ground of hope
is the strength of will and lingering power of
goodness in the individual.
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 81
CHAPTER VII.
ABUSE OF THE REPRODUCTIVE FUNCTIONS
MEANS OF CURE EFFECTS OF SEVERE STUDY
ON THE GENERATIVE ORGANS EVILS OF EXCES
SIVE VENERY DR. HUNTER'S ADVICE TO TIMID
BRIDEGROOMS.
It would be contrary to the national taste and
propriety to give a detail of the numerous disea
ses caused by the abuse of the reproductive
function, or to indite the frightful accounts re
corded by Tissot, which are daily attested by
numerous cases which come before us. It is
sufficient to insert, in a consecutive form, the
general symptoms caused by venereal excesses,
of whatever kind ; and these have been repeat
edly witnessed and recorded by the most emi
nent medical authors.
The principal diseases which result from the
abuse of the generative function are the follow
ing, though a much greater number might be
added : emaciation, debility, derangement ofthe
digestive functions, nervousness, hypochondria
sis, hysteria, despondency, melancholy, idiotcy,
temporary insanity, which leads to suicide, im
perfection or loss of vision, hearing, smell, and
partially of touch ; apoplexy, and other diseases
82 MANAGEMENT OF THE
of the brain, cerebellum, spinal marrow, epilep
sy, chorea or St. Vitus's dance, mental aliena
tions, neuralgic pains in different parts of the
body ; rheumatism, gout, haemorrhoids, or
piles,
scrofula, pulmonary tubercles or consumption,
asthma, diseases of the heart and large vessels,
ratchitism or rickets, friability or brittleness of
the bones, low continued fevers, such as
typhus,
nervous, bilious, and hectic fevers, satyriasis and
nymphomania, uterine nervous pains, or neural
gia, which may extend to the ovaries, lower part
ofthe back, and one or both inferior limbs, shoul
ders, arms, and different parts of the body, pria
pism or constant erections of the penis, insensi
bility and impotence of the generative organs,
introductions of foreign bodies into the urethra
or
vagina, mutilations of the male organs, incar
ceration of the penis in foreign bodies, paraphy-
mosis, herpes preputialis, discharge from the
glans penis, termed balanitis, incontinence of
urine, spermatorrhoea, pollutions, nocturnal and
diurnal, diseases of the testicles and spermatic
cords, as
hydrocele, varicocele, circocele ; disea
ses of the clitoris, nymphae, labia, inflammation
of the vulvo-vaginal mucous membrane, called
leucorrhcea or whites, female pollutions, prolap
sus or descent of the womb, scirrhus, and cancer
of the womb and surrounding parts, uterine hae
morrhage, sterility, and deterioration of the off
spring.
I might give several illustrations of each ol
these diseases which have fallen under my own
observation and treatment ; but I shall content
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 83
myselfby stating that the chief indication ofpre
vention, is the suppression of amorous desire the
moment it arises in the mind, unless when it may
be indulged in according to the dictates of na
ture. This is to be accomplished by proper at
tention to a
religious, moral, intellectual, and
physical education, and by constant occupation
of both mind and body. In all cases, the gene
ral health ought to be improved, and urgent dis
eases combatted by appropriate remedies. The
application of cold to the genitals and perineum
is often of great advantage, and counter-irrita
tion on the perineum and sacrum are also effect
ual remedies. Sedative plasters are likewise
beneficial. The frequent use ofbougies are ad
vantageous in some cases. Tonics and chalybe-
ates are
highly useful. Compression of the pe
nis by a
bandage or other means on retiring to
rest will frequently awaken the individual when
an erection occurs, and prevent nocturnal emis
sions. These remedies, with moral controul,
will generally effect a cure.
In some cases, the sexual system is excited at
night or when the body is heated, by insects pe
culiar to the pubes. These are
readily destroy
ed by applying strong mercurial ointment, or
the solution of the oxymuriate of mercury, and
then washing the part with soap and warm wa
ter. As a
general rule, every cause, whether
mental, physical or mechanical which excites the
organs, ought to be avoided.
Tissot, in his Treatise on Literary Men, men
tions some curious examples of the bad effects
81 MANAGEMENT of the
of severe
study on the generative functions.—
Peyrilhe reports the following case : A mathe
matician, profoundly occupied with some
prob
lems which he could not resolve, was so affect
ed when he caressed his spouse, he could not
ejaculate. His wife consulted the narrator of
this case, who advised her to cause an amorous
joyous excitement in her husband, and to seize
this moment to receive his caresses. She rigc*
rously followed the advice,, and her husband re
gained his powers. Excessive desire or love
may cause
impotence. A man, aged thirty-six
years, of a
good constitution, was married to a
healthful woman, aged twenty-six. Both were
in good health, and extremely desirous of hav
ing children ; but the husband could not ejacu
late on account of the vigour of erection and ri
gidity of the penis, and he was forced to retire
before the consummation of the act. This cir
cumstance was the more remarkable, as he had
experienced no
difficulty with other women; and
had children by his first wife.
There is a similar case recorded in the Edin
burgh Medical Essays. Dr. Cockburn ascribed
the want of emission in the subject of this case
to the excessive vigour of the erection, which
entirely closed the urethra,. Slight evacuations
and refrigerants effected a cure.
I have also been consulted in many similar
eases.
Every exciting or
depressing passion which
operates during the act of reproduction, may be
a
temporary cause of impotence.. Al! causes of
generative organs. 85-
debility, whether moral or
physical, impede the
function of generation. Priapism and satyria
sis impede seminal emission, and may be causes
of impotence and sterility.
Dr. Gall observed in his lectures, that such
clergymen of the Roman Catholic church, as
were considered in the odour of sanctity, were
remarkable for atrophy of the genital organs.
—
No medical man can
deny it.
Monstrous enlargements of the penis and scro
tum, constant priapism, induced by local or con
stitutional irritation in some
persons, but most
frequently the result of a
long course of dissi
pation and libertinism, cause
impotence. The
late Mr. Norris, of the Old Jewry, who was one
of the examiners at the Royal College of Sur
geons in this metropolis, published a case in the
London Medical and Physical Journal, of a man
affected with priapism, who performed the gen
erative act fifteen times in one
night ; but it is
not mentioned whether impregnation followed
or not. Similar cases are recorded.
Many debilitating diseases, such as
typhus*
fever, purpura hemorrhagica, anasarca, infiltra
tion of the penis and scrotum, falls and blows
on the head or
spine, are also causes of impo
tence.
It is known to every well-developed adult,
that the inflence of the mind is very great on the
generative function, and may wholly prevent the
completion of the act. If the imagination wan
ders from the real object of desiring species, im
pregnation is< often, but not always impeded,
86 MANAGEMENT OF THE
and issue seldom follows. Sterne has happily
commented on this point, in the first chapter of
one of his most popular works ; and his views
are
strictly physiological. When the one
party
entertains dislike or disgust to the other, or
when either allows the mind to be occupied
with the image of another individual, the act of
generation may be duly performed, and the off
spring will bear a strong resemblance to the per
son who occupied the imagination of the party,
Dr. A. T. Thomson gives a remarkable example
of this kind in his Lectures on Medical Juris
prudence, published in the London Medical and
Surgical Journal, 1834.
There are many cases in which impotence is
caused by the hatred and disgust of the husband
towards his wife, though he is capable of cohab
iting with other women. The histories of pro
fligate men have often demonstrated, that a man
may be impotent with one woman, but a new
and more attractive object arouses his corporeal
energies, and assists the completion of the sex
ual function. This position is well illustrated by
the case of the Earl of Essex, and Lady Frances
Howard, which occurred in 1613, in which the
marriage was declared void by the king, though
the Archbishop of Canterbury was
against grant
ing a divorce. The earl admitted he was
impo
tent with his wife, but not so with other women.
The following are the particulars of the case :—
The countess transferred her affections to the
royal favourite Carr, Viscount Rochester, (after
wards Earl of Somerset), and being desirous of
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 87
a divorce, complained that her husband was im
potent. She deposed, that for the space of three
years they had lain together, and during that
time he had repeatedly attempted to have connex
ion with her without success. She also stated,
that she was still a
virgin, and several peeresses
and matrons, who were directed to examine her,
corroborated this statement, although it is men
tioned that she substituted a
young female of her
own age and stature in her place during the ex
amination. She was also pronounced to be well
fitted for having children. The earl, in his an
swer, admitted his inability to know her, while
he denied his impotence as to other females, and
insinuated his belief of her incompetency for
copulation. After the examination ofnumerous
witnesses, objections were raised by Abbot, the
Archbishop of Canterbury, and one of the king's
delegates on this trial, to the propriety of dissol
ving the marriage on such grounds ; to which
the king vouchsafed an
angry reply. It was
finally decided by the vote of seven
delegates
(five being absent, and not consenting,) that the
marriage should be dissolved, and the par
ties allowed to contract new
marriage ties.—
Hargrave's State Trials, vol. i. p. 315. See also
No. 1, in the Appendix to vol. viii., being a nar
rative of the proceedings on the trial, drawn up
by the Archbishop of Canterbury. In the speech
which he intended to have delivered on
giving
his opinion, he related the case of one
Bury, who
was tried in 1561. His wife cited him before
the ecclesiastical court on the ground of impo-
68 MANAGEMENT OF THE
tence, and the physicians deposed that he had
but one testicle, and that not larger than a bean.
The want of access was also proved. A sentence
ofdivorce accordingly passed. After some time
Bury married again, and had a son
by his second
wife. A question arose after the lapse of some
years, whether his offspring was
legitimate, and
it was decided that the second marriage was ut
terly void, because the ecclesiastical court had
been deceived in the opinion they had given on
the impotency of Bury. (Page 23 of the Ap
pendix.)
A case somewhat similar occurred in France,
1653. The Marquis of Langey, aged 25 years,
married a
lady between thirteen and fourteen
years of age. They lived happily as man and
wife for four years : and a short absence from
home, induced the marchioness to express great
anxiety and tenderness of affection for the re
turn of the marquis. Soon after this, the wife
accused the husband of impotence, and declared
herself a virgin. The marquis, piqued at this,
demanded the custom then sanctioned by the
laws of his country
—
trial by congress. The
judge ordered it ; the lady appealed ; but the
decree was confirmed. A jury of five physi
cians, five surgeons, and five matrons, was em
paneled. They filled their reports with the
most obscene details, and gave their decision
against the marquis. The marriage was de
clared void, on the 8th of
February, 1659, the
husband decreed to pay all costs ; to return the
fortune he received ; and he was ordered not
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 89
to marry, while the marchioness, now Madlle.
de St. Simon, was left at liberty to do so.
The marquis submitted a
legal protest against
the decision that he was
impotent, and declared
his intention to marry. The lady married the
Marcfuis of Boisle, by whom she had three
daughters. The marquis likewise married and
had seven children.
In fine, the Marchioness of Boisle, explained,
on her death bed, the stratagem which she em
ployed to annul the marriage. The minister of
public justice seized upon this declaration, and
brought in a law, which abolished, for ever, the
indecent and useless proof of virility, of trial
by congress. It may be stated, that it had been
abolished by Justinian, about the fifth century,
as an
outrage on the purity of the Christian re
ligion.
There are many causes of impotence besides
those already mentioned, which may be briefly
noticed. Long watching, great fatigue, mental
of corporeal, want of nutriment, excessive
evacuations, sanguineous or otherwise of blood,
bile, faeces, saliva, menses, scorbutus, scurvy,
cachexia, marasmus, peripneumonys, hydrotho-
rax, anasarca, malignant fevers, diseases of the
brain and spinal marrow, whether from exter
nal injuries or
poisons, and numerous other dis
eases, are
temporary causes of impotence. Sex
ual desire is suppressed by acute diseases, and
usually returns after convalescence. Zacchias
and Beck relate numerous cases in proof of this
position. We see this further illustrated during
90 MANAGEMENT OF THE
the commencement of convalescence after
fevers, when erection is frequently observed.
Some diseases stimulate the generative organs,
as calculus in the kidneys or bladder, stricture
of the urethra, diseases of the prostate gland,
as well as
gout, rheumatism, consumption,piles,
mania, itch, leprosy, and other cutaneous affec
tions.
Other complaints may diminish or
suppress
venereal desire for days, weeks, months, or
years, and then the function may be restored.
(Zacchias).
Excessive venery is a frequent cause of want
of erection and impotence. I have been con
sulted in several cases of this description. This
is a frequent cause of want of offspring in
young married persons, as well as in those who
indulge in a
solitary vice. In these cases, the
semen may escape without the aid of the ejac-
ulatory muscles, is imperfect in quality, and de
void of prolific power until the health is im
proved. There is generally inflammation of the
seminal vesicles in these cases, and seminal de
bility or
spermatorrhoea.
The abuses of narcotics, saline refrigerants,
acids, acid fruits, iodine, and nitre, are causes
of impotence, as
they reduce the muscular pow
er below the ordinary state. Of all causes,
cold is the most powerful. Thus, in the Polar
regions, there is neither love nor
jealousy.
"
The diseases," says Beck,
"
which we may
rationally suppose will prevent cohabitation, are
the following : —
A mutilation, or severe wounds
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 91
of the sexual organs, cancer of the testicles or
penis, gangrene of the lower extremities, im
moderate evacuations of blood or bile, or of the
faeces, scorbutic cachexia, marasmus, peripneu-
mony, and hydrothorax, anasarca in its perfect
state, particularly if accompanied with an infil
tration into the sexual organs ; nervous and
malignant fevers, particularly if they affect the
brain, and are
accompanied with great debility
and loss of memory ; all affections of the head
and spinal marrow, whether from a fall, blow,
wound, or
poison ; or from external causes, as
apoplexy, palsy, or other comatose diseases. If
the infant is conceived whilst the husband has
been known to have laboured under any of these
maladies, the presumption is certainly against
its legitimacy. So, also, if he be affected with
leprosy, venereal ozcena, severe cutaneous dis
ease, or
insanity, we may reasonably doubt the
fact of cohabitation, from the fear that we may
suppose the female has experienced, lest she
should be contaminated, or from the dread that
she has entertained of having communicated
with the individual."
Moral Causes.—
There are no facts which so
evidently prove the influence of the moral over
the physical state of man as the phenomena of
erection. A lascivious idea will arise in the
midst of our
gravest meditations ; the virile or
gan will answer to its appeal, and will become
erected, and fit for the function which nature
has confided to it ; but another thought arising,
92 MANAGEMENT OF THE
will instantaneously extinguish, with the most
frigid indifference, all amorous transport.
This statement is well exemplified by the ef.
fects of the passions. Chagrin, inquietude, and
debilitating passions influence the whole econo
my; jealousy, and profound meditation, impede
the faculty of procreation. Thus, at the very
moment when enjoyment is about to be com
menced, too eager desire, the excess of love,
the fear of not being loved, timidity, respect,
doubt of capability, the fear of being surprised,
the shame of excessive modesty on
being in the
presence of witnesses, antipathy, the ecstasy on
beholding the attractions of a beloved or fine
woman, the continence imposed by real and
true love, the sudden knowledge of some
phy
sical defect in the female, aversion from filth,
odour, and pre-occupations of the mind, are
sufficient to
oppose erection, and to abate it
most suddenly. But who can enumerate all the
moral causes
capable of impeding or
abating
erection1? A sigh, doubtfully interpreted; a
recollection, an
equivocal word, are sufficient
to destroy the illusion, and congeal the most
violent passion. A newly married man has he-
come
suddenly impotent on
discovering his wife
to be without a
hymen, though the absence of
this membrane is no
proof of unchastity ; and
a debauchee has as
suddenly become impotent,
on
finding the membrane perfect.—
(Diet, de
Sc. Medicales.) It is thus with a
literary man,
a
philosopher, or all those who have a ruling
idea, which excites the brain more than the ^x-
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 93
ual organs. Nevertheless such individuals are
often excessively amorous. Great nervousness,
frigidity, a defect in the moral or
physical con
dition, render the act of procreation infecund,
and often impossible. The fear of being im
potent is by far the most frequent and power
ful cause of this condition. Many individuals
suppose there is no
physical power when the
moral state destroys their desires, and they are
impotent as
long as
they suppose themselves
so. Such is the power of the moral over the
physical state of man.
Many impotent per
sons of this class were cured by Hunter; and
many are
annually cured by quieting the ima
gination and strengthening the constitution, as
I have also observed in numerous instances.
Some persons labour under moral or
tempora
ry, and not under physical or
persistent impo
tence, and are cured by invigorating the gen
eral health and the genital organs. In remote
ages men are said to have allowed the illu
sions of the imagination to have had a most
extraordinary power over their minds and
bodies. This was
very remarkable in the sub
ject before us. Nero and Amesis are
reported
to have been rendered impotent by incanta
tions, made at the suggestions of their concu
bines.
We cannot now
easily comprehend how the
power of rue, or St. John's wort, could pre
vent a man
properly developed, and in good
health, from performing his nuptial duties on
his bridal night ; or how the pronunciation of
94 MANAGEMENT OF THE
a few obscure and unintelligible words, could
have a similar effect. These words were writ
ten on
paper with the blood of a bat, sewed up
with a needle which was used in making the
shrouds of the dead, and then the charm was
tied round the neck of the newly married man
or
merely pronounced. To cure this enchant
ment, the church prescribed prayers, the doctors
physic, and the laws severe
punishment. Ba
con observes in his Natural History, that it was
prevalent in Germany and France ; and in the
latter country it was designated nour
Veguillette,
or
tying the point. Mr. Hunter ordered timid
bridegrooms, and those whose impotence was
imaginary, to refrain from sexual intercourse
for a week, no matter what might be their de
sires, and then to try their powers. They
usually took some mild form of medicine, and
a few drops of tincture of opium each night,
during the period of preparation. On a future
attempt, the mind was not to be pre-occupied,
but wholly intent on the act. This plan of
treatment was most judicious, and I have tried
it in several cases with success. I have also
given quinine to improve the appetite and
strength.
The accumulation of the seminal fluid for a
week generally excites strong desire, while the
opium, acting on the brain, changes the train of
ideas, and prevents nocturnal emissions, so that
at the end of the prescribed period there is no
doubt of success. This mode of cure was
found effectual, and many of Mr. Hunter's pa-
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 95
tients succeeded sufficiently to remove all unfa
vourable impressions of impotence ever after
wards.
Impotence, natural, manifest, or incidental to
woman. It has been long held, I think errone
ously, that the generative organs of the human
female are more complicated than those of the
male, and therefore that the causes of impotence
are more numerous and less apparent than in
the other sex. If we examine the genital or
gans of both sexes anatomically, we shall find
them equally complicated, and possessing an
equal adaptation or
arrangement of parts, as
well as an
identity of structure. Thus we find
the structure of the penis very similar to that of
the external genital orifice and vagina, the fold
of the prepuce, the erectile tissue, the openings
of the vesiculae seminales and uterine tubes,
the vesiculae seminales and uterus, the testes
and ovaries, the spermatic cords and the uterine
tubes. (See Dr. Quain's Anatomy.) We also
find the diseases of one sex as numerous as those
of the other : and those who doubt the asser
tion, need only refer to standard works on dis
eases of the genito-urinary organs of the male,
for ample proofof this position. I need scarce
ly observe that diseases of the vasa deferentia,
vesiculaa seminales, the pressure of tumours,
hydatids, Sec, on these parts, diseases of the
prostate gland, urinary calculi, diseases of the
urethra, fistulas in perineo, diseases of the blad
der, penis, and scrotum, will be found as nu
merous as those of the generative system A' the
96 MANAGEMENT OF THE
other sex.
(See my work on Prostitution in
London.) Besides, it would be inconsistent
with the wisdom and conformity displayed in
all the works of Providence, that one sex should
have more organs for the perpetration of the
epecies than the other.
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 97
CHAPTER VIII.
CAUSES OF IMPOTENCE IN FEMALES PROPER TREAT
MENT INTERESTING CASES DISEASES OPPOSED
TO MARRIAGE GENERAL PRINCIPLES LIST OF
DRUGS AFFECTING THE GENITAL ORGANS APHRO
DISIACS VENEREAL ABUSES TREATMENT OF IM
POTENCE.
The causes of impotence in women are mal
formations or diseases of the sexual organs.
Some of these causes are apparent, others ob-
Bcure. The apparent causes are, obliteration of
the external sexual organs, both soft and bony,
absence of the vagina and uterus, and great de
formity of the pelvis, with numerous diseases of
the external and internal genitals. The vagina
and uterus have been found to consist of a
dense, fleshy substance. And the vagina has
been partially closed by a similar growth. It
may be absent, unusually small, impervious from
adhesion, tumours, or a frcemum passing across
above the hymen, or it may be filled with a
fleshy production. If too narrow, it may be di
lated with a
bougie, or a
sponge tent, and when
unattended to, must be divided by incision, to
admit of coition, or the passage of the infant.
The orifice may cohere after conception. There
is sometimes a
great congenital confusion o£
98 MANAGEMENT OF THE
parts, so much so, that it would be tedious to
describe them. In cases of extreme narrow
ness, impregnation may take place, and the
canal be gradually dilated during pregnancy or
parturition. I have seen eight cases of cohesion
of the labia externa, at the age of puberty, so
complete, that only a small probe could be in
troduced at the commissure. The vaginal canal
may be totally or
partially obliterated, and in
such cases an
operation is impracticable, and
impotence absolute. The vagina has opened
into the bladder (Sue), into rectum, on the an
terior parieties of the abdomen, and pregnancy
has occurred in the two latter cases. Morgagni
attests that of the abdomen, lib. v.
epist. 67 ;
and the other is given in the Annales de Med,
de Montpellier, which led the celebrated Louis
to propose the following question to the casuists :
—
"
An uxore sic disposita uti fas vel non, judi-
cent theologi morales?" Barbaut cites two ex
amples of pregnancy of this kind. (Diet, des
Sc. Med., Art. Impuissance.) Orfila contends,
such malformation is a cause of impotence ; for
though coition is not
physically impossible, it is
contrary to the laws of morals and of nature.
The royal court of Treves annulled a
marriage
in such a case.
Dupuytren, and others, have
lately described cases in which the infant pass
ed through the rectum, and without laceration
of the sphincter ani. Mr. Lawrence introduced
hi3 hand into the rectum of a
patient in St. Bar
tholomew's Hospital on one occasion, to extract
a phial which had been passed into that bowel.
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 99
In cases of vesico-vaginal, recto-vaginal fistulae,
and amplification of the vagina from laceration
of the perineum, inflammation and ulceration
may occur and impede sexual intercourse ; but
such cases could not warrant a divorce, when
they occur after marriage. Excessive strait-
ness, or
partial occlusion of the vagina, are not
impediments to procreation, as fecundation may
occur, if the spermatic fluid be applied inside
the externa1, labia, as already mentioned. It is
also to be recollected, that fecundation has hap
pened, and the hymen perfect. Prolapsus, and
some forms of ulceration of the vagina, are only
temporary causes of impotence. Cauliflower
tumours of the clitoris or
nymphae may be tem
porary causes of impotence, as also tumours in
the vagina. Leucorrhoea or
vaginal discharge
is one of the most common causes of temporary
sterility.
A remarkable case occurred at the Obstetric
Hospital at Turin, of a woman whose external
genital aperture was
impervious. She appear
ed to be in labour ; a tumour
pressed on the
perineum, and Professor Rossi was summoned
to attend. He distinguished the head of the in
fant, cut over it, and parturition was speedily
completed. He inquired how conception had
been accomplished, and he was informed, that
the husband, not finding what he desired, took
the opposite route. On examination, there was
found a
congenital recto-vaginal fistula. Diet.
des Sciences Medicales. Art. Impuissance.
When recto-vaginal fistula is the result of
100 MANAGEMENT OF THE
disease, and is accompanied by inflammation or
ulceration, it is scarcely possible to suppose
that coition could be accomplished. M. Marc
attended a
prostitute affected with recto-vaginal
fistula, who continued her mode of life, and be
came the mother of two infants. He does not
state whether the aperture was
congenital 01
accidental. Dr. A. T. Thomson attests a similar
fact in his Lectures on Medical Jurisprudence,
published in the London Medical and Surgical
Journal, 1834 and 1835, vol. vi.
Another remarkable case of impotence is
mentioned by Van Swieten, who quotes Bene-
voli. In this case, the vagina was no
larger than
a
goose-quill, in all its extent. The woman was
married, and all the efforts of a
vigorous hus
band were useless. The vagina was scirrhous.
Fomentations were employed, and pessaries of
different sizes successively introduced, and after
some time, the woman was rendered capable
of cohabiting with her husband.
I have attended a similar case, with Mr. Brady,
of Blackfriars, in 1837. The vaginal contraction
would scarcely admit the point of the finger,
and it occurred after a tedious and instrumental
delivery. Cohabitation was then impossible,
but a cure has since been accomplished.
Fodere relates a case
nearly similar to the
last. It was that of a
girl of sixteen who mar
ried, and whose vagina could scarcely admit a
goose-quill. She suffered great pain during
each menstrual period, accompanied by dis
tension of the womb, and the menses escaped
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 101
at the superior part of the aperture. A young
and vigorous husband employed his powers in
vain, and the medical advisers declared copula
tion impracticable. Nevertheless, after the
lapse of eleven years, the woman became preg
nant, though the vagina remained as small as
before. It was feared that parturition could
not take place ; but, after the fifth month of
pregnancy, the vagina began to dilate, and, to
wards the end of the ninth month, allowed the
passage of the infant.—
Mem. Acad, des Sc.
Paris, 1712. Fodere, T. 1.
In such cases the use of bougies, before or
after incision, would, in general, effect a cure ;
and certain theologians decide that the woman
ought to submit to either or both.
In proof of the dilatability of mucous canals,
the following case
may be cited. It is related
by M. Latour, in a medical journal published
at Orleans. A peasant, whose wife was sterile,
substituted the urethra for the vagina. He
dilated the former by mechanical means, pro
gressively employed, until he accomplished his
object. The result was incontinence of urine,
which led the woman to apply for medical ad
vice, when the cause of her complaint was
ascertained.—
Marc. op. cit.
I have given the history of a case, which is
somewhat similar to the preceding ones, the
first part of which will be found in my Manual
of Midwifery, p. 512. The woman was affected
with vesico-vaginal and recto-vaginal fistuiae,
both of which I succeeded in closing without
I*
102 MANAGEMENT OF THE
any cutting operation. A ligamentous band so
diminished the calibre of the vagina, that the
top of the fore-finger could be introduced with
difficulty. I proposed to incise it, but the pj
tient refused. She returned to her husband,
and in a
year he succeeded in partially dilating
the vagina ; but so firm was the band, and so
opposed to coition, that he re-opened the vesico
vaginal fistula. Inflammation and ulceration
followed—
a
large calculus or stone formed in
the opening, which I extracted ; sedative injec
tions and other appropriate means were era-
ployed ; in some time afterwards the health was
restored, and the woman became pregnant,
Several students saw this patient at the Western
Dispensary, Westminster, in 1835. In this case
the vagina finally dilated during pregnancy, and
there was
prolapsus of the bladder during la
bour, which required the operation of cranioto
my. Dr. Ashwell saw this case with me in 1836.
The celebrated Pucelle, Joan of Arc, was
examined by two physicians, who found the
vagina so contracted, that coition was
imprac
ticable. Dr. A. T. Thomson attended a
lady,
who also had consulted Sir Charles Clarke, for
whom various means were
employed to allay
irritation, and affect dilatation in vain, and she
would liavo applied for a divorce, unless she
had been allowed to retain her fortune, which
was considerable.
The whole of the causes of impotence and
sterility in women
may be arranged under three
classes :
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 103
1. Those depending on the organs which re
ceive the male fluid, namely, the external geni
tal fissure, the vagina, and uterus.
2. Malformation, or diseases of the organs
that transmit it to the ovaries, and convey the
embryo to the uterus, and these are the Fallo
pian or uterine tubes.
3. The malformation, or diseases of the
ovaries, or
organs which supply the germs for
fecundation.
Inflammation, ulceration, scirrhus, cancer,
ossification, calcareous deposit, or tumours in
any of these organs, may be the cause of steril
ity. In fact, any disease of the female genitals,
attended with much constitutional disturbance,
may be considered a
temporary cause of steril
ity. Tumours of various kinds, callosities, cica
trices, adhesions, from disease or mechanical
violence, displacement of the uterus, prolapsus,
procidentia, retroversion, antiversion, lateral
obliquity, and the various disorganizations in
cident to muscular, serous, and mucous tissues,
when present in the female organs, are causes
of infecundity. Among the temporary causes
of female impotence, are excessive dimensions
of the clitoris and nymphae ; but these are re
movable by operation.
Some authors are of opinion, that the cavity
and outlet of the pelvis may be so deformed, or
diminished by soft or
bony tumours, as to pre
vent coition ; while others maintain the con
trary. When the pelvis is so
greatly deformed
that the lives of the foetus and of the mother
104 MANAGEMENT OF THE
may be endangered or destroyed during partu
rition, moralists advise celibacy.
Morgagni relates a case, in which M. Gianella
was called to deliver a woman
aged forty years,
in whom the vagina opened through the ante
rior wall of the abdomen, and the aperture was
dilated to admit the passage of the infant.
In the London Medical and Surgical Journal,
1830, vol. iv. is an account of two singular cases
of procidentia uteri ; in both of which impreg
nation was effected through the uterine orifice,
though permanently fixed for years several
inches external to the genital aperture. I have
been consulted in the case of a woman four
months pregnant, whose womb came
externally
on her assuming the eTect position ; and I have
now another under my care, who is six weeks
pregnant. I have also published . cases of dys-
menorrhcea, or
painful menstruation, in which
pregnancy occurred. In the disease called irri
table uterus, so well described by Gooch and
others, a euro
may be effected. In the absence
of the ovaries and uterine tubes, there can be
no
conception ; or in dropsy, or
enlargement of
both ovaries, when their whole tissue is dis
eased ; or in occlusion or adhesion of the tubes
to the uterus or
adjoining parts. There are
some cases of constitutional sterility which are
inexplicable, unless referable to mental influ
ence ; for example, those in which a woman
has had no
family for years, and at
length be
comes a mother.
The principal moral causes of female sterili-
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 105
ty, are hatred, digust, fear, timidity, an excessive
ardour of desire, divers ramblings of the imagi
nation ; in a word, passion strongly excited ;
that is to say, all cerebral action so
strong as to
diminish that of the genital organs, which re
quire for coition great exaltation. It is well
known, that complaisance, tranquillity, silence,
and secrecy, are necessary for a
prolific coition ;
it is arrested, as if by enchantment, by noise,
dread, fear, publicity, jealousy, contempt, re
pugnance, slovenliness, by too much respect,
and by every thing that can excite or depress
imagination. Most of the causes of impotence in
both sexes may undoubtedly be removed, but
some of them are
entirely beyond the reach
of art.
Excessive venery is a common cause of ste
rility in women. The debility of the uterine
system by promiscuous and too frequent intei1-
course, is the cause of infecundity in prostitutes
and others. But when these persons reform
and marry, and confine themselves to one indi
vidual, the uterus gradually regains its power,
and conception occurs often. Many proofs
of this were
given by prostitutes, who were
transported to Van Dieman's Land, and there
became mothers.
The constitution may undergo changes fa
vourable to fecundity. Thus we often see wo
men who bear children, after having been bar
ren for ten or twenty years. Others have a fa
mily without experiencing any enjoyment, ac
cording to their account, during intercourse;
106 MANAGEMENT OF THE
and some who suffer the embraces of their hus
bands with pain or even disgust.
Besides the numerous diseases of the genital
organs which are absolutely opposed to mar
riage, the following must be included : —
1. The different degrees of imbecility or fa
tuity, although this state may not be absolute;
mania, even with long lucid intervals, which
may induce a husband to lay violent hands on
his wife or infants, or even murder them.
2. Epilepsy, which has continued after pu
berty, and has not yielded to medicines. This
disease is often caused as well as
aggravated by
sexual pleasure, and may end in mania, or in
idiocy, or
apoplexy ; it not only passes from ge
neration to generation, but may be excited in
others by terror, or
by intimidation in schools.
3. Haemoptysis, or
spitting of blood, certain
diseases of the heart, and consumption, are
ag
gravated by venery ; and those affected with the
latter disease are much inclined to this pleasure,
as if nature wished to continue the species be
fore the destruction of the parent.
4.
Syphylis, scrofula, and leprosy, which may
be transmitted to offspring.
When persons have no sexual desire, or when
there are
physical defects of their organs which
cannot be remedied by surgical operation, they
commit a
great moral offence on
entering into
the marriage state, by depriving another indi
vidual of those conjugal rights which nature haj
established.
From the numerous statements in the works
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 107
now referred to, we may, 1 think, deduce the
following general principles :—
First. To declare either sex
impotent, it is
necessary that certain physical causes be per
manent malformations, or accidental lesions, and
be evident to our senses, which art cannot re
medy, and which prevent the faculty of exer
cising a fecundating coition.
Secondly. These causes, when rigorously ex
amined, are few in number.
Thirdly. The moral causes of impotence
ought not to be taken into consideration, unless"
with due caution, as they would serve as an
excuse for an individual accused of impotence.
Fourthly. That if there is the slightest pene
tration into the vagina, it is sufficient to excite
in the other sex a
degree of erethism or excite
ment necessary to fecundation ; or if the sper
matic fluid is applied at the entrance of the va
gina, virile impotence cannot be admitted.
In this country, the medical witness is now
seldom required to decide questions of impo
tence or sterility in our courts of justice ; but
every medical practitioner may be consulted in
private practice, either before or after matrimo
nial engagements. He may therefore be the
cause of great domestic trouble, and may em
bitter the life of male or female. He should be
exceedingly cautious in fixing the stigma of im
potence or sterility on either party. In other
cases, the legitimacy of children may be con
tested on a
plea of impotence, and such a
plea
may be offered by a man accused of a
rape. It
108 MANAGEMENT OF THE
is therefore evident that a
proper knowledge of
the subject is necessary to the medical practi
tioner, the lawyer, the juror, as well as to
every
class of the community.
Ambiguity of Sex.—
Hermaphrodites.—
There
may be malformation of the genitals in both
sexes, but there is no example on record of one
individual possessing both perfect male and fe
male organs. Again, the organs may not re
semble those of either sex. There is no truth
in the ancient statements, that hermaphrodites
have married and propagated, for the scientific
obstetrician is aware of the physical impossi
bility of a
full-grown infant passing through the
male pelvis. It is evident that hermaphrodites,
whose organs are defective, must be impotent
and sterile. Some of the ancients were of opi
nion that such persons might propagate ; even
a canonist went so far as to maintain, that one
individual could propagate within himself or
herself—
"
tanquam mas
generare ex alio, et
tanquam fcemina generare in se
ipsa." There
is no case on record, so far as
my researches en
able me to state, of a
perfect hermaphrodite,
and no truth whatever in the assertion that such
a class of beings can
propagate the human spe
cies. It is true, however, that hermaphrodite
plants possess the power of reproduction.
I can see no
difficulty whatever in supposing
that persons of both sexes, even with great
malformation of the genital organs, may marry,
as
many may do, when I recollect the curious and
well-attested case of a female who dressed in
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 109
male attire, and assumed the name of James A!-.
len, married another female, and lived as a hus
band for several years without detection. The
case happened in London in 1829, and was dis
covered when Allen died ; and on
exposing the
body in Guy's Hospital, it was found to be that
of a well formed female. Allen was a husband
for eleven years without suspicion or detection.
I know a
clergyman of the established church,
whose wife was
previously married for five years
without consummation, or
any attempt at, ha
ving been made during the period.
Blackstone says, "a monster having deformity
in any part of its body, yet if it hath human
shape, may inherit ; and every heir is male or
female, or hermaphrodite ; that is, both male
and female ; and shall be heir according to that
kind of sex which doth prevail, and accordingly
it ought to be baptized. The same is observed
in cases concerning tenants by courtesy. Such
individuals cannot be admitted into holy orders,
or become judges."
It is worthy of remark, that, until the com
mencement of the eighteenth century, it was
believed, and by some very eminent medical
authors, that monsters were formed by a de
mon. (Licetus, in his Treatise on Monsters,
1616.) Riolan, one of the most distinguished
writers of the seventeenth century, was also of
this opinion : —
"
As to monsters made after the
image of the devil, if allowed to live, they ought
to be confined in a close dark chamber. In
fine, those who are half human and half animal,
K
110 MANAGEMENT OF THE
they ought to be put to death. This was also
the law of the Twelve Tables at Rome, and even
of the Athenians. It is scarcely necessary to
remark, that there never was, nor never can be,
a
body
"
half human and half animal." It is a
physical impossibility. Even the celebrated
Ambrose Pare considered that the birth of a
monster was the sign of some
approaching mis
fortune. These writers knew nothing of Tera
tology, which treats of the arrest, retardment, or
excess of development, so luminously described
by the illustrious M. Isodore Geoffroy Saint Hi-
laire ; and which clearly proves that monsters,
or deformed animals, are to be ascribed to na
tural causes.
As the brain is generally perfect in monsters,
and the mind sound, it is clear that such per
sons ought to inherit property. When two per
fect bodies are united at the chest or back, such
as the Siamese twins and Hungarian sisters :
Non duo sunt, sed forma duplex ; nee fcemina dici,
Nee puer ut possit, neutrumque et utrumque videtur.
Ovid.
Treatment of Impotence.—
The treatment of
impotence must vary according to the causes of
the disease. Every cause, both moral and phy
sical, requires a modification of treatment, and
there is no
single remedy, or combination of
remedies, which can remove all the causes of
this distressing malady. The indications of
treatment are —
1. To remove or
remedy physi
cal defects ; 2. To strengthen the system when
GENERATIVE ORGANS. Ill
there is atony or debility ; 3. To regulate the
whole functions when deranged ; 4. To excite
or diminish, by proper means, the action of the
genital apparatus ; and 5. To tranquillize the
imagination and mind.
When impotence is caused by moral or
phy
sical irritation, as that induced by Opiates, can-
tharides, &c, refrigerants, aperients, low diet,
exercise, and the abstraction of the imagination
from reflecting on all objects capable of exciting
amorous impulse, are the best means to be em
ployed. Exercise in the open air, and constant
attention to business, are highly useful in the
cure. Idleness and luxuriousness ought to be
carefully avoided.
Otia si tollas, periere Cupidinis arcus.—Ovid.
When there is want of power in the genital
organs, the cold bath, invigorating diet, and a
moderate use of wine and spirituous liquors, is
necessary. It is likewise supposed that fomen
tations of certain aromatic herbs, and dashing
cold water over the genitals, strengthen these
organs. Frictions on the loins, inside of the
thighs, with stimulating liniments, galvanism
and electricity applied to these parts, are con
sidered valuable remedies. M. Mazard cured
several impotent persons by means of electri
city, whose disease was induced by a shameful
vice, in which they indulged alone, or by ex
cess with women. Some of these had involun
tary emissions, and gleets after gonorrhoea, and
all were not only cured, but fell into flesh and
112 MANAGEMENT OF THE
enjoyed excellent health and virile power. He
employed the electricity, and elicited sparks
from the perineum, spinal marrow, and sacrum,
and directed the electric fluid through these
parts. Others have advised urtication, flagella
tion, and friction.
If the disease is caused by excess of enjoy
ment, abstinence, with a milk and vegetable
diet, are the best remedies.
When it arises from moral causes, as timidi
ty, respect, disgust, antipathy, &c, the cure is
entirely to be effected by moral resources and
the removal of the causes.
Should the disease depend upon want of pro
per development at
puberty, every means of im
proving the general health ought to be em
ployed.
If old age be the cause, there is no
remedy.
The loss of both testicles renders sterility ab
solute, permanent, and incurable.
The resources of art
may often eorrect vicious
conformations of the sexual organs, and the
operations must be varied according to the na
ture of the malformation or disease. These
have been described in preceding pages.
Having now enumerated the different causes
of impotence, and the general principles of
treatment, it must be manifest that the remedial
means for combatting the disease, must be nu
merous and varied. There is, nevertheless, a
class of medicines which
particularly influence
the functions of the genital organs. These
medicines, where they excite the organs, are
GENERATIVE ORGANS. lid
denominated sperm atopia and aphrodisiac, and
when they weaken or moderate the activity of
the genital organs, they are called hypnotics.
In the first class are included tonics, aro-
matics, odoriferous gums, balsams, resins, es
sential and volatile oils, perfumes, musk, phos
phorous, opium combined with aromatics ; and
among the second, are
camphor, nitrate of potass,
neutral salts, agnus castus, nymphcea, &c, diu
retics and emmenagogues. Cullen was of opin
ion that there were no
aphrodisiac remedies, but
later writers maintain that there are several.
Cantharides have long had the preference of
all known aphrodisiac remedies. They form
the chief ingredients in the Venetian lozenges
and amorous
philters prepared in Turkey and
in Italy. But the incautious use of this medi
cine produces stranguary, inflammation of the
bladder, ureters, and kidneys, and often death ;
though when properly employed, there is no
doubt of its aphrodisiac effect. Chaumenton
was consulted by many young libertines, who,
contrary to his advice, continued to use
freely
this remedy, and who afterwards terminated
their existence amidst a thousand torments.
(Diet. des Sciences Medicales, Art. Aphrodisiaque.)
Weickard states that he roused the genital
organs of a man
nearly eighty with musk. (Chau
menton, op. cit.)
Ambergris and musk have also a
special ac
tion on the genital organs. Borelli (Gent. 2.)
says he knew a man who rubbed the virile
member with musk before intercourse, and re-
K
114 MANAGEMENT OF THE
mained so united to his wife, that it was neces
sary to use lavements to separate them. This
case is, in my opinion, totally unworthy of cre
dit, more
especially when we recollect the dila-
tability of the vagina.
"Borelli dit avoir connu un homme qui se
frotta de membre viril de muse avant le coit, il
1'exerca et resta uni a sa femme, comme les
chiens le sont a leur femelles. II fallut lui don-
ner
quantite des lavemens ; afin de ramollir les
parties, et obtenir la separation des deux indi-
vidus."
Another very dangerous medicine is phos
phorus, which acts as a most violent poison. It
was dissolved in ether, in the proportion of half
a
grain to
forty of the latter, in a
proper vehi
cle. This remedy is highly dangerous, but is
now introduced into the London Pharmaco
poeia, 1836. When used incautiously, it has
been observed to produce the most rapid and
painful death. M. Magendie dissolves it in oil
in the following proportions : —
phosphorus, |j;
oil of sweet almonds, ^ij ; dose, rrj/ xx—
xxx in
an emulsive mixture. In the last work, the
dose of diluted phosphoric acid is TT£ xx—
3j. :
opium combined with musk, amber, and other
aromatics form the remedy of magnanimity of
Kcemper, its inventor. It is very much employ
ed in eastern nations, and is said to cause a de
licious iutoxication which vividly excites the
pleasures of love ; but in a few hours afterwards
is succeeded by timidity and sadness ; and the
habitual use of it induces debility, stupor, and
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 115
precocious old age. Saffron, oil of worms, of
palma christa, of ants, the root of the satyrion,
sarrasina, &c, have also been lauded, but found
inefficacious.
It is stated in the Mem. de la Soc. Roy. Med.,
1776, that the corn called sarrazin, which is the
aliment of the people of Sologne, excites such
lechery that children of seven and eight years
old have commerce
together, and that the wo
men are still more salacious and very fecund.
Many alimentary substances excite the geni
tal organs, and their effects will vary according
to peculiarity of constitution. Among these
are animal jellies, eggs, oysters, and other Crus
tacea ; crabs, mushrooms, truffles ; farinaceous
substances, generous wines, a moderate use of
ardent liquors, fish, &c.
Some persons have their amorous
propensi
ties excited by wine, others by dilute spirit,
more
by eggs, oysters, and even milk. The
moderate use of spirituous drinks, of wine,
cider, &c, contributes to fecundity, although
there abuse is extremely pernicious. Credulous
authors of former times were of opinion that
among the best aphrodisiacs are the menstrual
evacuation, (I attended a labourer who took a
few drops of the uterine secretion in porter.
I mention the details of his case in my Manual
of Midwifery,) human sperm, (Turnbull informs
us, in his voyage round the world, 1807, that
some of the inhabitants of the Island of Othaheite
were reduced to the effeminacy of women.
They had recource to a method of cure which I
116 MANAGEMENT OF THE
must describe in the Latin language.
—
"
Penem
adrigentum aliorum virorum exsugunt, ita ut in
ejaculatione, semen avide deglutiant. Putant
enim, per hanc spermatis, absorptionem, robur
virile, vigoremque sexus quo privati sunt, reci-
pere"—
that of the stag, the hedge-hog in heat,
of the vulva of the sow, of the uterus of the hy
ena, wolf, &c. Those who desire more extend
ed details may consult the Memoir of M. Virey,
in the Bulletin de Pharmacie, 1813.
Hypnotics repress amorous
impulse, such as
nenuphar, agnus castus, camphor, and nitrate of
potass. These were strongly recommended by
religious persons who wished to mortify the
flesh. It was an axiom at the School of Saler-
num,
Camphora per nares castrat odore mares."
The application of these and the oleraceous
plants, to the genital organs, are said to
produce
a
complete inertness and eunuchism.
In fine, the best means for curing impotence,
are to remove its causes, to avoid excesses, to
calm an alarmed imagination, to
repair enfee
bled powers. Instead of having recourse to
aphrodisiac medicines, we first improve diges
tion, and advise a nutritious diet, fresh animal
food, jellies, milk, eggs, &c. ; wine, spirituous
liquors in moderation, coffee, chocolate, cocoa,
and aromatics.
When the disease depends upon the imagi
nation, which is most
generally the case with
young persons who have abused the generative
GENERATIVE ORGANS. 117
function by vicious practices, or in the natural
way, but whose organs are
properly developed,
a nutritious diet, with a
judicious use of aphro
disiac remedies, will in most cases effect a cure.
I have given a full account of venereal abuses
in relation to health, reproduction, and disease,—
of the numerous local and general diseases in
the head, chest, lungs, heart, abdomen, stomach,
liver, intestines, and other parts of the body,
illustrated by original engravings, in another
work, to which I must refer the reader, Prosti
tution in London, Paris, and New York* as illus
trative of the capitals and large towns of all
countries, with an account of the nature of the
reproductive function. I shall therefore notice
this numerous class of diseases in the following
pages very superficially, and merely allude to
those of most frequent occurrence, such as sy
philis, gonorrhoea, stricture, diseases of the pros
tate gland, bladder, ureters, kidneys, of which
nothing new can be stated.
*
Now in press.
118 OF THE TREATMENT
CHAPTER IX.
OF THE SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA,
(OR CLAP,) GLEET, STRICTURE, IRRITABLE BLAD
DER, SWELLED TESTICLE, ETC. ETC. DR. SKEY's
DIRECTIONS FOR CURE INTERESTING CASES, ETC.
Venereal intercourse is occasionally impure ;
and there are animal poisons generated and
communicated by this intercourse, of a
peculiar
ly malignant character. One is the poison of
Gonorrhoea (the disease vulgarly termed Clap),
which falling upon the mucous membrane of the
urethra, produces from that surface, a
discharge
of infectious matter ; the other or the poison of
Syphilis, being applied to the surface of the skin,
or
(as far as is known at
present), to any sur
face, produces local inflammation and ulcera
tion ; forming a sore which is called a Chancre.
The discharge from this, being received into the
absorbent glands occasions swellings, which have
been named Bubo, and from the transmission of
the poison into the circulation, there arise re
spectively, inflammation and ulceration in the
throat, on the skin, in tne membrane investing
the bones, and even in tliose solid bodies themr
selves.
If a healthy individual have sexual intercourse
OF GONORRHOEA, ETC. 119
with another, labouring under chronic mucous
discharge as the result of gonorrhceal inflamma
tion, infection, though not absolutely certain, is
most likely to arise, but no certain rule can be
laid down with regard to the time that a clap will
take before it makes its appearance, after infec
tion has been conveyed. In some instances,
three or four days elapse, in others, there will
not be the least appearance of irritation before
the expiration of ten or even fourteen days.
Most commonly, however, the disease is percep
tible in the space of from six to twelve days.
In the male, it commences with a sense of un
easiness, or tingling about the extremity of the
penis ; often a thrilling sensation, not of an un
pleasant character, and nearly allied to the ve
nereal oestrum ; presently this is exchanged for
itching and soreness, and then a drop of fluid
escaping without effort, the attention is called
to the part ; and it is found, that the lips of the
urethra are swollen and inflamed; a whitish, glu
tinous, and nearly transparent fluid, exuding
from its orifice. At first, the discharge from the
passage is mucous ; but afterwards it assumes a
decidedly purulent appearance, that is, resem
bling "matter." This becomes yellow, or, if
the inflammatory symptoms run high, green;
and it is often intermixed and streaked with
blood. I say resembling matter, for the fact is,
that even in these aggravated cases, the discharge
contains little beyond the altered mucous secre
tion of the part. The time this augmented dis
eased secretion will continue to discharge, is
120 OF THE TREATMENT
quite indefinite. Some people assert it will
wear itself out ; one thing is certain, it will soon-
er wear out the sufferer ; besides, the doctrine is
dangerous, inasmuch as it overlooks the perma
nent consequences of a disease, supposed to
pass
away. Thickening of the mucous membrane of
the urinary canal, is one of the consequences of
long protracted and neglected clap, and this
state of parts lays the foundation, ifnot identical,
with Stricture. Or the discharge may cease to
present its usual characters, and leave a surface,
prone to the secretion of a thin, ichorous fluid,
termed Gleet.
It is obvious, then, that no
folly can be greater
than that of suffering this disease to end as
many
others are
apt to do, by terminating in another ;
and that other, often of a
permanently incurable
character. Besides these effects on the urethra,
gonorrhoea takes a course
internally. It does
not confine itself to the lips of the urethra, but
often produces an
erysipelatous inflammation
and swelling of the glands and foreskin ; occa
sioning effusion, and the formation of the diseases
termed Phymosis and Parapiivmosis, in the
former of which, the foreskin cannot be drawn
back to cover the end of the penis ; in the latter,
the prepuce forming a
tight ring at the back of
of the gland, cannot again be brought forward ;
the pain and strangulation in this state of parts
are excessive, and demand prompt surgical inter
ference. The glands of the groin often become
affectedyrow sympathy. I say from sympathy,
in contradistinction to that swollen state of the
OF GONORRHOEA, ETC. 121
inguinal glands, resulting from the transmission
of syphilitic matter ; as occurs in the aggravated
forms of venereal disease. In the first instance
the glands swell, but not the same
range of
glands as are liable to be affected with syphilitic
Bubo ; and there is also this distinction—
that
while in the latter case they almost invariably
burst, the gland that is sympathetically inflamed
during the progress of gonorrhoea, never or very
rarely inflames to suppuration.
Where this effect takes place from gonorrhoea,
several glands of the groin are apt to be affected
in succession ; whereas in the absorption of the
poison of syphilis, a
single gland only is enlarged
on each side. In the course of the disease,
swelling and suppuration often takes place in the
mouths of those lacuna, which, like dilated
pouches, are situated chiefly near the extremity
of the canal. Matter becomes accumulated
there, and this place appears to constitute the
last entrenchment of the diseased action. Irri
tation and inflammation occur also in the spongy
bodies, forming the bulk of the penis, thus con
stituting that painful affection termed Chordee,
in which the penis becomes partly erect, and
feels as if curved or bound down, so as to
pre
vent its complete extension. This, of course,
is a
temporary though intensely agonising pre
dicament, and generally takes place in the night,
accompanied with great pain, preventing the
patient sleeping. When the parts are not
occupied with much inflammation, few or none
of the last symptoms will appear, and only a
122 OP THE TREATMENT
discharge of specific character, with a slight
heat or
scalding in making water, will prevail.
The sensation of scalding varies in intensity m
different individuals, and frequently abates or
passes off altogether where the discharge has
become established. Generally, from the adja
cent parts sympathising with those already
affected, the patient feels a sensation of uneasi
ness, and dragging down about the thighs and
fundament. One of the most painful conse
quences arising in the course of gonorrhoea, is
the occurrence of Swelled Testicle.
From the statements afforded in the anatomi
cal section of this work, it will be seen there is
a true continuity of mucous surface, from the
urethra along the cord to the testicles, and it is
along this surface that gonorrhceal inflammation
occasionally creeps, giving rise to horribly pain
ful enlargement of one or both of these organs.
The testicle is enveloped in a dense fibrous cap
sule, which does not generally yield to disten
sion ; hence, the pain, when enlargement is pro
duced by inflammatory action. In consequence
of this, there will be excruciating agony extend
ing into the small of the back, heat, restlestness,
and symptomatic fever ; a furred tongue, thirst,
quick pulse, and great depression of the vital
energies. It not unfrequently happens that the
swollen testicle suppurates and bursts ; and
whether this occur or no, it is certain that on the
subsidence of disease, its functions as a secre
tory gland in the production and elimination of
the seminal fluid, are
by no means enhanced by
OF GONORRHOEA, ETC. 123
all this mischief. But of all the consequences
of gonorrhoea which tell most fatally upon the
comfort of married life, and interfere most deci
dedly with the procreative energies, the forma
tion of Stricture is most to be dreaded. Spas
modic stricture, occurs
during the progress of
clap, and is produced by temporary spasm of the
muscles surrounding the membranous portion of
the urinary canal. Inflammatory stricture gen
erally succeeds acute gonorrhoea, and consists in
the effusion of adhesive matter around the canal ;
while permanent stricture is the result of thick
ening of the urethra, and consequent narrowing
of the canal from a slow inflammatory process.
There are many causes of permanent stricture
besides gonorrhceal inflammation, and while
speaking of this, it will be well to enumerate
them. No one is more
frequent than excessive pro
longation in venereal intercourse. Its constant
effect, is the exhaustion of the energy of the
muscular fibres ; thus they are thrown- into ir
regular action, and permanent contraction of
some part of the passage is thereby induced.
Indeed, so strong is the effect, that symptoms of
spasmodic stricture have been known to arise
in some patients, after every repetition of vene
real intercourse, especially, if due time for re
pose have not been afforded for the secretory
organs ; and though these symptoms at first were
found on examination not to be the effect ofper
manent stricture, yet this was
generally pro
duced in the end, and proved most troublesome
in its removal.
124 OF THE TREATMENT
Masturbation in this way, produces the same
or worse effects than severe venereal effort.
Spasmodic Stricture, then, or that too violent
excitement of the muscles around the neck of
the bladder, whether arising from self-pollution,
venereal excesses, or
inflammation of mismanaged
or
neglected clap, may, and often does terminate
in permanent constriction of the urinary canal.
At the commencement of the formation of per
manent stricture, the surgeon is made acquaint
ed with the real nature of the complaint by the
following indications : —
The first, is the retention
of a few drops of urine in the urethra, after tho
whole appears to have been discharged. The
patient, although the stream of urine may be
somewhat diminished, feels no
particular unea
siness until he perceive some
difficulty in its ex
pulsion. The effort is greater than usual, and a
straining continues, even after the bladder is
emptied. Occasional irregularities from cold,
indulgence in drink, or
change of weather, and
even
very trifling causes, are sufficient to cause
the urine to pass only by drops, or for a time to
be totally obstructed. The bladder in the pro
gress of this disease becomes irritable ; this is
evinced by the person not being able to sleep so
long as usual without rising to effect the urinary
discharge. A man in health will sleep for seven,
eight, or nine hours without being obliged to
empty his bladder ; but if he labour under stric
ture, he cannot continue for a
longer period than
four or five hours, and frequently much less than
this. A patient of mine, who occasionally (but
OF GONORRHOEA, ETC. 125
not often) gets tipsy over-night, invariably sends
for my aid to pass the catheter the next morning;
the man is the subject of stricture, and fre
quently rises in the night to evacuate his blad
der ; when under the influence of intoxicating
fluids, he sleeps, insensible to the stimulus of an
irritable yet distending bladder ; and the result
on
waking is complete powerlessness to effect
its ordinary discharge. The next circumstance
observable in the progress of Permanent Stric
ture, is the forked division of the urinary stream,
the reason of which is deducible from the une
ven, irregular, and swollen, as well as contracted
state of the urethra. The urine cannot be
ejected to the usual and natural distance, al
though the patient be sensible of the bladder
making more than usual exertions. Sometimes
it assumes a
spiral or twisted direction. Even
the thread-like stream, conspicuous in the ad
vanced stage of stricture, often gives place to a
discharge by mere
drops, attended with the
strongest efforts and most excruciating pain.
The coats of the bladder become enormously
thickened ; there is dilation behind the place
where the stricture occurs, (which is commonly
the membranous portion of the urethra anterior
to the prostate gland;) the ureters, or canals,
leading from the kidneys to the bladder, become
distended and dilated, and the kidneys them
selves, the secretory organs of the urine, become
diseased. Many of these appearances are at
tributable to the existence of a physical imped
iment, a narrowing, or Stricture of a
portion
L*
126 OF THE TREATMENT
of the urinary canal,—
and if viewed in connec
tion with the obligations of marriage, are most
grave in their consequences.
Gleet is one of the sequelae of Clap, and is
often exceedingly difficult of removal, sometimes
continuing for years. The discharge becomes
chronic, its character is altered ; and from being
purulent, it is now
semi-transparent. Its persis
tence mostly depends on the co-existence of
stricture in some portion of the canal. The
term
"
Gonorrhoea," is derivable from the Greek,
and signifies literally a flow ofseed ; the earlier
writers mistaking the mucous
discharge occur
ring in clap, for the all-important seminal fluid.
"Blennorrhagia," a flow of mucus, is the more
correct classical nomenclature, synonymous with
the "chaud-pisse," hot-urine of the French, or
"
clap" of the vernacular English. Timceus re
lates that a
young law student, the victim of self-
pollution, was "seized with a
gonorrhoea, ac
companied with a weakness of the whole body."
He observes, "I looked upon the gonorrhoea as
a
sequclofthe relaxation of the seminal vessels,"
and truly his reasoning was correct ; but as to
the discharge, termed by him,
"
gonorrhoea," it
was neither the involuntary escape of semen,
nor the infectious matter, correctly indicating the
existence of clap ; but a gleety discharge from
the prostate, vesiculoe seminales, and urethral
surface, certainly very analogous in character
to the chronic effusion supervening on stricture
from neglected clap.
OF GONORRHOEA, ETC. 127
There is an
exceedingly distressing affection
frequently resulting from gonorrhoea, and there
fore fitly to be introduced in this place, named
by surgeons Irritable Bladder. I say frequently
arising in this way, but it may also proceed from
certain solitary practices ; in fact, it is closely
identified with all the habits of Sensualism. The
patient is annoyed with a
frequent desire to
void his urine, and this symptom becomes ulti
mately so
urgent, that the inclination to empty
the bladder occurs as often as
every ten or fif
teen minutes. The pain experienced is in ex
act ratio with the distension of the bladder, and
sometimes the urine is discharged mixed with
blood. Irritable bladder is a dreadful disorder,
the patient's life is a burden to him; he is obli
ged to keep from society, and linger away his
hours in solitude. The late Sir Astley Cooper
relates the case of a
young gentleman, who, be
ing in company with a
party of ladies, was about
to leave them for the purpose of making water,
having at the moment a
strong desire ; in the
greatest agony he rode with them some miles,
when endeavouring at the end of his journey to
evacuate his bladder, to his utter astonishment,
he could not pass a
drop ; a
surgeon was sent
for, who took away the urine by means of a ca
theter, but from suppuration supervening upon
irritable bladder, he shortly died from exhaus
tion. Next to those cases which have occurred
in connection with gonorrhceal inflammation, the
most frequent instances of this irritable condi
tion of the organ occur, as the result of exces-
128 OF THE TREATMENT
sive venereal indulgence in advanced life, or self-
pollution in youth.
In reference to the treatment of gonorrhceal
affections, little need be added. The most im
portant remark I have to offer, relates to the ne
cessity of the avoidance of its mismanagement.
The deplorable results of this form of venereal
disease just recited, are easily averted by com
mon care and prudence ; but from negligence, or
in the hands of unskilful surgeons, the most ca
lamitous consequences not unfrcquently arise.—
Amono- the most common of those causes
which precipitate these secondary diseases,
may be enumerated the use, or rather the abuse
of Mercury, (which by unanimous consent has
lone been banished from the scientific treatment
of gonorrhoea,) the employment of stimulant
resins, as Turpentine, Cubebs, or the Balsam of
Copaiba, before the subsidence of the inflamma
tory or acute stage ; but principally the mis
management of astringent or
irritating Injections.
These, however useful and necessary in the
chronic stage of complaint, undoubtedly tend,
by destroying the discharge, to fix the specific
diseased action upon the testicles, producing in
flammation and enlargement, nay, frequently
disorganization there,—
consequences far more
to be dreaded than the original mischief; for it
must carefully be noted, that to airest the flow
of morbid mucus, is not to cure the disease. In
flammation of a
specific kind in this instance re
lieves itself, or terminates in the discharge ofa
pe
culiar secretion from the inflamed surface ; and
OF GONORRHOEA, ETC. 129
it is only by changing or
destroying that diseased
action of vessels, which produces the discharge,
that a cure can rationally be expected to be ef
fected. Gonorrhoea attains its crisis more unin
terruptedly in a full than in a
languid habit ; but
extremes of both are sources of aggravation,
the first as
regards intensity, the second as re
gards time.
The science of surgery affords no means
by
which a confirmed clap can be suddenly arrested
in its career ; and the attempt, if made, is fre
quently productive of evil results. The treat
ment will necessarily be modified by the date,
the intensity of the disease, and the constitution
alpeculiarities of the subject; and hence, though
most of the remedies be well known, yet in their
application they require that discrimination,
which renders it exceedingly unwise and un
safe, that a man should venture to treat his own
case ; and the records of our
practice attest
much serious mischief that has arisen in this
way. For a period of two or three weeks the
disease should be strictly palliative, the diet
should be moderately reduced, the bowels re
laxed, but not violently irritated by drastic pur
gatives, the local inflammation mitigated by fre
quent fomentation and rest. The smarting
which occurs in evacuting the bladder, arises
not from any change in the chemical constitu
ents of the urine, but from the circumstances of
its having to pass over an inflamed and highly
sensitive surface ; so when the eye is inflamed,
light, which constitutes its natural stimulus, be-
130 OF THE TREATMENT
comes intolerable. This smarting may be much
alleviated by taking about thirty drops of the
solution of potass three times a day, (which neu
tralizes the acid the urine naturally contains,)
combined with a few drops of tincture of opium ;
besides which mucilaginous and diluent drinks
certainly render the urine less stimulating. The
activity of the disease being exhausted, and the
acute stage of inflammatory excitement subsi
ding under judicious management, the improve
ment will be indicated by a diminution of pain
in making water, and in the quantity of dis
charge ; which becomes paler in colour, and
more watery in consistence.
In order to effect these salutary changes, there
is no necessityfor the administration of Mercury,
as was once the practice. Formerly it was
thought, that there is a set of constitutional
symptoms supervening upon the local disease ;
(in the same way as venereal sore throat follows
neglected syphilitic chancres;) that gonorrhoea
constituted only a variety of syphilitic disease,
and that mercury was
absolutely necessary for
its cure in every form. Modern science has,
however, dispelled this illusion ; there are some
accidental complications, but no
distinctly regu
lar secondary symptoms resulting from gonor
rhoea. The first stage then being past, the treac-
ment should undergo a
corresponding change,
otherwise the disease will pass into Gleet, and
become tediously protracted. Should Chordee,
of which we have spoken, interrupt the healthy
progress of the case, in all probability the cure
OF GONORRHOEA, ETC. 131
will be more or less delayed, inasmuch as this
painful symptom indicates a hitherto uncontrol
led inflammation of the urinary canal, extending
to the spongy tissue forming the body of the pe
nis. Chordee is not a common
symptom of clap
in its early stage, and mostly gives way to a com
bination of calomel and opium, the abstraction
of blood from the arm, and the warm bath.—
With some, the local application of cold answers
better.
The general treatment of gleet consists in the
administration of large and still larger doses of
internal stimuli ; of which those in most frequent
use are Turpentine, the resinous balsams of Chio
or
Copaiba, and Cubeb Pepper, and of local in
jections of Alum, the Sulphates of Zinc or Cop
per, and Nitrate of Silver. The Zinc is used in
the proportion of from three to five grains to the
ounce of water, and each of the other salts in
proportion. On these failing, the strength of
the solution is increased indefinitely, often ex
tending to eight or ten grains to the ounce.—
Mere increase of potency in these applications
is not the secret of their success. Violence is
inadmissible in good surgery. By giving tone to
the weakened vessels, by w
ntchingpatiently the
result of the action of remedies of moderate pow
er, by persevering appeals to change the disea
sed habit of parts, the vessels will gradually as
sume a healthier action, and the discharge will
entirely subside. Instead of using a strong in
jection night and morning, the introduction of a
weak solution every third or fourth hour, will
132 OF THE TREATMENT
frequently succeed, and if it do not, no
aggrava
tion ensues.
Gonorrhoea, if neglected or
improperly treat
ed, becomes chronic gleet, and in this state is in
fectious equally with the acuter disorder ; if,
however, the discharge be kept up solely from
the existence of stricture, it is not
necessarily
communicable. Under any circumstances, so
long
as there is the least appearance ofdischarge, a ma
trimonial union is unadvisable, and correct
surgi
cal advice and treatment imperatively neces
sary.
As to the treatment of Stricture, there are
three indications in its cure ; one to produce the
requisite physical dilatation of the constricted
canal ; another method is the attempt to produce
absorption of the thickened organized lymph
surrounding the urethra ; and a third, is the me
chanical destruction of the Stricture. Elastic or
solid instruments cautiously introduced, will of
ten effect the original dilatation ; medicine will
sometimes succeed in promoting the cure
by ab
sorption ; and destructive caustic will form a
new
passage through the thickened parts when
less powerful agencies have failed. It is certain
that these means are
strictly surgical, and per
haps in the whole round of operative science,
there is nothing demanding a more minute ac
quaintance with the unseen
anatomy of the
parts, than the treatment of Stricture ; none, in
which blundering rashness or
ignorance, may ef
fect more
deplorable mischief. The bougie or ca
theter may be forced into the bulb of the urethra,
OF GONORRHOEA, ETC. 133
or tear its way into the substance of the prostate
gland ; and death may ensue from unrelieved
distension of the bladder, and the irritation su
pervening upon the injury. The use of caustic
has been much abused, and indeed ought never
to be employed, except in those extreme cases
which surgical discrimination alone can detect
and justify.
All the diseases of this unhappy class are of a
complicated and varied nature ; they embrace
in their consequences so
many painful diseases,
that I never consider them, however slight in
appearance, as mere local effects, but always
dread their approach to a constitutional charac
ter ; for by a
deplorable fatality, to which limit
is unknown, the most trivial cases of these disea
ses become the fruitful mine of a thousand dis
cordant feelings and symptoms, that harass
their devoted victim for an indefinite period :
therefore I strongly recommend, in all cases, a
minute investigation, in order that the remedies
may be effective on their onset ; the choice of
which remedies must be governed by the symp
toms, constitution, and habits of the patient ;
bearing in mind, that, in diseases of this kind,
large evacuations of any character, are to be
carefully guarded against : for in all cases they
have done injury, by producing either irritabili
ty of the stomach or the bowels, and thus render
ing the system unequal to the retention of the
necessary remedies.
Let not non-medical readers imagine, that the
foregoing sketch of gonorrhceal disease and its
31
134 OF THE TREATMENT
consequences, is intended to place the method
of cure within their own grasp. Let such an
one
apply for medical aid on the first outbreak
of suspicious symptoms ; and by so doing he
will save himself a world of anxiety, arising from
the fear of going wrong in the adoption of the
curative plan of treatment. In fact, all that re
lates to the management of the consequences
of gonorrhceal inflammation—
as for instance,
gleet, stricture, swelled testicle, and other ob
scure, yet painful affections of the urinary or
gans, is strictly surgical—
the definition of those
principles could little avail the general reader,
whose interest is best consulted by referring him
directly and at once, not to books, which could
only confuse a mind ignorant of anatomical mat
ters, hit to that practitioner who has made sexual
diseases his exclusive study.
The following excellent remarks on the treat
ment of Gonorrhoea are from "
a Practical Trea
tise on the Venereal Disease," by F. C. Skey,
F. R. S. (London, 1841.) :—
"
The treatment of gonorrhoea will be modi
fied by the date—
by the intensity of the disease
—
and by the constitution of the subject. To
take the disease in its earliest stage, as the first
subject of consideration, we
may treat it on the
principle of escharotics to certain forms of sore.
But this will only apply to the very early stage,
before either painful micturition or
purulent
discharge is established. It is applicable, there
fore, to cases in which gonorrhoea may be ex
pected, rather than those in which it exists.
TREATMENT CF GONORRHOEA. 13&
This treatment, which is powerfully repellent,
consists in the recourse to the most
positive
stimulants, which may be applied both locally
and internally. As injections, we
may employ
from three to five grains of sulphate of copper
to an ounce of water, or ten grains of sulphate
of zinc to the ounce. This should be injected
every two or three hours ; while a dram of cu-
bebs pepper, or
thirty drops of copaiba balsam,
and the same
quantity of turpentine, may be
taken in a
strong decoction of lignum vitae, or
even in water, three times during the day.
"
By these means the disease is diverted from
its natural course, and its career
may be destroy
ed; but it is dangerous practice, and should not
be resorted to, except in cases of emergency.
Swelled testicle is a
frequent result; and the
discharge which may temporarily yield under a
smart attack of orchitis, will return at the expi
ration of many days. I apprehend that this
treatment by revulsion, can never be warranta
ble but in the very earliest appearance of the
discharge, probably within twenty-four hours.
"
Gonorrhoea attains its natural crisis more
uninterruptedly in a moderately full than in a
languid habit, but extremes of both, are sources
of aggravation ; the first as
regards intensity—
the second, time. I am not aware that the
science of surgery affords any means, by vvhicli
a confirmed clap can be suddenly arrested in
its career ; and the attempt, if made, is not pro
ductive of any but ai evil result.
"
For ;i
period of two or three weeks lu
136 TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA.
treatment should be strictly palliative ; the diet
should be moderately reduced ; the bowels re
laxed, but not considerably ; the local inflam
mation mitigated by frequent fomentation and
rest; and under circumstances of* great activity,
combined with great physical power, and a full
and hard pulse, sixteen ounces of blood may be
abstracted early. The painful micturition may
be relieved by thirty drops of liquor potassa>,
combined with five or six of tincture of opium,
three times during the day. I find advantage
from the following form, to be taken every night
in milk :
Pulv. Jalapee, gr. x. ; Pulv. Acaciae, 3ij.
"
Perseverance in these measures
during a
fortnight, will exhaust the activity of the dis
ease ; the improvement will be indicated by a
diminution of pain in making water, as also di
minution of the quantity of the discharge, which
becomes paler in colour, and more
aqueous in
consistence. Sometimes on the contrary it con
tinues thick and ropy to its last stage. As soon
as this stage is accomplished, the treatment
should undergo a
corresponding change, other
wise the disease will become protracted under
the form of gleet. The diet may be improved,
and the laxative omitted altogether ; a moderate
quantity of wine is not undesirable, if the per
son be accustomed to that, or similar stimuli,
while in health.
"
Should the healthy career of the case be in
terrupted by chordee, in all probability the cure
will be more or less protracted, because its
TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA. 137
presence indicates a hitherto uncontrolled in
flammation of the urethra, which has extended
to the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum.
This condition of that body is not always per
ceptible on examination, but it usually leaves
considerable soreness
along the track of the
canal. After chordee has existed for some
time, we can often perceive (by the finger) the
presence of lymph, poured out around the
urethra, chiefly in the region of the scrotum,
where it presents one or more indurated mas
ses of a roundish form, to which, more
especial
ly, the pain is referred during erection. These
swellings become sufficiently large to compress
the urethra, and present considerable difficulty
both to the flow of the urine, and to the intro
duction of instruments towards the bladder.
"
Chordee is not a common symptom of gon
orrhoea in its early stage ; and is, I think, more
frequently asthenic in its nature, though not ne
cessarily so. We treat it with opium, to which
calomel may be added. The opium will check
it without doubt, for a few nights ; and as soon
as this end is accomplished, the sedative should
be desisted from.
"
The immediate pain of chordee may be
warded off by local pressure of the hand, if the
person is resolute enough to
grasp the organ,
and relax the spongy portion by curving it
downwards. The application of cold is also an
important resource.
"
Sometimes the healthy progress of the case
is interrupted, and an aggravation of the symp-
M*
138 TREATMENT, ETC. CHORDEE.
toms caused, by some act of imprudence on the
part of the patient, of which inflammation of the
neck of the bladder may be the result. Under
these circumstances, the discharge often ceas
ing, we have frequent micturition from inability
of the bladder to hold the urine for a
longer
period than a
quarter, or half an hour ; pain
extends along the track of the urethra, and oc
cupies the substance of the glans, accompanied
by dysury, spasm of the urethra, and pain in
the hypogastrium, the loins, and the inner and
front part of the thighs ; pain is also often re
ferred to the rectum, and around the anus. All
these symptoms are
aggravated by exercise,
and, in this state, patients are
incapacitated for
exertion of almost every kind.
"
The treatment should be moderately anti
phlogistic. Leeches, in number proportioned
to the activity of the pain, and strength of the
person, should be applied to the perineum.
The horizontal position, and the frequent ap
plication of very hot flannels to the external
organs and perineum, will afford considerable
relief, after depletion ; and a mixture of vinum
colchici, sulphuric aether, and tincture of opium,
in moderately large doses, will generally airest
the activity of the disease ; and, as I said with
respect to gonorrhoea in general, so I add in
reference to this symptom
—
that as soon as
you
have broken the neck of the inflammation, de
plete no more, but immediately substitute car
bonate of ammonia in five-grain doses, or very
small doses of copaiba or
turpentine.
GLEET. 139
"
One great objection to excess of depletion
in gonorrhoea, is the liability of the purulent
discharge to degenerate into gleet as the in
flammation subsides. This is a
great evil, for
its inconvenience and its obstinacy are almost
proverbial. It is generally unattended with
pain, or, indeed, any other symptom.
"The secretion of true gleet is serous
merely,
combined with the mucus of the urethra ; but
it will vary according to the excitement to which
the parts are
subjected. It may be occasion
ally accompanied with slight pain in micturi
tion, and during erection, and, of course, the
more active the symptoms, the nearer the ap
proach to the puriform character.
"
There is obviously, therefore, no distinct
boundary which points to the cessation of
gonorrhoea, and its crisis in gleet ; the change
is gradual and imperceptible. If you treat a
person habitually prone to large libations of
drink, by entire desistance from his ordinary
and necessary stimuli, he will have a
protracted
gleet ; and this principle holds in all cases,
cateris paribus, in which the depletion, whether
positive or
negative, has been needlessly per
sisted in : therefore the first consideration ap
plies to constitutional treatment, which is, at
least, equally important to local. I recently
had a man under my care, who, when in health,
took per diem about one gallon of porter, in
addition to an occasional glass of gin. He had
been the subject of gleet for ten months, for
which he had employed the usual catalogue of
140 TREATMENT OF GLEET.
local remedies. I desired him to leave the gleet
to take its own course, and resume his usual
drink. He perfectly' recovered in a week, and
has had no return of the discharge. First, then,
it appears necessary to raise the standard of the
circulation and nervous
power, by resuming
ordinary diet and ordinary stimuli ; and to this
we
may devote a week or ten
days ; during
which I do not think you will find the local
malady to advance, although it may feel the
effects of the first increase. The general treat
ment often, I will not say, invariably adopted,
seems
objectionable, and chiefly because it fails
in its object. It consists in the administration
of large and still larger doses of internal sti
muli ; of which those in most
frequent use, are
turpentine, copaiba balsam, and cubebs pepper;
and of local injections of alum, sulphates of zinc
and copper, and nitrate of silver. The zinc is
used in the proportion of from three to five
grains to the ounce of water, and each of the
other salts in similar proportions. On these fail
ing, the strength is increased indefinitely, often
extending to eight or ten grains to the ounce.
"
The consequence of these remedies, both
local and general, is that the vessels, weak and
exhausted by depletion, are
severely constricted,
and reaction is the inevitable result, producing
a return of the malady.
"
When a
gleet has existed for a consider
able time, it becomes, as it were, naturalized to
the surface, and not
unreasonably resents such
violent measures
employed to
eject it ; whereat
TREATMENT OF GLEET. 141
by gradually undermining its resources, by
giving vigour to the vessels which supply it, and
by wearing out its energies, by persevering but
mild appeals to its forbearance, the vessels will
gradually assume a healthier action, and the dis-
I charge will cease ; and it is not often that this
I argument will fail. When a
patient applies to
f you with gleet of long continuance, let him de
sist for a week from all treatment, local and
[ general. Then, if his diet has been low, from
the fear of aggravating the evil, enlarge it to
1
the standard of his habits in health, and com
mence with an
injection of sulphate of zinc, in
the proportion of five grains to eight ounces of
: water. He will possibly reply—
"
Oh, sir, that
i will do me no
good ; I've used injections often
times that strength, and they have failed." The
answer obviously is,
"
They have failed because
'
they possessed ten times that strength." But
now, instead of injecting at night and morning
only, you must desire him to
employ the remedy
sufficiently often to compensate for its weak
ness ; and he should inject it warm every three
hours. If it produce the slightest pain, lower
\ the strength to four, or even three grains ; but
this rarely happens.
"
At the same time you may order very small
; quantities of turpentine, &c, with an equal
quanity of copaiba balsam. The immediate
effect of these remedies is very slight ; but, by
repeating their application at short intervals,
you confirm the advantage gained, small as it
may be, while in the aggregate, you will haev
142 TREATMENT OF GLEET.
obtained all you desire. Should these qualities
fail, they may be slowly increased, but never to
such an extent, as to lose sight of the principle
on which they are recommended. I cannot
say
that I have much experience of the advantage
of passing bougies in gleet, even when coupled
with stricture. I do not think stricture is often
a cause of gleet ; at all events, that the gleet
will subside on the removal of the cause, sup
posing it to exist in that relation to it. How
ever, there is no harm in the introduction of a
bougie, but I would not rely on it as an im
portant resource.
Change of air, and improved
appetite, with its consequences, have cured, in
a short period of time, many a case that resist
ed ordinary treatment, of which I could quote
you many examples. There remains one sub
ject on which I wish to say one word.
"
Applications are
frequently made, for the
purpose of ascertaining at what period of the
disease it ceases to be communicable. I recom
mend you to be most cautious how you commit
yourselves on this head, by which, in cases of
failure, you render yourselves morally respon
sible for whatever consequences may ensue.
In truth, we know nothing about it. What is
communicable to one
person, is incommunicable
to another ; and so
long as we have no certain
evidence by which to draw the line, it is better
to
adopt the alternative of declining an
opinion
altogether, or of leaning to the side of good
morals, by declaring that, so
long as
discharge
exists, there is no
exemption from the liability
to communicate it."
143
CHAPTER X.
ON THE SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT OF THE VENE
REAL DISEASE, IN ITS LOCAL AND CONSTITUTION
AL FORMS ; AND ON THE USE AND ABUSE OF MER
CURY VENEROLA AND iTS CURE INTERESTING
CASES —
MEANS OF PREVENTING SYPHILITIC IN
FECTION CONCLUSION.
I have already observed, that animal poisons
differ not merely in their intensity, but in their
nature ; that some confine their agency to the
surface where the contaminating virus is origi
nally applied ; producing rather a
peculiarity of
disordered action than diseased change of struc
ture ; the constitution sympathizing little, and
distant parts remaining unaffected. Such is the
poison of clap ; but the virus of syphilis or
pox,
produces local destruction of the surface, and
from absorption, the whole mass of circulating
blood becomes diseased. After an indefinite pe
riod, and even after the local sores have healed,
the throat, the nose, the skin, the bones, become
often successively implicated ; and if neglected
or maltreated, death may, and not unfrequently
dues, arise from its invasion. The local sores
effecting the surface of the external genitals
from impure intercourse, are denominated
144 OF THE SYMPTOMS
Chancres, sometimes single, occasionally more
than twoor even three are present. (See Plates.)
The time at which the effect of the poison pro
ducing these ulcerations makes its presence ev
ident, is very uncertain. Generally speaking,
the chancre makes its appearance three or four
days after impure sexual contact ; from five to
twenty days forming the average period. An
inflamed spot is first perceptible, presently, a
minute pimple bursts, and displays a
rapidly
enlarging ulcerated surface. In the centre of the
sore, an excavation is sometimes observable of
considerable magnitude, extending beneath the
skin, exquisitely sensitive and painful, erysipe
latous redness surrounding the ulcer, and the
skin assuming an unusual firmness. The edges
of that sore are
irregular, its form often oval, but
hard and ragged, its surface yellow, and this
feeling of solidity easily perceptible, if the part
be grasped between two
fingers. In fact, the
thickened base is a
distinguishing peculiarity
ofsyphilitic sores. If a chancre have not pene
trated the skin, it heals under the application of
proper topical and internal treatment, but if once
the skin be perforated by destructive ulceration ;
if the cellular tissue underneath partake of the
diseased action, it becomes irritable, sloughs, or
mortifies, and is attended with danger. When a
syphilitic sore is confined to the surface of the
skin, its progress is slow, and it is comparative
ly easy of cure ; if, on the contrary, it burrows
deeply into the integuments, the sloughing may
be expected to be extensive, and the immediate
OF THE VENEREAL DISEASE. 145
constitutional and febrile symptoms will run
high.
Syphilitic sores or chancres vary exceedingly
in character. This variety is not only produced
by the previous mode of living, and the consti
tution of the patient, but is undoubtedly ascriba-
ble to diversities in the nature of the poison. If
two persons differing in irritability absorb the
same virus, the more irritable subject of the two
will present a sore, surrounded by violent in
flammation, so that a
person labouring under
simple sores to day, if lie indulge to-morrow in
any act of intemperance or debauchery, will
change by that imprudence the aspect and ten
dency of the ulcer. In some unfortunate in
stances we have clap co-existent with chancre;
, however, the matter of gonorrhoea will not pro-
. duce chancre, nor will the secretion from a chan-
>
ere originate clap, proving not the identity, but
the diversity and the possible absorption of two
poisons. Besides these, there are sores (be
lieved to be followed by constitutional and se
condary symptoms,) produced by the contact of
men whose constitutional condition is peculiar
, with women, whose genital organs secrete a
simply irritating fluid ; as the whites, the dis
eased menstrual secretion, or indeed any impure
'
secretion of a
puriform character.
It happens not unfrequently, that males be
come infested with troublesome and suspicious
'sores from intercourse with women, whose pu
rity is undoubted ; nay, even from contact with
their own wives at certain periods. These
146 OF THE SYMPTOMS
views are fast gaining upon the confidence of
the profession, and the result is most salutary,
inasmuch as it was formerly the practice to style
every sore without exception, syphilitic, to ap
ply mercury indiscriminately ; and, {to say no
thing of the injurious and moral imputationJ mer
curial remedies unnecessarily and injudiciously
applied, have frequently created a diseased con
dition mistaken for the undoubted effects of the
syphilitic virus itself. Healthy women, in whom
not a vestige of actual disease could be traced
upon examination, and so pronounced healthy,
have undoubtedly, in consequence
of some
diseased peculiarity totally unconnected with
unchaste intercourse, communicated by after-
contact with their husbands or lovers, actual
sores ; closely resembling the previously recog
nized forms of venereal disease. These ulcers,
which are
perfectly simple in character, may be
reasonably referred to the presence of matter,
irritating the surface applied, and co-operating
with a constitution, prone to the promotion of
that peculiar form of local mischief.
Many authors favour the opinion that appears
to be warranted by facts, that there exists not
one poison of a
specific venereal kind, but many.
If the poisons that respectively produce clap and
chancre be evidently distinct, forming two, who
shall say that the limitation proceeds no farther;
that each of these poisons is not attended by its
own distinct results, not only as
regards the
character of the sore, but also of the secondary
and constitutional symptoms 1 Those, on the
OF THE VENEREAL DISEASE. 147
contrary, who hold the opinion that the whole
train of venereal symptoms, both primary and
secondary, are the product of the same
poison,
refer the diversities in the appearance of the
Bore to the modifying influence of health, tem
perament, and especially the habits of the pa
tient.
It is exceedingly probable that if these ani
mal poisons producing syphilitic sores, be not
all identically the same, at least they are not
very unlike, and may be considered as the dif
ferent genera of one
species, owing their diffe
rences chiefly to the peculiarity of constitution
in which they are
engendered ; for it is certain
that the poison of one sore in the female, will
not invariably give rise to a series of corres
ponding sores, in each of those individuals of
our own sex, with which she may have been
placed in contact. It is tolerably well ascer
tained, too, that the sexual diseases which de
vastated Europe, about the period of the return
of Columbus from the discovery of America,
and which was supposed to have been brought
hither by his sailors, are now, if not extinct, at
least so altered, as to bear no relation to the
horrible yet doubtlessly faithful relations of the
historians of that period. Many of the French
writers are decidedly of opinion, that infectious
sexual diseases have been contemporary with the
world's history, always prevalent in some form
or other; and they suppose that an
especial ma
lignancy, (how generated, it is now impossible
to say,) occurring in the fifteenth century, and
148 OF THE SYMPTOMS
corresponding with similar exacerbation and
decline in our own times, led the world to mark
incorrectly as a new disease, that which, under
some modification or other, had existed from
time immemorial—
in all ages.
It was the opinion of Hunter, that gonorrhoea
and chancre arise from the same
specific virus,
and his practice was conformable, and followed
out (until the days of Cline, Cooper, and Aber-
nethy) by the administration of mercury, equally
for the cure of both diseases. But Hunter's au
thority is fast declining; the late Sir Astley
Cooper, in reference to this distinction, was ac
customed to observe,
"
let me
say, no
greater
folly, nor indeed cruelty, can be committed, than
that of giving mercury to patients labouring un
der Gonorrhoea. I abstain from entering the ve-
nereal wards of the other hospital, because pa
tients under gonorrhaea are
compelled to un
dergo so infamous a
system of treatment."
Hunter spoke perhaps truly of a
particular spe
cies of sore, but he generalized too much, iden
tifying the "Hunterian chancre" with every
other species of ulcer, resulting from venereal
intercourse ; hence his conclusions are much
modified in modern practice. He taught us to
believe, that it is the invariable character of all
truly venereal sores to become progressively
worse, and never
undergo any amendment, un
less Mercury, the specific remedy, be exhibited.
Thus, chancres on the penis and secondary
sore throat, are described as
constantly growing
worse, without the aid of mercury. Now the
OF THE VENEREAL DISEASE. 149
fact is, there are
many sores which become irri
table and disposed to slough under the mercu
rial treatment ; and ignorant surgeons mistaking
the true nature of the case, have concluded that
a more complete and speedy saturation of the
system, alone could cure the mischief their own
remedies were actually producing. If a sore
were found to heal, as many will without Mer
cury, then, according to the Hunterian doctrines
of the English school, it was declared not to
have been venereal. Certainly, there is noth
ing in a name, whether ulceration aud destruc
tion of parts be styled venereal, syphilitic, or sim
ple, if originating in sexual contact ; men do not,
or ought not to prescribe for names, but for an
actually existent condition. In doubtful cases I
am advised to defer the employment of Mercu
ry, for the purpose of judging of the nature of
the disease by the foregoing criterion. But now
it is well known that many rapidly-spreading
dangerous sores, arising from sexual inter
course, are not only curable without the admin
istration of a
grain of Mercury, but are abso
lutely rendered malignant, by its ignorant and
injudicious employment.
"
As the non-mercurial treatment of primary
sores gained ground,
'
secondary symptoms
'
(or
more correctly speaking, what were formerly
mistaken as such,) diminished at the same rate.
Many of these miscalled '
secondary symptoms,'
have only lately been found out, in many cases,
to be the primary symptoms of bad practice.
Yes, the rotten skulls which are to befound in ana-
N*
150 OF THE SYMPTOMS
tomical museums—
with all the other beautiful
specimens of diseased bones, which, in our
younger days, were so abundant in hospitals, in
the great majority of cases icrre the production of
long and harassing courses of mercury. When
the mercurial treatment was most in vogue, sec
ondary symptoms were most numerous ; but the
medical men of that day, the blind devotees of
the doctrines of Hunter, supposed them to be
the result of too little mercury having being em
ployed in the primary treatment. These prac
titioners resembled the celebrated Sangrado,
who, when his patients died, after he had
drawn almost every drop of blood from their
bodies, and drenched them with warm water
while they were able to swallow it, declared
their deaths could not have happened, if they
had been sufficiently bled, or had taken warm
water enough.
"
I coincide entirely in the
spirit of the above passage from the published
lectures of Dr. Dickson, formerly a medical offi
cer on the British staff, whose fearless mental
independence in the exposure of popular and
deeply-rooted medical fallacies, is deserving of
the highest commendation.
The rash, indiscriminate, and unqualified
abuse of mercury, has been productive of infi
nite mischief, not
only in the hands of profes
sedly educated surgeons, and ignorant quacks :
but from them, the practice has descended to
patients, who 7iave thought to cure themselves.
Under the notion of its being an
antidote, the
untutored think they have only to saturate the
OF THE VENEREAL DISEASE. 151
system, or to persevere in the use of some one
of those advised nostrums, the basis of which is
often mercurial, thoughprofessedly vegetable and
harmless ; and so thousands are
annually mer
curialized out of existence, or their constitutions
so broken, and the functions of the living sys
tem so
impaired, as to render the residue of life
miserable.
It must be recollected that at best, the pecu
liar condition which mercury produces upon the
system, is in itself a diseased unnatural predica
ment. For with respect to the principle on which
mercury acts, we suppose it cures true syphilis,
not by any chemical operation, but byexcitingin
the constitution and parts affected, a particular
action, to all intents and purposes the effects of a
poison, yet not in sufficient dose to extinguish life,
and that upon the principle or law of living or
ganization, that no two widely differing mor
bific agencies can exist together, the syphilitic
action is obliterated and put out. No consid
erations short of the absolute impossibility of
averting its use, should reconcile us to the evil.
There certainly are cases where a choice of
evils presents itself, where mercury is appa
rently indispensable ; but the selection of these
cases, and the judicious administration of the
remedy, both as
respects the form of the prepa
ration and its dose,—
these are matters which
require the most nice discrimination. Mercuri
als arc among the edge-tools of physic, and re
quire to be toielded by a competent and practised
hand.
152 OF THE TREATMENT
True syphilis, then, is that disease, in which
the chancre or
primary ulcer on the genitals
has a hardened edge and base ; in which the
blotches are scaly, with excavated ulcers in the
throat; or when affections in the bones are
complained of, those patients only are
truly
syphilitic, who have nightly pains in the shafts
ofthe long bones, or decided enlargement of the
bone. All other cases, although approaching in
many of their characters tp syphilid, are not to
be considered as such, but as
they generally
proceed from sexual intercourse, the term
"
ven
ereal" is still applied to them.
As to the treatment of the true syphilitic chan
cre,
—
even this is occasionally curable without
mercury, but this does not warrant the asser
tion, that mercury ought not to be employed in
the cure.
Judiciously administered, this mine
ral generally expedites that process.
From the foregoing description it appears,
then, that venereal sores, or the swollen con
dition of the glands of the groin, termed Bubo,
may occur without the general system being at
all contaminated ; but when the poison has
been conveyed into the blood, unless proper
remedies be applied, another order of parts in
evitably become affected, namely, the skin, the
tonsils, the nose, throat, inside of the mouth and
tongue. When absorption of the syphilitic
virus has taken place, ulceration of the throat is
the earliest indication of the. general disease, but
the eruption in the skin is
usually considered
the first of the constitutional symptoms ; this,
OF THE VENEREAL DISEASE. 15 j
tr-ien truly syphilitic, is scaly, affording an excel
lent guide in the treatment, a circumstance by
which it may be distinguished from those vene
real eruptions which neither require nor bear
mercury, which are either pimples, pustules, or
elevated tubercles.
The mucous membrane of the nose, is liable
to be affected by this disease, as well as the
lining membrane of the throat. Ulceration in
this part very speedily affects the bones, which
become diseased, and are thrown off, the patient
losing the natural prominence of the nose, as
well as the acuteness of smell, and acquiring a
most unpleasant peculiarity of tone in speaking.
The bones often separate, long after the syphi
litic action has ceased, and the treatment of this
variety of disease is similar to its management
when occurring in other parts of the body.
Under proper treatment, no person perhaps
lost his nose from syphilis, but the instances are
very numerous in which this deformity has
arisen from the abuse of mercury. Affections
of the bones in syphilis, (or after the primary
symptoms have disappeared,) are often mis
taken for Rheumatism. Pain in the bones is
often the indication of syphilitic action, after
not merely the healing of local sores, but even
after ulceration in the throat and eruptive
blotches upon the skin have entirely passed
away ; it would seem that there is an order of
parts, mostly, but not always attacked in suc
cession, of which the solid structure of the
154 OF THE Tr.EATMENT
bones, as well as their fibrous investment, rro
usually the last to suffer.
A most important feature in fhe'history of sy
philitic diseases, is the fact of their transmission
from parent to offspring. Infants may be affect
ed with syphilis in various ways. They maybe
diseased before birth, in consequence of the state
of one or both of the parents. Dr. Burns, in his
work on "Midwifery," observes, "that infection
may happen when neither of the parents has at the
time any venereal swelling or ulceration, and per
haps many years
after a cure has been apparent
ly effected.
"
I do not," he says,
"
pretend to
explain here the theory of syphilis, but content
myself with relating well-establishedfacts." In
such cases, it is very common for the mother to
miscarry, or have a
premature labour without
evident cause; frequently the infant, born before
the time, has been preceded by one or two dead
children. It may be clean and apparently heal
thy, and continue so for even a month or two,
but oftener it is feeble and emaciated, having a
wrinkled countenance, the appearance of old age
in miniature. Presently the eyes are inflamed,
its cry is husky, low and murmuring, there is
purulent discharge from the eylids, often, though
not invariably, resulting from syphilitic contam
ination. Copper-coloured blotches, ending in
ulceration, appear on the shrivelled skin, the nos
trils become stuffed with a foetid discharge, the
voice becomes hoarse or
whistling, the throat be
comes involved in the ulcerative process, if, in-
OF THE VENEREAL DISEASE. 155
deed, as rarely happens, the child live long
enough to arrive at that state.
If the unconscious, helpless babe, receive the
infection from its hired nurse, we discover ulcers
on her nipples, and the disease appears on the
child's mouth before the surface of the body is
affected. Sometimes within twenty-four hours
of their entrance into the world, such children
have the palms of their hands, the soles of the
feet, or the buttocks covered with copper-colour
ed eruptions, the nails at the same time beginning
to
peel off", and unless something be done for the
little sufferers, they will quickly be carried off
from the violence of the disease ; indeed many
children die of it, in consequence of the true na
ture of the complaint not being understood by
the medical practitioner.
A case is recorded by Hunter, of a
couple ha
ving been married for twelve years, during
which time, neither party had been unfaithful to
the other, nor were either diseased ; the hus
band had had syphilis two years previously to
his marriage, but considered himself cured.—
About this time the lady bore him her fifth child ;
her two first children were
healthy, but two fol
lowing were feeble, and soon died ; the lady
was also in poor health. The last child was
put
out to nurse, and being itself afflicted with blot
ches resembling venereal, and having a sore
mouth, the nurse became affected, both locally
(on the nipples) and constitutionally, with a dis
ease bearing every similitude to syphilis. Why
this disease should lurk in the system for many
156 OF THE TREATMENT
years, to
develop its action on the child in the
womb, or
through what agency this connection is
produced, we know not. That the association
does exist, it would be futile to contradict : in
fact, it frequently occurs that we can trace in in
fants a
regular continuity of the action of this ir
ritant poison from its parent ; once
having en
tered the system, and identified itself with the
circulating fluids, it engenders a thousand fierce
and contending symptoms, which may be indefi
nitely postponed ; but, so
long as a
germ remains
in the constitution, a renewal of its hostile action
may be expected, and its half-extinguished en
ergy again usurp its power with gradual and ter
rible progress.
The necessity of attending to the first symp
toms of venereal complaints has already been
urged. The advantages of doing so are two
fold. The necessity for taking quantities of
loathsome medicine is avoided, from the proba
bility of being able sooner to cure the disease.—
By taking it thus timely, also, many of the more
formidable symptoms may be averted altogether,
and the constitution spared that debility which
is the inevitable attendant upon protracted sy
philis. There is oftentimes, unluckily, great ap
athy and indifference in young men, who suffer
under any of the aforenamed diseases. It is no
uncommon
acknowledgement, to hear that a
pa
tient has a
clap or a
gleet for a year, or even
years ; and the reason he gives why he has en
dured it so
long, is, that the attempts at cure
have been so multifarious and futile, or that he
OF THE VENEREAL DISEASE. 157
has become tired of taking medicine, and that
he had determined allowing it to pursue its own
course. The probability is, that he lacked re
solution and perseverance in following the ad
vice steadily of any one medical man, and that
he has run the gauntlet of half the profession,
and had not lost much time in seeking advice
from those out of it. The same remarks are
ap
plicable to the afflicted with stricture or
syphilys.
The former complaint generally is of many years'
duration, before an
attempt is made to get rid
of it; and in the latter instance, the healing of a
chancre or the subsidence of a bubo, lulls the
owner into false security, and after the lapse of
several years, secondary symptoms have been
known to shew themselves, thereby involving
the necessity of going over the same
ground of
treatment again. These occurrences
certainly
mostly happen, where the parties have been mo
ving from place to
place, and their cases have
not had that attention they demanded, or else
in those instances where they have been unskil
fully treated throughout. Nor are these facts
mentioned to create unnecessary alarm ; they
are
simply stated, and the reader with common
reflection can admit or
deny their plausibility.
Let not false delicacy induce the sufferer to
hazard the dangerous experiment of the manage
ment ofhis own case. Without any knowledge
of the modifications which individual tempera
ment produces upon the character of disease,
without an intimate acquaintance with the nature
of disease, rather than with the mere history of
158 TREATMENT OF VENEROLA.
symptoms
—
ignorant of the precise operation of
powerful remedies, for such an one to turn these
potent engines of good or of evil upon himself,
is a
species of weakness truly pitiable. Attempts
at self-cure arc toofrequently finished in self-des
truction. It has been said, (and not without
truth) that in the practice of the law, he who
conducts his own case, has a fool for his client;
and much more emphatically may the assertion
painfully apply to those, who turn in weakness
and suffering, their ill-judged remedies against
themselves. The practitioners of the healing
art are
generally wiser, and silently teach the
unprofessional world an
important lesson, in re
fusing to prescribe for themselves, however tri
vial or
temporary may be their ailment.
With these cautions, we
append the following
remarks on the treatment of venerola or
pox, by
Mr. Skey :—
"
The treatment of venerola is most
simple.—
The sore requires cleanliness, protection from
violence, and moderate attention to the general
functions of the system during the ulcerative
stage. The local applications should be mild
and unstimulating. Common spermaceti dres
sing is the best. If the sore be within the pre
puce, linen may be substituted for lint, that its
pressure may not cause irritation. It should be
changed about three times in twenty-four hours,
the sore
being as
frequently washed with warm
water. All stimulating applications, whether
black wash, zinc, copper, or other descriptions
of ointment, should be carefully eschewed, being
SIMPLE SEMI-MERCURIAL TREATMENT. 159
not merely unnecessary, but positively objec
tionable. Mr. Evans recommends the applica
tion of a weak solution of acetate of lead, and
poultices, to sores on the outside of the penis or
scrotum ; in the latter recommendation I fully
concur, inasmuch as a
poultice is a soft, moist,
and innocuous remedy, which protects the sore
from external injury or violence. Should the
granulations in the later stage rise considerably
above the surrounding level, they may be redu
ced by the application of sulphate of copper, or
of a solution of five grains of nitrate of silver to
an ounce of water ; but either of these remedies
should be resorted to in the latter stage only,
and applied with care, their application being
made as
lightly as
possible. The constitutional
treatment is also abstinent. A mild aperient,
followed by small inoffensive doses of antimony,
if the sore be attended by heat of the skin and
constipated bowels, is all, or
nearly all, that is
required. If unattended by these infrequent
concomitants, 1 have been in the habit, for some
years past, of treating such cases with bread-pill
night and morning, and I am
acquainted with no
form of medicine which, as
applied to the case
before us, is both more efficient and less objec
tionable.
"
Some years since I was in consultation with an
eminent surgeon on a case of venerola occurring
in a
hospital patient, to which my attention was
directed, which he considered an
example of the
true Hunterian chancre. I smiled on seeing the
"
true Hunterian" and merely said, in the absence
160 TREATMENT BY ESCII AROTICS.
of the man, that I would, as a
joke, lay him a
wager, that I would tell him within a few days.
how long the sore had existed, at what length of
time it appeared after connexion ; and, moreover,
that I would undertake to cure the disease with
out the use of any description of medicine what
ever; pledging myself, too, that no
secondary
eruption of any kind should follow the healing of
the sore. All this I performed to the letter ; and
this feat, great as it may appear, requires no
knowledge that a little common observation may
not afford, in a
comparatively short period oftime.
"
This form of venereal sore
requires watch
ing, mote
especially in some
depraved states of
health ; but you must be content to be a
quiet in
officious looker-on—
probably for weeks. You
cannot arrest, the ulcerative action by stimulants,
nor can this object be effected by the agency of
mercury. Whatever be the change effected by
tampering with the sore in the ulcerative stage,
must be superadded to the allotted time for its
cure.
"
But the progress of the sore
may be entire
ly arrested by escharotics, provided they be ap
plied early in the ulcerative stage. This plan
of treatment was
adopted and recommended by
Mr. Wallace of Dublin, who resorted to it very
generally, as the means of destroying a surface
which seems to have the power of contaminating
for a limited period contiguous parts. It is ob
vious, therefore, that it is applicable only to the
first stage of ulceration ; in which, if at all, it
must be applied freely. Mr. W. employs the
TREATMENT BY MERCURY. 161
nitrate of silver, which should be rubbed care
fully on every part of the ulcerated surface.
"
Instead of the nitrate of silver, I prefer nitric
acid diluted with an
equal quantity of water,
which has this advantage, that being applied to a
small surface, it diffuses itself immediately over
the whole. This practice is applicable only to a
small or early sore, and not to one advanced ; for
if resorted to in an advanced stage of ulceration,
it will often prolong the evil it is intended to ar
rest. It is a form of treatment which may be
resorted to in cases of emergency, where time is
especially valuable. For example—
a
gentle
man is leaving town on an excursion of pleasure,
which it is impossible to
postpone ; or he may
be engaged to be married on a
particular day—
for these are emergencies with which we have
occasionally to contend. Here we
may resort
to this more direct line of cure, which is rarely
followed by evil consequences, provided, as I
have before stated, the ulcerative stage be not
advanced.
"Asa general rule, there is no necessity for
the administration of mercury, in any form or
quantity. At the same time you need not for
swear its use. In moderate quantities, it is in
offensive and unobjectionable, and may often
contribute to the healthy progress of the sore.
Five grains of blue pill to an ordinary patient,
not the subject of mercurial idiosyncracy, may
accelerate the cure, when given each, or alter
nate nights ; but it should not be used contin
uously for more than a few days. There is
1G2 TREATMENT BY MERCURY.
no
advantage in what is called
"
touching the
gums ;" but generally a
great disadvantage both
to the sore, and to the health.
"
That the common venereal sore will heal
under the administration of mercury, none can
doubt, whose attention has been directed to va
riety of treatment : much will, however, depend
on the quantity employed. Undoubtedly a
>
change is effected, which is more or less mark
ed, in proportion to the quantity, and to the
susceptibility of the constitution to its prejudi
cial influence.
"
Moderate quantities of mercury produce
immediately on the sore no
perceptible effect,
nor would they on a sore situated on any other
region of the body. In larger quantities, the
progress of the sore is retarded, and its healing
process will be protracted, while under sali
vating doses the ulcer assumes a
dry, glassy,
and unhealthy aspect, and will often remain sta
tionary for weeks, or even months, without
progressing in the smallest degree towards the
stage of cicatrization ; while occasionally, un
der mercurial action, it will even extend. This,
at least, is the result of my observation. I have
seen, in the practice of others, many hundred,
I believe I might safely say thousand cases, so
treated, and I can
truly declare, that between
the two forms of treatment there is, as far I can
judge, no
comparison in respect of rapidity or
safety. I have seen
examples of venerola ren
dered stationary during three and four months
by mercurial treatment ; and one man I recol-
TREATMENT BY MERCURY. 163
lect to have been severely salivated no less than
three several times for this simple form of sore,
the effect of which was to convert a
simple into
a chronic ulcer of the penis, monstrous in size,
ungratulating, and with highly elevated edges ;
for this symptom will become even more and
more
apparent, as the disease becomes chronic.
"
We must not
suppose that we fail of advan
tage from the administration of mercury, if we
employ it in doses which exhibit no effect on
the gums, or on
salivary glands. Indeed I cor
dially occur in opinion with M. Ricard, who
asserts, that under no circumstances, as an anti-
venereal agent, ought mercury to be employed to
this degree. But in the treatment of those forms
of venerola in which irritating local treatment
has produced thickening around the sore, or in
which such thickening has arisen from any
other cause, local or constitutional, then mer
cury becomes an
important agent in the treat
ment, but should be given with great modera
tion. Five grains of the compound chloride
pill, or of the blue pill, may be given every
night, or
night and morning, for four or five days
or more, to be determined not by its influence on
the mouth or
gums, nor even on the sore, but
by its influence on the thickening around it.
When the thickening diminishes, the mercury,
which, it should be recollected, has not been
employed with a view to the destruction of a
poison, but for the simpler object of obtaining
absorption of lymph merely, may be immedi
ately suspended."
164 CASES OF
CASES.
"
At the period I am
writing, I have under
my care about twenty-five venereal cases
among
the out-patients of St. Bartholomew's Hospital,
of which ten are
examples of the simple sore.
In none of these, have I had occasion to order
any medicine whatever, beyond an occasional
aperient. I order these patients camphor mix
ture, or bread pill, twice or thrice a-day, and
desire them to keep the sores clean, washing
them night and morning, and applying to the
surface a small piece of spermaceti dressing.
In the latter stages, I employ sulphate of cop
per, lotions of sulphate of zinc or black wash j
and although rigorously enjoined to return,
should secondary disease manifest itself, I have,
during the last five years, seen no one undoubt
ed example of eruption consequent on the sim
ple sore.
"The sores
represented in plate 1, Fig. 1,
were taken from a man who presented himself
as an
out-patient at St. Bartholomew's Hospi
tal :
they had existed about a month, as
nearly
as he could recollect, when he applied for ad
vice at the hospital. On referring to his letter,
I find that on the 13th of June I ordered him
camphor mixture. On July 4th, his sores had
healed. I made no
change in his treatment.
Within a few days of their entire cicatrization,
some
condylomata appeared on his scrotum,
and
subsequently others appeared around the
SYPHILOGRAPHY. 165
orifice of the anus. These I treated with dry
lint, simple dressing and black wash, and they
were cured in about three weeks from the date
of their first appearance.
"
The following is a case of not very uncom
mon occurrence, in which the progress of the
sore was
entirely suspended by mercurial ac
tion.
>
"
Philip Roberts, a
porter, was sent to me
by a medical friend, in the summer of last year,
1839, with a sore on the body of the penis, of
the size of a
shilling, irregular in form, flat on
the surface, and with a
considerably elevated
edge. The colour was whitish, and, like un
healthy lymph, indicating a
thoroughly chronic
action. It occasioned him no
pain, and was at
tended by no
sign of inflammation. His health
was not materially impaired by the treatment.
1 He had had the sore during the five previous
months, and had been the subject of three dis
tinct salivations, under each of which the sore
had extended in size. Every variety of local
application had been exhausted in his favour,
under the forms of mercurial and stimulant.
In short, no
expense had been spared by his
master, for he was a valuable servant, and no
trouble by his medical attendant.
"
For one month I watched his case every
second or third morning ; and with the excep
tion of a little simple dressing, and a
poultice
at night to protect the sore, I ordered him ab
solutely nothing, beyond a moderate quantity
of porter daily with his dinner. At the expira-
166 CASES OF
tion of a month, the sore assumed a healthier
aspect ; red granulations formed, and at the
end of two months the sore had healed."
The frequency of venereal complaints is
much greater than the public imagines, though
much diminished of late years. It is, however,
a fact, which cannot be disputed, that in large
cities there is not, perhaps, one in ten male in
dividuals, from the age of twenty to thirty years,
who has not been affected once or twice with
gonorrhceaor syphilis. I have been often shock
ed on
seeing boys and girls at the age of pu
berty presenting themselves with syphilis or
gonorrhoeaat the hospitals which I attend. Here
we daily observe every form of venereal infec
tion, and the most frightful inroads upon health
and social happiness.
These diseases are
very common in private
practice, and lead to the most distressing re
sults. They are often concealed from the fami
ly medical attendant, and the sufferer applies
for advice to advertising empirics, who gener
ally allow disease to destroy or contaminate the
constitution, it must be obvious, that proper
advice should be had as soon as
possible, and
medicine taken on the first appearance of dis
ease.
Transmission of the Venereal Viruses.—
The
venereal viruses, or of syphilis and gonorrheal,
are transmitted by absorption or
inoculation,
which occurs more or less rapidly in different
persons ; in some in a few hours, in others
not for some days, and in a few not at all.
SYPHILOGRAPHY. 167
Hence ablution, or
washing the parts, as soon
after exposure to the poison as
possible, will
often prevent infection. But the disease may
also be communicated by impure kisses, suck
ling, infected parents, absorption in the skin,
excesses in sexual enjoyment, and even the con
summation of marriage. The direct applica
tion of a chancre, or a
primary venereal sore,
to any part of the body, if the skin be broken,
and especially to a mucous surface, such as the
lip, the eye, the nostril, or
any of the outlets of
the body, to the nipple, or to any part where
the surface is tender or broken, will communi
cate the disease. But excoriations of the glans
penis, prepuce, and labia, are
easily distinguish
ed from chancres, and are
merely local affections
which cannot contaminate the constitution,
though non-medical individuals entertain the
opposite opinion.
Prevention of SypJiilitic Infection.—
The best
mode of preventing infection is immediate ablu
tion with water and soap, or a dilute solution of
the disinfecting agents, such as the chloride of lime
or soda. But when a
pimple or sore has once
formed, absorption or inoculation has taken
place to some extent, and the disease cannot be
removed by ablution.
There are certain means used by libertineT
which prevent vensreal infection and procrea
tion, and I regret to state, these have lately
been minutely described in a modern medical
periodical in this country.
As soon as a
pimple or little blister has form-
168 CASES OF
ed after an
impure connexion, on any part of the
genitals, it ought to be carefully touched with
nitrate of silver, the diseased part destroyed, the
remaining ulcer dressed with "mercurial oint
ment, and washed with the mercurial lotion,
called "
black wash," to insure a successful and
certain cure. The patient should also take
mercury until the teeth l>ecome painful on
press
ing them against each other, and until the gums
become tender. Sarsaparilla properly prepared,
nitric acid, and hydriodate of potass, ought like
wise to be exhibited at the same time.
Secondary Symptoms.—
When venereal ulcers
or
eruptions appear, after any primary sore, on
any part of the body, as on the face, throat,
chest, back, thighs, &c the constitution is in
fected, and a
judicious use of mercury, com
pound calomel pill, sarsaparilla, nitric acid, hy
driodate of potass, and other appropriate means,
are
indispensably necessary.
It is very important to
distinguish the pseudo-
syphilitic from the real disease, which is easily
done by studying the description of Abernethy
and others. There can be no
difficulty in di
agnosticating imaginary venereal affections of
nervous or timid persons, and of those about
the age of puberty.
Syphilitic neuralgae, or severe
pains in the
head, face, or other parts of the body, as well
as rheumatism, require the use of mercury and
the other remedies already mentioned, with
strong anodyne embrocations, and the internal
use of the sedative preparations of opium, mor-
SYPHILOGRAPHY. 169
phia, or the extract of hyoscyamus and conium,
colchicum, veratria, &c.
A gentleman, aged thirty-six years, of scrofu
lous habit, requested my advice under the fol
lowing circumstances. He stated that he had
not slept for six weeks, in consequence of severe
pain in the bones of his head, arms, and insteps,
which became intense in the evening, and occa
sionally at different hours of the day. There
were several blotches on his face, which greatly
disfigured him, and a
copper coloured eruption
on his chest and body. There was a
painful
swelling on the back of the left hand and right
instep. He stated that he had been under the
care of two of our most distinguished surgeons,
who gave him large doses of mercury without
affecting him, and who had advised him to take
sarsaparilla, which he continued until he had
expended a
large sum in the purchase of it.
The appetite was bad, the spirits greatly de
jected, and the general health very much in
jured. His condition was rendered still more
distressing, as he had lately married, having
been previously assured that he was free from
his disease.
I ordered him scruple doses of calomel com
bined with camphor and morphia, the hydrio-
date of potass, and an ointment of the latter,
to be applied to the painful tumours on the hand
and instep, with a full dose of morphia every
night at bed time. The painful parts were also
rubbed with camphorated oil and morphia,
twice a day. He felt greatly relieved from his
170 CASES OF
neuralgic pains the first night, his mouth was
affected with the mercury on the ninth day, after
which all his symptoms rapidly disappeared, and
in six weeks he looked much better than he had
done for many years previously. He has since
enjoyed health, and is now a
happy husband and
father.
Many practitioners are fearful of such doses
of mercury, but those who have practised in
tropical climates, more
particularly Dr. James
Johnson, assures us of their perfect safety. I
have now employed them for some
years past,
without the slightest bad result, when combined
as above advised, and after ordinary doses had
failed.
A similar case, deserves record : —
A merchant, aged 50, who had been improp
erly treated for syphilis, seven
years before his
application to me, complained of severe
pain
occasionally in the middle of the left shin bone,
which became so
excruciating at times as to de
prive him of sleep for several nights. There
was no redness or
swelling of the painful part.
He had been salivated ten times by one of our
most eminent surgeons without relief; and he,
as first suggested by Sir Philip Crampton, Sur
geon General in Ireland, proposed to lay the
part open, to which the patient would not con
sent. I ordered him the hydriodate of potass
in combination with the acetate of morphia, and
an ointment of the ioduret of lead, with morphia,
to be applied night and
morning to the affected
part. He continued this plan for a
fortnight,
Ftp. /
^i?^
Fiy. 2.
SYPHILOGRAPHY. 171
i
l
when he was free from pain, and in a month he
considered himself cured. It is now
nearly
three years since his recovery, and he has had
no return of his disease. His sufferings were so
great at one time, that fears were entertained
by his relations that he might commit suicide.
He had been treated by an
ignorant chemist,
when first affected.
Both these patients had nodes, as well as most
severe
neuralgia, or tic doloureux ; and I may
also confidently state, that the treatment em
ployed will often afford relief even in venereal
exostosis or
enlargement of the different bones.
Venereal Eruptions.—
Every form of eruption
in the skin may be stimulated by venereal dis
ease, as first accurately described by Mr. Car-
michael, of Dublin, and subsequently, most ac
curately delineated by M. Rayer, in his splendid
work on Diseases of the Skin. Some of these
produce the greatest deformity of the face, nose,
and even destroy the soft parts, as the palate,
genital organs, &c, and different parts of the
body ; they require the use of mercury, sarsa
parilla, iodate of potass, &c.
Alopecia or Baldness is also caused by syphi
lis, and is an incurable disease.
Osteocope, or intense pain in the bones, may
also be induced by venereal disease ; and it
is often accompanied by severe headache. The
treatment is the same as in the last form of the
disease.
Excrescences and Ulcerations of the genitals,
about the anus and adjacent parts, and even
172 CASES OF SYPHILOGRAPHY.
sloughing, must be included in the effects of this
horrible complaint.
In this work I have confined myself to an
enumeration of those maladies which impede the
genital function, and prevent the procreation of
the species. I now submit these pages, the re
sult of many years' study, reflection, and ob
servation, to an
enlightened public, impressed
with the conviction that they are calculated to
correct much error, and with the hope of bene
fiting succeeding generations.
THE END.
<*r?
if;.- ,^-
SY<r ■/.
Fig. <>'■
Fig. S.
W%
