{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1844__whiting___neology.pdf","mytitle":"Neology","mylang":"de"}
L I; IU1' Tlllll llhll' ll Ill PIO! In
Q,
SECOND ADVENT
LIBRARY.) fa
KO- XIII.
muon 1, 1844.
o
ORIGIN,
NATURE{ AND
;NFLUENCE
|'
NEGLOGY.
_l»
BY N. N. _V§_HITING.
i_
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY JOSHUA V. HIMEB,
I4 Devonshire Street.
'&s»9+-M
'
do .JT 3
Q
%LYé ,_J
_
*RVN-'D ~
,,
f
|»L
+ _
r V
6 /'_
J gt 'I ,' Q/ ft
LIBRQXBY |_f
_~'-¥-
*_
/"1
PREFACE.
i
aaa;
Tn following pages are designed to present, in a clear
and concise manner, the rise and progress, in the church,
of Neology and kindred fruits of the German schools of
Theology, with their effect on the_churches of our own
land. '
It was not until the blessed hope of the glorious appear-
ing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ was
presented, as an immediateevent, to the professed follow-
ers of Him, who
promised
to come again, and was re-
jected by such wit scorn, that it was even dreamed that
the great body of the church had departed so far from the
belief of our fathers, and from "
the iaith once delivered
to the saints." But the, strong neological ground which
the anti-Adventists have been obliged to assume, to ward
of the doctrine of the immediate appearing ol' Christ, and
the manner in which such views have been received, un-
rebnked by the great body of the church, have served to
exhibit the extensive spread and deep root which the phi-
losophy of Germany has attained among the churches of
our own land.
These principles have crept in so insidiously-till now
almost unnoticed-that their sudden maturity has caused
a great call for information respecting their origin and
progress, with the causes of so extensive a reception of
them by the church. This call has here been most suc-
cessfully met g and we' cheerfully recommend it to all, as
a. work worthy the serious perusal, not onl of those
who love the appearing of Christ, but also ofythose who
have drank deeply at the poisoned fountain.
J. V. H.
Boston, March 1, 1844.
4)
l 1
n_xk
.
U'gp A,
ORIGIN, NATURE,
AND
INFLUENCE OF NEULOGY.
THE term Neology, or Rationalism, has been
applied to the actual creed of a
large portion of
the members of the German church, who profess
a nominal adhesion to the Augsburgh Confession
of Faith, while they reject its fundamental prin-
ciples, and maintain tenets which the Saxon re~
formers would have regarded as
"
damnable here-
sies." Like many other forms of error, Neol-
ogy did not make its first appearance among the
common people. In all countries, the simple
faith of this class in the book of God, and their
reverence for its instructions, have made them the
well known conservators of truth. It is seldom
that their course of life is such as to drive them
to the necessity of impugning the authority of
the Scriptures. Neology had its birth among
those, vho held the part of "
watchmen on the
walls ot' Zion;" among professors of theology,
whose rank, learning, and talents gave them a
controlling influence over the opinions of the
religious world. These were the men, who
applied their strength to rend down the pillars of
the temple of truth, who labored by every insid~
ious art of false interpretation to pervert and ren-
4
der powerless that book, which its Author de-
signed to be "a lamp to our feet and a
light to
our path, until the day should dawn and the day-
star arise in our hearts." All experience proves
that heresy is rather the offspring of the heart
than of the head. When the moral condition of
the soul is such, that man has nothing to fear
should all Scripture be, in very deed, the word of'
Jehovah; no ordinary strength of temptation will
lead him to with it untrue; still less will he wish
to persuade others that it is not entitled to full
credit. He, who has felt the power of divine
truth, as applied to his conscience
by
the Holy
Spirit, convincing him of sin, and lea ing him to
the Lamb of' God,-will not lightly esteem the
book which embodies that truth, nor wish to
shake the confidence of others in "the law of the
Lord," which "is perfect, converting the soul."
Unhappily, in the case before us, the German
church was a national establishment. The pub-
lic authorities patronized the church, because
they supposed its influence would give stability
to political institutions. Princes paid an exter-
nal respect to the Bible because they appreciated
the commandment,-" Render to Csasar the things
which are
Caesar's," rather than that, which with
equal clearness says,"
"
and unto God, the things
which are God's." Both in the Protestant and
Catholic states civil rulers exercised ii control in
the appointment of reachers, pastors and profess-
ors of theology. 'Fhus a door was opened for
the admission of unconverted men into religious
offices. While the magistracy insisted on high
literary qualifications in all candidates for the
ministry, and demanded those still more elevated
t
5
from men who aspired to theological professor-
ships, the most important of all requisites, vital
piety, attracted but little attention. The results
are obvious. Men, who were accuratel ac-
quainted with the sciences, familiar with the
varied topics of biblical literature, with the history,
languages, customs and antiquities of the East,
might be found occupying the station of teachers
in theology, though destitute of the first ele-
ments of religious experience, and strangers to
the power of godliness. Such men as
they
knew nothing of the influence of the Spirit on
the soul, despised and ridiculed the very lan-
guage by which God describes that influence, as
the mystic phraseology of enthusiasm.
It could not be expected that such guides would
quietly acquiesce in the popular belief that all
scripture was given by inspiration of God. Dis-
liking the moral restraint which the Bible im-
poses, so long as it is regarded as a revelation
from heaven; chafed in the false position into
which they had blindly thrown themselves; often
obliged, especially if pastors, to perform duties
entirely foreign to their tastes, and yet fettered by
the force of public
opfnion,
and restrained from
an open avowal of t eir sentiments, they were
compelled to wait for a more convenient season,
when their principles might be exhibited, without
hazard, in the face of the world. Before that
season had arrived, the metaphysical skepticism
of Hume, and other authors of the English de-
istical school, had found its way to the continent.
The writings of these authors attracted the at-
tention of numerous readers inthe ranks of the
German
ministg. They. were 'often translated
1
6
and published with pretended refutations, in
which the author allowed himself to defend
truth with sophistical arguments, and thus effect-
ually betra ed the cause which he appeared to
defend. 'Fha unwary reader was led to sup-
pose that what he had heretofore deemed to be
truth, was error which could not be logically sus-
tained. In some cases, these writers asserted
that a proposition might be true according to the
principles of sound philosophy or metaphysics,
yet, when examined theologically, it was
very
questionable. The reader was left to infer that
sound philosophy and religious truth could hold
no alliance-that Christianity was not based on
facts-that a sincere Christian, of course, could
hold his
position only by believing without evi-
dence, an at' the very best, must be but a
sorry
philosopher.
At a later period, the roductions
of the rench encyclopedists obtained] an exten-
sive circulation in Germany. The lively style
and sparkling wit of these writers enchanted
many of the Germans, who had hitherto been
content to plod along the beaten path usually
taken by men, who confine their attention to plain
matters effact. The want of solid thought, so
characteristic of the French school, was over-
looked in the admiration paid to eloquent phra-
seology and flights of imagination. At this dis-
astrous era, vital piety was rapidly declining in
Germany. With the exception of a few favored
spots, the life-giving influence of the Holy Spirit
was
hardly felt. In the church, the form of god-
liness existed, but its power was' gone. German
pastors, insveadof searching the Scriptures with
prayer, that they might learn and follow the Di-
7
vine will, toiled in composing elegant disquisi-
tions on some point of' ethics. "
Christ crucified
"
was more
rarely the theme of their sermons.
Men, who had not known what repentance was
by personal ex erience, ceased to call on the sin-
ner to turn to god and do works meet for repent-
ance. Philological dissertations, critical essays
on oriental archaeology and languages, took the
place of those plain, pungent addresses to the
conscience, which, in n
happier age, rendered the
preaching of' Luther and Justus Jonas so effect-
ive in waming sinners to fiee from the wrath to
come. _
An event now burst upon the world, which
was destined to give public sentiment an
impulse
which it had not felt since thefall of the Ro-
man empire. It was not a reformation, but a
revolution. A convulsion commenced in France,
which tested the stability of' every institution,
creed and opinion known to the civilized world.
That its final results were not unrningled evil,
can never be ascribed to the virtues of' those who
directed the storm. It is a consolation, amidst
the wildest outbreaks of human extravagance,
that still "the Lord reigneth," that he can
"
re-
strain the wrath of men, and cause the residue of
that wrath to praise Him." The example of an
entire nation, which arose as one man, to vindi-
cate its freedom, and proclaimed itself the cham-
pion of the oppressed and the supporter of' lib~
eral sentiments, enlisted the best wishes and the
warm admiration of all vho paid more attention
to words -and acts than to principles. The actors
in this drama were
equally impatient of' political
and religious control. Making no distinction be-
8
tween the corruptions of the Papacy and the re-
ligion of the Saviour, they assailed both with the
same blind fury. Those who could vield the
pen, deluged Europe with pamphlets and vol-
umes filled with the bitterest attacks on' Divine
Revelation. The ruling powers of the new re-
public, which sprang to light like the prophet's
gourd, however inconsistent with themselves in
everything else, remained constant in their enmity
to the word of God. The unsparing boldness of
French skeptics was communicated to "kindred
spirits" among the more cautious Germans. Pub-
lic sentiment received a shock from the revolu-
tion, which went far to
destroy its conservative
power. Lax sentiments on the subject of reli-
gion were
hardly considered as a
reproach to the
clergy: still, while the members of this order
received salaries for the avowed purpose of teach-
ing the truths of the Bible, some
respect for ap-
pearances must be preserved-a sort of conven-
tional decorum, in the treatment of that book,
was yet necessary. The time had not arrived
when n religious instructer might announce that
he believed in no other religion than that of na-
ture. Some latitude might be allowed, on the
ground that though he was not a believer of Lu-
ther's school, yet he was a rational Christian, as
might naturally be expected of one, who lived in
"the age of light." He might be a skeptic in
heart and life, so long as he pretended to be a
disciple of Christ. He mnst profess to believe
the Bible, while he was allowed, by every art of
fallacious criticism. to explain away all those
doctrines, which hold a vital alliance with the
redemption of man. Hovever revolting such
9
hypocrisy may seem to men of integrity; in Ger-
many, multitudes were found, men of varied con~
dition, possessing talents which gave currency to
their opinions, who would stoop to such hypoc-
risy. By actingthus, they have given a memo-
rable lesson to the world. They have proved, that
in the cause of divine truth, genius and learning
are worse than useless, if their possessor is des-
titute of an
upright and humble heart-if he does
not fear God and tremble at his word.
Such was the origin of Neology. Its form
has varied with the changing breath of public
opinion and the exigency of circumstances. At
one period, it boldly took the field against evan-
gelical religion, and hardly sought a disguise. In
the writings of Fichte and Forherg, and some
others of the transcendental school, it would
have received the name of atheism, in our land.
In the hands of other artists, it has assumed the
shape of the.Pantheism of the Greek philoso-
phers. Now it is "liberal Christianity," or
"
Ra-
tionalism"-again it is marked by an icy indiH`er-
ence to all revelation. Like the demons of Milton,
its votaries, tuming from the promised land lit
up with the beams of the sun of righteousness,
survey their congenial domain-
"
A frozen continent
Lies dark and wild, beat with perpetual storms
Of whirlwind and dire hail."
The influence of the moral condition of the
heart on the interpretation of the Scriptures has
long been a subject of familiar remark. As the
preacher, destitute of vital piety, will not appre-
ciate the spiritual element in truth, because he
10
has not experienced its power-so he will not
present it in its living energy, and will be at the
best, a mere
"
hewer of wood and drawer of water
for the congregation of the Lord." Thus it is
with the interpreter. In all that addresses itself
to the conscience of man, he is sure to fail,
because`, in his own conscience, there is no chord
that responds to the touch of truth. lf, per-
chance, he should feel at all, he will be offended
with those declarations which announce his danger
as a sinner, and his entire dependance on God.
f' That blessed hope, the glorious appearing of the
great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ," is a
strange thing to him, one that excites no
aspira-
tion for the rest that awaits the saints. With a
temper of mind, which is "
earthly and sensual,"
his expositions will bear the stamp of the mould
through which they pass. That which belongs
to this present world," that which is earthly, he
mayappreciate, but the "
new heavens and the
new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness," lies
be ond his ken. The writings of neologists
afliird lamentable illustrations of this principle.
It might naturally be expected, that, in the war
waged against the holy writings, the inspiration
of the rophets would be the earliest point of at-
tack. if it be questionable whether they predicted
events, (which they continually claim to have
done,) we are driven, on the most favorable sup-
position, to class them with the dreaming enthu-
siasts of later ages, who have been deluded by
imagination into a belief, that they uttered the
word of the Lord, while, in truth, he was far from
them. As the Saviour and the apostles often
appeal to prophecy as the infallible truth of Jeho-
11
vah, it will follow, that they did this, not because
such was the fact, but merely that they might
not shock the prejudices of the Jews, with whom
a confidence in the inspiration of the rophets
was a fundamental article of faith. Itl)on the
other hand, the prophets themselves did not be-
lieve that the word of the Lord came to them,
then they must be classed with those deceivers,
who have led the world astray, while pretending
to maintain a cause, in which moral integrity is
a vital element. The extent to which_ neological
writers succeeded in destroying the belief of
the German church in the inspiration of the Scrip-
tures cannot be viewed without the deepest pain.
It must be left to eternity to declare the conse-
quences in their full extent. The results which
crowned this unholy enterprise, emboldened ne-
ologists to assail the integrity and authenticity of
nearly all the canonical books. The tale is soon
told. Multitudes, who styled themselves Chris-
tians, were led to believe that the only inspira-
tion actually possessed by the Jewish seers was
that which is claimed by all poetic writers. The
celebrated W. Gesenius, as we have been told by
one who heard his lectures on Isaiah, often com-
pared the inspiration of that prophet and the in-
spiration of the Grecian Homer. In point of
genius and strength ofimagination, he represented
the two poets as nearly on a level, though he
would coolly remark, that as Isaiah was compelled
to use a language less copious and harmonious
than that of Homer, it was not surprising that
the palm must be awarded to the latter. He
would not allow, that the Hebrew had any more
presience of the future, than the Greek. He es-
12
pecially labored to impress his large auditory
with the idea, that inspiration, in the sense of the
older theologians, was a thing impossible in it-
self. Passages, which in former times were sup-
posed to have a marked reference to the Messiah,
or to the glories of his kingdom, according to
Gesenius were merely patriotic aspirations,
couched in glowing language, which Isaiah never
imagined could be applied to anything higher
than a splendid reign of some crowned mortal,
and a prosperous state of the Hebrew common-
wealth. Neologists have called in question the
miracles of the Old and New Testament, ex-
plained away, or resolved them into attempts of
mystagogues to deceive the spectators, by means
similar to those employed by jugglers, who can
produce effects, which may seem
supernatural to
those not versed in legerdemain. In its progress,
neology has not been confined to Protestants.
Several Catholic writers have given sad proof
that they too have imbibed this subtle poison,
though from the rigid authority exercised by the
Papal hierarchy, they have been less bold in ex~
pressing their sentiments. Among these, may
be numbered J. Jahn, late Professor of Oriental
Languages and Biblical Archaeology in the Uni-
versity of Vienna. Occasion will soon be pre-
sented for noticing some of his views, which
have been borrowed, adopted and advocated by
American divines.
For some
years past it has been deemed ne-
cessary in our country, for those who aim at a
thorough theological education, to cultivate an ac-
quaintance with German writers. Their lan-
guage is studied in our
theological institutions,
13
and where this is not the case, translations, which
are
rapidly multiplying, can be substituted for the
originals. A tour to
Germany, and an introduc-
tion to her 'religious Zig/tts, has become as com-
mon and as fashionable vith American Profess-
ors and students of divinity, as a visit to the con-
tinent has been with the English nobility. As
in the latter case, it has been deemed important
to add a French polish toa fashionable education,
so in the former, it would seem that a German
polish is equally important, that an American
may complete his theological training, and be en-
abled to understand a book, which its author has
designed to be read by every nation under hea-
ven, and to be equally the guide of the sage and
the peasant. It could hardly be expected, that a
familiar acquaintance vith the tomes of Ration-
alism would produce no effects on the minds of
our
countrymen, who toiled to master their con-
tents. The effects have already begun to develope
themselves in the productions of our writers
and the sermons of our preachers. They may
be traced in the expositions of our divines, in dis-
courses which are valued as specimens of cleri-
cal talent and proofs of deep research. In refer-
ence to these sermons, our older readers have
often had occasion to notice the paucity ofscriptural
quotations. It vould seem that the authors of
these productions were apprehensive that they
might vitiate their style or betray a want of taste
if they employed scriptural language to convey
religious ideas. They forget that the great mass
of their hearers are more familiar with biblical
phraseology, as a medium for religious thought,
than with any other, and that holy men of old,
2
14
who preached with the Holy Ghost sent down
from heaven, emplo ed a
plain, unadorned style,
when urging eternalytruths on the minds of men;
that in this, they followed the example of Him,
whose discourses are a
perfect model of simplic-
ity. The preachers to whom we refer, would do
well to recollect that the Saviour and his apostles
made a free use of quotations from "Moses and
the prophets and the book of Psalms." Expe-
rience shows that men readily and naturally
quote those authors, whose language most fre-
quently rningles with their trains of thought,
though the reverse is the fact in reference to wri-
ters who are
only consulted occasionally.
In proof of the correctness of the portrait of
Neology, which we have sketched, we shall
adduce some
testimony from the well-known let-
ters of Professor Stuart, addressed to Dr. Chan-
ning, in 1819. In this work, the Professor (page
442) makes the following remarks, many of
vhich, time has fully verified in reference to
some American theologians, although we are
not aware that Dr. Channing arrived at "the
conclusion," which the professor here noticed.
"I am well satisfied," says the professor, "that
the course of reasoning in which you have em-
barked, and the principles now in question, by
which you explain away the divinity of the
Saviour, must lead most men, who approve of
them, eventually to the conclusion that the Bible
is not of divine origin, and does not oblige us to
belief or obedience."-" Deeming what you have
publicly taught them, to be true, viz., that it is
no crime to believe with Mr. Belsham," who
declares, that the Scriptures are not the word of
15
Gad ; feeling the inconsistency, (as I am certain
some of them will and do feel it,) of violating
the rules of interpretation, in order to make the
apostles speak, as in their apprehension they
ought to speak; and unable to reconcile what
the' apostles say, with their own views; will it
not be natural to throw off the restraints which
the old ideas of the inspiration and infallibility
of the Scriptures impose upon them, and receive
them simply on the ground on which they place
any other writings of a moral and religious na-
ture ?
" "
For myself,I regard it as more desira-
ble, in many points of view, that the authority
of the Scriptures should at once be cast od] and
its claims to divine inspiration rejected, than that
such rules of exegesis should be introduced, as
to make the Scriptures speak, against their ob-
vious meaning, whatever any party may desire.
Avowed unbelief in the divine authority of the
Scriptures can never continue long, as I would
fain believe,in the present day of light and exam-
ination. Such a state of things may pass away
with the generation who act in it. But it is a
more difficult matter to purge away the stain
which Christianity may contract by violated laws
of interpretation. Those who do thus violate
these laws, may obtain, and hold, for a long time,
great influence over the mass of people, who are
not accustomed to examine, in a critical manner,
the minor points of theology. If opponents to
this method of interpretation, lift up the voice
of warning, they may not be heard. They are
liable to the imputation of bigotry, or igno-
rance, or
illiberality. But when men professedly
cast off their respect to the authority of the Scrip-
16
tures, the case becomes different, and the great
body of plain and sober people will revolt. In
makin these observations, of the nature and
probabie cons uences of that exegesis, which
explains awa eilie deit of Christ, I cannot think
that I am buiiiiing castles in the air, to amuse my
own imagination. For ten years past, I have
been called, every week, to duties which necessi-
tated me to be conversant with the history of
interpretation, as it has appeared in Germany; a
country, which, in half a
century, has produced
more works on criticism and sacred literature,
than the world besides. About fifty years since,
Semler, Professor of Divinity at Halle, began to
lecture and publish on the subject of interpreta-
tion, in a manner that excited the attention of the
whole German empire. The grand principle by
which he explained away whatever he did not
think proper to believe, was that which has been
called accommodation. He maintained that the
apostles and the Saviour often admitted repre-
sentations and doctrines into their instructions,
which were calculated merely for the purpose of
persuading the Jews, being accommodated to their
pre{udices
; but which were not intended to be a
rea directory of sentiment. In this way, what-
ever wns inconsistent with his own views, he
called accommodation; and thus, at once, ex-
punged it from the list of Christian doctrines."
"
The more recent method of exegesis, however,
in Germany, has been to solve all the miraculous
facts related in the Bible, by considerations which
are affirmed to be drawn from the idiom and
ignorance of antiquity in general, and in particu-
lar of the sacred writers themselves. Thus with
17
Eichorn, the account of the creation and fall of
man, is merely a
poetical, philosophical specula-
tion of some ingenious person, on the origin of
the world and of evil. So, in regard to the offer-
ing up of Isaac by Abraham, he says, 'The
Godhead could not have required of Abraham so
horrible a crime; and there can be no justifica-
tion, palliation or excuse, for this pretended com-
mand of the divinity.' He then explains it.
'
Abraham dreamed that he must offer up Isaac,
and according to the supersthion of the times,
regarded it as a divine admonition. He prepared
to execute the mandate which his dream had
conveyed to him. A lucky accident (probably
the rustling of a ram vho was entangled in the
bushes) hindered it; and this, according to an-
cient idiom, was also the voice of the divinity.'
The same writer represents the history of the
Mosaic legislation, at Mount Sinai, in a curious
manner. Moses ascended to the top of Sinai,
and built a fire there, (how he found wood on
this barren rock, or raised it to the top, Eichorn
does not tell us,) a fire consecrated to the worship
of God, before which he prayed. Here, an unex-
pected and tremendous thunder storm occurred.
He seized the occasion to
proclaim the laws
which he had composed in his retirement, as the
statutes of Jehovah ; leading the people to believe
that Jehovah had conversed with him. Not that
he was a deceiver, but he really believed that the
occurrence of such a thunder storm was a sufii-
cient proof of the fact that Jehovah had spoken
to him, or sanctioned the work in which he had
been engaged. The prophecies of the Qld Tes~
tament, are,
accigrding
to him, patriotic wishes,
2
IB
expressed with all the fire and elegance of poetry,
for the future prosperity, and a future deliverer
of the Jewish nation. In like manner, C. F.
Ammon, Professor of Theology at Erlangen, tells
us, in respect to the miracle of Christ's walking
on the water, that, '
to walk on the sea, is not to
stand on the waves, as on the solid ground, as
Jerome dreams, but to walk through the waves
so far as the shoals reached, and then to swim.'
Thiess, in his commentary on the Acts, explains
the miraculous effusion of the Spirit on the day of
Pentecost, (Acts ii.) in the following manner:
'It is not uncommon,' says he, 'in those coun-
tries, for a violent gust of wind to strike on a
particular spot or house; such a gust is com-
monly accompanied bythe electric iiuid; and the
sparks of this are scattered all around. These
float about the chamber, become apparent, and
light upon the disciples. They kindle into enthu-
siasm at this, and believe the promise of their
Master is now to be performed. This enthu-
siasm, spectators assemble to vitness ; and instead
of preaching as before, in Hebrew, each one
uses his own native tongue, to proclaim his
feelings.' The case of Ananias, falling down
dead, is thus represented by the same writer:
'Ananias fell down terrified; but probably he
was carried out and buried while still alive.'
Heinrichs, however, who produces this comment
of Thiess, relates another mode of explaining the
occurrence in question, viz., that Peter stabbed
Ananias; 'which,' says Heinrichs, 'does not
at all disagree with the vehement and easily
exasperated temper of Peter.' Numerous sys-
tems of Hermeneutics, i. e., the art of Interpre-
19
tation, have been written and published in Ger-
many, on this plan. Meyer, in a
ver?
labored
system of Hermeneutics of the Old estament,
in two large octavos, has a
body of rules, by
which everything miraculous is to be explained
away. _He concedes that there is the same
objec-
tion to admitting any one miracle, as to admitting
all. He therefore rejects the whole.
"At present, the leading German critics (reject-
ing accommodation, and casting off all ideas of
the divine origin of the Scriptures) are
disputing
with great zeal, the questions, whether a mira-
cle be ossible? Whether God and nature are
one and) the same ?--(Schelling, a divine, is at the
head of a
great party, which maintains that they
are the same)--and whether the Jews ever ex-
pected any Messiah? Some time ago, many of
their critics maintained, that no Messiah was
predicted in the Old Testament; but now, they
question even whether the Jews had any expec-
tation of one. It would seem, now, that they
have come
nearly to the end of questions on
theology."
We have made these long extracts from Pro-
fessor Stuart, because his candor is a
guaranty
for the accuracy of the remarks which he has
made on the subject of Neology,-because he is
well acquainted with writers of this school,-be-
cause we believe he has never been considered a
famtic. He says of these writers, (page 152,)
"
The person, who reads their works, will see
what the spirit of doubt and unbelief can do, in
respect to the Book of God, and where it will
carry the men who entertain it. It is indeed a
most affecting and awful lesson. But is there no
'
20
reason to fear' that we are to learn it by sad
explerience?"
»
,
ime has answered the professor's question.
Recent publications show that the neologic sys-
tem of interpretation, which he so
forcibly con-
demned inthe year 18l9,has gained n
currency in
our land, and this, among divines who exercise a
powerful influence on the opinions of the church.
But we will not anticipate the proofs of this fact.
When the neologists had, as
they thought,
demolished the confidence hitherto reposed in
the inspiration of the biblical writers, and left
men to decide by their own acumen,-what por-
tions of the Scriptures vere
worthy of regard,
and to cast away those which were at variance
with their philosophic or religious standards,
their task was by no means ended. The unholy
propeusities of their hearts were still active, and
the c of those hearts, like that of the disobe-
dientrdews, still was, "Cause the Holy One of
Israel to cease from before us." Although the
Bible yvas regarded merely as a historical docu-
ment, it presented too many proofs of the moral
government of God,-too much of his interfer-
ence and control over the conduct and destinies
of men,-not to offend those who wished "to
walk after the sight of their own eyes." Another
effort must be made. It was made with a bold-
ness which astonished the reflecting portion of
mankind. The assertion was hazarded, that the
books of the canon had been grossly corrupted.
De Wette maintained that Moses was not the
author of the Pentateuch; that it vas much later
than the age in which he lived ; and the follow-
ing assertion was offered as a
proof:
"
The
21
analogy of the whole history of thelanguags
and literature of the Hebrews, contradicts the
supposition that Moses is the author of the
Pentateuch; it is inconceivable that one man
should create the whole literature of a nation in
all its extent, both as to matter and as to lan-
guage." Augusti, in his Introduction to the Old
estament, gravely tells us,
"
that there is such a
coherence in the whole Pentateuch, as proves
the book to be an epic poem!" Some of the
Germans have taken the position that "Moses
wrote nothing more than the laws which are con-
tained in the Pentateuch, and that the historical
parts have been added in later ages, from tradi-
tions." This position is defended on the ground
that miracles are impossible. Says De Wette, (in
his introduction to the Old Testament,) "Com-
mon sense determines that miracles are impos-
sible. It may, however, be inquired, whether
some events did not really happen, which, to
eye-witnesses and contemporaries, seemed to be
miraculous. This, also, receives an answer in
the negative, as soon as we inspect the narration
with any degree of closeness. The result is
already obtained, that the narration is not contem-
porary, nor derived from contemporary sources."
Having disposed of the claim of Moses to the
authorship of the Pentateuch, these critics are
unable to agree as to the real author. Rosen-
miiller, enumerates no less than twelve theories
on this single point, all different, and many con-
tradictory.
Jahn, who, according to the modern standard,
is thought to be untainted with Neology, makes
the following remarks-(Introduction to the Old
22
Testament, translated by S. Turner and W. R.
Whithingham,page 230)-respecting the miracle
in which the sun and moon are said to have
stood still, Josh. x. 12-15: "The celebrated
passage (x. 12-15) is poetical; for which reason,
it is to be poetically interpreted, namely, thus:
that the Hebrews inflicted a defeat upon the
Canaanites as great as if the sun had stopped his
course, and had prolonged the day to a double
length l" Yet, Jahn's Introduction is a text-book
in most of our theological institutions.
This author thus notices the pretematural
strength of Samson (page 243.)
"
The connexion
of Samson's strength with the preservation of his
hair, (Judges xvi. 16-l9,) was
merely his own
supposition. Hence, when his hair was shorn,
his courage forsook `him, and he did not dare to
try his strength ; but, with the growth of his hair,
his courage retumed, and he was
capable of
exerting his former strength." It is due to the
translators of Jahn, to say, that in a note, they
express their dissent from this hypothesis.
Eichorn furnishes a curious s ecimen of the
respect in which a neologist may hold "the sure
word of prophecy." "All ecstacies and visions,
are, in my opinion, mere
poetic fiction."
Jahn, who, it will be recollected, was a Catho-
lic, in his summary of the book of Daniel,
although he seems to have stopped far short of
the goal reached by Eichorn, yet he does not
hesitate to interpret the vision of the seventh
chapter, thus: "The fourth monster had no
resemblance to the others, but was
exceedingly
strong, and terrible to look at; it had great iron
teeth," &c. With the intention of changing the
23
law or religion, it made war upon, and conquered
the saints, who were in subjection for a time,
times, and half of a time. Hereupon, the Eternal
sits in judgment, commands the monster to be
put to death, and the others to be delivered of
their dominion. but allows them to live until a
definite time. Then came in the clouds,a human
form, and received the dominion; the saints re-
ceived sight, that is to say, they co1zq11e'red and
fortyied t/ze kingdom. All this is emblematic of
the times of the Greek kingdoms, which were to
spring from the monarchy of Alexander. Al-
though the more considerable of~ these kingdoms
were only four, yet, if the less important are
added to them, they will approach so near to ten,
that this round number may very properly be
used. The little horn, which became great, is
Antiochus Epiphanes, who prohibited the wor-
ship of the true God, and persecuted and made
war upon the pious Jews. Tun HUMAN rxeuas
IN Tm: cLoUns is AN EMBL!-IM or 'mn Macon-
REBS!" When we recollect that the council of
Trent declared the apocryphal books (I. and II.
Maccabees) to he a part of the canonical Scrip-
tures, it may not be thought strange that Jahn
should treat them with great respect; but what
must we think of the assertion that, "the human
figure in the clouds is an emblem of the Macca-
bees," after finding the following language in the
passage to which he refers, Daniel vii. 13: "l
saw in the night visions, and behold, one like
the Son of man came with the clouds of heaven,
and came to the Ancient of days,and they brought'
him near before them. And there was given him
dominion and glory, and a kingdom, that all
24
people,
nations and languages, should serve him;
is dominion is an everlasting dominion, which
shall not pass away, and his kingdom, that which
shall not be destroyed."
ln presenting his views of the import of the
vision recorded in Daniel viii., .lahn says-" After
this, the victorious he-goat grows to an astonish-
ing greatness, (that of Alexander's monarchy,)
but soon the horn is broken, (Alexander dies,)
and four sharp horns spring up, (the four larger
Greek kingdoms, Egypt, Syria, Macedonia and
Thrace,) from one of which grows out a small
horn, which performs exploits towards the south,
east, and the pleasant land, that is, Palestine; it
acts against the host of heaven, throws down
some stars and tramples on them. It contends
even with the prince himself of the heavenly
host; the continual offerings are taken away, and
through treachery at garfrrlvmt is stationed at the
place. This continues for 2300 morning and
evening oj"e1~ings, 1150 days, that is Anon? three
years and a
half] and then the rites of the sanc-
tuary are restored. This is a representation of
the expeditions of Antiochus Epiphanes against
Egypt, against Armenia and Persia, and against
Judea, and of his persecutions, when the Jews
at the end obtained their independence."
Many of our readers will conclude that Jahn's
interpretations are not uninfluenced by Rational-
ism, yet this same author has employed two en~
tire sections in refuting the more thorough-going
neologists, who have asserted that the book is
a comparatively modern composition, in short,
that it is a
forgery! We have often inquired, if
Jahn is esteemed a pillar in the cause of sound
25
interpretation. 'lf his expositionsbring us so eden
from heaven to earth, from what is spiritual 'to
what is temporal, how deplorably low must' a be-
lief in the authority and inspiration of the Scrip-
tures have sunk, when Germany, once the glory
of the Reformation, can
display a host of theo-
logical writers, whom he deems it a
duty to op-
pose on the ground of 'the looseness of their prin-
ciples of interpretation!
The miracles of Christ have not escaped the
unholy hands of these skeptics. In Eckerman's
"Theological Contributions," the following hy-
pothesis is presented:
"
Christ learned the art of
working miracles from some mystagogues, but
having the impression that they could not be
performed Without a
peculiar influence of God,
he declared them to be the works of God him-
self."
The author of a "historico-critical .disserta-
tion on the declarations of Jesus concerning the
Messialfs kingdom,"-disposes of striking pre-
dictions Df the Saviour in reference to it, in the
following manner:
"
Jesus himself was somewhat
attached to the erroneous ideas of his contempo-
raries, in relation to the nature of the Messiah's
kingdom; and in his declarations. concerning his
second coming and the circumstances connected
vith it, he was indeed sincere, and uttered the
sentiments of his heart; but in these matters he
cannot be our guide."
The doctrine of a literal resurrection of the
body was deemed by Paul (1 Cor. chap. 15,) a
fundamental doctrine of Christianity; yet Kant,
who has been termed .the "Locke of Germany,"
in his "Religious Instruction," makes the fol-
3
I
26
lowing remark on this momentous topic :
"
Reason
can see no advantage in the supposition, that a
body, vhich, however much it may have been
purified, is still to be formed substantially of the
same materials; a.
body, to which we have never
been nightly attached in this life, should be
dragged after us through all eternity. Nor can
reason comprehend what would be the use of this
body, which consists of earth, in heaven, that is,
in another part of the universe, in which proba-
bly other substances than matter are necessary
to the existence and reservation of' living beings."
We have passed) thus hastily through this
wilderness of error,
"
Where all life dies, death lives, and nature breeds
Perverse, all monstrous, all prodigious things,"
not that we take pleasure in tracing the down-
ward course of men, who, abandoning the guide
which God has provided, wander on in utter
darkness; but, because duty demands that their
example should be held up as a warning to others.
lt is highly probable that when these writers first
commenced their rash speculations, they never
dreamed of the results to which they were finally
led. The cunning ofthe Prince ofthe power
of the air. filled them with a vain conceit of the
mighty strength of their reason, in religious
matters. Thinking more highly of themselves
than they ought to have thought, attempting to
philosophize
where they should have prayed and
elieved, loving the praise of men more than the
honor that cometh from God only; their names
must be chronicled among those, who, with talents
27
of the highest order, become the scourges, rather
than the benefactors of their race. -
The history of the church shows that men do
not suddenly become heretics. In proportion as
vital piety declines in a
religious community, truth
becomes less interesting, especially t/mt truth
which reproves those who backslide in heart.
Error will be welcomed. Yet this error
may long
exist and increase, it may long be cherished
secretly, before its advocates will dare to avow it
in the face of the world. If,1mder such circum-
stances, some powerful agitation of the public
mind occurs, then the depths of thought are laid
bare, and the world learns, for the first time, that
its religious guides have departed from the faith,
and stands amazed as the light breaks in and
reveals what the "ancients of Israel do in the
dark ; every man in the chambers of his imagery."
So the deca of the oak, which has stood the
storms of a hundred winters, goes on slowly at
the heart, until that has mouldered away in
silence and darkness. The passing gale then
hurls the monarch of the forest to the dust, and
reveals the rottenness within.
We have already intimated that Neology has
begun to influence the o inions of a
portion of
the American church. ltgore than twenty years
have passed away, since we heard some of our
elder preachers express a decidedconviction, that
the attention then paid to German writers in our
theological institutions, would ere long produce
results unfavorable to the interests of religion.
They were unwilling to allow that a more accu-
rate acquaintance with oriental literature could
be any adequate compensation for the mischiefs
28
that would be-wrought in the hearts of theological
students, by a
familiarity with works fraught with
skepticism.
"
Better would it be for us," said
one of these silver-haired men, "if every trace
of German theology were sunk in the German
ocean." When we heard this remark, we were
disposed to rank it with those complaints which
are uttered by the aged, who, as they feel forcibly
the ills of life, amidst nature's decay, look back
to their earlier times as the best. But now,
when more years and more facts have corrected
some of our earlier opinions, we frankly say that
we could wish that Neolo had found a resting
place in the bottom of thegéerman ocean, rather
than in the breasts of our- pastors and professors
of theology.
It will- be found in the history of. religious
error, that its votaries usually make theirefirst
essays for its propagation by conversation. Occa-
sional remarks are hazarded, often in the shape
of questions, doubts and queries, which leave
him who proposes them on nan-committal ground.
In this manner, the readiness of other minds to
embrace the sentiment can be ascertained at the
least risk. The errorist assumes the attitude
of one, who is humbly and cautiously inquiring
after truth, and thus conceals the fact that his
opinion is fully formed, and that his interrogato-
ries are
really designed to give information, not
to obtain it. It is only at a later period that he
will hazard an
expression of his sentiments on
paper. It is seldom that his writings contain a
full expression of his belief. They rather exhibit
a
portrait
of sentiment presented in that form in
w ich he has the least to fear froman adverse
29
public sentiment. The cause for adopting this
plan of operations is quite obvious. It is much
more difficult to fasten on him the charge of
heresy, when we must resort to oral communica-
tions, always _liable to the suspicion of being
altered or distorted, than it is when he has com-
mitted himself by using the pen. We have
alluded to the fact, that some
agitation of the
public mind will embolden men to an expression
of ideas, which they have long cherished in
secret. lf two sentiments are brought into colli-
sion, one of which arrays on its side the passions
and interests of the worldly-minded, whether
within or without the pale of the church, while
the other is adverse to temporal advantages,-one
which exposes its advocates to the reproach of
the ungodly, and to the frowns of that class, who
suppose that godliness is gain,-it is easy to
see the results, which will be produced on the
minds of those professors of Christianity who do
not properly feel the force of the divine truth, "
lf
any man love the world, the love of the Father is
not in him." They will, of course, embrace the
popular side of the question. If their learning or
talents give them any inhuence in such matters,
they will contrive to render themselves conspicu-
ous in the controversy, and after ascertaining
where numbers afford a prospect of
safety, will
boldly hazard opinions which, under other circum-
stances, would have been carefully suppressed. It
is not intended,in making these remarks, to charge
all of this class with an entire want of Christian
principle. We have proofs in the entire history
of the church, that Christians sometimes decline
3*
30
sadly from the life and power of religion. In,
that state, they are weak like other men. Pros-
pects of present advantage, love of ease and
approbation, and the fear of man, have in all ages
proved a snare to those, who, in the judgment of
charity, might be deemed children of the Re-
deemer. If the author of evil can deceive these,
and lead them out of the path of truth--above all,
if he can induce them to espouse and defend error,
he obtains one of his mightiest triumphs.
Events have occurred, within the last three
years, to open the eyes of our
community to the
real sentiments of its religious guides, in' refer-
ence to "the sure word of prophecy." The tes-
timony of the Scripture's, respecting the second
coming of the Saviour, after having been long
neglected, has been again presented to, the world.
It is a well known fact, that since the era of the
French revolution, the study of the prophetic
writers has received so little attention among the
American clergy, that any attempt to ascertain
the mind of the Spirit, as communicated by those
writers, has been regarded as a proof of fanati-
cism. Many of those whose official duty it was
to teach the whole truth, have not hesitated to
admit, that the '
had never attempted to study the
prophecies. Vlfe believe we are not mistaken,
when we
say that in our theological institutions,
no lectures were delivered on this subject, and it
has been generally believed, that prophecy could
not be understood until the events which it
shadowed forth became matters of histor _
Many, who held permanent stations in the church,
instead of instituting independent examinations
of inspired predictions, contented themselves
31
with adopting the sentiments of German writes;
on these points,-writers who, unhappily, were
less qualified to teach the words of soberness and:
truth than almost any others, inasmuch as the :
were the pillars of the school of Rationalism.
was with such weapons as could be found in neo-
logical arsenals that the friends of the advent doc-
trine were first assailed. Their antagonists Seem
to have been aware that the Adventists possessed
an
important advantage in the contest, while they
made frequent appeals to the obvious import of
the common version of the Scriptures. The
world was at first told that none but'the learned
were capable of understanding the word of God.,
Protestant theologians did not 'hesitate to adopt
the exploded doctrine of the -Papal Ch1l'¢h» that
the common
people must remain dependent on
the ministry for a knowledge of divine truth; that-
piety, prayer and a childlike disposition to know-
and obey the will of God, were of less importance
than high literary attainments. Strange as it
may seem, the positions taken by Romanists at,
the dawn of'the reformation to check its pro-
gress, were taken in the nineteenth century by
men who claimed to be the sworn opposers of'
"the man of sin." The Adventists were over-
whelmed with charges of fanaticism, enthusiasm_
and madness. They were cooll told that they
were too ignorant to have any claim to a candid
hearing from an enlightened community. Their#
activity and zeal in attempting to rescue. the
prophets from. longer neglect, their. peraevetanqm
amidst the frowns of a world, that lieth in witk-
edness, was ascribed to every, base and `S011¢li¢l.
motive. Men who, abandoning the comforts and'
32
endearments of 'domestic life, literally went forth
to spread the truth without purse or scrip, were
termed "
speculators." Those who were
expend-
ing their little all, that others might be prepared
to meet Him who is to be revealed from heaven
in flaming fire, found that the severest blows
aimed at their characters, came from those, who
were within the pale of the church. It was,
however, soon seen, that they were not to be
silenced by invective. Public sentiment demand-
ed something more than railing accusations as
a substitute for sound reasoning. The Adventists
had not only preached, but written. When candid
men perused 'their productions, they were at a
loss to discover onwhat ground the authors were
charged with being "
beside themselves." While
they made no
pretensions to extensive learning,
they still seemed to be lfamiliar with the Scrip-
tures, and far better acquainted with the historical
proofs of the accomplishment ol' prophecy than
many of their opposers. Candor demands that
we should say that, if to count all things but loss
for the cause of truth, for the welfare of souls;
if to concentrate all the energies of the mind on
the great object-the speedy coming of the Lord ;
if these things are
proofs of madness, then the
Adventists were
undoubtedly mad. On the other
hand, if to be extremely careful not to offend the
wealthy and the mighty of this world, if due
caution in following instead of leading public
opinion,be a proof of -sanity, then their opponents
were
truly
"
wise -in their generation/'~ 4
»
The time at last arrived when the pen must
be used, and tt. fomial appeal made to the world.
The position taken by anti-Adventists now became
38.
defined by their writings, and the
community
possessed the means of deciding whether Amen;
can theologians had really adopted the erroneous
sistem
of interpreting the oracles of truth, which
c aracterized the German school, or not.
The first work which attracted general notice,
was the well~known "
Hints on the Interpretation
of
`
Prophecy," bv Professor M. Stuart, of Arido-
ver Theological Seminary. The erudition of the
author, his intimate acquaintance with biblical
literature, the fame he had already acquired by
publications on the Hebrew language, and his
talents, all served toexcite attention; and. man ,
predicted that he would pu: the question which
so
deeply interested the ranks of the church, at
rest- forever. Time and facts have decided hott;
far~this expectation has been realized, Of one
thing~ we feel quite sure-that some of the posi-.
tions taken by Professor Stuart, have been so
startling to the mass of those termed. orthodox
believers, that, while they are stronglytopposed to
the Adventists, they hesitate to follow his conclu-
sions, and think that on the subject of prophetic
interpretation he is by no means a safe guide.
He seems to have been fully aware that his posi-
tion, that the prophets have never used a
day as
the symbol of a
year, was at variance with the
opinions of such men as Mede, Isaac Newton,
Bishop Newton, and many others equally distin-
guished for their erudition and piety. He makes
the following remarks (page 77, second edition) :
"
It is a singular fact, that the great mass of inter~
preters in the English and American world have,
for many ears, been wont to understand the days
designated' in Daniel and in the Apocalypse, as
34
the
representatives or symbols of years. I have
found it difficult to trace the origin of this gen-
eral, I might say almost universal, custom."
From this paragraph, we are left at liberty to
conclude that Professor Smart maintains that n
day is never' used as the symbol of u year ,~ and
that _" the great mass of interpreters in the
"
Ger-
man world, differ from the interpreters whom he
has noticed, and that he has adopted their views.
Other portions of his book leave no doubt on
this oint. To have been consistent with his
hypogxesis, he should not have made the pro-
etic weeks in Daniel ix. an exception. He
labors, however, to prove that the Hebrew "
Sha-
buim "
signifies sevem, and not weeks, leaving us
to ascertain the word which it qualifies from the
context; or, as he has done in this case, from
conjecture. He supposes that as Daniel must
have had the seventy years of the ca
tivity in his
mind, be would necessarily have undierstood that
the seventy seven.: referred to years. In most
other instances in which American and English
interpreters believe that days are
symbols of
years, Professor Stuart stontly maintains his
ground. The results at which he consequently
arrives, coincide with those of the Neologic
school. The professor tells us, that the language
in Rev. ii. 10, "
Behold, the devil shall cast some
of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye
shall have tribulation ten days," implies neither
a trial of ten years, nor of ten literal days,-but
a "short period merely, not a
strictly definite
one." `I'Ie asserts that the number ten is 'thus
employed in the Scriptures. In proof of this, he
quotes 1 Samuel xxv. 38. Nehe. v. 18. Jere. xlii.
35
7. Dan. i. 12-14. Acts xxv. 6. Now, if our
reader will turn to these places, we think he will
agree with us, that the word ten is not used in
either case for an indefinite number. The fol-
lowing extracts will serve to show how far
Professor Stuart has deviated from the views
hitherto entertained by the great mass of English
and American Protestant interpreters:
"
The sum of Rev. xi. is, then, that the Romans
vould invade and tread down Palestine for three
and a half years, and that Christians, during that
period, would be bitterly persecuted and slain;
but still, that, after the same period, the persecu-
tion would cease there, and the religion of Jesus
.become triumphant. The words of the Saviour,
.in Matt. xxiv., compared with the tenor of Rev.
xi., seem to lead us
plainly and safely to these
conclusions. And in these we
may acquiesce,
because historical facts are before us, which serve
to show that the fort;/-two months, or 1260 days,
are to be understood in their plain and obvious
sense.
"The latter of these two verses designates
again the same period of retreat and safety as the
sixth verse, but in a different way, viz., it is
designated (after the manner of Dan. vii. 25, xii.
7) by the expression time and limes and a half a
time, Rev. xii. 14. When this period expires,
then the church is freed from the desolating
power in Palestine, as it Was, of old, freed from
the like power in the days of Antiochus Epi-
phanes. The similarity of events, in the two
cases, gives occasion to adopt the same language
in respect to the continuance of both.
"
The persecutiqzg pogqer qf imperial pagan
38
'
, and specially -that power as -exeretbed by
Eno, is,
bepgrgd
all reasonable question, 'symbol-
i'zed'§y
_the
'
st described in -Rev. xiii. »3, seq.
"
henever the beast is distinguished from the
seven heads, it then is 'employed as a generic
'symbol of the imperial power; but when par-
ticular and specific actions or
qualities of u
per-
sonal and distinctive nature are predicted of the
beast, it designates the imperial power as indi-
vidually exercised, e. g. by Nero.
"
To recount the efforts which have been made
'to inter ret these passages, would of itself require
somewhat of a volume. I have never seen, and
cannot find, but one probable solution; and that
'is drawn from fthe history ofi
the times, and par-
'ticularly the history of what was said and gener-
ally believed respecting Nero, during his life-ti me,
'and even long after his death."
"The most usual one, by far, seems to have
been, that Nero would be assassinated, receive a
wound apparently deadly, 'recover from it, and
subsequently go to the East and return from it
with great power, ravage Palestine, lay waste the
church, and finally re-enter Rome with fire and
sword, and avenge himself of all his former ene-
mres.
"Thus much for the belief of the heathen in
general.
Nor was this belief confined to them.
hristians widely participated in it. Passages
in abundance are to be found in parts of the
Sibylline Oracles, some of which were written
about A. D. 80, and others early in the second
century, which show most
plainly
how vivid the
rsuasion was, that Nero wou d again make
his appearance, notwithstanding his apparently
deadly wound."
31,
"
The question is not now, at least with me iti
is not, whether the writerrof the Apocalypse didf
himself participate in this vulgar belief respecting
Nero's re-appearance. I' have no
apprehension
that he cherished such views as these; certainly
not, if he were (as I believe) an inspired man.
My
gprehension
is, that in describing the beast,
i. e. ero, instead of calling him by name,f'(which
would have been,iu connection with what he said,
a
treasonable offence.) he has advertedr to him as
the person respecting whom the reports in ques-
tion were current, and purposely adverted to him
in such a
way, ini order that his readers might
easily know who was meant.
"
Severalcircumstances serve to confirm this
view of the case. After describing the beast
whose deadly 'wound was healed, in Rev. xiii. 3-
S, he adds immediately: 'If any man has an
ear, let him hear,' i. e. let the reader very atten-
tively consider who is meant in this case. He
then subjoins: 'lf any one leads into exile, he
shall go away into exile ;' Rev. xiii. 10. In other
wards: 'He, of whom I have been speaking, is
theindividual who exiles Christians; but mark-
well! 'he shall himself speedily be exiled! In
chapter xvii.', the effort to guide his readers and'
put them on their guard" against an erroneous
construction of his words, is still more visible.
After speaking of 'the beast which was, and is
not, and will come up from the- abyss,' he ex#
cldims: M5 We 5 'izev welll, heres: a meaning
which comprises wisdom? In other words: Some-
special sagacity is needed in the interpretationof'
this passage.
= i
'
»
'
1f"»By speakingin this way does not John show;
4
v
as
that he Qdoes not expect his words, i. ew his
description of the beast, to be~understood,as -if he
employed them simply- to ,express his own indie
vidual belief, but only that he introduces upon
the 'scene the,person.,of whom such things are
reported, viz.,¢such as that his deadly wound is
healed, and that hetwill again; resume his impef
rial ower? ,
»
'
,
"
lls thereany more difficulty in such atsuppo-
sition,than there is when,the Saviour says .to the,
Pharisees: Flf I cast outdemons by Beelzebuh,
by whom do your sons cost t]Len1,o1d?' _Matt. xii.~
27. ls thereanymore, than wl1e_n,Jesus speaks
of 'unclean spirits_as walking 'through desert,
places, seeking rest and Ending none?' Matt; xii.
43, vIn both cases the popular-opinion is, cited,
without any remark whether it ,is true or untrue"
The speaker had another and diHierent pur ose
in view. ,So here; John"s object was
secretly tp
intimate to his readers,,who was ,meant thy the
beast ; and in order to accomplish this Gbject, he
has repeated those things whiclnrpnpular rumor
had spread- abroad respecting him, or- at least
alluded to them. But, asl have already,.noted¢
he has taken care, in each ease, to give a pautiow
tbnhis readers' how they interpret»th_i,s, or what
use they make of it. On any other ground, why
should these cautions be i0»SelEted~ in these. par-i
ticular places, and omitted-in~ all the _other sym-
bolical parts of the Apocalypse? _ ¢ ,»
r
y
}' If the reader is satis6ed,_with me; thatlqhn
might describe Nero in this way,-it will be ,easy
tu show .him how well the description cornpona
with the substance of the common rumor, Aefn
Qording to this, Nero was to be assassinatedpand
39
wreceive a W0l1;|ld/B ntl' deadl ,and ettrr
recover from 'it; Song;Rt; ~xiii.% :'
'
Ohe'oi7>
the heads [il 'e. Nero] was smitten as it were
unto death, and yer* his deadly' fwound was
healed) What can be more exact ? "'
The paragraph "commencing with the words;
"
Is there any more
'diHiculty," dzsc., clearlyproves
that althoughhe, in the year 1819, censured~
Semler for, using the principle bf accommodations;
yet he has# here employed it 7zimse@f; thus sauce
tioning a principle of interpretation which he
ance justly denounced as dangerous, as one that*
would ve' the- way' for a denial of the authority
of the%ible.'~ -
1 '5 _
-"1
5
-f'§
~Byftlie'vs{ay, it ma =be remarked that the préi
diction in'Da'niel fix. has been F* a roc'k of offence"
te' the German Ratioualists. 1
'Bertholdty Bleek
and Hitzig, mainmiwthatfthispartf-of 'Daniel is a_
jirrgerg fby some iwriter, who, because fthe time
fixed Jeremiah fdr»the'return~of; the Jews and
the rebuilding of theirttemple had'long' passed
without a fulfilment,Jiiasfattempted ta sort'of~
parodyor mystical interpretation of the 70 years ls
Bertlroldt and Rosenmiiller tell us that Messia-it
the prince, is Alexander. Bleek and Hitzig
maintain that he is Sseleucus Philopater, the pre-
decessor of' Antiochus Epiphanes. 'In reference
to this andother theoriesrespecting' the interpre#
tation of Daniel, Hegsterburg forcibly fremarks :~
"
The reference to the Maccabeesand the whole
non,Messianic inverpneiation, will remain false,
as
long* as -the Wai-d"of-Christ remains true;
tl1erei`oie»to"al»l- eternity; That the passage, Matt.
xxiv. 15, refersftd this proplxecy, has been-shown
inB¢itr 'l,vpt~268:;1and~1}ratJ=the Lord cites it as
4o.
a real
prophelziy, which crmpeniedthe destruction'
df-thecity an
'
temple,fto.~be'first .fulfilledat »a»
future time, in the samefplace,'p.f266." _ _
~
The Revs C. Newton, of Mass., published -in-
the Christiatt Watchman-of Ma'rch"31, 1843, an?
'¥Ex sitionbf the 9th chapter of Daniel," from
whichllwe shall make some extracts ~in- proof of
our assertion that Neologyhas influenced the
opinions of the American clergy. The ~_ editor.
of that paper, the Rev. E. Thresher, makesfthe
following 'remark res cting the "Expositiona"~
"_The student of
fprophlecywill find on our first»
page,tt.he views o the Rev. Calvin Newtonynponf
the closing part of the 9th chapter of,_ Danielv
Mr. Newton is a very sensible man _and 'a ripe
scholar." But let us hear the author." ~Aftar-
somepreliminary remarks, in reference to the
prayer of'the prophet, he sa sz _ _
» _z
'
~
-
"`
Such --piety was regarnlled in heexven, _and
Gabriel was instantly commissioned rtoldedcbndg
and relieve Danlel's anxieties. (See. verses 20
-230 In 'verses -29, 23, the angel positively/
declares, that he has appeared to give Daniel the
information -which his heart desired; and- that
was certainly information about the termination
of the captivit , and the rebuilding' ofJer1salem»-
Novv, since-(led, and the heavenly messengers
who do his will, cannot lie nor deceive, to my'
own mind-it is -certain, that'Gabriel's rernarlie
must apply to the subject of »Daniel's prayer.
Thispoint being settled,-I proceed to an interpre-
tation of 'verses 24-1-27, acbordingly. _ _
_ "Here let it be remarked, that, in _the Hebrew,
the word signifying néqentty, and 'that
signiliying
week: or smut, aside ffromf the 'poimihgo 'fthe
4|
Masoritea; (which is :no
paxvfof'
the nriginal .lim
gnage,) is the samd; ~ '
ep¢¢i¢i°u,t too, aint the
Scriptures, for the 'sake of emphnsisfis' not .uno
kequent. '
Seean-instance'in'Acts.vii. 34.' Bear
ihg' in' mind," theri, that Daniel'S solioitude wa
about lhe seventy yea.ra,Vef: which Jensmiah had
made prophetic mention, we may takelthe fallow-
ingas afcorrectv and literal translation of Gabriel's
revelationt A
,
'
,
,
" '
Seventy, seventy aredetermined, respectin
thy people, and
respecting~;hiy'~ho}y city, toifinisg
the transgressionyand lto e
`
ainsjantl' to atone
for iniquity, anclfto'bring»liaclk the righteousness
of' ancient ti-mes, and' to dompletethe vision' and
the prophet, and to anoint 'the holy .of<holiea.
Know,-now, þÿ'and~un"(s¢and;-'
'From thH going
forth of the oommandment~to;rebuild= Jerusalem
to an anointed prince shall be Seven-weeks. And
sixty-two weeks the area' and :the ftmmh shall~be
being made, even during trouble of~the 'timesz
And after these sixty-twoiweeksjanfandinied one
shall be cut off; uhdfthere shall be þÿndtliing ¬.to`him;
And the people of<
the' prince wlmslrlll aucceeii,
shallr lay waste,the city and the sanbtuary; yet
his end shall be with a Hood§~but untd -the end of
afwafdesolationt are
appointed.; Amil one weell
shall?-confirm a'
league'fwithvmmn'yr;»'.fyet,~ in the
midst wif. thaq we'ek,1shall'.sac¢ificeim&Mlizring he
i!l"If~ state-of ~iilf£fmi¢§ldD,'Bld'l onriihevplace of
defence eshalli be ,the-~aboxnihatinnsvofi-Qhe desc#
lator.`- _But to extermiimtion,-eneinan'appointed
one, it shall be poured on the desolator.' _
~
S! The angel/here~ihf6rms'Daniel,~.¢hat the Jews'
daptilvityfis cefthinly liniiteki too. period of seventy
years;--that,
at¥the'expiiation of _tliat»tim¢, they
4
42
will, 'si!H`eringa, have§szif!iéieh!l°y'i:.m|nil
foil their-tinsgriassionkg andsmill return; (oftheir
farmer lazy; ,dm me indtructibns of 1he=vdsioir
whieh Igfniel was,'at ihabmonient, enjo .ingymdl
dlepubplieef
of 'leiemiah' will Abe; fulfilled ; and
fhat ihe 'ko df'l£olies,,in~ Khenew-temple; will
be'tnointbd'.» ':The» hrasey holyfofholivs, ié-of'
frequenvusel in 11l1e»§criptures,,with'evidentrefer-
ence, elsewhere, to the innermost panda( the
Uaberngcle, or of the temple: Why, 'them 'Should
therlisageyin tllislplace, be an'excéption'!f .I can#
not 'belieie that 5 it lin The tabemacley which,
before the' dayé'ofwSo1omon, was usdi 'es the
femple
'
was afterwards, was consecrated by
anointing. i(See»:Ex., nm 26-29;'also»;xl.»9;
i0.)-
l
Hence, whatevermig*h'hdve'beenthe/redl
ceremony, thecbnsecratziou 'of> thesecond 'temple
isde resentulas the lmoiirtingnf ix. _ »,,_f
A '
" "'
&lie commandment to rebuild Jemsalexxrwns
Cynis' decree, niéntioned 2 Chron. ocxxvi. 22, 23;
Ezrii. 1-3; lst Eadras' ii. 1-5; wand* Jose-
q`lm£'¢fJewis1h Antiquities; 'book xi. cha ter i.
. hefmoilited prince wks-Sheshbnézar ovlieruli-
label, oalledlmhe p1'inee'of Judah,-Ezra i. 8 ;'and
herb called 'an lmbiktadl prince, because he wa#
df royal lledcentb and kings, being originally
anointed, werefmsr 'lrfterwnds termed anointed
ones.""
Fhrolhwthefiiine when Cyrus publiébed his
decreehomflhe thhone of Persia, before the Jews
in Uhaldeax couldi 'rally uhdemtheii prinbe Sheshk
bazzltr,it~wuuki~.mecsssurily1be about 'sevéh litem!
wees. -~~-gl: l »,
'; =<"Ix is somewhu uiicenain how we qmaehder-
Maud 'the 'words w~hié;hffI» Lhavd hens
ithe ana' nndntho tleixchl »Gdsetziu8f1l'tlets who
43
former'to.the'bpeh space about the temple; and
the istter he regardsas the ditch arotmd ithefdrti-
fied city-. But whatever may he fthe definite
spglicdtion
of these words, it is clear that they
re r to some poktiuntf the work which the Jews
haditotpizrferms Now Cyrus reigned seven or
eight vyears. Fora season, the Jews carried on
their work innfpeade ;~but, -near the close of his
reign, they were disturbed, bythe Cutheans and
other neighboring nations, who had been planted
in Sainaria. ,
See Jost-itihdsy bookxi. chapterii.,
also Ezra, /History does not fix the
precise~¢ength' of this troublous '
time; but it
bertainly favors the »su<pposition~ that it was sixty#
two weeks, according to the angel's:'prophetie
deo1sra;tion.~ Aftheexpiration 'ofthese sixtyktwo
weeks; Gyrus, anwanoimtedl one, (see Isaiahuclvi.
1, abd elsewhere,)'wi1s~cut'ofi` effectually .by his
death, »sb that no. pover"rémained to him. Cam-
byses -or Ahasuerus succeeded Cyrus; and, dt
Lherequest of 'the Jews' enemies, *forbade -the
buildingtof the city arid the tempzeg and these
enemies carried his prohibition into effect. 'See
Josephus, book xi. chapter. ii., also Ezra iv. 6;
The whole work was now thrown into confusion.
cambyssstfreignedeix or eight 'years; and, on
retmningwfrom an= E ptian ex
dfivion,'to.sup1
press a rebellion 'rais§'by the gendo Smerdis,
em Smerdis the'Magian, was wounded "by this own
sword;tmd.s1fddenlf died. =Thus his end Wd!
with ;a 1iodd.or'sud}den'; but -the desclations~-of-
Jnrusmlenvhemained, till the end of "the war With'
Smerdis ;: that ~is, during 'thelperiod of his 'posé
asking
fthebjlizvernment, ~wfhich, _according to
Josephus, 4 mi: chapter iiiJ)' 'was one year. _
41
"After this, Darius ascended the Persian throne'
and Zerubbabel or Sheshbazzir, the prinoeof the
Jews, visited Persia. and obtained is renewal of"
the decree of -Cyrus, by which the people' were
allowed to resume the workfat Jerusalem. See
1st"Esdras, chapters iii. iv., also- Josephus; bbolt
xi; chapter iii. Josephus tells usl that! 'Zerubbm
bel went immediately, from Perqiu:-to Babylon;
ind that his countrymen there, on learning the
good news, betooflc-themselves to -a festival of
seven. days,
'
for, the' rebdilding and restoration of
t.heir.country.' At the clbse of -this ffeast; a mul-
titude chose themselves rulers,»amd:went up to
Jerusalem rejoicingn Thus-one' week. confirmed
a
league'with-manyw f-'
'
»' ~
I 'f '
ff* In the midst of thavveuy week.fhowsver,*while
theulews who had, tillanow, remainedfin Cbaldeu;
were rejoicing, and preparing to 'gowrp endsei
focwardthe work. at. Jerusalem, everytlnngxwin
tlrelatter place,' cbntinued in the saniedesolatiori
into which it had been thrown bv the 'probibitory
decree' of Cambyses. From the tiine of that
decree till now, sacrifices and offerings had been
p;evented,fand
the- Jews' place of defence had
en desecrated. Whether by
'
placefof defence?
we understand V
the tempb yet unfinished, or the
fortifications which had been mazdearound Jem:
salem, the general senseis net effected ;
l
forveveryg
thing, valuable and sacred 1 toé the! Jews wasftinmw
pled Under font-b the-irenemies.-I lTh&1rSBCfiHEB8
Gad offerings had»
been presemed 'on tthelzaltaf 'of'
God before
Camlipses' decree,1:we»'Jearn-#rut
Ezra iii. 1--7. -hat 'theyrwere 'in az stateolf
intermission -from' the _:time þÿ:0f'@X ¬§|7iDg1I!"j
decree, till Zerubbabehand- thexlews euqeup
45,
from Chahiea to cdrry.ii1to,e§`¢0t »Dafius'id8¢l'98»
and that they were then rssumellnib evident 'froniz
Ezra vi. 8-10; alsovfrom, 'lst Esdras v. 47-50 ;'~
and from Josephus, book xi.}olia}1ters iii. and iv.
See also a mention of the desolations, made
under Cambyses' decree,'in lst Esdras ii. 30, and
in Josephus, book xi. chapter iii. , .
"
Under Da1'ius'.decree,, the Jews went forward
with the workof rebuilding Jerusalem and the
temple , and the _latter was dedicated in the sixth
year of this traonarch's reigns See Ezra vi. 15
-18; lst Esdrasvii. 5 ;,,also Josephus, book xi.
chapter iv. _
The Jews? enemies were thus com-I
pleteliy
defeated in-their-designsydnd were com-<
pelle to cease from their opposition, and 'leave'
the Jews undisturbed in the enjoyment of 'their
religious _privilegem , Till!! did God bless hid'
people, and pour out, ftp extermination, his dis-'
pleasure
on their enemies, the elesolatorsiof the
,oly place. See various expressions in Elzra;
lgst Esdras, and Josephus.
-
"
From the exposition thus given, we see that-
the rticulars enumerated in the last three verses
of tli; 9th'chapter of Danielend just where the
24th verse leads us to expect 'thetn 'to end; that
is, at tllededicationof thesecond temple. True,
the fortifications of Jerusalem werenot completed,
till many years afterwards ;» but. -the captivity
might be consideredas closed, when all the means
of worshipping thetrue God, -and conducting the
Ceremonies of the Jewish religion were restored.
"
Objections to the above view may easily be'
started, and, I believe, as
easily obviated; Pen
hsps, in the minds of some, the most serious
objection, will be»tl1e,fact;,»that Christ applies to'
46
the desitructiorfof "Jerusalem, 'by the Romans, in"
the year, A. D. 70, an expression' used in this
chapten But I reply,`the expression,
'
the abort#
ination- of desolation- spoken of by Daniel thc#
prophet,' means no more than an abominationof'
desolation like that spoken of by Jeremiah the
prophet.
When Herod slew the infant children=
of udea, (see'Matt. ii. 17, 18.) what had been
spoken of by 'Jeremiah the prophet, (see Jer."
xxxi. 15,) was said to be fulfilled. The meaning'
is, the weeping, in~ the one case, was like thati
described in the other. John the
Baptist,
is called'
Elijahybecause' he was like Elija .
~SllCh"8,f'
application of language is frequent in the Scrip-'
tures." ~ '
'
'
'
" '
'
'
It' is ohardlynecessary to 'apprize the reader'
that the lst book of Esdras, which Mr. Newtonf
has quoted as one of his authorities, is a' manifest!
forgery,»made' up partl of extracts taken from'
the books of 2 Chronicles, Ezra, and Nehemiah#
with the addition of the ridiculous fable related*
in
chaptersiii.
and ivt ~
'
'
*
`
It s ould not be forgotten that Mr. Newton'
refers us to Josephus, Antiq. x."3. Now Jose-
phus has copied this very chapter from _the apoc-fi
ryphal Esdras,'and yet a reference is made rot
him as
though he were an independent authority.
'
We shall leave our readers to form their own'
conclusions respecting the merits of this exposi-'
tion, without furthergcomment.
~
`
'
Professor Stuart's position, that we are never
to regard the prophets as having used a dayas
the symbol of a
year, was
adopted by Professor
Stone, of Cincinnati, formerly a
pupil of_
Pro-
fessor Stuart, in a
pamphlet entitled. "
The Utter
47
Groundlessness of all Millennial Arithmetic ;"
and by the Rev. Nathaniel Colver, of Boston,
Mass. The latter gentleman, in his pamphlet,
"
The Prophecy of Daniel Literally Fullilled," ar-
rives at these conclusions,_ that the little horn
mentioned in Daniel vii. 8, is neither more nor
less than Nero, the Roman Emperor. Of course
the impressive scene of the judgment, in vs. '10,
11, must be referred to the death of that empe-
ror! In perfect keeping with his system ol'
interpretation, VMr. Colver contends that Daniel
gcii. 1, 2, has no reference to the final judgment.
This passage merely designates a national deliv-
erance of the Jews. <
4
,
V
Another author, the Rev. John Dowling, in an
§' Exposition of the Prophecies supposed h Wil-
liam Miller to predictthe Second Coming oiyChrist
in IS43," has adopted Jahlfs. theory, that the
Hebrew phrase in Daniel vii. _1j4,
"
ad ereb boker
alpayim ushelésh medth," "
unto two thousand
three hundred daysjf .should be translated unto
"
two thousand three hundred evening and morn-
ing sacrifices." 'He seems to rely on the words
"
ereb boker," "
morning evening." as conclusive
proofs of the soundness of this interpretation.
How much weight is to be allowed to such an
argument may be safel left to the decision ofan
tolerable Hebrev schoiiir, or even to an English
one, who recollects that, "
the evening and the
rnorningpwere the first day."_ Professor Stuart,
iii the work from which we have alrcadyquoted.
regards thisposition as untenable. It is due to
Mr. Dowling, to
say, that with the exception. of
the word days in this passage, he does not_main~
tain _that a
'day in prophetic language never
48
symbolilesa year. 'Although his decided hos!
tility to the adventists has caused him to stumble
into the neological realm, we have reason to
believe that there are moral causes by which he
is influenced, that would never allow him to think
of a location in 'that land of "
shadows, clouds,
and darkness." ,
»
-
'To those who are conversant with the state of
opinion in many of the churches, it will
obvious, that ,the most clear and undisguised
avowals of Rationalism are found in conversation
rather than in writing. As in this mode of comma#
nicating ideas, the restraint which exists in the
desk, or comes over the author, who remembers
that his productions may be adduced in testimony,
does not prevent 'a 'very frank expression of sen-
timent ; here the most striking proofs,
may
be
found. There are multitudes within thepa e, of
the church, who, in the
familiarity of
private in-
tercourse, do not hesitate to question' or deny the
personal coming of the Saviour. Others consider
the literal' resurrection of the body clogged with
too many difficulties to be received as an article
of faith. There are some, who are
by no means'
satisfied that the prophetic writings can be of any
service, even if they could be understood. Not
a few preachers may he found, who, in private
and in public. have dissuaded their hearers from
attempting to "talcey heed to the sure word of
prophecy." Those, who have disregarded* such
counsels, have been denounced and ridiculed, in'
no
very measured terms, as visionaries and fanatics.
Now it is probable that in all these cases those,
who hold the opinions which we have noticed,
were not aware that they had theirorigin in the'
-
49
infidel school of Rationalism, and were held and
defended by men, who have contributed, beyond
all others, to bring a
lasting blight on the cause
of religion in'Germany.
We might proceed further, and fill pages with
extracts from what are termed religous news-
papers, in proof of the influence of Rationalism
on the mind of their editors and correspondents.
As a large portion of these, however, make no
pretensions to
anything
like argument, but on
the contrary, are c aracterized by the same
per-
sonal abuse, coarseness, and vulgarity, which
dis ce the political press, we shall leave them
to igburied f' midst the wreck of things that
were." Suilicient to the writers will be the
account which they must meet at the bar of Him
who "
seeth not as man seeth."
'
We ap eal to facts, which can be "
known and
read of ali men," when we say, that
ONCE, the momentous subjects of the resur-
rection and judgment were themes which our
preachers introduced in their discourses, to move
the impenitent to awake and escape from the
wrath to come. _
`
Now, many who stand as watchmen on the
walls of Zion, but seldom allude to such topics,
lest it should be suspected that they lean towards
"Millerism;" and the consequence is, that, as
they do not follow the example of Christ and the
apostles in preaching, men slumber on in their
sins and are ripened for destruction.
ONCE, the whole Orthodox church believed
that the Saviour would comein the clouds, and
that every eye would see him.
Now, multitudes of professed Christians may
5
50 .
be found, who believe that such language is em-
ployed _figuratively to indicate mere temporal
judgments.
Non, it was believed by the church, that the
heavens being on fire, would pass away with a
great noise, the elements melt with fervent
heat, and the earth and- the works therein, be
burnt up; yet Christians, according to the divine
promise, looked for "
new heavens and a new earth,
wherein dwelleth righteousness."
Now, many in the ranks of the church insist
that no such change is to be expected, but, on the
contrary, some moral change in the inhabitants
of the earth is all that is implied in such lan-
guage; in other words, "the heavens and earth
that now -are," must exist eternally.
ONCE, a literal resurrection of all who are in
the graves, was deemed by the church to be a.
fundamental doctrine of Christianity.
Now, there are those in the church, undis-
turbed by its discipline, who openly den that we
are to expect a literal resurrection of the bodies
of those who have fallen aslee . .
ONCE, it was predicted that there should
"come in the last days, scoffers walking after
their own lusts, saying, Where is the promise
of his coming?"
Now, we have lived to see that prediction ful-
filled, not in the world only, but also in the
church.
With such facts before their eyes,-to say nothing
of the lives of multitudes, allowed to hold their
places in the visible church,-those who study the
word of God, and believe that not one jot or tittle
of its truths can ever fail,--who observe the signs
,
61
of the period, in which we now live,--such men,
uninfiuenced by prejudices or suspicions, will
conclude that we have fallen on those "
perilous
times," which were immediately to precede
"
the
coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, with all his
saints."
-Q
`_,|
