{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__bagg___bagg_on_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Bagg On Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
~~,\~~H-.
BAGG
(; '/ t
Oii
MAGNETISM,
OllTB&
DOCTRINE
or
EQUILIBRIUM·
»El~O A.It ATTJ:d(M' TO 'PROVE ?'H'T NOT o:.LY 'l'RF. HEALTR or \"EORTABt.!!:8 Aft'D .llU•
H.A.LF, BUT .A.LL IYST•K• AND PfU.N()IPLES 111 N.lTua&, DEPEND t:'l10'N AN F.QCl~
LIBRllJll or .A.CTtON BE'r\VE'F.ft' Tl\"0 EXTREMES, ANDTH.lT TSE UCPOt.8£ oa
1·011.cs BT WHICH TRIY Alli: PllODl'CED, il WELL AB DEHTRO\"i:D,
11 OWJNO TO THI! JtU.01'ETIC YLt'IDS WIJICH OFER.A.TR BOTU.
.lT TUE 8.LllE TUIE, ON 'f'H& IA.JIE OllJ'ECT oa
PJU?iCJPLE.
·•THK l'ROPF.R l!ITUDY OF M.-\NKIND IS MAN."
IN TWO PARTS.·
DETROIT:
•AUG AND HARMON, l'JUNTEJ18,
1845.
0191t1zed oyGoogle
D11TRICTCovRT or THE U"ITEI> STud l
eoa THE DtsTRJCT or M1CRJOA.N. S
Dian.1CT or llltca10A1<, 11.-Be it remembered that on thi• nvelnh day of Decem-
ber, A. D. one thou98nd eight hundred nnd forty-four, Joseph R. Bags, ofthr. said
Jli81rict, hath depostied in the oftiee ofthe Clerk of 1ui1l Court, a boot the tltie of
which Is in the words following, to wit; "Bugg on .Magneti"111. nr the doctrine
of Equilibrium," being dcaigncd to prove tbot not only the health of \'egetnbleY
nDlt animals. but oll •Y•lcma and principle• in nnture depen<I upon an equilibrium
of action between two extremes, ttDll thu~ the >impulse or foree by which they
Me produced, as well R• destroyed, is owing 10 the mn~netic lluids which nperule
botk at thP. same Umc on 1J1e same ohject or principle. The pror,er study of runn..
kind is man." In two purts, the right whereof he claims as nut tor and proprietor,
iu couformity with an act or Congr~s. entitled "An act to au1entl the sev~ral actt1
rcspectin11 copy rights"'
In te•timnny whereof I ho.ve hereto •nb.rribed n1y n•111e aad ofllxed 1hr
• 8. OflOI of the snid court, this twelfth duy of December. A. D. cigbleen bun-
- dred untl forty four. JNO. Wll\OF:lt. c1-.1<.
By 0,1,;o. G. nt·1,1., I>cpu1y.
oo,,zodbyGoogle
DEDICATION .
To those who are not blinded by prejudice; have the
desire to attempt, patience to continue, and wish to in-
vestigate the laws of nature, and dare view her as she
really is, without reference to beaten tracks or the com-
mon highway of the schools, and have the firmness to
sustain the result of their convictions, whether practicing
the healing art, or are engaged in any operations of
mind with matter, the subsequent pages are with respect
inscribed by the Author.
J. H. BAGG.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
oo1'zodbyGoogle
PREFACE.
Tus origin of the following pages may be attributed
to an univenally confeesed and acknowledged want of
general principles to guide us in the practice of the heal-
ing art. From witnessing, in a more or lea extensive
practice, for.tne last twenty-five years, all kinds of dis-
eases attempted to be cured by one kind of medicines,
and one kind of disease cured by all kinds of medicine!!,
the diseases, being as d.iffe!ent from each other as the
poles, and the remedies, many of them>·apparently also
opposite in effect, with as numerous a corresponding va-
riety of advocates for each, we were led to believe, that,
all, operated in one uniform manner, agreeable to somei
general law hitherto not understood, and the reault of
our investigations has justified our most sanguine anti-
cipations. Tho cause of animal life and the law by
which it is governed, has never as yet, been satisfacto-
rily ascertained, much less demonstrated. \Vhile one
class of phylosophers have accounted for it en mechan-
ical an other has on chemical principleR;· a third has.
attributed to the union of the two, while a fourth has
denied the,whole, and contend that the vital principle kt
peculiar to itself and dependent on neithet. The ob-.
ject of this work is to prove that not only aU absolute
mechan.ical force and~chemical affinity, but aH other mo~
tions, ao~ns, and effects in nature, in compositions and.
decompositions, as well as the vital principle of vegeta-
bles and animals is owing to one and the sllJJle cause and
governed by .the same law-the magnetic tluidfl by the
1•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
vi l'R£FACE.
law of attraction aad repulsion. While engaged in the
investigation of the cause of animal life, we found mat-
ter, although so diversified in nature by her various
combinations, as to produce an almost endless variety,
yet reduceable to a few elements, and all, whether found
m the animal, vegetable, ·
Cl: mineraft kingdoms, whether
· solid, ·liquid or reriform, whether of mind or matter, all
indebted to one principle and-governed by one immuta-
ble law, and only differing from each other by a differ-
mit arrangement.of their ultimate atoltls·oJ'lclements in
·the compound; and that:man diifers from the rest·sim./
ply·by.neing .the:engineeri of. hiti own d~stmy, and there•
fore not only st.nods highelt in the scale of being in the
·chain of animals, but forms the·cormecting link between
ntorta:lity m:1d immortality. Like an adventurer then who
stnrts only to explore an island, but discovers·a ·whole
continent, in OUl' ex:amination into the cause of animal
life, we have not only succeeded but fortunately disco-
vered that the cause as well as the law by which it is
~overned, is the cause and law of the whole universe.
b1stead then of being obliged to become a perpetual
hook-worm, and crawl through all the musty volumes of
antiquity, as well as those of modern .ingenuity, and
wade through a mass of more than useless .rubbish,
8J>ending the greatest share and best part of our time
rnflecting on the imaginations of those who never ob-
served for themselves, or·groping our way through the
dark labyrinth of uncertainty, culling isolated facts for
ourselves, or take them on hearsay from those who pre•
tend t<> have discoved and chronicled them, and thereby
overbtirdening.the memory with an illimitable minutia,<
and thus like ~ildten playing- "blind hany," no\\· bhm-
dering against this object and ·now against that, sdme-·
times guessing right and sometimes wrcmg.......we give a.
general prineiple, which, when understood will be found-
to ·be so plain and Rimple in its natw-e and.so easy of ap-
pliciatio~ bot yei:iio general and univerMl.l, ~ha.t·all oon.
J
Do1'zodbyGoogle
.vii
readily·see. understwand 8.?Pfeciate. lf gencmliza-o
tion in.anr seienceibe its•efl8ende, thi11genet'al principle
will- oon1t1tute the· very essence of,ail seience•. ,lt would
indeed•seemr to oonstitute the very.golden )adder itself,
of.the patriaich,ofi o)d, ,on which to dimb· from ·..ttire
up tO', nature~s God-man sitnateclhetweea·the extremes
of brutes ·and angels• It will can&titute a perpebtal men•
tal compass,.tot gID.de th~ _
who.attempt to in~e11~gate
any s~ct; system, or pnnoiple ofnature in aay science
or ar.t. and stands .the same relation to these1· in gui-
ding the:min.d to truth,·that tb.e compass needle does to
the ad.'ventuteda.an immense wilderness, or the mari-
ner in the tl*lkless ocean to guide him to pc:trt.. · · · ·
Our main purpose is to adapt the principle tothe more
perfect practice of .the.healing art, give a clear and ra-
tional theory of that condition of man up0n earth term-
ed somnambulism,. as well as every other stage of mag-
netism, prove its truth, show its phenomena, mental and
physical, prove the truth of Prenological science by the
latter, and come to the rescue of the Homoeopathists, by
giving in addition to their numerous collection of facts,
a general principle, as a perpetual light to. encourage
them onward toward the perfection of the only true sys·
tern of practice in ph.vlosophy, and establish their .two
general principles on which their whole system is baaed
-the doctrine of Similia-similibus, in the application,
and the exaltation of the powers of some .remedies, be-
:mnd the fear of contradiction. As these comprehend
the science of man, it became necessarv to examine him
in connection with the external world; or those objects
on which: Re acts and is operated upon, and will form
our only 3¥0logy for generalization. It will therefore
be foood,in adidition to these, to be more or less benefi-
cial to all, partiealarly to those engaged in the studyr
teachi~ ·or ·use of rhetoric and logic, as.it is but nature
developing herself in the most eloquent manner by her
own argUlpents. Our..self~steem is not sei0p:ir\lminept·na
oot>ZodbyGoogle
viii P&UA.CI!;
to ·induce·us k> belleve ·th,a.1 wo·canW1'ite·the whole book
of nature in a ·work ..of three hundred octavo page~
which would form a universal history orsystem of itSelf,
or that we ·have exhawited, or scarcely commenced to
exh,uat indetail, the particular branches which is the de·
sign of this work. What we have said however, WI}
know to be true, and feel confident that enough has been
said to attract a pol'tion of the scientific to an inTesti~­
tion of the subject. We anticipate then, from the sim-
plicity of the rule, the universality of its applieation, the
collection of interesting cases of cures effected by mag•
netism direct, together with those produced by the ex-
altation of remedies, with the most numerous and inter-
-esting collection of cases of clairvoyance ever yet giv-
en to the public, with the proofs of the truth of Phreno-
logy, all of which are from our own experience daring
the last three years, with the utility that must flow from
each, aside from all other subjects and considerations,
will claim for it a favorable reception. Animal Mag-
netism and Phrenologicalscience are about to rcv<>lution-
ize the world, of mind and matter. Both are tme, ba-
sed upon phylosophy, must be believed and will prevail.
The time is not far distant and they would ere this have
been believed, applied to the cure of disease and the sup-
pression of vice, immorality and crime, but for the erro-
neous and unfortunate, but honest report of the illustri-
ous Franklin at the Court of Versailles. But no matter
how high the source, or powerful the engine by which
truth is crushed to earth, it ultimately rises and becomes
predominent. Will it not then commend itself to the at-
tention of a:n intelligent and thinking public, or is our po·
sition like the gentleman of Philadelphia and the Chi·
nese farmers 1 They plow their fields with a crotched
stick. An adventurer from Philadelphia on an occasion
observed the great loss of labor from its use up<>n the
farm of his friend and on his next trip surprised him with
the presentation of one of our best modern plows, be-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
~·tMt thercl>y he ·'WQ~ld 11ubserve the intctreat.of
humapity; and his friend, and further ga.in upon his e&-
t.Qem and friendship. But witness his astonishment and. ·
chagrin, when.it was absolutely and peremptorily refu-
sed. Wha.t, said he, "looking dag~:rs," and with ev~
cy hair erect, do you think that l would exchange my
plow for this1 Do you think that I am wiser than my
ancestors1 My grandfather plowed with this plow. My
father plowed with this plow, and I plow with it. Do
you think that I am wiser than they1 No barbarian, I
will still plow with the plow of my fathers.
.. To that portion of community who believe with the
Chinese, that our first parents were all wise as well as
all happy, and that it is not only unwise but sinful and
useless to attempt to impr_
ove, this work is not intended.
We leave such to the enjoyment of their quiet and neg-
ative.state of bliss without molestation. But to those
on the co~trary who believe it to be a duty to investi-
gate the laws of nature, discover truth and strive to im-
prove the condition of man upon earth, this volume is
offered as a tribute to their respect and esteem and our
mite to the gener~ contribution. · .. . ,. . .
.,The coincidence of that part of this workthat endea-
vors to establish the id~ntity of.the imponderables, with
the ," New Phylosophy of Matter,'' a. work published
~e ijme last year, by Mr. Geo. Brewster, is a circumr
stanf:!e which gQef!l to e&tablish its truth, SB the conclu-
sions of bot,ll were conceivl*l p~ and &rrived at. by dif:.
ferent motives, manners, and cow&ealRf reasoning aJJ.4.
investigation. So far as we are concerned, it is well
known to our friends that that part of the subject waa
in manuscript as early as 1839, and that in 1840 we pub-
lished, in the recommendation and prescription of a ho-
moeopathic pill which was circulated not only through-
out this, but other States, the following: " This pill and
its operation is based upon the principle, that human life
is produced and continued by attraction and repulsion
Do1'zodbyGoogle
...
x PREP.AC&
from magnetism, that galvawism, electricity, magnetisnt
and ·oxygen ar.e identicle, that good he&lth is the result
c:>f a certain or due degree of action or motion, from that
principle, that it forms the secondary soul ofthe universe
and pervades all bodies, and that the above diseases arise
from a want of this due attraction, and repulsion, which
operate both at the same time, in the same space, or on
the same object." On further investigation and as we
progressed, we were, from our convictions·of its truth,
obliged to add light, caloric and oxygen, with hydrogen
gasses. Throughout we have endeavored to tttx our
own resources, and have studiously avoided the beaten
track of others, except to occasionally exhibit them in
contrast or confirmation. We shall give no credit whe-
ther borrowed or purloined except to them, as not know-
ing where we get our ideas. Did we attempt it we
should perhaps be worse off in our blunders, by robbing
Peter to pay Paul, than to stand convicted of the crime.
Instead of stringing the beads of others, we have man-
ufactured our own, although our bump of order in the
arrangement may not be sufficiently developed to so
please those of greater manifestations, as to elude criti-
cism.. We make no apology for the matter or manner as
it is the very best production under the circumstances,
from the novelty of the subject, want of time, occupation·
and habits, we are able to give, but sneh as it is, we us~
er it forth to the world, well aware of the old but trite
saying of those who seek for revenge, "0 that mine enei-
my had written a book." . . . . .
' ' ' ~ ,
. I·
Do1'zodbyGoogle
PART FIRST.
CHAPTER I.
The knowledge of Magnetism of the ancients wns so
narrow and contracted, and their views so limited, that
they defined it to be that ]orce which in iron under cer-
tain circumstancest wherrleft free to move like the com-
pass needle, turned to the poles of the earth. This was
the result of their labo~, .the extent of their observa-
tions, and definition of !~e principle. But from the ex-
periments of ·Franklin ~pon the electric machine, and
those upon the Galvanifbattery and Voltaic pile, by Gal-
vani and Valta, toget~r with the labors of W allaston,
Arago, Prout, Brew;fr, Sir Humphrey Davy, Harvey,
and a variety .of ot.~rs, both in Europe and America
since their day, arid' last, not least, recently in our OWt'l.
country, the effor!.iiiand exertions of Davenport and Cook
in their application of the principle to the propelling ma-
chinery, and Dr.: Sherwood of the city of New York to
the cure of disease, with our own observations and re-
flections, we ·have·come to the deliberate conclusion that
instead of their being in nature as taught in the schools,
five imponderable fluids, that there are but two, the M~
netic fluids, and that Galvanism, Electricity, Light, ca.:.
Jorie and oxygen with hydrogen gasses, are but the dif-
ferent·effects upon the corresponding fiv'e senses of the
body, produced by one principle-the Magnetic fluids,
.•d•are therefore identical. That the seeming differ-
e~~e betweell' them 'upon the mind and upon matter is
·owing to the ·construction of our organs, to the different
·mechaniem of"the ·senses, and not to the principle, and
Do1'zodbyGoogle
BAGG O!'f .
that these different sensations, like the five differen~ wit-
nesses in a court ot justice, all tending to one pomt to
give correct testimony, to establish truth, are but the
different modifications ofthe Magnetic fluids thcm:ielves,
one and the sa~e, one·in principle, ac~n and e~e~t. .
That God, although thus manifold in his vanet1es IS
yet simple in his primary principles, and that these seem-
ingly different imponderable agents, are but so many
twinsisters of sensation, belonging to the one common
parent Magnetism. . . .
And first, with r~[Ud to Galvanism and Electncity.
The only seeming <1inercnce worthy of remark between
these fluids, is that more power can be got up on a Gal-
vanic battery than an Electric machine, and that they
differ in the manner of collecting and concentrating th~
power, one being excited into action by chemical atfiru-
ty, and the other by friction. In matter they are the
same. They are both governed by the same Jaw:, an~
produce the same effects, both upon animate and maru-
mate mutter. Galvanism. is of two kinds, positive and
negative. So is Electricity. Electricity has in matter
a constant tendency to an equilibrium, so bas G~lva!"
ism. Galvanism is at all times repulsive towards its fe.•
low, and attractive towards ponderable matter; $0 18
Electricity. The mechanical effects of Electricity con·
sists in motion produced by attraction and repulsion;.so
does Galvanism. With Galvanism in matter, attract1.011
takes place between two substances charged, one with
positive, and the other with negative Galvanism, and re·
pulsion with two substances filled either with both ~-
1tive or both negative Galvanism. Precisely so with
Electricity. Electricity will compose substances that
will not unite without its agency and influence, and de-
compose those already united by chemical affinity; so
also with Galvanism. The best conductors of Galvan·
ism are also the best conductors of Electricity. Non-
conductors of on:e, are also non conductors of the other.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGNETI~. 3
The effects of el~ctricity orits in~1111i~y are in a~ iqve~
proporti<>n tp the square of the distance; so with Galvan-
ism. The effects ofGalvanism upon animate matter the
living system is to produce motion, sensation, thought
and heat; so also with Electricity. Electricity has been
successfully applied to the cure of disease; so has Gal-
.vanism. Nothing can resist the decomposing influence
of Galvanism; the same may be said of Electricity.-
Galvanism will produce a sudden extinguishment oflife;
Electricity will produce instantaneous death. In a worq,
they are the same principle, the same fluids, and never
for a moment would have. been thought dissimilar, but
one was produced, or excited by chemical affinity, and,
the other by friction, or in other words the equilibrium
¥'as broken in the former by chemical affinity, and in
the latter by frictioQ. .
CHAPTER II.
MAGNETISM AND ELECTRICITY COMPARED.
The force between two magnets of attraction and re-
pulsion, or between their poles at different distances,
varies in an inverse proportion to the square of the dis-
\ance. So does the force of the electric fluid vary in
the, same manner and proportion from an electric body.
M;ignetism is of two kinds, austral and boral, positive
and ne~ative. · Electricity is also of two sorts, vitreous
and rcsmous, positive and negative. In both, these two
priJ;iciples of positive and negative, are diametricall7 op-
posed to each other in effect, and in both, those o tho
s.Q.me names as positive and positive or negative, and
negative re~l one another, while those ofdifferent names
as pqsitive 1µ1d negative, or negative and positive attract
e.a.ch. other. The principle in both has a constant ten-
~D;CY t~ .an .eq~librium .
in matter, and are at all fimes
. 2 . . ' :
Do1'zodbyGoogle
· BAOG ON
governed by an immutable Jaw-attraction and repolo
sion, a law governing no other principles or fluids. 1'be
objections as to the identity of Electricity and Magnet-
ism, and the reason why they have been taught to be
different in the books, are, say they, Electricity is capa-
ble of being excited, communicated or transferred from
one body to another, and Magnetism cannot be. The
directive properties of the magnet North and South, as
well as the declination, dip, and annual and diurnal vari-
eties, together with the different intensities in different
parts of the earth, are peculiar to the magnet, and do
not appertain to electrified bodies. These objections~
triumphantly and in wholesale answered,byadmitting the
fact by us asserted and partly proved as above, by their
general and minute analogy in their laws of government
and their being one and the same fluid or principle and
effect. For it will be readily perceived that admitting
them to be one and the same fluids, or the electric flu-
ids, to be the magnetic principle, it only shows that iron,
nickle, and cobalt, are so effected by the electric fluids,
that when left free to move like the compass.needle,
points North and South, and so far from proving them
to be a distinct principle, it only shows a characteristic
trait of the electric fluids when applied to these metals.
Should we follow up this idea by the light of this princi-
ple, we should find that the effects of Magnetism or Ele~
tricity are as varient throughout matter, as they are dif-
ferent in density, shape, color, and texture, and that
their being excited into action by friction, percussion,
. chemical action, oxydation, the suns rays, and chemical
affinity, was t.he reason why they have hitherto been
considered anrl treated as two distinct principles. · ·
We mileht here cite the alkalies and acids, the ir.e-
~lic oxides, oxygen and hydrogen gasses, and the whO~ .
c:rla.sS of metals, and show their union and color to be the
effect of this principle, but forbear, and will add but 'one
other argument which will for ever put the matter at
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGNETISM.
llellt and beyond a doubt. If we connect a piece of iron
or steel, bent in the form of a horse-shoe, wound with
copper wire insulated by being covered with silk or cot-
ton, and .
unite their terminations at each end with the
wires or poles of an electric machine, galvanic battery,
or leyden vial, in operation or charged with fluid, the
piece of steel or iron will immediately become ·a mag•
net. That end of the magnet that is connected with
the copper plate of the battery or the p•sitive wire of
f.be .electric machine will become the North pole of the
mtlgJlet, and that of the negative wire o~ the electric
mechine or the wire attached to the zinc plate will be-
come the negative. or South pole of the magnet, and
when communicated. by induction to steel needles left
free to move, will point to the poles of the earth, its po-
sitive pole to the South, and its negative one to the
North. When strong magnets are thus charged, they
are made.by a rotary wheel set in motion by attraction
and repulsion, and so constructed as to pass through
thimbles of quicksilver at each quarter section of the cir-
cle, to throw off an electric spark like the f.rime conduc-
tor of an electric machine or leyden via • Thus then,
showing and proving at oi;ice,!in this small compass, the
identity clearly of .3.11 ·the imponderables. The com-
mencement of the action of the galvaQic fluids from the
battery was caused by the decomposition ofwater which
is formed of. hydrogen and oxygen gasses, tGgether with
the action.of the acid upon the mettle. When the flu-
ids paseed along the wire from the galvanic battery we
will term them, for the sake of illustration,• the gal- •
vanic fluids. When they passed spirally ~ound the bent
piece of iron upon the covered copper wire, we will call
them magnetic ; when they were made to reassume
. thei~ lost equilibrium, or their ~hain was broken; up, by
passing through the cups or thimbles of murcury, they
were electricity, as was shown in their being given ofi ·
in sparks. These sparks were made sensible to the ear
Do1'zodbyGoogle
6 BAGG ON'
by an audible cracking noise. They were intensely hot
to the touch, which showed they were coloric, and these
same galvanic, magnetic, hot, shocking sparks, produced
upon the eye from its construction, the sensation of light.
The sound, and the light and heat, together with the
contraction and expansion or attraction and repulsion
which produced the spark, were all produced by one
and the same principle, operating upon the mind through
its different sentient organs. ·
Do we not then clearly see, that the electric fluids di-
rectly excites magnetic phenomena, and the magnetic
fluids produce electric effects, proving clearly and beyond
the fear of contradiction, both to be identical, one and
the same, and reduced to a demonstration so certain
that they need only to be stated to be assented to. For
one is as clearly proved by the other as addition is by
subtraction, or multiplication by division, and vice ver-
~a. In this manner, by the galvanic battery alone, can
magnets be made that will lift tons, and may be increas-
ed without doubt, to almost any extent. ·
We might here add were it necessary, numberless ob-
servations and experiments both by land and sea, of the
effects of lightning or electricity, upon the compass nee-
dle during thunder storms, as well as upon the tools of
silver smiths, rendering them uselese, the one by the re-
version of its poles, and the other by converting them in·
to permanent magnets, as well as the effects of the Auro-
ra-borealis or Northern lights upon the human system,
producing electric phenomena, so as to be able to give
. offsparks, but conceive it not necessary, after what has
been said u~ the subject. In conclusion, we observe
that every subtance or principle that is governed bv the
law of attraction ahd repulsion must be magnetic. Elee-
lricity is ~verned by no other law·whatever, in any of.
its eperations. Electricity then, must therefore be the
h\agbetic ftuidll themselves. •··"
'· :'" .. . I
Do1'zodbyGoogle
7
CHAPTER Ill.
OX\"GE'.'l WITH HYDROGEN GASSES.
Having, as we believe, not only established success·
fully by analogy, bQt by positive proof, the identity of
electricity and m&gnetil!m, we pass on to the considera·
tion of oxygen and hydrogen gasses. Th.e former of
these, according to Sir Humphrey Davy ancl.4i.ll our best
modern chemists, has never been obtained free from
light. .Oxygen gas then, is a compound of oxygen and
light, and is so.subtle that it must be judged of by its ef·
fects only. We.find that this material is neceswy for
exciting the magnetic fluids from the galvanic battery,
eliminating) the same from .the electric machine, and is
always eombined with iron ore, to form a natural mag~
net. ln the first, the water is decoipposed as well as
the zinc and copper oxydized. In the second the rubber
as proved by Dr. Wallaston,. is an oxide of metal, and
the latter when found natural in the earth, is invariably
an oxide of iron. It would then appear that after the
strictest scrutiny, we possess no means to get up, show
and make sensible, the phenomena of electricity, galvan·
ism or magnetism but by the use and agency of oxygen
gas. And when we take into c<:>nside11ation the fact, that
oxygen gas, forms at least one fifth }l!lrt of the atmos-
pheric air.of our globe; that it unites.with every simple
substance in nature in one or more proportions, forming
with them all compounds, varient in proportion to its
quantity ; when we reflect tbat the seeds of vegetables ·
will not germinate without its presence; the plant grow
and thrive without its influence; that its ~olor is owing
to its effects; that it is one of the causes of animalJife;
that no animal can live in an atmosphere without it; that
_it is the cause of, not only the color of arterial blood, but
all other substances in nature; the cause Qf heat, light,
sound, motion, and sensation, that it is one of the cause•
of combustion; that it £-;>rms ll component'paft of iU,1 we
2•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
· BAGG ON•
eat and drink; that it is: uhited in One proportion' with
nitrogen to form atmospheric air; in aootlior with hy-
drogen to form water; with all the metals to form ox-
ides, and with each to form different compounds of the
same metal; with the metalic bases ofoneclllss to form al-
kalies; with another to form acids, and with the same in
different proportions, to form different acids of the same
class, we sre struck with its illimitable diffusion, its ever
varying combination, use, and presence in the material
world. .lf ox'ygen gas unites with any combustible; light
is thrown off and heat becomes sensible. In a wo~ it
is so universally diffused and combined with every ma-
terial substance in nature; its presence so neeessary, ac-
tive and decided, that we are constrained to believe, and
therefore assume, that oxygen ~as is a compoun of oxy-
. gen and positive light or the fluid of positive magnetism.
CHAPTER IV.
HYDROGEN GAS.
Hydrogen, like oxygen gas, forms a component part of
almost every material substance in nature. It is the
lightest as well as the most combustible of all material
substances known. From these and other characteris-
tics, it would seem that like oxygen gas itis a compound
ot hydrogen and light, and that its imponderable part
bore so large a share in the proportion of its compound,
that it is made up of almost latent, or if the expression
were allowable, of condensed light itself. It was prov-
ed by Sir Humphrey also, a~d. confirmed since his day
by the most able modern chim1sts of both Europe and
America, that hydrogen is always found in a positive
state of electricity or magnetism, and thatit has a great·
er affinity..or ,!ttraction for oxy~n gas ~han aily other
knowo substance (except potassmm.) L1k~ oxygen gas
MAGNETt8H.
itiil'e>n1r-va11ying.in its eombinatiens as.well as its uni-
~rsal diffusion, and like that eubetaeee .sometimes it ex-
•ts in a·solid or liquid, and at other times in a gaseous
-etate, and when united with oxygen gas in a state of
,Perfect neutralization orequilibrium forms water. It also
'Unites with that substance in another form in a different
proportion to form a class of vegetable products such as
gums, sugar, starch, &c. In another class where the
·oxygen is in excess to form a class called acids, and an-
other class where the hydrogen preponderates, to form
a class ofcompounds which are the most combustible of
all vegetable products, such as oils, resins, and alcohol.
It forms also the base or enters largely into all the com•
pounds of the most combustible substances.known. We
-therefore assume that hydrogen is united ·with an im-
ponderable bue similar to oxygen which is light, and
that this light is the positive magnetic fluid. .
CHAPTER V.
TWO KlNDS OF LIGHT.
It. will be perceived by what has been said, that we
make but two kinds of light, the positive and negative,
and that these constitute and form the magnetic fluids
themselves. Indeed the,beautiful transparent form, and
appearance of water itself, would, simply presented te
the sense of vision, go far to establish the truth of this
positioo, without farther proof. It }QOks like latent or
condensed light itsel~ held together in a liquid form by
the mutual attraction and repulsion between their basis
and other constituent elements. That light enters into
all and every substance in nature, is absorbed and be-
comes latent, will not bedenied. The different colors of
different material substanees in nature agreeable to the
Newtonian theory proves it. Decomposition, chemical
Do1'zodbyGoogle
10 BAGG ON
action, friction, percUAioo, and combustion demonstrate
it. Were it nece11Sary to still further confirm it, we
would merely mention that it forms a component part of
all water whether, in the ocean, seas, lakes, rivel'S, bays.
the vapor of atmospheric air or surface of the earth.-
Being thus universally diffused it would not be material
whether they were united with oxygen·or hydrogen or
not. Certain it is however that both, and al~ are so equal-
ly diffused, present and existant that the idea of their
identity is hardly seperable. It has been mentioned that
oxygen and hydrogen do not always present themselves
in gaaseous forms, as they are the constituents of an wr-
limited number and variety of substances both solid and
liquid, therefore each may exist like the two electricities
and be obtained in an attractive state without the phe--
nomena of light, heat, and motion, but like the two
principles when ·brought together, and united by attrac-
tion they give out by repulsion these fluids with such
powerful action, and in such a condition, that motion,
heat, and light are produced. The appearance of light,
heat, motion, and detonation of a mixture of oxygen and
hydrogen gasses, in the proportion to form wa1er, by
compression, heat~ or any other means, are analagoue,
to the phenomena ot an electric shock from·a machine,
or thunder and lightning from the storm cloud. They
are the same in principle and effect, and only differ in
form. The rationale of their action, as well as every at-
tribute or effect is the same, to wit: an effort of.the m~
netic or electric fluids to regain their lost equilibrium.
Although light is made apparent or produced by friction,
percussion, electricity, decomposition, combustion, and
chemical affinity, its original great source is the sun's
rays. They consist of two kinds distinguished by two
primary colors, the red and the blue. In what manner
they are produced, emitted and repelled from the . sun
and ·attracted to our earth, we shall not now stop to in-
quire. It is sufficient for our present purpose to know,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGNBTI8M, 11
that such is the mutual action between the sun and this
earth, that two distinct kinds of light, alike as to iHumi-
nation, but different in some other respects, are convey-
ed to this earth, and produce by their joint action with
each other, and upon ponderable matter, that illumine.-
ting sensation upon the eye called ligl:it, and upon mat-
ter, such effects both animate and inanimate, organic and
inorganic, as to entitle them to the appellation of the vi-
vifying principle or that of life.
CHAPTER VI.
LIGHT THE l\IAGNETIC FLUJDE'.
That the rays of light are the magnetic fluids we in-
fer from their being the animating, stimulating or invig-
orating principle of nature. From their appearance and
presence on every electric or chemical action, combus-
tion, or composition. .
From their being with oxygen and hydrogen the cause
of all the variegated colors in nature. From their be-
ing governed by the same laws that govern the magnet-
ic fluids; from their rendering iron and steel magnetic,
simply by the exposure of those metals to their influ-
ence. From their being the cause of what is called ca-
loric or the matter of heat, and from the effects of the
electro magnetic machine. as described and explained in
chapter second of these lines. That they are the ani-
mating principle of nature, is apparent from their being
the magnetic fluids themselves, as no vegetable or ani-
mal ever lived, ·thrived, or grew without action or mo-
tion of its vessels necessary to its nutrition and assimu-
lation, and as there is no motion in nature except by
magnetism, afl we shall sh()w a~ its proper time.and place,
they must ~w from the action of these fluids and no
other,· therefote their being the magnetic flaids is an ar-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
12 DAGO ON
gument of their being the animating principle. Why do
not vegetables thrive and grow in winter as well as sum-
mer 1 Is it not owing to a deficienc.v of light 1 Why do
they not grow as well under the frigid as the torrid zone?
Is it not light and heat that stimulate all nature into ac-
tion in the spring by the more concentrated action of the
rays ofthe sun upon this earth 1 What is it that stimu-
lates the blade of grass to shoot forth, as well as the
bear, the dormouse and the myriads of creeping things
and flying insects into action in the spring'! Jt is the
genial rays of light producing a motion and action upon
the whole face of nature. All vegetables are attracted
towards the lighL All flowers in nature are attracted
by light and follow the sun in his course during the day
and to his retreat, and in the me ming meet his rising
lustre ,with the same unerring law. Tlie leaves of plants
are changed in position during the day by this principle.
Plants that grow in the shade or dark, are pale, sickly,
and without color, such as cabbage, celery, potatoe
vines, &c. Vegetables that grow beneath ston~s, or
places devoid of light, arc well known to be white, soft,
and aqueous. Thus then, their color is owing to light.
Not only their color but their taste and odor are deri~
ved from it also. Light contributes ·greatly to the ma-
turity of fruits and seeds. Under the burning sun of Af":"
rica, vegetables arc more odoriferous, of a stronger taste
and more abounding in resin. Animals also in genera.I;
droop, become unhealthy, and sometimes die when de-
prived of light. Persons confined from light become
sickly, sallow, feeble, and watery pustules break out up-
on the skin. Worms, grubs, and catterpillars which live
in the earth, or in wood, are of a whitish color, being
deprived of light. The parts of fish exposed to light,
as the back and fins, are uniformly colored, but other
parts which are not exp<>sed to light are white. Birda
which inhabit tropical climates. have much brighter plu·
mage than thoee of the North. The feathert upon the
Do1'zodbyGoogle
'IAONETISM. 13
baek arid breast which are exposed to light are colored
and more bright than those not exposed. Rabbits and
weasels in the North become white in winter from want
of light, and change back to brown in summer. In the
mineral kingdom the effects of light are not less striking.
.Mctalic oxid~s become combustible when exposed to
light, as well as a mixture of oxygen and clorine gasses.
"From their appearance on electric action and combus-
tion, as well as chimical affinity." If we charge an elec-
tric machine or galvanic battery, and bring the wires
within,a certain distai1ce ofeach other, an equilibrium is
fomied, an attraction takes place, followed by repulsion,
and heat, and light is produced, and the machine is dis-
charged. The atmosphere of this earth is said to be
healthy when, besides its due proportion of oxygen and
nitrogen, the two electrici~ies are in a state of equilibri-
um. But that these are occasionally interrupted, and
Vf1Y. .f;oln this equilibrium, none· will deny. All have
----ed thunder storms, which are nothing but an ef-
fort to restore this lost equilibrium between the electri-
~: The result is characteri?.ed by a noise called
~er, and a series of illuminations termed lightning.
~-'we krtow that the ca~ses are att;acti?µs and re-
~on1t between the electric or magnetic fluids, and are
...~y the eye to. be light, an~ heard by th~ ear to be
~r. If it strike us we could have felt it. It pro-
~ in the air an odor not unlike sulphur, and if con-
~d to our mouths might he tasted, as shown by ap-
Pilmg
. the wires _of an electric machine. to our !ongue,
.ftone pole 1s presented, the taste 1s an acid one,
· *1:r·the other, it is alkaline. Thus then, the magnet-
~ are seen as well as heard, felt, smelled and tas-
tCI t;Like so many witnesse$ in a court of justice, A, is
~~ first, then B, next C, then D, and E. The eye
ii!iilfffftirstwitness, simply from its peculiar construction,
ma1o that the organ of vision, the magnetic fluids, gave
the sensation·Of light. To the ear, the next witness,
oo.,zodbyGoogle
14
these same fluids from the same impulse, gave the im-
pression of sound, called thunder, and owing to its con-
struction, the impression was subsequent to that of the
eye. The shock or heat, had it been felt, would have
been next, and then taste, and last smell. These seve-
ral sensations, were all produced as we have before said,
by one and the same principle-the magnetic, or what
has hitherto been called the electric fluids. In chemical
affinity and combustion, to say nothing of friction or per-
cussion, these magnetic fluids are seen to be light. In
chimical affinity, where the attractions and repulsions
are powerful, as in the union of oxygen and hydrogen
gasses, or of potassium vvith oxygen from water or ice,
these fluids are seen to be light, and will be acknowledg-
ed. In combustion, which Sir Humphrey Davy defined
to be a series of powerful electrical attractions and re-
pulsions, they are invariably seen to be light. No pro-
ces!l then, ofcombustion takes place, from that ofa burn-
ing taper, up to Mount Vesuvius or Etna, but light is
evolved and becomes more or less luminous and abund-
ant. Indeed such has been the ingenuity and persever-
ence, of some of the French chemists, in the last five
years. that they have at length succeeded in producing
and continuing a constant and uniform light from elec-
tricity or galvanism, and at so cheap a rate, that it is less
expensive than th{} common gas lights. So successful
have been their experiments. that at this moment they
are lighting the streets of Paris in that manner. The
following is copied from a Washington paper, on the sub-
ject : "A letter from Paris dated Oct. 21st, gives the
following account of the first public trial of an experi- •
ment which has been more than four years in prepara-
tion for fixing at a given point the electric fluid, and ma-
king it applicable to the purposes of lighting the streets
and private houses. On one of the bases of the statues .
called the Pavillion de Lille on the Place de la Concor-
de, .a glass,globe of apparently twelve or thirteen inch-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
l~
es diameter, with a mpveable retl.ector, was fixed in con-
nection with a voltaic battery, and a little before nine
o'clock was thrown into it by a conductor. At this time
all the gas lights of the place, about one hundred in nwn-
ber, were burning. As soon as the electric light ai:r
peared, the nearest gas.lights, had the same dull, thick,
and heavy appearance as oil lamps have by the side ot
gas. Soon afterwards the gas lamps were extinguished,
and the electric light shone forth in all its brilliancy.-
Within one hundred yards of the light it was easy to
read the smallest print-it was in fact as light as day.
The astonishment of the assembled multitude, was very
great, and their delight, as strong as their astonishment.
The estimate made by scientific persons, who were pre-
sent, was, that the electric light, \YUS equal to twenty of
the gas lamps, and consequently, that five of these lights,
would suffice to light the whole Place, most brilliantly.
As regards the expense of production, nothing Positive
has transpired. but I think I may safely assume, that it
would be considerably less, than that of the generation
of gas, whilst the first outlay for machinery and conduc•
tors, .would not amount to one twentieth part, of that re•
quired for gas works. There would be also another
great advantage in the electric light. It gives out no
bad smell ; it emits none ofthose elements, which io the
burning of gas, are injurious to health, and explosion
would be impossible. The only danger that would arise,
would be at the battery itself, but that would be under
the control of competent persons ; and even in this re-
spect, there.would be no danger, e\'Cn to uns}9lful per~
SOt)s, with an apparatus ofmoderate size. Internal light-
ing would be as practicable as external lighting, for
by conductors, the fluids would be conveyed to every
part .of the house. The experiments performed. last
night, ~as wi'h a voltaic battery of two hundred pair.~
~meosed as fol~o~s: 1st, an outer globe of glass:; 2,i.l,
m thia glo~ a cyln~der of ~coal open a:t .botP, en,ds
3
Do1'zodbyGoogle
16 . BAGG (jlf
and plunged into the ni'tric add, Mntained in the ()utet
globe; 3d, in the cylinder of charcoal a porous porcelain
vase, containing acidulated water with sulphuric acid,
this replaces the cloth in the common battery; 4th, in
the porcelain vase a cylinder ofamal?,am of zinc and cop-
per, plunged in acidulated water. The pile was on the
Pavillion de Lille, the two copper conductors from the
two poles and pointed :with charcoal, lead to an empty
globe from which the air had been exhausted. The two
fluids on meeting, produce a soft, but most intense light.
I understand the experiment was considered highly sue~
cessful by the authorities, who were present, and that
it is to be repeated on a large scale. Should the thing
work, as well in a general way, as it did last night, and
the cost be less than that of gas, which it must be, there
will be a dreadful revolution in gas works. I have heatd
it asserted by persons, who are acquainted with M. Ach-
ereau, the gentleman wh.o performed the experiment
last night, that a company for the supply of the electric
light, would realize a handsome profit, on charging only
a sixth, of what is now paid for gas. The strength of
the electric light, did not appear to me, ~o ex<3eed that
of the hydro-oxygen; but is much more simple m the ap.;.
paratus required, and much less costly in the expense of
the production. The hydro-oxygen light requires a
double, and more expensive apparatus, and is only ap-
plicable to a few localities. The electric light, may be
applied externally, and internally, in any place. Thus
then,.art has succeeded at length, in so imitating the al·
tractions and repulsions between the sun and earth, be-
tween the poles of the two magnets, or galvanic batte•
ry, that an artificial, constant, .luminous; atmosphere in
all respects like that of day, is produced and kept u~.....i.
Need then, any thing more be said to prove the identity
with the electric or magnetic fluids 1 Do we not see
that the sensation of light is owing to the peculiar con-
struction of the organ, and not to any difference between
Do1'zodbyGoogle
lU.
-GNBTJSM, n
what has been termed light~ and the magnetic fluids.-
We have said that the law of government for one, was
that of the other. Magnetism obeys no other law but
attnction and repulsion ; neither does light. Magnet·
ism converges to a point, in the centre of aU objects, aad
diverges from the centre in all directions, towards the
circumference. The former is produced by attraction,
the latter by repulsion. Light is attracted or converged
by a denser medium, and separated or dispersed by a
rarer one ; so are the magnetic fluids. The former as
before is produced by attraction, and the latter by re·
pulsion, in both instances, in both fluids. The absorp-
tion of light is effected by attraction, and reflection by
repulsion, precisely the law of magnetism. In a word,
refraction, dispersion, the correspondence and equality
of the angles of incidence and reflection, as well as the
different colors of objects governing light, are produced
by the well known and established law of magnetism,
attraction and repulsion, and are but different terms to
express the operations of the same law of both light and
magnetism through different media. Well may the
schoolmen declare, that light is.polarized, when it is go-
verned in all its varied operations by no other law than
that of magnetism, the great characteristic ofwhich con·
sists in nothing else but motion, produced by an antag-
onizing principle, the extreme pomts of which are term-
ed poles. To go further into the subject, would carry
us into optics ; which is inconsistent with our present
limits ; our only object, being at this time to prove the
identity of magnetism and light.
CHAPTER VII.
MAGNETS FROM LIGHT.
We have said .that light was th~ magne-tio -
principle,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
18 BAGO·Ol'f
and in ·the former chapter, have made an attempt.to
prove it. In addition we would observe, that magnets
from steel have been made, both in Europe and Ameri-
ca, by exposure to the direct rays of the sun. Dr. Mor-
riechini, a respectable physician of Rome, discovered
this remarkable property in the violet rays. Prof. Play-
fair saw the experiment by Dr. Carp, in the absence of
Morrischini, before a party of English and Italian gen-
tlemen, an account of which was published in the Edin..;
burgh Journal of science. In one hour's exposure, the
needle had acquired polarity, and when put upon its
point, traversed with alacrity. and attracted and suppor-
ted a fringe of iron filings. The extremity of the nee-
dle that was exposed to the violet rays, repelled the
North pole of another magnet, or compass needle. This
effect was so distinctly marked, as to leave no doubt in
the minds of any who were present, that the needle re-
ceived its magnetism from the action of the violet rays.
The subject remained in this situation, when Mrs. Sum-
merville directed to it her attention, and succeeded in
about two hours, of rendering the needle magnetic. The
exposed end, acquiring North polarity, from the violet
rays. This experiment was often repeated, and always
with the same result. By a similar process she ascer-
tained that the indigo rays, had nearly as great effect
as the violet, and that the blue and green rays, produ-
ced the same effect, though in a less degree. Mrs. Sum-
merville applied the same method to watch and clock
springs, and they were found to receive a stronger de-
gree of magnetism, than the needles. She next expo-
sed as before, half covered, to the sun's rays, through
glass, colored blue by cobalt, and they were distinctly
.magnetic as before. Needles exposed undergreen glass
received the same property.
In addition, in corrobor;ition of the above, we would
.state, that previous to reading any thing upon the sub-
ject of the deacrip.tion .heiie detailed, or any other; we
Do1'zodbyGoogle
JllAONBTl811. II
conceived.the idea of the identity of light ·and magnet-
in, in eighteen hundred and thlrty•nine, and proclU'ed
watch springs, as well as needle1r, and broke the former
into pieces of two inches in length, iind exposed themto
light behind the windows of our office, suapended by a
single fibre of raw silk from the cocoon, in the month <Jf
August, and they invariably became magnetic in eight
er t.en days, and pointed to the poles of the earth, North
and South, as well as attracted in a sensible manner,
magnets resting ·upon bits of light wood, upon the 11ur-.
face ofwater, so as to bring them in contact, as well as
to seperate them to the greatest distance compatible
with the room, from the vessel containing the water.
It remains only to be observed further upon this part
ofthe subject, that from the observations ofthe most ob-
serving and scientific surveyors, as well as mariners,
that the needle undergoes a diurnal as well as annual
revolution. That is, that it is affected so by light, at
different times of day, as well as different times in the
year, as to cause a manifest, and marked variation of its
course. And more recently it has also been observed,
that moisture, fog, vapor, or water, will also produce a
Yariation, thus showing the effect of oxygen and hydro-
gen gasses upon the same principle. Thus much for in-
ductive facts in support of our position. as to the identi..
ty of light and magnetism.
CHAPTER vm.
CALORIC on ~AGNETISJ\I IN A STATI; 01-' REPULSION.
We next come to the consideration and exalnination
of that principle which produces the sensation of heat,
OS' what is tenned in the books, caloric, or the matter of
beat. We hue in the preceeding chapters, endeavor..
ed. to prove the identity <>I galvanism; electricity, llg~t,.;
3•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
·BA.OGA>N
oxygen, with hyd·rogen gasses1 and magnetism, and with
what success, we .leave the reader to determine, not
however, without tile consciousnefls, that we have con-
vinced some~ and at.least staggered others, in their for-
mer faith in ·tbe doctrine, of the variety and multiplicity
of the imponderable agents in nature, as taught and
inculeatcd in the books. We labored in chapter seventh
to prove; and brought forward many facts to £1ubstan-
tiate it, that light was absorbed by all pondcrable bo-
dies. That it is at all times repulsive towards its feJlow,
and attractive towards material substances, and that
they have constantly, under all circumstances, and at all
times, a tendency towards an equilibrium in nature.-
That in vapor, or gasseous media or substances, when
in this state of equillbrium, they invariably produce to the
organ of vision, the sensation of light, like that of day,
or as that mentioned, produced by the galvanic battery
in lighting the streets of Paris, but again being absorbed
by, and uniting with imponderable matter, which it ill.•
effects, modifies, and controls, that it subjects it to three
varieties of form, states, or condition, and but three, so-
lid, liquid, and aeriform, or that of gas. Although all
ponderable matter is indebted to the influence of these,
for its form, color, and nature, yet it in return, so mod-
ifies and effects them, as to produce different appearan-
ces to the organ of vision, and that of touch, or organ
of the sense of heat, in the change from one to the oth-
er. These fluids, it will be remembered, are governed
throughout nature, by the immutable law of attraction
and repulsion, and carry the same arbitrary law into all
ponderable matter, on which it depends for its govern-
ment and action. When these substances are in a state
of attraction, or the magnetic current is strongest from
the circumference towards the centre, we term it at-
traction, and when the current or force ·is strongest
from the centre towards the circumforence, we term it.
repulsio~ It will be readily seen,.1hat in solid submn..
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGXBTJSM. tl
ues,·attraction predominates oYcr repulsion. In liquids,
as water, they are neutralized, or in a state of ebuilibri-
um, and that in gasses or acriform substances, repulsion
prevails. The change from one form or condition to
the!: other, is governed by this invariable law, that where
a· substance becomes solid, or more dense, attraction or
the centripetal force prevails, the temperature of that
body is lessened, and where the centrifuaal force pre-
dominates, or that from the centre to the circumference,
(repulsion) is increased. This term temperature then,
is the name of a feeling of opposite or antagonizing sen-
sations. They are called heat and cold. Heat then, in-
stead of being a substance, an imponderable fluid, is sim-
ply that change; action or motion, in the sentient organ
of sense, from that condition of matter called repulsion,
and cold, that sensation produced by attraction. They
are opposite in principle throughout nature, and antag•
onized to each other. For centuries then, what has heen
taught by the schoolmen, to be a matter, or an impon-
derable fluid, is simply a quality or condition of matter,
produced by a change in material substances, by the
magnetic fluids, and stands the same relation to the
nerves of temperature, which Sir Charles Bell has wise-
ly and properly seperated from the sense of touch, that
light does to the sense of vision, both being simply sen-
sations induced upon the mind, through the organs of
body, by this principle, modified by the different condi·
tions of ponderable matter, from the particular arrange-
ment or their ultimate atoms. Their differing from each
otheri is owing to the different construction of the or-
gans, and not to the principle. The difference in the
9ensations is caused by the different conditions of mat-
ter, produced by the imponderable principle. All sub-
stances in nature, while occupying the condition of at-
traction, so far as they are tested by sensation, are gen-
erally. dark, hard, solid, heavy and cold. Those on the ·
contrary, that,are characterized by that condition term...
Do1'zodbyGoogle
llAOO ON
cd repulsion) a.re generally soft, lwninoua, ¥t, and hot.
Those occupying the middle state or condition between
the extremes, in a state of equilibrium, e.re what may be
termed temperate, or neutralized between the two.
These then, are the results of different states of the
!lame matter in a state of natnre; but by artificial means,
such as the galvanic battery, combustion, or ·Other cau.-
ses, these may be so changed, that their line of demar-
cation is not so perfectly apparent; as they run more or
less into each other, from the point of equilibriun to that
of the extremes. It appears then, that light or the mag-
netic fluids, are absorbed by all material substances, ei•-·
ters into their combination, and so operates upon them,
as to produce that kind of change which communicates.
to. the nerves of temperature, the sensations of heat and
cold ; terms implying a quality of matter, from the
chang<: in the arrangement of their ultimate particles ra-
ther than a positive substance or principle. Terms, in-
stead of being positirn in their signification are entirely
relative. There is no such thing as positive heat, or po-·
sitive cold in nature. Both depend upon sensation, and
are therefore relative. Both, the names of two extreme
points, or poles like the compass needle, of one continu-
ous line, the middle of which forms the equilibrium point
above mentioned. For not only what appears to be hot,
to one person, is to another cold, but to the same per-
son, feels differently at different times, but also different
to different parts of the same body at the same time.
If I immerse one of my hands in water at the temper-·
ature of one kundrcd and fifty Fahrenheit, it feels warm
or hot, and if I also immerse· the other in the same man-
ner, at the same time, in the same element, at the tem-
perature ofone hundred and ten, it will feel wann also.
But if I now change them from one to the other, the
one that was immersed in the fluid at the temperature
ofone hundred and fifty, feels cold, although the water
ii atill twelve degrees above blood heat, and ~ other .
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MJ.ONETJSM. 23
will become warm; if I again change them, they will be
again changed in.feeling, and vice versa.
'l'he rays of light, or the rays from the sun, although
they illuminate the horizen in their passage to the earth.
do not produce heat until they are attracted, and enter
into the combination with ponderable matter, and are
agai!l repelled. The air is not heated by these rays in
commg down to us. On the contrary, the nearer we
approach the sun, or recede from the earth, the colder
it is, which would not be the case were the sun either a
large ball of fire, a mass of caloric, or these rays the
matter of heat, mixt up with, and jumbled together,
(agreeable to the books) with the calorific and chemical
rays.
The limits of this work will not permit us to go fur-
ther into this branch of the subject, at this time, than to
observe, that we object to their being primarily in na-
ture, in the solar spectrum, seven colors, but on the con-
trary believe, and therefore assume, that there are but
two, the red and the blue, from which, with their com-
binations with ponderable matter, by reflection and re-
fraction, the others are produced, as well as every oth-
er variety and shade of color in nature.
We are induced to come to this conclusion, from the
fact, among a variety ofothers, that the solar spectrum,
previous to its analysis by the prism, is absorbed, and
twice reflected and refracted, and that in these opera-
tions, it meets with other light, at these points of attrac-
tion and repulsion, as well as ponderable matter, and
that all these dispersions, reflections, refractions, are the
result of attractions and repulsions, which presuppose
changes, and therefore, that the very means employed
to separate 'them are, from these considerations alone,
sufficient to produce the different appearances, of color
upon the organ ofvision.
Added to this, aod w.Sat has great.influence upon our
mind, at this time, is the fact, that we have, and can at
Do1'zodbyGoogle
/
24 BA.GO ON ·
any time produce them all, in mixture and diffusion in a
liquid form, from the red and the blue. Light we know
also to be the magnetic fluids, and, therefore must agree
with them in their nature, number, principles, laws, at-
tributes, an<l qualities. The whole of nature is a sys-
tem of antagonizing principles, and we cannot subscribe
to one single cx~eption.
'"'howas ever so acute in perception, as to discover a
perfct point or well marked line of demarcation, be-
tween blue, indigo, and violet? Who was ever forci-
bly struck with a surprising contrast between orange
and yellow ? \Vhat causes the change of color in the
changablc silk, or the peacock's tail? 1t has been show-
ed by Sir David Brewster, that the changes which light
undergoes by absorption, when viewed through various
colored media, will change the color of the spectrum, as
well as its intensity also. He therefore, from this and
other considerations, concludes that there are but three
primary colors in nature, the red, yellow, and blue.
Dr. Herschel was of opinion, that the point of great-
est heat and deoxydizment was outside, and beyond the
limits of the visible spectrum, which confirms our posi-
tion, that it is the action of light upon matter by repul-
sion, that produces the sensation, or sensible effects of
heat. Were there distinct rays of caloric, mixed with
those ofcolor, it would be preposterous to think, much
more to say, that they had more effectwhere they were
not, than where they were. Subick and Mellone dem-
onstrated, that the point of greatest heat, was depend..
ent on the nature of the refracting ponderable medium,
which is in perfect accordance with our views, and laws
of magnetism. The best modern writers of~the present
day divide the solar spectrum into three distinct kinds
of rays, the colorific, calorific, and chemical.
We have now disposed of the two first, and will make
an attempt at the last, when we come to speak of the
Do1'zodbyGoogle
IU;GNBTJSN.
m&gnetit fluids, and prove chemical affinity to be based
upon them also. ·
CHAPTER IX.
THE SUBJECT CONTINUED.
From what has been said, it will Le seen, that we
make heat and cold, to be the result of the impressions
upon the mind, from sensations produced, by the opera·
tions upon matter by the magnetic fluids. 'l'hnt from
their action, it is constantly varying from an equilibrium
to two extremes. That one extreme is produced by at·
traction and the other by repulsion ; that one produces
one sensation upon the body, and the other an other;
that attraction produces that of cold, and repulsion that
of heat, a1!ld therefore, what the books term caloric, is
aresult instead of the cause of repulsion, and at all times,
and under all circumstances, directly opposed, and dia·
metrically antagonized te attraction.
This being the fact, the books on this subject have
largely begged the question, and only made the small
mistake of putting the cart before the horse, by making
caloric a substance, an imponderable fluid, instead of a
result of matter, from the operations of the magnetic
fluids, and that what Dr. Black lab~red a whole lifotime
tt> establish, (latent caloric) is nothing but magnetism in
a state of attraction, an~ therefore falls to the ground,
as well as all that worse than seMeless· jargon of ·the
books, imch as "caloric of fluidity," '"&p!cific caloric,."
'~-capacityof caloric/' "conduction of caloric," &c. &c.,
all well as·all the other no less confosed1 and oonfu11ing
terms;: such as ''.attraction of gravitatidlt/' ·'' a.ttrac.Uon
ofcohesion," ·~attraction :of aggregation," "capilliary at~
_
;l
0191t1zed oyGoogle
BAGG ON ·
traction," &c. &c., and will soon be expunged from the
vocabulary of literature as worse than usefess.
After having removed this mass of rubbish from our
path, and established upon its ruins the simple founda-
tion, the truth of the i<lentiy of all the imponderables,
with the light of magnetism for our iruide, we cannot
but anticipate, that we shall be able to show more clear-
ly than has hitherto been done, the various operations
of nature, and the laws by which they are governed ;
and although in our sail into the va11t ocean before us,
our compass may sometimes oscillate for a time, we
trust that it will yet ultimately settle towards the posi-
tive pole of truth, and guide us through the dark laby-
rinth of nature, as she presents herself in the three king-
doms, to correct results. It will be conceeded by all,
even by the sticklers for the old theory, that caloric is
at all times antagonized to all and every species and va-
riety of their family of attractions, from cohesive up, to
that of attraction of gravitation. Now is it not a little
singular, that for centuries, knowing and acknowledging
this fl\ct, authors should have called one of these dia-
metrically antagonizing principles, a subtile impondera-
ble fluid, and the other a property inherent in pondera-
ble matter, such as attraction of cohesion, and attrac-
tion of gravitation? Now to us it would be like yoking
a brute with an angel, or which would be about the same
in comparison, to voke a dead body with a living spirit,
and look to the span, for results of labor and action.
Ponderable matter of itself~ would be nothing but a
cold, void, sluggish, lifeless mass, without form, color,
or action, without the influence of the magnetic fluids.
It is to them, and them alone; as we shall see, when we
come.to speak fa the next chapter, more particularly on
magnetism,.that all pooderable matter, depends for, its
laws and .impulse of attraction, or gravitation, aa it is
called, as well as repulsion. Believing therefore with
Rogers:
Do1'zodbyGoogle
. '
MAG:"iETJSM.
"Thal very ln\V, whicll moulds a iear,
And Oids it trickle fron its souree;
That very law preservea the eanh a sphere,
.And guiiles the planets in thei: course,"
•J'""
_,
we have in our vocabulary, but one kind of attraction,
and one of repulsion, and these depending on the mag-
netic fluids. The same principle which attracted the sa-
line particles together ·to form the tear, when formed
and perfe<>.ted, attracted, the whole as a body, to the
earth, that, from its quantity of matter, being the strong-
er magnet, caused the tear to approach its surface.-
Thus showing in the simplest manner possible, that at-
.traction of cohesion or aggregation, is precisely the same
as gravitation, and governed by the same law. If we
take a themometar properly made, the attraction of the
mercury will occupy a point, say 32 degrees above ze-
ro. If we now immerse the bulb in boiling \Vater. the
mercury immediately mounts up to 212. - If we 'now
immerse it in a freezing mixture, it is again attracted,
and falls to 32. If we again put it into boiling water,
it again rises to 212. This example may be taken as a
diagram for the two antagonizing principles ofall nature.
CHAPTER X.
.Magnetism then, is that principle, which not only forms
the nature, but is the cause of all the compositions and
decompositions, of all material substances.· It resides in
two imponderable fluid11, alike as to illumination, but clif-
forent as to color; and other respects, from each other.
One is probably thrown off from one pole of the sun, and
the other frot:t the other. They are mutually at all tim~s
repulsive of each other, and attractive towards ponder-
able matter, agreeable to fixed and immutable laws.-
Whether they find their way down to this earth by re-
4
0191t1zed oyGoogle
28 BAGG ON
pulsion between themselves, solely, or by attraction from
the earth, or both, is immaterial ; certain it is, that they
come down to us, stimulate with their presence, are ab-
sorbed by opake bodies, and repelled by others, and have
such an effect upon ponderablo matter, as to divide it
into minute little atoms, magnets or globes, too minute
for the naked eye to discover, which are each endowed
with a positive and negative pole, and obey the law of
magnetism, to which it is indebted for its motion, nature, .
color, and texture. The minute atoms of matter from
this agency, are subject to three varieties of arrange·
ment, (chapter ix.) attractive. semi-attractive, semi-re·
pulsive, and repulsive. When they arrange themselves
with the positive pole of one, to tho negative pole of an
other, they constitute that condition of matter called at·
traction, and solidity and diminution of temperature is
the result. '
When they arrange themselves with the positive pole
of one, or the negative pole of another, to the equatori· '
al or middle line of an other, they may be said to be neu·
tralized, or in a state of equilibrium, and constitute that
condition of matter called liquid, and thG temperature is
generally temperate.
When the minute atoms are so arranged, as to have
the positive pole of one, correspond to the postive pole
of anoth~r, or the negative pole of one, correspond to '
the negative pole of another, they may be said to be in
a state of repulsion, and constitute that condition of mat·
ter called gasseous or aeriform, and the tempernture is
increased, and light, and levity is the effect.
These three then, are the enly conditions of matter
upon earth. Although all matter occupies one or other
of these states or conditions, and is by nature, and may
by artificial means, be changed from oni+ to the other,
yet all at the ordinary state of the atmosphere, are not
alike, some are found in one state or condition, and some
in another. H.ence it may be said to be natural for some
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGNETISM. 29
to be in a solid state, others in a liquid, while others, are
found irt a gasseous state. When a solid is changed to
a liquid, the motion ofthe minute atoms from the change,
produces an increase of temperature, and if so changed
as to produce complete repulsion, (which produces a
gasseous condition,) the temperature is still further in-
crersed, and levity is produced, warmth is felt, and light
becomes visible. ·when a gas on the contrary, is con-
verted into a liquid, or solid, or both, the very reverse
takes place, and cold is the result. If we take any solid
substance, iron for instance, or any other metal which
is solid at the ordinary state of the atmosphere, and ap-
ply to it the magnetic fluids in a state of repulsion, or
what is commonly called caloric, the minute little at-
oms or magnets are changed in their arrangement, and
they are turned half around, and it is reduced from a so-
lid to a liquid state in consequence of the change. If we
now expose to more magnetism, or caloric, as it is call-
ed, they are moved still further around, until they be-
come perfectly antagonized to what their first arrange-
ment was, and the iron or metal, is thrown into a gas-
seous state ; but there being a constant tendency to an
equilibrium in matter, with the magnetic fluids, .and the
natural condition of iron being a solid state, the magnet-
ic fluid is radiated, and attracted to the surrounding air,
and other objects within the sphere of its influence, and
the metal is again attracted back to its natural state, and
becomes solid. This arrangement of the minute parti-
cles or ultiffiate atoms, or magnets, of the metal in its
natural state, were the positive pole of one, to the neg-
ative pole of the other; and in the middle state, or when
in common language, it was melted, or in the liquid state,
either the positive or negative pole of one, to the equa-
torial line of another, and in the last or gasseous state,
the positive pole of one, to the positive pole of another,
or the negative pole of one, to the negative pole of an
other.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
30 BAOU O~
That metal:>, may be melted and thrown into gas, will
not be denied, as witness the eruption of volcanoes. The
lava rises In the form or condition of gas, and falls dow11
in the form of cinders. This description and elucida-
tion; of'the different states or conditions of iron, and tht:
detail of its changes, may be taken to exemplitY the dif-
ferent states, condition, and rationale, of all material
substances in nature. It appears then, that the minute
particles or ultimate atoms of matter, in either condi-
tion, have each a positive and negative magnetic pole,
and that the cause of these different conditions, is tht'
angle of these poles situated in the mass, relative to each
other, as we have seen as above, and that the varieti~s
of nature in material substances of color, nature, tex·
ture, and temperature ; are owing to these aJJgles.-
This being settled, and these little minute atoms, being
magnets tQ all intents and purposes, having poles like the
compass needle, and governed by the same principle,
we infer an other general and immutable law of matter
-that the law that governs them separately and indi·
vidually, governs them collectively, or when attracted
or collected into masses, and therefore that the law of
the parts is the law of the whole, and conversely, th.at
the law of the whole, is ·the law of its parts. If I make
a magnet of iron or steel,.and find and mark its poles,
and then cut it into small pieces, as small as the senses
can determine, each piece, will still be a magnet, and
each and every piece in the order they occupied in th<>
magnet before being. severed, will conform with its
poles to it. The law of the whole then, is the law of
the parts, and the law of the parts, is the law of the
whole. Tho same law of motion, that governs my
whole system, goveras my arm, and the law that gov·
ems my ann, governs my fingers, and the law that go·
verns my fingers, ·governs my arm, and the law that go-
verns all, governs the whole system. Again, that law
in this country that governs one individual, governs th<·
Do1'zodbyGoogle
!\1AGNETl8M. 31
whole nation of individuals. The law then, that go-
verns the whole earth, must be the law of its integrant
parts. The earth is a large magnet, has a North and a
South pole, and being repelled on one side by light, while
it is attracted on the other, (as we shall see at the'pro-
per time and place,) revolves it on its axis, from West
to East in such a manner, e~ry iwenty-four hours, ag
to produce day and night. It likewise from the same
cause, differently applied, revolves around the sun once
a year, in such a manner, as to produce the alternations
ofsummer· and winter, spring and autumn. In this re-
volution around the sun, the angle of the poles of the
earth, with those of the sun,.is constantly changing, so
that in the middle of winter, in this latitude, the poles
of the earth, are almost at right" ahgles, with those of
the sun, and in midsummer, they are almoat parallel
with it. Spritig and fall, are also produced, in the same
manner, and depend upon ·this angle of the poles with
respect to those of the sun. In these alternations, win-
ter is antagonized to summer, and spring to autumn......
Winter is the result of the attractions from the earth to-
wards the sun predominating over repulsions, and sum-
mer by repulsions from the sun, or attraction towards
the earth overbalancing the repulsions from the earth.
Spring is the effect of semi-attraction and 1emi-repul~
sion, as well as autumn. Now if the whole earth is so
effected, by the simple fact, that the magnetic axis of
its poles, is differently situated, relative to those of the
sun, is it not good logic to infer; that the relative angles,
or position, of the ultimate atoms of all matter, in the
three, different conditions, solid, liquid, and aeriform, are
o~g to the same cause, and of all the results, which
we have shown to arise from the different Mndition11
Ifso, our point is gained, and ()ur coast is clear ; for
what Warrt1$ the whole earth in summer; wanns a ·
pkt..
~cellar h?<iY upon that earth, 11.nd. is the cause ef the neat
1n a.~1cuhu" compound; and the oause of eold· upon
4• .
Do1'zodbyGoogle
32 BAGG ON
the earth in winter, is the same also. Spring and fall
will also corresrond to those bodies in which the mag-
netic fluids are m a state ofequilibrium. We shall then
ad(>pt the term attraction for gravity, and repulsion for
caloflit:• The effect of the former, produces the sensa-·
tion of cold, and the latter heat. There is no absolute
weight, or levity, heat or cold. They are changes pro•
duced upon mind, and matter, by the magnetic fluids.
Weight, or gravity, is simply that condition of m.
atter,
whicn disposes it to approach the centre, or surface of
the earth; (attraction) and ;~vity or lightness, that con-
dition of matter which disposes it to recede from the
centre, (repulsion) which conditions are both e11tirely de-
pendent, upon the magnetic fluids for impulse and mo-
tion. The former, the current, from the surface or cir-
cumferen~e, to the centre, (centripetal) and the.latter,
the current from the cen.tre to the circumference, (cen-
trifugal). That sub•tance which contains the greatest
quantity -Of matter, being in the .condition, or having the
proper arrangement of its particles to constitute attrac-
tion, is,the heaviest, and.that substance, which conts,ins
the g11eatest qeantity of m:i..tter, having the proper ar-
rangement of its ultimate atoms to produce repulsion, ii;;
the.lightest. This is.owing to that universal law, that
the·greater always attracts the less, artd is antagonized
to repulsion which is at all <imes adverse in its opera·
tions. T~ Qnly reason .then,,why any substance or bo-
dy, falls 0to the groWld,:and ,is called heavy, is attrac1ion
1imply, and why the same- substa!}ce or body, recedes
from the earth and flies into atmospheric air, is repulsion.
This law is the cause of composaion, and decornpo&ition;
which, are constantly going on, in the great labo~iory
of nature, and are but other terms to express the same·
idea.is. Chemical affinity, .attraction of cohesi~, aggre-.
·g'atioo, capilliary attraction;,(chapter ix.) .and all ·othe.l'
att~aotions, mentioned in the books, are owing: l<> the
same cause, and governed by the 1arne law; whif1>rnul~
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGNETISM. 33
tiplicity of names and divisions, are productive of no
good, but on the contrary perplex and bewiider the rea-
der, and by us are therefore discarded. . .
· \\rhen therefore we speak of any substance, simple. or
compGurui, we shall use the terms .attraction and repul-
sion, without reference to mode or manner. believing
that that principle, which holds an apple to the tree;.by
its stem, is the same that holds its particles together, as
well as. fonned it round, and .caused :it to fall to tho
ground, when the attraction i&, ov:ercome in the stem, by
the superiority of its repulsf1s. . . . ..
-t,·
CHAPTER Xl.
DIGRES8!0'.X-'I:'\TRICACY OP THE St:BJECT-REASONJ~G
. FRO~ EFFECTS TO CAt:SES.
We have now examined separately, the.impondera-
bles of the books, with ox:ygen. and hydrogen gasses.-
From our reading, and course of education, the great in-
flueµce of the force of habit u.ponthe mind, together with
the intricacy of the subjeet,.the mysterious connection
of mind with matter, the effects of imponderable agents
. upon material substances. th~ novelty of our doctrine,
with the prejudices .of the pf.l<>ple, against mnovat:ions
upon established usage,·the attempt to bring forth and
e~tablish a new system of physics and metaphysics, is a
task ~xt to Herculean, requi.ring firmness like the rock
of. Gihl'.altar to carry us onward. To stem the torrent,
of prejudice, of the indolent and ignorant, as well as t~
interested and designing, who have from habit,.trod in·
the footsteps of their illustrious predecessors, in the beat-
en track of their ancestors for ages, for one humble in-
dividual, is not unlike an attempt, to stem the cataract
of Niagary in a bark canoe. Regardless of these, but
trusting to the candor of some, and the charity of oth·
Do1'zodbyGoogle
34 BAGG ON
ers, our course is still onward, not exactly like "him"
of the poet, where he says, "onward he trudged not
knowing what he sought, and whistled as he went, for
want of thought," but more like a body, 89 equally ope-
rated upon by the forces, for which we-are contendina-,
that it requires our whole concentrated energies, to keep
us momentarily, from flying off in tangents. Our sub-
ject being as boundless as the universe, and as variega-
ted as nature, we can hardly expect, to do more in our
passage through its book, than, to take a passing glance
chronicle our observations,amd thereby sufficiently in-
terest others, to bring thenl"to our aid, in the investiga-
tion of the subject. But to the subject itaelf. There
has not yet been found, a substance, that has success-
fully resisted, the decomposing energies, of the electeri·
zing.machine, or the tremendous power of thunder and
ligfitning. Caloric is the great decomposing agent of na·
ture, and breaks down all attractions, and forces them
asunder. All substances yield up their attractions, and
are decomposed by light, by the agency of the convex
lens Sir Humphrey burnt the diamond at Gottengien;
and nothing has yet been experimented upon, but what
has given way to the decomposing influence of a stream
of oxygen llith hydrogen gas, through the medium of
the compound blow pipe of Dr. Hare. ·, i
In reasoning then, from effects back to causes, we find
them similar, and therefore identicle, one and the same.
They are all, the whole family, but magnetism in a sta1e
of.repulsion, directly antagonized to attraction, and a~
pearing different to the mind, from the different con-
struction of the organs of sense which conveys them dr
their impretsions to the brain. ··
. :·.~
Do1'zodbyGoogle
GllAPTE.R. XII.
~IECHAXICAL FORl'E on PO\YF.R.
From our definition and what has bee.1,1 said, it wili
be perceived that magoetism is the primary cause of.aU
motion in natm:e from the leaf that fluttel'S in the breeze,.
the smallest insect that crawls, t\p the motion of pot ~
ly this earth, but of the hea\·cn!y bodies themselves. It
not onty comprehends, and is the cause of all absolute
mechanical force, or power, of chemical affinity, of the
growth of all geological fo.rmations. of mathematical,
and all other sciences, but 'ihe ca~e of vegetable and
animal life. \Vhat are the sources of all absolute me-
chanical force or power 1 To the superficial unthinking
observer, at first thought, there wouldseem to be many,
but on a moment's reflection they are simplified to two,
attraction and repulsion. To speak from the simpic
principles for which we are contending, and in common
language, our saw, grist, and other ordinary mills or ma-
chinery, are propelled by water falling down hill, or
tending to the centre, the centripetal force (attraction).
Whereas our steam mills, boats, and some other machir.-
ery, are propelled by a diametrically opposite and a4-;
tagonizing principle, (repulsion), the centrifugal force,
or tendency from the centre. Beside these two, there
are no other sources of absolute mechanical force or
power known, except wind power, and that from the
@lasticity of the spring. And how is wind power pro-
duced, but by the agency and influence. of both these,
alternating with each other. · · ,
The magnetic rays of the sun, are attracted or repci-
led, or both, by that luminary, to the earth. Here meet-
ing with, and uniting by attraction, with ponderablc
matter, repulsion succeeds, and water in the form of va-
por, is thrown into atmospheric air, and forms clouds.
One cloud or portion; becomes positively electrified or
magnetized, and the other negatively, or one is charged
Do1'zodbyGoogle
'36 DAOO ON
with one kind, and the other, with an other. .By a law
of the principle, within a certain sphere of influence,
they attract each other, and come together, an equili·
brium is formed, which changes the position of the mi·
nute particles, it becomes more dense, in one part, and
more rare in an other, light, or lightning is seen, thun·
der is heard, attraction succeeds over repulsion in one
part, and repulsion over attraction in an other, water in
the form of rain is attracted to the earth. motion is pro.
duccd, a current of air is set in action, winds are there-
by generated, which sometimes blow in one direction.
and sometimes in another, which continue, until all the
clouds are dissipated, or a perfect equilibrium in atmos·
pheric air is produced, which is the cause of force or
power from that source. In the elasticity of the spring,
it will be readily seen, that both these forces, operate at
the same time, one on one side predominates, and then
the other. On the convex side, repulsion between the
minute atoms predominates, while on the concave side,
attraction prevails. Extra of these, there are no other
sources of absolute mechanical power or force known,
except from magnetism direct, as, the revolving wheels
of Davenport and Cook, Brewster, Henry, 'llnd others.
All other force from weights, as that of clocks, it will be
readily seen, is resolvable in that of attraction, as well
as that from chemical compounds, as powder, air, and
elastic fluids, into that of repulsion. It will thus be seen,
that motion, which constitutes the elasticity of the spring,
depends also upon these forces, alternating with each
other. It can be explained on no other principle.
CHAPTER XIII.
CHEMICAL AFFINITY.
That chemical affinity, is dependent upon the same
Do1'zodbyGoogle
lUGNBTISM. 37
principle, there caa be no question. No two or more
simple substances, unite and fonn a oompound, without
one be in a negative state, and the other in a positive.
All substances in nature are mixed with two claasos, aJ.
kalies and acids. Between these two opposite claues
there exists in their natural state, so powerful an attrao-
tion, that when brought together, they unite and form
an entire new compound, called a neutral salt, differing
from either ingredients. It is found on examination, that
. alkalies are naturally in a negative state of electricity,
and acids in a positive state, and that their union, is in
ccmsequence oftheir obeying the law of magnetism, that
those of the same names, (chapter x) repel each other,
and those of different names attract one an other. Sir
Humphrey, demonstrated that electricity will not only
suspend, counteract, and control chemical affinity, but
that it was the most powerful agent for the decomposi-
tion of chemical compounds or compound bodies, that
were so powerfully united by attraction, that previously
had never been decomposed, and therefore were believ-
ed to be simple substances. lt was by this agent that
he succeeded in decompo•ing potash, soda, barieties
strontites, magnesia, lime, and various other compound
bodies. During these experiments he also succeeded in
establishing the fact, that allcalies and earths, as well aa
oxygen gas, was in a negative sta,te of electricity, and
acids in a positive state.
He found and demonstrated also, that when an alkali,
was, by artificial means, put in.to the same state, (posi-
tive) of electricity, .as an acid, they would not unite by
chemical affinity, but become repulsive of each other,
and was therefore believed and considered. by him, as
the cause of chemical affinity itself, aud the rationale·of
their decomposition by that principle. He also foun4,
that rendering by electricity, botbof the same kind, (po-
sitive,) in water, they would not unite1 or .dissolve ·in
that element. The most delicate tests..could. JU?t disco-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
BAGG OS
v·~r in' the wat~fr, the least particle of either. The ce!-
~br:tted Dr. Lardner tells us in his lectures, that no good
reason has ever been giVen for this, to wit : "That
when natural bodies, are under the influence of electri-
city, they bchaYe themselves very differently from what
they do in their sober senses.!' He thus, tacitly ac-
knowledges, that electricity at least, overacts, or con-
trols, chemical affinity, aud we conceive it, magnetism,
to he a good reason, why they will, and will not unite,
the former depending on one's ·being positive, and the
other negative, and the latter, both being positive, or
hoth negative, agreeable to our law of attraction and re-
pulsion. Is it not owing to craziness, or want of the so-
ber senses of the teacher,; of 'phylosophy, themselves,
instead of the "natural bodies 1" Are not all·bodies in
nature, simple and compound, naturally magnetized, or,
at all times, in one state or the other, of electricity 1 If
so, will it not sufficiently account for this "will, and
won't" principle of chemical affinity 1 If not, will they
please to tell us in what it consists? Whether a fluid,
or an inherent principle of matter 1 If the former; why
obedient to caloric, to light, to electricity, to magnet-
ism? If to the latter, why does it submit to be, like a
scimeter of two edges, to ~be worked both·ways by the
magnetic fluids'--composed and decomposed-finished,
'and undone-united, and separated? Should the Doc-
tor chance to meet with our views, he will undoubt£ dly,
have to pronounce one of two things, that matter is at
all times out of their"'sober senses," or that the mind
that conceived that chemical affinity was dependent up-
on maghetism solely, for its action was out of his. He
.is free to judge. The recent discoveries in taking min-
iatu~ likenesses by the daguerreotype; goes·to corrobo-
rate and.establish the principle, that cllemical affinity'
depends upon electricity for its action and effect. Light
is the pencil by which it is accomplish~d; color is the·ef-
fect of·attraction, and shade of repulsion. The outline,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MA.ONB'l'llH,
form, features, ~d expreaion, rare repelled from Ute
original, and attracted to the :plate, where it stamps an
image of itself. Light which is the magnetic fluid of it-
se~ produces the color, by inducing attraction among
me minute particles of the iodine orwhat not, upon the
plate; precisely in the same manner, that it commences
chrystilization in solutions, by changing the ultimate:at;.
oms, to the condition of attraction, (chap. ix) from their
condition of eqailibrium in the solution. If a solution of
muriate of ammonia, and prussiate of potash, be placed
in such a situation, as to let in a ray of light, at any pan-
ticular point, it will immediately commence to cbrystal,.
iz~, from that point, and no where else in the solution.
This fact goes to prove, both the identity of light and-
~tism, as well as to prove, that the latter is the
caase ofchemical affinity. The chrystilization of the1e
salts, may be directed at pleasure, by the introduction
of li2ht to any one side of the vessel, or point, of the
Sllrface of the fluid. The same results may be:obtained
from a solution of camphor, it having a great attraction
for light. If light.will dispose one substance to chrys-
talize it will others. The law is general. Light then is
the great agent in the chrfstalization of all substances
ih nature, as well as in solution. When a substance is
chrystalizing it also throws out light, heat, and electrici-
ty, which is the cause of its decreased temperature, and
iuerease of the surrounding medium.
CHAPTER XIV.
TBE EAR.Tll18 FORMATION,
. ' .
, Various .theories of the fQrmation .Qf the earth, have
b~en hr.ought .forw~rd, most of which have ~acl ·their
day,and g~~ration, .and like their aqt}wrs, have been
5 ·
Do1'zodbyGoogle
·•Mi(} ON. ·
consigned.t& .the:tamb, .and'llOW al~ in Qbhmn•.,-Of
all that hav.e beeh -advanced, but two SUJ'Vive, ihc.P~·
·r.onic; and Neptunian. The advocates of the formcu-;
suppose heat to have. not only been the cav.ee·of procltJc..
tion, bllrt of·reproduction;also.· ·It also supposes a ~..
lar alternation·of decay and renovation, and that fire ,is
the gr.eat universal solveDt~ na.wre. That dooay is in·
duced by light,·air, and other gasses, rain and othei:We,.,.
ten, upon rocks by whioh:tbey are worn down; and that
renovation depends upon an immeose subterranean fire
which operates to fuse, and melt and recombine the se~
parated matenals by sublimation and otherwise. ,,•a"i.
The latrer, the Neptunian, that two substances, oxy·
gen and hydrogen, were evolved out of chaos at.the
formation of the earth, in proportions, so as t<:> prodUf.e
water, which compound was in such quantity, as to hold
in solution, all other materials necessary to the earth's
formation. Of the materials held in solution, granite is
supposed to have been fonned first, and in great abund·
ance, and that owing to.its consolidation, it formed the
neucleus, or foundation, of this globe, and that all other
primary rocks so .called were formed on the same hypo~
thesis. It matters not which of these theories be true,
or both, or neither. as We have already shown, that heat,
fire, or what is called caloric, is nothing but magnetism
in a state of repulsion, and a sensation upon the organs
of sense, operating in a peculiar manner. If we take
the latter, the Ncptunian, we shall find. that that theo-
ty is also based upon our principles. How could water
be formed by the union of oxygen and hydrogen, but
by our law of attraction 1 How could rocks and, other
solid substances, such as the supposed neuclE us E>f the
earth, granite, be formed butby that peculiar arrange-
ment of its particles, necessary to constitute a solid 1:_
In either case, no matter which was the solvent, <>r which
preceded the other forin, solid or liquid. If there had
beep a solution, there must of necessity _
have been .an
001izodbyGoogle
BAON&TJIM. 41
attraction, and a new arrangement of the particles, so
as to have formed a solid, for chrystalization could not
llave taken place without it. Solution implies a liquid,
and therefore there must have been a change. Nl)thing
could have produced it, but the magnetic fluids. We
ha-ve seen that light produces chrystalization. What
are rocks but the chrystalization of matted What form
of matter is chrystalization but a solid. We have seen
(chap. ix) that the minute atoms of matter under a par~
ticular arrangement of its poles relative to each other,.
in a compound produced a solid. We showed also., that
the law of the parts was the law of the whole. The
aolid parts of the whole earth, then, must be the result
of that particular law of magnetism, upon pond~rable
matter, which produces attraction, and the solvents,
whether fire; or oxygen and hydrogen, the effect of that
law, termed repulsion, chrystalization shows, in the
mean time, that nature has a geometry of her own,
which performs her work with the greatest precision,
and that the great agentby which it is produced, is light,
the magnetic fluids. The uniform, color, shape, and
density of the various salts and rocks forming the globe,
ia such natural lilies, speak volumes in confirmation of
the fact. It·appean then, that the compound. !!Ubstances
fonning the earth, a.re made from ca.rbon, hydrogen, ox-
ygen, nit.To~, al!ld perhaps a few more elementary sub-
stances,·by an alm.ost unlimited variety of arrangements
of their ultimate atoms, with respect to each other; by
the operations and agency of the magDetic fluids.-
Whether.the. earth originally was n neucleus formed
from the .umbrn of the sun, as some suppose,.and Watt
propelled into space by the union of the m~tic ceq..
tripetal and ceritrifugal forees.. diaJIQ8ingit, like the ~one
from. the'aling1• t&·fly ~· in a :tangent in ~form of .,a
comet, ·.md gradually·cooled Up<\,n its t\lrfuce,:and wouod
ap.its tail,·Or•vaia,·by·revolting.upQn i1s axi!l, frQfll that
cootinued·anpulaei from theae f(>r~$. :whichfa•'sav.e i•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
12 BAGG ON
m0tion and direttion from the sun, and as it cooled up;.
on its surface, ·formed a crust of granite,,and condensed
the vapor of its atmosphere.into water, from hydrogea
and oxygen, which so operated upon t!Ms granitic crust,
as to oxydize and disintegrate, a sufficient mineralmould
or soil, to start to grow grasses first, and then other
sl'tlall shrubs, and then these again decaying, and under..
going decomposition, and producing another class of ve-
getable productions, and so on from class to class, rising
in the scale by what is called "discreet degrees," until
man was formed in an infantile state, from the decom-
position· and reorganization of the elements of the noble
oak, black walnut, mahogany, or cedar of Lebanon, as
well as the ~ittle insects, vermin, and creeping things,
from other smaller grasses, and shrubbery, agreeable to
a minute law of delicate· correspondencies of each class
of the vegetable producing its corresponding class, in the
animal; or whether the Mosaic account be correct, "that
the elements were created, and remained void, and with-
out form, and that darknes11 was upon the whole face.of
the deep," until God created·the great magnet of the
universe, the sun, and placed it in .the heavens, and
brought order out of chaos by the attractions and repul-
sions from its influence, and by the same forces also, re-.
volved the whole, upon its axis from West to East el'e-
ry twenty-four hours, thus dividing the darkness from
the light, the day from the night, and that man was cre-
ated out of these elements, an adult or not, one thing is
certain, that such is the infhrence of the sun upon all
matter, (chap. ix) as to produce life, action, motion and
order, and to divide·by the influence of its light, all pon-
derable matter into three varieties of form, two of whioh
are perfectly antagoni7-ed, and the third between ·the
two'extreme8, or tbe point of eqwlibrium. That these
constitute··the mttss of .the earth which is divided ·into
land, water, and air; 'and .that they are constantly chan-
ging from one form to the other, which change consti-
oot<ZodbyGoogle
lutes its life. 1 •.Phi~hers 81 w~llr as miners hue for,
eentur.ies obs#Jlved!. that the earth~s cn:Bt is made·up ·Of
alternate layers ot different materials, ·suth as rocks,.
.Oils, and othfil' mineral substanees ; that granite com..:
mences first on the series, or lies •Dea~IJtthe centre, and·
1elenite last,·or neaoost the swface,:with mouJds or soi&
interspersed; .and that each of these layers have uni·
fennly, when·examined, been found to be charged with
electricity:or magnetism!; that each lllternate layer is
chtt.r,ged with.different kinds, one with Ji09itive and the
other :with· ~ative, · like the alteniate plates of a gal-
vanic battery, and that ·soils, when .evet teste~ have·
been found to be ;n.the. same alternate condition; and
show the Sa.me magnetic results. We hav.e seen (chap•
ix.) that the ultimate atoms of all ponderable matter are
magnets, had each a J>QSitive and negative magnetic pole,
and obeyed the laws ot magnetism, to;which it was in·
debted.for its action, motion, form, texture,·nature arid
color. We also adverted. to the general principle that
similar causes produce similar·eftects, whether in snn-
ples or compounds, and laid down aBother unchangable .
rule, tbat the law of the parts, was the law ofthe whole,
and converse+y, that .the law of the whole, was the law
of its parts. · · ·~ · ·· , ' ' '· · · . ,
From what ·has been said, and.in.light of these prin-
ciples, can we .not clearly see, that all geolOgiealionna-
tioos, are owing to magnetism 1. The earth then, com·
posed of these myriads oflittle magnets, disposed into an
almost infinite variety of simple, ~ouni:l, and com·
pie~ arrangements, composing strata of alternate mag·
netic lalers, up to the composition of the whole jg a
magnet,}laving a North and a South pole, or a pcisitive
and negative magnetic·pele, and governed by the prin·
cip1e as a whole, in the same manner as·its ultimate at.-
OUlS, .
It baa a force from the centre to the cireumference,
(repultion) andan·antagoqizing one, from circumference·
o•
001<ZodbvGoogle
44
t1> ·Centre, -- (attraction). ' 'f:he$C forces both .operate ·tt
the same tune,· bat sornetimes one predominates, and>
sometimes the other,,and sometimes they are equally
balanced. When attraction predominates, the surface
of the earth and the atmosphere is cold, as in winter,_..
When repulsion prev:ails, it is warm upon its surfu.ce as
in summer. When they arc equally balanced; (state of
equilibrium) it is temperate, as in some parts·of spring,
and some parts of autumn. Although the first part of
spring and the latter part of autumn from the change,
participate more or less with both, tke former with sum-
mer; and the latter with winter, yet these general divi·
sions are sufficient for our present purpose. - These in·
ward and outward currents create by their joint action;
or impulse, a force at right angles between the two-,
which we shall for the sake of distinction term the re•
sultant force. This is.that force or current, which fonns
a line between the two, North and South, the extreme
points of which are termed poles.
- The rays of light from the sun, upon their attraction
and union with ponderable matter, so operate upon the
whole· earth, as to tend to move it upon its axis from
West to East every twenty-four hours, which causes
day and night. When these rays, fresh from the sun,
first strike the·carth, they are positive, but by their un-
ion ·with ponderable matter become negative, and after
having tra1'ersed the earth they are repelled hy -it, at-
tracted by the sun; and return to be renewed,-are again
repelled by that luminary; and attracted to the earth,
thus:pulling nt attracting it on one side, and pushing or;
repelling· upon the other, which gives it its revolvitr~
motion·upon its axis. This ceaseless' change of attrac·
tions;upon one side, and repulsions on the other. will ae-
oount for: the diurnal re:volution·of the earth, in the sitll"
plest, yet most satisfactory manner. -1:, ,
Tho resultant force from: the ce•tre ·to the poles·Will
nlso account·for the annual revolution around ·the Blln; ·,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGNETISM. 4i
irrthe same rnanner, which divides our year, as Wd have'
before seen, intO'summerand winter, spring and autumn.
Summer is produced. by the attractions from the sun
overbalancing .its·repulsions, .and winter by the repul-
sions:overbalancing its attraction!'.' Spring and fall par..
ticipate more or less with·both a& we have seen as abOve.
'l\Mee·preponderating attraetions·and repulsions contin•
11e .elteh, for one half the year. In summer and spring
the current towards the earth from the sun is strongest.
ld•winter and fall the ool"l'ent is strongest towards the
t11m from the earth. It is also during the day strongest
tow'ards the earth, but during the night the current is
strongest towards the sun. That these magnetic ravs
of light are attracted back, after having been absorhed
and·traversed the earth, we infer from the foUowing con-
$iclerations. If the sun is obscured by clouds, it becomet'I
dark. The light that was' upon the earth, has fled. van·
ished~ gone.
· As·soon as the sun has set, as it is called, it begins to
grow dark, and if clouds obstruct the light from the
stars, and there is no moon, it becomes ·quite dark~­
What has become of the light received from the sun du-
ring the day 7 Where gone? If we then create artifi-
cial lights by electricity or combustion with wood; coal;
gas, lamps or candles, and suddenly e~tinguish them, it
becomes dark. .What has become of the light1 We
answer it is absO!'bed byall ponderable matter, bywhieh
we are surrounded and with which the earth is formed,
traverses it in every direction, and then returns from
'Whence it came, hy the immutable law of the principle,
of repulsions succeeding to•attractions, or those of the
same name repelling each. other, .and those of different
names attracting one another. Were this not the fact
the sun must have long $ince become impoverished, and
agteeable to the present theory of the books; the earth.
must have become a ball·of fire, and withered and burnt
every thing~ its surfil.ce.: .:Bllt:the. sun ·is not a ball·
Do1'zodbyGoogle
46
of fire, but a YIUJt·magnet go'!{er.ning the who.Hi plane.ta~
ry er SQJ-.r systeme,.by attraction and repulsion, through!
the agency or by t~ iniluence of the ·magnetic fiuidik:
Spri11gs.and brooks are constantly flowing from the~°"'
ti:e to the surfa'*1 -these are partly tiµ-own by repulsion
into atmospheric air, .and there .form-clouds, attraction
agaitl suc,c~eds over repulsion,·ancl it. again desc:~mds Ul'
~he form ofr&i.Q,, sleet or.1mow, to fertaliae the earth, a
part ~ ~which i$ attracted or abeorbed and flows again
to, ~. centre,- while ,the remainder is· again repelled into
the· atmosphere,: or flow11 .through streams,.. rivers or
brOi>ks into the ocean, or is decomposed by vegetables
and animals, and.enters into their composition, or inot'·
ganized matter and forms limestone, salts, earths, acids,
alkalies or other mineral substances, and thus this cease.
less round of-nttraction and repulsion, contraction and
expansi()n, compoeition and decomposition, and recom~.
bination through and by the agency of the magnetic
principle is the cause of all geological formatioos. , If
the earth were not a magne~ how could the ocean be·
traversed by artificial magnetic guides ? :
How could the earth?s equator, its poles, the latitude
and longitude.ofaay place or point on land, or vessel at
sea .be'determined? In what manner, .and by what ex•
ped.i.ent, could continents, nations, kingdolllB, states and
even farms be bounded, marked, lined, registered and'
preserved, by contract, deed, mortgage or otherwise 1
CHAPTER XV.
THE SCIENCE OF NUMBERS•. .
· In the days of Pythagorus, tha.t ancient but eminent•
philosopherf ·compared the existence of matter to the,
science of numbers, represented by arithmetical figures. ·
SQ precise was he;·th&t .he even separate'1 unity from
ootLZodbyGoogle
MAOXBTISJif.
one. "One says he; appertains to things tnat can b&
numbered and may be compared to matter rendered vi~
sible by arithmetical figure.
a under a particular fonn,
while unity is an abstract conception resembling prima-
ry or incorporeal matter in its general aggregate. Num-
ber is not infinite any more than matter, but ·neverthe-
less it is the source of that divisibility into equal parts
which ,is the property of all bodies." By numbers then,
matter is divided into almost an infinitude of equal parts.
The method of reducing them to their elements, is by
analysis, and the rule by which it is governed is called
subtraction. The method of aggregating or collecting
them in mass, is by synthesis, ·and the rule by which it
is governed is called additign. These two rules then,
addition and suhtracticin form the general and fundamen-
tal rules, on which is based the whole science of num-
bers. Multiplication and division are but shorter meth-
ods of performing these operations, and arc therefore
secondary in their effect. All other operations and rules
are based upon these two fundamental ones. Synthesis
and analysis then, are but other terms for composition
and dec~mposition, and these again b~t others denoting
the particular form or manner by which they are pro-
duced, attraction arirl repulsion. Philosophically speak-
ing, what is addition but.the natural attraction of the re-
presentatives of the puticles of elementary matter, to
form a mass, compound, or aggregate ; and subtraction
but the separation or repulsion of the signs of the par-
ticles of the same .from eaoh 'other, in aggregation or
masses to reduce them to their elements or unity~
Numbers were 11ot any more used as types, signs, or
represen1atives of our mathematical ideas, for elemen-
tary matfeir by this profound philosopher, in his day,
than they·are at the, present. All our best modem che~
mists make use of, 'and teach them, in our best colleges·
of instruction.. Sir Humphrey Davyi the great New.ton
ofthat science~ taught :to his last breath,. that the ~le~
Do1'zodbyGoogle
BAGQ ON
ments of all compounds·are in certain definite propor·
tions to each other, which ratios may be expressed by
J;lwnbers, and are at this moment, taught in our te:tt
books on chemistry. The revival of this theory was
probably owing to Dalton, in his well known and estab--
lished doctrine of atoms. No matter, whether determin-
ed by measure or weight, by quantity or by the numer•
ical proportions and ratios of elements, or ulti.mate at•
oms relative to each other in the compound, the gener-
al principle is the same. It is a science expressing the
elements of matter, and computing their aggregation,
quantities, as well as qualities, by numbers, which is go-
verned bv two fundamental rules. addition and subtrac-
tion. These numbers are but signs, standing for the mi-
nute particles, or ultimate atoms themselves, and stand
the same relation to each other in compounds, that ideas
do to each other in the compound or formation of mind.,
Both governed by the same law, addition and subtrac-
tion, attraction and repulsion. Both showing the same
antagonizing principle in each, the one being but the
perfect correspondence of the other, which we shall
show more particularly when we come to analize the
mind, and reduce it to its elements. So also with alge-
bra, or that branch of mathematics, in which the quan-
tities are represented by letters, and their operations by
signs. Although thus represented, the general principle
is the same, and performed in the same manner, by these
two fundamental rules-the base of all mathematical sci-
ence, plus and minus, but other terms for addition and
subtraction. It was probably, from the observance of
this principle in connection with this science, that lead
the celebrated Dr. Franklin to adopt the one fluid prin-
ciple, in his theory of electricity ; thereby making the·
law of attraction and repulsion to depend upon the. ex--
cess or diminution of one fluid, in ponderable matter, in,..
stead of two. It will then be oonaeded, for we shall
take it for granted, that all compounds are formed by·
0191t1zed oyGoogle
simples, ·in defulite·pl'lllportions of their elements to each
other, and will show. a.few examples which may be ta•
ken as an illuatration, ror a:U eompoend bodies. It is
-well known 1hat the rusts or oxides of 'iron and other
metais, consist or is made np of a certain quantity or
portion of oxygen, with a certain quantity or portion of
metal. It is also well known, that many if not all the
metals·are capable of two or more degrees of oxydation,
and are generally distinguished by different colors; like
the black and red oxides of iron, the white and red ox·
ides of lead, which are all equally oxides of the two same
metals, and differ only in the proportions of the oxygen
in the compound. Now in whatever proportion it unites
in, to form an oxide of one kind, it invariably unite!! by
a multiple or divisor, (addition and subtraction,) of the
same proportion to produce every other kind of oxide;
belonging to the same metal. It has been discovered
that antimony has four different points of oxydation.-
The lowest contains four and a half parts of oxygen, to
one hundred of metal. The second, eighteen parts of
oxygen, to one hundred of metal, which is four times
four and a half. The third, twenty seven parts to one
hundred of metal, which is six times four and a half.-
The fourth contains thirty six parts oxygen, to the same
quantity, which is eight times four and a half. Tin has
three different degrees of oxydation. It has for its low·
est proportion, seven ·parts oxygen. to one hundred of
metal. For its second fourteen, and for its highest point
twenty one parts oxygen to one hundred of metal. Iron
has but two oxides, the one black, the other red. The
tirst contains twenty parts oxygen, to sixty nine part!!
of metal, and the last, thirty parts to the same quantity.
These metals and their union with oxygen, may be
taken as so many diagrams, to explain all other com•
pound bodies. They not only unite ·like these and form
compounds in definite proportions, but cannot be mad~
w unite in anr other, or in any intermediate deg~e•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
between. This law of detiaite prGpOrtioos:and light as
the agent, accounts for, or is the key to the whole hith..
erto mysterioua science of chrystalography, and gives
us the cue to the cause .why all salts assume a shape pe-
culiar to each class. When.we find these oxides,·salts
or chrystals, we know them to be of uniform strength;
as agreeable to the atomic law of definite proportionsin
compounds, they cannot be made to vary. Showing at
such a point we have in the· same elements attractions,
and at another repulsions, and yet at an other point still
higher attractions again, and new compounds entirely
ditferent in their natures and action, such as sugar, stareh
and vinegar. all from the same ingredients but ditferent
in proportions. So also with calomel, corrosive subli-
mate, and red precipitate. This law of definite propor-
tions runs through all nature ; through solids, liquids
nod gasses, as well in the animal, as vegetable and mi-
neral kingdoms. Not only in these but in the formation
of mind, friendships, social cirdes, societies, parties,
clubs and juntos. It will also be seen that color depends
upon it. The only reason why the black oxide of iron
was changed to red, is the addition of ten more parts of
oxygen in the compound. " Hence, these proportions
though constantly true to their respective series, are di-
versified in different substances, their radical figures or
numbers may be, and now are, actually employed. and
that very generally. · They are in perfect coincidence
with the system of Pythagorus as the synonims of th.e
simple forms of substances whose progressive they de.-
scribe. . This ·curious coincidence ·of ancient and mod·
ern philosophy may be regarded as a marvellous proof
of the truth of the .atomic theory. And it is not tbe
least important of this discov.ery, that not only iri ,the
union of simples, as :well ·as .in their.separation also, this
very theory is applicable and proves true, but in all well
known and more c'omplica.tE¥1 compounds, so far ae; ·the
expel;imental secies have been carried; the elementa:ry
oot>ZodbyGoogle
51
bodies which enter into them, exhibit proportions equal-
ly definite and invariable." _
,
Thus aflOrding another proof of close connection be-
tween the phenomena of nature, and the oc<;asional de-
velopmentsofrevelation, the philosopher beh~lding now,
as did the prophet of ol<l, that the Almighty· Architect
has literally adjusted every thing by weight and meas-
ure ; that he has measured the waters and meted out
the heavens, accw-atoly comprehending the dust of the
earth, wei~hed the mountains in scales, and the hills iu
a balance.' .
CHl\.PTER XVI.
GEOl\fETRICAL SCIENCE.
The science which has for its object the measurement
of magnitudes, consists in finding the sum or difference
between the extremes of the antagonizing angles, vary-
ing from the equilibrium of a right angle. The antago-
nizing extremes are called acute and obtuse angles.-
The tools or machinery are straight and curved lines.
The calculation of aggregation or diminution in the re-
duction to right angles, is performed like all other math-
~matical operations by the rules of addition and subtrac-
tion-plus and minus, attraction and repulsion. The
whole science is based upon equality and difference, and
therefore as far <1s regards prin~iples is in the above nut-
shell. A perpendicular line drawn so as to stand upon
a horizontal one, and cut it at right-angles iu the science
of geometry, is as much a point of !fWilibrium between
the extremes of the machinery of th~ircumference and
centre of the science, as the equator is to the poles of
the.earth, the middle of a compass needle, or a neutral
salt between an acid and an alkali. All right angles
are equal to one another~ therefore there is no differ-
6
Do1'zodbyGoogle
52 BAGG ON.
encei An acute and obtuse angle indue proportion, are
equivalent to a right angle. All geometric lines are ei- 1
.
dler straight or curV'ed. Magnetism moves in straight
lines or curves. Attraction or repulsion is performed in
straight lines. Both united and operating upon each '
other mutuallv, produce a curve. 'fhe union of the two II
forces at all times tend to foim a sphere or circle. ·""
If we load a cannon with powder and ball, and over-
balance the attractive force of the powder by communi-
~ating to it magnetism in a state of repulsion, 01' what
is called caloric, the repulsive force will project the ball
into space, seemingly in a straight line, but the attract-
ive force operating upon the ball at the same.time, it ap-
proaches and lodges upon the earth. Here. when the
powder was in a state of attraction, the ball was at rest,
but by adding magnetism in a state of repulsion, in an
artificial manner, the repulsive force predominated for
a time, but attraction again overbalanced the repulsive
force, and it fell to the ground. Had there been no an-
tagonizing force to repulsion, and had the ball met with
no resistance, it would have continued in a straight Jinc
on a: line drawn parallel with eternity. But although
these forces are antagonized, yet their immutable law is,
for first one to predominate and then the other, as ex-
emplified in this instance. The ball then, from their
united forces described the segment of a circle, like all
other bodies operated upon by these united forces. It
is these same forces which dispose solid substances to
crystalize in different forms in nature upon the surface
and in the centre of the earth, into spheres, cubes and
so forth, with geometric precision. From the present
state of the science of chemistry, the imperfect know!·
edge we have nf the atomic theory of definite proPor-
tions, of crystalography, with the nov~lty ?f our doc-
trine and the unsettled state of the pubhc mmd upon ge-
neral principles, from. the vast and rapid. ~provements
in every branch of science and art, at this time, we are
001izodb1Google
~U.GNETJSM.
somewhat after all, lik'e the aged prisoner released from
the bastile-in darkness, though surrounded by an ex-
cess of light. But from the fact of the evolution oflight
during crystalization, of its disposing effects to com-
mence crystalization in compounds, as well as to break
them down and decompose them, can we not reasona-
bly infer that light is the great agent by which all forms,
figures, colors and textures in magnitudes are produced?
The great variety in nature, which are as numerous
.as the various figures from the successive throws of the
calidas<,'Ope, is undoubtedly owing to some peculiarity in
the primarv molecule, in the particular class of crys-
tals. Can we not at least imagine that from some yet
unknown law, from the primary molecule, connected
with the known law of light, (the angle of reflection
equal to the angle of incidence) that light, the magnetic
fluids, is the cause of all geometric Jines, and that the
present science is but art attempting to imitate nature?
Do we not clearly see that' the lines, angles, extremes
and point of equilibrium in the science, in comparison,
as well as the laws by which it is governed, and rules
by which it performed, correspood with the rules, laws
and operation of the same lines, aogles, extremes and
centres in ponderable matter from the operation of the
magnetic fluids1 The former performed by addition and
subtraction, and the latter by attraction and repulsion?
Both philosophicsynonyms; the one appertaining to mat-
ter, the other to mind, which is but the correspondence
of the internal with the externa~ and therefore is but
art mimicine nature. Crystallization is one of the most
beautiful and grand results of the operations of nature,
and when understo6d, will reTeal to U$ wonders hither-
to inconceivable.
Nature here divests herselfof all mystery, throws off
the complicated mantle of intricacy, and undisguised,
presents henelf as she really is, and leads and a$Siats us
to learn her by the light.of her own natural science-
Do1'zodbyGoogle /
BAGG O!'l
geometry. Will it not then delight genius to follow her
in her devious paths, behold her wonders, and treasure
up her knowledge in the great store-house of intel!e~t ~
Let the wise and reflecting judge.
CHAPTER XVII.
ELE~IE:STS OF LANGUAGE-GRAl\BIAfl.
lt has been shown that magnetism is governed by the
law of attraction and repulsion, that either move in
straight lines, but when both operate together they pro-
duce in matter, a circle, curve or sphere. This law is
general and regards all motions, or effects, in either the
animal, vegetable or mineral kingdoms, and is as appli-
cable to the operations of mind, as matter. In the very
elements 9f language, the signs of our ideas, which form
the chain of correspondence between spirit and matter,
the medium of connection between the internal and ex-
ternal, we find this characteristic operation of. the mag-
netic fluids ; and no matter whether the operation be
upon organized or inorganized matter, their effect is the
same. The signs of ideas in every written or print~
language are formed by direct straight lines, curves or
circles, and whether the impulse from the volition of
man, be carried to the paper or plate through the extre-
mity of the fingers, to make the impression, or by the
type or pen, the effect is the same. All signs ofour ideas
then, printed or written, mathematical, chemical or me-
chaniqal, conform to the same results, and a:re govern-
ed by the same law that governs matter, and correspond
with it. The combined effect of the magnetic forces in
matter, as we have seen, is to produce a sphere or cir-
cle,-therefore, the same cause that enables a man to make
a cypher, the letter o, or make a tub, forms a globe, or
generates a world. The ,.rchetypesor symbols.of thinga
Do1'zodbyGoogle
winch form ·language; thell. ate produced by these for-
ces. When formed they .are divided into two claaeee,
abtagooized to eaeh other,. like the poles of the magnet.
Orthography teaches two kinds of letters in the forma-
ailla:of words, vowels and oon11011an~ which, when qi.
fed (attracted together) form syllablea, syllables fonn
words, words sentences, and sentences discounes, which
form books. No word can be formed with one class,
RO more than a compass needle can be made to traverse
with one pole.,-a tune in music without a variation of
sound"'-11 galvanic batt.ery to operate with one plate, or
a· bird to fly with one wing-it would be like attempting.
to propel a steamboat with all cold, or all hot water, or
aolieipating a splendid speech from an individual per-
fectly and universally palsied throughout one half the
body, or making allthe signs of our ideas of straight lines
or circles. No word can possibly be formed from all
vowels or all consonants. It requires both to make them,
as much so as it does both magnetic forces, to form an
egg.or grow an apple. Syllables then, are compounds
ofAetters-the antagonizing signs of ideas, and in words
~ ·philosophically governed by the law of attraction
and repulsion. For example in spelling and pronounc-
iqg the word di-vis-i-bil-i-ty, as well as all others, the
90und is divided into distinctions of time, forming a mar-
ked contrast between the-commencement of one and ter-
mination of another. In this point of distinction the vow-
el is positive and the consonant negative ; both repel
those of their kind, or name, but attract each other, so
as to produce an effect, and make sense; whereas .the
Kirmer cannot be made to make a word, or sense. No
WC!rd ·can be made· exlusively of all one, or the other,
a.t;.aquire both. Thus oo bb means nothing, 11pells.nQ-
tliibg,,.:are nothing, but two:o's and .two b's; but if.we
puMlaem• together thsy naturally attract, make sense
and epell, and·are pronounced ob IUld ho. . So also.<tft~
whole .of.both cla8ses.. ,In pronooocing, ;ti.Q ~ is ·al-
6•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
BAGG OM
so not only antagonized, but the verv orgsn of the me·
chanism of the articulate sound also.· The sound of the
conwnant, is made or perfected from 'Within ootwatd,
and·the vowel from without inward. The machine has
twe antagonizing ~xtremese ·of locality, of commence-
ment and·te1mmat1on, of ·sound, as well as two·others
of manner. The two former the mouth and throat, the
latter is characterised (as in music)·by crascendo and
diminuendo. A syllable then·is a compound of the inte.-
grant particles of mind, attracted together so as to fonn
a word. A word is a compound··of. syllables attracted
t~ther to form parts of a sentence. A sentence is
composed of words, and are attracted together to fonn
discourse. Discourses form books. These discourses
are compou·nds of the elements of mind or ideas under a
variety of combinations of letters forming them, precise-
ly like the combinati?ns of the various simple substan·
ces of matter, of which they treat, represent, or are the
correspondences of, attracted together bv the same prin-
ci!)le and governed by the same law. Every law that
governs the operations of matter is applicable to that
language which expresses the ope~tions of that matter,
for the latter is hut the representative of the former;-
The theory of Dalton is as applicable to the ultimate a~·
oms or elements of.language. (letters) as it is to the ul-
timate atoms'of matter. They will not unite but in cer-
tain- definite proportions or combinations, to,fortr1 ·sense,
and are multiples, or divisors of each other, and cannot
be united according to rule (agreeable to orthography,)
in any other manner. · .
In the second part of grammar this principle is also
apparent. The main constituents'Of a sentience are·the
noun and verb, opposite in nature as the poies, vet'to
make sense and be grammatiea~ thev must agree with
each other in number and penon. The 011e the name
ofsomething :that exists, the other to·be, to do, or to
suffer from, or·fon;vhat dM uisL Yet these diamet-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
riM.lly'OtJPOsite 'Patts of:speech to make good language,
and pass the ordeal of scrutiny, must be attracted to-
gether and agree with each other in number and per-
~n. · Number comprehends one or more; if one it is
~1singular; if more than one, pluraJ. Here we find
~ciptc of attraction in the pluJ!al, and repulsion in
tlie singular; but,other terms·torumty and aggregation;
showing like matter, composition and decomposition, and
governed by the same law. Person also is antagonized
from the same principle-spoken to, and of. In case,
we find the same principle ; nominative, possessive and
objective. The two, extremes; and the other the line
between the two. The one active, the other passive,
and the third the equilibrium point. We observe two
kinds of conjunctions, conjunction attractors, or connect-
ors of the sense, and conjunctions. repellers or contrast-
ers of the sense. Prepositions at"e antagonized to each
other, as above-below, over-beneath, up-down, to-from,
by-of, over-under, before-behind, off-on, within-without.
Adverbs are also modifiers, or oontrastors, as once-twice,
first-secondly, here-there, anywhere-nowhere, upward-
downward, to-day-to-morrow, soon-never, wisely-fool-
ishly. Yerbs are active, passive and neut.er, showing
the two extremes, and the neutral point between the two.
Even the moods of verbs, as well as tenses, arc antago-
nized. The imperative with the potential, as he mav
go, go thou; the indicative within itself, as he loves, h~
i$ loved. In philosophy, there are but three distinct
moods of verbs; tho imperative, go thou;· p<itential, he
may go; indicative, he goes-between the extremes of
the two others. The subjunctive and infinitive are but
modifications of .the indie'ative, between which the line
of demarcation is not to us apparent. So also there are
,properly but three temies ; past, present and future.-
Here we h!lve the extremes and the equilibrium point of
·thne--the present. The other par.ts ofspeech, and some
of the above, are but so many substitutes, modifiers, con-_
0191t1zed oyGoogle
58 ·BAOO OH
trutol'll, qualifiers and definers to sustain the &Ubetantive
and verb, and when examined by our magnetic teat,
show the same principle running through the whole.-
But we are not writing a philosophic grammar, but show-
ing the universality of the magnetic principle, and that
all sciences and arts are based upon it, and governed by
the same law that go~ems the matter, which is the sub-
ject of those sciences and arts.
CHAPTER XVIII..
LOGIC.
If we examine into the art of reasoning, or Jogic, we
shall find the same general principle running through that
also, or that the filtration of truth from error is produ·
ced or performed, by comparing extremes of both, and
reducing them to an equilibrium as a test to discover one
from the other. " There are three operations of the
mind connected or concerned in argument. Simple ap-
prehension, judgment, and discourse or reasoning. Sim-
ple apprehension is the notion or conception of any ob-
ject in the mind, analogous to the perception of the sen·
ses. It is either incomplex or complex. Incomplex ap-
prehension is of one object, or of several, without any
relation being perceived between them; as of 'a man,'
'a horse,' 'cards.' Complex is of several, with such a
relation, as of' a man on horseback,' 'a pack of cards.'
Judgment is the comparing together in the mind, two of
the notions (ideas) which are the objects of apprehen-
sion, whether complex or incomplex, and pronouncing
that they agree or disagree with each other, or that one
of them belongs or does not belong to the other. Judg·
ment is therefore either affirmative or nega.,tive. . Re4·
aoning, or discourse, is the art of proceeding from -0oe
judgment to another, founded upon that·cme;.or the.re.-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGNl!ll'ISM.
sult of it. Language affords the. signs by which th09C
operations of the mind are expressed, and communica-
ted. An act of apprehension expressed in language~ is
called a term; an act of judgment, a proposition; an act
or reasoning, an argument ; which when regularly ex-
pres~d is u syllogism, as e. g. Every dispensation of
Providence is beneficial ;
Afflictions are dispensations of Providence,
Therefore they are beneficial,
is a syllogism ; the act of reasoning being ind:<'atcd by
the word 'therefore.' It consists of three propositions
each of which lias (nf'ccssady) t\rn terms, 'as benefi-
cial' 'dispensations of Prcv;dence,' &c. A syllogism be-
ing as aforesaid, rcsolrnbb into three propositions, and
each proposition containing two terms, of these terms
that whieh is spoken of is called the subject, that which
is said of it, the predicat~ ; and these two are called the
terms, (or extremes) hccau~c logically, the subject is
placed first, and the pie 1icate last; and in the middle the
copula, which indicates the act of judgment, as by it the
predicate is affirnwd or denied of the subject. The co-
pula must be either is, or is not, the substantive verb be-
ing the on!y verb recognized by logic, all others are re-
solvable by the verb to he and a participle or adjective;
e. g. 'the Romans conquered ;' the word conquered iR
both copula and predicate, being equivalent to 'were'
(cap.) 'victorious' (pred.). A term may consist of one
word, or more." A proposition then in logic is compo-
sed of two extremes and a copula or middle term, with
which these extremes arc composed, and by which re-
sult the inference or truth of a given question or subject
is discovered and noted." Although somewhat mecha-
nical, it is natural in its operation, and in comparison per-
fectly analogous to a compass needle in its mechanical
operation, and correspondence. The needle has its two
extremes ; a positive pole, and a negative one. So has
0191t1zed oyGoogle
60 DAGO ON
a propotition in logic. It has its two entemes and a
middle term with which each of them is separately com-
pared, to judge of their agreement or disagreement (at-
traction or repulsion) with each other. lf the middle
term agrees with the first it is affirmed of the question
or subject; if with the third it is denied. Now what is
this agreement but attraction, and disagreement but re-
pulsion, philosophically speaking. ls not the truth then
entirely dependent for its discovery on attraction? and
error on repulsion? Does not the whole mechanism of
a proposition in the effort to arrive at truth or error de- '
pend entirely on attraction or repulsion of the middle
term or copula with the first 7 Does not the copula stand
the same relation to the extremes of a proposition, that
the equator of the earth, or a compass needle does to
their extremes, or poles? The extremes of one are ter-
med positive and negative ; in the otheraffirmative and
negative. ls there philosophically any difterence in the
meaning, nature, or name of these extremes? Do they
not all hold the sama relation to their extremes one with
an other? Is there any difference? The effect and de-
tail of both are the same, and governed by the same
law. A proposition then is a sentence which affirms or
denies a thing, principle or subject. It is therefore like
the compass needle positive and negative. With regard
to matter it is true or false, (positive or negative). lt
is also universal or particular (singular or plural-addi-
tion and subtraction-simple and compound). "With
any given subject and predicate you may state four dis-
tinct propositions A, E, I, 0, any two of which are said
to be opposed. Hence there are four ,ciifforent kinds of
opposition; contradictories, contraries, sub-contraries
and subalterns,'' recorded in the books, the machinery
of which is complicated, hard to be understood, seldom
~ed, .and never should be, as they are not true in fact,
and are but the mere scintillations of ideality, and con-
fosing to the student. The whole of logic in its simpli-
6'1
city, conaists in anantagonistic principle of twoertremes,
varied like the compositions and decompositions of mat-
ter. There is but one kind of opposition, and that stands
opposed and diametrically antagonized to attraction-
repulsion ; and this law is the governing principle ofthe
art, under its different names and appearances. Syllo-
gisms like propos~tions are made up of three terms or
two extremes, and a middle . term which is twice sepa-
ra~ly compared with the extremes. Of these the sub-
ject of the conclusion is called the minor term ; its pre-
dicate, the major term ; and third the middle term.-
This comparison with the extremes is to judge of its
agreement or disagreement with each .other. If they
agree, it is affirmed, if they disagree, it is denied of the
subject, which is shown by the conclusion. Who can-
not see that the machinery of a syllogism to elicit or dis-
cover truth is precisely analogous to the magnet or com-
pass needle 1 both depending on the agreement or disa-
greement, attraction or repulsion ~,, It is made up also,
of three propositions and but three ; the major premiss
in which the major .term is compared with tRe middle ;
the minor premiss in which the minor term is compared
with the middle ; and third the.conslusion, in which the
minor term is compared with the major.'' A proposition
then in logic stands the same relation to a syllogism, that
a simple apprehension does to a proposition. The con-
clusions of both, are arrived at on comparison as above
determining on the agreement or disagreement of the ex-
tremes, or poles with the mid<;lle term. In .the first it is
comparison between simples, in the second between com-
pounds, and in their various operations, stand the same re-
lation to each other, that an elementary particle ofmatter
doesto the most complicated compound. The atomic the-
ory of definite proportions is as applicable to these appre-
hensions, in their formations into discourses or com~
pounds of judgment, as to matter. The discovery of
truth then, is the result of attraction, and error ofrepal-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
""-..
8.A.00 0111
sion. In other words troth attracts, or ~rees with truth,
but repels error ; whereas error or falsehood repels
truth, and disagrees with itself, and is therefore at ..U
times and under all circumstances universally repulsive.
But there is another mode or manner of reasoning at
the present day, which is more in general use, because
more simple, and better understood, and less liable on
that account to mislead. It is that of induction-the lo-
gic of common sense which consists in establishing a
proposition, subject or position, by a collection of facts
from the evidence of the senses.
The God of nature has given us five, and probably six
senses, (the sense of temperature as distinguished from
touch) to test a subject or principle, which senses are so
many evidences to the mind of the truth or falsehood of
a proposition, and following up nature in the light of
these senses, five well established facts, one from each
sense, is at all times sufficient to establish the truth, If
they agree it is affirmed of the proposition, if they disa·
gree it is denied, as thus; some fluid or principle caus·
es vegetabk"B to grow. 'l'hoy will not grow naturally
in our climate in winter, but will, in summer. Summer
is caused or produced by such a relative position, and
action between the sun and earth, that more light is pro-
duced up•m the earth than in winter. Light then makes
vegetables grow. But it has been found from observa·
tion and experience, that what is called caloric is neces·
sary for the growth of vegetables, for in summer there
is more heat than in winter, as well as light. From ex·
periment it has been found that electricity and galvan-
ism will grow vegetables, rapidly. Oxygen and hydro-
gen gasses are necessary to the germination of seeds,
and the growth of vegetables ; moisture is an indispen·
sable requisite in the germination of seeds and groWth
of plants. Electricity is light, and light is galvanism,
and galvanism is oxyl!en with hydrogen gas, and these
a.re caloric, and caloric is magnetism ·in a state of repul·
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAONJl'l'llM. 83
siou. Therefore magnetism in a state ofrepuleion is the
cauae of the growth of all vegetables. Theee are facts
from observation, experience and experiment, agreeing
with each other, as toucbing one effect-the growth .of
vegetation, which conclude& the subject, or rroposition,
and establishes the fact, from the decision o judgment,
that they all agree in producing the same effect, and
that similar effects are produced by similar causes, and
therefore that they are idenuca~ one and the same prin-
ciple-magnetism.
Again we are lead to examine an individual, and ob-
serve that he is cold and shrivelled, that he cannot see,
hear, touch, taste or smell, that his pulse does not beat,
nor his lungs heave, that he is destitute of motion, and
thought ; comparison at once contrasts these facts with
those known to constitute life, and judgment instanter
decides that he is dead. The conclusion here is arrived
at, by the disagreement of the symptoms or facts with
those of life, and judgment pronounces accordingly.-
Again, if we observe that an individual is warm, that
his pulse beats, that he has respiration, as V<ell as mo-
tion, but that he cannot hear, see, touch, taste or smell,
except through the senses of another, after deliberation
and reflection from .these facts, judgment decides that
one half agree with those of life, and the other half with
those of death, and is therefore in a dilemma. To ex-
tricate itself causality seeks for new ones to prove one
or the other. It then further discovers, that although
the natural senses are dumb, cataleps'd or palsied, yet
the mind, by the fact, is exalted far above its natural
state, so much so, that time, space, distance, magni-
mde, texture, &c., are annihilated, or a new sense by
the concentration of all these into one, is instituted, so
that the individual cannot only read at the top of the
hea<t, pit of the stomach, tips of the tinge~ but can see
through an opake solid., as•well as gas or liquid~ can look
to the .moon, and scale heaven i11e!f. After reflection
7
Do1'zodbyGoogle
64 . BAOO OJI(
has labored in vain to find an agreement with eithercon·
ditien, life or death, judgment decides that it is a 1tate
hithe1to unknown, an entire new condition of man upon
earth, aud impels causality and comparison to further
investigate the subject. This new condition is produced
by animal magnetism, and is one of the subjects to he
examined in the sequel
Can we not then see that the whole art of reasoning,
whether by syllogism or induction, is based upon the
natural attraction or repulsion of the facts, or evidence ,
together or from one another~ for or against it 1 That :
in the latter or common sense systetn of proofs, by ob-
servation, experience, and what not, if a sufficient nwn·
ber agree, it is affirmed, or proved, if they disagree itis
denied ; thus showing the antagonistic principle iµ lo-
gic, as well as every other sciimce, or principle in nn·
tnre.
CHAPTER XIX.
VEGETABLE LIFE.
That the germination of seeds, and growth of veget·
ables, are owing to the magnetic fluids, admits of no :
doubt~
Plants or trees will not grow in winter without arti· ,
ficial heat and light, neither will they thrive, keep heal· ,
thy, and come to maturity in the dark with heat alone.
A certain or due quantity of both, then, are n~essary
for the cultivation and growth of all vegetables, of dif:.
ferent classes in nature. Such is the relative situation
of the earth with respect to the sun in spring, that a
greater quantity of light or magnetism beams upon, or
is attracted to the earth, where being absorbed by im·
ponderable matter, attraction and repulsion recommen·
ces with increased energy, and the seeds of the new, as
Do1'zodbyGoogle
ltJAGNB'l'l8M.
vvell as the roots of the old, begin to grow and shoot
forth up and down, laterally and around, or between
the extremes of the two. If the season be favorable,
and proper care be taken to cultivate them, some come
to maturity in oae season, some in part of a season or
summer, while others take longer, varying from these
to a century for their perfection. " The seed or egg
of a plant is eometim~s naked, and sometimes covered
with a pericarp, from whence plants are Clivided into
two grand arrangements, of gymnospermous and angi-
ospermous. The pericarp is of various forms and struc·
tures. On taking off the pericarp we find the seed to
consist internally ofa corculum or heartlet, and external·
ly, of a fleshy, or parenchymatous substance, surround·
ed with a double integument, sometimes single, some·
times bifid, and sometimes more than bifid, and hence
denominated monocotyledonous, dicotyledonous, polyco.
tyledonous. In common language these are called seed·
leaves or seed·lobes. It was formerly supposed by some,
that there was some orders of plants destitute of cotyl·
edons, but it is now believed to be universal~ as it seems
to be necessary for the germination and foture growth
of the seed, and hence has.been denominated its lungs
or placentule. Like the perfect plant it possesses lym·
phatics and air vessels. Through the former it ab.
sorbs moisture from the soil in which it is plunged, de·
composes a part of it into its elementary principles, and
conducts those principles, together with the undecom·
posed water, to the corcle or heartlet, which becomes
stimulated to the process of germination, by the oxygen
thus set at liberty. According to experiments detailed
at the National Institute (LortdoI1) by Mr. Mirble, the
soil and albumen in the cotyledon are both concerned in
the development of the germ; and both contribute con·
jointly, till the albumen is entirely absorbed, at which
time the planthas strength to derive from the soil or.at-
mosphere the nourishment it requin~s from thi11 p~riod.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
66 BAGG ON
It is the corcle which is the true punct.
um salie11.s of ve·
getable life says Dr. Good, and to this the cotyledon is
subservient. The corcle consists of two parts, an as-
cending and a descending ; the former is called its plu·
mule which gives birth to the trunk and branches, the
.latter named its rostel which gives birth to its root and
radicles. The position of the corcle in the seed, is al~
ways in the vicinity of the hilum or eye, which is a cic·
atrix or umbilicus remaining after separation of the fu-
nis or umbilical cord from the pericarp, to which the
seed has hereby been attached. The first radical.or
germinating branch of the rostel uniformly elongates,
and pushes into the earth, before the plumule evinces
any change. Like the cotyledon, the radicles consist
chiefly oflymphatics and air vessels, which serve to se-
parate the water from the soil, in order that the oxygen
may be separated from the water. Hence originates
the root the most important part of the plant, and which
in some sense may be regarded as the plant itself ; for
if the root remain uninjured, if any other part of the
plant be destroyed, this organ will regenerate and the
whole plant be renewed; hut if the root perish, the plant
becomes irrevocably lost, yet there are various pheno-
mena in vegetable life that manifest a smaller difterence
in the nature of the root and the trunk, than we should
at first be disposed to suppose ; for there are several
&J>Elcies. ·
Willoughby observed more than a century ago, that
in several species and especially the prunus and salix.,
-0herry and willow tribes, if the stem branches be bent
down to the earth, plunged into it, and continued in this
situation for a few months, these branches will throw
forth radicles, and if, after this, the original root be dug
up, and suffered to ascend into the air, so that the whole
plant becomes completely inverted, the or~nal root will
throw forth stem-branches and bear the wild fruit pecu·
llar to ita tribe. The solid piuU of the trunk consists·Of
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MA01'4-ETl8X. 67
cortex, cuticle, or out.er bark; liber, cutis, or inner bar~
>"aJburnum, or soft wood ; lignum. or hard wood ; anil
medulla or pith. The pith was supposed to correspond
•to the spinal marrow of animals; at any rate it seems to
be an admirable reservoir for moisture, and of the great-
'est importance to young plants that are more or less
destitute of leaves, to preserve them from drought. Its
surface is covered with air cells and lymphatics. This
pith as the plant grows older and acquires leaves is of
less necessity, becomes obliterated by the surrounding
lignum which grows in concentric circles, and the trunk
enlarges by the formation of a new liber or inner bark
every year. The whole of the liber ofone year, except-
ing indeed its outermost layer, which is transformed in-
to cortex, becoming the alburnum ot the next, and the
alburnum becoming the lignum. Such is the common
theory of the growth of plants, and it seems to be well
supported by observation and experiment.'' The age of
a tree may be known by counting its concentric layers
or circles ; one circle for each and every year. Inde-
pendantly of these more solid parts of the tnmk or stem,
we generally meet with some portions of parenchyma
or cellular membrane, and always with the different sys-
tems of vegetable vessels disposed in common and uni-
form arrangement. The lower order of plants, indeed
such as the annuals, and biennials, consist almost exclu-
si\·ely of parenehyma or cellular substance, with an in-
ner and outer bark and the respective vessels of the ve-
getable system. These vessels are adducent and redu-
cent, orarteries and veins. Many of these may be seen
by the naked eye, and especially the sap vessels ; and
the va8eular structure· of the whole has been sufficient-
h' pr-0ved•by Gessner by the means of the air pump.-
The reducent or returning vessels are stated by Sir E.
Smith, to bring back the elaborated sap from the leaves
to the liber tor the new layer of the existing year. The
lympha~s lie immediately unde:r the cuticle and in the
i•
0191t1zed oyGoogle
68 BAOO ON
~uticle. They anastomose in different ways through
their minute intermediate branches, and by surroundinrr
the aperture of the cuticle, perform the alternating econ-
omy of inhalation and exhalation. Their direction varie
in different species of plants, but is always uniform in the
same species. Immediately below these, lie the addu-
cent vessels or arteries, they are the largest of all the
vegetable vessels, arise immediately from the root, and
communicate nutriment in a perpendicular direction, and
when the stem of a plant is cut horizontally they instant-
ly appear in circles. Interior to these lie the reducent
vessels or veins, which are softer, more numerous, and
more minute than the arteries ; and in young shoots run
down through the cellular texture and the pith. Be-
tween the arteries and veins, are situated the air vessels,
as they were formerly called ; but which Dr. Darwin
and Mr. Knight have sufficiently proved to contain, not
air in their natural state, but sap. They seem to be the
genuine lacteals issuing from the root, as in animal ,
they issue from the villous coating of the intestinal ca-
nal. They are delicate mcmbraneous tubes, stretching
in a spiral direction, the folds being sometimes close to
each other, and something more distant, but generally
growing thicker towards the root, and especially in lig-
neous plants. These vessels are very minute, and ac-
cording to numerous observations of Hedwig made.with
the microscope, seldom exceed a 290th part of a line or
a 3000th part of an inch in diameter. The lymphatic
of a plant may be often seen with great ease, by mere•
ly stripping off the cuticle with a delicate hand, and then
suhjecting them to the microscope, and in the course of
the examination, we are also frequently able to trace the
existence of a great multitude of valves, by the action
of which, the apparatus of the lymphatics are common-
ly found closed. ·whether the other systems of vegeta-
ble vessels possess the same mechanism, we have not
lx·en able to determine decisively. The following ex-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAONl:TISM. 69
periment, however, should induce us to conclude that
they do. If we take the stem of a common balsamine,
(or of various other plants,) and cut it horizontally at its
lower end, and plunge it so cut into a decoction of Bra-
zil wood, or any other colored fluid, we shall perceive
that the arteries or adducent vessels, as also the lacteals
will become filled or injected by an absorption of the
colored liquor; but that the veins, or reducent vessels.
will not become filled, of course evincing an obstacle in
this direction to the ascent of the colored fluid. But if
we invert the stem, and in like manner cut horizot1tally
the extremity which till now was uppermost, and plunge
it so cut into the same fluid, we shall then perceive that
the veins will become injected or sutler the fluid to as~
cend, and that the arteries will not; proving clearly the
same kind of obstacle in the course of the arteries in
this direction, which was proved to exist in the veins in
the opposite direction ; and which reverse obstacles we
can scarcely ascribe to any other cause than the exist-
ence of valves. By this double set of vessels, moreo-
ver, possessed of an opposite power, and acting in an
opposite direction, the one to convey the sap or vegeta-
ble blood forwards, and the other to bting it backwards,
we are able very sufficiently to establish the phenome-
non of a circulatory system ; and according to several
of the experiments of Wildenow, it seems probable that
this circulatory system is maintained by the projectile
force of a regular and alternate contraction and dilata-
tion of the vegetable vessels. But their great minute-
ness must ever render it extremely difficult to obtain
anything like absolute certainty upon the subfect."-
Thus then, from the anatomy and physiology of plants,
we discover that they have two sets of vessels throuah-
out their whole systems like animals, antagonized0
to
each other. The adducents and reducents, the absorb-
ents and secernents, the veins and arteries, or the at-
tracters and repellers, one set to absorb nourishment
Do1'zodbyGoogle
70 BAGG ON
from the earth and carry it to every part, and another
set to return it again, another set to absorb from the
surface and carry it to the centre, and another set to
carry it from the centre to the surface ; showing like
every other system in nature, that they have a cent~
and circumference ; that there is constantly a force go-
ing from one to the other, both operating at the same
time, but that sometimes one predominates, and some-
times the other, that, that force which operates from the
circumference to the centre is attraction, and that from
the centre to the circumference repult1ion, and that from
the joint action of these antagonized to each other, the
plant thrives, grows, and comes to maturity ,or are inter-
rupted orbroke up in their action, and the vegetable dies
and goes to decomposition. " , ,
It will also be R
een and remembered that the corc/fls
the true punctum saliens of vegetable life, and thnt it
consists of two parts, an ascending part, and a descend-
ing part. The ascendin~ is called its plumulc, nnd its
descending, its rostcl. 'I he plumule gives birth to the
trunk and branches ; the rostel to the root and radiclNi
'The radicle like the cotyledon is possessed oflymphatic9
and air vessels, and the first action to be discovered is
the decomposition of water by this function or organi
the oxygen and hydrogen gases are separated from
each other, the two electricities are set at liberty, the
play of affinities and repulsions commence, the rndicle
is attracted to the earth and elongates into its bosom,
its stomach, and the plumule is repelled by the root and
attracted by the sun to elongate and grow into atmoSi'
pheric air. This then, is the commencement of too
growth of all plants in nature, and the manner and pr04'
cess by which they commence life. We have seen a1-
that the development of the germ, is a mutual effect fr6nt•
tke joint action, or sympathy or attraction between tire
albumen of the cotyledon and the soil, until the forme't'
ie entirely ·absorbed. This absorption by the soil is a&:
IUONETUIM. 71
traction, and all attractions arc succeeded by repulsions,
in nature, at all times and under all circumstances.-
Vegetables then, commence their growth by the attrac-
tion between certain constituents of the seed, with a
certain principle of the soil as above, and its life and an-
imation commences and is carried on by the two antag-
onizing forces of magnetism or electricity. These air
cells, lymphatics, vessels and all, correspond very mate-
rially with the organs and systems ofanimals, and burst
into life in the same manner, or by ·the same necessary
p~ordial process, of first attraction and then repulsion.
These vessels carry and return the sap to every part of
the plant which constitutes its nutrition. The sap then
stands the same relation to the plant, that the blood does
to animals. Its growth from the sap or blood, is produ-
ced by the action of its organs in the same manner.-
The plaRt is a system of cognate systems, a grand sys-
tem of centres and circumferences, united and forming
one compound system of centres and circumferences,
into one plant of one centre and circumference. In the
round of circulation, each organ or part, attracts what
is necessary for its use, and parts with some of its own,
and thereby, and by this system of attraction and repul-
sion, selects from the general stock a material for its own
use and sustenance, and contributes to the maintenance
of the whole.
This sap or blood is composed differently in different
classes of plants. In some the bitter principle prevails.
while in others the saccharine is predominent. In some
a redundancy of acid prevails ; in others alkali. These
are a few of the most prominent classes, but their vari-
ety is as extensive as their orders and species. These
plants, having as proved by Hales, perspiratory vessels,
secrete upon their skin or surface, different substances,
as sugar, acid, gums and resins. He proved that some
vegetables perspire an immense quantity. "It was de-
termined by this philosopher, by experiment, that a sun-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
BAOO ON
flower weighing only three pounds throws off by that
cutaneous emunctory, twenty-two ounces of perspirable
matter in twenty-four hours ; wh~reas Keil by a very
accurate set of experiments ascertained, that in his own
person, he perspired in the same time, but thirty-one
ounces." Keil! ate and drank four pounds and ten oun-
ces in the twenty-four hours, seventeen times more nour-
ishment was taken in bv the roots of the sunflower than
was taken in by the man, which shows the enormouscx-
~enditure o~ plants, and th&:t they require a larger quan-
tity of nounshment than ammals. ,
\yarious have been the conjectures and numerous the
theories in reference to the circulation of the blood or
fluids in vegetables. Grew ascribed the assent of the
sap to its levity ; as though acting with the force of a
vapor ; Malpighi, to an alternate contraction and dilita-
tion of the air contained in what he erroneously con-
ceived to be air vessels; Perault to fermentation; Hales
and Tournefort, to capillary attraction not one of
which theories however, as Dr. Thompson has ably es-
tablished, will explain the fact better than another ; and
himself is as wide of the mark perhaps as either the oth-
ers, as he has also a probability of a contractile power
in the various vessels distributed so wonderfully over
the vegetable frame, that a contractile power may exist
independently of muscular fibres, we have abundant
proofs even in the animal system itself. We see it in
the human cutis or skin, which though totally destitute
of such fibres, is almost forever contracting or relaxing
upon the application of a variety of other powers; pow~
ers external and internal, and totally different in their
mode of operation. Thus, austere preparations and se-
vere degrees of cold, contract it very sensiblv; heat, oo"
the contrary. and oleaginous preparations as sensibly re-
lax it. The passions of the mind exercises a still more
powerful effect over it, for while it beeomes corrugated
by fear and horror, it is smoothed and lub1icated by plea·
Do1'zodbyGoogle
~ONSTUJllll 73
aUTet·and violently agitated arid con.vulsedby rage or an-
ger.
· Yet, could it be proved even, that the vessels ofplants
are incapable of being made to contract by any power
whatever, still should we have no great difficulty in con-
ceiving a circulatory system in animals or vegetables
without any cause, while we reflect that one half of the
circulation of bloodin man himself is accomplished with-
out any such contrivance ; and this too the more diffi-
cult half, since the veins through the greater extent of
their course, have to oppose the attraction of gravitation
instead of being able to take advantage of it. It is in the
present day however, a well known fact and has been
sufficiently ascertained by the late Dr. Parry, of Bath,
and on the continent by Prof. Dollinger that the con-
tractile power of the muscular fibres is not called into
action even bv the arteries in the course of the ordina-
ry.circulation'of the blood. Since, as we shall have oc-
casion to observe, no increase of size or change of bulk
of any kind takes place in arteries, either in the contrac-
tion or dilatation of the heart's ventricles in a state of
health, unless they are pressed upon by the finger, or
some other cause of resistance." "ln what part of the
plant the vital principle chiefly exists, or to what part it
retires during winter, we know not, but we are just as
ignorant in respect to animal life ; in both it operates to-
wards every point. It consists in the whole,.an<l resides
in the whole, says Dr. Good, at the commencement of
the eighteenth century, one of the best writers of Eu-
rope. Had he lived te become acquainted with the fact
of the identity of the imponderables, he would have been
at no loss to account for the phenomena. The vital
principle doeiJ not retire to any particular locality in win-
ter ; it is only attraction predominating over repulsion,
whereas in summer repulsion predominates. The tree
does not die in winter, but like the bear or dormouse
comparatively sleeps by the above preponderance of at-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
74 BAOO ON
traction over repulsion. The same calise that prod•1•
the cold of winter, the cold fit of fever and ague, is tho
cause of the quiescence of the plumule or trunk of a tree
(attraction) and the cause of heat in summer, the hot fit
of fever and ague is the cauee ofthe [activity andgrowth
of the plumule in summer (repulsion). Both forces op-
erate at the same time, yet one predominates over the
other in summer, the other in winter. Hence these for·
ces are the cause of all formations, animal, vegetable,
and mineral, their joint action as we have seen is to pro-
duce a circle, a ring, a tube, a globe, a world. . ·
In proof of this we cite the rotary magnetic whee) of
Davenport, Cook and others ; the ball shot from the
cannon, the spherical form of rain, shot, globules of mer-
cury, the ultimate atoms of the earth, and the earth as
a whole, to be in this form, and we might add the eggs
of all oviperous. as well as the young of all other an).
mals, to participate of this form, as well as all plants,
flowers, leaves and seeds. ,·•...,..
The anatomy of vegetables shows that they have aB-
tagonizing vessels like animals, to carry the sap or blood
to the extremities and to return it again; (veins and.ar·
teries,) and the force or impulseand nourishment, is heat;
light and moisture. The first commencement of germi·
nation is an attraction of the albumen of the seed with
the water of the soil, and that agreeable to the immuia.
hie law of magnetiw, that repulsion succeeds to attra&
tion, and that this principle of action and reaction, 00..
ed upon this principle, was the cause of the growth of
all vegetables as well as animals. Were it owing to any
other principle but light and heat, (and by these agenta,
the decomposition of matter,) vegetation would flourish
and come to maturity in winter as well as summer.-
But vegetation in our climate without artificial light and
heat, cannot be inade to grow in winter. Thus then,
plants ·are made up of centres and circumferences, with
vessels going to, and coming from, every rrunute part
Do1'zodbyGoogle
HAGNETl8M. 75
through which the sap 'is ciicolated by the foree ·or· im-
pulse from the magnetic fluids. These centripetal and
oontrifugal forces; produce, agreeable to the laws ofmag-
netism, which we have seen to be the cause of all me-
chanical power, a resultant force in a perpendicular di-
rection from the centre both ways, like the current to-
wards the poles, or that from the stomach of animals to-
wards the extremities, which elongates the plumule in
one direction into atmospheric air, above the surface,
.and the radicle in another, into the bosom of the earth.
These forces also increase its bulk laterally, as may be
··eeen in the onion, and concentric circles of the tree.-
'They also send off shoots which start off in tangents be-
tween these horizontal and/erpendicular forces, term-
ed branches. It is admitte on all hands, published in
our best botanical works, and taught in our schools, that
plants, shrubs, trees and all, absorb oxygen during the
night and repel it during the day, and absorb carbonic
acid during the day, and repel it during the night; thus
-showing, that they are the absorbing and secreting sur-
faces, and so far as the material or principle is concern-
ed must be produced by these forces, by the law of at-
traction and repulsion.
.
: . None will deny the necessity of moisture for the ger-
mination of seeds and growth of trees and plants ; ex- ·
perience has long since !'lettled that question. Moisture
is a compound of oxygen and hydrogen gases, compound
substances·of oxygen, hydrogen, and the two different
kinds of light or electricity, and the manner they con-
~ribute to the nourishment of the plant is by the decom-
position of their elements, and a liberation of the elec-
tric fluids in their passage through these vessels, which
eonetitnte their life ; ·for that consists in motion produ-
bed by this principle. But in·another light, " carbonic
acid'-
' is absorbed (hiring the day and 'repelled during the
·night." Thie substance is ~omposed of·<YXygen and car-
·bon, and by the experiments of M. Puolett, in;hown to
8
•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
76
be positive, or in a d.diQstent electric.al or ~etiic state
from oxygen gas. It is alao said that light wi.i.tes with
th.e oxygen in vegetables during the day, which causes
it to fly off in gas, and is attracted back in the night,
thus alternating or taking turns with carbonic acid in
its attractions and repulsions. However this may be, it
is clear that either from the plant, or the light of day,
contrasted with night, or. both, that the plant like the
lungs of animals, and the earth, as we have before seen,
so operates as to change the light or magnetism from
the sun, from a positive to a negative state, and that from
the law of the principle, as soon as the equilibrium takes
place in the vegetable with these forces, repulsion take$
place, and its opposite, the carbonic acid is attracted,
an equilibrium again takes place between the plant and
the electricity or magnetism -0f this compound, and that,
from the same law is repelled, and oxygen is attracted,
and thus these motiona, actions and effects, from these
alternations of attractions and. repulsions, governed by
the rule as before mentioned, ·of first one prepondera-
ting and then the other, is the cause of the germination
and growth of the vegetable kingdom. Plants like ani-
mals, seem to rest or sleep during the night and awake
in the morning to meet the smiling beams of his rising
Majesty with attraction. Many of them like the morn-
ing-glory, open and expand on the abso_rption of light,
and contract to rest during the night in its absence.-
Light renders them healthy, gives them color, and makes
them thrifty. Many blossom and come to matunty soon,
in a few weeks ; others require a season, or summer,
while others require two, others three, (annual, bienni-
al, &c.) whi~ others like a hoary headed veteran, take a
century like the flowering aloe, to grow, blossom, -come
to maturity, death ana decay. In conellusion; we will
observe that the tender saplings, twigs and leaves, like
iron filings upon the repulsiv~ p<>le o{ a magnet, stand-
ing .out in aU directions li1'e .re.<lii from the..ceutre, -are
'
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAONETl8a 77
all thrown offand stand in every direction (except down,)
but in winter by the antagonizing force of attracti&n
overbalancing repulsion, the leaves fall off, it ceases to
grow, the sap current is attracted towards the earth till
spring, when the stimulating beams of the sun again cau-
ses the repulsions to overbalance like the balance beam
of a pair of scales, the attractions, and it again shoots
forth into atmospheric air and grows, and comes to ma-
turity. Ladies and those who are in the habit of rear-
ing house plants for health, ornament, and the cultiva-
tion of the science of botany will bear witness to the at-
traction ofplants for light, for the sun. Unless they are
frequently changed in position, they grow crooked, ug-
ly and ill formed. From what we have seen, is not the
irresistable conclusion ofthe mind, that the magneticprin-
ciple or fluids is the cause of vegetable life 1 Is there
anyprinciple except a self equalizing one that could bring
from the germ, a plant to maturity1 What other self
equalizing imponderable agent can be found in nature,
but light, caloric, magnetism and electricity1 Have we
not clearly demonstrated these to be one, identical, to
be magnetism 1 Magnetism then, is the cause of veget-
able life.
•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
.PART SECOND.
CHAPTER I.
.&IQlliL LIP&
We have said that animal life was ·the result of the ac-
tion of the magnetic fiuids. In order to prove it, we
choose man as the animal best fitted for our purpose.-
The anatomy andphysiology of his system, and the for-
mation of his mind, are not only of the greatest import-
ance~ but best understood. The mind and body are so
intimately connected and united that when one is diseas-
ed and disturbed the other is affected also. A living and
dead man differ by the former havin~ heat, thought.
sensation and motion, while the latter is destitute of all
these characteristics. Life then: consists in heat, thought,
sensation and motion. That agent that produces these,
is the cause of life. Man then, thus animated is endow-
ed with an aptitude or susceptibility of being so opera-
ted upon by external objects, and internal agents, as to
produce heat, thought, sensation and motion. When an
object produces this but once, it is termed an impression;
but when it is frequently repeated and associated with
other impressions, we are said to accustom ourselves to
them, and when these have been continued for a suffi-
cient length of time to give laws to the system it is ter-
med habit. Habit therefore ,i,s only the result of custom,
and stands the sam~ relation to it, that custom does to
impressions, and all stand the same to conduct and char-
.acter, that letters, !lyllables .aqd words do to .sentences.
'fhe drclE(.of these..ass~iated habits ~w~,.th~ conduct
s• . .
Do1'zodbyGoogle
80 BAGG OM
of the individual, and this conduct, character, which
forms, makes and marks the man. Whenever an im-
pression is made upon the system, it is either pleasant
or uneasy, pleasurable or painful. This feeling is term-
ed sensation. Thoughts are either good or bad, virtu-
ous or vicious. Motions are either upward or down-
ward, to or from, east or west, north or south, or be-
tween the two, which in each and all, show them to be
antagonized. If in sensation the impression be agreea-
ble, we will to receive, and repeat it; if painful, we de-
sire to dislodge, shun it, and cease to have it again pro-
duced. The former is from without inward, and the
latter from within outward. The former constitutes the
centripetal force ; the latter the centrifugal; the former
i performed by attraction, the latter by repulsion ; ei-
ther of which produces motion. This motion which is
the effect of will, is termed volition. Volition therefore
is the effect of sensation, and is antagonized in itself, as
"\VC have before seen. Sensation commences in the cir-
cumference or extremities, and terminates in the centre.
Yohtion on the contrary commences in the centre and
terminates in the circumference or extremities. ensa-
tion and volition arc not only antagonized in themselves,
by two extremes, but antagonized to each other also.
All our original ideas, education and knowledge, arc the
efiect of sensation, and are obtained by attraction. All
our efforts and display of conduct from our education
and knowledge, are produced by volition, and the effect
of repulsion. After having received from sensation our
original ideas, volition recombines them and by the union
of the two, forms compound and complex ideas. This
is termert reflection. From these two centripetal and
centrifugal forces, arise not only the operations of mind
and body, but the phenomena of life itself. The cause
of these are the magnetic fluids, which we shall endeav-
or to show from his anatomy and physiology, as well as
by comparison with the vegetable world, and the earth
Do1'zodbyGoogle
lllAGNETlflJI, 81
·fMrelf, These•forces b6th' ediMtantly·act,. not only on
every minute part, but upon the whole 'system at the
\!ame time. Sometimes t~y are equal to one ·another
in force, and sometimes one predominates -over the oth-
er. ·When their force is equat in the system to one an-
other, they may be said to be in a state of equilibrium.
When· the centripetal predominates over the centrifugal
to any great .extent, the system is languid, oppressed.
cold, and the mind impotent and thoughtless. When the
·centrifugal predominates to any considerable extent in
the system, the person ·becomes thoughtful, hot, and
strong. Good health consists in their being equally bal-
anced, or when they are in a state of equilibrium. Ill
health on the contrary when they are in either extreme,
or when one overbalances the other, and continues for
any considerable time. Direct debility is the result of
the predominancy of the centripetal force over the cen-
trifugal, and indirect debility from that of the centrifu-
gal over the centripetal. Life is called a forced state of
existence, for unless we eat, or drink, or both, or take
nourishment we die. What we take for nourishment
produces excitement ; this excitement is the sum of mo-
tions, or actions of the vessels from these forces. The
manner in which it is produced is by attraction and re-
pulsion on the decomposition of the force and the action
between its elements, and the elements of the system,
thereby setting into motion the magnetic fluids. Al-
though the food of man is different, and is presented in
a variety of forms, solid, liquid, and aeriform, yet it may
be reduced, to generally but fonr elementary principlm1,
carbon, oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen; the three for-
e compose the most, or greatest share by far, the el-
~nts of the food of man. The human system then,
-..,.be called a large circle, made up and composed of
Walmost innumerable number ofsmaller circles. Eve-
tfmrcle is composed of a centre'and circumference, and
but one. These smaller circles dlen, have each a cen-
0191t1zed oyGoogle
82 •.tQO ON
tre and circumference of their own, dietinct in <>ne 11enee,
but alike in another, receiving from the general system
a material for its own uee, benefit and support, but yet
in its tum contributing to the support and benefit of the
whole. They are so arranged in the system by the an-
imal economy, by their situation and action, that they
fonn a scale of degrees, rising one above another in a
continuous line from the alimentary canal up to the brain
and nerves. They are as different in their texture. struc-
ture, form, and mechanism, as they differ in their action
and number, but yet so connected and influenced by all,
and one another, as to contribute by their harmonious
action, to the general support of the whole. There are
in the body no two alike, (except its antagonist on either
side) yet the action of the whole individually, or collec-
tively, is performed by the same means, the same prin-
ciple.
The action of each, like that of the whole, is perform-
ed by two forces, both acting at the same time, and, as
before observed, of the whole system in the same man-
ner, and vary from an equilibrium to two extremes, and
vice versa. The first circle on which the food com·
mences to operate, as well as be operated upon, is the
alimentary canal, and from this to the brain in the fol·
lowing order: Alimentary canal, obsorbent circle, pul·
monary circle, general arterial and venous circle, capil-
lary circle, membraneous and lymphatic circle, glandular
circle, portal circle, pancreatic circle, spleenic circle, and
last and not least, the nervous circle. We commenced
in the order in which the the food was received and
propelled, qr attracted throughout the system, but find
it difficult, as from the simultaneous action of all from
the moment the food pa$ses into the general circulation,
to follow it tlmmgh all its successive circles ; but en~
have beei;a mentioned to.give an idea of thifJ oomplicat8d
1y11tem of heterogeneous organs, of circles.made op Df
QeQtr~s Qd ar®~fe~nces. .The centre of the a;limen-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGNETJSl\I. 83
tary canal is the stomach ; of the obsorbent system, the
thoracic duct; of the pulmonary system, the right heart;
of the general circulation, the left heart ; and to pass
over the remainder, which will be sufficient for our
present purpose, the centre of the nervous system is
the brain. The food then received in ot the mouth, and
in its passage, operated upon by all these organs, as well
as operating upon them in such a manner as to be de-
composed, recombined and refined through all this con-
catenated chain of circles, until it arrives at the brain,
where it is so sublimated and exalted as to be made
capable for the operations of mii:id.
CHAPTER II.
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY.
The anatomy and physiology of man both go to show
that life is produced and continued by the operation of
the magnetic fluids. Anatomy demonstrates that man,
so far as his organs of sensation and voluntary motion
are concerned, at least, is made double. We therefore
find that he has a right and left side, and in one sense,
two brains, (two hemispheres,) two ears, two mouths;
two eyes, two noses, two arms, two legs, and two sets
of muscles and nerves, one on either side, as well as
two sets of arteries and veins, as well as absorbents,
lymphatics, secernents, glands, membranes, &c. &c. &c.
In addition to this double arrangement, we next remark
that each and every org:m of the body, even to the
heart itself, has a vessel conveying red blood to every
part of it, and another, commencing at the terminations
of these minute branches, taking it up again and carry-
ing it back to the general mass, leaving in the organ
what by attraction it required for its use, and·parting
·with some of its own in return. Thia organ, we per-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
84 BAGG Oft
·'
ceive, has another set of ve8sels, of a le• size, car-
rying a different kind ()f fluid, separated from the
red blood by the membranes and glands called lymph,
and another set to carry back to the general mass what
is not needed for use. If we commence at the centre,
at the righ heart, or ventricle, we find the pulmonary
artery terminates in minute ramification too minute for
the naked eye to discover, and where these minute
arteries terminate, equally minute veins commence, to
carry tne blood back to the heart. The blood being
changed in the lungs, and attracted back to the heart,
the latter being in a negative state and the heart in a
positive, the moment the blood comes in contact with it,
an equilibrium takes place between them, they both
become positive, and the heart immediately contracts
again upon, and repels it to every part of the system,
to every minute part of the circumference, to the capil-
lary circle, which is a system between the extremes of
the arteries and commencement of the veins, where it
is again absorbed by the veins, and returned to the right
auricle, from thence to the right ventricle, where it is
again repeJled to the lungs through the pulmonary artery
as before, and so on. ·A short distance from the heart,
in its passage back, it receives the chyle or food, in a
milky form and color, both of which are mingled to.-
gether, and are attracted to the right auricle, repelled
to the right ventricle, an equilibrium again takes praoe,
the ventricle again contracts and repels the blood through
the pulmonary .artery to the lungs, where it is again
renewed and altered, it is again absorbed by the pulmo-
nary veins and ·returned to the heart. The circulation
then, of the blood, is performed through two sets of
vessels, antagonized to each-the arteries and veins.
.
The former, the tubes or vessels of repulsion; the latter,
those of attraction. The former the medium of ce,....
trifugal force, the latter, the centripetal. Thus then;
the anatomy and physiology oi the circulatiOD of the
Do1'zodbyGoogle
M"'GN&1'1ftf,
blood shews that it is performed by two forces antago-
nized to each other, through two kinds of vessels, also
antagonized to each other. In addition to the veins and
arteries, we remark another set of vessels, also antago-
nized in their action, diametrically to each other : the
absorbents and sccernents : The former arc probably
conterminations of the veins, and the latter of the arte-
ries; and bear the same relation to each other that the
arteries and veins do to one another. They accompany
every part of the frame, and being thus extensive, form
no inconsiderable part of the system itself. They are
also divided into lymphatics and lacteals, from the par-
ticular fluids they convey. The secernents separate
and throw out a fine lymph from the surface of all
membranes to keep them lubricated, and the absorbents
to attract and take up the superabundance, or remains
of what is left. The nice balance and harmony between
the action of these, as well as the arteries and veins,
constitute good health. Disease, therefore, is a want
of this equilibrium between them. If the secernents
act with too much energy and violence, while the ab-
sorbents are too inactive, congestions, dropsies and
swellings, or enlargements ensue. If the absorbents
act, on the contrary, too powerfully, and the secernents
are torpid, a wasting and reverse takes place. If both
act at once with an increased energy, to a certain ex-
tent, inflamations are the result. Thus then, the pro-
cess of nutrition and assimulation, as well as the general
health of the system, the former of which constitutes
no inconsiderable part or portion of the animal economy
of human life, are produced, continued and kept up by
the action of two sets or classes of vessels, antagonized
to each other, the health of which depends upon a due
balance or relative action between them, or what we
have termed an equilibrium ; which equilibrium or
equality of forces depends upon the magnetic fluids.
All the organs of the body have absorbent and secre-
oo1'zodbyGoogle
BAGG ON
ting faculties, are assimulating organs, or are capable
of separating from the blood its own nourislunent, and
converting it into its own nature, for its own use, and
also in addition of secreting a material different from
its own, for the subsistence of the general system, as
well as what is noxious to itself and whole system.
These vessels and organs may, relatively to each other,
be classed and called attractors and repellers, corres-
ponding with the centripetal and centrifugal forces be-
fore mentioned, and by which they were originally in
the chick or ovum produced. Of the former, are the
stomach, liver, spleen, pancreas, lungs and brain., each
of which secrete a material, besides that for its own
use, a matter absolutely necessary for the general sys-
tem-as the gastric juice, the bile, the pancreatic fluid,
the nervous iiuid, and the oxygen of the the lungs.
There are various other organs of a smaller kind and
lesser import and simpler texture, which perform the
same double office, and secrete materials of a much
more local use, or are repelled from the system as nox-
ious, such as the kidneys, the intestinal tube, the minute
perspiratory follicles of the skin, the organ that sepa·
rates the saliva, ad mucus that lubricates the mouth and
nostrils ; and those that elaborate the tears, the wax of
the inner ear and the fat. The organs that perfonn
this double office of secretion, or attraction and repui-
sion, are called secretory glands, and they are distin-
guished into different sets, as salivary, mucuos, lachry-
mose, conglobate, glomerate and conglomerate ; all of
which operate upon, and are operated on by the same
· means or agents, the magnetic fluids, by attraction and
repulsion. . . 1
to -~
Do1'zodbyGoogle
-87
CHAPTER.;IIJ•.
THE DJGESTIVE ClltCLE.
If we
. examine the digestive circle more particularly,
in common language called the alimentary canal, we
shall find that it is performed or produced by the same
agent, in the same manner, by the same means, and ou
the same general principles. The stomach, which is
placed in the centre of this circle,· is also the centre of
attraction and repulsion. The food, after reing masti-
cated in the mouth, and mixed with the saliva, is attract-
ed to the stomach. There, after having been operated
on by the gastric and other juices, and decomposed in
part, is repelled from that orgaq towards the extremity
of tho alimentary canal. In its /assage, the lacteals
attract the nutritious portion, an the residue or resi-
dium passes on, and is repelled from the body. In it8 •
process, progress, and passage, every thing it1 perforru-
ed by these forces. The process of mastication is per-
formed by two sets of muscles, antagonized to each
other, the fiexors and extensors of the jaws, the adduct-
ors or abductors. the mechanism of which is contrac-
tion and ~xpan11ion (attraction and repulsion) of that
flHlction or organ ; the flow of saliva by attraction, and
swe.IJowing by the antago~ng operatio~ of t\le mu~des
of th~ throat, under the- operation of the will from the
brain Uii:ough the mediwn of the nerv~. IU11· 1~xt
partly decomposed by the eleQtric battery aj" ,the stom-
11ch and. gastric ,Wice, .pal!S~s through .the: ~mest~s by
the..resultaQt ,fo::ce .or currents-of the ml\gJleµc fiuiq:;
frorq.,~equally:cootrU>utjnjJ t:)entripetal /cUKi Gentri{u!i(al
forces, or what in tho books is ter~d: ttw.~ri6Wti<'
action: of tbe :bow(lls, ,by .ceD;tnwti-On or .ewamii9ll of
alt;er~t,i.Qg port~s, of.,~ OrneJnt.um, -~e I~~ aµraft
drink up,. ~. ~ry. the mltr~tipus PAAl pf,~e..foQ.<i .~o
~™:'l~UU"e-of,that circLil,, thlf ~r4£~e. ~t,: ~0Jll 1~pe~~e
ih#l,.rpp~ 9ancl1 ~~ .t.b .~:·!tJ~.~~~J~~~les
Do1'zodbyGoogle
•
BAOO ON
with the venous blood, is attraCted to the right auricle,
repelled and attracted by the right ventricle, repelled
through and attracted by the pulmonary artery to the
lungs, is repelled from the circumference of that circle,
is attracted back to the left auricle, into the left ventricle,
and is repelled all over the system. and is again, after
undergoing as many changes as there are different or-
gans, returned by the veins, as we have before seen,
(chap. !xix.). But to be still more explicit, the blood
·having beeR repelled to every minute branch or ramifi-
cation of the arteries, terminates in that reservoir called
the capiliary circle, and the mucous follicles of the
skin, where the veins, absorbents, or attractors com-
mence ; here another separation or secretion takes place,
a portion of which is repelled from the system in the
form of perspiration and carbonic acid, and the other
attracts oxygen gas from the atmosphere, and is in part
assimulated, and the remainder attracted back through
the veins to the right auricle, a short distance from which
it is renewed by another augmentation of electricity or
magnetism, in the form of chyle, from the thoracic duct;
·is again sent to the lungs, attracts oxygen, and repels
and expels its carbonic acid in proportion to the oxygen
received, and thus, by this ceaseless round of circle8,
·from centres to circumference, to and from, every part
of the whole system givingoutits magneticfluids through·
out the whole extent, sometimes in a state of attraction,
· at others in a state of repulsion, the two forming an equi-
librium, and varying again from it as soon, and by this
motion,, heat and action, thus produced and continued
with sensation and thought, all of which phe~omena
constitute life itself. .· '"''w
Thus then, the anatomy of the digestion and al!8itfte.
· lating circles or systems, consists of varioos set& of
•euels, but each set diametrically ~ or anta~
;nhied to each other, in the manner of"their actions ind
'(;pmltion11;•and physiolegr shows thehl to be produced
oo,,zodbyGoogle
HAGNBTlSJf.
by two anta~onizing forces, centripital and centrifugal,
from the action of which two forces a third is produced,
which we have heretofore termed the resultant current
or force,-that of the alimentary cnual. When these
outward and inward forces are equal to one another,
or in a state of equilibrium, the resultant force in the
system or individual is regular, and repeated motions of
the bowels are produced at intervals, which is a sure
indication of good health, of not only the digestive and
assimulating systems, but of the whole system itself.
But when one of these forces predominates over the
other, for any considerable length of time, and thereby
the equiliqrium is long suspended, the resultant force,
or the p~ristaltic action of the bowels, as it is termed
in the books, is either increased or diminished, and dis-
ease is the consequence. If the centripetal force, or
attraction predominates, costiveness, sluggishness, cold,
and diminished action of the voluntary motions of the
whole system, as well as thought and action, is expe-
rienced. But on the contrary, if repulsion prevails over
the attractions, the centrifugal force, the resultant force
is increased, and the peristaltic action of the stomach
and bowels are therefore made to move the oftener,
and disease is the result of this overbalance, if long
continued. Among the former, as a cause, may be
reckoned all that class which terminate ultimately in
dropsies, inflamations and spasms, and the whole class
termed by Brown, sthenic; and among the latter, that
numerous catalogue, termed by the same author, asthenic,
or those of debility direct, such as dysenteries, diarrheas,
catarrhs, hemorrhages. fluxes, &c. That these foroes
do predominate in the system, there can be no question.
They will not, nay, they can notbe controverted. That
good health is the result of the equilibrium of their ac-
tion, will not neither be questioned. \Vere we to take,
for instance, a paroxism of fever and ague to show the
rationale or manner of operation, it will become so ap-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
BAOG ON
parent, ·that even the most dull and unobserving of the
profession will readily sec and acknowledge it. · Others
more acute, who "obseroe what they take notice of;."
and are not blinded by prejudice, or sunk illto the arms
of sluggish ignorance, can not fail to detect it in all
acute and chronic diseases, as well as in the operations
of mind. Preceeding a paroxism of intermittent fever,
the patient is languid, listless, inactive, and stretches and
yawns. Soon he begins to feel a numbness in the fin-
gers and other extremities, and they sometimes turn
blue. He now begins to feel the sensation of cold
creeping along the spine and back ; the chest becomes
1ightened, and a general sense of languor and weight is
felt all over the body. He now begins to feel cold
throughout the system ; the muscles of the throat, as
well as all over the body, are thrown into involun-
tary action, and produce what is called shaking. No
external heat or internal stimulus can wann him; the
hulk of the external part of the body is diminished.
The fluids of the surface, blood and all, are attracted to
the centre; the brain is oppressed; the equilibrium of
the mind is broken up. The patient who ordinarily was
of a happy disposition, now becomes peevish and irrita-
ble; from a rational state of mind, he becomes delirious.
He is, in this stage, totally unable to think; can not put
two ideas together, much less associate them; on the
contrary, he appears like an Idiot, lunatic, or madman.
If this continues without change, the patient dies from
what is called congestion of the books, a term little
understood and less attended to. But if the centrifugal
force begins to act, and overbalances the attractions,
which is always the case, if the patient lives, he becorv~.S
warm, the blood and other fluids are repelled'to,118
surface, which becomes hot, red and swollen. The
bulk of every external part of the whole circumfelQfllF
is enlarged beyond its natural size, he becomes thin~
the skin, from being shrunk and -cold, is now dry and
Do1'zodbyGoogle
llUG!'rETISJI. 91
hot; the yawnings and stl'etchings cease; the pubis,,
which berore was smalJ, irregular and contractad, now
becomes ful~ slower and firm. . The brain, although:
somewhat oppressed, is freer, as we!! as the respiration.
The mind, although not yet restored, is relieved in pro--'
Po~on to the other symptoms of the body; the ideas
beglB to start and language to flow; he becomes elo-
quent, and combinations are formed which constitute a
kind of deliriwn, the b~ain, however, is more or less
oppressed, until now an equilibrium is formed between
the .rnagnetic fluids, perspixation comes on from the
union of oxygen and hydrogen gases, which continues
until a perfect equalimtion takes place, and the patient:
is relieved, and returns toward the standard line of
health, and but for the debility from the exhaustion
from these alternating extremes, from and back to an
eqoihorinm feels comparatively well. During the in-'.
tensity and predt>lninacy of.first one of these force$ andr
then the other, the resultant force, or that of the bo~•
els is perfectly impeded, interrupted and sometimes in·,
verted, as vomiting in either case is not an nnfrefJuent,
occurience, so much so that medicines, cathartic.givent
on the accession of the fit, scarcely ever can be mado
to operate; althougli quadrupled in quantity, until the
equilibrium isrestared. So regular .are these paroxisms,.
41' alternations of attractions, repulsions and equilibriumfit
that thev come oh many times, when left alone, -at just.
suei1an:hour of-the day, or just such a pttint·of t.iJ'®
nery- ·other day, .or at such 11 time ·twioe a'da~~ -0.r.
sometimes every three· days, which ·8hows them an<l
theae fornes to:be under the effeet and eontrQ} of ~'" ·
eta:ry influence, or that .of the ·sun. ' '1'hat the hwnaA
systi,md1umbjcct to and liable to planetary inftuence-, 1ill
l\l)loovehv; , The1
effeci Of the.seailons showidt a•·M'.elt
U·day- and.night; .
·for ·there is- aS· much a di1.trnai re~
t.ion bf•Jhe body as there is- of .the earth. Thei!eelia~
tbe;miqd,• bcoidy;·lllld _the P.•9i:ov.ej4 being ge!Mr
9•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
92 JIAOO OM
rn1fy five or six more beat&·ma minute in the e~ening
than in thr morning. We ·are active·during the day
in exercise, and expend something which we lay down
at night to accumulate. What is that something1 It is-
the magnetic fluids, light, the spirit of animation, the·
nervous fluid, the spirit of life itself. It is absolutely
as necessary to sleep and rest at night; as it is to be
active during the day, hence the body is more or I~
under the influence of the sun, the 'great magnet and
luminary of the universe. Sacred and profane history
· both concur in giving testimouy to establish this position.
From the days ofJosephus down to the present period?
the east wind has been regarded as one that not only
blew locusts and other insects, but mildew, pestilence
and famine.
An attentive, observing practitioner, while treating
diseases both acute and chronic, will never fail to disco-
ver the effect of what is called the weather upon his pa-
tient, in diseases ofboth body and mind. In nervous dis-
eases as they are called, and such as rheumatism and
dyspepsy, he will find during cold, damp, moist, anddark
foggy. days, his patient always worse, but in good dry
weather,·with a brilliant light from the sun, that he jg
always better. Do not influenza's, catarrh's, colds,
coughfs, dysentaries, diarrheas, aswell as diseases of the
skin and fevers, hecome epidemical in certain years, and
atdifferent times of the year 1 If so, what influences the
state and condition of the atmosphere but planetary influ-
'ence t ,The author himself in 1823 in the north part of
the State of New-York. saw in his own practice a re.
J:apee of thirty cases of fever and ague on a certain day
in the month of January, after they had been treated
._,ith success in the fall by quinine and bark, on the pre-
•alence of ·an easterly wind that blew uninterruptedly
for flve days in succession. . Before the cholera made
its appearance on this side the Atlantic, the wind blew
constantly and uninterruptedly fresh,'for the space of
oouzodbyGoogle
MAONET18M. 93
1
twenty days amongst us. After it had commenced its
ravages, its virulence was modified by a western. or
sooth-western wind, and heightened again by an eastern
direction. · · ·
The black death, which many years since, devastated
the best parts of Europe, was the resµlt of planetary in-
fluence upon man, through the medium of the atmos·
pheric air. After twenty thousand poor Jews had been
put to death, for the jealousy and suspicion, ·that they
had poisoned the fountains of water, the faculty and
French philosophers, and others met at Paris to investi-
gate its cause, and after great and grave deliberation,
they pronounced it to be in consequence of the influence
of some stragling planet {which I now disremember,) in
conjunction with the sun, and thus affecting the earth,
and so published it to the world, ano thus saved the re-
maining Jews. An observing, nervous dyspeptic, in
this or any other country, can tell by his feelings when
an east wind prevails before he rises from his bed, and
has no difficulty after he has gone forth. It neverfails to
repel from the surface and produce the centripetal force,
producing dulness, inactivity, sluggishness in the well,
and hightening all the symptoms in the sick. Now,
whether it be the east wind that produces this effect or
not it is difficult to determine, certain it is that they both
appear together ; the one upon \he atmosphere, the ott\.
er upon the human system. Whether it be the wind
that produces the repulsion from the surface and attrac·
tion to the centre, or whether the same planetary influ·
encc that produces a currant from the east towards the
the west, produces a current from the surface to the
~ntre of the system, is not in the present state of our
knowledge known, but we hazard the opinion that both
are produced by negative magnetism, Jet what will pro-
duce them. We have said·(chap. xix) that no vegeta•
ble enlarges and grows without the repulsion• prevail
over the attraction1q neither will a ehild. From that
Do1'zodbyGoogle
94 BAOG ON
period to forty five, the repulsions taken as an aggre·
gate prevail over the attractions, but after that period,
the attractions prevail over the repulsions and he still
continues to grow but in a contrary direction-down
hill. This is general, for the whole surface of the body
become1 shrivele~ and shrunk, the hair comes oft; the
teeth drop out, he goes into dotage; hence the saying
that once a man and twice a child ; thus showing in the
duration of human life itself, two extremes and the me-
ridian or equilibriwn line.
CHAPTER IV.
THE l\ff8Ct;LAR CIRCLE, MEMBRANES, AXD GLANDS.
The muscles are active and moving powersof the bo-
dy. The greatest number are situated upon the surface
of the body, forming what is termed the flesh and cov·
ering of the bones, and perform what is called locomo-
tion. Others are situated within the cavity of the bodyt
and instead of performing locomotion, perform most im·
portant functions of the system ; such as the heart and
art~ries, the gullet, the stom~h and bowcls, which are
te!"ll)ed hollow muscles ; they arc however,. composed of
musc~lar fibres. Although their appearance is ne~ly
~he same, they differ in situation and function. Of ·the
locomotive muscles there may be reckoned four .hundred
and thirty six, which, like the nerves are antagonized w
eaoh other and arise in pairs. Hence we have .the ad•
w,1<;itors and abductors, the fleJlQ.rs and eittensors, the lew
~ators,and depressors, the ascendens and descimdens;i~
soperior obliqµe and the inferior obliqu~ the petpendic•
ular and trapsvers~ ; io short, they occur throughoat the
aystem like the nerves, in pairs, and are an~ed·t6
each oth~r.. 'l'hey ue the moving powem ohhe:body,
~nd .pr~e \Ms . ~ffect by·contraction ·aad;expttn!ioo,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
!llAONll'lll8JI.
(.attraction and repulsion). When we move the arm or
leg, the muscles: on one side contract, while the other
expand, as may be s.een or felt by the most common ob-
server. From their origin and insertions, or their ex•
tremities or extremes, being inserted or attached to cer-
~in fixed points in the bones, by the brain, through the
medium of the nerves by attraction and repulsion, are
the immediate cause of all the motions of the body.-
They are composed of fleahy bundles of fibers formed
according to Sir Everard Home and others, by minute
little globules, arranged generally parallel to each other,
and separated .by cellular membrane which connects
them together, and favors the distribution of numerous
blood vessels, lymphatics and nerves, with which they
are supplied. These minute fibers are sometimes arran-
ged in one direction, and sometimes in another. Some-
times they run in direct lines parallel the whole length
of the muscle; they are then called straight muscles.-
Sometimes, although parallel, they run in an oblique di-
rection and the muscle is called oblique. Sometimes
they take a circular motion, as in those that surround the
eye and mouth ; they are then termed orbicular mus-
cles. Thus much of this class. The hollow muscles,
such as the esophagus, in addition to its glands, mucous
membrane, villous coat, or cellular membrane, are com-
posed of a muscular coat of two layers ; one set are ar-
ranged longitudinally and the other circular, with a cen-
tral membranous lining. By the agency of the brain,
through the medium of the nerves upon these, is the ac-
tion of swallowing produced. The operation of these
two forces from, or of the magnetic fluids, upon this
structure or machinery, or arrangement of fibers, agree-
able to the laws of mechanics, would be, and is, to pro-
pel the food onward to the stomach. The several mem-
branes as intermediate substances, as we shall show at
the proper time, contribute also to assist their operation.
The stomach, the next portion of the alimen~ary canal,
0191t1zed oyGoogle
96 "BAGG ON
is a large and expanded portion, likened to a bagpipe,
largest towards one end and tapering towards the othe.r,
its situation is wt II known. It is connected above with
the esophagus, and below with the intestines. Its struc-
ture is like the esophagus, composed of three coats or
layers. The outer coat is composed of a serous mem-
brane which is a reflection of the peritineum. Within
it, and cennected by cellular substance to it, is a layer
of muscnlar fibers, forming the muscular coat. This
muscular coat like the esophagus, is made up of two sets
of fibers, one longitudinal and the other circular. The
next or internrl coat is the nervous coat. The mucous
coat is connected with the muscular by cellular sub-
stance, which is sometimes termed the nervous coat.
The stomach has numerous blood vesselaand absorbents,
and receives its nerves which are very numerous, from
the great sympathetic and par vagum. It is also studed
over its surface with numerous glands. The intestines
commence from the pyloric orifice of the stomach, and
their being the same, we shall describe their structure,
(which is only here intended) without going into that ar-
bitrary division mentioned by anatomists. The struc-
ture of them then, is made up of three coats. like the
stomach, though varying somewhat in the length, thick-
ness or sparseness of their muscular fibers ; a serous
coat, a muscular coat with two sets of fibers, one longi-
tudinal, the other circular, and a mucous coat. The
muscular coat differs somewhat in different intestines or
portions of this canal. In the small intestines there are
but few longitudinal fibers. In the colon they are dis-
posed in three bands, to facilitate its division into cells.
In the rectwn they resemble those of the gullet. The in•.
ner or mucous coat of the intestinal canal is important,
for on this membrane it is that the action of the intes-
tines, or }>reparation and separation of chyle depends..
It is very voluminous ·and its surface increased by nu-
merous doublings and puckerings, or what are called val.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
1ifAGMBTl8M. 9'1
Jida.: comiiventes. The intestines are abundantly sup-
plied with blood vessels, absorbents and nerves; part of
them arise from the par vagum, but they are mostly sup-
plied by the great sympathetic nerve. Between the
mucous membrane and muscular coat, there are fouad a
large number of glands, both single and compound, or
-eolitary, single and conglobate. " The intestinal ca-
,nal possesses a motion backwardsand forwards, or n wa-
ving motion, to subject and expose its contents to the
action of the exhalents and lacteals that open on the sur-
face of the mucous folds. This is called the peristaltic
motion of the bowels. The food after being mastica-
·ted in the mouth, passes through the gullet into the sto-
mach, where it is retained till it is reduced to a pulpy
mass commonly called chime, from which in the pelvic
portion of the stomach the chyle begins to be separated.
The chylification is completed in the duodenum, and
while the alimentary mass is traversing the small intes-
tines. The greater part of t~e chyle is taken up by the
laeteals, while the more solid and excrementitious part
passes throu~h the colon and rectum to be evacuated by
·the anus. 1 hus we have touched upon the muscles of
1he body, the object is apparent ; to show from their an-
·atomical structure, use and action, that they occur in
pairs and are antagonized to each other, ahd must ofne-
ceBSity have a corresponding antagonizing principle -0r
force for giving them impulse and motion, and that this
prin<>.iple is the magnetic fluids. . ·
In addition to these, and the other circles touched up-
.Gn, and partly explained in the preceding chapters, we
W a·vast membraneous and glandular system no less
adapted by their formation and extent to assist.in the
galvanic or magnetic operations of the system. T~
,~ are comprised of three distinct membranes. The
·• which covers the external surface of the body; the
·
lllQcoua .membranes which lines' aU the in~l parts
._t.aoalmunicate with the external, and the se.
ro.
u,
... ..
<# (,, .. ..
.. ·..... ..
"'" .. .. ..
. .... ..
.. . .. .. ..
. .. ...
oo";:o~Google
98 · 'BAGG ON
membifaf\eli which lines all the periphery of the internal
cavities. These membranes, their use and action, are
so well described by Dr. Sherwood in his ·admirable l.i- ·
tie work on motive power, that we avail ourself of its
details. " On viewing the human system we find it co.-
vered with a complex membraneous structure, called the
skin. Besides three membranes classed under the gen-
eral term skin or integuments, there are found in it~
innumerable number of minute globular bodies called pa-
pilliary glands. These little globate bodies, are found
to be highly organized, having minute arteries terminai-
ting, and minute veins commencing in their sttucture.
They are found ont by means of magnifying glasses of
great power, to have minute ducts issuing from them,
and terminating every where with open orifices on the
surface of the skin. On examination of the organs as
the brain, lungs, liver, spleen, pancreas, kidneys, cystes,
uterus, stomach and intestines, we find them all withoot
an exception covered with a kind of skin called a serou$
membrane, in which is enclosed an incalculable number
of minute glands or elementary organs, with ducts tel\o
minating in open orifices on the surface of their mem-
branes, like those of the common covering of the body.
The glands of both structures are formed on examina-
tion of the orifices of these ducts to secrete an aqueolUI
or watery fluid, by which these surfaces are constantly
maintained in a humid or moist state. The great quan-
tity of this fluid seen running off from the .skin, ancLii,
accumulation in the cavities containing the organs; when
th:ese glands are excited to inordinate action attest both
the perfection of their mechanism, and their fitness fOfi
tlielr'specific·use. If we now proceed to examine.:the.
~brane 1Vhich lines the internal parts of the. body..
"'IM shalHind it wtth slight modifications1 eharactemetl
bf t.hihrilme strueture a8 the serous membraitesh TWe'
niodifibatiOD. priticipally .consis1*1iin,its:'havm~ wbatnie
called aviUou!J, instead of ai~~satfuaej1du.Jthe•
.....
.. .. ..
.. ..·: ··.
···-··.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGNETI8Jf. 99
rous membranes. We find tne whole track of the ali-
mentary canal, including the mouth, esophagus, stom-
ach, and intestines, lined with this membrane, as well as
the internal parts of every organ, including even the ven-
tricles of the brain. On a minute examination of the
structure of the mucous membrane, we find them like
the skin and serous membranes, enclosing numerous lit-
tle round or oval glands or villi as they are termed, ha-
ving like the papilliary glands of the skin, their appro-
priate arteries, veins and ducts, terminating with open
orifices on the surface. They are further characterized
by numerous little cavities, crypts or follicles, as they
are called, which have more or less a spheroidal shape,
and which also open upon the surface of these mem-
branes. These ducts and follicles are found to be filled
with a semi-fluid or mucous, which is constantly issuing
from them, and which spreads upon these membraneous
surfaces. In pursuing this subject, we have thus found
two different kind of surfaces disposed in two different
ways, and thus covered by two difterent kinds of fluids.
These are extraordinary results of our investigations
thus far, and will encourage us to proceed in them, for
it is easy to see that there must have be~n some object
in this order and dispostion of these different kinds of
matter. On investigating the nature and qnalities of
these fluids, it is found that the excretion from the skin
and serous membranes are more or less acid, and those
from the mucous membrane more or less alkaline. They
are sometin1es so strongly acid and alkahne, as to ex-
cite the curiosity of the most common observer. The
acid is found to be muriatic, and the alkali soda or mu-
riate of soda or common salt. The acids and alkalies
which possess the most directly opposite properties an
have o.t the same time the strongest affinities for each
other, are universally diffused in the earth as.well .as in
the vegetable and animal kingdoms. They consfitute
two great and principle divisions of mutter, one of which
10
. ,
, ,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
.
100 .:BAGG .ON
the acid for the sake ofdistinction is 'callednegative mat--"
ter, and the alkali positive. Now it is satisfactorily as-
certained from repeated experiments that each of these
different kinds of matter cives out constantly an innate
and different kind of force. It is also ascertained in the
same manner, that the alkaline or positive matter gives·
out the magnetic force, and that the acidified·gives oui
the positive. The positive matter then, on the internal
surface of the body and organs, is constantly giving out
the negative force, and the negative matter on the ex-
ternal surfaces of the body and organs, the positive force.
On a further examination of the human structure, we
find four hundred and twenty-six muscles of different
forms disposed in different ways for the purpose of pro-
ducing motion. We know that they are formed for this .
purpose, for we can see that some of them expand and·
others cqntract when we move the limb or limbs. For
when we bend our arm, we find that the muscles on the
out side of it expand: while those on the inside contract.
On extending the arm we find this order reversed, for
then the muscles on the inside expand, while those on
the outside contract with equal force. One end of these •
muscles is attached to the lower part of the bone belong-
ing to the upper part of the arm, called the humerus, and
the other ends are attached to the lower ends of the ,
bones of the lower part of the arm near the wrist, call.. ·
ed the radius and ulna, so that while the lower part of •
these bones is pushed on one side, when the muscles of
that side is extended, it is pulled at the same time on the ·
opposite side, when the muscles on that sideare con~ '
ted, and thus motion is produced by the simultanebils·
action of these muscles. Now it is a remarkable fact·
that every one of these four hundred and thirty..si:dnutJ.A.'
cles which thu11 produce motion in different parts of the!
body, ia covered with a membrane the outer surface of.
which has a eerous, and the inner side a mucou1111orfa011J;t
hence the1e membranes are called mucq-4leJOUI ·~ ·
\, .
.. ..
....
..·: •..
.... ..
... .
.. .. .
.. : .
... Do1'zodbyGoogle
•.AON.lilTl8JI, 101
branes ; all these different surfaces then, like th~se of
the skin and membranes of other parts of the body, are
covered with different kinds of matter, presenting to-
gether immense surfaces, from which constantly issue
two forces of different kinds." The reader who has
seen a common galvanic battery, cannot fail to observe
that this arrangement of surfaces corresponds with that
of the different metallic surfaces of the battery. He
will also notice that these forces thus maintained on these
surfaces, exactlycorrespond with those necessarily main-
tained on different surfaces of the battery. The two
forces are conducted from the two metalic surfaces of
the poles of the battery, by two metalic wires, and if we
can now find conductors to convey the forces from the
skin and different membraneous surface!! to the poles,
the resemblance will be complete and satisfactory. In
pursuing this subject we find numerous minute threads
called nerves, penetrating the little glands of the skin
surfaces and mucous membrane, and every fiber of a
muscle. On tracing these nerves, we see them uniting
together and increasing in size, in proportion to the dis-
tance from these surfaces, and at length conjoining with
the spinal cord. The spinal cord is formed into four co-
lumns, united first with a broad base and then with the
brain. These forces are therefore conducted from the
skin and membraneous surfaces and concentrated in the
brain to form poles or a motive power, to put in motion
this apparently complicated yet really simple machine-
ry. This structure, arrangement and order of the dif-
ferent parts of the human body, was well known to Mal-
pighi, Ruych, Haller, Hunter and Bichat, and are rec-
ognized by every .auatomist of the present aCTe, and now
present to our view a galvanic battery altogether supe-
rior to any other contttructed by the ingenuity of man.
The forces collected from the surfaces, the mucous
and serous membranes, including the skin, and conduct-
ed to the brain, are identicle with those collected from
Do1'zodbyGoogle
102 BAGG ON
the 1urface11 of these circles of copper and zinc, and COil-
ducted to the poles·ot the battery, as seen in the follow-
ing article copied from the Medico-Chirurgical Revitrw,
for January 1837. . . , ,,,,; , '-~
On the chemical properties of the secretions in healtll
and disease, and on the existence of electric currents in
organized bodies induced by the acidity and alcalinety of
their different membraneous surfaces, M. Donne, whom
we have repeatedly occasion to mention with praise, is
the author of some curious statements on this subject.
All that we propose to do, is merely to .present to our
readers the leading results of his inquiries. They are
contained in the following eorrollories: '"''' ~.
I. The whole of the ligimentary surface, secretes:an
acid humor. It is however to be noticed that the sweat
instead of being as generally stated more acid in the ax-
illa and around the organs of generation than in other
parts, is frequently of an alkaline character. ...;,;.ify
2. The alimentary canal, from the mouth to the.an-
nus, except the stomach, (the gastric juice of which is
strongly acid, as :has been proved ~ by Prout, Tiedman,
and Gemelin,) secretes an alkaline mucous. Thus the
saliva and also the mucous of pharynx and cesopbagus,
as far as the cudia, and of the intestinal canal from the
pylorus to the anus, are alcaline in health, and becomes
acid only in consequence of disease. . ,,.,~.,
3· The serous an<l synovial membranes secrete an'ali
kaline fluid, in disease it sometimes becomes acid. c .,,~·
4. The external acid, and internal alcaline membranes
of the body, represent the two poles of a galvanic J>ile
whose·effects are appreciable by a galvanometer. For
ifone .of the conductors of this instrument be placed in
contact with the mucous membrane of the mouth, and
the other conductor be applied to the skin, the magnetic
needle will be found to ,show a deviation .of 15 to 20, or
even 30 degrees ; -nod the direction of too needle proves
.thti .the rnuco,lls o.r alka1itle membrane indicate a nega·
... ..
Do1'zodbyGoogle
113
tive electricity,.and<
1he cataaeOUI or acid'membiane, 'a
positive ·electricity. : ·· · · • . · · " ,
6. Independently ofthe two great surfaces, esrubiting'
opposite e'leetrieal atates, there ·are other cognate ayr,.
terns, which ·are.<similarly oppeeed.· Benveen the st~
ach, fur exampJe alid die her,:we·may diacoTeP ener-
getic electrical currents. ·; . · · · · ·
· 6. The acid·humours of .the l)'&tem may bec~e al-
kaline, and the alkaline may beoome acid in a state of
~=-- '.
UJtK:OSC,
7. The. abnormal ' acidity Iitt:usually. the result of Al
pbJegmuia,.and this·change may,take place in an org&k
at a distance from an inflamed part ; thus the saliva be·.
comes strongly acid in ga8*ri!18: ·. . . ··
8. The acicl developed .during the existence of in··
ftamatory disease appears to be most frequently the hy-t
dro chloric. The presence of1 this acid may very pos•'
sibly determine the coagulation Of the albumunous phrt.
of the lymph, or seroaity which abounds in all inflamed
structures, and we know that this coagulation it the
eame of thefalse membranes, of specks and opacities of
the cornea, ·and of the induration and hypertrophy of
many parencbymatons organs. Purulent matter is pr~
duced by the action of an acid upon albuminous·lymph.
It is a speci~s of combination of acid and albumen. A).
thoUgh we eannot always discover traces of a free acid
in inflamatory effu~ions; and .although pus docs ·not al-
ways reden, the blue paper of turnsol, we are to re..
member that by far the greatest number of the humorit
0f the animal body in health are strongly alkaline, and
that in this way the generation of. acid in disease may be
llla:sked.or concealed for some time, in consequence ot
the neutralizing of the original or primary alcali. · ·;
9. The operations in the chemical nature of the se-
cretions must react on the different functions of the sys-
tem. They will be found·to constitute an interesting
group of lesions, or symptoms hitherto but little regard-
10•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
UN tiOQ.OK
ed, and the diligent iaYeetigatioft of which may very
poasibly lead to some =rtant theraputic results.-
Theta change• will pro y be found to induce certain
modifications in the electrical cuulellts, which exits be-
twaea the different organ& of the animal economy." ·
Thus it will be aeeo, that .the needle obeys the foreies
of these different surfaces of the copper and zinc in the
battery. When the body is lightly charged with the
forces, strong polee are sometimes formed in the endaof
the fingers, which the needle obeys like the poles of the
magnet. Here then, we discover in the anatomy of.fJie
membranes this aame antagonizing principle p~­
opposite principles, generating oppoaite forces. ~ 111*
tiinooy as we have quoted, we obtain facts that thele
forces are the magnetic ; that they are measured and
tested by the magnet itself; that these currents of el~
tricity.varied the needle to the extent of fifteen, twenty 1
and thirty degrees. Thus not only in addition to out ·
other facts, positively proves them to be the magnetic
fluids, but it also goes to prove the identity of electrici·
ty and magnetism. The structure and natural arrange-
ment of these membranes are perfectly analogous to the
galvanic battery. The currents are shown to be elec·
tricity, and by the magnetic attractions are proved to be
the magnetic fluids ; thus addin~ further testimony to
the identity of these fluids or pnnciples, but also estab-
lishes the fact of correspondencies, to wit : That alkll" '
lies correspond to the pasitive pole of magnetism, and
that acids correspond to the negative pole, as the forces
are shown to .flow from these states or conditions of
matter. Itnow only remains for us to examine the brain
nerves and some few other organs, when we shall pass
to the consideration ofnutriment, or the food of man..;,;
oo"'""~vGoogle
lfAUNBTJ8Jf, 100
CRAJT£RV~
'J'HE .DJlAltf AND NERVES.
·The btain is the cehtYe of all the other circles and
~ems- of citc~s of the whole system, and communi..
cates with, influences, and eontrols·the whole, through
tM medium ·of the netves. It is not only the organ of
mind; of•sen11ation, bot' volition .and muiieular motion.
The nerve!§ are itl! appendagM' or machinery. The
bl'lin and ·nerves are so intimately connected and asso-
aiated, that they might with propriety be termed a
whole1 fOr one is as neceBl!laty to the other as the mental
is to the physical system. · The brain, although depend"
ent 'telatively upon .the whole system for its healthy
state and action; and particularly upon the assimulating
and circulatory, for nutrition and suppot1, stands like a
monarch to every other part of the system, Bight, sound,
touch, taste, temperatui:'e and smell, hre an effect or
changes upon the brain through their several nervous
organs. They may be compared or ]ikened ~ so many
avenues or windows of the organ of mind, towards the
external world, through·which the brain communicates
~th external.objects and interna~ agent~. ·It' i!.c_liVi~ed
mto two hemispheres, one :on atther Side; brtginatmg
from which are two sets -of nerves, ()De from each hem-
isphere, arising in opposition to its· antagonist~ Thus
tli& brain and nerves, 1111 well as the getleral system, are
double, the reason of which will be explained in the'
sequel. All the organs of sense, (chap. xix,) as well as
muscular motion, are also double. The nerves are long
'!ender threads, which branch out and ramify into such
'.'11 infinitude of little fibrils, and arc spread so upon the
internal part of the body, as well as upon the skin, that
the point of a needle can not be touched to the skin,
b~t they will be disturbed, and yE!t each has its antago-
Rllt. The brain, in its operations, is characteriz~ by
two fundamental laws, sensation and Yolition•. ·l'hel
Do1'zodbyGoogle
106 IL\CIO OH
combinations of the two produces association. Sensa·
tion is that change that takes place in the organ from
objects that are external to it, and commences in the ,
circumference, and terminates in the centre, (chap. vu.)
Volition, on the contrary, commences in the centre and
terminates in the circumference or extremities. The
former we term the centripetal, the latter the centrifu-
gal force of the brain. The former is produced by
attraction, the latter by repulsion. If I prick my finger
with a pointed instrument, the brain, through the me-
dium of the nerves, instantly feels it, which begins in !
the extremity and ends in the centre. But if I will to
raise my hand or finger, the change or force commences
in the centre and terminates in the circumference or ;
extremity. With the first, sensation was painful; in
the last, motion was upward. Thus we have seen that the
nerves are long slender threads which arise from difier-
ent portious of the brain, and are radiated in every
direction, so as to communicate .and form a connection
witb every part of the system. As they arise they are
arranged into pairs. Anatomists have discovered and
noted thirty-nine, nine of which arise from the great
dimensions of the brain, called cerebrum, cerebeJJum,
and medulla oblongata, and the remainder from the
spinal marrow. These nine are chiefly diverted, but
not wholly so, to the local senses, the remainder, thirty
pair, are distributed over over the body to produce the
fifth sense of touch and feelmg. There is another part
of the nervous system, which is the sympathetic or
intcrcostal nerve, which, although not distinct, is so pe·
culiar as to claim almost the term of system of itself,
a circle between the two other circles of cerebral and
Tertebral influence. It is connected with both. It is an
offsett from the six pairs of nerves of each side, and in
its passage receives branches from the fifth, and all the
Tertebral. From this union it is studied with numerous
ganglions or integements like brain, of which there arc
oi "edbyGoogle
lUON.STJ&M. 107
nOt les11.than tlu:ee •in the :neck, "alone tinted" by an
alld.ition of cinerhious substance. a large number in its
line through the chest, ~and others as it descends still
deeper, independently of various contluences of smaller
branches,. that. unite and form extensive networks.
Having reached the hollow of the oscocygis, it meets
its twin from the opposite side, which has pursued a
eimilar course, and received contributions. Thus equal-
ly enriched with the nervous stores of the brain and
spinal marrow, it sends off radiations as it takes the
course of the aorta, to all the organs of the thorax,
abdominal and hypogastric regions to the lungs, the
heart. the stomach and intestipes, the bladder, arteries,
'llld testes, and thus becomes an emporium of nervous
commerce aad elargement of general sympathy, and
what is of infinite importance in so complicated a frame
as man, furnishes to the vital organs streams of nervous
supply from so many anastomosing currents, that if one
or more than one should fail or be cut otf, the function
may still be continued. To this it is owing, in a very
considerable degree, that the organs of the upper and
lower belly exhibit that nice fellowship of feeling which
often surprises us, and that most of them are apt to
sympathise in the actual state of brain. As the brain
consists of three general divisions, besides that of hem-
ispheres, it might seem, at first sight, that each of these
were allotted for some distinct purpose, different from
the other: but anatomv, by the hand of the dissector,
shows differently, as both nerves of general, as well as
particular purposes, arise from the 11ame portion of brain.
Thus the cerebrum gives rise to the nerves of vision
IPd smell, as well as the occulorum motorii, which serves
~.the purpose of muscular motion. So the cerebellum
gives rise to nerves that convey motive as well as sen-
sile power. While from the medulla oblongata, originate
the auditory, the par vagum. and lingual. The first a
ne.rve of hearing ; the second of feeling ; and the third
Do1'zodbyGoogle
108 8.A.OGO•
of motivity. At the·same time that many p&rts of the
brain maintain an interunion with other parts by means
of ganglions commisures, and deaussations of nervea,
whence injuries on one side are often accompanied with
loss of motion or feeling on the other side. Thus then,
a sensorial communication is kept up between some part
of the brain and every part of the body, and that this
communication is condncted by the nerves is unques-
tionable, from the following facts. If we divide, tie, or
eut, or merely compress a nerve of any kind, the muscle
with which it communicates becomes almost instantly
palsied, and if the cerebrum, cerebellum, or medulla
oblongata be irritated, convulsions take place all over
the body, chiefly, however, when the irritation is ap-
plied to the last of the three mentioned parts. From
the best sources of information within our reach, from
such men as M. Bauer and Sir Everard Home, and
others, as well as from the assistance of the best micro-
scopes, the substance of the brain appears to be made
up of a delicate fibrous tissue of minute globes, .
or
globules, precisely of the size of those of the blood
when deprived of their coloring principle or mat.ter.
It appears then, that the brain is naturally divided mto
two hemispheres or portions, and from these, and cor~
responding with them, are two distinct sets of nerve~,
antagonized to each other, but connected after their
universal ramifications and radiations upon the skin and
internal parts, together by the great sympathetic nerve;
besides their general distribution all over the system.
Anatomists and physiologists attribute this connectiOD;
as well as the brain and nervous system, to the wis~om
of the great architect, as a provision to guard µ.gaiflli
accidents, or the reason why it was made double, was
the necessity of a substitute, in case one side or llti.
should happen to be injured so as to become useless, t~
aeficiency could be supplied by the other. , Were.t1WI
true, we should be led to believe that in following up
0191t1zed oyGoogle
101
the principle, in t.he econoniy of nature, certain individ-
uals that have appeared upon the stage of action, and
evidently intended by Providence to perform great ex-
ploits, would have endowed them, not only with double
organs, but with triple and quadr.uple. We should be
led to believe that such . men as Mases and Sampson,
Cromwell and Bonaparte, Washington, Jefferson, Jack-
eon. and others, would have had at least four sets of
Grgans, for fear others might have,· from action, been
iooapacitated; but the argument is not tenable, not sup-
ported by fact, or any plausibility of truth. It is too
Week and feeble for mora consideration.
·~·· On the contrary, the great reason forman, as well M
other. animals, being formed double, with two sets of
muscles, nerves, &c., is from the very nature and cause
of1his existence itself. The whole system is but a gal-
vanic battery, an electerizing machine, a great magnet,
cnii ~ike the solar system. Who ever got electric fluid
&om· a machine without a rubber? Who ever saw a
magaet with but one pole1 Or who ever saw an efiect
.fJIOI» a galvanic battery with but one plate~ either the
zinc or copper, separate from the other? On the con·
wary, it is well known that no appenranc.e (lf light, or
heat, or motion, or effect, ever takes place from the
pales of a galvanizing eir electrizing machine, unless the
pales be brought within a certain sphere of influence or
COJltact. But that the eleatric, or galvanic, or magnetic
ftuid passes up the wires before we can see or feel it,
or any sensible.effect is produced, we know. because we
test it with a compass needle. If we apply it to the
W.. separately, before the battery is charged, or.before
the1acid commences to operate on either plate of metaJ,,
mwill point lengthways, or. in 8 line w1th the witea ;
- but as IOOil ·as th.e proce88 commences, it wiH.1tand and
.,.U.t acl"Olls it at nght angles:; and as soon aa we have
-MGugbt·die poles together, and anequilibrium isobtain-!
~rliild a.lpark is aeen, it will again become lengthwayti,'.
110 BA.00 Olf
or point in that direction. The reason why it ,... ne-
cessary then, to form man and other animals double,
was to give them action and life, which they could no
more have had without having been thus constnJcted,
than could an electric spark have been obtained from
one plate and pole of a galvanic battery, or of an elec-
trizing machine. . . 11(\11
Thus then, one hemisphere, as well as one side of the
whole system, secretes, excretes, and puts into opera·
tion positive magnetism, while the other puts into action
negative magnetism, and by the operation of which, by
attraction and repulsion, like the galvanic battery, pro-
duces heat, motion, sensation and thought. This we
conceive to be the simple and only cause why man was
made, in his organs of sense, volition, and muscular mo-
tion, double, as well as accounts more particularJy and
clearly for the peculiar construction, formation and con-
nection of both sides, or systems of nerves, through the
medium of the great sympathetic. We observed when
upon matter, (chap. x.) that the minute atoms of aJI ma·
terial substances, were in the form of globes, globules,.
or magnets, and that they were liable to a change of
their poles, and that the varieties of matter were owing-
to this law, and that this change was produced by the
influence of the magnetic fluids. · , ,..,• .
What is the structure of the brain7 Of what ~
posed7 What its form and shapel It is spherical. They
are so loosely put together by a delicate cellular su~;
stanceor tissue, so tender that it will scarcely stand the·
force ofia nringe, the mere suction of which is suffi.t
cient· to ·derange and reduce them to a chaotic maw
Sir Eiverard endeavored to show, by these anti othoif
diacloeures, that musaular fibre& are· formed by an·11Dl
tachment,.of one globule of bl~ to miothe1; ·as· 'W8ll
MJ gi-anulationa by puir, wtnch :M. Bauer -0011finbe$1
Dr..·
.1Philip showecl tha~ epirits -of "Wine. applifdrto· tht1
~d>rjpart of the DBJqm:brdi of an·Miln!tf,1IW:t1le
MAGNETISM. 111
same effect upon the heart as when applied to the heart
itself. The anatomy of the brain then, beneath the
knife of such eminent dissectors and anatomists, shows
the very elements of the composition of the organ of
mind to be globes, spheres, or magnets, and therefore,
instead of our theory being hypothetical, it is establish-
ed by fact, for if the ultimate atoms of the brain be
globes or magnets, none will doubt but what its opera-
tions, in its sensations and volitions, reflections, judge-
ments and associations, from simple notions or in1pres-
sions up to the compounds of discourses, is the result
of the operation of the magnetic fluids. Can there yet
b those who intrench themselves behind the breast-
work of ignorance, notwithstanding the light of estab-
lished well known facts, turn up their noses in mock
wisdom, wi,th their interesting countenances drawn to
an angle of forty-five degrees towards the horizon,
from the organ of self-esteem, and exclaim that the
vital pri~1ciple is beyond our conceptions and past finding
out? vVhat looks more reasonable, clear and convinc-
ing, than that those quick perceptions, thoughts, motions
and actions of iightning speed, are performed by light-
ning, electricity, magnetism, operating upon those little
magnets, and producing action by the law of attraction
and repulsion, like the motion of all other matter in
nature.
The animated system only differs from matter by its
having heat, thought, sensation and motion. These are
its grand characteristics. Now all motion in nature is
either chemical or mechanical. Have we not clearly
dcmonstrnted that all absolute mechanical force and
chemical affinity, are dependent upon this principle for
their motion, action and effect1 Who then knows of
any other kind of motion but from this principle 7 Have
we not shown that the action of these two forces in
nature was agreeable to all philosophers, the laws of
mechanics, and observation, to produce a sphere,·a ring,
11
Do1'zodbyGoogle
112 ...aa.011 ,.
a tube1 What other force or forc-,es can produce this
effect7 Are not, in fact, all substances spherical or
round1 How is it in both the animal and vegetable
kingdoms 7 Who ever saw a plant that was not circu-
lar in some form or othed Did any one ever notice
a square afpie, potatoe, or any other fruit, seed or root1
Are not al the organs, vessels and functions of animals
round, circular or sphericle, more or less1 Are not the
very component particles of the blood. which in sacred
history is termed the "life of the animal." made up of
little globules or magnets, as well as the ultimate atoms
composing the brain itself? Is not blood made from the
food by these forces, as well as the brain also 1 These
forces then, in every sense in which they may be con-
sidered, are shown to be the cause of lifo 7 The seeds
of all plants, and the eggs of all animals ars spherical,
as well as the plant when growing, and the animal when
living. We have the authority of Sir Isaac Newton,
that the form of all the planets is owing to these forces.
We then again repeat, that every thing is globular or
spherical, from a dew-drop up to a world, by the action
of these forces. That rain falls in drops, melter! lead
into shot, water into hail, and that water crystalizes in
atmospheric air in the form of the planet Herschel, and
falls to the earth in the form of snow, as pointed out by
Sherwood, from Blackwood's Nfa(\"azine. Do not the
two forces revolve a machine, like Brewst€r's or Da\Tn-
port's, in a circular line1 Does not the cannon ball
describe a segment or a circle when propelled by these
forces 7 Is it not projected by repulsion, and drawn to
the earth by attraction 1 If we apply the north end of
a magnet to the north end of a compass needle, it repels
it, and attracts the south pole. so as to reverse them.
These poles now, in this motion of reversal of their
extremities, perform a perfect circle : this circle we '"ill
take as the diagram for the operation of the magnetic
forces in all matter in nature, and the law by which
Do1'zodbyGoogle
K.IOl'fftJ8M, 113
they are governed. Is it derogatory to nature to believe
that by the union and operation of these forces from
one magnet, she can make and perfect one of the same
kind, or by a little modification of them, to make one
of a different kind7 In fact, is not this the philosophy
and rationale of all propogations7 Some of the lower
order of animals have neither brain or nerves, and how
are their muscular motions commenced and propogated7
What their anatomy? They are destitute of a verte-
bral column also, as the transparent polypii. When
they are examined by the best magnifying glasses, are
found to consist of nothing but a congeries of these
globules in a granular form, like boiled sago, surrounded
by a gelatinous matter. In some tribes they are con-
nected, and even in others they are perfectly separate.
Now whatever motion or sensation these worms possess,
must and can not but be from these globules. M. Virey
has hence divided all animals into three classes, accord-
ing to the nature of their configuration, "1st, those of
two nerves, one on either side. or a nervous system and
a sympathetic nerve; 2d, those that have a sympathetic
nerve alone; and 3d, those that have nothing but nervous
molecules, as the Echni, Polypii, and infusory animal-
cules, corals, madrepores and sponges ; all of which are
included in the term Zoophites." Anatomists judge of
the use of a part or muscle by its looks, appearance,
ori$in and insertion, which is said to be good inductive
logic. Why not judge of these globules of the brain in
the same manner? Their form must indicate their use
as well as those of the blood, and the force that made,
and when made, moves them also. The nerves in the
lower order of animals being, instead of brains and
nerves, simply gloLules, sometimes connected and some-
times loose, show to any candid mind, that motion can
not be produced in any other manner but by the agency
of magnetism or electricity, for there is no communica-
tion between them but a loose gelatinous substane~.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
Uf
ow as these animal move themselves, like all other ·,
by the will, by this principle (by attraction and repul-
sion) i it not reasonable to suppose that the other two
classe a.re moved in the same manner1 Does not na-
ture, through all hor works, in all her operations, act
by general laws? When was she evex known to act
counter to a general principle1 It is admitted by all,
and has been from Galen down to the present time, that
' the brain is a gland, and secretes the nervous fluid and
excretes it. Darwin called it the spirit of animation.
Girtanner believed it to be oxygen, and all believe it to
be a subtile impondurable fluid. Philip almost prornd,
and believed he did quite, the identy of it with electric-
ity. And why is it not, after what has been seen and
said, the most reasonable conclusion1 Let us look for
a moment to another Low order of animals, to fishes.
There are many animals in the tribe of fish that will
give out electricity or magnetism sufficient to benumb
the hand of man so as palsy it completely. We will at
this time mention but those that have the most power,
such as the Torpedo Ray, and the Electric Eel or
Gimnote, which inhabit tho Mediterranean, and was
once ·imputed to magic. The ancients behoved that
when they bit at the hook, they could throw the influence
through the whole length of hook, line and pole, so as
to palsy the arm, and thereby escape being caught, as
described by Oppian, in Greek verse, and translated by
D.r. Good·:
"The hook'd torpedo, wi.h instinctive force,
.Calls all his mngle from its secret source ;
And through Uie hook, the line, the taper pole,
Throws to th' offending nrm his stern control.
·Tbe.pal11ed·ft1herman, In dumb 1urprl11e,
·Feelll tbroup hlllrame the ehlllln1 vapoura rltf.,
Drop the •aln rod, and _., lal!lllitalq pain,
Somefrost fixed wanderer o'er the icy plain.''
Indeed, it is·believedby naturalists of the present day,
.a.od witno.ut dQubt js .tr.ue ; and would have such an
og ,zed by Google
lli
effect if a spear were mied instead of hook and line.
The influence is voluntary, and can be communicated at
will, as the animal will sometimes allow of being touch-
ed without exciting or communicating the influence.
"He occasipnally loiters on the moist sands of the shore,
after the tide has gone out, and buries himself under
it. By a brisk flapping of his fins, he seems to fling
this material all over him, and in this state he is said to
inflict, at times, even through the sand that covers him, '
a torpor so severe as to throw down the astonished
passenger that is inadvertantly walking over it. The
voltaic eel is also obviously known and acknowledged
to be more powerful than the torpedo. The latter ma-
king a series of shocks, of less or greater violence, as
from a more highly concentrated battery; and the tor-
pedo by a numbness or torpor, whence its name, pro-
duced by small but incessant vibrations of voltaism,
seldom, excepting in severe cases, amounting in the
aggregation of shocks, and precisely similar to what is
felt in a limb on applying to it a great multitude of weak
ehocks or strokes, rapidly repeated, from a Leyden vial.
The more formidable power of the gymnote, enables it,
upon the authority of most experimentalists, to give nGt
only severe shocks, both in the water and out of it,
when in actual contact with another animal, but to con-
vey them, as we have seen that the Torpedo is said ti>
do, though upon doubtful testimony, through long poles.
It is probable that these poles must be wet bcf~)fe they
would become good conductors ; for both the Gymnote
and Eel are found to be limited to precisely the same
conducting and non-conducting media as are mot with
tn common electricitv.
Thus then, in addition to the anatomy of the mintJte
structure of the human system, as well as the lower
cla!!s ot animals, as well as their double brain, and sets
of nerves, muscles, &c., we have at least two species of
animals that not only exist, and whose functions of life
11•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
116
are cilrried on by this-principle, ·but>·are· eiadQWed·wi1h
the power of-makingit a epecies of: deteoee against their
enemies. ·But theipower of giving..1lbt·1ihooks•of eleo-
tricity iir not.corµined to these lower·•<irder of animals•
The·human.system is capable, under certain circumstan-
. ces, of givmg oot ·sbook1 of: electrioity. The following
is from Silliman'& Joornal. · · '· ·: .:,
. On the 28th day of January 1839 during a somewhat
... elitmordimcy,.display of northern lights a respectable la-
dy :became highly charged with electricity, so as to give
out vivid electrical sparks frt>m the end of each finger
to the face of each of the company present. This did
notcease:with the heavenly phenomena, but continued ,
several months, during which time she was constantly
charged, and giving off electrical sparks to every con-
ductor·she approached. This was extremely vexatious,
as !ilhe could not touch the stove or any metallic utensil
without first giving off an electric ·spark, with the con-
sequent twinge. The state most faTorable to this phe-
nomenon was an atmosphere ·of eighty degrees Faren-
heit, moderate exercise, and social enjoyment. It dis-
appeared in an atmosphere approaching zero, and under
the debilitating effects of fear. When seated by the
stove with her feet upon the fender, she gave sparks at
the rate of three or four ii. minute, and under the most
favorable circumstances, a spark that co11ld be seen,
heard or felt, passed every second. She could charge
othex:s in the same way :when insulated, who could then
give sparks to others. To make it satisfactory that her
dress did not produce it, it was changed to cotton, and
woollen, without altering the phenomenon. · .
· The lady is about thirty, of sedentary habits and pur-
suits, and delicate state of health, ·having for two years
previously suffered from acute rheumatism and neural-
Atc affections, with peculiar symptoms. Here then, we
~..tbat;ander certain circumstances, the hmnan system
~ • obarged electerizing machine, has been known to
.. ;
Do1'zodbyGoogle
117
.
·t>ecome a'living .or .walkiag.oiib; of' gmvarue: bat.t2ry.;
giving-out·!ike ,tJa.e ~leotrio ·eel:0r ,the prime conductor of
a machme, &hocks to ev&ry· thing with whieh it·came U..
cpntaet.. :But the human sys~m has.always been known
as well as othe:r animals to beJiUed with clectricitv. In
young persons, in dry cold weather, in winter, when
the tone. ot the system is good, the animation lively, and
the circulation quick and energetic, the hair on the head
of the young will stand erect, upon end, and become
ctishevelled, hy it in a state of repulsion causing it like
the twigs and leaves of the vegetable, or the iron filings
upon the "repulsive pole of a magnet," to separate from
each other and stand.in every and any direction. Who,
when a boy, has not amused himself by the sparks of
electricity from the dog or cat's back, on rubbing itsi.m-
ply with the hand so as to break up its equilibrium.
This principle is, and can be tested, by every school
boy throughout the city, daily, when the atmosphere is
not too moist, in either summer or winter with the pre-
ceding results of the body mentioned. If we insulate a
person, and then gently pat or rub him between the
shoulders for two or three minutes, with fur, and then
fetch our finger in contact with any part of the body
thus insulated, a spark precisely like that from the elec-
trizing machine will ensue, which will not only be dis-
tinctly visible and heard all over the room, but will so:
contract the part, or produce a shock, as to become al-;
most insufferaible. This may be produced by any one
upon an other, at any time sufficientlv severe for all
medical purposes. Whoever attentively observes the,
operations of the system both in health and disease, na-1
tut'al arid excited, cannot but confess its agency in the
operations of life. . 1
Why do we with the diurnal revolution of the earth,·
which produces day and night, note a change in ·eur.
a.trength and feelings 1 Why.do we lay down at .night
bl~ to;sleep1 ·ls it.nQt:to accumulate 8Prnet.bing W~··
0191t1zed oyGoogle
118 BAGG ON
.
ted during the day t · What ia this,somethingT We af:;
firm it to be electricity, magnetism ; ·that the brain or
galvanic batterr of the whole system, has expended du•
ring the day. Why is it that a high latitude, as well Id'
high lands, are calculated to produce inflammatory di.,.
eases, while in low latitudes, and low fenny lands pr°"
duce fever and agues~ and other diseases from debility!
Is it not owing to more electricity or oxygen in the at-
mosphere in the one region, than the other 1 In what
consists the great benefit of gestation in the open air, in
long journies, for restoring health, but this principle ao-
cumulated and changed by the different varieties conse•
tjUent to those journies 1 Is not electricity absolutely
necessary to life 1 Can an animal live in an atmosphere
without it 1 Why is it absorbed by the lungs and given
out throughout the whole system1 Why is it that pre•
ceding a thunder storm within a certain sphere of influ·
ence, animals breathe with difficulty, and frequently
pant laboriously, and after a few claps of thunder, and
shocks of electricity or lightning, they can breathe with
ease and freedom 1 It is owing to the want ofthat equi-
librium in the electricities in atmospheric air, in the first
instance beina wanting, and in the next place having
been accompllshed at the time of the shocks or light-
nings, which are natures means to reproduce the equili_.
briuin. Since the days of the immortal Franklin, it has
been used more or less for the cure of disease. In what
manner does it act 1 This we shall explain when we
come to speak of disease. · In conclusion upon this branch·
of the subject, on reflection from our stock offacts, from
the considera'tion that the whole system throughout, .~91'
set.and series of antagonizing organs, performed: byi~
tagonizing motions, by antagonizing forces, added~tllli'
phenomena ofelectricity produced by the electric ee~~ml'
torpedo, and upon the human system ; that ·
the whGI&'
syjAem and every :part of it has an absorbin~r and ~~~
tiag1tl;lrf1lbe 'j·that it will accomrnodate itself to' alnft>d!
Do1'zodbyGoogle
any circumstance and' condition by habit, together with
the irregularity of the habits of sleeping and waking,
heat and cold, pleasure and pain, poverty and sickness,
fulness and inanition. What other principle for a day,
yea for an hour, but that principle so mysteriously an-
tacronized in itself between its fellow, so as at all times
to tend to an equilibrium, a,nd when gained, is as instant-
ly broken up, could produce and sustain life? Could me-
chanics. hydraulics, or chemistry, or all combined pro-
duce it? Could any other principle in nature produce
it but magnetism? Is there existing in nature any oth-
er self moving equalizing principle but this 1 There is
no other, or need be, for this is abundantly qualified to
produce all the varied operations of nature. It is this
principle that runs through all, and regulates and gives
to it life and activity. ·
It is that same principle which regulates all matter
and all principles in mind as well as matter, and consti-
tutes the principle on which is built the system or doc-
trine of equilibrium-a doctrine on which depends the
health of not only vegetables and animals, but the reg-
ulation, health and stability of principles in religion, mo-
rals, politics and law, as well as trade and every thing
else. There is no principle in nature but what has its
poles, or extremes, and oscillates from one to the other,
and back to the iquilibrium. Every artificial principle as
well as natural, is built upon it. It is the cause of all ex-
citements of body as well as mind. Every subject or
system has its poles or extremes, and its equilibrium line.
All the preaching from the pulpit upon religion and mo-
rality may be, or ought to be reduced to two points or
poles. There are but two manners or modes of con-
verting sinners. The one to attract them to do good for
the consolation it affords, by attracting them towards
Heaven, by painting and portraying the goodness of
God, his benovolence, the beauty of Heaven, its pleas-
ures, consolations and happiness. The other by holding
0191t1zed oyGoogle
JIAGG OK '
up the ~ance of God, hell,·its blackneM, · tdttnelfa
and horrors, comparing one with the other in the mind;
comparing God with the devil, man with both, and show-
ing the difference ; the reward of one to ind®e sinners
to repent, and the other course to frighten them to·de-
sist from evil. This is the base of all preaching. We
cannot arrive at perfection ; we cannot act so but we
shall fall infinitely below God. We should so act as to
rise infinitely above the devil, and thereby elude the ex•
treme of what is called "hell." The true course is to
keep our p<>sitive pole towards God, and our negative
one towards the devil-and in our attractions and repul-
sions towards one, and from the other, endeavor to have
our conduct so regulated, at least as to attract \Is to
Heaven, from their very affinity, and by the same law
repel us from the devil and his so called flaming regions.
Thus, virtue and vice both lie the same road, one could
never be prized without a .knowledge of the other.-
They are but the extremes of a continuous line like the
compass needle. ......,•.:
The lawyer carries up his case to court, the parties
are present before the Judge. The plaintiffaffirms such
and such premises; the defenant demes every word ofit.
The plaintiff then calls his witnesses to establish his po--
sition ; the defendant then calls his to antagonize him in
his proof. The Judge after hearing all, reduces them
both in his mind to an equilibrium, bv comparison, and
judgment decides which side predominates in the scales
of justice, and the case is thus disposed of. .·.
. The Physician is called to a patient ; he knows .that
good health depends upon a just and proper balance of
all the vessels and functions of the body, which state is
called the equilibrium of the system. He examines the
patient, and finds this equilibrium is broken up, that e~
ther the centripetal or centrifugal force has got the baJ.
ance,.one over the other, that in consequenoe·other less~
er ~uilibriuml in other organ11 arebroken up wm the~:
Do1'zodbyGoogle
JU
He knows what effect should be produced to restore it.
lie knows what medicine will produce that effect. He
goes to work, reproduces the lost equilibrium of the ,·es-
sels or forces in the particular organ, or whole system
f organs, and the patient is restored and returns to a
state of health. There are upon earth but two kinds of
unmixed governments. Where one man governs the
whole ; the other where the whole govern themselves.
In both cases they are performed by agents. Every
other government is but a mixture of these, and there-
fore vary from a democracy down to an absolute mon-
archy. A government composed of a part of each, like
that of Great Britain would constitute an aristocracy.
In our own government, a democracy, where the peo-
ple govern themselves by their agents, we have certain
prescribed rules and iegulations for the action of all de-
partments, called constitution and laws. These laws
are construed by some in one manner and by some in
another. Now if these agents, through ign0rance, or
through party influence transcend the la"Ys, and thereby
encroach upon the people's rights, or squander the pro-
perty or money of the people, they arise in their majes-
ty, one party takes one side, and the other the other;
one party justifies their agents, the other condemns ;
one party holds up another agent as better qualified by
intelligence, honesty and other requisites to do justice to
the people. The friends of one party by eloquence and
persuasion attract individuals from the ranks of the oth-
er, until it becomes the strongest ; the Ins are turned
out, and others are elected. Thus the majority govern,
an equilibrium is produ\.ed, government becomes heal-
thv, and our happy government is thus perpetuated.
'It will be seen that the equilibrium is formed through
the medium of the ballot box, from the extremes of both
parties. Parties I say, for parties are as necessary.as
tho Q.UESTIOl\S which create them. Every question has
two sides or extremes, a positive ,and a negative Qne.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
·»Aoo oN' '
From the'very ·nature' of things then~ ·thete' m'mft1~'~
party to correspond ·to those sides. Questions ha•iag
philosophically but two sides, no third party can ever
ltmg exist. We might go on, and show from the theo-
ry of our government, that its formation was philosopb...
ically correct from our theory, from its es:ecutive, judi-
cial and legislative departments, to operate as checks
and balances, one · as helping the other to restore lost
equilibriums, or ·continue those already produced, but
our limits will not permit. Trade depends upon this
principle for its healthy action. The prices of all com-
modities are always more or less fluctuating from the
extremes to a state of equilibrium between the two.-
This depends upon two causes only ; the plentifulness
or scarcity of the article, on the one band, and the cir-
culating medium on the other, by which it is priced or
measured. If the price of an article from want of cul-
tivation, bad E1easons, or manufaeture is raised to an ex-
treme above its ordinary relative value and price, the
agriculturist, the manufacturer, or mechanic bends his
energies to raise, produce or manufacture the article,
until 1t becomes as much too low as it was too high.
From self interest then, he ceases to produce it alto-
gether, or in such quantities, and directs his time and .
resources to some other object and article, and an equi- '
librium in quantity and a corresponding one in value and
price succeed from these extremes. •i,!1fc'
. But the most common fluctuations of prices especial-
ly in this country, have been caused by the circulating·
medium, by which all prices are measured. That cir~ ·
culating medium has been paper money, having no jn:.t:
trinsic value, and therefore instead of producing in trade;:
health or an annual equilibrium, hail contributed, by i~
mfl!lner of operation, to hinder th?se frotn taking pla~;;
ar:in other words, has been the dm~ct cause of all ow:' 1
~cial embarrassments from· this alone. · The1
manner 'by.which.it·was ·produced was from itlt capao:
001izodbyGoogle
JN
bility of being expanded and contracted from and to the
centre, operating like a lever upon the circumference-
With double, triple, and quadruple force, and there•
by producing daily, weekly and monthly, extremes o{
prices as opposite as the poles ; and thus instead of con-
tributing to produce an equilibrium in prices, defying
their taking place. To day it is said to be worth the
face of it, dollar for dollar. To-morrow it is in the hands
of a receiver, and declared not worth a groat. Thus
then, an equilibrium from simple imitation of intrinsic
value, the shadow for the substance, can never take
plac·e, is unphilosophical, ruinous to trade, and should
therefore be discarded. On the contrary, if the circula-
'ting medium have intrinsic value, like the constitutional
one of the nation, gold and silver, it can never be ex-
panded and contracted, made plenty or scarce at will,
and therefore raise and depress prices as corresponding-
ly sudden. And although there may be slight fluctua-
tions during the year from bad seasons, pestilence, wars,
bad government, excitements of the people, or the influ-
ence from foreign nations, it will annually produce that
equilibrium in prices that constitutes the health of trade.
Like water from its weight and resistance finding its own
level, gold and sihrer, raise and depress the prices of
all commodities to its own standard or level, and th1 s
produce that equilibrium in the extremes, on which the
health of trade depends for individu.al and national pros-
perity and happiness. In view then, of this principle,
and thus applied, it will be seen as a general rule that if
we depend upon trade for our living, prosperity and live-
lihood that the true course is, when the extremes of pri-
ces are too low, purchase, and on the contrary when too
high, in the other extreme, sell. By following strictly
this course or not, agreeable to this general principle,
will make the difference through life in the pecuniary
affairs of an individual or nation, of poverty or riches.
'Pbeae tare some of the different principles and subjectfS
12
Do1'zodbyGoogle
124 tnoe•.
oN ..!
in the affilirs.of.human life, in· the condition of man to
elucidate the general principle, or doctrine ofequilihri- .
um throughout all matter as well as in mind. The cat-
alogue might he swelled to almost infinitude, at least·to
an extent corresponding with the variations and combi-
nations of both mind and matter for it is general and
universal.
CHAPTER VI.
FOOD, NUTRITION AND ASSIMULATJON.
Although there is great variety in the form of the food
of.man, it is composed of l)ut few elements. By care-
ful analysis of the best of our most modern chemists, it
is made up of four elements or simple substances, oxy-
gen, hydrogen, carbon and nitrogen. The three former
are the most constant ingredients, for although nitrogen
is to be found jn such ''products as pease, lentils and
cabbage, it is not a component of starch, sugar or ba-
con.'1 The food after having been masticated and re-
ceived into the stomach, is decomposed, which is but a
separation of these elements from each other. The de-
comrosition is not completed in the stomach or bowels,
but there commences, is not completed till it is mixed
with the blood. Throughout the whole track of the al"
imentary.canal,' not only tho lactellls absorbents, secern-
cnts, but in the arteries and veins, attractions and re-
pulsions, comrositions and decompositions, are constant..
ly going on not only between the tissues of the body and
bloOd, but between all tho solids, liquids ana nerifonn
substances of the body, external air, and food received.
This·constitutes the metamorphose of Lebeig and oth·
ers ; the former of whose system although rich 'in facts,
is yet so complicated and confusing from the multiplici~
ty of his position~ that.they. are.ofno use except.to give
oo1'zodbyGoogle
126
DI foot. to ~cortoborate :ua in .our.general principle of at-
traction and repulsic.m. · .
. .
We find also that the components of the system, so-
Mds1 liquids and gasses, are also made up of these same
elementary su.bstances, together with some few oth-
819. .' That consequently .the blood which is the immedi..
ate product of. the food·as.well as other fluids, is also
ooiriposed of the.se elements. That they in the form of
chylc arc poured into, and mingled with the blood, and
thrown over the whole system, to every part on which
they act, and are acted upon, and then as we have be-
fore'seen, returned to the heart. In the passage of.these
elements in the form ot chyle, blood, and other fluids
throughout the system, commencing at the gullet, they
attract new elements or compounds, in the form of sali-
va, from the glands ·and other surfaces, and in return,
give out in their course from the blood, these elements
for their nutrition and sustenance. Having traversed
every part of the system of circles from centre to cir-
cumference, what is not attracted for the support of the
individual organs, together with what is imparted to the
blood in return from those organs (except what is sepa-
rated in the lungs, capillaries and kidneys, and repelled
and expelled as noxious,) is again returned and again
renewed by .these elements of food. What effects take
place ~e know not at prese~t, excei;>t by the agency .of
some imponderable antagomzed m itself, and so opera-
ting upon the whole body that it is endowed with an
aptitude or capability of attracting such elements or
agents for its use .as is needful and necessary, and re-
pelling others ; and that every organ being .differently
rifmstituted in its texture and arrangement of its ele-
~ts, has the same capacity to attract out of these el-
eiilents, materia,ls, and arraege them into its own organ-
iiied ·texture whether .solid, liquid or aeriforrn, and.that
th.a·three d.ifferent classes ·of matter are.by these meaµs
and @perat~ema, c,onataQµy changiug from one to the oth-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
IM llAOO<>Jlf
er, and vice vena ; and that aometimea by the union of
these and other elements, other and more complicated
compounds are produced.
What is the peculiar use and eff'ect of carbon and ni-
trogen in the system besides contributing to sustain the
solid parts, we cannot so well understand, as we can ox-
ygen and hydrogen, for persons have lived for months,
yea for years, without taking in their food either. From
the experiments of our best chemists, we find that car-
bon after having traversed the whole assimulating and
circulatory systems, is thrown off, .or repelled by the
lungs and skin, in a volume in direct proportion to the
oxygen received. We know also that the liver secretes
bile · from the blood which is eighty per cent. carbon,
that carbon colors the blood as that in the veins dark,
and that oxygen restores its color to a florid red through
the medium of the lungs. We know also that venous
blood has to pass as it were, through the custom house
of the liver, before it is returned to the heart ; and that
arterial blood has to undergo the same operation through
the kidneys, during which process they attract, secrete
and repel, along with oxygen and hydrogen with other
salts, nitFogen.. Thus then, we see that these import-
ant organs or functions of lungs, liver, capillaries and
kidneys, as well as all the minor glands, are attracting
and repelling surfaces,
The lungs attract oxygen gas, and repel carbonic
acid. The liver attracts a material from venous blood,
and repels bile, The kidneys attract arterial blood, and
repel the compound called urine, and the skin attracts
arterial blood, from which it repels the venous ; it also
like the lungs absorbs oxygen, and repels carbonic acid,
water and other acids, in the form of perspiration.-
Now as carbon seems to have eo great an agency in the
motions of the human system by attraction and repul-
.;.on, by its being a constituent of all the food of man as
1'eH u of all his 01ganiied cornpounda, solid, liquid and
Do1'zodbyGoogle
aeriform, and as the bile in the track of the alimentary
canal is reabsorbed and passes again into the blood, and
is diffused thereby again throughout the system, it seems
with.oxygen- and hydrogen to have a share in the pro-
duction of animal heat.
The tissues of the body, as well as the blood and
other fluids, are composed of these elements. The blood
is composed of them in nearly the following proportions
of each, in one hundred parts :
Carbon, 51,96
HydrQgen, 7,25
Nitrogen, 15,07
Oxygen, - - 22
Ashes, 4,42
The tissues vary but a little from this arrangement
or proportion from these elements.
It will be thus seen that carbon bears a much larger
share in the proportion among these elements, in the
compound, than nitrogen; for animal albumen is made
up of something like in one hundred parts of
Carbon, 53,850
Hydrogen, 6,983
itrogen, 16,673
Oxygen, - 22,00
This albumen constitutes the serum of blood, and the
fibrin which constitutes the hard part of blood or cres-
samentum, contains
Carbon,
Hydrogen,
Nitrogen,
Oxygen,
While albumen from eggs contains,
parts:
Carbon,
Hydrogen
Nitrogen,
Oxygen, -
12•
53,671
- 6,878
15,72
23,68
in one hundred
53,72
7,53
13,60
- 23,13
Do1'zodbyGoogle
•• ......
And from the yolk of egg9,
Carbon, - - - 63,46
H1drogen, 7,66
Nitrogen, • - 13,84:
Oxy~en, - - - - . - - . .- l&,56
The middle membrane of tlte arteries contains,
Carbori, .o • 58,720
H)'c:b'ogen, · ·- - '7,790
Nitrogen, • 16,380
Oxygen, • - • • • • !8,811
The composition of lactic acid or that of milk, is
Hydrogen, 6,11 100 and no Nitrogen.
Carbon, 45,92 ~ ·
Oxygen, · 48,97
The·composition of the chief oonstituants of the urine
of man and animals, according to Lebeig, is
Carbon, - · - - · • - . 36,083
Hydrogen, ' · !l,441
Nitrogen, 33,461
Oxygen, . - - • ·• 28,1~
Composition of the flesh of beef, according to Playfair,
contains
Carbon, 52,500
Hydrogen, 7,886
Nitrogen, - 15,214
Oxygen, - • • • 24,310
Composition from the buds of germinating potatoes, ac-
cording to Blanchet, is
Carbon, ·-
Hydrt>gen,
Nitrogen,
' Oxygen, • • • ·•
Composition of Quinine, according to Lebeig,
Carbon,
-Hydrogen,
Nitrogen,
Oxygen,
80;26
5,50
1,30
32,74
75,78
7,52
0,11
s,a
Do1'zodbyGoogle
•AGNnM•.
~of hog'"1 lard,
1!~ ·. .. ··-
" . . '
),· ~o, ·,: •·· -
l~ ~n, ·.. I tw •
~of. mutton fat,
c· ;'OUbon1 .' ,,.•
"11¥ydrogen, - - -
..tOiy:gen, - • •
·
JWll·the composition of human fat,
, Cuboq,
. tffydrogeo,
'· Oxygen, - -
Composition of cane sugar,
Carbon,
J,Hydrogen, -
7';098
- 11,146
9,71l
....
- 11,'80
9,304
79,000
- 11,416
9,684
·Oxygen, -
Stbreh, which forms a large share of our
foOd; is composed of
42,2bl
8,328
61,316
vehetable
· Carbon, 44,26
.tfydrogen, 6,70
, -Oxygen, - - - • · 49,06
Tkis analysis is from wheat, and although starch from
lb& different substances, such as potatoes, peas, beans,
~ ~' rice, rye, horse chestnut, buckwheat, roots and
seeds, vary a fraction: this is the general analysis of
.ltaroh.
'rhe leaves of that shrui) called tea, and the 8eed caJJ-
-ed·coffee, are identical in their constituents of e1emen-
11dy principles, which consist of carbon, hydrogen and
oxrgen, [Lebeig]. Thus then we find that all food,
annnal and vegetable, is either composed of carbon,
hy4.rogen, nitrogen and oxygen; but that the greatest
share of food is made. up of carbon, hydrogen and
mygen, and that when it does form a constituent, it is
ma.smaller proportion than the other elements. It ap-
pears then, that the human system is made up and com-
potied of these simple elements, arranged by the mag•
0191t1zed oyGoogle
netic fluids in endless variety,:like tke varions 4iguree ijf
a kaleidoscope, of forms, and .that digestion :is nothing ·
more or less than a decomposition .of these:·element& of
the•food, which we have seen are corriposed of-these in
·almost the same varying ratios, and aseimulation and
nutriti,on the carrying to and from the various functions,
or~11s and tissues, whereby their attractions and repul-
sions their elements combine and separate and thereby
sustain and support the ·system. :Besides eontributing
to,furm the blood, juices, and solid tissues of the human
svstem, what is the effect of carbon and nitrogen1 We
find the bile !S nearly seventy per cent. carbCln, and that
the urine contains the largest proportion of nitrogen of
all other compounds.
Does the liver secrete the excess of negative mag- ·
netic matter, and the kidneys the excess of positive
magnetic matted In the present state of our know}..
edge, it is hard to determine with regard to these sub--
stances or elements. We know that nitrogen fo:rms a
large proportion of the atmospheric air of our globe;
that it permeates the pores of the skin an<l membranes,
and forms a 'constituent of the blood and tissues; ana
that the seeming· excess is thrown off by the kidney~
Does it act as it is supposed to do in at~ospheric air, t6
simply give mechanical form or support1 or ·does it•in
some manner contribute to produce repulsion from its
elasticity as a medicine1
We know that·carbon, besides being a large constitu..
ent of the food of vegetables, is absorbed by them during
the day and repelled during the night; that it traverses
every part of the animal in the passage of the blood
throughout the· system, and that it is repelled by the
lungs, skin and kidneys. Now the unceasing tendencv
iowards an equilibrium of the magnetic fluids, from their
extremes, would seem to require a point or line of union.
Does carbon constitute that point~ ·Does it act, ae ii
w.e.re, like a mediator, and assist to produce the equi~
Do1'zodbyGoogle
131
librium between the oxygen and hydrogen guaes in
their equilibrium, in the formation of water1 And if
ao, does not nitrogen assist to break up that equilibrium,
~r. produce repulsion1 Does not carbon stand at the
....'Yay house of attraction to facilitate or produce an
equilibrium, and nitrogen as an agent to break it up,
Bild,.assist to produce repulsion1
, .~sides its every where presence in the system, and
YJgetable products, as well as in the growth of them,
we.find that we can not make a permanent magnet of
iron, and are obliged to use steel, which is rendered
such by the addition and union of carbon with iron.
We. know that carbon is antagonized to nitrogen in a
variety of ways, such as gravity and elasticity, besides
Q)ally others. We find that every magnet has its poles,
and its equinoctial line. Does carbon contribute to this
equinoctial line, and nitrogen to the extremes7 Carbon
and hydrogen are in extremes of opposition in many
compounds. They are in extremes in the principle of
volatilization. Carbon is the hardest substance in nature
to volatilize, and hydrogen the easiest, and can not be
CQD<lensed. Although there is an affinity between carbon
and hydrogen, and they form many compounds, yet the
affinity of hydrogen for oxygen is vastly superior to it,
and will take it from certain compounds in certain pro-
portions. This great affinity between them, thell' ap-
pearance in the compound called water, their refracting
powers, and their great influence and agency in the de-
composition of all substances through the medium of the
OQDl]>OUnd blow-pipe, thus imitating perfectly and com-
pletely the poles of the galvanic battery in effect, as
weU as appearance upon tne organs of sense, with va-
r,i.ous other considerations not less analogous and im-
potling, inforce upon us the conviction of the fact of
taeir being both compounds; the one of oxygen and
negative magnetism, and the other of hydrogen and
positive magnetism. Can we not then discover that
Do1'zodbyGoogle
throughout the system, upon the solids, liquids and gasses,
through the operation of these marrnetic fluids, changes
arc constantly going on in these ckmcnts, and when
attraction prevails, cold or diminished temperature takes
place, and when repulsion, heat or an increase of tem-
perature is the result, and all from this principle antag-
onized in itself. Digestion has hitherto been considered
a complicated ancl lauorious process, requiring great
muscular force from the muscular coats of the stomach.
A kin<l of grinding triturating process; but it is not so.
It is simply a decomposition, or separation of the ele-
ments from each other, and an assimulation of them to
the ...-arious organs and tissues of the body, that stand
in need of them, and therefore in the round of the circu-
lation attract them from the blood, and give out at the
same time, in exchange, some of their own. The ap-
petency and satiety of which depend upon the motion
of the magnetic fluids, produced by attraction and re-
pulsion, by the light of which we may see how the
temperature of the body is kept up, equalized and pre-
served, as well in the torrid as the frigid zone, as well
in summer and winter as in spring and autumn; attrac-
tion producing contraction and cold, or diminished tem-
perature, and repulsion an increase of temperature, or
the sensation of heat. It will be admitted that the effect
of all food is to produce motion, thought, sensation and
heat, that is, to produce life, which consists simply in
these phenomena. Ether, nitrous oxide, oxygen gas,
brandy and water, as well as other alcoholic solutions,
produce motion, heat, sensation and thought, and not
only so, but much quicker and more intensely than com-
mon food. Now will the sticklers for the old theory of
digestion, please tell us how many hundred pounds pow-
er it takes to grind down and triturate these above men-
tioned and other kindred diffusible stimulents. Surely all
can easily see that digestion is a simple separation,
throughout the whole digestive, absorbent and circula-
··~.
MAGNB'l'l!!IM· J33
tory circles of these elements from each other. Alcohol
then, operates as well as food to keep up the flame of
life, precisely as it does, or would, to keep up a flame
out of the body when set on fire in the atmospheric air.
"The lamp of lifo,'' is a very common expression; and
is a very just and appropriate one, for both are produc-
ed in the same manner, by the same materials or ele-
ments, and are governed by the same law. Combustion
then, may be compared to digestion; in both it is a sim-
ple decomposition of a compound substance, separating
its elements, and forming new combinations. The heat
of the system is kept up and sustained by the attrac-
tions and repulsions, decompositions and recombinations
between the same elements, that with fuel or food in
atmospheric air, heat is produced and continued, to wit:
carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, with nitrogen. Combus-
tion is nothing but a series of powerful and active at-
tractions and repulsions between the above elements or
substances. Decomposition, whether in the stomach or
other parts of the system, repels; and its union with the
various tissues of the body, is precisely the same process.
In the one, the flame of beat is produced; in the other,
the flame of life. The one external; the other internal.
Oxygen has erroneously been called a supporter of com-
bustion, to the exclusion of all the rest; for hydrogen
and carbon both mutually contribute to the phenomena
of these attractions and repulsions as much so as
oxygen.
To besure oxygen unites with more substances in na-
ture than carbon ; but hydrogen is as everywhere pre-
sent as oxygen. Alcohol and other diffusible stimulant.'!
stand the same relation to quickness and want of per-
manency of excitement in the system, that they do to
other fuel in combustion in external air. Both are fleet-
ing and transient, and destitute of that permanent dura-
ble action, which is produced by more solid food or fuel.
Many just, striking and. analogous comparii;ons might
0191t1zed oyGoogle
134 B.AOG ON
with increasing interest be drawn between the two, to
further and more fully elucidate the subject ; but our
limits forbid. We have shown m addition to the human
system being formed' double, that the whole system of
circles, from the digestive and alimentary, up to the last,
hut most important of the brain and nerves, are perfor-
med, on minute anatomical investigation, by a system of
antagonizing vessels and organs, and that one side was
the repository of positive magnetic fluid, and the other
for negative ; that the food is made up of tour elements,
which by the operation of these, forming a variety of
compounds, produced by their action the mB.!?netic flu-
ids, which constituted life. These circles operated on,
and operating upon the food, are so many cognate sys-
tems forming a whole, which generated and eliminated
from the food the pores, lungs and so forth, like so ma-
ny galvanic batteries, the magnetic fluids, which is ac-
cumulated in the blood and sent by the arteries to the
brain, which gland secretes them sufficiently refined and
sublimated for the operations of milild and muscular mo-
tion. This accumulation then, from the series of cir-
cles, perform by the action of the magnetic fluids, from
the brain through the medium of its nervous appenda-
ges, all the phenomena of mind and body. The brain
then, the organ of mind thus relatively situated, the
grand centre of all the circles of the system, stands as
a monarch to the whele receiving support and susten-
ance from all, but 9,overning and dispensing law through-
out the system. This system thus animated, moved and
controlled by the brain, is very analogous to the circles
of the planetary system, moved and controlled by the
sun; as well as the vegetating system of circles upon its
surface. Every system in nature from the sun itself,
down to the lowest vegetable, h~s an innate propensity
to beget, and propagate something from itself, in image
of itself. From the annual and diurnal revolutions of
the earth, it would seem to have been sent offfrom the
og ,zed by Google
. 136
•
bosom of the sun in a tangent between the mutual cen-
trifugal and centripetal forces of that magnetic lumina.-
ry, and that it has preserved its motion, and imitated in
its rotation, its parent fountain, since, and that it was
formed in degrees or circles, as mentioned in (chapter
xiv.) on geological formations.
The circulation of the blood in the human system is
performed in the same manner that the diurnal and an-
nual motions of the earth are produced, and by the same
forces, and on the same principle. The heart is the
centre of the circulating system. It is a solid, and the
blood a fluid. They are both in the positive state, and
by the law of magnetism. from the mutual repulsion, the
blood is repelled to the lungs, and thereby throwing off
carbonic acid, and imbibing oxygen. is changed from a
positive to a negative state, from an equilibrium between
it and that funetion, and by the same Jaw that repelled
it from the heart to the lungs, is repelled in turn bythat
organ and attracted by the heart, where again arrived
at; an equilibrium a"ain takes place, and it is repelled
all over the system t;cvNy part of the circumference,
the capillary system ; which is a second lungs, is there
chan.cred by the repulsion of carbonic acid and attraction
of o;ygen through the pores, from the atmosphere, is
repelled by that system, attracted to, and through the
kidneys, parts with its redundancy of negative magnet~
ic matter, ih the form of nitrogen and other salts, and is
again attr1cted back to the right heart ; and after again
going to the lungs and liver, (which we omitted to men-
tion above) the latter of which separates the excess of
positive magnetic matter in the form of bile or carbon,
and acids, is again returned, and thus by these changes
from positive to negative by attraction and repulsion, is
this ceaseless round of circulation produced, till death.
Thus, like the motion of the earth from the change of
light from a positive to a negative state, by the opera-
tion of ponderable matter upon the magnetic fluids, is
13
Do1'zodbyGoogle
•
l86
the motion of the circulation produced from the same
chan$es in the lungs, and capillaries. When the cur-
rent 1s strongest towards the earth, we have day, light,
and warmth, and when it is strongest towards the sun,
night, darkness and cold. So also when the current is
stronger towards the surface, the system is increased in
temperature, action, motion and thought, and when it is
stronger towards the center, it is diminished in all these
characteristics of body as well as mind.
It will be remembered throughout that we make heat
to depend upon repulsion, in the system, and cold upon
attraction ; and the tendency to an equilibrium of these,
is the simple cause why the uniform temperature of 98
Farenheit, is maintained as well in summer as winter,
day as night, or under the scorching sun of the equator
as the frigid zone. Is there any other principle but this
self equalizing one of magnetism, that could produce and
continue the motion of the earth, the health and temper-
ature of the animated machine, or of vegetation for an
hour 1 Mark the perfect coincidence between the ef-
fects upon the earth, of day and night, heat and cold,
with the same effects upon the body and mind, as well
as sleeping and waking. Each have a diurnal and an-
nual revolution. So also has the vegetable creation.-
What affects one, affects the other ; the cause is the
same. Thus truths always agree, but errors never.-
It not only disagrees with truth. but with itself. The
test for truth then is attraction, and of error repulsion,
By strictly adhering to this simple rule, we ca.n never
be mistaken. Yve have compared the human system to
an electric machine, to a galvanic battery, and to the
solar system, not inappropriately. The comparison
might justly be extended to the steam engine, which per-
forms its mechanical operations, or motions, by attrac-
tion and repulsion, producing contraction and expansion.
Even the machinery itself, furnace, boiler condenser,
tubes, valves and all, might be compared with the sto-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
.-eh, 'ldnga1.veeaelsand valvn.io the arteries.and.veiu,.
and other organs of the system. The one is but a little
more complicated tha11 the other. Who is not forcibly
.truck with.the ana!Qgy of the puffing and blowing of a
high prenure steam engine, and the function of the lungs
of man 7 The great and only material difference ia, thai
one is animal and bas a brain of its own, impelled by .a
portion of immortality, for an engineer, and the other a
machine, constructed by man, and requiring an qin..
Mr to superintend. its operations. Tbe prin.eipte of lo..
comotion in both are the same, and governed by the
eame law, attraction and repulsion. We have seen that
the earth is .re!¥iered healthy or otherwise by the llWl.
It is said to be in a healthy state when its m~g~tic or
-tricfiuida are in a state of equilibrium. When the
,..aibrimn is disturbed or broken up, we become sen-
aif>laiof its being reproduced by a commotion in ato:ioa--
pheric air, denoted by thunder and lightning, aud is made
mare apparent by raiD descending or being attracted
from the clouds to the earth. Precisely so wi.th the hu-
man syBtem. The equilibriwn oannot long be broken
up between themagnetic forces, before an effortis made
to reproduce it, and fevers are the result, .denoted. .by
ooW chills alternated with hot·flashes, aQd the equilibri-
wm1it made apparent by a copious flow of water from
t.oda .skin.and kidney11. A stonn then in atmospheric
~ lightning an& tiuinder, stands the same •elat.ioD
•••iaMtarth, that a fit of rever and ague.does to.f.be hu-
Jll&n ey.atem, both the reault of an eifurt of~. m~t-
~~· to regain their loet equilibrium. . .
~· moon 10 effect1 the earth &11 to produoe "11 at.-
• .ttiM.and repulsion, or an ebbing and tl~. of .&be
~I'll· upon ita surface. lt a1ao IO etfe~ts the ~
•yitem as to pJOduce periodioal J1E1aults of a~ep~ ~
l'epw.ion in:the Ill~ .regulaJuaao~r...
· ·No~ bow.-
oror,.:
will de&yi·the ~at effect of planeW"y iullue~ ti1P;'
~~ uA and Gfman ~;ffr?tpring.imA fa)},~
Do1'zodbyGoogle
139
mer and wmt~, day' and n~, exttla'ef,a)i-:otherom.
sideratiOns ·will prove it. If there be planetaFy ·intlu-
ence upon the human system, how is it possible to pro-
duee an effect, except by the ageney of the magnetie
fluids. There can be no other. But to corroborate it
still further, we will remark that the life of animals are
in some species, entirely dependent upon il Some an-
imals live and thrive on nothing but air ; while others
Jive ·and grow on nothing but water. Of those that live
on the 1atter, may be reckoned the various catalogue of
fishes, tad poles and ·leeches. Rondlet kept a sHver bah
in pure water for three years, and at the end of that pe;.
riod it had gained and grown as large as the glass globe
that contained it.
Various other classes of fish like the carp, gold fish,
and pike, have a similar power to live in that elemeol
There are various insects, which live on the nectar of
flowers, while others are sustained upon air alone, like
the snail and chameleon, which have been known to li¥e
upon it for years. Dr. Good informs us that Gorman
&1Serts that spiders will live upon air for months, and
that Mr. Baker tells us in the philosophical trantJactions
that he had a beetle which lived m a glass, confined for
thl'ee years without food, and then fled away by acci-
denl " The larves of ants are not only supported by
air, but actually increase in bulk, and undergo their met-
amorphose without any other food. The luminous cen-
tipede which has been seen illuminating the.air, ,audfalls
1
into a ship one thousand miles from shore, lives on air.
Lizards and especially the newt species, have beenfound
imbedded in chalk rocks apparently dead and fossilized
bat have ~numed livin~ aetiorr on exposure to the a._
IDOlphere. The eJ.Venment has frequently been·tried
~; t()adsfor two yean1, and on rattle and other snakf!le,
snd<Vipen, fur yeaN without change'in their ·bulk., A
iMeskt•
,ftiWre9'me that··on getting a p0rtl'.ait•taken and
ffilfn~;:b,i accident a ·spider c.-a-WW beneath,iho-gl..
,.
001ozodbyGoogle
and quietly· se11tad himself upol,l the forefinger where
he was permitted to remain twenty yean, when op.
removing the glass, hi6 majesty awoke, rubbed his eyeJ,
and marched offtriumphantly with a-dignity pro.portion..
ed. •
to his age. But living upon air and water is not con-
fined. to fishes and vipers. History shows us that map.
and other animals. can, and do eJtist without food. .for a
long period of time upon air or water, or both, such as
in cases of madness where a patient absolutely reflJ8el!
to take food, tQ eat or drink. There is a most,extJ!a()r-
dinary case recorded of Cecelia D. Ridgeway, preserv-
ed among the records in the Tower of Lond0Q, ·w.hich
states that in the !l"eign of Edward III., having beel;l ,CO~
demned for the murder or her husband, she remained
for forty days without either food or drink: This :w;as
ascribed to a miracle, and the King condescended in
consequence to grant a pardon. The Cambridgeshire
farmer's wife, who about twenty years ago was buried
under a snow storm, continued ten or twelve days with-
out tasting any thing but a little snow which ·~overe<l
her. In the Edinburgh Medical Essays for :1720, Dr.
Eccles makes mention of a beautiful young lady ''11bo?Jt
sixteen years of age," who in consequence <>f the sud·
den deafh of an indulgent fa~her, was thrown ioto a
state of tetanus or rigidity of all the muscles of :he bQ-
dy, ·and especially those of deglutition, ·so vioJept at!,~f>
render lier incapable of swallowing for two lollg and dis·
tinct perfods of timei In the first instance for thirty-
four, and in the second which occurred shortly after-
:Wards for fifty four days; during all which tifl)e her first
and second fastings, she dec:lart:d·, 'S!l>J'S Dr. Eccles, she
had no sense of hunger or thirst, and·,when they well~
over, she had not lost much of her f:Jesh. Jn.oor..ttwn
days, says Dr. Good, we h~Ye a mpst striking instance,
in the case of Ann Moore, of Tutbury in Staffordshire,
who in consequence of great and increasing difficulty in
11wallowing, at first limited herself daily to a very small
1311
Do1'zodbyGoogle
140 DAGO Off.
portion of br~a'd a.lone, and on March 17th, lS0.7, re-
linquished even that, allowing herself only occasionally
a little tea or water ; and in the ensuing September,
pretended to abstain altogether from liquids as well as
solids. From the account of Mr. Granger, a medical
practitioner of reputation, who saw her about .
two yem
afterward, she appears to have suffered very consider-
ably either from her abstinence, or from the general
morbid heat which induced her to use abstinance. He
says, indeed that her mental faculties were entire,·her
voice moderately strong, and that she could join in con-
versation without undergoing any apparent fatigue; but
he says also that her pulse was feeble and slow, that she
was altogether confined to her bed, that her limbs were
emaciated, that convulsions attacked her on so slight an
excitement as surprise, and that she had then very late·
ly lost the use of her limbs. Hildanus and Haller have
collected cases of much longer duration of abstinence,
some of them extendinO' to not less thnn sixteen years.
[n the numbers of the J'.5hilosophical Transactions (Lon·
don) there are found numerous cases of the same kind,
8}\parently drawn up with the most scrupulous caution,
and- supported by the best kind of concurrent testimony.
ln '<me of the earlier volumes, we meet with an ac·
count of four men who were compelled to subsist upon ,
water for twenty-four days, in consequence of their
having belm buried in a deep excavation, bv the fall of '
a sup~rincutnbent body of earth, under which they were
workmg, "!1d its being that length of time before th·ey
were extricated. The water they drank was from·a
11p:ing at hand, and they drank it freely, but tasted no·
thmg else. A \ltill more t·xtraordinary case is related
in the same Journal for the vear 1742, and consists of
the history of a young man, who, at the age of sixteen,
from having drank freely of cold water when in violent
perspiration, was thrown into an inflamatory fever, from
which he escaped with great difficulty, and '"thrwuch a
001izodbyGoogle
dislike to food of all kinds, that for eighteen years (at
the time this account was drawn up) he had never
tasted any thing bl!t water. He uniformly enjoyed
good health, and appears to have had ejections but sel
dom." A multitude of hypotheses have been offered
to account for these wonderful anomalies, says Dr.
Good, but none of them do it satisfactorily; nnd I con-
fess my utter ignorance upon the subject. Water ap--
pears to be necessary in most, but not in all cases, for
Hildanus, though somewhat imaginative, but honest in
the main, assures us that Eva Flegen, who had fasted
for sixteen years, when he saw her in 1612, had ab-
stained entirely from liquids as well as solids; and in
the case of impacted toads, especially those found in
blocks of closely crystallized marble, the moisture they
receive must often be very insignificant. Perhaps one
of the most singular cases, and at the same time, the
best authenticated on record, is that of Janot M'Leod,
published in the Phylosophical Transactions by Dr.
Mackenzie. She was at this time thirty-three years of
age, unmarried, and from the age of fifteen had had
various epileptic paroxysms, which had considerably
shaken her frame, rendered the elevator muscles of the
eyelids paralytic, so that she could only see by lifting
the lids up, and produced so rigid a locked jaw that her
mouth could rarely be forced open by any contrivance.
She had lost very nearly her power of speech and de·
glutition, and with this, all de3ire to eat or drink. Her
lower limbs were retracted towards her body; she Wal'!
entirely confined to her bed;_slept much, and had seldom
any other ejections than periodical discharges of blood,
apparently from the lungs, which was chieHy thrown out
by the nostrils. During a very few intervals of relax·
ation, she was prevailed upon, with great difficulty, to
put a few crumbs of bread, comminuted in the hand,
into her mouth, together with a little water, sucked from
her own hand, and in one or two instances, a liule.gruel;
Do1'zodbyGoogle
~· BAOO QN.~
but· even at ~ att~pts, . lllrtl(>tt the whole Wl8 .re.
jected. On two occasions, also, aft.er • total abstinence
.of many months, she made sigr¥tt of wishing .to. drink
eome water, which was giYert hel" immediately. On
the first occasion, the whole seemed to be returned from
her mouth; but she wns greatly refre1hed by having it
rubbed on her throat. On the second occaaioo, she
drank oft' a pint at once, but oould not be prevailed up-
on or forced to drink any more, notwithstanding that
her father had now fixed a wedge between her 4eeth,
two of which were hereby broken out. With ttie.e
exceptions, however, she seems to have passed upwards
of four years without either liquids or solids of any ~
.or even an appearance of swallowing. She lay for the
most part like a log of wood, with a pulse scarcely per~
ceptible from feebleness, but distinct and regular; her
countenance was fresh; her features neither disfigured
nor sunk; her bosom round and prominent, and her
limbs not emaciated. Dr. Mackenzie watched her with
occasional visits for eight or nine years, at the close af
which -,,eriod, she seems to have been a little improved.
His narration is very precisely as well as minutely de-
tailed, and previously to its being sent to the Royal So-
ciety, was read over before the patient's parents, who
were known to be persons of great honesty; as also
before the elder .of the parish. who appeal's to have
been an excellent man; and when sent, was accompa-
nied by a certificate as to the general troth of the fact~
signed by the minister of the parish, the 11heriff-depute,
agd six. other individuals of the neighborhood, of high
character, and most of them justices of the peaee.
Yet with the freest use of water, what can we make
of such cases upon any chain of chemical facts at prei-
11ent 4iscov.ered1 What can we make of it, even io
OO.njun~tion with the use .of air? The weight and s~Ji4
~nteots of the body are derived chiefly from ·thei prin::-
• ..wbioh modem chemistsdenote carbon; ye•·neither
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAON&TIU. HB
water. nor air, when iq a state of purity, contain a par;
ticle of carbon; nor is it hitherto, by any means estalr
liShed, that even the nitrogen of the animal system is
in any instance derived from the air, or introduced by
the process of respiration; for the experiments upon
this subject, so far as they go, are in a state of opposi-
tion, and keep the question on a balance-factis .contra-
ria facta. Let us then confess our ignorance rather than
attempt to be wise upon the base of conceit. All that
we do know, is that bodies of all kinds are reducible to
a few elementary principles, which appear to be un-
changeable, and are certainly invisible; and that from
different combinations and modifications of these proceeds
every concrete and visible f<Wm; hence air itself, and
water; hence animal, vegetable and mineral substances.
Air, therefore, and water, or either separately, may
contain the rudimental materials of all the rest." Thus
spake the learned and celebrated Dr. Good, to a London
audience; one of the most learned and scientific men of
the age. Had it been known at that time that the im-
ponderables were identical; that they only presented to
the organs of sens_
e different sensations; that they were
but the·different variations of the magnetic fluids upon
these sentient organs, his views would have been en-
tirely different, and at. no loss to determine the cause
why animals could subsist comparatively without food,
upon air or water. Aad he had positive proof that
magnetism and electricity were the same principle, as
We have at the present period, the problem would have
been readily solved, and instead of declaring his igno-
rance of the cause of animal life, would have opened a
new field for his gigantic mental powers. Had he have
known that .water, which is formed of oxygen and hy-
cirogen, carried in its compound the two opposite elec-
tricities, and that these were given out on their decom-
position in their elements, it would readily have sug-
gested the cause of life, and the rationale of their sup-
0191t1zed oyGoogle
. B.lGG •JI ·
pGrt frOBJ this element.· In· respect :to the support el
air, we can easily see, that made up ·as it is, of oxygen
nnd nitrogen, with some carbon, in the form of carbonic
acid gas, and hydrogen (for moisture is always present
in the atmosphere) how these elements are attracted to
the system through the lungs and pores of the skin, and
unite with the same in the various tissues of the body,
liberate the magnetic fluids, and thus contribute to sus-
tain life. ThtlB these facts to sustain our position,. crowd
upon us .on every side, and not only cheer us onw&N
triumphantly, but lead us to believe that we are permitf.
ted to ascend in the chain of causes from earth, a li1*
higher in the scale than we have hitherto been accus•
tomed. Light is alway~present, and is always a stim•
ulent to animals, as well as vegetables, is absorbed ·bf
all ponderable matter, enters into its combination, aml
produces heat, and thus would contribute to sustain life.
Have we not clearly shown light to be the magnetic
fluid, as well as the cause of stimulating the blade f1f
grass, the bear, the dormouse, insects and creeping
things into life, and animation in the spring1 It mU8t,
from what we have seen and shown, be oonceded that
a large share of animals, ill8ects, &c., are sustained by
air or water alone. If some are sustained, can not all
be1 When and where did nature ever work by partial
hm' ~
CHAPTER Vll.
CONNECTION OF lltlND AND BODY-FORltATJON .OF llllND.
The mind and body, we haTe seen, are so intima.tely
blended and united, that when one is operated upon,
the other is affected also. Indeed, we can have DP
mind without organization, the vigor and eopacity of
which ia much modified ~d characterilled· by it. T~e
· Do1'zodbyGoogle
~;~hiob is the .organ of miBd., variea in capacity in·
different nations, .and Wiith individuals of the same na..
don~ 10 much so, that no two individuals are in all re-
epects exactly alike. The .mind of man bas for ages
q.,n COD1idered a unit, oraa manifesting itselfas a whole,
illltil the days of Gall, Spurzheiffit COmbe, and othen,
and recently by the iight of magnetism, as apPlied to
liDimals and to- the mind itself. we know that it is made
'l!lli a compound of different organs, characterized by
·~ manifestations of brain; and that these are hut
ao!miuiy poles of the great central magnet-the brain;
-.,·.u. so many little cognate magnets, controlled and
<Wl8led upon by the great one. This magnet, the brain,
liil!fa-eapacity over other magnets in matter of having
a11111ptitude or capadty of setting itself in operation,
eagineering its own operations,. and controlling its own
!notions, as well as the motions of the body. This en-
gineering faculty is mysteriously superadded by the
canee of causes, and is termed Spirit, Essence, Soul;
but we term it WILL. This is what constitutes man &
flee agent, and has the power or faculty to act, and to
be aeted upon. It is therefore both active and passiTe.,
That particular state or condition which characterizelf
ita passive state, we term sensation. That particular
state or condition which characterizes its active state,
we term volition. The former regards impressions
from without, as a prime cause of its change; the lat-
ter from within, as a cause of impulse. The former is
~uced by attraction: the latter by repulsion. This
11;the only fundamental law of mind. .till our original
~are obtained by sensation. All our actions arid
~t flow from volition. ·
~<ODject strikes the senses, it produces by a change
Wtrm.arrangement of the little globules of the brain.
¥itrrangement is either pleasurable or painful. If
1he Wrmer, we exercise the will to recei'lte, :retain, and:
ha'vo it again repeated. If painful; we will to dislodge,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
ceaee to:have ·it·repeated, or not bave·it e.gilln!prodo«>'
ed; this brings into operation volition. ; '' ''·'' 'i :,i,t>
If we hav.e a second impression, if agreeable it is at•
tracted·to the ·other, aild so on, like letters·forming sylt-
lables,' syllables words, and words sentences; and SB up
to discourses or books ; for this book :is a facsimile of
my brain, or a chart<>fit. If it be muddy in spots, such
is my brain• . If it be clear in others, such is my inteJ..
lect. To be better understood, the Jetter A, for instance
stn1rea: my vision through the influence or operatieo of
that imponderable fluid called l4zht; the little globules
or magnets of the brain, are at once by the power of
attraction, combined into the exact form of that letter,
and corresponds exactly with it. Next, Bis presented,
the same little magnets or globules are separated by re-
pulsion that formed A, and re-combined by attrac-
tion, by the effect of light into the exact form of B, and
so on.through the whole alphabet. The formation of
these.letters separately we term a notion, apprehension
or simple idea. Having had our little globules moulded
into the forms of all the letters of the alphabet, and. di&o
persed or taken down, or distributed like the forms of
the printer, we exert the power of the will (volition) to
recombine them into the form or shape of themwithout
the original letters being present. If we succeed in -
re-
. producing them in the brain we are said to be good
. scholars, and that faculty by which they are reproduc-
ed is called in the books memory. Memory then, is
that faculty of will by which we can ·reproduce the ori.,
ginal figure .in the little globules of the brain which has
been once -.produced. Having produced these singly~
we are presented with two connected, or associated tO-:
gethet.. A and B, and by an other exertion of the.will,
we read the·word ab, which is compounded of the two;
from this'another is attracted and reads abel, from"this to
absolom, and thus are the little globules from the diver-
sity oftheir combinations, from impressions through the:
Do1'zodbyGoogle
senses to give us our ideas, first single like A, and then
B, then compound, like A and B, associated or attract-
ed together, then complex like Absalom riding on horse-
back through the wood and getting his hair entangled
in the branches of its trees. The manner by which these
are formed and associated is by attraction, and chang-
ed from one to the other by repulsion, for all our ideas
are expressed by symbols or signs, and when thus asso-
ciated and expressed, is called language, which we have
examined in another part of this work (chap. xvii).
The single, compound and complex divisibility and
forms of matter, and its recombination, or what are ter-
med our mathematical ideas, are obtained in the same
manner, as well as all our ideas of solidity, extension,
sound, motion, taste and smell. We have said that com-
pound ideas were produced by attraction from the for-
mation of single ones into compound; our complex ones
are formed by this same principle of attraction, but by
the union of the testimony of different senses to the
mind. A lump of loaf sugar strikes the eye with its
form and white color, we foci of its texture and find it
to be hard and rough ; we then taste it, and find it to
be sweet, we then pronounce it to be loaf sugar. So
also with brown, or any other substance. Thus, in the
first instance, the white color, shape and taste attracted
together produce the idea of sugar, which idea instead
of being simple, is complex, for one kind of sugar haf'
different characteristics by which it is distinguished from
another. It might seem that color could not be produ-
ced by a change in these globules of the brain ; but is
not color owing to the attraction and repulsion of light,
or in other words, its absorption and reflection. Does
not the peacock's tail produce different colors, and
shades of color, by changing from attracti0n to repul-
sion 1 Are not colors changed by the change in the ar-
rangement of their particles 1 Does not the addition of
ten parts more in a hundred of metal of oxygen, changP
14
0191t1zed oyGoogle
148 .ftOf)'. Olf.· ,,
blacl: oxide of iron, to r•U . Have 1we: 1 noti1'hm•r1Md·~
ready,·that ~cal a.11fuity was based upon the prin+I
ciple, tlta.t one substance, or simple, wrudn·a positive·
state of :magnetism and· the other in a negative 1 Do:
not acids redden vegetable blues; and alkalies restore
them 1 Have we not shown when on the metals, that '
all colors of the oxides were changed by a greater <Jr
lesser quantity of oxygen; and what are all of these but
changes or reversions of the poles of these ultimate at• ·
oms or globules 1 ThJJs are our first or original ideas ·
obtained and linked or associated. It will be observed
that sensation has its extremes or poles. It is divided ·
into pleasure and pain ; both lie the same road, and are
but the names of the extremes of a continued line, and '
are thus antagonized in themselves. ·
Volition is also characterized ·by antagonistic princi-
ples. We make but two sets of motions as has been be~ 1
fore explained, in opposition to each other, ·as to and
from ourselve11. Sensation is that law of the mind bv
which we obtain all our original ideas ; and volition.that ·
law by which we assist to recombine and originate new
ones, as well as put them into action, in the operations·
of life, which is called conduct, which gives characte!'.
That act by which the will is impelled to produce new
combinations, is termed reflection. That act of the mind
by which it perceives the difference of things is called ·
comparison, and by which it ultimately decides-judg-
ment. All our knowledge of things is obtained.by sen•
sation, and the making use of it for our benefit or detri- ·
ment, by volition. Thus then, we have the commence-
ment and progress of mind. We have said that much·
depends upon organization. Much also depends upon
volition; un)ess we make application we shall not make ·
progress. The two then are necessary, organization
and app1ication, to obtain an education or habitude.-
The'mind Jike the body, has its antagonizing principles,
and is govem~d by the same law; hence we find an•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MA.Ol'fETIDf. 149
tagonizing poles to every attribute of mind. From our
present limited knowledge of Phrenological science, we
have discovered but about seventy manifestations of
mind developed upon the head, which will hereafter be
enumerated, located and illustrated. The passions are
divided into two classes which are primarily antagoniz-
ed. They are desire and aversion; desire depends upon
attraction, and aversion upon repulsion. Desire is from
the positive pole of pleasure, and aversion from the ne-
gative pole of pain. The will is called into action in
both cases, whether we wish to obtain or reject an ob-
ject, thing or principle. The motive depends on sensa-
tion. These (desire and aversion) are the primary or
(elementary) as it were, passions of the human mind,
which is like the simple notions, apprehensions of mind,
or motions of body, are associated, combined and swel-
led into almost an infinitude of complex arrangements,
which have different names according to their appear-
ance and effect. But numerous as they are, they are
resolvable into two classes antagonized to each other,
some of which are marked, and manifest themselves up-
on the face and other parts of the body, which we shall
show when we come to speak upon phrenology. The
attractive passions are characterized by an inviting, soft,
pliant, supplicating expression of the features of the face
and muscles ; the repulsive by a rigid, tense, forbidding
expression of the countenance and action of the extre-
mities. Hence the maxim that " actions speak louder
than words." The natural signs of the attractive pas-
sions are denoted by dimples in the cheeks, smiles, laugh-
ter, placid looks, a lively speaking sparkiing eye, and a
winning look of the whole outline. The repulsive on
the contrary by tears, frowns, erections of the hair, and
a cold, repulsive appearance; but it is not our purpose
to describe the passions, but merely to show that they
are antagonized to each other. We therefore find pride
and vanity, joy and grief, Jove and hatred, hope aud
Do1'zodbyGoogle
,.
160 . BA.GG OS
fear, modesty and impudence, placidity and peevishness,
adhesiveness and inconstancy, conndence and jealotJBY,
firmness and timidity, ambition and indolence, in a word,
all the emotions, feelings or passions of the mind are an-
tagonized, and dependent on the same cause. Not on-
ly is every attribute of mind antagonized to its fellow
within itself, but the eftect of mind upon mind in the
transaction of business, in the formation ofhabits ofcon--
duct, by influence, or persuasion· to do. or not to do, to
perform or leave undone, every or any of the transac-
tions in human life. We find individuals of the same
views, feelings and sentiments attracted together to form
societies, and repelled from others, obeying the same
law that governs matter. Hence the old and true max-
im, that,
" Birdo of n fcalber, 8ock togelber."
These are also constantly changing and undergoing
new combinations, like those of matter. Nothing is
more common than to see two individuals of the same
sex oo the most extreme terms of friendship, become.at
once the most bitter enemies ; one extreme exactly pro-
portioned to the other. So well is this general pnnci-
ple understood by the observing, witl1out knowing the
cause, that when they discover the extreme of friend-
ship in social circles, they anticipate and prognosticate
a sudden blow up, or extreme of enmity. Hence the
old maxim, that "hot love is soon cold." It is aoeount-
ed for upon our general law of mind and matter-that
one extreme not only, at all times, follows another, but
the quickness of the change is in a direct ratio to the in-
tensity of the action of the extreme. Attraction or re-
pulsion at all times, alternate with each other, which is
but a reversion of the poles, from the action of the mag-
Jlletic principle.
From unknown and unconscious causes, prejudices
will arise between individuals, awl continue, but~ the
Illig~ c&Ule, as.it Wel'e by accident, !'- J'OOOnciJiatiQn
oouzodbyGoogle
lllA8NSTJ81f:. Ill
takea pl4ce, the pol~s ate ;n,:ve,tled, they become friend1,
and the ·other e.xtreme is the result. But not only are
our minds formed from. simple apprehensions asM>Ciated
together. by this law, but mind as a whole, is governed
by the same law in its operations in society in the form-
ation of friendships.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE EPFECT OF MIND UPON MIND.
· We ha\'e seen in the preceding, but more particular-
ly in the last chap1er, in what manner mind IS formed.
Our present purpose is to show the influence ofone mind
over another, and in what mariner they are formed into
social circles, parties, societiea aad churches. One mind
operates upon. another in such a manner as to control it
in its action and operations, or is incapable of exerting
an influence over it; the former is the effect of attrac-
tion, the latter •repulsion ; for in the union and sympa-
thy of minds when associated to form friendships, soci-
eties, &c., there is as much attraction as there is be-
tween an alkali and acid in their formation of a neutral
salt, or one magnet upon another. Philosophically speak-
ing, every thing in nature is a magnet, and has its pole1.
or antagonizing extremes, and communicates with other
objects in no other manner. On an acquaintance of one
individual with another of even the same sex, they are
both so1 well pleased with each other, that they continue
to frequent and enjoy each other's presence and socie-
ty, or.theyihave a mutual disli~e; and separate andelude
one another. One or the other of these effec.ts always
take place•." 'Fhe fonner is the. effect of. attmctWn, the
lattet of :tepu~ion• . Amc)ng. ihose of different .aexee, it
fOrmS '. the •baae·of aU Cbulltships,; Md oeutralizatioo in
marriage,· 811 Wf!ll as the cause of1all the rcbu&..th~t
14•
Digitized by Google f .
1~2 ·1 llAQfil OM
take. place. In both instances, they ~a.more tbe effect
of paa1ion and prejudice than judgment. Who, but has
witneued unsuitable and seemingly mysterious matches
.-hiolt were to say the least, any thing but the effect of
g()()(.{ judgment. . , .;
How often have parents attempted to break up at-
tachments that had already taken place, and create new
ones in their stead, whieh good judgment dictated, and
failed. How often have attachments been formed be-
tween individuals and continued, which their own judg-
ments told them were ,wrong, and pernicious to their
permanent happiness and prosperity. How often have
the attachments between individuals been so strong, that
it baa not only resisted the advice ofrelatives andfriends,
'hut puontal authority itself, and arose to 1uch a pitch
of intensity, that walls, locks, and bolts were no barrier
to the approximation of the parties, who steal away and
consummate their union, under the full belief that all
that is neces11ary in this life is the union of their minds,
the cement of their affections, and presence of each oth-
en persons. For a time they enjoy .themselves. nnd
·each other, but at length attraction gives way, and re-
pulsion permanently predominates, their behavior to
each other is changed, love is turned into hatred, they
quarrel and separate, and remain no longer one twain.
Indeed, in a portion of community, these lesser attrac-
tions and repulsions, quarrelling and "making up again"
are daily alternating with each other, without permar
nent or final separation. But these attractions and re-
pulsions are no less apparent in domestic, social and
ueiglt.borhood circles. It forms the base of all the at-
t.aehments.and .friendships, as well as prejudices and dis-
·likes, in oommunity. • .
·••Mind ,therafore, bas an effect over mind, to control
:itr.~tion8 and •operations; and· the law by which this is
p1*1~ ,a. the sar_ne as that,.governing.tnatter-.-d6'-
·~GD tbe.doctrme of.definite proporuon11•. .: u , :
I,
:'ll:MGNBTJ8JI.
:-a(btedndividual wantlf &1 certaift'fa1'6r of another, hrs
ia#luence is not•sufficient to obtain it ; he applies to an
other indiTidual .who has sufficient influence to accom-
plish it, who intercedes, gets the favor granted, while
-the first could have no effect. The cause is obvious;
like·oil and water the two first individuals were alike--
in the.same state of magnetism, either both positive or
.both negative ; their definite proPortions were not in a
condition agreeable to the law: to produce l\ttraction,
and was therefore ·repulsive .of each other ; but on the
interference of the third, like the addition to the water
of the alkali, they are changed into a different state of
magnetism, and atttaction takes place, and the favor is
granted ;·a new compt>und is formed, or a new assoei-
ation commenced, which continues until another change
\akes place philosophically betweenthem. So also with
individual friendships. Persons frequently, simply from
external appearance, .hearsay, or some other equally
t.xivial cause; will take ot each other the most deep-root-
ed prejudices and continue to indulge them for a 1im·e,
but by slight causes, frorti accident as it were, or by the
intercession ofa third person, a change takes place: at-
traction takes the place of repulsion, and the most per~
fect friendship ensues ; and vice versa from one to the
other. Parties, societies, clubs and juntos, whether po-
litical, moral, civil or religious, are formed in the same
manner and governed by the same law. A simple ap-
'prehension or idea of mind, stands the same relation to
mind as a whole, that an individual mind does to a soci•
·ety, party 01. club as a whole ; both are formed· by at..
~.iion; and dissolved, separated or broken up by re-
~on. ,It is then the cause of all the excitements in
C!OmQ'lunity, in politics, morality and religion. •. ' ·
, The mind of one individual, besideS operating upon
another, , and c~trolling in a great measure i1s actions
tmoUgh the medium of speech, 'by.eloquence, argwmmt,
•·~1 iwhat is call~d persururion, has 111other language
Do1'zodbyGoogle
IM
or medium of communication, thr.ugh tbe paiNOOD-, l1)d
.the eye ·ha1 no inconsiderable share.in the .effective. ef-
fects of this species of communication. The influence
·of parents, teachers, and others, upon the young,·aflOr!f
striking examples of.this line of communication and ef·
feet. .Ifa child is brought before its teacher or parent,
and interrogated or questioned inrespect to certain facts
of conduct, while he gives it, a searching look as if to
read its very 10ul, the true answer is sure to be given,
although prevarication almost amounting to falsehood,
before others, had been practiced. •. ; '.
But it will not be denied that one individual has an
effect over another in controlling it, in the transactions
of life. . All our .original knowledge comes by custom
and habit, and these are obtained by sympathy, and
imitation. What is sympathy but attraction1 and what
is imitation but an effort to do as others do, or have done,
by the power of volition1 An idea or apprehension is
as much an integral part of mind, as a particle of ph09-
phate of lime is an integral part of bone. An individu-
al mind is as much an integral part of society or party,
as an idea is of mind, and is as essential to the forma-
tion of each, as a fraction is to form a whole number.
The formation of both is owing to the same law, attrac-
tion. It is therefore universal, and runs through all na-
ture, and is the law on which the whole is based. Can
we not then see a most perfect analogy in the forrnar
tion of mind from simple ideas, and the formation .of
1ocieties and parties from individual minds, and the fo~
mation.of compounds from simples, in material substan-
cesT Can we not see why .they are easily and readily
fowid in some instances, and ,why they can not be found
at ,all in others1 Attraction· in the first instance, and
repweion in the latter; and these again depending upon
the propc>.rtions of·their -ultimate atoms relative to eaeh
Q"1~r•..lt~illbe;roooilecled, that from our .present chern1.
~1.~~;11W~hav~ ,between ptly.an<l.-sixty.illlple.,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAONB'J.'IUI. 155
-fJ'OID which all compounds of m'Bierial Bttbttances are
formed. It will also be remembered, from our present
knowledge of the science of phrenology, we reckon about
.the same number of manifestations of mind. The sim-
-ple substances will not unite to form compounds atmost,
·but generally in four proportions, and these are always
amultiple of each other. Do we not discover an anal-
1)~ in formation of friendships between the different
·f.Mriperaments, corresponding to these? Are not the
.individuals composing political parties characterized by
particular manifestations of mind? Can not a good,
\lrell skilled phrenologist, by examination of the mani-
festations of mind, point out to which society or church
an individual belongs, or that he has never joined him-
ftif.to any, or ever will, from his particular manifesta-
1ions? If so~ is not there sufficient analogy to corrobo-
~te our general theory in this respect? We showed
{chap. xm. part I) the different points of lmion of an-
timony, iron and tin with oxygen, and that they invari-
ably united in the proportions of multiples of their first
point of union. These metals may be taken· to exem-
plify, not only the whole of material substances in na-
ture, but the formation of mind from simple ideas, and
societies from mind. This law of matter and mind,
upon which both arc based, is the cause of that endless
variety and uniformity of nature which philosophically
constitutes beautv itself.
It is no less then the cause of the variety .of nature
in her various compounds, textures, natures and colors,
of varieties of intellect and societies, but the cause of
the change or dissolution of all. It is also; as we have
~ the cause of the inJluence of one mind over an-
_,ther, as well as why it can not have influence; Some
pe'i'Sons can not be made readily to acquire knowledge
Oil 1l gi.Yen subject or seience, but'Will make great and
1'1lpid improvement in some otiier. Some persons can
ftot. acqmre from a certain·author or teacher, knowledge
0191t1zed oyGoogle
100 BAGG ON
on a given branch or sCienee readily; bnt"of another
author or teacher, wiH make rapid proficiency; while
this same author or teacher will advance others more
rapidly than even those that are last mentioned. This
difference of instructors as well as instructed, is·owing
to our law of attraction and repulsion, and these, as we
have before said, are the definite proportions of their
nervous energy or magnetism, rendering, in the first
instance, where they learn readily, one positive and the
other negative, and in the last, both positive or both
negative. The former the precise condition to attract
or acquire, and the latter the particular condition to re-
pel, and therefore rrohibit, necessarily, acquisition.-
Thus, compounds o ideas, which form mind, are gov-
erned by the same laws that govern matter. We have
shown this principle to be the base of lo~ic, and from
our definition, it will be readily seen that eloquenc;e,
which is the great lever of public opinion, is but the
effort of one mind to attract to itself or to its manner ·
of thought, feeling, sentiment and action, other minds,
and thus influence and control their actions and course
of conduct, although there is another language, which,
although mute, and speaks through but two senses, is
nevertheless not the less potent, and probably influences
and controls a forge portion of community. I allude to
the language of the passions, which communicates itself
through the medium of the eye and touch. Thus then,
both mind and matter aTe formed and governed by this
law of magnetism. . Substances will not then unite in
all proportions to form compounds. Neither can all be
convinced by the arguments and eloquence of one
speaker. One orator will convince and persuade acer,.
tain portion of an audience, and disgust'another, and
have but little effect either way upon a third. The
cause we have before eixplained; ,:We said (chap. ·xrx,
iart l} ~there was no absoh:tte :weight, ·or levity, or
•t; ·or cold,· that all were .relative, and resulted from
0191t1zed oyGoogle
167
attraction and repulsion. The only reason why a sub-
stance falls to the earth, and is said to be heavy, is its
attraction to the great magnet, and the force by which
it attracts it is called its weight; but this attraction. or
what is called its weight, is and can be overcome by
repulsion. Iron, by the magnetic fluids, is attracted to-
gether and forms a mass. The same magnetic fluids
from the earth and iron attract it to the large magnet,
and the force or intensity is called its weight; but this
same attraction can be changed to repulsion from the
earth, and the iron made to recede into atmospheric air,
and again be attracted back, for iron can be melted and
thrown into gas. Every substance that is attracted to,
or repelled from the earth, is naturally magnetized.-
Every substance in nature has one or the other of these
qualities, not excepting even man himself. Every sub-
stance then, or thing, upon the earth, as well as man
himself, is naturally magnetic.
Iron, which like all other substances, is in a naturally
magnetized state when left free to move, is simply at-
tracted to, and falls to the earth, but if by induction,
an increased quantity of magnetism is communicated,
and then left free, it points to the poles of the earth,
one extremity to the north, and the other to the south.
So also between individuals. In the common, every·
day transactions of life, they sympathize and and attract,
or become prejudiced and repel, convince or disgust
each other in affairs of daily intercourse, which are so
common ancl habitual, that they pass unnoticed; but if
we, through the medium of the will, communicate an
increased quantity of the magnetic fluids, like the iron,
the individnal becomes exalted in all his faculties or at-
tributes of mind, and we perceive this principle of attrac-
tion and repulsion more clear, and its operations more
striking. We allude to that peculiar condition of the
system produced by what is called Mesmerism, or An-
imal Magnetism.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
u~s: • •.A.OO Olf,
These fiuids in 11ae.system, in a.na&mi1htate,:are~ .
ject to accwpulatio~ and diminution, are expellded during
the day, and accumulated during the night, and that it
can be repelled by one individual, and attracted by an- ·
ot_
her, to such an extent beyond the natural condition,
as to cataleps, palsy, or render insensible, the external
senses of the body, and thereby create, institute, or make .
apparent a new sense, which, for the sake of distinction,
we term the magnetic sense.
CHAPTER IX.
MAGNETISM, MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM DEGREES OF, BY CON•
VERSATION AND ELOQUENCE-MANIFESTATIONS;
DIFFERENT DEGREES, TEMPERAMENT,
In the ordinary intercourse then, of life, in the com-
munications of one with another, through the medium
of the senses, in our progress in the sciences by sym-
pathy and imitation, as well as the original or new com"'
binations by reflection, the effect of one individual upon .
another to excite, convince, persuade and influence an-
other, is produced by the magnetic fluids, according to
the immutable law of the principle of attraction and re-
pulsion. An individual is inclined or persuaded to per-
form a certain act, or take a certain course of conduct,
from the anticipation of its beneficial results, or is de- ,
tarred from it, or taking the course, from a fear of its ,
consequences. One individual can convince about so ·
many, such a portion of an.audience, and prejudice the
remainder against him and his subject. Another will
convince another portion, and another another, and so '
on, until all are convinced; but not, however, to the .
belief of one creed or subject. This depends upon .
temperaments, which differ from each other hy a differ-
ent atrangement of the constituent elemente of the body, .
0191t1zed oyGoogle
169
arid"qaantity M ·lllelVOUs fluid. · ·A perSGn of <me tem-
perament will have-.an -effeet1 updn a· person of another
:temperament different, and this again upoo ,another, and
so on. A methodist, for instnnce, wm convince, .from
an indiscriminate·audience of free thinkers, such a pm:-
tion; a presbyterian another; an episcopalian a third;
.
the oothol«:·a fourth, am& the ·baptist, and .universalist
or·unitarian the remainder, ·excer~t some smaH.fractions,
whose. organs of. self~esteem are too large to be disg;ra,ced
by the convieti<m of the truth of, and assent to•any
1ubject. · ·
'l'hese conve1'8ions .·of one •portion, and non,.conver-
sion of the others.in· society, are governod by the im-
mutable laiw of magnetic attraction .and repulsion; as
muclN1d as•matteri or the maci>netfo needle:itself~ Indi-
viduals in soci~ty are changing: in body and mind rn(r
rnentarily, and ho who can· not convince to day, may
to morrow, and he who can no.t be convinced this week,
may be tb.e.next, a:s the ultiri1ate atoms of our systems
-eie constantly changing as welt no mlntL so.that:him.thfl!t
iii posi!ive·oo day, may beoorne negative to morrow, and
·vk.-e versa, for we fihd strong intellects operated upon
by ·weak; ones, and weak ones by strong ones. Many
a·strong intellect haH ·rc8isted for ycars ·the whole ar-
tillery of the schohlstii:: intellects of the moi;t eloquent
and· argutmentative· discourses, but yet have· been·eon•
vinced by an illiterate, weak and feeble ~poak~r, without
eloquence or logic, simply from the conditions of both
minds being in the righnelatitre c:.ipneity to .lJe nttracted
.by one another. Thus ·then wa tind that the intellect
of man varies in sympathies .and prejudices with each
other in •the natural state, or ordinatv business of lifo.
not only with each other, but a:rc c0nstantly.changing
in· their own, to as great a varit'ly and extent as the
·various ·combinations of material substances. ' This na-
-tural state of sympatbio!l ancl .prejudices, which1is the
result .of the princip~ for which rwe are contendirig1 .fOr
15
oot<ZodbyGoogle
180 • L\OG:ON'.
-illustration we will term ·the ,,..,.._.., oi MturtillJ
magnetized state of the human aystem, the lowest de--
gree or communicating link in the chain of m~tie
phenomena, up to the state or stage where a person caa
be so filled, affected, or operated upon by another per-
son, as to close up or suspend all his natural seDflations
and volitions, and create in their stead a new sense,
which, for the sake of distinction, we term the magnetic
1t1i1e, and the particular stage in the chain of magne~
phenomena the maximum degree of effects; which de-
gree stands the eame relation to the minimum stage or
link in the chain, that getting drunk does to the "stiv-
erer" who takes his three or four drams a day. _.
This definitien, and these degrees, are more or lea
arbitrary, as throughout the whole chain, no two indi-
viduals are exactly alike, and vary in point of abilities
and exaltation, or in brilliancy and profundity. One
will excel in one branch, and another in another, and
occasionally one will excel in all; but this seldom hap-
pens. It will not be denied that there are different de..
grees of magnetic effect, on a moment's reflection, in
the naturally magnetic subject. To deny this, would be
to say that all persons were equally operated upon by
a certain oration or discourse, which, were it the case,
would constitute all on a par, of not only quickness and
aptitude of thought and action, but make them equal as
to intellectual acquirements. Two persons of different
temperaments go to church, for instance: the speaker
'is endowed with the gift of God, called eloquence.-
The one, instead of being interested in the discourse,
begins to nod from sleep, and gives no attention, and is
not the least affected by the effort; while the other be-
comes attracted to the speaker, follows him in every
idea, marks and feels every gesture, becomes excited,
convinced~ and retires determined to conform in con-
duct to hi1 inculcations. How is this1 What the ra-
tionale1 The speaker, by hia eye, his gesticulation,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
181.
d<through1
the medium of atmospheric air, by·hisvoice,
throws the magnetic fluid from himself tbroughout tlut
room, and some being in the proper condition, receive
it by attraction, which produce the same feelings and
sentiments in them that this same 1luid produced in the
speaker; while others, being in a different condition,
(positiYe or negative, as the case may be) repel it, and
arc not the least affected, or what is more generally the
eue, become deeply prejudiced against it: thus philcr
-.opbieally sustaining the parable of our Saviour in hia
anilit.nde of the kingdom of Heaven to the husband-
man sowing his seed. Some fell by the way-side, some
mnon~ thorns, and some upongood ground, and it brought
ibttth m different ratios, according to their faith andWill.
So alao with the spirit of life, or truth, or the magnetic
fluids, in every day's intercourse of man with man. It .
is in proportion to faith, belief, will, that the influence
is felt or not. All persons who have been magnetized
to the maximum degree, will attest, that so long as they
remembered their sensations, the maniP.ulations produced
a pleasant aura, or cool sensation. like pleasant s~t
dlills. Who is there that has not felt, while listenmg
to an eloquent sermon, oration, or what not, these same
pleasant chills or aurat Can we not, then, see that
eloquence consists in the speaker's throwing from him-
self the magnetic fluids upon th~ audience, and like the
teed of the h1,1sbandman, some will take root and prodoce
wch a yield, and in another such another crop, exactly
proportioned to the relative condition of each to effect
· and become effected1 This work will convince about
so many, such a portion of mankind, by attraction, and
disgust another portion by repulsion, and have no effect
upon others, because they have not 11ufiicient faith to
~gin to read it.
.'.' All th<>1e who have been magnetized, 01 put into the
maximum state, .can at any time throw themselves into
that condition by their own will, by looking at-a pieoe
Do1'zodbyGoogle
102
of metal that has been magnetized fox that particular
purpose. Patrick Henry magnetized by his eloquence
the whole American Congress, at the commencement
of the revolution. and moulded the majority of their
mind", by attraction, into his own patriotic enthusiasm
for liberty, and that same speech, then given, will pro-
duce, in a degree, the same eflects, when read at the
present day. Thus much upon the minimum degree,
or the naturally magnetized eifocts upon society. Tow
for the maximum state or stage. If we place ourselves
in a position opposite to another individual, and be con-
nected in such a manner as to grasp gently the hands.
so that the ball or extremity of the thumbs shall come
in contact with his at the same point, with our fingers
brought into the centre or inside of his palms, and at
the same time look him srnadily in the eye, with a fixed
determination of the will to throw through them and
our eye the magnetic fluids from our system, and if the
individual be passiYe or willing, an·d attract from us at
the same time, with a concentrated energy, until an
equilibrium of temperature takes place between us, then
raise our right hand slowly, carrying the palm outward,
describing a segment of a circle, to the head, so that
the index finger shall rest upon the junction of the pa-
rietal and frontal bones, and the thumb upon the organ
ofindividuality, and hold it in this manner until an equi-
librium of temperature also takes place; .then draw it
slowly down the right side of the face, over the cheek,
to the top of the shoulder, and from thence lightly down
along the arm to the thumb again, three times in suc-
cession, in the same manner, and then take hold of the
thumb ·with the right hand as before, holding on, and
perform the same with the left hand. Then raise both
to the head at once, and perform with both together
three times, as before, and clasp the thumbs again, as at
first, and continue to hold them about the length of
time it took to perform these three last manipulations;
Do1'zodbyGoogle
•oti-oa.rry them up in the·aame manl)er to the top of
ltle•Qoulqers, and hold them there for about the~
period, .di:aw:iQg th~m· lightly and slowly down to the
\hwnbs as before; then raise them to the face on a level
w.itb the eye-, at one or two inches distance, and hold.
~ in that position three minutes; then slowly draw
~ .,.-ithin two or three inches of the body to the
pit ·Of the stomach, on which press or touch gently the
thumbs, while the fingers of each hand rest upon the
aides. :W:old them here three minutes, and then bring
them down ~ain to the thumbs, and clasp them the
'If~ time with a fixed, determined and concentrated
111Dll,·.the individual will close his eyes and fall into the
tint stage of magnetic sleep, which consists in doin_g
away with natural sight, or catalepsy of the eye. We
~ then go on with the same, over and over again, or
llleke use of 11uch of them as appear to have the great·
est effect. If we now think him to be through the firat
stage, whioh can only be known positively by a11kjng
the somnambulist himself if he is through, he will
either awake and open his eyes, or tell you the truth•.
If he is not through, and does not awake, he will tell ·
you which manipulations effect him most, and have the
best effect to facilitate the operation, as well as give the
precise time it will take, to a minute, by the watch,-
should it be five hours, which was the case with one
subject of mi~e, about two years since, who told on. be~
i!~g asked during that period, forty times, and the seve-.
rM f~,ty periods of time, amounted to a minute, to the
fi1tt;hQUrs, When the subject says he is through with
t!Mt:~ sleep, then change your manipulations by. put-.
· y(}ur thumbs and fingers of each hand, drawn t~.
in the form of a cone, upon veneration, and draw
slowly down to the pit of the stomach, or a little.
lMw,:(which point at this stage, the subject will point
•NiBUc\1 a ,manner as to describe a circle, carrying
b.-..,w.iilqpe pajma turned outward, and. thus on, .ip.
' 15•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
DAGG Off ··'
this manner, until the subject is rendered incapable of
hearing through the ear, and says himself he is through
the second stage, which consists in doing away this
sense. Again change your manipulatious by placing
the left hand upon the side of the head, so that the
thumb will correspond to the upper part of the organ
of caution, while the root of the little finger shall be in
contact with destructiveness, while at the same time
you place the right hand as before, upon the organ of
vent)ration, and drl:tw it down to the pit of the stomach
in such a manner as to describe a semi-circle; continue
in this manner until the senses of taste, touch and smell
of the right side arc cataleps'd or palsied; then revers-
ing your hands b: placing your right upon the side of
the head, ancl perform the manipulations with the left
in the same nnnner as was done with the right, until
the senses, as before mentioned, of that side are palsied
or closed up. Yorn· rnhject is now magnetized, or so
affectecl by your \Yill and manipulations, which are the
effect or mere tools or machinerv of volition, that he
has no natural sen~ations or volitions. He can neitl er
see, hear, feel, touch, taste or smell, except through his
magnetizer.
All the avenues or windows, as it were, to the exter-
nal world arc closed, shut or cut off, while the vegP.ta-
tive system and the Yitai organs perform their office.-
All the external senses are by this operation concentra-
ted in one, or a new one is instituted or created, which
we term the magnetic sense. A good clairvoyant or
subject perfectly magnetized cannot hear even his mag-
netizer, ·e;x:cept he be in contact, and although he can-
not see, through or by the eye, can see by the new sense
through a solid, as well as before through atmospheric
air.
This is the mo t regular and best course to take the
first time, . with all who present themselves to be mag-
netized. But there are those of congenial temperameuts,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
JU&NB'tleM. 1'86
·Ud·· ~ho-se atom& :or p10)10rtions of magnetism at'&·90
perfectly proportioned to that of the magnetizer, that
·they wiH readily become magnetized in a few minutes;
while others will take ns many hours, while still others
will require three or four i>~ttings, on as many different
days, as well as others who cannot be made to go into
- ~ ~rfeci s~tfl1at alJ.. . But .Wire are none but.what
can be atfecte4 in.a.g)'~aittr· or le.ss degree, although to
himself or th~ Qystandq~.s, .1t dQei n.ot become sensible
without close observation. .There is no person but what,
,
if....-ei·put our fingers upon·the pulse, and will to throw
~tly into the blood1or·art-ery:the magnetic fluids, but
·""1ose pulse · can be . sensibly increased in fullness,
strength, and frequency, from five, to ten or twenty
beats in i!O many minutes; without any appearance of
sleep. Sometimes we sit down to magnetize, and after
going through the above; ifr nervous and bilious tern- .
peraments, all the sensible feelings produced are a heavi-
ness over the brow, a nervousness, or fidgets in the feet
and limbs, with almost eonstant yawning; but in these
partial cases, in a few minutes the patient is as much re-
freshed as though he had taken hours of common natu-
ral sleep. In temperaments of easy influence" like tim
lymphatic, we need ·not ask the patient tb look at us,
neither need we look into·his eyes. We can magnetize
him by looking at any part of the body, as the finger,
and after it is once or more times !lone, we can do it by
the simple will alone without looking at, or touching
him, but more of this in the sequel. To return to our
~r-foct state of magnetic sleep as it is termed, the max-'.
ifnum'. state of eflect in the chain of influence. The sub-
'jec't sets erect as in the natural state, breathes as usual,
,dOUntenance natural, but if asked a question without con-
tact cannot hear. If we now will him to raise the right
arln, to place ~t upon his head, to.straighten it from the
body, to walk across the house and touch a certain
(:.:
Do1'zodbyGoogle
peiot, and then 1Di/l him to.return without a word. bein1
apoken, it is performed. .
CHAPTER X.
MAGNBTl8M Al'I MORE PARTICULARLVAPPLIED TO MAN, Oil
WHAT 18 COlllMONLY CALLED ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
CLAIRVOYANCE, CATALEPSY, PALSY, &c.
. I magnetized a subject and patieut sutferiag under a.
spinal neuralgia, in the family of H--n, who said that.
a certain other person, who took more than common in-
terest in his welfare, had pledged 'him not to be put in-
*° the somnambulic state without his being present.-
That day, having a very severe headache he consented
to go to sleep, (as we call it) and therefore waived the
pledge. After getting into a clairvoyant state, and while
I was exciting some of the phrenological organs, he
suddenly darted from me and ran rapidly to the top of
a long, and high flight of stairs, having no banisters, and
beckoned me to come tCl him. I was taken by such sur-
prise by this act (as the subject had been heretofore in
pain and uneasiness when only removed but four orfive
feet d,istance,) that I fancied him insane, but on reaching
the top of the stairs where he stood, he immediately in-
fQrmed me of the cause. While sitting there below, he
saw his friend three or four rod1 from the door in the
road approaching the house, and having promised never
· to be magnetized when he was absent, he ran to the top
of the stairs, and beckoned me to come up and take off
the influence before he came in, but said he, ''he has
now gone, and you need not take it off," and I led him
down again for .fear he might fall, to where we were
aitting when disturbed. A minute or two after I :went.
to. t~ .head of the st~rs, the l!ldY of the house hearing
a knock at the door, opened it, and the friend made an
0191t1zed oyGoogle
M.M81'f&Tl9M. -18V
inquiry after the health of the person in sleep, and pas-
sed on, corroborating what had been said by the sub-
ject. Now such was our relative position as to his, any
where in the street, at the time of his perceiving his
friend, that he must have looked through two lathed and
plastered walls, as well as the clapboards on the outside
of the building. Of this there can be no mistake. It
could not have been otherwise. There can be no pre-
variC'ation, no escape from the truth as above stated.
I have repeatedly been seated in my office with dif-
ferent clairvoyants when there ,,·ould be a knock at the
door, and not knowing whether it was some one who
wished to come in on brisiness, for medical aid, or mere-
ly to gratify an jdle curiosity, have made enquiry of the
.clairvoyant, and in nine cases out of ten would tell the
fact, what was wanted, as I would learn by opening the
door. One of my subjects was so easily effected, or so
thoroughly magnetized that on exciting the organ of im-
itation he would at the same instant of time perform
any, and every motion of the muscular system that I
willed and did myself. If I revolved one hand over and
around the other with the greatest celerity, he would
do the same at the same instant, and if I changed with
the quickness of thought. from revoiving in one direc-
tion, to that of the other, he would at the same, instant-
ly change also, so that no perceptibile difference be-
tween the two could be discovered. If I arose and
walked he would do the same ; if I walked erect, he
would walk erect also ; if I walked in a stooped, limp-
ing, halting manner, he would do the same ; if I writh-
ed or contorted tho muscles of the face, cried, laughed,
sung, or spoke, he would perform the same, at the same
instant of time ; if I spoke or made a speech on any sub-
ject he would speak the same, use tne same modulation
of voice, observe the same accent, emphasis and ca-
dence, in a word, he would imitate all, every and the
most minute action or motion, not only of myself but of
Do1'zodbyGoogle
1811
any other perion with whom he was put in communica-
tion. I at one time put him in communication with an
infant six months old, and he imitated every little mo-
tion of the hands and fingers that they usually perform in
their cradles at that age. When the babe cried he
would cry also. This subject was the best on imitation
and some other characteristics, of all that I have mag-
netized, in not less than two thousand, particularly on
time and reading at the top of the head and pit of the
stomach. When the weather was good, and that is
when it is the best for the electrizing machine, he would
at any and at all times when asleep, put his hand to the
plt of the stomach and tell correctly the time of day or
night, even to a second, and this without he or myself,
or any one in communication, looking at a time-piece of.
any kind. He could appreciate time the best of any I
have magnetized out of over two thousand. This sub-
ject when well magnetized, would read a common bank
bill or any thing else of the size of common bills at the
top of the head or pit of the stomach, while in the som-
nambulie state, with the eyes securely bandaged, so as
to preclude the possibility of seeing. I have never had
but four among those I have affected, that could read in
this manner. Clairvoyants all vary in their capacity of
reading and travelling as it is called. They differ also
in many other respects and in their own capacity at dif-
ferent times. This depends upon a variety of causes
a~d contingencies, such as the temperament of the mag-
netizer and magnetized, of their health, their relative at-
oms of electricity, the condition of the atmosphere, and
on the extent as well as manner of their being magnet-
ized. Much has been said upon clairvoyance or second-
sightedness. While some believe that magnetism or
electricity, which we have shown to be light, is thrown
by repulsion and received by attraction into their sys-
tems, so as to illllminate the organ of mind in such a
manner that .they are increased and exalted in every
0191t1zed oyGoogle
f~ by a auperabundance of this principle ; .othen
b6Jieve that it is the union of two minds, and by this
means is doubled in perception and capacity; while oth-
ers believe that it is a procesa which, in a mysterious
manner so operates as to separate eoul and body; mor-
tality from immortality, and that when perfected, we
converse with the soul direct, isolated and detached 'M
it were, from the dross of corruption-the body. We
copfess from our present knowledge, from the great dif-
~y in obtaining and keeeing in employ clairvoyants,
~ .the ignorance an~ dension ?f.a la~ge share ofco~­
QJQllllY upon the subject, that it 1s atill enshrouded in
~.Wry, and perhaps ever will be. All we know is,
~ something is impartedfrom us to them, which weak-
ens us, and strengthens them, and that in proportion to
the quantity imparted, or their becoming effected they
become exalted in mind and soul. Subjects describe
~ ID!lgnetic vision as long as they can remember, as
.,~bite silvery gleaming light, like that from the reflec-
iOcl rays in a frosty morning from a field·of blades of
~· When we move our hands over their heads,
~ deseribe it like bands or streams of white silvery
~t. When we ask them to walk with us in clairvoy-
ance and bid them examine, they frequently excuse
1hemselves, by saying it is too dark, but on having a few
passes repeated, they will go on as desired, expressing
iliemselves' as able to see and tell correctly. Thus it
appears to be light-the magnetic fluids. Those who
can be so effected as to not be able to see, hear, touch,
taste or smell, except through the magnetizer are at all
times good clairvoya~ts and may be depended neon;
whereas those that have one of these senses remaming
entire are poor ones, will sometimes tell the truth, and
sometimes die contrary, and are therefore never to be
Mpended upon. Altliough they will sometimes break
"'" and astonish all with their lucidity, with their al-
most miracoloua powers in travelling or giving certain
o 91rnlbyGoogle
l70 .· tU.G8·0lll "
facts infinitely beyond the comprehension of mortality,
perhaps the next breath they will come wide of the
truth. It is this, their imperfect magnetic aleep, owing to
various collateral circumstances as before mentioned, to-
gether with the most prominent one, of the ignorance
or rather want of knowledge of the magnetizer upon the
subject, which brings clairvoyance into disrepute and
causes it to be disbelieved by the multitude, and even
questioned by those who float upon the surface of the
science, or pretend to be magnctizers. Magnetism is
governed by the law of attraction and repulsion, is con-
trolled by the will alone of both the magnetizer and
the magnetized. Hence a subject magnetized is attrac-
ted or repelled by every person within a certain sphere
of influence, such as throuahout a common sized public
lecture room. 'Those who believe in the science, at-
tract, while those who disbelieve repel the magnetized.
When we cataleps an arm, many present of a...r.i audience
have the curiosity to convince themselves by handling
it, and the tendency of the magnetic fluids to an equi-
librium, like what has hitherto been termed caloric, ab-
stracts it, and is transfused to the officious haudlcr, and
the clairvoyant becomes incapable of correct sight, and
fails on that account. Therefore a clairvoyant will ne-
ver, from this and other causes, such as t1ic exhausted
air, and too large proportion of carbonic acid floating in
the room, perform so perfectly in a large audience as
in a small familiar circle. They seldom long, in a huge
audience point to the positive pole of truth, but vacillate
and turn to the negative one of error. \Vhoever has
amused himself by playing with a dozen small compass
needles in a sufficient distance, or sphere of influence to
effect each other, can form some idea of, and appreci-
ate the embarrassment under which a magnetizer la-
bors in attempting to prove the truth of clairvoyance
under these circumstances. :Many times a whole audi-
ence will not only be crowded into a small room, but
Do1'zodbyGoogle
~71
are noisy disbelievers, call it all a humbug, distract the
mind of the m~netizer, and added to these, ~bsolutely
outwill the magnetizer, in their wish to bring odium up-
on the science, and carry their points and gain their
ends. In union or attraction there is strength, but in
its opposite, weakness. There was a time in Ireland
when there was but one individual will, to will the re-
peal of the union, and it was of course impotent for ef-
fect, but that individual attracted others and so on until
now, the whole concentrated will of the Island is for re-
peal, and if they stand firm, it must and will come; it
forms the omnipotence of the public sentiment of Ire-
land. When the patient, or subject rather is magnetiz-
ed, the several external senses catalepsed, or palsied,
and the new one instituted, the whole mind becomes so
exalted and enlarged, as to at least break over the cir-
cumscribed boundaries of mortality, and presents us with
phenomena truly surprising, astonishing, wonderful, and
full of interest. A good clairvoyant well magnetized,
will not only look through a solid as well as atmospher-
ic air, but the sight is lengthened immeasureably be-
yond our comprehension. He will look into, and through
the system, tell the location of disease, describe the feel-
ings, thoughts, the appearance of the part effected, the
cause, and if curable the most appropriate remedy, cor-
rectly, even better than the patient can describe his own
feelings, and call to mind transactions in life that trans-
pired years before. In a word, time, space, texture,
distance, magnitude, locality, aad all the other attributes
of mortality, are annihilated.
After a lecture in a certain .village in this state, for
the benefit of a few select friends, on returning to my
room, I magnetized my subject. A young man of the
party in company, had left the room unperceived by
me, and the clairvoyant broke out in a Higression, say-
ing that he was then drinking a glass of beer ~t the bar.
I desired a gentleman present to step to th~ par and tf:!~t
16
.•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
,.
172 "Jf!OG otf' ..
the truth of the assertion. · He immediatefv rettlt'ned
with the young man who owned the fact to his disgrace,,
a1 he was a te-totaller and this was the first he had ta-
ken in our route, which was a month in duration. ,
Now such was the situation of the bar relative to the
room we occupied, that the clairvoyant must have look-
ed again through two lathed and plastered walls, as a
hall intervened between the bar-room and the one we oc-
cupied, and both doors were closed. It was very unlikely
to be guessed at, or anticipated, for it was the first he
had drank in the journey.
In our route I chanced to magnetize a man so that he
became a clairvoyant, at the village of S-e, who had
an affected spine. l assured him if he would accompa-
ny us I would cure him. He accordingly became one
of the party, and I magnetized him as often as twice a
day for thirty days, at the end of which he was perfect-
ly cured and had gained the first twenty days a pound
of flesh per day. This subject read with his eyes ban-
daged, at the pit of the stomach, at one time a handbill,
but never read afterwards. He \•ias a good clairvoy-
ant, could at all times when well magnetized describe
correctly the feelings of a patient better than he could
(in the generality of cases) himself, give the cause, du-
ration of the disease, prognosticate and prescribe, if cu-
rable. He never foiled to tell when in communication,
indescriminately from an audience, to what political
party they belonged correctly, which frequently amoun-
ted to a dozen during one lecture, and all perfect stran-
gers to both him and me. He also told their business
and occupations in life, and never failed to point out
ministers of the gospel, (the number examined was five)
and to what sc~t or denomination they belonged. The
day before he left us while thoroughly magnetized, iri n
high state of c~airvoyance, I asked hi~ if ~e could not
tell me somethmg new about magnetism; if there was
no better manner to induce sleep. He said there was
Do1'zodbyGoogle
173
·~ ~tter method., that we must concentrate and will
.strong. I asked him .what was the cause. He replied
,it was electriQity and that was life itself. I then asked
,him if there we,i·e any more degrees of sleep than we
·I.hen practiced, that a subject might be put into. After
,a few moments, said he, if you lay your thumbs on ve-
·neration, , hold them there a minute, then draw them
.down each side of the head, neck, shoulders, and along
the arms to the thumbs, and repeat six times ; after
which hold them just below the ear against the great
.
:arteries about the same length of time thut you arc per-
forming the manipulations. concentrate well, and will
strong, "I can see into Heaven." I immediately com-
menced and added as directed, this degree of magnetic
sleep to the three others already produced. As soon as
completed, I willed him to Heaven, and never shalI I fQr-
get the scene that ensued. He raised his head steadily
·upwards, muttering unearthly and sepulchraJ sounds,
s,eemingly conversing with, (to us,) invisible spirits, be'-
:eame convulsed, shed tears profusely, was choaked and
troubled for breath; but by great effort cried out, Doc-
tor, don't, don't. Don't what, said I. Don't will me to
.Heaven; "they don't like to have me go there." "O!
.such a sight!" here he cried aloud, sobbed, and became
so convulsed that I feared the consequences, and took
off the last influence. After waiting a few minutes and
finding him uninjured except very tired, I affected him
as before, and willed him again to Heaven. He became
.affecteq as before, panted for breath, trembled, sobbed
whispered, and gesticulated as though in the most ear-
nest conyersation but at length became more calm, aI)d
after a fow minutes said, " thanks be to God Doctor,
my friend~ are here, some of whom I never believed
would have got here." He then broke out to exhort
,~ :to b~come better, to live·. beger Jives or we .should
~ever get ,there, and .said Ile WIUI determiµed .to live fl
:b\l\terJi(e himself, and bt:ggcd me te> letMm.?"eturnt and
Do1'zodbyGoogle
174 JtACJCJ ON
that when I returned if I came through his village, he
would consent to let me will him as strongly as possi-
ble again to Heaven. He was so affected and weak,
and fearing consequenees should I persist, I took off the
'influence and awakened him. When awakened he saw
that some eyes were still wet with tears, and enquired
the cause; but could not remember a word that had
passed. He was very serious all day, frequently sigh-
ed, and repeatedly enquired what made him feel so weak
and bad. The next morning he took the stage for home.
In two weeks I returned that way, called on him, and
in presence of some five or six persons put him again
into the same state as before, and took him at his offer
and willed him as strongly as possible again to Heaven.
His l}ppearance was exactly almost as before, and such
was his look, exaltation, and description of Heaven, with
hi~ exhortation to the company present, some of whom
might be called emphatically "hard cases," that they
will never forget it to the day of their deaths. I will
add that it produced upon all a greater impression of
.the necessity of living correctly, than the most eloquent
~ermon from the pulpit.
On my return, I also put into the same state and wilI-
ed him to Heaven, a man affected with palsy who had
been for years a member of the church of --in good
standing. His appearance and description was almost
exactly the same as above, and constantly begged me
1:6 ,return as "they did not want him there."
I again put another gentleman into the same condi-
tion, who was a most exemplary member of the church
of a different denomination of christians, who begged so
fervently to be brought back and awakened, that at the
almost peremptory solicitation of friends, I was obliged
to take off the influence.
fu the winter of 1843, I magnetized C--o who had
'been partially twice magnetized previous. . I magnetiz-
_ed hi'th .s.fstematically, and he became insensible to all
oi "edbyGoogle
MA.GNBTJ8JI. 17~
es:ler.llliLl Qbjects through the natural or ordinary ave-
,noes, and was therefor~ a goo<l clairvoyant. I sat down
.and asked him to travel with me to my house, which
,he described externally, yard, and front steps. I told
him to count them and tell how many there were. He
replied, four. I thought there were·b.ut three, and told
piJn to look again and be particular. He said there
.:were four, ,and could not be beat o"Qt of it. I then led
·bim inside, and asked him who were there. He said
there were three ladil;ls and a little girl whom he de-
~rH:ied, but made out one more than composed my fa-
mijy of adults at the time; and I told him to look sharp
aed be particular again, when .he replied that one ofthe
ladies had her " things on'' and was going home; "there
said he," she has gone. I told him to follow her and
see where she went, aud find cmt who she was. ·He
followed her up Woodward Avenue to the corner of
Grand River street, and along that street to the next
corner, to a house which he said she had entered, I
bade him go in and ask who lived there which he did,
and gave the name as l\frs. S--l. I then brought him
back, and took off the influence. To my surprise and
astonishment, on arri\·ing at home. I found as near tht•
time as could he ascertained that evening, that the la~
described had been there, and that he was right about
the nnmber of steps, which proves one fact, that it is
not the refiection cf the magnetizer's mind, but that
they actually do see for them~elves. The next evening
a friend of mine took him again to my house, when he
des.
cribed the furniture as well as I could have done my-
self, which again goes to corroborate their actual sight
instead of iiympathctic reflection, as the friend who led
hiln·had never been but once in my house in his life ~d
,could remember but little the appearance of the furni-
_..re• . It. is proper to state that the. clairvoyant ha,d
~n ii,. the city but a short time, Wj\S a stranger tome,
.~ ~d, ;~".~r ~ei,. at my house.
16•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
17tl DAGG oN ·
·The next day, a gentleman of the city wished me ·10
ta.tee him to his house, and examine his wife, who h.ad
been some time ·ill. Accordingly we called, and found
1
a small circle, consisting of two ladies, two gentlemen
a:nd two children. I made no introduction, but in a few
~minutes put him into a magnetic state. Immediately
after he was magnetized, a young lady who was absent,
·entered the room and made one of the number; I then
asked him how many persons were present, which .be
told correctly; then seated the lady near him, put him
in communication simply by her touching his ha'ndA,
Without saying one word by the way of introduction,
directed her to ask if she was unwell, and if so, to have
him describe her symptoms, and prescribe the remedy.
After sitting a few minutes as if reflecting, he raised
'the right hand in a slow manner, so as to describe a
:semi-circle, by carrying it backwards and raising it as
high as the length of the arm would permit, (which Was
afterwards always his manner) this being the first pli·
tient he ever examined, and brought it upon the head,
with his thumb upon individuality, and fingers of the
right hand resting opon benevolence, while he applied
the point of the left thumb to the tips of the left fingers
in succession, one after the other; then examined the
pulse, changed hands, applied the left to the forehead,
and the right to the pulse and fingers as before. Aa
·soon as this was accomplished, he told her her symp-
toms and feelings, where the diseases were located, the
cause, and prescribsd for the cure, for which he recom-
:mended some roots. The lady asked him where ther,
'Could be found. Said he, "dont you see them there, '
at .a certain piece of woods, (only four miles oft') as
'~hough ·they were present. I told·her to say that she
could not see them, and to ask him if they could not'be
-procured in some of the drug 'Shops of the city.· ,tffe
look~d into them from where they were sitting,, and eatd
no; but said there were so·many in ·such a'pr!en, ad
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGl'fBTl8X. 177
'Otle t6ot'irt such an one, "doat you see it7" a11 though
present. The husband went to two of the gardens next
aay, and found he was correct, and as it was during
winter, and l)e a stranger, and had never lived here in
'the summer, it excited astonishment that he should be
-to correct. The other gardens mentioned he never ex·
'amined, as he found sufficient for use in the others.
The lady was through, and the husband took him by the
iland, and asked him how many children he had. He
replied instanter, three, but the next moment corrected
himself, and said "two; you had three, but one is dean!"
When did it die1 About a year since. Was it a boy
or girH It was a girl, dont you see there? Where?
In heaven at meeting; dont you see hed What is she
doing? She is singing and praising God before the
Throne. Who is on the Throne 7 God, dont you see,
with Moses on one side and Jacob on the other. Where
is Jesus Christ? He is on the Throne; Christ is God.
Where is God the Father1 He is never seen; he is in
the fourth Heaven, concentrating all on Christ. He was
·then asked about Hell, which he described as a place
·out of the immediate presence of the Almighty, where
there was no pleasure or happiness, but pain, misery,
want and discontent. He was then put into communi·
cation with the other gentleman, whom he examined,
told his feelings and symptoms exactly; located his
pains, which were rheumatic, and prescribed for their
cure. I then simply put the point of my fore finger
upon the organ of veneration, and he immediately fell
·upon his knees, and made, in a full clear voice, one or
the best short prayers 1 ever heard, with language that
would do credit to .our best divines, and produced a.
lOlemn effect upon all. I then suddenly withdrew my
~i·and he stopped in the middle of a word. I then
~ed the organ of tune. and he sung two or three
Vel'Bes ·or an appropriate hymn. The organ of locO-
·tnotion was now excited1 and he sprung to his feet. I
Do1'zodbyGoogle
f78
then set him a chai1·J a~ willed him to set down, de..
mesmerized the organs, took off the general influence,
and he awoke. It:is proper to state that this subjectis a
simple, honest, illiterate young man, a .hard case, andquite
often throws out qpletives not exactly compat\ble with
the commandments, was a stranger to all present, had
never seen them before. docs not remember a word that
has been said, or what has transpired; wall loth to be
put in sleep, and does not believe in magnetism. ac ~
of the lymphatic temperament, and when well magnet.-
ized, has never failed to tell the truth when led by OPfit
that could concentrate, as far as could be ascertained.
A few evenings after, a gentleman from Cuba called
at my office, and desired to lead my clairvoyant to thi!ot
island, to ascertain the health of his family, and when
they would leave for New York, as he had been for
some time expecting them. I immediately throwed him
into a clairvoyant state, and he commenced, having no·
difficulty in getting there. ·After landing, the gentle-
man desired him to ride with him about four miles, tp
the plantation; but he utterly refused, and srrid he would
walk. The gentleman prc8sc<l him to ride; he again
refused, and became quite vexed that he should want
him to ride one of those little, ugly, long cared animals,
(mules) and could not be prevailed on, and walked.
He described the plantation, trees, houses and scenery,
expressed a lively surprise to see so many large piles of
bags of cc1ffoe; gave the style of building their houses
high, with no chambe.r floors, to let the heat escape;
complained of the great heat of the climate, &c., all qf
whic~, together with the uurnber, ages, sex and he~lµi
of the family, the gentleman declared to be true; ,npt
ono w:ord of whicl} was suggested by the leader. .The
next :evenin~, the same gentleman took him across tJ,e
Atlan~ie to Paris, to the residence of his .son,·and tQ the
Place Vendomc, where he de1;1cribed the pillar erected
17~
by BOnaparte, from the cannon taken in hi11 victorious
battles. · .
During one of the evenings of 1843, a small party
of ten or twelve gentlemen were assembled nt my office,
to witness experimentl!I in magnetism. My clairvoyant
was in a maenetic sleep, when a friend came in, accom-
panied by a stranger to the whole company. After
sitting awhile, and witnessing some experiments, the
friend informed me that the stranger would like to
lead the subject. I immediatelv put them in communi-
cation. He then asked him if he wm,Jd travel with
him to the city of New York. He consente.d. They
started, and travelled by the usual route and manner,
by steamboat. Having arrived, he became much elated
with the appearance of the city, the Astor House, City
Hal~ and then went on to the gentleman's dwelling~
the exterior of which, and the adjacent buildings, he
described correctly, and then went to the front door,
read the gentleman's name on the plate, rang the bell,
a servant opened the door, and they were ushered in.
After describing the hall, some of the rooms, furniture,
and so forth, he came to the piano forte, and said there
was a lady playing upon it, whom he described, told
the color of her hair, eyes, complexion and dress. The
gentleman told him to promenade with her. He whis-
pered something to himself, and then replied that she
refused to walk with him. He then told him to sit down
and observe her walk while he promenaded with her.
He immediately exclaimed that she could not walk, that
she waa lame, had a stiff le~. He told him to look sharp
and examine it closely. He said it was a wooden-a
corked le~; all of which the gentleman, after giving his
DIUile and- residence, affirmed to be true.
. A gentleman of property, character, and good stand-
mg in society, called at my office in company with five
W six friends, (members of the Legislature) to test the
truth of animal magnetism. I proposed to put my ·iub-
0191t1zed oyGoogle
.BNMJ QJ( .
ject to sleep. They said they wished to test it upon
their own systems, and selected this gentleman as the
subject. We sat down as usual, and in a few minutes
his eyes became red, suifused, the lids began to tremble,
and at length closed. After making a few more passes
in the usu:::I manner, believing him to be so far advanced
as to be unable to open them, I put my fingers upon
causality, con1parison and time, and asked him how long
it would take to put him through the first stage of sleep.
He replied five hours. The great anxiety of his friends
induced me tJ:? go on and see how it would terminate.
I therefore continued to manipulate him for two hours.
l then awaked liim, and in the evening recommenced,
and continued until he was through, which took five
hours to a minute. Of this there could be no mistake,
as two or three of the company held their watches, and
noted the time, as I interrogated him every half hour,
fifteen, twenty, ten and five minutes, how long it would
take from each period asked, during the whole time,
which he shortened down each time from the othe·r, so
that all the parts between the interrogations, added to-
gether, made in the aggregate, to a minute, five hours;
and his appreciation was such that he told correctly
three minutes before the time expired. Now whether
he was actually through or not, is immaterial; the great
interest in this case, as well as others of a similar na-
ture, consists in his being able, without looking at some
time piece, to be so correct, not only from point to point,
but to the whole period of time. This gentleman being
a hard subject, (all nervous-bilious) I did not again at-
tempt to magnetise him further. :::iome days after this,
the same gentleman called ,,.,·ith a friend, to be examin-
ed for disease. He was put in communication with my
subject, and after describing correctly his feelings and
cause of the disease, he began on the cure, and first re-
commended him to take some pills. l told him to en-
quire wbat kind of pills, which he did. He immediate-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
HH
ly broke out and said he must take "such a pill," made
and kept by Doctor - -, at Milwaukie. Said he,
Pointing in that direction, "dont you see him there, there
he is; a little small man, with a fur cap on, and large
black whiskers; get them, and they will cure you."
The company and myself had a hearty laugh on his
length of vision, in modestly looking over across the
Peninsula and Lake Michigan, into a drug shop at Mil-
waukie for medicine, and after a little further examina-
tion of his family :rnd home, which he described correct-
ly as lhe gentleman stated, I severed the communica-
tion, and took off the sleep. I then asked him if he
had ernr been at Milwaukie. He said no. I asked him
if he was acquainted with any one living there, and he
said he was not acquainted with any one, and here the
matter ended as I supposed, and was by me forgotten
among the great multiplicity of my daily clairvoyances;
but these gentlemen having a great curiosity to know
whether there was such a man residing there as clescri-
bed, wrote to an acquaintance and received for answer
rhat there was such a physician and druggist, by that
name, that the description was correct, and tbat he kept
the particular pills, and whether he got and took them
I did not learn, as the gentlemen live in the interior of
the State. distant ei~hty miles. vVe were all satisfied
that he had never be~!1, or was acquainted with any one
residing there. I had forgotten to mention that this gen-
tleman was still so doubting upon magnetism, that I told
him tint if he would sit a few minutes, I would give
him a demonstration upon his own system. According-
ly he sat down, nnd I c:ommenced to make passes, and
in about twenty minutes I put him through the first sleep
or stage. I then awakened him, and to!J him to put hi~
two middle fingers together. I then made five or six
passes at them and told him to iieparate them if he could.
He tried, and tried, and tried again, but could not sep-
arate them, they remained fast. I then,desired him to
Do1'zodbyGoogle
stand up, and nailed him to the floor so that he could
not move. After liberating him from this Position, I
pointed my fore finger at him, and willed him to come
to me, or rather attempted to attract him to me. He
resisted with his whole energy, and was encouraged by
those present so to do, to carry their points of disbelief~
but I attracted him inch by inch, not only across the floor,
but out of the room into the hall, and could have made
him follow me about the city. But this convinced him
of the truth of animal magnetism, as he informed me
last summer that his extreme resistance lamed his whole
muscular svstem for three months.
Shortly after this case, an other of the party led my
clairvoyant to a village west the extent of the railroad.
He had never rode in the cars before. They stopped
and got out at the usual stopping places, took occasion-
ally a glass of beer, or hot cup of coffoe, read the signs
correctly, made other observations as they went along,
and the subject appeared as much delighted with the
ride and country, as would have been anticipated had
his mortal frame accompanied his spirit. At length they
arrived at the residence of the gentleman, and they
alighted, jumped into a post-coach and landed at the
door of the gentleman's office which he described to his
satisfaction, and more or less minutely, such as the li-
brary, stove, &c., and among the rest which is not ex-
actly furniture for a law office, ten or a dozen barrels of
flour. He the»1. made an effort to take him to his dwel-
ling, but owing to the want 0f concentration or some
other cau5e had some difficulty, at length he described
the exterior, opened the door and walked in; after de-
scribing the furniture he asked him if he saw any one
in the room. He replied that there was a lady sitting
by the cradle rocking it with one hand and reading a
newspaper, and that the other child was asleep on the
floor just beyond the cradle, the ages and sexes of which
as well as the lady he described to a tittle. I suggested
Do1'zodbyGoogle
-~.....
to have him ~sk what ~wspaper she was reading, which
be did, and he replied that 11he was reading a newspa·
per printed in this city. I then told him to ask him what
particular matter she was reading, and he instantly re·
plied that it was Mr. l\facLeod's speech, which was ra·
ther musical, and had been delivered in the Representa·
tive Hall, a few days previous. He then led him back
in the same manner as before, stopped, drank, eat, and
conversed on all they saw, as when they went out, read
the signs correctly and landed at the city, and after ex·
citing some of the phrenological organs, I took off the
influence and he was awakened. I thought no more of
this case as it had ceased, from my every day habit of
proving clairvoyance, to excite that interest that to
thoae who had seen less would have done, and did do.
A few days after this, the gentleman in writing to his
lady facetiously said, "you must keep yourself correct,"
for Bagg's clairvoyant can tell at any time what your
deportment is, and what you are about, and then men-
tioned what he said as above. The lady in her next,
replied in answer that it was true, that she was reading
at, as near as could be ascertained, the precise time, in
the Free Press, a newspaper printed in this city, the par-
ticular speech mentioned, and that the particular posi-
tion of herself and children at the time, was as de-
scribed. I have the gentleman's letter before me on the
subject. This case .is valuable in again corroborating
the principle that they actually see for themselves, and
that it is not simply a reflection of the imagination and
memory of the one who leads or is associated.
About this time I received an invitation to lecture ou
the subject of animal magnetism at a village some twen·
ty miles distant. I accor<lingly sent on my hills, and
when the day came, started for the rwpose,,and on my
route called at the half-way public house, to feed \Ind
get some refreshments ourselves. As soon ·as '\)'e en-
tered, the gentleman of the house limped alOJ , and
17
Do1'zodbyGoogle
\
IM · llAOO ON'.
pointed- up•to the wall, and said; it is DO'CtortB11gg, I
suppose. You are going to M_._s to give a lecture
on magnetism. I believe it's all a humbug, but if rou
could cure my rheumatism, " I would give you ·any
thing." I have have had it for three months; have not
been able to go to Detroit this winter. I have taken
almost every thing and can't get help, but I believe it's
a humbug, and have no faith in it. Aware of the pre-
judices of the people, and that if I could not ·esr;entially
help him, I had better let him alone. I looked at him
scrutinizingly to discover whether I thought I could af-
fect him, and made up my mind I could. I was deter-
mined however, not to touch him unless I was sure I
could bring him so under its inflence as to tell for the
science, for in nine cases out of ten, they will want you
to try them, and when they find they are about to ,be
influenced, will exercise all their energies to counteract
its influence, and then go about retailing slande:r and
abuse without measure. The bystanders will also gen-
erally make all the diversion possible, from the concen.
tration of both, by winks, nods, noise, laughter and de-
rision under the general license of ignorance and impu-
dence1 to make you fail if possible. • I found on obaer-
ni.tion however, that he was inclining to corpulency;
was of the nervous-sanguine temperament, and having
the rheumatism, together with the peculiar state ·of the
weath,er which favored me, I made up my judgment at
once, that I could put him to sleep. I told him in a care-
less, familiar kind of manner, if he would sit down I
would see if I could relieve him. That it was a good
way to effect the general system a little first, and then
draw it throughout the limbs. I then began by putting
my hands upon 1is head, so that my thumbs correspon-
ded to individuality, while my index finders lay on the
organ of benevolence, and with a concentrated energy,
and firm will, in two minutes, without touching any oth-
er part or·makil'lg a pass, his eyes closed, and he began
Do1'zodbyGoogle
IN
to make deep inspirations and show symptoms of deep
sleep. I then made passes as usual, and magnetized
him for twenty minutes by the watch precisely. While
in this situation, the bar-room (although in the country)
became full. The stage stopped, every door was open-
ed and his family were peeping in to see what was go--
ing on. While in this situation, I made the necessary
passes to cure him of his rheumatism, and then took off
the influence. I then asked him how he felt; he said
he felt rather curiously; said it "was kind of strange."
I asked him to put the points of the middle fingers of
each hand together. I then made a single pass and told
him to separate them if he could. He tried for two or
three minutes, but in vain, and gave it up. I then ask-
ed him to rise and walk about the floor. He did so. I
asked where his rheumatism was. He walked about
and around the room without a limp or feel of it, ejacu-
lating, is it possible1 "gentlemen, it is gone," strange !
(kicking and throwing out his limbs,) I can feel none of
it. I am as well as ever; curious! strange ! I then ask-
ed him to stand still, made a pass at his feet, and asked
him to walk. He was immoveable; he could not stir.
His volition was in me ; he was under my control. I
then made a reverse pass and he was liberated; he could
walk. I then desired him to put the index finger of the
right hand upon his nose, and then made a most power-
ful pass at the finger, which not only stuck it to his nose,
but put him to sleep and knocked him completely over
. backwards, which would have done him i11jury had I not
caught him when near the floor, in the fall. I then sat
him up like an old fashioned clock, as he was yerfectly
and universally catalepsed (as we term it,) al by one
pass with a will which concentrated all my energies. I
then willed to take off the influence except to keep the.
finger to the nose. When awake and reflecting upon all
that had so quickly transpired, standing with his finger
so att'lched to hia nose that he could not separate it,
\
/
....
with his rheumatism cured; and standing also not as the
living monument of humbuggery, but as the living wit-
ness of the effects of magnetism, not only on disease,
but tha actions, volitions, and sensations of man, he
broke out with emotion and cried like a child. I then
took off the influence, asked him what was to pay, and
ordered my horse. He replied by asking my charges.
We parted even, and we went our way, and arrived at
the village in time for our lecture, which was given at
the Court House. Nothing unusual transpired; there
were but few present. After I had shown by my clair-
voyant, phrenology and the general effects of ma~net­
ism upon him, I found in the audience six or eight little
boys, from five to twelve years old, that had been some-
wh11t previously affected with magnetism. I then with
the cons'ent of their friends, stuck all their fingers togeth-
er, each with each, and all together, and with my fin-
ger attracted them thus attached as high as they could
reach, and then as low as the floor. I then dragged
them by the attraction of the finger all about the room.
I had almost forgotten to mention that during my lec-
ture a gentleman wished to lead my subject in clairvoy-
ance to his house. I accordingly put them in commu.
nication and proceeded tq take him to his house. After
describing the exterior, he took him inside and went
through with the general description of the most prom-
inent articles of furniture and so forth, and among the
rest said there were two persons in the house, a lady
and gentleman, and said they were both sick, told what
ailed the lady first and then the gentleman, and descri- ·
bed their looK:s, dress and appearance. After he had
got through, and returned, I.called on him to state to
the audience whether it was correct. He assured them
that it was all correct except the man, that his wife as
they knew was well described, that she was unwell, hut
ihat when he left home there was no man in the house~
QP.d, h~ presum~d there was none ~here then, Thi;:;ere-
ated a smile upon the audience, and was rather against
my clairvoyant. The lecture ·closed, and we repaired
to the public house and staid through the night. Early
next morning the gentleman called, wished me to go
over to his house and let my claiyvoyant examine his
lady for her disease, being full in the faith, for on re-
turning home from the lecture, to his surprise he found
his wife's brother, had soon after he left for the lecture
arrived, and that he had a swelled neck as the clairvoy-
ant described, and was the gentleman mentioned. We
accompanied him and examined them both, and he de-
acribed correctly all the symptoms and feelings of both,
told the cause and prescribed for the cures. This case
also goes to corroborate the fact that they see them-
selves, as this gentleman did not believe there was any
person but his lady in t~e house at the time.
A few days after this, in the morning after a lecture
over night, in another village distant some twenty miles,
a respectable physician of reputation as a practitioner,
called on me to consult on himself in respect to a har-
rassing cough, whi<:h was very troublesome. Knowing
that he placed no confidence in magnetic remedies, I
prescribed bleeding, and took twenty ounces from the
arm, after which I prepared to let my subject examine
him. He objected, sayiug he had no faith, but his Jadr
had, and having n curiosity to sec me excite the mani•
festations of mind, I put him into the magnetic state,
and put him first in communication with the Doctor and
told him to look at his lungs and. rce what state they
were in. Shortly after, just having been bled, he began
to vomit and to elude throwing the ejections into the lap
of the clairvoyant, he turned his head to the right side, at
the same instant of time the clairvoyant from direct at-
traction vomited also and turned his head to the rip;ht to
elude the Doctor's, when one heaved, the other clld al-
110, to an instant of time. The Doctor grcaned and
throwed up again, so did the subject, and would havff
11•
continued o to do, as long as they were in connection,
•nd the Doctor had continued sick, but I broke up th
connection, excited the organ of alimcntiveness and he
wafi \mmediately relieved and the poles of the stomach
restored. After chewing aloes, and various other dr~
l>e\lind the back of my subject ~t the distance of six or
fight feet which he at once detected, pronounced, and
desired me to spit out, I awoke !Vrn, and we left.i The
Docto:r 1'owever became a convert from that transac-
tjon, an~ moment, and is now eng;aged in investigating
\he. subject.
In the spring of 1843, a young man ~ailed on and
wia1'ed me to cure him. I prescribed for, and gave him.
some medicines for which he paid me two dollars.-
Some si* or eight days after, my incloor sigt\ was pull-
ed off and thrown across the hall. I suspected a young
man strongly, almost amounting to certainty, who had
previously pulled down and carried off my out door one,
six months before. About a fortnight after this while
my clairvoyant was in the magnetic state I asked him
who it was that took it down. He reflected for a few
minutes and then said, " there he is, walking on the
bank of the river, (a half mile distant and through two
thick brick walls,) don't you see him 1" Yes, said I,
but ~ have forgotten his name, will you mention it 1 He
too~ his forefinger, which is always his manner, and ·
wrote in the palm of my hand, and then pronounced it
L - B. Are you s1:1rc that this is the man 1 Yes, he
called on you to be cured, of you know what, and gave
you a1il Oakland County two dollar bill and you ga\'C
him some medicine which almost cured him, and he
came here five or six times and you Qappened to be out,
and the last time he came, he was mad and took hold o(
your sign, tore it off and throwed it a.cross th~ hall !'!RY·
ing, "damn you,'' you are never at home, al,ld wen~ to
apother Doctor. I could i;ipt the ~rst moment recoHect
the bill t\U4, l\sked him i,fit. was not a t.hrea do~ar one1
'
Do1'zodbyGoogle
t at I had taken. No, said he, it was a torn two dol-
lar Oakland County bill. I then distinctly remembered
the bill, and the man, just as he said it was, an old torn,
almost worn oqt one.
The nature of this case was such that no one on
garth but the patient and myself knew any thing about
it; and his having told correctly the name, and describ-
ed so perfectly the bill, as well as hinted at the nature
of the disease, while I suspected another individual,
could not but impress on my mind the convictjon that
all he said was true, and adds further testimony to prove
that they see of themselves, instead of being the mere
~cho of t~e mind of the one in connection. I will but
·add that I know that he was not, nor is at present ac-
quainted with the individual, and when awaked said he
had never heard of such a person, and does not remem-
ber one word that he bas said upon the subject, and ap-
p3ars astonished at the recital.
In the fall of 1842, while lecturing on magnetism in
a certain village in this state, not quite one hundred
miles distant, two or three physicians of the place in-
formed me that they had a standing patient, that they,
as well as other neighboring ones, had attended for
years without being able to restore him, and that if I
would cure him they would all believe in animal mag-
netism and give the cause an arrlent support. I imme-
diately repaired to the house, got the history of the
case, examined the patient, found that some three years
previous, while in good i)ealtb, he was attacked with a
paralitic ·fit, which terminated in a palsy of qne side,
that remedies had been administered in vain, that he
had only so far recovered his sensation as to be ~ble to
feel, but n.
ot volition so as to be able to w~, and th~t
about eighteen months since he was seized with. wh,at
they termed the shaking palsy, and at thi& time, c9uld
h~lp him,self but little better than an infant, He <;:ould
n~it!i~r ra.ise nor hold. Uj) either le~ or arrp. 'J;'hQ..t i)i8t
Do1'zodbyGoogle
/
1N · 9.a.ob ott·
'
wife was obliged to raise him up in b~d, slip him off ·rr-
to a chair and draw him to the fire and back again to
bed, raise him up, back him against it, set him down and
wheel him round upon his back; in short, he was almost
or quite helpless. I found on looking him in the face,
that he would fall into a most singular and an apparent-
ly foolish fit of laughter, although he had been a man
of good sense and judgement, and belonged to the Meth-
odist society of christians.
Believing that this disease consisted in some obstruc-
tion of the nervous fluid from the brain, or in an .une-
qual distribution of it from the brain; that ·some organs
were magnetized while others were destitute of a suffi-
cient quantity of the magnetic lluids, and that the look
of any one into the face excited this already over ex-
cited organ into extreme action, and thereby produced
the immoderate laughter, I laid my finger on the organ
of mirth (below the malor bone, where I locate it) in
the face, and he immediately bursted into a most viofent
fit of laughter, which convulsed his whole frame. I
then placed my finger on veneration, and he was instant-
ly as sober as a deacon, and as dignified as a judge
upon the bench. Next I touched combativeness, and
he struck at me with some force, although when not
excited, he eould not raise the arm. Other organs were
now tested with less effect, but I was convinced that if
I could thoroughly magnetize him, and thereby produce
nn equilibrium in the organs of mind, nnd restore ·the
poles from the brain upon all the organs, I could cure
him, and so expressed myself to his estimable but de-
sponding lady. It being near evei1ing, on which I had
advertised to lecture, I proposed to call immediately
after, and make an attempt to 'thoroughly nrngnetiza
him, and let him lie all night in the sleep. ' '
•··. After the lecture, l again repaired to the 11pot, •and
commenced operations.•Within a few minutes, three
phy1icians made their appearance;· others came in 'ono
c. ,zed by Google
191
after another, until the house was filled to a "jam." I
soon found he was through the first sleep, and l observ-
ed to his lady, that his eyes were closed so that he could
not open them. One of the physicians behind me, in
the true anti-magnetic spirit, characteristic of the people
of those times, spoke out audibly, and said "no wonder
he can not open them, he is so tired." I made no reply
but went on with my manipulations for the next sleep,
(ti~ ear) as heretofore mentiorncd (chap. 1x, p. 2d).
I soon believed him through this also, and whispered
his wife to call him by name to find whether he could
hear. She called him : he answered not. I said louder:
he spoke not. Louder, said I, and she repeated at the
top of her voice, and yet he was silent and as mute as
a statue. I then turned around and said, in rather a sar-
castic mood and manner, "he's so tired he can not hear,
and soon he will be so tired he can not feel, taste or
smell." I then changed my manipulations for the other
senses, as described further, (chap. 1x, p. 2d) and soon
the remaining senses went by the board, one after the
other, and were extinguished or suspended. He sat
erect in his chair, breathed natural, pulse was full, a
little quickened, but firm, his countenance was sedate,
and his silly laugh had vanished and gone. I then took
his lady aside, and whispered her to get some vinegar,
sugar, allspice, pepper and other things she could find
that had a well marked taste. I turned my back, and
o.t the distance of eight or ten feet, filled my mouth with
vinegar. He instantly spoke, and said, in an angry tone
and manner, spit out that vinegar, and shuddered, as it
was sharp and made me shudder. After rincing my
mouth, I put in a bit of loaf sugar. That's good, said
he. What is it? said I. It's sugar. What kind1 Loaf
sugar. I then tried the varions other things, in the order
mentioned above, and he as readily told correctly the
whole. Having got through with these, said I, you say
he can not hold up his arms or legs, do y-ou? Yes.
c, .zed by Google
- \
181 '.uoe ·Olf ·
How long has he been in this condition t ~
months or two years. Poor man, said I, can not hold
up his arms or legs! I immediately took hold of the
hand of the left arm, and raised it to a point at right
angles with the body, and gave it three rapid passes the
whole length, from the shoulder to the fingers, and will-
ed it to be cataleps'd and remain in that position. I
then served the right one in the same manner, and both
remained fixed. I next raised up one leg at nearly right
unglcs, and in the same manner, and with the same ee-
leritv, fixed that as well as the other, in the same con-
dition, and then folded my arms and promenaded the
- room with an air of triumph. The reader can imagine
that his attitude and appearance must have been some·
what ludicrious, bnt I was determined to show the mul-
titude, as well as the "plow-jo2'ging" sons of Escula-
pius, that magnetism, by the wil1 of another, could hold
up both his legs as well as arms. After remaining in
this position some ten or twelve minutes-a monument
of magnetism, the house perfectly still, all in breathless
astonishment, his wife enquired how fong I was going
to Jer him remain so, if it would not weaken. I assured
her it would not, but on the contrary, strengthen him;
but in a few minutes more, as it was getting late, made
two or three reverse passes towards each, at the dis-
tance of six or eight feet, and ar~ after arm, ~~ J~
after leg, dropped and resumed their natural post~
I now helped him to bed, willed him to sleep- uilWi.I
should call and awake him in the morning. Nextm~
ing at eight, I called and took off the infiuel'lce, {
•W
he expressed himself much better, appeared ~.sliliet
more natural, and langhed none. I now deme!mb. .
tho organs of mirth and combativeness, and Jef{ ·; ··
pro!Ilisin~ to re~urn as befo~c after t~1e lecture(and·;tn ·
.
netize htm agam fot the mght, which I performed.~ .
1topped at this village about a week, put.'hirh into 11il!
magnetic state every night, and awaked'and'(Jlt~
Do1'zodbyGoogle
193
bis imhsi ~"Verym10rniog, · during which he.so far recov-
ered as to be able, with the assistance of a person by
bis side to lean:· upon, to walk up a common flight of
steep out-door stairs; to my lecture room, where I ope-
rated upon•him before the audience, in company with
five or six others I had put into the somnambulic state
since my arrival. The doctors gave it up, were con-
vinced, and had in two of their families, one in each,
put into the magnetic state. I then left for the next
village, distant some twelve miles, and he followed me,
and took lodgings, and staid as long as I remained in
that village. I daily operated upon him as well as night,
at the lecture room before the audience. With a 100k,
or with the will, I could palsy his tongue or any part of
his muscular system. He continued to gain as long as
I saw him. I have never heard from him since, except
on my return, I stopped over the sabbath at the village
again where he resided, and that nio-ht, between the
two villages, three trunks were cut oft' and stolen from
the stage, and· they came to me and desired I should
put my subject into the clairvoyant state, and try to find
out who stole them, and where they could be found.
I ·did so. but he could see nothing. although generally
he was an old one. I then called on this subject, but a half
mile distant from the public house where we stopped,
put him into a clairvoyant state, and told him to exam-
'ne tile road and see who stole the trunks. In a few
minutes he described them, told where they were taken
oft: by whom, and where they could be found-in a
certain field; described the men, and said they were
that very moment drinking whiskey in a certain distil-
lery, which he described and located. A couple of
gentlemeE, from this description, started and proceeded
to the spot where he said they were, and they returned
in the afternoon, saying that they had been found just
before they got there, on the very spot mentioned.
Whether the men were detected nevu heard, having
Do1'zodbyGoogle
..-.iHttft'"
Wt·nrfr Oil ' ~ ~ng, :ad dil:l~ .nive :at
Detroit under a month. · · · · !-" f<q~
i While leeturing. in one of the villages of. .am.·.tate;!
I chanced to ailect a young lawyer. He wu -0f a Del".,
vous BMguir:ie temperament, and very susceptible. One
day, immediately after dinner, while standing in the
bar-room, which wes pretty well filled, the young gen•
t)eman CWulced to come in. Some one said, •·Doctor,
~llWeps him." Another said "stick him to the floor."
l looked at him, when he put his thumb upon his nose;
and played with his fingers after the manner of "the
invisible flute," in defiance saying "you can't come it.1'
At the instant I made a pass at him, and willed to stick
it .to his nose, and catnlepse it;. and although at the di&-
tallce· ef twenty feet, it was perfectly successful. His
thumb pressed so severely against his nose that it caus•
e.d a good deal of uneasiness, and he begged to be re-
lievod. With a reverse pass and will corresponding, he
Wat at once rest&ed. .,..., t
These are som~ of the many iostances and proofs <jf
the truth of the influence of magnetism, as shown by
ca.talepsing and clairvoyance. Subjoined are copies of
papers certifying to other <'ases, during my route, of
the truth of animal magnetism: " , '.
MARSHALL, October 28, 184~~ ,
DocT~ BAoo,
I take pleasure in saying to you, that having attend-
ed y.our lectures on animal magnetism, in this village,
with much satisfaction to myself. I consider the ex-
periQ1ents perforqied by you, both in public and at your
pwn rooms, to.be at least difficult of explanation on any
o~hcr principle than that of magnetism. I have also to
say that the experimen~ in .clairvoyance of M. A-,
l"ith me are 11iafficient to make tne believe in thnt part
of. youi: performance. •
IJARTHO~OMJIW BAliK8,
:,0 I • ·..' ·. .. . ¥1U'thal of Ma.r.sliill~ ./
0191t1zed oyGoogle
lfAHll.&LL, 0cto""r ft, ·J&ft!
'·:'Dori\-.:BA-Go, · · · · ·· · · · .,. - · ~
:;, "~rSir,-Jt is dne ·to: flle persecuted eame of
~al magnetisrri, and' ·to youl'8elf as one of its advo-
cates, that honest and itnpatdttl judgement ilhoold be
~reised by ~hose who Witness your astonishing experi.:
merrts; ·Hafrng attended· a part of your ·lectures at
this ptaee, al!I weH as having had an opportunity·to·visit
t,out pri~ate room, to view experiments, I feel constrain.:
Cd to believe the ·science (if it may be so clil~d) of
animal magneti~1 is destined, ere long, to co~mand the
regp"et and excite the wonder of the community, rather
than to draw forth ridicule and sneers •from those who
judge 'vithout investigation. Your clairvoyant this eve~
ning, in a state'of magnetic sleep, described t1'lree rooms
of my dwelling, ·with all the articles of furniture eon-
taincd ·within them, with as much precision as I could
have done myself, and I know it must have been per-
formed \yithout the· least possible knowledge of the
premises. J. A. YAN Hoa!'f, ·
Clerk of Calhoun County.
· ·Having .witnessed, with no little interest, the exper-
iments made by Dr. Bagg in this place, on Animal Mag-
netism, I take pleasure in stating my conviction of the
truth of the above science. The experiments made
upop six or eight of our citizens, who had. been put in
!Ht?'magnetic sleep by Dr. Bagg, fully s~ttsfied· me; as
1t did all others who witnessed the expcnments, of the
t~th of Animal Magnetism. I further certify that I
~ook his clairvoyant, when in ·n mesmeric sleep, to a
house twenty miles distant I had in mind, and that he
described the house, nnd the furniture in the room J
~ed him t'o, as minutely ad could have done. it-my~
self.' :. · · GEORGE M0Nao1:.
ALBION, Oct. 31, 1842.
18
Do1'zodbyGoogle
QMr. 8tt.(f4: . . . ·~ .
. Sir,_.:_I mt sincerely 'oongratulate t.tl«J. P.~~1on
~ ¥~ pf ~uiriag ~ JpJeodi' im~v~t in
th., m~s qf pWmlJ)gating \he princ.ipl@ of AiWn.alMag..
~ti!IJPf ~tis PQt QDf1 to·yol,\lllelf, ~ ~ .adv~te1 " '
w\he pau.e 9f acien~ (if it swiy \)e eo c~) ~ •
ioJp~~ investigation, divested of prejudi~, ~
- jautge of its merits, particularly those who witnel!& yow.
astonishing e~perimenta, flaving attended two of y~
Jecture11i one at Homer and another at this place, as w~ll
as ~ing favQr.00. with an opportunity of visiting yoµr
private room, to witness experiments, I am fully persua-
de4 that animal magnetism is deatined, at no distant pe-
riod, to command the admiration of the American peo-
ple. Your clairvoyant, last evening, in a state of moa-
meric sleep, described the exterior of my dwelling, a
cottage with wings, to the satisfa<'tion and aatonishme~t
of a large and popular audience. I also accompanieAl
~ in my will to the principle room in the bowie, when
he deKI"i~d every article contained therein {with~
eXQeFtion} with as much ~~cision as myself or any of
my family could have done, and I know it must have
\>t}en performed without any knowledge of my prem.i-
su. DocT. E. E. G.ARDNER,
·JONESVILLE, Nov. 2, 18:42. -
DooT. BAGG:
· S.ir,-I attended your lecture last evening on~
mal Magnetism, and am perfectly satisfied that 1·eur
subject performed clairvoyance in the description o t.w.O
:rooms and their furniture, when led by my wife, with-
9o0t any possible chance for deception. He described
th~ rOQms and their furniture as perfectly as any persoa
wquld have done if they had previously visited the(ll
for th~t purpose. H. S. BaocKwAv.
JoNE8VILLE, Nov. 4, 1842.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
•MtNntftl. HT
·h is h&re proper. :tO •~ that t!M abOl'e gentleDlu
was 11 keea, sagaciou1;'learned and diacriminating prac-
titioner of medicine, and that his lady Jed the c)ait'vay•
ant, not to her own hol1se, but to that of her neighbOl's,
and that she could not be familiar, and was not, with the
furniture of the house, that the clairvoyant saw and de-
scribed eorrectly what she did not know, as she stated;
and consequently that thia is another fact of actual sight
in the clairvoyant, instead of its being simply the re-
flection of the leading mind.
Doc'l'. BAoa:
Dear Sir,-1 take the liberty of presenting some
facts in regard to your lectures at thig place, on Anim-1
Magnetism. M. A-- was put by you into a mag-
netic sleep, and I was put in communication with him,
and Jed him in imagination to my house, where I know
he had never been when awake. He described the out-
side perfectly. Then the hall, and then a room, with
most perfect accuracy, table, carpet, looking glass, pic-
tures, and a quantity of lh"thells that were on the
eheJf over the tire place. Not an article of this .forni•
ture had been in this room over a week, and I am llUl'e
he.·had no means of knowing in what houae or what
room I was in, and I have no other room in my houstt
that would in any way answer the perfect description
ke ~ave: T~e sar_ne eveni~g, .I w~s again put in .Odm-
mumcat1on with him, and m unagmatton took him to
another room in my house, when he exactly descri~
my parlor and all the furniture, carpet, piano, tables1
ire place,·pictures, &c., with the·most perfect exaetnea.
He-read, io iny presence, two bank Dills and a slip et"
paper,. upon, ~e top of his ~' ?n which .the ~ .
house was wntten, and· a.Ihm ;eaclng-wu 410~,wnn
ais1ey8a -perfeotiy bliadee.wiU.'&>ha~chief, Midiheld
clot#n; on -hia;·eyes ·hy :Mr.~~bea·and Dr. Pat~
eiiiz~ of dUmllege~ The ilW·day.i Dr. ..B.ig WM
Do1'zodbyGoogle
198
with us, he-- put ipto ·a meameric sleetp six or eight of
our citizens, and some of these men of as much respec..
tibility as any in town~
My son-in-law, 1\lr. Hughes, was .put in communica-
tion with him last. night, and he described a third roon-.
in my house, with even morn exactness than the two
first. Dr. Bagg has delivered three lectures at this
place, and from his lectures and experiments; nearly aU
of our citizens that have had arr opportunity of attond-
ing them, have been· made perfectly satisfied that,there
is no humbug in trns affair, and that we have not been
deceived, and that there is a reality in Animal Magnet-
ism. You are at liberty to make what use of this hasty
and imperfect statement you please, hoping that it may
bring the attention of more scientific men to the inves-
tigation of the subject.
Respectfully yours,
J. W. .BaowN.
TECUll8EH, Oct. 9, 1842.
The following is a certificate of Dre. Patteraon·-and
Bills, a committee appointed by the citizens of the above
villagej to examine the experiments at my lectures, and
report. Dr. Patterson is now the Senator from that
district.
Dr. Bagg's experiments ·in Animal Magnetism, per-
formed in this village·during the last few days, were of
a singularly interesting character; his power of .cata..
lepsing different portions of the human body, in rapid
succession, without even· touching the person;·and -hi&
developements of Pb:reno-Moagnetism affordedconclueifti
proof that there is .800lething in .Animal ..Magnetism
~rthy of a -ORndid and. oareful euminaticp. · . ,.
· Dr. Batt~s ~spel'imenta ·were.•
.condmted-openly 8llil
fairly, ·and--:were unuedaUy,satUfa.)tory. ·.It iB time thd
the-me.lieal :workf.1 sltouW eOlbmeaoei'.iaveltigatieg JJUa
lll&OHll'neM. 'J.•
subject, and no tonger, ·under·the scornful epithet ol
"humbug," pass by 1et1Ults as remarkable aa they ue
.unaccountable, unless we attribute them to the infiuenee
of electricity, or some of its modifications, acting in a
peculiar manner upcm the nerves of the human system.
M. A. PATTERSON, ~ c .
· P.1t.RLEV BILLS, 5 ommittee.
TECUJISEH, Oct. 9, 1842.
The following is copied from the Marshall States-
man:
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Thie science, so called, has at length taken up its
~bode in 01,1r village. One of the disciplespf this school
of philosophy, Dr. Bagg, of Detroit, ·1s now aere, and
is performing wonders in the mysteries of magnetism.
He has lectured with great success and good satisfac~
.tion for two or three evenings, and will continue to lee..
ture a few evenings more. We refrain at this time to
speak upon the subject. A committee of four or fiv~
medical gentlemen were appointed, who are expected to
report t9 the public,. at the end of the exhibitions, t~
details of their observations. Unbelieving as the writef
~f this has ever been upon this subject, he is now co~
strained1 by the indisputable evidence of his senses, to
give up entirely his incredulity, and can honestly de-
clare his firm conviction of the truth of what is called
Animal Magnetism. The physical and mental effects
produced on the subjects operated upon by Dr. Bagg,
are enough convincing to put aside all scepticism on the
subject. If a person in magnetic sleep, with eyes se-
curely bandaged, is enable.cl to read from a pfoce of
printing placed on the top or at the back of tile bead,
then we may ask, what is too extravagant or " onder-
ful for beliefl Thi~ act the clairvoyant performed, and
Qot only that, but many others equally ~ extraordinary
1s•
·BAOO Olf ·
and incredible. · The Phreno-Magnetic performances
were striking, and go to establish the truth of the science
of Phrenology beyond contradiction. But we can not
here enlarge. The lectures of Dr. Bagg have ·been
well attended by our -citizens, and excited atDong them
intense interest. His operations ·in the lecture room
are performed with openness and fairness. He will
lecture one or two evenings· more, giving those in'the
vicinity of this place an opportunity of witnessing the
astonishing effects of the magnetic fluid, brought under
the control of human agency, and directed by a skillful
operator. B.
These are n few of the numerous instances of elair-
voyance that have come under my observation during
the time that I have been engaged in the investigation
of the subject of magnetism, which is but little over two
years, preceding which, no man was more incredulous
than myself. 'fo be sure I had never seen a subject put
into a mesmeric state and never wished to do so. It
was so repugnant to our every day's experience that I
was determined not to believe it, until, by the assurance
of an old acquaintance and friend, on a visit from Ohio,
I made some passes, and to my surprise my subject
went into a magnetic sleep. This was done without
reading any thing upon the subject, but simply uponthe
assurance of my friend; Witness my astonishment that
after having practiced medicine for twenty-five years,
and that more or less extensively, I had made at this
period of my life, the discovery that bv the will and cer-
tain manipulations or motions of the ·hand of one hidi-
~itlual, another could be made blind, deaf,·and destitute
of taste,' touch arrd smell, and at the same time, fruh
this.very op~ratiori exalted in mind, in soul, to'an exten't
beyond c0fuprithetision.· That ·111ffio11gh .the sense Of
tt>uch was's() eompletetly=itnd' dead that~ tt>Otti
6oald be extracted, a lmb · ~ ~r.~n:r ot~
•· ... ...
X"AONBTJIM.
fvt operation upoil the physieal system, could he perfor~
med without the patient being conscious of it, and yet
through a new sense, institut~d or made apparent by
-this operation, by contact as the medium, a communica-
tion can be kept up as well as though the external scn-
'les were as active as in their natural state. That the
1nind is exalted in the magnetic state, no one will deny,
Vfho ha:r witnessed cases in clairvoyance, or question,
Jtfter having dispassionately investigated the subject.-
In all the cases I have seen, which are not few, (over
one thousand) they are grave, sedate, and dignified, full
of integrity, and can never be made to vary from ex•
pressing the truth. No falsehood, prevarication, or hy-
pocracy ever escapes their lips, or characterizes their
c<>nduct. On the contrary, like the needle true to the
pole, they are true to the truth and cannot be diverted
from it. They are never disturbed by gusts of passion
of any kind; a'1d nc,·cr have I witnessed a subject laugh,
weep, or show the least symptom of passion while in
the magnetic state, without the organs were separately
excited by the magnefr~er. Although the natural sight
is irrterruptc<l, the subject can, not only see through a
solid as well as tlirou::!;h the common medium of sight,
but it is lengthened illimitably. They can also not only
be l~d, but sen: to any distance. We·are aware that
this will be dis:>eJicved by some, and ridiculed by oth-
ers, but that is nothing when one gets used to it. We
arc aware that it will he said by some who are tqo lazy
to investigate for t.
hemsclves, and by others who are too
Wise already to learn, and therefore stand at a distance
ind ~ry "htimbug," that the author is mad, insane, ~ri-;
tht'IBiastic, and shonld become t'he inrhate of'an insant!'.
ajllutn~ Aware ·0f:alt thes~, and kno:w\ng well .thep.
re:.:
jbdi~; 6f the interest~d·as· '9fen a-s thidgnorairt~ the et'.;
mett'iot.b>th' of which we have'·already, ~lt 'OUfftiD
;hare with an unsparing hand, from the great family. tit
ttiit..tMcNalib!lt of ." qualit)t sftle(;t,"'dlhlAi' f6'tt;rlttle
Do1'zodbyGoogle
8.&_0G OM
"John Johnsings" of "dirty lane." Yet we ha.Te the
ineffable consolation of pitying the one, and cherishing
a most suveran contempt for the other.
Having set out to chronicle a truo history of the ef'-
fects of magnetism upon mind and matter from our own
observation, nothing but the Great .Mog7t.etizer of the:
Universe shall deter us from communicating what we
have collected upon the subject, and expressing our in-
ferences drawn therefrom. Clairvoyants vary in being
good or bad, perfect or imperfect, exactly in proportion
to the perfect extinction of all the external semres or
uot. I have never witnessed one go wrong or tell false
where he was perfectly magnetized. We· have said
they will look through unnatural media and to a great
extent. They will also when well magnetized, tell the
time correctly at all times to a second, without clock or
watch, without any one in communication knowing the
time, either, and will tell coirectly what has taken place
for years heretofore. This we know for we have the
, proofs.
: Nothing was more common-than for my clairvoyants
at night when put into the magnetic state, to tell what
I had been doing through the day, to tell me what
conversations I had held, what language I used, and
what was said in return, as well as to warn me from
certain pretended friends, (enemies in disguise) whicb
proved true in the sequel. In reference to the truth of
a clairvoyant I wish to be here understood to mean..
when left free, and not willed by the magnetizer, and
when the equilibrium of mind is not broken up by iosu--
}~tins the organs; for we can give a subject water and
will it wine, and he will believe it. We can give hiin "
l)andkerchief and excite philoprogenitiveness and wm-jt
to ,be a babe, and he will believe it; but of this when.w..
e~ to •pea
. k of its application to the proofa of~~
~~~lf ~..to.~k of,ii._applicaiiop ·to~
0191t1zed oyGoogle
We :have shown that ·life is the result of the operation
Qf the magnetic fluids; that good health consisted in an
equilibrium of these fluids, and that when the equilibri-
um was broken up, disease was the result; that all we
eat and drank protluced and impnrted to the system
these fluids, while the grosser part entered into the for-
mation,-.growth and preservation of the system; that
the human system like every other system in nature,
anirnnte or inanimate, had a centre and circumference ;
that there was constantly a force going from the former
t<> the latter, and from the latter to the former, and that
the magnetic fluids were the causes of these forces, that
attraction produced the centripetal force, and repulsion
the centrifugal ; that these forces were constant, both
going on at the same time in the same organ, and that
&Ometimes one predominated over the other; that when
repulsion prevailed over the attractions an increase of
temperature was the result, and that when the centrip-
etal got the upper hand, diminution of temperature wai;
the consequence, or cold ·produced.
CHAPTER XI.
DISEASE A WANT OF EQUILIBRIUM OF THE MAGNETIC
FLUIDS-HOl'rHEOPATHY-ALL<EOPATHY.
. To elucidate our theory of disease when on anatomy
and physiology, we took a pnroxism of fever and ague.
We endeav-0red to show that the cold fit was the pre-
dominancy of the centripetal force, or that of attraction,
and Ute hot fit of repulsion, and .that the sweating stage
was the .result of the equilibrium formed between these
extremes, and that oxygen .and hydrogen gases were
neu~lieed.·and produced, the perspiration as well as the
flow of urine from 1he kidney~· ~ad by that means re-
•tored tbe•eqaiibrimp. We tnight here notice the , a11~
Do1'zodbyGoogle
.. .....80 G1'f : .
alogy of tbete phenomena, with th'nt of the Stonn cloUd.
which is produced by the same forces, in the same man•
ner, ruid CClmpare the rain of one, with the perspiration
of the other; both produce a diminution of temperatu~
and both serve to produce healthy states; the one of the
system, the other of the atmosphere.. Nine times out
of ten, when a patient complains of sickness, it is attrib-
uted to taking cold, whether true or not, and the treat-
ment is regulated accordingly, of which now-a-days it
is divided into four kinds; that of the matron with her
catmint and tansy, gill-grow-over-the-ground, feather;.
few, cato-comstock, and christopher-catneap;" the
Thompsonian with his lobelia, cayenne, steam and oth-
er preparations, mathematically numbered to correspond
with the number of the disease; the homreopathist with
his exalted infintesimal doses, under the motto of " si-
milia similibus;" and lastly the allccopathist with his jal.
lap, calomel, and the lancet, under the motto of contra-
ria, contrariis. These four classes of practitioners em..
brace pretty much the whole of the practice of medi-
cine of this couutry. The theory of the two first are
.the same and only differ with each other by differing in
gender, and occuping the extremes of the same system
of practice. The two latter are antipodes in theory and
practice and as different as the poles, and as far apart in
their prescriptions.
In what manner does cold operate to produce disease,
but by breaking up the equilibrium above alluded to1 by
increasing the centripetal to predominate over the cen-
trifugal force, and thereby producing an extreme, from
which, agreeable to our law, the other extreme soon
follows, which alternations of extremes from thoe an-
tagonizing forces constitute the disease it.set£. Ha;ye we
not already elearly shown that cold is the mapt:ie.ftu,
ids in a state of attracti<>n, and muet of necesaity1tend
when ·applied. to the system, to.produce attraction•·&
tende.ooy to the .centre., while magaet.iam1:Ui:.a:.11aie. of
Do1'zodbyGoogle
-
repulsion or what is called heat, applied to the sy11tem,
produces its kind-repulsion, or the force from the cen-
tre to the surfaclil to predominate 1 Hence, when the
good old matron goes to work with her hot drinks, teas,
steaming bricks and billets of wood, it is to reproduce
the lost equilibrium in these forces. The system by be-
ing exposed to too much magnetism in a state of attrac-
tion or cold, has given way to that particular force, and
becomes diseased, and the good benevolent soul goes to
work to balance it by increasing the antagonizing one
repulsion, but full as often produces the other extreme
with such increased force as to produce consequences
worse than to have left nature to reproduce her own
equilibrium. If her teas or infusions are not too strong
however, or loaded with too much magnetism in a state
of repulsion, (heat) being composed of carbon, hydro-
gen and oxygen, they contribute to restore that equili-
brium that cold has broken up, and are therefore bene-
ficial. These equilibriums show themselves by pitrspi-
ration and an increased flow from the kidneys. Not so
with the Thomsonian steamer, ignorant of both anato-
my and physiology as well as the operation of the vari-
ous remedies, his faith is predicated upon as he suppo-
ses, the great friend of man, heat or caloric, and having
confidence and enthusiasm in himself and his theory above
the matron, proportioned to his gender, ignorance, self-
estcem and organ of wonder, he throws into and around
the system, his friend, without judgment, stint or stop-
ping place, from cayenne pepper, capsicum, hot water
and blocks, up to the most extreme heat sufferable.
Thus they, knowing nothing of the powers of life or
in what it consists, disregard the vital principle, pour in
the universal friend in every form both direct and indi-
rect, and were it not for this self equalizing principle of
magnetism, life many times could not remain for an
hour, and like the steam engine without a safety valve,
woµld soon burst and become destitute of animation.-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
,.
,.
In diseases of that class where the centrifugal force
wants increasing, which cannot be known without a
knowledge of at least physiology, this treatment is good
an(l if conducted with prudence and stopped when the
equilibrium is produced, is valuable, but is as detrimen-
tal to the other class depending on the antagonizing
force, as it is beneficial in this. Hence in the general
treatment of all kinds of diseases, of directly opposite
symptoms and effects, by one remedy, it sometimes cures
surprisingly quick, and in others, as suddenly kills. The
results of the former have been lauded to the skies, and
the latter buried with their unfortunate victims; for
dead men tell no tales. Thus they go on with the
greatest assuranc~ imaginable, literally verifying the
proverb tl1at they who know nothing, fear ndthing, but
yet have their disciples and advocates. If by this treat-
ment they fail both to cure or to kill, their next and on-
ly resort is to Iobelia, as an emetic; and how does this
as well as all other emetics operate to cure disease?-
Notwithstanding this, as well as all other classes of phy-
sicians will tell you, that they throw up the cause of dis-
ease, and will harp over, give a philosophic disquisition
on, and gravely point out ill the ejections themselves
the cause of this, and that disease. Emetics never act in
any other manner, than to produce an equilibrium in
the magnetic forces by the simple process of a reversion
of the pole;; of the stomach, and the shock and agitation
of that organ and those associated. They are there-
fore valuable when other things fail, and sometimes are
hard to be dispensed with, but should never be given
till other means fail, as they are the most indirectly de-
bilitating remedies for the stomach, known. But still to
the ignorant who are at a loss what to give from a want
of a sufficient knowledge of the cause of animal life or
the law by which it is governed we would recommend
them, (like Murray, in his grammar when he could not
parse a word agreeable to his rules, to throw it into the
com!llon sink of_ adverbs, and call it that part of spe~ch,)
to g1v~ an en1ehc as the best equalizer of the magnetic
forces m the system, of the same kind. The only objection
to their use is their great debilitating influence upon the
stomach. This class of remedies are probably the cause
of more dyspepsias than all other causes put together,
but a patient had better have these than die, if we are
acquainted with no better method.
The homreopathic system of practice consists in giv-
ing, in a diseased state, that remedy that, in a state of
health, will produce the same condition that then exists,
or a simil:ir disease for that which it is given to cure.
The author of this system, as well as his disciples, tells
us frankly, that they have no theory, but give us a col-
lection of facts to substantiate the principle and doctrine.
We have been fortunate enough to rliseover that it is
based and predicated upon the magnetic fluids for its
principle of cure, and is therefore reduced to a general
principle from which it can never vary, is philosophical,
must be believed, will prevail, and ultimately become
established as the only true system of practice of med-
icine throughout the civilized world. They prescribe
upon the principle, that when the equilibrium that con-
stitutes health is broken up, and they wish to restore it,
that the only course is to push that extreme force with
another similar, and that one will antagonize the other,
and produce the equilibrium, whereas that if a remedy
is given contrary to the one that already exists, agreeable
to the law of reaction, it will attract and produce the
other extreme, and instead of obtaining that equilibrium
on which health depends, it will serve to perpetuate and
continue these alternations of extremes which constitute
disease itself. Hence their general rule in the exhibition
of remedies of similia similibus, instead of contrari<z con-
trariis. In other words, the homceo.pathic system of
practice is .based upon the p~ineipl~\ that i~ .a.. ratient is
affected w:1th a diarrhea, give an mfintesima do~e c,if
19
Do1'zodbyGoogle
.r
BA.00 oif .
that mw-.·that would produce a dathe.Ytlc'eAct.hi-1"
natural state. If constipation is present, give an astri.n'-'
gent. If pain is present in the stomach, give th:t.t re~
edy, that in a healthy state, would produce the same
disease. If a patient is bume~ ?r scalded? hold it to the
fire or apply hot alcohol or spmts turpentine. If a p~·
tient is frozen, apply cold snow, or scraped potatoe, or
any other cold remedy. In a word, the theory of the
bomceopathic system of practice is general, and so far
as the nature of the rel'nedy consists, is based upon the
principle of not giving remedies that are opposed to the
effects they produce, but to give those that produce a
similar affection to the disease for which they may be
pTe11cribed. . .·.· , ''
Thus much with regard to the nature or principle of
the remedy. They have another point, and these two
form all the general principles of their practice. It is
of giving their remedies in very minute doses, and re-
peating or changing to another until a cure is affected.
For instance, if one homreopathic remedy does not pro-
duce a cure, or raises up another set of symptoms dif-
ferent from what preceeded, give another homreopathic
remedy, or a medicine that will imitate in its action in
a healthy state these present symptoms. Should this
fail, and raise up symptoms not exactly corresponding
to the symptoms of health, give another, and so on, un-
til you arrive at the cure. The theory of giving minute
doses, and carrying it to such extremes as inculcated in
Hannaman's Organon, is based upon the atomic theory
of Dalton, or at least may be accounted for by that
law, and is therefore philosophical and true. The great
length to which .it is carried-to the millionth part of
a grain, is probably an extreme which is not likely to
be serviceable in the cure of disease. It matters not,
perhaps, whether the material substances be large in
~tity, -or be exalted by agitation or trituration. 11
medicines are exalted by shaking in a vial, or by ru1;Jo.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
IUON8Tl8M.
bmg with ll pestle-, we can.not see by what manner,
except by infusing into the material substance the·m11g•
netic fluids. This we know can be done, because we
have scarcely ever put a patient into a magnetic state
without magnetizing for them a piece of money or me-
talic substance, such as a gold piece or quarter of a
dollar, or something of the kind, to put them to sleep
whenever they wished, which, when well done, never
fails so t~ do. We also magnetize other material sub-
stances, and will them, when applied externally or taken
itatemally, to produce certain wished-for results, which,
in those susceptible of influence, never fail. Now wheth-
er these minute atoms are exalted by attenuation, by•
friction or exposure to light, or both, or by the power
of the will of him who agitates or rubs them, conveyed
through the fingers and eye alone, or all together com-
bined, we are not able to determine. He who thus rubs
them in a mortar with pestle, or agitates them in a vial,
must at least desire to have them become exalted, or
he would be acting without motive; but this is the very
motive that impels him to act upon them at all. The
will, therefore, must have more or less effect in produ-
cing what is called their exaltation, and probably aJJ.
Again, we know that a grain of calomel will operate
more severe at some times as a cathartic upon a person
than a dozen, and more severe upon one person than
twenty will upon another. This can not be explained
on any other principle than that of definite proportions,
touched on in part first. Substances and principles and
things must have a right relative action on each other
for effect. This depends upon their ultimate atoms,
'Which. must .be in certain proportions .to each other~
Now we can readily conceive that' these' cari be exalted
separately·by the will, byinfusing or throwinginto the~
an increased quantity of magnetism, so as increase their
operation, .'and perhaps abJO they may be increued- ~·
the absorption·Of light by friCtton, which ·~· the'·""°'
Do1'zodbyGoogle
fltO
thing, as light and magnetism are one and the same
principle. No matter in what manner remedies act,
they are all calculated to produce or break up that equi-
librium on which health depends. Now if we can mag-
netise a substance so as to put a subject into the maxi-
mum state of mesmerism, can not we magnetize other
substances s0 as to produce effect sufficient to remove
disease? Certainly we produce a physical change in
the one case; c:in not we so operate upon a natural rem-
edy as to produce such a physical change as to cure dis-
ease by the same means 1 If we can throw these fluids
into the system through the nerves, so as to produce
this effect, is it not reasonable to believe that we can
throw it into material substances, and give them by the
rnouth, and produce the same effect by this avenue?
Do not certain mcdirines produce spasms and convul-
sions ? Has not the sight of frightful objects produced
the same effects? Has not the same consequences en-
sued from harsh and improper language falling upon the
ear1 Are not the same consequences produced by the
inhalation of certain effluvium 1 ·will not certain sub-
stances, applied to the skin externally, produce the same
symptoms that it will when swallowed? How does
tobacco and other narcotics operate, but in this manned
Mr. H annaman, the discoverer of the homceopathic
system, tells us that disease is the result of the spirit of
life operating upon the immaterial part. Speaking of
the healthy condition of man, he says, " the immaterial
vital principal which animates the material body, exerw
cises an absolute sway, and maintains all its parts in the
most admirable order and harmony, both of sensation
and action, so that our indwelling rational spirit may
freely employ these living, healthy organs for the su.
perior purposes of our existence." "The material or-
ganism deprived of its vital principle, is incapable of
sensation, action, or self-preservation; it is the immate,
fiid vital principle onlr animatins- ~he former in its healthy
Do1'zodbyGoogle
lll9JtJl'fllM. . Ill
and morbid condition, that imparts to it all sensation,
and enables it to perform its functions. In disease, this
spontaneous and immaterial vital principle pervading
the physical organism, is primarily deranged by the
dynamic influence of a morbific agent, which is inimical
to life. Only the vital principle thus disturbed, can give
to the organism its abnormal sensations, and incline it
to the irregular actions, which we call disease; for as
an inviaible principle, only cognizable through its opera-
tions in the organs, its morbid disturbance can be per-
ceived solely by the means of the expression of disease
in the sensations and actions of that side of the organ-
ism exposed to the senses of the physician, and by-stand-
ers; or in other words, by the morbid symptoms, and can
be indicated in no other manner. It is solely the mor-
bidly affected vital principle which brings forth disease."
Again, in a note to the above last paragraph, he sayg,
"In what manner the vital principle produces morbid
indications in the system, that is, how it produces dis-
ease, is to a physician a useless question, and therefore
will ever remain unanswered. Only that which is ne-
cessary for him to know of disease, and which is fully
sufficient for the purpose of cure, has the Lord of life
rendered evident to his senses. Disease, therefore, con-
sidered as it is by almopathists as somethin$ separat(l
from the Jiving organism, and the vital principle which
animates it as something hidden internally and material,
how subtle soever its nature may be supposed, is a non-
entity, which could only be considered in heads of ma-
terial mould, and which for ages hitherto has given to
medicine all those pernicious distinctions which consti-
tute it a mischievous art." Again, he says, "the organ-
ism is indeed the material instrument of life, but without
that animation which is derived from the instinctive sen-
sibility and control of the vital principle, its existence
is as unconceivable as that of a vital principle without
an organism. Consequently both constitute a unit, al-
19•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
-Ill
thoua in case o comprehension, .our minds may l!ep&•
rate this unity into two ideas." This then, constitutes
the theory of the great father of the Homceopathic sys-
tem. That man is composed of spirit and matter. That
they are so united as to form a whole, an individual, a
man. That he is liable to disease. That this disease
is an affection of the spirit, showing itself upon the ma-
terial machine, and consequently that remedies should
be given to operate upon the spirit to cure all diseases.
That the symptoms of this spirit show themselves upon
the material body, and l'!ever can be detected by the
natural man; and that it is useless in the physician to
attempt to look for the proximate cause (as we suppose)
because he mentions in other parts of his work, of getting
"a history of the case, his social habits, and other causes,
because he can never arrive at it, and must give his
remedies so as produce health, by giving that medicine
which, in a healthy state, will produce the symptoms
then existent upon the system, "similia similibus." This
spirit he calls the nervous lluid, and therefore uses these
terms as synonomous. In bringing forth his remedies
to operate upon this spirit, (or '·Dynamic Virtual") he
speaks of giving it in small minute doses, and exalting
them by shaking and by triturition, we give his own
words. "The homrnopathic healing art develops for its
purposes the immaterial (dynamic) virtues of medicinal
substances, and to a degree previously unheard of, by
means of a peculiar and unheard of process. By this
process it is that they become penetrating, operative
~P.d remedial, even those that, in a natural or a crude
state, betray not the least medicinal power upon the hu-
11)3n system. If two drops of a mixture, of equal part»
qf alcohol and the recent juice of any medicinal plant,
he diluted with ninety-eight drops of alcohol, in a vial
capable of containing one hundred 1,1nd thirty drops, and
the whole twice shaken together, the medicine becomes
enlli::~ in e!'lergy (portenzirt) to the first development
c '"'"bvGoogle
111
,
o power, or asjt may be denominated, the first potence.
The process is to be continued tlu·ough twenty-nine ad-
ditional vials, each of equal capacity with the first, and
each containing ni11ety-nine drops of the spirits of wine,
so that every successive vial, after the first, being fur-
nished with one drop from the vial, ol" dilution immedi-
ately preceediog, (which had just been been twice sha-
ken) is in its tnrn to be shaken twice, remembering to
number the dilntion of the vial upon the cork as the
operation proceeds. These manifestations are to be
conducted thus, thMugh all the vials, from the first up
to the thirtieth or millioneth development of power,
which is the one in most genera! use. All other sub-
stances, exeepting sulphur, are exalted in energy by at-
tenuation in the form of powder, by means of three
hours' triturition in a mortar, to the millionth degree.
Of this one grain WCIS then di~sol ved and brought through
twenty-seven vials, by a process similar to that employ-
ed in the case of vcgctahlc juices, up to the thirtieth de-
velopment of power. Thus then, the medicine he sup-
poses to be exalted i•1 energy, by friction or agitation in
vials, and by attenuation by pestle and mortar. In what
ma ner consists the rationale of this exaltation1 It can
not consist in the increase of its material part. The
medicine is no heavier. In what then does it consist1
Is it in consequence of infusing into the mass an increas-
ed quantity of the magn tic fluids, and thereby, by the
attenuation, separating or reducing the mass into a great-
er quantity of ultimate molicules or atoms, by the great-
er quantity of these fluids, and if so, do these smaller
minute atoms possess as much or more power than those
of greater magnitude? Is this produced by the sim-
ple mechanical means only, or, as we have before said,
by the power of the will from the extremity of the fin·
gcrs, and throl1gh the medium of the eye, or all1 Does
light mix -with and enter into its pores1 And if .by
these, are we sure it will produce the effect1 wiahed,
..
Do1'zodbyGoogle
a.a.Ge OM
without the power of the wilH Does the natural med-
icinal effect of the medicine control its action1 Must
it have a kind of primordial propensity to produce an
effect of a certain kind discovered, or is that controlled
by the influence of the will1 That it might be produ-
ced by the infusion of the magnetic fluids, through and
by the will, we have shown as above, and might add
that various substances, such as milk, whey, water, cal-
omel, and less inert substances, have bee.a magnetized
by us to complete success, which we shall show-or men-
tion when we come to speak of Antipathic remedies.
Some mii;tht suppose that it was an objection that the
fingers did not come in contact with the medicine, or
within the sphere of influence sufficient for an effect.
But when we reflect that :i magnetized patient can be
effected in an adjoining room, across the street, or at
the distance of a mile, so as to be put into a perfect
magnetic state, when we know that every pass we
make at a subject at the extremity.of the room, he will
attract or repel it, so as to give it a distinct motion;
that at that distance, we can will up or attract his arm,
and bring upon a line at right angles with his body, then
raise it as high into air as it can be stretched, or depress
it to the floor, and there fix it beyond his will. When
we are assured of all these things, and sum them up as
a collection of inductive facts, with a variety of others
that might be mentioned, coupled with the known fact
that .we can make our passes through a cane or pole,
to even better execution than the hand itself in contact,
and recollect that the Electric Eel has the power to
throw electricity through the hook, line and pqle, in
11hocks with such force and intensity as to palsy the arm
of him who is fishing for them; we can not but be-
lieve that the "exaltation" of the homreopathic remedy
is in consequence of the macrnetic fluids infused by the
power of the will, and that alone. But again, we find'
all material substances governed by the magnetic tluid11.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
itlFs~trot\::es ~m mdleit'. ilttnbilM t~, ·tuwf'.f&tl ~t~
-center of the earth, or are repelled from the center and
1ty, in 'the form of vapor or gas, into atmospheric air.
~his is owing to these immaterial fluids, and not to the
material, tor without the. immaterial part, all matter
•ould be a cold, sluggish mass, without motion or ac~
tioon. .All substances, then, are of a mixed nature, m~L.
terinl and immetcrial. Their· form, color and texture,
are owing to the immateriar imponderable part, and fht?
raw material the material paFt. If then, in a state of
nature, we find thC6e results, these magnetic fluids fitti.
ing all immensity, moulding all matter into variouA
shapes, forms and dimensions, · by the immutable arid
eternal law of their government, can we not see that
by a process of the ,will, and pm·haps by agitation and
trilurition, exposed to light or these fhrids, all substnncefl
can be exalted in their natural propensity or condition
~o produce a greater effect? Can we not see that rem~
edies are made like the bodv itseli~ constituted of two
natures, spirit and matter, and that when taken into the
system as medicine or food, their spiritual part supports
life and animation, while the material is attracted, enters
into, maintains and sustains the material pnrt, while that
which is unnecessary is repelled from the sy"!tem h¥ the
various emunctories of the bowels, kidneys, liver, lungs,
- and skin. Substances then, possess, in a natural state,
n power to produce a medicinal effect. Some possese
tnore magnetism, and others less, and by this means are
more medicinal. Others, compounded of simples, with
their elements differently arranged, operate on a func•
.tion, with its particles also arranged in a prrticular form,
in a peculiar manner, and produce certain results. Thit
is owing to a different arrangement of their· ultimate
atoms. For sugar, and vinegar, and starch, as wellu
alcohol, are made of the same elements, altbouRb··so
different in.ei'ect, as well ns different in taste. Thie bl
owing to 1~ c:Wfurent prorortions of. the ele~ontary
Do1'zodbyGoogle
111 BAOO OH
atoms in the compound. It ·is then owing to·the ~
liar arrangement of the particles in the compound or
simples, relative to the particular arrangement of the
same ultimate atoms of an organ of the body, on which
and through which it passes, that causes it to have a
certain effect, together with the particular quantity of
the magnetic fluids in both, for all medicines are resov-
ab)e into astringents, or the contrary, which is in effect .
attraction or repulsion. Thus much in regard to the
exaltation of the homreopathic remedies. It now ~
mains to account, by our theory and principles, for the
truth and utility of the principle of similia· Bimiliba~
It will be kept strictly in mind that our theory or prin-
ciple is that all motion or action throughout nature, an- ·
imate and inanimate, in the three kingdoms of mineral,
vegetable and animal, is that every organ, function, or
simple body, operated upon and moulded as it were by
the magnetic fluids, has a center and circumference,
from a dew drop up to a globe, and that these fluids are
constantly in motion from center to circumference, and
from circurpfercnce to center, and that both are in ope-
ration at the same time, in the same substance or ulti-
mate atom; that they are constantly tending towards
an fJi)Uilibrium, and as constantly tending from it, and
thaf'that force which it possesses of tending from:the
center to the surface, we term repulsion, and that ie&-
dency which it has of approaching to the center, ·we
term attraction; that these forces are sometimes equal
to one another, and when this is the result, they are said
to be in a state of equilibrium, but that this is more. 'OJ:'
less al-ways varying, and that consequently somet~.
one predominates, and sometimes the other, as 8"0Wli
in chap. rx, and this varying from one extreme to t1fe"
other ·constituted the health or disease, as well att ~
compo&itiOn and decomposition of all material.~
ataDces. We also showed that .good ileahh ·consi&W.
in1tftis.equiJibrium by the action through the medium of
Do1'zodbyGoogle
117
the vessels. That the animal economy i,ihowed through
the whole a series of antagonizing vessels, in proof of
our antagonizing principle. Showed that heat was the
result of the centrifugal force, (repulsion), and cold the
result of the predominacy of centripetal force, (attrac-
tion), and that when in either extreme, disease was the
re~ult, dibility direct from attraction, and indirect from
repulsion. Now all the physician has to do, when call-
ed, is to produce the equilibrium which constitutes good
health. This is to be done by agents best calculated
for the purpose; by remedies internal and external.
These remedies, we labored to prove, act and operate
through one common medium, or by one principle, mag-
netism. We stated as a law regulating these fluids, that
one extreme always follows another, and the quickness
of the change or opposite effect being produced, is in
proportion to intensity of the action. This is upon the
immutable law of magnetism, that those of the same
names or conditions, as north and north, or south and
south, or positive and positive, or negative and negative,
repel each other; whereas, those of different names,
natures or conditions, attract one another. If we ap-
ply the north pole of one magnet to the north pole of
another, left free to move like the compass needl it
repels that end from it, turns it completely around upon
its axis, and attracts the south end. So also with all
other substances, charged in the same manner, one pos-
itive and the other negative, attract each other; where-
as, in substances charged or filled with both positive or
both negative, repel one another. That in nature, one
extreme always follows another, has long since been
known, acknowledged as an axiom, and passed into a
proverb. If the weather is uncommonly sultry and hot
to day, look to morrow or sooner, (depending on the
intensity) for an extreme of cold in exact proportion.
If it is uncommonly calm and still, not a breath of
air iitirring, ·1ook out for a gale immediately. If, on th•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
contrary, the temperature is moderate and temperate,
with a little motion in the air, it will continue a longer
time, or until gradually an extreme takes place, and
when at its height, the other extreme rapidly follows as
a natural result, and in a direct quickness of transition,
in proportion to the intensity of the preceeding extreme.
This law, we have before shown, is general, and there-
fore applicable to all objects, subjects, principles ahd
systems of objects in nature. We have seen its appli-
cation in theology, law, medicine, friendships, and all
the transactions of human life, and goes to substantiate ·
the homa:opathic principle of similia similiabus.
Where is the benevolent man who has contributed to
the pecuniary relief of an object, but has been sooner
or later paid off, and that in direct proportion to the
sacrifice, by in~ratitude, by actual injury in return, by
being paid as the cat did the owl 1 Where is the poli-
tician, who has contributed by every effort in his pmv-
er to elevate to 9ffice his friend beyond any other, but
who, when he had "come into his kingdom," had paid
him off with ingratitude, and elevated one instead who
stood opposed to his elevation? Do a man a favor to
day, and he is your enemy to morrow. On the contra-
ry, do him an injury, and then put yourself in his way ·
wit he olive branch, and he is your friend. Men and
brutes are alike, at least in one respect. "The more
you whip a dog the better he will like you." The more
you injure a man, and then extend to him the hand of
friendship, the better he will like you also. The globe
can be circumnavigated in going in either direction, east
or west, but if two vessels of equal speed should make
the attempt in starting, both in one direction, and one ·
should get the start twenty-four hours, one could never
overtake the other, or have any influence over its ope- ~
rations. It has long since passed into a maxim, that in·
"fighting Indians ~uccessfully, you must give them their ·
own play." Jt is no less true with civilized man. An
'
Do1'zodbyGoogle
eye.for lUl ey~, and a t90th for -a.~th, was th& incql...
~tion of the Jewish la~; life for liW-, blood for blood;-
if·that of OU!' own; both foUfld.ed up<m [hilotophy and
our general principle, or law of mind an matter. Self
preservation is the first law of nature-this can not be
discharged without following our rule, and oppos~ force
to force.
-.It has long been the practice of hUllters and travellers
on the extensivejrairies of the west, when th~ find
them on fire, an fast approaching, with the fwy and
speed of the war horse, instead of throwing cold water,
to sQt another fire to counter:act or oppose it, as the
most successful and sure. One repels the other, and
mutually neutralize each other's force and rapidity, and
stops its ,further progress in that direction. From the_
n{)velty of the.subject it is impossible to define the ex-
act proportions or law of this revulsion or reversion of
the poles, but we anticipate. that it wilL yet become re..
duced to a mathematical certainty, and be w~ll und.et:-. •
stood. - _ .
_In 1838, while travelling upon one of the almost in- .
terminable prairies of the Northwest Territory .for five .
or.sjx days, a friend anq myself were suddenly struck
with what, to us, had w~ been in a region of waw,.·
we should, and did at &st,- deem a water spout. m
prairie was on fire, but to our.security, had passed over .
t~ direction of our. path,,and was then burnipg towards
the north. _ The sky -fas clear, not a cloud to be,seen
for.five d~ys save over this blare of comb11stioq, iS11uing
from .which w~ :vap<;>r from a broad baae, exterisrve as .
th~ ,fire ii). actiO{l, .i:1~ intq the atm~phere lµt~ radii, .
arnl,;cppvie,rgi11g to a pQint at &Pout -
two miles !}eight,
~ ~ssuing from this .whit ,were the most black.. dense;
aqd-tµigry }Q.Oking cl<>uds(li~ pen~ ~ajc.e from tbecop?.- .
bwi~Miof Jire-pr,~()f roofed l>uil.dings,, i1,J, pitie.s) · ~~1,
ab¥~ Thea.ft ~aip. diverged in.~V~J'.y, diNQ~~ . fipm
which water m the form o( ram. w~ eo~~ . . y.. fi'll~ '
20 • . -
,._
•
_,.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
no·
~ing fotfive :
day\!, and probably continued;aa.tong
a' the prairie burnt. It was in the form -Of an hotil'-
glass, or two cones with apexes turned · together. ·It·
was a sublime spectacle to behold, and only required
the lightnin~s flash and the thunder's bolt: to render it
perfect. Here, then, upon a large scale, with the naked
eye, was seen the attractions alternating with repulsions;
prairie grass and the oxygen of the atmosphere produ-
cing repulsion, and by the process of combustion, libe-
rating the magnetic fluids from a broad base; these co~
verged to a point by a certain law o.,f medium, to con-
verge in an intensity of repulsion, and when united to
a point at once changed to attraction, and by this ineans,
the hitherto ascending vapor, changed to rain, and was
attracted to the earth. Thus attraetion and repulsion
were both going on at the same time; and produced by
the combustion of the prairie grass. This was the Oii'-
. ly case that l have ever discovered by the naked eye, 1
so·as to be dlStinctly seen. ' .:.,;.
This case, with others less clear to the sense of Vis:.
ion, but substantiated by an innumerable number of re-
sults, prove to us that the moment these magnetic rays
are converged to a point, they at once separate and are
thallcause or point between attraction and repulsion.
Tile Jaw governing this convergen<::e and divergence;
attraction and repulsion, at the present state of scienee,
we are not able to explain, but th,se poles are reversed
with a rapidity in proportion to tlieir intensity; for ·one
extreme at all times rapidly follows another. In the
humansystem, if a person become stimulated to an ex-
cess, by wine or ardent spirits, the corresponding de·
bility is in direct proportion to the preceeding elevation. ·
If a persoi;i is excited hr,.combttt}veness, ·he ~otne.
co~spond10gly mee~. The ,passions are all mdebted
t6 this law of reversion of the poles·; Jove and hatred
.are only extremes of a continuous line o( feeling, .li~
the poles, and so of au the rest. . ... ; ! I '! ' '; " ;, . uW '
•
•
•
•
~
•' .
"
.
...,.. (.
oo,,zodbyGoogle
,
llA0Nft18JI.
While lecturing publicly at the City Hall in this city,
I commenced to excite upon my subject the organ of
philo-progenitiveness, and when about to respond, a gen-
tleman called tor some other manifestation. I left this
and gratified the auditor, and then recommenced on that
organ again, but to my astonishment, destructiveness re-.
spondcd, and instead of fondling "little sissy," as he
called her, throwed her from him saying, "I will ldll
her, take her away." I then excited destructiveness,
and up came philo-progenitiveness, thus showing a per-
fect reversion of the poles, which are but the extremes
of the same feeling. I then demesmerized both, and
again excited philo-progenitiveness, and it responded
correctly, as did also destructiveness. I accounted for
this to the audience by stating, that having left that.or-
gan excited to a point almost sufficient to cause a reac-
tion, and then, throwing upon it a second charge, both
were sufficient to over stimulate the organ, and produce
a perfect reversion, and produce the other extreme; but
our limits will not permit us to pursue this branch of
the subject further, (although it would afford matter for
volumes) except to say that nothing is more common in
persons naturally modest and unassuming, when stimu-
lated to an excess with wine, to have a reversion of the
poles of the manifestations of min·d, and become impu-
dent and boisterous. It makes the irreligious give lec-
tures on morality and religion, and the religious to take
the name of God in vain. It opens the fist of the miser
and closes that of the benevolent. In a word, the poles
of the system arc all liable, by excess of stimulation, to
a complete reversion, like the compass needle, which
we have seen, is produced in a particular manner, agree-
able to a particular law, the which may be taken to
elucidate and exemplify all other cases in nature. A
compass needle points, for instance, in one direction;
if we wish to reverse its poles, how would we go to
work1 Would we apply the north end of another mag-
....
• •
... ··~
Do1'zodbyGoogle
BAGG ON·
net to the south end1 No~ not at all, for. ithat wou18 i&.
crease the difficulty, and fix it more firmly in its present
position. How then1 We would apply the north pole
to the north pole, or the south pole to the south pole,
or those similar to th08e similar, (similia simitibus) and
by the immutable.and fixed law of the principle, it would
repel one end and attract the other, and thus produce
• ~e ext~me desired. This Jaw of m~e.tism, regula·
ting the compass needle, and here exhibited, may:tle
taken as a ~eneral diagram for the operations and·eillllll
of substances 9f all matter in nature, animate or in~
imate,"7of whatever state or condition, for magnetism
being the cause of all motion in nature, obeys the a8IDG
law, ·whether in a bit of steel, balanced on a pivot; tilr.e
the compass needle, or in tfle human system,· balmieltl
by antagonizing vessels; all have poles or extremes,
and both and all are subject to the same law. This
compass has but two poles or extremes, but the human
system is a collection or series of poles, as we have ~
fore shown. Hence the homceopathic 1ystem of prac-
tice iB philosophic, and the only true system of practice;
and is indebted to our principle of magnetic attraction
and repulsion foa its certain results. If any one wishes
to !earn that sytitem of practice correctly, and under4
stand it philosophically, he must necessarily become ac-
quainted with the laws of magnetism, and their -0peraw
tions in the three kingdoms of mptter, before he can
.become .skilled in that science. ; 1' ,~,i.J
... '
• ·, ,4~ \ 1
.. -
• ••. ... . ...
•
• .•-.:- ~ :~··i.:..i •
l
IU.ONIWl•K.
·CHAPTER XII.
JJI8EASE8-ALL<EOPATHJC REMEDIES, OR THE CO~ON
PJU,CTICE OF MEDICINE, AS TAUGHT IN
OUR COLLEGES.
· The praetiee of medicine, as taught in the schqols at.
the. present day, is a great share of it on the homreo-
pathic· principle. E\'ery remedy, except emeiics, and
cathartics that are given internally, that are not given
accor<ling to that principle, are detritnemal to the pa-
tient. This res~lt is, however, accidental and unknown,
and not appreciated by those who administsr them. In-
stead of going on and prescri.bing upon a well settled
general principle, they, wit~great gravity, affect to
l!ingle out the cause, and th90 throw their darts, ~)ect­
ed from the jallap and calomel quiver, at the supyosed
object. This cause they believe to be a materia sub-
stance, and therefore use material agents for its remo-
val. · Now, if our theory of disease be correct; if life
be the result of the action or motion of the magnetic
fluids, operating upon material matter, and if good health
consists in an equilibrium of this action, and di11ease the
e;xtremcs or want of it, then the enquiry after material
causes is worse than useless, and every departure from
giving remedies from the general principle of similia
similibus, or those that will produce in the healthy state
a disease similar, is detrimental to the patient, and should
not be administered. The science of medieine falls fir·
short of perfection, and probf)bly, from the nature of
things, ever ~ill. Death, from a bold but ignorant'
and unfeell:ng practitioner, is caSily produced in a sum-
mary manner, even under the imposing seal pf adiplq.'
ma.: :our best·authors tell us that diseases areiconstant-·
ly eh~ging, from ~ear to y~a~; and almost, we know'
~y our own experience, with the moon and wind.)
Whaf kthe cause of this c1-nge ~ Is it riot j>roducetl
by t\ change in ihe seasons=-the \1Veathi!r1i' Wh:tt i1
~o· '!
' .
'
•
I
the cause of these 1 Is it not planetary influence1 And
what is planetary influence but the manifestation, varia-
tion, or effect of the magnetic fluids, producing one or:
other of the extremes -which constitute disea11e itself,
produced by the influence of the sun, moon, and other
plaqets, operating in a peculiar manner upon the earth
and all animals and vegetables upon its surface. 'Vas
not the black death of Europe, the plague, the cholera,
and many other sweeping epidemics, the result of plan-
etary influence, operating upon our earth in a peculiar
manner1 Do we not find dysentaries, diarrheas, catarrhs
and common colds to be epidemical, and dependent upon
a particular state of the atmosphere1 Have the planets
any other action or influence upon each other than
through the medium of th magnetic fluid , by attrac-
tion and repulsion1 If the earth is affected in a partic-
ular manner by a neighboring planet, does not every
. thing, animal and vegetable, upon its surface participate
of the same influence1 Does one planet operate on ·
another through the medium or by the influence of any
thing material 1 If not, disease is at all times from an
immaterial imponderable cause.
We have !laid that a great share, and we will here
add the only valuable share of remedies that ar11 ad-
ministered for the cure of disease, as taught in our col-
leges, and in common practice from the disciples of
these, are hom(]J()pathic. The best remedies of this,rac-
tice for scalds and burns are hot alcohol, spirits o tur-
pentine, or holding the part to the fire. For inflama-
tion of the eyes, camphor, opium, spirits of wine, infu-
sion of cloves and cinnamon, and other hot stimulating
\Vashes, are decidedly preferable to the antagonistic
class. Calomel and ipccacuanha for diarrhea, in small .
doses. Emetics for sickness and nausea of the stomach;
catharticsfordysentary; bleeding for active homorrhage;
wine an<\ brandy, and camphor, for typhoid or typhus
fevers; preparations of mercury for the psora or itch;
,
•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
·•
~tin1t washes .fw ~ ulcwaia~ ilores;:;for acidity
(lf the:stomach, hatd cider, vinegar, vitriolic and other
Jeids, and for thfrst, hot teas instead of .cold ·water.
,'.these iax.e some of the homreopathic remedies used by
.~ allmopathists daily in practice, simply from habit,
~t knowipg the wherefo~, and without a general
Pf~ip~ tQ guide them. .
1,,,Practitioners of this clas11 believe calomel, .jallap,
f§l~IQpwny, aloes, buckthorn, salta, senna,, and other ca-
~rp~_ will operate, when given, as physic, but this is
JNt1 certain, for sometimes they will not operate at all,
~.,at others, directly in 9pposition to this~ by reversing
d.w '. pofos and operate as emeties. So also. with that
~. called emetics, they are not certain; they often
Qperate directly reverse tq, their anticipations. Here
we.find our theory again exemplifie~. It depends upon
both the state of the stomach and the quantity given.
If we increase the a\tractive. fOl'co beyond a certain
point, we at once get the other extreme, vomiting. If,
Qn the contrary, we increase the repulsive force to in•
t,ensity from the stomach, it produces the other.extreme~
~nd increases the difficulty. Generally; however,. if
given with judgment, in regard to these forces in their
tlie.n present state, connected with a discriminating
knowledge of the temperament, they will operate pe-
cµliar to their several classes, and vomit Gr increase the
riatural resultant force of the stomach and bowels, as
the cas~ may be. No remedy is certain. It is all, from
first to .last, more or less the effect of experiment..
WIJ.y..~ they faill Is it not ow.ing to tl)e particular
W\le of .the nervous, the magnetic fluids, and who can
qH:ii&t~ (,)ll these with a material substance to a certain-
~'<f,oNo one. It is the condition ?f mort~lity. Will
~9~!Lh11l1, ye~ a tithe, of what will oper.ate upon-one
em;r~. ;~he ,sam~ effect up9n ~~otbwt Will not 'the
lllJteJl~1~t:~1ll op~ratc µpo.n .a. J)Pl'sOn &.l ·OQ~ timct
~00;::F.94Ufe little or no 1effect at~a~other1 To
what is this owing, but to the predominacy of one or
other of these forcea at the time, in the general systemJ
or particular organ, and the dose or quantity not being
adapted to the particular state of that system or organ;
hence, if a general rule, sure in its action, and certain
in its results, such as anticipated in our theory of life
and disease, termed homreopathic, can be given, it can
not but be desirable. We have said that di ease it elf
consisted in the predominacy of one or the other of
these forces over the other, and that when these ex-
tremes take place, the resultant force of the two-the
peristaltic motion of the stomach and bowels was in-
creased or diminished from its natural action, which
when, in a state of health, produced a movement as
regular as the alternation of day and night, once in
twenty-four hours, any departure .from which showed
that these centripetal and centrifugal fMces were une-
qual. This fact being the best index to health, have
led physicians to look to r~sults rather than causes, and
to indiscriminately, on all occasions, under all circum-
stances, to give cathartics, and prescribe for secondary
results rather than regulate primary causes. Hence,
when a physician is called now-a-days to a patient, no
matter what the disease or condition, he is almost sure
to give a cathartic, and in this country, calomel.
If this does not cure, another, and if this fails, it is
again repeated; should this not succeed, sometimes an
emetic is given, or perhaps they bleed, and so on from
day to day, till the patient is dangerously debilitated or
death ensues, which suggested the sarcastic epitaph to
be placed over the grave of one of their patients, of that
great delineator of the human mind, the immortal Shak-
speare, in derision of this class of practitioners-" Once
I was well, wished to be better, took physic, and here I
lie." Generally in accute diseases these are given, on~
after another, perhaps alternated or combined with Do-
vers powder, until the patient becomes so debilitated,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
that no more can be given, for fear of death, and still
the disease continues, and the physician is brought to
a stand. He then changes, from necessity, his treat-
ment, and gives wine, brandy, and other stimulants, to
just keep the breath of life in him, until he can produce
a sore mouth with calomel and opium, and prepare him
for a dentist, should he recover. This latter course is
called an "alterative one;" thus he holds him up with
one hand, and cuffs him with the other, until he has
touched his "gums," and his teeth seldom fail of getting
"touched," too. If he succeeds, he then takes another
two weeks to cure the artificial disease, after which the
patient gradually recovers, so as to be able to leave his
room, but does not regain his strength for months, and
is rendered for life more susceptible of changes of tern- ·
peratui;e, or what is vulgarly termed catching cold.-
At other times, or with another class of practitioners,
they commence and comtinue in this mam1er, and de-
bilitate and weaken the putient down to death's door,
and finding they can pursue this course no farther, they
are obliged to tack about, and make an attempt to fetch
him back again where they found him. Ifhe gets well,
it is good luck; if not, he either dies or goes into the
hands of some "root concern," whose boldness and ig-
norance are on a direct sympathy, who ~enerally put on
the quietas in a very short time, and retieve him of his
troubles. Thus they commence and lead him down stairs,
and then back again up stairs, and if he does not faint
on the way, or the disease leave him on the road, they
know not what further to do. I appeal to the honest
and candid, as well as to the scientific of the profession,
if this is not the case in a majority of the common cases
of the country? Is there any scientific skill in all this?
Cannot a woman, yea, a minor, do as much? At any
rate, cannot a yankee apothecary of one month's expe-
rience, perform the whole? We acknowledge these
emetics and carthartics, under certain circumstances, to
Do1'zodbyGoogle
.I~
,_
228 8.AGO ON·
be valuable remedies, and have experienced ourselve
their beneficial consequences; but their indiscriminate
use, on all occasions, for all diseases, under all circum-
tances, is what we object to. Although they of-ten
cure disease timely, they as frequently leave consequen-
ces upon the organs, that remain through life. Three-
fourths of the diseases they are given for, can be cured
in an hour, by directly restoring the balance of these
forces, and that without weakening the stomach and
bowels, or deranging their regular action or motion.-
They have yet to learn, that the force from mouth to
anus, called in the books, the preristaltic motion of the
stomach and bowels, is resultant of the two centripetal
and centrifugal forces, and that they attack the branch-
es instead of the root. They have yet to learn, that if
they restore the equilibrium of these, the resultant force
must, of necessity, be regular and healthy. They have
yet to learn, that material causes never produce disease.
They have yet to unlearn a multitude of gross errors,
which have so slowly and slyly crept into practice, that
habit and custom has rendered them almost invulnera...
ble to the reason. and judgment of both ·physicians and
patients. Both are too much in the habit of thinking
and believing, that in order to cure disease, something
material or corporel must be removed from the system.
This is their fatal error. Nothing is more common
than to hear quacks, both upland and lowland, talk of,
and tell of vomiting up, and carrying off and out of the
ystem, the cause of disease in a sensible, tangible shape,
and form, which is never the truth. To look to the
ejection from the stomach the contents, or discharge
from the bowels, or the urine from the kidneys, for the
canse of disease, they might as well direct their lucid
philosophical material enquiries, to not only the per-
spiration of the skin, the sputa from the mouth, the wa.
from the ears, the tears from the lachrymal gland, the
dandruff upon the hairy s~alp, but tho spirit of nnima-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAONBT1SM.
tion expended in a sally of humor or wit, or the effer-
vescence from an immoderate fit of laughter. What
skill can there be, when we know not what to do, to
resort to mercurials and make a patient's mouth sore 7
Does any one know, or can tell, how calomel acts upon
the system, in the klll or cure of diseases? It produces
great irritability of the nervous system, and an increase
of the mcmbraneous and glandular systems, and ls this
all 7 "0, no; it unlocks the whole system, and thereby
cures diseases." But does it operate upon the spirit of
lif.e, or the material system 7 "It operates upon both and
all-it is heating and cooling, irritating and assuaging,
weakning and strengthening; in a word, it is the univer-
sal panacea, the great antagonist of Pandora's box it-
self." It does unlo<'k the system, and .not unfrequently
in conjunction with pounded ice, lets life itselfslip out too
easily altogether! But the other class of these allreo-
pathists, whose organs of self-esteem and firmness are a
size or two less than the former, reminds one of the ]adv
with her cook-book. She has her recipes for such an(l
such kinds of fashionable cake, eat in such and such fami-
lies, so much flour,. eggs, butter, nutmeg, allspice, pepper,
salt, cinnamon, cloves, &c. makes up the compound of
a certain cake, but who knows or cares whether it is
healthy or not, if it be but fashionable and have the right
taste, and is well gilded. The cake is not made for
stomach, but the stomach must take the cake, regardlesli
ofconsequences. .
So with this class of physicians, batches of pills in
imitation of Lee's and others, are made up and compo-
sed of antimony, jallap, calomel, gamboge, scammony,
ipecac, aloes, soap and other ingredients, and if a pa..
tient complains and calls for aid, two or three of these
are crammed down h~s gullet, ·regardless of the particu-
lar state or action of the stomach Ol," vessels, simply like
the cook-book practice, because they will operate ae
physic. If this does not cure, they are repeated again
0191t1zed oyGoogle
--
and again, until he becomes so debilitated, that it be-
comes necessary to take another course. This is the
fashionable practice of the day, and is frequently con-
tinued for months, until they cease to operate, or pro-
duce consequences which prohibit their administration.
Although there is an innumerable variety o( remedies
for disease, they are all divided into two general classes,
astringents and laxatives. The former operate by at-
traction, and produce contraction, and the latter by re-
pulsion, and produce relaxation. The action of these
are general, and no matter on what organ or circle they
act or operate, this is their action. One increases
the centripetal force, the other the centrifugal. In their
effect, the former upon the bowels, produce constipa-
tion; the latter operate as cathartics or laxatives.
From the more particular effect of some remedies upon
particular circles and orgaros, they are said to have more
or less a specific effect upon them, hence they are call-
ed sialigogues, stomachichs, laxatives, diuretics, dia-
phoretics and emenagogucs. There is another class call-
ed narcotics and their opposites, which arc resolvable
into the same as astringents and laxatives, or those that
produce sleep and those that produce wakefulness, such
as opium, stramonium, &c., of the first class, and guac
and calomel, in small doses, of the last. This class op·
crates more particularly upon the brain and nerves, and
are generally called nervines. Why docs a particular
medicine, when taken as above, operate in this specific
manner on a particular organ1 We have never heard
it explained, or believe it can be, except on our theory.
It will be recollected (chap. vL) when on the elements
of food and organs, we showed that all the organs or
~ircles of the body were of different textures; that the
hver, for instance, was different from the kidneys; the
skin different from both; in a word, that although they
were composed of the same elements, carbon, hydro-
gen, oxygen and nitrogen, they were in different pro-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
tar.
portions in each, and that not only their texture, but
their form also varied throughout. We also showed
that being in this different condition, in the round of
the circulation, they attracted from the blood a mate-
rial for their use, and imparted something for the gene-
ral support of the whole system. Now these various
remedies are also, although composed of the same ele- .
mentary particles or principles, different in the quanti-
ties or proportions to each other in the compound, and
are thus made, in that particular state of magnetism, to
favor their immediate attraction to these organs, and
when so attracted, produce by their peculia1· action of
either attraction or repulsion, the particular partial spe-
cific action, known from the exhibition of them. That
a little difference in the proportion of these clements to
each other in compounds, make a compound in nature
perfectly antagonized, we do know, and therefore infer
the same of the rest. Oxygen and hydrogen will unite
in one proportion and form the most intense flame, that
nothing ean resist; in another proportion, they will unite
and form that compound called water, which will quench
fire or flame; and are also constantly changing from
one compound to that of another.
"Water restrained, gives Uirlh
'J,o grass and plants, untl thickens into earth;
D iffused, it rise!! in a higher sphere,
Oilates its d_
rops, and soncns into nir;
The~c finer pnrts of nir ngain aspire:,
1\Iove into wur1111h , anc.l IJrighten into fire:
'That fire. once more, IJy denser nir o'crco1uc,
And down\\'urd forerd, m earth's cnpacious womb,
Alters it11 pnr1iclcil, is fire no more,
But lics 1il1Clalicdusr, or ponderous ore."-PJt10R.
It is also well known that sugar and vinegar are com-
po ed of hydrogen, oxygen and carbon, and only vary
111 their relative proportions to each other in the com-
pounds, as well as those substances ~a~led ~lcohol and
carbonic acid. Now, although a med1cme acts agreea-
. 21 .
Do1'zodbyGoogle
. ••GO Olf .
ble:to the ebaraeteriatics of the 8-oeral Wa-in.a,•
Jltlr"l
ticular organ, (that is, astringents or laxatives) thQY,
carry these throughout the whole system, for a d.iaph9--
retic is as much a laxative to the perspiratpry vessela
as a cathartic is to the bowels, or a diuretic to the kid-
neys, or calomel in small doses to the glands. ..The.truth
is, as will be seen on reference to the classificatiOn of
our old as well as present writers, that all remec:Uea.,,
either general or loca~ are by them divided, and prop-:
erly so too, into these classes, which are but other
terms for increasing or diminishing the centripetal or
centrifugal forces, from the natural action or healthy
atate of the system.
Physicians at the present day are too apt to look for
causes which they can never discover, and imagine them
to be material, to be from bile, mucus, 01· something
that. is tangible, cognizable to the mind through the,
senses. These arc not the true cause of disease. It i!t
owing to the spirit of life, the nervous fluid, the mag-
netic fluids, that at all times are the cause of disease.
The machine is not the cause of life, and therefore can
not he the cause of disease; it is the spirit animating
that machine. The material body stands the same re-
lation to.the action and motion in the system, that co11-
stitutes life, that the zinc and copper plates do to the
magnetic or galvanic fluids that produce the phenomena
of motion upon rotary magnetic _
machines. We have
already shown in what consisted life and disease, and
need not again repe.at it minutely. Can a material snb-
stance produce mot10n of and from itself1 Never! The
magnetic fluids are at all times, and ever haYe been
and will conti~ue through all coming time, in motion:
J.astly, we will observe the manner that medicines are
given, or taken by families~ with and without the advice·
of,physicians. now-a-days, might be illustrated by re-,
~t ·~i;I .general ob&E:rvations of ~ good old p/nw-gojitg·
,..~ who at all tunes. when m consultation at' the,
....~
. ~
>otize.d 'YGoogle
•.&ONBTl8..
bed.side, after an mmhlation of'the patient, made -
of thi11 expression. Ask him, under the circumstancee,
what was best to do for him, he would invariably reply,
~Wall, I don't hardly know; I know of so many good
things, I don't know which to give him Just." So with
families and physicians, they know of so many good
remedies, they had as live give or take one as another.
Instead of discriminating and discovering which force
predominates, and producing an equilibrium, they ha~
hllZ81dly give or take what they have compounded and
made up, trusting to good luck for the result. .
· · Our young physicians read the European author11,
who describe the symptoms of such and such diseases
tobesoand so, and to have, in their artificial division, such
a:name, and to that name they have, as almost specifics,
remedies attached. Thus, all they have to do is to find
out the name of a disease, and prescribe to that, instead
of the disease itself, or the particular state or condition
of the system. Thousands have gone to their untime-
ly · graves from this cause alone. Disease is always
changing; what will help to day will hurt to morrow,
and even what is beneficial in the morning is pernicious
in the evening.- Who can believe, after a moment'•
reflection, that authors can prescribe through a prescrip-
tion book, two thousand miles across the Atlantic, for
disease, where climate, food and habits nre so different
from ours, much less for its different st8¥es1 They can
not tlo it, and yet they are followed with _
aunuch pre-
cision in the treatment of disease, as · their works on
grammar and arithmetic are followed in colle~ as text
iook•'·on those branches of science. There is a story
told of an ·individual of this class of practitioners, of
.!l'ny/ ·~ew York, ·which is so applicable to the wh~le
dal ~, .io.the subject, that we can not forbear lO:S'VO
·Wto.~: reader. - ·r
,
~\ll.iivttnPeallyitettleinent of that city, while it wu·yet
- ......t'9iu.e;ra;certain shrewa, but ignorant .~l'IOD't·
c, .zed by Google
cU®ON,•
~ eltance oonn~Kmc8d1o .givemed~;."8t~y~•
.he became con8lderable wealthy from its pracboe. The
village was now just.commenced, .a~d.~t that day, ·phy-
sicians were more hke "angels v1Slts than at present;
and having no competition, be soongained a cornpeteocy;
and as there was no druggist at the village, he ·was
obtiged to go to Albany for hi1t supply of medicine,
where he paid promptly. After getting the· simple
medicines, such as pikery1 salts, senna, · rhubarb, &e.,
put up, knowing him to be good pay, and the druggist
anxious to sell him as much as possible, would ask him
if he did not give such and such medicines, saying that
the most eminent physicians of that city gave them with
great success. _To hide his ignorance, (as he cowd hard·
ly read or write) he would reply that he gave them,
and purchase them; but when he arrived at home,
would cram them indiscriminately into a large three
gallon jug, filled with whiskey, which he kept- ~onstant·
ly sitting in the corner for that purpose. Soon he would
be called to patients laboring under diseases.that he was
as ignorant of as he was of the natuPe and use of 1be
remedies. When this happened, he would go.to.the
Big Jug, and prescribe the tincture of thi~ heterogeneous
compound. Sometimes they would get well; but often-
er were suddenly sent to 1' Davy Jooes's" by this death·
seed, sown, as it were, broadcast upon the spirit of life.
When it was fatal, he would, with great gravity and
veneration, lay it to an organic affection of the heart,
~'liver complaint," consumption, or the "&rful '' dispeP-
aations of Providence. If they chanced· to. get welf,J'-8
wonld claim them as living monuments o£ his e<>UIKlloo
mate skill and knowledge. Thus he wenton frORl year
to year,· rode a good horse, was thQ.Jirst man· at we4'·
dings,· and the last one at fuae:nils; Mid. at all tilB8t
"yes marm," to the ladies; not only praised up, bat
kis.sed the ohil~en;· charged, nothing for.4octoring :the
......but·tbeq: eternal fufting. it! 19turn,.,.._..._ -
0191t1zed oyGoogle
....~....
where he went on Sundays, invariably left upon his
slate that he had gone to church. In this manner and
by this course his business increased, and he became one
of the. most wealthy inhabitants of that comparatively
new city. Are there any big jug practitioners at th.e
present day? Let the reader judge.
There is one fact that, on reflection, all will acknowl~
edge, without perhaps being able to account for the
cause, and that is, that that physician who loses the
most patients, not only gets the most business, but is the
Lest paid. Whence comes it1 What is the cause1 ls
it owing to a want of discrimination by the feople 7 the
complicated nature of disease and remedies. sympathy
with the physician; believing him honest, thou~h igno-
rant? or because "dead men tell no tales7" Now we
lay it down as a fact, demonstrable, and we think some-
what demonstrated, from what has been said, that not
only food, but all remedies, act upon the system in a
two-fold manner, that the magnetic fluids in food and
remedies go to and support the sum of these fluids in
the system, which constitutes its life, while the material
part is attracted to the material part of the system, for
its support and maintenance. The o~e then, ~upports
life, and the other supports the machme on ~h1ch that
life or animation acts and controls. 1n this view, then,
of the 'Subject, they all operate .by in:iparting t~e ma~­
netic fluids to the system. This bcmg established, it
follows that disease, being a unit, or being the equilib-
rium line between antagonizing forces, in antagonizing
organs, if we can produce this equili~rium without GX·
ydizing or injuring the galvanic battery by these pow-
erful rem dies1 it is a desideratum to be wished. In the
next chapter we shall endeavor to show, by facts uni~­
pedched and unimpeachable, that we can produce- tli1s
tfect much qui )!er, with no pain or prostration, but
that the patient will become stronger at eyery attempt,
until the cquilibri.-im is perfect, or he 11!1 restored ti
21•
c '"'"bvGoogle
health. In the mean time, we will simply ob ervc that
all matter in the natural world is composed of two parts,
spirit and matter, or the magnetic fluids and the mate-
rial sub tances; and that consequently, a common pill
of any kind, or any other substance, has a little or suf-
ficient quantity for its form and action, of this spirit of
life, as the human system, has in proportion to its quan-
tity and kingdom to which it belongs. Were it not for
this spirit, it would have no form, but be a shapeless mass.
The only difference between the human system and ma-
terial substances is the arrangement of their ultimate
atoms, and one being animal and the other vegetable or
mineral, and the former so constituted, constructed and
endowed as to be the artificer of its own actions, by
the superaddition of a will or power, and capacity to
put itself into action.
CHAPTER XIII.
CURE OF DISEASE DY JllAGNETISJll. J;:XALTATION OF
NATURAL RE!\IEDJES. EFFECT OF THE WILL.
We have shown that the effect of all natural reme-
dies in the cure of disease was owing to theirimparting
to the system the magnetic fluids, and so operating as
t. o produce an equilibrium in the magne:1ic forces. We
will now show that this material virtue of the11e reme-
4ies can be increased or exalted by Uie power .of•the
-mil, to say nothing at this time of attenuation and. .m,i...
nute -division, producing the same effect. We Lave
magiktized, within the last two years, over two thou-
sand pers0ns, and there has been scareely e :Mtlc;es...
eeption, when we have.put them-to alee,. W Wiat we
llaTe tmigtletized some .metalic. keep-lake lor th.a- ta
go to sloop on, or. by, in our absence~ suaJ. .. a piace
it gold1 or a quarter ofa aUar. , Tlae mumerilurbidt
' I. :~
'""'"d ,,Google
this is done is to make passes and look at the piece, in
the same manner that we do a subject, with a concen-
trated will, and at last breathe upon it, willing that it
shall put the possessor to sleep for the length of time
that he wills so to <lo. In ninety-nine times out of one
hundred it will succeed. They sit down looking stead-
ily at it, saying mentally to themselves, "I will myself
to go to sleep for three minutes," or hours, or days, a
the case may be, and it never has failed with me more
than once or twice, but what they would go to sleep
for the length of time desired, and wake up to a second.
I have had this tested when and where I have been lec-
turing, by dozens, holding different watches, and they
would not only go to sleep, but awake when the min-
utes or length of time had expired that I had given them
to sleep on. Indeed, this is so common, and so well
understood where they are in the habit of seeing pa-
tienta go to sleep, that none deny it. It has passed long
since into a notorious fact, and acknowledge<! by all
who are not so blinded by prejudice that they are de-
termined not to believe it, even if they see it with their
own eyes, which i:.ome are so hardened as to declare.
This being conceded, on which there is or can be no
question, does it not look reasonable that we can increase
the natural medicinal virtues of a kno ;vn remedy, as
w ell as make a new remedy from a comparative inert
substance, by the same means and process. We say,
to be well understood upon this particular point of the
subject, if we can, by the power of our will, put a pa-
tient to sleep by manipulations, which is nothing but
a secondary effort from our will, or a means to convey
the magnetic fluids to a certain point; if after having
apcomplished this, we can, by the same process, operate
upon a metalic substance so as to put a subject to sleep
from their own will, for a definite period of time, is it
not likely that we can increase a well known remedy
in effect upon the system, by the same process1 Now
Do1'zodbyGoogle
/
-aa.OO OJf
what is this sleep; what does it cooaist in' lt 1* a ~
feet cataJepse or palsy of every external -organ of sense
or motion, from the predominacy of the centripetal
force of attraction in the subject over repulsion, with a
corresponding intemaf exaltation, and nothing else.-
Now, for instance, we wish to cure a patient who has
a disease from too much lethargy or sleepiness, can we
not take water, milk, wine, or almost any vehicle, and
by our wilJ, by the same means, produce a contrary ef-
fect, and produce wakefulneas, by infusing into it mag-
netism in a state of repulsion, or that kind, rather, that
will produce that effect when swallowed1 Would it
require a larger manifestation of credulity to believe
one than the other-to believe that we could render
dead or insensible, as it were, all the senses of the hu-
man body, by looking at a metalic magnetized substance,
than that we could produce the opposite effect, and cure
a palsy of one or all these organs of sense, or any oth-
er organ, by taking internally a magnetized substance T
Wine increases directly the force, frequency and fulness
of the pulse. By putting our index fingers upon the
wrist of each arm, we can increase the pulse of any
one (some more than others) from ten to fifteen beats
in a minute, in as manv minutes, as welJ as in fullnese
and force. Would it· require any greater stretch of
credulity to believe that we could throw thiS same fluid
into a g°lass of water, and will it to produce the same
effect, in that manner, after being swallowed in imita·
tion of the wine, than to raise them by directly throw-
ing the magnetic fluids through the skin and cdats of
~-artery, into the blood, nnd producing the frequency,·
furce and fullness in that manner. · .., -.fr
We have shown that every substance in na:ttirep'that
tcmda toward& the eentre of the earth, Ol' recedesf:roM iw·
is in IJ. naturally inagnetizechtate, and that all sub~nce.'
we.a:capacity to do ooe or the other. iEvery;gutJ,;r
IWil!fe, fhen;~111aturaUy magnetifled. Caoootithe*be:
01g1<1zed oyGoogle
llJAONJUlUllll.
inereaeod.or -exaked, by4mpansng.oi-. inf~ more into
them of the magnetic tiuids 1 Iron, in il natural state,
if left free to move, will be attracted to the earth wi1h
grnat fOl'oe, and so. will steel, but if we exalt it by infu-
eing a greater quantity of magnetic fluids into it, it be-
comes so sensible,. that it will not only attract other iron
to·itself1 but will become .more sensible to the currents
of light from the sun, and turn north and south. The
human system has certain natural capacities and abili-
ties, but if we magnetize it, these are all universally ex-
alted. Then, we repeat agnin, is it not reaso.nable to
believe that the naturnl virtues of a remedy or medi-
cine, may be increased, after all that has be.en shown,
as above. We have also shown, that fo all the affairs
of human life, in the formation of domestic circles, so-
cieties, churches, and parties, that the influence that one
person has over another, by pursuasion, by argument
and eloquence, is produced. by magnetism, and was what
we termed (cap. 1x.) the minimum degree, o.r what we
may here,. in illustration, term the natural magnetism of
the system; but by infusing more, giving it an increased
quantity, we have them perfectly under our control,
and can attract them, like the magnet, to perform theil'
natural capacity more perfoctly. Can we not, then,
11ee in every light in whfoh this subject is viewed, that
medicine can be exalted ia their natural medicinal vir.:.
•ues and action, to a greater or less extent1 ·
{i;We have already shown, (chap. 1x.) that in a natur-
al state; such is the effect of ooe individual over another,
>that they are controlled or led to take a certain course
of conduct, or through spite or prejudice, take an oir.
posite course. This is produced by attraction on the one
lland, and repulsion on the other, or by what·is called
SfRlpathy and imitation, or by prejudice, which are but
t&her terms to express the same results. Not only this,
;we.bave ,sbown iii addition, that the natural magnetism,
or the oawral oapaciti~s,.may·.00·• ou.lttd;·lhat time,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
·--
JIAOO ON
space, distance and magnitude, as well as medica, are
annihilated, and that the volitions and sensations are en-
tirely catalepsed or palsied, that they are dead or dor-
mant. This seems to be produced by such a change
upon the system, that all the five or six senses are con-
centrated in one, and that when so done, the mind is ex-
alted in every faculty. At any rate, when the external
senses are thus closed to the external world, the mind
of the clairvoyant becomes exalted greatly above the
magnetizer, and will look far beyond what the concen-
trated mind of a thousand persons, in a natural state,
could do, if associated together for a similar purpose.-
Thus we see that iron or steel, from the mineral king-
dom, as well as even the intellect and corporeal system
of mun, are exalted by the will of one person over an-
other, by the influence of this principle. Rut farther;
we so operate on the body, that we can, by a look,
touch, and, in some cases, without either, cataleps or
make rigid, not only every voluntary, but some invol-
untary muscles of the system; can attract a patient, by
our will, to not only follow us out of the room, and about
out doors, but so operate upon the mind, as to call sin-
gly into action, every organ or manifestation, can pro-
duce desire or aversion, pleasure or pain, grief or joy,
quiescence or motion, make him hot or cold, perspire, or
the reverse, operate upon his bowels or not; can cause
him to sing, to talk, to laugh, to cry, to be serious and
pray, or the reverse and swear; to steal all he can lay
his hands on, and give it all away the next moment; in
short, we can at will, make him do and perform all that
mortals are capable of doing in a natural state, and du-
ring which he will perform what is infinitely above mor-
tality to perform, as we have seen in clairvoyance. Thus
we break up the equilibrium of the mind, palsy the
body, anylize the intellect, and recompose it by restoring
the equilibrium which it depends for sanity, health,
or rationality, we excite and compose the passions at
Do1'zodbyGoogle
will, singly or in connection; make ·him-delirious or ra-
tional, operate upon the reason and judgment, and make
him hungry or loath food. All these we have done and
performed before assembled thousands, and for the re-
itccting few in private circles, and yet the masses, from
habit and education, together with the perversions,
sneers, sarcasms, and fals.ehoods of the interested, who
have trod, and are still like to do so, in the foot-steps of
their illustrious predecessors in the practice of giving a
drastic cathartic to a patient the first dose, let the symp-
toms be what they may, and follow that with either the
pounded ice or the Thompsonian cayenne; they cannot.
be made to believe that we can in the same manner,
and by the same means, produce that equilibrium in the
physical system, by this influence, on which good he1llth
depends. Will any one, at this day, after what they
have seen, have the audacity or hardihood to deny but
what we can do all we have here enumerated T We
trust not. If there is, we will simply say, that he is so
palpably led by interest, or blinded by prejudice, that
sucb a person is not worth convincing. Amateurs, far-
lhers and others, are at this time, not only all over the
United States,-but in Europe, performing them on one
another, without ·knowing the reason, or being able tO'
give the rationale, whys or wherefores, but yet they
know them to be facts. If, then, we can perform what
we have above enumerated, with a tl!ousand others on
a par with them, with others superior, cannot we pro-
duce with the will an equilibrium sufficient ·to cure
disease 1
These:operations, although performed·bythe spirit of
life, the.magnetic fluids, by the will ofone person over
or upon the spirit of life of another, are what are yet
called physical .effects. When we cataleps an arm, for
!na~ which consists in makins- it rigid,. and putting
1~.upon .1ts utmost stretch, the mmutepartieleli compo-
'208•lbe.JQ\lllclea,·are forced, aa far·fnMl·e&fllt other a
possible, to such an extent that the whole muscles,. mem-
branes and skin, are put upon the most extreme stretch;
this constitutes repulsion, and is produced by moving
our eye or fingers, or both, from the brain to the ex-
tremity. When we restore it, we take the opposite di-
rection with our eye and fingers, and move them from
the extremities towards the braifl, thus showing, besides
our centripetal and centrifugal forces in this process
alone, that we produce an extreme with our will, to
wit: a state analogous to disease, (palsey,) and restore
it again, by the same influence, to the equilibrium where
we found it. Here we can also see, without any fear
• of contradiction, that it is not a physical cause that pro-
duces disease, but a particular arrangement of the ulti-
mate atoms composing. the muscles, from the operation
of the magnetic fiuids. Again, we make the patient hot
or cold at will; what is a fever but the alternations be-
tween the extremes of first centripetal and then centri-
fugal forces? What produces health or stops these al-
ternations, but an equilibrium between these forces?-
Is not perspiration, and a secretion, and an excretion
from the kidneys, the sequel or effect of this equilibrium ?
Have we not shown, that we can readily produce this
effect by the will? Indeed, it is the most easy result to
accomplish, of any other process or phenomena. W c
make the patient laugh or weep, with our will-is not
this a physical effect? Who believes that it fakes a
physical cause, or that it ever produces mirth. On the
contrary, is not mirth the result of the ebullition of what
is commonly called the animal spirits, as well as crying
and grief the depression of them. Now, the index of
physicians, as taught in the schools, to discover the par-
ticular state of the patient, whether he wants bleeding
or not, or tonics, or weakening, by cathartics and other
debilitating rf!medies, is the pulse. Now, we aver that
this is a very poor guide, and not to be depended upon;
and the reason is simply this, that the moment we place
Do1'zodbyGoogle
X40NBTl8X.
om• &.gen ~n it, that moment, by the 1timu)U1 of the
magnetic tlu1ds thrown through the coats of the skin
and artery, produce an increaae, fullness, tension and
frequency. So much are they, by this simple· opera-
tion, ch~d, that they will make a sufficient difference
to indicate bleeding, and thousands have been injured
by this operation, from this cause alone, and been debili-
•tated when they required tonics. This faet was ob-
served by Dr. Rush, without knowing the cause, as may
be recollected, by his teaching his pupils to examine the
pulse of their patients at least twice, when they first
entered the sick room,. and when they retired. He at-
tributed it to the excitement or the anxiety of the pa-
tient about his condition, and the judgment formed from
~e doctor's looks, as to the final termination of his ease;
but, although this might have some effect, the other ia
the main cause. After having practiced medicine twen-
ty-five years, and taking the precautions recommeµded
by Dr. R., while attending a little girl eight years old,
in a collapsed state of scarlatina, by accident I took hold
of both wrists at the same time, and found that the pulse,
from being weak, and tremulous, came up full, strong,
and Jess frequent, and she, from being delirious, restless
and uneasy, fell into a gentle sleep, which she had not
been blest with since she had been attacked. I took the
hint, and continued to keep hold of the pulse for a little
longer. and then changed to the thumbs, after the com-
mon manner of magnetizing, and she went into a mag-
.
lfetie sleep, which continued two hours, and awakoo
·fl*lm, -0ollected, and every symptom better. In the eve--
.
=,
Itook hold of the p~lse m the same manner, iwd
· · 'the same effeCt, and continued to magnetize her
for a few days, until she recovered, since which time
we invariably operate first upon the blood, through the
medium of the arteries; we can, on any one who ha.
confidence, a right temperament and concentration, raise
1he pµJse or depress them, at will. Now, if we can con-
22
oot<ZodbyGoogle
. •.,B.f.DG ON:::
trol the pulse by the will, raise or depress them from
fifteen to twenty beats in as many minut~s, does it not
speak volumes towards not only the curing by that sim-
ple means alone, but towards the general effects of mag-
netism upon disease, from the will of one person over
the will of another1 These are some of the physical
'Cffects produced upon the body by the will of one per-
son upon another, through the influence of the magne- ·
tic fluids, as well as some of the phenomena of mind
from the same cause and influence. That diseases can
be cured without debilitating the patient, but, on the con-
trary, leaving him in a better condition than before he
was taken with it, as well as those of the mind also, we
do know from experience. This is not confined to
chronic or nervous diseases, or that particular one call-
ed rheumatism, but is general, a;; well as local. We
have cured fevers, during the last year, in thirty min-
utes, without a medicine, external or internal, that would
have resisted the commorl treatment for days, to say the
least. When we are called to a patient laboring under
a fever now-a-days, when they have confidence, we inva- .
riably set down and never leave the patient until he is
cured, if it takes me two hours; but to others, from the.
prejudice of the people, I am obliged to give cathartics,
· and do what they call, "cleanse the stomach and bow-
els," which is rarely necessary, and especially to the
extent practiced, and then gradually and by degrees,
advance with the magnetic remedy of manipulations,
&c. The following, among the various cases that have
come under my observation, are some that have been
cured through the influence of the will alone, or by the
exaltation of remedies through the influence of the will,
or both combined with natural remedies.
·t , ,. ..
Do1'zodbyGoogle
CHAPTER· XIV.
C.4.SES cua• BY THE WILL, DlRECT AND INDIREOT.-
OTHERS HELPED, AND NATURAL REMEDIES
ASSOCIATED WITll TH&M.
From what has been seen, is it not the irresistible
conclusion of the mind, that the human system, by the
influence of the will alone, is changed from one extreme
action, to that of another, and from these brought to a
most perfect state of equilibrium ? and that not only the
natural virtues of medicine are increased and exalted,
but that any inert liluhstance may be so magnetized, or
changed by the influence of the will by this principle,
and taken internally or applied externally, that it will
produce the same effect. The practice in this city, (and
has been for the last year,) is so common, for one to
cure another's pains and aches in this manner, such as
head aches, pains in the side, rheumatism, &c. that mere
novices are called upon, and cure daily, from this cause
alene. Indeed, it is so general and common, that it has
ceased to produce excitement, having Jong since lost its
novelty by repetition. But let facts. speak for them·
eelves.
May 10. Called to Mrs. M--, who was confined
five days since; has local discharge suppressed, high
fever, pains all over throughout the system, pulse quick
and tense, furred tongue, a dry, tickling, harrassing
· cough, with extreme tenderness across the abdomen.-
Prescribed twenty grains calomel, followed with epicac
in nauseating doses.
May 11. Calomel has operated well, but patient has
pains in the head, neck, back and eye balls; soreness
across the abdomen a little abated; fever continues, but
some~hat mode_rated; .lochia still sup.Pr~s~ed. Con~
ae·epteac, combmed wrth'smaU doses of calomel. .
M~y. 'l21' ''l:OOhia yet ~pPMEised, feve~· contia~;
tongue:; Hmains, Ruaed, .wit1' the <pains:1n• the bead,
0191t1zed oyGoogle
BA.80 ON
neck and back. Commence and magnetize the whole
system; in twenty minutes closed her ey«:.f so that she
could not open them, and then drew or t~k of the in-
fluence, by long passes, made the whole length of the
system beyond the extremities. While under the influ-
ence, the pulse became fuller, slower, and less tense, a
slight universal perspiration came on, and she was en-
tirely relieved from all pain; the tickling cough was re-
lieved, but still continued. I then magnetized some wa-
ter to cure her cough, act as an anodyne, and operate
as an emenagogue, and cathartic next morning, and
gave her. While I was magnetizing the water, she
went into sleep, precisely as though I had been making
passes at herself, although I was, perhaps, fifteen feet
from her, where she could not see me or my manipu-
lations.
May 13. Medicine, (that is, water, having pl"escribed
nothing else,) has operated precisely· as desired. She
has rested well all night; has had a passage from the
bowels, and the lochia has made its appearance; the bad
symptoms have all left her, and she is perfectly com-
fortable and easy, and much stronger than yesterday;
directed her to take nothing but light nourishing food,
and left her. .
May 16. Again called; patient has relapsed, and all
the former symptoms returned, with suppressed lochia.
Magnetize her in the same manner, and prescribe mag-
netized water as before, with no other medicine.
May 17. Find the magnetizing and magnetized wa-
ter has had the same effect as on the twelfth, even to
bring on the Jochial discharge; the patient is again hap-
py an~ easy, except a little remains of the tickling coagb;
prescnbed magnetized water for that, and to keep the
bowels open.
May 18. Called and found her comfortable, aod-oon-
~. and dieoontiooed ~Y. visits and attendance.
Juno 1. Called to eee a cbikl of Kr. P's; found it in
Do1'zodbyGoogle
n most perfect comatose or cataleptic state. It lies itt-
sensible, with the head and extremities, from spasms
yesterday, drawn back so as to touch the bead with
only these, forming a kind of semi-circle, with stomach
and bowels projecting in a very unusual manner; is
fourteen months old, and has been in this condition over
twenty-four hours, preceding which, had had spasms,
more or less, for twenty-four hours. Although I had
never magnetized but two patients previous to this, find-
ing that she waS so insensible that she could not swal-
low, I immediately commenced to magnetize, and in
about thirty minutes succeeded in affecting her, as near
as I could judge by the pulse, breathing, and relaxation
of the permanent contraction of the muscles that had
thrown her into this peculiar condition. The pulse be-
came more full, slow and firm, the somewhat stertous
breathing changed to unimpeded and full respirations,
and the muscles gave way, so that she lay natural upon
her back; I then left her with no prescription, not even
to food, and told the parents to give her nothing.
Afternoon, called again; learned that she had remain-
ed quiet and calm for two hours, bot is now restless,
and writhing, and moaning, and evidently delirious.-
Go on, as before, and succeed in a less time; in again
putting her into a magnetic sleep, and she became calm,
and the symptoms were all changed as before. Thus'
did I go on, twice a day, and sometimes three times,
for a week, with my will and manipulations, when the
little patient broke out all over with the scarlet. fever
rash, which showed the disease, or symptoms, to have
been caused by a suppressed scarlet fever eruption; I
then continued for a day or two longer, and she recover-
. ed and got well. While magnetizing her and making
manipulations from head to the extremities, I found that
on stopping at the stomach a moment, and then moving
in the direction of the arch of the calon, that there was
an evident motion or movement c.reatcd at each time,
22•
·~·
-in the bowels, and taking tile hint, I persevered; 8Bll
moved her bowels in this manner, from day to day, and
never gave her a particle of medicine during the whole
·time, but one dose of castor oil. At this time I was ig·
norant of the fact, that water and other substances could
be magnetized, and might be gi~en so as 10 assist a pa•
tient in a diseased ·state. She had been sick so long
when I was called, that it was impossible to find out the
cause, and it was only after the rash made its appeal!"
ance that the complant was understood. . '· ~• *
Juty 25. Called on C. D. Has a most violent and a&
vere attack of the scarlet fever. Is eight years old.-¥
The excitement high, throat ulcerated, submuillil"f
glands much swollen, pulse one hundred and ten per
minute, thirst insatiable, tongue covered with a whitish
yellow fur, laborious respiration, skin.as red as a "boiled
lobster;" has been effected twenty-four hours; family
increased the bad symptoms by an attempt to sweat her,
and has taken a portion of salts, which has operated and
given no relief. I immediately gave her a large dose
of calomel, and directed her to be constantly washed in
water, with the cold just taken off, until it should bring '
down the heat to the natural standard. . . . , ,-:,'·'·
Evening. Calomel operated well; ablutions'have been
- employed according to directions, yet the patient is
worse; pulse quick, weak and tremulous; breathing ir-
regular; skin d1y and hot; tongue dark and dry, and she
is restless and delirious. Continue ablutions; -direct the
throat to be washed with saTt and vinegar, and to gar.;..
gle with the same; and to give wine whey if there should
be a flagging of the pulse and coldness of the extremj.,;
~ ties,. but not to give any without absolutely demandetl;
.
96. Patient worse; heat continues; pulse weak, quick .
..i irre~ar, as well as respi~tion; skin red and he&;:
~p 'clean but red, smooth and shining; submaxillq
Pi!Ja.a n d
. throat ~ swollen that ~~can be got iza.o,
w#,le;..~ with reatleaaols, delirium w1 ~
Do1'zodbyGoogle
tttantly -turning in bed, pawing the air with the hands
··mid moaning. In this situation, while examining the
pulse·critically, I discovered, while holding them, (one
·hold of one wrist and the other the other) that they be·
came more full and slow, and that she seemed more
calm. I then took hold of the thumbs, after the com-
IDOD manner of magnetizing, and hetd··them a few min-
utes, and the effect was increased. I then stated to the
parents that their chilr.i was very sick, that under the
common treatment I was afraid I should lose her, but if
they were willing, I would ·attempt to ma~netize her,
~lieving, from what I had seen, it ·would help her.
They consented, and I proceeded to make long passes
from the head to the extremities for over an hour; du-
ring which she sunk into a calm refreshing sleep, and
the respiration became natural, and the pulse fuller and
sl&wer. The heat, which could not be counteracted by
cold water, gave way, and with it the scarlet hue in a
great measure subsided. I continued this operation
twice a day for three days, and afterwards once a day
for two days longer; with certain transverse passes up-
on her throat and neck, which the bystanders could see
lessen the tumor in the first operation very materially,
and she gradually recovered. ·
- All the medicine she took after I first commenced
magnetizing was one dose of castor oil. After she had
obtained an appetite and got about the house, from over
eating or some other cause, she relapsed, and congestive
fever came on, but three times magnetizing broke it off,
and she again became convelescent, and got well with-
out a particle of any medicine except magnetized water
for her bowels. · ·
·' This case was as severe a one as we generally find in
this or· any other country. It ran its course from in-
flammatory action down int& a collapsed state, with black
tongue,·in forty-eight hours. It was 10 severe that the-
&ngen pealed all over, as well as the skin upon other
. .
Do1'zodbyGoogle
1250
parts of the body. I am very sore she WOtllld not have
recovered by the ordinary treatment, having had cODP-
siderable experience iD scarletina.Uie last twenty years.
I learned from observation upon this case, which! have
since confirmed upon others, as well the former cue
spoken of in this chapter, the important fact, that I can
raise or depress the pulse at wilf with the will, to such
an extent as to make or cure ·disease. Every person
can be more or less affected, but the maximum degree
of magnetizing is to put the patient to sleep, to perfect-
ly cataleps or palsy every oraan of sense of the whole
body, like.drinkmg ardent spirittl, a person can take two
or three glasses a day, and an ordinary observer would
not detect it, but let him increase it in degree or streagth,
to eight or ten glasses, and he becomes drunk and falls
down catalepsed or insensible. The former three glass-
es per day may be called the minimum degree of drink-
ing and the latter the maximum.
Aug. 1st. Called to a child of Mr. F., ten years old,
has a well marked scarlet fever, of the middle degree,
(Anginosa); is hot, red and feverish; sore throat and
all the characteristics of that disease. Without giving
him a particle of medicine, I proceeded and put him in-
to a deep magnetic sleep, and made long passes the
whole length of the system, to equalize action, and traJlS·
verse ones across the throat to cure that; these I con-
tinued for thirty minutes, and directed his parents to let
him remain all night without waking him, and until I
came in the morning. .
.. Aug. 2. Called apd found him awake and about the
house. I directed his diet to be light,,said that he might
take soft toast and roast. potatoes, which I should not
have.dared to give him under common treatment, and
put him into the magnetic st.att;, and drew otf the in:.
f}uence :with long passes, made beyond the.e:Uremb
~Oil· . ;" . " .
l ... ' )
Do1'zodbyGoogle
JUGNBTJSM. li51
Aug. 3. Called- agaiu, and found my patient as well
as ever, and his mother (an Irish woman) said she "did
oot believe he had had ·the scarlet fever." I asked her
why she thought so. She said, "he had got well so
quick, the neignbors said he had'nt had it." What, then,
did you call me fod said I. "Why, he was sick, to be
sure and he was, but the neighbors said it could'nt be
the scarlet fever." Was he not very hot, and did he
not want to drink all before him 1 "Yas." \Vas he not
as red as red morocco1 "Yas." Did he not constant-
ly callJor drink1 "Yas." What then makes you think
he has not had the scarlet fever? "Why, the people
said if he'd had the scarlet fever it would have lasted
two weeks, or such a business, and may-be died, too."
So you. believe your neighbors, who never saw him, in-
stead of me or your own senses1 "I don't )mow."
Knowing from the first that I should get no pay, and
finding now I should get no credit, my combativeness
came so suddenly up that I began to soliloquize by think.-
ing aloud in the following strain: 0 ignorance! blest
power I whose wide extended field diffuses like the ra-
dient source of night! God pity the rich and intelligent.
The ignorant are happy and the poor can beg. They'
who know nothing fear nothing, and will learn nothing!
when she interrupted me, and said, "she wished I would
put her to sleep, and pull her teeth, they ached so."
Are you sure they ache1 "To be sure and I am, whin
they ached all the Jong night so that I could take no
pace at all at all a-most." No, said I, you are mistaken;
they don't~ache at all; the people, the neighbors, say they
don't ache, nt]d d~ you think you know as well about it
as they do1f9u ~fe mistaken, they don't ache at all,
and I openetf the door and left her, and have not seen
her since. • · ·
Aug. 4. Called to c; A. Has lain for two hours in a
wrnatose insensible state; can not speak or open his eyes;
bis pulse irregular. ~9W .he groans and raises his hand
•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
BAM- ON
to his stomach;. jnws are closed and locked; Uletb cleuoh-
ed, and could therefore take nothing. I immediately
put the index finger of each harrd upon each wrist, and
m a few minutes his pulse rose and became fuller and
firmer. I then shifted to the thumbs, after the common·
manner, and magnetized him in twenty minutes thorough-
ly, and the pulSe became full and of natural frequency,
breathing easy, the jaws became limber, and he could
whisper• I asked him if he felt comfortable; he said
he did. 1 then made a few more long passes to equal~
ize the action, and left him, telling them not to give him
anything until I came in the morning. ..;
NeJtt morning, at eight o'clock, I called and found
him in the same magnetic state: I took off the influence,
and he awoke and got up, ate breakfast, and has nevet:
been confined a moment since. ·» ;
Feb. 19. Called to T. G. Has a psoas abscess. Took
along my clairvoyant. in company with five or six others,
to her residence, two miles out of the city. Nothing
was said to the clairvoyant about the case, only that we
were going to see a sick woman. I did not even know
myself what ailed her until he examined her, never
'having seen her before. As soon as we arrived, 1 put
him to sleep, in another room from where the patient
lay, and willed him to follow me, without saying a word,
into her room, set him a chair by the side of the bed,
and willed him to set down by and examine her, which
he did. by simply taking hold of her hands. He imme-'
diately described it, told what was the cause, what had
been applied, and what it was then dressed with, how
much it discharged and what the co)Qr l\[id character
of the matter was. I asked him if st)c co\ld be cured~
he said no, she could not be; that magnetiz~ would re-.:
lieve her some, but it would not,. O£. any thing else cure
ii~.;., that to ease·her.and keep he·r comfortable, it would
be: ~eltto. n1agnetize milk whey, and give her for drink,,
and wash the sor.e or ulcer wit!\ it, to kee.p it clean _
ami·
•
o~~"""~vGoogle
......~l'eQ~i bu.t tlult 'YJli311,fhe.~ve!l put out in
._ ~pi'ing she .would.die. I then took off the influence
•d ·we le.£4 ,without making any prescription. Her
husband employed one of the roost skillful surgeons of
~ city until the time foretold; when she died.
.,,. June. 24. Called to E. N.· Has a troublesome cough;
indicative of subacute inflamation; prescribed bleeding
and cathartic of calomel.
':· June 25. Patient relieved, but cough continues; gave
..aausating doses of antimony, and bled her again, and
applied ointment tartrized antimony externally; finally
all the usual remedies were given for three weeks, as
well as a slight "touch" of the gums from calomel, but
all to no purpose. I then commencea and magnetized
h_er-put her to sleep nights, and let her lay in that
condition all night. As soon as she was put into that
condition, she ceased to cough and remained quit:t, but.
as soon as the influence was off, the cough would com.,
mence again. This I continued for two week, until the
cough gradually subsided, but did not entirely cure it
until she took a journey.
. Although magnetism did not put the perfect finish or
cure upon this case, it gave her rest nights superior to
all anodynes th~t were tried, which were Dovers pow-
ders, parigoric, hyoscyamus, &c. and preset"Ved her
strength, so that she did not get down, so but what she
.was able to be about the .kouse during the latter part of
the time without any tonic medicines. It is truly a8ton-
iehing-to see how its influence will restore the strength
of a patient insensibly, as it were, and almost instanta-
neously, and we might almost add-miraculously. .
,, JQne·28.. ·Was called to P. N--•. a patie
. nt who. has
JMep ·Jabonng for three weeks under tj)e most perfect .
~gia. or palsy of one side of the body. Has been
, ~d by a good physician of this city for that time,
·but1
hU .only •ucceeded in k~eping her where sho is,
!Witboutqpving ~atioo or .motion. ! ..Poounence. and
•
0191t1zed oyGoogle
•
•
.~
•
BAGG ON
attempt to magnetize her, but can not affect her sufli-
cient to close her eyes, but after magnetizing her more
or less for two weeks, she so far recovered as to be
able to walk across the house, and out doors with a
staff, and to raise up her arm almost as high as bw
head. Having had to be necessarily absent from the
city for two months, she fell into the hands of others,
and when I returned I learned she had been sent to the
poor-house. I have never heard a word from her since.
I presume she recovered, for as soon as you can give
them a little motion, it is easy to get more, or in other
words, it is hard to get the limb under the influence of
the will, but when once they have got so they can even
move it all, even to start it, they improve rapidly.
Aug. 29. Called to a patient, A. F. who has had de-
lirium tremens for six days, during which he has not
.slept a wink. I found his brain in a state of chaos, his
mind was all in broken fragments. with a perfect repul-
sion between his ideas and muscles of locomotion. It
might be justly said to be in a state of decomposition:
here was a paragraph of morality and there one of ob-
scenity, here one on religion and there one disgusting
in the extreme. Now his vision is on heaven, now on
hell; now he is seeing angels and now devils; now he
soars into the sublime, now descends into the ridiculous;
now he is gay and humorous, now gloomy and peevish.
In a. word, there was a perfect disseveration of the as-
sociation of the ideas forming mind and muscular mo-
-tion. In short, it was like a printer's form kno<!ked in-
- to pi.
I succeeded in getting hold of big.hands, and by the
assistanae of a friend, attempted ro get -his attention,
but it was vain. He was too much t~kcn up witb his
conversation with invisible spirits to have any comm~
nication with me, and although he was at the jail, he
wanted-" to go to jail," and kept constantly teaimg to
do &01 to -g~ rid of his "persecutors." I manipYlated
•
0191t1zed oyGoogle
••
~.made long ·
puses from head to foot,: for abo..i ihirtJ
Jlli¥lutea, or until I wu llODlewhat exhausted. ·1though1
.. lij>peared to be leu wild, but no symptoms of sleep.
:t•ted them to put him into a room alone, and uy
to get him to Jav down, and I would soon return and
_,.,b4in again. They did se; in about ari hour I retorn-
Of;l9.. and to my agreeable surprise, found him in a deep
~ I left him, and never have seen him since but.
~· He, however, slept all day, awaked rational and
~ectly recovered, without the least medicine, and ha1
~yer had a return of it since, which l learned on en·
~I'.Y of his father a few days since.
March 10. Called on D. S. Has had a rheumatic
affection of the ri~ht limb for three months; is unable
tQ walk except with a cane to hobble about in doors;
has been bled, took physic, followed by gum guac and
tinct. colchicum, and applied the whole catalogue of •
e~ternal applications for that disease, to no purpose.
CC?mmence magnetizing, and in twenty minutes, by the
~lock, put him into a perfect state of somnambulism.
l then made passes along the limb from head to ex·
tremities, six or seven times, and awaked him, and to
his astonishment, ·he could walk as well as ever, without
~- leai:lt feel of it. I saw him three months after, and
it 1-ad not returned.
·Oct. 20. Called twenty miles into the country, to a
patient who is laboring under spasmodic. fits or {>&rox·
isms. , Has had at this time three different phyBlcians,
on_
e·prooouncing the disease hysteria, and the other two
cp}l~psey, but between them all, the'disease continues~
T.W. day the fits corµmenced in the morning, ·and bave .
~.a, ,constant all day. I arrived at preciselr ten o'clock
in.Jb~, evening; she had just come out o the fit as~
el)~~d the door, and lay in an insensible state. I found;
~~d abo~t in the room, fifteen or twenty persowr
<(..,.it.ages and !JeXes, expecting her every fit to be tli~.
Iw.J~y ·c\eath. · I had scarcely got off. my overcoat,,
23
Do1'zodbyGoogle
~ ~ cried eut "doctor, ahe is goiilg into~
fit." I sprang to the bed, took her by the thumbs, and
med the utmost concentration of my will to counteract
that paroxysm, which I succeeded in moderating tlO
much, that they said it was but a shadow of what they
had been. In this manner I struggled with repeated
lighter spasmodic action for at least an hour, when s~
su~k into a complete magnetic sleep, and Jay perf
. .
qwet for two hours. She then began to be rest'l~­
moan, although she could not then speak so as w4JliJ
understood. I again put her into sleep as befote;iJje'
became again quiet, and continued so for abouH~·
hours, when she again became restless. I again'.~
to sleep, in which condition she remained until day..breal.
Having set up all night, at sunrise, I took a walkiotO
the wOod adjoining, and on returning at breakfast 'timii
. I found her dresse~ and setting U_P1 apparen~y as "1NU'
as any of the ladies of the family, (thn e m numbet)'
and on expressin~ my·surprise, she said she felt as;""ff
as ever. After breakfast, of which she partook with
us, I again put her into a most perfect state of soll'!rtani-·
hulism. She became clairvoyant, and said it would cure
her. I then took off the influence, got on to my horse,
and rode home. I have since repeatedly heard thatshe
has remained well, and has never had a spasm since.
I did not give her the least particle of medicine of any
kind whatever. ,·
Nov. 20. C. S. called on me to day. Has a badly
sprained wrist; is a laboring man, and has a certain job
to perform, which he says this sprain of the wrist throws
him out of. Knowing he had been an unbeliever, and
had been lavish of his abuses upon myself and otherSot
who practiced magnetism, calling it all a humbug, &c.
I objected to do any thing for him, as he did not believe
in it, and therefore I could not help him. He replied_
that he did now believe in magnetism, and appeared
Mri0\11. I told him if he would come three times I
Do1'zodbyGoogle
....,con-it, Uld if be would not apt.e to come till I
eauld cure it I would not touch it. He agreed to come
•til it should be cured, I then sat down and began to
~tize the wrist and the whole arm from the elbow
'1own. After going on for about twenty minutes, I
atoppe~ and he began.to rub it with the other hand.
I asked ·him what that was for; he said it was very
numb. I told him then I should cure him, u I had pro-
duced. the effect I wished. I iook off the influence and
restored it by a few revene passes, and he left -with aD
appointment to call again at six o'clock in the evening. ·
He-did not come, however, and I saw him next morn-
ing and lectured him for not coming as he agreed, for I
was fearful he would not give me a fair opportupity,
and then go off and say I could not cure him, as a thou-
eand others will and do, if they can but pervert faetl
and circumstances with regard to magne1ism, but he
llaid there was no uae of coming, for what had bee~
done had cured it entirely, and it was then as well Q
ever.
Jan'y 1. Was called to T. B.; has had cold chills; is
now hot and feverish, with c<;>ugh and pains all over him,
particularly in the head, neck and back; pulse full, telUIQ
and throbbing, and ninety in a minute; .has taken pille,
:which have operated slightly. I took from his arm
twenty ounces of blood, and gave him twenty grains of
caJomel, and directed his. body to be sponged all over
with water as cold as he could bear it, until the heat
pame down to its natural standard.
,_; ·2d. Find him better, but not free from pain.· Gave
him Dovel's powders. and direct the ablution with tepid
• water to be continued.
,}: 8d. Pulse increased since yesterday .in force and.fre·
queooy; has too much excitemetit; tong~e coated wi~
a greyish fur; head ia confused, and c()mplains of great
debility, and has slept none through the night. -i re.4
. eomended magnetizing. He disbelieve• bl it, tbt -17
0191t1zed oyGoogle
IM 8A00 ON .
reason why it was not tried first instead of bleeding,
but now submits. I closed his eyes in a few minutes,
made passes over his head, neck and back, and then took
off the influence with long passes in the usual manner.
After it was taken off, he said he was free from pain,
was much stronger, got up and went about the room,
which he was unable to do previous. In the evening I
called again, and put him in the magnetic state, and in
this manm:r for three days longer, when he was able to
walk about the city, and soon went to work.
Feb'y 25. Called to Mrs. P. Has had, for the last
twenty-four hours, chills alternated with flashes, is now
permanently and universally too hot; ton~ue furred;
complains of sore throat and nausea at the stomach.
Direct her to take an emetic of ipecac, which operated
well, but nothing was ejected from the stomach but food
and mucus, and this afternoon is not much better, and
has h:id no perspiration. Direct a saturated solution of
salt in warm vinegar to be applied to the throat, and to
gargle with alum water.
26th. Found her no better; throat worse. Put her
into the magnetic sleep, equalized the excitement with
long passes, applied transverse ones to the throat, and
continue the gargle.
27th. Again magnetize her as before, and make trans·
verse passes across the throat.
28th. Expresses herself well and cured, and able to
go to work, and does .so.
Feb'y 28. Calle<i to Mrs. W; found her with a fever;
was taken last night with cold chills alternating with
heati now she is hot, foce flushed, tongue furred, pain
all over and thvoughout the system, but most severe in1•
the back of the neck and back; has a sore throat; skin
is dry and hot; breathidg hurried and laborious; pulse,
by the watch, ninety-four, ~pd indicating to the feel
bleeding. I commenced and magnetized her, and in ten
mim1te11 closed her eyes so that .sbe CP!lld not open them. .
oo"~•dbyGoogle
li•n;ll'iade long passes to equa».; a.ail brought her ia-
to a gentle perspiration. Every bad symptom now van-
ished, the pulse mime down to seventy-four and sof'ten-
ed in force and increased in fullness, and she declared
lierself free from thirst, soreness ·and pain, aad as :well
-.a·ever. - . 1.·
· 29th, She continues well, and has not taken a ·parti-
cle of medicine. · · . · · · . · · ·
1:his same-day, called ,u; a servant wrl in ·
Wl lame
family, Who broke out with the eruption of the small
fft· ·I immediately magnetized her, and btieught:1be
~ down from ninety per minute to eeventy-four, allill
bNught her into a perspiration, and her sore throat ancl
alt her disagreeable and febrile symptoms .Tahished.· .It
took but five minutes to magnetize her. At five o'clock
I called again, vaccinated four of the family for the kine
pox, and although she was comfortable, and her pol.e
but eighty, I again magnetized her, brought on ~npi­
ntion, and the pulse down to seventy-four again. Thus
l went on with this patient, and two others who eame
down in the same family with the small pox, for th~
weeks, and every day put them into a magnetic state,
.until they went through with its natural course, without
~en so much medicine as a dose of physic of any kind.
The two first were three weeks before they began to
l!ICalc off, and·the last, being easier effected, I shortened
liis one -week in duration, but all, although ·they-we~
covered as much as they generally are with eruption <>f
'the distinct kind, and had seyere symptoms when it ~nt
made its appearance, were made comfortable by mag~
Wetiraing, s6 much so,. that they could and did eat any
e 1'1icl all.kinds of veget~ble food, with as good ap~titel
u e~r, ind were about the house, and did not lie d<>wli .
~t»t ·for two or three of the first days. 1 found I
~ ·control the pulse iµid skin with magnetizing/an4
tfterefore "put the ship before the wind and let tliem
ni~" without medicine, and the eiect wu ~t ta.,
23•
c, .zed by Google
·· &AGe.OJf
.were kept ia u good etrength u ueual or naa.al,.....
.out raUring fever. · '. ;Ir•~ ....,
. April j3d. Was called suddenly to a child fitre .,.._
old. ·Hid to bodying. On arrivi~, I found the little
.IUl'erer bad been for two hours m an apPoPlecti.Q fit,
without any thing having been done, althoiigh a phyli.-
cian waa present, and .had been for an bour. AU were
expectin2 to see him breath his Jaat. The house W88
..fiOed w~h neighbon ·~-frierids, all aiWowa to l_lelp b1
both action and prescrtption. Some were for domg this
-
and ·IOfll& that; -some said he had wormt,·some one thing
and .some another, and it •ppeared to me to be more
like an ant heap than any thing else, where the little
animals or iasects are orawling ooe over another; each
had a preaeription of his own, and were determined it
1hould be: ueed. I immediately caught the patient by
the wrists, placed my fingers upon the pulse, and ooo-
.oootrated my will to throw into the little sufferer's ar-
terial blood the magnetic fluids. I 8000 -found that I
nUed tho pulse a little, and continued on. I then, after
tea or·twenty minutes, shifted to the thumbs, $0d then
made puses in the u.ual man8'r, from the head througll-
out tlW system, to endeavor to restore the poles of the
•Y•..,m from tbe brnin, and notwitluttanding the talk aad
.noise incident about such cases, I concentrated as much
II .possible, and continued manipulating about an hour
•d:a_
·half, and a wann bath having been prepared, I
oomented and put him into it. He had remained there
but six or eight minutes, when I discovered, by the pulse
and pther symptoms, that it inju~ him, and ~k him
"t ~ recommenced my maaipulations, which again
nised the. pulse which had sunk while in the bath. Du· •
ring all this time he had.unequal, and m~re or le1111, al-
te.,.tillg spasmodic action of the muscle11 of dl6 head,
9'tak.· face, arm and leg of•the rigbt side; which now
W :8'lbsided in a measure. From the hjetoq of the
.-,_(...vilg.b@en.JX>stive all winter) toae~ -
withJ~t
Do1'zodbyGoogle
hurtful effects of the bath, I reasoned that his head was
very much congested, and believed it to be an almost
hopeless ease. The doctor and bystanders looking on
me with not only pity, but derision and contempt, to
think that I should believe that magnetism could have .
any influence to help him. Partly to gratify them, and
take off the responsibility should the case prove fatal,
I made four incisions into different veins upon his arms
and hands, without obtaining over a tea-spoon full of
blood. I also cupped his temples and obtained a little
more. Injections had been given while I was magnet-
izing; mustard poultices were now applied to his feet,
legs and stomach. All these did not change him in the
least; he remained in a comatose state, insensible, with
light spasmodic action of the muscles of the right side.
I now made up my mind that nothing would save him
but magnetism, and therefore shut my senses to the
thousand and one prescriptions that were made, and con-
stantly making for the little sufferer, over and around
me, gratuitously, as is always the case by the knowing
ones m such cases, abstracted myself, and concentrated
upon the child with all the energies of soul and body.
After a little time, the pulse became fuller and slower~
the heat was increased and diffused throu~hout. In this
manner, encouraged by the symptoms, 1 unremittedly
continued my operations for four or five hours, until I
berame exhausted, when I sent for two young gentle-
men of the city, whom I knew to be good magnetizers.
They came, and relieved me by turns, and while one of
them was ma.gnetizing him the spasms ceased. They
then retired, but I continued on. The whole time, with-
out cessation, amounted to seven hours that I exerted
myself in this manner. At length I succeeded in getting
him into a magnetic sleep, and he Jay two hours calm
and composed, and I retired to rest. He then became
restless, and I again put him into the magnetic sleep. I
continued in this manner, as soo·n as he awaked, to put
Do1'zodbyGoogle
B.A89 OJI
him again into the magnetic sleep, for forty-~ight hours,
when he got so that he had sense and could speak, but
was yet restless and could not move or feel, either with
the left arm or leg, or in other words, the apoplexy had
terminated in a complete hemiplegia or palsy of ona
side. Having been perfectly exhausted with my exer-
tions, and the patient somewhat relieved from immediate
danger, although in this situation, at day light I went
home to get rest, telling his parents, as his bowels were
still not free, that when I returned I should give him
calomel for a cathartic. Soon after I had left, the phy-
sician that was first called, finding that I had got him,
by my operations, so that he would probably recover,
called, and found on enquiry, that I was to give him cal-
omel on my return, and kindly volunteered to give it
himself, so as to have a hand in the cure, although he
had said from the commencement that he would not re-
cover, and it was no use to give him any thing. What
he gave him made him extremely restless, uneasy and
;eainful, and I was sent for before I had got any rest.
On an·iving, I found him threatened with spasms again,
and asked how much calomel he had taken. They said
it was a spoonful. I expressed surprise at the quanti-
ty, when 1hey said it was not a spoonful of clear calo-
mel, but that he dissolved it in water, and said some of
it was left in a teacup. I examined it, and as near as I
could ascertain, believed it to be strychnine. He also
gave him some paragoric. , I then put him again to
sleep, and he became calm. I continued to do so all
day, when he awoke, which was once in about two
hours, until night, or until about twelve o'clock, when
a gentleman sitting one side of the bed, and being an •
unheliever, and his arm and leg remaining both palsied,
I pinched them, and showed him that he had neither
acnse or motion in that side, and he was pitying the poor
child,. when I took hold of the right hand with my left,
and placed the point of my thumb to his, after the man-
oi "edbyGoogle
JIJAONBTt8M.
ner of magnetizing, and took -the fingers of my right
hand, converged to a cone, and placed them upon the
left organ of firmness, held them there until an equilib-
rium of temperature was established, and then, in as
slow a manner as I could move them, brouO'ht them
down in a circular manner across the head, down the
left side, past the external ear to the point of the shoul-
der, along th~ arm to the extremity of the thumb. This
I repeated three times in this manner, and at the last
time touched my thumb to his, and willed him to raise
his arm, and to my delight, as well as his astonishment,
he raised it immediately up. This I did a few times,
and then went behind him, and placed the fingers of
both hands, one on each organ of firmness, and willed
to send the magnetic·or nervous fluids to the extremi-
ties so as to produce motion, and he drew up both hands
and arms, and made them fly in the air like drum sticks,
and continued to do so for a few minutes. I then put
him deeper into the sleep, and he rested quietly for two
hours; we would then wake him up, give him bread-cof-
fee, toast-water, or gruel, and then put him to sleep
again, as he was extremely restless when not under the
influence of magnetism. The next morning he broke
out in spots with a rash, more or less diffused, which re-
sembled scarlatina, which came and went for two or
three days. During this his bowels were obstinately
costive, and in conjunction with clysters, castor oil and
magnetism, I gave him eight grains of calomel, which
was all the medicine he had during his illness, except
after two or three days more, I prescribed magnetic
drops for him, to regulate the bowels. After taking
them three or four days, in conjunction with injections,
they became regular, and he now appears as well and
as healthy as ever, which is a year since.
Oct. 10th. Was called to J. H. Is of a lymphatic
nnd sanguine temperament. Has had for four hours a
most violent fever; CQmplains of a very severe pain in
a.A800Jlf
the bead; eyes suft'used, and can not eet up a moment.
Commence and put him into a deep magnetic sleep ia
twenty minutes, during which he sweat profusely. I
then nwaked him, and he was free from fever and pain;
and expressed himaelf as well as ever, and has not been
confined since.
Was called to Mrs. L.; has had severe cbolic all day;
can not lie down in bed; has taken vario~ medicinea,
but finds no relief. I immediately placed the tips of the
fingers of my right hand upon the stomach and clasped
the Jeft thumb with the other; in six or eight minutes I
perceived her eyelids began to lop, and I told her she
had better lie down. She said she could not, aa she had
frequently tried during the day. I told her she cooJd
now do so without pain. In a few minutes after getting
into a recumbent posture, she fell into a deep sleep, and
was so easy and still, that her father, an ~ gentle-
man, said she was dead, and cried "Mon DieuI Moo
Dieu!" I told him that she was so easy that he must
look sharply or he could not see her breathe; .that she
was not dead, hut easy; but he crossed•himself, and
paced the floor, shedding tears and ejaculatin~ "Mon
DieuI Mon Dieu ! she has gone l she has gone!' Soon
the husband, who had beea sent for, returned, and he
satisfied the old gentleman that she was only sleeping.
I then left, telling them to let her alone until I should
come hack and awake her myself, which was about two
hours. During my absence she never moved a limb,
and breathed so easy that you could hardly see her
breathe at all. I awaked her by making three revel"8e
passes at the di8tance of six or eight feet. She now
said she was as well as ever, and I left her and have not
aeen her since.
C S. is attacked with apoplexy, which terminated in
palsy of one side; has not spoken or moved the musclea
of the right·side of. the body and limbs for two weeU,
.-
Do1'zodbyGO gle
JIAONETJ8M.
and at last was incapable of swallowing. She is DO\\!'
perfectly recovered by the use of magnetism alone.
P. N. a child eighteen months old, had the measles
four months since in the state of New York, which left
her with a cough which has continued since. The fam-
ily expect her death daily from consumption; doctors
say they can do nothing for her; the family have pur-
chased in this state, and are obliged to move, and are
now on the road to the interior; were in hopes the jour-
ney might help her, but are now in despair. She is
emaciated and pale; coughs and cries constantly; her
pulse fly like quicksilver violently agitated in a vial.
Well knowing she could take nothing, I raised my hand
and brought it down upon her head, but before I had
got it within six inches, she fell into a profound sleep.
Believing it must be an accidental natural sleep, I placed
my hands each side the head, bringing them within two
or three inches of its sides, and pulled and pushed back-
ward and forward, an<l to the smprise of all present,
it followed my hands backward and forward, which pro-
ved it to be magnetic. I then directed the motl:ier to
lay her down upon the settee, and I continued my man-
ipulations until they had taken tea, which was ready
when I commenced. She now lay in a most profound
sleep, pulse became full and slow, and she breathed so
easy and natural that she almost seemed to be dead. I
then left her to sleep until she should awake of her own
will, and agreed to see her next day, when I called and
found that she was so much better that her mother has
carried her out to visit a connection. Next day she
was so much better that they started on their journey,
and I never again saw the child. I ha,·e since learned
from their friends that the child commenced to get bet-
ter from that moment, and is now well.
Called to 0. P.; has a most violent headache, which
was preceeded with cold chills, and indicates inflamma-
tion. He disbelieves in magnetism; I therefore took
Do1'zodbyGoogle
f
JIAOO ON
from the ann thirty-two ounces of blo9cJ.. The bl-
ing produced no relief. I then told him to recline upon
the sofa, (which was at six in the evening) and I would
try to relieve him with magnetism. In less than fiv&
minutes he was in a pl'ofound sleep, from which he did
not awake till four in the morning, bathed in perspira-
tion, and perfectly recovered, went to work, and baa
continued well since. :- . --~:
July 6th. Called to a child two years old, who Jiu
chronic bronchitis; is cl'oss and pctulent; has been sick
aix weeks; has had three or four different physicians,
and is in this condition; does not sleep a moment with-
out laudanum, and then is obliged to take physic, thus
alternating between these, with a severe cough and la-
borious breathing; will not let me come sufficiently near
to examine the pulse. I at once put her to sleep by
manipulating the top and back of the head. Fearing
ahe might wake in the night from her cough, J magnet.,
ized two table spoons full of water, to be given in the
night when she wanted drink, to continue her asleep..
and to produce two motions of the bowels next morn-.
ing. In the forenoon of the next day I called, and found.
the medicine (magnetized water) had operated as I wish-
ed, and my patient running about out doors. A few
more sleeps and magnetized water produced a cure. .·'
Oct 2d. Called to a child six months old, that has beeri
attended for the last month with the bowel or common
summer complaint, until it is reduced to the verge of
the $rave, and is nothing but skin and bones. The at•
tending physician had given it up, saying '·its head is
fu}l.of water, and it must die." I commenced and mag-
netized once and twice a day for five or six days, gave
it.magnetic powders, magnetized all its drinks, and it
soon recovered, and is now an interesting child. . . -l
.Jan'y I.st. P. H. has had, for the last si.ic days, a most
vi'olent periodical pain over one eye; has had a physi...
~ w:lio ,has bled and catharticiscd him in the u~ual~
Do1'zodbyGOo le
alli;Eopathic manner, thrfle or four times, but all to no
purpose, except to debilitate the general system. Com-
mence and magnetize the part by making passes and
breathing on it. After repeating the operation, he im-
mediately went about his work, and has continued per-
fectly well since.
C. D. is effected with crysipelatous inflammation of
one limb, from the knee to the extremity. It is hot~ red
and swollen, so that she can not walk. Twice mag-
netizing perfectly cured it, without the least medicine.
Dec. 15th. Was called to 0. P. ;. has had the delirium
tremens for two weeks; has been attended by three or
four of the best physicians in the city, who succeeded
in mitigating the disease and giving him some sleep, but
has now relapsed; is so delirious as to be bound down
~o the bed wit~ cords, fastened around th~ w~·ists, that
b;ive ~o\y imprinted th~rqs~lves int.a his arms th.e thick-
ness of the cord; has. torn his bed all to r?gs. Com-
mence on Monday morning, and in ten mil'!utes put him
to sleep and left hi!n. C~l~d _
at noon and founq that he
had slept but one hoµr1 !j.IJd !ht;m awaked as crazy as
ever. I then put him to sleep !ind he slept till night,
when I awaked him and found. him rational bu.t weak;
gave him some chicken tea, put him again into a state of
somnambulism, and he slept till morning.
Tuesday morning. .Found him. ra.tianal, ~r;i~ able to
walk about the house, but put him .to sleep, and he ;slep,~
till noon. Called again and awaked him; gi1rv.e l)i~ some
rrJM~)\.eq tea, put him to sle\'!p '!lnq he slept ij]~/:)igqt.'. At
nigh~ made s<?me lo!'Jg pasSC"f?' ,qver him, ?u.~AW not p_ut
him to sleep, as he. Wil~ r~tional, ·had,st:r;eqgth. to }Valk
about out doors, and had a good ,app~ tite. . It was now
six o'clock, and fcaring1he. migllt !10t sleep well, J toJd
him to go to bed :;it ni~e and that ;is it ~as sqm$ dis-
tance, half or .three quarters of a mile, t~ my.house1
I would put hip1 to.iSlp&p f!or.n tp~pf1c.,~ Jh.ij;, op beipg.
told.•.b~, ..Q·m .to th.e, .f~~ily,. exc;lte.d \h~m qp<:J..friend11 to
24
Do1'zodbyGoogle
eotJliegate &nd ~ him at the time: · He,· ~er,.
went into so deep a sleep at nine that they or their
friends could not wake him by crying fire or shaking
him severely, and slept all night. · • · •,
Wednesday morning. Made long passes over him,
and told him, although the weather was cold, to go out.
Evening. Called and made some more long passes, mag-
netized a wine glass full of common pump water, told
him to ~o to bed at nine, drink the water, and it would
make bun sleep well all night. On going home, I met
two gentlemen who wished me to return and touch his
phrenological organs. I declined, saying he was too
feeble, that I had left him for the night, and could not
alter my directions. They asked me if I could put hirn
to sleep again from home; I told them I would try, and
nine was the hour fixed on. I proceeded homeward and
they went their way. At nine I commenced and con-
centrated, and put him so deeply to sleep that they (some
seven or eight gentlemen) could not wake him. One of
them pinched up the skin and thrust a pin three times
through and through, but could not wake him. To as-
tonish them still more, while I had him asleep, I willed
him slowly to raise his arm, and bring his hand as high,
and almost on to the top of his head,-as also to raise up
his right leg in bed. Believing that some of the party
would be at my house, I set up till ten minutes past ten,
when three of the gentlemen called, and assured me
that I had succeeded as above, but that two or three of
the gentlemen present were yet sceptical, but if I would
awake him at precisely half past ten, keep him awake
ten minu&es, and then put him to sleep again, so that he
oOula.·not be awaked, it would convince all, and tell
kftlllly for animal ma~netism. Wc compared dock and
'Watches, and they rl)t1red. When the time arrived I en-
deavored to awake him, and three minutes before the
ten minutes ·were up, I thought I would commence to
concentrate to put him to sleep, in order to perform it
00•1zectbyGoogle
JllAOM&TJ•lf.
to a minute, but next moming they iefonned me that an
was performed as agreed, but that be fell aaleep three
minutes before the time. He had now recovered hia
health, and I have never seen him but once or twice
since.
It is well known to all who have read medicine and
surgery with the celebrated Dr. Joseph White, of Cber-
ryvaUey, or received lectures of him at the college at
Fairfield, that friction with animal oil was his universal
·remedy for almost e.
very disease of a surgical nature,
where external applications were used, and they will
further attest its efficacy, above all others, as a general
remedy. Now we can at once see that the oil was of
Jittle or no use, and that the cure depended on restoring
the equilibrium by animal magnetism.
Holatead, of New York, became celebrated for curing
the dyspepsia by only kneading the bowels, which we
could not then understand, but now know it to be from
animal magnetism, as well as all those old fashioned
cures or remedies, such as charms, t~ out fire from
burns, healing old sores and ulcers witll tTie sweet apple
or hazlenut sticks, cut on the end into the form of a tri-
angle, as well 81' the stroke of the seventh son. In each
case, the hand was passed over the part, and he who
operated had a motive, which impelled him onward, that
amounted to will .
Perkins became celebrated with his tractors or me-
talic points. and justly so too, for it was acknowledged
that he performed the cur.es; -but he was doomed to Ob-
livion by a certain othel' physician, curing in the same
manner, with wooden points or tractors. &t we now
can 11ee that it was the hand back of both, with.the will,
that.ywodooed the cures in both iAStancet. · All the CUl'el
that hav.e beeD performed by the moetcomlDQP hand.PP
to.the Bo.IQnblecbmith.-J"elakG .by.Dr•.W~n, ei!M
JrithJOl'··'l'Vitboat ~.· or..lioilQehtl,; wiib .the "'"
'· . /
Do1'zodbyGoogle
brush· ·or th naked hand,. may ·M -attrlbdted to animal
':'°&:;ii::;ya\fllk,~, .st~etebing, coughing, sne~zing.'and
lticrough, nt.e but· natare1s efforts to Te&fore lost equilib-
rium in the muscular and membraneous systems, as well
as etomaoh. They act like so many. galvanic batteties
to the various systems they· equalize:' These we have
but to mention to the ingenious and·observing to be be•
lieved and appreciated. · . ·
Such .are some of the numerous cases that have been
treated by me with magnetism, for the IMt two years.
To detail -one half. of the cases that have come under
my observation and treatment, would·swe!Hhis v-0h:ime
vastly beyond om- prescribed limits. · To disabuse the
public mind of an impression that has become general,
we woold &bserve, that magnetism is as applicable1 to
one diseat1e as another, and therc(Ore not confined, as
seme imagine, to l'heumatism.and'paley. : ·
· If disease be-a ilnit, what will esirc one <ligease under
certain CitCUr!l$tlan~Si wtll :cure anotheT.' J.t is but·very
late that magneti1ml- has·been used at all for the .cure of
disease, in this cou11try, and where it has been; (except
now and then by a physfoian in:praettco' it·has been in
those casee .that: hll'•e bee!\ tbrqwn up(Jn the 1!helf by
physicians ns incurable. Hence it has been used ·or ap-
plied more in those diseases than any other; because the
most severe. and least 1 undenk>Odi · But where ·it' has
been U!ied in acote di.ea8C'fl by mysell\ l can ·not nOiw
remember a oaee wtlel'e it has failed; 'if·timely :admfnis-
tel'ed. Generally, we ean cure a.eom1oon fever .In from
twenty minutes to an·hour• I make·it·a standing• rule-,
•l'ethey .fiav1~H1tiftiftent tl<>nfideilce'10 let ·ri1e use it,
llelf'eF w leave the· h~11fn Mute·disea~*; till they·~
~red olr:made coh'rfortaMei · 80Me·wiij _,,.;1 why thell
61 you·n-t>t·mire·'tb& thMe;eaees··witbebt gtYing rdedi•
eineet·. Tlie ttu*'l!it1•·u iW&Jha•·,attetapdfd·to Hplew,
it ii a doctri1Je of attractiGn and repulsion, u well with
regard to mind as matter. an~ i.f they have flO\ at least
confidence sufficient to rem!\\P passive, it is pse}ess tp
attempt to affect them. M:any peQIDD.11, through fear ,
of
being injured orlaughed at bytheir nejghboni at:id friends,
resist the influence and repel it f10m -them, and then if
they are not cured, go off and call it a humbug. Such
are the prejudices of the people, that if a medical man,
of good standing in society, of acknowledged skill in the
old fashioned practice, attempts to cure by magnetism,
he loses his practice, and becomes a laughin~ stock to
community. They are so accustomed to ride to the
grave upon the calomel hobby-horse, that they can not
be made to believe in the efficacy of a different method.
They had rather continue and risk themselves under
that treatment, than be cured by a shorter and better
process. Those who have attempted to establish the
new practice, have met with the common fate of all
who ever attempted to establish or make any improve-
ment in science or the mechanic arts, recorded in histo-
ry. Gallileo was thrust into the inquisition for conceiv-
ing and teaching th~t the earth revolved upon its axis
every twenty-fonr hours, although the r:nost ignorant of
the present day would be thought silly indeed to disbe-
lieve it. Dr. Harvey, for discovering and teaching the
present theory of the circulation of the blo0d, lost a
lucrative practice in the city of London. Fulton, of·
our own country, was called insane for years by the
would-be intellectual aristocracy of New York, and was
called an old hair-brained fool by the dandies of Albany,
in his failure on his first attempt to get his steam vessel
across the Hudson to Greenbush; and although he was
ultimately completely successful, and conferred rmch
great and lasting blessings upon his country and man-
kind, he died poor, and his country has seen his heits in
-poverty, without relieving their necessities. Whitney,
the young collegiate genius, who invented the cotton-
gin, the machine for picking out the green seeds from
24•
.......
'fill&:cot• and tb8*hJi' '81"'a'&.'IMM' era.tA,th~ llfJJ'~­
·illlal,: aommercim •4 manufacturing,·..mrld, .aa well •
·byr.dldeg<it:Ui.~~r~~- and.thereby enliching.die
.Whoie!-..cb·~.tidtlCOOlpart11ftlljr.8!l:l'1Utlt a&··:t~ · WWMc
:wGll'ld, w• paiti·. by· being ~ted;. sued, hurW11ed1
ud
:tebbed.uoeM1the daiy of, his deatk h)i.tJw Tery persons
.he mO.t· beaefithtd.. ' . •
• i .· · · ':; . ·· ·" ' · . · :;
., ·:Dr.. Blli.otitlb0>, Pieeident of• the ll,Qyal:&ci.etytof.{...on-
.dou; MUI nna~ed fur. ·~la.ring· Wt:l ~nvictionS,.of •the
,truth.of animal inagne&ism ,aod ·;pbt'enology; bttLlike. a
tne.philosopher,-Ire obose. to ·h~.faiit the truth: let.-waat
1W0uld <:'!fDe, 'and is·now in the ~t, ·lookipg OO:wµ
.Upon·hlir ~edutor& with·pity, stilk eontrib.Uting'to b~h.
it:is:then ab,,olutely aeoetsar.y, with ·all:otll' boas~.1n­
telligeooe, liber.al spirit and.tolerttion;:to commenceand
·advance step by·step.in' a:g1adliaLmanner, by slow.anti
\insensible degrees; as it were, in ony·.nc\V.science, al.tor
-praotjce. Had 1, in 1riariy. ·of theeeni.00. ·Q.the~·.caBetl,
--00minenood. at the o~et .'\v.ith ro.itg!letism, I should at
.once have got my dismissaJ,i and some other, who1wQuld
l.i.a.ve. pandered· to .thcir:pampared jalla,p and calomel·ap-
ipetites, would.have· be_en called., . · , - · , · · .
- · TheJ'e ar-e-many. oonsiderattiq,msiu·this ~ocratiq land,
why a run can.not, .in the:imiaerable vasaalage of the
.practice of-med1cine,. takeAmd-malJ:itpin·an independent
·ooumie, and ''li\le and ·thrive,''·nnd. catrjl' ..i>\lt·nny.n<r'V
.aystem, however important.and .true. There,is. 81.lch a
-thing aa being so .free nud.iudependent; as tobe y0tn·own
Alildne,-.your .own . lawy~r and doat«, and own. payntall-
f.er;• and·make your ownJawsJfof'the:tim.e tt> pay iu tQQ.
,There isJIUOO .a thing as- to:be.tt:> Iibenlly educated, 3qd
IO wise in-our ow.a estimation-,;,as lq Q«>t reable to 1!Cte
-the truth a~1100Dday.·' M.. ~- empbati~y the creat~
-Of habit and~odJ,,antl of Ml hstrugglies.that;a ~
~al majhias .tiQ -eoootWt,iiiUld.pattiouJ.aUy. ,~
pb}'!liciad; is.:ipomocn: a~.- ~ ttuu:·•PM«
iilDi: 8D111 fmm.JbahllGlt .......uli...Qew,'.-W•.l!Ai'- atati
. .
019111zed oyGoogle
t.depe~dent iof.: aU -.~imiariy.-coasideratione.:ihe •rnigQt
set ignorance at defiance. But money is the gt!d thait
Ute great majority w.drs~ip1w'fbe ~is measured.I by
tte.
!Cloth'.in Dis C01lt;- whellheF Bpt.in' t¥> :many fikeiJls to
'tbe poun&or less. - · : ·..1 · · , , 1, . .: :;, " · ' · · · ' ..,
...·ln' fol'aler times we read- .thats.it .was manners andii:»-
1elligence·that :made the:man; but'·Rpw it is ·ebanged to
~ance, impudence ud: weahn. · Did the masses be-
Slere-in the influence of.rnagnetismi ~ remove disease,
1be' results · wouJd ·be infinitely ·moPe ·successful. We
Jiave;now to contend )\Vitl:i, not ouly .the ;prejudices m
·Ule:wills.of the patitmts1. but .:the.whole neighborhood,
ministers; doctors; judj:tn. school.raasten, lawyen aDCl
-
"lawyer?s· apprewes." ; What' suteess has a speaker
in·convincing an audience;: if ·they ' go ·to hear him with
3 .d~ep. rooted poojudi,00.Rot tn believe a word .he utterst
.A few ye11.rs.since, nnd a.·few-.personS'in Masndiuaetta
·:were attracted to~ther .to. fonn a·temperance :IM9Cidty:;
.mind after mind, individual aOer individual, has beea
.addi'd, until now, not Qn!y the:maj()J!ity t>f thi11 nation la
·ternpei:ate and abstincn4 J1ut Ji.Ire an.l!pidemio, it hu •
-spread .throughout!:Eute>pe,: redeeming·•and ·confirming
multitud1ts .in ·the <wisdom, a11di.necessityof the,"IOber
:sccpnd thought." So also with-mlllfftetism. It is BO~
fr.aught with:rnsults so.astoondlng .end! novel, ·l!IG- incem-
1prehe~ible to the in<kdeot ,a.m;l .ignorant~ wh~ ·find it
IJUlcb. easier to stand at; lv<li.Snnce1 and:look on aad cry
.&.umbug..- than to approtwhl an.d ·investigate>i~ . : ·. ·' r .,.
; .To enfo1:ce conviction;under·all tht)ee- cir.cum1tanc~
*truly an "uphill business/' but it· muiit and· wilt, Ji~
..ii o.thers akin •to it,. ul!lmately ' suecec~ for u truth 3a
~h.ty aad.must·.pre1rnilil . h is, J11epeat, iti'idoetrine·of
tMuaction and ~pul&ien,;·elMI mqmres·ll:llief,_ 0011\'iotiGm
.oci faiih..:i I know tlte ~()m.ot ani iMdltstttl-willueer
Md~ upitheir 008e81 ..even•1itt .thie;; atithtHaelitioraiGf'
._..an<Uai~ but it fMrntiahe vMyel98nco.f!•~
' 1 _;.; ! ( L! I '1•t1; i.;·! •t . :_f
Do1'zodbyGoogle
hatt••
and is taught in tbe .acred .mp&tuee and all pM'aae
hiltory. ·
Doea not the looaeet journey that was ever made re-
quire the first atepf and wu that step ever taken with·
out a motive sufficient to move the subject to take it T
Cao it be done without the exercise of the wiU1 and
what attracts the penoo to a decision of that will t ls
it not belief of aome .infel'eflt or benefit to be .gained~
faitla 'f The mind Us, &.\ the int dawn of medical
·acienoe, been known to have great influence in not ooJ;r
curing, but producing qisease. It is in reality, at this
time, if we look about us, no novelty, except that mag-
netism demonstrates.it with mathematical certainty. It
has been known and acbewledged from time immemo-
rial, that fear directly debilitated the system, and pro-
duced diseues of diJferent cl888es, as dyspepsia, hypo-
choodriaaiss, hysteria, &c, and that confidence stimula-
ted and cured these diseases, as well as a variety of
others. Is fear a corporeal material substance. or con-
4idence, either? Joy will directly strengthen, and grief
weaken or debilitate the system. Is there any material
cause in joy or grieft All the other passions.of the
miad opem.te in the same manner, the one to raise, and
its antagonist to weaken the system. Can we not aH
see in what an awkward poaition it places those -who be-
lie•e that material substances are the cause -of disease1
Do we not see that from the very nature of things, that
material causes are never the cause of disease t Are
not (even among the common writers on the present
aptetns.of the practice of medicine) nine tenths of· the
cautes.of all diseases attributed to colds and heats, ' t\Bcl
"
passioos of·'tbb n;rind, .and irregularity of ·sleeping alllll
'W1lking? ' Are the seMations of heat 81ld cold mnterllit
•W.taJroed,: ~e we not clearly shown them to bt
·1emsaUo.of·:thlJ bed}', from the eftecta of the ~
aaide,i -0tiel'·-aml. oter' 9ia, .in a variety of .'fte'1nl·.J
mind and mattert
Do1'zodbyGoogle
• 1 St>'. ·well h!ii:I this:~!\Mal pri11ci~lb oMn understood by
•· t\ledical fa<!ulty,1 tbat te3thets a<nd W'Jiite'rs deem n
indispensiA:>le, and 1he1iefo.rc incul'cate it to thcir·pupile as
the• first' p0int to be accomplishe~lo get 1he confidence
of 'their pa1ierrts1 'Is there any .corporeal l'!tibstanee in
the confidence of die putientl Why is this- confidence
necessary, ·if the ·cure is to be ticrformed by a known
material remedy, acting on· the physical or material sys-
t.em, at all times in a· particular nianncr certain and de•
cisi\'o1-· Is this cbnfid~nce any thing b\.1t a different term
for -belief or faith 1 and what is •th.is faith but sympathy
OT attraction 1· 1\fony a physi~ian who is ignorant of.his
profession, but excels 'in a smooth speech, gift of gab;
as if is called, or has. persuasive .eloquence, will have
better success than·one of better· reading and knowledge,
iwho is destitute•of 'these natural 'gifts. ''Eloquence,"
says Da.niel Webster,. "is·the gift ofGod, and can never
be acquired by art; witoout this gift; or when it is want-
ing;" whiCh is true ·to' thefott~r. · • · : · · .. ·
Among the wri1ers 'upon coafidence, may be recorded
that scientific; good man and skiUful praetitioner, 'Dr.
Rush, who tell$ us that it is essential that we ma'ke out
.patient believe that a rriedicihe will have the effect we
~h it, or if you pleasel tuiJ/1 it to have; and that' a
·doiJbtfol remedy, with'tl1is premonition, WiJI have Q'.ffiOTe
.decided·effect, .than ·another;:of mnre gellE!ral certainty,
-wMhout preparation· :Of mind~ ' The: t'lacreli· "Writings are
fulrof these axioms'01" sayings, 1to prove the necessity
·
f!f first operating· t:ipon ,tl\o mind, or ' to ·show that the
:W.ind1 hits the controlling ·influence ovet- the body. ·In•
tteedr:it shows it to be the eause aad .~ure of not only
-.SaBe5. but ktlows BOthing ot,inculcate$ ndthing of the
-..,,i -but•a mass of irr1atter,: animated and· tn0ved by'·an
~, or.spirit. :.. ·: ~· .. ;:. ,,.., .,,:: ·1 v :I ... ,:., .. .,
-nrftfe ~&·•few .quotatioDS •bom·C-t1aad .bilJ'BP°""
~' ~tu-"'accordift.g'·..O yMr"l.rth; lboliNnifo·yoq;',l
"aa a man thinketh, so is he;" Nbr'~ida! bath :1a.~•
001ozodbyGoogle
S7t a.a.Ge Olf
thee, go in peace;" "as thou hast believed, so be it unto
vou;" "stretch forth thy hand, and he stretched it forth,
and was healed;" "0 thou of little faith, wherefore
did'st thou doubt;" "0 woman, great is thy faith, Le it
unto thee as thou wilt;" ''because of your unbelief you
could not cast out devils;" "if you have faith and doubt
not, you shall do this which is done to the fig tree, but
also if ye shall say unto this mountain 'be thou removed,
and be thou cast into the sea,' it shall be done;" "for it
is the power of God unto salvation to every one that
believeth," Paul; "for therein is the righte;ousness of
God revealed from faith to faith, as it is written the just
shall live by faith;" "for what if some did not believc1
shall their unbelief make the faith of God without effect;"
"do we then make void the law through faith 7" "God
forbid, yea we establish the law;" "Abraham believed
God, and it was imputed unto him righteousness;" "there·
fore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God,
through our Lord Jesus Christ;" "so faith cometh by
hearing, and hearing by the word of God."
Thus, then the book of revelation and the book of na·
ture, both go hand in hand to establish the principle of.
the great necessity of faith or belief, a necessary requi·
site for the accomplishment of an object, or obtaining
an end or effect, and thus the divine and philosopher
justly labor to inculcate the same general principles,
the one toward God and the invisible kingdom of hea·
ven the other toward man and his invisible spirit or
mind. The doctrine, then, of equilibrium, as taught bv
ma<metism, and the operations of mind, as illustrated
and
0
explained by our principle, confirms, sustains and
elucidates the prinriple of the christian religion, inculca-
ted in the sacred writings, better than any other system
of philosophy hitherto disseminated among mankind.
Indeed it is in perfect coincidence with the general prin-
ciple of conduct inculcated throughout the scriptures by
Christ and his apostles.
0191t1zed oyGoogle
-:_
No mri ·dan become a ·good'clnistiau, and walk right-
~sly, without f~ith, for fa!th is !he very _ g?vernin~
pnnc1ple of the will, the motive which determmes the
action. No pe1'90n can be atfected by the will of anoth·
er without sufficient faith to accomplish the cure, or be.,
lief to attract them to the· commencement of a trial
"Though I speak with the tongue of men and angels,
and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass
and tinkling cymbals. And although I bestow all my
goods to feed the poor, and give my body to be burned,
and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charitr
sbffereth long and is kind. Charity envieth not; chan-
'X vaunteth not itself; is not putfed up; doth not behave
itself unseemly; seeketh not her own; is not easily pro-
voked; thinketh no evil; rejoiceth not in iniquity, but
rejoiceth in the truth; beareth all things, believeth all
things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth. And
now abideth faith, hope, charity, but the greatest of
these is.charity."-Paul. •
Charity, then, appears to be the natural impulse that
!'CtS the will in motion to perform the conduct of a
christian, from the natural affinity to truth, to do good·
for the consolation it affords. Charity. then, directs the
acts of the will from the natural attraction of \•irtue ns
its own reward. Charity, then, seems to be a word
compre.hending all the christian virtues, and is synono-
mous with general benevolence. Charity, then, sta11ds
antagonized to hypocracy and the whole cohort of vices
flowing from vanity and self-esteem. Thus, then, hope,
faith, belief, charity, are all twin sisters, inculcated by
the sacred scriptures as necessary. to salvation. They
are not the less necessary to accomplish events in the
common course of conduct in life, and the cure of die-
eaae.
; ·History informs us that those who have performed
~ greatest exploits, accomplished the most powerful
·actions and results among mankind, are those who were
0191t1zed oyGoogle
eu4~~1ffi .wA~. an · ~~ and . AAidlipg, ~4~ !which
gave t:nergy to the most. powerful .and concentrated V9-,
litions, amounting to .a. ,perfect co~v~tion of their ac-:
c:;omplishment before eomm~ncing to,. perforrµ them-a:
kin~ of intuitiv~ certainty .oJ.: (f4rne~~ of their ,sue<;esS..
No man caµ or will concentrate his.will; to the su~es~
iul accomplishment of .an objcc~ ~ithout he Qas an in~
ternal belief, amounting to conviction, of its ultimate
certainty. . . .: ' . ' . ' . . . . :
· To pass over Hannibal, Alexander, and the Roman
generals, Bonaparte ~onquercd because he "'was resolv-
~d to conquer.' He had great discrimination, and PU~
few could stand the piercing ~lance -of his m'lgnetic eye,
and when he had once formed hls jud{)'ment, never pon-
dered or reconsidered, but put his indomitable will into
execution, and this was the grea.t s9cret o.f his success.
Like some rules in courts of law, where we are not per-,
mitted to lo0k behind the. re<;ord, he nQver .looked back
or behind, a judgment ona.c formed, but on the contrary~
~ke a Qiad ox, who shuts up his eyes and yushes .with
fiis horn, he shut his eyes to .all other objc~ts but the
~ceomplishment of .his purpose. He willed .and it was
douc; and thus from a r:ipid series of judgments to the
most determined volitions, ·almost as rapid, as the thun-:
der follows tl)e lightning, .from object to object, . consti-
~utcd him the most successful general and greatest man
!Jpon record in the annals of history. . . · · •. .
• Although he might be called the great~st, Washington
of our owu countrv, was the best, and stands unrivalled
3.$ .the great benefactor of mankind. Hp Wa.'! also char-:
a.ctetized, by" a .faith amounting to a.lmost certainty.
~'<~thing but his abiding faith could have kept him for.
years struggling, with a h~ndful of half-starved and half.:
clad patriots, against the armies of Englancl, and QUr
4?Wll toxics almo~t equaling_in t)umbers his ent.ire ar1~y;
~ut yet; by his hope, faith, ·characteristic and .deterriii~
ed ~ill, 'he succeeded ii} being the libei:at.~r or hi!! ~oun~
~I. • • . •• I· .I _, , . .. . " . . • • •.. "' . , . •. A • ' •• , • • • • • J
Do1'zodbyGoogle
1148lrSl'lell'.
try. · ·Jn our lime, the conduct of General Jacbon,
w.hether at the head of the army or the government,
wu distinguished by a great decition of character,
which is synonymous with vo)itions. It was hia partic·
ular trait of character, which in both situations, wheth·
er at the head of the government or the army, in the
cabinet or the field, stamped him emphatically as a great
man, and will carry his name down to posterity as such.
David Crockett, the hunter, but hero of the Alamo, had
all the characteristics of agreat man; sagacity, firmness,
aod a determined will to carry his judgments into exe-
cution. His well known motto, "be sure you're right,
then go ahead," is the true principle, and although la-
conic, comprises the whole, and all that is necessary to
CODstitute a great man. In a word, man is successful
or otherwise, in the events of human hfe, in proportion
to his faith and the strength of his volitions. His con-
ceptions or knowledge is obtained by attraction, but car-
ried. out by volition, or by the law of repulsion. What-
ever, then, we do, to be best done, should be done "with
all our might." .
From what has been seen, it must be inferred that
life is commenced and c::ontinued by the operation of the
magnetic forces. That food has no other effect than to
keep the galvanic batteries of the system of batteries in
rep:µr; ~hat all remedies, al.though in a natural form,
have no other effect, if beneficial, than to restore ·the
lost equilibrium, (which is disease itself) and when med-
icine acts detrimental, to break up that equilibrium, and
produce one or other extreme; and that disease is at all
times a unit, and is never caused by material substance
or ponderable matter. That remedies, like the magnet,
can be exalted in virtues, or increased from their natu-
ral condition by the magnetic fluids, and that these can
be communicated by the will of one person by repulsion
to that of another bv attraction; and that, from facta
which we have colleeted by great labor, diaeaae ean be
2S
Do1'zodbyGoogle
cu~ much quicker and easier, and the system left bet·
ter, by the will, than in any other manner, and that in
former times it constituted the only method of practice.
This being conceded, it will at once be seen that in-
stead of the ordinary practice of reducing a patient
down to "death's door" to cure a disease, and then
bring him up again above the natural standard, is unne-
cessll'l'y, wrong and pernicious. Docs not the ditlease:
itself from its inequality, dibilitate7 and to add more,
will it cure it1 Will two wrongs make one right1 .Will
two errors make a truth1 Never! Is there ·any· skill,
when a patient is debilitated, to go to work wJth reme-
dies to weaken still more, in order ro strengthen'hhn·1
If a packhorse is staggering under a load he ii unable
to carry, should we increase that load to remove 1he
evil1 > ..:,.
The new system has not only the superiority•o(curing
in a few moments, many times, where the other will
take as many days; but the patient is left in as good
1trength as when attacked by the disease. Will it not,
then, commend itself to the suffering community1 We
have only further to say, on this branch of the sub-
ject, that what we have detailed in regard to the cure
of the various case.s of disease, is everv word minutely
true, mostly occurred in this city, and"could have been
aubstantiated by unimpeachable testimony were it cleem-
od nece11sary.
Og rndbyGoogle
....JIQITI... •t
CHAPTER XV.
PJIRENOLOOY PROVED BY MAGNETllil-'1-REVE&SlON OF
POLES.
No. 1.-•Locomotion.
'' 2.-Amativeness.
" 3.-Philoprogenitive-
ness;
" 4.-lbbabitiveness.
" i.-Adnesiveness.
" 6.-Secretiveness.
" 7.--Combativeness.
" 8.-tVitativenen.
" 9.-•Saiiety.
No. 10.-Destructiveneu.
" 11.-Alimentativeneas.
" 12.-tlmitation.
" 13.-Acquiaitiveness.
" 14.--Concentrativene11
" 15.-Approbativeneu.
" 16.-Self-esteem.
" . l 'l.-Cautiousness.
" 18.--ConscieociouJMn
" 19.-:-.lt'innneN.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
/
-._
- Jt.lOGOJlr
No. 20.-Veneration. No. 38.-Sizc.
" 21.-Hope. " 37.-Wcight.
" 22.-Ideality. '' 38.-Color.
" 23.-Marvellousness. " 39.-0rder.·
" 24.-Benevolcncc. " 40.-Calculation.
" 25.-Comparison. " 41.-Language.
" 26.-Causality. " 42.-*Grief, desponden-
" 27.-Humor. cy, disposition to shed
" 28.-Tune. tears.
" 29.--Constructivencss. " 43.-tMirthfulness,
" 30.-Proper names laqghter, levity.
31.-Time. " 44.-•FacuJty to dis-
'· 32.-Locality. crimirlate different
" 33.-Eventuality. things by taste.·
" 34.-lndividuality. " 45.-*Instrumental mu-
" 35.-Form. sic.
Those organs discovered by the author, are ·. mark-
ed *· Those re-located, are marked t.
Whatever may have been the opinions of writers
upon mind, for past centuries, from the rapid improve-
ment in anatomical science and physiology for the last,
they now all generally agree in one point at least, that
the brain, including the organs of sense, are the mate-
rial organs of mind. More recently, from the labors
and observations of Gall, Spurzheim, Coqibe, Elliotson,
Fowler, Jones, Parnel, Grimes, Collier, and others, a
considerable portion of community were inclined to dis-
believe in the old theory of the unity of mind, and be-
lieve that it was the result of a plurality of organs.
While the science was thus fluttering in the breeze .of
public opinion, some believing one way and aomc an-
other, the mysterious influence of magnetism, after the
lapse of ages, (with a few exceptions) was called to its
aid, and we now know, by the light of that principle,
that phrenological science is not only true, but are en-
a}Jled to detect the r6'~on why itl'I advocates failed in
Do1'zodbyGoogle
pointing' eat some of the mftnifestations of mind; the
oi'gana were noi rightly located. .. .
"•.It had been known and acknowledged for ages tbar
!hOBe penons that looked alike acted alike, that children
of the same parents, with the same education, (as near
as possible) were different in talents, eonduct, virtue,
vice, quickness of perception, reflection and retention
of what they had acquired, as well as i~nuity in com-
bining new aasoeiations of .thought, and mventing new
systems, fabricating new objects, or taking new or un-
marked trains or courses of conduct in lifC. If I give
my friend or ene_my a blow, he at once (" similia simi-
libus ")becomes as it were monimaniaca), and combat-
iveness is excited to return it, to chastise me for the as-
..ault, (repulsion to repulsion). But if I commence t~
laugh, my friend will afso commence by sympathy, and
laugh also, {attraction). In both cases the equilibrium
<>f the mind ilJ'broken up, and reason and judgment are
lost or wanting; but soon the equilibrium is restored;
previous to which the antagonizing e~treme is produced,
as the patient, if not perfoctly hardened, feels compunc-
tion from conscientiousness on the one hand, or grief is
produced as antagonistic to tho other. We might go
on and enumerate the whole of the manifestations of
mind, and show them all to be dependent upon the same
lnw, and to operate in the same manner in a natural or
ordinary state, in the common transactions of human
life, or in what we have termed (chap. 1x.) the mini-
mum degree of magnetism. But it is not our purpose
here to go into detail, or to bring forward other proofs
of .,phrenological science than those afforded by magnet-
i$ffi itself. We therefore have only to say that phre-
~y t~chee and proves :bY magnetisn;i t.hat not only
ft)'~ 6'bill'1s the organ of mmd, · but that it 1s a retiult of
an:eq~i1ibrium of a'?ti~n tx;tween .a plurality of orga.li~.
-n.M.ditlproYc11 the principle mculcakdfor ages, tbat miai·
~ 'at1n1it: ·· · · ·
2r;•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
July, 1842. C. M. was put into a magaetic atate.
We were totally unacquaint.M with phl'CDOlogy, anddid
not know the location of a •ingle organ, .ha..uig neve.J"
attended but one lecture upon the acienee er ~ubject,
and like many others, from lheer prejudioe alone; rie-
termined not to believe it, 'and therefore eldded every
opportunity of informing ourself 'upon tbe subject.
This day in the morning, on which I magnetired him
in the evening, a friend placed in my hands a Philadel-
phia paper, giving an account of some phrenological ex-
. periments that had been exhibited in that city, from
touching or insulating the organ1, while in a magnetic
state, oy the will of the magnetizer. I waa therefore
determined to try the experiment thi1 evening, although
I had not much hope of succeeding, believing it to be a
kind of second "moon story." The time arrived, and.
I put him into a complete magnetic sleep, but not know-
ing the location of the organs, I knew not where to
touch. I had a work on phrenology with a chart, in
the office, but it could not then be found, but by some
cause or other, I asked him where I should touch him ·
to mnka him laugh. He immediately raised up his arm
and took a circle with his forefinger and brought it un-
der the cheek bone, directly at the point marked 43 in
the chart. I placed my finger upon the point indicated,
and he immediately broke out with a most hearty and
loud fit of laughter. I then told him to point out in
auccession all the most important manifestations spoken
of by phrenologists, and to my surprise, wonder and
utonishment, he did it with great accuracy, as I after-
wards learned by comparing them with Jones, Grimes,
and othel"B, both on his own head and mine, with the
Mception of the organs of mirth and imitation, whicll
ho IOcated aa we eee in the chart. 48 and 12, which by
this clairvoyant, and confirmed by at least fifty since, I
olailn to have rightly re-located, u well ·a• haling lii.-
~ered ~. talte, mdnnnt1ttal mum, grief and ,..
Do1'zodbyGoogle
....iiMi. This evening, ·b.y puttiag. my nnseni on the
organ of time, he told correctly at different times to a
r.minute tbe time of night, withoat any one or himself
·Jboking at a watch or dock. T.his subject was bu:t six-
·teen years old, poor in his education, simple and hone•t
.n. his demeanor, and when awaked ooold not remember
a syllable that had transpired while in the magnetic
,s1eep~ ·-and knew no more of phren~ogy than he did of
~·er geometry, which he had never studied. It
eoaldnot have been a reflection of my mind, or produced
:by my will, as I was at that time perfectly ignorantof the
Jocation of any organ, having studiously avoided it from
prejudice against the science, believing it incured: fatal-
ism and led to infidelity, except that I knew or believed
-that mirth was somewhere on the top of the heacl,
-wiier.eas he located it at 43, and where we shall endeav-
or to prove it to be located in the sequel.
•· A few weeks after this, while lecturing upon the suh-
Ject of magnetism, and endeavoring to prove phrenolo-
gy by its mysterious light, and convincing the audience
by contrasting one organ with another in succession,
such as philoprogenitiveness with destructiveness, secre-
tiveness with benevolence, mirthfulness with veneration,
combativeness with both, &c., the thought occurred to
me that there mm1t be an organ more diametrically op-
posed to mirth, and which would give a greater con-
trast before an audience. Accordingly, after the lec-
ture was closed, and we had retired to our lodgings, I
put him to sleep and asked him where I should touch
him to make him cry. He immediately raised his arm,
performed a circuit, (~hich they generally do) and put
his finger upon the pornt below the eyeball, marked 42. ·
I then excited it by placing my finger upon the Or&Jan,
mid be cried like an mfant. I then awaked him, but he
f'91nained gloomy and downcast all day, or,until I ha•
... put him to sleep. We-had not at' thie time lea111-
• '
0191t1zed oyGoogle
ed *'n~ty of ~rizing the-oq)8n, or taJhag
the influonce oft" completely. ' · ;,, 1_1~
. C. D. of the village of---, called on me; ·and
eomplains of pain in the back shooting occaaionally into
cldferent internal organs. Dectors call it spinal mural-
gia. Has taken the usual remedies for the last year,
without relief. Is examined by my clairvoyant and pro-
nounced to be sll8Ceptible of the magnetic influence.
and says that it will cure him. After the lecture closed
and I bad retired to my room, I commenced to magnet-
ize him, and in about two hours succeeded in throwing
him into a complete state of perfect somnambulism. I
then asked him to point out, one after the other, the
organs on his own heSld, as well as mine and others,
which he did in the most perfect and systematic man-
ner, confirming the new locations of mirth nnd imita-
tion, and the one discovered called grief. Being in a
clairvoyant state, I directed him to examine himself·and
see if he could be cured by magnetizing~ when after a
little time, he confirmed the judgment formed by my
clairvoyanL I then touched the organs, and he reacted
or responded so quick and with such a loud tone of
voice; as to be audible all over a large room, indeed, as
loud as is necessary for any speaker before an assembly,
in order to be well understood. I found him so suscep-
tible to the influence of my will, that l engaged him to
accompany me as a clairvoyant, promising to cure him
of his disease before we should return, which I did do.
He gained in flesh, as.could be seen, and was provt!<l by
being repeatedly weighed, a pound a day for twentv
days, and,perfectly recovered his health. He was put .
to sleep.on an average three times .a day for thirty or
for4y; days. This clairvoyant, as well as the other, wait
parfectly ignorant of the location of a single organ whca
••akc,, but when in a somm1mbulic or magn~ic ·state;
\l!el'.e:good phrenologists, and could not in their wati~
er natural stat~ remember a word or incident that had
oo'""~bvGoogle
tlaolpired in the magnetie atate; ·I ~as ~ie- ~
:partieular to keep .them ignorant, and directed them not
-to.learn on any considerations, as it spoke volumes in
,favor of the scienee, and of its mysteriOus operations
when applied to that science. It was this somnambule
that never failed to tell correctly the politiCIJ of every
-0ne be examined in my public lectures, sometime ten or
·a dozen an evening or a lecture. He at all times «lis-
~goished clergymen, and told correctly what particu-
lar doctrine they preached or taught. ·
' Sept. 10. Put into the magnetic sleep an Irish· boy,
.eight years old; he was of a strictly lymphatic.temper-
41iment, and.went into a perfect state. I touched Qr ex-
·cited. the organ of mirth, and he immediately became
convulsed with laughter. I then bid him point out, on
both his own head and mine, the phrenolo$ical organs,
and he did it with so much skill and precis10n as not to
suffer in comparison with a Fowler or a Parnell. I then
excited the organs promiscously, and he responded with
great effect, convincing all who witnessed the experi-
ments of the truth of phrenology, and astonishing all
with the results of that mysterious influence, which like
supernatural intelligence, should, when under the influ-
ence of magnetism, enable an ignorant boy, eight years
old, who could neither read or write, to become a good
phrenologist, and "1hen off; could not even give a name
to an organ, or remember a word that had transpired
.All who witnessed the experiments knew ·him; that he
belonged to their village; 'fhat he was, in short, as ig~
norant a boy as could be picked out of the streets, and
1hat I had never seen him until he was brought into the
room by themselves, and that I had never been with
him alone a moment. ...
Oct. l l. Put 0. P., of trne village of A--n, into
the magne~c state; a girl thirteen ·years old. Excited
combativeness, and sbe immediately clenched her fists
and dealt out her blows with the dexterity and adroit-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
neu of a sailor. I then asked her to. point out, one af.
ter the other, the manifostatioos of mind,·which she did
with distinctuess and precision. All who koow her, at·
&est that she knows nothing of phrenology in her natu.-
ral state.
Oct. 11. Called to C. S. of the same vill~ge; is the
patient spoken of in chap. xxxu, who when looked at
m the face by myself or others, can not resist immode-
rate fits of laughter, which is immediately succeeded by
fits of peevishness and fretfulness. On examination, be-
lieving these organs magnetized or unnaturally excited
by an undue and. unnatural quantum of mag~tic fluid,
or that the disease consisted in a want of equilibrium in
the organs or manifestations of mind, that some had too
much, others too little, I immediately applied my finger
to the organ of mirth, and he became convulsed with
lauihter. I then changed it to the organ of combative-
ness, and he clenched his fist and made a pass at me,
although in the natural state, or without this organ thus
excited, he could not raise up his arms. I then excited
destructiveness in the same manner, and he became
more enraged. Finding him in this state of unequal
action, with the poles from the brain reversed, and in-
creased in some and diminished in others, I concluded
by magnetizing the whole brain and system, and there-
by producing an equilibrium, exciting some organs and
demagnetizing others, I could by these means restore
him. Accordingly he was put into a most perfect state
of somnambulism, became clairvoyant, snid it would
cure him, and directed the operations. As soon as he
was put into this state he ceased lau!!'hing and even fo
smile, and looked grave and dignified instead of looking
and acting foolish as before. I then asked him to point
out the most prominent organs of mind, which he rea-
dily did, one after the other, as though he were a Gall
or a Spurzheim, not one of which he could locate when
the influence was taken otJ: ·
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAONBTlli:M.
<-~t~' M• .P. '8. a gentleman high in oftice of the vii-·
lage of A--n, is now perfectly magnetizes in one
hour by my clairvoyant. On asking he points out all
the prominent phrenological organs. When excited by
me, he responds in a natural good audible tone of voice.
He is now awaked, the influence taken off, and he is
asked to point out the manifestations of mind, but knows
nothing about them, can not tell where a single one is
located, and remembers nothing that has transpired.
Oct. 13. C. H. a young lad.v, sixteen years old, was
put into a state of somnambulism. While under its in-
fluence. she pointed out the most prominent manifesta-
tions of mind. The influence is taken off; she remem-
bers not a word of what has transpired and can not
point a single manifestation or organ.
Oct. 20. P. S. in the village of T--h, is put into
a perfect state of magnetic sleep or somnambulism.
On simply touching my finger to combativeness, he be-
came so excited that he darted among the audience and
commenced to deal out his blows with such skill and
precision that it would have baffled the most skillful pu-
gilist, although I was constantly attempting, as soon a1
I could get my hand on benevolence, to counteract its
influence, as well as to excite veneration. When quiet-
ed, I asked him to point out before the audience the Ta-
rious organs, which he did correctly without the least
faultering. The patient was an Irish boy, sixteen years
old,· could neither read or write, and knew nothing of
the name or location of the organs than he did of Greek
or Hebrew, but yet told correctly all I asked him. His
cembativeness, destructiveness and secretiveness were
90 large in proportion to consciousness, veneration and
beh"evolencc, I foretold certain propensities that largely
predominated, and either to prove me a good phrenolo-:
l{ist, or revenge my telling the truth, I became the ob-;
~t of t~eir undue enlargement1>1 th& I~ of,~rope_rlf,,
~ - . .
Do1'zodbyGoogle
ieo ••oo eN
to the amowit of twenty-fivedollars, which Jneyer again
obtained. .~ • ·-,,_._.,
NQv. 1843. Called to C. D. a child twelve years okt.
Has an infl1Jenza. Recommend magnetizing. Com-
mence and put her to sleep. The family are disbclie¥-0
ers in magnetism. After l had got her into this state,...
I asked her father if she understood phrenology. "Why.
no," said he, "she knows nothing about it of course, nor
I either, and what's more, I don't believe any thing in
iL" I then asked her where I should touch her to make
her laugh. _She at once, without hesitation, put her
finger on 43. I then excited the organ by simply touch-
ing it with my finger, and she laughed intolerably. I
then asked her to point to all the most important organs
in succession, which she did correctly, to the astonish-
ment of her parents, who were convinced of the reality'
of both magnetism and phrenology. Her influenza was
almost cured also, and by applying it twice mote, with-
out medicine, she became in better health than when.
attacked. . .._.,
I have, during the last two years, magnetized over
two thousand persons, for disease and otherwise, and I
here.solemnly aver that not one subject that I have put
into a perfect magneti~ state or that of clairvoyance,
which consists in rendering all the external senses dead
or dormant, or palsied, or catalepsed, so that they could
neither see, hear, touch, taste or smell, but what they;
all pointed out the manifestations of mind, Ol' bumps, ns.
they are vulgularly ·termed, and not only this, but many
would tell their relative·size, and the conduct that mnst
necessarily flow from such and such manifestations. In
a; word,. while in a magnetic stat-e, they are the most
~~'}l1plirenologists, aµd when awake. perfect novices.i
~ WQrSl!l than novi~~. for U,e.y kn<>w ~othing of the.
~ncer · . . ..
¥1]~<>14, from what I hare ~n, tJiat no m~n .in die; ia.
natural atate can ever ·become a peifect phreiwlogiat,
og ,zed by Google
MAGMBTISH. ~91
but these can. I have a clairvoyant that will.give, as
tbelieve, a most perfect chart. Indeed, all that he has
as yet given, are proved correct by not only the per-
sons themselves, but by their acquaintances and friends.
Their increased capacity of judgment and discrimina-
tion are surprising and wonderful, and beyond compre-
hension. These are facts demonstrated and daily de-
mopstrable, not only by myself, but by many others, all
over the country, in every &tate in the Union, as well
as in Europe.
Now if a child eight or ten years old, who knows
nothing of phrenology, perhaps has never heard the
word or understands no more what it means than he
does of the Chippewa or Pottawatomy language 41 a
natural state, will when magnetized, not only p<>int sin-
gly to all the organs of mind, or its manifestations, but
take into comparison their relative size, -and judge of
and determine what kind of conduct must necessarily
flow from such relative proportions and developments,
and judge correctly, superior tu our best phrenologists,
who have studied years in the science, what does it
show1 what prove1 It proves at least two things.
That phrenology is a true science, and that magnetism
is the means or the logician by which it is established
with mathematical precision and certainty.
The above facts, then, prove the truth of both mag-
netism and phrenology. Should we publish a tithe of
all the facts that have come under our observation, it
would swell this volume to an enormity.
C. H. was put into a magnetic state, and on exciting
veneration, No. 20, by simply putting the point of the
fore finger upon the organ, he throwed himself from his
sitting posture in his chair, upon his knees on the floor,
a~ commenced and made an interesting prayer, audi-
bly and distinctly heard all over a large public halt I
t~n took off my finger so abruptly as to .stop him in
tqe µiiddle of a wor~ I then excited tune m the esp~ ·.
26
/
Do1'zodbyGoogle
DAGO ON
manner, and he sling a hymn as loud ns is usually surigj
in church. Mirth, No. 43, was now excited, and he '
broke out in peals of hearty convulsive laughter. I then
again excited veneration, and he commenced the pray-
er where he before left off. I then excited imitation,·
No. 12, and for twenty minutes he mimicked men;·_·
white and colored, and almost all other animals, grunt--'
ing like a hog, squealing like a rig, neighing like a horse, -
braying like an ass, whistling like a quail, quacking like
a duck, cackling like a hen, and crowing like a cock.
Amativeness, No. 2, was then excited; he straitened
himself up, looked extremely tender and affectionate, ,
said some soft things, and cried "what a beautiful an-,
gelic form!" kissed -his hand with the most extreme po;.._·
liteness toward his ideal beauty. Combativeness; No,'
7, was then excited, nncl he clenched his fist, darted for.:.
ward, and cried "come on, you coward; I am ready for :
you. I'll knock you into the middle of next week." -
Imitation was again excited, and I willed him to imitate -
the dandy, which he did in the most perfect manner _
by straightening himself up. thr0wing out his legs and_-
crossing them in a particular manner, spat sparingly _
through his teeth while the jaws were closed, and cried
out "see him all strapped down, there; if you should
cut those straps, he would fly up and break his neck.
See him picking his teeth with a silver pick, upon the
steps ofthe National, to make people believe he boards
there, when he eats at the groceries and sleeps at the ·
market. See him prinking along the streets with that ,
!a~y; O ?.ear, how he feels !lll,~ver. L?ok at his waist, ,
it is'nt bigger than a bodkm. _Secretiveness, No. 6~ -_
was tpen excited, and he felt around for something~ · '
when one of the audience put a handkerchief near his
band,' and he immediately, with great secret care, doub-: '
led it up and put it into his bosom, saying to me "let't,;
gt>, come Jet's go~" \Vhere, said I. "Home," said he::_
I then exeited benevolence, No. 24, and he pulled thff'
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGNETISM. ~93
handkerchief out of his bosom and gave it to me, and
took out his wallet, and while in the act of giving it to
.me, I excited a~quisitiveness, No. 13, and he put it back,
saying he would not let me have it. Self-esteem, No.
16, was next excited, and he cocked back his head, and
said he knew more than all of them; that he had the
most farms, the handsomest wife, the prettiest children,
the .best horses, the ~ost cattle and 1pore money at in-
terest than any one else, or all put together, told of his
stores at different villages in the state, and made him-
aelf out to be richer than Crresus. Firmness, No. 19,
was next excited, and he settled himself, and said no
man could move hiin, he was as firm as the rock of
Gibraltar, no man must trifle with him. He could not
be driven from his position. The next organ excited
was philoprogcnitiveness, No. 3, and he began to tend
what he called "little sissy." He folded her in his
arms, fondled her, dandled her upon his knee, sung
to and kissed her, and shifted her from one knee to the
other, and while in the act of kissing her again, I excited
grief, No. 42, and he began to cry aloud, and shed tears.
On being asked what was the matter, he said "little
sissy was going to die; the doctor said she had got the
scarlet fever." While in this situation, I again excited
mirth, and in.a twinkling he was roaring with laughter.
Destructiveness, No. 10, was now excited, and he throw-
_ed her from him, exclaiming "take her away, take her
away; I'll kill her." The finger was removed, and all
was calm and quiet. I then excited o.r:der, No. 39, and
he said he would have that harness h11ng up where he
could find it in the night, and the curry-comb and brush
too, and many other things which 1 have forgotten at
this time. Color, No. 38, was now stimulated, and he
exclaimed "red, green, blue, orange, violet, light ~reen,
fale blue, speckled red and white, black and blue,' &c.
then put my finger on number, No. 40, and he com-
menced at <me and counted up to forty. Some one then
Do1'zodbyGoogle
~94 BAOO-ON
called for ideality and marvelousness, Nos. 22 and 23,
and he soared aloft almost beyond mortality, broke out
with original poetry, and wei1t into the most beautiful
descriptions of scenery, of groves, bowers and land-
scapes. I then again touched number, No. 40, and he
began at forty, where he left off, and counted back to
one. Tune and humor Nos. 27 and 28, were then ex-
cited together, and he sung a comic song with great
glee and merriment. I then touchec! instrumental music,
No. 45, and he broke into whistling the same tune that
he had been singing. I then rapidly changed my fingers
from one to the other, alternately, and he would change
as rapidly from singing to whistling the same tune, thus
keeping continually the same tune, and commencing to
whISt)e where he left off singing, and vice versa. I then
excited together locomotion and instrumental music,
Nos. I and 45, and he sprang to his feet and commenc-
ed dancing, "cutting it down" and whistling his own
tune, in the right old fashioned country dance style,
and would have continued until he had dropped down
or become exhausted by the most extreme exercise.
Oct. 20. D. M. was put into the magrietic state. He
became at once clairvoyant, and read common print at
the top of the head. I then excited his organs and found
them very easily affected, many of which, ideality and
combativeness, I could excite at the distance of two or
three inches. I asked him to describe his feelings and
sensations. He said his whole head appeared to be fil).
ed with light, and that every part of it glistened not un-
like frost upon the grass at the rising of the sun• . That
when I moved my hands about his head, it seemed to be
like bands of light, or flat streaks or stripes like broad
ribbons, and that these appeared to be wo!md one over
another, in different directions. He was then took, in
clairvoyance, to a house well known. where he had
never been before, and told correctly even to two but-
tons that lay upon the table in thP, dining room. After
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAONaTJeltl.
he bad returned, witiiout saying a word to him, I willed
him to arise from his chair and make a speech upon an-
. imal magnetism. l put one finger upon concentration,
one on self--e~eem, and two on idenlity. F-0r five min-
utes.he remained silent, and l was about to despair, but
.at length, in the most natural manner, he slowly raised
up his right arm, and com1t1enced by saying that "Ani-
mal magnetism \YRS yet designed to revolutionize the
world, although at this time it was derided and sneered
at. Why," said he, "it is mortality and immortality
shaking hands; yea, it is David shaking hands with Ga-
briel." He went on in a strain of the most impassioned
el0quence, for the space of twenty or thirty minutes;
that I ever heard come from the lips of any man. It
would almost beggar description. ·
Jan'y 20, 1843. 0. P. was put into a perfect magnet-
ic state at a public lecture. After travelling in clair-
voyance to the city of New York, to the Astor House,
(where he had never been) which he described more or
less minutely, and all correctly; and with another gen-
tleman to St. Clair, to his dwelling ancl office, both of
·which, outside and in, together with furniture, descrip-
tions of his lady and children; their dresses, even to the
color ,and figure of that of the lady, and to the color,
fashion and even buttons of his little boy's clothes, al-
1'0 correctly, (which the gentleman wrote me on his re-
turn, and I have the letter now before me) evell, to a
broken brass ball in his office, laying on the top of his
stove. I touched and excited his organs with great suc-
cess and the manifest applause of the audience. A gen-
..tleman then desired me, upon a slip of paper, to will
him to make a speech against capital punishment. I put
one finger upon language and another on concentrative-
ness, and willed hiin to commence. He went into a
lon~ argument to prove that "it was wrong, and wick·
-ed m the sight of God. That it was the prerogative of
high heaven to take life, and did not belong to man."
26•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
r
"Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord," quoted be in the
sequef. ·
After he had spoken awhile on this side of the quea-
tion, another gentleman sent to me, Up<¥1 another slip,
to have him make one in favor of it. I then changed
my fingers to self-esteem, No. 16, firmness, No. 19, and
destructiveness, No. 10, (lightly and_ occa_sionally) a~
he went on eloquently as long as desired, m favor of 1t,
and in direct opposition to his former ·one. He was so
savage and fierce that he said he believed in the Lynch
law. That when a man had taken away the life of
another, he was in favor of hanging him up on the fil'llt
tree, without judge, jury, or the benefit of clergy. Thia
patient, in his natural state, was the very last one to
expect a speech from on any subject. He was never
known to make an attempt before. His natural talents
were poor and his education nothing. He can scarcely
put two ideas together, as a large share of the audience
well knew from acquaintance with him. He was inca-
pable of making a speech, much less an argument.
These are a few of the many facts that have come
under my observation within two or three years, in
proof of the truth of phrenological science. It is the
product of magnetism applied to man. The develope-
ments and confirmations are touching, interesting, and
calculated to completely revolutionize the world of
science. Can there be any thing more interesting to
man than the study of himself1 Is there any thing more
wanted or asked to establish the truth of phrenology1
Is it not established, from what has been seen, upon a
basis as enduring as the rock of.Gibraltar? Who can
stem the impetuous current of such a torrent of facts1
Is it not clear that certain manifestations of bra.in indi-
cate certain propensities of mind1 When we can put
children of twelve years of age into a state of somnam-
'bulism, to say nothing of adults, who have never heard
or eren thought of phrenology, and in that condition,
Do1'zodbyGoogle
297
.witness them point out the manifestations of mind with
a precision, judgment and correctness superior to an old
and skillful practitioner in phrenology, of ten or fifteen
years experience, can there be any thing more asked to
establish the truth of either animal magnetism or phre-
nology1 If there is, to any portion of community,
nothing less than divine inspiration would produce con-
viction. Such we are not laboring to convince, but leave
them to the murky repose of their habitual midnight
darkness.
It will be observed that we have re-located the organs
of mirth and imitation, and claim to have discovered lo-
comotfon, taste, grief and satiety. Mirth and imitation,
according to tke location as laid down by phrenologists,
have heretofore been a stumbling block to thousands,
for practical phrenologists have been generally observed
to fail in delineating correctly the character from their
former locations. From their present locations none
can fail. Imitation naturally belongs to the neighbor-
hood of constructivene1s and secretiveness. Mirth, on
the contrary, belongs to the face, in the neighborhood
of taste, grief, &c. Do mothers ever touch with their ·
fingers the top of the head while chirping to their young,
to excite them to laugh 1 On the contrary, do they not
intuitively and invariably touch them near the dimple
in the cheek7 Can not many recollect, while at school,
of nibbing one boy's ears to make him combat with
another1 Who is there, of adult age, who has not,
after dreaming of fighting, awaked and found that he
had lain upon his hand in such a manner as to excite the
organ of combativeness7 Wha that has long lain with
his hands upon the pit of his stomach, but has awaked
with nausea' and vomiting1 And· yet, after alJ, when
we exalt the natural system from the minimum to the
maximum degree of masnetism, and thus come to the
aid of nature, in addition to these proofs of phrenology
with those aJm01t superhuman, such as insulating or ex-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
BAOG ON
citing singly or in connection the organs, and thus ana:-
lyze the mind, by showing, as it were one by one, the
various ingredients by which it is composed, these same
"ornaments of mortality" cry out. "0, it's all a hum-
bug; he's only learned, trained for the purpose; a stool
pigeon. Why does he not take one from the audience.
1'11 give him a hundred dollars to put me to sleep."
Thus, like "the dog in the manger," from ignorance or
lazyncss, they wili neither learn and investigate them-
1elves, or let others, over whom they hold intiuence, re-
ceive the benefits that would result from its attractive
influence. They can not comprehend that it is a doc-
trine of attraction and repulsion, and that if they make
up their minds not to be affocted, they repel it, which is
agreeable to the general laws of nature. Who should
be relieved from pain and sickness when they had rath-
er bear it than suffer tho disgrace of being cured in n
certain manner? Who ought to have blessings show-
ered upon him, when he was ridiculing, sneering at, and
cursing the source from whence they come1 He must
be deep in logic, as well as have a great share of com-
mon sense, who will offer to bet that he can not be put
to sleep, or to think one so silly as to attempt it, under
that state of circumstances, when the very natnrc of
the case, will, from interest, produce repulsion, which
will preclude his being affected. A person would be
lilly indeed fo bet that another could not, with the pow- .
er of his muscles, stand up or walk, when to gain the
Wa(?er he might do either, as he pleased1 Wise biJ'Cds
these! how sage I how transcendently luminous in pre-
cocity and profundity of intellect!
Magnetism is characterized by benevolence, and who
ever are the subjedti of its benign influence, must be
not only in a situation to need relief, but not too proud
to receive it from any source. These same "coOBis-
tent geniuses," are of that class whose organs of sclf-
e1teem and want of conscientiousness, are perfectly pre-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGNETJSJ\I, 299
dominant, and were 6irmness, combativeness and de- -
structiveness on the same line or size, to give them
courage, would now be found in the penitentiary. Were
there not a change at death, they would probably make
an attempt to storm heaven itself. They can not be
made to believe much of any thing, but what little they
have, induces them to believe that it is like fighting,
wrestling, _
or lifting, governed by the law of force; that
he who could lift the most, or was the best wrestler, or
could fight the hardest, could put th~ most subjects to
sleep by overpowering them. Can a man be convinced
against his will?
••oonv:nce n man agolnst hia wilt,
Ami he'& of the snme opinion fitill.t'
Who ever saw a person convinced in direct opposi-
• tion to his will, on any subject1 Do children learn at
school when they are determined not to learn1 What
kind ..,f progress should we expect from such pupils?
Who was ever convinced in favor of any principle or
subject, when they were constantly operated upon by
prejudices against it1 It is therefore a contradiction in
terms, and whoever offers to stump or bet that another
individual can not affect him with magnetism, but shows
his ignorance or knavery. It is not a subject of strength
or weakness, but one of belief, faith, will and concen-
tration. It is not a subject of gain or lucre, for it is too
benevolent in its nature, and was given one to help
another. A boy twelve years old, in this city, put a
lady of thirty-two to sleep. "He that is not for us, is
against us." So with magnetism: he that does not de-
sire to be magnetized, in a great measure repels it, and
if his will is concentrated against it, can never be thrown
into complete somnambulism, although all can have their
vital organs or functions, which are not under control of
the will, more or less affected, such as the pulse, heart,
stomach, and other vegetative organs, as well as the
muscles of locomotion catalepsed. One fact I have
Do1'zodbyGoogle
300 BAGG ON
learned and confirmed by experience, that those that
are sick can at all times be atfocted, whereas the same
person in a state of health can not be. Whether this
arises from the fact that it is easier to restore the lost
equilibrium than to break it up, or from the greater de-
sire when sick, from the hope of relief from pain, or
both, is at present difficult to determine, but such is the
fact.
CHAPTER XVI.
THl·:onv 01" MIND-MANlrESTATIG"'S-l'OLF.1'-REVER-
SIO:i OF POf,Ei!.
Having brought forward our facts, we will now offer •
a few remarks with rcgar<l to the theory of the mind's
formation as connected with matter. It will be recol-
lected that we showed (chap. n.) that the system was
composed of a concatinated circle of circles, each hav-
ing a circumference and center, and that the brain and
nerves formed the last of these, and that the brain form-
ed not only the center of this nervous circle, and was
the grand center of the whole system, but the center
between the external and internal wol'id. It is there-
fore the central point of spirit and matter, and forms
the link in the chain of spirits and animals between mor-
talitv and immortality. We have seen that it is both
active and passive; active in volition, and passive in sen-
sation-and thus characterizin~ man above other ani-
mals-constituting him both mo-rtal and immortal. The
manner by which these changes arc produced is by the
magnetic fluids. The organ of mind, then, may be
termed a great compound magnet, composed of numer-
ous cognate ones, controlled by the central one-the
brain, which fa endowed in some mysterious manner,
above the comprehension of mortality, to 11et itself in
Do1'zodbyGoogle
MAGNETil!!M. 301
opera_tion, and thereby, in a great measure, is the arti-
ficer of its own destiny, and constitutes man a free agent.
This free agency is dependant upon the will, anrl dis-
tinguishes him from matter by his being the engineer of
his own motions and actions. Will, then, is the great
regulator of the whole, and characterizes man, not only
above other animals, but distinguishes one man above
another. Mind is the result of magnetic motion or ac-
tion. Light and magnetism being identical one and the
same thing or principle, are governed by the same law.
Light is governed by the immutable law of radiating in
every direction, from the center to the circumference,
subjected by another equally unvarying one, that of be-
ing bent to and from the perpendicular by media, pro-
ducing reflection and refraction, and converged to a
point from· the circumference to the center, and from
the center to circumference. In either reflection or re-
fraction, the angle of reflection is equal to the angle of
incidence, or in other words, light is reflected off in the
same angle with which it entered or approached a body.
As light radiates in every direction from the center to
the circumference, it must form poles at every point of
that circumference, up and down, laterally and around
the whole area. Hence there must be points upon the
surface in every direction, which are but the extremi-
ties of those currents of light. These poles, then, are
to be found, not only upon the superior parts of the
skull, but upon its posterior part and sides, as well as
upon the whole surface of the body, face and internal
organs.
T he poles of the passions are in the face, as we see
by the expressions of the features indicating each, as
w ell as by the examination of the manifestations them-
selves. Thus physiognomy, which has been acknowl-
edged from time immemorial, by this view of the sub-
ject, is seen to be but phr.enology itself, and will there-
fore add further proof of the truth of phrenological
Do1'zodbyGoogle
302 BAGG ON
science. These currents of light diverging from the
brain in every direction from the laws of light, are di-
rected in -suah a manner as to form two sides of innu-
merable triangles, with their apices terminating in the
center of the brain, and one of its sides toward the cir-
cumference, and constitutes the centrifugal force, or
that of volition. Light coming from the external world
is converged also to a point, forming also two sides, with
their apices terminatmg in the einiritious part of the
brain, like the optic nerves. Thus light, in current.S,
traverses the brain in both directions, and unite so as to
produce an equilibrium throughout the brain, as well as
the whole system. Where these currents meet ~
mingle, or operate to neutralize each other, perhaes Will
ever remain involved in obscurity; but one thing 18.()er-
tain, that time and excessive stimulation, as well as oth-
er causes, such as disease, will reverse their poles so
that combativeness will take the place of benevolen~
love of hatred, grief of joy, destructiveness of philo-
progenitiveness, &c. (chap. xi.) We have seen them
m the science of geometry and when speaking upon
crystalo~raphy, to be the cause of all figures or forms
in magmtudes, as well as bounded by these lines, the
extreme points of which are termed poles. The organs
of mirth and grief are so connected that they form two
sides of a triangle, with the apex in the center, and by
that means of connection are liable to reversion. How
often are these reversed7 How often, both in health
and disease, do they rapidly alternate with each othed
If I tickle a ~rson it will excite mirth, but if still con•
tinued, it will soon produce grief. In hysteria, these
alternate rapidly with each other. So also with other
manifestations. Philoprogenitiveness and destructive-
ness; destructiveness and benevolence; benevolence and
acquisitiveness; secretiveness and ideality; amativenes11
and combativeness; self-esteem and veneration; weight
and resistallce; time Qd tune; form and size, &c. In
Do1'zodbyGoogle
303
a word, this appears io h.e "the manner of conaection
between the organs of mind, as well as with its commu-
nications with the external world. We might ~ on
and enumerate the whole, and show their connection to
be a series of complicated triangles, the lines so crossing
and intersecting.with each other as to form a most per•
feet connection. The optic nerves form two sides of a
triangle, with apex toward the center, as well as all
Qther external avenues of light. Thus life itself-which
consists in motion and thought-is the result of light,
both internal and external. From the digestion of the
food and its assimnlation, as well as by· the absorption
of oxygen at the lungs and pores, the internal current
is put in motion, and from the ligl:it of the sun and oth-
er objects, the external produces an affect, and by at-
traction, meets in the medullary matter with its antago-
nist, and thus produces mind by the motion of its minute
globules or magnets. It will then be seen that all the
manifestations of mind, whether upon the skull, face or
elsewhere, are but poles formed by the points of these
rays of light, which manifestations are but monument•
or results of the action of the magnetic fluids.
"Thu1 !he vital light
Pervndc. thl'! 1w11nnlng eeu and heaving eart.,.,
\\"here teemlnr Nulure hrond• her myriad birtbr,.
Fili. 1•line lunl!ll of ull tbnl breathe or bud;
\Vurma 1be new be:1rt ond dye• the guobing blood;
\Yi1b life'• fir111park ln1pire1 tbe orgnuic frame,
A.ad aa ii w.-, renew• the 1ubtle ft•mc.
l..euv~•. lunp, Gnd sill•, Ibo vital ether breathe,
Ou eart1a•1 sreea 1nrface, ar die earth beneath.
Tbu1 li(e dloeordant elrmenlB urreals,
~ lb• noldou1, and the pure dige118;
Coinblne• wi1b H1b1 the fto<lt!alinr moN,
And giv"" uwlllle 1nlld1ty to Co•·
For tlli• 1he moon tbrou1h Heaven•1.blueeo11CGve C!Wler
.Aad Into mo1ion ebann• tile expanding !Wea.
WhUe earlb lmpe111oua round her ule rolla,
EllAlla tbe wat'r)' sene and 1ialu the polao, .
27
Do1'zodbyGoogle
So 1urat Ille failllful needle i. tlle pele,
·Tbo' 111ountalna rile betW~B an4 ocantroll .
Wldl ann.)1rlialble, bJ - attr,
onP tbe tlOW·......, er dn-llle r11pl4 ear.
tl!tOta di, oa,.,....__,wlpp, eqen4od bear
Till> 41101 cllerl4' lllre>11c' ~· ....cif air,"
Md &11ousb1a lnvPt. a111&e1, relledo ftlPd, .
·•
\Vitb li1b1nl°' •peed, o•er mo11ntaia, blll aii4dell.
•·
•• ·, • :!
' I
····· - : - ·· ' '. -;.;1 , J'.·!
:-::
Do1'zodbyGoogle
•
APPENDIX.
This shall certify, that about ,the n:tiddle of the month
of November, A. D. 1844, C. I<. B. m my employment,
was found laboring under an attack of the delirium tre-
mena-that on learning the state of his case; 1 immedi-
ately employed physicians distinguished for their pra().
tice in such cases-that they administered the Usual
remedies-that in about ten or twelve days, from the
moet violent forms of the disease, the patient exhibited.
evidences of approaching convalescence by sleeping for
a few hours, followed by rational conversation-'-that for
some three days he was every few hours vacillating
from a state of derangement to reason, when a relapse
took pJacet by which he became not only worte than he
ba8 been at any previous stage, but a raving maniat.
.All hope of his recovery was now abandoned, ~ofh
every auenti<>n was paid him by physicians, nurses and
friends. It became neceHary to prevent tel~de!Uuo­
tion, and to keep him ill a state of warmth, (he hmog
tom his bod and bedding in pieces) to biad hinnirith
strong cords firmly to his bedstead. · · .·
· ·At this star. 0ne of the ~ntleinen who WM ill••
~t of visiting him doPing llis aittlr.nesa, ·~-the
rropriety-u .caning inDr.·J.·H. Bagg4 aodttxperial-.
mg with the Mesmeric influence. .Accordingly at die
Do1'zodbyGoogle
306 APPENDIX.
time, tha 9th of December, when the patient had not
11Jept nor spoken rationally for some days, Dr. Bagg
commenced his operations by conveying him from his
bed into an adjoining room, in so weak a state that when
his feet touched the floor he evidently possessed no more
strength than an infant. At about ten o'clock, after a
very few minutes exercise on the part of the Doctor,
he was put to sleep, and in that state walked back to
his bed room. Having remained in this sleep about an..
hour, he waked in nearly as deranged a state as ever.
At 10 o'clock the Doctor again visited him, and put him
into a sleep which lasted three hours, and from which
he waked somewhat rational. He was then again put
to sleep, and rested quietly till morning, when I found
him in every respect rational and sensible of his situa-
tion, although very weak.
. On the morning of the 10th, Dr. Bagg again put him
-to sleep, to lay in that state, as he said, until noon, which
he did, and at one o'clock he was much refreshed. -and
evidently gaining strength. The Doctor now, after ad-
ministering as in the morning, refreshing teas, put him
into a sleep in which he remained till night. At six
o'clock the Doctor called, and .after pr11ctising with what
be ·termed "equalizing :long passes," was leaving him
.without putting him to sleep, when I remonstrated, urg-
ing him to do so, inasmuch as his nurses and·attendants
were wom out with fatigl,le. He, however, convirlce.d
me tbat it was better that he should remain awake until
mne o'clock, when bQ said ho Wo~Jd "will him to deep
ft'om his OIV1' house," adistance of three-fourths of a
mile. This I ridiculed, and with some friends.await~
the1"eault with arrliety and interest. ·But at the precise
hour na'!1ed, .mu?h to our surprise, the, patient, by the
iipumodic twitching ofthe nerves throughout the whole
ay»tem, showed us.·that th~ Doctor. waa working upon
his:promise,i.an<J in ·a minute he W.l\t in a eoood 1leep.
. • . ·: . 'f'
og11zcdbyGoogle
.Aitf'atllfX.
from whi~b- we found it Hnpotisible to •wake him, .eiithe1·
by noises OJ':11hakiog his perao!A
Oq tAe mdrning of the 11th, the patient ~me t>U\ of .
.his sleep, perfectly 9ElnsibJe, and much stro~·, but with
an eye highly inflamed and suffused with red blood.
Tho Doctor continued his "long paBBeB," breathing upt>n
>the eye, and making puses over it. At six o'cfock- in
'the evening, the same treatment, when the Doetol' left
- .him to be put to sleep at nine o'clock. Meaniime, 1 had
sta~ to my friends th~ fact of Dr. ~s ~ll~ ihe
pahent to sleep from his house tho mght prenous, and
they expressing a doubt as to the polSibility of one man
possessing such control over another, and anlliiety to see
the experiment tried, I invited them to visit the patient
between the hours of six and seven o'clock, when I a~
posed they would meet the Doctor, and enter int<> an
understanding upon the subject, but he had made bis
visit, and met them on the street on hiJ way h<>llle.
The request being made that he should retur.n, aQd, .U.
ford them an opPortunity to witne11a his upc.rimenta,
be stated that he had parted with the patient for the
night., aBd declined to do s<>; but some one (If \be party
bantering hiin as to his ability to will him wsleep fJ!Ofn
a distance, he agreed, th.at instead of returning to the
pa\iMt. he wouW proceed to hilt ewn house, and from
thence tt>ill him 'to sleep, at a quatter before the nine
o'clock he had named. ·The party :tbtin. ~ceecled to
the lodgings of the patient, where they found him U,P1
and conversing freely. At.half past 8 o'clock, 1 advis-
ed him to go to his bed, and at quarter before 9, the
evidences of being· put to sleep were obvious to WI all,
and he was soon so sound that no noise could awaken
him. Agreeably to the_promi1e of the Doctor, the right
ann then raised graduall)', bringi~ the hand nearly in
contact with the head--aileo, the right leg, raising the
~t. An ineffectual experiment wu then made to awir
ken him, by thrueting a pin in&o tM fteahy part of bill
s;•
0191t1zed oyGoogle
/
APNNDUI:.
shouldar. It made no impression whatever, bat 80ine
yet suggesting the~r doubt8, a committee from the num-
ber vOlunteered to visit tke Dootor, and ask him if it
was in hia power to waken and put him to sleep again,
within a stipulated time. The Doctor at first doubted
his ability to bring him out of his sleep at that distance,
never having tried the experiment, but said he would
exert himself to do so. The time was then fixed, and
after comparing time- pie<!es, the gentlemen rbturned,
stating the particulars of the arrangement. According-
ly, at halfjast ten oclock, the time named, the patient
awoke, an conversed rationally for ten minutes, when
he was·suddenly put to sleep, and although great efforts
were made by noises, pricking, pinching, &c. he slept
soundly till morning. · · ·
On the 12th and 13th, the Doctor administered the
same 'treatment for the general complaint, and for the
eye, as. on the morning. of the 11th; and on the 14th
t.he patient was perfectly cured and walking·the streets,
and is now a strong healthy tnan.
. . . E. J.. ROBERTS.
· The underBigned certify that :they were witnesses of
.the most material facts ·coatained .fo the above 11tate-
ment. .. I. S. RoWLAHD,
Arm1t11:w MAcK, . , )f. L. CAR'*LL,
. s. M'CKNIGRT, ', 1R. GtLLE'P.
Dated Detroi4 ·Feb. ao, 1845; · ·
. . . . t ... '· ~ .-~ . . -\~ . ." .: ~
.. . \
" ' '· . .- . , , "·'.· L• 1 ·'.
·.. ·• r~·· 1; :~. 1 -~~: ··~ ·: • .•• ~:
• 1 ~ ; ' J .•
1 h -·
..
' : : J.
t
)·'. ..-\ . ... f : ~ - ~t : ·, : :1J . : ... ·; . . ·r·.. · . ~ ,,,; ''· · ~, !· :r..; .1r..-
-aW4 .,J' >'....ul . :~:; { ·· .""fj..,., ·.f ·.. ~ i -, •": t ;,. ,, . · , .~ i . !t. •. 1\ . j ')'..).,
t.1 'to l' t.~ ·{,:,..;t »fl ()f1• · 1: ·11; ~ -,, , _,.,·,.:J v<l .•11 ' !1 n··ii
··~-
Do1'zodbyGoogle
•
NOTE.-From the haste with which the preceding
pages have been committed to the press, many errors
have undoubtedly crept in, but we trust they are mostly
typographical, and not calculated to change the sense.
Do1'zodbyGoogle
•
Do1'zodbyGoogle
_, .
t ' .•
CONTENTS.
PART FIRST.
Chap. 1.-1\fognetism in general.
Chap. II.-1\Iagnetism and Electricity compared.
Chap. III.-Oxygen with Hydrogen gases.
Chap. IV.-Hydrogen gas.
Chap. V.-Two kinds of light.
Chap. VI.-Light the Magnetic Fluid.
Chap. VIL-Magnets from light.
Chap. VIII.-Caloric or Magnetism in a state of repul-
sion.
Chap. IX.-The subject continued.
Chap. X.--Magnetism. .
Chap. XL-Digression. Intricacy of the subject. Rea-
soning from effects to causes.
Chap. XJL-Mechanical force or power.
Chap. XIII.-Chemical affinity.
Chap. XIV.-The earth's formation.
Chap. XV.-The science of numbers.
Chap. XVI.-Geometrical science.
Chap. XVII.-Elements of language. Grammar.
Chap. XVIII.-Logic.
Chap. XIX.-Vcgetable lifo.
PAR'f SECOND.
Chap. J.-Ani~al life.
Chap. 11.-Anatomy and physiolog'7.
Chap. III.-Thc dige1tivo cirde.
c, .zed by Google
312 CONTENTS.
Chap. IY.-'f.he muscularcircle, membranes and gland..
Chap. V.-The brain and nerve11.
Chap. VI.-Food, nutrition and assimulation.
Chap. VII.-Connection of mind and body. Formati<>n
of mind.
Chap. VIII.-The effect of mind lip(ln mind.
Chap. IX.-Minimum and maximum degrees of mag-
netism, by conversation and eloquence.-
Manifestations. Different degrees. Tem-
peraments.
Chap. X.-Magnetism as more particularly applied to
. man, or what is commonly called Animal
Magnetism. Clairvoyance, Catalepsy, Palsy.
Chap. XI.-Disease a want of equilibrium of the mag·
netic fluids. Homreopathy. Allreopathy.
Chap. XII.-Diseases. Allreopathic remedies, or the
common practice of medicine, as taught in
. our colleges.
Chap. XIII.-Cure of disease by magnetism. Exalta-
tion of natural remedies. :Effect of the
will.
Chap. XIV.-Cases cured by the will, direct and indi-
rect. Others helped, and natnral reme-
dies associated with them.
Chap. XV.-Phrenology proved by magnetism. Re-
version of poles. .
Chap. XVI.-Theory of mind. Manife1tation1. Polea.
. Reversion of poles.
. . . . '•
.. .. . e"
'.' · ;. . .)
' ..
