{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__hall___mesmeric_experiences.pdf","mytitle":"Mesmeric Experiences","mylang":"de"}
'"MESMERIC
EXPERIENCES.
BY
SPENCER T.)IALL,
AUTHOROP
"TilE FORESTER'S OFFERING," "RA~fhLES IN THE COUNTRY," ETC.,
AND EDITOR OP THE " PHRENO•)[AONET."
..
. ..,·- . . .
. . .. ...
.... : :.·. :··.:
.. . . ., .
LONDON:
.... .. . ... .
: ....:.: •' . ;.: ·..
...: :.: : ·. :.·. ~ ·. :
~
H. BAILL..JERE, 219, REGENT STREET,
AND.J. OLLIVIER, 59, PALL :M:ALL;
XACL.LCBLA.N AND STEWART, EDINBURGH; WILLIA!l LANG, GLASGOW;
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS,
1845.
[ENTEilED AT 8TAT10NJ:B8' BALL.)
Digitized by Google
C. WlUTING, BEAUI't>P'l" HOUSE, STRAND.
.. .. .. ~ ..... ..
...... ~ ........... :
' ,_ ~ ~ : : .. ..
•'
. .
..
Digitized by Google
TO THE FRIENDS
WHO HAVE STOOD TRUE TO HIM IN THE HOUR OF TRIAL,
THIS LITTLE WORK IS INSCRIBED,
WIT:Q THE UNDIJIIINISHED ESTEEM AND
GRATITUDE OF
THE AUTHOR.
Digitized by Google
o;9,tized by Coogle
PREFACE.
MAGNETISM and MESMERISM are analogous in their
derivation, and, as scientific terms, are a~ke purely
conventional. The first, according to tradition, is from
Magnes, a. shepherd of Mount Ida, who, discovering
the adhesion of loadstone to the metallic end of his
crook, made the fact known to mankind, and gave his
name to the principle. Mesmer, a. modem German
physician, having observed the manifestation of a simi-
lar principle in the affinity of animal bodies, and shown
how one may through this agency be imbued with the
qualities of another, has in like manner transmitted his
own name with his theory-the practice independent
of theory having been common in all ages. The
Author's reason for adopting the term Mesmerism in
preference to that of Magnetism, is merely that it has,
from the circumstances named, a. more specific signi-
fication, and is, from its frequent use by writers on
the subject, become more popular. If, however, an
Digitized by Google
PREFACE.
equally convenient and stiU more si'gnificant name could
be given, he would be one of the first to adopt it; but
hitherto, though several other terms have been suggested
to him, none of them seemed to possess both those desi-
- derata. Valentine Greatrakes, who c~ued diseases by
passes and stroking a hundred years before the time
of Mesmer, was endowed with dignity, modesty, and
benignity so evident, that were it not for its want of
euphony the Author would have adopted his name
raiher than that of Mesmer, because of his priority and
the beauty of his character. But as it is more with
the use than the worship of a name we arc now con-
cerned, the candid Reader will not quarrel with words
provided he be able clearly to comprehend their mean-
ing. This, it is hoped, will be a sufficient apology for
those employed in the narrative here submitted to his
perusal and verdict.
59, Pall Mall, Londols,
Sept. 11, 1845.
ERRATA.
Page 3, line 16, for Chaburns, read ChadbUJ'II&
Page 1o, line 24, for "hypotism," read "hypnotism.'
Page 27, line 27, for 1011hriquet,_read sobriquet.
Digitized by Google
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER L
PAGE
The Author witnesses M. La Fontaine's Experiments at Shef-
field-M. La Fontaine's Appearance-Character of the Tests
-The Phenomena are convincing-Dr. Holland and Others
begin Experiments, and the Author .becomes an Inquirer...... 1,
CHAPTER II.
The Author tries Experiments-Character of the Phenomena
-Supposed illustrations of Phrenology •.....•..•.••..•............ 5
CHAPTER m.
Further apparent Corroborations of Phrenology-Case of Re-
markable Susceptibilityto External Impressions-Indications
ofDistinct Faculties.not previously recognised.................... 8
CHAl'TER IV.
Influence of the Author's Experience upon his own Mind-Laws
of Sympathy and Coincidence-Striking Instance-Mesmeric
illustrations ............................................................... 13
CHAPTER V.
Public Lectures, Lecturers, and their Traducers-The Enemies
of Mesmerism compose the very Class to which some would
confine its Practice-Popular Treatment of the Question con-
trasted with the Conduct of some in Select Circles-The
Right of" the Common People" to a knowledge of its Powers. 19
CHAPTER VI.
Mesmeric Results not to be confounded with Miracles-Reasons
for believing in the Transmission of Health, as well as of
Disease, by Contagion-Dlustrative Cases introduced............ 25
Case. I.-" Little Henry." ................................................. 27
Case rr.--cure of Hysteria................................................ 33
Case III.-Epilepsy at Halifax .......................................... 35
Case IV.-Cure of Headache and Nausea.............................. 36
Case V.-Cure of Tic-doloureux ...............•........................ ib.
Case VI.-Spinal Affection Cured....................................... 37
Case VIL-Pain and Swellings Cured ................................. ib.
Digitized by Google
Vlll CONTENTS.
PAGE
Case VIII.-Stiffiless and Swelling of the Joints Removed .•...• 38
Case IX.-Inflammation of the Eye Cured........................... ib.
Case X.-Another Cure·of Tic-doloureux ............................ 39
Case XI.-Extension of a Contracted Leg ........................... ib.
Cases XII. to XV.-Cure and Relief of Deafness .................. 40
Cases XVI. and XVII.-Stammering, &c. ........................... 43
Case XVIII.-" Natural Mesmerism" .................................. 47
Case XIX.-Cure of General Debility................................. ib.
C~ XX.-Resto~ati~n of an Impotent Arm and Hand by
Local Mesmensm ...................................................... 48
Case XXI.-Cure of St. Vitus's Dance................................. 50
Case XXII.-Relief of Neuralgia ....................................... ib.
Case XXIII.-Rclief of Paralysis....................................... 51
Cases XXIV. to XXVIII.-Various Disorders Cured or Re-
lieved ........................................................................ 52
Case XXIX.-Muscular Contraction Relieved........................ 54
Case XXX.-Relief of an Impotent Limb in Public............... 55
Case XXXL-Removal of Gangrenous Sores by Distant Treat-
ment ......................................................................... 56
Case XXXII.-Cure of a Grievous Disorder of the Nerves...... 58
Case XXXIII.-Cure of Toothache .................................... ib.
Case XXXIV.-Cure of Lameness .................................... 59
CHAPTER VII.
Case of Miss Harriet Martineau-Author's Interview with Mr.
T. M. Greenhow-TheirVisit toMissMartineau atTynemouth
-Characterof thePhenomena arising from theAuthor's Mani-
pulations-Process continued by Miss Martineau's Maid-
Completion of Cure by the Voluntary Services of a Lady-
Inferences ...........•...................................................... 63
CHAPTER VIII.
Experiments upon, or affecting the Author-By Mr. J. Rodgers
and Mr. Fowler-By a little Boy-By a Sceptic-By Mr.
Somerville Beckhaus-By H. S. Thompson, Esq.-By Dr.
Elliotson-By 1\Ir. Holbrook-By Mrs. Howitt, and othei'IJ.... 76
CHAPTER IX.
Supersentient Phenomena-Patient Hearing through the Opera-
tor-Simultaneous Muscular Action of Operator and Patient
in separate !rooms-Community of Taste-Clairvoyance-
"Mental Travelling''-Introvision-Mental Feeling, Taste, &c. 87
CHAPTER :X.
Ultimate Tendencies of Mesmerism-Reasons why it is most
believed in by the Meek and Open-minded-Its Practice
in the Olden Times, and by various Nations at the Present
Time under other Names-Conclusion .............................. 96
Digitized by Google
.
... .# ../' ~ •
" ... .J '
,. "' " .. i
~ ......!<....~;
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
CHAPTER I.
THE AUTBoB WITNESSES M. LA FoNTAINE's ExPElliJ[ENTS AT
SKEPFIELD-Y. LA FoNTAINE's APPEABAN~HABACTEa oP
THE TESTs-THE !'HENOJIENA ABE CONVINCING-DB. HoLLAND
AND Orm:as BEGIN EXPEJWI[ENTS, .uro THE AUTBo:a BECOMES
.AN lNQUIBEL
IT was by invitation, as a member of the press, that
I first attended a mesmeric conversazione. The lamp·
lit room in which it was held was large and lofty, and
the company numerous. An ample platform was ele-
vated at the end and was occupied on my entrance by
the experimenter, whose appearance was calculated to
· awaken curiosity and wonder in a high degree. He
was about middle age, slightly above middle size, with
a well-set muscular frame, and was clothed in black.
His hair was dark, his eye bold, powerful, and steady;
and his beard, which was very profuse, descended to his
bre!l.St. This was M. La Fontaine, who, as the prelimi-
naries to the evening's operations proceeded, was joined
by one and then otliers, to the number of half-a-dozen
medical men and lawyers, all characterised by an air of
mixed importance, anxiety, and acuteness, as though
upon them devolved the duty of there, then, and for
ever laying open a profound mystery, or exploding a
cheat. The audience at first was evidently under the
B
Digitized by Google
2 ~~S~I~ EXPERIENCES.
influence.Qf'~rlerlainty as to whether the experimenter,
who-.spot:e··.cinly in French, should be most regarded
as.. a deluded mystic or a designing quack. To suppose
_Jii.fn.at"once a rational and hon~ man seemed out of
. -:_·-.~question. This feeling was, however, considerably
. ~ :-.: changed before the close of the experiments, which
· · : were somewhat as follows:-
A young and slender woman, of a dull rather than
an excitable temperament, and dressed in black, slowly
ascended the platform, and was placed in a chair. Two
of the medical men having reported the state of her
pulse, the mysterious-looking mesmerist nowapproached,
and deliberately taking her hands, placed his thumbs
to hers; their eyes met, for about five minutes there
was an intense mutual gaze; and then, as the lids
began to quiver, the pupils turned up, her respiration
faltered, her head slowly fell, and breathing out a pro-
tracted sigh, she passed, or appeared to pass, into a deep
and stolid sleep. Slow passes were now made from her
head to her feet, her arms were gently raised and made
rigid by the manipulations of the operator, and thus
they remaiped nearly the space of two hours hori-
zontally extended, without quivering or flinching;
whilst snuff, ammonia, lighted matches, and even a.
burning candle, were repeatedly applied to her lips and
nose, and pins and lancets to her ~rs, cheekS, and
eyelids. The following night I attended again. The
same inductive prOCCES was repeated with some trifling
variations, followed by the same barbaritiesin the name
of tests, with the additional one of a galvanic battery
made to bear upon tqe patient with a force six times
greater than could have been sustained by any medical
man in the company, but without producing any further
effect upon her than there would have been upon a.
corpse! Some of the audience applauded, whilst others
deprecated these procee~. No rational being could
doubt the abnormal conditiOn of the woman, whateve1·
might be the medium through which it had been in-
duced, and I departed from the scene with mingled
• Digitized by Google
.ol.
.I
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 3
feelings of curiosity and awe, still dubious as to the
extent to which this power might be commanded by ·
the generality of men, and whether those susceptible to
it were few or many.
In a very short time I became more enlightened on
these matters. Among thoee who had taken part with
M. La Fontaine in these experiments, and watched
with no ordinary acuteness their bearing at every
point, was our distinguished townsman, Dr. G. Calvert
Holland, who endeavoured, as a more rational test than
any of those he had seen tried, to produce similar
effects upon some of his own family and domestics, in
which he soon succeeded even to a greater degree. I
forgot to say that these occurrences were at Sheffield,
where several other highly intelligent residents, in-
cluding the Chaburns, opticians, Mr. John Fowler,
and Mr. John Rodgers, soon brought further evidence
before inquirers, and mesmerising became general
throughout the neighbourhood. It is to associating
with the last-named gentlemen that I owe much of my
initiatory knowledge. We very frequently expen-
mented together, and freely opened our views on what
transpired to each other. . .
A private society, composed of the leading scientific
men of the town, was also established for the investiga-
tion of mesmeric phenomena, and of this I was elected
an hono:ary member in consequence of some apparently
new and mteresting experiments to which I had inCI-
dentally drawn attention; but then, and for some time
after, there was no likelihood of my becoming so pub-
licly identified with the queation as events have made
me. From childhood I had been a student of Nature
in her various phases, and had watched her unfoldings
everywhere with a loving eye and heart. Having
communed with her in the silence and solitude of the
mountain-top, and where old forests whispered their
deep music to the inner sense; having also in an open
and passive mood allowed human life and action, as it
were by a species of mental photography, to make
B 2
Digitized by Google
4 :MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
their legitimate impress upon my soul, I now deter·
mined to receive in the same spint whatever might be
revealed to me thro~h the agency of mesmerism-to
·be unresisting as a child, with Truth for my reacher;
and having avoided all importuning on the one hand,
and thwartins on the other, to be thankful for what-
ever information might be thus obtained. It is simply
the reflex of what was so learned I am giving to the
world in the following pages.
..r~:·: .
Digitized by Google
liESliERIC EXPERIENCES. 5
CHAPTER ll.
TBE AUTHOR TRIES EXPEilDIENTB-CBABACTER OF TBE l'BENO.
XENA.-8UPPOBED l.t.LUSTRA.TIONS 01' PHRENOLOGY.
THE beginning of my career as a mesmeric experi-
menter, was as purely incidental and simple as that of
my acquaintance with the experiments ofothers. .:Being
9-eeply in~~st~_<L~ phrenology, .and enjoying some
reputation among.my friendS as a manipulator, I was
one evening selected by a party to try experiments for
testing the (then) newly-propounded theory ofPhreno- ,
~e$1Perism. Our patient was a young man of the '
name of Joseph Flower, who had first been rendered
somnolent by Mr. Rodgers making passes over the top
of his head and along the course of the spine, whilSt
standinJ;r behind him. As he became more susceptible,
he could be rendered rigid or :flexible, or be attracted
and repelled, by the operator at a considerable distance,
the intervention of a stone wall, or any other solid and
opaque body, presenting no obstacle to the in:lluence ;
and it is a well-attested fact, that on one occasion he
was most powerfully affected when the operator was
distant not less than three miles. Such, however, were
the results of that experiment as to forbid any repe-
tition ofit.•
On the evening in question, Flower having been
thrown into a profound mesmeric sleep by Mr. Rodgers,
we were placed en rapport, and on bemg gently pressed
• See Mr. J. Fowler's letterin the P:a.aENo.!UoNET, p. 87.
Digitized by Google
6 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
liby my finger in the centre of that region marked on ·
\the common busts and charts as Veneration, he slowly
' bent his knees, and raised anaThEm closed his hands in
sn attitude of the most intense devotion. On my touch-
ing his eyelids he began to pray. On touching the
region of Self-Esteem, after the influence had been dis-
pelled from Veneration, he assumed an attitude of
great personal con..c:equence ; and on this point of con-
tact being left for that of Approbativeness, he began to
adonise himself, and to strutaboutwith a consummate air
of suavity and complacency. He whistled and sang on
the region of Tune being operated upon ; under that
of Philo-progenitiveness dreamed of nursing ; of quarrel-
ling under Combativeness ; and so of several others. As '>
the patient was well known by us, and believed to P.~
i~orant of phrenology, these phenomena were con-
Sidered at the time very satisfactory and conclusive,
But as he afterwards eXhibited signs of lucidity in ,
such a degree as correctly to describe several articles,
especially defining the value and dates of various coins,
he1d over the top of his head by parties standing be-
hind him, the phenomena in th1s case might possibly
admit of explanation on other than phrenological prin-
ciples. It is, however, to the record of facts, and not
the discussion of theories, we are at present devoted.
As time passed on, other evidence of the same
character (making allowance, of course, for peculiar
jdios~crasies) became rife enough. By the cottage
fue-s1de, in Sherwood Forest, or in remote Yorkshire
valleys, where mesmerism had never been heard of
before, and where the parties operated upon did not
know the meaning of the word phrenology, I tried
the same experiments with analogical results, and
found that the most loutish plough-boys, shepherds,
smiths, and weavers, could thus have particularfaculties
so stimulated by these manipulations, as to manifest for
the time the most exalted powers of gesticulation,
oratory, and song, each according to his natural gift
or bent. There was one young man, of the name of
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 7
Wilkinson, a penknife cutler, of Sheffield, on whom
I operated before Dr. Elliotson, all.d William and Mary
Howitt and other friends, in.:J:._
QAd()l.l, and who in his
somniloquence composed the most beautiful poetry'
the theme of which might be changed, or modified,
in an instant, aa. I .moved my finger .from one part
qf. his head to ~other; and that w1thout inducing the
slightest pause, ·or a fault in the logic, or without in-
juring the.measure ~r rhyme of the poem in any d.egree!
On_tpuching .a pomt m the reg10n marked m the
po_pu}~rcharts as Ideality, he began to compose. If, in
addition to this, I touched Philo-prOf!enitiveness, he
would discourse of the beauty, affection, and innocence
of infantine life; or, under Inhabitiveness, of the scenes
of home and ofdomestic felicity. Under the influence
of Causalif:J!, he would inquire in themost philosophical
yet impass10ned manner into the origin of nature.
Add.Wonder, and he would penetrate into the dimmest
regions of mystery; Self-esteem, and he would rhapso-
dise on the natural dignity of man, and his privilege
to explore the vast and the marvellous ; VeneratWn,
and he would bow with submission, and expatiate on
the goodness and majesty, and sufficiency of God;
Hope, and he would look with deli~ht for communion
with supernal intelligences, and smg of Heaven-
thus developing the poetry that was in him, as I have
known others develope, in an equal degree, their mecha-
nical, oratorical, or histrionic powers. .Those who know
me and my previous writings, will not wonder that
with evidence like this to encourage me, I prosecuted
my investigations with increasing vigour and delight.
Digitized by Google
8 :MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. .
CHAPTER ill.
FtraTBElt APPARENT CORROBORATIONS OF PHRENOLOGY-CASE OF
REMAR'ItAJILE SUSCEPTIBILITY TO EXTERNAL IMPRE88IONB-IN-
DICATION8 OF Dl:STINcr FACULTIES NOT PBEVIOUSLY RBCOGNISED.
ONE evening I was trying experiments with Mr. D.
G. Goyder, editor of the Phreno/o.qical.Almanac, and
Mr. Henry Atkin, at the house of the latter intelligent
friend in Sheffield. The patient was. an uneducated
girlJ w:ho had never been mesmerised before, and ifnot
totally ignorant of phrenology, could only have caught
of it the most vague popular idea. She was passed
into a deep mesmeric sleep, by me, in about twenty
minutes, in the presence of Mrs. Atkin, and then
brought before the rest of the company without appear-
ing in the least disturbed. On my touching the region
of Tune, she broke forth in a strain of melOdy as sweet
as it was loud and clear; and gave a few equally strik-
ing indications of the functions of other faculties. But
something followed that surprised and puzzled us, since
when Mr. Goyder suggested that I should excite her
Imitativeness, and I touched (as it appeared on close scru-
tiny) a point rather towards the backofthe space allotted
to that organ, she responded in terms quite at variance
with our anticipation, manifesting diligence or in-
dustry in a. most significant and powerful manner-but
nothing of imitation. She persisted that she was at
work, not imitatin~ any body, and would not be hin-
dered by our quest10ns and interruptions. This was so
contrary to the suggestions of Mr. Goyder and to my
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 9
own anticipation-so opposed to what we understood of
phrenology-as to make us for a time suspend our
judgment; and the patient being awoke, declared her· ·
self oblivious of all that had passed in her sleep.
A .. few days afterwards I met incidentally With a
young man, who had first been mesmerised on Mr.
Braid's plan of staring continuously at some motionless
object, by which he was thrown into a state re.."Cmbling
an epileptic fit and made so painfully susceptible to
nearly all external influences that the slightest atmo-
spheric changes, as well as the forms and qualities of
the objects lie handled, would afterwards affect him
most strangely, although a. person of great muscular
energy, :firinness, and sagacity. I knew him on one
occasion to be so affected by the mere handling or
J>resence of a skull, although he was not aware of
the source of the influence, as to become an imper-
sonation of the character of the man to whom it had
belonged. Phrenologically speaking, it must have been
the cranium of one sadly deficient in all the cheerful and
hopeful chara.cterist).cs of humanity, but given to anger
and to alimentive gratification ; probably drunkenness.
It had been used by Edmund Kean, when representing
Hamletin a. provincial theatre, and was, for that reason,
valued as a. relic by the young man to whom I allude,
in whose possession it had been only a few hours, when
he became wretched-despondent to the utmost degree;
out of his usual sympathy with what was ~ood and
beautiful, and, as the evening advanced, delirious, with
a determination to suicide. He could not tell me the
cause of this, nor was I then myselfaware of it ; but sat
up with him all night to prevent him carrying his pur•
pose into execution. It was a nigh~ of h?rrors; but I
kept calm and hopeful myself, wluch With thankful-
ness I may observe is generally the case where my aid
is likely to be of benefit to a patient, however violent
his parox.~s. Next day, while he was still in a hot
fever, delirious and most wretched, by a. mere incident
I detected the cause ; had the noXIous object taken
Digitized by Google
10 HESMEBIC EXPERIENCES.
away ; removed his fever, reducing, in a few minutes,
the pulse from 120 to 80, by what Deleuze calls the long
passes; and he became almost instantaneously well; for
which I raised my thoughts to Heaven in gratitude.
My firm conviction, founded upon what I have seen in
this and other cases, is, that_
diseases presenting symptoms
similar to the foregoing might often be removed by
means as simple, if we better understood the connexion
between the world without and the world within-ex-
ternal nature as connected with our internal sympathies
and antipathies.
"Toevery form of being is assign'd
An active principle, howe'er removed
From sense and obeervation; it subsists
In all things; in all natures; in the stars
Of azure heaven; the unenduring clouds;
In flower and tree, and every pebbly stone
That paves the brook; the stationary rock,
The moving waters, and the invisible air."
These expressive · lines are from Wordsworth, who
might, according to the fact stated above, have drawn
another illustration even from the grave itself.•
And the question arises as to whether or not self-
mesmerism~ or "hypotism," does not mainly differ from
the common results of " magnetic" manipulation in this,
that it sometimes quickens the susceptibility of the
patient to external impressions-to the influence of in-
animate objects-without supplying or generatin~ the
additional animal force necessary for sustaining him in
his new condition. But to proceed.
Finding this young man so susceptible that I could
either quicken or suspend sensation in any part of his
body-could, in fact, lock or unlock his jaw by operating
upon his toes even-! thought that, with judicious
treatment, he would be a good subject for phreno-
mesmerism; and so I found him, always corroborating
the doctrines of Gall when I attempted to " magnetise"
• For many curious illustrations of this and other mysterious
principles, read THE SEERESS OF PREVORST, translated by Mrs.
Crowe. London: J.C. Moore, IS45.
Digitized by Google
HESHEBIC EXPERIENCES. 11
the brain ~y touching the centre of those s~ces given
by that philosopher to the organs he had discovered.
One day, however, on my touching, as I thought, the
region ofImitativeness, he commenced with great ener~
the same movements of his hands as those required m
the trade he worked at--that ofa file-cutter. Thinking
this might be really a manifestation of Imitativeness, I
asked him what he was doing. His reply was, "Why,
don't you see? Cutting files, to be sure. Don't bother
me." "Who have you seen cutting files?'' was my next
question. " Why, don't you see that I am cutting them
myself?" was his reply. "Well," I continued, " but
why are you cuttingthem?" "Because," said he, "thel
are wanted, and if you hinder me in this way, I shant
be able to get them done soon enough." At the close
of this parley, my finger-end accidentally slipped a little
forward, when he began to manifest imitation by mock-
ing every sound that was made. The above indication
of diligence, it should be remembered, resulted from
my exciting the same J.>al!i in this patient as in Mr.
Atkin's servant; but, m both cases, altogether inde-
pendent of my anticipation: in the first, in opposition
to a direct verbal suggestion; and, in the second, in op-
position to the patient's own ideas of phrenologr.
. The thought now struck me, that as most if not all
of the other functions had been so accurate:ty and
strikingly indicated in these cases that it would require
any one who might attempt to simulate them to be at
least a Combe in phrenology, a Locke in metaphysics,
and a Garrick in acting ; smce the patients were too
little educated to be more than passive subjects in the
matter-and especially as this manifestation of di-
ligence or industry was not less striking and charac-
teristic of some distinct function than were the in-
dications of those faculties already recognised.-Mr.
La Roy Sunderland might possibly be correct in his
hypothesis of a great amplification, and that what I now
saw was the natural language of the moral faculty of
Diligence, the organ of which might be seated in that
Digitized by Google
12 XESHERIC EXPERIENCES.
part of the head. Acting upon this idea, and avoiding
as much a possible any design or suggestion as to the
results, I afterwards proceeded, by minute changes of
the point of contact, overthe entire head of this patient,
and the heads of others in the same way ; some of my
friends and corr~ndents have done the same with ainu-
Jar results; and I am bound to state my conviction, thatif
such results are corroborative of phrenolo~ at all, they
are equally so of a very great amplification of its de-
tails.* If, however, they can be referred with more
certainty and satisfaction to any other principle, nothing
will afford me more pleasure than to give way to it.
A pioneer and expositor, rather than a theorist, I wish
my opinions to be valued only according to the facts
upon which they are founded. I am well aware, and
have sometimes shown how, in certain conditions of
the patients, similar results may be obtained by ver-
bal suggestion, or association of ideas with particular
points of contact in any part of the body, so that they
may be trained to whistle or sing if we touch the nose,
and to weep with compassion ifwe touch the heel or the
elbow. I am also well aware of, and shall proceed to
describe some beautiful cases of silent mental commu-
nion between operator and· patient, by which the
mute intention or expectation of one is indicated by
the words or actions of the other. But how are we to
explain those phenomena arising with such consistency
-after a due ailowance for idiosyncratic differences has
been made-from what aJ?pears to be the paramount
action of particular faculties, when they are o:pposed
alike to the anticipations of the operator, the opimons of
the patient, and the verbal suggestions of bystanders,
if we do not recognise the hypothesis of a special in-
:O.uence through a distinct orga:Uc medium? For the
present I leave this question With the reader.
• See various articles on the subject by myae~ Mr. Stenson, and
others, in To PHli.ENo.MA.aNET, (Simpkin and Marshall), 1843; and
in the PmiENoLOOxc..u. A.l:.lluNAc, (Goyder, Glugow), 1845.
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 13
CHAPTER IV.
. !Nn.UENCE OJ' THE AtJTBoll'S EXPEmENCE UPON BI8 OWN MIND-
LAWS OJ' SDIPATBY .4.ND ComcmE!(CE-&rlWUNo lNSTANCE-
MI:B.MEillc lu.USTll.A.TIONS.
IN proportion as my knowledge of mesmerism ad-
vanced, and my faith and practice became more con-
fumed, my powers seemed to be strengthened, exalted
and refined. So startling, however, at times were the
views that burst upon me, as to cause me almost to
falter in my steps, as if on the threshold of a forbidden
world. Still there was seldom long wanting some in-
cident to guide and encourage me to a point at which
what had at first been strange and mysterious became
familiar and clear. Thus 1t was that I could at last
observe my own silent will or anticipation responded to
by another-in vigilance often as well as in sleep-
without any compunction, though not without a feeling
ofsolemnity, and a deep and increasing sense of my OWTt
responsibilityfor the consequences. And. after all, is there
(except that we perceive them in a new light), any
thing so very novel in these facts themselves ? Perhaps
it is only because we have not thought sufficiently of
the common laws of sympathy and coincidence that
they surprise us in the least. Without being mes-
merised at all by special manipulations, how often do we
think of persons who are approaching before they come
into sight! Has not one of the most familiar proverbs
arisen out of this fact? How often, too, we simul-
taneously write or start the same ideas in conversation,
Digitized by Google
14 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
although unable to find their origin in our previous
discourse, or to refer them to any other obvious
motive! My own recollection would furnish me with
a volume of examples-so perhaps would that of almost
any other equally: observant person. I have a friend
who is remarkably subject to this kind of experience;
and on one occasion he gave me the following striking
illustration of it:-
"I was (says he) when at Ackworth School, in
Yorkshire, warmly attached to another boy of my own
age, with whom I used to ramble, and to read and
converse on every topic in which we could be mu-
tually interested, and to whom I sometimes also spoke
•of my presentiments regarding our future career. At
the age of fourteen we were separated, and neither ot
us for more than ten years heard what had become of
the other. At l~h I became a traveller, and was
one day contemplatmg with a solemn yet ecstatic feel-
ing the Falls of Ni~ara, in the neighbourhood ofwhich
alSO were scattered several other parties similarly en-
gaged. As I continued to gaze, a gleam of sunshine
stole athwart one particular part of the scene with an
effect that thrilled me with wonder and delight. I
thought, whilst looking upon it, of my early reading
and hopes ; my wanderings with my friend, and our
conversations on the beauty and grandeur of nature;
and much did I marvel what had become of him, and
wish that he could then ~cipate in my exalted en-
joyment. From this reverie I was at length startled by
some one coming towards me from behind, and was
turning round with the intent of directing his attention
to the point of interest I have named. "He had, how-
ever, already seen it, and was advancing towards me
for the same purpose, animated by the same feeling,
the same recollections and associations ; and, sure
enough, it was the identical man at the moment occu·
pying!JlY own thoughts-my old schoolfellow who, like
myseu;,. had become a traveller; and thus, influenced .
by one motive, we met at the Falls of Niagara, more
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 15
than 3000 miles from Yorkshire, after years of fruitless
inquiry for intelligence of each other. What is still
more remarkable, we met three times afterwards in dif-
ferent parts of the world under circumstances equally
pecuJ.ial--and unlooked for!"
All such occurrences as the forego~ have usually
been explained upon the principle of comcidence; but
mesmensm has taught me that there may be in it some-
thing more than mere chance, which those who use the
term generally mean. Coincidence itself may have laws
as regular and determinate as they are subtle ; and
are not the following simple mesmeric incidents calcu~
lated in some slight <legree to elucidate them?
Being called one day to an intelligent :young lady, in
a very delicate state of health, and who had first been
mesmerised by a female friend, I found her so suscep-
tible that I had only to will her to be somnolent and
she almost immediately became so. Then, whatever I
did ideally she represented actually, even to the extent
ofconversing with one of her acquaintance, who was
not present. I thought of creation, Providence, and
prayer, when she knelt most gracefully, and lifted her
hands in silent adoration. Then of :firmness and inde-
pendence, when she arose .and assumed the appropriate
attitude of lofty determination. I next willed that she
should approach and shake hands with me, which was
scarcely accomplished when, on changing my mood to
one of scorn, she turned away and looked indignant.
Benignity and other sentiments in myself, were all re-
presented with equal truthfulness by her ; until, at last,
mdulging in a feeling of sober cheerfulness, in which
of course she joined, I awoke her from the trance by
.gentle wafting, when she was utterly oblivious of all
that had occurred. On a subsequent occasion, she de-
scribed occurrences at the moment they were transpiring
at a great distance, which in due course were proved
to have been exactly accordant with her words; and she
even went so far as to divine my very thoughts,with ac-
Digitized by Google
16 MESMERIC EXI'ERIENCES.
curacy. This was altogether without any observable
organic excitement.
.Another case, is that of a young man, at the time he
was influenced perfectly vigilant. It was about the
season of the bursting of buds and the early twitterin~
of building birds, with a half-misty, half-sunny and
balmy atmosphere, that I rode with him one morning
from York to Knaresborough, in company with others,
all very susceptible, though variously so, to mesmeric
influences. The beauty and quiet of the scenery and
the time ; the greening pastures and smiling river
glimpses; the bank-sides at hand just ready to flush into
floweriness, and the woods afar to rush into foliage, all
inspired me with admiration, love, and ho~, aw~
veneration and adoration into glowing activity; and l
mused delightedly yet reverentially on the beauties,
wonders, and mysteries of creation. A sudden burst
upon me of the valley of the Nidd with its manifold
charms had given an additional stimulus to these feel-
ings, and on retiring to our little room at the inn, as we
all sat together, I felt an unusual clearness and expan-
siveness yet subjection of spirit, like that described by
the primitive Quakers in their meetings, and which
I have sometimes experienced, too, when communing
deeply with great poets.
During this melting and ecstatic flow of feeling on
my own part, to which I gave little or no verbal utter-
ance, the young man in question on a sudden looked
wistfully towards me, and begged I would not think
him silly; but something, he said, like a slight electric
spark had thrilled the upper J?Ortion of his brain, had
extended its influence over his whole system, and he
believedhe should be compelled to kneel down, without
being able to explain the cause, except that an unusual
reverential feeling accompanied the impulse. I was
startled, but .said nothing to him of my thoughts, and
began to muse on the laws of SJillpathy. Only a short
time had passed in this mood, when he exclaimed,
Digitized by Google
!IESJIIERIC EXPERIENCES.
"How.stran~e! It has come again, but on the side of
my head (pomting to the region of Adhesiveness), and
you mu..ctt excuse me, but I feel forced to come to you;"
and he was leaning towards me from his chair, when·I
suddenly changed my mood to one ofpure beneficence.
Here he threw himself back; the kindliest smile uplit
his whole face; and, with one hand on his breast and
the other stretched out, he said he felt " as though he
could love all mankind at once;" and the influence had
fallen this time on the front of his head and in his
bosom ! This youth was an uneducated stocking-
weaver, a native of Ireland, at that time all but en-
tirely i~orant of phrenology. .
A different yet analogous illustration of the principle
of mental communion was, on another occasion, afforded
me by a man in the mesmeric sleep. During a public
lecture in the course of the evening he liad given
several most decided indications of lucidity-descnbing
with accuracy many places it was pretty evident he had
not visited or had described to hiin by others. From
the lecture we were accompanied by a medical gentle-
man who had acted as chairman, and who was desirous
of further evidence in private. The patient having been
again mesmerised, as he sat between us we began to try
upon him a series of experiments in phreno-mesmerism.
The conditions were that no organ should be named by
either of us except silently, in writing, upon a slip of
paper, to be carefully passed from one to the other of us
behind him: so that it was impossible he could receive
a su~gestion, even though his eyes had been open,
especially as it was arranged that I should excite the
different faculties our visiter might promiscuously name
by pointing my finger to the head without actual con-
tact. To 8Jl these operations the patient responded
with the greatest facility and accuracy-becoming more
susceptible and clear as the expenments proceeded,
untilne distinctly read the papers as they were handed
past the back of his head, and soon afterwards gave
with intense effect the natural language of any organ
c
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
my coadjutor thou~ht of, eveu -before he had time to
write the name of It I In this case, and on the same
occasion, other and still .more beautiful and striking
phenomena were educed; but to a world eo sceptical I
scarcely feel justified in giving them publication yet-
I although no dream, but matters of actual experience ·
that can never be obliterated from that page on which
our existence itself is written-the book of Nature, the
language of which is fads. They relate to prevision,
premonition, prophecy, and other principles, founded,
as I think, in man's spirituality. But let me not awaken
prejuruce. .
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 19
CHAPTER V.
PUBLIC LECTURES, LECTURERS, .urn THEIR TRADUCERs-Tm: ENE-
MIES OF MEsMERISM COJIIPOSE THE VERY CLASS TO WHICH SOME
'WOULD CONFINE ITS PRACTICE-POPULAR TREATMENT OF THE
QUESTION CONTRASTED 'WITH TBB CONDUCT OF SOlliE IN SELECT
CIRcLEs-Tm: RIGHT OP "TBB CoMMON PEoPLE" TO A. KNow-
LEDGE OF ITS PO'WEIUI.
THE scribes and phariseeS ofJudea, in the days of
old, would have excluded "the common people" (not-
withstanding their openness to receive tb.e truth with
gladness). frOm the blessings of rel.Won; and the scien-
tific scnbes and pharisees of modern England have
shown precisely .the same disposition with regard to
mesmensm. When I hear any one say a word against
popular lecturing on mesmerism, I invariably ask if he
or she be in circumstances, or endowed with the requi-
site powers, to command esteem in the same walk. If
su(ili people, when they are denouncing us, would just
" suppose a change of cases," they woUld probably be
led to modify their tone. I know, and regret 1t as
deeply as any one, that there are ignorant quacks and
impostors in mesmerism, the same as in medicine and
even in religion-men whose acts would stain any
cause-yet, on the other hand, I know some lecturers
on this subject whose conduct would raise and ennoble
any profession that had truth for its basis, as mes-
merism has. But it is said that by bringing the more
beautiful and subtle phenomena of mesmerism before
crowds, we are throwing "pearls before swine," and
c 2
Digitized by Google
20 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
into the lap of the ignorant an instrument that might
be used for base and unholy purp<>ses. In reply to this
I would ask, who are the wise 'I To what claSs and pro-
fession do the W akleys, and Radclyffe Halls, and Head-
lam Greenhows belong? Is the editor of the Athenreum
a specimen of" mind among the spindles," or hard and
impervious to truth as the spindle itself? Miss Martineau
and other well-meaning writers should have weighed
these things before so unmercifully and indiscriminately
condemning the whole class oflecturers. Not that I am
blind to all possibility of evil, but because there has been
too much BJ?Ccial pleading against us is it that I advert
to these pomts With somewhat of earnestness-it may
seem of severity; but benevolence and a hope for the best
accompany the allusion. Do we put out the domestic
fire because Moscow was destroyed, or because some in-
cendiary may have burnt our neighbour's house? We
educate even children to use it properly, and then
trust them with it as we would ourselves. So we may
the people with mesmerism. Indeed, immense volumes
might be filled with instances of the beneficial use of
mesmerism by " the common people," who obtained
the elements of their knowledge from public lecturers;
y-et quite as much might be said, on the other side, of
the insult and misrepresentation to which its advocates
have been subjected by the literary and scientific mag-
nates of the day; and that not merely in popular lecture-
halls but in hospitals, colleges, dignified societies, and
even in private drawing-rooms. Further: there is not on
record, so far as I am aware, a single instance of its
criminal abuse by one of the common-that is, of the
workin\{
1~ople. One of the professional railers
against · Martineau did allude, m a most indelicate
spirit, to some case of the kind. But who was the re-
puted criminal ? A PHYSICIAN ! " The church-
yards tell no tales," says a shrewd old proverb; but
there are and have been doctors and other learned
men with much to answer for in the world to come;
and it would be quite as rational because of this
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 21
to denounce the whole of the medical profession, in
which there are several of the noblest spirits of the
age, as, for the forestated reasons, to run down " the
common people" and the lecturers by whom they love
to be instructed when nobody else attempts to instruct
them. ·
My becoming a lecturer on mesmerism was as simply
a matter of course as my becoming an inquirer. In the
summer of 1842, when on a tour among the mountains
of Derbyshire, I descended one evening to the inn at
Castleton to rest, when mesmerism chancing to be a
subject of conversation, I was asked what I knew of it,
and in reply mentioned some of the occurrences already
related in this book. Several of the friendly people
present, being much interested by what they heard,
desired me to come again and give them a lecture with
e~perimental illustrations. On reaching home I named
the subject to Mr. Rodgers, who consented to accom-
pany me on what appeared so curious yet pleasant
an excursion, and our meeting was fixed for a Saturday
evening. A small but fashionable party attended from
Buxton, with several of the townspeople, and the ex-
periments were satisfactory. Still I had no idea of
becoming a professional lecturer till, in the month of
November ot the same year, a similar request was
made by the cQmmittee of the-Sheffield Mechanics' In-
stitution, and the result not only astounded me, but
appeared completely to revolutionise my destiny, and
to give at the time an impulse to mesmerism that was
felt through the country.
1\ry first public lecture in Sheffield was in the large
assembly-room where M. La Fontaine's experiments
had been previously given. There was little need now
to resort to the old tests. Operator and subjects operated
on being so well known in the town, and so many of
the townspeople having experimented for themselves,
th.e room was filled with hundreds who came to believe
and learn, and hundreds went away unable to gain ad-
mission. To remedy this difficulty, the Amphitheatre
Digitized by Google
22 JIIESHERIC EXPERIENCES.
was engaged by the_
committee for another lecture; but
even that large building was filled from the stage to the
roof, it is supposed, by not less than three thousand
people, and ~more than a thon&ll.d who came were
unable to gam admission-when yet another lecture
followed in which an equal interest was taken.
In York and Nottingham, where I was equally weU
known, having formerly been in both :places connected
with the press, lUilJ!il!U".desire was evmced to see the
experiments, and not less interest manifested in the re-
~._ts. Doctors and educators who came to oppose.
remained to approve. Not less than three hundred
other experimenters came publicly before the country;
and it was utterly impossible for some of them, under the
circumstances, again to retire into their original pri-
vacy.
Since then I have experimented, by invitation, in
almost every large town from London to Dundee. In
the most fashionable and aristocratic, as well as in .the
most grave, scientific circles, the phenomena have been
viewed with all the gradations of regard, from intense
rational delight down to a meaningless quiz, a shrug,
or a simper. But I am bound to say, after all I
have experienced, that in no rank of society have I
ever seen a more intense yet quiet and philosophical
interest evinced in mesmerism, than by some of the
large popular audiences in the manufacturing towns
of Yorkshire and Lancashire, and other districts
of the middle and north of England and Scotland.
Do not let me be misunderstood: it would be impos-
sible to think but with the deepest respect cf the ·
kindly and unostentatious regard shown for mesmerism
on various occasions by men famous in science, and
by families of high aristocratic distinction. But in
my estimation " the common people" of England and
Scotland rank very high for humanity and intelli~ence,
when their behaviour is compared with that of some
in the class to which several writers would have mes-
merism confined! How beautiful it was, in one town,
Digitized by Google
KESMElUO EXPEBIENCES. 23
to see the Vicar acting as ehairma.n, and the lecture-
theatre filled with nearly a thousand of his parish·
ioners of all ranks, all animated by one kindly spirit
of obeervation and inquiry, ae fact after fact was laid
before them under circumstances that rendered de-
ception on one side or suspicion on the other quite
impossible; whilst I endeavoured to show the analogy
, of the different states exhibited to the various con·
ditions of health and disease, and the power that
mesmerism gives us to regulate and control them. At
another place, where the clergyman allowed me in the
presence of a large meeting to test the influence upon
his own son; whilst, listened to with the profoundest
attention, I explained its uses and laid down infallible
rules for preventing its abuse. At another where, in
presence of the Mayor and seven hundred of the inha·
bitants, the free and healthy use of a contracted leg was
restored to one ofthe citizens by a mesmeric experiment,
without pain, after all other means had failed; and
where public evidence was given by the patients them-
selves of its efficacy in the cure of deafness, lumbago,
paralysis, stammering, inflammations, swellings of tbe
ancles, and many other complaints. In the north of
Scotland, where a distinguished philosopher (as chair-
man) gave his testimony to the validity of a cla..c:s of facts
that awoke such interest in the neighbourhood as could
not subside, and where mesmerism has since been con-
tinually used as a curative or palliative of the most
grievous disorders. And again, in a midland English
town, where, owing to there bein~ no good instrumen-
tal music at hand by which I nnght Illustrate the in-
fluence of melody upon the system in the mesmeric
trance,-when the soul beams so brightly through the
countenance and the whole body moves or basks in
such perfect and ecstatic harmony with the sounds,-the
entire audience accorded, as with one voice, in a sweet
expressive tune that drew forth some of the sublimest
and most instructive psychical phenomena they had
ever contemplated. Contrast these facts--popular and
Digitized by Google
24 MESHEBIC EXPERIENCES.
incontrovertible facts-with the represented or misre-
presented fail~ and :puerile ~icke~~ so of!;en attend-
mg or followmg ex.P.6nments m exclUSive crrcles; and
then, ye who collBlaer yourselves of " the higher walk
of mesmerists," tell me why a Yorkshire weaver or a
Northamptonshire ~t·has less right than you to
participate in such. knowledge. Do astronomers and
botanists alone enjoy or receive instruction from the '
stars or the flowers? Has none but the physician ever
relieved pain? Do none but priests smooth the death-
bed pillow? A time came when Dives would have
been glad of the friendship even of Lazarus. Think of
these things, and speak not contemptuously of " the
common people." '
Digitized by Google
IIE8MERIC EXPERIENCES. 25
CHAPTER VI.
:M'J:BIIEBIC REStJLTS NOT TO BE COMPOUNDED W1Tll Jd:nu.CLES-
Ri:ASONS FOB BELIEVING IN TBB TIU.NSIWISION 01.' liEAI.TB, A8
WELL AS 01.' DISEASE, BY CoNTAGION-!LLUSTBATIVE CASES IN•
TBODUCED.
IT is a maxim, that there is not in nature a singlo
agent without a use proportionate to its ~wer. One
of the principal uses of mesmerism, pathetJ.sm, or vital
magnetism, is doubtless the correction of vital de-
rangements. · So striking have been some of its effects
in this way as to cause many to ~ard it as a sort of
scientific divinity, and to consider 1t the parent of all
the attested miracles of both modem and ancient times:
a view, as it appears to me, very erroneous, and from
which I therefore unequivocally express my dissent.
Subtle and potent though it be, and useful as enabling
us to cultivate our benevolence and other humane
faculties in the relief of our brother, or friend, or
neighbour by applying it to his ailments, we have yet
the best authority for regarding this influence as alto-
~ether subordinate to that Power which, being adequate
m the first instance to the creation of the world, still
occasionally manifests its superiority to those laws by
which in ordinary the world is governed. If we are
to believe history, the magicians ofold understood much
more of magnetic practice-<lOuld see deeper into
the nature of themselves, and work many more won-
ders than are witnessed in our day. One of them, a
Persian, who lived on the mountain overlooking Taoces,
Digitized by Google
26 liESJIEBIO EXPEBIEllCE&
was himself, at one period of his life, almost continu-
ously lucid or clairvoyant. Yet, mark how a number
of these sages-" wise men from the East"•--came to
the BABE IN BETHLEHEM, and acknowledged the in-
feriority of their influence to that of pure, unostenta-
tious, and comprehensive Christianity ! True, since
Jesus did not ili.sdain to use even dirt and spittle as
agents, and since he felt '1 a virtue gone out of him"
on an occasion when another was benefitted by touch-
in~ him, I would not deny that, as Lord of All, he
might use magnetism, or any other agent in creation, for
the working out of his compassionate designs. And
when he commanded his humble followers to heal the
sick as well as to preach the Gospel, I do not deny
that he was bidding them to use an agent as natural
and common to them all as the language in which they
were to preach. AB he came to teach that reli-
gion was not confined to the priests and pharisees,
but belonged as well to the common people ; so
also he showed that the powers of nature were not alone
in the hands of the magicians or men of science-of
whom the exclusive doctors in our day, who blindly
deny the use of mesmerism whilst the :people are curing
each other by it, afford, perhaps, a distant semblance.
But I do not believe that any one can possess the divine
influence He and his Apostles of that or any subsequent
time have manifested, except in proportion as he may
become renewed and live the same obedient, unselfish,
pure, faithful, divine life they lived and enjoined. If
man were fully to comply with this, instead of bel~
what is divine by his hypocrisy or denying it by his
scepticism,it is impossibleforus totell theextent ofknow-
ledge and power he would possess, as no doubt it would
be commensurate with his faith and purity. ChristianiiJ
is more than a sun in the firmament; compared with 1t
science is no more than a lamp in a cloister. Whilst
we remain shut up in this cloister of the senses, we are
permitted to learn a little by the lamp if we will; yet
• Magicim& simply meant wise ma~~o
Digitize~ by Google .
:MESXE:RIC EXPERIENCES. 27
let us not, by extolling its brilliancy too much, draw
attention from a light more primitive, pure, and univer-
sal; but" give unto Cresar the ~s that are Cresar's,
and unto God the things that are God's."
If we had as much faith in the good as in the evil of
our lot, a curative a1Huence from a healthy body would
neverhave been doubted. We believe in the transmission
of disease by contagion; and since nature is as equitable
as economical, why not also in the transmission of
health? If we have the power of communicating fever,
cholera, and small-pox, by our mere presence, without
contact-if the p~e, sent a thousand miles in a.
letter from a city where it is already raging, shall on
the letter being opened begin new ravages and de-
populate another city-what becomes of the doctrine
of nature's equitability if we have not the counter-
vailing power, that of communicatin~ health by an
analogous law ? This should be conSldered by those
who, within sight of ships kept in quarantine for weeks
or months, ridicule the means used by mesmerists as
idle mummery I
The following cases will illustrate this doctrine, as
well as others to which I may allude in passing.
CASE I.-" LITTLE HENRY."
The interesting somnambulist, Henry Wigston, is
well known to most of my friends by the above
8uuhriquet, having become warmly attached to and
been with me for months together, during the past two
years. When I first saw him he was errand-boy in a
barber's shop, and appeared very poorly and dull, his
stature being that of a child of seven or eight years
rather than a youth of thirteen (which he then was);
his temperament lymphatic; his eyes heavy; and his
movements slow. He had not since his infancy been
free from a serious affection of the brain, and says he
could never play like other boys, for at every attempt
Digitized by Google
28 lii.ESKERIC EXPERIENCES.
to run or leap, he suffered from a violent and /ainful
"knocking" or throbbing in his head. He ha twice
been mesmerised before having heard of the process;
once by looking intently at a clergyman, .preac~
in St. Mary's cliurch, Lereester; and once by fixing his
eyes upon the head of a nail, whilst riding in a cart.
In both instances he was carried home under the sup-
position that he was "in a fit," and relieved by having
cold water poured upon his head. It is since being mes-
merised by me that he has seen the analogy; and I am
well convinced, after devoting much attention to the
subject, that many forms of disease are but what are
termed mesmeric states, unconsciously, or at all events
unintentionally induced, and may be easily cured on
mesmeric principles as the people are made more
familiar with the practice.*
It was Henry's peculiar indications of susceptibility
that first made me offer to mesmerise him, to which
both his master and himself assented after I had ex-
plained to them its meaning. In ten minutes from the
commencement of my manipulations the little fellow
was somnambulent, and although he was declared to
know nothing of phrenology, that evening, on being
mesmerised again, he presented one of the most inter-
esting cases of phreno-mesmerism I had seen. The
next day he was perfectly lucid, and described the
internal structure IPld economy of the human frame,
and the diseases ·of several strange parties with whom
he was brought into proximity, as clearly and correctly
as could have been done by a regular professor of ana-
tomy-making allowance, of course, for his ignorance
of technicalities. This faculty of lucidity he continued
to exercise with beautiful clearness and certainty-say-
ing that not only human bodies, but many other things
• A gentleman ofrank and great in1luence, residing near Sheftleld,
writes me that, acting upon this suggestion, he recalled a patient
very easily from a violent hysteric fit by the ordinary process of
" demesmerising." A physician near Huddersfield told me he bad
done the same in a case of epilepsy. I shall have more to say on
this subject in a future work.
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES• 29
.opaque to us, were transparent to him-until one even-
ing a " man of science," who was fond of conjuring,
and who afterwards excused himself on the vulgar pre-
tence that he wanted to discover " where the trick
lay," inasmuch as he was sceptical, took an opportunity
of influencing the boy without my knowledge. This
took away his lucidity. For some time afterwards
whenever somnambulent he complained of having
" net-work over his eyes," and although he yet can
read and run about and occasionally give the prognosis
of~ disease whilst in the sleep, he is by no means so
lucid as before. Still he is a most interesting case. In
the presence of the Society for the Investigation of
Mesmeric Phenomena, during the passing summer, his
intellects appeared so exalted and clear as to excite the
wonder and delight of every one. His disquisition on
the laws of sympathy, coincidence and correspondence,
was a perfect masterpiece of ratiocination-and for an
uneducated boy, marvellous. There was a poetical
beauty too in some of his instantaneous replies to the
metaphysical questions poured in upon him that
. charmed us all. " HeJ!ry," said the editor ofthe Critic,
"what is thought?" Without a moment's pause he
turned his head and quietLv replied, " Thought?-
thought is silent speaking." 'Once, when he was mesme-
rised by a lady, she taught him to play a tune on the
pianoforte whilst somnambulent. After being awoke
he went to the instrument and played the same again
without remembering how he learnt it, yet still feeling
as though it had been suggested to him. How often
have we a similar feeling in common life ! Whence
does it come if not from the world of dreams ?
On another occasion when in the sleep he was taught
to translate some words of Hebrew, but he has no know-
ledge of them whatever when awake; yet when again
in the same state he remembers them well.•
• It is a curious and interesting fact that most mesmeric patients
remember when in the sleep-when the external senses are in-
active and the inner powers more manifest-what has occurred to
Digitized by Google
30 KESHERIC EXPERIENCES.
But it is when under the influence of music that
Henry presents the most beautiful mesmeric phenomena.
Inanswer to sweet sounds his whole body discourses cor-
respondent yet silent music-the poetry of form and
motion I Suspend the music in the middle of a strain,
and his motion also becomes suspended: he is a rigid
and statue-like impersonation of the last sentiment or
passion excited, until his attitude becomes changed
again by a renewal of the melody.•
In BJMllloking of some experiments we bad at the house
of Mr. William Howitt, that popular and impressive
writer says ofhim-" He is thrown in a few seconds,
by mere contact of the hands, into the mesmeric
sleep, and in this responds to many phrenologic touches
in the most beautiful and extraordinary manner. The
eft'ects produced on him by music are in particular
striking. They throw him into attitudes corresponding
to the sentiment of the piece played, which coUld only
be acquired by a first-rate actor after long and arduous
practice, if they could be reached at all, and which
would form the finest models for the sculptor or painter.
His countenance undergoes equal chan~:; and at times
acquires a pathos, a tenderness, a sub· ·ty, or an ex-
pression of fun, that are singularly beautiful. Several
pieces were played by a German gentleman present,
which he could not possibly have heard before, but to
them in their ordinary life; and by which their mesmeric condition
indeed is much in1luenced; though when awake, and their external
senses are all active, they are entirely oblivious of what was done by
them when in the inner state. May not this help to show us how
probable it is, that whilst in this external life of sense we do not
understand the soul, circumstances as'they pass may still be so photo-
graphed upon and imbue it aa to in1lnence it by their effects even
when the senses are laid aside in death? There is something ana-
logous to the idea in my own experience. I was once near the point
ordeath by drowning. Atthat moment all that I had been, felt, known,
or done, seemed present to me, as ifconcentrated in one vivid idea.
Might not this be a glimpee of the opening of the " book of life" in
which all my actions had been noted? I have since read in the works
or De Quincy, "The Opium Eater," of some one else having had a
similar experience-unless it is myown caae be has related.
• The tasteful and ingenious artist, Henry Collen, Esq., of Lon·
don, has taken excellent sketches of some of these attitudes.
Digitized by Google
JIESMERIO EXPERIENCES. 31
the spirit of which he responded in the most inimitable
manner, being sun1c into sadness, raised into hol1
adoration, and kindled in an energy ofmartial or patn-
otic ardour, accompanied by the finest correspondent
attitudes and action. His faculty of imitation being
tested, he threw back any sound issuing from the
company as the most perfect echo would do, as a rock
or a wall having the power to fling back sound would
do. He was addressed in various languages,.and threw
back every sentence with the most ~rfect pronuncia-
tion, and generally without the omJSSion of a single
syllable. While the company were occupied in con-
versation on this matter, and he was left standing un-
observed by the majority, those who had kept their
attention upon him perceived to their astonishment
that he continued to reflect all mixed and multiform
sounds that arose from their conversation. It was now
a strange murmur, now a clear utterance of a sentence,
as some one spoke out louder and more distinct than
the rest. Coughs, laughs, and even a low whistle, iri.-
troduced by a silent watcher of him, all had their
place in these curious responses."
In one of his somnamblllic states, he can be made upon
the slightest sug!reation to dream, and the dream may be
modified as we pfease, either by special phrenological ex-
citementor by further verbal suggestions. Sometimes he
has thus been made to impersonate a town-crier, when
on his Philo-p1·ogenitiveness being excited he would cry a
child lost-under Combativeness a prize-fight or a debate
-under Cautiousness a warning to trespassers-under
Veneration and Benf!fJOlence a charity sermon to be
preached; and all these announcements might be mo-
dified or varied as other organs were brought co-rela-
tively into action; and these results are so instantaneous,
and so perfectly natural and logical withal, as to render
the supposition of mere acting in the case quite im-
possible. His impersonation of a locomotive steam-
engine is not less accurate-his imitation both of the
motions and sounds, complex as they are, giving the
Digitized by Google
32 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
most beautiful and striking ideal that any thing beside
the machine itself when active could convey.
Sometimes I have thrown one hemisphere of his
brain, and the corresponding side of his body into an
abnormal and quiescent state by passes, and preserved
the perfect normality and actiVIty of the other. The
same might be done with any particular limb, or any
specific portion of it. The part thus affected would be
quite numbed or rigid, yet there would be no appa-
rent tendency to sleep, or any interference with the
functions of the parts not thus specifically acted upon.
At one time I could make him feel warm when cold,
or cool and refreshed when thirsty, by a few pa8ses,
and produce any medicinal effect I wished upon his
body by giving him water with a curative intention:
but latterly there has been little or no occasion for the
practice, and I do not think a very frequent repetition
of such experiments advisable where no specific benefit
can be den"'\;ed from them. They a.re, however, occa-
sionally interesting as illustrative of very important
principles and powers.
Such are many of the curious phenomena presented
by this case; and now methinks I hear some timid
reader inquire if these experiments have produced no
injurious effects on the boy, to which I answer,
so far as it is possible to judge from appearances,
quite the contrary. It is true that, however frequent
some of the experiments may have been, they have
always been conducted by me in the most careful man-
ner; and though often in the presence of a public audi-
ence, notless with a view to th.e patient'sbenefit; and the
consequence is that his head which daily ached and
throbbed before he was mesmerised, is never now in
pain at all. His eye which was dim and heavy is
bright and active. His temperament that was so lym-
phatic is becoming fibrous. His stature so stunted,
has improved more, I am told, in the two years he has
known me than in the five preceding years; ·and, ex-
cept for a cold he has recently taken through his own
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 33
inadvertance, he appears altogether as well and strong
as the paternal regard I feel for him could make me
wish.
C.ASE !I.-CURE OF HYSTERIA.
James Knight, Esq. and Mr. Mason, surgeon, of Bur-
ton-on-Trent, introduced me, in October, 1843, to a
highl)' respectable and intellectual lady, who for twenty
years had been subject to hysteria, in its worst form,
and had spent an exceedingly large sum of money in
medicine, without relief. For some time not a day had
passed without a. series ofdistressing paroxysms, and she
had consented to try mesmerism-not that she had the
slightest faith in it, but because of having tried every
other reputed specific to no purpose, she wished to have
the satisfaction of knowing that she had not neglected
herself in this. Of the gentlemen who introduced me,
one-Mr. Knight-was a firm believer in the efficacy of
mesmerism; he is, in fact, one of its most enthusiastic, ·
benevolent, and successful practisers; but Mr. Mason at
the time had no faith in it at all, yet as the last cltance
in the patient's case, he was desirous of seeing it tried,
saying that if it cured her he should certainly admit its
great usefulness; for, since she was of a strong and
somewhat philosophical mind whatever might be the
reduction of her physical powers, it would be wrono- to
attribute any change merely to what is often miscalled
the imagination.
It has long been my belief, that as by inoculation we
bring on a premature crisis of some disorders of the
grosser animal juices--as in small-pox or measles for
mstance-and thus assist nature in ~etting rid altoge-
ther of the virus; so, where there IS a constitutional
tendenc,Y to maladies more purely nervous, we may by
mesmensm hasten a crisis in them, and by an analogous
law prevent their recurrence in a more distressing form.
In one case we impregnate the blood with ponderable
matter scarcely less gross than itself, and in the other
case, by an agent more refined, we influence the im-
D
Digitized by Google
:MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
ponderable fluid constituting those vital forces by which
our normal motions are regUlated, and the derangement
ofwhich occasions those convulsions and tremors inci-
dent to some of the more subtle forms of disease. With
this idea, I begged of the patient not to be uneasy
whatever might transpire, but to submit quietly and
let the influence have its own effect. In about eight
minutes, whilst I was pursuing my manipulations, her
breathing appeared affected. At about the twelfth
minute there was an occurrence of the kind ofparoxysms
to which she was ordinarily subject. These I allowed
to go on for a short time, and then concentrating my
will upon the purpose,-using soothing passeR with my
hands downwards, over the face and chest, and after-
wards gently taking hold of her own hands with the
same idea,-I changed her condition to_
one of perfect
serenity, and after a few more passes awoke her from
what appeared to be a conscious sleep;-for though she
could not open her eyes, she was perfectly aware of her
state and could reason upon it, or answer any of my
questions with the greatest facility. When recovered
she could remember and describe all l'ilie had under-
gone, but said there was now complete freedom from
the exhaustion that invariably followed her ordinary pa-
roxysms. At the next seance she was mesmerised in a
much shorter period, the paroxysms were more feeble,
and her refreshment greater on being awoke. On the
third occasion she had scarcely any paroxysms at all,
was thrown into ecstacy by music, and awoke still
better. Thus she went on Improving at every seance
until the eighth, when on my awaking her, she de-
clared that she felt quite well-as she was wont to feel
twenty years before, but as she had never felt in the
interim! I gave instructions to one of her female friends
how to proceed with her, should there be any return
of the complaint, and left the town. Some months
afterwards, Mr. Knight wrote me that she continued
perfectl:y well, and that they were all thankful for
mesmensm. More than a year. afterwards, the lady
Digitized by Googl
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 35
herself favoured me with a friendly and gratifying
letter, in which she said there had then been no return
whatever of her disorder, although before I mesmerised
her she had not for years been a day without some
appearance ofits painful symptoms.•
CASE ITI.-EPILEPSY A.T lliLIFAX.
In February, 1844, I visited Halifax, where a.
" Me<lical Commission for the Investigation of Mes-
meric Phenomena" was instituted, and many experi-
ments, of a. most convincing character, were tried at
the Philosophical Hall.t At one of our meetings, a
girl, subject to daily att~cks ofepilepsy, was introduced,
for the purpose of bemg operated upon. She knew
nothing of ni~smerism; and, though attended by her
mother, on seeing so many me<lical men, she was
evidently fearful of some severe operation, and so re-
sisted the tendency to sleep resulting from my manipu-
lations. She asserted, in fact, that she was not in-
fluenced at all; but on leaving the room fell into a
sound sleep, from which no ordinary measures could
awake her. This one of her family came in a state of
• On mentioning this case in one of my lectures, a medical prac-
titioner got up and endeavoured to invalidate its effect upon the
audience by saying, that " it was on(v a case of hysteria, the symp-
toms of which were merely results of the imagination ; and that he
was quite willing to let mesmerism have the full benefit of such
eases, since the Faculty were well aware how useless it was to treat
them medically I" My reply was, that he could not have paid the
profession a worse compliment than by the remark ; for if what he
aa.i.d were true (which, however, I denied in tcto), those who had been
for nearly twenty years receiving fees from the lady for medicine.
!mowing it to be useless, might as well have robbed her-since the
loss of her money, at all events, was not imaginary. The doctor was
silent.
t lt is worth recording, as a feature of the age, that a physician
of fashionable practice in the town, on being invited to assist in this
investigation, protested against it altogether in the most con-
temptuous terms, on the ground that the fallacy of mesmerism was
too apparent to permit him to entertain the thought that it needed
inquiry at all ; in short, that any such inquiry would be disgraceful
to the profession!
D 2
Digitized by Google
36 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
alarm to tell us, and, accompanied by Dr. Inglis, I
went to her immediately, and soon restored her by one
of the simple processes of " demesmerising," namely,
wafting her briskly with a silken handkerchte£
At our next meeting she was again operated uponp
and presented several of the ordinary somnolent and
other phenomena. Subsequently Dr. Inglis (a phy-
sician of very superior intelligence and skill, residing
in the town,) mesmerised her occasionally, and some
months afterwards I was informed that there had not
been any recurrence of her paroxysms.
CASE IV.-CURE OF HEADACHE AND NAUSEA.
AGNES RANDY, domestic servant to Mr. Edward
Charlton, bookseller of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, came to
me on the 21st of June, 1844, having been afflicted
with a violent headache and sickness every morning
and evening for a year and a half, during which time
she had been treated by severs!of the Faculty without
advantage. Having made passes over the head and
stomach, and given her mesmerised water occasionally~
she had gone on improving from the first interview
until the 29th of the month, when she came to me for
the last time, and declared herself quite well.
CASE V.-CURE OF TIC-DOLOUREUX.
About the period of the foregoing case, the lady of
an officer in the customs at Newcastle came to me,
under a grievous attack of tic-dolourcuz, and was cured
by downward passes over the head and face, withcut
the accompaniment of sleep, or even of the slightest
drowsiness. I have had three or four other smrilar
cases: so has Dr. G. C. Holland, having given, by the
same simple means, permanent relief to one of my own
intimate friends after other measures had failed.
Digitized by Google
I
.,
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 3'1
C.a.sE Vl-SPIN.!L AFFECTION CuRED.
JOHN M'WILLIAMS, cotton-spinner, Caldew-gate,
Carlisle, aged thirty-four, had been ill nine weeks of a.
bilious attack, ending in an affection of the spine, which
made it painful for him to walk, and, in short, nearly
suspended all power in his lower limbs. He had been
under the treatment of two of the Faculty, was cupped,
and took a great variety of medicine, but without any
beneficial effect. He came to me on the 7th of Au~ust,
- 1844, when I made passes over his back and legs,
whilst he remained in a passive but vigilant state, and
also acted by gentle pressure of my thumbs upon such
points as through the agency of the nerves were in espe-
cial sympathy 'vith the affected parts. Water was
afterwards :poured upon the nape of his neck and the
palms of his hands, and on the followin~ day he came
to me again much improved. On the th1rd day he ap-
peared at the Athenreum, before a very large and re-
spectable audience, de.claring himself quite free from
pain, and able to walk without the slightest distress.
CASE VII.-P.A.IN .A.ND SwELLINGS CuRED.
RosiNA WYBELL, aged 17, servant to Mr. Cham-
l>erlain, Water Lane, Carlisle, had been afHicted nine
months with a continual pain in her head and left side,
accompanied occasionally by swellings ofthe face. She
had tned medicine the whole time, under regular pro-
fessional advice, but without relief. She came to me
-on the morning of August the 9th, 1844, weeping for
pain. I threw her into the mesmeric sleep for a short
time and she awoke quite well. In the evening she
was mesmerised again in the presence of her master and
many of the citizens. On the following day she came
to thank me for the cure, saying she had never felt
better in her life. Wben in the sleep her case presented
..several curious features; but there was nothing in it to
Digitized by Google
38 llESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
me more gratiffo.t~, than the rude yet touching elo-
quence with which\in the dialect ofthe ScottishBorder)
she alluded, on taking leave of me, to the contrast be-
tween her sufferings before, and her enjoyment of health
after the operation.
CASE VJII.-STIFFNESS AND SWELLING OF THE
JoiNTS REMOVED.
ELIZABETH ELWOOD, of Botchergate, Carlisle, had
for a long time been troubled with stifihess and swell-
ing of tlie ankles, which prevented her walking with-
out the severest pain. She came to me first on the 6th
of August, 1844, when I passed her into the mesmeric
sleep. On being awoke she could not remember any
sensations she had during her sleep, but said she was
better. After being mesmerised a few more times she
declared on tlJ.e lOth (four days from the first operation)
that she felt quite well, and was exceedingly thankful
for the cure.
CASE IX.-INFL.AMMA.TION OF THE EYE CURED.
ELIZABETH LITTLE, Botchergate, Carlisle, had been
suffering under inflammation of the right eye, attended
with severe pain in the head, for more than a year.
She came to me in consequence of hearing of so many
cures by mesmerism, and I passed her mto the sleep,
from which she awoke better. The pain was removed
from the eye; a weight, she said, had been taken from
her head ; and her sight was clearer. A day or two
afterwards, in the presence of Mr. Sheffield and other
citizens she declared herself perfectly well.•
• I cannot proceed further in the narration of these cases, without
recording my testimony to the high worth of several of the Medical
Faculty in Carlisle, and the rational spirit in which they have in-
vestigated and adopted mesmerism. Indeed, the conduct of many of
the leading men, including the late and present mayor of the city
(Mr. Benwell and Mr. Steele) during my visit, made an impression
upon my mind that I feel will be indelible; and whenever I think of
Digitized by Google
::MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 39
CASE X.-ANOTHER CURE OF TIC-DOLOUREUX.
HANNAH HETHERINGTON, Borough Street, Carlisle,
had been for eight months subject to tic-dolow·eut1J, and
had not in all that time, she said, been free from it for
a single day. I mesmerised her only once, and she de-
clared on being awoke that she felt a great change, and
that she was as well as ever she had been in her life.
CASE XI.-EXTENSION OF A. CONTRACTED LEG.
One ofthe most interesting cases I had in Carlisle was
that of Mr. WILLIAM RoBINSON CowAN, of Annet-
well-street, who, for many years, had been subject to a
remarkable contraction of the left. leg with rigidio/.of
the knee, consequent on a severe attack of neuralgia,
the original symptoms of which had been removed by
strichnyne. He was unable from weakness to press his
left foot to the ground, wore a high-heeled boot, used a.
stick, and yet halted in walling. Being mesme-
rised by me one evening. in presence of a most nume-
rous and respectable audience at the Athenreum, I sub-
jected his leg to a series of manipulations by which it
became extended, apparently without the slightest sen-
sation; when, under the influence of music, he danced
as freely, and almost as gracefully as I had ever seen
any one. On being awoke he declared himself obli-
vious of all that had been done during the operation;
but said that his leg now felt so flexible that be could
use it with perfect freedom; and that the only incon-
venience remaining was the high heel to his boot, which
had to be removed. He had also now recovered so
much power that he could stamp with the affected
foot nearly as heavily as with the other, and could
the many cures by mesmerism there have been in that neighbour-
hood, it is almost impossible to avoid referring them, in some
measure, to the good sense and good faith in which, by all classes,
the question has been received and examined.
Digitized by Google
40 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
walk just as well without his stick as with it. Three
weeks afterwards I saw him and learnt that there had
been no indication whatever of a relapse, but that he
could then walk with great ease and comfort.
CASES XII. TO XV.-CURE AND RELIEF OF
DEAFNESS.
The power which mesmerism sometimes gives us
over the senses of others is very great, and, as before
contended, must have an adequate use. It enables us,
when a patient has been made sufficiently susceptible,
to suspend them all, either simultaneously or seriatim,
as we please, and to restore them in the same order. It
therefore follows, that where they are suspended or
deranged by illness, and the patient can be brought
into this requisite state of susceptibility, the operator
may restore them in the same way as if they had been
suspended by his own manipulations, providing there
be no organic mutilation or decay. Thus, for instance,
it is that in my experiments I sometimes take away the
sight, and the same of smell, taste, touch, and hearing,
and afterwards restore or even quicken them. Thus,
too, it is that not only can any of these be suspended,
but the derangement of them may be so modified
that the same things shall have the most contradictory
tastes, scents, or colours. And it will therefore follow,
" when any of·these conditions occur naturally or acci-
dentally, that they may be rectified by the same arti-
ficial process as that which would be required had they
been mduced by an1 sign or act of the operator's will.
It is on this sur.pos1tion only that I am at present able
to offer any philosophical explanation of the following
results:
ELIZABETH NICHOLSON, aged seventeen, residing
with her mother, in Water-lane, Carlisle, was known to
the Rev. 11r. White, of that city. She came to me
during my sojourn there, exceedingly deaf. For four
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 41
years she had not heard thunder, and had abstained
from attendance at any place of worship because she
could not hear the seiVJ.ces. In the course of a few
minutes, I threw her by the ordinary method of passes
over the head and eyes into the sleep, and she awoke
very much improved m her hearing. Next day I mes-
merised her once in private, and again, in the evening,
before a la e audience at the Athenreum, Mr. White,
the minister just mentioned, being chairman, and
(after she was awoke) testing her hearing in a variety
of experiments, by which it was proved that she could
now distinctly hear and reply to a very minute whisper
made at some distance behind her. I mesmerised her
again on the fourth day from our first interview, when
she considered herself quite cured, and able to hear as
well as she could wish.
MARGARET WALSH, daughter of Mrs. Maria Walsh,.
Castle-street, Carlisle, had been partially deaf from the
age of two to that of fifteen years. I only mesmerised
her in public, and after a few operations she declared
herself quite welL
One or two other cases of deafness I shall allude to,
not that they were cured, but because of the interesting
phenomena they presented:-
The first is that ofa fine, intelligent young gentleman,
aged nineteen, of a highly respectable family in Not-
tinghamshire. He was totally deaf and mute from
infancy, not being able to hear a gun fired at a few
paces distance. By placing my thumbs and his in
JUXta-position, and looking rum mtently in the face, I
one day threw him into a deep mesmeric trance; but
however deaf he might be when awake, he could hear
distinctly enough when mesmerised; since, on the intro-
duction of a musical box, he beat accurate time to its
tunes with his fingers, and seemed highly pleased with
his newly-found power. Upon this we had him re-
moved tQ a room in which there was a pianoforte, to
the notes of which he danced and waved h1s body in the
most correct time possible; and finding his way at last
Digitized by GoogIe
42 liiiESHERIC EXPERIENCES.
to the instrument, took hold of and embraced it with
very delight. He also drew several sketches better than
he could have done in so short a time had he been
awake. Whilst he was standing, I touched hie head in
the region of Veaeration, when he slowly bowed his
knees and raised his hands. Then I touched his eye-
lids with a view to excite Language, upon which he
repeated the Lord's Prayer with his :fingers in the signs
by which the dumb are accustomed to converse. This
was to me a most touching sight, especially as his parents
and sisters were all stand.irig by with tea.rs-bu.t not
tears of sorrow-streaming down their cheeks. What,
however, struck us as most curious in this case was,
ihat when I endeavoured to excite his organ of Tune,
he went immediately to the piano and began to strike
the keys as though he would have played over again
the air to which he had just been dancing. When
awoke he did not believe the sketches he had drawn
were his own; and when informed of all he had done
he was still more sceptical, until convinced by his
father's very solemn aseura.nce of the facts. I have yet
a hope that this young gentleman may be made to
hear as well when awake as when in the trance.
The other case is that of a young woman, RACHEL
MoNKS (living at 33, Trinity-buildmgs, Carlisle), who
had been totally deaf nearly seventeen years. I mesme-
rised her on the 9th of August, 1844, and in the
course of that day she heard the whistle of a locomotive
engine at the distance of a furlong, and also heard her
sister calling to her in a moderately loud voice. At
night I mesmerised her again, and afterwards she heard
a violin played at some distance behind her. Next
morning she heard every knock at the door of my
lodgings, although she sat in a room thirteen yards
distlmt from it, and seemed highly delighted. Being
compelled to leave the city immediately afterwards, I
gave instructions to her friends to continue the process,
but am not at present aware with what result. The
fact that the sense could be appealed to in any degree
Digitized by Google
liESME:&IC EXPERIENCES. 4S
in cases apparently so hopeless, is very important to the
humane inquirer.
CASES XVI. AND XVIT.-STA.MMERING, &c.
When stammering is the result of imitation or sym-
pathy, nothin~ is more easy than to remove it by the
same law. The same may be said of the abnormal
action or inaction of any organ, or class of organs, not
accompanied by an absolute loss of vital power. As
we can make others yawn with us by sympathy, so we .
may, in many cases, make them walk and talk like us,
until the mode is established in them by force of habit.
It is owin~ to the operation of this principle that boys
playing With, or young children being nursed by, those
who stammer or squint, frequently " catch" and retain
the same habit-the only difference between this result
and mesmerism being, that in one case the effects are
produced without, as in the other they may be
produced with, a specific intention. Finding in my
experiments that when people had once become sus-
ceptible to me, I could m proportion to that suscepti-
bility regulate in them the actwn of those vital forces
which in ordinary operate as an agency between the will
and the muscles, so as to cause and remove all such de-
rangements as bear the name of St. Vitus's dance,
spasmodic contortion, ~aralysis, agitans, strabismus,
staggering or tottering• m the gait, stammering, &c.,
it struck me that the use of this power would be to
correct those derangements where they had occurred by
nature or accident. For it follows as a matter of course,
that ifyou can make a man imitate you in stammering,
it is just as easy to make him imitate you in talking
properly, until in one case as in the other the habit 00:.
comes settled. Of this, in the course of my public lec-
tures, I have had opportunities of giving some hundreds
of illustrations ; and it is often accomplished without
inducing sleep or any tendency to it, by merely taking
Digitized by Google
44 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
the patient's hand, looking him in the face, and in-
ducing him to repeat whatever words I may utter ;
after this to repeat the same or other words with me
simultaneously, and then at lenf!rt.h let him proceed by
himsel£ In some cases this wil have to be repeated,
perhaps frequently; but cases have not been rare in
which the cure was almost instantaneous, and if no
foolish experiments were afterwards tried, I have seldom
heard of any relapse. The following case is quoted
as an example from the Sheffield Independent. The
paragraph refers to two courses of lectures given in that
town in October and November, 1843:-
" On account of many peoyle not being able to get
into the Theatre on the preVIous Friday evening, Mr.
Hall, early this week, announced three more lectures
for the evenings of Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday.
The audiences have again been numerous and respect-
able. On each evening Mr. Hall exhibited specimens
of what he believed to be the causes and cures of stam-
mering. At the close ofthe lecture on Friday evening
week, a youth climbed the stage from the pit, and walked
up to l\Ir. Hall, requested to know (but could scarcely
make himself understood from excessive stammering)
whether he could cure him. Mr. Htll told him that he
believed he could, but requested, as it was getting late,
that he would call upon him the next day. The even-
ing of Wednesday last Mr. Hall introduced this youth
to the audience; but, previous to saying any thing about
him himself, called on Mr. Bromley, shoe-manufacturer,
Fruit Market, requesting him to say what he knew
about the case. Mr. Bromley, in reply, stated that the
young man's name was George Langstaff; that he had
worked for him about twelve months; that he had seen
and conversed with him, on an average, several times
every week; and that all the time he had been a most
inveterate stammerer, so much so that it was difficult
for him to make himself understood, and painful for
others to listen to him. Mr. Bromley further stated,
that he was himself present at the previous Thursday
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 45
evening's lecture, and that, during the perfonnance of
the experiments, he was in great doubt as to their truth:
they appeared too big for belief. However, with a view
to test the matter, he detennined to try to get this
young man forward, which he was the means of doing
the rught following. Mr. Bromley further said, that he
had conversed with the young man that day, and that
he appeared, and he believed was, perfectly cured.
Mr. Hall then asked the young man the following
questions, and requested him to answer him aloud so
that all the audience could hear him:-When did you
:first see and know me? 'On last Friday evening.'-Did
it not require at least half a minute for you to utter the
first word in answering me a question? 'It did.'-How
long have you stammered? ' Seventeen years.'-Have
you durin~ all those years, to your knowledge, spoken or
read one smgle sentence without stammering? 'Never.'
-Can you stammer now, in my presence, if you try?
He tried, and could not.-Mr. Hall then put a book
into the young man's hand, when he read a long pas-
sage without the least faltering in speech.-Mr. Hall
next requested to kn0w of the audience whether any of
them witnessed the young man's comin~.upon the stage
last Friday evening, and whether he did not stammer
very bad? Several voices replied in the affinnative.-
He next requested the audience to say, whether there
had.been the least appearance of stammering in the
young man that night? The answer was a general
'No.' The young man publicly and finally expressed his
thankfulness for what had been done for him.''
The force and pathos of the following letter from a
young gentleman of excellent character, with whom I
met on my late northern tour, would only be marred by
any comment I could make upon it. From the deep
interest he took in Sunday school teaching, his stam-
mering was as serious a drawback on his own useful-
ness as on the happiness of his numerous friends:-
Digitized by Google
46 HESHERIC EXPERIENCES.
" DEAR MR. HALL,
• Tmaiiy Buildings, Carlisle,
"Auguat 10, 18•4.
" According to your wish, I here give _you a brief
account of the particulars of my case. I learned to
stammer before I had completed my fourth year. It
was by imitating a female who stammered very much.
Since that time my affliction has slowly, though con-
stantly gathered strength-so much so that, until
lately, I have been obliged to write down any thing of
importance I had to communicate: this has been the
case more especially when it became necessary to make
a. purchase. The many unsuccessful attempts I have
made to speak, at length caused a severe pain across
my breast, and I had nearly given up all hopes of being
cured until I heard of your successful attempts to cure
stammering. On being advised by a person who heard
me stammer (Mr. Holbrook, whom I shall never for-
get,) to try what you could accomplish in my case, I
did so, and the result has been (in less than a fortnight)
an almost complete cure !
" I cannot write in the strain my full heart would
dictate; but often whilst thinking ofwhat has been done
for me, I catch myselfwith tearful eyes. The simple
but efficient mode of curing stammering which you
have adopted, is doing its work upon me most evi-
dently. Many and fervent are the expres..~ons of won-
der and pleasure that come from my friends on hearing
me speak; and my father has been heard to say, that he
understands more ofwhat I say now in an hour or two,
than he did before in ten years. The pain across my breast
is completelygone: ,Istammerscarcelyat all, and that only
when very much flurried, and even then an instantane-
ous observance of the rules you gave me, enables me to
meet almost any emergency. I have about me a sense
of liberty to which, previous to my visiting you, I had
been all my life a stranger; and 1t seems as though I
had now 4 right to speak. A very marked improve-
Digitized by Google
DSMERIC EXPERIENCES. 4'1
ment has also taken place in my general health since
you meemerised me.
41\ • • • • •
"I remain,
" Your obliged and grateful friend,
"JAMES MILLIGAN."
C.A.SE XVIII.-" NATURAL MESMERISM."
On my way from Carlisle to Glasgow and Edin-
burgh, I lectured at Dumfries, where a young man of
the name of JoHN MURRAY, came to me complaining
of having been for about three years subject to "Na-
tural Mesmerism." At first I was inclined to smile at
him, and asked him for an explanation, UJ?On which he
informed me that whenever affected mth grief or
vexation, his mind would become concentrated on the
cause of it, his eye would be fixed, and total insensi-
bility would follow and continue for twenty, or from
that to thirty minutes, but that the application of cold
water to the forehead would restore him. On his reco-
very he had no remembrance of the state he had been
in, but if instead of being restored by the water he
were left to recover entirely by himself, he felt very
sore throu~hout the body for several days afterwards.
He was qmte sure that from what he heard me say in
one of my lectures on mesmeric analogies, that the
state he went into naturally, was only what was often
represented in a mesmenc crisis, and he had some
belief that I could do him good. In the presence of
General Pitman and Mr. Biggar, of Maryholm, I
mesmerised him at the time, and again in the evening.
Next morning he came to me and said he felt stronger,
lighter, and altogether better than usual.
CASE XIX.-CURE OF.GENERAL DEBILITY.
WILLI.A.ll JoHNSTON, tailor, of Maxwelltown, Dum-
Digitized by Google
48 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
fries, had been vf'· poorly for about six weeks, with
general debility .ad prostration, accompanied by a
severe pain in • 1e right breast, so that he could not
work. The first time I mesmerised him for this was
on the 15th of August. After being mesmerised three
times he was able to return to his work, and he told me
on the 22nd of the month that he was well. There
appeared to be a remarkable susceptibility to magnetic
influences in nearly all the members of this patient's
family. In two operations upon him and another, the
sympathy bet~een us was so quickened, and gave me
so much power over them, as to enable me to verify the
truth of what the Lancet said in sarcasm respectin~
" one person's mind moving another's limbs," and thiS
while they were as wakeful as I am at the moment of
writing the present record of the fact.
CASE XX.-RESTORATION OF AN IMPOTENT ARM
AND HAND BY " LOCAL MESMERISM."
In the autumn of 1844, I commenced in Edinburgh
a series of experiments that appeared to excite con-
siderable interest in the minds of very large and scien-
tific audiences. In several of them was shown the
power not only of making any particular limb, or joint
of that limb, quite rigid and inert by magnetism, but,
in turn, the very contrary-that of quickening, and of
giving such an ap_rarent preternatural force to its action,
as would enable It easily to overcome twice or thrice
the mechanical resistance that, without such a process,
would be sufficient entirely to control it. Among the
gentlemen who saw this tested in a variety of ways,
was John Gray, Esq., proprietor of the North British
Advertiser; and having satisfied himself, beyond all
possibility of delusion, as to the validity of what he
saw, he induced me to visit Dundee, for the purpose of
trying if power could thus be imparted to the im-
potent arm and hand of one of his near relatives. The
Digitized by Google
HESMEBIO EXPERIENCES;
result was, to all her friends, as ':"1rtling as it w:lS
~tifying. When I first saw h~r·,, }was unable to
raiSe a. wme-glass to her mouth With tl.e affected hand,
or to use it for any purpose without the support of the
other. All that I did was to place my left hand upon ·
her shoulder, and with my right hand make passes
down the arm, and to the ends of her fingers; for, in
this case, I could not by my manipulations induce the
slightest tendency to sleep, but, on the contrary, an
ex&lted vigilance.• The consequence was, that after
the first seance, which did not occupy more than ten
or twelve minutes, she was able to use it with con-
siderable ease ; and after the second, she astonished all
who were present by taking (with the affected hand
alone) a. large kettle from tne fire, holding it over a
table covered with china, and pouring the hot water
into a. tea-urn standing in the midst, apparently with-
out the slightest difficulty or fear!
The young lady afterwards came to Edinburgh,
that she might derive further benefit from these ma-
nipulations, and the result cannot be conveyed in any
better form than that of the following certificate:-
" MY DEAR SIR,
"North British Advertiser Office,
"Edinburgh, Dec. 30, 1844.
" As you are about to leave town in a few days, I
be~ to hand you the enclosed, for the .profeSBlonal
8SSlstance rendered by you to Miss JESSIE RENNY, my
wife's sister, who, although unable from childhood (her
present age being seventeen) to use her right hand, has
had the use of 1t so far restored by your aid, that in
strength it is now fully equal to her left hand; and it
only appears to require continued exercise to enable
• Yet many of those who pretend to test mesmerism, imagine
that its claims can only be established by the induction of sleep and
&otal insensibility. Let them become scholars of Nature, who will
soon teach them that for the very reason why, in the general
economy, we have power in one case to remove disease by sleep, we
have a greater facility in another for inducing vigilance, if vigilance
be more calculated for the patient's benefit.
E
Digitized by Google
MESliERIC EXPERIENCES.
her to use it in every respect as well as her left hand~ ·
which has at all tunes been perfectly strong and
healthy.
"'I remain,
" My dear Sir,
" Yours very_ truly,
" Spencer T. Hall, Eeq. "JoHN GRAY."
CASE XXI.-CURE Oli' ST. VITUS' DANCE.
In the month of November, 1844, I visited Perth,
and was waited upon by Mr. John Douglas (manager
at the office of the Perthshire Agricultural Company),
whose daughter had for some time been suffering from
chorea, or St. Vitus' Dance. Having mesmerised her
once, and left instructions how they were further to
treat the case, Mr. James Douglas, jeweller, of Perth,
proceeded with it ; and on the 31st of December, the
patient's father thus wrote to a relative in Edinburgh-
the letter being at present in my possession :-
" Should you b.ave an opportunity of seeing Mr.
Hall, tell him that my daughter is quite recovered, and
at school again. This is another proof of the curative
properties of mesmerism, which Mr. H. will, no doubt,
explain to you ; and while we meet with many taunts
and jeers from the would-be learned who dispute it, we
have the satisfaction of pointing her out to tliem."
CASE XX!I.-RELIEF OF NEURALGIA.
Whilst in Dundee, in the first week of November,
Mr. Durham, of 67, High-street, introduced to me his
sister-in-law, who had three years before had one ofher
thumbs amputated, in consequence of some mysterious
affection of the part which gave her the most excru·
cia~g pain. Instead, however, of finding relief from
the amputation, it soon became evident that the painful
influence had only been disturbed, not got rid of, as i~
Digitized by Google
llESMERIC EXPERIENCES.. 61
· now tortured the hand in the same way it had done the
thumb. I made passes over the part, and instructed
Mr. Durham to continue the process, and on the 11th
of December he wrote me as follows:-
" In accordance with your directions, I have regu-
larly twice a day attended upon Miss R-, since you
left Dundee, and made passes over the arm and hand;
and it gives me much pleasure to state, that she has for
the last ten days enjoyed more ease than for three years
previous; she having had in all that time scarcely two.
days together of freedom from acute pain; and now she
has not had altogether half-a-day of any thing like pain
Binee the second or third application. This is satisfac-.
tory in a high degree, and such as to encourage us in
the continuance of your recommendation."
CASE XXIII.-RELIEF OF pARALYSIS.
"Another case has been put into my hands lately,"
continues Mr. Durham, "namely, a brother of Mr.
John Todd, linendraper here, who has been paralytic
upwards of twenty years, and who, I understand, you
~erimented on wiih success the day before you left
Dundee. I have duly made the passes over the side
affec~d during the last week, and am glad to state,
with wonderful success, inasmuch as that he previously
felt so weak in his right side generally, that it was with
great difficulty he could walk the distance from his
brother's shop to his own house in less than an hour, or
from that to an hour and a half, and now he can do it
in little more than halftlte time. He states that he feels
better every way, and in my shop to-day, he sprangfrom
the ground to a height of nearly two feet, an effort, he
sa.ys, he never expected again to find himself able for.
He is truly d~lighted, and e~resses himself most grate-
full_! for the little I do for him."
L
lt would be easy to select from the letters of my cor-
respondents, throughout the country, as many snnilar
E 2
Digitized by Google
!IESMERIC EXPERIENCES;
illustrations of the uses of mesmerism (after the simple·
instructions given them during my itinerary) as would
form a thick volume.]
CASES XXIV. to XXVIII.- v.A.RIOUS DISORDERS
CURED OR RELIEVED.
(Copied from the Tyne Mercvg ot' June 25th, 1844.)
" We are not going to discuss with Mr. Hall or his·
opponents the question, as to whether the mind may
have only one, or as many as one hundred organs; or,
whether the sanative influence by which he performs
his mesmeric cures be moral, nervous, magnet1c, or all
three; but we should, as public journalists, be ill per-
forming our duty, were we to pass over in silence the
cures themselves, some ofwhich, in this town and neigh-
bourhood, are of a very striking character, and can be
well attested by numbers of credible witnesses, whose
names are in our possession. Indeed, we have not been
without ocular demonstration of Mr. Hall's sanative
power as a mesmeriser, in private as well as in public;
and we feel compelled to acknowledge that, however
startling some of his experiments may- have been at the·
lecture-room, those we have seen on highly respectable
parties in private are not less so.
" To enumerate a few of them. On Friday- week
Mr. Hall was introdueed to a young lady, well known
as a talented vocalist, then stay-ing in Newcastle. She
was suffering severely from a rheumatic affection of the
head and jaws. A tooth had been extracted a few days
previously, but without advantase. The pain continued
to agonise her until the mesmenc ' passes' were tried.
These, in five minutes, were successful in accomplishing
a perfect cure. A number of gentlemen, troubfed with
pains in the head and giddiness, have been completely
relieved with facility, during his short stay here, by
Mr. Hall, who, so far from evincing any mystery on.
the subject, goes about the business in a manner the
most unassuming and simple imaginable, contending
Digitized by Google
:MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 53
that every man who pretends to mystery or exclusiv~
ness in it is a quack.
" A girl, fourteen years of age, daughter of Mr.
Richardson, White Cottage, near the Walker Railway
Station, has been a.fllicted with epilepsy for three years,
the fits or paroxysms of which have attacked her vio-
lentlyfrom sixor eight to sixteen or eighteen times a day,
and produced a decided tendency to 1diotcy. She had
not, for more than a year, passed a day without a great
number of these fits. Being mesmensed by Mr. Hall,
on Monday, the 18th ult., she passed thirty-six hours
without a fit. During eight days she had not more than
five, and even they were of such a comparatively mild
character as scarcely to deserve the name. The last we
.heard of her was that she had been three days without
one, and more clear and intelligent in every respect than
she had been for more than a y_ear before.
" The officer at the Walker Station had severe pains
across his loins, which rendered him unable to.perform
his duties without the most acute suffering. Mr. Hall
happened to be casually informed of this a day or two
aso, whilst waiting for the train, and instantly relieved
him by the 'passes,' to such an extent that he was asto-
nished by the effect, and declared that he could run or
leap with ease and comfort were it necessary.
"A servant at the Northumberland Arms, North
.Shields, had been for a long time troubled every morn-
ing with violent h~adache, attended with nausea; Mr.
lLill mesmerised her only once, more than a fortnight
·ago, and she has had no return of the complaint.•
" A few evenings since we had the pleasure of intro-
ducing Mr. Hall to a near relative of ours, who had been
.suffering dreadfully during the whole day, and indeed
for the last six months, from a violent llpasmodic a:ffec,.
tion ofthe side, accompanied by pain in the head. He
threw the patient into a deep and calm mesmeric sleep,
.for about a quarter of an hour, and when restored to
• I saw this young woman again six months afterwards, and she
,had during the whole of that period been perfectly well. ·
.64 .KESMElUC EXPERIENCES.
~ce no pain remained. The sceptical may ridicule
this ifthey choose; but candid men will not repudiate
the evidence of their own senses, because others may
think it wise and philosophical to doubt."
CASE XXIX.-MUSCULAR CONTRACTION RELIEVED.
About the time the foregoing was published, I was
one day sitting in conversation w1th the Rev. Mr.Camp-
.bell, of Newcastle, the Rev. Mr. Benson, of Chichester,
and two other ministers of religion, who had called
upon me for the purpose of discussing mesmerism, when
a poor woman came in with nearly all the muscles of
one side sadly contorted and stiff, and presenting a most
pitiable sight. She was totally unable to open her
hand, lift her elbow from her side, or walk without
halting ; had been twice in the infinnary for the com-
plaint; once for eleven weeks, and again for eight
weeks; had been four times cupped, and otherwise bled,
blistered, cauterised, and drugged; and then discharged
as incurable. So bad seemed her case, that at first I
had no disposition to interfere with it, but at length
(partly by persua....jon of the gentlemenyresent), resolved
to try the effect of a few manipulatiOns. The result
was astounding to those who were strange to such
o~rations. In ten minutes she was deep in the sleep,
.and I then opened her hand and stretched her arm.
In ten minutes more she was awake, and went out of
the room lifting her hand to her head, and opening or
closing it at pleasure ; although, according to her own
declaration, she had not seen the inside of it before for
more than six years. Either of the two gentlemen
above named, or the Rev. T. Pringle, of Newcastle,
would, I feel sure, corroborate this statement, if neces-
&I'J· But what was the result? A lady, who went
round the· neighbourhood delivering tracts, told the
~or young woman's mother that mesmerism was a.
wicked thing; other discouragements were added; andt
Digitized by Google
JrlESHEIUO EXPERIENCES.
although she kept improving during the time of my
etay, I have been told (though I do not vouch for its
truth) that she was afterwards again taken in hand by
doctors, and became as decrepid as ever. Unfor·
:tunately, whilst travelling, I lost that portion of my
journal in which this patient's address and case are
tnore particularly recorded ; and, in consequence, I
ehould have avoided any mention of it here, but for
the high character of the gentlemen to whom I have
referred, and the certainty that they can testify to all
the material points.• .
CASE XXX.- RELIEF OF AN IMPOTENT LIHB IN
PuBLIC.
(From the Atlas of Feb. 15th, 1€45.)
" On Wednesday evening Mr. Spencer T. Hall gave
a lecture at Nottingham to a numerous and highly re-
epectable audience. At the conclusion, about fifty
gentlemen (amongst whom were Mr. Richard Howitt,
the poet, and Mr. Ruben Bu..qgey, the artist), remained
to witness the simple mode in which Mr. 1Iall applies
this subtle and potent influence as a curative. During
the lecture the audience had been surprised by the
apeedy restoration of a stammerer to facility and dis-
tmctness of ~h; but those who remained appeared
much more mterested by what now took place. The
patient was a young woman of the name of Mont-
gomery. She was attended by her father and several
• Let it not be supposed, that in the allusion here made to the
:report of the patient's relapse, or in what I have said of her previous
treatment, it is my wish to excite any public dislike of the Facultyin
Newcastle, or its neighbourhood. There, at Shields, and in Sunder-
land (118 now in almost every town of the kingdom), there are-
members of the profealion to whom all credit is due for the manner
in which they have recognised the claims of mesmerism. Whatever
abuse-and there has been no littl~may have been heaped by the
profe..ion, 118 a body, upon all the mesmerists from Dr. Elliotson
downwards, no one is more ready than I am to bear.witness to the
humanity, skill. judgment, and candour of many of its members.
Heaven forbid that I should ever forget the kindness of some of them
to me, both before and sinee my connexion with this qllelltionl
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
friends; but was altogether a stranger to Mr. Hall.
Her right arm had been contracted and useless for five
years, and she was totally unable when she first as-
ascended the platform to lift it from her side. Without
sleep, or the slightest attempt to induce it, Mr. Hall
laid one of hie hands on her shoulder, and took her
fingers in the other for a. few seconds, and afterwards
made about a. dozen passes over the hitherto impotent
limb, when it recovered eo much power that in little
more than five minutes from coming forward she retired
able to lift her hand above her head, and to use it in
putting on her shawl, amid the congratulations of her
friendS and the delighted assembly. This young wo-
man had some time before been m the General Hos-
pital fourteen weeks for the complaint, but without
any benefit."
CASE XXXI.-REMOVAL OF GANGRENOUS SORES
BY DISTANT TREATMENT.
This case hafl some very curious and important fea-
tures; and although at present the name of the patient
is withheld, I do not think he would have the shghtest
objection to private reference being made to hiin re-
wmd.ing it. He is a young gentleman, the eon of a
liighly respectable civil engineer, in one of the midland
counties,andisbothwell educated and deeplyread. Dur-
ing my sojourn at Edinburgh last autumn, he wrote me,
describing his case, saying that for some years he had
been covered from head to foot with the most virulent
sores, originating in some mismanagement whilst under
the influence of mercury which had never been eradi-
cated from his system, although no means that human
knowledge could suggest had been left untried, except'
mesmerism, to which he was now desirous of resorting
as a. forlorn hope. The reader will better understand
the condition to which he must have been reduced,
when told that he was so painfully sore as to be unable
to wear hie braces or cravat, or to walk from home.
Digitized by Google
MESHERIC EXPERIENCES. flT
Under the circumstances it was impossible he could
travel to Edinburgh ; and as it was unlikely that I
should return to England for some months, it was ~~
.~lved that he shoufd be influenced, ifpossible, at that
distance-three hundred miles-on the principle that it
was as likely for health to travel in a letter as disease.
I ~ect my statement of this case to meet with much
sceptiCism and some derision : so be it. It is perfectly
true, notwithstanding; and its facts are indicative o£
some benign influence in nature which is as potent as
it is subtle, and will survive when the sceptic's laugh
shallfind no echo.
The object was to use some portable medium that
would easily dissolve in water; therefore I took a pill,
made up of materials so simple as well as soluble that
the chemist smiled whilst he was preparing it for me.*
This I held for some time between the palms of my
hands,concentratingmymind-myhope-:rnyfaith upon
the purpose. Then enclosing it in a letter, I gave the
patient mstructions to dissolve it in a jarof clean spring-
water, of which he was to drink a portion every days
and to let me know the result about the time it became
expended. He did so, and then wrote me, to my inex-
J>ressible deli~ht, that most of his sores had disappeared r
On my arrival in London, at the commencement ol
spring, the patient paid me a visit, and showed me
numberless scars of the wounds that had been healed by
this simple method, only two now remaining open; and
his father, being in town on some :parliamentary bu-
siness, he (pat1ent) made it converuent also to stay
about a fortnight, during which time I mesmerised
him daily, giving him the most refreshing though not
unconscious sleep. During ,his visit he frequently
walked several :niilesa-day, observing the various sights
of the city and suburbs, and at parting with me ex-
pressed himself in the most delighted and grateful
terms; but I begged of him very earnestly to regard
• There is nothing •more convenient for this purpose than a pill
ofcommon gum, dippedin 1lour and enclosed in a amallllat box.
Digitized by GoogIe
.HESHEBIC EXPERIENCES.
tne only as a mere agent in the C88e, since the influence
was from the Source whence flow all our other bJe&.
sings, and that any better, healthier, and mOI'e eamest
.man might have uaed. it with etill more ease and
benefit than I had done.
CASE XXXII.-CUBE OJ!' A. GRIEVOUS DISOBDEB
· OF THE NERVES.
In the course of the passing summer (1845), a young
gentleman, Mr. Henry Etheredge, of Yeovil, Somerset,
came to town for the purpose of being mesmerised.
Some time before, he had been frightened by ill-treat-
ment on board ship, the consequence of which was a
general disorder of the nervous !ystem, with an almost
total loss of memory. At the first seance I passed him
into a state of semi-somnolence, when one arm and
hand became very tremulous, and twitchings were ob-
servable in various parts of his body. In about twenty
minutes he awoke better. This was repeated about a
dozen times, the tremour and twitchings becoming on
each occasion more slight, until they ceased altogether,
and he felt well-having recovered his memory and
~heerfulness, and become physically stronger.
CASE XXXIII.~UBE oF TooTHACHE.
A highly respectable gentleman, residing at Clapton,
came to me, complaining of an excruciating toothache.
He said, his wish was to be thrown into the mesmeric
eleep, that the tooth might be extracted without pain ;
for, as it was decayed to the nerve, he bad no hope of
relief so Ion~ as he retained it. As I could not earu!
bring on an msensible sleep, it was resolved that I should
act more specifically ul>on the tooth, with a view to
henumb the nerve. This was accomplished ; and. not--
withstanding the cold, damp weather that prevailed for
months after, he had no reium whatever of the tooth.,
.
i
liESHERIC EXPERIENCES.
ache, except once when he had probed it. The effect
of this, however, was easily removed, and I saw him &
long time after quite free from the annoyance.
CASE XXXIV.-CuBE OF LAMENESS.
One evening, last spring, while I was stayittg with
Mr. and Mrs. William Howitt, at the Elms, Ciapton,
Mr. Conrad MUller introduced a boy, about fourteen
years of age, GEORGE FoRD, son of Mr. Ford, farmer, of
Brook-street, in that village. Three years previously;
this youth had fallen from a cart, and so mjured hiJ
groin that for .a long time he had been compelled to
keep his bed. Subsequently, however, he was so far
recovered as to be able to get out with the aid of a
stick, but still walked with a very awkward tuJi8t in his
gait, and with his body bending forward, almost hori-
zontally ; and his surgeon declared that he 'IDOUld he a
cripple for life. It was seeing him in this state, unable
to join his companions in their games, that first excited
the compassion of Mr. Muller, and induced him to
advise the boy to be mesmerised, which after some
elight demur, arising from their little knowledge of the
process, his parents allowed.
I am the more particular in describing all the con•
comitancies of thiS case, becallSe of the weight and
respectability ofthose who have witnessed my connexion
with it throughout, and of the unjust reports since set
afloat by a medicai·man for the purpose of ~
the victory that mesmerism obtained in it.- What
would a medical practitioner say, were I to go, after
one of his cures, to the patient's mother, and by a
Socratic method ofcross-examination, in a conventional
jargon she did not understand, suggest to her how the
case might be explained on different principles, and
then proclaim to the world that she had admitted it
~ be ? He would J:illbably denounce me and
mesmerism in terms I not retort in this case,
Digitized by Google
80 l!riESliERIC EXI'ERIENCES.
though richly merited. The case is well able to res~
upon the three facts, that, before being mesmerised, the
boy, according to his own assertion, could not walk more
than a mile, though aided by a stick, without severe
pain and exhaustion; that the doctor had said he would
be a cripple for life ; and that in about a month after
I first mesmerised him he walked more than twelve
miles in one day without his stick, and toithout pain or
fatigue, and played in the eveni11g as merrily as any of
his compani07U!
At the first seance, in the presence of Mr., Mrs.,
and Miss Howitt, Mr. Miiller, and Miss Ford (the
patient's sister), it took me nearly an hour to induce
the sleep. Tills having been at length accomplished,
I manipulated his hip and thigh for a short time, when
he arose, still somnolent, reared his bodY' nearly erect,
and stamped with one foot almost as firmly as with the
other. .At the second seance, owing to several disturb-
in~ causes, I was unable to induce sleep at all. At the
third he passed into it easily, and afterwards was so
susceptible that I could at any time induce it in a few
minutes by the simple act of taking him by the hand
and standing at his s1de. In this way I continued to
influence hrm two or three times a week for about two
months. In his mesmeric sleep-walking he appeared
to be endowed with almost preternatural strength, and
marched to a martial air, or danced to a livelY' one, with
great facility. When awoke he could generally remem-
ber having heard the music, but dia not appear to
know that he had been dancing or speaking. I under-
stand him now to be perfectlywell. Ofcourse there is
still some awkwardness in his mode of walking, the·
result of a disproportion in the muscles of the hiJ? from
the so long-continued action of one leg and inaction of
the other. But even this I think he will soon grow out
of, as he now presses or stamps with one foot q_uite as
powerfully as the other, and walks without his stick
several niiles every day, with his body nearly erect,
and in perfect ease and comfort.
J(ESMERIC EXPERIENCES, 61
..., Such are some of my ~ences in the use of mes-
merism as a curative. It would be easy to quote a
hundred othe~ cases. equally i~dicative of its powers;·
but the foregomg will be sufficient as examples. The
removal oftooth-ache, nervous head-ache, slight spasms,.
dimness of sight, &c., is so usual that mesmerists now
make but little accountofsuch operations. Mr. T. Hud-
son, chemist, of South Shields, tells me that it is as
common for people to go to his shop for the purpose of
having such disorders corrected by a few mesmeric
manipulations, as it was formerly for them to buy
medicine for the same purpose. There are now several
physicians in the country who regularly prescribe mes-
merism, and recommend their favourite manipulators as
well as their apothecaries ; and there are alsO many in-
telligent and healthy drug~ in Lancashire and else-
where who, I am told, urute both professions; whilst
clergymen, private gentlemen, and even some of the
nobility, are taking it up in a truly philanthropic spirit,
and using it for the most beneficent purposes, gra-
tuitously, among their poor neighbours.
It is true that some narrow-minded members of the
Faculty are raising a$ainst mesmerism the most absurd
and selfish cries, lest It should interfere with their prac-
tice. Nay, Dr. Cowan recentl.Y went so far as to say,
in a public lecture, when speakin~ ofthe diseases which
medicine had failed and mesmensm had succeeded in
curing, that it must be of the devil; since, mankind
being under a curse, " there were some diseases that it
was never in the order of Providence intended we
should attempt to cure!" When, however, I asked him
lS a physician and a philosopher, to tell the audience
what those diseases were, he went into a rage and said
he should not answer me. Poor fellow l he could not.
But it is not difficult to answer him, and I choose to do
so, not in my own lan~e, but in that of two of the
most eminent physicians m Sheffield, on the occasion
of my last course of lectures there. I quote from the
report in the newspapers of the town:-
Digitized by Google
" Dr. CoRDEN THOMPSON, as chairman, stated that,
wonderful as these effects now ap~ to us from
their novelty, he had no doubt the day would come
when the wonder would cease ; for he looked forward
to the time when experience would make us as well
acquainted with the natural laws by which these effects
were produced, and the uses to which they might be
applied, as we are with other natural operations."
"At the close of the last lecture Dr. G. CALVERT
HoLLAND said, he could not allow them to part with~
out performing what he considered to be a public duty.
What they had seen that night was alinost of too
delicate a nature for a mixed audience; but he might
truly say, he never attended a lecture wherein the,
experiments had been eo beautiful and satisfactory.
Tlie phenomena were by them considered extraordi--
nary, but the time was not far distant, when all that
had been witnessed, intricate though it seemed, would
be found as beautifully simple as the laws which regu-
late the circulation of the blood, or those of the
planetary system. There had been a darkness around
the phenomena ofthe nervous system, which, as a medical
man, he regretted, and which had prevented the Faculty
from alleviating st~fferi"!ff to a degree commensurate with
its prevalence. lie believed mesmerism would lift up
the veil, and the men who had kept themselves aloof
would be in a predicament similar to those who ot,
posed Harvey's theory of the circulation of the blood.' •
• How satisfactory it must be to Dr. Elliotson, and the few who
through years of trial have stood by him, to find rising up every-
where taleuted advocates like these I Such, however, must always
be at length the solace of those who, in spite of persecution, venture
beyond the prejudices of their order.
Digitized by Google
:MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
CHAPTER VII.
CASE o:r :Mxss HARRIET MARTINEA11-AuTHoR's INTERVIEW 'WITB·
MR. T. M. G:a:nNBow-Tm:m VISIT TO MISs MARTINEAU AT
TniEHOUTH-CBARACTER OJ!' THE PBENOHENA ARISING FROX
THE AUTHOR'S MA.NlPULATION8-PROCE8B CONTINlJED BY Miss
MARTINEAu's MAm-CoJIPLETION o:r CuBE BY THE VoLUNTARY
SERVICES OJ!' A L.u>Y-lliFEBENCES.
THE cure, by mesmerism, of internal tumours in the
case ofMissMartineau, afterfive years ofsevere suffering~
has naturally excited an interest commensurate with her
reputation; and though I have no desire to identify
myself unduly with the case, as my connexion with
it was but partial, there still are good reasons why it
should not be altogether overlooked in a work like the
present. ·It was by the especial request of the editor
of the Atlas, at a time when the public mind was
agitated by the most conflicting statements, and when
that gentleman thought my own unbiassed opinion on
the subject was needed, that I wrote him as follows:- ·
TO THE EDITOR OF THE " ATLAS."
" SIR,-You tell me that my opinions on the subject
of Miss Martineau's cure are expected by, and will be
interesting to, an inquiring public. But since Miss
Martineau herself, and Mr. T. M. Greenhow, the m~
dical gentleman who persuaded me first to visit her,
vary so widely in their estimates of the case, I would
rather confine myself to a simple statement of such
Digitized by Google
f4 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
FACTS relating to it as are familiar to my memory, and
leave· the formation of opinions upon them to the
reader's own mind.
''It was about the beginning of last June, that in
the calm of a beautiful evening, with a gentleman of
the neighbourhood, I had been wandering on the beach,
and contemplating the ruins of the old pnory, and other
interesting objects about Tynemouth ; when, as we
were commg away from the castle-gate, my companion,
pointing to a house we were passmg, said-' That is
the re...Q.dence of Harriet Martineau.' Now, in this sim-
ple piece of information there was, for me, a world of
mterest, out of which arose much conversation and
thought. I had read ' The Hour and the Man,' and
other works of Miss Martineau, with too true a relish
to be indifferent to any spot on which her occasional
brilliant mental images might be moulded. Her recent
refusal, too, of a public pension inspired me with regard
for what I deemed in her a high sense of independence
and equity ; and so I observed how pleasant it would
be to see such a woman just then walking among the
glorious and thrilling scenes we had left. ' Walling t'
exclaimedmycompanion, 'she has not been able to take a
walk for some years, being, poor lady, entirely confined
to the house, and not expecting to walk out again.
She is,' continued he, ' so reduced by some delicate in-
ternal complaint, as to be rendered almost incapable of
receiving her friends; and people of distinction, who
have come far to see her, have sometimes g_OJ1e away, in
consequence, without that gratification.' 'What a pity,'
said I, ' it is that she has no one about her who would
advise her to try mesmerism (not being then aware how
long ~he had believed in it). Were it not that it might
be disagreeable, and seem obstrusive, I am sure I would
write to some of my literary friends for an introduction
to her, that I might have an opportunity of recommend-
ing it.' ' Do you think that mesmerism would be effi-
cacious in such a case?' asked my companion. ' Hav-
ing known it successful in reducing wens and removing
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 65
king's evil,' was my reply, ' there are few abnormal
affections of the human system on which I would not
try it before despairing.' With such thoughts as these
we passed on, and during my stay at Shields (which
was about a fortnight) I never saw the house again
,without a recurrence of them ; but my natural abhor-
rence of all assumption and meddling prevented me at-
tempting to carry them into practice.
· " In the third week of June, I was lecturing at New-
castle, which is about nine miles from Tynemouth ; and
one evening, Mr. Greenhow, who was then an entire
stranger to me, was appointed chairman and scrutineer
of the proceedings by a very numerous and respectable
audience. He appeared to observe what transpired
with remarkable scrupulosity, and worded his observa-
tions, at the conclusion, with evident caution ; but, as .
some of the audience thought, rather favourably to my-
self, since he had before been understood to be opposed to
mesmerism, but did not now say any thing against it.
Shortly afterwards-it was on the morning of Satur-
day, the 22nd of the month-Mr. Greenhow called at
my lodgings to have a conference with me ; but did
not then te1l me, nor had I at the time the remotest
idea, that he was in any way whatever connected with
Miss Martineau.
"There was, in Mr. Greenhow's manner such evi-
dent caution, not to say mystery or ambiguity, on this
occasion, as to put me on the defensive during the ut-
terance of his very first sentence; but I remembered
Nicodemus, and prepared my reply. The following, as
near as I can recollect, is the substance of our dia-
logue:-
" Mr. GREENHOW-' The experiments I saw you
perform the other evening, Mr. Hall, have certainly
impressed. me as somewhat remarkable; but without
any further reference to them, I would like very well
to introduce you to a case-that of a lady who has
been long confined to the house-in which I think the
F
Digitized by Google
66
use of mesmerism, if true, might be tested with great
advantage. I have private reasons for not naming the
lady until you have given me your answer. But I ma.y
go so far as to obeerve, that if you knew her, you
could :aot fail, from what I judge Of your character, to
feel highly gratified by such an opportunity of putting
mesmerism to the test; and should you succeed I am
sure you will not have reason to regret it whilst you
live. The case is one of internal disOrder. The chief
object in applying mesmerism to it is the superseding
of the use of opiates-that being all, I apprehend, you
could do for it; and if you knew all the circumstances
attending it, and are as enthumastic as you seem in the
desire to advance your cause, I am sure you would not
refuse. The patient lives a few miles from the town,
and if you think well we can go this afternoon. Yes,
or no?'
"MY REPLY.-' Well, Mr. Greenhow, frank and
open in all things myself, I do not like ambiguity in
others. You talk of tests, as though you were still
sceptical about mesmerism, to me, who not only believe
but practise it, and since I have no more right to have
faith in you, who are a doubter, than you have in me,
who am an advocate; and since you are so indefinite,
that it is impossible for me to know whom you would
have me thus go to, blindfolded as it were; you cannot
oiject, if I coment, that tee should he accompanied by
60me other medical gndleman, wlw il not opposed to
mesmerism, that he might tlifJ!TIWstieate the case and
1/Jatck the result. This toould allmD me to infer acctt-
ratdy at a11.y giDen period, if there were cmy change i11
the patient's condition, lww far that change might he
owing to my manipulations. FD'f', allhmtgk there may
be a powerful saMtive itifluence aercised, it is possible
tee may have 110 speedy and stri/U'Rg external indication
of it. We must remember (I continned) that Great-
rakes and Mesmer, in their cures, seldom or never
induced that condition which is termed sleep; yet,
Digitized by Google
11ESliERIC EXPEB.IENCES. 67
from the general, but erroneous opinion, which now
obtains, you might consider that condition to be the
only test of mesmeric power.'
"Mr. GREENHOW (who had been eying me very
steadily and keenly during this reply}-' What medi-
cal gentleman would you think of for this purpose?'
"REPLY-' Dr.--, who has privatefy avowed to
me his belief in mesmerism.'
" Mr. GREENHOW-' It cannot be. The delicacy and
privacy of the case preclude it. The patient herself
would object to the presence, or even cognizance, of
another party."
"MY REPLY (emphatically)-' Then, sir, I am
compelled, in justice to myself and to mesmerism, to
decline the experiment. An apparent failure in such a
case might not beset down to any peculiaridiosyncrasy,
or to my own inability, or to any adventitious influ-
ence to which it might be justly due, but to mes-
merism, which has already suffered too much from
tests that were, in reality, no tests at all; and I would
not like it to be said, when mesmerism, or what
goes by that name, shall be universally recognised, that
I was ever one of those who retarded it by indiscre-
tion.'
"Mr. GREENHOW (with a slight indication of dis-
pleasure in his manner}-' You form a wrong estimate,
Mr. Hall, of my own motives and the ca..<ae altogether.
It is delicacy and duty towards the patient alone that
prevent me being more explicit with you. But as the
negotiation seems now at an end, I must take your
denial, for which I am exceedingly sorry, and bid you
good morning.'
"As Mr. Greenhow moved towards the door, I
begged him to remember that it was not from fear of
a fau investigation, but of possible misunderstanding,
that I had manifested so much wariness, and that if he
knew all I had suffered from medical sceptics, he would
not think hardly of me for the course I had taken ;-
when suddenly turning again iowards me, he said-
F 2
68 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
' Mr. Hall, my anxiety regarding this case-the fact
that the patient herself is desirous of a trial-that she
has sufferred long-and that not only herself, but hu-
manity, since she is a very kind and superior person,
would gain much if you could relieve her-and as I am
not myself without hope that your efforts might be of
great service-I will, notwithstanding what has passed,
ask you again, and I pledge myself as a man who highly
values his character, that 1f you go with me, whatever
be the result, nothing shall transpire at all inimical to
your own feelings or reputation, or to mesmerism;
whilst, whatever good is done, I am quite sure you will
have the credit of, and the fullest justice will be done
to mesmerism.'
" There seemed something so straightforward and
manly in this, that my instantaneous rep1y was-' Since
you say so, sir, I will not hesitate another moment, .nor
would I have demurred at all if you had said as much
at first. At what time shall we start?'
"The time (I think one o'clock) was now arranged,
but from some unavoidable cause we started an hour
later. The railway to North Shields was the line we
took-chatting on various topics till about half-way
between Newcastle and Tynemouth-when Mr. Green-
how informed me, for the first time, that our patient
was no other than Miss Harriet Martineau I The con-
versation during the remainder of the ride, of course,
turned chiefly upon the nature of her case, her works,
her genius, and public conduct. But, so far as I re-
member, Mr. Greenhow did not on that or any other
occasion give me the slightest idea that a cure of Miss
Martineau's disease had already commenced (as his
pamphlet now states it had) two months before. Cer-
tainly, if it were so, he might not think it important
that I should be informed. I merely state the fact that
I have no remembrance of his having done so; and as,
on the other hand, Miss Martineau declares that he had
twice after Christmas avowed himself compelled to give
up all hope of affecting the disease, and since she further
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 69
says that as to all essential points, she never was lower
than immediately before making trial of mesmerism,
every candid thinker will here see how advantaaeous to
the truth it must have been to have had what I at first
proJ?Osed-a diagnosis of tlte case b!J some other pro-
fessaonal man.
"Let me nowcome to a good understanding with the
reader. It must not be e~ted that in what follows
I shall violate the sanctity of Miss Martineau's private
home or habits, however it might gratify an impertinent
curiosity to tell what from time to time I saw of one or
the other. My very dear and intimate friends, William
and Mary Howitt, can bear witness that so far was I
ever from taking undue advantage of this popular case
for my own advancement, that I hesitated to tell even
them in a private answer, so late as autumn (when Miss
Martineau had announced her partial cure to her·re-
lations in London),whether or not I had been connected
with it. If Miss Martineau had never either given me
direct leave, or published the case herself, however I
might secretly have rejoiced in her recovery, the world
would never have heard a word of it from me, nor shall
I now, or at any time, touch upon any thing relating to
it or her, that is not fully qualified by what she may
herself choose to make public.
· "Suffice it that after being ushered into the room in
which every seance I afterwards attended took place--
.and which on that bright afternoon commanded a mag-
nificent view of the bay opening into the ocean, and of
the far-winding shores, overscattered with their countless
objects of cunous interest-! waited her appearance
with no usual feelings. Instead of having obtruded
mesmerism upon her, 1 had been invited at her wish to
be its minister. Her case, from all I could understand,
was a desperate one ; such, in fact, appeared to be the
unanimous opinion yrevailing for at least twenty miles
away. Her medica adviser (who I did not then know
was her brother-in-law) I felt would regard what might
occur in the light of a test. And when at length she
Digitized by Google
70 JD'.svERIC EXPERIENCES.
came slowly into the room, with the expression of one
that tDOuld be cheerful, if possible, in sp1re of suffering,
marks of which were evidently upon her, I regretted
that some previous acquaintance, however slight, had
not prepared us better for the undertaking. This feel-
ing, however, passed away; and, as is generally the
case with me on such occasions, all other ideas were
speedily absorbed in the one paramoun~the patient's
cure. Having stared a few of the preliminary condi-
tions, some of which appeared quire new to Miss Mar-
tineau (who did not seem aware that our cures are more
frequently performed without sleep than with it), I p~
ceeded in all earnestness with my manipulations, of
which she has herself written so graphic and correct an
account, that I prefer giving it from her own letter of
November the 12th:-
" ' Mr. Spencer T. Hall and my medical friend
came, as arran~ed, at my worst hour of the day, be-
tween the exptration of one opiate and the taking of
another. By an accident the gentlemen were rather in
a hurry,*-a. circumstance unfavourable to a first experi-
ment. But result enough was obtained to encourage a
further trial, though it was of a nature entirely unan-
ticipated by me. I had no other idea than that I should
either drop asleep or feel nothing. I did not drop
asleep, and I did feel something very strange. Van-
ous passes were tried by Mr. IWl. The first that ap-
peared effectual, and the most so for some time after,
were passes over the head, made from behind,-passes
from the forehead to the back of the head, and a little
way down the spine. A very short time after these
were tried, and twenty minutes from the beginning of
the seance, I became sensible of an extraordinary ap-
pearance, most unexpected, and wholly unlike any
· thing I had ever conceived of. Something seemed to
diffuse itself through the atmosphere-not like smoke,
• Mr. Greenhow was obliged to return at a speeific time; and it
was thought desirable, being the first seance, that he should be pre·
aent to the end of it.-S. T. H.
Digitized by Google
KESHERIC EXPERIENCES.
nor. steam, nor haze--but most like a clear twilight,
closing in from the windows and down from the ceil-
ing, and in which one object after another melted
away, till eca.roely any thing was left visible before my
wide-open eyes. First, the outlines of all objects were
blurred; then a bust, standing on a pedestal in a strong
light, melted quite away; then the opposite bust; then
the table with its gay cover, then the :floor and the
oeiling, till one small picture, high up on the opposite ·
wall, only remained VlSi.ble, like a. patch of phosphoric
light. I feared to move my eyes, lest the singular
~ce should vanish, and I cried out, ' 0! deepen
it. deepen it!' supposing this the precursor of the sleep.
It could not be dee_pened, however; and when I glanced
aside from the lummous point, I found that I need not
fear the return of objects to their ordinary appearance.
While the ~ were continued, the busts reappeared,
ghost-like, m the dim atmosphere, like faint shadows,
except that their outlines and the parts in the highest
relief, burned with the same phosphoric light. The
features of one, an Isis with bent head, seemed to be
illumined by a fire on the :floor, though this bust has
its back to the windows. Wherever I glanced all out-
lines were dressed in this beautiful light; and so they
have been, at every $ea»ee, without exception, to this
day, though the appearance has rather given way to
drowsiness since I left off opiates entirely. This ap-
pearance continued during the remaining twenty mi-
nutes before the gentlemen were obliged to leave me.
The other effects produced were, first, heat, oppression,
and sickness, and, for a few hours after, disordered
stomach, followed, in the course of the evening, by a
feeling of lightness and relief, in which I thought
I could hardly be mistaken.
"'On occasions of a perfectly new experience, how-
ever, scepticism and self-distrust are very strong. I was
aware of this beforehand, and also, of course, of the com-
mon sneer-that mesmeric efrects are 'all imagination.'
When the singular appearances presented themselves, I
Digitized by Google
12 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
thought to myself-' Now, shall I ever believe that this
was all fancy? When it is gone, and when people
'laugh, shall I ever doubt havmg seen what is now as
distmct to my waking eyes as the rolling waves of
yonder sea, or the faces round my sofa?' I did a little
doubt it in the course of the evening; I had some mis-
givings even so soon as that; and yet more the next
mornmg, when it appeared like a dream. Great wa8
the comfort, therefore, of recognising the aprarances
on the second afternoon. 'Now,' thought , 'can I
again doubt?' I did, more faintly; but, before a week
was over, I was certain of the fidelity of my own senses
in regard to this and more.' .
" There is one essential difference between the :Prac-
tice of a mesmerist and that of an ordinary physician.
The latter sees his patient, writes a prescription, and
has no more trouble until the next intemew. The
mesmerist goes patiently and earnestly to work with
his manipulations; and he sometimes finds, when he
has carried them on for an hour, that it may be neces-
sary for him to persevere for nearly an another; and if
he have a benevolent heart (which no mesmerist ought
to be without), he is too earnest to think of ceasing until
he feels hiswork is properly done. Before and during the
time I visited Miss Martineau at Tynemouth, there
were many patients in Newcastle who required from
me the kind of attention I have now described ; and it
was somethina of this character that had exhausted and
detained me a%ttle on the day of our third interview, so
that I arrived somewhat late, when she told me her
waiting-maid had been successfully performing the
same kind of manipulations as my own, and with a
most agreeable effect. This pleased me exceedinglY,;
for I am well aware that there is often as great a dif-
ference in the influence of various mesmerisers as there
is in the waters that spring from different kinds of
earth; and it struck me that, although my own influ-
ence in this case might be much more powerful, that of
the maid might be the most salutary from its mildness;
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. '13
and as she would always be at hand when wanted, I
gave her such instructions as at the time seemed requi-
Site, and went several times more-l think about six or
seven in all-to see that they were duly carried out,
and what the effects might be; after which my personal
attentions to the case were brought to a close. Miss
~artineau bears the following testimony to my ser-
VIces:-
" ' When Mr. Hall saw how congenial was the influ-
ence of this new mesmerist, he advised our going on
by ourselves, which we did till the 6th of September.
I owe much to Mr. Hall for his disinterested zeal and
kindness. He did for me all he could; and it was
much to make a beginning, and put us in the way of
proceeding.' .
" We must take Miss Martineau's own account of the
:first essay of her maid, and its effects. That it pro-
duced feelings which all but rendered a further use of
opiates needless, and gave her a good appetite for the
first time for jive years, is a fact that common sense
can much better comprehend than it could the gene-
rality of medical reports:-
"'Within one minute (after the maid began) the
twilight and phosphoric lights ap:(>C8l'ed; and in two
or three more,. a delicious sensatiOn of ease spread
through me-a cool comfort, before which all pain and
distress gave way; oozing out, as it were, at the soles of
my feet. During that hour, and almost the whole
evening, I could no more help exclaiming with pleasure,
than a person in torture crying out with :pain. I became
hungry, and ate with relish, for the first time these
five years. There was no heat, oppression, or sickness
during the seance, nor any disorder afterwards. During
the whole evening instead ofthe lazy hot ease of opiates,
under which pain is felt to lie in wait, I expenenced
something of the indescribable sensation of health,
which I had quite lost and forgotten. I walked about
my rooms, an~ was gal and talkative. Something of
this relief remained till the next morning; and then
74 KESVERIC EXPEJUENCES.
there was no reaetion. I was no worse than U8llal; and
perhaps rather better. Nothing is io me more unques-
tionable and more striking about this in1luenoe than
the absence of all reaction.'
" My departure for Scotland prevented me hearing
much more of the case than was intimated, in very
general terms, in a letter with which Miss Martineau
favoured me at Dumfries, and in the inquiry of Mr.
Howitt to which I have alluded, until the month of
October. It was then that, at Edinburgh, Mr. Combe,
Mr. R. Chambers, and Mrs. Crowe, informed me that
Miss Martineau's cure was becoming a toJ;>ic of conver-
sation in select circles; and presentlyI rece1ved a gratify-
ing assurance of it from Miss Martineau herself, dated
the lOth of that month, in which she said that BUch
amendment of her health had been made, that she had
now 'no fear of a relapse'-that she could ' walk
three miles with a relish'-that 'her maid had car-
ried on the cure pretty far, when a benevolent lady
came to her aid, out of pure zeal and kindness, and
proceeded with it'-and that she could not 'feel suf-
ficiently thankful for such a resurrection.' Shortlyafter-
wards, in another letter, Miss Martineau informed me of
the somnambulist, 'J,' of whom so much has been said;
and, in allusion to her own case, spoke of the utter in-
adequacy of surgery to relieve it if mesmerism had
failed, and stated that she had ' the day before walked
nearly five miles, and that she had also been walking
through Shields, the first time for five years she had
been m a town!' Miss Martineau's last letter to me was
dated the 4th of December, and in it she stated that
she ' continued quite well, feeling notltilcg whatever of
her late complaints.'
" Such, to the extent I have been concerned in it,
is my own narrative of this cure, which may be useful
as an impartial corollarv to the accounts which have
been published by Miss Martineau and .Mr. Greenhow
themselves. Still in how much the cure is itself in-
debted to mesmerism, or how far Mr. Greenhaw's state-
XESHERIC EXPERIENCES. 75
ment, that the patient's ' condition in December is but
the natural sequel of progressive improvement begun in,
or antecedent to, the month of April,' may be consistent
with his conversation with and pledge to me at Mid-
summer, I must leave the reader to determine. But
my own solemn conviction is, that if Miss Martineau
had recovered under ordinary treatment, instead of
under that of mesmerism, there is not in the empire a.
medical practitioner who would not have been exceed-
ingly proud of the case (had it been exclusively in his
own hands), as well as decidedly opposed to an admis-
sion that ' the condition in December was but the natu-
ral sequel of progressive improvement begun in, or an-
tecedent to, the month of ApriL'
"I am, sir,
" Yours, respectfully,
. " SPENCER T. HALL."
"January 27, 1845."
Digitized by Google
76 HESHERIC EXPERIENCES.
CHAPTER VITI.
EXPERIMENTS UPON, Oll.AFPECTINGTBE AuTHOll-BY Ma.J. RoOOEll&
AND Ha. FoWLEll-BY .A. LITTLE BoY-BY A ScEPTIC-BY Ma.
SoliiEllVILLE BECK.H.A.UB-BY H. s. THOMPSON, ESQ.-BY Da. EL-
LIOTSOII-BY Ma. HoLBROOk-BY Mas. HoWITT, AND OTHERS.
IT was not remarkable that, after seeing so much of
the influence of mesmerism upon others, I should be
occasionally desirous of knowing what would be its
effects upon myself. These have been as various as the
characters of those who operated. The first who tried
his hands upon me was Mr. John Rodgers-the next
was Mr. Fowler; but neither of them produced any
effect beyond that of soothing me into a very quiet but
not somnolent condition, by passes over the top of my
head and down the spine. The first time that-r really
felt completely mngnetised, was when I was trying to
produce the effect upon another-a little boy, eleven
years old, with blue eyes, light hair, fair complexion,
and of a temperament certamly not the most active.
This was in the office of Mr. Burton, printer (now the
Mercury office), Leicester. It was too soon after dinner,
so that all my nervous power was needed for the pur-
poses of digestion, when this boy sat down to me in
presence of Mr. Burton and Mr. William Taylor, of
Nottingham, who happened at the time to be in Lei-
cester. Having taken the boy's hands, I placed the
ends of my thumbs and his in juxta-position, and con-
tinued to look him steadily in the face for about twenty
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 'Ti
minutes. Not observing the change in him I had anti-
cipll.ted, I asked him how he felt. His answer was,
"Very well." I then told him to rise, which he did ;
but on trying to do the same, 1 found myself as fast
locked by the invisible influence to my chair as if I
had been nailed in it! The sensation now experienced
was one I can scarcely describe. Perhaps it would be
more proper to call it a lack of sensation-since, though
unable to rise from the chair, I could notfeel my contact
with it. During· the whole of this time I was, how-
ever, perfectly awake ; but for the mome.nt my con-
dition was palpably contradictory of the adage of
" Where there's a will there's a way." The boy was at
length directed to relieve me, by wafting me with a
silk handkerchief; but owing to his not doing this very
effectively, my feelings for some hours afterwards were
any thing but comfortable. ·
In a somewhat similar manner I was once influenced
at Birmingham. It was on the evening of one of my
lectures that a young man called upon me at my inn,
and said he wished to be mesmerised. Mter some im-
portunity I consented to try him; but soon found that
mstead of controllin~ him he was very powerfully
influencing me. This I told him ; but he was very
inhumane as well as sceptical, saying that it was all
im+ation on my part-that he had not influenced
me m the manner stated-nor would he, when I wished
him, use the simple means necessary for my restoration.
Since then I have generally been careful of committing
myself to any intercourse of the kind with sceptics--
who are for the most part a very inconsiderate race,
vulgarly ima~g that they have a sort of right to
take up the tune and strength of a believer, and then
to neglect if not to insult him when they haYe done.
Their self-love makes them believe it Wise to doubt
what they are often in reality too ignorant to compre-
hend, and to talk of sce_{>ticism as something really sub-
stantial,having positive nghts and claims on the believer,
which is altogether a fallacy. Scepticism at best is bu~
Digitized by Google
78 MESllElUC EXPElUENCES.
a mere negation, and has no rights at all beyond what
are poeseseed by ignorance; but this is a lesson that
some are very slow to learn. That evening at the lec-
ture my feelings were very strange, and my mind so
scattered, as it appeared, that it was with great diffi-
culty I could arrange my thoughts consecutively and
spea"'k with the coherence necessary to the occasion.
Feeling still uneasy upon returning to my inn, after the
lecture, I sat for some time in company, very sad,
without being able to take any part in the conver-
sation which, for concurrent reasons, was almost entirely
upon mesmerism. At length, fixing my attention upon
a gentleman I recollected having seen a silent spectator
and listener in the audience, and who was otherwise en-
tirely strange to me, I felt every time he gave me an
earnest look as though he could afford me some relief by
manipulation. On asking him ifhe wouldmesmerise me,
with the greatest readiness he complied; and not long
after he liad taken me by the thumbs and fixed his
eyes upon mine I felt a very important change-but it
was not towards sleep. A soft, warm, kindly glow
stole along my nerves like a gentle tide; then came a
deep sigh and a gush of tears; and lastly a high degree
of vigilimce and the most perfect relief from my pre-
vious unpleasant symptoms. It was after he had ren-
dered me this courteous and friendly service, that I
found the gentleman to be Mr. Somerville Beckhaus,
who had already become well acquainted with mes-
meric practice, and was therefore the better able
(though I did not at the time of selecting him from the
company know it) to remagneti..<>e me with proper
effect.
, The next time I was mesmerised it was by H. S.
Thompson, Esq., of Fairfield House, near York. The
chief effect produced was that of a semblance of sleep,
but consciousness remained. This was not, however,
without great benefit to me, as it seemed to endue me
with more than usual vital energy, which :lasted for
some time. On another occasion, when mesmerised by
Digitized by Google
'19
the same gentleman, a. very different effect was pro-
duced. My sleep seemed to be more deep; but it was
not common sleep. I still remained conscious; but every
thing seemed to reach the sensorium through a medium
more protracted than usual. When Captain Bentham,
who was present, spoke, I could hear him distinctly,
and yet the sound seemed to come from a greater dis-
tance, as through a lengthened and contracted passage.
When he suggested to Mr. Thompson to call certain or-
gans into play by touching my head, I was perfectly
aware of what he said, and also, when the points in
question were touched, what was anticipated by the
process; but had neither motive, inclinatiOn, or power
to give the slightest response either in word or action.
At length on being awoke by the ordinary method of
transverse passes and wafting, instead of feeling re-
freshed, as on the previous occasion, there were now
a very unpleasant languor and a dulness of ~irits re-
mainmg upon me. When I alluded to the difference,
Mr. Thompson said that on the day before his first
operation upon me he had been huntmg and enjoying
some other open-air exercise, by which, no doubt, he
was himself invigorated; but that he had been up
at a ball the night before the last seance, and that
the laxity of my condition was quite correspondent
with his own.
In May, 1843, I first came to London, for the pur-
pose ofdelivering a course oflectures. On the journey
up I had met with a serious accident by the railway
which, followed by unusual fatigue on my arrival, ren-
dered me very weary, faint, and somewhat sad at heart.
Having been one morning introduced by Mr. Thompson
and Pr. Simpso~ of York, to Dr. Elliotson, I asked the ·
latter before we parted if he would mesmerise me, to
which in the frankest and kindest mann~r possible he at
once consented. He besan, as I sat, by looking upon me
very intently and pointmg hi~ fing_ers towards the low~r
part of my brow. :t'here was a slight gush of tears m
about five minutes, and then throughout the whole frame
80 MESMERIC EXI'ERIENCES.
a feeling ofcool and delicious rest,butnot sleep,although
my eyes were involuntarily closed. I have no distin.ct
recollection ofthe Doctor's manipulations after this, but
think he made passes downwardS from the forehead as
low as the epigastrium, and from the shoulders to the
hands; and in about twenty or twenty-five minutes
from the commencement he recovered me by pressing
my eyelids with his thumbs (with a slight jerk), and
afterwards breathing a. stream of warm air upo:Q. the
back of m:y neck. I can never forget the renovating
effect of this process upon me. Weeks of relaxation in
the fresh green country could not have supplied me
with a more agreeable vigour, and I was .enabled to
go through m:y subsequent duties with an unusual de-
gree of animatiOn and comfort.
Nothing to me is more remarkable than the effects
produced, in turn, by the manipulations of those who
have already been mesmerised by myself. The follow-
ing facts are important, especially to those interested
in what is called phreno-mesmerism.
There is an intelligent and estimable young man,
William Holbrook, who is known to be in a high
degree susceptible to magnetic influences. He is one
of those upon whom I had the satisfaction of operating
at various times before Liebig, Mr. George Combe,
Professor Gregory, Mr. Robert Chambers, and other
distinguished scientific and literary parties, in Edin-
burgh. I have always valued his case highly, because
of its evident freedom from guile or simulation. Many,
when mesmerised, are still sufficiently under the in-
fluence of ordinary motives to " help nature" in some
degree ; and, without any real disJ>Osition to deceive,"
will endeavour to gratify the on-lookers with whatever
may be anticif,ated or desired, by the super-addition of
acts not strict :y peculiar to the abnormal state they are
in. Thus it Is, that the:y will sometimes guess, and
make mistakes, when unfarr and often absurd questions
are put to them, or suggested, under the.supposition
that they are clairvoyant, because they are then apt to
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC.EXJ.>ERIENCES. 81
partake of the wonder-loving, speculative spirit of
their questioners. In Holbrook I never saw any ten-
dency of this kind, but have always had the most
perfect faith in his passiveness, under the circumstances,
to what may be termed the strictest conditions of mes-
merism. Still, often so strikingly beautiful and logical
were his responses to phrenological excitement, that it
was desirable, after the :promulO'ation of so many hypo-
theses bfphreno-mesmensm,to fearn, ifpossible, whether
in him the phenomena resulted in any degree from his
acquired knowledge, or were sole!_y_owing to some in-
tuitive if not organic principle. With this view I one
day requested him to tell me what he actually knew of
p}rrenology, and of the location of different organs.
His reply was that, practically speaking, he knew next
to nothing : his natural inclination had led him to
study other matters so exclusively, that he had paid as
little attention to phrenology as to any thing ; and he
was not certain that he could define the location of
more than half-a-dozen organs with accuracy. To test
this, I asked him to place his finger UJX>n any point of
my own head, and tell me, if he could, the name of
the region he was touching; but we had not proceeded
far upon this plan, before I felt my whole frame
thrilled by a most unusual sensation. In short, it soon
became evident, that through this mode of contact he
was exercising over me a most powerful magnetic in·
fluence, and, as the event proved, calling distinct
faculties into excessive activity, although I still re-
mained perfectly awake, and able to reason upon the
species of " mania1' he was inducing I Directmg him
to apply his finger to the centre of the posterior
region of my head, with a view to test, if possible,
whether it was the seat of Inhabitit•eness, or of Con-
centrativeness-l soon found my anticipation altogether
over-ruled by the apparition of two infants, so palpably
present to me, that I felt as though it would be possible
to take hold of them. What IS more curious, these
were mother and daughter-a dear sister ofmy own, as
G
Digitized by Google
lfESliElUC J:.X¥BJDCES.
I had known her when a7l infant, and her daugltter, thm
·""infant. This was evidently a manifestation, neither
of Inluwitioeness nor Concentrativmeu, bu~ of Pllilo-
progenitiventss; and having no children of my own ro
engage that affection, it appears to have been occupied
by such other fitting objects as stood nearest in relation ·
tome.
The effect of this first excitement being removed, the
operator next, by my own direction, placed his finger
a little higher, when my native cottage appeared qmre
aa palpably before me as though I had really been at
and about to walk into it. This must have been Inha-
bititJtJtess.
On touching another point in the same region-in-
stead of tn~e sole spot-appeared to me, as if concen-
trated in one scene, all tlie remarkable places I had
ever visited. Old cathedrals, castles, parks, mountains,
forests-every place of note to which I had made a pil-
grimage,-all seemed to be combined in one idea, mir-
rored in one glowing affection; and this was no faint
vision: it appeared at the moment a striking reality.
Drawing his finger somewhat aside from the above
point, towards the region marked on the charts as
.Adhesiveness, while he gentlypressed it there, I saw and
wished to shake hands with one friend alone; and then,
on the point of contact being moved a little further in
the same direction, I suddenly became aware, as it
seemed, of the presence of all the friends I had ever
known. This appears to me to be the seat of the social
affections.
Subsequently by direction, he endeavoured to excite
,flel.festeem, Benevolence, and one or two other faculties;
but by this ti,me my state was much changed; I was
beginning to be very confused both in my thoughts
and feelings-possibly from the activity of so many
conflicting principles-a slight sickness and headache
supervened; and I have never since submitted to the
same class of experiments-nor do I think it advisable
on any occasion to induce phreno-mesmeric pheno-
Digitized by GoogIe
liESMElUO EXPERIENCES. 8~
mena when the patient is in a state of vigilance,
though in some cases it may easily be done.
From the above experiments it would appear that,
as the results were in several instances very different
from what I had anticipated, and as the operator had
no motive for touching me anywhere but as he was
directed, my own case does not furnish any evidence
against phreno-mesmerism, although it would seem to
qualifY a view more amplified and modified than that
at present taken by most phrenologist&.
The next instance of the kind in my own expe-
rience is one, the particulars of which involving as they
do the feelings of others, I am at present inclined to
withhold from the world-though wishing them to be
published when all parties personally concerned have
departed this life A case more beautiful and more
signifieant of important psychical principles I have
never heard or read of, . even among the Germans.
Suffice it now to say, that to me it established the pos-
sibility of one person putting himself in direct commu-
• nication with another, at an.11 dist01lce, without the aid
of any sensible medium;-nay more, it made quite
evident to me the met, that, no matter how far apart
in body, persons may occasionally appear as being
really present to each other, and thus interchange their
thou~hts as easily and clearly as if corporeally ncar
and m ~ conversation I I never wonder now at
the Druid's and sages of antiquity admitting none to a
participation of their knowledge but such as, being
first selected by themselves, were made afterwards to
undergo a long process of initiation and a pledge of
secresy. By any other course they would have lost one
of the grandest secrets of their hold upon the mind of
the world; and perhaps in their age it was well to be
thus exclusive; but where once Christianity has been
published, there is, I think, no further need of such
mystery. Lest any one, however, attempt to abu.."C this
power, let him be assured that if wrongly used there
will be a reaction of it upon the evil-doer, with a
G2
Digitized by Google
84 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
punishment more awful than it is in the nature of an
mexperienced mind to comprehend. I speak: with
a'!lthority, though I trust with modesty, as one who has
been favoured to see far into these things. But let us
for the present change the topic.
One evening when in Edinburgh, I was passing an
hour with one of the most distinguished professors
there, and his lady. The latter wished me to try ifi
could mesmerise her, but secretly determined to be
the active instead of the passive party. Without
having the slightest suspicion that such was her intent~
I soon began to feel the magnetic influence stealing
upon me to a degree that compelled me to desist, when
the lady good-humouredly explained that seeing my
usual homely and quiet aspect changed at the com-
mencement of the operation into one of a more de-
termined and lofty character, the thought was sug-
gested to her that by a still stronger exercise of her
own will she might possibly counter-influence me--
and such was the effect. The influence, however, re-
mained upon me so long as to become burdensome.
All that night, and for several days and nights after-
wards, I felt it haunting me in a manner that prevented
any object having its natural appearance. This fact I
mention to guard my readers from a repetition of the
experiment. I am sure the benevolent and intellectual
lady in question would not have attempted any thing
of the kind, had she been at all aware of the conse-
quences.
The last time any powerful magnetic effect was pro-
duced upon me was during the spring of this year, at
Mr. William Howitt's. Our little circle had one even-
ing been for some time engaged in a conversation on
mesmerism; and many and deeply-interesting were the
illustrations of it my friends quoted for me from their
favourite German writers. In turn I told them many
of my own experiences, and it was at length resolved
that I should once again submit to the operation, and
that Mrs. Howitt should be the manipulator. Stand-
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 85
ing behind me, as I sat very still, she began with slow
passes over the top and back of my head, without con-
tact. In about five minutes a tide of sleepy irrfluence
seemed to roll down to my feet and then back to my
head. Then came a mild light, and the quiet and
lovely vision of a landscape composed of the most
picturesque mountains, with lakes sleeping at their
feet, and a cerulean sky above. As the manipulations
were varied the vision changed. TI1e operator too
began to observe effects more powerful than she had
been prepared for; and I think it must have been
about this time that, instead of the vast, calm land-
scape, I saw as it were all the colours of the kaleide-
scope before me. Sometimes they seemed to be fixed
and beautifully arranged, as in a large cathedral window;
then to be commingling and changmg places with each
other; and at last, as the operator became more anxious
about the consequences, and I ·very desirous but in-
capable of giving her directions qmetly to proceed, all
seemed to vanish together in darkness, when I was
awoke and immedia~ely afterwards retired to my .room.
But my sleep that night was not common sleep; 1t was
more like a1ong and varied half-waking dream; and
on arising the next morning I had still most beautiful
colours flickering before my eyes. This I attribute
chiefly to the operation having been influenced by Mrs.
Howitt's hesitancy when the trance should haveheen
deepened by a continuance of the passes, which l?ro-
bably would soon have brought on a salutary cnsis.
But however free and daring in her own delightful
region of song, she did not feel so brave in mesmerism;
and such were the results of her humane fear of pro-
ceeding too far in a walk with which she was not
familiar.
The foregoing instances will be sufficient in answer
to the many who ask, "If a mesmeriser can be mesme-
rised?" Often when that question is put to me I say
-"Yes, just as a wrestler may be overcome by one
more powerful or skilful than himself; or even by one
Digitized by Google
66 HESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
less so, if he will be passive enou~h while the other is
active. It is not a fancy but a fact, that when one
powerful magnetiser, Mr. A. A. Sparrow, approaches
me, I can absolutelyfoel his presence; such waa the effect
even when I first saw and did not know him; and mJ
own.presence has a similar effect upon Mr. Mulholland,
another magnetiser. I have also mesmerised, or hyP-
notised myself, by straining my eyes upon a fixed pomt.
By this method I have been thrown into a semi-somno-
lent, dreamy state that has continued for hours; but do
not recommend this experiment, as it has almost in-
variably been followed in my case by shivering, accom·
panied with the same kind of sensation that resulta
from sleeping on a coach in the damp night-air-
especially if left to recover slowly by myself; whilst,
on the other hand, I have found no condition more
tranquil and refreshing than that obtained by submit·
ting entirely to the manipulations of an earnest, healthy,
and intelligent friend, who has full faith in the efficacy
of what he is attempting, and a detennination to con-
tinue the operation cautiously but fairly beyond a
crisis.
Digitized by Google
JriESHERIC EXPERIENCES.
CHAPTER IX.
SUPEBSENTIE~"T PHENO~lENA-PATIENT HEAlliNG TIIBOUGK THE
0PBRATOB-8IMI1LTANEOUS MUSCllLAB ACTION OF OPERATOR AND
PATIENT IN SEPAR.lTE RoOMS-COMMUNITY OF T..l.STE-CLUR•
VOYANCE-" MENTAL TIU.VELLING" -!NTROVISION- MENTAL
FEELING, TASTE, ETC.
HAVING several times alluded to clairvoyance and
other supersentient phenomena, it will be right, before
concluding, to present a few unquestionable examples,
.as in no case have my opinions on these subjects been
founded upon other than the most.positive evidence,
elicited with the utmost caution. It must not, how-
ever, be inferred, that because so few examples of this
.or any other class of phenomena have been mtroduced,
that such cases are rare. On the contrary, great num-
bers of them have occurred unde~ my immediate obser-
vation. It is to avoid tedium, that I shall confine my•
self to one or two illustrations of each claSs.
The name ofBon Gaultierwill be familiar to most who
are acquainted with o~ popular literature. This gen-
tleman and his sister were members of a large party one
e'1'ening, in Edinburgh, when mesmerism was the prin-
cipal topic .of conversation; and being desired to furnish
the company with some evidence of 1ts truth, I selected
the young lady alluded to for a aujet, not only because
Digitized by Google
88 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
she appeared to me to be somewhat susceptible, but be-•
cause she was very deaf, troubled at the time with severe
headache, and otherwise unwell, and I thought the ope-
ration would be of benefit to her. In about ten
minutes from the commencement of my manipulations,
she seemed completely isolated from the world, and said
she knew none of its pains, but was in a region of per-
fect light, which, though it did not seem to come from
the sun or any other obJect, was more bright than the
sun. It was not, however, too much for her, but
seemed to be a settled splendour, as mild as it was pure.
This internal light increased as that of the lamps in the
room was diminished. On being brought into commu-
nion with external influences, she heard some music
which made her ecstatic, and after a few other experi-
ments I awoke her, when the pain had entirely left her
head, and she could hear much better, but had no re-
membrance of the state she had been in. Beino- one of
those gflntle and confiding bein~ who hope afi things
good of others, they who knew her had, m turn, full
faith in her own integrity. The evidence furnished in
her case had, therefore, great weight with the whole
party ; and her brother did me the honour of writing a
description of the evening's experiments, emphatically
declanng his conviction of their genuineness and im-
portance, to which Mr. John Gray (at whose house the
soiree was given) joined and published his own testi-
mony. The good which the young lady appeared to
derive on this occasion, suggested a continuance of the
treatment; and, during my stay, she became daily more
susceptible. The most curious !?oint in this case is the
fact that, although some defect m the ears prevented a
complete cure of her deafness, she could, whenever I took
hold of her hand, hear the remf!¥st and minutest sounds
perceptible to myself, by which it would appear that (for
the time) my organs were the chief agents between the
external world and her sensorium. This at length be-
came quite as observable when she was awake as when
in the sleep. Mrs. John Gray afterwards magnetised
Digitized by Google
MESllERIC EXPERIENCES. 89
• her, and in proporti~n as the power of that lady over
the patient increased, mine diminished.
Dr. Simpson, Mr.Williams, Mr.Thom.Pson, Mr. Ford,
and other members ofthe Magnetic Sectwn of the York-
shire Philosophical Society, will remember me operating
upon a little boy in York, who, both in somnolence
and vigilance, had become so susceptible that, not-
withstanding the intervention of a brick wall, he would
respond to whatever I might do with the design of influ-
encing him. Thus, if I raised my hand, he wonld raise
his own corresponding hand. If I knelt, he would do the
same. IfI moved any particularfinger, therewas a similar
result. This was repeatedly tested during my stay in that
city, to the perfect satisfaction of many strict investiga-
tors, although, durin()' these experiments, there was no
possibility ofthe boy bowing, tlirough the ordinary me-
dium of the external senses, what my movements were.
On one occasion, he was rapidly ascending a lofty flight
of ste.Ps, and had nearly reached the top, whilst I was
standing at the foot, when, without the slightest pre-
cognisance, he was checked by a silent pass of my hand.
Turning suddenly round, he said, " Dear me ! I though~
some one was coming behind and pulling me ;" and
was again proceeding, when I repeated the check in
the same manner, upon which he discovered the cause.
This boy, like many others, could also taste and describe
what was put into my own mouth.
Amongst the most candid and philosophical investi-
gators of mesmerism I have met with are the Messrs.
Bell and Mr. Coleman, surgeons, of Wolverhampton,
and Mr. William Lowe, chemist, of the same town. It
would be impossible for any party to manifest at once
more scrupulosity and fairness than did these gentlemen
on the various occasions I had the pleasure of experi-
menting with them : and I have no doubt that they
will well remember the following facts :-One evening,
in the autumn of 1843, a party of about twelve, of
which they were members, met me at the rooms of a
scientific mstitution of the town, for the purpose of
Digitized by Google
90 ,KESXEIUC EXPE11IENCEI.
quietly observing eeveral of the more subtle mesmeric
phenomena.•
One of the gentlemen operawd upon was Mr. J'esse
Moore, son of Mr. .Moore, coal proprietor, of.Walsall.
With the utmost care, lest he should be induced to aot
.and give his replies from any suggestion, one of the
party, when he was in the mesmeric sleep, put seveml
ariicles into my mouth, the taste of which he defined
with remarkable facility and accuracy. After other ex-
periments of a different kind, and Wlth results quite as
satis&ctory, he was awoke, when another patient (ana-
tive of Sheffield) was passed into the sleep, and whilst
all besides himself observed the strictest silence, without
allowing the slightest possibility of hls acting from sug-
gestion, he described eix articles consecutively held at
a little distance behind his head, not by mere implicar
tion or inuendo(as I have heard some do, after a deal o£
al>parent puzzling), but unhesitatingly, and in the most
direct language-the articles being supplied by the par-
ties present without any preconcert, and not held be-
fore or by the side of the patientat all, but, as previously
said, at some distance behind him.
On another occasion, in W olverhampton, the same
patient had a watch handed to him, by Mr. Shaw, jun.,
with the view of learning whether or not he could read
the inscription (a French one) inside it. He was but a
working man, not much accustomed to reading, and
when he awoke declared that he had heard wcy little
of Paris, or of its sights. But it was curious to o~
serve, after he had read the number of the watch baclt.-
wards, how he_proceeded to describe the various at~
ti:re sights of Pam, and afterwards the scenery along
the route from that city to one of the Dutch ports-ra-
pidly giving (as several travellers present declared) the
most accurate description of the numet:ous objects to
which he adverted. When he had done, the gentle-
• Mr. Lowe bas since described some or the .. phreno-mesmeric..
experiments or that evening in an able article in the PltMw1ogical
J~
Digitized by Google
li.ESXEBIC EXPERIENCES. .91
man to whom the watch belonged, and who was totally
etrange to him, and had sat listening in silent a...c¢0nish-
ment to his remarks,said that the patienthad described as
oorrectlyas it was possible the route he had himselftaken,
a00 the objects he had seeD immediatelrA:after purchas-
ing the watch in Paris ! The only exp tion of this
phenomenon I can here attempt is, that Mr. Shaw him-
self, by handing the w~tch forward, had been placed.
e7l rapport with the pa,tient; that at the moment this
commenced he was thinking of the place where he had
bought the watch ; and finding the patient had. cor-
rectly described that, and one or two ofthe occurrences
associated with it, a. sudden sense of the character
of the phenomenon as now explained had come upon
him, after which, by a. regular 1deal process, he carried
him on to the termmation of the journey : so that this
was, in reality, but another illustration of that mental
communion of which examples have been given before.
Another and not less beautiful example, omitted in
the proper place, I shall, perhaps, be pardqned for in-
troducing here, as it is so closely akin to our present
subject. It is the case of a lady whose mind, besides
being naturally of a very superior order, had been
well educated. When I was first introduced to her,
{which was in the presence of several of the most re-
spectable and intelligent people of the neighbourhood
where she resides,) she had been mesmerised a few
times by another gentleman, but no phenomena of &
very exa,J.ted character had up to that time been eli-
cited in her case. It was not long, however, before I
found her so susceptible to the most 1-efined mental
influences, that I had only to tkink, when she imme·
diately gave expression to a corresponding thought.
I imagined a strain of music, and she said it was as
if she heard it; then a beautiful landscape, and she
saw and described it as accurately as though a J?icture
of it were before her eyes ! When the mUSlc was
changed, shedescribed the difference; and when myideal
of the landscape Changed, after the manner of a dis-
Digitized by Google
92 MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
solving view, she described that too! One of the gen-
tlemen present then wrote upon a paper (which she had
no opp?rtunity of reading), what kmd of a lant!:;caye
they Wished me next to compose. It was to ~~ a plain,
without a river. This she described. The next su~­
gestion, made to me in writing, was that the plain
Should have a river winding through it, and hills in
the background, with cattle grazing in the foreground,
and a house in a particular direction. Immediately
she defined this, and it was again suggested, in writing,
that I should introduce a plalltation of pines at a par-
ticular bend of the river, when she said," Stay awhile;
I also see some tall, dark trees by that beautiful curve
of the river!" Durin~ the whole of this .time the
young lady was perfectly awake, and sat at a distance
from me ofseveral yards. Other phenomena in this case
were still more beautiful and curious: but there are
reasons why at present they should be withheld.
In the winter of 1843-4, Dr. Willson Cryer, a very
candid and dispa.."Bionate inquirer, at Bradford, and
Mr. W. Prest, brought several striking cases to my
notice there. One was that of a poor weaver-boy
who, notwithstanding his sad deficiency of education,
would display, when in the mesmeric trance, as accu-
rate a knowledge of the internal anatomy of the human
body, as if he had been a well-schooled physiologist.
At times his lucidity was marvellous, even to a mes-
merist; and I always noticed that it was much more
exalted when occurring spontaneously than when has-
tened by our own eagerness, and was exceedingly liable
to be influenced by the minds of those about him; so
that when tested in an improper spirit, he would re-
:B.ect the ~propriety. On one occasion, Mr. An-
drews, an eminent architect residing in the neigh-
bourhood, was desirous that I should mesmerise a sub-
ject of this class, for the purpose of obtaining a diag-
nosis of a disease from which his lady had been suf-
fering for a long period, and under which she was fast
sinking, without the Faculty being able to relieve or
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. 93
even define it. We have the most incontestible grounds
of confidence that the little weaver-boy, whom I se-
lected for this occasion, knew nothing ofMrs. Andrews
or her disease previously; nor of the interior of the
house in which she resided: it is even questionable ifhe
had noticed the existence of it before. It was arranged
that nothing should be said regarding her disease and
its previous treatment, so that it was impossible he
could speak by virtue of any inference drawn from
that source, but from his own direct perceptions alone;
since not a hint was given him as to the seat of pain,
either before or while in the sleep. When I had
mesmerised him by the ordinary mode of contact, he
went immediately towards Mrs. A., and described her
condition at the moment with an accuracy that as-
tounded her; nor was her astonishment lessened when
he proceeded to tell her, as minutely as if he had kept
a regular diary of her case from the first, how her dis-
ease began; how it proceeded; how many, and what
kind of doctors she had consulted; and what advice
they gave her, with the e:ffect of their various treat-
ment, &c., defining, with the utmost accuracy, every
feature of the case from first to last, and what course
it was necessary for her then to pursue, to prevent an
extension of the disorder. Having done this, and
being lefi to himself for a few seconds, he suddenly
exchiimed that he could see all that was going on in
the kitchen-into which room he had never been-
describing the dresses of the people in it, the form
and colour of a dog lying near the fire, and various
other matters. Next he said he could see every plant
in the greenhouse, beyond the kitchen-although the
greenhouse had never been named, and Mr. Andrews
declared the boy could never have been in or seen it.*
He described the relative position of all the plants, as
• It ought also to be understood that I was myself a stranger in the
neighbourhood, bad never been within half a mile of the house, or
in the least acquainted with Mr. and Mrs. Andrews until this occa-
lion.
Digitized by Google
JfllSJIEJUC EXPElliBNCES.
dearly as if he had himself been a party to their
arrangemen~; and at last coming to one that es-
pecially _pleased him, he 'WaS expatiating upon it,
when Mr. A. asked him what was the character of
the plant rising next- ro that he was so admiring,
when he replied, with a smile," Why, if you'll just
grasp it in your hand, you'll know more about it
than you wish, without learning o' me." "Right, my
boy," said Mr. Andrews; "it is a prickly cactus."
The same evening, being invited to meet a few of the
most respectable residents, at a party given by Mr.
Foster (a member of the Society of Jfriends), I took
this boy with me, when he was no less strikingly accu~
rate in his description of the cella.rs and chambers of
the house (in whiCh he never could have been), noting
many thi~ accidentally out of place, as well as others
not usual m the places they there occupied, so mi-
nutely as to leave no doubt, in the minds of many
who had hitherto remained sceptical regarding the
higher phenomena ofmtmnerism, that he was perfectly
lucid. It is quite clear to me, from what I have seen
in the case of this boy and others, that not only are
magnetic patients often cognisa.nt of the forms and
hues of the distan~ objects they describe, but of all
their other :rroperties. Thus, when on one occasion
he was speaking of a bottle which he said he saw
wrapped up, in a room over his head, he was asked what
it contained. His reply was, " Wait while I've tasted,"
and having gone through the ideal process of tasting, he
accurately described its contents. He said at Mr. An-
drews' that he could f«tl the prickly cactus, and
seemed to shrink with the fear of being in too close
contact with it. On another occasion, when ideally
rambling on the hills outside the town, during a snow,
he said he felt chilled-althou~h really in a very warm
room-and his lips assumed a livid hue, that indicated
the propriety of mstantly changing his condition.
Nor have there been wanting, in addition to this
exceeding susceptibility to terrestrial in1luences, occa-
Digitized by Google
'HE8ME'RIC EXPERIENCES. 95
sions on which patients have declared themselves to be
in communion with supernal objects and intelligences,
among scenes and circumstances that they describe in
language far more beautiful, appropriate, and impressive
thaD. they can command when in their normal state.
But there are various reasons why I should not now
dwell upon such cases, although the time may come
when "it will not be imJ:>roper to .discuss them freely.
If, at present, I err at all, it must .be on the side of
moderation.
Digitized by Google
96 . MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
CHAPTER X.
ULTOUTE TENDI!Ncu·a oF MEsMERisM-REAsoNs WHY IT IB
XOIT BELIEVED IN BY THE M'EEJt AND OPEN-MINDED-ITS.
I'BACTICE IN THE OLDEN Tno:s, AND BY VARIOUS NATIONS AT
THE l'IIESENT TIME, UNDER OTHER NAliiES-(JoNCLUSION.
MY first mesmeric impressions being those of.curi-
osity and awe, what is the consequence of a. length-
ened and familiar experience? Do I feel every day
led further into some new sphere of mystery, or does
that which was once so wonderful and mysterious be-
come simplified and clear? Does m~meric practice
tend to show humanity in a light altogether different
to what was understood of it of yore, or to lead qe back
to those first natural principles, obvious to " the great
forefathers of mankind," but which have, been to us
obscured because of our de~enera.cy? I think the·
latter. Man was made in the lUlage or likeness of his
Creatd'r, and, in a minor sphere, calculated to reflect
His attributes, as the dew-drop is a miniature reflector
of the sun that, by the silent and subtle action of heat,
calleth it into birth. Thus, a.s in the Mind ofthe Eternal
lives the universe, whi<;:h isin all its principles and phases
ever manifest to Him; so to the mind of man, before
it became corrupted and opaque through disobedience,
was palpable whatever related to him in the world of
which he is the delegated governor. No one can
govern that which he does not comprehend; nor com-
prehend that which is not represented by some sympa-
Digitized by Google
MESMERIC EXPERIENCES. . 97
thetic principle in himself. But so dearly can all
things relating to man be understood by him when in
an uncorrupt state, that we find Moses dechuing him
capable of giving every thing in creation a name after
its kind, significant of its functions and habits; which
shows that primarily he must be a lucid ,being. Other-
wise, how could the eagle in the sky,. the ox in the
meadow, the lion in the forest, and all thO!other varie-
ties of animated nature have appea.red td. his intelli-
gence, eac4 either in its own place or,.ifnot in its place,
(wh\\t would be equally remarkable) with its internal
functions and habits revealed to him ·in another place
not common to it, and where it could not be manifeSt-
ing those functions byits ordinary habits?* And it is a
st1:1.king fact that, in all time, in proportion as inen have
been recalled to first principles, and have lived simple,
innocent,abstractlives,their organic opacityhas lessened.
The grossness, hardness, and darkness of the senses,
which Moses significantly symbolizes by coats of skins
given to man to hide from him the nakedness of his own
corrupt and degraded mind, ofwhich he would otherwise
be ashamed-and which becomes more dark as he de-
• Man could not, however, have been a true likeness of his Maker,
unless he had been gifted in his own sphere with a likeness also of
the FREEDO~l which that Adorable BE:ing universally enjoys. Henoo
his freedom at first to change and fall, and his freedom now to ac-
cept the invitation of Redeeming Love, and return-this being the
true atonement, o~ at-one-ment. 'l'he inferior animals having had no
such measure of freedom, have not so departed from the first law of
their being, but still enjoy an intuitive consciousness of their true re-
lation to all objects in which they have a natural interest. Thus it
is that the pigeon, or the swallow, will find its way directly to its
object, though distant a thousand milea or more; and the birds of
this year will next year build their nests in like places, and of like
materials to those' of their parents-in a style as perfect too-but
witlwut tuititm. If then (as even materialists allow) man be a micro-
cosm, and have in bls constitution all the qualities of the inferior
creation, how can he (but that it is ordinarily veiled) have less of
this kind.of intelligence than these animals? To me there is nothing
so wonderful in magnetic sympathy with remote objects, and the
consciougness it gives us of their qualities, nor even in the power of
some blind persons to distinguish colours, as in the higher instincts
of the inferior animal.e.
H
Digitized by Google
aDSKElUC' ~
tparts further from innocence, giving himself up ln'O_re
.to sensuality-was no cloud •to the mind of Solomon
when he lived before his Maker" as a.little child;" for
·.we are :told that he then comprehended ·every 'thing
"from the ~dar on Lebanon to the hyssop that springeth
out of the·wall," as well as" beasts and fowls and creep-
.ing thiDgs and fiShes ;" but, when he departed from ·a
right and .lmple course, and became an idolator and
~sualist, he lost his wisdom and his·power in propor-
tion. In later times, George ,Fox declared that as he
liTed more in the i!pirit, and in obedience ·to the dio-
.tates of Christ, who came to redeem man from the state
into which he had fallen through his disobedienee and
~suality, he was led .more and ·more into a condition
.in which the true nature of things appeared to him,
until he once thought of becoming a physician because
of the clear ·relation he saw in man to :the natural cir-
.cumstnnces in which he was placed ; but from this he
desisted, because it was .afterwards Bhown to him that he
had a still more spirittral mission. And how beautifully
noble GeQrge Herbert alludes to the same principle:-
" Man is all symmetry,
Full of proportions, one limb to another,
And tv all the world besides.
Each part may call the farthest, brother;
:. For head with foot hath private amity,
And both with moons and tides.
"Nothing hath got so far
But man hath caught and kept it as his prey;
His eyes dismount the higlaest star;
He is in little all the spllere.
Herbs gladly cure 011r flesh, becaUBe tJ~~~,t ~
· Find tlleir acquainlance tllere.
"For us, the winds do blow,
The earth doth rest; heaven move, and fountainS' flow;
Nothing we see, but means our good,
As our delight, was our treasure;
The whole is either our cupboard of food,
Or cabinet of pleasure.
"The stars have us to bed:
Night draws the curtain: 'lril.ich the·sun withdraws.
Music and light attend our head.
Digitized by Google
Alftking1 unto ourjluh are kiwi,
In tl1eir descent and being; to our mind,
In their ascent and cause.
" More servants wait on man
Than he'll take notice of. In every path,
He treads down that which doth befriend bim
When sickness makes him pale and wan.
Oh l miqhty love l Man uone world, and hath
Anotiier to attend him.''
oo·
How then is.it that so many--even thosemaking gr!lat
pretensions to spirituality and speaking in. the most
bitter terms of materialists-how is it that they will
deny lucidity, or clairvoyance, when the senses are sub-
dued, (the office of the " coat of skins" for a moment
being suspended,) and persecute, as they do, othera
who believe in that faculty ? Do not let it be for
an in.sta.nt imagined that I wish to exalt mesmerism
above its. natural and legitimate office. But it is im..
possible to avoid reprehending those who, pretending
t.o a.belief in the spirituality of man, and being· in a.
continual war of words with the more honest and not
less dark professed infidel, condemn mesmerism on the
ground that " it proves too much." My solemn con•
viction is, tbat.no one, after a due examination of its
claim~ can deny the fat:tS of mesmerism, and at the
same time believe in.the Bible! That the susceptibilit~
of man to trance, somnambulism, and lucidity, with all
the mediate and intenn.ediate conditions, is amo~ tha
institutes ofcreation, appears. ever to have been believed
from the days of Moses. Such. states are referred to
hundreds, if not thousands of times in the religious,and
scientific histories.of our race-often as resulting.from a
special influence of the Divinity, and not less.often as
coming fr.om the ordinary operations of nature ;. and so
vast and luminous is the evidence on this point, and SQ
accessible to all, that the onl;r question wh1ch appears to
xemainfor our.consideration,1s&mply as to the possibility
ofthe human will bysigns or manipulations inducing the
same. But it is the.tendency of man to imbue whatever
he deala in.with his own qualities at the moment; so that.
TRUT:O:, however purely. or freely it may :flow.from its
Digitized by Google
100 :MESMERIC EXPERIENCES.
ori~ fountain, can seldom reach the inquiring scholar
in Its own clearness and strength ; but comes strained
through the hypotheses,and colouredbythe imaginations
of his master, as does the light of heaven through the
contracted and painted window of some ancient cloi11ter.
In process of time the scB.olar's mind is so adapted to
this mould, and dyed in these hues, that when he in
tum sets up for master, instead of leaving the tablet of
his soul open, in the pure light of truth, to the forms of
nature, that they may be tairly imprinted upon it as
they pass, and so be given again in their pristine cha-
racter to the world, he becomes merely the perpetuator
of adulterations worse adulterated. This I take to be
the reason why that which we now call mesmerism, or
vital magnetism, or pathetism, though a PLAIN FACT
to the children of Nature, and so readily believed in
by unconventional thinkers, should be obnoxious as it
is to those whose mental sight has become so limited
and discoloured by a pedantic education, that they can-
not appreciate the difference between an extension and
a contradiction of our present knowledge, and are thus
led virtually to denounce Nature as an impostor, because
she exhibits more than they can exP,lain or comprehend.
Doubtless, there are many who wtll dissent from this
view ; but on what other principle can they explain
how whole colleges of our learned opponents are able
to tell, with so much gravity, who was Vulcan's mother,
and in what spot the Founder of Rome was suckled by
a wolf, whilst as ignorant of the fact that Solon and
Plautus, and many other Grecians and Romans, were
believers in mesmerism, as they are of the names by
which to those sages it was known?
Leaving altogether the allusions of Scripture to the
subject, and the records we have of it as an agent in
the hands of the E~yptian and Grecian priesthood-of
which much may l>e seen in Baron Dupotet's work
entitled, '' An Introduction to the Study of Animal
Magnetism;" Mr. William Lang's work on "Mesmer-
ism-itsHistory,Phenomena, and Practice," and others,
-it may be well to glance at the evidence furnished
Digitized by Google
...
. .
. .
. . ..
... .· .
MESME~fc:1:xl-~l\lENCES. 101
.~· ......
by men of old, who are quoted ~.:~hl:>rities in our
schools on almost every other subject:·: Si>ft>n (ll.C. 550)
is reported to have said, that " whilSt· th~· s~est
hurts sometimes defy the art of physic, t1t6l ..~~le
stroking of the hand may assuage the severest Jfirili.:'· ·
Clearchus asserts, that a man appeared before Anstotre··:; .:••.
and his disciples at the Lyceum, where, by moving a. ·::· :.
wand slowly up and down ov.er the body of a lad, he •
inade it rigid and lifeless; but when, by a repetition of
the process, he recalled the patient to himself, he told
witli wonderful accuracy all that had been said and
done. Who can fail to perceive the identity of this
process with that of modern mesmensm? Nor is it less
characteristically alluded to by Plautus, a Roman, and
a man of genius, who uses these remarkable words--not
by way of asserting something new and startling, but
as a fact already admitted, and furnishing material for
an analogical argument-" as though," says he, "I
were by my continued slow moving touch to make him·
as if he were asleep !" Tacitus also declares, that the
Emperor Vespasian cured blindness in one person, and
the withered hand of another, by manipulations very
similar to those we read of as more recently employed
by Mr. Greatrakes in similar cases; and the authority
of such men as Solon, Plautus, and Tacitus, is not by
any means to be treated with contempt.
But turning from these records of elder date, let us
hear what. analogical illustrations of the universality of
this principle are furnished by travellers of the present
time. Is " second-sight," in the Scottish Hi~hlands,
during semi-somnolence, a reality ? Is it, or 1s it not
true, that the barbers in some parts of China, where
shaving the head is a somewhat long process, first throw
their customers to sleep, by passes over the eyes, to
obviate the tedium of that operation ? Do northern
voyagers speak the truth when they tell us that the
Esquimeaux cultivate the power of throwing themselves
to sleep at will, so that when danger appears which
they cannot avert, they avoid its terrors by assuming a
state of oblivity? Can the Fakeers of India hybernate
Digitized by Google
. .
. ···. :. ~
. ... ·.
102 :u~o.~ilt.mNc:&ao
for days or l(~~:~~d.~~ like animals that become
torpid ~ wirittl:c ;- or be so influenced by self..mee--
merising··partit:Ular parts of the body as to !!U$8in for
~:·~n·tlbnormal position that it would torture 8.'lrT
:. ·~·in his normal state to mainf.a!.n fo~ as many lDl·
:··. :-·.nutes? If not; why then.the testtmomes of some of
·: ·. · our most credible travellers are altogether worthless!
Lately, in Forfarshire, at the house of the venerable-
astronomer, Dr; Dick, I met with Mr. Ducker, . of
Dover-a highly intelligent gentleman; who had spenb.
some time among the aborigmes of Australia ; and' he
told me, that on one occasioll he went out among them-
to see what he then considered. merely a,piece of idle
mummery, but whioh he isnow convinced.was a. valuable
process, analogous to,. if not. identical with, that. of
mesmerism. It wasforcuring a female of some internal
disorder, and was performed in the. gloom of night.
A fire was kindled on the open plain,.and :most.of the
members of the tribe joined about it in a circle, and
danced, whilst.the patient was set apart at some distance,.
and the doctor,or priest began his cumti.ve ceremony,
. which, under the circumstances, seemed odd and
mystical enough. This consisted of his rapidly moving
far away until hidden by the dal:kness, and then turning
back to where the patient stood, and making passes
over her for a short time with his hands fromhead to,
foot, following the outlines of her. body during· the
process, precisely in the style of the French mesmerists,
and then gliding away· again, but returning and repeat;..
ing his maniptila.tions at regular intervals, until. the
woman appeared as· rigid as a statue.. When.released
from this state she was understood to. be cured. • My.
friend, Richard Howitt,• when among these people, ob-
tained similar information. Here, then, it would.appear
that Nature,.who is 1x>o strict an economist to allow any.
thing to e:xist in vain, had.suggested this genial pro-
cess to those unlettered children of the wilds, by. whom
• Author of many beautiful' poems, and .more recently of "Im-
preuions of AU8tralia Felix, during a Four Yean'. Reeideooe," &c.
London: Longman anci Co.
Digitized by Google
MB!DfElUC.EV11YRm:N'CES. 103
it was thus wecessfull}"·carried out; ·whilst the pedantry
of London was IWt onlY" denying the power altogether,
but persecu~ing th~se who believed in it because, the~
eyes and mmds ·bemg qpen, ·they could not but see 1t
manifest everywhere.
But my object in the publication of this little work
has not been·so tnu~h to argue ihe general question, or
to quote the evicience of other operators, as to add my
own humble mite of experience to theirs, with the
·hope that those who come after us may collect the
whole and benefit by ihe aggregation. Otherwise it
might be of advantage to dwell on the use of mesmer-
ism in suspending sensation during surgical operations,
and the succeesful illustrations·of its power in tbat walk,
furnished by Mr. Topham, '1lt Welfow ; Mr. Holling8,
at Leicester; Mr.'Elliott snd Mr. Castle, at Carlisle;
Dr. Owens, at Wolve:rhampton, and many others. It
has been my own office to apply it chiefly to cases ofa
different, though sometimes of a kindred character;
and I am more and more desirous of using it in a
simple and direct manner for·the relief of disease rather
than for any apparent purposes of divination or of mere ·
amusement. It is a rich and _powerfUl talent; and as
it could not have 'been given to us that it might be
hidden while in our possession, and at last returned
unused; or, on the other hand ·that it mi~ht be wasted
in the gratification of vain or unholy deSJres ; perhaps
there is no resolution with which it would be better to
conclude than this:-NEVER TO 'EMPLOY MESMERISM,
IN PRIVATE OR PUBLIC, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AF·
FECTING OTHERS BUT AS W~ WOULD BE WILLING
THEY SHOULD A.l!'FECT US WERE WE IN THEIR CIR·
CUMSTANCEB.
THE END.
C. 'WDlTING, BE.A.lJ'lOBT BO'O'SE, STB.oUO>.
Digitized by Google
Preparingfor Pvhlicatiolt,
(With Plates, illustrative of various Observations and Dilcoveries
in Phreno-Mesmeriam, Neurology, &c.)
M USIN GS 0 N MAN.
BY SPENCER T. HALL,
Author of ." :MEsliiiEBIC EXPERIENCES," &c.
Also, for Republication, by the I&IDe Author,
RA]fBLES AND REVERIES
OP
A SHERWOOD FORESTER.
Who walking oft with Nature hand in hand,
Turned on her when she spoke a raptured eye;
And then, retiring to his inmost heart,
There pondered all her teachings o'a: again.
---·
Ornnoxa :otr Ma. HALL's IIAIILT WoaJts.
"• The Forester'• Oft"ertac'- volume of oterling good oense, pure English,
and nati•e poetry, tho reoult of a eomblnation of misfortune• and ob.otacleo
Which would ha•e bro1<en many opirito and quenched more-appealing, bow-
e•er, nnt tu our charity. but to our perception of escelleDce."-7:qne PUnl.
" It baa a oparUing richneao and graphicneu of deocription, which ri•et the
Attention and deliglot the mind. In ita author we meet with the genuine poet,
the faithful ehronicler,-the child ol nature roviohed by the r,rofuolpn of her
bountie•. The appearance of thia work at the preoent time 1 a otriking and
ftattering characteristic of the age."-Sh"./)ield ·Jrls.
"A very pleaoiogtoot, deocriptive of foreot ocenery, and of many charming
rural rambles-none the woroe for beins the prodactiqn of a odf-edncat~d
yuungman."-7'alt'• Magtulne. "
"The effusion• of a healthful fancy and a kindly heart, worthy of a wide
celebrity."-Spectuttw. · •
"Mr. Hall'• oketr.hea are well written:. hio ramble in merry Sherwood ia
worthy nf Miller. The life of Robin Huod io a piece of literary justice. 'l'be
r.!~i~~:~e;.:.;:e~~~.:':t:h:.c:,.ted;n! bew~t~:::~d ~~Y/.)i~·:;!:t:..a:~
beartily."-Sulldag 7'1-.
" He po..eooea a line natural taste and areat ability, and sivea uttennce fO
hio tbougbtl with ouch ttuthful earoeatoeu, that, b)' tbio one little wort, he
bolda nn haconaiderable plaoe in the ranb of living author•."-Sh<f/ielri In-
dtpend<nt.
" • Ramblea In the Country' are deocrlbed with the entlluoiaom o( a genuine
touriot. Mr. Hall ia no common oboerver of tbioga and men-he oeea with the
eye of a po..t and •philUIIopher-and hia deacriptlona of aceoea and cbaractero
are worthy of opecoal attention. He hu faith in the otrengtb ao well ao in the
beauty of goodneao, and all hio literary eft'nrtl Are directed to the promotion of
right feeling among hio fellow-men. • • There ia a alucerity and fervour
in bia communlngo with Nature that cannot fail to be impresaivo>-he wrlteo
a• if his heart were In hia peo."-Leed1 7Vme•.
"Hia deacription nf the oea ia truly sublime. He II gloriona by the ocean ae
in tbe for~ot.''-Derby BetJOf'tw.
"--One of Nature'• gentlemen, apringlns up by the aheer fnrce of original
inspiration. We can well anower for thia little work. that, unlike many coatly
vanitiea nf the day, It ia well worth reprintlna. It ia tbnroosbly a couotty
book-full of the ounohlne of free thou~hta and putoral exiatenc~. breathing of
the heather and the honeyouckle, and fraught throughout with atrong poetical
emotion. • • The confeuioo of bia e1perieocea at the end remioda ua of
Pranklia, and bu a noble and impreaoin moral."-.dtltu,_
March 19, 184~.
Digitized by Google
