{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__hendriks___the_astrologers_daughter.pdf","mytitle":"The Astrologers Daughter","mylang":"de"}
the
ASTROLOGER'S DAUG^TElfc
AN HISTORICAL NOYEL.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
BY ROSE ELLEN HENDRIKS.
i
VOL. I.
LONDON:
T. C. NEWBY, 72, MORTIMER STREET.
1845.
HARVARD^
,UNIV; !-"■i!Yl
2,6^rf I LIBRARY
1 OCT 8 1941
LONDON :
REDINO AND JUDD, PRINTERS, 4, HORSR SHOB COURT,
LUDOATB HILL.
TO
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS
THE DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE,
THIS WORK
IS, BY PERMISSION,
<EUspectfuIIg anlr ffiratefuIlB 39efctcattlr,
BY
THE AUTHOR.
TO
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS
THE DUCHESS OF CAMBRIDGE.
Duchess, whose name brings peace and joy,
Whose smiles are genius' store ;
How sweet seclusion's hours t'employ
In study, books, and lore.
Perchance, 'tis small—the gift I keep—
'Tis here, but not the whole ;
Mine is the heart to never sleep,
And mine the burning soul.
Oh ! think upon the hours of youth ;
Start not, if I should fail
Portraying scenes too sad in truth,
Whilst youthful joys I hail.
Forgive all faults—kind Duchess, look
And read, but not to blame ;
Happy indeed should this, my book,
With thy wish, bring me Fame I
THE
ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
CHAPTER I.
" You axe very severe this morning," said
Catherine de Medicis, to her confessor, the
Cardinal de Lorraine; "you are very severe,
and methinks I omit no part of my duty ; yet, I
confess it, there are moments when I dare not
allow myself to range in thought. There are
silent hours in the night : others, perhaps, are
enjoying their rest—I cannot slumber; and
then, my Lord Cardinal, how think you my
ideas range ?"
" I cannot tell !" replied the Cardinal, with
VOL I. B
2 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
a suppressed smile ; " but I hope, daughter of a
Royal race, Mother of a Royal boy, first pro
tector of this realm, I hope your thoughts are
centred in the right channel ; that you are seri
ously considering what is best to be done, in
order to suppress the increasing power and
number of the Huguenots ?"
" I am ever considering this topic, " replied
Catherine ; "but it is one which, like in a
well-constructed labyrinth, it is extremely
diflicult to find an exit when once its intricacies
are deeply penetrated. It would, indeed, me-
thinks be an extraordinary coup-de-force, or
d'adresse, to extirpate these Huguenots ; they
branch forth in all directions. Queen Mary of
England's reign was the fit time for a bold
stroke-; the Huguenots would then have left one
lion's den to be plunged into another ; but now
the tale is changed, and we must dissemble.
Nay, frown not, my Lord Cardinal, Catherine
de Medicis knows not what it is to fear, yet
nevertheless, she mustfeign ; she must wait until
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 3
her plans are ripe for execution. What think
you of the King of Narvarre going over to
England ? I like not the idea ; there are seeds of
a masterly disposition in the character of his
son, the Prince of Bearn, and I have strong
reasons to be apparently lenient towards the
Protestants until my son is older. Think what
a Court I shall assembleby my policy ! my Lord
Cardinal, you will smile at the assemblage ! I
can but compare it to a menagerie. The Prince
de Cond£, the Duc de Guise, Montmorency,
Admiral de Coligny, the young Prince de
Bearn, the Queen of Narvarre his Mother,
parole de Heine ;—my Lord Cardinal, what
think you of my Court ?"
" I perceive, my daughter, that you are, in
fact, preparing a scheme to rid the country of
these unbelievers. Remember, there are some
crimes justifiable in the sight of Heaven, and
there is such a thing as absolution, a rite or
dained to save penitent sinners as well as those
who have sinned in order to obtain some motive
b 2
4 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
which has religion for its ground work—a
rite ordained, my daughter, to save those who
believe in its efficacy from falling into the pain
of regrets and useless remorse."
" I understand you, my Lord Cardinal," re
plied the Queen-Mother of France, a slight de
gree of sarcasm mixing in the tone of her
commanding voice ; " there may arrive a time
when I shall require the full leniency of this
rite, but not yet—not yet."
."I leave you now, daughter;" said the Car
dinal, " God, and the Holy Virginpreserve you."
He devoutly crossed himself, and left the
apartment, folding his rich ermine-bordered
cloak around him. Catherine de Medicis sat
down, and cast her eyes pensively on the
embers of the fire.
"I know not how it is," she exclaimed,
stamping her small foot on the rich carpet ; "1
like not any control, but least of all the control
of these imperious churchmen. When they
are silenced as far as regards temporal matters,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 5
they shield themselves under the garb of
religion. What said the King of Narvarre ?
' Give me an Anchorite, or, at least an abste
mious man, as a sample of clergy, but talk not
to me of my Lord Lorraine ; a grappling, sor
did miser,' the King of Narvarre called him—
God forgive him his sins."
Catherine ceased talking aloud, for she pos
sessed a great share of superstition, and was
afraid to speak disparagingly of one so high in
the clergy as the Cardinal de Lorraine. As,
however, our present generation have no such
scruples, it will not be ill-placed to talk of the
wealth and power of the Popish Churchmen at
that period.
The Cardinal de Lorraine not only
swayed the Court by his influence over the
all-powerful Catherine de Medicis, but he had
spies constantly communicating intelligence be
tween Rome and France. The Pope had
bestowed the highest honours on his favourite.
Possessing an enormous fortune, his clerical
6 THE ASTEOLOGEE's DAUGHTER.
benefices stretched forth in various directions.
He was archbishop ofRheims, Bishop of Mety,
Abbot of St. Denis, Cluni, Fechamp, de
Marmontier, de Moustrier, besides possessing
ten other livings nearly equal to the above
named.
The clergy who subscribed to the Reformation
looked with keen and jealous eyes at the in
creasing wealth of their clerical opponents ; and
the Cardinal de Lorraine, on his part, was vehe
mently opposed to the Reformers; he mixed
private hatred with his religious opinions, for
Theodore de Beye, Calvin's most devoted dis
ciple, was at personal enmity with the wealthy
Cardinal.
The Queen-Mother and Lorraine were fre
quently closeted together ; their voices were
vehement—their impetuous gestures showed
how much both their minds were directed to
the same channel, the extirpation of the
Huguenots. Lorraine was hasty, Catherine firm,
crafty, keen and politic. ' Their thoughts
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 7
centered on the same channel, but both parties
were bitterly disappointed when, notwithstand
ing all their endeavours to prevent an open
discussion of the Reformers against the adher
ents of Popery, a conference actually took
place—a debate of sufficient consequence to
alarm the Pope, who immediately despatched a
legate, headed by Father Lainey, second
General of the Jesuits, and first Governor of
their institution.
Lainey, possessed of the most eloquent
oration, spoke in terms of undisguised vehe
mence, and the crafty Queen-Mother of France
felt indignant and hurt when she beheld the
Pope sending so furious an antagonist against
the Huguenots, whilst , for reasons of her own?
she was apparently conciliating them. The
Cardinal de Lorraine had watched the angry
spot growing darker and darker on the Queen-
Mother's brow. He knew her temper ; he felt as
sured that, sooner than be controlled, even by the
Pope, she would enter into a decided treaty
8 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
with Henry of Naxvarre, and finally tolerate his
party. Now the Cardinal perceived the aim
of Catherine's policy, and he used all his influ
ence to quell her rising indignation. Her first
impulse was, to order the whole body of Jesuits
to depart from the kingdom. Lainey inter
posed ; the Cardinal de Lorraine used his influ-
ence ; an act was passed ; the Jesuits formed a
College, but renounced their chosen appellation
of " Society of Jesus," being besides com
pelled to submit to the parochial Bishop.
Trifling as were the privileges, small as was
the power of the Jesuits, this agreement in the
year 1561 was the foundation, or rather the es
tablishment, of a body of men, who spread
quickly through the kingdom, and soon became
as powerful as celebrated. Rome had indeed
chosen a proper channel to intimidate the per
secuted Huguenots. The King of Narvarre had
hitherto leant to the Huguenot side, but the
Pope's legate dexterously hinted that his lost
kingdom might possibly be restored to him
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 9
This hope, however remote, acted powerfully
on a most undecided character ; the King openly
embraced the Romish faith, united himself to
the Duc de Guise and the constable Montmo
rency. Marechal d'Albon de Saint Andre
joined the party, and they were henceforth called
the " Triumvirate." The King of Narvarre's
union with these powerful men was in fact in
stigated by the ready eloquence of the Pope's
legate; but the Cardinal de Lorraine had per
suaded the Queen-Mother to tolerate their pre
sence in the realm. He was, therefore, the real
instigator of the union so powerful to the Romish
cause, and Catherine de Medicis felt it. Proud
she was, sternly—innately proud—but towards
the Cardinal her pride was ever quelled ; piety
in her disposition was so united to superstition,
that the Cardinal knew how to turn that mind
so full of lofty ideas and trifling weakness.
That great Medicis who swayed a kingdom,
whose name has been, and will still be, handed
down to posterity as the most consummate poli
b 3
10 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
tician, was weak enough to believe implicitly in
astrology, as influencing judicial movements.
She had her astrologer, and listened with curious
avidity to his necromantic lore. Dark and
vicious, too often, were his councils ; impiety,
ignorance, and Italian revenge, were the cha
racteristic marks of the astrologer ; but Cathe
rine's benighted imagination clothed his vices
in the garb of virtue; and listening to ad
vice, crafty as it was wicked, Catherine steeled
her heart against all that was feminine, all that
was good.
It must be easily supposed that to have any
influence over the untractable Catherine de
Medicis, the person in possession of that in
fluence must have a decided position, both in a
worldly and clerical point of view. This was
the case with regard to Cardinal Lorraine. No
doubt there are documents which speak of a
man so important in the sixteenth century,
but finding a very accurate account of the real
power and rank of Cardinals in general, I
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 11
have resolved to insert it, trusting it will not be
unprofitable or unwelcome to my readers. A
most important point is, that Cardinals have a
voice in the Conclave at the election of a Pope.
Cardinals compose the Pope's Council, and it
was formerly believed that, as the Pope repre
sented Moses, so the Cardinals represented the
Seventy Elders, who, under the Pontifical au
thority, decide private and particular differ
ences. Cardinals, in their first institution, were
only the principal priests of the parish of Rome.
In the primitive Church, the chief priest of a
parish, who immediately followed the bishop,
was called Presbyter Cardinalis, to distinguish
him from the other petty priests, who had no
church nor preferment. The name of Cardinal
was first applied to them in the year 150, others
say in the year 300. These cardinal priests
were alone allowed to baptize and administer
the Eucharist. Under Pope Gregory, cardinal
priests and cardinal deacons were only such
priests who had a church or chapel under their
12 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
particular care ; and this was the original use of
the word.
The Cardinals continued on this foot
ing till the eleventh century ; but as the
grandeur and state of his Holiness became
then exceedingly augmented, he would have
his councils of cardinals make a better
figure than the ancient priest had done. It
is true, they still preserved their ancient title,
but the thing expressed by it was no more.
It was some time, however, before they ob
tained the precedence over bishops, or had the
election of the Pope in their own hands ; but
when they were once possessed of those pri
vileges, they soon wore the red hat and purple ;
and growing still in authority, they became at
length superior to the bishops, by the sole
reason that they were Cardinals. It was not
only at Eome that priests bore the title of
Cardinals, for there were cardinal priests in
France ; the title was there given tosomebishops,
namely, to those of Bourges, who in ancient
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 13
writings were called Cardinal: the Abbot of
Vendome also styled himself Cardinalis Natus.
The Cardinalswere divided into three classes or
orders, containing six bishops, fifty priests,
and fourteen deacons, making altogether
seventy ; this constituted what was called the
sacred college. Till the year 1125, the college
only consisted of fifty-two or fifty- three, the
council of Constance reduced them to twenty-
four ; but Sixtus IV.,without any regard to that
restriction, raised them again to fifty-three ; and
Leo to sixty-five. As for the cardinal deacons,
they were originally no more than seven for the
fourteen quarters of Eome, but they were after
wards increased to nineteen. Then their num
ber again diminished. Some ancient authors
affirm that the election of the Pope rested on
the Cardinals exclusively of the other clergy.
Having now shown how great was the power
these high churchmen possessed, it will be in
teresting to give a short account of the cere
mony of their creation.
14 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
The Pope performs the ceremony of opening
and shutting his mouth, which is done in a
private consistory. Shutting the mouth implies
the depriving the Cardinal of the liberty of
giving his opinion in congregations ; and open
ing the mouth, which is performed fifteen
days afterwards, signifies taking ofF this re
straint.
However, if the Pope happens to die during
the time a cardinal's mouth is shut, he can
neither give his voice in the election of a
new Pope, nor be himself advanced to that
dignity.
The dress of a Cardinal is, a red sou-
tanne, a rochet, a short purple mantle,
and a red hat. The Cardinals began to wear
the red hat at the Council of Lyons, in 1243.
In the year 1630, Pope Urban VIII. issued
a decree ordering that the Cardinals should
be addressed by the title of Eminence ; until
that period they had been called IUustris-
simi.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 15
There are long accounts of Cardinals to be
found in scientific books ; this is merely a
little sketch en passant :—and now return we to
Catherine de Medicis.
CHAPTEE II.
Manifold and very absorbing Catherine's
thoughts appeared to be, for she lingered even
when she arose to leave the apartment. The large
clock struck, and struck again, and the Queen
was still there. Whilst surrounded by the busy
throng of the world the human heart may be
forgiven if it sometimes errs ; it may find an
excuse if it has not leisure to contemplate the
right path of duty ; but when we are alone,
palpably wicked must that heart be, which
can literally commune with bad ideas, which
can foster with avidity the seeds of evil, and
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 17
refuse to lean on the side of goodness, how
ever small may be its existence in that be
nighted heart. Often, as we peruse the pages
of history, so chequered with the evil passions
of our nature ; often must the reflection spring
to our minds—can the perpetrators of such evil
deeds have communed alone ?—can they ever
have listened to the still small voice of con
science ?—can they ever have whispered to the
troubled breast — " Cease ; man is not placed
on earth to injure his fellow-men." Catherine
de Medicis did commune alone, in that beau
tiful tapestried chamber in which she sat—alone
did I say ? No, no, she ranged amidst a host
of furious passions ; she indulged sentiments as
repugnant to a woman, as disgraceful to a
Christian. Her pearly teeth were sometimes
clenched, and her imperous eye clouded with
an expression unfathomable ; her commanding
figure was drawn to its utmost height, as with
slow and measured steps she paced the apart
ment, twisting at the same time the links of a
18 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
thick golden chain, which encircled a most
beautifully-formed throat. Suddenly she rang
a little silver bell, which lay on a table before
the couch on which she had been reclining. A
young and rather pretty female answered the
summons. How true it is, that the bent of the
mind working within, so greatly influences the
outward form of the face, or at least imparts
expression to the countenance. The young
girl who now entered the apartment would
have been very much more than rather pretty,
were not her features contracted by an impene
trable sternness, which seemed to bid inquirers
to seek for information elsewhere, nor ever
hope to hear her speak with the candid frank
ness of youth. True, the maiden had teeth of
dazzling whiteness, but her mouth, which
seldom parted in a smile, forbid the beholder
to look again ; her eyes were large and dark,
but they were overshadowed with an expression
too unsubdued to call sadness—stern determina-
nation, and keen observation are better appella
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 19
tions ; the clear olive complexion, the slight,
yet full bust, proclaimed that the girl was a
native of southern climes, and her foreign
accent confirmed the supposition.
" I heard the tones of the silver bell," she
said, not ungraciously, but without the slightest
smile or change of countenance. " Pray, what
may your Majesty require of me ?"
Catherine seemed accustomed to the maiden's
manners ; for she replied, in rather a conciliating
voice—" Loretta, I will go to Doctor Andrea
Pettura, this evening."
" And your Majesty wishes me to accompany
you?"
" Exactly so ; and no babbling, no talking of
my plans, do you hear ?"
"Your Majesty knows I never babble. I
have had a strong lesson of the danger of that
practice ;" and the maiden looked down sadly
upon her mourning garments, whilst a tear
trembled in her dark eye.
" Aye, true, true," exclaimed Catherine, in
20 THE ASTROLOGEK'S DAUGHTER.
her hasty voice. " I had forgotten ; ma foi ! it
requires some prodigious power of memory to
recollect affairs of state, and Vaffaire de cceur of
my confidential follower."
" I did not ask your Majesty to remember
my troubles," muttered Loretta, dashing away
the tear, and looking proudly at Catherine's
equally proud, queenly, but not more majestic
countenance. The words were murmured be
tween the maiden's teeth ; but the Queen-
Mother caught every syllable.
" Thou art saucy, pretty maid," she ex
claimed, " and heed well thy career, thou art
in possession of my secrets : there are many
more, who have been ; mark my words—who
have been."
" And they are no more," continued the girl,
still looking fixedly at Catherine. " Well your
Majesty, when the stiletto, or the poisoned cup,
are to be my fate, all the harm I shall wish
your Majesty will be, that you may feel the
want of your faithful Loretta. My Antonio
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 21
met such a fate, and I care not when I rejoin
him."
" Antonio betrayed the Pope's secrets," said
Catherine moodily.
" True," answered Loretta, with a heavy
sigh ; " and you took me from my native land,
to be your follower ; I have lost my betrothed,
and the world to me is a miserable blank. I
will never betray your confidence, but I cannot
alter my disposition : as the sun scorches the
lustrous fruit of the vine, so is my heart dried
by the hand of sorrow ; tears seldom come to
my relief, and I am no Court-born lady, who
can smile amidst a load of sorrow."
" I am over hasty," said the Queen, involun
tarily touched by the maiden's mixed sternness,
and the softness of her voice, contrasting so
forcibly with her sad and hopeless words.
" You will be ready at ten o'clock—bring the
cloak and hood to my room. I retire at ten ;
I ami indisposed—do you understand ?"
" I do," answered Loretta, " and I will be
22 the astrologer's daughter.
punctual." The maiden said no more ; her
countenance resumed its usual collected ex
pression ; and noiselessly treading a long cor
ridor, she opened the door of a suite of apart
ments, reached a small bed, and, leaning
against it, she wept long and bitterly.
********
Evening had drawn her mantle over the face
of the earth; the rooms in the palace were
splendidly lighted—the flower of the French
Nobility were assembled in that gay court,
where Catherine de Medicis congregated to
gether persons she wished to conciliate—those
whose principles she wished to sound, those
whose presence in foreign Courts she dreaded,
and those to whom she was drawn by bonds of
affection. Catherine had forbidden all political
subjects of conversation in these evening as
semblies ; her never-pausing wit, her sparkling
observations, her grace, her beauty, rendered
her the bright centre, round which the whole
court moved : in her lofty bearing—in her full
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 23
majestic figure, it seemed as if the grace of the
whole family De M£dicis had chosen her for
their representative.
The evening in question, the young King
of France, Charles the Ninth, then in his
eleventh year, was playing at draughts with
his brother, the Duc d'Anjou, one year his
junior.
Montmorency, and the Duc de Guise were
engaged in a conversation together ; the Queen
of England formed their subject, and the gal
lant Duc de Guise was wondering how long
Elizabeth would retain her determination of
keeping single.
The beautiful Princess Marguerite de France,
whose youthful beauty was already conspi
cuous, was leaning over her brother, the Duc
d'Anjous' chair ; now encouraging him, now
archly showing the young king a move, which
was likely to favour his game.
" Away, away, treacherous adviser," said
the Duc d'Anjou, patting her ckeek. " We
24 the astrologer's daughter.
do not want your advice ; and if we did, per
haps you would not give it us ? "
" Do not pull my hair," said the fair little
Princess, for the Duc was unmercifully twining
her long silken ringlets round his fingers. " If
you are so rough, I will tell Charles where to
move that king — the Prince de B£arn told
me exactly how to play under such circum
stance."
" You always quote Henri of Bearn," said
the little King of France, archly. " You would
not be standing here so idly, if his Highness
were here."
" Tais toi, tais toi," replied Marguerite,
stopping her brother's mouth, whilst the colour
mantled her young brow.
" Ha, ha, ha," laughed the king, and the
Duc d'Anjou echoed the laugh; the draught-
table was overturned ; the Princess joined in a
noisy game, until an attendant summoned the
young Royalty of France to their mother's pre
sence. Catherine put down the book she had
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 25
been perusing, and seated the little princess on
her knees.
" My brothers have been very troublesome,"
said the little lady," looking triumphantly at
them.
" What have they been doing V said Cathe
rine.
" We told her she always thought the Prince
de Beam was better than any one else; and see,
mother, see how she is blushing."
Catherine disguised her mirth ; she kissed the
little princess : " Ay ! Margaret, dost thou like
the Prince de Be^arn ?"
" Yes, I do ; he is so kind, " said the young
girl, artlessly; whilst blushing still more deeply,
she hid her pretty face in her mother's bosom.
"Now, now, go to bed," said Catherine,
kindly kissing the princess.
Her attendants were summoned, and the
Queen-Mother was left with her sons.
" My son, this is not right of you," said Ca
therine, addressing the young King of France ;
vol. i. c
26 the astrologer's daughter.
" Margaret is too young to be spoken to on the
subject of the Prince de B£arn."
" But it is true you intend betrothing them ?"
" I have it in contemplation at present," said
the Queen.
" Oh ! it is rare sport to see her blush, " ex
claimed the Duc d'Anjou ; " if you had seen her
last night, mother !"
"Ah! premature in her judgment, like her
mother," said Catherine, musingly. " Well, my
sons, nous verrons! nous verrons! Tell me,
now, what are you doing below ?"
" Regretting your absence and indisposition, "
said the young king, affectionately ; " but you
do not look ill ?"
" I am always well when I see my children, "
answered the Queen, evasively : and she turned
away from the searching gaze ofthe young King.
" Return to the drawing room ;" she con
tinued after a pause ; " but retire early ; you
must not lose your bloom by keeping late hours.
I will invite Henry of Navarre, and the Prince
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 21
de Be'arn, then we shall have festivities ; until
then, we are sober as—Reformers.
The Princes saluted their mother, and she
was once more alone.
Catherine de Medicis indulged in long visions
of the future. Not more than thirty-nine or
forty years ofage, she foresaw brilliant prospects
strewing her path. Hers was not a character to
stoop and cull thorns from a bouquet, unless she
felt the pressure of the unwelcome sting ; then
she extricated the thorn without injuring her
flowers. Her nature so political, so sanguine ;
her temperament constantly buoyant, allowed
her to contemplate every event in life, and to
clothe it in the garb her own imagination
pictured at the moment. Fortune, beauty, in
tellect and rank, all had conspired to spoil this
daughter of Italia ; andshe indulged herselfeven
more than she had been indulged by her own
friends in infancy, by allowing herself to believe
that nothing could be impossible, if she wished
to accomplish any undertaking.
c2
28 the astrologer's daughter.
Catherine had swayed the government in the
reign of her son, Francis the Second ; she was
now possessed of the highest power in the
realm ; she had apparently conciliated the
Guises, and her daughter, Margaret de Valois,
seemed to fall, without an effort on her part,
into the very channel upon which her thoughts
were centred. It is not to be wondered that the
young King of France and his brothers were
premature both in their judgment and conver
sation ; Catherine de Medicis had the straight
road to their hearts and understanding, and
with that observation conjecture need go no
further. Henri, Prince de B£arn, afterwards the
greatHenri Quatre, was thena boy, notmorethan
ten years of age, the beautiful little princess,
only eight; and it was between those two ju
venile members of the Royal Family of France,
that Catherine's policy determined to cement
the bonds of early affection, afterwards to be
sealed by the flat of matrimony. Catherine,
however, never allowed a second person to
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 29
discover the rise, the growing impulse, and
the matured reason of her plans. Henri of
B£arn was the chief branch of Bourbon—Ven-
dome, descended from Robert, Count of Cler
mont, fifth son of Louis, surnamed the Saint,
he was so distantly connected with the reigning
monarch of France, that his biographers term
him Charles the Ninth's cousin twenty-three
degrees removed. Notwithstanding it never
occurred to any one that the young Prince de
Bearn was destined to reign on the throne of
France, the Queen-Mother had, nevertheless, a
true presentiment that she was securing a good
alliance for her daughter; but even the search
ing Catherine de M£dicis could not forsee the
future fate of the neglected and unhappy wife
of the great Henri Quatre, nor presage the
blameable conduct of Marguerite de Valois.
The Queen-Mother now summoned the young
king's preceptor to her presence.
Amiot, the learned translator of Plutarch,
answered the summons.
30 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
" How does my son proceed in his studies ?"
asked Catherine.
" Passably "well," replied Amiot, " but he too
frequently indulges with his brothers in field
sports. Such amusements leave a lassitude on
the mind from the fatigue experienced by the
body."
" Natural to his age to seek amusement," in
terrupted the indulgent mother. " I speak now
of his disposition ; how would you describe it ?
speak impartially."
Amiot paused, for he was a man of truth, and
he knew that the proud M£dicis could not al
ways brook even the words she requested should
be spoken. After a short silence, he began,
and described Charles the Ninth's disposition.
Thus, though darker it has been handed down
to posterity :—
" The young king," said Mariot, " has many
estimable qualities ; his wit is extraordinary for
his age, his judgment clear, and he possesses
great courage and activity, both bodily and
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 31
mentally. Listen to me, Queen-Mother of that
young king : Charles the Ninth will either be
a very bad or a very good King—he knows no
medium. It is a difficult task to direct that
impetuous mind to the right channel, from
whence true happiness springs "
" This is all very excellent and moral," said
Catherine, " but I have now something of im
portance to speak about. Pray what thinks my
son of the young Prince of Beam?"
" He no doubt appreciates his amiable tem
per," said Mariot, " but their characters would
not assimilate."
" Humph ! " said Catherine, musingly; " now
tell me, Monsieur Amiot, does my son talk
of his sister Marguerite's marriage with the
Prince?"
" The Princess Marguerite ! " said Amiot,
with a start of unfeigned surprise ; she is a mere
child: who could entertain such ideas, who could
spoil childhood's bright and sunny days by har-
rassing the mind with thoughts it cannot com
32 the astrologer's daughter.
prehend. A doll for the Princess Marguerite,
and a top and whip for the King ; for, believe
me, Royal Queen, youth soon passes, and with
it the loveliest hours of life. Who could talk of
love or marriage to those children?"
" I can, if I judge it necessary," said Cathe
rine, drawing up her commanding figure; "I do
as I please, and none dare say me nay. I wish
you good night, Monsieur Mariot : good night
—good night."
Monsieur Mariot, whose politeness was not
diniinished, not even by this unceremonious
dismissal, bowed low and politely to the proud
Queen-Mother of France, and repaired to his
own apartments.
CHAPTER III.
The evening was dark and tempestuous, the
clouds swept past, driven by the eddy, and ap
peared as if diving gloomily on the bosom of
the Heavens. A few solitary stars were shining
brightly; the other twinkling luminaries seemed
sullenly retreating, as if veiled purposely from
the human sight. It was on this dark night,
that two females, wrapped in large black cloaks,
proceeded at a rapid pace through the almost
deserted streets. I need not say, that those
closely-veiled women, were Catherine de M£-
dicis, and her pretty attendant, Loretta.
c 3
34 the astrologer's daughter.
" Methinks the road is very long," said
Catherine, leaning heavily on her attendant's
arm ; " I would that Doctor Andrea Pettura
lived somewhat nearer."
" Such learned persons love not the conta
gion of the city, and shun its baneful bustle,"
replied Loretta.
" Thinkest thou, then, that wickedness reigns
only in busy cities ?"
" Ah ! no, your Majesty," replied Loretta
" the world is a mass of folly: those who are
gay and smiling, feel not so acutely the atmo
sphere of sin ; but those who are lonely and
broken-hearted, feel the air of folly which
wafts by, and echoes a sigh in the lone bosom.
Andrea Pettura, methinks, is no better than
other persons ; but has studied men, and can
talk until he causes his hearer's hair to stand
erect."
" Talk not against Andrea Pettura," said
Catherine, with a movement approaching a
shudder, and looking at the same time fearfully
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 35
round, as if the melancholy wind, playing
around her, could waft back the tale to Pet-
tura's ears."
Loretta did not attempt to interrupt the
silence which followed: at last, the Queen-
Mother said, in a low, tremulous voice, " Lo
retta, if thou doubtest the Doctor's lore, how
would'st thou be able to talk as he does ?"
" I should not speak in his high-flown lan
guage," said Loretta, " for my education would
not allow it; thus, however, would I talk:
Beware of men's treachery—heed not their
promises—listen not to their flattery—agree
not with their folly—shun their vicious haunts
—sacrifice not at the shrine of deceit—trust not
in their sympathy—bury grief in thy own
bosom—and commune with higher things than
Earth's dull mould. To the broken-hearted,
this my tale—Weep, until the 'tears no longer
flow—sigh, until sighs refuse to echo again—
go, think then if happiness be nearer. To the
gay—Smile, until bright smiles hover no more
36 the astrologer's daughter.
round the mouth—laugh, until the laugh dies
away in the bosom—and see then, if thou wilt
ever again be so blithe and gay."
" And what would'st thou say to those who
sought thy advice from motives of religion, and
for the welfare of a nation V
" I would bid them seek advice from higher
powers—I would bid them turn their earnest
gaze towards that invisible world, from whence
good counsel comes—I would tell them not to
heed the voice of a mortal like themselves,
who was speaking from the depth of an expe
rienced heart, learned in the past, but ignorant
of the future."
" Thou speakest far above thy station, Lo-
retta."
" Ah ! that is my misfortune," replied the
girl ; " too much thought is a heavy load to bear,
it chases away light feeling, and when joined to
sorrow, sears the lone heart. Oh, oft, very oft,
I wake in the midnight hour, the gloom of the
night like the darkness of my bosom then
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 37
comes a solitary luminary, throwing a small but
steady light over my benighted path ; that lu
minary is Hope, shedding its mild rays around.
Ah, Queen, it were better had I not been so
well educated, but my early life was prosperous
and gay ; I lived with a lady who was related
to the Pope; I performed no menial service,
but lulled her to repose, by singing to my little
guitar, or reading in my infantine voice. Thus
fleeted by the hours of my childhood—those
sunny hours no more return. My girlhood's
first dawn was as happily passed. Methinks the
air of Italia is fecund with treasured lore ; I
grasped learning, and filled my mind until it
was compelled to disburden itself by loving !
loving a bright and intellectual being, whoso
very thoughts were twined round mine—whose
dark orbs rested on my face, not in an amorous,
but all-appreciating gaze. He loved not with
that passionate, momentary fire, which hopes,
and dares, and then forgets ; but he loved me
with that subdued and hallowed love, which
38 the astrologer's daughter.
is all mental: and now—now. But Lady, I
shall weep—what more ? You know the rest."
*****
Our pedestrians were now at their journey's
end ; they had left the town, and were in
the suburbs of Paris. Several watchmen had
cast keen glances on them ; but even surrounded
by a large and rather coarse cloak, Catherine's
commanding figure was conspicuous through
her disguise ; and those who observed her once
with suspicion, looked not again.
At length they turned into a lonely lane ; a
few leafless trees grew on either side ; the last
lone leafhad shivered in the gale, and the trunks
stood conspicuously towering in the coldness of
the night. Loretta knocked at an arched door
which projected from a building of great anti
quity. The frowning wings towered high, and
little attention had been given to display any
beauty of architecture in the ill-shapen mass of
red bricks. The door was opened by a dark-
complexioned servant, attired in a gorgeously
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 39
gay livery ; tassels of silver-gilt descended from
his shoulders, his shoes were pointed and orna
mented with huge silver buckles, whilst his
dark curling hair surrounded a face on which
shrewd cunning was engraven on every line-
Loretta now drew back at a respectful distance
from her Royal mistress, and the servant bowing
very low, took up a silver lamp, and Catherine
followed him up a large staircase covered with
crimson cloth. Silver lamps were burning at
equal distances, and cast a beautiful reflection
on the crimson-covered steps. Catherine paused
when she reached a small ante-room on the se
cond landing. This chamber was fitted up
with particular care, and on a large table
were ranged every article then in use for a
lady's toilette : costly perfumes, cosmetics, rare
smelling soaps; all were disposed with pre
cision.
Loretta drew near and disrobed her Royal
mistress; the coarse cloak was thrown aside,
and Catherine looked again the all-beautiful
40 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
Queen. She wore a crimson velvet dress, the
stomacher ofwhich was splendidly covered with
diamonds ; her arms were surrounded with the
same costlyjewels, and Loretta, drawing a casket
from her pocket, proceeded to place a tiara of
large diamonds amidst her rich and flowing
hair. She did not follow her royal mistress,
but remained in the ante-room. She sum
moned the attendant, who was waiting out
side, and Catherine, casting one more look at
the mirror, followed the servant with slow and
majestic steps.
At length she reached a splendid apartment,
and the blaze of a candelabra reflected its many
lights on her splendid costume, whilst her
beautifully clear complexion and liquid Italian
eyes, were perfectly dazzling in their midnight
splendour. A very keen observer might have
detected a slight quivering of the parted lips,
and a scarcely visible pallidness on the brow ;
but the firm voice in which she greeted Andrea
Pcttura, would have bid conjecture cease, if
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 41
the observer wished to know Catherine's feel-
v ings.
Andrea Pettura, was certainly both in appear
ance and manners, calculated to follow the stern
and dark path in which he trod. His figure was
very tall and majestic ; his dark complexion, his
raven and glossy hair, and the not-to-be-mista
ken liquid eye, proclaimed his Italian birth. He
might have numbered fifty years, but at the age
of thirty he could not have been more strikingly
handsome. His fine figure was partly concealed
in the folds of a flowing cloak, which descended
to the ground. He was entirely clad in black.
Besides the large candelabra, several wax
lights in silver sconces threw their rays over the
richly-tapestried room. The walls represented
the Siege of Troy, the heroes were riding in
their splendid cars, and the beautiful Helen ap
peared in the back-ground, as if animating them
to the action.
It appeared that Catherine wished her beauty
to be felt even by one whose profession seemed
42 the astrologer's daughter.
to say he was above human desire and vanities ;
or what prompted her splendid toilette ? Per
haps the early seeds of vanity, which had taken
so deep a root in her nature, that no time,
place or design, could buryits never slumbering
voice. She begged Andrea would not stand;
and those strikingly handsome beings sat to
gether in the midnight hour, their thoughts
searching into futurity, grasping as it were be
yond the reach of time ; whilst death, by one
sure shaft might strike with cold mortality those
glowing frames.
"Must I still continue so cautiously my
course ?" said Catherine,in her well-toned voice.
" My Lord of Lorraine hardlythinks me zealous
enough !"
" The Lord of Lorraine holds not nightly
communion with the stars ; he may speak as a
Churchman, but not as a prophet."
" True, very true !" said Catherine ; " then I
am right, quite right ; and my hand is not err
ing in grasping a heretic in friendly pressure.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 43
Could I only see a picture of the future, I
should be passing happy."
" How would you show your gratitude?" said
the Doctor, with a smile of power round hislips.
"Oh! ask me not;" exclaimed Catherine
with unfeigned delight. " Oh ! ask it not ; or
rather, tell me how I can be grateful ?"
" You shall knowbefore you quit this house !"
replied the Astrologer. " Now follow me, and
question not my power. Queen-Mother of
France, utter not one syllable ; for when you do,
the scene will vanish."
Catherine turned slightly pale ; for although
she had frequently consulted the Doctor, she had
never witnessedany scene, portraying the future.
Pettura now placed his finger on a bolt, and
a small door flew open. The Queen endea
voured to steady her faltering steps and she
soon found herself in a spacious apartment
hung with black.
A large table was placed at the furthest end
of the room, also covered with black. One
44 the astrologer's daughter.
single dim lamp illuminated the scene, and Pet-
tura advancing towards it, placed his long finger
on his lips to intimate silence, and then extin
guished the light.
Catherine turned deadly pale ; a faintness stole
over her heart ; she gasped for breath, but she
suppressed the scream which hovered round her
lips. The Astrologer now muttered words in a
strange language and appeared to be on his
knees, for suddenly he rose, and the rustling of
his thick silk cloak was the only sound which
disturbed his orations. Catherine's earnest gaze
endeavoured to pierce the gloom of the chamber,
and at length the dim lamp shone again, and a
mirror, extending the whole length of the
room, was seen at the back of the table. The
Astrologer was looking intently at it, and point
ing his finger to the top, he beekoned to Cathe
rine, who, approaching with trembling steps,
read in distinct characters, these words :—
"The year 1572; Massacre of the Hicguenots."
A smile of triumph played round Catherine's
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 45
pale face : suddenly the mirror became covered
with figures as large as life ; the Queen gazed
earnestly. Coligny was lying on the ground
weltering in his blood ; her son was holding a
levelled gun, and his aim reached a party of
flying Huguenots. Further in the distance, she,
the all-powerful Medicis, saw her own com
manding figure. The King of Narvarre, on
bended knee, was kissing the cross, and his son,
the Prince de Beam, was playfully parting the
flowing curls from Margaret de Valois' brow.
Every wish of Catherine's heart there was
realized. She could not control her joy ; she
uttered one sound, and the picture vanished.
Leaving the lugubre scene, she again sat in
the beautifully tapestried chamber ; her hand was
clasped in the Astrologer's, not by a coquettish
movement, but to express the joy of her heart.
Her large eyes, flushed with pleasure, were fixed
with earnest gratitude on his ; her lovely face
was tinged with that rich glow which excitement
brings to the cheek. In all the regal pomp
46 the astrologer's daughter.
of a Court, never had Catherine looked so
beautiful.
Pettura poured some wine from a silver flask
—for a moment Catherine hesitated ; might not
the goblet be filled with some mystic beverage ?
The Astrologer read her thoughts, and immedi
ately filled a cup for himself with the same
liquor.
Catherine felt ashamed of her distrust, and
muttering " I am a Medici, and know not fear,"
she emptied the goblet at one draught.
" Tell me now," said Catherine, " how can
I show my gratitude ?"
" I will tell you," replied the Astrologer.
" I have long since informed your Majesty,
that I married a young English lady, who died
a few weeks after the birth of her only child ;
that child, now grown up to girlhood's spring,
inhabits the same roof where I nightly hold
communion with stars and spirits, and search
deep, deep in lore. "When I pass the sweet
girl's chamber, as I journey forth to my lonely
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 47
turret, which her light form has never darkened
by her presence, I feel my heart fainting
within me, for I am not like the father of that
gentle creature, whose soul is pure as the sweet
cherubs hovering round her nightly slumbers.
Sometimes, my Clementina twines her white
arms round my neck ; she bids me be gay, she
kisses away the dark spot which clouds my
brow; she lulls my turbulent spirit to sleep,
she reads to me in that soft plaintive voice,
which she has acquired from solitude ; and,
Royal lady, I feel"too dark, too—too—I hardly
know how to term it—not pure enough to
watch over that innocent and lovely creature.
She never wanders further than the gardens be
longing to our house, for she has no other arm
to lean on, save the Astrologer's, whom some
revile, some fear, but towards whom all look
up with awe. Must that young creature's life
fade in this solitary abode, .must age creep
upon her, and her green spring give place to
keen winter, without the gradual medium of
48 the astrologer's daughter.
the autumn oflife. When spring has passed, sum
mer has bloomed its last joyous tints ; pleasures,
joys, the pride of the eye, and the lust of life,
are not so keenly felt ; then autumn comes as a
warning voice, as abeneficent hand, marshalling
us to our cold wintry days ; but here, in this
solitary spot, away from all the world, my
child's life will fleet, and she will walk towards
the tomb. Spring, summer, autumn and winter,
all merging into one chaos—all going together,
into Eternity."
" Enough, enough," said Catherine, waving
her jewelled hand majestically ; " my curiosity,
my interest, and my gratitude, are awakened :
lead the way, my impatient steps are longing to
follow your path ; come, where is your daugh
ter—I will show her life."
" Stay," said Pettura, the feelings of a
parent overbalancing the pleasure his pride
caused him to conceal ; " stay, Queen Catherine
de Medicis, I have a few words to say. My
daughter is not of noble birth ; no regal blood
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 49
flows in her veins ; but she has been tenderly
nursed, well-educated, brought up in retire
ment; still princely elegance surrounds her,
and she will not be treated as a menial in your
Court, will she, lady?"
" Most certainly not," replied Catherine ; " I
pledge my queenly word."
The Astrologer bowed his graceful figure,
and kissed that Royal hand which was graciously
extended to him ; then taking up a silver lamp,
he marshalled the way, the Queen telling him
to wave all ceremony, and she would follow
him.
Passing several rooms, Pettura at length
paused before a large door, from whence a
sweet and melodious voice was heard sing
ing to the accompaniment of a well-toned
lyre.
" Your daughter keeps late hours?" said the
Queen, inquiringly.
" I bid her good night at the hour of twelve,
and although I have passed the time, she would
vol. I. D
50 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
not retire without my blessing and parting kiss,"
replied Pettura.
" Let us listen to the song," said Catherine,
pausing at the threshold of the door.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER'S SONG.
" They tell me that the world is fair,
Whilst all to me is dark ;
Oh, would my steps but linger'd where
Bright is the joyous spark.
I'm weary of my own lone heart—
I'm weary of my life ;
And would that I could bear a part
In the world's joy or strife.
" They tell me that the world is fair,
That beauty, grace and wit—
All that is bright—still lingers there,
Whilst here alone I sit.
Oh, must my life fleet as a dream,
Without one ray of light t
And must I never one spark glean
Of all that world so bright ?
" Like some lone bird, without a mate,
From morn to morn I sing ;
And then I bow me to my fate,
A drear and lonely thing !
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 51
" Oh, for one glimmer of sunshine,
One ray to cheer my path ;•
One hour of mirth I could call mine,
But once to hear me laugh !
" Still, still, my heart ; be still, be still,
And waft thee to thy rest ;
Perchance, life's dream might bring thee ill,
And solitude is best.
But oh, for once at least to fly,
Where voices laugh and greet ;
And then to turn me back and die,
When joy no more I meet !"
The words of that song spoke forcibly of the
dreariness which reigned within the young girl's
breast. Catherine lingered even when the last
notes had died away, for she too was dreaming
of life—not, like Clementina, of its rays of sun
shine, but of its storms and tempests.
" Poor caged bird !" thought Catherine, "waft
thee," as the song says, to thy rest. Oh, life is
a delusive dream, and not all kind the hand
which leads thee forth to dare its ocean of strife,
its seas of jealousy, its malice, its wretched
ness. At length Catherine started from her
d 2
52 the astrologer's daughter.
reverie, and, unable to speak, she pointed to
the door ; Pettura opened it without delay.
Clementina threw aside the lyre upon which
her fingers were still straying, and was on the
point of throwing her arms round her father's
neck, but encountering the earnest gaze of Ca
therine de Medicis, she drew away with consi
derable bashfulness, whilst her fair brow was
suffused with the richest and purest tide.
" So, pretty one, thou art tired of thy solitude,
and art
' Like some lone bird, without a mate.'
I will show thee life if thou wilt ; but thinkest
thou it is all bright, and smiling, and joyous ?"
" I fain would judge for myself, lady. Look
at those heaps of books ; I glean my informa
tion from them; and when I read a page on which
sorrow has stamped its tale, I turn to another,
where the heart is exuberant in its nativejoyous-
ness—oh , lady, I fain would see the world."
The young girl had blushed deeper and
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 53
deeper, although her voice was firm, and her
words spoke of a high-souled spirit, willing
to launch in all boldness in the midst of the
strife of life.
" Well, thou art too fair a blossom to wither
in solitude," said Catherine, half aloud ; " .md,"
she added, raising her queenly voice, " w uld'st
thou like to dwell in the Courts of princes,
suck the honey of flattery from courtiers' lips,
drink the chalice of pleasure's delights ? Poor
timorous bird ! art thou not better in thy ele
gant solitude?" here Catherine cast a keen
glance round the most beautifully furnished
apartment, thinking at the same time she had
never seen so perfect, so animated, so graceful
a being.
There was a moment's pause ; but at length
Clementina said, with less pleasure in her ex
pressive countenance, " I do very, very much,
wish to see the world; but, is it, oh, tell me
truly, is it wicked? "
Catherine felt the warm blood rushing to her
54 the astrologer's daughter.
cheeks ; she remembered that, in every sense
of the word, she lived in the world in the midst
of its vanities, its gaieties, its folly ; and, as a
mother advocates the cause of her child, so she
now fostered the delusive belief in that inno
cent girl's mind, that life was not wicked, not
even in a palace, where the proud and vindic
tive, but beautiful and all-engrossing, M£dicis
reigned.
" The sweetest goblet of rarest wine, if ana
lyzed, is composed of ingredients not all equally
palatable," said the crafty Catherine ; " and
those who drain the chalice of delight, must
not be faint-hearted, if they encounter a bitter
taste as they draw deeper from the fountain of
pleasure. Lizards and snakes will crawl amidst
the most lovely gardens in creation ; and if the
gardener forsake the gay flowers which re
quire attention, it is his own fault if the fear of
a sting he may never feel hinder him from
paying the necessary attention to the boasted
pride of his gay parterre. Young girl, if you
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 55
wish to see life, you must weather its storms as
well as bask in its sunshine. Look to me as the
anchor ready to steer thee when thou art in
peril : look up with confidence, unawed by gra
titude, to ' Catherine de M£dicis, the Queen-
Mother of France.' "
The young girl bowed her beautiful figure,
and kissing her Royal protector's hand, a.
shower of sunny ringlets fell over it, and the
Queen passed her fingers through them, ex
claiming, involuntarily — " How beautiful."
Clementina was a most lovely creature; and
as she stood there, in the midnight-hour, so
young, so beautiful, so graceful, with the
blush of youth, health, and excitement upon
her cheek, the mind instantly compared her
to the " pink, pink rose," waving its head in
the summer sunshine. The native elegance of
a high mind shone on the elegant figure, which
was so tastefully and richly attired, that Cathe
rine de Medicis might have thought the Astro
loger had prepared his lovely daughter for the
56 the astrologer's daughter.
interview, were it not for the artless and un
feigned surprise which stole over the young
girl's countenance, as she bowed low and re
verentially, when the haughty De Medicis had
introduced herself. Her neck and arms were
encircled with the most costly ornaments ; her
robe of pale-blue silk floated round her figure,
and the open bodice showed a white satin
inner dress, which sat close to the body, and
displayed to advantage her slight, but well-
formed bust, leaving the throat bare, which was
of dazzling whiteness. Inheriting her English
mother's fair beauty, Clementina had also that
deep expressive tone of eye, which shone so
conspicuously in the handsome countenance
of the astrologer ; her eyes were of the purest
shade of blue, surrounded by lashes of a fringy
length, of the same golden colour as her hair,
which fell, without the restraint of comb or
riband, in rich ringlets around her face.
Catherine continued gazing at the fair young
creature, lost in a dream of admiration and
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 57
amaze. Her own queenly beauty and high-
bearing, equally lovely, though very different
to the young girl's, brought this comparison to
the Astrologer's mind—" The young tree of the
forest growing at the stem of the oak, looking
up to its towering branches for shelter and sup
port."
" Go thee now to thy slumbers, and may
gentle dreams of life haunt thy pillow, young
maiden." So saying, Catherine extended her
hand to Clementina, who, kissing it again with
fervour and gratitude, stole a glance of deep
pleasure towards her father. She paused, but
the next moment, unheedful of the Queen's
presence, she rushed into his arms, and ex
claimed, " Oh, father ! what a happy, happy
night."
The Astrologer clasped his lovely child to
his heart ; he encircled her with his long and
powerful arms, and his rich black cloak falling
round the slight blue drapery, left only to the
d 3
58 the astrologer's daughter.
gaze that beautiful head, round which hung
long and spiral-like ringlets. A few minutes
longer, and Clementina had sought her pillow-
Soft dreams lulled her to repose—sweet voices
hovered round her slumbers ; and pillowing her
head on that soft couch, she dreamed of happi
ness, of joy, and of the world!
CHAPTER IV.
The Protestants were now enjoying greater
liberty than they had hitherto done. A calm
hung over the horizon of their destiny ; and
although many foresaw that a deadly storm
would, sooner or later, disturb the apparently
serene surface of the heavens, still we all live
in the expectation of a storm ; and the Protest
ants—or Huguenots as they were called at that
period—made hay whilst the sun shone on their
fields.
Perhaps some of my readers do not know the
origin of the word Huguenot. According to
60 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
some writers, the appellation was given to the
Reformers from a German word, which signi
fies " bound by an oath." But PAbbe Gar-
nier says the word is derived from a gate called
"Hugon," which tradition reported to have
been erected in the reign of Charlemagne, and
further adds, that the Reformers assembled
themselves nightly before this gate. The Court
was journeying towards the town, and struck
by its name, they invented the appellation Hu-
ganon, or Huguenots, and from that time it was
in general use.
The Queen-Mother of France had chosen
for her most political method of government,
" That to reign well, there must always exist a
division." Catherine believed that it was better
to let the Protestants and Papists stand upon a
distinct footing, as long as they were on neutral
ground. Both parties were at secret enmity,
but so carefully disguised, that foes and friends
met together in friendly grasp, hardly knowing
whether the pressure were false or real. '
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. . 61
An edict was now published, granting liberty
of conscience to the Reformers, on condition
that they should meet in the suburbs of the
town, but not in the town itself.
The crafty Queen was now enabled to judge
exactly how strong the number of the Hugue
nots really was, for many persons threw off the
mask, and joined the Reformers' band. The
convents and cathedrals were deserted, and the
Papists were as much insulted and neglected as
the Huguenots had formerly been. The fickle
populace are ever fond of change, but the
French are generally allowed to be most parti
cularly so. Although the Huguenots had ob
tained their long wished for liberty of con-
science, a storm was atdiand, ready to break
forth in all its pent-up fury.
The King of Navarre was now at Court,
summoned thither by Catherine, who was not,
in fact, the only Regent of the kingdom during
the' French King's minority. The King of
Navarre had the principal command of the
62 the astrologer's daughter.
kingdom. This Prince was very different to
the high-minded but crafty Catherine. His
character was weak and wavering; now he
leant on one side, now on the other. His re
deeming points, however, were great bravery,
and kindness of disposition. Historians, speak
ing of this Prince, exclaim—" He only deserves
to be placed on the pages of history for being
the father of the great Henri Quatre."
The King of Navarre mistrusted Catherine's
protestations of friendship ; and when her Ma
jesty, one evening, warmly pressed him to bring
his wife and the Prince de B£arn to Court, the
King had great difficulty in concealing the pe
culiar expression which stole over his features,
seeming as it were to say, " What new plot is
in store ?"
Jeanne d'Albret, Queen of Navarre, openly
professed the Protestant faith; and historians
say of her, "That she was as zealous in her
Protestant faith, as the King her husband was
wavering in his Romish tenets."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 63
In the beginning of the young King's reign,
Antoine de Bourbon, assisted by the triumvirate,
wished to oblige her to attend mass. She an
swered in the fervent language of fanaticism,
" that if she held the whole kingdom, as well as
the education of the young Prince her son, at
her own free disposal, she would rather throw
both into the sea, than attend mass."
Subsequently, when Protestants and Roman
ists were at open defiance, then Jeanne d'Albret
became warmer than many of the other zealous
party spirits. She even caused a medal to be
struck, with this device :—
" PAS CBRTA, VICTORIA INTEGRA, MORS HONBSTA."
(CERTAIN PEACE, ENTIRE VICTORY, GLORIOUS DEATH.)
One sunny November morning, a gay caval
cade of chevaliers, attended by a numerous reti
nue of valets, and other attendants, wended their
way through the plains of Vassi en Champagne.
There is something peculiarly exhilirating to
the spirits in a fine November morning. To
wards twelve o'clock, the sun gilds the few
64 the astrologer's daughter.
yellow leaves which still tip the trees, defying
the searing hand of autumnal gales. The
hoar-frost shines forth its silvery gloss upon
the green sward, and the sun illumines each
pearly head with the brightness of a gem. The
industrious woodman plies his axe, and many
a noble tree, such as bold Robin Hood must
have extolled, falls, pierced by most mighty
strokes.
The cavalcade in question continued their
way through picturesque woods, covered with
lofty pines. Now, a babbling stream lay at
their feet; now, beautiful hills raised their
heads ; and many a scared hare fled with swift
and timorous steps, disturbed by the distant
tread of horses' hoofs, on the crisp and frosty
path.
"What a charming spot," exclaimed the
Duc de Guise, turning to the Cardinal de Lor
raine, who rode by his side.
" Charming indeed !" replied the Cardinal ;
" no wonder your Grace involuntarily admires
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 65
it. A hunter's cot, and a hunter's sport, his
free life, and his heart apart from care, me-
thinks might suit your Grace."
" Not at this moment," said the Duke ; " I
should abandon the chase, fearing each deer
was a concealed Reformer. But how mor
tifying to me is the increasing power of these
fanatics."
" And to me also," said the Cardinal. " It
is the Queen-Mother's own fault, and Coligny
has had his finger in that edict of free tolera
tion."
" Coligny's party may yet sigh over a iost
cause," said the Duke, placing his hand fur
tively on his sword. " What a canting hypo
crite he is : the King of Navarre is awed by his
shadow; but can the Queen fear him?"
" The Queen, fear ! " exclaimed the Cardinal,
with a bitter smile. " Go, ask that tree whether
it feels any real pain when the axe is at its
root ; ask the sun if it will obey your word—
the moon, if she will shine at your bidding,
66 the astrologer's daughter.
and the stars, if they are ruled by your voice ;
but never think, Catherine de M^dicis knows
the meaning ofthe word 'fear.' "
" Well, then, perhaps, it were better if the
Queen did fear," said the Duke. " When a
nation is ruled by a self-willed woman, there
is much to apprehend. " You will say, I owe
her Majesty gratitude : very true ; she took
me out of the prison, in which I had lan
guished during Francis the Second's reign,
and she restored me to her Courtly favour ;
but Catherine knows not how to confer an
obligation — her proud smile, the haughty
gaze of her dark eye, and that rich voice
which silences me in the council-room; all
remind me that there is such a word as ' obli
gation.' Methought, when I was in prison,
life had lost all interest in my breast ; that
I could walk through the wide world, without
caring for its pleasures or heeding its strife ;
but what a strange wavering thing is the human
heart. I feel, now again, all worldly, aU
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 67
covetous, all aspiring, all ambitious. Would
you have believed it, holy father ?"
" Oh certainly," replied the Cardinal ; " man
is never able to judge of own feelings; but
my son, why so harsh ? I, too, am engaged in
the strife which is approaching ; my hand shall
be raised against the Huguenots, and my
loudest voice shall annul their edict of free
conscience ; yet would you call me worldly,
covetous, aspiring, and ambitious ?"
The Duke did not tell the Cardinal he was
either ; but perhaps he thought he was pos
sessed of all those qualities, and the churchman
might probably have taken home the trite old
maxim, " Silence gives consent," for he paused,
and the two principal persons in the calvacade
proceeded on in silence, the merry voices of
their followers occasionally reaching the train
of their thoughts.
" Hark !" exclaimed one of the squires to
his fellow-horsemen. " Didst ever hear such a
strange noise ?"
68 the astrologer's daughter.
" Non, par mafoil " retorted the person so
addressed. "It resembles a hive of bees,
settling on a myrtle tree, driven from their
home by some hostile party."
" In truth, then," said the first speaker, " you
would have your bees possessed of strong lungs.
A hive of bees, indeed ! say rather a hive of
Huguenots, holding a discourse—feeding on
the honey of their own heretical principles.
Now will I hie to the Lord of Lorraine, and
tell him what I hear."
But the party now approached a lonely
grange, and the Cardinal, as well as the Duke,
were perfectly aware of the fact, that they had
fallen upon a party of Huguenots, holding one
of their meetings. The Due de Guise had
partaken that morning more freely than usual
of the juice of the vine ; and, drawing his
sword, he advanced rapidly towards the place
of meeting, exclaiming, "Mart aux Huguenots."
" Mort aux Huguenots" reiterated the whole
calvacade, drawing their swords, in imitation
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 69
of their master. In the midst of the cry, Lor
raine raised his loud and clear voice ; he waved
his hand, and there was an instantaneous
silence.
" Countrymen, desist," said the churchman ;
" the time is not yet ripe for your vengeance to
fall. You know not even the strength of your
opponents ; you have not the Queen-Mother's
orders to draw the sword."
" You can give it us," exclaimed many
voices.
" But I will not do it," said Lorraine, as the
image of the incensed Medicis crossed his mind.
" Not only do I refuse to give my sanction to
this fight, but I instantly order my own fol
lowers to abide by my will. My Lord de
Guise, you are free agent of your actions, my
servants are not. A moiles miens!" So saying,
he bowed to the Due de Guise, and retraced
his steps, leaving the latter as infuriated as he
was astonished.
" Base, crafty churchman ; crafty as the Me
70 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
dicis he serves," muttered the Duke, between
his closed teeth.
" Mort aux Huguenots is still my cry, and
uttering it would I enter the portals of death.
A moi les miens les Guises, et les Catholiques !"
So saying, the Duke rushed into the grange.
Now began the terrible massacre, known in
history as the " Massacre de Vassi." The
door was burst open, and then what a sight met
the eyes of men, thirsting for blood—Christians
kneeling before the throne of Grace, with up
lifted eyes, and clasped hands, all eagerly di
recting their gaze towards life eternal, whilst
pale death, as a lurking enemy, was at their
door. Trembling thus between life and death,
the aged preacher was standing on the tempo
rary pulpit which had been erected for him ;
the winter-wind, eddying through the open
door, whirled about the silvery locks which had
weathered many long years of life. The Duke's
fury was abated ; he now saw all the rashness of
which he had been guilty, and summoned his
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 71
followers to Lis side. But the Reformers were
also armed, and had now drawn their swords :
their preacher called to them, the Duke shouted
to his own ; alas ! it was too late—the deadly
struggle had begun. The Huguenots appeared
ready to take advantage of the insult they had
received ; they dealt their blows without mercy :
the grange, lately the scene of prayer, was
now strewn with the dead and the dying. The
followers of the Duke fled in all directions ;
the Huguenots pursued them. The Duke him
self was stunned by a blow he received from a
heavy stone ; and he lay neglected and faint
ing, amidst a heap of slain.
The shades of evening cast their shadows on
the bloody scene ; the moon's pale Hght tipped
with a silvery tint the beautiful pines of the
forest; her shadowy rays danced fantastically
on the mimic rivulets; every bird of the air had
sought its mate, each and every animated oc
cupier of the forest was still; the deer had found
its haunt, and the wood-pigeon its roost ; but
72 the astrologer's daughter.
the Duc de Guise still lay partly stunned amidst
the heap of slain.
Suddenly, he felt himself lifted up with a
powerful grasp ; a goblet of wine was held to
his lips, and his brow was chafed with re
freshing water. He opened his eyes, and ex
claimed in a faint, but audible voice—" Oh,
those cursed Huguenots, they have nearly
killed me ; but, when I recover, they shall feel
all the power of a Guise. Are you a Pro
testant?" he cried to his preserver.
"Iam."
" Well, then, help me to rise, and give me
my sword, we shall fight, and he who falls shall
go to the spirits of the defeated side, and tell
them to weave no more spells around their
followers."
" Think you, youth knows not its strength,
that you would have me take advantage of a
wounded and old man ? No, as I have before
said, I will give you no wine ; but I remember
that our religion bids us assist our enemies, and
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 73
all, save holding the goblet to your lips, I will
do to save you."
" Who are you, generous youth ?"
" My name is Poltrot de Mere\"
" That name is French ; you are then a
French Protestant?"
" No, I am not ; I am English by birth,"
replied the young man proudly; "but I inherit
a French estate, and bear a French name.
Come, you "will grow faint again ; we will tarry
no longer ; I will assist you now, my Lord
Duke: but remember, when you are once
again in Paris, we are mortal enemies ! "
The Duke could not reply, for he had re
ceived a severe blow, and he felt very faint
again.
Poltrot de Mer£ took him to a well-furnished
house, and summoned medical aid ; then, not
waiting to be thanked, he left the Duke
without giving him any parting salute.
"A good and generous youth," exclaimed
the Duke, when he awoke from the deep slum-
VOL. i. e
74 the astrologer's daughter.
ber into which he had fallen, after taking the
composing draught his medical adviser had
thought fit to administer. "A good and ge
nerous youth ; and if I meet him in peace or
war, I must e'en show him the gratitude of a
Guise."
A few days more, and the Duke returned to
Paris. There the story of the Massacre of
Vassi had spread, with due attention to the
marvellous exaggeration ever given to such
tales. Some parties raised their voices in eulo-
gisms of the Duke ; preachers on one side ex
tolled his virtues in the pulpit, and lauded his
character. They compared him to 'Moses—
saying, " He also spilled the blood of unbe
lievers — had rendered the deed holy, and
avenged the wrongs of the Lord." Others
called the Duke a wicked murderer, an enemy
of the State, an unworthy tyrant. So much for
party feeling.
CHAPTER V.
The Court was very turbulent at the time
when the lovely Clementina made her first
dhbid. The Queen-Mother loaded her with
presents, and seemed to take a particular de
light in showering kindnesses on her protegie,
thinking she thereby showed her gratitude to
Pettura, for in the darkness of her bigotry
Catherine almost fancied the crafty man could
survey her actions even when he was not ap
parently present.
The Court had withdrawn to Fontainbleau, but
the King of Navarre and the triumvirate with
e 2
76 the astrologer's daughter.
whom he was colleagued thought it neces
sary the King should be seen in the capital.
The Queen-Mother had long sought an oppor
tunity to throw off the King of Navarre's
power, and his attempt to have the control of
the French King gave a pretext to her motives ;
she now called the Prince de Cond£ to her aid,
and a civil war broke out.
The Prince de Conde had watched the King
of Navarre's power, and had long been desir
ous of showing his discontent : he knew the
Medici's deep policy; he was well aware that
her hatred to the Huguenot party, of which he
was the head, would, sooner or later, break
the bond of union which apparently existed
between them ; but he was sensible that Ca
therine's call upon him would colour his rebel
lion against the triumvirate.
Cond£ assembled a large army, for the
Eeformers flocked most willingly to his stan
dard, and he was unanimously declared their
chief supporter. His first step was to take
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 77
Orleans, where he took up his quarters. When
Cond£ had established his power, he issued a
proclamation, declaring his readiness to lay
down arms, provided the triumvirate would
leave the Court. He declared his high indig
nation of the treatment the Huguenots had
received. He said it was dreadful to con
template the murderous havoc which the Pro
testants had sustained. " It is not inanimate
marble statues you are killing," he continued,
" but living images of God."
All these negotiations availed nothing; but
as Cond£ was too weak to oppose the Royalists,
he delivered up Havre to the British Queen,
in order to purchase her assistance. It is very
dreadful to contemplate the consequences of
civil war—not one nation marching in a body
to defend themselves from the encroaching
power or flagrant ambition of a hostile foe ;
not linked heart to heart, brother to brother,
but fighting in the same country, banishing ties
of kindred from the breast: this is a civil war !
78 the astrologer's daughter.
Conde now fought against his own brother,
whom he had vainly persuaded to leave the
Court, and forsake the triumvirate. On the
other hand, the Guises raised their powerful
voice : they placed Antoine de Bourbon at
their head ; and this cruel and vindictive man
is known in history as the Huguenots' most
dreadful enemy.
Catherine, the crafty Catherine, smothered
her indignation; but her heart was full of
wrath. True, she wished to exterminate the
Huguenots, but it was her hand which would
fain strike the blow ; it was her voice she
wished to hear giving the word of command—
to slaughter, to slay, to torture. " Ah well,"
she exclaimed, pacing up and down the large
room, as was her wont when she was angry ;
" Ah well, they shall have their own way ; and
yet my son shall not be seen at the head of
either party. The Guises hate me, but not
more than Cond£; they all pretend to fight
for my son's rights, but they are, in fact,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 79
avenging their own quarrels. Well, well, thus
goes the world—both sides overreaching each
other ; but I stand as a neutral arm between
Cond£s and Guises ; and clever must be that
hand which is more sure in its aim, and deep
must be the heart more clear-sighted than
Catherine de Medici's."
It was in the dusk of the evening, that
Catherine held this soliloquy. She was, as be
fore described, pacing up and down the apart
ment, when her foot suddenly slipped, for she
had fallen against a ball, her son the young King
had left there. Those who have never sprained
their ankle may doubt the agony of the shock,
but those who have, will not wonder that
Catherine uttered a cry of pain; the cry was
not loud, but the Queen's voice was clear and
distinct. Loretta's ears were ever open to the
smallest sound, and she now rushed into the
apartment, first providing herself with a light.
She was greatly astonished to find her Eoyal
mistress on the ground, evidently in great pain.
80 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
She lost no time in raising her ; the Queen was
taken to her own apartments, the sprained limb
duly bandaged; and then Catherine declared
her intention of retiring to bed—first order
ing her attendants to leave her alone with
Loretta.
" This is very provoking," exclaimed Cathe
rine, as soon as her handmaidens had retired.
" I fully intended visiting the Maestro this
evening. He can always calm my mind, and
lighten the burden of reigning by his timely
advice. I have much to consult him upon, and
many weary days may pass, before this sprain
is cured."
"Could not your Majesty ride to-morrow
night ? " said Loretta.
" How, now, girl ! " exclaimed the Queen,
writhing with mixed pain and anger ; " think
you, then, slight agony would compel Cathe
rine de Metlici to cry out, and lie her down ?
This sprain will bring on fever ; even now the
spot of pain glows warmly on my cheek ; be
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 81
sides, Pettura does not wish that any equipage
should be seen near his door, mine especially ;
it would draw down the vengeance of the
Guises."
" Forgive me for giving you pain," said Lo-
retta ; " your Majesty knows my wish is but to
serve ; can I take a letter to the Maestro ?"
" No, no, no," exclaimed the Queen-Mother,
with all her wonted pride ; " no, no, the Maestro
is haughty, and I would not send him one of my
maidens."
" Is he, then, so proud ?" said Loretta, coldly
and satirically ; " that is the reason, then, that
his pretty daughter knows so well how to toss
her head, whilst the ringlets fall about like the
drops from a rose-bush after a storm. I but
offered the young lady a little advice, knowing
the world, and seeing her placed in a Court so
full of chevaliers. Oh, if your Majesty had seen
the tragedy-look she gave me, far more haughty
than the Princess de France will ever be ;
the high tone in which she exclaimed —
e3
82 the astrologer's daughter.
" Clementina Pettura, heeds not the voice of a
waiting-woman !"
" Did she say so ?" said Catherine, rather
amused at the idea of the proud Loretta hav
ing a little rebuke, and secretly pleased to
think her proUgie had some part of the hau
teur which flowed so naturally in her own
veins.
After a pause, during which time Loretta's
eye flashed quickly, whilst her bosom swelled
with wounded pride, the Queen-Mother had
sunk into a reverie ; and at length, rousing her
self, she bade Loretta summon the young Cle
mentina to her presence.
The pretty maiden lost no time in obeying
the call, and bounded into the room with all the
willingness of youth, ready to show how much
it was her wish to serve her Royal mistress.
"Are you ill?" said the young girl, bend
ing with solicitude over the couch.
" Did not Loretta tell you I had sprained my
ankle?"
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 88
" I did not speak to Mademoiselle Clemen
tina," replied Loretta ; " she does not like to
hear my voice."
" Oh, Loretta ! " said Clementina, with ar
dour, " do not speak thus ; I only silenced you
once, and that was when you alarmed me by
talking of evils which, methinks, will blow past
me, without even fanning my brow."
"You were quite right," exclaimed the
Queen, patting the young girl's glowing cheek.
"What, fear life at sixteen? No, surely not.
Age alone will bring thoughts of care, and
youth's sunny hours fly with too swift wings
to borrow the plumes of wisdom and expe
rience; so, Loretta, no more of thy sage
wisdom: I will myself bring up Clementina
in the paths of resolution, courage, and for
titude. Wilt take a message from me to thy
father, pretty one?"
" Oh yes, your Majesty, with all pleasure
and speed."
" Well, hie thee away, and equip thyself for
84 the astrologer's daughter.
thy walk ; mean-while, I will write the letter.
Loretta will be ready to accompany thee."
The young girl tripped lightly out of the
room, pleased, beyond measure, at being able
to show her alacrity in serving the Queen.
The world was all new to Clementina, and
those who were kind to her found at once the
passport to her heart. Catherine could some
times bow her haughty spirit to the purest
friendship, and she had hitherto been unexcep-
tionably kind to her young protdgie. Then the
young girl invested the Queen with virtues she
did not possess ; she admired her chivalric
courage, her skill in managing the Court ; her
beauty, her wit, and all her grace, made an
indelible impression on a young heart alive
to kindness and sensibility, fond of all that was
graceful and beautiful in nature.
When Clementina returned, all equipped
for her walk, the Queen-Mother had finished
her epistle. " Come here," said she to the
young girl ; " ah, thou hast the never-dying
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 85
vanity of thy sex ; see how dexterously every
ringlet is disposed so as to heighten thy beauty.
Not so, not so ; there, now I have coifed thee ;
'tis well enough for this occasion ; draw down
thy veil, and should any chevalier from the regi
ment look at thee too boldly, heed him not,
but go thy way. Now seek Loretta, and place
the answer to my note under my pillow ; this
calming potion will make me sleep, and thou
need'st not wake me on thy return."
Clementina sought Loretta, and as she ap
proached her room, she heard the maid solilo
quizing, thus :—" I was not born to wait upon
the Astrologer's daughter, and will keep her
waiting my pleasure, ere I go out at night to
accompany her."
Clementina blushed with anger, and the
wounded pride of an only child, brought up in
the pomp of Italian luxury, caused her voice
to tremble, as she exclaimed, " Loretta, make
all speed ; I am waiting."
" The moon shines brightly, and a few
86 the astrologer's daughter.
minutes can make no difference," said Loretta,
sullenly.
" It makes much difference, when I would
speed me to serve her Majesty," continued
the young girl ; " and if thou wilt not make
haste, I will hie me away by myself."
Loretta concealed a faint laugh.
" I hear thee laugh," cried the young Italian
beauty; " well, nowl go, and thou shalt answer
to the Queen for this."
Before Loretta had time to reply, Clemen
tina was already in the open air ; and her light
footsteps trod the crisp and frosty ground.
The young girl had not one care to vex her
heart; she had lost her mother, before reason
had dawned to make her feel her bereavement ;
love had not tormented her with its delusive
hope and keen despair ; coldness had not
reached her. Her darling wish was gratified ;
she had entered the world all bright and blithe
and trusting ; no wonder, then, she tripped so
lightly, and felt no fear at finding herself alone
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 87
in the moonlight, for she knew not what alarm
could assail her. Presently, she heard footsteps
behind her, and looking up, she saw a young
man advancing rapidly towards her.
" 'Tis not a very proper hour for a young
maiden to be abroad," exclaimed the chevalier,
in a kind, rather than curious tone of voice ;
" are you compelled to go out so late, or are
you enjoying the quiet hour when human
beings generally court in-doors recreation ?"
" You are very curious, methinks," said the
young maiden, endeavouring to conceal her
alarm under feigned lightness ; " what, if I
answer not your questions, but bid you go on
your way, and leave me alone."
" Then I must obey you," replied the che
valier, gallantly: "for woman's voice is law,
more particularly when the words are so arbi
trarily uttered ; yet pardon me, if I say you
are too young, to walk thus unattended."
" And why so ? youth be then be my pro
tection ;" so saying, the maiden rushed past the
88 the astrologer's daughter.
chevalier, turned into an alley, and was soon
out of sight.
The chevalier was taken by surprise : at
first he merely laughed at the end of his night's
gallantry ; but presently, the image of that fair
young face, the recollection of the graceful
form, flashed before his memory; and he
turned down the same road the maiden had
taken, hoping to be able to trace her footsteps, .
and ascertain the cause of her lonely wandering.
Meanwhile, poor Clementina had met with
another, and a far worse adventure ; she en
countered an elderly gentleman, who was en
veloped in a large military cloak.
" Qui vive !" he exclaimed, as Clementina
was passing a gate.
'' Seulemont une jeune demoiselle!" replied
the maiden, with simplicity.
" Ha ! ha ! ha ! " cried the Duc de Guise, for it
was him; (<ha!ha!ha! let me see if it be true."
He advanced towards Clementina, and drew
aside her veil. The moon shone brightly upon
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 89
her fair and pale face ; and the curls which the
Queen-Mother had brushed aside, now fell
back in their place, and crowded round her
brow.
" Ah ! there is the object of thy nightly ex
cursion," exclaimed the Duke, endeavouring
to take possession of a note, which Clementina
held in her clasped hand.
" Give me thy billet-doux, pretty maiden."
" Ah, no, no," exclaimed Clementina, in a
voice of agony ; " anything, rather than that ;
the note is not mine — nay, you shall not
have it!" The Duke endeavoured to take it
by force, for his suspicions were awakened;
the poor girl resisted as long as she was able ;
then fell to the ground, uttering a loud and
piercing cry. Suddenly she felt herself lifted
up with care, and looking up, she saw the
young chevalier, who had met her at the be
ginning of her expedition. There was some
thing reassuring in the kindly expression with
which he regarded her, and forgetting all
90 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
timidity, all, save the fright and agony of the
moment, she clung to him, exclaiming, " Oh !
protect me, protect me. I have been insulted,
and, oh God, what will become of me ? I have
lost my billet."
"Was it then of such importance," exclaimed
the chevalier, struck with pity at the maiden's
unfeigned distress.
" Oh, yes," continued Clementina, her brain
reeling with terror— "it was from the Queen-
Mother of France, to my father."
" Good heavens !" exclaimed the chevalier,
" and it has fallen into the hands of the Due de
Guise ; poor maiden ! thou hast but one fate
—thou must fly."
" Never, oh never," exclaimed Clementina,
the colour for a moment returning to her brow ;
" oh, never ; I will fall at Catherine's feet—I
will tell her my adventure. See ! see ! here is
the attendant the Queen intended should ac
company me."
" Oh, forgive me, forgive me," exclaimed
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER 91
Loretta, in breathless haste. "Why did you
turn from the straight path ? I should have
found you long, ere this. Good heavens ! how
pale you are ; has any one insulted you ? Who
is this chevalier ?
"Patience, Loretta," replied the poor girl,
with a sickly smile ; " I cannot answer all your
questions at once."
Then she related, in a tremulous whisper,
her sad and dismal adventure, with all its prog
nostic fears.
When she finished speaking, Loretta turned
as pale as the speaker herself, and leaned
against the rails for support. At length she
said, in a trembling voice :—
"Was the letter addressed to the Maestro ?"
" There was no direction at all."
" And was it signed ?"
" Do you suppose I opened it to look ?" ex
claimed Clementina, indignantly.
" Well, pardon me, lady, I hardly know
what I say," replied poor Loretta; but she
92 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
added, after a pause, " I do not believe the
Queen would sign her note ; and you say it
was not directed ? On, on, then, to Signor Pet-
tura ; on, on, with all speed, and he will find
some means of assisting you."
" Forgive my listening to your conversation,"
said the chevalier, advancing towards Clemen
tina, and kindly taking her hand.
" Do not apologize ; I have much to thank
you for," replied the young girl, returning the
kindly pressure.
" Oh, no, no, no ; I frightened you at first,"
cried the young man, " and you turned in a
lonely alley, and encountered your sad adven
ture ; but if such a thing is to be had as ven
geance, you shall receive it in part now, and
you shall hear again of Poltrot de Mere."
" He will overtake the Duke yet," exclaimed
Loretta, as she watched the chevalier's receding
form. " Poltrot de M£r£ ! I know the name
well; his sister used to be much about the
Court, but she is a zealous Huguenot, and her
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 93
brother has sent her to England ; he is a hand
some and noble chevalier, and now we will
hope, and continue our way."
But, alas ! the words had hardly passed the
Italian girl's Hps, when a body of armed sol
diers advanced, and presently the Duke of
Guise rode up to the party, and exclaimed—
" These are your prisoners."
Resistance was very vain ; the fair Clemen
tina was placed on a horse, and the Duke rode
by her side, whilst Loretta followed amidst the
soldiery. Once or twice she cast her furtive
glance down the silent streets, intending to call
for assistance, but it was nearly midnight ; all
was as silent as the grave, and the sound of the
horses' hoofs alone disturbed the unbroken si
lence which reigned through the whole party,
as they rapidly left Paris and approached the
suburbs, where the Duke alighted before a spa
cious house, surrounded by military men ; and
gallantly assisting Clementina to alight, he held
out his arm to assist her up the steps of the
mansion.
94 the astrologer's daughter.
Clementina refused to lean upon him, al
though her trembling steps faltered, and she
was unable to decline his offer save by an in
clination of the head.
" I will not harm you," whispered the Duke ;
" answer me only a few questions, and you shall
return unmolested to the French Court."
" I will never betray a secret," replied Cle
mentina ; " but, fortunately, I know none. You
have taken away my note, and that alone can
speak what I truly know not."
" But that dark-eyed attendant knows more,"
said the Duke, and they had now reached a very
beautiful apartment. Loretta sprang forward,
and assisted poor Clementina to undraw her
cloak, for she had fallen on a sofa in a death
like swoon.
*
CHAPTER VI.
The astonishment and consternation which
seized the Queen-Mother when her emissaries
did not return, may be better imagined than
described. She would not allow herself to
believe any danger or harm had overtaken her
pretty prottgie and her faithful Loretta ; but
she could not, on the other hand, credit the
thought, that they had intentionally lingered.
The irritability of her nerves increasing the
pain she experienced from her sprain, brought
on a severe fever ; bulletins were issued, and
the Queen-Mother was declared to be in a pre-
96 the astrologer's daughter.
carious state of health. At length, the skill of
her physicians triumphed over her illness, and
Catherine was enabled to rise from her couch
and retire to an adjacent room ; here, she was
informed by one of her pages, that a gentleman
wished to speak to her.
Catherine breathed a prayer that the person
might be a messenger, bringing some tidings of
poor Clementina, and gave her ready consent
to receive her guest.
" Monsieur de M£r£ ," cried the servant-in-
waiting, throwing wide the door; and the
Queen-Mother cast a scrutinizing glance on the
young man.
Poltrot de M£r£ had a most winning appear
ance; his figure was tall and commanding, and
although very slightly moulded, the fine pro
portion of every limb indicated a power of
muscle which could not be mistaken. His
complexion would have been too fair for mascu
line beauty, were it not relieved by a pair of
dark-hazel eyes, and a profusion of clustering
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 97
brown hair, which curled naturally around a
high brow, on which sat more thought than is
usually seen on youth. Bending gracefully to
the Queen, Poltrot expressed his sorrow for
her illness, and his unwillingness to intrude,
were not his visit of consequence. Catherine
ordered her attendants to retire, and asked
abruptly if he had any news of her absent
maidens ? Then Poltrot de Mere related his
adventure with the fair Clementina ; he blamed
himself much, for having accosted her, and
declared his willingness to atone even with his
life for giving her uneasiness. He added, that
a presentiment of evil had led him to seek Pet-
tura, when, to his consternation, he found the
young girl had not been seen by her father.
The father's deep and unfeigned sorrow ; his
repentance, at allowing his lovely child to leave
his roof, all had pierced Poltrot to the heart ;
and the agitated father ended by declaring,
that should Poltrot deliver her from the Guises,
in whose hands she had no doubt fallen, then
vol. I. f
98 the astrologer's daughter. -
he should receive her hand in marriage.
" Now," continued the young man, with a
flushed cheek, and daring look of courage,
" now will I deliver the maiden, even should
my hand seek the Duke's life."
The Queen-Mother waited patiently the de
nouement of his speech, and looked up when
he had finished, with the undisturbed expres
sion of a person who had foreseen the conclu
sion of the sentence, before the speaker had
ended ; dissimulation, however, was so inhe
rently linked in the Queen-Mother's disposition,
that she merely added in a calm voice, " And
pray, young man, why seek you me, to talk
of your future plans of revenge ?"
Poltrot de M£riS raised his large eyes to the
Queen-Mother's face ; and a blush overspread
her features, as he said, as calmly as the ques
tion was asked—
" I sought your Majesty because your note
has fallen into the hands of the Duke of Guise,
and because he is your mortal enemy."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 99
" True, true ; now we understand each
other," said the Queen-Mother, feeling Pol-
trot would not be trifled with ; " yet use not
my name—do else as you list ; where go you
now?"
" I will go seek an interview with the
Duke," said Poltrot ; " he owes me some gra
titude, and will not harm me ; but for my
assistance, he would have perished at the
massacre of Vassi. My arm raised him from
the blood-stained ground. But I have sworn
to be a true knight, and rescue those who are
in distress; and the lovely Clementina shall not
be detained, if I can help it."
The young man did not wait for an answer—
but Catherine's dark eyes spoke volumes ; they
told her secret pleasure, at finding an agent
ripe for revenge ; they told more than I care
to express ; and not one word to check erring
youth in its headlong career of unreined pas
sion passed the Queen-Mother's lips, as she
saluted Poltrot, when he took his leave.
f 2
100 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
The Queen-Mother's health now quickly
amended, and she was preparing herself to seek
Pettura, when a messenger arrived in breathless
haste, and brought the news of the sudden
attack upon Rouen. No time was to be lost ;
the Queen-Mother did not choose that the
League should fancy they were fighting at
random to avenge political quarrels ; she there
fore determined to take the King of France
to the scene of action, in order to inspire the
besieged with new courage, and to remind
them, that it was to assert the independence of
the King, to deliver him from the triumvirate,
that they were fighting.
The Queen-Mother's plan answered her
most sanguine expectations. The besieged de
fended themselves with the greatest ardour and
courage ; and even women assisted by every
means in their power. But very dreadful were
the scenes of murder which took place at a siege
where political fury and revenge filled every
heart—where bigotry on one side, and retali
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 101
ation for wrongs received on the other, nerved
the hand with a dire wish for vengeance, and
steeled the heart against remorse. The Presi
dent of Bosc, a very illustrious man, was mur
dered, together with a minister, and several
gentlemen. On the other hand, the Prince of
Cond£ massacred a clerk of the Council and an
abbot !
France was now the scene of domestic horrors
ofall kinds : alas ! for the dreadful ravages ofcivil
war ! Strangers took advantage of the troublous
times, and German troops poured into the king
dom. The armies came to an engagement at
Dreux, and met in combat with all the ferocious
feeling which characterises a civil war. Per
sons of the highest rank perished; amongst
others, Marshal Saint -Andr£, and the head of
the triumvirate, the King of Narvarre.
The Duke of Guise, nothing daunted, deter
mined to pursue the advantages he had reaped
in the conflict, and after the battle of Dreux he
marched to the siege of Orleans. Here, how
102 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
ever, Fate had a sad destiny in store for a great
warrior, a keen politician, but a most ambitious
man !
The battle of Dreux left a pause whilst the
siege of Orleans was planning, and the Duke
had now a short leisure.
One morning, he entered a large house in the
suburbs of Orleans, and appeared before poor
Clementina, who had been compelled to follow
the Duke's army. Loretta had been sent back
to her Royal mistress, although she generously
offered to remain with the Astrologer's daughter ;
for she considered her pertness had caused her
misfortunes.
" Go, go I" cried Clementina, " the Queen is
accustomed to your services ! Go, and leave
me here ; fear not, they will not harm me."
Loretta, who was now as warm in her de
votion as she had before been cold, would still
have resisted, but the Duke left her no choice ;
perhaps he had reasons for wishing her away,
for Loretta was keen and observing. Perhaps
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 108
he really did it out of courtesy to his Royal
mistress ; but, be this as it may, she returned to
tell her disasters, and to listen to Catherine's
angry remonstrances, whilst anger was now too
late.
" So you really will not tell me, when the
Queen meditated my death, and who were your
accomplices," said the Duke to Clementina;
" now I will relate to you an anecdote, and you
can inform me if the party was instigated by
the Queen.
"A young man was pointed out to me
at the siege of Rouen, as an instrument in
the hands of the Protestants, ready to assassi
nate me. I sent for him, and asked him why
he sought my death.
" ' I wish to revenge the wrongs offered to
my religion,' he replied, fand you are its
greatest enemy.'*
" I answered him : ' If your religion teaches
you to murder me, mine tells me to forgive.
* This is an historical fact.
104 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
Go now, and see whose religion is the most effi
cacious.' "
" But what have I to do with this, my
Lord?"
" You can say whether it is the Queen-
Mother who instigated the man. But stay; you
say you do not even know the contents of the
note I took from you. Will you swear it before
God and the Holy Virgin?"
Clementina took the oath with fervour ; and
the Duke, looking at her young countenance,
and the expression of truth sparkling in her
upraised eyes, felt ashamed at having caused
those beautiful lips to take an oath.
The Duke now placed the Queen-Mother's
note before her, and she read as follows :—
"Your picture of 1572 is ever before me.
Before that period arrives, however, the Roman
Catholic party must unite their forces ; no mas
sacres in provinces—no private murders—but
the stroke. My enemies are now distraught,
and I see but one road ; help me to rid me of
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 105
that powerful branch my own foolish indulgence
rescued from prison : one blow, and he who
strikes it shall have his reward !"
The young girl read the note rapidly to the
end ; but she was totally unable to understand
its meaning.
" The Queen does not talk of you, my Lord,"
she said, artlessly.
"No !" exclaimed the Duke, satirically, "it
is very well to feign ignorance ! you have been
at Court for a month—but were it only for a
day, you could not have touched the hem of
the Queen-Mother's robe without imbibing a
portion of her keen dissembling, and very
prettily you do your part. Howbeit, you re
main here, and are my prisoner, unless your fa
ther takes your place. He is your ransom—no
gold, no riches so valuable to me ! He has the
key to the Medicis' heart, and I will break the
lock by force, if the key will not unlock it!"
" Indeed, indeed, it is very cruel of you to
use me thus," cried poor Clementina ; " oh ! pray
f 3
106 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
believe me when I say I knew not what I was
carrying to my father. I have never uttered a
falsehood, and will not do it now ; you will al
low me to return to the Queen? I am very
much attached to her."
"How very strange, that youth, frankness,
and virtue, should cling to art, deceit, and
fraud," muttered the Duke, in a scarcely audi
ble voice ; " thus, little rivulets flow on for a
while, and then eddying fall into the river,
where they are lost amidst the more powerful
current. Young girl, it is working a high and
holy deed to keep you away from that den of
wickedness the Court, where a M£dicis sways.
Did you but know half of her deeds, how many
of my family have been sacrificed to her re
venge—did you know that her hand clasps in
a suffocating pressure, that her smile is con
cealed poison, her wit and beauty, pointed
daggers—arrows concealed in golden quivers
—would you still love the Medicis ?"
"Oh! no, no!" exclaimed Clementina, with
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 107
her usual candour ; " but tell me not what my
heart refuses to believe ; let my soul live in the
contemplation of virtue, and let the knowledge
of vice spread elsewhere her nets."
" Mine are no delusive stories, young lady !"
persisted the Duke. " No ! I will not shock
you by any painful recitals ; but my death alone
shall place you again in that Queen's power.
Heaven bids me protect the innocent ; you are
too fair, too young, too guileless to be the dupe
of a wicked and artful woman, who has already
employed you to carry her cursed plots to those
who abet her."
The Duke had worked himself to a towering
passion ; and he left Clementina to her own
reflections, whilst he himself sought the re
tirement of his chamber, and there gave vent
to his anger in loud expressions against the
Medicis. Ever alive to the power of beauty,
he was unwilling that so young and so guile
less a being as Clementina should be trained
in a school of deceit; and making a sacrifice
108 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
of his own wish of having Pettura in his
power, he determined not to offer the father
the means of saving his daughter ; but resolved
to keep her in view. Still, her look of sorrow
recurred to his mind—still, the earnest voice
in which she sued for liberty ; and the Duke
henceforth determined to train her young mind
to new happiness — to reconcile her to her
absence from Court, by surrounding her with
every luxury—by making her as free as her
safety allowed it—by showing her life in all its
splendour, and herself the brightest star of his
military circle.
Clementina most unsuspectingly fell into the
new and agreeable life marked out for her.
Will any wonder at it ? will any wonder that
youth sucks with delight the nectar from the
honied flowers ? and even when a noxious taste
sometimes is felt, still, still youth flutters on
gaily, and sips deeper into the chalice of de
light, until no more sweets can be extracted.
Amongst the valiant chevaliers who composed
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 109
the suite of the Duc de Guise, and shared the
splendour and amusements of his camp, none
was more assiduous in his endeavours to cap
tivate the Astrologer's lovely daughter than
Henri, the Duke's eldest son. He cantered by
her side, when she sat on her jennet ; he sympa
thized with her when she was dull; he laughed
with her in her hours of mirth, until he in
curred his father's displeasure, by falling
deeply in love with the young girl. Light-
hearted and gay as the young chevalier was,
he dare not make light professions to Clemen
tina. A soft dignity sat on her beautiful brow ;
a look of virtue, meekness, but determination,
was engraven in the expression of her face,
and the bearing of her figure. What then could
the Duke do ? He reasoned with his son ; the
pride of a long race of Guises lent power to
his voice, and warmth to his discourse ; he re
monstrated, he pleaded, and then he felt that
he must come to the determination of sending
away Clementina, for never could he submit
110 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
to unite his eldest son with the Astrologer's
daughter.
Thus through life, our plans are defeated,
and how often by the very means we take to
cement them more strongly. What ramparts
are powerful enough to shut out pride? and
what pride is more strongly depicted in history,
than the hauteur of the Guises and Medicis' ?
CHAPTER VII.
Jeanne d'Albert, Queen of Navarre, was
plunged into the deepest sorrow by the loss of
the King. He had been an affectionate and
loyal husband ; he had allowed his Queen to
follow her Protestant faith, and had even
turned away his eyes when she instructed the
young Prince de Bearn in her own tenets, pre
tending not to observe that which policy would
have forbidden him to permit. Poltrot de
Mer£ was one of the chevaliers who composed
her retinue, and as soon as he could obtain
access to her, he told the Queen Clementina's
112 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
strange history—how he feared the M£dicis'
love would turn into hate, when the young
girl should return to her presence—how the
maiden was alone amidst the gay persons com
posing the camp of the Guises—how much need
there was for a benevolent female hand to be
stretched forth to shield, to protect, to guide
her young steps.
Poltrot left the Queen of Navarre with her
promise of protecting the Astrologer's daughter
whenever Poltrot could find means of bringing
her to her Court. He was preparing to leave
the palace, when he was stopped by the Ad
miral Coligny.
"Where go you now?" said the venerable
old gentleman.
" To the rescue of beauty ! " cried the young
man gaily.
" Then, shame on your trifling, passe temps;
these troublous days are not the days of ro
mance," was the grave rebuke of the old war
rior.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 113
"You had better talk to those who like to
listen to you," cried Poltrot, whose hasty tem
per was beginning to burn.
" Be not insolent ! " said the Admiral, " or
thy shoulders shall feel the weight of my sword
hilt."
" Your sword hilt," cried Poltrot, drawing
his sword from its sheath ; " talk not of hilts,
but of blades; mine will measure yours any
day. Draw now, or my vengeance shall follow
you!"
" Your vengeance, fair-haired boy," cried
Coligny, indignantly ; " go, go, and pass thy
hours as thou wilt, but fie on thee to run
after the Astrologer's daughter—a heretic, and
a Medicis' friend. Go, treacherous boy ! I
spurn thee ! " So saying, the Admiral turned
on his heels, and closed the door after him,
leaving Poltrot distraught with vengeance,
anger, and passion.
Coligny had caught the fire of the times ; he
angered at the idea of the Queen of Navarre
114 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
receiving, and having near her person, a young
girl, not only a Roman Catholic, but also the
daughter of a man, whose dark counsels had so
often caused Catherine to dip her hand in inno
cent blood. Coligny knew not the haughty
spirit, the deep and lasting love, or the burning
hate, which subsisted in the heart of Poltrot ;
he whom he had scoffingly termed the " fair-
haired boy." And the sequel will show that
Poltrot would have done better, had he reined
in his temper.
Meanwhile, the Duke of Guise had found a
pretext for sending away his son with a detach
ment of cavalry, and his plans with regard to
Clementina's future fate were not yet matured.
He was more and more struck with her beauty,
her grace, and modesty, but his pride refused
to allow him to contemplate her union with
his son. How much anxiety he would have
spared himself had he known that the Astrolo
ger's daughter had an insurmountable dislike
to his son, perhaps without much real founda
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 115
tion at first, but deeply-rooted when Henri of
Guise, finding his father implacable in his re
fusal to his marriage, made proposals to the
young girl, from which her heart turned away
with horror.
" No, no," she cried with warmth ; " I am
not high-born enough to be your wife, and no
other tie is high enough for my pride."
To love for the first time, deeply, strongly,
how naturally that lore should flow; how it
speaks in a look, trembles in a sigh, talks when
no words are uttered. This love, Clementina
had never felt for Henri of Guise, and she
spared no pains in telling it him.
" I cannot live without you," persisted her
passionate admirer; "life has not one charm
equal to that of loving you. You have twined
yourself around my heart as the ivy twines
around the stem of a strong tree ; to protect, to
shield, to love, to adore you, is all my hope.
Oh ! turn not away."
" Once for ever, you have my answer," ex
116 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
claimed Clementina ; " bring not the passionate
language of love to your aid—it will be of no
avail ; I seek no high rank. Oh ! silly girl that
I was, to wish to see the world; but having
embarked in it, I will not cast my heart to the
wide wreck of misery ; and even as your wife,
as one high in station, higher in riches, my soul
would be in misery, for I do not "
" Do not say you do not love me," inter
rupted the young Prince, throwing himselfather
feet ; " you must not, you shall not say it ; you
are dearer to me than hope ; you are dearer to
me than life. I cannot exist without you, and I
rise not without a word which can waft my
heart in a dream—even a remote dream of hap
piness !"
" Nay, rise from your knees, Prince ; or see
me fall at yours, and conjure you to leave me in
peace. Would you place me at the mercy of
the vengeance of your haughty family ? Would
you wish me to give my heart, whilst that heart,
proud as your own, refused to believe it was
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 117
raised by becoming the prize of one higher than
itself There is a pride in imagination, Prince,
and I have it. There is a pride in education,
and I feel it. There is a pride in youth, in
health, in all that is glowing, and not my lot
shall it be to send my inherent pride to be
crushed by the Guises."
" It shall never be crushed, beautiful Clemen
tina," said the Prince, still kneeling at her feet,
-with her hands clasped in his, whilst his manly
and beautifully cast features were glowing with
ardour ; " it shall never be crushed. Your
pride shall nurture mine ; together we will
fleet our days—you shall be my adored, my be
loved, and no law shall attain us—no separation
tear us asunder. My father's pride shall not
waft by us, if, if—I will say it though you crush
me with yourscorn—if you have courage enough
to fly with me, and be my care, my love, my
adoration, without those ties which my father
can annul?"
" Enough ! enough," exclaimed Clementina,
118 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
bursting into tears ; " this is more misery than
I have hitherto felt ! Courage do you call it, to
break every good and holy bond; to live in
vice, in misery ; to bow my pride to follow you ;
to sacrifice every virtue at the shrine of unlaw
ful love ! Shame on you ! I have seen nothing
of this vast whirlpool you call life, but quite
enough to turn from you with hatred and dis
gust ; and bid you take your immoral vows of
love elsewhere. Let my parting words sound
in your ears, for I will tolerate no more your
discourse; ' I am not high-born enough to be
your wife, and no other tie is high enough for
my pride, ' the just pride of a virtuous heart."
A few days after this conversation, Henri
of Guise, more ambitious, more madly fond
than ever, placed himself at the head of his
detachment; whilst Clementina, wounded in
heart, harassed with newly-awakened fears,
vainly endeavoured to still the voice which bid
her confess, " life was not all fair." Having
given her parole not to escape, or even write
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 119
to the Court of France, the young girl was al
lowed to range freely; her steps were not so
buoyant as when she trod the salons of a palace;
her eyes were more frequently cast on the
ground, and she was enjoying a meditative
ramble, when she heard her name pronounced,
and looking up, she beheld Poltrot de M£re\
He placed his finger cautiously on his lips, and
dashed into a thicket, whither Clementina fol
lowed him, feeling assured he did not come
like the Prince to speak of rash love ; but she
traced his footsteps with a trusting heart, and
a fearless determination of knowing herself
safe.
" I have never lost sight of you, since your
captivity," said Poltrot, advancing towards
Clementina before she had reached him. " I
promised you should hear of me again, and
now I come to deliver you from the power of
the Guises. Will you trust yourself to me?"
" I have given my parole not to escape,"
replied Clementina, blushing ; " and the Duke
120 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
has been tolerably kind to me ; therefore I
cannot deceive him."
" Kind to you ! " exclaimed Poltrot ; " there
are virtues which go too far, and your forgive
ness, in this instance, oversteps the latitude of
human virtue. Kindness ! what for insulting
you ! for taking away the Queen's note—for
detaining you here —for leaving you amidst
gay and licentious chevaliers—for—"
" Enough," cried Clementina, as the recol
lection of Henri of Guise fleeted before her
mind ; " I believe I may break my promise,
for indeed I am not safe here." Poor Clemen
tina's heart was weighed down, and she burst
into tears.
"Can it be true?" cried Poltrot, seizing
her hand, and drawing it gently away from her
face ; " have they been mean enough to insult
you ? if they have—"
" Oh ! no, no," exclaimed Clementina,
shuddering at the sinister expression of Poltrot's
face, speaking quickly, and with much con
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 121
fusion ; " no, he did no more than perhaps
others would have done : he thought me not
high enough for his wife, and I feel sad at—
but I will go back to Catherine, chevalier, for
you will never deceive me ?"
Poltrot, however, did not answer ; his hand
involuntarily clutched the handle of his sword;
he fancied Clementina had spoken of the
Duke, and he muttered between his closed
teeth, " the villain—the perfidious, wicked-
hearted old villain."
" "Will you not take me back to the Queen-
Mother ? " said the young girl.
" No, never," cried Poltrot ; " you know not
Catherine de Medicis ; even now, she is plot
ting some plan to unite herself in pretended
friendship with the Guises, and she would let
them form some scheme to take you again, ere
she would allow anything to stand between her
political reconciliation. I will take you hence,
sweet one ; but it shall be to the Queen of
Navarre—to the mild Jeanne d'Albert."
VOL. I. G
\22 the astrologer's daughter.
" Ah, but she is a Protestant, and will not
love me."
" She will, she will," said Poltrot ; " she
loves all mankind—more particularly those in
trouble ; beware only of the Admiral Coligny."
" Enemies everywhere," said Clementina,
sadly ; " whilst I, a harmless girl, know not
the very meaning of the word. I would fain
hie me back to my solitude."
" It is not fit for you to be there," replied
Poltrot. " The Queen-Mother has been obliged
to place armed men to protect your father ;
and it is rumoured that he is going to leave his
house, and come near the Queen, who is having
solitary apartments fitted up for him in the
palace—clever will be the person who finds
access to his chambers, when a M£dicis guards
them."
" It must then be as you say," replied Cle
mentina. " I am as a forest deer, driven from
tree to tree ; but how shall I ever be able to
express one half of the gratitude which swells
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 123
my heart towards you, for so disinterestmgly
following my footsteps, and harbouring me safe
from the pursuit of the huntsmen."
" Say not I am disinterested," said Poltrot,
" or you know not the reward promised to me.
Your father has—you blush, fair one, but
you do not look disconcerted — your father
has promised me your hand. I will, if possible,
win your heart."
Clementina did not withdraw her hand from
Poltrot: a warm glow covered her face, but
love and pleasure sat on her eye. Poltrot drew
her nearer to him, and kissed her beautiful
brow ; it was the first kiss of love. It was
early spring ; the birds around were chanting
a gay chorus ; the flowers, the wild thyme, and
forget-me-not, were growing around them ;
and there, in the picturesque thicket, under
the foliage of the trees, under the expanse of
the ethereal sky, Clementina listened to pure
love, which told its tale, but brought not the
blush of shame to her young brow.
g 2
124 the astrologer's daughter.
Long would the happy lovers have lingered,
unheedful of the present—fearless of the fu
ture ; but the imminent danger in •which Cle
mentina stood, if any one should surprise her,
recalled Poltrot's ideas to the business of the
day.
" I will be ready with horses, at the end of
the thicket; be sure to come here to-morrow
night, and once we have passed the barriers,
the Queen of Navarre's troops will escort us.
Now, farewell ; our next meeting will be under
happier auspices. God bless and defend you."
" Farewell !" cried Clementina ; and a pre
sentiment of coming evil caused her to turn
back, and say again, with tender pathos—
" farewell ! farewell !"
Farewell! a word, which absence echoes,
and Time laughs at, with rudest laugh. Fare
well ! which sorrow fosters ; and tears feed with
nourishing fare. Farewell! the knell of de
parted happiness—the parting salute of death :
sad, sad, farewell !
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 125
Was it the gloom of the cloudy atmosphere,
presaging a storm?—was it the discordant
croaking of the rooks ?—was it the recollection
that she was not yet free, which caused the
tears to course each other down Clementina's
cheeks ? Since a short period, she had grown
a year in experience ; she had listened twice to
the language of love ; she had seen it all, dar
ing ; she had seen it all, hoping ; and now she
herself had enlisted under Cupid's banner.
This, then, was that love at first sight, which
we hear of ; this the spontaneous love which fills
the young heart, and is so seldom seen, because
our cold generation cannot comprehend it. Go
thou to thy slumbers, Clementina, and in thy
rest, the cherub-god waft thee in his gentle
embraces, and softly breathe in thy slumbering
ears his never-failing tale—his too-delusive
language a"amour!
CHAPTEK VIII.
The Duke of Guise was a ban vivant, and his
spirits were generally in the highest state of
excitement when he returned from partaking
of the good cheer of some of his brother offi
cers. The next day passed, and the Duke
returned from a carouse, about five o'clock in
the afternoon—for in those days men did not
dine when it is nearly time to go to bed. The
Duke's faithful horse seemed accustomed to
his master's moods, and proceeded cautiously
across roads which, in our modern days, would
be pronounced perfectly intolerable. Poltrot
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 127
de Mere had been sauntering about the whole
day, his mind wholly centred on the approach
ing flight of that young girl, who had so unex
pectedly taken possession of his warmest affec
tions. Alas, for the mutability of all earthly
bliss ! alas, for the fiery passions of our youth,
which eddy on like the clouds driven by the
fury of the tempest ! Poltrot de Mere, generous
but erring one, Crime is writing thy name in
her darkly-written book ; History has taken
up the tale, and it has descended to posterity.
There were hosts of murderers in those days of
fanatical barbarism ; Elegance reigned at Court ;
Beauty swayed the kingdom ; but hideous Vice
had set its stamp on Mortality ; evil passions
roamed like coursers, without bridle or bit;
Wickedness reigned in the palace, the hall, the
camp ; a word and a blow, the steel or poison
—these were the horrible remedies in full force.
The heart truly turns cold in perusing the his
tory of that dark age ; truly it recoils when it
must believe all is true. We fain would read
128 the astrologer's daughter.
each dark occurrence, and believe it is a nursery-
legend, to inculcate a useful lesson ; but alas,
alas for human nature ! it is all too true."
The Duke of Guise was much excited when
his quick eye caught sight of Poltrot de M£re,
who stood still, whilst the Duke surveyed him
with more hauteur than recognition.
" Take off your hat, young man," he said ;
" I am the Duke of Guise."
But Poltrot only smiled a bitter smile of
hatred ; for he would not bow to the being he
believed had dealt treacherously towards Cle
mentina ; nor would he turn from his path, but
met the Duke's almost insupportably proud
look with one equally proud, and far more col
lected.
" Perhaps your Grace does not recognise Pol
trot de MereY' he said ; " if so, you would be
forced to acknowledge that gratitude alone
should cause you to treat with becoming cour
tesy one who preserved your life."
" It is your duty, stripling, to bow to the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 129
Duke of Guise," said the unfortunate nobleman,
totally unable to recognise Poltrot.
" This is too much," cried the chevalier, not
perceiving that the Duke's orgies had excited
him, but so blinded by his rising passion as to
see only the afiront ; " this is part of your un
generous, unthankful disposition ; part of your
treachery, like the deceit you have used towards
the young Clementina."
" How dare you speak of her ?" cried the
Duke; "a lovely and sweet lass—my captive
queen—the pearl of my camp—my captive sul
tana; she is mine—she is mine."
" You He," exclaimed Poltrot ; " she is none
of yours ; she is pure and bright as that blue
sky over our heads ; she is my adored, my sweet,
my affianced bride."
"She is mine! my captive! mine, mine,
mine !"
Here the Duke reeled, and fell fromhis horse,
still echoing "mine !"
" Die, wretch ! die," exclaimed Poltrot,
G S
130 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
piercing him -with his sword ; " die wretch ! and
go tell thy sins and thy punishment to the
demoniac spirits who have lent their spells to
thy life of sins."
One deep groan, one more hideous blow,
and the spirit of the haughty Duke had fled.
******
Must we now hate PoltrotdeMere? must we
turn away with a shudder ? must my tale weave
its spell to talk of a murderer ? Already the
brand, the Cain-like mark, was set on that lofty
countenance. Already youth's clear brow was
stamped with the hideous mark of sin ; already
the hope of life, the pride of youth, the buoy
ancy of the free spirit had fled, and Poltrot de
MeV£ stood alone, the curse of murderer hang
ing over his destiny. He fled to the thicket, for
he fancied he heard a noise amidst the branches
behind the neighbouring hedge ; and he fan
cied that through the air was wafted the tale of
his dreadful crime. He fled ! the drops of fear
and remorse falling heavily from his clammy
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 131
brow. He rushed into the thicket, where that
very morning he had held converse with an an
gelic being of surpassing loveliness. Should he
ever turn his hollow eye and meet her trusting
gaze ? dare he soil her spotless lips with a kiss ?
Dare he press her dear hand within his—within
a murderer's grasp ? Oh ! horrible, horrible!
The unfortunate youth pressed his hands to his
agonized brow; he buried his face in his burning
palms ; he vainly—oh, how vainly—tried to
think it was all one dark and unsubstantial
dream. Then suddenly rising from the cold
earth, he exclaimed—" It may yet be time to
save him," and rushed in search of his victim.
Alas ! the large sanguine drops marked the
spot with their glaring crime-like hue. No
tears, no sigh, no remorse, no despair could
wipe them from the murder-stained sod. There
they were in conspicuous ugliness ; there they
paved the way to the horrid scene. Poltrot
raised the Duke's head, and he shuddered.
The smiling, triumphant " mine !" appeared yet
132 the astrologer's daughter.
to linger on the distorted lips, and the staring
eyes appeared yet full of life, but the form was
cold and heavy, whilst Poltrot fancied innume
rable spirits were looking at him, and calling
him a murderer !
Oh ! for a human voice to break the silence
around. Oh ! for some sound save the croaking
of the birds of prey who scented the murdered
corpse. Oh ! for a storm in the heavens, which
could boast of equalling the heat and fury of
that unhappy youth. But no ! all, all was still !
The vesper bell sounded on the evening air ;
the evening star burst forth in its purity ; the
moon cast her refulgent rays on the thickly-
covered hedge, and the wild flowers on the
turf; the birds had twittered and twittered their
last lay ; there was calmness in the air, and
sweetness on the earth—but there was dark de
spair and unavailing remorse in the heart of the
unhappy murderer.
Suddenly, Poltrot heard the sound of horses'
hoofs. He tried to flee, to rise ; but no, the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 133
very earth seemed to chain him with bonds
he could not sever. Nearer and nearer the
sounds were heard. More powerful were Pol-
trot's struggles: still, all in vain; cold drops
were on his brow, his hair stood upright on
his head ; his hands convulsively tore up the
green turf, his eyes were horribly fixed on the
corpse, but he could not move. The horse
man stood before him, and although Poltrot
was in a state approaching frenzy, still he re
cognised him ; there was was no mistaking the
floating white hair, the large blue eye, the
calm expression of astonishment, horror, and
contempt: that horseman was the noble and
venerable Coligny!
"I did not do it," exclaimed the agitated
Poltrot, clasping his blood-stained hands. " I
found him here : I did not do it."
" Lie not before God and your conscience,"
coldly replied Coligny, dismounting from his
horse, and throwing his cloak from him, to be
more free. " Let me see. Good heavens ! it
134 the astrologer's daughter.
is the Duke. Oh, Poltrot de M£re, wretched,
unhappy youth ! you have disgraced our Pro
testant cause ; ere another sun gladdens
the earth, all will be confusion, and blood
shed, and murder. Sink to the earth, ay,
lower thyself, sinful, headstrong youth. It is a
fearful crime, the crime of murder.
Coligny approached nearer the murdered
Duke ; he looked with calm sorrow at the
recent wounds ; and he stood, lost in a chaos
of wavering thoughts. Meanwhile, Poltrot de
Mer£ had recovered from the panic which had
seized him. The next step to crime is cunning,
and an anxious wish for personal security.
The murderer recovered ; awoke with newly-
sprung energy to the awful fiat which hung
over him. A desperate determination shook
his frame ; his pallid face recovered its colour,
and his limbs their power. He started up,
threw himself on Coligny's horse, enveloped
himself in his mantle ; and the venerable
admiral recovered from his surprise to find
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 135
himself alone with the murdered Duke—with
one who had been his bitter enemy !
" Ah ! " exclaimed Coligny, " speed on as
thou wilt, unhappy boy, Heaven's vengeance
will reach thee. Oh, death! vast nothingness
of humanity ! heirloom of the great, heirloom of
the poor. No tales can that cold form tell, no
more speak of strife ; no accusation will it bring
against the blood- stained hand ; yet vengeance,
vengeance is near."
" Vengeance," exclaimed a voice, approach
ing the spot ; " ay ! dire, deep, torturing ven
geance. If there be such a word on earth, if
its meaning be known in heaven or hell, ven
geance shalt thou have, my unhappy, mur
dered parent !"
The young Prince Henri de Guise threw
himself on the Duke's cold corpse ; his voice
was choked by his sobs ; but deep in the inmost
recess of his heart he breathed a prayer of
vengeance on his father's murderer ; that mur
derer, he thought, was Coligny.
136 the astrologer's daughter.
Mastering his emotions, he now turned to
him, exclaiming, " Was it to perpetrate this
foul deed, that you have lived on earth until
Time has whitened your locks ? Time did not,
however, impair your strength; look at the
gaping wounds: here, I solemnly swear, by
all I hold dear and honourable, that you shall
grace a gibbet—that you shall be exposed to
all mankind—that the populace shall learn how
a Guise revenges the death of a Guise. This
future retaliation restrains my hand, albeit, it
is so ready to pierce your heart." The Prince
blew a shrill note from a cornet at his belt, and
a troop of body-guards rushed forward at the
sound.
" Seize the Admiral Coligny," exclaimed the
unhappy Prince ; " I am bereaved of a father—
you have lost your Duke."
" Shame ! shame ! " echoed from every
mouth.
" Silence ! " cried Coligny, raising his hand
majestically; " away ! dare ye tie my hands ?
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 137
I adjure Heaven and earth to witness my inno
cence ; and more than that, I know the mur
derer. I came here with intentions, which for
the present I will not divulge ; but I can
clear my innocence. Away with bonds ; I will
accompany you. Give me a horse, the mur
derer has taken mine."
" Silly tales, fit to tell babies and fools,"
exclaimed Henri of Guise ; " tell them to the
wind, not to Christian ears. You are a foul
murderer. A horse ! tie his hands behind him,
and let him walk in the midst of you. Raise
the Duke my father, and come we to the
camp."
*****
*
How tediously long that dreadful day had
appeared to Clementina ; how slowly the hours
fleeted ; how her poor heart throbbed wfth pal
pitating fear and keen hopes ; how new to her
were the dawning symptoms of love—happy,
returned, reciprocal love.
"How very fortunate I am," thought the
138 the astrologer's daughter.
poor, unsuspicious girl; how very different
to the heroines of romance, books delight in
portraying. I saw ; I loved ; I was loved ;
ay, am loved ; and my father gives his consent.
No torturing doubts, no sighing hopes ; Poltrot
is my affianced husband, and I am his betrothed
bride. I feel yet his tender kiss on my brow;
I see yet the quivering emotion of his lips ;
how handsome are his hazle eyes ; how clusters
his rich brown hair : he is all dear, all beauti
ful, all beloved."
In such soft thoughts the day fleeted by, and
Clementina sat by her casement, watching the
crepuscular shades falling gently on the sur
rounding scenery. She saw the tops of the fir-
trees around the thicket, towards whose shades
her longing heart was bounding. At length
the young girl became impatient ; she waited in
vain for the Duke's signal-horn of return to
blow, and until that note was heard, she knew
the gates were closed, far above her power to
draw the bolts. As soon as they were removed,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 139
the Duke always allowed her to take her stroll.
He gave the night's watch-word, and then Cle
mentina determined to escape. Clementina at
last heard the trampling of horses in the court
yard below, and she descended a few steps, for
her heart was ill at ease. Oh, what a sight met
her gaze—the bloody and lifeless form of the
old Duke, carried between his soldiers, and
Henri of Guise, with a countenance nearly as
pale as that of the deceased, with dishevelled
hau- and streaming eyes. Forgetting her wish
to escape, forgetting Poltrot de Mere, forgetting
the insult he had offered to her, Clementina
saw only one dreadful sight—she beheld only
Henri of Guise as a son mourning the loss of a
father, and rushing past the guards, she stood
by his side, and looking at him tenderly, as a
woman can soothe the sorrows of the sterner
sex, she placed her hand on his arm, and ex
claimed : " Prince Henri, be comforted."
The sound of that gentle voice recalled the
140 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
Prince to reason. He endeavoured to speak, but
his voice was choked by his sobs ; he reached
the nearest apartment, and burying his face in
hands, he wept aloud.
Now, Clementina could have escaped; the
guards had forsaken their post ; all the house
hold was in confusion ; the postern-gate was
open, but the young girl did not remember
that she had ever wished to eseape ; her whole
mind was intent on one object—that of con
soling the afflicted Prince. She poured out a
glass of wine from a bottle which stood on the
buffet, and forced him to drink it.
Henri appeared to have forgotten he had ever
addressed her before. " Ah ! why tell me to
console myself?" he exclaimed; ,£ my poor, un
fortunate father, he was hasty and impetuous,
but he loved me well. Dark shall be the pu
nishment of his murderer ! "
" Who murdered him ?" exclaimed Clemen
tina, with newly-awakened fear.
" Coligny," replied Henri, fiercely.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 141
Poor Clementina breathed more freely, for she
had a fluttering fear she could not account for.
" Coligny murdered him," continued the
Prince ; " and oh, how he shall suffer : every
white hair on his head shall number the many
tortures he shall endure and the Prince
clutched convulsively the tassel of his cloak.
Clementina shuddered :—" Prince Henri of
Guise," she said, whilst tears of pity filled her
eyes, " I cannot wonder at your grief: but let
reason again hold her sway. What torturing
punishment can restore your father to life—
Coligny a murderer ! with his soft speech, and
gentle, though warlike manner. I cannot be
lieve it."
" What ! not when I saw him bending over
the murdered corpse—not when I beheld his
hands stained with his blood—my father's
blood ! Ah," cried the Prince, looking at her
stedfastly, " ah, you are Clementina; oh, thanks,
many thanks, for your kindness, angel of good
ness, pattern of forgiveness. With my life
142 the astrologer's daughter.
would I efface the rash words I uttered before
my departure. Will you, can you forgive me?"
"Oh yes, I can forgive," said Clementina,
blushing under his ardent gaze ; " grief is so
sacred, that every personal feeling of pique
bends before it."
" Oh thank you, my lovely Clementina," ex
claimed the Prince, " and if a whole life of
attachment, of fidelity, of "
" You totally mistake me," said Clementina,
much alarmed ; " I can forgive without loving ;
I can pity, whilst no feeling save commiseration
fills my heart. Once more, I cannot be your
wife ; let the image of your dying father stand
between our union."
And at that moment, the young Prince really
imagined he saw his haughty father before him,
with his proud mien and high bearing. He
shuddered, when he recalled the cold remains
of all that was warlike and grand. The pic
ture thus conjured up had its weight, and
not for worlds could he have continued talking
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 148
of love. Rousing himself from his grief, he
pressed Clementina's hand with respect, totally
unmingled with familiarity ; he thanked her
warmly for her sympathy, and wished her a
comfortable rest.
" But," said Clementina, " you do not mean
to detain me any longer ?"
" No ; you shall be free to-morrow. Where
would you turn yourself?"
" To the Queen of Navarre's Court," replied
Clementina, without any hesitation.
" You shall go, escorted by a party of my
own army," said the Prince ; " and when I am
far from you, think of me sometimes ; forget
my past conduct towards you, and let my image
be coupled with that of a broken-hearted, mi
serable being."
" You will be happier, when Time has
healed the severity of your wound," said the
young girl.
The Prince shook his head mournfully, but
a new gush of sorrow prevented his replying.
144 the astrologer's daughter.
Presently, Clementina heard him in the
court-yard ; he gave the watch-word, and then
the young girl remembered that it was time to
escape.
" Yet, why escape 1 had not the Prince
given her his word, that she should leave the
next day? Why not allow him to have the
pleasure of being generous ? BufrPoltrot ! how
uneasy he would be, could she allow him to
believe her wavering and irresolute ; yet, how
unfeeling to wander out when the Duke's
corpse was scarcely cold, and the house re
sounded with melancholy sobs. Clementina
evinced the trust of love, when she ended thus
her soliloquy:—" Poltrot loves me, I love him,
and he can no more doubt my constancy than
I do his. Grief is sacred, love is pleasure, and
pleasure must not reign predominant in the
heart. To-morrow, he will find me near the
sweet Jeanne d'Albret; and long months, ay,
years of bliss, will efface this one night in
which he will feel disappointment."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 145
Excited, grieved, and pitying, the young girl
retired to rest, and awoke the next morning
to the delightful recollection, that she was
going to the Court of Navarre.
VOL. I. H
CHAPTEE IX.
My readers are no doubt curious to know
whither the unhappy Poltrot directed his steps.
He fled on Coligny's horse, with the speed of
one who feels life or death are both hanging on
so slight a thread, that the smallest chance
could render all speed of no avail. On, on, he
went ; the night-breeze fell coldly on his brow,
but quenched not the dreadful fire of his ago
nized heart. At length he paused at an inn,
and gave hasty directions for having his horse
speedily refreshed.
Morning had scarcely dawned, but the in
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 147
habitants of the inn were already alert, for in
those days it was nothing unusual to be woke
at any hour by chevaliers going to and from
the different camps.
Poltrot himself hastened into an upper
room ; there he washed his blood-stained hands,
arranged his dishevelled hair, and surveyed
with much bitterness his deadly-pale com
plexion. Not a thought, save dark despair,
crossed his reeking memory ; he saw Clemen
tina's form before his saddened gaze, not
trusting and loving, but spurning him from
her as a murderer ; but darker than all, was
the venerable figure of Coligny, holding out
his finger, and saying, " Lie not before Heaven
and thy conscience : thou art the murderer."
At length, a desperate wish of exculpating
himself took possession of the young man's
mind ; his face became flushed with a glow of
designing purpose ; he paid the ostler, mounted
again his horse, and sped on with redoubled
haste. At length, he reached the Court, and
h 2
148 the astrologer's daughter.
sought an interview with Catherine de Me-
dicis.
The Queen-Mother of France was not much
pleased with Poltrot ; he had lingered away,
without giving her any information respecting
Clementina; now, however, the young girl
was far from her thoughts as soon as Poltrot
said in a low voice, " The Duke of Guise is
.dead?"
" Rash young man," exclaimed Catherine,
rising from her seat, and recoiling a few steps
from him.
" Stay," cried Poltrot ; " I did not murder
him. The Admiral Coligny took the task I con
templated from my hands; I have not mur
dered him."
Poltrot's voice sank almost to a whisper as
he concluded his falsehood, for the unfortunate
young man was both headstrong and passionate,
but not habitually wicked. His conscience had
been clear of all grave offences, until he stained
it with the late horrible deed, and he dare not
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 149
utter a falsehood without shrinking from the
sound of his own voice.
A cold smile of incredulity passed over Ca
therine's face.
" This is a sad business/' she exclaimed, after
a pause; "and sadder consequences will ensue.
But think not to deceive me, though you deceive
all the world. Come with me ; there is one
here, within the palace, who can give you
counsel, both for the present danger and your
future safety ; be guided by him, but seek not
to deceive him."
Catherine left Poltrot no choice, and he dare
not reply ; she beckoned to him to follow her.
They traversed the suite of private apartments
belonging to the Queen ; she opened a small
door concealed in the tapestry. Poltrot then
stood in a long and lugubre passage, which ap
peared to have no exit on either side, but Ca
therine unfastened a board, which was appa
rently part of the wainscoting. This board with
drawn, the Queen touched a spring, and a door
150 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
flew open. To Poltrot's astonishment, he found
himself in a spacious apartment, filled with
globes, telescopes, crucibles, chymical instru
ments, phrenological heads, and all sorts of in
describable apparatus. Standing over a large
fire, superintendingsome cooking, which emitted
a strong medicinal odour, stood the handsome
Pettura.
Catherine closed the door, after saying im
pressively—
" This young man has murdered the Duke of
Guise. I will return in an hour."
Pettura turned round slowly ; he did not ap
pear in the least astonished, but continued
watching the cooking, until at length he said
to Poltrot—
" Hold that bottle steadily, whilst I pour
this liquid in it."
Poltrot obeyed ; but he had to grasp the
phial with both hands, for he trembled vio
lently.
" To do an evil deed, and to have the courage
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 151
to meet the sequel, are two very different
things, are they not, young man ? " inquired
Pettura.
Poltrot stammered a low " I suppose so !"
" Suppose so," cried the Astrologer; " say
rather, you feel it in every sensitive nerve. Sit
down, and I will reinforce your frame."
" Pettura poured out a glass of wine from a
flask, and threw in a few grains of a dark-
coloured powder."
At first Poltrot hesitated.
"It is not poison," said Pettura. "Why
should I wish to poison you? Drink, drink—
drain the last drop ; and tell me if you do not
feel better."
In a few minutes more, Poltrot really felt a
refreshing feeling through his body ; and un
able to dissimulate with the keen Magician,
he confessed all, and did not omit a single
event which had happened to him since he last
saw Pettura.
" Oh man, rash man ! how he runs headlong
152 the astrologer's daughter.
to his fate. Let it be dark, let it be light, how
he hurries with precipitate steps down the de
clivity of misfortune ; but now, to business,"
said Pettura, speaking as if murder were
amongst one of the casualities of every-day
life. " Let me see ; you have distinctly ac
cused Coligny of the murder."
" Only to the Queen-Mother," said Poltrot.
" But you left him with the corpse."
"I did."
" Then my penetration enables me to see
the consequence," said Pettura. " Now listen
to me : should Coligny suffer for your crime—
should all men deem you innocent, should you
prosper through life, whatever be your fate,
I know you to be a murderer. Recoil not ; you
must learn to be familiar with the word. Now
listen to me : in these days of bloodshed, ven
geance, and political sins of all kind, there are
worse murderers than you, who are living in
apparent innocence ; who are respected, high at
Court, and are apparently happy. What are
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 153
they to me ? Nothing—mere drops in the bosom
of the sea ; but you, you, Poltrot de Mere, are
more to me, for I must ever have an eye upon
your footsteps. You have now the affection of
my child, and she has plighted her faith to you.
Should the earth open to receive its prey,
should a tomb be here, or the choice of your
hand between it, I would lay my Clementina
in the tomb, in the bloom of her youth, in the
pride of her beauty, sooner than she should
become your bride."
" Poltrot heard every word ; and as the As
trologer spoke, Clementina appeared before
him, as he had seen her last, in all her budding
loveliness ; he had sipped the nectar of delight
for one brief moment, and now she was lost to
him for ever ; he had pressed her in one em
brace, and that was to be the last. Oh, how
he repented his rash conduct ! how bitterly he
dwelt upon the past ! how dreadful appeared
the future.
At length, incapable of more thought, his
h 3
154 the astrologer's daughter.
brain reeled, his eyes were fixed and rigid, and
he sunk, without life or motion, at the Astrolo
ger's feet.
Pettura raised the unhappy youth ; he chafed
his temples, he felt his pulse, and at length Pol-
trot recovered from his swoon, but fixed a
maniac's gaze on the Astrologer. Oh! how
dreadful was the change ! Instead of the che
valier-looking being, the strong and intellectual
man—the mind, the soul, were temporarily
lost ; and a miserable, degraded maniac, writhed
in a fever of agony in Pettura's strong
grasp.
The Queen-Mother returned, and all her
usual equanimity of deportmentstaggered under
the dreadful sight which met her gaze.
" "Will he ever recover ?" she said.
" Yes ! oh yes ! I think so," replied Pettura ;
" now he is more quiet, listen to me. The poor
youth must remain with me, and if Coligny be
accused, your Majesty must allow the trial to
proceed."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 155
"But who will believe Coligny is a mur
derer ?" said Catherine.
" His enemies will feign to believe it," re
plied the Astrologer.
The Queen-Mother now returned to her
apartments, and the rest of the day she re
mained a prey to the most poignant feelings ;
partly commiseration for the unfortunate Pol-
trot, partly fear of the consequences of the mur
der of the Duke.
Three days elapsed, during which time the
greatest calm hung over the stirring events
which were at hand. Catherine often visited
poor Poltrot, and Loretta was still oftener sent to
make inquiries. All, however, was of no avail.
Poltrot continued in a state of insanity, or slum
bered heavily under the narcotic draughts with
which the Astrologer plied him, in order to
stifle his dreadful screams.
Oh! could poor Clementina have seen her
unfortunate lover, now writhing in agony, now
stupified with delirium, a prey to the torments
156 the astrologer's daughter.
of an evil conscience, branded as a murderer.
But the gentle Clementina was happy under
the roof of the mild Jeanne d'Albret, who wel
comed her with deep kindness, and reassured
her heart with the hope that, though absent,
Poltrot was necessarily detained, and would
soon appear to answer for himself.
When Jeanne d'Albret heard of the accusa
tion which the Prince Henri had brought against
the venerable Coligny, her meek spirit was fired
with more than usual indignation ; she said she
had wept bitter tears at the death of her hus
band, but not more bitter than at the disgrace
of his faithful friend. The Prince de B£arn
loved Coligny with the most tender affection :
he had always looked up to him as the standard
of merit—as the pattern of all that was good and
estimable ; and although his heart recoiled from
the very thought of believing Coligny guilty,
he felt equally indignant at the idea of the
Admiral being accused of so heinous an
offence.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 157
"But, why did the Admiral go to the
camp of the Guises?" said the Prince, mus
ingly.
"Henri, Henri," cried the Queen Jeanne,
reproachfully, " trifle not with words, actions,
or place ; you know Coligny is innocent."
Clementina sent a message to the Court of
France to inform the Queen-Mother of her pre
sent abode with Jeanne d'Albret; but other
business now occupied the Queen -Mother's
attention, and Clementina's message was disre
garded.
The Prince Henri, now the Duke of Guise,
had openly accused Coligny of murdering his
father, and that venerable Admiral had indig
nantly asserted his innocence. Perhaps, how
ever, he might have suffered, and most unjustly,
for another's crime, when an accident caused
Poltrot de Mer£ to be arrested.
He had been lying for several hours in a state
of somnolence, when the Astrologer found it
necessary to leave his apartments in quest of
158 the astrologer's daughter.
an herb he wanted, in order to try its efficacy
on his patient. Pettura had watched with un
wearied solicitude by the youth's couch. He
remembered that Clementina loved him; he
was assured by Loretta that his child was in
safety at the Court of Navarre, and he felt as
sorry for the youth's transgression as anxious for
his precarious health. Thus it is that the dark
est-minded man has at least one tender point,
which can recal him to a sense of duty. Pet
tura was crafty, superstitious, believed in signs,
and pretended to lore he did not possess. He
was guilty in nourishing the flame of supersti
tion, pride, and cruelty, in the Queen-Mother's
breast ; but where his child was concerned, then
he recoiled from vice even fanning her cheek ;
and he would rather, as he said, have seen Cle
mentina's youth and beauty low in the slumber
ing grasp of death, than affiance her to a mur
derer. She was his ray of light, steering on his
dark path ; and, oftentimes, her light form ap
pearing before him, gave him the only remorse
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 159
of conscience it was in his power to feel. But
return we to Poltrot.
He remained for some time stunned by the
narcotic draught ; but at last he awoke—awoke
to partial consciousness, and to a longing desire
of liberty; he could not remember how long
he had been lying there ; the scene of the mur
der was, as it were, straying from his memory :
but he had a strange and keen recollection of
the circuitous road to the Astrologer's apart
ments. He clothed himself, and laughed wildly
at his long, dishevelled hair, and strange ap
pearance. At length he found himself down
stairs. The whole Court and attendants were
attending vespers, and Poltrot strayed down to
the court-yard. Two or three grooms looked at
him, and fled, thinking they had seen a vision.
Poltrot went into the stable, and recognised
the horse he had taken from Coligny ; he sad
dled him, placed himself on the saddle, and was
on the point of going out, when a groom ac
costed him as follows :—
160 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
" Heigho ! here you are ; I have watched
long for the person who would claim the Ad
miral's horse. He a murderer, indeed ! "
"I did not kiU the Duke, did I? Well,
perhaps I did. Did he confess ? Do you know
me ? Did he say I took the horse ?"
These, and other words, incoherently uttered,
roused the just suspicions of the groom. He
summoned the guards; Poltrot was captured;
Coligny declared him to be the murderer. The
unhappy youth's senses again forsook him—
Coligny was released, and Poltrot sentenced to
execution.
CHAPTEK X.
The shades of evening were overshadowing the
earth ; the night was gloomy and tempestuous ;
the wind howled a melancholy strain : it was
one of those unpleasant nights when good per
sons feel the power of an innocent conscience,
and bad men must endure the tortures attend
ant on a life of crime; when the lugubre
whistling of the wind must speak words of
terror to the heart. It was on a night, dark,
tempestuous, and gloomy, that the unfortunate
Poltrot lingered in a damp and close dungeon,
and the next morning was fixed for his last
162 the astrologer's daughter.
tragedy on earth. The unhappy Poltrot had re
covered his reason, but he was weak and ill ;
his whole appearance was changed, and on his
altered brow, his disordered locks, his sunken
eyes, might be traced—oh, how visibly—the
ravages of sin ! Life was fleeting before his
gaze ; he fain would grasp at existence, but
Death clasped him in its cold embraces. His
nights had brought him no repose ; lying down,
or sitting up, still the same phantom-spirit
haunted him ; still he fancied he saw the mur
dered Duke, calling for vengeance. Presently,
the door of his dungeon was slowly opened,
and Pettura stood before Poltrot.
" Oh do not look at me," cried the unfortu
nate youth ; " there is something in your
pitying gaze, which reminds me of Clemen
tina. Away ! away ! let me die, and when
my body is cold, when my warm heart is -
still, then tell your lovely daughter, that her
image strengtheued me through the pain of
dying ; that all my hope, all my prayer, is to
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 163
obtain her forgiveness, and her pity for my
crime."
" You have more than her pity," said Pet-
tura. " She will not believe you guilty, though
you told her so yourself ; she would not credit
it. Oh ! how powerful, how generous is young
love ! The pure-minded Clementina would give
up her own existence to hear men say, ' Poltrot
de Mere is innocent.' "
" And that they never will, and they never
can" said poor Poltrot. " Alas ! alas ! how
degraded, how sinful I am. Oh, surely Signor,
the body which writhes with agony, from the
recollection of sin, ought to have possessed a
soul which would have recoiled from the idea
of— of murder — yes, I am becoming familiar
with the awful word. See, see, I trace it on my
prison walls, I carve it on my table, on my
chair ; I have it ever before me ; it seems sepa
rate from myself: it was not Poltrot de Mere
who murdered the Duke, it was a fiend-
spirit, which took possession of his heart,
164 the astrologer's daughter.
which led his hand, and has sent his soul to
perdition."
" No more of this," interrupted Pettura, fear
ing Poltrot's mind would again waver. " We
have no time to lose. I have come to save you,
if you think life worth preserving at the price I
affix to it."
Poltrot fixed his eyes on the Astrologer with
the keenest gaze. " Oh tell me quickly what
you mean," he exclaimed ; " is life sweet ? ay,
it is, even to a murderer. I will repent ; I will
purify my soul with fasting, with tears, with
prayers, and then—" here the young mdn fell
on his knees at Pettura's feet, and his uplifted
hands, his streaming eyes, told what his lips
could not pronounce.
" Rise," sternly said the Astrologer, " and let
me add what I know you fain would say. No
repentance, no tears, no fasting, no prayers,
will avail you anything. Clementina is no
longer yours; before I proceed to unveil my
plans, you must take a solemn oath not even
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 165
to contemplate ever seeing her ; you must be
dead to her, to the very world, until many
months have elapsed ; before you are free,
Clementina will be the bride of another.
Poltrot de Mere, listen to me ; your affianced
bride will be the wife of Prince Henri, now
the Duke of Guise ; and she will sue her hus
band, the son of your victim, that he spare
your life."
" Oh this is a dreadful tragedy to play,"
cried poor Poltrot ; " not only to lose my bride,
but to owe my life to the Duke ! No, no,
he would not give me the boon, even were
he asked."
" He will" firmly said the Astrologer ; " he
would give his existence to win Clementina's
hand."
" Then she is not desirous of the union,"
said Poltrot, with a bitter ray of pleasure.
" What is that to you," quickly answered
the Astrologer ; " willing or not willing, she
shall never be yours; but the alternative
166 the astrologer's daughter.
to you is life or death—certain, ignominous
death."
" The escape is dubious," soliloquized Pol-
trot.
" There is nothing impossible with me,"
replied Pettura. " The governor of the prison
is in the Queen-Mother's confidence ; need I
then say he is in mine ? No matter why the
M£dicis bows her will to mine—certain it is that
she does. The common report will be, that
you were executed early in the morning,
whilst you will then be safe under my pro
tection. Fear not the Duke ; he will make
no inquiry—it pleases him to believe you in
nocent, and Coligny guilty ; the latter opinion
serves as a colour for the hatred he has ever
borne the Admiral ; in you he sees a rival to
Clementina's affections, rather than the mur
derer of his father."
Pettura ceased speaking, and Poltrot had
had time for consideration. The Duke did not
believe him guilty, nor did Clementina ; as he
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 167
had once escaped from the Astrologer's, might
he not a second time ? A faint revival of hope
sprung in his grief-stricken heart—a distant
picture of love fleeted before his imagination—
the recollection of Clementina's soft voice, her
graceful naivet£ —all, all, appeared to taunt
him ; the reverse of hope to him had not the
alternative, *' Patience." No, no, it was a de
cisive fiat, "life or death." He yielded, he
chose life ; but whilst he took the oath of not
seeing Clementina again, his lips murmured
the words, but his conscience went not with the
oath.
The next morning dawned ; the guards' cups
had been filled by the Astrologer, and they
were unusually drowsy ; the idea of having
taken a strong narcotic beverage never entered
their minds; they believed that the young
man who had been imprisoned for murder had
been privately executed ; but Poltrot had
eluded the vigilance of the law.
168 the astrologer's daughter.
At length the war which had deluged France
with blood, and caused the death of the bravest
men in the kingdom, was brought to a close by
a temporary treaty of peace, which concluded
the year 1563. Liberty of conscience (as was
called the free worship of the Huguenots) was
again granted ; and, by a trait of policy, Cathe
rine de Medicis declared that Cond£ and his
followers had the King's interest at heart. She
forgave all parties, and grasped the chiefs ofthe
divisions in friendly amity. Catholics and Pro
testants appeared re-united. Theyjoined their
armies and conquered Havre, which Queen
Elizabeth refused to surrender. This breach
of promise on the part of the English Queen
furnished the French with a plausible reason
for refusing to restore Calais, as they had ori
ginally agreed upon by the late treaty.
The Eoman Catholics now loudly demanded
a general Council. This had long been frus
trated, sometimes by the quarrels of the oppo
nent princes, sometimes by the policy of the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 169
Pope ; but now there was no plausible excuse,
and the Roman Catholics wished, by superior
eloquence, to intimidate the Huguenots. Pope
Pius IV. was much opposed to the validity of
the Council ; but fearing that a national Coun
cil would be the next step, he preferred con
tending with party spirits, and he accordingly
sanctioned the Council of Trente, begun in
1545, under Paul III.; again assembled in^
1551, under Jules III. This Council was dis
solved in the year we are concluding (1563).
No favourable results were the consequences
of the meeting. The Roman Catholics felt
stronger in their opinions ; but the opposite
party was not more convinced of the fallacy
of its own. On the contrary, petty quarrels
began anew ; the Protestants declared they
ought to have had a Council entirely composed
of men of their tenets. They declared that the
late Council was a meeting of scholars, met to
promote disunion.
The Court refused to sanction the publica-
vol. I. i
170 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
tion of the Articles concluded in the Council,
partly on account of the new treaty, partly
because the opinions of the members were too
arbitrary.
Catherine de Medicis vainly tried to keep a
sort of medium between two parties determined
to ruin each other. The Queen-Mother's slow
decision excited their suspicions. The Ro
manists fancied she leaned towards Calvinism,
whilst she paid the greatest attention to every
Church ceremony, in order to disarm their
opinions.
Her ardent wish of conciliating the Queen
of Narvarre, rendered the Queen-Mother ob
noxious to the Roman Catholics ; for, as we
have before noticed, Jeanne d'Albret was a
zealous Protestant. Her tender, mild, pliable,
and delicately feminine mind seemed to have
centred all its energies on one point, that
of her religion. She had seen the greatest
warriors of the day swerving from one side
to the other; her own husband had been as
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 171
a tottering tower, whose foundation, built on
sand, was swept away with the fury of the
waves—now, he was a weak Protestant; now, a
cold Komanist, and had died without any well-
grounded opinions, handing down his name to
posterity as a weak and wavering man. Not
so Jeanne D'Albret ; her character had widely
spread, and she had betimes circulated the
report, that her son, the Prince of Bearn was,
like herself, a Protestant. The Queen-Mother
had serious thoughts of uniting her lovely
daughter, the Princess Marguerite, with the
young Prince. Her increasing loveliness, the
early love she had evinced for the Prince, ren
dered it exceedingly improbable that her views
would be frustrated. Her pressing invitations
to the young Prince had long been declined ;
there was generally a reason found which,
although the Queen-Mother felt satisfied was a
mere excuse, was nevertheless sufficiently pal
pable to disarm anger. The little Princess was
generally the only person at Court who had
ii ii
i %
172 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
leisure to regret the absence of the Prince de
Bearn, and Loretta was the only one ready
to listen to her complaints. The last reason
which Jeanne d'Albret assigned for refusingthe
Queen-Mother's invitation, was one which the
latter could not understand—namely, she was
watching by the sick bed of Clementina Pet-
tura.
Queen Catherine de Mddicis could have
pillowed her Marguerite's head if her temples
throbbed, or her pretty face was pale. She -
could have inquired kindly after Clementina ;
she would even occasionally say to Loretta,
" How now, girl ? art ill ? go thee to thy bed ; I
will dispense with thy attendance." But Cle
mentina's religion was different to that of Jeanne
d'Albret, and the M£dicis could not understand
the mild and Christian-like feeling which could
devote hours, days, and nights too, to the sick
couch of a young girl, lately a perfect stranger
to the Queen of Navarre.
Jeanne d'Albret's assiduous care appeared to
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 173
have but little effect in reviving the poor in
valid. Misfortune seemed to have stunned the
fair girl ; her bloom had entirely fled ; and when
she was enabled to rise and lie on a couch by
her sweet mistress, oh ! how like a shadow of
herself was that still fair, but very pale girl.
Clementina did not live in these modern days,
when girls change their lovers as indifferently
as their lovers seek another girl to love. It was
in vain that Jeanne d'Albret whispered words
ofcomfort—it was in vain too she told her, " I
too have suffered the loss of a beloved hus
band."
" Ah, he was your husband," replied poor
Clementina ; " he died in glory; men did not
raise their loud voices, and proclaim him a—"
" But, dear girl," continued the gentle
Queen, " men did not accuse him in vain ; was
he not a mur—"
" Hush, hush ; will your Majesty, too, utter
those cruel, those false words? A train of cir
cumstances led to his accusation, but never will
174 the astrologer's daughter.
I believe it. I fancy even now, that I hear his
voice, saying, ' Clementina, you will never
believe me guilty ? ' " Tears coursed each
other down Clementina's pale cheeks, her
breast heaved convulsively, her sobs threatened
to annihilate her delicate frame ; and Poltrot de
Mer£, the passionate, the unbridled youth, had
planted the first seeds of sorrow in that beauti
ful girl's heart. The pleasures of a Court were
lost upon her, the joys of youth had fleeted by;
the bloom of happiness had withered; the
bounding exhuberance, the free and elastic
step, had all sunken in an early tomb. No ray
of sunshine shed its lustre over the page of her
destiny: others had mourned the loss of a lover,
but in mourning his earthly loss, she had also
to weep over his lost soul. Yes, though she
refused to believe in Poltrot's guilt, still she
felt she had lost him for ever ; although she
shuddered from analysing why it was for ever,
sad echo repeated, " for ever, for ever."
Qh, Vice, how dreadful thy birth! how
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 175
dreadful thy life ! how dreadful thy death !
The once bright and gay chevalier was now an
idiotic being, at the mercy of a crafty Italian
Astrologer; the gayest hours of his life had
fleeted by as a tale which is told, bringing with it
no moral, save the dark lesson of crime. The
sweet Clementina had laughed her last joyous
laugh, had uttered her last mirthful song ; an
undying pang of sorrow was cankering her
heart; life had lost its pristine hue of delight.
Then, in the solitude of her chamber, her lips
parched with the fever of grief, her sunny
tresses all neglected, poor Clementina remem
bered the song she had sung, when Catherine
de Medicis appeared before her, ready to
launch her into the ocean of life ; now her
voice was sometimes heard ; words came spon
taneously to her overcharged heart, and the
sweet Jeanne d'Albret brushed away a tear
of sympathy, as she gave ear to words which
grief had engendered. Sorrowfully she lis
tened now to
176 the astrologer's daughter.
CLEMENTINA'S SONG.
" I weep for the days of joy which were,
But now have fleeted by;
I weep for the hours which had no care,
When tearless was my eye.
" I weep as I tell the tale of strife,
My sad, my hapless lot ;
I weep for a new, a higher life,.
Where sorrows are forgot.
" I weep for my own, my love now dead",
And echo weeps again ;
I weep for the joys for ever fled,
Whilst sorrow fills my brain.
" Til weep whilst I may ; I soon shall sink
Into the lonely tomb :
I weep, as I near the shrouded brink ;
Yet life is midst that gloom."
These mournful strains were Clementina's
lullabys. Poor girl ! they were sweeter to her
than other consolation, for there are sorrows,
which no human voice can relieve ; there are
pangs, which time alone can heal, or death
alone can sever.
CHAPTER XI.
Were I to enumerate the broils, the cabals, the
petty strife, the party feeling, which reigned at
the period we are speaking of, I should weary
the patience of my fair readers, and gentlemen
would justly say, " they are more acquainted
with history than their authoress." I must
therefore beg my readers to suppose a lapse of
four years has passed, during which time, I
will give a very brief sketch of national events,
and then proceed to introduce Jeanne d'Albret
at the Court of the-Queen-Mother of France.
The Prince de Conde- had endeavoured to
i 8
178 the astrologer's daughter.
take the King, but the Court of France fortu
nately became acquainted with his design,
and the brave Swiss Guards delivered him
from his perilous situation. They surrounded
the King, and escorted him from Meux to
Paris. Montmorency attacked the Prince de
Cond£, but in that engagement at Saint Denis,
the brave Montmorency lost his life. He re
ceived eight wounds, and his death is rendered
memorable from his last words, so expressive
of the undying fire which existed in his expir
ing body. A priest was giving him words of
comfort.
" Do you suppose," exclaimed Montmorency,
" that a man who has lived with honour, nearly
eighty-four years, does not know how to suffer,
for one quarter of an hour, the pangs of
death?"
Thus died a glorious warrior, a brave and
honourable man. The rule of his life was com
prehended in three words—une foi, une hi,
un roi.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 179
The young Duc d'Anjou was appointed Lieu-
tenant-General of the kingdom, and the French
armies were now led by a young Prince, six
teen years of age.
The times were becoming every day more
troublous ; and however ingenious Catherine
de Medicis strove to be, however much she
wished to stop the headlong course, the ruin
ous havoc of these civil wars, it must be con
fessed that she had no sinecure in her function
of Queen-Mother ; indeed, it is astonishing that
she did not lay down the reins, which appeared
far above the restraining curb of a woman's
hand. But Catherine had no idea of allowing
her high spirit to be quelled, or even of sub
mitting to circumstances. She thought it ad
visable to imprison the heads of the insurrec
tion, and endeavoured to arrest Cond£ and
Coligny. They were, however, informed of
her design and took refuge at La Rochelle,
which was, in fact, the harbour of the Pro
testants. Cond£ had now an excuse for kin
180 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
dling anew the fire of strife. The English and
Germans took part in the war ; the edict of free
worship was annulled. Massacres, wrongs on
both sides, vice, revenge, horrors of all kinds,
at length were renewed with worse fury than
on previous occasions. The armies met at Jar-
nac, near La Saintonge. The Due d'Anjou,
under the auspices of Marshal de Tavannes
was completely victorious. Montesquieu killed
the Prince of Cond£ ; the latter fought as a
hero—his arm was shot off, his leg was broken,
but still he fought, until, pierced with innu
merable wounds, he expired under Montes
quieu's sword.
The Prince de Conde was universally re
gretted ; his character was much respected ; he
was amiable, courageous, and capable of the
most valiant deeds. He was a Calvinist, with
out any taste for the strife of religious parties ;
and if he rebelled, a train of untoward circum
stances ushered iu his rebellion. Poor Conde' !
why was he the head of an opponent party ?
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 181
His misfortune was to have lived in an age
when men either remained passively inactive,
or took up arms in their own country. For or
against the King, it could hardly be called;
Charles the Ninth was yet under the control
of tutors. There was no other Royal person
contending for the crown ; it was Charles the
Ninth's undisputed right. May I not, there
fore, contend, that men were not fighting
for or against the King, but were contending
from political motives, and from unrestre-
strained family hate ? Until the death of the
Duke of Guise, his and Catherine de M£-
dicis' deep family hatred—a hatred which had
grown with years, and been nurtured with
rising power—was cause enough for strife. Co-
ligny's well-known quarrels with the family of
Guise, another cause ; the Prince de Conde's
aversion to the triumvirate, another.
But why enumerate the causes of strife ? my
pen recoils from a task befitting wiser and more
political feeling writers. Certain it is, that
182 the astrologer's daughter.
France would hare long been deluged in its
own blood, but the heads of the party had been
mown as grass before the unsparing brand of
war.
Voices which were so lately heard sound
ing the loud battle-cry, were silent in the quiet
tomb ; those gallant men who, full of fire, life,
and energy, had been seen in the beginning of
the affray, now lay cold and stiff on the gory
field Montmorency, Conde, the King of Na
varre, the Guise, where, oh ! where were they ?
Gone where the battle cry is heard no more—
where the sanguine stream is replaced by flow
ing rivulets of peace—where strife is buried in
never-waking sleep—where feud raises not its
clamorous voice—where the eddy of party-spirit
is swept away—where the hurricane of discord
is still—gone, were these brave warriors—gone
to their eternal rest !
The thought of the death of the warrior on
the battle-field recalls a train of saddened re
flections. I think of those lines, those beauti
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 183
fully expressive lines of Byron's, in the Giaour :
" He who has bent him o'er the dead!"
Alas, alas ! who bends over the dying frame of
a warrior ? Does he die gradually, slowly ? do
friends watch the expiring fire of life ? do their
loved hands wipe away the drops of dewy death
trembling on the fading brow? do their af
fectionate bosoms pillow the dying head ? do
their gentle voices waft into the dying one's
ears words of trust, of religion, hope and love ?
Ah ! truly
" He who has bent him o'er the dead,"
i
has a soothing, a melancholy pleasure; but
the hapless warrior is pierced and falls ; the
gory plain his couch, dying men's recumbent
forms his hideous pillow ; shouts, firing, horses
trampling, bugles resounding, voices heard
amidst the din—this is the music which mar
shals the soul to eternity !
I am sadly digressing from my subject ; but
184 the asteologek's daughter.
gentle readers, have patience ; my little vein of
thought has flown; I shake it off half sadly,
half willingly, and I take up anew the thread
of those troublous days of which I speak.
The Prince de Bearn was now showing the
early seeds of that genius, that warlike valour,
that activity of mind, which formed the basis
of the character of the famous Henri Quatre—
a King, whose name will be famous as long as
men peruse the pages of history ! It is. worth
living well, methinks, to attain that end !
The Prince de Condi's death was a severe
blow on the Calvanist's side, and it might have
wrought the utter destruction of their party,
but Coligny exerted himself to replace the
irreparable loss of his colleague. A new star,
however, was dawning in fresh-born splendour;
a new star was rising under Coligny's sage
training; a new hope to the Protestants, and
objects of dread to the Catholics—a being be-
, loved by the Calvinists : this was no other than
the Prince de Bearn.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 185
Henri fought under the protection of Co-
ligny ; and his young rival, the Duc d'Anjou,
headed the Royalists. The latter had gained a
decisive victory; but he imprudently lingered
to raise a siege. Poitou, Saintong, B£arn, Gu-
ceiuse, were the scenes of dreadful bloodshed.
The fury of both parties continued unabated ;
and the Protestants would only surrender on
the most advantageous conditions.
At length, the treaty of Germain-en-Laie
was signed. The Protestants were allowed to
possess four towns, in which they were to be
protected from wrongs. Amongst these towns,
was La Rochelle.
It was Catherine de Medicis who effected
this peace ! Peace ! oh perfidious Queen ! oh,
base-hearted woman ! was it becoming so fair
a form, to harbour a heart so full of deadly
treachery ! Peace ! it was a trap covered with
loveliest exotics, redolent with flowery per
fume ; soft and fragrant the road to this well-
covered trap ; honied the words of her who
186 the astrologer's daughter.
conducted her enemies to the 'well-disguised
place ; deep, deep, the trench beneath, deep
as unfathomable abysses, dark and treacherous
as blackest night. Readers, peace was pro
claimed; but we, who know the sequel—-can
we echo that word peace ? We must, however,
feign to believe in it, as we read this tale, and
wonder at the blindness of those who believed
in a Medicis. This little sketch brings me to
the end of the lapse of the four years, and
ushers in the year 1569 ! The young Prin-
cesse de France was a budding beauty, the
pride of the Court, the belle of Royalty. The
young King of France was now Monarch, in
word and in deed; the young Prince de
B£arn was the accepted lover of the Princess
Marguerite. Her heart was proud of her
handsome and noble-minded bridegroom; his
youthful affections were touched by her bud
ding graces. Never were a lovelier pair seen ;
and the mild Jeanne d'Albret was truly happy.
Much as she would have liked her son to marry
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 187
a Protestant, she was wise enough to see all
the advantage of the anticipated union ; pleased
and flattered by the Medicis' offer, she came to
Court, to sign the nuptial papers ; she saw no
perfidy, no guile ; she believed and trusted.
Poor Jeanne arrived at Paris with all hope, all
new-born delight, and there she found a tomb.
On her arrival, she was overwhelmed with
kindness, .satiated with pleasure. The King
of France, no longer open-hearted, no longer
the troublesome, but frank boy, who gave so
much trouble to Mariot, his preceptor, was
sucking the food of craft and deceit from
his mother's political-speaking lips. Charles
brought his blushing sister to Jeanne d'Al-
bret's presence, and giving her hand to the
Prince de Bearn, he thought not he was be
trothing her to the future monarch of France.
Jeanne d'Albret kissed the beautiful girl,
and she thought her a most lovely being—as
beautiful as Clementina, when she saw her;
but, alas ! since then she was much altered.
188 the astrologer's daughter.
" May no sorrow ever alter that sweet expres
sion of happiness," said the Queen of Navarre.
" Oh ! I am too happy to think of sorrow,"
replied the blushing young girl.
" I trust such feelings may ever last," con
tinued the pious Queen, still gazing at her.
" Alas ! alas ! it is a sad thing to watch the
sorrow of youth—to see it prey on the soft,
fair cheek. But this is not a fit manner to
greet my daughter ; I leave you to my son's
care."
The Queen kissed Marguerite's cheek, and
the Prince de B£arn, putting his arm round her
slender waist, led her into the alcove of a win
dow, and was soon engaged with her in very
animated discourse.
The Queen of Navarre joined the young
King and his mother. After they separated,
the Queen-Mother called her son, and the fol
lowing conversation which passed between them
is authenticated by history (that part which is
in italics). It is, methinks, so expressive ofthe
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 189
feeling of deceit which swayed the Court, so
despicable, yet so truly portrays the young
King's mind, that I cannot help introducing it
in my tale :—
" Have I not well played my part ?" said the
King.
" Yes ; very well indeed," answered Cathe
rine.
" But it is nothing to begin well; you must
finish well also."
" I will draw a net over the whole Court"
answered the young King.
" You are my son, my own beloved son,"
cried Catherine, rapturously ; " you are worthy
to reign : you will yet triumph over your many
enemies. Now, listen to me : Coligny is the
only person I cannot understand ; he is ever
courtly, ever the sedate, well-bred gentleman ;
but he is so cold, so distant, so inaccessible,
that you will have some trouble, my son, in
drawing your net over him."
The young King mused for some time ; at
190 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
length he looked up to his mother's face, and
striking the hilt of the sword, he exclaimed—
" A moi les resources, ma bonne mere."
" Dis les moi done," answered Catherine.
" Suppose, then," said the King, " I give
Coligny, pro tern., the command of the army I
intend sending against Philip the Second. "Will
not that oflFer bring the Admiral to our Court ?"
" Ofcourse it would," replied Catherine ; " it
would bring him to any Court in Europe. But
would you trust him with your army?"
" Trust him ! " cried Charles ; " I would
trust my life in his sole keeping. Yet I hate
the Admiral, and he despises me."
" Tush, what care you for that ? "
" Not much," said the King ; " but a little,
since I cannot return the compliment. I may
hate, but cannot despise him."
" If he lifted his hand against the Duke ? "
" Ah, if! but it is if" replied Catherine.
" With if, the accusation began, and with if,
the young Duke's revenge must die. Coligny
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 191
extricated himself from the accusation, as easily
as he washed his hands from the stain he had
taken from raising the murdered corpse ; the
tale of Coligny's being a murderer, was indeed
a silly tale, fit to amuse those who like to
watch the little nothings of which the thread
of human misery is spun. I never believed a
word of the accusation, nor should I, even if
I had not known the murderer."
" But I firmly believe Henri of Guise truly
credits the belief that Coligny murdered his
father," said the King. " ' Seeing is believing,'
is an old adage, and certainly the young Duke
saw a suspicious sight—Coligny kneeling by
the side of the murdered man, with blood
stained hands and pallid brow. Foi de roil if
that was not strong proof, what is ? and reports
speak so differently of the actual reason which
took Coligny to the enemy's camp."
" I believe I know the right tale,"said Cathe
rine. Coligny had spoken harshly to Poltrot
de M£re, for he was exasperated at the idea of
192 the astrologer's daughter.
his bringing Clementina to the Queen of Na
varre's Court; you know how downcast, how
sqeamishly pious this Coligny is, and his ten
der conscience upbraiding him with want of
Christian feeling, in refusing to be indulgent
towards a maiden in distress, this gallant Ad
miral could do nothing better than proceed
after Poltrot ; he went with all due humility,
as a penitent on a pilgrimage, ready to escort
the young maiden to Jeanne d'Albret's Court.
There, it seems, he met the unfortunate Poltrot,
and was taken up for the murder. You know
the rest."
" But plausible as all this really is, and true
as it is" said the King, " the young Duke
shuts his eyes against all conviction ; he loved
his father dearly, and I can find no means of
turning his thoughts from his deeply-rooted
hatred of Coligny. The whole Protestant forces
will be in arms, if one of his white hairs be
injured; the Prince de B£arn, now unanimously
loved, will animate them ; and it is time the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 193
King of France's peace should not be disturbed
by his rash subjects' quarrels."
" They say the Duke de Guise is passionately
fond of Clementina," said the Queen-Mother
musingly ; " she must know her lover murdered
the Guise, and she shall be compelled to tell it
.him, she shall see her father, and he must
enforce this. For my part, I pity the young
Duke's taste j poor Clementina was once very
lovely, even surpassingly beautiful ; but since
seventeen to twenty-two years of age, she has
never ceased mourning for Poltrot de Mere,
and her attractions have fled. The very sound
of her meek suffering voice takes away my
patience ; I have never seen a man for whom I
would mourn more than a month, and I cannot
sympathize with one who has mourned for five
years, during which time, the young Duke
strove to forget his love, fled from her, and
then returned—saw Clementina—oh, how dif
ferent, how changed ; the blush of youth had
fled, and keen despair was marked in every
VOL. I. K
194 the astrologer's daughter.
feature. Yet they say, as he loyed her once
for her extreme freshness and beauty, so he
loves her now for her constancy and interesting
position. I will make him confess his love ; I
will obtain Clementina's consent to be his wife ;
and he shall hear from her, that Coligny did
not murder his father ; if a pale-faced woman
can give us peace, bonheur a son visage inter-
ressant."
" I suppose Clementina's beauty will be im
mortalized," said the King, gaily; " I confess,
I think her very pretty, and the young Prince
de Cond£ is eperdu de ses charities ; he prefers
her to our blooming Marguerite ; and my
little jealous sister, although betrothed to
Henri of Be'arn, is very sorry to think how
long a time will elapse before her marriage,
and how many of Henri's treasured smiles will
belong to Clementina, when away at the Court
of Navarre."
" Pettura's daughter shall never cause the
Princesse de France a moment's uneasiness,"
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 195
cried Marguerite, bounding into the room ; " I
have heard your last words, Charles, but I
shall never be jealous now I have heard my
Henri's own voice. Oh, dear mother, when
shall we be married 1 "
" You must tell Time to walk on its swiftest
wings, my fair child," exclaimed the Queen ;
" for although my rule, ' avcc moi il rCy a rein
^impossible? might be serviceable to you
were I to allow the union, the young Prince
obeys his Lady-Mother implicitly, and she
would never consent to the marriage of a
Princess, fifteen years old, to a Prince seven
teen!"
" "We mus twait patiently, then ; and mean
while, my Henri must go with Coligny to the
wars, and perhaps—" continued the pretty
little Princess, dashing away a tear ; " perhaps
he will be lolled. If so, dear mother, the
dirge I will sing over his grave, shall be a
dirge, saying—' the Princess de France, ne se
marirajamais.' Am I jealous of Clementina?
k 2
196 the astrologer's daughter.
Oh ! no, no ; but I pity and admire her. I
should have done as she has. She will never
marry."
" She must marry ! " exclaimed the Queen,
violently ; " she must marry the Duke of Guise,
and that, soon."
" The Guise," almost shrieked Marguerite;
" what ! the very man she detests—the man
who would hourly remind her that Monsieur
de M£re- murdered his father ! Oh, mother,
mother, could you wish it? I have not forgotten
Monsieur de Mere^and his gentle sister Augusta ;
I remember yet, his sunny locks, his chevalier
figure, and all his grace. Poor, poor, Clemen
tina ! " Here, the affectionate young Princess
reddenedwith emotion, and then burst into tears.
Ah! the Princess changed her disposition
when she had lived for some time in the gay
world, from which her extreme youth now
partially excluded her; then, when jealousy
haunted her bosom, when she imbibed much
of Catherine de Medicis' wary temper, then
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 197
must she have looked back as on a dream, at
those touchingly tender, youthful days, when
Marguerite de Valois wept for another's sor
rows.
There are many besides the Princess Mar
guerite who can look back on the green valley
of youth, and know that they then watered the
garden of humanity with the last tear they ever
shed. Since then, they have walked through
the vast field of life : they have gathered some
honied drops; they have sipped much bitter
ness ; they have become callous and cold ; the
fountain of their sympathy has long ceased to
exist. Ask those who have withered in misfor
tune, if a return of prosperity can make them
great again. Ask those whose sunny tempers
are soured with unkindness, if they dare grasp
with avidity a newly-found friend ? Others
have promised much, but have never per
formed; and the heart once deceived, hardly
dares to trust.
198 the astrologer's daughter.
It was unusual to see the fair Princess Mar
guerite in tears ; the Queen-Mother was almost
angry, and yet there was no pretext for saying
so ; she therefore found a reason to declare the
necessity of her absence, and left her daughter
with the King.
The door had hardly closed, when Mar
guerite threw her arms round the King's
neck.
" Brother, dear brother, do not let our mo
ther make poor Clementina marry the Duke
—she is dying of a broken heart."
" How do you know that?" said the King.
" Oh, she sighs so piteously," replied the little
Princess, " she is so patient, though. Her face,
too, is so very, very pale, and her voice so
gently sweet—I love her very dearly. Do
promise, brother—you can save her if you
will."
" You must ask the fair Clementina if she
really hates the Duke," replied Charles ; " and
if she does, this must be the sign—I will walk
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 199
in the garden this evening, and Clementina
must give me a rose."
" But that is all nonsense," replied Mar
guerite, pettishly; "you are so surrounded
by chevaliers, and Clementina is so timid,
she will never be able to give you the
flower."
" I will come in your garden between seven
and eight o'clock," cried the King, who loved a
little romantic adventure, "no chevaliers are
allowed to walk in your castle of beauty, so
there the most timid lady may come."
" Well, be it so, if it is your will," said Mar
guerite ; " but you will not allow Clementina to
be tormented ?"
" Non foi de roi; not if she gives me the
rose."
Poor Marguerite was obliged to be contented,
and left the King to seek Clementina.
" My brother seems to make a joke of it,"
soliloquized the youthful Princess; "but then,
he has not listened to Clementina's sighs—to her
200 the astrologer's daughter.
night's cough. He has never watched the vary
ing emotion of her pale face. I have : I love
and pity her, and she shall not marry the
Duke."
CHAPTER XII.
Clementina was arranging some flowers in a
vase, when the Princess Marguerite entered the
apartment.
There are moments when we are so busily
engaged in thought, that we do not heed out
ward objects ; and Clementina, lost in a chaos
of bygone recollections, did not hear the Prin
cess, who glided noiselessly by her side.
"Why do you weep over those lovely
flowers?" she said, taking Clementina's hand.
" Why do I weep, young Princess ? Because
Hope is dead, and Grief alone now weaves
k 3
202 the astrologer's daughter.
her pale wreath round my brow. Look at this
gay flower ; I, too, was once very bright and
smiling, but the keen hand of Adversity
robbed me of every boasted charm. Thus will
it be with these gay children of the Earth. See,
see, some are already drooping, and yet they
have not long been culled."
" But, see how many young buds are blow
ing to replace the decaying flowers. Thus
Hope should speak to you, Clementina. In
deed, indeed, you must not be so sad."
" Tell the green leaves to stop for ever on
the trees, and bid autumnal gales pass by with
out laying its yellow-tinged hand on the gems
of creation ; bid all nature change her routine ;
it is as easy as to bid me be happy. I am a
blighted, lonely creature. I feed on sorrow ;
I live in sorrow, in sorrow I shall die—forgive
me for speaking so freely to you, fair Princess."
" Fair ! " exclaimed the young Marguerite ;
" never will I be vain, or value passing beauty.
I was a mere child when you came to Court ;
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 208
but I think I see you as you were then. I went
to bed dreaming of you ; I rose with your image
before me. Oh, you were so fair, so veryhappy;
it seemed as if sorrow would never touch your
heart. But I am making you weep. Oh, pray
do not cry ; it makes me so sad to see you. Can
you not try and forget Monsieur de Mer£.
Tell me—speak to me as if I were your sister,
a favourite young sister."
" Forget ! " replied Clementina ; " yes, I
could forget Poltrot de Mere ; it is not for him
I grieve. Princess, no one has ever cared enough
for my sorrow for me to analyze it. Do you wish
me to tell you the real reason of my grief?"
" Yes, I do wish it very much," replied the
young Princess.
" Then, believe me, I grieve not because I
do not see Poltrot—because I can no more hear
his voice ; my sorrow is deeper than this ; I pine
when I think, that even after death, when that
blessed time arrives, when souls are re-united,
never more to part, when kindred spirits hope
204 the astrologer's daughter.
to be happy in one long reign of eternal bliss,
then Poltrot de Mer£'s soul will not dwell near
mine; he has soiled it with a sin surpassing
all forgiveness, and we have parted on earth,
never more to meet : our parting is eternal."
" My mother says you do not believe M. de
Mere murdered the Duke," murmured the
Princess.
" I did not believe it a week ago," replied
Clementina, " and would I never had. My
unbelief was joy and balm to my heart ; it was
as 'a bright gem in a broken casket,' and I
kept it with dear and loving care ; but the spell
is broken, and in one week I have suffered more
pain than during long, weary years ; then my
grief was all worldly : now it is lasting—it is
eternal.
" Do tell me how you have convinced your
self of a circumstance which has filled your
mind with such keen sorrow."
"About a week ago, the Admiral Coligny
paid me a visit; he said—'1 was going to a
THE ASTEOLOGEE's DAUGHTER. 205
Court where his name would be uttered by
some with deep opprobrium, and that he felt it a
duty towards himself, as well as towards me, to
convince me, as far as was in his power, of the
fallacy of that treasured dream of my Poltrot's
innocence.' I listened, and every word the
venerable old man uttered brought a bitter
conviction to my soul ; a veil was torn from my
eyes. I tried to disbelieve, but it was vain,
and Coligny has planted a never-dying pang of
agony in my mind. I, who had considered
Poltrot as a martyr to wrong accusation, now
know how bitterly I was deceived—I, who had
looked forward to death as a bright life which
would waft my soul homewards ; which would
re-unite me to Poltrot : now, now, all is dark
and gloomy ; life has lost its interest for me, and
death is no longer my angel of consolation."
" Do not speak so hopelessly," said the
affectionate Princess, kissing Clementina's pale
brow ; " remember our Saviour pardoned the
malefactor on the cross ; we will both pray for
206 the astrologer's daughter.
Poltrot's soul ; let us, every morning, raise our
voices to the Throne of Grace."
"Ah, why did I not think of this before?"
said Clementina, pressing Marguerite's hand,
whilst the first tears of comfort she had shed for
many long months of sorrow coursed each other
down her cheeks. No wonder the Princess was
unwilling to break the spell; no wonder she
could not speak of the Duke, but clasping
Clementina's thin hand in hers, she let her
weep, and felt it would be wrong to wish to
stop those tears.
At length, Clementina raised her face from
her hands, in which it had been buried ; her
cheeks were slightly flushed, and a ray of new
born hope was already written on the expres
sion of despairing sorrow which had before sat
on her brow. Will any persons say the young
know not how to sympathize? The Princess
Marguerite had indeed sprung a vein of conso
lation in the desolate heart, where true sorrow
had so long dwelt. Seeing that Clementina was
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 207
more calm, Marguerite, though with consider
able hesitation, hazarded the question—
" Clementina, could you not love again ? "
Were it not for the gentle tone of voice in
which the question was asked, Clementina
would have thought the Princess was mocking
her sorrow. " You are too young to under
stand the human heart," she replied, not an
grily, but sadly. "If you were older you would
not have asked that question, after seeing my
grief."
" I may be too young to be supposed to know
the usual range of human hearts, but I can read
yours," said the Princess ; "and I know youwill
not love again ; but my mother says, 'there are
some persons who marry without feeling any
love ; ' more than that, she adds, ' that it is an
imperious duty on your part to marry.' Do
not think me ill-natured, dear Clementina. If
I do not speak to you now, I may not have
another opportunity for some time to come, and
meanwhile, my mother will tell you, but less
208 the astrologer's daughter.
gently, words, which I know are novo poisoned
arrows to your heart. Do you think it would
be wrong to marry without love, so long as y ou
have strength to fulfil your duty ? Woul d it
not be a sacrifice of self, and a meritorious
action, if you made the happiness of a person
who loves you, and did not seek to deceive him,
by telling him you could love him as you would
have loved Poltrot 1 "
" This is, indeed, talking according to Court
reasoning," said Clementina ; " and I am sorry
to find every-one misunderstands me. The last
sad morning I saw Poltrot, was the first and
only time he had ever told his love. It is true,
I should have preferred him to any other per
son from the moment we met ; but that love at
first sight is more easily understood than de
fined. It is silly to imagine that I actually
grieve for the want of a love I had so little en
joyed. I have told you, Princess, that it is for
Poltrot de Merc's soul I grieve ; and as to love,
never can I hear its voice ; a cold shudder seizes
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 209
me every time I think of it ; a superstitious
recollection flashes across my brain ; for, have
I not cause to remember that, the first morn I
believed in its existence, ushered in my life of
misery; and that from that hour, Poltrot de
M£r£'s soul was lost !"
Clementina ceased speaking, and the Princess
would fain have concluded the sad interview ;
but she had already acquired that inherent
firmness of disposition so conspicuous in the
Queen-Mother's character, and she therefore
resumed the conversation.
"It is of no use dissembling with you," she
said; "I must tell you that it is the Queen's
will that you marry Henri of Guise, and he
himselfpresses it with all speed.
" How unworthy of a Duke, how unworthy
of a Queen, to wish to dispose of the hand of
a young woman so inferior to them in birth—
so incapable of defending herself."
" You do yourselfgrievous injustice," replied
Marguerite, warmly; " are not half our courtly
210 THK ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER
grandees risen persons ? Was our great Cardi
nal de Lorraine always the proud mitred being
he now is ? Your intellect and beauty first won
Henri of Guise's attention ; my mother's- grati
tude will raise you to honour. Do not say you
cannot defend yourself; for four years you have
evaded the young Duke's offers—you have
escaped my mother's control; do you not
reflect on all this?"
"The Court was so busily engaged in war;
and Henri of Guise was following the battle-
cry, or methinks, humble as I am, I must have
been the subject of Royal persecution ; small
thanks will I give for my temporary peace.
What cares the hunted deer how long he has
ranged unmolested in the forest, when at length
he is brought to bay? he feels the hunter's
blow as keenly at the last, as if it had come be
fore a wearying chase had deprived the poor
animal of strength."
" Now you look proud and angry, and that
does not become'you," said the young Princess ;
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 211
" I love my Clementina, when I can compare
her to the beautiful though drooping lily ; you
are not yourself now. You must not be angry
with me ; if I have spoken as the Court speaks,
I have not uttered half the words my mother
will; she says you must marry Henri of
Guise !"
"That will I never do," exclaimed Clemen
tina. " I will lie me down and die. I care not ;
anything rather than marry the Duke. I will
kneel at his feet ; I will beg him to spare me.
Do not say the words again. Oh, I cannot
marry the Duke." Here poor Clementina
wept bitterly.
" Dear, dearest Clementina, weep not thus,"
cried the Princess. " I have come to save you ;
forgive me if I have pained you, now I know
your heart." But at that moment the door
opened, and the Queen-Mother stood before the
trembling girls. Marguerite de Valois, the
frank young Princess, drew back quite abashed,
and nervously pressed Clementina's hand ; the
212 the astrologer's daughter.
latter gained strength when she marked the
dark spot on Catherine's brow, for she saw she
must be firm or fall without a struggle into the
Medicis' power. I do not know if I quote the
very words, but Shakspeare says to this mean
ing:—
" A worm will turn when trodden on."
Clementina possessed one of those truly fe
minine and dove-like tempers, which strive
not to be heard amidst the noisy clamour of
angry passions, but she also inherited a firm
and determined rule of conduct, and she now
felt she would not be a worm to be crushed by
the M£dicis.
" Ho, so," cried Catherine, " it is here you
learn those pretty tragedy airs, such as you dis
played, Marguerite : no more of this, for I am
weary of this sentimental folly. Go now away,
you must leave me. I wish to speak to Cle
mentina."
The Princess dare not disobey her mother,
but she could not control the emotion which
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 213
stole oyer her ; she clasped her hands round Cle
mentina's fair neck, and covered her with kisses.
The Queen-Mother advanced, but Clementina
gently disengaged herself from her young
friend's embrace, and whispered, " Do not fear
for me—I am firm."
" I will tell Jeanne d'Albret all I know, and
all I apprehend," whispered the Princess in
return ; and she glided out of the room.
Clementina was very much exhausted by her
trying interview with the young Princess, and
cold as Catherine de Medicis generally was,
careless as she generally felt towards the feel
ings of another person, she involuntarily placed
a chair near the poor sufferer, and seated her
in it.
" You seem in indifferent health," she said,
surveying that pale and much altered face.
" I am not strong," answered Clementina.
" Have you had any medical consultation?"
continued the Queen.
"What can medicine jdo for me?" said Cle
214 the astrologer's daughter.
mentina. " Yet I am stronger than I look. For
three years I have watched the budding Spring,
and then thought I should not see the Summer's
ripeness : God willed it otherwise, and I am
still here, a sickly, delicate plant, and the rude
Wintry winds will yet blow on me, unless one
strong tempest severs me from future misery."
" It is your own fault if you are not, on the
contrary, supremely happy," said the Queen-
Mother. " You certainly are endeavouring to
realize a perfect picture of a heroine of ro
mance. Why should you be unhappy ? say
rather you are the source of envy to many a
fair damsel—the wife of the young and hand
some Duke. Pardi ou finiroui les mdcon-
tents?
" The wife of Henri of Guise, did your Ma
jesty say? Never, never. Nay, I must speak ;
I will tell the Duke that his image sears my
heart. He is handsome, he is noble-hearted,
and I recoil not from him from any trifling
emotions; but I will tell him that his presence
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 215
reminds me of one dark scene, one hideous
wreck, which has been to me a lasting knell,
proclaiming all my wretchedness."
Catherine de Medicis stifled the passionate
burst of anger which was rising to her lips,
and suppressing, as well as she could, the tor
rent of warm blood, which was mounting to
her temples, she lowered her voice, and
spoke in those soft, tremulously-persuasive
accents, which she could at times command,
and by which Warriors and Courtiers, Pro
testants and Papists, had so often been de
ceived.
" Clementina, I am not harsh with you," she
began ; "but I wish to promote your own hap
piness. I wish to convince you that a long
life of married bliss will efface the very recol
lection of clouds which have overshadowed
your early life. I cannot bear to see you at
two-and-twenty consuming the energy of youth ;
throwing away health, spirits, and every
earthly enjoyment, at the shrine of useless
216 the astkologer's daughter.
regrets. I cannot bear to hear my Courtiers
call you romantic, and silly ; I do not like to
hear them raising bets about who is the most
likely amongst their gay, frivolous set, to win
you from your grief. I remember that you
are a young and beautiful woman ; but I re
collect also, that you were once still more
lovely. Years have not yet had time to im
pair your beauty ; you should now be blooming,
and you are fading ; as the bud dies, nipped
by one [night's frost, so you will not survive
the lustre of your girlhood's beauty; here,
then, I come before you ; I surrender all my
eloquence—I feel as a mother yearning to
wards her child. I beg, beseech, but I am
not commanding ;—do not look upon me now
as a Queen, but open your heart to me as a
friend. Oh, throw not away the chalice of hap
piness, it is now trembling near your lips ; but
it will perchance never come again at your
bidding. You told me once you wished to
see life, and —"
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 217
" Kemind me not ! remind me not of those
vanished hours which have left so dreary a
shade Oh! tell me not of those moments of
girl-like delusion," .cried poor Clementina;
" Oh ! would that it were all a dream ! Queen-
Mother of France, tell me not you feel towards
me as a mother ; it is well I have no mother—
her tender heart would have broken if she
knew one half of the misery I have felt—if she
had heard half my sighs—if she had watched
the decay of health and happiness."
" I thought you were a strong-minded girl,
Clementina; that you could soar above the
trials of life ; that you could bow to circum
stances, and remember that the type of a high
soul is to suffer without letting the whole world
know it."
" That may be if the broken heart be allowed
to feed unobserved on its own misery ; but I
am taken from Court to Court : I have bowed
to Queens ; I have had to force a smile at gay
entertainments; I have been tormented by
VOL. I. L
218 the astrologer's daughter.
hollow lore ; Oh ! I am ready to be shrouded
in the tomb, but I cannot wear my bridal-
dress!"
" Have you never called the voice of religion
to your aid V
"Have I not?" asked Clementina; "have I
not bedewed my sleepless couch with the tears
of hopeless resignation ? have I not prayed
until my parched lips were dry, and refused
further utterance ? I have prayed during the
hours of the day ; I have awoke from my
feverish sleep, prayers still trembling on my
lips. Now, I have a new hope ; a new life has
sprung up within me ; my benighted heart shall
turn to it for comfort, for rest ; shall I tell you
my new hope ? But did you not speak kindly
to me just now ? Yes, yes, you will rejoice to
know that a heavenly balm has been sent to
me ; that I am kindling with new delight, for I
am going to save my Poltrot's soul !"
" The maiden is distraught," muttered Cathe
rine ; but she did not say the words aloud.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 219
There was an impressive earnestness about
the poor girl's voice, a touching vividness in
her words; they fell slowly and melodiously
—they spoke, as it were, the real poesy of
grief, and they told how hopelessly broken
was that poor maiden's heart.
" Clementina, my words do not seem to reach
your heart ; you must now listen to the voice of
your father."
" Ah, my poor father," said Clementina,
" is is long since I have seen him ; I have often
thought the prohibition of my meeting him ar
bitrary and cruel ; it is so sweet to be pressed
to a parent's bosom."
It was not my wish that you should not
see your father," said Catherine (and for
once, she told the truth). " Now, however,
you shall see him."
" Not this evening," replied Clementina,
drawing away from the Queen's proffered hand.
" I have been so agitated during this day, that
my courage sinks at the idea of this meeting.
I
l 2
220 the astrologer's daughter.
It is long since I have heard my father's voice ;
it is long since he has pressed me to his heart,
and I have much to tell . him ; to-morrow
morning I shall be ready, but not this eve
ning."
Catherine could not resist, for Clementina
had hardly finished speaking, when she fell
back in her chair, nearly fainting.
" Queen Jeanne d'Albret wishes to see you,
Clementina," said the Princess Marguerite,
coming in at this moment.
The Queen took the Princess by the hand,
muttering, " Jeanne d'Albret could find another
messenger."
Clementina rose with tottering steps ; she
bowed to the Queen, but her strength was
utterly exhausted, and she burst into a flood of
tears.
"I have not spoken harshly to you," said
Catherine, who felt unwilling Jeanne d'Albret
should accuse her of harshness.
" You have not spoken harshly," replied the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 221
suffering girl, " but you have spoken without
reflecting that my heart is broken."
" I am wearying of that girl's nonsense,"
said Catherine, half aloud, and the Princess
turned pale with alarm.
Clementina's sobs were heard in the passage ;
she reached Jeanne d'Albret's apartments, and
fell at her feet.
" Rise, dear Clementina," cried the Queen ;
" rise, and tell me all."
" Oh ! let me leave this treacherous Court,"
sobbed Clementina ; " let me be again in com
parative peace ; do not let them torment me so
cruelly."
The Queen raised her afflicted protigee ; she
pressed her trembling hands in hers, and she
drew her gently by her side. It was not a
proper time to speak to Clementina, who was
quite exhausted; the Queen, therefore, insisted
on her going to bed, and the poor girl passively
submitted.
The Princess remained some time with her
222 the astrologer's daughter.
mother, who found various excuses for venting
her ill-humour on the amiable young creature ;
at length, she suddenly exclaimed, " I should
like to walk in my garden ?"
" Go, if you will," cried the Queen ; " but
talk no more to Clementina, until she returns
to her duty/'
The Princess saw the young King in the
garden. " Clementina will not be here this
evening," she said.
" I did not expect she would," replied the
King, sarcastically ; " she is as proud as the
proudest dame in the land ; the Duke will be
well matched."
" Fie, Charles, she will never marry the
Duke."
" Not if my mother makes her?" responded
the King.
" No, I believe she would die first," repeated
the Princess.
" Ha ! ha ! how you are stamping on those
lovely pinks," said the King ; " you are as
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 223
passionate as my curs in the dog-days. I am
thinking, Henri of Beam will have a pretty
task in taming you."
" He would if he attempted it, but he would
not tease me as you do ; have I not told you
Clementina cannot come ? she is now with
Jeanne d'Albret."
" She could have come if she liked," replied
the King ; " yet, I will give her one more
chance," continued he : "I will ask her for a
rose to-morrow, and if she refuses me, I will
let her marry the Duke, without saying a word
against the match-" On a simple flower, then,
was such misery to depend !
Readers, you will say this is a mere plot in
my tale ; this is one of many fictitious events.
But of what, save trifles, is the sum-total of
life composed ? Trifles, smaller than the gift or
refusal of a flower, have led to happiness or
misery. Those well-known lines of Hannah
More are indeed full of reflective truth :—
" Trifles make the sum of human happiness."
224 the astrologer's daughter.
Trifling words, too, may be of serious conse
quence, as well as trifling deeds. When
Hastings uttered his contemptive " if," that
" if" of fatal incredulity, he thought not that
the incensed Gloucester would send him to his
grave. When the King of France derided the
Norman Conqueror, he thought not that, piqued
by his " motsplaisants," the conquering William
would invade France, and then die amidst
the embers of Normandy. When the de
spised Italian Conrad threw down the gauntlet
from the scaffold steps, who thought that the
next event would be the " Sicilian Vespers ?"
Enough ; history, as well as domestic life, are
replete with examples, and every home-circle
knows that
" Trifles magnify, until they reach the climax of good
or evil."
CHAPTER XIII.
We have before introduced ourselves to the
apartment of the Astrologer, whom Catherine
regarded with superstitious blindness, as neces
sary to her own safety; and Lorraine most
artfully fed the flame of the Queen's weakness.
To the Cardinal, Pettura was indebted to his
apparently extraordinary knowledge of the
Court. When the Queen-Mother had caused
him to dwell under her very roof, his foresight
of all her proceedings appeared extraordinary ;
he seldom quitted his apartments, and the
M£dicis was therefore certain, that he gained
l 3
226 the astrologer's daughter.
his information by some miraculous power,
which she dare not unravel, whilst the true
key to the Astrologer's knowledge was the
Cardinal Lorraine. It may be easily imagined,
that Lorraine was very desirous to persuade
the Queen that he neither abetted, or even
tolerated,- the Italian's proceedings ; this he
contrived to do, by frequently telling his
Royal mistress that he considered her reliance
on Pettura as a blot of weakness on her charac
ter, which she must carefully conceal from the
world. To speak of weakness to Catherine,
was touching her most sensitive vanity ; and
she abstained from letting any one know that
she ruled her conduct according to Pettura's
words.
Loretta was now doubly useful to her Royal
mistress ; but the waiting-woman's temper was
daily more soured. Some persons are likely
to rise at Court, by a succession of faithful
services ; but Loretta had quite enough sense
to know she would always remain in the same
the astrologer's DAUGHTER. 227
grade. Catherine required a person in her
situation. It was a relief to her to know that
she could say " Now go, Loretta, I will ring
when I want you ;" it was a relief to know the
girl's dark eyes could not be fixed upon her in
the drawing-room—would not follow her at the
banquet-table. It was a comfort, too, to know
that Loretta's pride alone would prevent her
talking to menials, and that if faithfulness
towards her Koyal mistress did not seal her
lips, her pride would most effectually do so.
Loretta had much changed since my readers
were introduced to her, at the beginning of
my tale: in appearance she was altered for
the better ; she had grown from a pretty girl,
to a very handsome woman : her figure was
tall and full, and her large Italian eyes shone
with a brilliancy rarely surpassed; her hair
was smoothly banded, and the little coiff or
frill, which proclaimed her situation, was most
coquettishly arranged, so that it should not con
ceal her beautiful jetty hair. Loretta was more
228 the astrologer's daughter.
soigneuse of her appearance than she had been
in her girlish days ; and this is the clue to her
careful toilette. She had grown weary of her
own sorrow ; who cared if the Italian waiting-
maid's face wore a smile, or was bedewed with
a tear ? Who cared whether her bosom was the
seat of happiness, or whether it was the abode
of sighs ? No one. Loretta was a subordinate
being in a rich and luxurious Court, and no
voice was raised to bid her be happy. None,
did I say? There I must contradict myself,
for there was one who cheered the maiden's
heart ; there was one who first endeavoured to
win favour with the Italian girl, from the selfish
motive that she could be useful to him ; there
was one who at length sympathized with her,
and towards whom Loretta's long cold-stricken
heart warmed with a fire as keen as it was
hopeless ; and yet, oh strange fatality of the
human heart ! the more hopeless her passion,
the more she nurtured it. No words of love
had she listened to—no soft caresses had she
the astrologer's daughter. 229
felt : it was with sympathy her heart had been
stolen, and it was with sympathy her love was
fed. I have said that Loretta's passion was
hopeless ; and therefore rigidly strict persons
will say, that it must be wrong, and that the
young novelist writer should carefully weed
her tale from such subjects. To them, I say ye
are fortunate fair ones ; ye have never been
mournfully, hopelessly unhappy ! If you had,
you would pity, rather than condemn, that es
sence of the passion of love, which sympathy
has kindled, and which never, never dies. The
sympathy of love I will not here decipher:
these are its attributes—it is told in a look, it
speaks through trifles of kindness, it trembles
in a sigh, it finds relief in a tear. Why then is
the passion hopeless ? because we are apt to
look up for sympathy to those, who in the first
instance are older, much older, than ourselves :
to those who feel at first impartially towards us,
and are afterwards warmed by sympathy ; be
cause we open a sorrowing heart to a being
230 the astrologer's daughter.
whom we imagine will relieve it from natural
kindness ; we fondly call this being our friend,
our adviser, our comforter, and then how often
we wake from a dream of Platonic feeling, and
find we are hopelessly, deeply in love !
Oh, how carefully poor Loretta concealed her
passion ! how she strove to hide it from herself ;
how she refused to believe in its existence ;
for indeed hopeless was her love towards —.
Nay, nay, she may divulge her own secret.
******
Pettura sat in his apartment, and the Car
dinal de Lorraine was by his side. Both ap
peared to have been engaged in very absorbing
conversation, and we can only now gather the
end of their parley.
" I am sorry my poor child's destiny should
be a source of such deep interest," said Pet
tura ; " she is one of those timid beings who
would prefer gliding through life unobserved ;
and she has, by a strange fatality of human
wishes, been on the most conspicuous tapis.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 231
" Yet, how can you speak of her disposition ?"
asked the Cardinal ; " you have not seen her
for many years."
" I hare not spoken to her/' said Pettura ;
" but I have often gazed upon her pale face,
when she thought not a father's tears fell at the
same time as hers. But you are curious to
know why I have not spoken to my child, and I
will tell you. Before I was sequestered in this
palace, my mansion was very spacious; my
child dwelt in her own apartments—they were
splendid, modern, and fitted up with exquisite
taste ; I was known to Clementina as a grave
student—as one who gave his advice to those
who sought his reputed knowledge ; but she
never saw me in my dark chambers, she never
saw me, as now, surrounded by objects from
which she would turn away, shuddering and
hating. Thus was it with her mother. How
surpassing all earthly love was the trust and
affection she felt towards me; until, -one un
lucky day, she surprised me in the melancholy
232 the astrologer's daughter.
task of dissecting a head, from which, having
known the person's vices in his life-time, I
wished to ascertain the precise seat in which sat
the root of evil. My bride caught me in the
fact, and from that time her spirits drooped;
her love decayed. She tried to dissemble, but
it would not do ; I saw it in her countenance—
I read her hatred in her eyes—I heard it speak
in her softest accents. She drooped as the lily
by the side of the gentle streamlet ; she died in
that balmy clime, where other beings come to
seek new life ; she died bequeathing me her
only earthly treasure—my fair and unhappy
Clementina. Can you wonder that remorse
and sorrow often fill my breast ? Can you not
believe that I oft-times call myself a dark-
plotting wretch? for I ought to have told
my fair young bride, that in uniting her fate
to mine, in flying, full of love and trust,
from her kindred and dear home, she was
uniting her destiny to an 'Astrologer's !' Ask
me not why I did not alter my course ; it is as
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 233
easy to say, ' Why does not the Medicis resign
her power V We all follow with blind assur
ance the course which our headlong folly makes
us cling to ; and following still through danger
and strife, we at length reach that end of all
earthly grasping and wishing—the dark, fa
thomless tomb !"
" If biographers spoke as clearly as, multum
in parvo, you do, by my faith I would read more
Chronicles," said Lorraine : " but it is abso
lutely necessary you should see your daughter ;
it is a fate which Destiny seems to have had in
store for her. And you, who study the future,
have you not read that to marry the young
Duke of Guise is her imperious fiat ?"
" I have read that she wo uld not survive the
marriage ceremony," replied Pettura; andjudge
now whether it is no sacrifice, when I compel
her to give her hand to the man she abhors."
"Tush, tush," cried Lorraine; "you know
very well you feign to believe, but you have no
more foreknowledge than I have. I do not
234 the astrologer's daughter.
think there is a man on earth who can prophesy
more than another."
" Perhaps not, if he prophesied without deep
thought/' replied Pettura; "but my words
have not hitherto been idle tales. I have buried
my rest in thought ; I have sounded the basis
of politics, of cabals, of religious differences.
I prophesied the various events which have
happened for some time past, and I have
Clementina's future life before my eyes ; ask
me not what it is—ask me not if she has bid
farewelT to happiness."
" You believe too implicity in broken hearts,
and such maiden-like assertions, which have
been in fashion since time immemorial," replied
Lorraine, " There is an old saying that ' Nous
revenous toujours d nos premier amours'. That
is, methinks, a most ambiguous phrase, inso
much as so many maidens hardly know where
to trace their 'premier amour.' The confes
sional teems with pathetic stories of broken
hearts and blighted hopes. Another summer
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 235
returns, and the fair mourner has found out it is
sinful to spend life in useless regrets after more
sinful man. ' Quelques douces larmes sur le
passe beaucoup despoir pour Vavenir voild laJin
<Pun premier amour.' I feel persuaded, Cle
mentina has suffered more from kind, but too
tender friends, than if she had fallen into severe
hands. Every person around her has conspired
to spoil her. The Queen of Navarre has min
gled her gentle tears with hers—for Jeanne
d'Albret deserves a patent for knowing how to
cry without injuring her beauty. The Prin
cess Marguerite has a fund of pretty speeches
and consolation, freshly imported from her
school-room. Clementina has lived in an at
mosphere of sighs and tears, and the more she
weeps, the more she wishes to continue in the
luxury of wo. I will speak to her ; but what
is the use pf any one striving to make her see
the road of her duty, if you are too weak to
enforce it ?"
" I am not too weak," exclaimed Pettura ;
236 the astrologer's daughter.
but at the same moment he asserted it, his
dark eyes glistened through a tear, which he
hastily removed, and which Lorraine did not
appear to notice.
"Do not ask me to see Clementina here,"
continued the Astrologer, after a pause, looking
round almost sadly at a number of curious-look
ing apparatus, which he probably had around
him more to make a show in the M£dicis' eyes,
than for actual use.
" Will you receive her in my closet ?" said
Lorraine.
" I should like it better than here," said
Pettura.
At this moment Loretta knocked at the
door.
" The Queen has bid me prepare the Maestro
for a visit from her Majesty," she said, speak
ing to Lorraine, and bowing to Pettura.
Lorraine arose, and followed Loretta, merely
stopping to say to Pettura, " Clementina shall
await you in my closet."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 237
" How fares it with you ?" said Lorraine to
the Italian girl who followed him at a little
distance.
" I am as well as I can be," replied Loretta ;
" the beau-monde's folly does not reach me ; I
only feel its slightest shadow."
" Perhaps you wouldlike to live in its bustle ?"
said the Cardinal.
" Aye ! but for the pleasure of choosing a
right path between its hollow follies."
" That is the cant of all women who live out
of the pale of fashion," replied Lorraine ; " a
ball is a sin, a fete a depravity, late hours
wickedness, and scandal is past the power of
forgiveness. I should like to see you move
amongst the number of those who form the
mummery of a Court ; you would like it, Lo
retta."
" No ! no, I should not," exclaimed Loretta,
her face flushing with a lovely blush ; " I like
my own thoughts better than gay talk ; and yet,
my Lord, they are sometimes very dull."
238 the astrologer's daughter.
The Cardinal had now reached his apart
ments, and Loretta was bowing her congi,
but the Cardinal espied a large nosegay of
flowers on the table.
" Ha ! here are the flowers the Princess
Marguerite promised me from her own fairy
garden !" he exclaimed ; " come Loretta, you
must arrange them in these vases, and let me
see if you can display any taste."
Loretta displayed more than taste, for she
knew the language of flowers, which every
young Italian woman does, and she arranged
them in such a manner, that had Lorraine been
equally au fait he might have read in that vase
the history of a hopeless passion ; but the
Cardinal only exclaimed, when the nosegay
was duly disposed—
" Oh ! Loretta, I thought your slender fingers
would have arranged my nosegay better ; you
have no green in the whole vase ;" and the Car
dinal proceeded to take some of the discarded
leaves which he placed abundantly at the back
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 289
of the bouquet. " See, what an evident im
provement," he said.
" Ah, yes," replied Loretta, " roses smiling
amidst a heap of green young hope ; but why
place all the green near the roses?"
" Then arrange them better if you can,"
replied the Cardinal.
Loretta made very little alteration, but she
took away one small and very delicate rose,
upon which the pink tint was nearly effaced by
pure white, and she placed the flower away
from the green leaves ; the Cardinal heard her
sigh as she did so.
" Did I sigh," said Loretta, raising her beau
tiful eyes. " Well I will sigh no more ; but I,
too, will surround myself by green leaves."
" They are a type of hope, are they not?"
" Yes my lord."
" But hope sometimes deceives."
" Very, very often," replied Loretta ; " there
fore, why place those flowers under its green
banner?"
240 the astrologer's daughter.
Because, hoping we live Loretta, and
hoping we die ; hope is our surest anchor, and
our dearest friend."
" Then I will bind hope around my heart,"
said Loretta. " There, there, place more green
in your bouquet ; but let that one pale rose be
away from its reach. Let us see if the flowers
which are shaded by green hope live longer than
that isolated rose."
" Well, it shall be as you like, Loretta ; and
now to another subject : tell me, do you often
speak to Mademoiselle Pettura?"
" Very seldom indeed," replied Loretta.
" And why so ?"
" I will tell you, my Lord.—When first the
young lady came to Court, she had received
many pretty lessons of pride from her father—
such as—' she was not to speak to menials,' etc.
There was no approaching the lovely girl, yet I
strove to be heard ; I told her to beware of
flattery, and such friendly caution ; but she
would not heed me, and the Queen fed her
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 241
pride. One evening the Queen was ill, and
sent Pettura's daughter to the Maestro : I was
to accompany her. The Queen had previously
wounded my pride by telling me I was not
high-born enough to carry her message. I be
lieve I was in a very bad humour, and kept the
fair girl waiting. Strong in her own imagina
tion, bounding with youth and health, the
maiden went by herself: then it was she first
met Monsieur de Mere'—you know the rest,
and I too often reproach myself as the real
author of her life of misery."
" But you have nothing to do with the mur
der of the old Duke," said Lorraine.
" Heaven forbid P' replied Loretta. " Oh,
no ; the Queen has never yet given me any
such tasks, even to think upon ; and I would
rather be a waiting-maid with my conscience,
than a Queen with hers. But I never talk to
poor Mademoiselle Pettura; her pale face speaks
so sorrowfully to the heart. I remember her
buoyant gaiety ; and I see in her faded frame
M
242 the astrologer's daughter.
a lesson of constancy from which I turn aside,
for I am not so constant."
" You are more reasonable, you mean, Lo-
retta?"
" I do not know," replied the young woman,
bitterly, " whether it is very reasonable to ex
change an old sorrow for a new one."
" But you must not be sorrowful at all, or I
shall think I have only half cured you. Are you
not much happier, since I convinced you of the
sin of sorrow ? "
"Happier!" exclaimed the young woman,
bitterly ; but the Cardinal cast a searching look
on her. Loretta coloured, and replied in a tone
of gratitude, " Yes, my Lord, I am happier ;
but why did your Lordship wish to know if I
talked to Pettura's daughter?"
" Because I think she is a very sweet young
person, and I would some one knew how to
comfort her."
" "Would that I could," said Loretta, with
genuine feeling.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 248
" It may not be so far out of your power,"
replied Lorraine ; " you can talk to her of Henri
of Guise, extol his virtues, his military fame.
"Would you not like so young and handsome a
husband ? "
" I shall never marry," replied Loretta.
The Cardinal laughed.
"I am only saying what I mean," continued
Loretta.
" I. will remind you of your words when you
kneel before me, and I pronounce your nuptial
blessing. I will remind you of your words,
when you change your little coifF for the orange
wreath."
" You shall remind me of my words when
ever that time arrives," said Loretta with
feigned mirth ; " but I have tarried very long,
and perhaps wearied you with my silly prattle."
"Silly," said the Cardinal, "there is more
reason in your words than happiness in your
heart, notwithstanding all my endeavours to
teach you resignation. Here, poor child, take
i
m 2
244 the astrologer's daughter.
this piece of green, and as you look upon it,
think of the young hope which those leaves
typify."
Loretta bowed low, and took the leaf.
" Hope," cried she, when she had closed the
door, "what have I to do with fresh, green
hope ; yet I will wear the deceitful badge ;"
and opening her little bodice, she placed the
green leaf in her bosom.
CHAPTER XIV.
Oh, how affectingly, how rapturously beauti
ful, was the meeting between the Astrologer
and his daughter after their long separation.
Study, late hours, and anxiety had spangled
Pettura's hair with silvery streaks. Sorrow
and fretting had robbed his sweet daughter
of her bloom : they turned their gaze upon
each other, and father and child mingled
their tears in one long and affectionate em
brace. How fraught with pain was that
meeting ! How those two beings felt the
weight of the world's chains ! how willingly
246 the astrologer's daughter.
would they now burst from the shackles of a
Court ! how willingly would Clementina dwell
once more, unobserved, in her childhood's
home ! how willingly would Pettura recal
much of his life ; all, indeed, since the day
he lost the affections of his English bride.
As thus the afflicted pair gazed on each other,
blinded with tears, oppressed with sighs, how
unwilling each felt to disturb the silence of
sorrow. Leaning on her father's bosom, her
beautiful, tearful eyes raised to his, her long
tresses falling on his dark dress, the sweet Cle
mentina appeared in the Astrologer's eyes as
beautiful as in her spring of beauty. Sorrow
had tempered the once buoyant look into a
softened expression of angelic patience, and
she looked more like a pale and beautifully
sculptured statue than like a being, upon
whom the rude hand of Adversity could be
cruel enough to place its stamp. Oh, then, in
that quiet moment, methinks I can fathom the
Astrologer's thoughts ; methinks he could have
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 247
a
placed his grief-stricken child in her resting-
place — have calmly closed her eyes in the
slumber of death ; but, instead of that, his task
was to recal her to grief and pain. How he
hated his own voice, when, raising his daughter
from his bosom, he said : " Oh, my child, my
Clementina, hate me not! but I must speak
to you."
" Oh ! dear father, if it be of the future you
are going to speak, let it slumber in oblivion.
Disturb not now the rapturous dream of the
present which fills my soul ; the pang of ab
sence is doubly compensated in the loved kiss
of re-union. If you must break the trance of
pure delight in which my heart is wandering,
tell me only these welcome words ; tell me—
'Clementina, you shall no more wander in
a Court, wretched and broken-hearted—you
shall return to your childhood's home, and
your soul shall be at rest.' "
" Your childhood's home !" exclaimed Pet-
tura, bitterly ; " ah, my poor child, that home
£48 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
is now a heap of cinders ; and those who placed
the brand, and revelled in the sight of the glar
ing flames, fttncy the Astrologer perished in the
incendry, and now I am houseless, and hide
myself from the sight of men."
" This is a bitter reward for devoting your
days and nights for the improvement of man
kind ; hut I speak of a far-off home—a land of
grapes and olives-—a balmy home, where the
sun's rays are not warmer than the heart—a
land where the gondolier sings his love-tuned
lay, and plies his oars in the moonlight. I
speak of Italy, my father-land."
" Alas ! my child, think you we should be
safe ? Is not the Medicis as queenly over Italy
as over France? are not her relations spread
over every part of the land ? has she not spies
at the Inquisitorial Council, and at the Papal
assemblies ? Where should we be safe if we
incurred the Medicis' hatred? Rivers, could
they speak, would tell tales of deadly plunges—
steel, poison—"
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 249
" Oh, hush, dear father—and I have pressed
the Medicis' hand, and I have hung over
her words, and I have paid homage at the
shrine of her wonderful beauty; but I will
dwell with her no more. I will think wholly
ofthat better world—that bright land of happi
ness, where the good are not obliged to mix
with the vicious. Away with worldly thoughts !
I will not enter into any of the Medicis' plans,
I will not be the bride of any one here be
low, but prepare myself for the marriage-feast
above."
Pettura felt a holy fear diffusing itself
through his veins, but he shook off the dread
he involuntarily experienced, and he inter
rupted the train of his daughter's conversa
tion. " Clementina," he said, " you are rang
ing in a world of dreamy imagination ; this
world will not, cannot understand you. Oh,
my child ! learn that the most philosophic
human virtue is to bend to circumstances.
Shake off a grief which neither becomes your
m3
250 the astrologer's daughter.
years nor the station which is awaiting you.
Be not a Duchess to please the M£dicis—to
please any one—not even yourself; but submit
with a good grace, to please a fond and doting
parent—one who loves and cherishes you—
who longs, with pardonable ambition, to see
a Duchess's coronet encircle your brow. Be
happy, my beloved child, happy in the ac
ceptation of the worldly term. Why seek to
transplant heavenly bliss in a world which is
not worthy of comprehending its existence ?"
" But, why not have a foretaste of Heaven
here below ?" said Clementina. " Why mix
unwilHngly in the world's gay scenes. Why
wander in the labyrinth of pleasure, and drag
on a weary existence ? Oh ! when shall I be
happy V
"When you marry the Duke," exclaimed
Pettura.
"Oh, father!" cried Clementina, falling at
Pettura's feet, and clasping her hands in
unfeigned agony ; " oh, spare me, spare me !
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 251
let me not hear your loved voice pronounce
those cruel words ; bid me not utter vows
from which my heart turns away with disgust.
Wish me dead and cold; wish me every mis
fortune ; none is to me more dreadful than to
marry the Duke."
" Have you any cause to hate him I"
" Poltrot de Mer£ murdered his father," said
Clementina.
"Rise," said Pettura, almost sullenly; "a
pretty reason for disliking the Duke. Silly,
wayward girl, it is no use running against your
*
destiny; you must marry the Duke, and you
will wish it, too. Hear me ; it is useless to be
silent any longer. Poltrot de Mere lives ! the
murderer is near my own apartments ; but he
dare not escape. Marry the Duke on condition
that he give Poltrot his liberty."
Poor Clementina rose with sudden energy;
she caught only at those words of bliss—" Pol
trot lives ! She forgot he was a murderer ; she
remembered only his gentle voice, his kindness
253 the astrologer's daughter.
to her. Her heart palpitated quickly, and a most
lovely smile played around her mouth. " He
lives," she exclaimed,, rapturously : " oh, day
of bliss ! it is worth living to have heard the
words. My beloved Poltrot ! he a murderer?
Oh ! no, no ; he will tell me how false it was,
how wrong it was of me to believe the wicked
ly-woven tale ; no more will I grieve—no more
will I fret. Poltrot de Mer6, I am yours, and
yours only !"
Pettura was taken entirely by surprise.
" Clementina," he exclaimed, "provoke not
my anger ! You have wearied every one's pa
tience, and now you must hear the unmasked
truth. Poltrot de M£r£ is a murderer, and
he shall suffer for his crime, unless you marry
the Duke."
" Will he take me for his wife," said Cle
mentina? "will he listen to my fake vows,
when my heart is entirely Poltrot's ? Let him
tell me he is a murderer—let me hear his voice ;
that alone will I heed—and then bind the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 253
orange wreath around my brow, link the flow
ing veil around my form. Firmly will I kneel
at the altar ; aye, firmly will I pronounce the
vow which will liberate my Poltrot ; for a long
life ofrepentance will atone for his sin !"
" You shall hear Poltrot de M£r£'s voice,"
said Pettura ; " you shall hear him confess him
self guilty; you shall see his altered counte
nance, and then you must forgive me, Clemen
tina ; you must realize the fond love and the
bitter disappointment which has wrung a secret
from my lips : even now, before we part, you
must forgive me."
" Oh ! my father I" exclaimed Clementina.
She turned to weep on his bosom, but she
suddenly drew*back, for the door opened, and
Catherine de M£dicis entered; not alone, for
Clementina darted with one joyous spring into
Poltrot de Mere's arms.
Pettura's dark brow scowled even upon the
Queen-Mother of France
" I heard your conversation," she said, in
answer to his searching look, " and—"
254 the astrologer's daughter.
But Pettura did not give her time to con
tinue. He advanced towards Poltrot, exclaim
ing, in a voice of thunder :—
" How dare you clasp my daughter in your
arms ? Draw back, sinner, nor dare repeat
your embrace."
" It may be the last ; we have met again to
be severed for ever," replied Poltrot ; and he
repeated the embrace.
The Astrologer's rage knew no bounds, and
his liquid eyes seemed to flash fire, but the Me-
dicis interposed, with her calm, decided voice.
"Nay, Pettura," she said, "let Poltrot
speak to Clementina ; your daughter will have
no wish to unite herself to Poltrot, when she
hears his confession." *
" Ah ! not if he be guilty," said Clementina,
plaintively.
Alas ! Poltrot could only cast his eyes on the
ground ; he fell at her feet, he took her hand in
his. Oh ! how cold was the grasp the afllicted
girl encountered. His streaming eyes met hers
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 255
he loved, and they responded to his fast-falling
tears. The Astrologer's heart was touched;
the Medicis took him by the arm, and drew
him out of the apartment.
The wretched lovers were left alone.
Clementina sunk on a seat, but Poltrot con
tinued kneeling.
" Oh ! he need not confess his crime," thought
the poor heart-stricken girl; "it is written with
indelible marks on his brow."
It is impossible to describe anything more
handsome, wild, and hopeless, than was Poltrot
de Mere's appearance. His face had not one
shade of colour, but was pale and clear as statu
ary marble ; his eyes—his once strikingly bright
hazel eyes—were touchingly expressive of hope
less despair ; and his thick clustering brown
curls strayed in neglected, but beautiful profu
sion, on a forehead so lofty, so clear, that Vice
had not yet dared trace on it a line—it had de
fied sorrow and pain ; and Poltrot now knelt at
the feet of the much-afflicted girl, as a wan and
256 the astrologer's daughter.
unearthly shadow, seeming to say in its own
lustreless beauty, " how bright it ought to have
been."
"Forgive me," cried Poltrot, in a hollow
voice ; " forgive me, my adored, my long-lost
Clementina ; hear me say that I was mad when
I did the deed. Call me not a murderer—call
me rather an erring maniac. Cast on my pallid
brow one pitying gaze ; press on it your warm
hand ; feel how cold and cheerless it is. Oh !
could you know all I have suffered, all I shall
still suffer; all my wrecked happiness, all
my keen despair ! then, all pure, all good,
as you are, you would say " I forgive." Let
me hear those words of heavenly comfort ; tell
me that there is a place in heaven for a penitent
sinner. Comfort me, bless me, with your own
sweet voice ; then I will pray for one boon—
the boon of death."
"Then you are guilty," said Clementina.
" Poltrot ! my heart shares your disgrace ;
you must believe it. Oh ! look at my wasted
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 257
form, my faded beauty ; all, all, is as cold
•within my heart as within yours. Why did
you soil your bright soul with such a deep-
stained crime? What did I say? Look not
so beseechingly, or my heart will break. Rise
from your knees, my once- beloved, my still
dear Poltrot ; sit by my side, and let me press
your cold hand in mine ! But one grace I ask
—do not look at me, or, sleeping, or waking,
that look will haunt me through life."
" It is the look of crime and despair," replied
the unfortunate Poltrot ; " it is the branding
mark which was placed on Cain's brow. Then
cast down your dear eyes, Clementina, and do
not look at me, but let me have the consolation
of gazing at your pure brow. You are like an
angel of mercy, and the softness of your fair
cheek, shadowed by those long silken fringes,
will return before me in the sickening hour of
despair and loneliness, and I will no more de-
spond."
" You must not think of me any more," said
258 the astrologer's daughter.
Clementina ; you must direct your thoughts to
wards that forgivingworld above. Oh ! blessed
thought ! repent, repent, Poltrot ; and, purified
by your prayers, by mine—by those of the
Church, which I will invoke with heart and
soul—think, Poltrot, of the blessed hope of
being re-united in another world; of taking our
flight together towards regions of real and ten
der forgiveness."
" Is there such a hope for me ?" said Pol
trot.
" Yes, yes, I feel assured there is ; none are
so fallen but they may repent ; turn towards
the well of everlasting life, poor stray lamb
from the fold of virtue ; though all here should
be black as blackest night, still, still there is
hope."
"Men would say, I am a Huguenot, and
your pure prayers will avail me nothing."
"A Huguenot ?" cried Clementina ; " do not
Huguenots and Papists pray to the same Al
mighty Father ? Weary not your poor heart
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 259
with unmeaning questions, but bind around it
those words, "repent, repent !"
At that moment, Clementina involuntarily
raised her eyes, and she saw Poltrot's face.
Hope seemed to have kindled every feature
into new-born beauty, and the poor girl did not
turn away ; but their eyes met, and in that one
gaze of undying love, they felt it would have
been bliss to have ceased to exist.
Silently the unhappy pair continued gazing ;
their hearts beat with one nervously unhappy
pulse. Poltrot felt he was forgiven.
"Oh! Poltrot," cried Clementina, "do not
let me see you all hope, all love, when I, un
happy girl, must speak as I am commanded to
do. I must save your life', but I must live a
wretched and unhappy wife. I—Oh, God!
give me courage to say the words—I must marry
the Duke."
" You shall not ! you must not !" exclaimed
Poltrot, writhing with agony at the very idea.
" Clementina, I know how they will persuade
260 the astrologer's daughter.
you, but do not think of me; I will suffer
torture or death ! my dearest consolation will
be to know your thoughts are bent on me.
Dearest, best, my once promised bride, promise
me you will not marry the Duke."
" Nay, nay ! I cannot promise it. If the
young Duke sets you free before I give him my
hand, then will I kneel at the altar, and give
him all I can—a broken heart. You have
my love, he shall have my faithful duty. If
that cold moiety of love can satisfy him, then
will I no more repine. Then, dear, though
fallen Poltrot, you must go to England, you
must rejoin your gentle sister ; but from that
moment I marry the Duke, no consideration
will make me see you. I can suffer all the
pangs of an unhappy marriage, but I will ever
do my duty. Hark ! I hear voices ; you must
consent : liberty is dear to us all. Poltrot, you
must consent !"
" Do as you please, dear angel of pity," ex
claimed Poltrot ; "but know that I shall share
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 261
your broken heart; no change of place or
clime, no change of scene, but death alone, can
sever my heart from yours. 1 To me alone
belong tears, suffering, and unhappiness ; to
you, happiness, and all joy. Clementina, my
lost bride, give me at least a token, -which in
my lone wanderings can remind me of you,
something I can gaze at and call a shadow of a
happiness which might have been substantial."
" Take this," cried Clementina, detaching
a gold chain from her neck; " it is a portrait of
myself. Vain as it seems in me to have worn
it, it has been my companion for many long
months, and every time I looked at it, I asked
myself if I were indeed the Clementina of that
smiling-looking picture."
" And I, guilty, unhappy, creature, robbed
you of your bloom and your light heart; and
yet you can forgive."
" And suffer too," said Clementina, with a
bitter smile ;" for you must not waver. I shall
be a Duchess—the wife of the Duke."
262 the astrologer's daughter.
"But you will be my bride in heaven,"
exclaimed Poltrot, with an unearthly gladness,
and he once more folded her in a last embrace.
The Medicis returned alone ; her cold figure
seemed to step in between the lovers, and alas !
it was a timely interference, for that one close
embrace, that gush of the hearts' affection,
might have proved the weakness of the
struggle between love and Clementina's future
plans.
The Queen-Mother's voice reminded the
unfortunate Poltrot, that he was an unhappy
murderer ; and the poor weeping girl, that
she had sealed her heart's unhappiness.
" Take me away ; oh, spare me further dis
course," cried the agitated girl. " I am a pas
sive victim in your hands ; I am ready to
marry the Duke."
" But you must recover from this shock ; you
must give yourself time to listen to Henri's
gentle voice j you must give him some love,"
said the Queen.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 263
" I have none to give," said Clementina, with
stern sorrow, but seeming to recollect herself,
she continued gathering firmness, though her
poor heart throbbed ready to burst. In an
agony of tears, " I will be rightly assured of
Poltrot's safety, before I see the Duke," she
said.
" I will not deceive you," replied the Queen.
" I know not that," muttered Clementina ;
" I am no longer the trusting girl I used to
be ; and those who talk fairly, are not always
the kindest."
Catherine reddened, but the young girl
continued—
" I must have a sign from Poltrot, that I
may know he is safe in England; and no
one must hear what the sign shall be. I shall
then fear no fraud."
The Queen-Mother consented.
" You must send me back the chain, which
holds my portrait," whispered Clementina, in
Poltrot's ears.
264 the astrologer's daughter.
" And then you will marry the Duke ?" said
Poltrot, with a solemn despair.
" Then I will marry Henri of Guise," re
peated the poor broken-hearted girl, heaving
a bitter sigh. " Now farewell, Poltrot ; a long,
a last farewell. Nay, advance not nearer ; you
have had my last kiss, you have heard my
voice for the last time. I dare not be weak
again. Farewell! my fondest prayers are for
you, and the purest links of pity are everlast
ingly bound -round my heart. I am quite
altered now; firm, firm as a rock, I shall
hear of sorrow, but shall not weep ; I will
be a faithful wife—a wretched, broken-hearted
woman. Farewell, Poltrot ; go kneel at the
throne of God's goodness, and ask His for
giveness. When you see the setting sun,
think its expiring rays whisper oblivion of
the past ; let the twilight hour—let all earth—
all, that His hand formed—speak to you in
compassionating accents ; and when your heart
is quite calm, when you can say, I am quiet
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 265
and resigned ; then, but not till then, think
once more of an earthly being—think then of
your lost Clementina."
Clementina pressed her hand over her tear
less eyes ; she rushed past the Queen, and even
the cold-hearted Medicis felt her very heart
strings tighten ; her throat felt convulsively
swollen, and tears coursed each other down her
cheeks. Poltrot placed his head in his hands,
and sobbed aloud. Oh, it was agonizing to hear-
the burst of grief which issued from his over
charged heart ; every vein in his face seemed
distorted with agony. Memory spoke of young
and innocent days, when the very idea of such
deep sorrow would have caused the heart to
burst. He pressed his hand against his bosom ;
there was Clementina's loved image ! no more
would he gaze upon her own living face ; no
more hear the charm ofher inexpressibly sweet
voice—she was lost, lost to him for ever. For
ever ! words which are fraught with excruciating
pain—how heavily they fall on the bereaved
VOL. I. N
266 the astrologer's daughter.
heart ; yet to Poltrot, to the wretched, unhappy
Poltrot, they whispered a far remote comfort—
they spoke of eternity ! Eternity ! ah yes, there
he might again see Clementina, there his own
forgiven soul would perhaps be reunited to
her. " Be still, my broken heart," he thought ;
" away, my hopeless despondency ; there is life
beyond the tomb—a life of forgiveness."
* * » * *
*****
Have any of my readers known what it is to
be suddenly recalled from deep and absorbing
sorrow ; from grief which is selfish, insomuch
that it is all-engrossing ? Have any of my
readers been suddenly awakened from the
dull apathy of sorrow, by the voice of persons
who have not noticed the dejection which is
over the countenance, and pay no regard to
the grief? This jarring, this unharmonious
insensibility, Clementina experienced, when
she was suddenly accosted by the gay young
King.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 267
" Fair Clementina," he said, " I want a
pretty nosegay, or at least a blooming rose.
Will you cull me one ?
" I have no roses," replied Clementina, sul
lenly.
" I know where gay ones grow," replied the
King; "but I should like to have one from
you."
The King advanced, but Clementina ran
away from him, with an impetuous " I am in
no humour to be trifled with. "
You shall marry the Duke," muttered the
revengeful little King ; but he knew not that
poor Clementina had reached her own apart
ment, had thrown herself on her bed, and
was sobbing convulsively, "I shall marry the
Duke."
n 2
0
CHAPTEE XV.
A tew weeks after this conversation, the
Queen Medicis, the Princess Marguerite, the
Queen of Navarre, and Clementina were sitting
together ; and each person in the little group
appeared to be feigning a mirth little felt.
The Princess and Clementina were working
together at the same embroidery frame; and
their slender fingers were industriously plying
the needle, whilst the young Princess ever and
anon burst forth into a sunny laugh ; one look
a the forced smile which hovered round Cle
mentina's mouth dispelled the laugh, and a
sigh chased away a smile.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 269
The Queen of Navarre and Catherine de
M£dicis were engaged in light conversation;
and those who knew the Queen-Mother could
easily trace that it was Catherine's wish to
evade all serious discourse.
" Are you determined to be robed in white ?"
she said, turning suddenly towards Clemen
tina. " Methinks you are rather too pale—pink
would be the most becoming."
" Oh ! I like to see Clementina in white,"
cried the little Princess ; " she looks like my
favourite drooping lily."
" Pshaw, child, how romantic you are," said
her mother. " Why cannot you speak in plain
language ?"
" Oh, let her talk," said Jeanne d'Albret. " I
like to hear the lovely flowers compared to our
fair friends. What say you, dear Clementina ?"
" Did your Majesty speak to me ?" said
Clementina, listlessly.
"Are you deaf?" jokingly asked Jeanne
d'Albret.
270 the astrologer's daughter.
" It is a complaint husbands soon cure," said
the M£dicis.
Clementina raised her lustreless eyes to Ca
therine's face, and her usually mild expression
was changed to one of scorn and defiance : it
seemed to say, " Queen Catherine, you may be
as cruel as you like ; you cannot add to my
misery."
Presently Loretta joined the group. She
had a large box in her hands.
" What have you there ? " exclaimed the
Princess, who was glad some one had arrived
to break a painfully felt silence.
" It is Mademoiselle Pettura's veil," replied
Loretta; and 'she displayed a most beautiful
piece of fairy-looking workmanship.
With true feminine curiosity, all eyes were
turned to Loretta; but hers were fixed on
Clementina, and they rested compassionately
on her pale face. Lower still, Clementina
bent her head over the embroidery; and a
casual observer would never have believed
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 271
that the pale, listless, cheerless-looking Cle
mentina, was the promised bride, for whom
such preparation was going forth. At last she
slowly arose from her seat, and approaching
the party, she mechanically took a corner of
the veil, and was examining it, when suddenly
a warm tear fell on the flower she was hold
ing ; the amiable Jeanne d'Albret brushed it
away, and silently pressed Clementina's hand
—unkindness the poor unhappy girl could
bear, but sympathy touched her heart, and she
hastily left the room.
" How glad I shall be when the ceremony
is over," said the Princess Marguerite.
" I doubt if she will have strength to go
through it," replied Jeanne d'Albret. " What
a shocking tale of sorrow that poor girl's life
has been."
" Those too sensitive hearts always find
some sorrow," said Catherine, coldly.
Unfeeling woman! ought she not to have
shielded that sensitive heart? Poor unhappy
272 the astrologer's daughter.
girl ! the very being whose powerful voice,
whose powerful hand, could be stretched forth
to save her, led her on to her fate, and dis
regarded her unfeigned wretchedness.
Clementina slowly descended into the gar
den, and she strove to regain that firmness
which she had at length assumed ; she twisted
the links of a thick gold chain around her
fingers, and as she did so, her eyes were so
deeply rivetted on it, that it seemed as if the
unmeaning bauble could speak. Unmeaning !
the chain was fraught with recollection ; it
was the sign that Poltrot de Mer£ was safe.
At that recollection sweet tears of thankfulness
coursed each other down her pale cheeks ;
and she murmured a prayer of resignation for
herself, and forgiveness for Poltrot.
" One week more," exclaimed the wretched
girl ; " one week more, and I shall be the
wife of the Duke. Oh that I could die ! Is
the wish so wicked ? is it not better to slum
ber in oblivion of wo, than to drag on a weary
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 273
existence ? Clementina spent the greater part
of her time in the garden ; the morning air re
freshed her; the noon-tide beauty whispered
hope ; the evening shades harmonized with
her broken spirits. In the fading day, and
in the entrancing blue of the sky above, she
fancied a voice was speaking to her heart !
How beautiful are the phenomena of Nature !
what a congeniality there is between the cre
puscular hour and the tried and sad human
heart! Day is fading, and so is the enjoy
ment of mirth; and the setting sun speaks
volumes of pathos. The mellow hue of the
sky, the expiring light, the unbroken silence
which reigns around; and then the sudden
appearance of the moon, replacing the bright
Monarch of the East, oh ! how gloriously beau
tiful ! Then gliding, one by one, brightly,
gently, gracefully on the the bosom of the
richly-tinted sky, the moon's attendants, her
satellites, the twinkling stars, shine forth in
their glory, and the Queen of Heaven holds
n 3
274 the astrologer's daughter.
her Court. No wonder Clementina raised her
tearful eyes above, and then she dreamed she
was once more happy. She saw again, in a
blissful vision, Poltrot, her own Poltrot—not
soiled with crime, but bright and good. She
heard again the rich tones of his loved voice ;
she felt the pressure of his hand ! Oh, that
all this should be but a vision ! How rudely
the reality came upon her ; how bitterly were
the words proclaimed—" Why does the Duke
love me. I am a faded, unhappy girl. Would
that each withered charm could take away his
love."
As thus Clementina stood alone in the
moonlight, her slight, but very graceful figure,
shaded by the dimness of night ; her pale
face touchingly expressive of the sorrow of
her heart ; of her might be said, in the words
of Haynes Bayley :—
" Her cheek had lost its summer's bloom,
And her breath has lost its soft perfume ;
And the gloss has dropped from her golden hair,
And her brow is pale, but no longer fair."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 275
Methinks it strangely shows the perversity of
the human heart, when a lover continues to
sue the affections of a girl, knowing all the
time that there is an obstacle between them.
Though Clementina's wasted beauty told its
tale, though her deep sighs echoed her sorrow,
still Henri of Guise continued to love with
passionate ardour, nothing daunted by his
betrothed's sadness, but trusting to the too-
often believed tale "That love would come
after marriage."
Clementina was still engaged with her own
poignant thoughts, when her lover drew her
arm within his ; and looking tenderly at her,
he said, " Is it right of you to court the damp
evening air ? . What charms can you find in so
much solitude ?"
" And is not solitude the hand-maiden of
thought?" replied Clementina ; " does not the
bright soul love to dwell in its own atmo
spheric region ? Is not the soul the monarch
of thought? Does it not lend its tales to
276 the astrologer's daughter.
the heart ! Who can want better companions -
than ' The heart, and the soul.' "
"Yours must be dull companions," replied
Henri of Guise ; " for even by this doubtful
light, I can see the traces of tears shining on
your face. Oh, Clementina ! life is too short to
indulge in melancholy."
Henri of Guise was a gallant courtier, and
a brave warrior ; he was also an admiring and
fond lover, but he had not made a study of
the delicacy of true love. He had never
contemplated the possibility of being a re
fused suitor ; and although he knew the cruel
stratagem which had been used to compel the
reluctant Clementina to accept him, he knew
she was his promised bride, and he did not
pause to consider how delicate a task it was
to win her from grief. " Oh ! had he been as
gentle as the unhappy Poltrot," thought the
broken-hearted girl by his side " then I might
again have loved."
"How brightly the stars are shining," ex
n 3
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 277
claimed Henri, after a pause ; "they seem to smile
over our love." Was this a mockery of her
love ? Clementina involuntarily shuddered.
" You are cold," continued Henrie ; you
must not walk any longer." And he added,
with a smile, " when you are my wife, moon
light walks must be a forbidden indulgence."
" But I am my own mistress yet," replied
Clementinia, with much bitterness."
" Nay, I am only joking," said Henri : " do
not look angry," Clementinia ; I will leave you
if you prefer being alone."
" Oh, no, you can stay," said Clementina,
evidently trying to conquer her feelings " it is
better to understand each other fully before—
before our marriage."
" I do understand you fully," exclaimed her
lover ; " you are a bright pearl lost in a casket
of sorrow, but my love, my soothing care,
shall restore you to your original brightness.
Oh, but once to hear you laugh ; but once to
see your eyes full of lustre and love."
278 the astrologer's daughter.
Clementina sighed.
" Clementina, you sigh, you refuse to be
happy. Oh, that I had sufficient courage to bid
you be free—to tear myself away from all your
imposing beauty—your mild and suffering
charms. Should you love me then, my Cle
mentina ? Would you bestow one thought of
gratitude on me ? Would you pity me, when
you remembered that, like yourself, I am
broken-hearted." Oh the ray of light which
fleeted accross the poor girl's blue eyes.
" You are mocking me," she said. " Henri,
why bring before me a picture I dare not
realize? You cannot know the struggle I have
had to appear calm ; you cannot believe in the
misery of a broken heart, or you would not trifle
with me. Henri, I had promised to be your
bride ; I had schooled myself to appear calm ; I
promised you all I could give—my loyal and
obedient duty ; but now you have called up a
dream in my mind, a dream of freedom at which
I hardly dare grasp. Should I be grateful if
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 279
you released me from my vow ? Passing, ever
lastingly grateful ! Your name should speak
in a balmy reality of happiness. Henri, are
you mocking me ? " Clementina's words were
abrupt, but the crest-fallen lover felt all their
sincerity ; he had wrung them from the heart
in which they had been slumbering. Invo
luntarily he released her arm, and looking at
her, more in sadness than in anger, he endea
voured to speak, but found it was impossible ;
the words died on his lips, and he hastily rushed
from her presence."
In the vestibule he met the young King and
the Due d'Aujou."
" Have you been visiting your fair inamorata ?
cried the King. " If so, you return rather
au-desespoir."
The Duke endeavoured to smile.
" We did not ask you to laugh against your
inclination," said the King, " but it seems an
effort beyond command."
" I do not know why I have provoked your
280 the astrologer's daughter.
Majesty's derision," said the Duke, "and I do
not know why I should submit to it."
" Ha ! ha ! you are getting angry," exclaimed
the King ;"ybt de rot, every one is angry, and
Clementina seems to make her mood as catch
ing as the small pox ; every one is affected with
it, from my Queenly mother do wn to her wait
ing-maid. Next time I order my horses, I shall
expect my groom to appear with a languid air
a la Clementina.
The Duke of Anjou now burst into an uncon
trollable fit of laughter ; and Henri of Guise,
on the contrary, fell into paroxysm of passion.
" How dare you make Clementina the subject
of your mimicry?"
"It is seldom any one says dare to me,"
exclaimed the King.
" Then it must be a pleasant change to you,"
said the Duke.
Again the Duke of Anjou laughed, louder
than before, and this time the King chose to
take the laugh home to himself. The three
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 281
young men now lost all command of temper,
and going into a sequestered part of the Royal
gardens, they (that is, the King and the Duke)
tried the strength of their swords, whilst the
Duke of Anjou encouraged them by his silly
laugh. He did not think fit to calm them until
the King aimed so sure a blow at the Duke, that
his sword lodged in his shoulder, and he fell to
the ground in excruciating pain. The young
King's anger was appeased; but his alarm was
very considerable. The Duke of Anjou raised
the Guise in his arms, and the King followed
his footsteps, without even asking whither he
went. At length, they stopped before the door
ofa small cottage, at the extremity of the garden.
An old man, clad in the faded garb of a hunts
man, received the insensible burden from the
young Duke's arms, and proceeded to examine
the wound. After some considerable time, he
succeeded in stopping the hermorrhage, and
the Duke languidly opened his eyes. He ex
tended his hand towards the young King-
282 the astrologer's daughter.
" It was my own fault," he cried ; " I should
have remembered I was speaking to the King
of France."
" And I should have recollected I was speak
ing to the gallant young Duke of Guise,"
fra nkly answered the King.
And I ought not to have been a meddling
tiers," said Anjou, and in those few words the
reconciliation was perfect.
How much easier it is to be very hasty than
to remedy the evil consequences which follow.
The young men were again at perfect amity,
but the Duke lay pale and bleeding, and the
old porter was not an experienced doctor.
The King, whose natural vivacity predomi
nated over every difficulty, exclaimed :—
" Ah, Francois, this is the worst scrape you
have ever had to shield me from, and your old
dame can do nothing for me ; she used to hide
me when Monsieur Mariot chased me round
the grounds, with his open Latin Orations ; but
this is worse than all Plutarch, and Virgil, and
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 283
Ovid put together. Just summon your old
dame, and let us hear what she advises."
The King forgot he was no longer a school
boy, but a King of importance, with a glitter
ing and jewelled sword-hilt, and golden epau
lettes. If he forgot the difference in his ap
pearance, the old dame of the Lodge did not,
for she bowed so low and reverentially that
her short serge dress actually swept the
ground. n
" I want your advice," said the King.
Another curtsey from the respectful matron,
deprived her ofher equilibrium, and the King
of his gravity.
" What is the use of bowing there like a tot
tering Chinese mandarin? Come, old dame,
are you a doctor ? "
Oh, I have some skill," said the woman,
twisting nervously the corner of her apron,
and simpering in a very interesting manner.
"What is it ails your sweet Majesty?"
" My sweet Majesty is quite well," replied
884 the astrologer's daughter.
the King, "but in a very sad plight;" and he
pointed to the bed on which the Duke lay-
groaning.
"Oh, well-a-day, that it is not your Ma
jesty," said the obsequious dame, examining
the wound. " It is a deep one, and will take
long to cure. See how the steel has pene
trated—it was a sure aim."
" Hold your tongue, can't you ?" cried her
husband, seeing the King's brow grow very
dark.
"Could you find Monsieur Mariot?" said
the King, in a whisper to his brother.
" I will try. Good heavens ! the Duke is
fainting again."
The Duke d'Anjou hurried away, and the
King bent with great anxiety over the sufferer,
who recovered with a deep groan of pain.
Anjou fortunately found M. Mariot. The
good man was in his study, surrounded with
books. He was a comic-looking old man, with
a very fat body, and very short legs to carry
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 285
the weight of mortality and learning of which
he was composed. His skin was hueless, and
seemed to have dried itself up to a parchment
texture during the course of his studies His
head was not bald, but every hair was perfectly
gray—not silvery, but of that harsh iron-gray,
which is considered pretty on a horse's back ;
his eyes were of that watery pale blue, which
belong to that class known as " mackerel eyes."
Perhaps he had once taken too lengthened a
survey of the globes, perhaps looked too keenly
on the, "globular celestial," for his eyes were
indented deeply in his head, as if they had
been sent there because they were too prying.
Near the hearth was Mariot's high desk, most
curiously carved; the room was covered with
odd-looking relics and antediluvian-looking
specimens of stone and shells. On the table
innumerable old volumes were opened—they
were all finger-worn, pencil-marked, dog-eared,
binding minus ; in fact, they all bore authentic
marks of having seen " active service." Per
286 the astrologer's daughter.
haps, like our own English Johnson, Mariot
loved a thumb-worn book ; if so, he encouraged
this favourite taste :—
" Minerve deese belle, savante les hommes ne te
ferontjamais honneur."
" Cease your orations, and leave Minerva in
other hands ; the King wants your assistance,"
exclaimed Anjou, rushing into the room.
" Softly, softly," said Mariot ; " want is a
word which bears much delineation. The
King wants . Is he hungry ? No. Is he
athirst ? No. Is he houseless ? No. « Then
he wants some one. He wants Mariot ; but
last time I wanted His Majesty to study, his
kingly answer was, 'Mariot allez au Diable.'
Declination consequent on such a wish—/ may
want, Thou maifst want, He may want."
Mariot concluded his sentence with pro
voking coolness ; turning from book to book,
he again spoke:—
"Perhaps the King has been invoking
Bacchus, and wants Mariot to invoke the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 287
gods to restore him to his usual moderatis-
simo share of reason."
" Bacchus—es tu homme es tu diable—es tu
dieu—Bacchus les rois t'invoquent miserable."
"Hold your nonsense," cried Anjou, "it
has nothing to do with Bacchus; the King
is sober as a Reformer at his morning devo
tions."
But Mariot shouted with double fury —
" Bacchus tes ouvrages, tes cris, ta langue
erientfureur, confusion et mort."
The Duke knew that remonstrances were
vain; but he cut short Mariot's orations by
tossing his books about.
" Desist, " cried the enraged preceptor,
snatching up his pet monstrosities in octavo
volumes.
"I will throw your hideous, dusty books
at the back of the fire, if you do not follow
me," said Anjou.
The old man uttered a very classical howl
of regret, if I may so apply the name to a
288 the astrologer's daughter.
sound -which resembled the growl of a mastiff
disputing for a most delicious bone.
The Duke, pitying his distress, replaced
the volumes on the table, and brushed away
the dust which had fallen from them on his
rich dress.
"A little dusting would do your books
good," said he ; " but, my good Mariot, follow
me, if you please."
" If you please," exclaimed Mariot, pro
nouncing the words with visible derision ;
" well, then, good faith, that is telling me to
stay here. Young man, have I not before told
you, those words are arbitrary and treacherous ?
When a criminal is condemned to the block, the
executioner makes his best bow, and says,
most politely, ' Your head right in the middle,
facing the multitude, if you please.'' Do you
think it does please the condemned man?
When I used to try the strength of my cane
on your Royal brother, I led him not like a
gruff bear, but most civilly asked him to hold
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 289
himself statu quo, adding, of course, ' if it so
please your Majesty.' Now you ask me to
follow you, ' if I please ; ' and my pleasure is
to stay where I am."
" Then let your conscience bear the blame,"
cried Anjou. " You are an incorrigible old
idiot, if your head be filled with all Ovid, Plu
tarch, and a hundred more such bores. I
tell you the King wants you ; he has wounded
the Duke, and the consequences may be very
serious, if the quarrel be noised abroad." The
preceptor heard no more, but snatching up his
hat, he said he was ready to follow the Duke.
Shaking his head to and fro, and railing against
the hasty folly of drawing the sword, Mariot
at length reached the suffering Duke. The King
submitted with tolerable patience to a length
ened harangue from his preceptor, and then
had the satisfaction to hear Mariot declare he
did not consider the Duke was dangerously
wounded. He dismissed the King, promising
to remain with the wounded man until the
vol. i. o
290 the astrologer's daughter.
evening, and then have him gently moved to
own apartments, where he would tend him with
all care. The Duke of Guise heard every word
Mariot uttered ; he also heard that it would be
some some time before he recovered; and, al
though too much exhausted to answer, these
were indeed bitter words for him to hear, when
a few days only remained between his bridal
morn.
During this time we have left Clementina in
the garden alone, but communing with most
delicious thoughts—a new idea of freedom, a
new born dream ofjoy. Had she heard aright ?
Was it possible the Duke was not deceiving
her ? And as she asked herself the question, a
whole chorus of voices seemed to answer from
the depths of the sky, " Maiden, you are free."
Her cheek became suddenly flushed, and
through all her veins a quick circulation of
pleasure animated and refreshed her frame.
She was fearfully excited, and reaching her
own apartment she felt an irresistible wish of
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 291
courting repose, of being lulled to sleep, of
being wafted in a dream of happines — of free
dom. Loretta begged to be admitted, and re
ceived Clementina's instructions to ask the
Queen of Navarre to dispense with her services
that evening.
Loretta speedily returned with the ready
permission, and a kind inquiry as to the
cause.
" My head aches," replied Clementina, and
it was indeed the truth. When her long tresses
were thrown over her shoulders, and her eyes
were raised towards her mirror, then Clemen
tina caught one bright glance of what she had
been. There was the mantling colour which
was once always tinging her fair cheek ; there
sat the lustre of the speaking eyes. " Oh,
Loretta," she exclaimed, "how pleasant it
would be, but for one night to fall asleep to the
sound of old voices, of old recollections."
" I, too, have sometimes had that wish," said
Loretta, " but not now."
292 the astrologer's daughter.
" But I feel it so strongly, Loretta. Haste,
more haste ; let me lay my aching head on the
pillow, and I shall fancy in my slumber that
old voices are greeting me, and that guardian
angels are singing over me their numbers.
Haste ! haste !
" I will stop and watch till you are asleep,"
said Loretta, as she softly closed the rich cur
tains.
" Then do not talk to me," said Clementina;
" let me ramble on in my own manner. Give
me my breviary and I will say my prayers."
Loretta involuntarily knelt behind the cur
tain, whilst Clementina prayed for happiness ;
she prayed that she might gain strength, and
overcome her weak heart.
Clementina was silent for some time after
her devotions, but at length she again spoke.
She rambled in a luxurious dream of pleasure.
Oh, how keenly felt, after the stern sorrow in
which her frame had lately been numbed!
"Open the window-curtain, Loretta," she
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. • 293
cried; "let me watch the evening star. Oh,
bright luminary of hope, how resplendently
it has set this night ! See how it shines on
me ! I he as a withering flower, and that star
is warming me into new life. Look up, my
soul, to the firmament whence comes that star,
where it is daily cased in fairy-like disguise.
Look up, and think no more of the doom of
misery. That star, that radiant star, speaks of
hope."
" Poor weary girl," thought Loretta, " she
is losing her reason, or her bright soul, tired
of its load of pain, is passing into a world
of peace." And, between fear and sympathy,
Loretta wept.
"Why do you weep," cried Clementina,
"when I am so joyful? I have seen such a
soft vision, and yet it is earthly. The birds
are twittering in their mossy nests, the eddying
wind is wafting its softest perfume ; it fans
my pale brow, I feel its luxuriant breath.
The crystal springs are flowing on, and mur
294 the astrologer's daughter.
muring a gentle, plaintive lay, and fairy-
spirits are dancing on the crested wood. No
thoughts of death, of despair, are in that
vision ; no requiem of sorrow : day wanes,
evening draws her veil, and still there is
joy—still the purest streams fall from the
fount of happiness. Each shady dell holds a
nymph of gladness ; no gloomy cypress trees,
all green young myrtles, with the celestial-
looking blossom, sprinkled in graceful array.
Away with the orange wreath—it shall not
gall my brow : not as a meagre and haggard
form will I kneel at the altar ; I will not
smile a sepulchral, a hollow smile ; I will not
turn my sickly gaze on a detested bridegroom.
Speak, glad voices, speak in roseate words
of unalloyed gladness ; waft my soul in a
dreamy view of hope, innocence, and free
dom ; let me smile in fancy wild, unfettered by
lugubrious pangs of sorrow. Loretta did you
hear the voices ? Hark ! they say, ' Free !
free ! Daughter of sorrow, you are free ! ' "
THE ASTROLOGERS DAUGHTER. 295
"I hear only the vesper bell sounding
from the chapel," replied Loretta. " Oh, dear
lady, be calm, or in one dreamy farewell to
reality you will expire !"
'* Expire !" exclaimed Clementina, still more
wildly ; " expire, when I am newly-born ?
No, the sun's warm rays shall gladden me
yet, and I shall gather new health from the
sickly birth of Spring. I will wander, all
blithe and gay, where the early violet blows
on the mossy banks ; I will catch the first
dewy drops of early morning. I am pleasure,
smiling, hoping pleasure ! No dell so se
questered, but I shall find it ; no haunt of
fairies, but I shall seek. On rocky depths, on
towering heights, to ocean's billows, to
flowered earth, and star-bespangled heaven—
to all my happiness shall be present. Loretta
—Loretta—I am happy ! "
The words died away slowly on the poor
girl's lips ; they fell liquidly, slowly. They
had risen at first as the billows on the ocean,
296 ihe astrologer's daughter.
and they sunk like the last vibration of an
^Eolian harp on the gentle breeze. The up
raised hand sunk from its elevated position,
until it was fanned by the sleeper's breath;
the colour faded from the cheek, as the last
star retreats from the morn-coming streaks;
the long tresses floated around the pillow ;
not a sound was heard save the ticking of
the clock. Clementina's words still rang in
Loretta's brain. But to save the reason, the
heart, and perhaps life, Nature interposed:
Clementina slept !
END OF VOLUME FIRST.
London :
Reding and Judd, Printers, 4, Horse Shoe Court, Ludgate HiH.
THE
ASTROLOGER'S MUGHTE
'
AN HISTORICAL NOYEL. I
IN THREE VOLUMES.
BY ROSE ELLEN HENDEIKS.
VOL. II.
LONDON:
T. C. NEWBY, 72, MORTIMER STREET.
1845.
n o 6 j
I i i r> n a r\\/
LIBRARY
OCT 8 1941
LONDON C
EtEDINQ AND JUDD, PRINTERS, 4, HORSE SHOE COURT,
LUDGATE HILL.
THE
ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
CHAPTER I.
A week elapsed, and during that period the
Court was a scene of marvellous gossip ; and
it might be said, that it was the " Romance of
a Week." Readers, you all know how much
can happen in a week. Have not some per
sons rested at night on the mossy pillow of for
tune ? riches and honours have been their soft
lullaby ; day has dawned, and a dark night of
sorrow succeeds their late happy existence.
Life is as a windmill: its wheel goes round
with careless freedom, unsparing of evil, caring
VOL. II. B
2 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
little if it sends good to some persons ; the turn
of the wheel brings dark and tempestuous bil
lows. To others who are weeping in distress, it
tells of sweet and softest things. The most
culpable of human frailties is despair. There
is ever a merciful spirit lingering near the
heart; it speaks in the haunts of want and
penury, and is the angel of comfort, leaning
on the banner of Hope. None so wretched,
none so helpless, none so sinful, but they
may heed the voice. It forsakes the dwelling
of the rich, the gay, the prosperous ; it finds
its dwelling in the lone and broken heart. It
can feed on the food of sighs ; it can listen
without'turning away, to the fast-falling tears.
Spirit of Compassion! thou pourest thy balm
on the heart, as the soft spring-tide wind cools
the flowers in their first feverish grasp, as they
leave the snow-capped earth. Thou lullest
away sorrow with thy gentle voice speaking
so mildly ; gliding softly as the waters by the
heather-bordered soil. Spirit of Consolation !
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 3
when shall we invoke thee ? When the voice
grows weary of its own faint breathing ; when
the soul is sickened at its tenement of clay ;
when the brain grows dizzy ; when the heart is
cold ; when no friendly grasp presses the grief-
benumbed hand; when the light tread walks no
more over the flowery sod of pleasure ; when
the lips drink no more of the springs of delight,
and the harmonious music of joy fades for ever
from the hearing—then, Spirit of Consolation !
visit our grief-stricken heart. Oh, the balm of
the tears which are sent by the Spirit of Con
solation ! Are they not pearls shining with a
gleam of newly-restored hope? Are they not
sent as the rainbow after the shower, to speak
of the goodness of a great Creator ? Ask the
flowers of the earth, if they are not refreshed
by the dew-drops of the soft morning ? See
how they raise their bloom-restored heads!
could they speak, how they would thank the
beneficent sod for the dewy moisture from
which they sap their existence. Thus, then,
b 2
4 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
are tears—tears sent from the Spirit of Consola
tion—thus they are to human beings' hearts.
The pining infant sighing, it knows not why,
wishing, it knows not what, places its feverish
head on its pillow. Consolation is at hand—
the infant weeps. The mother who gazes for
the last time on the death-stricken infant, who
has seen it grow and bud, then droop in its
first green leaf; how tight is her bereaved
heart ! forgive her, if she repine. She has lost
the jewel of her eye : she has watched the
Spring, the Summer, and now the Autumn—
the sad Autumn of sorrow—has arrived. Con
solation lends all she can—she gives a tear.
The storm of adversity comes with its ve-
nomed malice ; the disappointment of early love
sears the heart—all, all, may be withering ; the
heart may scorch, and the brain may reel—still
Consolation comes with her kind, her hallowed
hand, and she steeps the eyes in a tear.
A week ! seven days ! a week is sometimes a
year—at least so it seems by the multiplicity of
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 5
events which take place from Monday to Sun
day. At the commencement of the week, Cle
mentina was writhing with concealed agony;
at the end of it she was lying pale and ex
hausted, stricken by the force of her own pas
sion, and that passion was one of all-absorbing
joy. Loretta hung around the sick couch; she
shook the downy cushions, she bathed the
throbbing temples, but the disorder increased ;
and that fragile frame, which had so courage
ously borne the heavy stroke of misfortune, was
bowed down by the exuberance of its own
pleasure. Days and weeks passed, and Cle
mentina was still in a balmy dream of bliss ;
still from her murmuring lips were heard the
words—" I am free, I am free ! "
One evening, Loretta sat by the patient : it
was a beautiful autumnal night; the fire
blazed on the well-filled hearth, and reflected
phantom shapes on the richly tapestried walls ;
The room was lighted by a silver lamp, which
shed a pale lustre over the crimson coverlet,
6 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
which was bordered with pure white down.
Stretched on the couch, the Astrologer's
Daughter lay as beautiful as a statue, so mo
tionless, so still. Suddenly the coverlet heaved
to and fro, as if moved by a gentle wind, and
at last a murmuring sound was heard—a voice
so mild, so musical, cannot be conceived. It
was many weeks since Clementina had spoken,
and those who have watched for the first re
turning words of consciousness trembling on
an invalid's lips, can conceive how gladly Lo-
retta listened to the following strain :—
" I shall see again my father-land,
The bright home of my youth ;
I shall walk again, and hand in hand
Will grasp at love and truth.
I shall wander where the waterfall
Ebb3 on in reckless grace ;
And the golden sun, the soft breeze, all
Shall fan once more my face.
" Oh, bear me back, in a gentle dream,
To the land of fairy sight,
Where on shady dells, the flowers glean
Their sun-bespangled light.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 7
Oh, let me rest where the chilly blast
Shall no more fan my brow ;
The tints of hope now all are past :
Now lay me, lay me low.
" Oh, lay me where the silvery breeze
Sighs o'er the sea's wild moan ;
Where the stars shine o'er the billowy seas,
And fairies glide alone.
Italia, thou, my father-land,
Receive me in my grief;
And foster, with rich fretted hand,
A lone, a wither'd leaf."
When Clementina had concluded her song,
Loretta approached nearer, and had the satis
faction of hearing her name pronounced in the
accents of recognition.
" Loretta," said the sufferer, " I have been
dreaming. I cannot recal my senses ; it seems
to me as if I have been dwelling far, far away ;
it seems as if a load of grief were removed from
my heart ; it seems, too, as if I long to speak
to some one—to tell them I am happy, and ask
why it is, and how long my grief has been re
moved."
8 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
" You must not agitate yourself," replied
Loretta ; " but if you will try and sleep, I will
seek the Princess."
Clementina, exhausted by this little exertion,
lay down again, and fell into a gentle slumber.
She did not awake for more than half-an-hour ;
and when she recognised the Princess Mar
guerite, Loretta wept and cried for joy by
turns.
" Oh, my dear Clementina," said the Prin
cess, sitting on the bed, and looking at the
attenuated form before her, " how sweet it is
to hear you talk again ! it is like the revived
notes of a harp which has been long un
strung ; and it is so sweet, also, to know that
you revive to hear pleasant news; but you
are not strong enough to listen to me yet."
"Yes, yes, I am," cried the invalid; "let
me gaze a little longer on you, before I am
selfish enough to think only of myself; then,
I will hear what glad tidings you bring. What
a beautiful boon is health," continued Clemen
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 9
tina, parting the clustering curls from Mar
guerite's brow ; " my faint breathing, like a
mockery of your vivacity ; is it possible that
I had ever a roseate bloom like yours ?"
" You must not think of such things,"
replied the Princess ; " I have an antidote
against illness ; you will soon be fresh and well
again. Draw the curtains aside, Loretta; I
must have the pleasure of seeing Clementina's
first glad smile. Now listen to me:—The Duke
of Guise has been dangerously wounded; it
is noised that he fought a duel with a young
brother officer, but my kingly brother was in
fact his adversary. It will be many months be
fore the Duke recovers; he is weakened by
fever and the loss of blood, and his friends have
agreed to hush up the matter, which in the old
Duke's lifetime would have been productive of
a war. The Duke is to retire to Italy, and re
main there until his recovery is perfected; then
he will return to take possession of his treasured
. bride : that is what the Court is to believe,
b 3
10 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
but my brother of Anjou has told me in con
fidence, that the Duke intends releasing you
from your vow, on condition that you never
marry any one else. In the meanwhile, you
are to be entirely under Jeanne d'Albret's
care, and you are neither to be questioned
or spoken to on the subject of the Duke ; only
my brother added one speech which I hardly
dare repeat."
" Speak, pray speak !" said Clementina ;
" you are indeed my angel of consolation;
Speak ; do not fear."
The Princess blushed and averted her head ;
but after a pause, she added—" My brother
says, you are to be very wary of your con
duct, or you will excite the jealousy of the
Duke, who has his spies at Court."
"Oh! is that all?" exclaimed Clementina,
in a joyous tone; " then I will indeed guard
my words and actions, and if possible, even
my keen joy shall be buried in my own bosom.
Kind and beloved Princess, I see your dear
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 11
hand in all this, and you have indeed been
active in my service."
" Indeed you overrate my power ; but I
again repeat, that you are very dear to me. I
share your happiness or your sorrow, and I
have now a boon to ask."
" Which means, it shall be granted," replied
Clementina.
" This is my boon," said the Princess :
" when I am married, you must dwell with
me, and I shall know why you remain in sin
gle blessedness; therefore, I shall be able to
indulge you with all the items of old-maidism,
without laughing at your preciseness. You
shall have a waiting-maid, as demure and
prim, as little ambitious for marriage, as can
possibly be imagined ; she shall shudder if a
pin were found out of its place. Your drawers
and boxes, your flowers and buds, shall rival all
old maids' appendages in neatness. Then you
shall be surrounded with cats, and pets, and
you shall have your own sanctum sanctorum,
12 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
whilst on the door shall be engraven, ' No ad
mission for gentlemen.' " The young Princess
spoke so gravely, that Clementina fell into a
paroxysm of laughter, and Jeanne d'Albret
entered in time to hear the end of the unusual
merriment.
" You ought not to excite our patient," said
the gentle Queen. " See, Marguerite, the fe
ver-spot on the cheek ; I must forbid all further
conversation.'*
" I have made Clementina very happy."
" But I have forgotten the most essential
mark of my gratitude," said Clementina; " I
ought to offer up my thankful prayers to the
throne of mercy, and thank our Heavenly
Father for all his goodness."
This was so exactly in unison with the
gentle Jeanne d'Albret's ideas, that she, too,
fell on her knees ; the young Princess imitated
her example, and the trio offered up a long
prayer ofjoyful thankfulness. Clementina now
rapidly recovered, and the Queen-Mother's
TSE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 13
attention was too deeply engaged with state
affairs to annoy the young girl. But in the
depth of her vindictive heart, she felt severe
hatred towards her she had once much loved.
Catherine was so seldom thwarted in her plans,
that it was with bitter anger she beheld the
Duke of Guise leaving the Court ; and -no
thing but the knowledge that her son had
wounded him, prevented her opposing his
wish of indulging Clementina.
I must not allow my readers to suppose the
Duke really intended to abandon Clementina :
he loved her still with fondest love, but he be
gan to read her heart, and he trusted that an
act of generosity on his part would speak more
forcibly than any persuasive eloquence. Nor
was he mistaken; Clementina felt such keen
pleasure at her happy release, that gratitude
towards the Duke next took possession of her
heart. Her fervent hope was, that absence
would cure his love, and she trusted that he
would place his affections elsewhere. How
14 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
gladly would she be a lowly train-bearer in
the ladies' suite, rather than the exalted wife
of the rich Duke. Excuse me, readers, for so
abruptly closing this chapter : but I dare not
revel too long in a rehearsal of Clementina's
unexpected joy. Months waned by, and her
sad and pensive face, on which solemn and
resigned grief had dwelt, gave place to a sweet
serenity, almost akin to a bounding exube
rance of delight. The fearful dream of
misery, of an unhappy union, had fled, and
the released sufferer allowed the future to be
veiled in a shroud of mystery. Clementina
enjoyed again the beautiful view of the
Creator's works ; she read of green hope in
the leafy corn, and the soft summer's wind
sang a lullaby of joy ; her spirit was wrapt in
a halo of peace. Oh, leave we her path in the
sunny vale of happiness !
CHAPTER II.
Readers, I have led you gradually through
many years of Charles the Ninth's reign, and
an epoch is now drawing near, which is indeed
a deep stain on history ; and darker still the blot,
when we consider it was at the instigation of a
woman that the Massacre of St. Bartholomew
took place. How past searching out are the
ways of Providence ! Where was that bright
assemblage of noblemen which Catherine had
boasted she could congregate at her Court?
The unsparing hand of Death had taken them
from her grasp, and the venerable Coligny was
16 the astrologer's daughter.
the only prey her vindictive heart coveted—the
only courtly individual she now hated—unless
we are really to credit the dark tale, that Ca
therine poisoned the gentle and inoffensive
Jeanne d'Albret. Jeanne d'Albret has not
played a very conspicuous part in my tale, but
her gentle heart glided in as an angel of pity,
and we cannot help feeling a soft emotion of re
gret at her untimely end. She was cut off in
the bloom of womanhood, at a time when she
was looking forward to the nuptials of her son ;
and believing the accredited report that the
M^dicis poisoned her, how can we contemplate
without a deep shudder the cruel wickedness
of a woman who could affiance her daughter to
the son of the murdered Jeanne ? Coligny had
repeatedly begged his Royal mistress to beware
of the treachery of Court, but her own religious
feelings made her judge too leniently of a sister
Queen, who basely held out her hand in decep
tive friendship. The Admiral himself, would
not have tarried at the Me'dicis' Court, although
the astrologer's daughter. 17
baited with the most specious invitations ; but
from the moment he mistrusted the Court, he
determined to watch his Royal mistress. Alas !
it was all in vain. Jeanne d'Albret died sud
denly, in agonizing pain : and those who wept a
bitter requiem over her loss, dared not openly
express their fear. It was rumoured that a
gentleman made her a present of a very beautiful
pair of gloves, which were purposely poisoned ;
others said the Queen had smelt a poisoned
rose, but the matter was hushed up ; there was
no real proof of the murder ; and the gentle
Jeanne d'Albret glided into the tomb, a vic
tim in the M^dicis' hands. As her sorrowing
maidens hung over her cold form, as they gave
her the truest requiem of sorrow, their heart
felt tears, they turned in sombre gloom to
wards that Court, where a murderous hand
was so constantly stretched forth. Strong in her
pride, holding all opinions at defiance, the
haughty M^dicis shed feigned tears over
Jeanne d'Albret's memory, and was the first
18 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
to greet the afflicted Henri of Navarre with well-
feigned tears of commiseration. Oh, how deeply
the young Prince of Bearn felt his loss ! how he
loathed the new title of King of Navarre, by
which he was now called ! How bitter were the
tears he shed over the last remains of the most
gently feminine of women, of the most tender
mother. Jeanne d'Albret's death shed a gloom
throughout the Court, which was not removed
by the return of the young Duke of Guise. He
came again in renewed health, in increased
beauty, and he turned again to the bride of his
choice. How beautiful she appeared to him in
her restored health ! the commanding air of
womanhood, in its first fall splendour, taking
the place of her girlish loveliness ! Jeanne
d'Albret was dead, and the Princess Marguerite,
however willing, had not the power to befriend
her ; yet she so ardently asked Clementina to
endeavour to defer her marriage until her union
with the King of Navarre, that under various
excuses Clementina managed to delay the fixed
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 19
day; and she engrossed the attention of the
Duke, by her intelligent conversation, contriv
ing an excuse for leaving him, as the impatient
words of love trembled on his lips. Clementina
thought this -was only a cowardly wish of delay
ing an event, which she felt assured would
ultimately take place, yet still she did dally on ;
but let us do her the justice to say, with the
praiseworthy wish of endeavouring to love.
Oh, what a bitter trial it must be to endeavour
to love ! what a dull, unmeaning passion ! yet
how many a fair bosom has been wrung with
the trial, and how many more will be, I, can
not tell.
It was not with Clementina, in the words of
Lorraine, " Quelques douces larmes surlepasse,
beaucoup d'espoir pour Vavenir." The memory
of her first love survived the present and
the past; but Clementina strenuously endea
voured to banish the image of the unfortunate
Poltrot de M^re\ Did she succeed? Not as
well as she wished. There were silent hours
20 the astrologer's daughter.
in the night, when the silvery bosom of heaven
was bedight with stars ; there she fancied she
read the sad tale of his life. There were day-
waking dreams, in which his name spoke all
dearly to memory ; and, above all, there were
moments when, on bended knee praying for
sinners, she prayed for him most.
However extraordinary may appear the con-
tre temps which prevented or retarded Cle
mentina's union with the Duke, they are not
all imaginary, for I follow the path of History ;
and if I make my self-formed characters sub
mit to historical manoeuvres, I endeavour not
to make history bow to them. The next event
which retarded the long-expected marriage of
Clementina was the nuptials of the youthful
King of Navarre to the beautiful Marguerite
de Valois, a bride of sixteen.
It was on the 17th of August, 1572, that
this interesting ceremony took place; but I
must go back a short period, as the days pre
ceding the ceremony were fraught with mourn
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 21
ful events—at least, so those who have so far
read my tale mil feel. Hardly was the Royal
miptial-day fixed, when Catherine pressed Cle
mentina, with more pertinacity than usual, to
fulfil her promise. But my readers will readily
believe that, as she has delayed so far, she felt
unwilling to lose the chance of seeing how far
Henri of Navarre's powerful interest with the
Duke could forward her distant hope of release.
The young King of France was extremely
gay ; and as Clementina had oifended him, he
indulged his revenge by making her the butt
of his ill-humour. Clementina, however, was
no longer a giddy young girl, but a lady-like
and graceful young woman—young enough to
be exceedingly captivating, and old enough to
look with proper contempt at the workings
of a petty though a kingly mind. Seeing that
all his methods to annoy her had no weight,
the King determined to use all his power in
forcing her to marry the Duke, and that by the
most crafty stratagem.
22 the astrologer's daughter.
" You are listless to- day, my son/' cried the
Queen, as she entered an apartment, where
Charles was stretched on a couch, caressing a
favourite spaniel. It was the beginning of
August, that lovely month, when summer is in
all her purest beauty ; the windows were open
to the ground, and flowers in the richest Dres
den and Chinese vases shed a faint perfume
over the room ; the walls were hung with
splendid pictures from the hands of the M6-
dicis' own countrymen. Over the rich Tur
key carpet, ottomans of refined tapestried
work were disposed. Some had been made
by the young Princess, and some were the
work of the unfortunate Mary of Scotland,
when she dwelt at the French Court; instru
ments of music, the Poet's loved harp, and the
lyre of which the Bards speak, were carelessly
disposed around the room. Birds in their
gilded cages were singing their imprisoned
lays ; on the tables, covered with crimson vel
vet, finished with thickly-woven fringe, lay
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 23
volumes which slumbered in their golden-cased
bindings. Oh, how poor Monsieur Mariot
would have sighed, had he seen the indolent
Monarch reclining in idleness with works of
rare interest disregarded at his side.
" You are listless to-day, my son," were
the words of the Queen-Mother to her son, as
she languidly threw herself back on a soft vel
vet chair.
Charles the Ninth breathed a false, a hollow
sigh.
" Now, now !" cried his mother, with her
usual impetuosity. "What, are you sighing
now ? Well, the revelries which are at hand
for our Marguerite's wedding will be the best
cure for your listlessness."
" I wish I were not a King," drawled
Charles, in a most effective manner.
" "What can be the matter with you ?" said
Catherine ; " wish you were not a King ! It
is a most unregal wish for a crowned head,
and I do not not remember its having been
9A the astrologer's daughter.
expressed from Charlemagne until Charles the
Ninth's reign. You are surely joking. Would
you be the abbot of a monastery ?"
" No, no," said Charles ; " then I could not
marry."
" Marry !" cried the Queen ; " there is more
than enough time to think of that. I suppose
the approaching nuptials have given you this
novel desire ;" and the Queen laughed very
heartily.
"You may laugh," answered the King, with
another sigh, "but I do wish I were not a King."
" Whom would you like to be ?" exclaimed
Catherine, petulantly.
" The Due de Guise," boldly answered the
King, with such well feigned-fervour, that the
Queen instantly exclaimed, stamping her foot
violently—
" Is it possible that you are in love with
Clementina ?"
" Forgive me ! forgive me !" exclaimed the
deceitful actor.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 25
"Forgive you!" ejaculated the M^dicis ;
" Clementina shall marry the Duke directly,
or—my son, my son ! what a clue is this to
many long-hidden signs ! This was the cause
of your duel with the Duke ; this the reason
of Clementina's obstinate refusals ! Who shall
we be able to trust next ?"
The Queen did not utter another syllable, but
left the room with a most thoughtful step ; and,
totally heedless of the consequence of his rash
folly, the King buried his face amidst a heap of
downy cushions, and laughed long and convul
sively. For himself he feared not: if Catherine
were Queen-Mother, he was a King, and rapidly
approaching his majority ; moreover, Catherine
doted on her son, and, selfishly careless about
others, Charles knew he himself was safe.
The Queen-Mother's countenance wore such
a stormy appearance of anger, that Loretta
did not utter one syllable, whilst she assisted
her at her night's dishabille.
When persons are in a very bad humour,
VOL. II. c
26 the astrologer's daughter.
they are frequently apt to fancy it is a su
bordinate person who is unusually taciturn; and
it -pleased the Queen to speak abruptly, se
verely, and spitefully, for she could not bear
her own evil thoughts.
" How deceitful, how treacherous, are those
apparently meek-hearted persons we meet
through life," she exclaimed ; " how often
a fair and delicate frame conceals a plotting,
wary disposition'"
" Appearances are sometimes treacherous,"
replied Loretta ; " we should judge the heart,
not the countenance."
" The heart !" cried Catherine ; " and pray,
thee, how is that to be judged, save through
the words, and they are honied treachery.
A rose conceals a sting ; and the well-speckled
insects leave their venom behind. There is
now at this Court an innocent-looking being ;
one who walks in the dissembling badge of
meek, suffering sorrow, but who is the most
aspiring person in the land."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 27
Loretta had heard that the Cardinal de
Lorraine was the most aspiring person in the
land. Perhaps her mistress's sharp voice had
disturbed her heart, which had before been at
rest ; or why did every spark of colour for
sake her cheek? and why did her hand tremble ?
" I hope no one has displeased your Ma
jesty," exclaimed she, after a long pause.
The Queen was startled by the unusually
tremulous manner in which these words were
uttered, sounding so softly through the silence
of the vast chamber. Catherine turned her
keen gaze on the Italian's pale face ; and for
the first time since she had served her Royal
mistress, Loretta was unable to stand that
stedfast, proud gaze ; she turned away, and
burst into an hysterical flood of tears.
" You cannot be well," said the Queen,
remembering that she had not uttered a word
which she conceived could touch the maiden,
who turned so faint, that to avoid calling in
any of her other women, Catherine herself
r o
28 the astrologer's daughter.
poured out a glass of water, and opened Lo-
retta's bodice ; in doing which, a faded leaffell
to the ground.
" Ah, my poor withered leaf, it is a bad
omen," muttered Loretta, stooping down and
picking it up, whilst the turn the casual event
gave to her feelings was more favourable to
wards her recovery than sal volatile or any
other remedy.
Catherine did not hear Loretta's faintly-
murmured words, but she called her a silly
creature, and other still harsher epithets ; de
claring she thought the practice of going into
hysterics had not descended to Loretta.
The poor girl did not answer ; but, for the
first time, since many months, she sighed to
think she was a waiting-maid.
At last the Queen finished her disrobing.
Loretta placed the richly-fretted lamp in a
shaded corner ; she closed the large sheet of
tapestry which encircled the bed, and she
sought her own not distant chamber. Sh(
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 29
passed by Clementina's room, and heard her
soft breathing, little thinking it was of her who
slumbered tranquilly that Catherine spokr ;
but she, poor girl, she did not even undress,
but she counted the dull hours of the night :
now she knelt, now she paced up and down
her room ; pale and paler grew her brow, until
her faint complexion resembled the flickering
gray twilight. At last the dawn broke softly
on her sight, and Loretta left the palace, nor
did she pause in her hasty walk until she had
reached Lorraine's hotel.
To the wondering gaze of the hardly-awake
servants, she replied that she came from the
Queen. She was well known by sight, and
gained admittance into the house, although
she had to wait long in an ante-chamber, until
the Cardinal's riveilM had sounded ; then she
sent in a brief message, and the wondering
Cardinal appeared before her. He had risen
hastily, and was wrapped in a stamped velvet
dress of richest dye, lined with crimson satin ;
SO THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
a cord of twisted silk, with silken tassels, con
fined it at the waist ; the sleeves were long and
loose at the end, turned up with a crimson
silk border.
Loretta had seen him in his full clerical
robes, and she had seen him in his courtly
attire ; but he was so strikingly handsome in
his rich, but less imposing toilette, that her
heart fluttered quickly, as she replied to his
kind and anxious greeting.
" You are ill ! " cried he, drawing her nearer
to the light, and looking at her pale face ; " have
you met with any trouble ?—is there anything I
can do for you ?"
" Oh, no, my Lord," replied Loretta, averting
her head until the starting tear had fallen ; " I
should not have come thus early for myself—I
come to warn you that you are in danger."
"And pray, in what peril do I stand, my
fair young adviser ?"
" No, no, my Lord, you think I am joking,
and you are talking to me in a courtly—a
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 81
patronizing tone ; indeed, indeed, you must
heed my voice — the Queen let fall menacing
words against the ' most aspiring' person in the
land! I—I—"
" You thought she meant me ; but why so ?"
" Because men call you the highest in the
realm," she boldly replied ; " and the Queen
but changed the word—the meaning was the
same."
" Not quite," replied the Cardinal ; " the
Queen knows I hold my power from the Pope ;
it has naught to do with her. Your intention
is kind ; but you have, methinks, mistaken—the
Queen might have spoken of some one else."
But Loretta only shook her head ; she
thought of her sleepless night, of the falling
leaf, and she had a presentiment of fear.
" Now you have so kindly fulfilled your mis
sion of self-imposed kindness," continued the
Cardinal, " I must insist upon knowing whether
there is anything I can do to restore you to
tranquillity ; whether you are not well, and a
32 the astrologer's daughter.
nervous panic has taken possession of your
mind ; or some person has been frightening
you with erroneous tales."
" I am quite well," replied Loretta, " and
I only repeat words which I myself have
heard. Will you not heed me ? will you not
be cautious ? "
" Since you are determined to make a cow
ard of me, I will abide your will," replied
Lorraine, smiling. " Shall I clothe myself in
steel ? shall I wear a concealed dagger ? "
" Now you are mocking me, my Lord," said
Loretta, with a slight mixture of pride in her
well-inodulated voice.
" No, no, I must not trifle with your kind
ness," replied the Cardinal ; " here, my kind
maiden, is a token of my thanks," and he
placed a diamond ring on her finger.
"Not there," said Loretta; "Queen Cathe
rine's eyes would spy it with anger ; " so say
ing, she drew it from her finger, and placed
it in her bosom.
THE ASTROLOGER S DAUGHTER. 33
" I placed the leaf you gave me there," she
said, " and the ring shall bear it company."
" Ah ! " exclaimed the Cardinal, " I remem
ber ; that leaf was to be a token of hope."
"But it is decayed and withered," said Lo-
retta ; " did the white rose die ? "
" No ; it has faint, and fainter grown, but
still it lives."
"Faint, and fainter grown," soliloquized
Loretta : and with a deep reverence she left
the Cardinal's presence, hastened to the Palace,
and snatched a hasty slumber, before Cathe
rine's rSveille had sounded.
cS
CHAPTER III.
Is it an idea of my own imagination, that we
have as it were a presentiment when some
ominous event is going to take place ? Does
not the expanse of the ethereal atmosphere
seem tinged with a lugubre tint ? Do not the
birds seem to utter more languidly their love-
tuned lays? Do not the inanimate flowers appear
to be decked in sombre colours ? Well, per
haps this is my own fancy; but will any say, the
heart does not often presage, by its dull beating,
that a tide of misfortune is hovering round our
soul ? When Loretta had dressed her Royal
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 35
mistress, she descended on the terrace : her
head ached, and she imagined the cool morning
breeze would refresh her. Golden fish were
swimming swiftly in a limpid tide of pure water,
and Loretta listlessly watched their light move
ments, smiling languidly at the idea of envy
ing "a fish." There was a restlessness about
her eyes, a tremulous quivering around her
lips ; her heart fluttered unequally, and her
face was alternately deadly pale, or hecticly
flushed.
At length the very silence, the harmony of
Nature, were overpowering to her love-sick
heart, and she returned to the Queen's apart
ments, intending to arrange her trinkets, or
employ herself in some manner, in order to
divert her ennui.
The Queen-Mother had a pet bird, of rare
plumage, which had seen its first day on Italia's
sunny shore. It was never taken from the
splendid dressing-room adjoining Catherine's
sleeping apartment, and there, in its gilded
36 the astrologer's daughter.
and elaborately-carved cage, it sung its morn
ing song, to charm a Royal ear.
It was Loretta's first care to provide for the
daily wants of her Royal mistress's favourite ;
but the morning in question, she had only
risen from her hasty slumber to attend the
Queen, and the Royal favoured bird uttered
a shrill cry, seeming to express its indigna
tion at being neglected.
" Poor little caged prisoner ! it is the first
time I have neglected thee," said Loretta. " I
have ever loved thee ; thou art a type of my
father-land, and the music of thy notes re
minds me of the harmony of my childhoood's
home."
" So speaking, Loretta placed the cage on
the table before her. The water-bottles were
not yet replenished, but there was a glass on
the chimney, carefully covered over, and the
water in it appeared beautifully clear.
Loretta replenished the bird's fountain ; and
feeling thirsty herself, she drank off the re
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 37
maining portion. When she had drained the
last drop, she wondered that she retained a
sour taste, and, with peculiar kindness, emp
tied the bird's fountain, rinsed it carefully,
and sought water elsewhere. When she re
turned, Catherine was standing by the chim
ney, and her face was very much flushed.
" I covered that glass because I did not wish
it touched," she said, angrily; "why did you
throw it away ?"
" I did not throw it away," replied Loretta ;
" I was thirsty, and I drank it."
"Oh, Loretta, my poor, faithful Loretta,"
cried Catherine, clasping her hands in agony,
" what have you done ? you are poisoned !"
" Gracious heavens !" exclaimed Loretta,
turning very pale, "your Majesty surely is
joking—it was pure limpid water, and I feel
quite well."
" It is poison—deadly poison ; did you take
the whole?"
" No, I threw part of it away," replied
38 the astrologer's daughter.
Loretta; but, as you speak, I feel a dizzy
sickness—must I die ?"
" No, no," cried the Queen, " I will summon
medical aid;" and Catherine was leaving the
apartment, but Loretta caught the border of
her robe, and besought the Queen to desist.
" Oh, let me die,", she. cried, " I am weary
of existence; do not think of me. I have loved
you in life, and I will be faithful in death;
never will I tell that I was poisoned."
" I did not mean to poison you," said the
Queen.
" But you intended the fatal draught for
the Cardinal de Lorraine ?"
" No ; on my sacred honour," replied the
Queen; "I—"
" Tush, tush ; I wish not to know your
Majesty's secrets : you did not wish to poison
him. Oh, let me die, let me slumber in ob
livion ; let me He down quietly on yonder
couch ; let me gaze on you ; but I fain would
confess."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 39
" I cannot let you die," said the Queen.
" All is useless, I must die," replied Lo-
retta ; " the poison is finding its way round my
heart. Let me confess to—to the Cardinal de
Lorraine."
The Queen rushed out of the apartment,
and when she returned, she brought the Car
dinal Lorraine with her ; and, contrary to Lo-
retta's wish, she was also accompanied by a
physician.
The latter felt the poor maiden's pulse, as
she lay extended on the couch. He looked at
her glassy eye, he examined her attentively ;
he questioned the Queen in a low whisper :
the words—" How many grains were there ?"
fell heavily on the acute ears of the dying
girl, and she heard also the fatal answer—
" She must die."
" Pillow my head a little higher," she cried ;
" and now leave me—I must confess."
The Queen pillowed her sinking head, and
she would have pressed a kiss on her fading
40 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
brow ; but Loretta gently repulsed her, saying,
with a faint shudder : " It is poisoned."
" Poisoned !" repeated the Queen, in a
mournful voice ; " my faithful Loretta, for
give me ; and hear now the tale : you are no
menial waiting-maid, you are—"
" Never mind what I am," exclaimed Lo
retta, with revived ardour ; " I have lived in
the belief, that I moved but to serve a Royal
mistress, and I will die as I have lived, call
ing myself her servant. My thread of life is
nearly spent ; and I have frailties to confess,
and faults to own." The Queen said no more,
she left the room sadly ; and Loretta wept her
last tears on Lorraine's bosom.
How he started, when he heard the con
fession of her love : it was innocent, insomuch
that, in her own dying words—" She would
never have confessed it, except at the portals
of death." " I have faded as my green leaf,"
she said, taking it from its fond hiding place.
" Take back your ring, my Lord Cardinal,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 41
and wear it again. Now that I am dying,
now I have confessed my hopeles passion, now
that no mortal aid can save me, promise one
thing : you must never reveal the cause of my
death. I wronged the Queen; she did not
mean to harm you. Call her not until I am
quite dead; my brow is already damp and
cold ; kneel down and pray beside me, and
let your voice be the last I shall hear before
I am gone, to be here on earth no more."
The Cardinal clasped the dying girl's cold
hands in his, and he prayed fervently. Lo-
retta's large eyes rested on his face; an an
swering amen trembled on her bps, a deep
sigh followed it, and the 'beautiful Italian girl's
spirit had flown to its mansion on high. When
the M^dicis returned into the room, the vital
spark of life was totally extinguished; Lor
raine was still on his knees, gazing at the poor
girl's cold and suffering-looking face : his head
was bent low, and Catherine would have in
deed wondered, had she known the Cardinal's
42 the astrologer's daughter.
thoughts. He appeared to rouse himself with
the greatest difficulty, and approached the
Queen, who was sitting with her face buried
in her hands.
" Do not look so reproachfully at me, my
Lord Cardinal," she said, at length ; " I did
not intend any harm towards Loretta."
" I will not doubt your words, daughter," he
replied; " but it is a lesson—a strong and bitter
lesson against sin."
" And yet you once told me there was abso
lution for sinners."
" Tush !" cried Lorraine, impatiently; " that
was when we were talking about establishing
the true religion in the land—when we plotted
not against one individual person. Is it right
of you to exert the energies of your mind in
petty acts of revenge ? let that poor girl's cold
form speak an indelible lesson to your heart.
I ask no questions ; I will give you no further
advice ; but I inflict, as a spiritual punishment,
that you remain with Loretta's corpse until the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 43
sun has sunken in his evening rest. When
you leave the apartment, you may, perchance,
gather much good from your reflections."
The Cardinal did not wait for an answer, but
casting one long and sorrowful look on the
couch on which Loretta's remains lay, he left
the room, with slow steps, and a pensive brow.
Catherine felt that the Cardinal had not
spoken so harshly as she expected he would
have done, and her keen penetration caused
her thus to reason :—" The Cardinal considers
this only one of the many sins which weigh
grievously in the balance against me." Yet the
Queen reasoned in vain; she could not com
bat the curiosity which filled her mind, when
she recalled the evident pity which sat upon
his countenance, and the cold and collected
manner in which he spoke.
My readers can, however, guess Lorraine's
thoughts ; he had heard Loretta's secret—the
confession of her love were the last words she
had uttered ; he recalled to mind all her sighs,
44 the astrologer's daughter.
all the hopelessness of her life ; he looked upon
her untimely death as he would at a beautiful
flower which had withered, struck by the cold
ness of one frosty blight; instead of lingering
until its colours faded, its bloom departed, it
would bow its head to the autumnal gale. Those
who have wept over the pangs of a hopeless
love, those who have concealed it, and have been
undermined by its searching hand, will know
how much sorrow poor Loretta was saved ; and
if they shed a tear over the creature of imagi '
nation, it will be a pearly drop from a sympa
thizing source. The Queen had said Loretta
was not a maiden humbly born—perhaps this
will further interest my fair readers; but Ca
therine shall keep her unrevealed secret, for
Loretta's soul is wafted, in that haven of equa
lity, that boon of rich and poor, the goal to
which we all run ; and there, there is no dis
tinction of persons—merit has the highest place,
virtue finds its reward.
It was, no doubt, a most unwelcome task
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 45
for Catherine to remain during the long hours
which intervened until sunset, alone, with
Loretta's last remains. So accustomed was
Catherine to the services of the poor departed
girl, that although she was actually watching
by her cold corpse, when she felt weary of
her loneliness, she was on the point of saying
—" I will call Loretta." By this it will be
imagined, that Catherine was not near the
couch on which Loretta had breathed her last
sigh ; on the contrary, sbe was at the farthest
end of the vast apartment, and a prey to the
most poignant feelings of anguish. The day
was excessively sultry, and a storm set in with
unusual violence ; the Palace shook with the
violence of each loud vibration; vivid flashes
of lightning illuminated the room, and cast
flickering rays on the tapestried walls, until
every form there seemed to be animated with
life. The rain fell in torrents, and the warring
elements seemed to sing a sombre requiem
to Loretta's memory. As the dark heavens
46 the astrologer's daughter.
parted, and the vivid flashes came* forth from
their vast hiding-place, Catherine fancied she
saw the Italian girl's dark eyes resting on her
face, and she imagined her usually liquidly
soft voice was changed into the depth of the
thunder's loud cry. The 'heavy drops of ner
vous fear stood on the Royal brow, on which
grave sins had not chosen to mar the excessive
beauty, which sat on each lovely feature ; long
pent-up recollections crowded to her memory,
and painful indeed was the retrospect of that
Royal life. Figures which had long since
been shrouded in the tomb, sprung up to
taunt her reproachfully ; and Jeanne d'Albret's
mild voice was pleading for her forgiveness,
not cursing her, although she had such deep
cause. At length, the raging elements were
appeased: the thunder hushed its loud cry,
and the lightning gilded no more a heavens ;
the birds chorussed in a timorous manner, and
a deHghtful odour of sweetest perfnme was
wafted through the open windows, as each
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 47
restored flower held up again its crushed
head to the summer's light. Fragrant was
the smell of the earth, tranquillizing the calm
which followed the tempest ; the horizon
seemed to say, in its blue young beauty, " a
smile has conquered a tear." No smile, how
ever, hovered round the Medicis' beauti
fully formed mouth ; her long raven tresses
were damp and disordered, and Catherine
felt it impossible to tarry lohger with the
dead, when Lorraine fortunately entered to
release her.
"Oh my Lord Lorraine," she exclaimed,
" I thought not a storm would affright me ;
but when the nerves are weakened, a tempest
will sometimes affect the body."
" The voice of the Lord always seems to
me to speak through a storm," said Lorraine,
" and when our consiences reproves us, the
voice tells its words in anger. I fancy I have
heard a voice this day.
"What did it say?"
48 the astrologer's daughter.
" It told me this : How pleasantly must a
good man glide through life, how lovely must
it be so to pass through the world, that no
dread is felt at the last ; how much richer, how
much more really happy, is a poor unlettered
peasant with a good conscience, than a rich
man with a load at his heart ! The good man
sees also the hand of God in a storm, but he
does not fancy he hears a voice calling "re
venge, my revenge is at hand " To him the
tempest appears a natural casualty, and when
he thinks of the Almighty hand which guides
it, it is to exclaim, with fervid warmth of soul,
"How wonderful are His ways! how past find
ing out!"
" But in your capacity as confessor, tell me,
Cardinal, where do you find the harmless
being you describe ? "
" Not in the midst of Courts, your Majesty
is justified in saying ; but think not so ill of
mankind as to imagine goodness is banished
from the earth. It can dwell in a Court,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 49
though it exists rarely in it; the much-lamented
Jeanne d'Albret was a bright example."
"She was a Huguenot, a bigoted Hugue
not," said the Queen, a crimson flush spreading
over her unusually pale countenance.
" Can you persuade yourself that cause
banishes virtue?"
" Then why do you enter so warmly into
every plan to destroy them?" asked Catherine,
with much bitterness.
" Ask the lion if he tolerates another ani
mal if he equals his power ? ask if the lion
is not lord of the forest ? Are there other trees
to rival the oak ? is it not lord of the forest ?
Are there other potentates on earth to equal
the spiritual power of the Pope ? "
" I understand, you are afraid of the Hu
guenot's power ? "
" I am, " boldly replied the Cardinal.
"But why does your Majesty provoke such
explanations? You are afraid; your son is
vol. n. D
50 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
afraid; every courtly breast dreads their
increasing power. My hand is in the strife,
and I will not shrink from it. But away with
hypocrisy : if we deceive ourselves, we shall
next imagine we deceive the world, and the
world is too keen for us. This is the riddle
of religious differences—they are political : the
Duke hates Coligny, and the Admiral hates
the Duke. Until Henri of Navarre's death,
the triumvirate were the obnoxious party,
not the religion. Oh ! man, vain man, he
fain would place a veil over his own con
science, and, dashing headlong into a preci
pice, still like to hear a delusive voice whisper,
he is sailing on a smooth glad sea, with an
ethereal sky above his head ; he would die
with a voice calling for revenge sounding
in his ears, and fain believe the next would
bring him once more to an ocean of deception
such as he now lives in : this is but a sketch
of politically-blinded men."
" As you speak," said Catherine, forcing
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 51
a smile ; " I am asking myself, if I could resign
my power—if I could live in seclusion—if I
could rest away from the hurricane of poli
tical action—and the answer is " No." Such
as I have lived, such must I die. Already
History has perhaps woven together her pages;
already it speaks against " Catherine de
Medicis, the Queen-Regent of France." Then
let them speak ; but let them say also, that
during the early days of Charles the Ninth
she was surrounded by men who spoke honied
words; but where the bee lighted, there it
died : it sucked one sweetened draught,
and then it drew no more. Catherine must
have been the lion-hearted, the remorseless
Catherine, or another would have usurped
her place. My Lord Cardinal, you have
spoken openly to me, and I will deal the
same way with you : I grieve for my maiden's
death; you know I do, for you have marked
how serviceable she has ever been to me ; do
me the justice to say that all the maiden may
d 2
52 the astrologer's daughter.
have confessed has been the burden of a
love-sick heart. If I send my own soul far
from the pale of mercy, I have never caused
a dependant to sin ; and now I will feign no
repentant turn. It is useless to detain me
here, my Lord ; the tempest has passed, and
so have the temporary feelings of a qualmy
conscience."
Crafty, hardened Catherine! Yet she felt
more remorse than she chose to own ; but she
- knew the Cardinal's character, and she spoke
accordingly.
" You are at liberty to go when you choose,
my daughter," he said ; " the news of Lo-
retta's death has spread—that is to say, it is
reported she died in a fit."
The Cardinal pronounced these last words
slowly and with emphasis, but the Queen
gave him no clue whether she should disavow
the report; she left the apartment, and the
Cardinal gave orders- that Loretta's remains
should be taken to his mansion, where
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 53
a private, but handsome funeral was given
to her. This was all he could do for her,
whom she, poor girl ! had so unexpectedly, yet
so deeply, loved. Her grave was often decked
with young green leaves, and on the snowy
marble were engraven these words : " There
is hope above." Casual observers thought
the words common-place ; they thought them
too short, or not applicable to one who had
not, to their knowledge, died hopeless. But
Lorraine knew how fraught with meaning"
were those words, and how deep a tale the
green leaves told; and the Cardinal's last words
on retiring to rest the night after the last sad
duty had been paid to Loretta's remains were,
" There is hope above."
■-
CHAPTER IV.
How lovely, how joyous, how full of nature's
deepest, most enthralling passion, is the month
of August ! Spring has blushed her last maiden
blush, and Summer has dawned in all its splen
dour. June, modest as a new-made bride, has
fleeted by ; July has waned, and August is full
in the plenitude of its perfect beauty. The
hedges are laden down with the weight of their
own lovely freight ; the corn waves cheerily in
the gale ; posies and blue flowers, peep forth,
and smile as it were upon their rich resting
place. The birds carouse now in a chorus of
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 55
full voices ; the fairy-like heaven is bespangled
by the purest rays ; one beauteous, chamelion-
looking sheet of gay colours, stretches over
the hemisphere above. August is indeed a
lovely month, a month when thanksgiving to
the Disposer of all things seems to spring
spontaneously to the hps ; when the heart
loves to be thankful, and loves to express its
happiness. Happiness ! that word knows no
bonds, is fettered by no links, is confined
to no dwelling-place ; if it glide in the palace,
if it follow the gilded hall, it is also to be
found in the humble dwelling-place of the
poor and needy. Alas, that I should turn the
picture ; alas ! that I should say that misery
is equally fecund in its existence. How many
are there who glide through life apparently
happy, who conceal a broken heart, withered
affections, sometimes remorse, sometimes crime !
No, no, I must not compare misery with happi
ness, insomuch, that misery will call happiness
to its aid, but happiness will never summon
56 the astrologer's daughter.
misery. How forcibly nature speaks to the
human voice, and methinks none are really
deeply soul-stricken with sin, who can listen
to the harmony of its innocent calling.
Poltrot de Mere watched the ripe summer
beauty, but he watched its cornucopia in a
distant shore, away from those early haunts
of childhood, towards which the heart of man
ever yearns. England was his father-land,
but it was in France Poltrot had drawn the
breath of life ; it was there, in the land of the
vineyard, that he had first lisped the word
" Father." Death had deprived -him at an
early period of those dear ties which are the
truest supporters of virtue (when parents know
how to fulfil their duty). And Poltrot had
led a careless, a free life ; he had sipped the
follies of a Court, he had imbibed the faulty
party-spirit of the age. He hated or loved, for
in those days there was no medium, and follow
ing his headstrong career, he was a banished,
a hopeless man. What a bitter thing it is to
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 57
be banished! how the heart yearns towards
spots, to which imagination lends a thousand
attractions it had not recognised before. How
the bosom palpitates with a never-dying wish
of revisiting the familiar haunts, which seem
to fade further down the never-coming grasp.
As even in midnight dreams, the slumberer
presses forth his hands to clasp at something,
he knows not what, and grasps, waking at
a shapeless shadow, how often did Poltrot
wake in the dead of the night ; how often did
he fancy he heard Clementina, his once pro
mised bride's voice, uttering in softly tre
mulous accents—" Poltrot, repent, repent."
Did he not repent? did he not bedew his
sleepless couch with the tears of real, or never-
dying remorse? Did he not wake from un
certain slumbers, with the voice of prayer
trembling on his lips ?
But, alas ! the beau ideal of his existence
had fleeted by as a long-forgotten dream, and
Clementina's form came in a trance, but to
d 3
58 the astrologer's daughter.
mock him with the vanity of human expec
tations. In each vision, however, his fair,
lost bride appeared more touchingly beautiful,
more spiritless, more dejected than before ;
tears trembled ever on her long lashes, and
her voice had ever those faltering accents of
a wounded heart. " Oh, that she should make
the sacrifice of her peace, for me," thought
the unhappy Poltrot; and he pitied her from
his heart. A man, who truly, disinterestingly
loves, cannot repress the pity which steals
over him, when he beholds or thinks of a
young female plighting her vow at the altar,
whilst her heart lingers towards the one be
loved in her early life. Towards Clementina,
Poltrot's heart was ever straying : he was not
near her, whose voice could make her heart
thrill ; he gazed not at her face, he pressed not
her hand in his—a frigid picture of the beauti
ful being he adored, was all he could press to
his longing Hps ; he bedewed the fair sem
blance with his tears, he dimmed the frame
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 59
with his deeply-heaved sighs ; but that was all
he could do. Each day he expected to hear
of her marriage with the Duke ; and the reflec
tion that her cold line of self-imposed duty
had not yet begun, brought an inexpressible
balm to his heart.
Does Poltrot de Mere* linger on his spirit
less existence by himself? does he prey upon
his grief? does he weary with his own sighs ?
No, Heaven is too kind to allow a repentant
sinner to be so cheerless, so hopeless; and
Poltrot lives amidst the voice of kindred.
Augusta de Mere resided with a widowed
aunt and a very beautiful cousin ; her early
days had glided by in peaceful elegance, and
the first sorrow she had known was a severe
one—the convicted' crime of her much-loved
brother, and his reported execution. From
the moment Augusta wore the garbs of mourn
ing for a brother she fancied no more existed,
his name was never uttered by her ; she could
not talk of his death-bed, for, alas ! she fancied
60 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
he had perished on the cold, conspicuous scaf
fold, and that the discordant voices of the reck
less multitude had pillowed his soul to its last
rest. When the object of all this grief appeared
again, in sad paleness, but in truest beauty,
then the crime was forgotten in Augusta's gen
tle clasp, and Poltrot wept on her bosom, as he
hid his shamed face on those dark garbs she was
wearing for him.
Mrs. Ailesbury forgot her nephew stood be
fore her a " banished murderer !" the hideous
words did not cross her mind ; she remembered
he was her deceased sister's only son ; she read
on his pallid brow the truest account of his
sufferings, and she mingled her tears to his, as,
remembering the prodigal son's warm recep
tion to his neglected home, she bade him be
welcome, and find peace.
When Poltrot at length raised his tear-be
dewed face, he encountered the gaze of his
cousin, Edwina Ailesbury, and then again
the crimson tide of shame mounted to his
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 61
brow. He could bear the gaze of his own
gentle sister, of his widowed aunt ; but, alas !
it was doubly painful to greet a stranger—a
beautiful girl, who, in childhood, had been
taught to be proud of "Cousin Poltrot," to
hear of his deeds in arms, and now to appear
before her, soiled with crime, stricken with
sorrow. But, more than all this, there was
evident admiration expressed in Edwina's clear
brown eyes, and Poltrot turned away with a
shudder, remembering that sad day when
Clementina's had rested upon him, all-pitying,
but still all-loving.
Edwina did not speak, but hers was one of
those expressive faces which can tell tales
when the voice is silent. Her features were
not strictly regular, but had a purity of ex
pression—that refined yet well-marked outline
which stamps genteel birth—and her mouth
was particularly attractive, as it possessed a pe
culiar grace, seeming to harmonize with the
love-feeling expression of her eyes. Her com
62 the astrologer's daughter.
plexion was beautifully fair, yet she was not
a blonde, and her bright brown hair was classi
cally arranged, displaying the profusion of her
long locks, yet falling smoothly on her clear
brow. Edwina was rather below than above
the height termed tall, and her cousin called
her, her little Edwina ; but no one could have
wished to add to the height of a person so
gracefully moulded, so perfect in the tout en
semble, that each movement was new grace.
With great promptitude of feeling the young
girl immediately perceived her cousin's distress,
and took the earliest opportunity of gliding out
of the room, and Poltrot was left alone with his
aunt and sister.
" Oh, Augusta, how I have dreaded this
meeting; how I had half-determined to still
the throbbings of my heart, to forget the ties
of kindred which made me yearn towards your
innocent home ; I had half made up my mind
to hide my shame-stricken brow in some lonely
spot, but I summoned courage, and you have
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 63
met me with such kindness. God bless you,
my gentle, my dear, my only sister ; and He
will bless you, for thus his angels in heaven
receive a penitent sinner."
" Talk no more of the past," replied the
gentle girl ; " welcome to our home—we must
make you forget your sorrow, or rather, you
must temper it with holy consolation ; you must
kneel beside us at the village church, and you
must fancy again that you are a young boy,
and that I am the romping Augusta you used
to reprove."
" Those days are fled, my Augusta ; never
can I efface the image of what I was, and what
I now am ; here, look at my loss, but remem
ber that this mute token is only a small, a very
small, part of my loss ; it is the treasured worth
of my intellectual soul, of her searching mind,
and her guileless heart ; it is the worth of a
virtuous and a living woman, for which my
weary heart must ever pine."
Augusta gazed upon the portrait, and her
64 the astrologer's daughter.
tears fell on the expressive countenance which,
painted in the joyousness of Clementina's first
spring, had not one shade of care to dim its
brightness.
Poltrot was deeply touched by his sister's
sympathy, and those mingled tears had the
truest affection in their outpouring ; they fell
slowly but plentifully from Poltrot's over
charged heart, and they alleviated the sor
row of his lonely sufferings. He felt the de
lightful conviction that he should no more
weep alone; and those who are sorrowful,
know all the unspeakable bliss of sympathy.
" How very beautiful is the country, here,"
said Poltrot, after a pause ; " I have re
velled in Italian scenery, but the soft and
modest beauty of Twickenham, speaks so
gently to the heart. The full hedges speak
of the summer's gladness ; and the gentle
streamlets tell of peace. There is music in
the air, and freshness on the earth ; no sultry
warmth makes the feverish heart long for
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 65
coolness ; the gentle wafting of the breeze
to and fro, the harmony of the delightful
scenery, glides even to the heart of sorrow
and shame ; and, Augusta, I loved its plead
ing voice ; something within me seemed to
warn me of the sympathy I should here meet,
and I am so grateful I summoned the moral
courage of appearing before you."
" And you shall never repent your wise
choice : we must wander together in the sum
mer dells ; we must catch the first sound of the
the lark ; we must cull the flowers as they open
their freshness to the day. I will console your
heart, and I will catch your first smile ; dear,
Poltrot ! say you will smile again."
Poltrot turned towards his sister, and a
sickly smile played round his mouth. It was
the shadow of a smile, but Augusta caught it
gladly, and treasured it as the sweet token
that there was still a ray of hope within that
poor heart.
" Dear, dear Poltrot ! come and see our
66 the astrologer's daughter.
pretty garden ; come and see my birds. I have
a pet tame canary, which, hovers on my shoul
ders ; and I have a parrot who repeats your
name."
At that moment, the bird exclaimed from
an inner room—" Poltrot, poor Poltrot."
" Ah, poor Poltrot ! yes, that is my name,"
cried the unhappy young man ; " right, quite
right—poor Poltrot is my name."
" We taught him that, because you were
away from us," said Augusta, blushing deeply ;
" long, long before—"
" Before I was a murderer ! Augusta, my
gentle sister, soil not your dear lips with that
word ; it tells sadly from the mouth of inno
cence and purity. Promise me you will never
utter that word."
The answer was a fervent kiss, and an earnest
request that he would come into the garden;
but there, too, every object which met his eye
spoke volumes to Poltrot's heart. There was
one particular spot which was so very like the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 67
'
pleasant shade of trees where Clementina had
breathed her love. The flowers were too
bright, they were too joyous in their fresh,
open beauty ; the sky appeared too pure ; the
silent influence of Nature overpowered him,
and Poltrot leaned heavily upon his sister's
arm. Tear after tear coursed each other down
his pale cheeks, and fell upon Augusta's
auburn curls. In silence they continued their
walk, until they approached a summer-seat,
where, under the spreading branches of a tree,
the graceful Edwina was wreathing a garland
of flowers, singing, as she added flower after
flower to her bouquet. The silent brother
and sister heard the words :—
" Ye lovely flowers, in brightness blooming,
Hail to your morning birth !
Sweet Rose, lov'd Rose ! the gale perfuming,
Thou beauteous child of earth !
The dew-drops love thy blushing head,
The sun-beams drink thee dry ;
By mossy green thy charms are fed,
And kiss'd by zephyr's sigh.
68 the astrologer's daughter.
" Fair Lily, too, thy cheek is pale
As Winter's drifted snow ;
Thou feedest on love-breathing gale,
Where sparkling waters flow ;
Sweet sounds around thee wreathe their spell,
Gray insects haunt the stream ;
They leave the spot with one ' Farewell,'
To Summer's last, bright beam !
" Oh beauteous Primrose, thou must be
Entwined amid the Rose ;
For thou—" * * * *
" Oh, I did not mean to let Poltrot know I
was a poet, or rather attempted to be one,"
cried Edwina, as she half-concealed herself
behind her graceful bouquet, and endeavoured
to hide the blushes which mounted to her
cheek.
" Oh, nonsense, Edwina," said Augusta,
playfully, " you know you live on poetry."
" I beg your pardon, my fair coz. ; aunt will
tell you I require something more substantial
than poetry to support the spark of health and
spirits which are within my body."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 69
" But poetry rocks you to sleep, Edwina."
" Well I love to ramble over some old song,
when I lie awake ; but what maiden, save a
candid one, like myself, would own that she
ever lies awake ?"
" And why not, Edwina ?"
" Why not ? " repeated Edwina, with a pe
culiarly arch expression, which became her so
well ; " why not ? because that is confessing to
indulging romantic visions, or wandering in
thought amidst a labyrinth of true love, which
never runs smooth, at least so we are told."
" But I shall not accuse you of being in
love ; I only accuse you of being a poet."
" That is nearly the same ; at least no one
will believe person can be poetical, unless they
are in love, or have been in love, or mean to
to be in love ; unless they have some lover who
likes to come in the moonlight and can bear
to freeze a whole night in January, singing love
serenades under a window—who can leap across
a wall of stupendous thickness—who can, in
70 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
short, say wondrous things, do impossibilities.
No, no, Gussy, I am not half stamped a poet."
" All your words are of no avail," continued
her amiable cousin ; " you are a poet to my
liking ; you are pretty enough to say what you
please, and not strictly handsome enough to say
ill-natured things, and look out of humour. An
hour of sulkiness would spoil your face for a
week, so you are sure always to be in a good
humour."
" What a beautiful portrait you are making
of me ; Poltrot, pray come to my assistance,
and say that I need not be such an insipid,
inanimate being ; I love to see a woman in a
passion, if she has real cause to be in one, par
ticularly since that celebrated painter told me
I looked best when I was animated ; and cer
tainly I had been in a passion that day—let me
see what it was about ; but what does that sig
nify ? I only want Poltrot to give me licence
to be in a passion whenever I please."
Alas ! alas ! for a guilty conscience ; even
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 71
the playful, innocent Edwina, had, without
knowing it, rankled a thorn in Poltrot's bosom.
Passion ! had not passion hurled him to com
mit a sinful crime ? had not passion dashed him
from the summit of happiness, to the abyss
of misery ? He had stood, as it were, upon a
mountain, whose brow touched the ethereal
hemisphere ; flowers bloomed upon its mossy
sides, and gentle rivulets flowed around it :
suddenly he was transported, hurled from this
sunny domain, and now he bowed low to the
ground. Could he talk of passion ?
" You must give me an answer," still per
sisted the unconscious girl.
But Poltrot fled into the house.
" Oh, Augusta ! what have I done ? " she
cried, turning to her cousin, and letting her
bouquet fall to the ground.
" Nothing intentionally ; but my brother's
nerves are so sensitive. I will go after him ;
but you had better take no notice of this oc
currence; it was the word 'passion' which hurt
72 the astrologer's daughter.
his spirits. Kiss me, Edwina; you did not
mean to wound him."
" I did not, indeed," muttered Edwina ; and
she was glad her cousin left her, for tears
flowed down her cheeks. It was very seldom
that such drops of emotion dimmed the lustre
of her brown eyes, but Edwina could not
repress them : there was a softness, a melan
choly, in Poltrot's face, a graceful despond
ency in his figure, a wearied yet a touching
expression ; and the gay young girl pre-
erred his subdeud appearance, and the soft and
trembling sound of his voice, to any other she
had ever heard. Day after day her fondness
increased, and yet poor Edwina scarcely dare
speak to her cousin, for a want of forethought
was her greatest fault ; and unlike the gentle
Augusta, she did not know how to time her
words and looks, for it was necessary to time
even the expression of the face, in order to
avoid wounding the sensibility of Poltrot's mor
bid feelings. Edwina was gay, and her gaiety
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 73
jarred against Poltrot's melancholy —she be
came pensive, and he morbidly fancied his
sorrow was infectious, even to. his lively cousin ;
she looked kindly, fondly at him, and there
her gaze was met by one of almost sullen
return, seeming to say—" What business has
any one to love me ?" A grief-stricken, a
morbidly-sensitive disposition, is a most deli
cate companion ; and the lively Edwina, pity
ing, admiring, and loving her cousin, became
an object of hatred to Poltrot. Her love was
a mockery of what he had once so tenderly
fostered, and poor Edwina was totally blind to
this circumstance, whilst Augusta was far too
amiable to tell her of it.
She was, indeed, herself as an angel of com
passion hovering round her brother's steps ; she
led him to wild spots, which she felt would suit
his humour. At night she lay awake, endeavour
ing to fancy herself in his situation, and won
dering what then would best soothe her ; then,
when some bright thought fleeted past her ima-
VOL. II. e
74 the astrologer's daughter.
gination, oh then she longed for the dawning
morning, in order to put her plan into execu
tion. Her voice was the first which greeted
her brother's ears, as tapping gently at his door,
she told him the lark was up, and the dew was
on the.grass, would he take an early walk ?
Arm in arm, the sister and brother wended
their way across the fields, following the course
of the river, and their conversation was so pure,
so wholly directed heavenward, that Poltrot
ever returned from his morning rambles, com
forted in spirit, more resigned, more tranquil.
Will it then be wondered that Edwina's gay
voice broke inharmoniously upon the unearthly
calmness which, after these rambles, reigned in
his heart? Sometimes she was subdued, but
her gentleness was not inherent, like Augus
ta's ; the latter was a being fit to comfort and
alleviate suffering. Edwina was a creature fit
to captivate man in his gayest hours ; she
twined round the heart, as long as it was blithe
and free, but she had not drunk long draughts
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 75
of sorrow, she did not then know what it was
to feed on sighs. Poetry was the favourite
hemisphere of her mind, but it was a graceful,
animated poetry ; it was clothed, like herself,
in sprightly gracefulness; she charmed, she
stole upon man's sight, but she did not* cling
round the grief-stricken soul.
e 2
CHAPTER V.
It was with sorrow that Mrs. Ailesbury watched
a degree of languor fall upon her usually
animated daughter. The song was more
seldom heard, the laugh was less buoyant,
the step had a pensiveness which was new
to the sprightly girl. Those who admired
Edwina in the gay moods of wit, or high
spirits, would hardly have recognised her in
a pensive humour. A mother's eye (and a
widowed mother's especially) is ever alive
to the feelings of her child, but in this case
Mrs. Alisbury was entirely in the dark. She
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 77
never imagined Edwina loved Poltrot ; she
scarcely ever saw him ; she had generally
left the breakfast-room before he and his
sister returned from their morning's ram
ble, and during the day they scarcely ever
met. The mother attributed her child's fail
ing spirits to the warmth of the weather,
to every cause save the right one. As is
often the case in such dilemmas, Mrs. Alis-
bury called upon a neighbour to consult
her upon the propriety of tonics, or other
remedies suitable to a case which she did
not understand.
Mrs. Ailesbury's neighbour resided in ;i
Gothic-looking cottage. The lawn was trimly
decorated with plants which the old gardener
boasted had been in existence, or at least
were sprouts springing from plants which
had vegetated in another reign ; each gera
nium had its pedigree, and wo to those who
did not admire the prim, though somewhat
tasty garden, which its owner, Mrs. Grandison,
78 the astrologer's daughter.
noticed once a week on her journey to church,
when the old gardener invariably vied with
the other servants in endeavouring to open
the gate, feeling recompensed for a week's
arduous labour, when his mistress, graciously
looking round, exclaimed, " The flowers look
very well, gardener."
" Yes, yes, they are bonny things," replied
the old man, too much pleased to add more ;
and in that state affairs remained until the
same laconic compliment was passed the next
Sunday. The porch of the cottage was orna
mented with honey-suckle, roses, and sweet-
briar; and the comfortable seats placed in
the recesses were often tenanted by the poor
of the neighbourhood, to whom Mrs. Grandi-
son distributed her weekly donation of bread ;
for the good lady was as charitable as she was
prosy, two qualities which, when they meet,
charity so soon oversteps prosiness, that the
latter is lost in the sum-total of human virtues.
The interior of the cottage was so sumptuously
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 79
furnished that the house rather deserved the
appellation of a mansion, were it not for the
low roof and the rather mean appearance
which pendant branches of grapes growing
over it gave to the exterior of a house, which
had been, as it were, without an effort or a wish
on the part of its owner, styled a cottage. The
drawing-room was a mass of needle-work, all
executed in that peculiar manner which our
ancestors called Gobelin-stitch, and of which
such curious relics are still preserved. The
chair backs, the large cushions, the table-
covers, various mats, but, above all, the large
sheets of tapestry which decorated the walls,
all gave authentic marks of the industry
of one, or rather several, pair of hands,
for Mrs. Grandison had a catalogue by
heart ; this was Mary's work — and this
was Jane's—and this was Susan's ; and thus
she went through a host of names, ending
with the doleful exclamation, "But now they
are all married, poor girls." A large and
80 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
curiously constructed clock graced the old
mantel-shelf, and the walls were covered
with a profusion of wigged-head pictures;
one old baron being placed in a most con
spicuous situation, to denote that he was the
head of the family: a lady was placed at
cither side of this " top of the tree," and both
had been so drawn that their eyes were turned
towards the well -surrounded Baron, whose
rosy, laughing, portly face appeared to blush,
even through the paint (at least one almost
fancied it did, under the scrutiny of four
dark and full-looking eyes). Dutch porce
lain, of uncouth and very ancient con
struction, were disposed on various gilded
shelves which projected from cornices, and
supplied the place of our modern chiffoniers.
Vases well filled with flowers, birds in their
gilded cages, an old-fashioned instrument,
which I suppose we must call a piano, and
music so rudely written that now it would
be antediluvian to talk about ; these, and
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 81
various old-fashioned gold snuff-boxes, formed
the distinguishing marks of the apartment ;
but the windows thrown open on the flowery
lawn, the fine silken textured curtains—these,
and the richness of the carpets, in those days
denoted great wealth.
Widow Grandison (as she had been called
for many years) was reported to be rich ; she
had well married four or five girls, and was
very happy in her solitude, occasionally
making the effort of inviting one of her
daughters and her children separately, but at
length they had amongst them so many little
Annes, and Janes, and Marys, that Mrs.
Grandison found she had too many christening
presents to give ; and she finally ended by
declaring that her memory failed so much
thpt she could not remember which were
Susan's children, which were Jane's, etc. ; this
effectually affronted the parents, as one set
of the Janes were red-haired, and the other
beautiful : the children were no more brought
e 3
82 the astrologer's daughter.
to see their opportunely blind grand-mother ;
and by this expedient Mrs. Grandison kept
much loose cash in her ample pocket. I feel
inlcined to publish Mrs. Grandison's ma
noeuvre and have it circulated as a most sav
ing plan for grandmothers in general.
Mrs. Grandison was sitting knitting in her
easy chair, her high coiff was duly placed over
her silvery locks, whilst her thick frill d la
Elizabeth, completely concealed her throat,
which is an advantage in old age. Her dress
was a dark satin, with a very short-waisted
body, and a long training skirt; a massive
golden chain, to which was attached a watch,
which our modern taste would call the size
of a warming-pan ; this completed her toilette,
unless we mention the numerous rings, glitter
ing with pearls and diamonds, which were
always placed on the same fingers, and were
each separately promised to a grandchild after
death.
Mrs. Grandison was, as I before said, sitting
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 83
in her arm-chair, when her neighbour was an
nounced. The knitting was immediately put
aside, and most prosy conversation began.
Mrs. Grandison was a blue and a politician,
Mrs. Ailesbury a religionaire; and though I do
not accuse my readers of being prosy, and
though I have not yet been accused of being
so myself, still I will be bold, or cruel enough,
to note down the two ladies' conversation.
" Well, now, this is indeed kind of you to
come out this disagreeable day (the sun was
shining brightly), all to see me! I declare; but
I always say the world is so kind to me ; and
indeed so it ought to be : my husband was a
high man, and albeit he was loyal to our gra
cious Queen, and followed the Reformation,
his own sentiments (this was said in a pro
fessional whisper) leaned towards the Papists,
and he tolerably, mind I say tolerably, pre
ferred the pomps of the Romish Church ; be
cause he said, that the more pomp there
was, the more grandeur was displayed in the
84 the astrologer's daughter.
Church, the more the people looked down
from the spiritual to the temporal King ; and
seeing the deference paid to the sumptuously
clad clergy, they there heard of the due sub
jection to be paid to those above them, and—"
" Excuse me," said Mrs. Ailesbury, piously
lifting up her eyes to heaven ; " but really, I
am not a politician, and I cannot mix the
Church and State, or party or political feel
ings, together ; they are utterly distinct—at
least so goes my poor judgment; but I advocate
the mild doctrines of Calvin ; and the more
simplicity we have in our rites, and the less we
think of the clergy, except as instruments of
His will, the more we think of God."
" My dear madam ! it is very easy to per
ceive your husband has never tutored you in
politics. Law! I never could obtain a new
trinket, or scarcely a needful article of dress,
without I had every rule of toleration, and
reformation, and free conscience, and free
thinking, and Papal bulls, and God knows
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 85
what besides, at my fingers' ends ; even on his
death-bed the good man said, in a faint voice
—' Mary, don't forget your politics.' Now,
allow me to tell you, dear Mrs. Ailesbury,
that no woman is competent to move in society,
in these days, without having a distinct notion
why she is a Papist or a Reformer. Now, our
Queen is a Reformer, and so are you ; but, in
strict confidence, I affirm that the French Go
vernment is —"
*****
" Oh, do not speak of the French Govern
ment," said Mrs. Ailesbury, turning pale ; " I
have cause, indeed, to regret I know anything
about it. It is a school for wickedness, engen
dering malice, revenge, and every bad feeling
which God, in his Holy Word, forbids."
" Oh, yes, yes, I quite forgot your nephew ;
yes—a bad job^—highly political—but bad—
yes, yes—'murdered the Duke. I call it a duel,
a political rencontre ; he met the Duke—the
Duke wanted to kill him—he killed the Duke,
86 the astrologer's daughter.
just one and the same, quid pro quo—if the
Duke were alive, he would kill Poltrot ; ha !
ha ! ha ! nothing like politics ; I know a little
of Latin—read it in political works—used to
pore over them till I was nearly blind—a beau
tiful language, Latin—tells so much in si few
words—pity it is a dead language—I always
speak fast—never pause—never stop—and so
on. That comes of learning Latin, and poli
tics. Multum in parvo. Shall I tell you how
I write to my daughters ?"
" If you like," said Mrs. Ailesbury, casting
her eyes on the large clock, and seeing that, as
her neighbour had only talked for a quarter
of an hour, it was hopeless yet to hazard a
question. " Yes, if you like."
" Dear Mary, or Sue, or Jane, or Anna, it is
all the same, as I don't vary my letters, unless
any visible cause makes me do so.
" ' Dear Mary,
" ' Hope you are well—children also; keep
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 87
loyal to the Queen. Political obligations tell
you to be a Reformer—all the same—one road
to Heaven—duty to God and neighbour—
golden rule—next virtue, charity—cleanliness
next—proper for growth of the children—love
to them.'
" That is very good, I say, unless I have to
congratulate on the birth of another child, or
give a receipt for the measles, or hooping-
cough, or some such casualty, which will
disturb the peace of the best regulated family.
But, to other subjects.—Do you credit the
report of the Queen's marriage ? highly poli
tical, ensure the succession, and please the
nation. Too self-confident to see a Queen
single on the English throne. Ah, I see you
are rather impatient — very good of you to
come out this damp weather. Dew falls hea
vily. How is dear Edwina?"
" That is- the very subject on which I wish
to speak to you, dear Mrs. Grandison ; Edwina
is not well."
88 the astrologer's daughter.
"What ails her?"
" I really do not know."
" Have you felt her pulse ? "
" Why no ; it might alarm her."
" Oh, not at all, not at all ; does she sleep
well?"
" That I cannot tell."
" You must inquire ; indeed you must.
Doctors are politicians in their way—the
pulse, sleep, and diet, are synonymous with
them to the financial, commercial, and mi
litia regulations of statesmen. What a poli
tical world this is! I perfectly live amidst
politics, dote upon them, instil them into the
minds of my servants. My gardener arranges
his plants under a trained system — gave
him the lesson myself. That tall plant by
the sycamore tree is the general of the staff,
then follow the other high-grade officers. The
whole regiment is so disposed, that, in case of
a heavy gale, the small plants are protected by
a powerful reinforcement. Ha, ha, ha ; do
you not call that very droll ? "
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 89
" Very ; but, do you know what I am to do
with Edwina? she sighs."
" Do not let her read dull books ; and, above
all, let her come to me every day. I will store
her mind with such a useful, amusing, instruc
tive, and engrossing subject, that she will have
no time for sighing. I have now a paper speak
ing of treating and detailing the Spanish Ar
mada's arrangements, and the true and forcible
plan of managing a fleet."
" I must lave you now," said Mrs. Ailesbur y ,
rising ; " Edwina has no taste for such pursuits.
I must trust only in that Providence, who or
ders and plans both health and sickness."
" Quite right, quite right ; it is the policy
of the mind to quiet itself like that; quite
right," continued Mrs. Grandison ; and a pow
dered ' valet escorted Mrs. Ailesbury to the
gate, Mrs Grandison promising to call very
shortly, and see the fair patient.
A week elapsed before Mrs. Grandison
found it convenient to come ; and when she
90 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
visited Mrs. Ailesbury, Edwina's illness was
no longer imaginary ; she was actually in bed,
suffering from a severe headache (which with
young ladies is sometimes synonymous with
heartache). Augusta was weeping very bit
terly, and Mrs. Ailesbury was endeavouring to
console her.
" Mercy on us ! what is the matter ?" ex
claimed Mrs. Grandison ; " bad policy to weep,
Augusta—never cures a misfortune—spoil your
pretty eyes—injure your complexion: never
cry, it is the worst policy."
" Do not speak of policy," cried Augusta
de Mer^ ; " my poor brother has left us sud
denly, and it is in vain to conjecture why, or
wherefore."
" Bad, very bad," said the political com
forter; " very bad, my love, very. French
Government seized him—caged him. Ever
heard of the Inquisition? Medicis fond of it
—very bad, very."
" Oh, pray, my dear madam, do not speak
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 91
so," said Mrs. Ailesbury, entreatingly ; " only
consider Augusta's feelings."
" Ah, true, very true —bad, very—bad,
very. I remember in Henry the Eighth's time,
my poor dear husband was in—oh, dear, I
quite forgot, it is a political secret; I never
divulge, only as you are such particular dear
friends, I will give you the heads, you can
place all together: bad, a very bad scrape—
Tower—distant view of gallows—Tower Hill
—axe—loop-hole—cords—escape—so on."
Mrs. Grandison would probably have pro
ceeded with her unconnected, but tolerably
explicit, history of her deceased husband's
perilous situation, had not Augusta fallen
fainting into her aunt's arms. Now Mrs.
Grandison, who though a bore, was very good
natured, exerted herself to recover the afflicted
Augusta. Hers was not a feigned faint, for
in those days, the remarkably interesting state
of a fainting young lady was not so gently
handled, at least Mrs. Grandison shook
92 the astrologer's daughter.
Augusta, gave her various twists, and turns,
pinches, pushes, screamed in her cars ; and at
length Augusta awoke from her fainting fit,
only begging one boon, that of being left
alone. Mrs. Grandison had so fully persuaded
herself that an inquisitorial tribunal had taken
away Poltrot, that she hardly felt on terrafirma,
within the walls of a marked house. Accord
ingly, esteeming it a political movement of per
sonal safety, she made her exit ; and Augusta
was particularly glad when she heard the dis
tant noise of her rustling satin far off in the
corridor. Many persons have felt consolation
irksome, when given by those who have not
the tact of consoling gently. None felt this
more than poor Augusta ; even her aunt's
usually welcome presence was a burden ; and
she was glad when Mrs. Ailesbury went up
stairs to her daughter.
Then Augusta wandered in the beautiful
grounds which surrounded the villa ; she read
and re-read the letter, which briefly said that
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 93
Poltrot could no more dwell with those lie
loved. She clasped it to her bosom—it might
be the last letter she would receive from him.
Had he again partially lost his reason, or was it
true, as Mrs. Grandison had affirmed, that the
French government had retaken him, and would
punish him with a severer punishment than ba
nishment ? The flowers spread heir fragrance
to the day, the lawn was tufted in its green
beauty, the dew-drops were still hanging lan
guidly on the trees, the birds were chirping in
that soft, liquid manner, when every note
sounds as water dropping in a cascade below.
Augusta thought the soft harmony of air and
sounds too rapturous, too soul- stirring, when
her own heart was all dark and sad. How dif
ferent it is to feel sorrow for another than to
experience it personally. Not a thought of
her own loneliness filled her breast ; not a
dream of sself, not a wish save that of know
ing that her beloved brother was safe. He had
lately been so calm, so resigned ; religion had
94 the astrologer's daughter.
spoken to his benighted heart; he had knelt by
her side in the village church ; he had not said
any more, " I cannot pray." She had caught
the sounds of his warm, his ardent prayer ; it
was the essence of a penitent soul ; and now,
alas! again, he was, perchance, exposed to
danger ; again the maddening thoughts of his
past crime would perhaps be brought up against
him. Oh, but for once to hear Poltrot say,
that no time, no place, no care, no temptation,
could recal him to his grief ; but for once to
hear his own voice say " farewell," even
though the word might be the last, the part
ing knell ; oh, for once to hear those words—
" I am reconciled to my God ! "
CHAPTER VI.
Readers, travelling is now so easy, that a
journey from one spot to the other is merely
asking a person to take a newspaper or periodi
cal work in his pocket, sit down comfortably,
and perhaps come to a finale, just as the
journey is at its terminus ; but it requires to
beg my readers many excuses, when, in the
sixteenth century, they are unceremoniously
transplanted from the English shore, where
our good Queen Bess was holding her firmly-
established sceptre, to the French Court, where
the well-known Catherine de Medicis was still
96 the astrologer's daughter.
the plotting, bigoted, political, and erring
mistress. If her dark eyes ever trembled
through a tear, when she recalled some do
mestic calamitiy, the proud smile of power,
the triumph of an unprincipled woman, chased
away all remorse and gloom, in the continuous
bustle, the hurry, the noise, the plots and
changes of her detestable Court. Politic is
a word which, methinks, hardly becomes a
woman, unless it is so blended by the softest
feelings of her sex, so guided by truth and
equity, that like, in the hands of our present
sweet-minded and gentle young Queen, policy
is to secure the love of a nation—to promote
the welfare of her subjects, and to show her
power by all those endearing acts of the heart's
goodness, which have already woven their spells
around her, aud will cause her name to be en
graved on the tablets of history and memory,
coupled with the truest virtue. With Cathe
rine de Medicis, policy did not mean " to reign
well ;" it was, in fact the democrat ofpower—
. THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 97
to be head of the nation, to tyrannize over the
poor, to subdue the power of the nobles, to es
tablish the Papal forms in all their rigour (in
order to derive benefit from the Pope)—this
was the key of the M^dicis' policy ; at least so
it seems to me, after a diligent survey of the
annals of her reign.
The French Court was now a scene of
unusual grandeur and gaiety ; preparations
were actively proceeding for the marriage
of the lovely Marguerite de Valois ; she was
indeed a blithe young creature, looking upon
Henri of Navarre with that doting fondness
which is felt towards the young object of our
first affections.
Clementina never wearied hearing how
beautiful, how gallant, was the expected
bridegroom : and she chased away the selfish
sigh which sprung at the recollection of how
happy her love might have been.
At length the Eoyal bridal day dawned
in all the splendour of a most beautiful sum
vol. n. f
98 the astrologer's daughter.
mer day ; the populace crowded to catch a
glimpse of the young bride, and from the
earliest hour the streets presented a dense
multitude of heads. Triumphal arches were
raised, all decorated with the choicest flowers ;
music resounded through the air ; and singers
raised their voices in praise of the fair young
Princess. The nobles were already assembled
in the large state apartments, when the young
Princess, attired in her nuptial robes, entered
the room where Clementina was finishing
her toilette. The latter was pale and thought
ful, for a host of feelings were crowding round
her heart ; and a gentle voice, mournful as the
dirge of the evening wind, seemed to whisper
soft lullabys of grief. Oh, she thought of
those beautiful hazel eyes, of the clustering
locks, of the grace and the love of poor Poltrot
de Mere\
" I have finished my toilette," cried Mar
guerite, bounding joyfully into the room;
" I am so happy, so joyous, that I fear me I
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 99
do not look interesting enough for a modest
bride."
" You look surpassingly lovely," replied
Clementina, surveying the fairy-like looking
Princess, whose attire added to her native
beauty and grace. Her robe was of rich white
satin, covered with the most costly lace, looped
up with mock roses composed of pearls, with
a glittering diamond in the middle. The
body was high ; and the frill then worn
round the throat, was composed, of quilled
lace, encircled by a string of diamonds ; on
her head she wore a long veil, which de
scended low to the ground, fastened round
with a large diamond pin, and surmounted
by a wreath of white rose blossoms : her fair
long locks were scattered round her neck,
and glistened as they fell in rich masses, just
relieved from the soubrette's hands.
Clementina was also attired in white, but
more simply arranged, and was to follow in
the bride's train.
100 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
As soon as the maid who was attiring her
had finished her duty, the Princess turned
towards Clementina with one of those young
sunny smiles which so gladden the heart.
" Clementina, one week spent here in re
joicings, one week given entirely to my Henri,
then I will think again of the ties of friend
ship, and make you happy for ever."
"Princess it is time to explain myself; I
thank you for all your kindness, for all your
gentle sympathy. You are very young, but
you are on the point of entering a new life,
which seems, as it were, to banish afar girlish
hours and girlish thoughts : now need I no
longer speak to your Highness as the gay
young Princess Marguerite, but I may address
a sensible and feeling young bride. Princess—
kind and dear lady—I must marry the Duke.
I am tranquil and resigned ; one week, and
Henri of Guise shall follow in your train, as
well as myself ; not engrossed by each other,
but directing all our attention towards our
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 101
Royal mistress. One week more and I will
kneel beside him at the altar, whilst low in
the depths of my heart I will pray to banish
the recollection of a love which was once
innocent and pure, but would now be a pas
sion guilty and debasing."
" Noble-hearted, generous, dear Clementina !
how much I admire you ! I dare not say I pity
you, for happy must be that heart which can
reason so purely as yours—happy in its own
hemisphere of virtues, surpassingly good and
beautiful ; another hour, and the sun will shine
on me, the bride of Henri of Navarre. Joy
fully, gladly, and trustingly, I give him my
young heart. He has possessed my affections
since childhood, and my heart yearns to him
now. The present is all smiling—the future
may be cloudy ; then whether I change my
name, for weal or for wo, oh, now hear me
say how fervently I wish to be constant, true,
and resigned, as you are. Yours is, methinks,
a true and noble heart of rectitude."
102 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
Clementina bent low over the ungloved hand
which the Princess held to her ; but the lat
ter suddenly exclaimed, " Not so, not so : this
is the last kiss you will receive from the Prin
cess de Valois •" and she twined her arms close
and fondly round Clementina's neck.
How beautiful was that embrace., and how
beautiful the feelings of the love of goodness
glowing in young Marguerite's heart !
Alas ! how many of us feel thus keenly in
youth, but afterwards leave far behind those
transitory feelings of exalted virtue which
pass as a bright glow-worm, shining for awhile,
but leaving no trace of where it has once
shone !
With a heart glowing with love and purity,
scarcely caring for the buzz of admiration with
which she was greeted, the fair Princess bent
down her beautiful head, whilst the Cardinal
Lorraine pronounced the nuptial blessing.
Deeply in Clementina's heart every word
was treasured ; and bending her own head
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 103
against a column, she secretly prayed for
strength.
Henri of Guise was standing by her side,
and he caught the smile of holy piety which
sat on Clementina's lip ; he pressed her hand,
and she returned the pressure gently, very
gently, and with a crimson blush, half timidly,
half repenting ; but still she did return it, and
that soft touch thrilled deep into the heart of
the young Duke, while it wafted him to his
slumbers, amidst dreams of new-born pleasure.
Now, he devoted all his time, all his talents, to
please and captivate her he had so long loved,
so hopelessly cherished; he forgot all her former
coldness, he thought only of coming days of
joy; and he who might have married the richest
and highest-born damsel in the land, turned
with heartfelt pride and fondness towards the
Astrologer's Daughter. It might be that he
read in Pettura's high bearing, in his eloquent
language, in his noble frame, that he was, per
chance, of noble birth. But, above* all, he was
104 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
proud of the intrinsic value of Clementina's
heart and mind; the elevation of refinement
was stamped on her elegant figure; she had
trod the Courts of Kings, she had joined
the pastimes of the highest ; she had been
the friend of the amiable and much-regretted
Jeanne d'Albret, and she was high enough for
the Duke. If Henri's father ever appeared be
fore his eyes, he fancied he smiled upon his love ;
his frowns fled before the recollection of his
long and ardent attachment. Everything now
appeared to shine on his love ; and had a spirit
from the departed warned him of the uncer
tainty of human bliss, he would have rejected
the unwelcome voice, and have continued in
his dream of happiness.
Oh, Henri of Guise, and oh, many others
in our days, heed this truth of my pen—listen
to a young, but a thoughtful mind :—The pre
sent is ours, the future a hidden mystery. We
hover around a garden, where softest flowerets
bespangle the parterre ; we bask under a sky,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 105
all bedight with luminous stars ; and though
the moon may light us to the one spot where
the true nectar of happiness lies concealed,
still, with the flighty wings of a butterfly, we
soar and light upon all that is transiently
lovely; but we leave for afuture research that
one sure, that lonely spot, towards which the
light is guiding us. Then comes the future,
veiled in a valley of darkness : no blooming
flowers near, no gay parterre, no fairy bedight,
blazoned sky ; the moon no longer lends her
pure light, and our steps are slow and uncer
tain. The heart is as a benighted wanderer,
roaming amidst a blank moor, leaving a distant
recollection of a shelter once seen, but vainly
looking for the signal-light, which has vanished
with a,past, which was once the present. How
wise it is to remember, that amidst each pre
sent joy, the present must change to past, and
we allow each opportunity to glide down the
era of time without deriving any permanent be
nefit from the good which is within our grasp.
f 3
106 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
The young heart which trusts and is deceived,
must ever in after life look back to the bright
moment when it believed, and wonder at its
own blind folly in not reflecting on the uncer
tainty of life. And the heart which is sud
denly elated with new-born hopes, would do
wisely to remember, that there are equally sud
den reverses, from the summit of a palace to
the lonely hovel of poverty.
Oh, how passing human joy was the bliss
which filled the soul of the Duke, when he
thought now of his betrothed ! Her youngest
and loveliest days had fleeted by, and sorrow
and pain had robbed her of many charms ; but
she was still beautiful, and had waned gently
from a fascinating gay girl, to a young and
intellectual woman. She was more dazzling
when, as his father's prisoner, she burst upon
Henri's sight, with her golden locks, and her
blooming complexion ; but she was more en
dearing, more expressively, more interestingly
beautiful, now, with her subdued brow, her
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 107
smoothly braided hair, and the look of pain
which occasionally sat on her pale countenance.
Not one wish of seeing Clementina younger
or more blooming crossed the mind of Henri
of Guise. His love had been given in her first
hours of girlish loveliness ; he had been bold,
he had been spurned. His love had only in
creased by the coldness opposed to it. His
thoughts had so gradually glided down with
Clementina's youth, that as he now pressed
her no longer reluctant hand within his, he
himself, older, wiser, and if possible more
fondly loving, fancied he pressed again within
his own, that dear young hand, which he had
once held against Clementina's will.
The week had not yet elapsed, and the
Court rejoicings for Marguerite's nuptials had
not yet tired themselves with their taste and
splendour. Still the golden festooned drapery
hung from alcove to alcove ; and the lovely
children of earth, the fair gay flowers, were
pending from arches and balconies; still the
108 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
music was heard ushering in the merry dance ;
the noise of lances breaking against each other,
proclaimed the tournament held in the balmy
air had not yet finished; all was merriment
and joy. The gay young Prince de Conde
(Henri of Navarre's cousin), the Due d'An-
jou, and lastly here mentioned, but first in
rank, the King of France, were the principal
ilite of the young parties wrestling. The Ad
miral de Coligny, Retz, Tavannes, the Due
de Nevers, the Queen of Spain (sister to the
Princess Marguerite), the dazzling and beau
tiful Queen M^dicis, graced the tournament
which preceded the evening's ball.
The combatants were masked, and free
permission was given to any masked cheva
lier to join the sport. The King himself
joined in the amusement; at first without car
ing much about it, though afterwards most
willingly, when Marguerite of Navarre de
clared it to be her wish that her favourite
Clementina should be " Queen of Beauty of
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 109
the tournament." The latter was seated on
an elevated throne, covered with blue velvet,
worked in silver, with massive tassels and cord
hangings, and a canopy above, on which a
broken lance was worked in silver, whilst un
derneath was placed this motto : " Je m'aye-
nouille aux pieds de la Heine de Beaute"."
It was with great reluctance that Clemen
tina was led to the throne, amid the applause
ofhundreds of handsome chevaliers, the scru
tinizing glances of most brilliant women, and
the approving smiles of the young Royal bride.
Marguerite, still the naive creature of im
pulse, detached her glittering diamond crown,
and despatched it by her brother of Anjou
to adorn Clementina's head, who sat opposite
to her.
Charles the Ninth arose, and coaxingly
pleaded the honour of placing it on Clemen
tina's head. The Duke of Anjou was forced
to comply ; and Clementina turned at first
very pale, then perfectly crimson ; for she
110 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
encountered one deep look of hatred from
Catherine de Medicis.
" A Queen ought to be crowned only by
a King," whispered Charles, as he bent over
Clementina's throne, and placed the crown on
her reluctant brow.
This little movement of impulse on the part
of the young Queen of Navarre was produc
tive of very unpleasant feelings : the Duke
of Anjou was discontented at not being suf
fered to crown the ilite Queen of Beauty ;
the Duke of Guise beheld with a jealous eye
favours she would have to confer on the
fortunate chevaliers whose bravery would en
title them to a prize from her hands ; the
Queen-Mother looked at her son with a bit
ter look of displeasure ; and poor Clementina
sat in torturing fear, with the crown meant
to adorn her, actually piercing her, as if it
were composed of thorns instead of diamonds.
Many a fair bosom there present, beat with
envy at the apparently enviable situation of
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. Ill
the Astrologer's Daughter ; many envied the
friendship which Marguerite of Navarre had
favoured her with. The sweet bride herself
looked at her with true and genuine smiles of
girlish delight, joined perhaps to a little keen
buoyancy at disappointing many prouder dam
sels; her enjoument, her wit, her youthful
beauty, contrasted forcibly with the Queen of
Beauty's pallid but poetically lovely face.
At length the trumpets sounded, and the
shrill horn replied to the sound: bright
lances shone in the air ; the well polished
arms clashed against each other, and every
eye was turned towards the combatants. The
King of France was several times victorious,
and Clementina found him on bended knee
before her. Twice she saw the same sinister
expression of countenance on the Queen-
Mother's face ; at length she muttered, so
softly that she fancied none heard her, " Oh
that some one would discomfit the King."
She looked round for Henri of Guise, but he
112 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
had been struck and slightly hurt, and was
leaning against her throne with a pale coun
tenance and a troubled eye.
The King again loudly called for an an
tagonist. There was a pause. It was very
apparent, that however little His Majesty
had attended to Mariot's Latin orations, he
had given more attention to the study of
arms ; he wrestled with surprising agility, and
the discomfited antagonists had no wish of
re-entering the lists, when a tall chevalier,
clothed in dark armour, with a close vizor
drawn over his face, entered the ranks, the
soldiery making way for him. The martial
music was hushed, and the heralds cried with
a loud voice ; " A champion ; a champion, vice
la Heine de Beautt."
Clementina knew not why, but she felt a
sudden thrill through every vein, and a secret
conviction that the new comer would discomfit
the King.
According to the rules of the tournament,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 113
no questions were asked. The champion was
properly accoutred, and had free power to enter
the lists. The King, however, surveyed the
tall, but very slight figure before him, with
a degree of contempt, and he asked taunt
ingly—
" Did the Unknown know that he had dis
comfited many brave knights—he, the King of
France ?"
The chevalier merely bowed.
" Oh, you are deaf as well as black," cried
the King."
Still no answer ; but the chevalier drew his
lance, and the King, shielding his head, imi
tated his example, spurred on to revenge, and
yet he knew not why. For a long time the
engagement appeared doubtful, but at length,
after a noble display of skill, force, and acti
vity, the King was thrown down, and acknow
ledged himself, vanquished. The Unknown had
not even uttered the usual words, " Chevalier
rends tot." Silently he had overthrown the
114 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
King, and he then turned with the rapidity
lightning towards the spot where the grace
ful Queen of Beauty was enthroned ; he bent
low, and kissed her hand. The heralds ad
vanced to announce his conquest and perform
the accustomed tedious introduction to the
Queen of the Tournament ; but the Unknown
raised himself from his knees, bent over the
throne, dexterously drew a thick golden chain
off the astonished Clementina's neck, and made
his exit with the same rapid pace.
" Stop him ! " shouted the Duke of Guise ;
"he has insulted and robbed the Queen."
" Stop him ! " echoed many voices ; but the
populace, ever leaning towards a fugitive party,
made way for him, and Echo only repeated,
" Stop him! stop him !"
The Duke of Guise cast a scrutinizing glance
at Clementina's face, but she could not answer
his gaze; her head turned dizzy, her eyes
elosed, and she fainted in his arms.
This unforeseen event, and the approaching
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 115
estivity of a masked ball, closed the tourna
ment. Many were the conjectures which arose,
many were the suppositions as to the name of
the Unknown, whilst Clementina was the ob
ject of curiosity ; yet she recovered her spirits,
and she smiled, but it was a ghastly smile. She
danced with Henri of Guise, but she no more
returned the pressure of his hand ; she moved
with a becoming, an enchanting, but a listless
grace ; and on retiring to rest, she buried her
face deeply in the soft cushions, exclaiming,
" Was it a vision, or was it really him ? Oh,
God forgive me, I am still weak, still wicked !
God forgive me, I love him still."
CHAPTER VII.
The morning which followed the tournament
dawned, and Clementina fully expected it
would be a trying day for her. She had
spent a most restless night—the most dreadful
visions had haunted her pillow. Poltrot de
Mer^ appeared before her, pale, aghast—re
proached her for a levity he could never feel—
told her she was basking in the sunshine of
delight, whilst he was withering under the tor
ments of banishment ; he was faithful, she was
faithless. " But I have promised to marry
Henri of Guise," she exclaimed; and, uttering
these words, she awoke.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 117
How agonizing it is to wake from a dream—
to know it is a dream—to repeat, again and
again, " it is but a vision," and still vainly try-
to call it foolish, delusive, whilst the heart whis
pers that the dream is but a requiem offacts.
How dreadful it is to wake and find good reso
lutions wafted away by the strength of a noc
turnal vision. Clementina's love for the Duke
vanished as the slight snow before a warm sun.
Her new love had touched the surface of her
affection, but had not warmed her heart.
The day which followed the tournament was
fraught with an event which bade all love-
scenes slumber in total oblivion. The Admiral
Coligny had been watching the King playing at
billiards, and leaving His Majesty, was return
ing on foot to his own house, when an assassin
struck him a violent blow, which fortunately
escaped piercing his heart, but the venerable
old man was borne senseless and bleeding to his
home, whilst the murderer escaped amongst the
crowd.
118 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
" This is the consequence of my reconcilia
tion with the Duke of Guise," faintly exclaimed
the Admiral, as he remembered that Henri had
sworn that he would, some day, revenge upon
him the death of his father.
The Duke of Guise was playing at billiards
with the King, when a messenger arrived to
tell the news.
" Is this your doing, Duke ?" exclaimed the
King, throwing down the balls, and fixing his
eyes angrily on the Duke.
" I have never given a voice or a word to
this assassination," he replied ; " I once swore
to revenge my father's death upon him, but I
know now he was not the murderer."
" I cannot help thinking some persons have
done it, wishing to ingratiate themselves with
you. Have a care, my Lord Duke ; these
things are not like playing a lover's part with
the love-sick Clementina."
" Report says, your Majesty has no objection
to win her good graces ; and surely your Ma
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 119
jesty will not deny fighting valiantly, yester
day, to win her favours."
" But to make you jealous," said the King.
At this moment Catherine joined the angry
monarch.
"See how you are quarrelling with those
harmless billiard balls," exclaimed Catherine;
" what ails you, sweet King ? "
"Ails me? The Admiral has been assassi
nated. I tried to show him civility at first,
until trying it became a pleasure; and if the
Duke has murdered him, why he must dearly
pay the price of blood."
"The Duke has not murdered him," said
Catherine, grasping the Duke's hand. " Heed
him not, heed him not; leave His Majesty
now."
The Duke retired with angry strides, and
Catherine, turning to Charles, said—" Hasty
ever hasty ; when will you learn to be calm ?"
" Calm ! tush, this is monstrous ; at my sis
ter's wedding festivities, too."
120 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
"It is no use dissembling any more, my son;
the crisis which Pettura prophesied is drawing
near. I want the assistance of the Duke ; he
did not touch Coligny ; your brother of Anjou
employed emissaries, and I instigated him." *
Awful words falling from a mother's tongue !
to think that the King had once reposed in
peaceful childish slumbers upon that mother's
breast, and to hear her talking thus of a dark
and dreadful crime ! The Medicis' beauty and
grace is so loudly vaunted, that I have met
with those who speak with more pathos of
her endowments than horror of her vices. I
have endeavoured to delineate her character ;
and if fiction has aided me in placing her
before my readers in domestic scenes, when
speaking of historical plots, I am still behind
hand in depicting her sad career. At the head
of each dark plot, there recorded, her name
stands conspicuously in the frontispiece, a type
*This is strictly historical, as well as the Admiral's
exclamation when wounded.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 121
of the wilfulness of woman when her heart is
allowed to range amidst scenes of vice.
The son did not shudder at the voice of
Vice, to which he listened with cold indif
ference ; and before the Medicis had finished
a conversation, the purport of which the se
quel will unravel, the King interrupted her
by exclaiming—" I see, my very sagacious
mother, and I will act accordingly."
A few moments more, the King and his
attendants were on their way towards the Ad
miral's hotel, and, hastening up stairs, he bent
over Coligny's couch, whilst he uttered for
a salutation words which History records in
italics, so craftily false they appear :—
" Mon Pere la blessure est pour vous, et la
douleur pour moi."
The populace, who loved the Admiral's vir
tues, and esteemed him for the brusque fran
chise for which he was famous, assembled in
groups, and loudly called for vengeance on
his murderer. The King's visit to his sick
VOL II G
122 the astrologer's daughter.
couch, coloured the supposition that the Ad
miral's life had been attempted by some high
person, who had thereby displeased the King ;
and the Duke of Guise being everywhere suss
pected, was obliged to secrete himself.
Two or three evenings after this self-imposed
banishment, the Cardinal de Lorraine joined
him, and the following conversation took place
between them :—
" I think it is a mistaken plan," said Lor
raine ; " I like not night work, in such cases ;
think how many Catholics may fall pierced, in
stead of a Huguenot."
" Ay, faith, it will be too late in the next
world to beg each other's pardon for butcher
ing each other in this. But what is to be done,
my Lord Cardinal ? each rencontre we have
had with those cursed Huguenots has been at
tended with much bloodshed, but they have
ever retired with a treaty in their favour.—
Free toleration ! good faith, I wish their con
sciences were in my keeping; I would not give
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 123
them their free edict. I hear they are rebel
ling ; do you credit it ?"
" Yes, by the Holy Marie, I do. This
white-haired Coligny is their earthly idol ; a
sort of Mammon of flesh and blood which they
choose to worship ; his assassination will be a
glorious bulwark upon which they will found
their quarrel; whilst many are again leaving
the country. Queen Elizabeth of England's
kingdom must be in an overflowing state of
population; and yet she has an effectual re
medy if she chooses to disgorge her land of
such runaways."
" How, so?"
" Why a few portable bills are all the goods
they can take with them ; and if Queen Eliza
beth levied taxes and the emigrants had to
pay, by my faith ! I think some would like a
French revolt, and the chance of the scaffold,
to the lingering mercies of an English pri
son."
" Oh, but the Queen of England, though lion
g 2
124 the astrologer's daughter.
hearted, is also very tender : she receives the
emigrants as a mother the children of her love ;
when I weary of my ecclesiastical pomp, I will
sue her protection."
" That will not be whilst Rheims, Metz, St.
Denis, Cluny, T^champs, and other livings are
as productive as they now are, my Lord. You
do not much mind how many pious souls at
tend your priche so long as the fields are green,
and your corn waves high in the breeze."
" Not so bad; not so bad. I fain would
have my brethren good Christians."
" So should I," said the Duke, laughing ;
" but Christians include Huguenots and Papists,
and in these days they cannot mix together.
One night's work, as the Queen contemplates
acting, will strike more terror in their hearts
than any previous meetings we have had.
Vassi was nothing compared to this projected
blow. The King will try the power of an
arquebuse himself."
" But asT before said, there will be much
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 125
butchery ; how will Papists be distinguished
in the dark ? "
" Oh, easily enough ; kindle torches—have
a watch-word."
" The torches would provoke incendry, and
the watch-word be learned by the flying Hu
guenots."
" You are timorous, my Lord Cardinal."
" Not so, my son ; but I have yet a heart,
although it has been gradually freezing in a
Court. There are some actions which are
really intolerably bad. The idea of marrying
Henri of Navarre to the fair young Princess,
and making her a widow ten days afterwards,
is too repugnant to contemplate."
" Are you sure such a thing is intended ? "
" Quite sure, for I heard the Queen give
particular instructions not to touch him, should
the Princess attempt to shield him at the ex
pense of her life."
" Oh ! she is so tender as that" said the
Duke, tauntingly. " Good patientfe ! this [ asses
126 the astrologer's daughter.
much of her usual tenderness : but there is a
refinement of cruelty in the deed ; it were better
to slay the bride and bridegroom, than hear the
fondly-loving Marguerite's requiem of sorrow."
" You make me shudder, " said Lorraine, as
the recollection of the faithful young Italian
girl Loretta fleeted across his imagination."
I will not divulge a secret, but I will let Mar
guerite of Navarre know that there is a trap
door, behind the tapestry near her bed."
" Well, pray do so ; it is dreadful to mar the
happiness of a newly-married couple. If I
mistake not Henri of Navarre's temper, he
will weary soon enough of his fair bride, and
they need not be separated before a month
has passed over them."
" I feel it is useless cruelty," said the Cardi
nal. " Adieu now ; we meet to-morrow night."
Readers, that dreadful night dawned, and
I need not say I am speaking ofthe massacre of
St. Bartholomew—a massacre which is well
known, which has often been discussed, and yet
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 127
will ever be returned to with new horror and
contempt. When guardian angels were singing
their numbers around the pillows of the inno
cent—when the moon was gently tinging the ce
lestial surface on which she reposed—when her
shadow was hovering on the limpid waves—
when nature was kissing harmony, and peace was
pillowed on the bosom of all that was umbrage-
ously beautiful—then were the swords drawn,
then men hurried with naked blades—then the
sanguinary stream flowed, and deluged even the
walls of that sumptuous Palace, lately the scene
of nuptial festivities. And the fair young bride
was awakened from her slumbers, and was ear
nestly entreating her young husband to escape.
" I would not tell you of it last night, my be
loved, but I received a note in a twisted and
strange hand, telling me of a secret door in this
chamber, and warning me that it might be
useful. Hark ! hear those screams, my Henri,
my husband, my beloved ! Hark ! they cry,
' Mort auz Huguenots .'' Fly, haste away ! "
128 the astrologer's daughter.
Marguerite gave him no time to answer, but
she pushed him away with a force nerved by
the love of her young heart. Hardly had she
closed the door and replaced the falling ta
pestry, when armed men indecorously entered
the room, but instantly retreated when they
found the young King had escaped.
The cries were now awfully loud, and broke
upon the night's vigil with a dire and lugubrous
sound. " Kill the Huguenots—slay them all,"
and other equally cruel words, resounded from
chamber to chamber, in the vast Palace; whilst
the King himself, from an elevated loop-hole,
shot at the flying Huguenots, and was en
couraged by the voice of his mother, who,
stifling every feminine feeling in her heart, was
awake to the dreadful scene, and spoke of it as
a circumstance which was inevitably to take
place, and persuaded herself it was pre-ordained
by Heaven itself.
Fearful was the havoc, the real butchery of
human lives, which now took place, men actu
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 129
ally thrusting torches in each other's face, in
order to recognise whether they were killing
foes or friends.
The most atrocious murder was that of the
unfortunate Coligny. His assassins entered his
apartment; the venerable man was yet pale and
exhausted by the illness which had followed the
the last atrocious attempt on his life ; he grasped
his sword, and holding it with all the strength
of which he was capable, he boldly defended
himself, until at length he fell to the ground,
his venerable form presenting one cadaverous
mass of wounds.
Even after the vital spark had left his aged
body, the greatest indignities were offered to
his memory. There is something hallowed and
sweet in the feeling that after death our forms
are slumbering in the genial and quiet tomb ;
that the mossy earth pillows our head ; that the
fragrant children of Earth are lying at our feet.
But this was not to be the fate of the Admiral's
pale corpse ; it was carried away as a trophy of
g 3
130 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
the blackest and most heinous sin—as a mark
of a midnight transaction, which will ever be a
conspicuous brand on the sixteenth century.
Did men term these bloody scenes religion ?
Oh, wilful mockery of the mild and placid faith
taught by a Prince of Peace ! Oh, innovation
of a religion which, whether differing in form
or no, still united hearts to hearts in the bonds
of fraternity. What policy could justify the
inhuman spilling of so much blood? It was
the unreined fury of the heart, the rush of un
godly passions, the thirst for revenge, the love
of bloodshed, which spurred on the detestable
tragedy.
Oh ! nocturnal spirits of the blackest region
of hell alone must have wandered on the earth
during that midnight scene ! And those pure
spirits we love to imagine still weave their
fascinations over the virtuous hearts of men,
must surely have retreated far, far in the
upper hemisphere of their purity, and de
mons of fury alone have guided the unruly
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 131
heart. Did they smile in demoniac glory as
form after form was crushed, and returned to
clay ? Did they laugh with a hideous shout of
triumph as mothers pressed their trembling
babes to their arms, and lovers snatched the
last kiss from the loved ones of their hearts ?
Did they stare and gloat on the sight of those
innocent beings, who awoke from a peaceful
slumber, and were clasped by the cold and
unmerciful steel? Did they lend their light
to guide the torches, as the hands which
clasped them thrust open the most private
dwelling places of innocence ? Hollow must
have been the sepulchral groans of the de
parting spirits, whilst a few angels of mercy
glided about, and endeavoured to save the
flying Huguenots. I never like to hear that
word Huguenot ! For no particular crime was
this massacre begun : it sought not even any
particular men, nor distinguished women or
children ; all bearing the name of Huguenot
were cruelly slain, and the mockery of a word,.
132 the astrologer's daughter.
derived as I have before stated, merely from
an accidental circumstance, was the passport
to death, and the requiem of the expiring
sigh.
The perpetrators of the horrid massacre
might wash their their blood-stained hands,
but they could not hush the voice of their
conscience—that echo which speaks of the
faults or virtues of the mind, and which no
power can hush.
CHAPTER VIII.
Morning was beginning to dawn; the gray
streaks were falling on the earth ; the rising
sun had chased away the moon, and the
stars had dropped away one by one from the
bosom of the heavens. The clock was striking
three, when Clementina awoke with that half-
stifled sigh, which accompanies a riveille—
when dreams have been hovering round the
pillow. The chamber in which Clementina
slept was apart from the Royal dormitory ; it
opened on to a large gallery, leading to seve
ral intricate turnings. Clementina had been
134 the astrologer's daughter.
so apart from the noise of the bloody scene
(for the quarter of the Palace in which she
slept was marked by the Queen as impene
trable to the murderers). There, amidst a
range of rooms in which slumbered other
damsels of the Court, the fair Queen of the
Tournament had been dreaming of the darkly-
clad knight who had snatched the golden
chain from her neck. Suddenly she heard
a deep groan ; it sounded as if it fell from
the lips of a person in the last extremity of
death, and wrs repeated again and again,
though more feebly each time.
At first Clementina was too much alarmed
to move ; she sat upright in bed, but she could
not summon courage to rise ; at length, how
ever, the groans died into the soft plaintive
moaning of exhausted pain, and she thought
it was perfectly wrong not to assist a fellow-
creature. She hastily wrapped herself in a
loose gown ; did not stay to arrange her tres
ses which fell in disorder over her pale face,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 135
but with a tremulous hand she opened the
door, and there, on the very threshold, she
saw the darkly-clad chevalier of the tourna
ment extended on the floor, whilst the blood
was flowing from a deep gash in his side. The
the rays of the morning sun shone gently on
the coloured glass windows of the long gallery,
and appeared to light the fallen chevalier to his
eternal home. Clementina bent over the re
cumbent form, and gently detached the black
mask, when her own, her still cherished, Pol-
trot's dying eyes met her own, and sunk ex
hausted with pain.
She hastened back to her apartment, and
returned with some water; she bathed his
pale brow, she chafed his cold hands within
her own, which trembled so violently. She
listened to the uncertain beating of that con
stant heart, but alas ! she felt certain it was
every moment growing fainter.
" What shall I do ? what shall I do ? " cried
the agitated Clementina. " Oh, he will die,
136 the astrologer's daughter.
he will expire, and I cannot save him." Her
feeble hands could not eren detach the armour
which covered the gash ; she endeavoured to
stanch the wound, but all in vain ; the vital
drops sprinkled freely over her own robe.
"Wringing her hands in the most bitter
agony, she felt that she herself would faint,
when a voice was heard, exclaiming, " Oh !
where is my child—my beautiful, my only
daughter ? "
" Here I am, dear father," said Clemen
tina, springing to her feet, and finding new
energy. " Oh father, dear, beloved father,
if you have ever loved me, if you have ever
thought of me as the child of the departed
mother you loved so fondly, prove it now;
save Poltrot—my own, my once bright Pol-
trot ; let him not die here, or I will expire by
his side."
Steps were heard rapidly advancing ; the
Astrologer placed his finger on his lips to
intimate silence, and throwing his powerful
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 137
arms round Poltrot's fainting form, he rushed
from the gallery, Clementina following, run
ning rather than walking, until she found her
self in the Astrologer's room. She had no
time, however, to examine curiously the strange
implements which were around her, for every
feeling of her heart was absorbed in bending
over Poltrot; and kneeling at his side, she
parted the curls from his pale brow ; her head
fell as it were spontaneously lower and lower,
until at length she pressed a fond kiss on that
pallid forehead.
The Astrologer turned round sharply at the
sound of that embrace ; but Clementina looked
at him so innocently, so calmly, that he could
not reprove ; and he felt touched at the plain
tive accents in which she said—" Leave us
alone ; he is dying."
At length, after many unavailable remedies,
Poltrot languidly opened his eyes, and they
rested fondly upon her who knelt at his side ;
he lifted her hand to his lips, and she had not
138 the astrologer's daughter.
the courage to recoil from his embrace ; he was
again to her the lover of her youth, the pos
sessor of her heart. Oh, what then are the
best formed human wishes, and what are the
strongest resolutions ? As a piece of mecha
nism, which appears incomprehensible to those
who are not acquainted with its composition,
but which is easily pulled to pieces by the per
son who has arranged its intricate parts. Ab
sence will foster many delusive ideas ; loved
faces may be forgotten, loved voices hushed in
oblivion ; the fond gaze on which we loved so
to dwell may be obliterated from the memory,
but a reunion will kindle anew the flame of
love ; and Clementina had now forgotten every
sage, every newly-formed rigid rule of moral
conduct, every wish of marrying the Duke ;
she was again by Poltrot's side—she had for
gotten his dark sin ; he was her beloved—her
own. Eagerly she listened to his feeble voice ;
eagerly she heard how he had dwelt in the
stranger's land; how he had discovered his
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 139
gentle cousin's love for him ; how he had found
her tracing his name on the trees, echoing it in
her poetical numbers ; how he had fled, for he
feared to love again. It was sweet to be
beloved, but it was wrong to linger near a
young girl who loved him in vain. " And this,"
thought the distracted Clementina, " this noble
heart has been stained with crime."
Then, again, Poltrot spoke ; he told how,
spurred on by love, he had determined to
kneel at her feet in a last farewell, and there
expire, pierced by grief, as he heard her utter
her vow to the Duke. " Now, list to me, my
beloved," he continued : " I am stained with
guilt ; I am fallen in your sight ; but I die with
the full conviction that I am forgiven. Heaven
is all-merciful, and the suffering of my life, as
well as my early tomb, will perchance atone
for my guilt. My beloved one, when you
marry the Duke, think not he is better than
myself. I murdered his father—and he this
night has pierced me; recoil not, it is Hea
140 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
ven's retribution ; I deserve the punishment
at his hands. Yet, oh ! it is a bitter thought
to believe your loved head, 'will lean on the
bosom of the man who killed your first and
fondly attached lover !"
" Believe it not, believe it not ; every feel
ing of my heart tells me my vow is cancelled.
Poltrot, I will die, I will follow you to the
grave ; the Medicis may poison me, the Duke
may kill me, but I will never be his bride."
Meanwhile, Pettura had been reclining his
face in his hands, and a host of feelings was
crowding his brain. The bride of his enthusi
astic days appeared to speak through his
daughter's voice, and Poltrot fancied he read
pity in his dark and handsome countenance.
He clasped his hands together. " Clementina,
go kneel at your father's feet," he cried ; " go,
tell him to swear you shall not marry the
Duke ; my spirit shall hover around him, and
in the secret pleasure of his heart he shall have
his bright reward. I die in the flower of my
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 141
age, and I die happy if those words fall from
Puttura's tongue."
Pettura raised his daughter, and kissing her
affectionately, he took the oath : then, as the last
word trembled on his lips, Poltrot's face became
brightened with a glow of ineffable delight ;
aud gently, balmily, the welcome words fell on
his dying ears.
"Come near, quite near," he whispered;
" pillow my head on your bosom, my own, my
bride ! Mine is not the pain, but the pleasure
of dying."
" Poltrot, waste no more your thoughts on
me ; let me read to you ; let holy words waft
your soul to its eternal rest. Are you still a
Huguenot ?"
" I am a Christian," said the dying lover ;
" and I am a repentant sinner. Read, my be
loved; what signifies the difference in our
sects ? We are Christians ! we believe in that
bright land of happiness, towards which my
longing soul looks forward as a re-union which
142 the astrologer's daughter.
will never more be broken. I am faint—I can
not see—read, read louder, Clementina."
Blinded with tears, but in a smooth and
silvery tone, Clementina read words of holy
comfort to her departing lover.
The sun now shone brightly in the chamber,
and Poltrot's face looked so beautiful, so re
signed, one might indeed have fancied angels
were hovering round his dying couch, as, with
one or two gentle sighs, his soul forsook its
tenement of clay, and rejoined—at least so let
us hope—those forgiven spirits who sing their
hymns of gratitude arovind the Divine throne.
Pure and resigned were the tears which
Clementina shed over her lover's remains.
Her father called her by her name ; she
heeded him not, but continued gazing at the
rigid form before her, wondering if it were
really true that those full lips would part no
more to utter their gentle sounds, and those
eyes never again rekindle in their brilliancy.
Death breaks incomprehensibly, strangely, on
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 143
the young mind, or at least on those who for
the first time contemplate its ravages. Long,
long, Clementina gazed on the departed but
ever-loved Poltot ; but at length the truth, the
substantial truth of death, came in full force
upon her imagination, and a salutary burst of
grief relieved the trouble of her soul.
Soft are the feelings which entrance the heart
when communing with the newly-departed
soul ? holy and gentle are the thoughts worthy
of being wafted to the Throne on High ! How
passing, how fleeting, how trivial, how vain
human expectations then appear, and the con
summation of all earthly desires has found a
bed in the silence of death ! The loved voice is
hushed, and the welcome step will cheer no
more. Solemn is the last farewell look which
we give to a departed friend, and yet how
beautifully full of a most salutary lesson !
Clementina's gentle, feminine grief, touched
her father's heart : at length he succeeded in
withdrawing her from the corpse ; he pillowed
144 the astrologer's daughter.
her aching head on his breast, and his dark
eyes rested on her tearful face with a look of
parental solicitude. Her form was so tremu
lous under his firm grasp, her soft cheek was
so pale and fragile, that a pang of remorse shot
through the parent's bosom as he remembered
what she had been. He mourned over her as
wc do when we contemplate the faded leaves
of a beautiful exotic which we have guarded
with shielding care, and have vainly endea
voured to save from decay. Blighted as a
withered leaf which the tempest's gale has
stricken, reclining pale and agitated in her
father's arms, Pettura inwardly vowed that,
through trouble, care or pain, he would gratify
the most darling wish of her heart.
As Clementina at length slumbered in her
parent's arms, worn out with sorrow and emo
tion, a soft and refreshing dream visited her
sleeping eyes. She fancied she was in a peace
ful abode, and had bid farewell to the world.
A calm and social quiet reigned around her ;
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 145
the vesper-bell chimed the hour of prayer, and
feminine voices echoed the loud Amen. No
glittering swords, no embroidered epaulettes
were there ; all soberly clad maidens in monas
tic garbs—all gentle Sisters of Peace.
" Oh how beautiful ! how beautiful ! " she
exclaimed, waking with a sigh.
" What is beautiful, my child ?
" Oh it is long since you have called me by
that gentle name. Yes, I have had a delightful
dream ; I should so like it to be true. I wish
to leave a Court, which has brought me only
wo ; I wish to leave its hollow gaieties. I will
listen no more to words of love ; let them be
true, let them be false, I fain would dwell in a
peaceful abode—that type of heaven, the so
lemn, quiet monastery. "
"Have patience, my child, and your wish
shall be accomplished. True ! I shall regret
that I may no longer, even at uncertain inter
vals, gaze on your dear countenance, catch the
likeness of that pure one, who is at eternal rest.
VOL. II. H
146 the astrologer's daughter.
There, in your sacred retreat, you must pray for
me, for dark has too often been my heart, and
I have much to repent of; but my hour has not
yet arrived—I must still be as I am ; but some
day you shall receive a token that light has
dawned on my soul."
" Ah, leave not to a future day that which it
is right to do at the present time. Yes, yes, I
will pray for you ; but, above all, leave nothing
to futurity."
" Dear angel of goodness, your words touch
my affection, but they cannot yet pierce my
heart. No, as I have before said, my time has
not yet arrived ; but pray for me long and ear-_
nestly. Now I will take you back to your
chamber. Here is a bugle horn; one shrill
note blown on it, will bring me to your assist
ance. Bless you, my child ! God and the Holy
Virgin preserve you ! "
" One more look there," said Clementina,
springing towards the spot where Poltrot's
form was stretched. " Give him a gentle and
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 147
proper funeral. Oh, let not his body be thrown
to the cold wind, and the birds press around
his corpse ; give him not the burial of those
who shed blood, for his gentle spirit is for
given."
No one sought Clementina. The gentle
Queen of Narvarre was mourning the necessary
flight of her husband ; and the political Cathe
rine de M^dicis was vainly endeavouring to
persuade her daughter that the horrors of St.
Bartholomew were a just punishment on the Hu
guenots for their obstinacy.
Widows were weeping for their husbands,
mothers for their sons. The bride had been
torn from the side of the bridegroom ; innocent
children lay weltering in their blood, whilst
many hurried to England, leaving their houses
to be entered and pillaged. To save life was
the desirable end.
England kindly fostered the flying Hugue
nots ; and the emigrants for the most part
exerted their talent and industry in order to
h 2
148 the astrologer's daughter.
obtain a living. Elizabeth's predominant pas
sion for dress encouraged their efforts. Wo
men 'who had been brought up in the most
luxurious manner—some who had trodden the
splendid Court of the Me'dicis—now plied the
needle, and extraordinary works of female in
genuity in tapestry and embroidery were the
results.
France ! France ! I love thee ever ! for there
I have spent my first young days ! there I have
spent my girlish hours ; and now, near the verge
of womanhood—to thee I seem to address my
" Girlhood's Farewell." Even now as I write,
I rememember, that in France, I first read the
thrilling account of the tragedy of St. Bartho
lomew ; and I fancy I am still wandering in
amaze at the cruelty of the beautiful M^dicis
Queen. It is, perhaps, the fate of those who do
not paint, to imagine the best subject for a por
trait ; and methinks I could now add a picture
of interest to my book—but I have not a
painter's talent. It may, however, serve for a
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 149
hint for an artiste who feels inclined to humour
the wish of a young lady.
This, then, shall be the portrait :—
A flying party of Huguenots—closely follow
ing, the blood-thirsty Catholics, holding swords
in one hand, and torches in the other. Mo
thers flying with infants in their arms. The
towering Palace, where, from a high loop-hole,
the King's malicious face is looking on with
savage brutality, holding a levelled musket in
his hand. Further back, the handsome, but
cruel face of the Medicis should be seen encou
raging her son ; the pale moon high in the hea
vens, lending her light to the dreadful scene.
Readers, I have finished : perhaps you are
, calling me an enthusiastic author, and I will
say no more; yet, I would that my pencil
could trace such a stirring scene.
Was it in Paris alone, that the murderous
cry was heard ? Alas ! no ; the provinces
groaned with the same lamentable voice ; and
more than one grand, and some good as well
150 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
as great heroes, perished in the fray which fol
lowed the first night's massacre. None was more
regretted than Coligny, and I have met with
a remarkable instance, showing how much his
real integrity of character was appreciated.
His papers were confiscated after his death,
and one was brought to the Queen-Mother.
This was a petition to the King, begging him
not to give too much power to his brothers.
The Duke d'Alencon, the King's youngest
brother, was much grieved for the Admiral's
death; and accordingly, Catherine ordered the
document to be read before the Duke, in or
der to stop his lamentations.
" Your friend gives the King strange ad
vice," said the Queen.
" / do not know," answered the Duke,
" whether he liked me well; but I know that
such advice was only given by a man who loved
the welfare of his King."*
* Historical fact.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 151
If we consider the politics of the time of
which we are treating, this is high praise to
wards the memory of a man, whom men re
garded mostly as an enemy of the Court ; but,
alas ! no opinion could recall the unfortunate
Admiral to life : his body had been exposed
on a gibbet, and every possible indignity had
been shown to it.
Whilst we reflect on Coligny's good quali
ties, and mourn his sad fate, it is not, however,
entirely justifiable to gloss over his errors ; he
certainly had more than once revolted against
his King : rebellion in a little mind is a con
temptible defiance of the just laws of the
country ; and when associated with the image
of a great man, must ever be a blot in his
memory. Kings' persons are sacred : they are
the representatives of a whole nation ; if their
hearts be cold, if their minds be bad, there
is one above, who is the King of kings, and
he can reward them accordingly ; but to revolt
against the sovereign of the land is a degrad
152 the astrologer's daughter.
ing act ; and Coligny, in lifting up his hand,
and joining the league, had sullied his other
wise unblemished name. In reading the his
tory of these times, we are struck with the
unfortunate fate which met all those who lifted
up their hands, either from political, ambitious,
or falsely termed religious opinions. The
Duke of Guise, Louis of Conde, and the
Admiral were assassinated. Montmorency, the
King of Navarre, Antoine of Bourbon, and
Marshal St. Andre were killed in war. Many
other great men perished, but these were the
most conspicuous on the tapis of the eventful
scenes of that period ; and they all met an un
timely end—not untimely in the usual accepta
tion of the word, for these heroes were not
young ; but they were sent suddenly to their
tomb, hurled to eternity with the weight of all
their unrepented errors on their shoulders.
CHAPTER IX.
We have left Clementina during this time in
her own chamber, where she had not remained
long when she heard steps in the corridor, and
presently a gentle tap sounded at the door.
It was repeated, and admittance being
granted, the Duke of Guise entered. Every
drop of blood which mantled her cheeks re
treated to her heart ; and yet Clementina had
now heard the last knell of her happiness, and
she roused herself in order to be as firm and
collected as she possibly could be.
" Excuse me, my beloved," said the Duke ;
h 3
154 the astrologer's daughter.
" excuse me for not coming to you sooner.
I knew you were safe, and I hare been so
busy."
" I know you have ; but clasp not my hands
within yours ; I know how your time has been
employed."
" How coldly you speak, my own—"
" I am no longer yours ; listen to me, Henri :
it seems as if Heaven itself had conspired to
keep me from being your bride ; it seems as if
we never could have been happy together. I
never loved you spontaneously, at a glance. I
was never thrilled by your touch ; I have never
reposed my head on your shoulder, and felt
that there was my loved resting-place. You
know I have never loved you ; yet my heart
trained itself to obedience. I had taught my
self to be submissive ; I might have been a
loyal, but never a fond wife. Now, however,
my vow is cancelled—at least, Duke, you can
cancel it. I do not wish to part with you in
anger, but Poltrot de Mer^ is no more. Did
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 155
not a secret voice tell you who that darkly-clad
knight of the tournament was ? He who stole
the golden chain from my neck had before
received from my hands the picture of my once
fair face, which had been attached to it. From
the moment he re-appeared before me, I no
more could heed the voice of duty which
whispered your name. Now I throw myself
on your generosity ; I cannot love you. My
thoughts are not towards any other human
being ; you need never fear a rival, for I wish
to retire to a monastery. Surely you will not
refuse my being the bride of the Church V
" It is in vain you speak—it cannot be. No,
Clementina ; I have been gentle, I have been
patient; I have restrained every burst of pas
sion. It may not be. I love you, I adore
you ; the silvery tones of your plaintive voice
have followed me in the battle-field, and have
pillowed me to my rest. It cannot be ; no en
vious mortal, no voice from Heaven itself could
be cruel enough to deny me my bride. Have
156 the astrologer's daughter.
you a heart, Clementina ? Oh yes, you have ;
I feel now its tremulous beating."
"Nay, nay, I am agitated, but my heart
beats not for you. It is a vain mockery to
deceive you; I cannot, will not, shall not be
your bride ! "
" Here, on my knees, I bend before you ;
here, Clementina, I pledge you all fidelity.
You shall be sad, but I will restore you to
mirth. Curse me, hate me, loathe me, but
spurn me not in this. I must claim the re
ward of my constancy."
Moved by a sudden impulse she could not
command, Clementina dropped on her knees by
his side.
" Henri of Guise, have you never thought of
any tie save that of love ? Have you never
thought of the lasting friendship of woman—of
a woman whose heart would be warmed by
gratitude ? Oh, this affection resembles the pure
love of the angels above, and the prayers of
friendship mount so purely to the throne on
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 157
high. Henri of Guise, here, on my knees, I
offer you this lasting friendship. I will mingle
your name in my prayers, and dwell upon it
with deep gratitude."
" Gratitude is the sister of love ; and when
you felt that flame you would then be immured
in a convent. No, Clementina ! no, beautiful
and dear pleader ! If I am cruel now, it is to
be more fondly loving afterwards. You must
be my bride by to-morrow evening, and I will
not leave you till I have obtained your consent.
Now must I clasp you as a betrothed bride, not
as a friend."
" Do not touch me, do not press my hand,"
exclaimed Clementina, rising ; and she darted
to the other end of the room. Before the Duke
had reached her, she had blown the bugle horn,
and Pettura rushed into the room.
" Protect me—shield me—keep your pro
mise ; say I shall not marry the Duke," cried
Clementina clinging to her father. " Tell him
to leave me. Speak ! speak ! "
158 the astrologer's daughter.
" Words are useless," said the Duke ; " I have
the Queen's permission and the King's order
to marry your daughter. Her own promise is
binding ; I claim her as my betrothed bride."
" You shall never have her," cried Pettura ;
" her vow is cancelled by Poltrot de Mere's
death. My promise has been given to the dy
ing. The Queen owes me as much gratitude as
she owes you, and I alone will dispose of my
daughter's hand. Her own choice is made ;
she will enter a monastery.
" Bury all that grace, all those charming fea
tures in a monastery ! you surely cannot mean
it. But why do I exchange words with you ?
By force or by good will, I will have my bride.
Oh, see ! she is fainting. Forgive me, Cle
mentina ; oh, forgive me ! I am impetuous, but
I am fondly loving. I love the very ground
on which you walk ; I love the very air which
you inhale. You are associated with every
fond feeling of my heart. Beautiful Clemen
tina, let me yet hope."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 159
Clementina had not time to reply, for her
father had great difficulty in supporting her
from falling. He cast a withering look at the
Duke, and left the apartment.
Henri of Guise, however, did not return it ;
vindictive feelings were all buried in the force
of his love ; and truly, his devotion to Clemen
tina increased instead of diminished by every
new opposition.
The forest oak does not fall by one stroke of
the tempest ; it resists many shocks ere it bows
its head and kisses the earth ; and true love,
though its course, as the old saying is, " does
not run smooth," will turn down many intricate
windings, will run through the declivities of
fortune, through every vicissitude, provided it
can but find one little spark of hope on which
to cast its anchor. The anchor of hope on which
love rests is a bright spot, shining as the guid
ing star which cheers the mariner on his
dangerous passage ; and Henri of Guise still
fondly listened to a whispering voice which
160 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
«
told him that his love would meet its re
ward.
Meanwhile, the Palace was unusually quiet.
The populace were so much irritated that the
courtiers did not venture without. On each
face sat a mournful discontent. Some repented
of the part they had taken on the preceding
night ; some feared the consequences, and each
party spoke in suppressed whispers.
The King was taken suddenly ill ; and it is
remarkable, that from the period of the mas
sacre until that of his death he never enjoyed
his health ; and truly it was a scene likely
to haunt the memory, and banish away sleep
from the breast. Marguerite of Navarre's
tearful face was his greatest punishment ; she
had received private intimation of the safety of
her husband, but she had made her choice—she
would follow Henri, and then she must forsake
the Court.
From that evening, a secret voice told her
her husband would never again trust the M^di
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 161
cis ; and, although Catherine was so cruel, so
vindictive, she had been kind to her ; and all her
feelings centred in the words " Catherine was
her mother." More bitter and serious thoughts
filled her mind than any she had ever fostered
before, and she tortured her heart with prema
turely distressing questions.
Would Henri as fondly love again the child
of her who had ordered him to be assassinated ?
Would his noble heart truly believe that she
had not the most distant idea of her mother's
intention ? Would he not feel sorry at having
united himself to a Royal but treacherous
house ? These distressing thoughts haunted
that young mind, so lately the scene of calm
repose. Flowers still strewed her room—flowers
culled on her bridal day ; they teemed a faint
perfume, they seemed to be wearying of bloom
ing, and her heart was wearying of joy ; they
drooped their heads, they would no longer
blow in their green freshness ; and her heart
was perchance dead to its early feelings of joy.
162 the astrologer's daughter.
There is something so poetically alike in flowers
and the human heart, that the comparison
comes naturally to my mind ; others have be
fore me made the same comparison, no doubt,
but sensible minds will not weary at the before
told tale. A parterre of flowers speaks volumes
of pathos to the heart ; gay children of the
earth, which to-day are blooming, may, ere an
other sun sets, be withering on the turf—a type
of the form of man, which to-day is, and to
morrow is cut off as the mown grass. As the
sickly perfume teems from their fading breath,
so the hope which fills the young heart droops
before misfortune and trial. The dew-drops
which for some time endeavour to refresh the
flowers are types of those tears which cheer
sorrow ; but at length they, like the dew-drops
of early spring, come no more to the assistance
of misfortune, and lighten no more the chains
of grief. Then, as we tread the gay flowered
parterre, let us take a lesson from each plant ;
let us think of the change and decay of all here
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 163
below. Perhaps such thoughts as these sprung
to the mind of the fair Queen of Navarre, for
she promenaded alone, with her large blue
eyes bent low on the ground. " There was a
balmy stillness in the air, but through the calm
beauty of the hemisphere still resounded in
the young creature's ears the dreadful shrieks
of the preceding night. She longed to fly;
she longed to be pillowed again on Henri's
bosom ; she longed to look again in his manly
face, and tell him she was linked heart and
soul to him ; when lo, a messenger arrived, and
bent low to the young Queen. Marguerite has
tily perused a note—Henri of Navarre was in
England, suing succour from the British Queen.
To a young and enthusiastic heart, this was
a severe sorrow ; one week ago, and her feel
ings were so different; then she had been
accustomed to Henri's absence ; since, she had
learned to love his presence. She bedewed
the note with tears, and hastened with it to
the Queen her mother.
164 the astrologer's daughter.
This was not a political step, such as Cathe
rine would have taken, under such circum
stances ; but she thought of nothing at present
save consoling the young bride, who wept
pasiionate tears, and stamped her pretty foot,
declaring as ladies young or old, do declare in
the absence of their husbands—" That she was
very much ill-used."
" Henri of Navarre is over hasty," cried
Catherine ; " those who sought his rooms
were probably ignorant of any wish of slay
ing any particular person."
" Do not think so, or try to persuade me,
that—" and here the young Queen shuddered.
" Do you think I shall ever forget the scene ?
do you think I shall ever forget the voice?
They called for my husband, for my Henri ;
I myself favoured his escape, and the assassins
left my presence highly incensed at losing their
prey. He is quite right to go to England,
quite right ; I will try and be resigned."
" Marguerite, you are forgetting yourself:
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 165
is it right to call in foreign aid against the
King your brother ?"
" Oh, I am not thinking of his political
movements ; I am only thinking of his dear
life. The chased deer flies whither he can,
'when too closely hunted ; what cares he on
whose ground he treads? Oh! mother, you
know I fain would be dutiful ; I have never
questioned you, I have never interfered with
any of your plans ; but this was really too
cruel, to change the mirth of a bride into
the weeping of a widow. Oh, mother ! it was
too bad."
Catherine was rather staggered: ay, cold
and cruel as she was, she turned abashed from
the 'genuine sorrow of the young bride, who
wept still passionately, though she continued
her outpouring cry :—
" Oh ! yes, it was a refinement of cruelty :
my bridal dress is still hanging up before
my view, and ye planned the bridegroom's
shroud; the flowers which decked my hair
166 the astrologer's daughter.
are still in their vases, and I will long cherish
their faded blossoms to recall that never-to-be-
forgotten day. In one night I seem to have
grown old. I will trust no one—I will care
for no one ; I will be like the world, inacces
sible to pity, because I know not who most
deserves it. Who would have thought that
the lately gay Marguerite de Valois would
have wept her usually clear eyes as red, as
if that were their original colour? Mother,
mother, I have been thinking deeply, dur
ing the short time which has elapsed since
last night, and in that short space I have
thought more of eternity than during all the
rest of my days. I have been thinking of
that night, when we shall be called to account
for the sin we here commit. I am glad my
husband was not murdered; so rejoiced for
himself, so enraptured for my own account ;
but more glad still that you will not have this
sin at your door."
"This to me!" cried Catherine, stamping
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 167
her foot, and rudely clasping Marguerite's de
licate arm ; " this to me ! foi de Heine, you are
a tragedy Queen—a proper Queen for a King,
who is but a King by name."
" Let me go," persisted Marguerite ; " I have
spoken nothing but the truth. You know you
sought Henri's life—you cannot deny it."
" I can."
" Can you swear it, solemnly, truly?"
" I do not take oaths to please a girl of six
teen."
"Because you dare not He before Heaven
and your own child;" and so saying, Mar
guerite rushed back to her own apartments.
Perhaps the Queen-Mother felt more shame
in the silent moments which followed, than she
had ever before experienced. The words of the
young Queen rung in her ears, and the Medicis
had the assurance that she could not touch a
hair of her pretty head ; and therefore her
passion was deeper at the moment, because it
did not vent itself in plans of revenge. It was
168 the astrologer's daughter.
a bitter pang to be reproached by the girl-like
being, who had so lately pillowed her blushing
head on the maternal bosom of her who was
giving her instructions ; it was a bitter pang to
acknowledge that her child had cause to de
spise, if not to hate her. Oh, yes, vice must
always bring its own punishment; and turn
which way she would, Catherine knew she dare
nowhere repose love, even had she wished it.
She shut herself up in a halo of pride, in order
to avoid showing that she felt remorse. She
cast her haughty glances around, and defied
every curious look, but conscience was busy
all the while ; it was whispering at the root of
the heart, it was marring her peace. Then
there were (as she had once told the Cardinal
de Lorraine) silent hours in the night, when
she dare not repass in review the deeds of
her life ; then she did not, as the Cardinal
had told her, call absolution to her, for she
began to doubt if any absolution could save
her soul.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 169
There is no rite in the Popish Church
which some, like myself, perhaps, deprecate
so much as the rite of absolution. Who
can forgive sins, save Him who was sinless ?
Can man, frail man, dispose of his fellow-man's
immortal soul ? Is it not as much beyond his
finite grasp, as the glorious sun is superior to a
glittering chandelier ? Can his sin-stained lips
attempt to say to the soul, " Thou are for
given ? " Far be it from me, an inexperienced
person, to enter into theological discourses ; but
I have been reflecting, and I ask my readers to
have the patience to listen to my reflections. I
have been thinking how much Lorraine and
other powerful Churchmen swayed the Court at
times when the most atrocious crimes have been
committed ; and I feel assured that this promise
of absolution must have spurred on the un
reined heart towards the rapid declivity of sin,
whilst the mind was buoyed by the delusive
hope of the soul's absolution.
Catherine de Medicis, for example, knowing
VOL. II. I
170 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
so well Lorraine's mind—knowing how he had
spurred her to deal harshly with the Hugue
nots—can my readers credit more than I do,
that she believed in the absolution which con
fession could obtain for her, if she confessed to
a man sinful as herself?
No, Catherine de Mddicis ; it was at God's
Throne you should have humbled your proud
heart ; it was in the privacy of your chamber,
alone with Him who knows the heart, that you
should have sued for pardon. None too sinful
to hope for it, none too weak to pray for it, and
to no penitent sinner has it ever been refused.
CHAPTER X.
The same night that Marguerite of Navarre
retired, spiritless and unhappy, to her couch, to
dream of her absent husband—that same night,
Clementina sought her chamber, and leaning
over the bed, held conversation with her, until
the night was so far advanced that she still lin
gered with the young Queen ; they both arose
with the lark, and wandered abroad, choosing
the most sequestered spot.
It is gloriously beautiful to catch the first
freshness of a summer's morn ; to watch the dew-
drops glittering on the green sward ; to catch
i 2
172 the astrologer's daughter.
the first love-tuned lays of the birds ; to look
above, and see the pure canopy of heaven ; to
look below, and see the tufted gracefulness of
the flowering earth. The budding flowers so
languidly open their heads to the day, as if
fearing to dazzle by a too sudden display of
their rich beauty. A gentle breeze wafts afar
the scent which fills the fragrant gale, whilst
the hedges look most temptingly green.
There, in the grounds of the chateau, the
Queen and her companion saw only a limited
view of the grand scale of nature, when waking
from her slumbers. They saw no distant view;
no rivulets, no gentle rills, no braes, no cas
cade falls ; but they saw enough to awaken in
their bosoms the truest love towards the Al
mighty, and the purest wish of being pleasing
in his sight.
" I have spent a very wretched night," said
the young Queen; "not only mourning for
Henri, but I reproached myselffor talking ab
ruptly, and rudely to my mother. Clementina,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 173
it is a sacred tie, the relationship between
Mother and Daughter ; but it is a cruel position
to feel we strive in vain to look up with respect
towards the Author of our being. The child
may be forgiven by a parent, even for the worst
sin, because, with riper years, the parent looks
forward to repentance and amendment. But
when a child looks to a parent, and finds all
dark around, tell me is it not dreadful, Clemen
tina ? I will never breathe it to any ears save
yours, not even to my Henri's—but I am sure
it was my mother's own voice that sent men to
murder him."
" Can you think so ? "
" Yes, yes, I do ; Catherine de Medicis
never fears taking an oath ; it is as easy to
her as saying her Ave Marias,- but she dare
not take an oath on that subject. She pre
tended it was because I was too young to de
mand it ; but I spoke not then as a young
being—I spoke in the language of an injured
woman, with the nervous energy of an af
174 the astrologer's daughter.
flicted wife, and my mother quailed under my
gaze, although she endeavoured to appear the
injured party. Well she deserves to feel re
morse for contemplating so dark a sin; but,
as I before said, the tie is so sacred—she is my
mother, and I have spoken to her as any
stranger would to a guilty woman ; and it is
not from my lips she should be reproved. Tell
me, dear Clementina, has not this been a sad
week ? a week begun in so much glee, to end
in so much sorrow V
" It has, indeed," said Clementina, with such
a bitter sigh, that the Queen turned round and
saw what had before escaped her—that Clemen
tina looked wretchedly ill.
" Oh, how selfish sorrow makes us," cried
she ; " dear Clementina, what ails you ? Were
you awake on St. Bartholomew's night?"
" I was not only awake, but I caught Poltrot
de Merc's last sigh. He died repentant ; and
I will now shed the last tear I have over his
memory. He is far happier in a world above,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 175
far happier shrined in that promised land of
delightful, angelic communion, than when he
wandered, unhappy and dejected, through this
wilderness world. You, Queen of Navarre,
last heard me say I would try and love the
Duke. I said I was tranquil and resigned, but
then I knew not my own heart. Poltrot re
turned, and I was again weak, for I could not
keep back my heart from him. He died so
beautifully, so tranquilly ; he fell into the last
slumber of death, as calmly as an infant reposes
on the bosom of its"parent. A heavenly smile
hovered round his bps, and I almost fancied
I saw angeUc beings wafting him to his last
home. Then, on his death-bed, I restored to
him my love. That assurance comforted his
sinking soul ; and now all that is left for me is
to die."
" You do not mean to injure yourself?"
" Does your Majesty think I would do so?"
" Forgive me, Clementina."
" You are quite forgiven. No, no, I shall die,
176 the astrologer's daughter.
but naturally, calmly—the sorrows I have had
have shattered my health; and if the Duke
drags me to the altar, I shall die with horror
and disgust. I fain would find shelter in
some peaceful cloister ; I fain would leave a
world which has indeed tried me with all its
force. Now, still I look back on those girlish
days, when, singing to my lyre, I wished to
see life, I promised to
" Lie me down and die,"
if I found no joy in the world. I have found
none : I am weary of life itself. Poltrot de
Mer^ has caught my last sad smile ; it was a
strange smile of glad resignation at having
heard his last breath. What a strange gladness !
—but then I thought he would die in the
stranger's land ; I thought I had seen him for
the last time ; that was the reason I was glad.
I felt he had lived long enough, since he had
lived to repent and died reconciled to his
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 177
Maker. But my words are making your Ma
jesty weep:— "
" No, my tears are not flowing exactly from
hearing your tale ; they are, like yours, shed
half in resignation. I am thinking of the pass
ing world we live in ; of its fleeting joys, of its
pleasures without any sure foundation. Cle
mentina, I am so devoted to Henri, that were
he to order me to do right or wrong I should
obey his voice. I am so jealous of his love,
that were he to forsake me, my very nature
would change. But now I am inclined to heed
the voice of virtue ; and if ever, like the power
ful Queen who guides my brother King, my
name should be associated with oppression and
cruelty, you must promise to remember these
sweet conversations we have held together;
you at least will know that some great cause
has turned my heart from the paths of recti
tude."
" But why not fortify your heart now that
you have not these trials near you? It is no use
1 3
178 the astrologer's daughter.
to try and brave the tempest of adversity at the
time it falls on us with all its force ; we must
prepare, whilst all is joyous and sunny, to
encounter the reverse ; look at those flowerets
which the gardener has surrounded with pa
lisades: the northern gale may blow, and the
wind may beat against the rails, but the flowers
are protected, and will bloom still in their fresh
ness. Do you understand what I mean ?"
" I do, I do ; for, Clementina, you speak
gently and calmly, and your Words fall plea
santly on the ear. Would that it were in my
power to place you in the monastic solitude
for which you sigh ; but you ought to reflect
well before you form such a wish : remember,
it is for ever. Can you leave the bright and in
toxicating world in which we move ? can you
submit never more to hear the voice of love,
which, albeit it oftentimes makes the heart sad,
is still pleasant to our weak minds ? The chime
of the bell calling you to prayer, the continual
sameness of the conversation of your sister
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 179
nuns, will substitute all the gaiety of a Court.
Can you, have you, thought of all this ? "
" Yes, sweet Queen, it has been a suddenly
expressed wish, but not a sudden thought.
I have lulled myself to sleep to the imaginary
sound of that soft bell of peace, and I have
risen again with its chime still echoing in my
ears. I have prayed night and morning that
my vow may be accomplished, and a consoling
voice at my heart whispers that Heaven will
ratify my prayers. Think of me sometimes,
sweet Queen; think of me on bended knee,
praying for your heart's warmest weal, and
for your soul's everlasing bliss. We shall
meet no more on earth; but on the eternal
shore, if spirits are rekindled to the memory
of their friends below, then will we raise our
voices in glad chorus together."
" Clementina, you thrill my heart. Oh, yes,
I shall often, very often, think of you. The i
vesper bell sounding on the breeze will seem
to waft your gentle voice ; the waking sun
180 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER,
will remind me of those quiet but fleeting
hours we have spent together; and the soft
crepuscular hour, with its gentle shades, will
remind me that you on bended knee are offer
ing up your prayers for me."
Thus, arm linked in arm, both these truly
soft and feminine voices communed together ;
and it had been well had the young Queen of
Navarre always had such a pious -minded ad
viser near her as the much-tried Clementina.
Tossed amidst the gaiety and perfidy of a li
centious and erring Court, her young heart,
worn with the pang of knowing that her hand
some husband was flighty, gay, and incon
stant ; fed on adulation and flattery, with
a bad example before her eyes in the person
of her own mother ; those who peruse his
tory, know that Marguerite of Valois has been
much blamed ; and they will perchance blend
pity with blame, when they remember how
much she was tried.
Pity is one of the noblest attributes of our
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 181
nature ; it opens the heart to so many good
feelings. There are natures upon whom anger
and reproof is of no avail ; who have been
softened to the truest penitence by a word or
a look of pity. The angels above look with a
pitying gaze on erring mortals ; and we love
to think that when our hearts are filled with
pity, we are imitating them . A tear of com
passion shed over the recollection of the frailty
of a creature we have known all good, all vir
tuous, is a pearl of unspeakable price, and is
wafted into the bosom of Heaven by those
benign ones, who rejoice over one repentant
sinner.
Silently the young Queen and her attendant
continued their promenade. Nature was now
more fully awakened ; the birds chirped in a
more full band, and the spell of the quiet har
mony of solitude was broken by the chiming of
the matin bells, the distant hum of voices from
the Palace, as the attendants bustled to and fro
taking up water to those who were languidly
18£ THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
rising from their late slumbers. As Mar
guerite and Clementina slowly returned to the
Palace, they heard the following conversation
between two grooms, who were standing to
gether behind the wall which separated the
court-yard from the inner terrace.
"Are you really going away?" said the first
speaker.
" Pardi ! yes; my young Lord has ordered
his horses saddled and accoutred for two
o'clock to-day."
"Whither does he go?"
" That is nothing to me ; the further the bet
ter; I like to roam. If my master had roamed
more, he would not have been dying of love
for so many years."
" He takes a long time dying."
" Ay, such matters do kill slowly, but Death
comes suddenly at last; and the noble Duke
will go off one of these days—perhaps in a
slumber of love."
" You are quite sentimental."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 183
" Yes, I feel that way sometimes. My Lord
of Guise's valet was in lore once, and I learnt
it of him."
" What, is being in love catching ?"
" No, no, I mean I learnt sentiment, till I
almost fancied I was in love too ; but I could
not make up my mind which I loved best—a
blue-eyed Marie, or a dark-eyed Fanchon, so
I was obliged to give up the game. However,
the young Lord of Guise is in love, and God
forgive him for loving that Italian Astrologer's
Daughter."
" That man who was burnt in his house ?"
" Burnt ! Signor Pettura is the very Dark
One himself. Burnt ! not he ; he is safe enough
—no one dares harm him, unless it be my
young master, who dares anything ; but then I
suppose he has no wish to injure the father of
the young lady he loves. Pardi ! to think she
refuses him, when he is so handsome and so
courtly ! I wonder what women are made of?
all vanity, I am thinking."
184 the astrologer's daughter.
"Ah, that is the very word, 'Vanity.' I
have been married some years, and my wife is
still as vain as on her wedding-day — such
dresses, such trinkets, though they are but
brass, she wears ! I tell her to think of her
daughters more, and herself less ; but she says,
married women might as well be dead as forget
themselves.
" Then they would never die ; for when do
they ever forget themselves."
" Never, my good friend. What a thing it
is to be as learned as you ! I always wanted
the right word to upbraid my wife with. Now
I shall tell her she is all vanity, and nothing
less. How she will stare at my book-learning !
How my daughter will wonder when I say, ' you
are as full of vanity as the Astrologer's Daugh
ter, who won't have the Duke of Guise.' "
" Shall I tell you why she won't ' "
" Pray, do."
" Because she knows the King admires her."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 185
" Help ! help ! " was heard behind the wall.
The talkative grooms hastened to open the gate,
and there they beheld the young Queen of Na
varre supporting Clementina, who had sunk
down fainting. Without imagining that their
own careless words had caused her illness, they
assisted to carry her in the house, and sum
moned female assistance.
" You do not believe a word about it, do
you, dear Queen ? " cried Clementina, opening
her languid eyes.
" No, I do not ; console yourself now ; it is
my turn to tell you to be calm."
" But to be talked of in this manner—to hear
my name thus uttered by ignorant men, who
are, in fact, the echo of the great men they
serve—this is very dreadful. A woman's best
and most precious fortune is her fame, and it is
cruel, monstrous, to take away my good name.
I will have this cleared ; my father shall prove
my innocence. I have never encouraged the
King's gay words. He begged me for a rose
186 the astrologer's daughter.
one day—I refused—he was nettled, and I
feared his anger, but I buried my fear in my
own bosom. I trembled, but none knew of it.
When poor Loretta died, I had a secret warning
to beware of all I took either to eat or drink.
I have risen each morn, hardly knowing whe
ther I should be alive in the evening. This
is the safety of a MMicis' Court. This false tale
accounts for the looks of deep hatred which
your Royal Mother has cast on me—looks which
filled my heart with fear, and buried away
peace from my bosom. Oh, yes ! I have suf
fered deeply—suffered agonizing fear, torturing
love, keen despair—but this wickedly-woven
tale has been the most bitter pang I have yet
known."
" Be calm, dear Clementina ; your head is so
warm, and your cheek is so flushed ; come
into my room and lie down."
The Queen led the unresisting girl into her
room ; but Clementina lay tossing on the bed, a
prey to the most conflicting feelings. Her tem
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 187
per was subdued by the power of religion to
the most feminine softness ; but her heart was
innately proud, and firm, in its own rectitude,
it had never even been suspected of erring. It
was a bitter pang to hear her bright fame
spoken of in so disparaging a manner. It
wounded and galled her gentle heart, and,
alas ! her enemies were the highest in the
realm.
Stung as by the bite of a scorpion, she felt
differently under this infliction than under any
she had yet experienced. All other woes were
light compared to that of hearing her name
coupled with that of a Kingwhose character she
bitterly despised. She had never before felt
this total annihilation of spirits ; bowed low—
low—by the poignancy of the stroke.
" Lift up your head," cried the gentle Queen
of Navarre ; look up'again with your own
placid expression of countenance. Why should
you bow to the stroke of calumny? Call your
pride to your aid, the justifiable pride of a vir
188 the astrologer's DAUGHTER.
tuous heart ! Call your religious feelings—
forgive your enemies !"
" What care they for my forgiveness ?" said
Clementina, bitterly ; " what care they for the
despised ' Astrologer's Daughter ?' How blind
I have been ; the King has so malignantly cast
me into his nets. He told me when he crowned
me at the tournament. ' that a King only
should crown a Queen !' Did he not mean
rather, that a King alone knew how to torture
my heart ? Proud by nature, I have ever en
deavoured to bow my pride ; I have quelled it—
I have supported grief—I have borne the loadof
sorrow which it has pleased Heaven to inflict
on me. But this is no heavenly dispensation ; it
is man—wicked, frail, guilty man's device. My
heart is broken, my mind is lowered.—I one
of the gay beings who flutter around the un
faithful King ! I "
" Pray be comforted," still persisted the
Queen."
"You know not what you say? You do not
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 189
know how bitter is this unexpected stroke ! Oh
God, who from thy high throne seest the hearts
of men, oh look down upon me, comfort me,
support me ; look upon a sinful mortal, sinful
as all mankind is by birth, but innocent of the
sins laid to her charge. Queen, dear young
Queen ! I call Heaven to witness that I have not
one fond, or one weak thought, towards the
King. I fain would not curse him, but I hate
him with more hate than I ever thought it ca
pable in my heart to hate."
" Do not curse him ; he is my brother, and
King of the realm."
" I know he is, and the words that tremble
on my lips shall die there ; but I am sad, I am
as the tree bowed down by the destructive axe.
If my name be blighted, I shall never raise my
head again. Oh, I wish to die, I wish—" but
here a passionate flood of tears came to her re
lief; and the Queen, knowing how salutary
were those tears, did not endeavour to check
them. She almost dreaded the moment when
190 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
she should hear again those plaintive accents.
However, the fair face fell languidly on the pil
low, the sweet mouth was parted, and mur
mured a tremulous prayer. The young Queen
closed the curtains gently, and Clementina
slept.
CHAPTER XI.
Heavy and unrefreshing were the slumbers
into which Clementina fell, from the exhaus
tion of her grief; and she awoke to the full con
sciousness of feeling her heart wrung by a bitter
pang. A desire to fly—she cared not whither
—took possession of her heart ; a wish of with
drawing herself from the absorbing sorrow
which injured pride, and the consciousness
of having been wronged, fills a virtuous mind.
The familiar room told her, that there, within
its walls, the Queen of Navarre had known the
injury which her fame had sustained. The
192 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
King of France was so peculiarly disagreeable
to Clementina, there was so much malignity in
the expression of his countenance, so much
littleness in his character, that her high and
exalted mind shuddered at being associated
with the stigma of contributing to his gay
amusements.
Love can never exist where we despise the
person who wishes to love us ; and even if the
proper ties of society link us by some unfortu
nate fate to the object of our scorn, still the
hearts are as disunited as ever ; but worse, when
no ties unite the opposite hearts, to think that
the world imagines a fondness, or similarity of
ideas exist between such different characters.
Tossed about by these conflicting ideas, poor
Clementina arose from the bed on which
she had been reclining ; she sighed as she
pushed aside the gorgeous trammelling of
which it was composed; for, notwithstanding
all its greatness, on it the pretty young Queen
of Navarre was now doomed to spend her
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 193
sleepless nights. Every sorrow in life brings
a salutary lesson to the heart, and a well-di
rected mind, in the midst of the most absorbing
sorrow, will find balm of some kind. Clemen
tina fell on her knees by the bedside, and when
she arose, it was easy to distinguish in her
calm countenance the efiicacy of prayer.
Yes, prayer is the sweetest, the most blessed
means given to man, to recognise in all things
the dispensations of an all-wise Providence.
Let misfortunes press ever so heavily, the
Christian knows the end of all earthly suffering.
A little patience is all that is required—a con
tinual and steadfast glance at the forthcoming
Life of Promise ; and in the most severe trials a
pious Christian will ever look serene. I have
heard some persons affirm, that these thoughtful
effusions of the heart are ill-timed in a novel,
but I consider this observation the result of a
very limited understanding. It is just as well,
methinks, to say, that we cannot rationally enjoy
the pleasures of life, and at the same time give
vol. n. k
194 the astrologer's daughter.
up much of our time to the service of our great
Creator. Is love so reprehensible, that it can
not be coupled with thoughts of higher con
sideration ? Is there not love in the very hemi
sphere above ? Are we not told that there ex
ists most perfect love? I wish not to be perso
nal, but I recommend that persons should think
before they condemn a novel ; and I cannot
help smiling as I recollect those younger days,
when I myself thought a novel quite a holyday
treat. How often I have pilfered one, and sat
by myself, poring over each page ; but in con
fidence I say, that I occasionally passed over
those parts which school-girls emphatically call
dry. These dry parts include, moral reflec
tions, religious feelings, &c. ; and those who
condemn a novel, are sometimes the first to
skip these passages.
Mr. Dickens, Sir Bulwer Lytton, Mr. Ains-
worth, and many other gentlemen, besides a
numerous train of ladies—you are all guilty of
having fed the flame of my literary penchant,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 195
and you must bear part of the blame of my
feeble effort which is now before you.
As I have before said, a pious mind will
ever find a ray of hope to cheer it on through
the lone pilgrimage of suffering.
It was a sunny noon, and Clementina de
scended into the garden. There was happiness
and budding tenderness in the harmony of the
summer tints. The birds were faltering their
liquid notes in that deeply-impassioned swell
which speaks so forcibly to the heart. In the
light clouds which eddied past, borne along by
the wafting of a gentle breeze, in the pure,
warm, genial summer sky, Clementina read
comfort, and new hope. The walls encircling
the garden seemed as it were to confine within
too narrow bonds the scenery of hope, which
nature's gifts were lavishing on her disconso
late heart. She felt as if she must have un
limited scope to range in mental communion,
in thoughts high and lofty. Yet, when she
arrived at the last gate, her heart beat with a
K 2
196 the astrologer's daughter.
tremulous throbbing, and a voice was whisper
ing a farewell, she knew not to what. Strange
it is, that amidst the full presentiment of some
thing, we never pause to consider what the pre
sentiment may lead to. We hush the voice, we
call it a superstitious indulgence : we fear, we
tremble, but we heedlessly proceed. We are
as timorous birds hovering around a lake,
whose surface presents a troublous mass of
angry billows ; the bird soars near and nearer ;
the heavy weight which restrains the free
dom of its wings ought to keep the heedless
creature from venturing on the angry waves.
One plunge, one troubled eddy of the waters,
and its dark billows close over the silly bird.
When the waters of affliction close over the
human heart, then, when it is too late, it re
members that unheeded voice of presentiment,
which endeavoured to check its course.
As Clementina timorously opened the garden
gate, and looked beyond the safety, or at least,
the bounds of the Palace, she felt an unaccount
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 197
able fear ; she felt assured it was wrong not to re
trace her steps and yet every stronger impulse of
her nature induced her to continue her course.
The prudent voice was disregarded, and Clemen-
tin afound herselfbeyond the Palace pale. It is a
strange feeling to go abroad after having been
for some time confined to a limited space. The
unbounded expanseofnature is almost too grand
to be viewed boldly: it dazzles the eyes, it
lightens the heart. Tears sprung to Clementina's
soft blue eyes as, proceeding she hardly knew
where, she found herself at length by the
banks of the gentle Seine. She followed the
margin of the tranquil blue waves, and
thought, with a sigh, that her heart was un
like that undisturbed current. The sun played
in golden bubbles on the bespangled surface ;
and the shadow of the extended wings of the
birds, as they rapidly soared or hovered around
the waters, were casting fantastical shapes on
its bosom. The soul felt a thrilling delight ;
no alarm, no fear of being alone, mixed in the
198 the astrologer's daughter.
pure pleasure which filled the admiring heart,
which was melting in its grief under the scenic
influence of nature. The breeze fanned that
subdued brow, and the pure and classical
expression of the grief-faded features was
kindled with a sort of holy joy. Butterflies
hovered around her with their golden, gos
samer, brightly-tinted wings; and the bees,
all honey laden, buzzed around, as they rested
on the wild thyme which kissed the borders of
the river. The wind sweeping in harmonious
cadence, kept time with the mellow sound of
the rippling waves, whilst the verdant banks
were ever and anon laved by the waters which
gently ebbed, flowed, and retreated. It was
one of those lovely summer days, in which the
soul delights to remember that it will not die
for ever; and that the purest scenery, the
sweetest, the most entrancing harmony of na
ture, is only an imperfect type of that verdant
shore of eternal beatitude, rife with all that
is pleasurable and delightful. It was one of
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 199
those soul-stirring days, when the heart looks
back with tears half shed in sorrow, half in re
signation, at the griefs of early life—one of those
days, when sorrow is tempered by the recollec
tion, that having lived through many trials, we
are nearer to the land where no sorrow exists.
The spirit is lofty in the midst of its grief when
it is soaring in a dream of immortality, and the
soft vision of the next world will subdue the
passions in which the heart is tossed in this
existence. " Poltrot de M^re, in thy resting
place dost thou enjoy such bliss as this ? " mur
mured Clementina. Do yon fleecy clouds close
over a world too sweetly beautiful for mortal
man to gaze upon ? Does the sun shine in un
veiled glory. Does the moon stand unclouded
by even a shadowy haze ? Art thou in peace
in the starry bespangled hemisphere ; that
sparkling expanse of radiant glory ? Is the
bitter cup of thy sufferings over ? Does the
memory of sin no more embitter thy bright
destiny ? Art thou in the bosom of eternal for-
200 the astrologer's daughter.
giveness ? Oh ! I hope so, I trust so; a bright,
a resigned, almost a cheerful glow is warming
my poor heart ; and a kindred voice, thy
own silvery voice, is singing its numbers to my
soul ; thy smile is hovering round my gaze—
that bright, unclouded smile of early love. A
wreath of hope is encircling my pale brow—the
hope of soon rejoining thy own angel-winged
soul.
Kindling with hope, Clementina sat on the
verdant moss ; her words were no more the
words of a grief-stricken mortal, but they flowed
in the unmeasured poesy of cadenced harmony,
as there she sung her song of hope.
THE SONG OF HOPE.
" As here, on mossy sward reclining,
The wavy essence mild inhaling ;
As here the waves spring, ebb, and flow,
A spirit new gladdens my brow ;
A silvery voice speaks in the billow,
And echoes through the water-willow;
Is caught above, far, far on high,
Far o'er all bright Eternity—
That voice is Hope.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 201
" Spirit of love ! spirit so good !
Oh, fill my soul with holy food !
Not Poltrot's last, mourn'd, fun'ral dirge,-
A voice of gladness in that surge,
So mellow, gently, on the breeze—
Whilst I, here, on my bended knees,
Bind round my heart that balmy voice,
Heaven's treasure—the Angels' choice—
That voice is Hope.
" Harmonious sound ! passionate spell,
Entrancing bliss, soul-stirring swell !
Oh, once more let me hear thy lay,
And still before my fond gaze stray ;
Waft me in dreams of purest beauty ;
Speak in that voice so cheer and sunny ;
Bind well thy numbers round my soul,
Voice harmonious of grief's control !
That voice is Hope.
" Sorrow, despair, end in the grave—
There, angels stretch their hands to save ;
No dizzy tears flow in the tomb—
No requiem there of sorrow's gloom ;
A warning voice is in the light,
Shining around me here, so bright—
A voice echoed in Eternity—
A voice of 'trancing harmony—
That voice is Hope."
A pity it is to break the spell of the quietude
x 3
202 the astrologer's daughter.
which had stolen over Clementina's grief-tossed
spirit—a pity to break the trance ofpoetic hope
in which her soul was wrapped. The novelist
is a cruel intruder on the feelings, and it is my
fate to change the picture lately presented to
my readers. But are not the brightest dreams
of human expectations very often broken by sad
reality ? Life, they tell us, is a dream. But it
must be owned that its vision is often composed
of very substantial realities, of very trying dif
ficulties. Not all fair is the dream of life ; not
all-pleasing its vanities ; and yet how unwilling
we contemplate leaving it ! How much, too,
we dwell upon its passing follies !
CHAPTER XII.
The calm harmony of nature, the warmth of
the sun, the stillness of the air, the freshness of
the earth, or perhaps her own subdued spirit,
had gradually drawn Clementina into a lethar
gic slumber. It might be three hours after
wards when she awoke, and she vainly endea
voured to remember all that had occurred ; she
only knew that, to her astonishment, she found
herself in a vessel which was quickly gliding
from the shore, the city of Paris looking as
a speck in the distance. The minarets of the
churches, the irregular buildings, the streets,
204 the astrologer's daughter.
and even the opposite bank of the river, at
length were left far behind ; and now Clemen
tina felt assured she had been forced to take a
narcotic draught, for her tongue refused utter
ance to the words she fain would utter. She
felt no particular pain ; but a strange lassitude
fell over her, and her eyes sunk in her pale
cheeks, whilst she vainly endeavoured to open
them. Her hands were crossed on her bosom ;
she had an inclination to move them, but they
still remained there. Her rest appeared pro
found, and unfortunately her hearing was per
fectly acute ; and she heard the following con
versation, recognising, with horror and dismay,
the voice of the Duke :
" Lorraine ! if you play me falsely, the
friendship which now unites us shall sever as
the hoar-frost leaves the green-sward. You
know not how fondly, how madly, I love.
You Churchmen know not what that passion
is!"
" Do we not 1" replied the Cardinal, bitterly.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 205
" No, I am sure you do not. When you love,
you cast off the feeling as easily as cur soldiers
take up their quarters from camp to camp. At
least say that my love is constant and enduring."
" Is it not now half enduring from pique
at the advice the Astrologer gave the M^dicis
about you ?"
" No, by my soul it is not : it has burned
for years amidst icicled obstacles. No, believe
me, I love Clementina—love her as I never
loved woman before, and never shall again—
and you cannot, you dare not, break your vow :
you must unite us by the holy bonds of the
Church."
" How tranquil, how pure she looks in her
slumbers," said Lorraine, replying more to his
own thoughts than to the Duke's words, " She
does look like the bride of the Church. Young
man, it is a serious thing to thwart that pious
choice."
" It was not a choice !" said Henri, vehe
mently. " It was rather a subterfuge ; it was a
206 the astrologer's daughter.
last resource, implanted in her mind by the dy
ing Poltrot de Mere, who, even in leaving the
earth, could not depart without grasping from
my hands the happiness which trembled near—
quite near me. Clementina had fondly re
turned the pressure of my hand, she had looked
at me with a clear, almost a loving gaze. I had
heard her silvery voice, not in anger, scarcely
in coldness. Then came Poltrot de Mere,
springing between my bliss, as a wan spectre
from the shadowy world of spirits ; he snatched
away, with an envious grasp, the chalice of
delight which trembled near my lips. Had
Clementina never relented, I might perchance
have schooled my heart to forget—but now it is
impossible. Ask the sun to retreat this mo
ment behind yon clouds and refuse to gild the
beautiful river ; ask the river to turn to dry
ground! ask any thing, and everything im
possible, but never ask me to leave off loving.
Oh, could I but warm her heart towards me !
Had I some magical power to make her know
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 207
and believe how fondly I would shield her from
all harm, how I will strive to win her fondest
affection ! Can Heaven be cruel enough to
deny me the boon, the only boon of happi»
ness I crave ?"
"Accuse not Heaven, young man. Heaven
is not cruel ; it is man, who thwarts the brightest
designs which Providence throws in his way !
It is man who mars his own happiness, when a
safe road is shown him to steer his bark to the
Rubicon of happiness ! It is man who loiters by
the road-side, and takes the path his own will
prefers ! Do not accuse Heaven, young Duke ?"
" But, my good father, tell me, I beseech
you, tell me, how in this instance I have been
wilful?"
" You slew the lover of Clementina's youth,
and by that blow turned her relenting heart to
the same frozen channel in which it had before
flown towards you."
" I knew not that masked chevalier was
Poltrot de Men*."
208 the astrologer's daughter.
" The more wilful for murdering a man
without any reason. I myself repent of much
of that dark night, which will never be for
gotten. I would make much sacrifice to shrine
my conscience, and I fain would wish to hear
you say the same. I will tell you how to pro
pitiate the wrath of Heaven :—By sacrificing
your most darling wish ; by—"
" By giving up my Clementina ! By hea
vens ! I will not do it—not if a legion of men or
spirits stood between me and the altar ; not if
I thought the deed could send me from the
portal gates of Heaven."
" Hush, blaspheme not," cried Lorraine,
shuddering. " Yonder lies the bride for whom
you are sighing : pale, unearthly, and still as
death she lies. One drop too much of the
somnific draught would have sent her pure
soul to rejoin her departed lover. Neither her
heart nor her affections are yours ; and even in
that death-like torpor, perchance her soul is
communing with him whom your hand slew.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 209
Young man, you have had my most so
lemn vow to unite you to Clementina, and I
will steel my heart to a deed I consider a
refinement of cruelty. I will not be moved by
her sighs, nor be turned by her tears. Why
do I this ? Because on that dark St. Bartho
lomew's night you saved me from the Hugue
nots who had surrounded my house to slay
me. Selfish thus I am—but this my reason—
if I broke my vow—if I bared my bosom
before your sword and bid you take the life
you saved, you would find some other person
to take my place."
" Most assuredly ; I cannot give up Clemen
tina."
" Stay ! stay ! you must hear me talk ; the
view of futurity, usually hidden from mortal
man, seems now clearly before me. You will
not be happy—you will never obtain her heart.
A cold and cheerless wedded life is the slowest
poison, leading at length most surely to the
grave."
210 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
" I have, too, a view of futurity," said the
Duke, whilst a strange smile marred the beauty
of his exquisitely-moulded face. " I, too, have
a view of futurity, and I see Clementina beg
ging me to receive her love."
" Impossible," said Lorraine.
" Quite possible," replied the Duke, and
now the vessel stopped. The soft shades of
evening were falling gently and gradually on
the lovely scenery in which a painter's eye
would have revelled with delight. Darker but
equally calmly, the waters flowed on, clothed in
sombre evening shades ; they who had so lately
been decked in such bright sunny colours. The
moon was peeping timidly from the hemisphere
of peace in which she was enshrined. Clemen
tina heard the splashing of oars ; the shrill cry
of the boatmen, the subdued songs of the mari
ners, and then she was lifted gently from the
vessel and placed in a litter. By a painful
effort she opened her eyes, fixed them on Lor
raine, who sat by her side, and then they closed
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 211
again heavily, whilst she uttered a deep sigh.
The sigh was echoed by her companion, and all-
drowsy as she was, Clementina felt a ray of
comfort at hearing that sympathizing sigh—so
keenly is the suffering heart alive to kindness !
It proved true, as Lorraine had said, that a
few more drops of the draught, which the
sleeping Clementina had unconsciously taken,
would have proved fatal ; for she fell from one
long slumber into another ; and the Duke was
racked with torture, fearing that his own ma-
nceuvering ingenuity would deprive him of his
bride.
At length she awoke, but felt as weak and
helpless as a new-born infant. How subdued is
every feeling, when we recover to life with the
conviction through each nerve of the frail te
nure of our human life ; feeling as it were, that
existence hangs on the most slender thread, the
feeble pulse warning us that it can cease to
throb for ever.
How apt are we in ill-health to forget that
212 the astrologer's daughter.
those around us, not feeling weak and de
pendent on kindness as we do, cannot enter
into our feelings. There, as Clementina lay
amongst total strangers, in an old-fashioned and
not very commodious chamber—at least con
trasting strangely with the gorgeously sump
tuous chambers of the Louvre—there she felt
so prepared to die, so meek, so resigned—at
least to everything save the one event which
haunted her mind —that she fondly imagined
that the Duke's heart too was softened. She
recalled with difficulty part of the conversation
she had heard in the boat. Casting her eyes
round the room, she perceived a strange and
very ugly old woman, slumbering in an arm
chair; the exclamation of surprise which escaped
her bps, awoke the sleeper, who started to the
bed, exclaiming—
" Well, now, bless my soul, how pleased the
young Duke will be ! he promised me a mark
of gold the first time I should go to him and
tell him you were awake and could speak.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 213
You do not know how often I have fed you ;
thanks to it for your being alive now. Come,
my dear young lady, you must have a stoup of
wine, and then I will call the Duke."
" Pray do not talk of calling the Duke," re
plied the invalid, in feeble but expressive ac
cents. " Now let me tell you, if you care for
gold, I have plenty, not here, but at the
Louvre. I have beautiful jewels, Queens' pre
sents, treasures in abundance—only aid me to
escape."
" Ha, ha, ha ! gold and treasures ; much use
would they be to a head without a body, or a
body without a head. Do you think my life
would be safe after such an act, even if it were
in my power ?"
" My father would protect and recompense
you."
" Recompense me ! he is here, in close con
finement, and is only to be released on the day
you marry the Duke. Oh, mercy on me ! what a
tongue I have ! There, myjewel, my pretty one,
214 the astrologer's daughter.
take this, or you will faint. Come, cheer up ;
it is not so bad to be a Duchess, after all.
Cheer up, cheer up."
" Never, never ; but I suppose it is written
in the book of fate that I must be dragged
broken-hearted to the altar. But now I see
you are alarmed. Fear not, I shall not tell the
Duke you gave me any information whatever.
In return, you must oblige me; help me to
rise, and then summon the Cardinal de Lor
raine."
" I was told to call the Duke."
" Here, take this," cried Clementina, de
taching a ring from her finger.
The old woman's covetous eyes rested on
the jewelled bauble. " Well, I suppose it
will not matter, as you perhaps want to con
fess."
" Confess what ? that I am ill-used, and un
happy ? Never mind, do as I wish ; perhaps I
will confess:"
In a few moments the old woman had as
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 215
sisted Clementina to dress, and she was touched
to see so beautiful a form reduced to such in
fantine weakness.
" Poor young creature ! 'tis a shadow of a
beauty, indeed; but, as I before said, cheer
up, lady ; a few weeks restore the bloom to a
young cheek."
" Mine has long lost its bloom—my grief is
not of to-day ; I have fed on grief—I have
risen each day, growing paler than the day be
fore. Have you a remedy for this ?"
" Hope, lady, hope ! and trust in future
happiness ; when the great gush of sorrow has
passed away, this is all the remedy which the
most skilful physician could give you."
The old woman's shrunken face looked
almost handsome as she pronounced these
words; and Clementina, weak and dispirited,
wept on in silence, whilst the old woman still
continued—
" I have seen much grief in my time. I once
had three beautiful daughters; they all married,
216 the astrologer's daughter.
and they all had their sorrows ; but on their
death -beds how bitterly they lamented that
they had not risen superior to grief, before it
was too late ; for after all, it is blithe to live,
and we do not know what we say when we
think we wish to die."
" Then, God forgive me ; I have often said
it, my good woman ; but, maybe, that I have
always had a presentiment I should die young
—yet not so young either: I am four-and-
twenty, and have seen as much sorrow as some
who have lived to fifty. I wonder if it be sinful
to wish to die, when a secret voice tells us that
a bright inheritance is in store for us. But, as
you said, perhaps I want to confess ; I do wish
to tell the Cardinal all I feel. Will you fetch
his Lordship now ?"
A few moments more, and Clementina was
alone with the Cardinal.
Lorraine felt particularly awkward at the con
templation of an interview he dreaded. He
remembered poor Loretta's death-bed, her
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 217
hopeless despondency, her broken heart; and
he wondered at the strange fate which was
his—that of catching the plaintive murmurings
of those young females.
Since the awful night of St. Bartholomew a
wonderful alteration had taken place in the
heart of Lorraine ; and had he not bound
himself by a solemn oath, instead of uniting
Clementina in the detestable union she ab
horred, he would have helped her to es
cape.
In those troublous and guilt-stained days,
when murder, pillage, and wrongs of all kinds
were so common on the tapis of life, when a
dark system of Italian retaliation swayed the
Court of France, it is well that an oath was still
held in its truly sacred responsibility ; the more
so, as superstition joining to make it more bind
ing, in some instances an oath taken to spare an
enemy, or turn to a better course, was the only
rein which bridled the sinful heart of man.
It was with thoughts of deep remorse, and a
vol. n. L
218 the astrologer's daughter.
feeling of shame he had never felt before, that
Lorraine respectfully presented himself before
Clementina. He actually started back with
undisguised horror when he beheld the ravages
which indisposition, suffering, and fright had
made on the delicate girl's frame The dented
chest which marks consumption, had stamped
its hideous tale, and the hollow and distressing
cough came and went as the flashes of light
ning, warning us of the approach of a storm.
That lovely glow, which is the fatal print of
approaching decay, was tinging the pale and
death-like cheek; the hands were taper-like,
and transparently pure, and those once very
expressive eyes had that bright, glassy look,
which the fever of consumption imprints upon
them. No more the wavy golden locks
twined in silken tresses round the neck; they
parted smoothly, and were damp and weak, as
if they, too, were stamped with approaching
decay.
"Start not, my Lord Cardinal," said Cle
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 219
mentina : " start not, for though my body is
altered, my soul and mind are the same as
ever. My Lord, I have heard your words
when you thought I could not ; I tried to move,
for it was very distressing to hear and not to
speak. Alas! all in vain. I heard you en
deavour to convince the Duke to take away a
love I cannot return. Deep, deep in my heart,
every word is treasured, and there they shall be
until the clay I can think no more. If it be
sinful, I will no longer pray to die ; but if you
have any influence over the Duke, tell him this
from me—I will be his wife when I have re
covered from this illness, brought on by his
own hands ; but tell him not to sue me as lovers
sue when they know they are loved ; such
words are a perfect mockery of my grief. I
cannot, indeed I cannot, bear them. Let him
come as seldom as may be ; I will think of him,
I will try all, all I can, to be as resigned as I
was before I pillowed Poltrot de Merc's dying
head ; but if he comes to me whilst I am weak
l 2
220 the astrologer's daughter.
and ill, lie will only receive the tears of a
mournful heart."
The Cardinal could only press Clementina's
thin hands ; but, at length, he replied, in tre
mulous accents :—
" Young maiden, I need not say I pity you,
for you have heard my words, when they were
uttered only for the ears of the Duke. Now I
rejoice that a heavenly hand has given you
mental strength, even though your boasted
beauty should for a time be low. Like the
flowers who raise again their tufted heads after
a shower, so will you shine again in the full
power of your beauty. My voice perchance
may falter when I pronounce your nuptial
blessing, but I tremble not for your future life.
To say " Ay" to the man you do not love, is a
severe pang, but . far worse if you loved him,
and he did not love you : that griefbreaks the
female heart ; I know it, I know it."
*****
The Cardinal seemed absorbed in grief at
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 221
the recollection of something which Clementina
did not understand. She marvelled at his emo
tion, but her quick cough and difficult breath
ing filled Lorraine's mind with the conviction
that she was very ill, when she began the con
versation again—
" My Lord Cardinal, I wished to have been
the bride of the Church, to have raised my
voice amidst the choir of those sweet sisters,
who, abandoning all earthly desires and vanity,
leave the world to commune with God. Now,
however, I think I am scarcely good enough
to join their pure throng. Love, tormenting
love, has fanned my cheek ; hasty and daring
words have been wafted to my heart. My
Lord Lorraine, it is passing my understanding
that the Duke should persevere in his love. Tell
me truly—tell me, as you hold everything
dear and sacred—tell me, do you believe it is
love, or the sole wish of tormenting me, which
makes him thus persevere."
" He does love you, dearly, fondly ; he will
222 the astrologer's daughter.
make you happy. He is impetuous, daring,
ambituous—sometimes, alas! vindictive; but
he loves you dearly."
" Enough, enough ; I can speak no more,"
said Clementina. " Thank you, my Lord ;
thank you for your words."
The Cardinal left, for Clementina had bu
ried her face in her hands, and he glided out
of the room without her noticing him.
" My father, my beloved father, I will sacri
fice myself for you," she exclaimed, wringing
her hands bitterly. " The world will say the
Duke does me honour: cruel, cruel, Henri!
He loves me—loves me well, did Lorraine
say ? Then bis soothing care will perhaps
raise again my head, and that will scarcely be
kindness. This deep cough is kinder, this burn
ing fever is more welcome than his embraces ;
and towards the grave—the grave which holds
Poltrot de Merc's remains—my heart still
turns."
CHAPTER XIII.
It is well known in history that Charles the
Ninth suffered from a most grievous illness ;
and it is very remarkable that the first symp
toms of his decaying health displayed them
selves after the night of horrid remembrance —
the night of St. Bartholomew. Waking or
sleeping, the sound of the dying Huguenots
vibrated in his ear. Now he fancied he saw
them flying, pierced and wounded; now he
thought he felt the weight of the arquebuse
which he was levelling against them: he fan
cied he ever stood in the loophole, with the
224 the astrologer's daughter.
weapon of destruction in his hand. The trou
bled frame of his mind was truly distressing.
Coligny's form haunted his pillow; he woke
with a start, a prey to the most distressing
dreams, and fell asleep but to wake again.
Surely we must have a good conscience, to
slumber at peace through the night, or to wake
in its thick darkness and not dread the voice
of that conscience which in the still midnight
hour speaks so forcibly. No misfortune so bad
as the reproofs of a conscience which cannot
turn in a repentant prayer, and which knows
not where to seek for relief. Proud in heart
as his haughty mother, it was not in her ears
that the King of France owned he felt remorse.
She was kind to him in the world's accep
tation of the word, but she inquired not if his
young heart, not so hardened as her own, was
troubled and distressed. She pillowed his
aching head, and she supported his form when
he took his unrelished meals ; she sought the
advice of the most skilful physicians, she sta
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 225
tioned the faithful Mariot near his pupil's bed
side ; she did all that she thought right and
proper to do, and believed she had fulfilled
her maternal duty. Is not the heart, the soul,
ofher offspring committed to a mother's care?
Is her sole duty to pamper the body ? If so,
Catherine de M^dicis fulfilled her duty. Her
own heart had not repented since the awful
tragedy which had been sanctioned by her
voice ; but, deep in her heart, that hatred to
wards Henri of Navarre grew ; a hatred which
she fostered until it broke out after the death
of Charles, in the distressing wars of the
League.
Catherine de M^dicis' history has often been
treated about; and in offering my work to the
Public, I know that in many points I am tread
ing on old ground ; that abler writers can speak
more fully of her political career, lam perfectly
sure, but I am considering the evil influence of
a woman's heart on an enlightened nation. To
cement the bonds of marriage between the en
l 3
226 the astrologer's daughter.
gaging Marguerite de Valois and the young
King of Navarre, had ever been the darling
wish of the M^dicis' heart. To invite the
gentle d'Albret to her Court, was a plan which
she had matured in order to perpetrate a deep
crime ; at least I believe that it is generally
(though some deny it) accredited, that Ca
therine de M^dicis poisoned the harmless
widow of the King of Navarre. Now, as this
event happened before the marriage of the
young orphan King with Marguerite of Valois,
as History does not relate any Court quarrel,
any jealousy on either side, are we not natu
rally led to believe that Catherine had long
intended getting rid of the young Henri? And
then, how truly horrid is the recollection that
she suffered the enthusiastic Marguerite to
twine every youthful and warm affection of
her heart on a bridegroom, who was to be
slain at her side ! Horrible, detestable, re
finement of policy—or rather, cruelty, dark
cruelty of the heart ! Henri escaped to Eng
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 227
»
land; and although my tale will finish before
the wars of the League, still I may be permit
ted to follow the thread of this little sketch.
Henri asked the assistance of the wise English
Queen, and Elizabeth, detesting the atrocious
policy of Catherine, whose reign reminded
her of the darkest times of her deceased sister,
instantly assisted her Royal cousin, and then
began those wars which deluged France with
blood, and swept the land of the noblest and
highest persons in the land. The wars of the
League have formed the subject of many tales,
and I do not wish now to enter upon them.
Readers, many of you, like myself, may
be just entering womanhood's career, and at
that period when girlish follies fade before
new ideas, then is it that history is parti
cularly beneficial to the heart. If we admire
many noble characters there delineated, if
we feel a glowing emulation when we read
of women performing good deeds, we may
also learn from the most contemptible charac
228 the astrologer's daughter.
ters, that in reprehending their conduct, we
must think seriously of our own ; if we have
no wish of heing ambitious, we shall not take
the consequence of Catherine's detestable policy
home to ourselves. But her character is com
posed of a tissue of small vices, all flowing on
until they formed that stern and implacable
disposition, for which Catherine de Medicis is
famed. I have often thought that the very
circumstance of her being so beautiful, is a
lesson, or part of the lesson, of her life, from
which more than one fair girl can derive infor
mation. What signifies beauty, if it be marred
by the hideous deformity of the mind ? Will
sculptured features atone for faults ? Beauty,
associated with vice, must on the contrary re
mind us that a sweet picture of human perfec
tion is utterly spoiled.
No remorse visited the heart of the proud
M^dicis, as, day after day, she hovered round
the sick couch of the unfortunate, stricken
Charles. His Royal pomp was lost upon him ;
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 229
the Court resounded no more with the tram
mel of rejoicings. No balls, no tournaments,
disturbed a stillness which Catherine hated;
for stillness is the sister twin of thought—and
thought is the enemy of a vicious mind.
Mariot was one day sitting near the King's bed,
buried in a thoughtful reminiscence of the past.
He remembered Charles in his boyish, gay
hours, blithe and careless as a June flower ; he
remembered his unchecked laugh, his rosy
cheeks, the animated expression of his coun
tenance ; he remembered him during the last
year which preceded his formal introduction as
King of the realm—he remembered the defini
tion of his character, as he had described it to
the Queen Mother ; he thought of his words—
" Charles the Ninth, will cither be a very good,
or a very bad King," and then he recalled to
mind with much bitter regret, that his unfor
tunate pupil had chosen the bad path.
Mariot had almost forgotten his Latin ora
tions ; he thought no more of his pet volumes ;
230 the astrologer's daughter.
but he sat day after day, watching the King's
countenance, and scrupulously striving to dis
guise his own thoughts, for fear they should
distress the erring but still favourite pupil, who
had once given Mariot hopes of better things.
Mariot's sensible mind knew that the true
source of Charles's conduct was the conduct
and advice of the Queen-Mother ; and he pitied
the poor Royal youth, who lay on his sick couch,
apart from the pastimes of a Court, and the
natural amusements of his age.
On the day in question, Charles suddenly
turned round to Mariot, and said abruptly—
" Where is Clementina Pettura?"
" She has fled with the Duke."
" Fled ! impossible ; she hated him. It is
one of the plots of the Duke. Where is the
Maestro ?"
" Fled also.
" Nonsense, Mariot ; will you make me in a
downright passion ? I will never credit a word
of it. My mother has the happy or convenient
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 231
art of dissembling, till she can persuade herself
anything is true which she likes to believe.
Clementina has been carried away, in order, I
suppose, that she may marry the Duke, rather
than allow herself to be slightingly spoken of."
" I never thought of this before," said Ma-
riot.
" No, I dare say not. You never under
stood a love-plot in your life. Has any one
ever been in love with you, Mariot?"
" Not that I know of; they never told me
so."
" Come, now, you must confess that your
hard heart has not always been impenetrable."
" Plutarch stole my heart," replied its learned
translator (which sentence, by-the-by, I will
not vouch is historical, unless my readers like
to make me their historian).
" Well, well, Mariot, if you lost your dear
Plutarch, what would you do ?"
" Look till I recovered my lost treasure, your
Majesty."
232 the astrologer's daughter.
" That is the point, Mariot. It is no use
wasting your time watching by my bed-side, as
a spaniel looks up to his master's countenance
(pardonnez moi, Mariot) ; but I am going to
give you a most knight-errant message : go
and find out, by every possible means, where
Clementina Pettura is concealed."
" That is like bidding me fetch the golden
fruit of the Hesperides."
" How tamely indolent you are, Mariot. You
might as well say at once, ' King of France, I
will not go, unless you force me to do it.' "
" That might be very well whilst your Ma
jesty was in health," cried the faithful tutor,
his dull gray eyes filling with tears. "Now,
however, I will go to the furthest end of the
world to serve you. I would visit the Court of
the learned Elizabeth of England—I would
put myself within the pale of the infuriated
Monarch of Spain—nay, I would lay down my
life to see your Majesty rise blithe and well
from your sick couch."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 233
" Your life, Mariot ! Now, young as I am,
I will read you a lecture, my most sage pre
ceptor. Never talk of laying down your life,
or I shall imagine you have never been on a
sick bed, or have not roughed the storms of
life. I know now the value of life ; for, ailing
as I am, I would fain receive as many warn
ings as death will send me, before clasping me
in its embrace."
" You are young," said Mariot ; " but I
have lived long enough to know many things
which we believe not in early life. I have
seen ambitious plans fleet away from the grasp
of those who built their hope on the fulfilment
of them. I have seen the fair and gay fade
away after a bright dream of happiness, which
appeared too glorious to fall to decay. I have
seen the old and ailing survive the blast of
the tempest's hurricane, and have now laid to
heart the lesson of the mutability of all human
things."
" Mariot, you are, methinks, speaking in
234 the astrologer's daughter.
hints, and I never can bear that; give me the
lash if you like, in broad stripes, as you used
in my early days ; but do not conceal it in a
golden case, as my mother does."
" Have I ever been slow at reproving you ?"
said Mariot, almost reproachfully. " My •words
have fallen upon your ears like an unwelcome
shower at the moment ladies are preparing to
go to a f£te in the open air. They have too
often been as the seed thrown upon unfruit
ful ground, but they have not been niggardly
given."
"No, of that, both myself and my brother of
Anjou, can bear testimony. I fancy I see your
face of patient gravity, ending your orations
with, I speak not for my own good young
King, but 'Pro bono publico.' And now,
semper jidelis tutor, I am conning your pet
language on my sick bed, instead of buckling
my sword, and rushing against that rising and
ambitious young devil, Henri of Navarre. ' Le
Rot et Vetat,' my own trusty battle-cry, would
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 235
be more welcome to my Kingly ears than, ' La
midecine, et Pespoir."
" Your spirits are so good, that I fancy ' La
midecine, et Vespoir,' have not been meagre
shadows of hope."
" That compliment is all because I remem
ber my Latin, eh, Mariot? but * veriti sans
peur,' it is ennui, the very blue essence of
ennui, which wrings the hideous nonsense from
my lips."
" Now my sweet King, now—now, I pray
you—remember my love for the classics. I
pray you continue in a strain which is as sweet
to mine, as martial music to your ears ; ' occa-
rent nubes," even in the lives of Kings mats le
bon temps reviendra."
" Now between your French and Latin, you
will make a philosopher of the King my mas
ter," cried a singularly shrill voice, as bursting
unceremoniously into the room, the King's fa
vourite jester stood by his Royal master's bed
side.
236 the astrologer's daughter.
" Joseph wore a ludicrously grotesque dress.
His jacket was a bright pink, covered with
silver tinselling, with the arms of his master
so frequently embroidered upon it, that Jo
seph was a walking piece of heraldic informa
tion ; his head was covered with a high cap,
surmounted with a feather, whilst innumerable
little bells hung around it, forming a fringe
round his strange, but not unpleasant face,
Joseph was fair, and rather inclined to possess
red hair, which was a glaring defect, with a
person who disdained the coxcombish use of oils
and pomatums, and would hardly allow the
barber to rob him of an ornament, which—re
membering the history of Samson — perhaps
Joseph thought contributed to his strength and
wit, according to its weight and length. His
features were rather ludicrously mirthful than
shrewd, and they might be called unmeaningly
flat, relieved from utter void of expression by
the most perfect " ney retroussi."
" Why do you come in uninvited, sirrah ?"
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 237
cried the King, surveying his jester from top
to toe ; " and why do you always look so lean,
reminding one of a spectre, whilst so many are
hovering round me, not having made up their
minds whether I am to live, or go join their
community?"
" How can I get into good condition, when
your Majesty is lying there, battling between
the doctor for the body, and the doctor of
the mind ? Garre d vous, monjoli roi, or your
physician and Monsieur Mariot will dissect you
before you are dead; which is, perhaps, after
all, more honest than robbing the churchyards
of their dead. I never mean to be dissected,
having no organs for them to find out, my
cranium being as blank as a forest on a No
vember day."
" Hist, hist ! dost dare speak against my
reverend preceptor ? Now, Mariot, excommu
nicate him in Latin."
"I am £ virtute quies,' " said Joseph, fold
ing his arms in nun-like simplicity across his
238 the astrologer's daughter.
bosom; and certainly, if the strength of his
virtue, as well as its safety, were measured by
the longitude of his face, the jester was a pure
type of modest-looking goodness.
"What! jester, you know Latin? I never
thought your bells chimed to that tune."
" My learning comes forth gradually, lest I
should cast preceptors too far in the shade. I
could have taught your Majesty Latin as well
as that pampered Mariot."
" Ha ! ha ! ha ! Mariot, retort I pray thee.
Did'st ever suffer such an attack before ?" said
the King.
" It amuses your Majesty, and, perhaps I
have caught the same vein. Poor, ignorant
Joseph, thy soft cranium has made thy fortune ;
not for its abilities, but because it was worth a
King's while to listen to its void."
" I never knew void was anything, and there
must be something in void, if the King can
listen to it. Thanks, Mario't ; now the King is
out of leading-strings, methinks I will sit on a
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 239
high chair, with my hands behind me, listening
to thee. Lesson first: Mariot's Dictionary of
Words—void—signifies something."
"Insolence means you deserve the horse
whip," said the King, smothering his mirth
under the bed-clothes.
" The horse-whip is applied to those who
have some goodness to be drawn out of them,
but who have allowed it to sink too far from
the surface, your Majesty. Poor Joseph has
no good in his whole composition ; at least so
folks say : he is a compound of void—whose
component parts are something. Ha! ha! ha!"
" Begone ! unwelcome intruder on a King's
rest, begone I say ! " But the King did not
retort begone, for, sooth to say, he was con
vulsed with laughter.
" I have not disturbed the King's rest,"
continued the jester ; "no, foi de chevalier, or
foi defou, which is one and the same thing ; I
listened at ' the door full ten minutes before I
entered ; and if the King were at rest, he was
240 the astrologer's daughter.
strangely tossed in dreams, for he was talking
in an allegory of another world he knows
nothing at all about; and not content with
clipping the King's French, which is his own
by right of patent, His Majesty was robbing
other countries of their language. Where do
they talk Latin, Monsieur Mariot ? Some folks
say it is dead, but it lives for ever in your
mouth."
" You were not invited here," exclaimed
Mariot, angrily ; if the King prefers the com
pany of a fool to a rational man, well then I
will hie me away."
" Right welcome, Mariot; the King is my
brother on Adam's side, a few generations re
moved, and he would not offer insult to so near
a relation. As to your great wisdom, grand
merci ! I always think an over-wise man is a
distilled fool, with all pleasantness drained
in the strainer, and nothing but a mass of
learning left to bore people with. My mother,
peace to her memory ! had an old saying, that
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 241
a sane man never wrote; and you have trans
lated Plutarch, though you might have left
the unoffending old man alone. Invited, in
deed ! who stands on ceremony ? Did Queen
Elizabeth of England invite His Majesty's sweet
cousin, Henri of Navarre to her Court? Yet
he made his bow, and he doffed his plumed cap,
whilst Elizabeth curtsied and smiled. Now he
will reap the benefit of his audacity, and come
to visit us with a troop of English soldiers at his
back. There is policy in going to Court ! "
" Now, Joseph, thou shalt have thy ears
slit, if thou touchest ground like this. Policy,
do jou call it, you knave, you fool, you buf
foon, with a powdered face. It was a mean, de
rogatory step."
" More mean to lie still in his bed and be mur
dered by the side of his bride. Didst ever see a
woman, in hysterics, eh, my Kingly brother ?"
" Yes, tiresome fool, more than one."
" What didst think of their hysterical oh,
ha! oh! ha! oh, de—er—ar."
VOL. II. M
242 the astrologer's daughter.
" That their smiles are better than their tears."
" Foi defou, you are a reasonable King, and
deserve to wear my bells, which are as merito
rious as the orders the King of Spain confers
on the grandees when he reads in their sallow
faces that they are inclined to rebel. Yes,
foi do fou, de roi et de chevalier ; Henri of
Navarre did quite right ; there is more cou
rage in flying, than in remaining to be mur
dered."
" How so, fool?"
" 'Tis easily told. As soon as a man is mur
dered, his friends extol his virtues, and write
prologues on his goodness and unfortunate
end ; this is very enlightening for the world's
edification, and perhaps his spirit revels in
delight if it catches the echo of this sweet
world's dear and timely sympathy. Now, if a
man flies, he hears himself called a dastardly
coward ; and there is courage in supporting
calumny. Now will I laud Henri of Navarre
as a hero."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 243
" Grand merci for your nice distinction of
bravery ! it is your philosophy then which keeps
you from the wars, when your master is risking
his life in battle ; he is a coward, and you are
a brave man. Now a truce to your learning,
knave—but you have no more left for a future
occasion. Canst answer a plain question ?"
" I hope so, if it is asked in plain French ! "
" It is simply this : where does the Duke
generally spend his time, when he is not at
Court?"
" At the wars."
" Tush ! I mean when he is at peace."
" Sometimes shrining his conscience in the
Church of Notre Dame de Lorraine—some
times he gambles at his chateau — sometimes
he dabbles in politics—sometimes he shows his
chef de cuisinehow to compose a ragout, which,
when men have partaken of, they can tell no
more tales ; this dish is called by courtesy a
' ragout d la MSdicis.' "
" Parbleu, you are the most incorrigible
m 2
244 the astrologer's daughter.
knave in the whole world," said the King ;
too much accustomed to Joseph's manner to
feel angry, and knowing that if he let him
have his own way, he would at length be tired
ofjoking, and shift his sails in the right direc
tion.
" I mean, Joseph, has he any particular
hiding place, when it is his ducal will not to
let the whole world know what he is about ?
Now, pray thee, collect thy memory, and tell
me if thou knowest how to find out the fox in
his hole—there is more honour in that than
shooting preserves."
" I think I can," replied Joseph, placing his
finger knowingly on his mouth ; " but secrets
must not be told to a third party ; and though
yon sapient Preceptor is casting his meek eyes
on the pages of his thumb-worn book, I have
not seen him turn over the page for more than
five minutes; and as deafness does not come
under the list of his complaints, perchance he
happens to love my dulcet voice just now ! "
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 245
" Speak before him ; he shall accompany thee
to the Duke's hiding-place."
" No, by my faith ! that will I not do," said
the usually placid Mariot, warming with anger ;
" by the honour ofmy situation, as preceptor to
your Majesty, I will not scour the country with
that prating fool by my side ; his bells hardly
sounding more meaningless than his tongue."
" Now I pledge my Kingly word that I differ
from thee, Mariot; his tongue is too flippant
for a book-worm man ; but it is a pleasant and
warm companion, and nothing meaningless, but
withal tart and ludicrous. I have laughed at
my poor Joseph's puns till I fancied I felt the
glow of a June day on a cold November morn ;
and I have laughed in July, until very exhaus
tion caused me to cry out for a stoup of iced
claret."
" And a good and refreshing beverage your
Majesty found it; say it is true, Royal bro
ther," said the much-gratified jester.
" Now hold thy glib tongue," retorted the
246 the astrologer's daughter.
King, "and hear me, for I am getting ex
hausted. Thou must doff thy plumed cap, and
not announce thine honourable calling by
sounding twenty bells at once. Frown not at
this sacrifice ; thy wit is like the sparkling froth
on the top of champagne, and as soon as thy
mouth opens, it will sparkle forth, and never be
taken for tame lemonade."
" By my jester's honour, it is no sham pain to
wander in the train of so fool-learned a man as
Mariot. Upon your Majesty's own shoulders
be the blame if you lose your jester, and gain
an author—for composition is catching ; if the
words fall from Mariot's lips, and I write them
down, I shall be stamped an author. By my
discarded bells, I believe that is the way of those
learned men. I understand the joke ; I will
dress myself as a courier, attending Mariot ;—
but he must pay me well, for my silver tinsel
ling tarnishes, when it lies by long. When I
have found the Duke, what then ?"
" Then thou may'st return as quickly as thou
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 24T
went, and take heed thy tongue doth not be-
tray thee into eating a rdgout, such as thou
spakest of a minute ago."
" Oh, pardt ! trust me for that ; I can smell
a rdgout d la Midicis, long before the cook has
placed the last ingredient in its compound.
But I see your Majesty wants rest, and I will
leave you to Monsieur Mariot's tender care,
whilst I equip myself to be his humble guide,
interpreter, protector, and every other subordi
nate rank, which his high condescension will
please to bestow upon me."
The King had great difficulty in persuading
Mariot to allow Joseph to be his guide : but at
length remembering that the hideous and con
spicuously ornamented cap was not to form part
of the jester's toilette—seeing, too, how pale
and languid the King's face looked, although
flushed from the exertion of speaking—Mariot
forgot all his scruples, and listened most pa
tiently to the King.
" Mariot," said the strangely wavering King,
248 the astrologer's daughter.
" the Massacre of St. Bartholomew, I acknow
ledge, is the most heinous sin weighing on my
conscience; but, as you know, I planned not the
hideous transaction myself, but the manner of
my conduct towards Clementina Pettura is a
sin lying immediately at my own door. I have
so often taunted the Duke with his unsuccess
ful love, that I have spurred him on to the
highest pitch of fury ; and when I heard the
Astrologer say he withheld his consent, then
he swore that no power, no earthly control,
would deprive him of his bride ; and still my
laugh sounded in his ears, whilst my pretended
love towards the innocent object of his affec
tions led him to the desperate plot of carrying
her off. Mariot, seek her, find her—take a
body of my men, under the command of Ta-
vannes ; thou act the deputy of peace ; he is
sent to use force if need be. Bring her back—
good and forgiving as she is—bring her here,
that I may beg her pardon, and then, according
to her own wish, she shall enter the Church,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 249
even if the Duke should war in the attempt
to retake her. Wars, in my unhappy country,
have been too often the cause of ambitious
and unlawful designs ; and surely, to rescue
a virtuous woman from a long life of unhap-
piness, is as good an excuse. So thought
those who fought for the beautiful Helen ; and
Paris may be a second Troy, for I am deter
mined to rescue the Astrologer's Daughter, let
the Duke go where he pleases."
Mariot lingered yet to receive full instruc
tion, and then sought his own apartment, feel
ing he was engaged on a mission totally fo
reign to his own quiet frame of mind.
m 3
CHAPTER XIV.
My readers have seen enough of Mariot's
temper to believe that it was a matter of much
consideration for him to undertake the unex
pected and uncertain journey which the King
had imposed on him. The idea of being
surrounded by armed men, was a dignity the
worthy preceptor had never wished to have
showered on him ; but actually to contemplate
the probability of their drawing the sword
around him, made his heart palpitate with any
thing rather than loving loyalty towards the
fair object of his research. Then, in the soli
tude of bis chamber, Mariot wondered at the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 251
N
infatuation of those who had, as the King had
recalled to his mind, raised the long and cele
brated siege of Troy, to rescue a fair woman.
It was ludicrously strange to behold the pre
parations poor Mariot thought fit to make. He
actually cased himself in steel, and then he fan
cied he felt the blows which were never to
come near him.
" To think of the King being surrounded by
men who have been partakers of his gay amuse
ments, and choosing me to be the bearer of his
messages to ladies," reflected the crest-fallen
preceptor ; " it is an affront to my learned
character ; and yet how can I refuse the poor
young King? I fear me this sin, which weighs
heavily on his Royal mind, is only as a drop of
water on the bosom of the ocean. More dis
turbance spero meliora company, than that
ridiculous jester. None so foolish, but they
know how to trim their quiver with their
arrows. Come in, come in !" cried Mariot, in
answer to a gentle but protracted knock.
252 the astrologer's daughtek.
" Mon bon Mariot ; croyey vous que Je suis
un hup, qui vient surprendre voire agneauV
said the young Queen of Navarre, extending
her hand to Mariot.
" Plutdt voire Majesti est Tagneau qui vient
surprendre le hup," answered Mariot, bowing
low, and presenting the young Queen with a
chair.
" No, no! Monsieur Mariot, I cannot sit still
one instant. I am roaming about the Palace,
as if the Louvre were an enchanted garden,
and I expected to find golden fruit on every
dull wall; and in my ramblings I heard a
strange noise of knocking, and came to inquire
the cause."
" I am nailing up this box, containing trans
lations, over which I have laboured long and
assiduously. I am preparing to go to the wars,
and am therefore leaving my documents as men
leave their wills—very unwilling, of course."
" Now you are joking ; and it is strange to
hear you jest, especially whilst the Palace is so
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 253
gloomy that no one jokes. You going to the
wars, indeed !"
" It is very like it, when I am to be sur
rounded by armed men, and be tacked to the
skirts of the warlike Tavannes."
" He who headed the Massacre of St. Bar
tholomew !" said the young Queen with a sigh.
" It is not very goodly company to be in, I
agree, young Queen ; but I must even think that
we are not obliged to sin, because we know
there exists a Prince of darkness, and not wish
to have a view of his dark kingdom, although it
is ready for the reception of unrepenting sin
ners. But think not I am joking ; I am sent by
your Royal brother to the rescue of Clementina
Pettura, who is confined somewhere, the Lord
knows where."
" You are then sent on a merciful errand,
Monsieur Mariot ; and if you knew all the
sweetness of disposition of that much perse
cuted being, you would rejoice at being allowed
to engage in her service. I shall indeed wel
254 the astrologer's daughter.
come her back. You are a fortunate man,
Monsieur Mariot."
Poor Mariot thought himself about as fortu
nate as a man who is told to be glad he is to be
guillotoined, for, as he is unjustly accused, and
his conscience is free from sin, it was a mercy
to deliver him from this sinful world.
Such delightful feelings of happiness crossed
Mariot's mind as he smiled bitterly, and re
plied :—
" It is a wild errand ; the Duke of Guise
knows better than to leave his bride unpro
tected ; and when I am no more, the King will
say, ' Poor Mariot, he went like a lamb to the
slaughter, not daring to rebel against the fatal
knife.' "
" Why so desponding ? I would that I were
sent on the errand; my woman's heart has
more courage than yours."
" "Woman's heart is more buoyant, and per
haps her perception of danger is not so clear,"
said Mariot.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 255
" I did not say that ; but woman is sometimes
too much spoilt by indulgence to allow her
self to believe anything can thwart a design she
wishes to be accomplished. Mariot, this I
thought a short time since ; but do you forget
that I know the brightest happiness can be
thwarted ? You forget you are speaking to an
unhappy young Queen, one who was a bride,
and is now weeping alone. He is away who
ought to be kissing the tears from my brow; his
steps no more bound by my side—my mirth is
turned to a bitter fount of grief : then, Mariot,
instead of speaking of the wilfulness of woman,
rejoice rather over her mind, since, through the
cloudy hemisphere of a sky gathering in som
bre preparation for a tempest, she can still trace
a ray of light to warn that afterwards there
will be a sure calm. It is well that woman's
heart is buoyant; if not, wo for her sad fate !
"Whilst man can soar to the very spot where
the difficulty lies, woman is forced to remain at
home; and the shackles of society pronounce
256 the astrologer's daughter.
as unfeminine, that mind bold and enterprizing
enough, to forget her generally beloved timi
dity, and .seek the place of danger. Think you
I should not suffer much less, if I could follow
my Henri's footsteps ? Mariot, you know how
gallant, how true, how beautiful, he is ; you
can therefore tell how much his noble spirit
has suffered from the ignoble attempt against
his life. It was like rearing a Chinese rose,
in the warmth of a forcing-house, tending it
with most assiduous care, and then suddenly
casting it forth to wither in the frosty air. My
mother tended poor Henri with this false care,
and I was the prize which kept him at our too-
deceptive Court ; he never will, he never can,
forget the treacherous conduct displayed to
wards him, and perchance perchance he
will think I am to blame. Mariot, I am not
telling you all this, that you should idly listen
to a woman's fears ; but I feel within me a new
and daring spirit. I wish to embark under the
banner of danger ; indeed, Mariot, I cannot,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 257
and will not remain inactive here. I, too, wish
to see the Duke ; he has ever professed to
worship my beauty. I could, by a word of en
couragement, have had him sighing at my
feet; ay, even when he was suing Clemen
tina—so much for man's constancy ! Oh !
man, false man ! " continued the enthusiastic
and beautiful young creature. " Well may
man sometimes excuse a woman for being co
quettish ; and beauty, sometimes a fatal gift, is
a pearl of price, when it can soften a man's
heart. Now will I call to my aid the beauty
of which hitherto I have not been vain. I will
look up to Henri of Guise's face—not as in a
bright halo of smiles I used to look, but through
a haze of tears. I will move his admiring
heart. Then will I fall at his feet, and tell
him that it was not towards him but towards
Henri my heart was turned, and I will not rise
till he promises to send me, duly escorted, to
own bridegroom."
" Queen, artless young Queen, be not angry
258 the astrologer's daughter.
if I speak my mind freely ; it is the first, and it
may be the last, time I shall thus converse with
you. All guileless as you now are, you will
fall into error if you so philosophically talk of
exerting the power of your fascinating beauty.
Owe no obligations to the Duke. Listen to
my voice : beware of such a manner of pro
ceeding ; your conduct may be guided by the
purest movement of a virtuous heart ; but, alas !
jealousy reigns now. All unreined amidst the
human passions — take my word for it, you
will repent interesting the Duke of Guise in
your favour."
" How you talk," said Marguerite, pet
tishly ; " but to a person who has never loved,
it is so easy to talk in that manner. Do you
think I should like Henri if he intended me
to keep my beauty veiled in impenetrable
darkness, to shine only for him ? He cannot
condemn my conduct, for he must feel all the
purity of my intentions ; then, when I look
at his dear face, when he clasps me again
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 259
to his heart, think you he will care how I
returned to him ? suffice it for his love that I
am there."
" Henri is but nineteen," said Mariot, " but
his character is fully developed, and the organ
of jealousy has most plainly taken its root ; a
certain degree of obstinacy, too, will always
make him retain his first impressions."
" And perhaps you wish to say, a certain
degree of levity on my part will admirably
cement the jealousy; but Mariot, my good
Mariot, I can excuse your boldness, for my
happiness is at your heart; and I say, with
tears in my eyes, that my mother has never
spoken to me with the tender solicitude you
have. Now hear me : let me go with you to—
to Clementina."
" To the Duke, you mean," said Mariot
calmly, and with his usual blunt love of ve
racity. " No, indeed, I cannot take you to the
Duke ; I would rather escort you to England
myself."
260 the astrologer's daughter.
" Say no more ; I see you are over scrupu
lous," said Marguerite ; and after a few more
common-place observations, she left the apart
ment.
Mariot continued his preparations until Ge
neral Tavannes entered the room; and being
partly acquainted with his compagnon du voy
age's love of peace, he chose to amuse himself
at the expense of his nerves by speaking of
war ; a word which jarred inharmoniously on
the ci-devant preceptor's ears.
" Meglio tardi'che mat, says the Italian pro
verb," cried Tavannes ; " I thought not to give
you a lesson in arms, at your time of life.
Meilleur compagnon, que bon soldat, I suspect
will be the device you will strike on your ban
ner."
" I would I were striking ' Nous revenfcons
de la guerre' Why should a man be ashamed
to love peace, Tavannes ? I hate war, and the
idea of bloodshed fills my heart with a repul
sive feeling I cannot conquer. Our bodies are
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 261
wonderfully and fearfully made, and so orga
nized that one member conduces to the support
of another. Will you tell me that all this ad
mirable order in our human construction is
not meant for us to preserve ? and to risk our
bodies in useless danger seems to me a most
unnecessary shortening of our breath."
" But to risk it for a lovely female," said
Tavannes.
" I am not dubbed a knight-errant, and
therefore I would as soon some one else were
deputed to take my part ; but you are the Ge
neral, remember."
"You are my senior," said the provoking
Tavannes, " and of course I shall be guided by
your advice."
" My advice is of too peaceful a strain for
martial ears : would that I had never embarked
in this expedition. Shall we require all these
men?" cried the learned poltroon, who was
anything but a Ulysses or a Hector ; and began
to wonder if it were because he had devoted
262 the astrologer's daughter.
much time to study that he found himself so
unexpectedly transformed into a hero, seeking
a fair lady; whilst no lady in Europe, Asia,
Africa, or America had ever warmed his heart.
" Shall we require all those men ?" he again
said, looking fearfully back.
" All those men ! Lord bless you, my good
colleague ! we shall require a strong reinforce
ment if we come to arms with the Duke.
What weapons stand best in your grasp, Ma-
riot ?"
" They all stand much the same chance,
namely, being thrown from me in utter inabi
lity to manage them ; and the contents of my
gun are much more likely to find a resting-
place in my brain, than in that of the enemy."
" Look here, Mariot, I will teach you how
to manage a gun—nothing easier: face your
enemy—pray to the favourite saint of your
cheres pensbes—forget yourself—and think of
your foe."
" For God's sake, don't come so near ; you are
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 263
looking at me as ifyou took me for your foe; put
down your gun, and I will pray to my guardian
saints, but it shall be to protect me."
" And let your enemies alter au Diable. Ma
fall you have your duty towards your neigh
bour by heart. A pity you cannot read an
oration to the Duke, instead of drawing your
sword ; you would come off best in that con
test : as it is, to return to the Louvre minus an
arm or a leg is the least you can expect. But
the King will advance you, no doubt—perhaps
make you a General, and give you the com
mand of a Royal army instead of a lady's band,
sent to deliver her from a fond lover's power."
" Methinks a preceptor is as good as a Ge
neral," said Mariot, who was getting extremely
pettish from positive bodily fear ; " and the ho
nour of being a General has never entered my
mind ; besides, if I am to return from this ex
pedition minus a limb, I think I shall deserve
to be rather on the wounded list than on the
promoted side."
264 the astrologer's daughter.
" That would certainly suit your humour
better, for you could study your pet unintel
ligible jargon, and con all the learning of the
ancient Greeks and Romans, besides enjoying
the honour of having fought. The fact is, by
placing you in a most honourable situation in
the detachment, I will do all in my power to
secure you the poste (Thonneur of being placed
on the maimed list. 'Wounded honourably
fighting for his country,' sounds well, Mariot."
" You have managed to fight long, without
losing arm or leg," he replied, surveying the
General's portly figure, and mentally deriving
much courage from an observation which had
only that moment entered his esprits fins.
" Except a scar, which has somewhat marred
your beauty, your Generalship does not look as
if you patronized the honourable /list of the
maimed."
" That scar, on the contrary, is a most fortu
nate circumstance, proclaiming my bravery. I
once knew a young man who had fallen from
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 265
his horse, and scarred his face. A short time
4 afterwards he took a post in the body-guard of
Royalty, where he had nothing at all to do,
save putting on his regimentals and looking
as handsome as he pleased on a Court-day.
Well, the ladies were all in love with this
young soldier, for they declared he had ob
tained his scar in a most meritorious, coura
geous, and exalted post of honour; fighting
like a lion against the Spaniards. Of course
the young gallant took no possible pains to
contradict the easily-fought battle ; and he
gained such an ascendancy with the ladies,
that whenever he went to a ball he used to
chalk his scar, lest the lights should render it
too pale ; and it must have been warm fuel to
his martial virtues to hear the universal whis
per when he entered the room, commanding
a view from six feet (without his boots)—
' That is the handsome man who was wounded
in Spain.' "
"But you hate fought many battles," said
VOL. II. N
266 the astrologer's daughter.
Mariot, who began to wonder if the General
ever concealed himself during the fray.
" Ay, you may say that; that is not the rea
son I congratulate myself on having received
a wound on my face. On strict fide of our
companionship in the same honourable career,
I must tell you, I was as ugly a young man
as human flesh dressed up in regimentals
could possibly be, and, moreover, had the mis
fortune of being amazingly fond of handsome
ladies. It was very amusing to see the ex
cuses they made when I asked them to dance
with me at a ball. As surely as I advanced to
wards the beauty of the room (all armed with
my best smile, and making my best bow), the
lady of my polite attentions vanished in search
of something she had never lost; another
found a peculiar beauty in a star, which
proved to be a lamp, hanging on a most un-
romantic post—in fact, the fair ones used
tauntingly to ask each other the next morning,
how many times they had danced with the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 267
ugly captain. Nothing daunted, I continued
assiduous in my devotions, though, sooth to
say, they were of a multitudinous nature ; as
I admired, at the same" time, girls from the
palest shade of a blonde to the darkest hue of
Italian beauty. At length, I began to learn
there was a striking advantage in being ugly.
Mammas perceiving their daughters were not
likely to be persuaded to run away with me,
or fall in love with me either, I obtained par
passe port de ma laideur, the chaperonage of
the handsomest girls in the town. At length,
the bugle was heard calling the sons of Mars
to the field, and I exchanged dancing shoes for
steel, kid gloves for the heavy battle sword.
Well, I returned with this charming scar.
This time I took up my abode in a different
part of the town—my old friends had dis
persed, some belles had married ; others had
merged into patent sort of old maidens, hold
ing themselves up for a pattern for the new
generation. These were not to be found in
n 2
268 the astrologer's daughter.
the gay salons I frequented, and my new
acquaintances greeted me 'with something
very like this saltutaion : ' That is General
Tavannes (for I was no longer a captain),
who was so handsome before he was wounded.
Only see what a beautiful profile he has !'
Mariot, you are very much like myself—not
troubled with too much beauty ; and the best
advice I can give you is, to get wounded as
soon as possible."
" Grand merci for your advice ! but if we
are to trust ourselves to the guidance of the
jester in soldier's clothes, had we not better
summon him, and ask him where he is con
ducting us ?"
" If he be a fool, take my word, leave him
alone. Wise men may lose their way, engrossed
by the weight of their wise thoughts ; but a
fool thinks only of ' number 6ne and Joseph
likes a good bed and wholesome food too well
to put up with a wandering life at the extre
mity of the ranks of the army."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 269
"Art happy, Joseph?" shouted the merry
General, at the highest pitch of his voice.
" So happy, that I am intoxicating your men
with the most refined essence of martial de
light," replied the feigned soldier, laying a
particular stress on the word. " I am recount
ing my various campaigns in foreign parts, only
I have the misfortune of having a short memory,
and can neither remember the names of the
places where I fought, or the particular Gene
rals under whom I enlisted."
" Ha, ha, ha ! a merry rogue ; come near, my
man, thy voice is lost amidst the noise of the
horses' hoofs."
" More the pity," said Joseph ; " particularly
as your Generalship's own lungs seem of the
tenor style of construction—or harmony, if
Monsieur Mariot considers the word more ap
plicable to the subject. Lord help me, and for
give me for laughing at so learned a man; but
by my faith as a fool—no, no, I meant by my
faith as a soldier—I never saw so droll an ani
270 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
mal on horseback ; he carries his arms like the
animal who has a pouch ready for its young.
It is evident that Monsieur Mariot's arms are
meant for the tender ones who mean to come
right on them to be shot, and that self is form
ing no part of his nature ; his gun is positively
on one side of his horse, and his sword bearing it
company on the other, lest like a milkmaid if she
carried but one pail,her grandmother would say r
"Nancy,take heed, you will grow on one side."
" Monsieur Joseph," said Mariot (here Jo
seph bowed, for he had never been called
Monsieur before), " Monsieur Joseph, I will
take no further insolence from you ; take heed,
lest, instead of the horse-whip, which generally
crosses your shoulders, I try the power of the
gun you so much despise."
" You don't allow duels in your army, Ge
neral, do you ?" said the jester.
" No, not to any one save captains and colo
nels, or they would get too common."
" Well, then," answered the much-pleased
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 271
jester (who possessed as much courage as poor
Mariot), it is very evident I must decline your
very polite challenge, as we are neither of us
captains or colonels yet."
" You do not mean to compare yourself to
me, sirrah ?"
"No, not a bit of it," replied the jester,
with a low bow; " I have too much regard for
my own merits."
" Ha ! ha ! ha ! laughed the General ; a
merry knave, and a shrewd fool. Wilt always
remain with me?"
" And forsake my Royal brother, Charles,
when I owe him so much gratitude for having
so often cuffed my bad qualities out of me, and
made me at last such a bright specimen of hu
manity ? How would you like to train a horse
into all its graceful paces, and then send the
annual to a friend ?"
" Not much, Joseph, unless he were a par
ticular friend indeed."
" Just so. But you are no friend of mine ;
272 the astrologer's daughter.
for, like my friend Monsieur Mariot, I love
peace."
" Who told you I love peace ?" exclaimed
Mariot furiously, casting a look at the sword
■
by his horse's side ; seeming as it were to say,
" If I dared take thee up, I would."
" It is no use," replied Joseph, guessing his
thoughts ; " it is no use your longing to have a
duel with me ; the General won't allow it, till
you are a colonel, and I a captain ; at all events,
you would not be ungentlemanly enough not
to write your challenge ; and, as I never put
pen to paper in my life, it will lie snugly in my
pocket, on the forgotten list, as many worthy
members of society do who deserve a better
fate, and as many high statesmen ought to have
done who stand high in power."
" A political knave, too," said the General.
" Political ? I believe you. Look here, Ge
neral, you must not give me the merit of being
very clever either. When I was young, my
mother, or my grand-mother, or Catherine de
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 273
M^dicis—I don't know precisely which of the
three—held me on their sweet knees, and ca
ressed my pretty face (here Joseph stroked his
ugly countenance, as an apology for beauty) ;
whilst, instead of filling me with sweetmeats,
and making me a pampered courtier, they
crammed me with politics, and made me a
fool."
"And pray let us hear some of their les
sons !"
" Oh, who remembers what their grand
mothers tell them ? I have long forgotten their
words, but have reduced the theory to practice.
This is the difference I find between the Medi-
cis' and the Duke's politics. The former pre
fers poison and the mitred heads; the latter
the stiletto and the red coats. That theory is so
easy that I reduced it to practice ; I have tried
the poison, and found it too bitter ; the mitre,
and found (except in Lorraine's case) it does
not suit me ; and then I turned politician to the
Guises. The stiletto pierces too well through
K 3
274 the astrologer's daughter.
the steel, and the red coats are not so richly
paid as the fool in his cap of bells. Now I am
a renegade, but belong to neither party ; I am
on neutral ground, and at liberty to fly without
being called a deserter."
" See what the king would do for thee, if
thou didst desert thy post," said Mariot, fearing
the knave would put his plan in execution,
and leave the knight-errants to their fate."
" As to the King, he knows that between his
preceptors and doctors, he would die if it were
not for me ; and as long as a man is useful to
his superiors, his life is as safe as if he had
taken a lease of it ad libitum. But do not fear,
Monsieur Mariot ; I am neither a General, or
Colonel, or Captain ; and they alone are allowed
to run away where they please, so make your
self quite easy."
" But where on earth are you leading us to ? "
" The Duke has a chateau some sixteen miles
from here ; it is quite an enchanted place, where
a parcel of fairies, or silly ladies, might like
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 275
to dwell. Now, as a lady is in the case, it is
most likely he is there. Was there not a King,
who once confined a lady in a house, where
he guided himself to her by a silken thread ? "
"He means the fair Rosamond," said the
General, who, by this piece of erudition, rose
much in Mariot's estimation."
"Rosamond?" said the Jester; "I thought
that was the name of a bush ; yes, there is rose
mary in abundance in the castle, and flowers
trimly bedeck the garden and grounds. Now,
I always reason, Monsieur Mariot,, by thinking
of myself. If I had a beautiful castle, such as
fairies might like to dwell in, and a goodly host
of armed men came to take possession of it,
headed by a man who sat high in his stirrups,
like M. Mariot, by my faith I would come
from any distance to drive them away."
The General perfectly agreed with Joseph,
that his way of reasoning was most convincing ;
and at length the Jester returned to amuse the
men in the ranks, although he shrewdly ob
876 the astrologer's daughter.
served, that he was not accustomed to mix with
such low people at home.
The horsemen continued their way ; Mariot
became gradually more reconciled to the no
velty of his situation, in consequence of which
the General thought fit to leave off teasing him.
The beauty of the country which bounded
the banks of the Seine, burst upon their gaze in
the full splendid array of a calm day in summer.
Here, and there a pretty villa bordered the
banks, but the scenery was mostly picturesque
and wild.
Mariot was a passionate admirer of nature,
but he failed to interest the General in his con
versation; for Tavannes had seen more than
pretty scenery—he had seen the most stupendous
range of Nature's climax of beauty ; he had
stood where the burning volcano throws forth
its angry missives — he had seen mountains
hurled from their summits, and whole towns
blazing in destructive, but magnificent flames ;
he had been on the highest summits of the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 277
Alps—he had watched the fall of the ava
lanche—he had followed the lofty range of
the Pyrennees, and sat under the cool shade
of the most lovely bowers. He had plucked
the luscious fruit in Italia's sweet plains, and
his steed had galloped over Andalusia's shores.
Far-off, eastern lands, too, had been admired
and descanted ; his form had darkened the
gorgeous mosques, and the stupendous pyra
mids of Egypt had met his admiring gaze,
whilst the picturesque passages of the Chinese
empire had also contributed their share in his
extended view of scenery. Mariot therefore
had to admire by himself the plain, but ex
quisitely pure, scenery of the land of his
birth. It was his father-land, and that circum
stance alone lent it attractions, for who feels
not a love for his father-land ? The heart
which was dead to the beauty or attraction of
the fair sex, was warm, doubly warm on that
point. France and its verdant shores was the
utmost summit of Mariot's scenic wish ; and if
278 the astrologer's daughter.
he thought of other countries, it was but to
think his own, after all, the best. The flower
ets throwing their balmy scent to the evening
gale ; the thickly tufted trees gracefully bend
ing their slender branches to and fro ; what
more could Mariot want ? Nothing. For there
were also the limpid waves of the Seine, and
the richly-tufted mossy banks, which laved its
verdant shore.
CHAPTER XV.
A scene of a very different description to the
jocular conversation of the knight-errants was
taking place between the Duke and the hand
some Astrologer, who was then in the young
Duke's power. Life may indeed be termed a
" wheel of fortune ;" we all aspire to prize-
tickets, but we often return with a blank. Pet-
tura's proud heart loathed as it were the bright
morning sun, which shed its rays upon the so
litary room which he paced up and down, with
those quick perturbed strides which mark the
disquietude of the mind.
280 the astrologer's daughter.
" Perfidious, treacherous, ungrateful M^di-
cis," he exclaimed ; " I thought that much de
ceit lurked in thy bosom, I knew that thy dark
eye shot forth glances unfathomable; but never
did I dream that thou would'st forsake me, and
pretend to be blind to my fate, after every am
bitious view towards the suppression of the
Huguenots had been accomplished."
" And pray, what had you to do with the
Massacre of St. Bartholomew ? " said Henri of
Guise, coming unceremoniously into the room.
" Perhaps the most bitter part of my capti
vity is, that I am to be intruded upon thus un
seasonably by such a young dare-every-thing
as you are," said Pettura, turning his dark eyes
to Henri's face, who met the gaze without
flinching.
" It is very well, Signor, for you to pretend
to be the injured party ; now hear me coolly
say the scores I have against you. You secreted
from the hands of justice, the youth who mur
dered my unfortunate parent, but you offered
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 281
me such a prize—your fair Daughter's hand—
and I could not resist the tempting, the dear
offer, although my father's spirit seemed to call
aloud for revenge. The banished Poltrot re
turned, and your dastardly spirit quailed before
the last sigh of a dying murderer ; whilst your
daughter was excusable for withdrawing her
love from me, because she would so soon have
returned to her promise. You stood inexcusable,
and now, if you exert not your full parental in
fluence on Clementina's heart—if you do not
insist on her fulfilling her long engagement—
then, by my ducal coronet, there is only one
fate for you. Shrive your conscience to the
most lenient saint in the calendar, and prepare
to leave the earth. I tell you your fate in time,
in order that you may write as many sonnets
to the sun and moon as you please."
" You tell me it in time for me to speak my
mind, at all events. Rather would I the mur
der-stained Poltrot cla«ped my sweet Clemen
tina, than she should be your bride. A mur
282 the astrologer's daughter.
derer ! and pray what better are you ? Have
you not this moment confessed that you medi
tate murder ?"
" It is no murder to rid the world of a sor
cerer, who knows not how to keep his word."
" It is no murder then to rid the world of a
young and crafty upstart ; but, Henri of Guise,
wert thou in my power, wert thou the captive
and I the coronetted Duke, I would let thee go,
convinced that the gnawing of thy conscience
will be thy severest torment ; for, young as
thou art, it is, methinks, already more heavily
laden than thou wilt confess."
" Thanks that you are not my father con
fessor. I would not shrive thee if I might."
" It is pitiful to hear thee talk to me of death,"
said Pettura ; " I who have had it before me
more times than thou would'st have patience
to count. Eut, hark thee, my death even shall
not give thee happiness. If there be a fiend in
the dark world who will come at my bidding—
if there be a bright angel above, who, more
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 288
pitying still, will not allow thee to have thy
reckless way—I will invoke every shapeless
spirit, and every saint above, to preserve Cle
mentina from being thy bride."
" Were my admiration turned into a bitter
fount of hate, she should still be mine. All
mankind seems, as it were, to dare me to it,
and no one shall stand between my happiness."
As the Duke concluded, such a strange ex
pression crossed his handsome features, that the
feelings of Pettura changed, and he determined
to appeal to his feelings.
" You do not know what it is," he said, " to
live and feel the world a blank, with the ex
ception of one single spot towards which the
heart turns—turns with the same warmth, that
the one ray of the electric fluid is sufficient to
kindle the burning volcano into its stupendous
heat. The being towards whom all my thoughts
are centred, is so innocent, so good, that were I
to idolize her with tenfold more love, the
doting feelings of my heart would be excusable.
284 the astrologer's daughter.
Were marriage the pastime of a day. my
thoughts would be different, but I cannot con
template the whole future life of my child cast
in bitter shades of misery, far darker than those
which have hitherto overshadowed her destiny.
Hasher sweet, though melancholy life, been the
avant courier of far greater unhappiness ? Her
bloom has withered in girlhood never to bloom
in the pride of matronly life ? Young Duke,
pity my keen presentiment ; pity the warmly-
excited feelings of a father. Look higher for
a bride fit to wear your coronet on her brow.
Leave Clementina alone ; she wishes to be the
bride of the Church."
" She wishes it, because your canting lips
have persuaded her to it. She would embrace
that life in the hurry of a moment, and repent
it during the leisure of years. It is in vain you
speak ; it is in vain. Clementina's tears may
flow ; were they so plentiful as to wash away the
very altar stairs, they shall all be wiped away by
my fondness. Gracious powers ! why are you so
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 285
obstinate ? I do not want to make my bride
unhappy. Why teach her marrriage is a sort
of type for unfeigned misery."
Because her heart goes not with her words.
When in the midnight hour you catch her sighs,
think not they fan your cheek in plaintive
love ; they are lullabys, pillowing in thought
Poltrot de M^r^'s head. When you catch the
mellow tone of that eye which melts so softly,
so liquidly in love, think not it is upraised to
wards you; it is as it were taking a glance
above at Poltrot de MeV^'s happiness. His
name will ever falter on her tongue ; in mid
night visions she will sound it ; in day-dreams
she will invoke it; the gentle streams of her
affections will ever flow into the same channel,
and her feet as it were ever trace the flowery
mead of love, trodden in younger and blither
days."
" This is harmony beyond measure to a
fond lover's ears," said the Duke, bitterly ; but
supposing I have courage not to heed all these
286 the astrologer's daughter.
symptoms of love towards the dead ; that might,
methinks, be a patience easily attained, inso
much that the dead cannot injure the living.
Were Poltrot de Mere' still alive, it would be a
more difficult task ; but now I shall feel like
husbands who, marrying widows, are con
stantly hearing of the virtues and excellences
of their dear departed, sainted husbands. Pa
tience is the only cure for such evils ; and, me
thinks, I deserve to be dubbed God of Patience,
for my long submission to Clementina's will
and pleasure. Grand merci ! some lovers
would have passed the sword through their
bodies, whilst I, Ptolemy- like, have waited
patiently for my Cleopatra, knowing that Cle
mentina is too pious to try the Egyptian
Queen's fond embrace of the deadly asp. I
marry her under a most sane reasoning, which
many lovers would be wise to copy—namely,
with my eyes wide open. I know she will mix
each love-strain towards me with a requiem for
the dead. A most reasonable husband I am,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 287
Pettura. Why be jealous of the moiety of love
I shall possess? I should have expired with
hopeless love before this, but for two things—
the first is, my disposition is not romantic ; the
second is, that I have quartered on my shield
the motto—eDum spiro, spero.' "
" It is a very excellent motto, as far as you
are concerned ; but, methinks, my poor child
has quartered on hers, that she becomes your
bride, ' Ex necessitate rei.' "
" After all, our parley seems to end in no
thing better but a jeu de mots, and this pas
time will not turn me from my purpose. I
thought you read the stars with a surer mean
ing than to be so blind to my destiny and that
of your child."
" It is because I have read her destiny, that
I speak so vehemently against this marriage—
turn before it be too late."
*****
For all answer, the impatient Duke turned
himself upon his heels, and left Pettura to the
288 the astrologer's daughter.
not very comfortable companionship of his
thoughts, and the certainty that he had heard
a bolt drawn outside the door. The sound of
a bolt was horribly inharmonious to Pettura's
ears ; and to be the captive of a young Duke,
his superior in rank, and his junior in years,
galled his proud spirit into unbearable anger.
The Astrologer, however, knew he had no re
dress. In those days, as in the Barons' feudal
days in our own land, every powerful noble
man took upon himself the punishment or par
don of his enemies ; and to interfere with the
Duke, in that respect, Catherine de M^dicis
knew was one and the same as voluntarily
placing a brand in the coals, which would blaze
into a civil war. Again, Henri of Navarre's
unexpected journey to Elizabeth of England's
Court, had filled Catherine with undisguised
apprehensions ; the more so, as the illness of
Charles the Ninth began to assume a danger
ous turn. Divided between that inherent su
perstition, which caused her to lean toward the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 289
Italian Astrologer, and the fear of offending the
young, but powerful Duke, Catherine, like all
those who have begun reigning a kingdom
without knowing how to control her own
heart, was sadly tossed about.
Yes, after all, the human heart is more diffi
cult to govern than a kingdom, or why are we so
powerfully struck with the remark, that some
of the wisest and most political Kings were
the weakest mortals recorded on the pages of
history ? Elizabeth, the great contemporary of
Catherine—she who ruled England as if her
high spirit were essentially moulded for the times
in which she lived—had she not a heart full of
passions and weakness ? Did not jealousy, that
inherent bad quality of a woman's weak heart,
prompt her, even more than political feelings,
to sacrifice the beautiful Queen of Scotia's hea
ther borders?—-jealousy of a beauty, which
is, after all, a gift from Heaven, not always
rendering the possessor of it happy ? Was it
not a weak feeling of slighted love, which
VOL. II. o
290 the astrologer's daughter.
caused her to sacrifice also the all-powerful
Essex, the avowed favourite of her Royal
heart ! Elizabeth was a great Queen, but a
weak woman ! She could by her wisdom
ward ofF the aspiring views of the Monarch,
whose Andalusian pride was equal to her
own.
Her able seamen, emulous of her praise,
who knew so well how to bestow eulogiums, so
well how to express scorn, defeated the boasted
fleet, that superb Spanish Armada, which threa
tened to be monarch of the seas, conquerors of
Great Britain ! But, wise as was the great Eli
zabeth, warmly as English hearts, from the
throne to the peasant's cot, boast of " England's
Bess," she was not wise enough to rule the fiery
impulse of a naturally passionate heart. Tem
pestuous were the clouds she had to part before
she saw sunshine in unveiled day ; for to succeed
to the throne after the troublous days of Mary,
is telling in itself a whole history of masterly
coups d'esprit, when we find a woman again
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 291
swaying the throne, and hear that that woman
was beloved and respected. But those who
peruse history, not merely to see powerfully
glorious persons, but to deduce from each cha
racter a lesson they can apply to themselves,
they are, no doubt, struck with my again-re
peated words—Elizabeth was a great Queen,
but not a- good Woman. It is wrong in many
points of view to compare Queen Elizabeth to
Catherine de Medicis. Britain's Queen was
totally guileless of that mean spirit which could
one hour clasp a foe in the grasp of pretended
friendship, and the next deliver him to torture
or to death.
Elizabeth was free and untainted from that
superstition which the Medicis felt in every
flowing vein. When Elizabeth erred, it was
from the impulse of a heart left for a time
without a bridle : when she repented, it was
with the genuine warmth of a heart ashamed
of its failings ; and the very fact of the brief
but deep grief of her last moments, makes us
292 the astrologer's daughter.
forget the erring woman in unfeigned pity for
the genuine worth of that heart which could so
bitterly repent.
Pettura knew exactly how Catherine de Me-
dicis was situated ; he knew that if her position
in society were duly looked into, the brilliant-
looking Queen would be changed to a mi
serable woman. And in the midst of anger
for her neglect towards him, Pettura was phi
losophic enough greatly to forget his wrongs,
and to remember, with a softened feeling,
the beauty of the erring Queen, and the
graceful symmetry of that commanding figure.
He remembered how long, months, ay, years
ago, she had sat by his side in the midnight
hour, all absorbed in the predictions which
had been too fatally accomplished. He re
membered that her eyes then outshone the
lustre of the chandeliers, that her complexion
sparkled in the glow of the most fervid anima
tion ; and lately, he had noticed, that shades of
growing fear, repentance or despondency, so
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 298
often haddimmed thebrightness ofthat dark, full
eye, and the once boasted complexion was hue-
less, whilst the beautifully rounded lips were
growing each day paler—drooping as the last
flower of summer, whose brightest tints had
waned.
Pettura turned also a pitying sigh towards
the gay young Princess, now the Queen of Na
varre. She who had for years known the dark
Astrologer only by name, had, since her mar
riage and sorrow, paid Pettura's chambers a
visit. She had cast back, unheedful of their
beauty, the golden tresses of her hair ; she had
looked into his dark eyes, whilst a deluge of
tears dimmed the blue lustre of her own. She
had clasped her tiny, dimpled hands, and she
had entreated to see a portrait of the future.—
The future ! that fair young Queen was a
bright image of what his darling Clementina
had once been, and the cunning of the man of
art faded before .the innocency of the child of
nature, as there he stood confessed, that thv
o 3
£94 the astrologer's daughter.
future was as far beyond his reach as her own !
Then, Marguerite, the lately bride-Queen, had
clasped her hands in an agony of despair, whilst,
pressing them on her young heart, she ex
claimed—
" God help me ! God protect me ! I am very
wretched !"
That young voice, from which every light
spark of mirth had fled, that tearful blue
eye, now said to Pettura's heart—
" Even the young have troubles ; why should
/ despair ?"
Another vision now fleeted before the Astro
loger's imagination, sad and mournful as those
ramblings of the mind generally are—a vision
this was of Poltrot de Mere\ First as the ardent
youth, suing a father for his daughter's hand,
promising to love, to shield, and to protect her,
as a husband should the partner of his choice—
glowing with courage, inspired with hope, ra
diant in manly beauty, and youth's speaking
grace; then came another and a fearful pic
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 295
ture—Poltrot soiled with sin, pale, hopeless,
haggard and degraded, a burden to himself,
weighed down with his own sorrow. Pettura
thought he stood once more in that damp con
demned cell, and that Poltrot knelt at his feet.
He felt the cold pressure of those thin, emaci
ated hands ; he caught the faint and hurried
breath, and he fancied he uttered again the
knell of the unhappy youth's happiness, and
signed the joy of the Duke.
Again, another equally fearful tragedy—Pol-
trot's agony and death. He heard, in fancy,
the expiring accents—he saw the look of hope
and trust—he saw Clementina kneeling by his
side, and heard again the tremulous accents of
her prayer—that prayer, uttered in such plain
tive soul-stirring accents, that surely the angels
must have wafted it to their own pure sky. The
shades of evening mantled the scenery, which
was slumbering in quiet harmony ; and as Pet
tura gazed from the casement and caught the
soft perfume of the trees, all laden with the
296 the astrologer's daughter.
drops which a gentle summer shower had sprin
kled them with—as he caught the last plaintive
notes of the birds, ere their little heads were
pillowed under their wings—as the murmur of
the evening breeze flowed harmoniously by,
and hushed his troubled heart with its sweet
lullaby, then no wonder that a dream of futurity
—not of human futurity, but of the everlasting
land of hope—fleeted by that tossed mind, and
Pettura thought more deeply, more purely
that evening, than he had for many long years.
He remembered once—oh ! it was many years
ago, for Clementina was then an infant—he
was sitting by the entrancing Gulf of Venice,
and his beautiful infant was bounding by
his side. Her black garments floated in the
breeze ; they were worn, because the mother,
whose gentle voice would have guided her,
was silent in the grave. Even at the early age
of infant lisping, the poetical genius which
glowed in her bosom developed itself on more
than one occasion. She had a particularly
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 2i)7
bewitching manner of culling the pencilled
flowers ; and a still more bewitching manner
of presenting them to her father ; and she
pointed with her tiny finger to the bright blue
sky, and listened to the songs of the birds ;
placing her finger on her lips to intimate she
wished all should be silent, save that charm
ing harmony. Pettura remembered, that tears
coursed each other down his cheeks, and be
dewed the fair neck of his child; that he
pressed her near to his widowed heart, and
wondered how he should be able to guard her
from the contagion of the world, if she grew
up as lovely in girlhood, as she was charming
in infancy. And now the same feeling stole
over him again ; for he remembered that the
bloom of Clementina's youngest days had fled,
and that she had been preserved from the con
tagion of the world, but had, alas ! been tossed
about by its most agonizing tempests. She bad
weathered gales which a virtuous heart alone
could have weathered ; she had withstood
298 the astrologer's daughter.
temptation, and her exalted mind had drawn
long draughts of comfort from its inherent
piety. She was now within the same roof as
he was, and he could not see her; yet he
longed to weep, to bend his spirit in a burst
of womanly weakness, whilst perhaps that
gush would have done his spirit good.
Little thought Pettura, when he heard a
distressing cough in the dead of the night, that
it was his child who was ebbing away the last
days of her health. The sound of that cough,
shrill and deep in the night, sounded even into
his far-off chamber, but he saw not the ravages
of the fatal disease, which preys so often on the
young and the lovely—a disease which Cle
mentina hailed as the voice of an angel of
mercy, calling her from the world in which she
had so much suffered ; the fatal spot glowed
brightly on her cheek, and the fire of the fever
within lighted her pure blue eye until it shone
with supernatural beauty. What a shocking
ailing is felt in the human breast! what a
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 299
shocking load of sorrow, when the young and
beautiful pray for the boon of death ! Yet,
instead of praying for death, how many can
courageously pierce through the blackness of
clouds, shadowing dark and densely the once
rayonant path of their life. How many sincere
Christians suffer trials fully as deep as can pos
sibly be my unfortunate heroine's lot. Mothers
have hung in lovely resignation over the death
bed of some darling hope ; there, before the ma
ternal gaze, lies the cold remains of all that
once was bright and beautiful ; and grief- .
stricken, still the parent prays not for death.
No, years have improved the feelings of the
heart ; it is not that hearts are grown more cal
lous, but the nearer we advance to the end of
all things the more clearly we admire God's
beneficent views, and consequently the more
cheerfully we bow to the dispensations of His
providence.
Would that such reflections were not passed
over by the careless reader ! would that some
800 the astrologer's daughter.
possessed not the erroneous belief that such
feelings mix not in the pages of a novel. Foolish
idea ! offspring of a weak mind !
Reader ; Clementina's fate—her sorrows—
are they ended ? Nay, moralize as ye please, ye
must read on still.
END OF VOLUME SECOND.
LONDON :
Reding and Judd, Printers, 4, Horse Shoe Court, Ludg»t« HiS.
0
THE
ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTE
AN HISTORICAL NOVE
IN THREE VOLUMES.
"BY ROSE ELLEN HENDRIKS.
VOL. ILL
LONDON:
T. C. NEWBY, 72, MORTIMER STREET.
"I ! J'G 3—.
I U : !<„.
OCT 8 1941
LONDON :
RBDXVQ AND JU1>D, PRINTERS, 4, HORSE SHOH CuUliT,
LUDGATB UILL.
THE
ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
CHAPTER I.
September—who loves not September ? It is
the waning voice of summer, telling its last
passionful notes to mankind. ^ Already the
bright Eastern sun sinks earlier in the West,
and evening breezes warn us that a colder time
is approaching. September is hailed by a
thoughtful mind, as the soft shadow of the
glow of summer, marshalling the way slowly
to a hemisphere of colder feeling. Those who
have spent the summer in a dream of hope,
VOL. III. B
2 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
wake in that month to the reality that expecta
tion has grown dimmer ; and September warns
- the heart, that Hope's warm whispers will some
times cease to exist.
It was with pensive and subdued feelings,
that Clementina felt a secret presentiment that
she should not live to see another September ;
that she should not weather another winter, nor
watch another spring-tide blow; her beauty
was pale, and her form drooped as the lily by
the side of the gentle stream ; her eye had the
plaintive look of long-existing suffering, and
her breath the faint perfume of the pale, dying
rose ; no bright buoyancy lent quickness to
her footsteps ^md yet Ifenri of Guise passed
his fingers through the thin but lovely tresses
of her hair ; his breath fanned her cheek, and
she had not courage to shudder. To-morrow
was fixed for their union. Clementina heard
her lover fondly repeat it, and she answered
with a sickly smile ; her voice was choked by
her distressing cough, and with a lover's blind
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 8
ness, still Henri persuaded himself that it was a
passing indisposition.
" I shall soon die," said Clementina, pressing
her thin hands on her aching chest.
" Oh, say not so," replied Henri ; " Italia's
balmy skies will restore you ; my love shall
cheer you. The rose blooms still, after it has
been washed with many showers ; and you, too,
will soon raise your graceful head, and, per
chance, smile on me."
And Clementina unconsciously smiled on him
then, but it was one of those smiles, which, had
not the Duke been wrapped in a delusive dream
of bliss, he must have caught as a warning that
angels were hovering round Clementina's pure
spirit, ready to pillow her in their own slumbers.
After a pause, Clementina continued:—" If I
die, Henri—die your own bride—you must con
sider I have fulfilled the wish of your heart.
And, oh, Henri, you must never injure my
father ; you must persuade him not to dissect
heads, and live amongst such strange things
b2
4 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
as I saw once, and once only, in his chamber.
Oh, that day, that dreadful day! Do not look
angry, Henri, or I shall weep, and it hurts my
chest sadly when I weep. I had a dream last
night. I fancied my father was here May I
see him ? "
" It was a dream, Clementina, nothing but a
dream ; yet, he shall see you as soon as the
Cardinal de Lorraine has united us. Your
pardon, beloved, for keeping you here, but I
wish you to enter my castle as my bride ; this
is pure regard for your own reputation."
Clementing. loathed the heart which had al
ready told her two falsehoods in a moment, but
she was afraid to make him angry ; and still
that small gentle voice at her heart whispered
that her soul would soon be at rest.
" Henri, you havenot yet answered me ; say,
that if I die, you will not injure one hair of my
father's head?"
" Why speak of your death, my beloved ?
Look at the mirror before you ; your cheek has
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 5
the bright tint of the damask rose, and your eyes
sparkle like that bright diamond on your finger."
" Oh, that was the Queen of Navarre's gift ;
at least, I like to think of her as the gay young
Princess Marguerite, for then she knew not
what it was to weep. But again we are wan
dering from our subject. You will not harm
my father ?
" No, no ; why think it ?"
" Do not speak like that, Henri ; your words
do not sink to the heart ; they sound as light
as the white froth on the bosom of the sea,
which is seen one moment and^anishes into
naught the next. Look at this golden crucifix,"
continued Clementina, drawing it from her
bosom; "all good Catholic as I am, I regard it
as sacred only when, in looking at it, we direct
our gaze towards Him who suffered on it ; pause,
then, Henri, before you swear ; pause, and
think you are uttering a binding, a sacred oath :
pause, ere you tell me you will not injure my
father!"
6 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
A mighty spirit seemed to turn the Duke
from uttering the oath ; but he looked again at
Clementina: her lovely eyes were fixed on him,
waiting to gladden at the sound of the oath ; in
her white hands she held the crucifix, whilst
her lips were parted, as if the words trembled
on her tongue, which she wished to hear ut
tered by the Duke.
" Clementina, give me the crucifix, and hear
me ; I swear on it, not to injure your father !"
You swear it solemnly, as you value your
peace here, and your rest hereafter ?"
" I do ; solemnly, most solemnly.
Stop ! " exclaimed Clementina, with sudden
energy. " And you promise, too, that no ab
solution shall absolve you from your vow ? "
" That do I also promise. And now, my
Clementina, replace that cross in your bosom,
and bid it bind trust, love, and hope around
your heart ; say you do not wish to die, for if
you did, the angels could refuse you nothing !"
" I think it is sinful to wish to die, Henri ;
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 7
but when we feel every nerve shattered, when
the heart is actually beating fainter and fainter
within us, is it right to neglect the warning
voice ?"
" But, Clementina, you look so beautiful !"
" The earth often looks lovely just before
the death-like breath of the tempest is ushered
in; and human beings are only creatures of
earth. Have you ever seen any one in a con
sumption ?"
" No," replied Henri
" I have," said Clementina ; " poor Loretta,
who died so suddenly, took me one day to
solace the death-bed of a young creature,
eighteen years old, who died so beautiful ; -and
she was in a consumption. She coughed as I
do, and her cheek had that same burning glow,
blooming like a delusive picture of a rose
which has no scent. Feel how burning warm
it is ; I know I am in a consumption. Oh, this
dreadful cough; give me a glass of water,
Henri."
8 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
Henri obeyed, and supported her trembling
head, feeling a sort of bitter reflection at the
recollection that the head which reposed on
-t.
his shoulder, from utter inability to support
itself, had never reclined there in its bright
days of glory.
" Yes, Henri," continued the poor young
girl, " I know I am in a consumption ; never
mind, when I die you can marry again. I am
not high-born enough to be a Duchess."
" You are fit to be a Queen !" And at the
mention of that name, Clementina recollected
the uncomfortable words which she had heard
uttered with regard to the King ; and with the
truest delicacy of the female heart, though con
scious that her death was at hand, she deter
mined that to marry the Duke was the only
way of insuring that her name should still be
held in respect.
" When we are drawing near the eternal
shore," she continued, rather speaking to her
own burning thoughts, than to the Duke,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 9
" how very differently we consider earthly
events. H^w much of my life would I recall,
and now it is too late— my foolish wish of
forming one of the gay throng who break their
hearts in the beau milieu of the vortex of
fashion. I thought myself much to be pitied
when I was at peace with my lyre, my birds,
and my girlish thoughts ; and now, now—but
painful is the retrospect of the lives of more
than one person who is at the threshold of Eter
nity. No willingly-committed sin has soiled
my conscience, and yet I know I am sinful. I
have keen regrets, for I feel that my sorrows
have been sent as a punishment for my teme
rity in wishing to change that lot in which it
pleased Providence to place me."
" Clementina, are these fit words to cheer a
lover's ears? This is a desponding fear which
temporary weakness has made you feel. Cast
it off, dearest ; live again for my own ardent
love."
" When the toilsome bee has accomplished its
b 3
10 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
summer's work, when it has fluttered round the
gayest flowers, and sucked the nectar from the
honeysuckle and rose, then, in its plain straw
hive, it learns that a cold winter comes, when
no more honey can be gathered. What has it
then to do but to lie down and die ? Hoses and
honeysuckle have been at my feet, but they
faded after blooming one morn ; thorns and
brambles next thickly strewed my path ; I
gathered them too, and now what have I left
but to die?"
" No, you must walk with me to a fairer par
terre, where more roses and more honeysuckle
will twine around you ; you must sip anew the
cup of happiness, and leave despondency to
those who have not the moral courage to soar
above the trying circumstances of life. For my
part, I always think there are more Edens than
one."
" That sort of consolation is like throwing a
cord to a mariner who sinks for the second
time ; but after the third plunge, he has not
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 11
even strength to seize the proffered assistance.
My hark, Henri, has foundered on hard rocks,
and cannot be rebuilt ; I have had my third
plunge, and I shall not live to have a fourth."
" No, dearest, I do not wish to see you toss
again on the sea of affliction ; I wish to see
you raise your head, and show me that you
can again return my devoted and constant
love."
Words like these always seemed to Clemen
tina's ears a mockery of the past, and she inter
rupted Henri by asking him if he would accom
pany her into the garden, which relieved the
isolated mansion from much of its loneliness.
" Very willingly," replied Henri ; and the
old woman, who had most faithfully attended
by Clementina's bed-side, duly wrapped her
shawls, whilst the grateful girl smiled her
thanks, though a mournful shake of her head
seemed to say, " It is all useless ; the worm lies
in the bark of the tree."
Presently Henri and his promised bride
12 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
wended their way down the sloping stone stairs
which conducted to a garden, excavated so as
to form a place of sweet shade. An inatten
tive observer, to have seen that fair form lean
ing on the arm of the handsome young Duke by
her side, would have proclaimed them passing
happy ; but, alas ! the reason of that close pres
sure of her arm originated in her weakness, for
her tottering steps could hardly support her
fragile form. As she passed on towards the
broad gravelled road, Clementina raised the
heads of more than one drooping flower ; and
as she bent over them with more tender solici
tude than is usually bestowed on anything
which cannot express a love of being fondled,
her tears moistened the raised leaves, and she
muttered softly, " Blow, blow, until I also am
no more."
How much a fair garden makes us think of
a future existence ; and how wonderful it is that
nature is so, admirably constructed, that the
heart must be hard indeed, when wrapped in its
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 13
own idiotical feelings of Atheism, it refuses to
believe that there is One above who made the
lovely chaos of nature. Henri, I shall be your
bride before my-spirit takes its flight to its long-
promised home. Then, as the solemn bell
tolls slowly for me—as, earth to earth, my form
is placed in the cold grave—then think more of
my words than perhaps you would have done
in my life-time. And Henri, if you ever feel
inclined to do a dark or evil deed, go there,
where I loved so on earth to wander ; and if
departed spirits from their seat of beatitude are
allowed to range on earth below, then mine shall
hover around you, and impart strength to your
wavering heart. Walk, then, when the shades
of evening are stealing placidly on the depart
ing day ; come when no prying eyes can see
you ; and should a tear start to your eye, as
your soul catches the divine harmony of the
sun's farewell, dash not away the tear ; tears
shame not a man when they wash away a sin
from the heart ere it has found its way to the
14 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
view of fellow men. Let flowery dells and
leafy groves be your favourite haunts, for they
have been the loved places of my admiration.
The low moaning wind chasing to and fro the
leaves at your feet, will at length become a
welcome music to your ears. There is a poesy
in nature which grafts in the heart a wish to do
letter than the common range of men, for the
mind must acquire a certain degree of noble
and lofty feelings, ere it dare commune' with
heart-felt pleasure with nature's works.
" Where did you learn your pleasing elo
quence, which flows like gentle music on the
ear ?"
" Where, Henri ? It makes me sad to think.
I formed my philosophy (if loving nature
be philosophic) by learning to feel that there
was more sympathy in the mute works of
creation than in all the consolation man lends
to our woes. Misfortune often comes with a
salutary balm to the heart. Perhaps, had for
tune smiled upon me, I too might have formed
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 15
the train of one of the frivolous persons who
bask in a sunny dream of unmeaning ideas."
" Never, never ! Oh ! my beloved Clemen
tina, your heart is worth the trouble of suing
and loving long. If we admire your graceful
body, and. your fair face, your noble mind is
stamped on both. Methinks a graceful body is
so often the type of a lofty mind."
" Lofty, perhaps, but for all that, ill-directed,"
replied Clementina, as her thoughts strayed
towards Catherine de M£dicis ; that powerful
mind be*ing indeed cased in a most graceful
mould, but working, nevertheless, no good.
" You forget, Henri, how often false, though
glittering, gold is placed in a tinselled and
showy casket ; whilst the pure unvarnished
metal is so often shrined in the plainest exterior .
Men rarely care for the outward case, if their
jewel be of great value ; and it is rare, I think,
that a graceful body has a mind capable of lend
ing all the boasted beauty of the exterior."
" Then how much more to be treasured when
4k
16 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
it is found. Clementina, as here I walk by
your side, as I catch the silvery notes of your
sweetly-toned voice, I feel inclined to inhale,
if I could, part of your mildness and goodness.
I could love you through wo as well as weal,
and shall content myself with winning a smile
of approval from you ; only, beloved of my
heart ! gem of purest price ! talk no more of
dying. Nay, hear me ! bear our final destiny
in view, if thou wilt, but talk not of it on the
eve of our wedding-day."
" So soon ! is it the third of September ? Oh
yes, so it is ; forgive me for forgetting it ; and
your promise, or rather your oath, towards my
father will not be forgotten."
" No, never, never ! "
" Now, then, let us return. Yet, no ; let us
wait awhile; twilight's beauty is the farewell
of day, and we will utter our farewell to the
light. Hark ! dost thou hear the vesper bell
chiming dulcetly on the breeze ! The chapel is
afar, or I would fain go there."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 17
" Not to-night, dearest ; the evenings are
chilly?"
"No, not to-night," repeated Clementina,
" but I feel not the air cool : there is a kindred
balm in it ; it refreshes my whole frame ; it
seems as if the air and myself were twin-
sisters, it kisses so gently my brow. Methinks
it would be sweet to yield up our breath in one
of these ecstasies of bliss. Methinks it would
be more blessed to die with the tall posies
blowing before . our expiring gaze, and the
crystal founts flowing at our feet, than to de
part in the lonely night, with the sighs of those
around us thrilling to our hearts."
" Again talking of dying, Clementina ? "
"Pardon, me, Henri, but I feel so lonely
here. I feel as if this house were not my ha
bitation ; I feel as lonely as if I were far off in
the stranger's land, where the sunny flowers of
Italia cannot possibly blow. Death is stamped
on my brow ; death is cankering my heart.
Like yon blade of grass, many a blade lies
18 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
withered by its side, and already its root is
parched, and it hastes to rejoin its compa
nions. Henri, my mother died in a consump-
• tion."
But Henri could not answer. Every feeling
of his heart was wrung ; the slender arm which
hung upon his had felt gradually more tremu
lous, and the hectic glow having dispersed from
her cheek, his promised bride was pale, pale as
a stricken flower by the snowy mountain's side ;
and yet, as Henri led her towards the house,
he pressed her thin hand to his lips, saying,
fervently—" To-morrow, to-morrow."
CHAPTER II.
The Astrologer, from his chamber on high,
saw that fervent kiss; but he saw, too, another
sight. With eyes blinded with tears, distorted
with the gaze which tried to penetrate deeper,
the Astrologer saw a sight which made the
blood flow uneasily in his veins —which made
him tremble in every limb—which palsied him
with sorrow : he saw—he saw—that Clemen
tina was dying. From the open casement he
endeavoured to call her beloved name, but his
tongue felt tied to the roof of his mouth ; he
tried, but vainly, hopelessly, to call her, and
20 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
then he sunk on a chair, whilst tears, flowing
from the deepest fount of agony, coursed each
other down his cheeks, and oozed out of his ex
tended hands, in which his horror-stricken face
rested. Pettura wrung his hands in agony—he
clasped them far above his head—he lifted his
tearful eyes to heaven—angels seemed to whis
per, " fall down on thy knees and pray ;" and
evil spirits hovered round too, and said, " Thou
benighted heart, what hast thou to do with
prayer ?" But, convinced that prayer is not
denied to any one, at length Pettura fell on his
knees :
" Oh Almighty Father, Great Creator of man
kind," he exclaimed, " my child looks wan and
pale ; she is withered as the tall grass which the
mowers reap, but Thou canst restore her if
Thou wilt. Cut off rather the strong man, the
sinful father of that innocent, that sweet young
plant. Oh spare the twig, and take the gigan
tic oak."
Alas ! Pettura felt he could not pray ; his
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 21
words were fervid, but they were wild, and
wanted the resignation of early habits of piety.
Man, learn that in thy affliction it is not the
only time to pray. In the sweetest hour of
sunny mirth it is as dangerous to neglect prayer
as in the hour of misfortune.
The unhappy Pettura paced up and down
his room ; he shook the heavy door violently,
but the trusty bolts refused to surrender to his
strength. There he felt he must linger, and
reflect too on that painful truth ! Now learnt
he that the hideous cough which had sounded
in his chamber, in the silence of the night,
issued from poor Clementina's lips. The even
ing set in ; a slight tempest took place of the
calm of the day; a piteous, howling wind
moaned through the open casement ; the rain
pattered against his pale face ; yet there the
unhappy father leant, watching each starry gem,
which gradually spangled the bosom of the sky.
But there he read no comfort ; no voice cheered
his grief-stricken heart, for it is a pitiful thing
22 the astrologer's daughter.
for a fond father to lose a daughter. No voice
was there, save the low murmuring of the
wind, singing a,requiem of what?—of Clemen
tina's death, the spirit of the grave whispered,
and poor Pettura believed the cry In vain
he tried to struggle with the burden of his
sorrow. " Is nothing to live which belongs to
me ? " exclaimed the grief-stricken man. " I
pillowed my bride in the slumbering hands of
death ; I caught her last faint sigh, and she
looked scarcely paler than did my child last
night. Can nothing save her ? Is it the hideous
love of the Duke, which has led her to her early
grave? have his unwelcome caresses tainted
her with death's mark ? Must she, oh, must she
die ? Child of my affections ! dearest object of
my earthly hopes ! now, according to thy
wishes, thou wilt be a bride ; not in the Church,
but in Heaven itself. And was not that grace
ful form worthy of dying in her trimly-decked
bed in the Palace walls ? Was it written in the
book of her fate, that she was to die in this
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 23
unknown place, away from those to whom her
eye had become familiar ! Away the dreadful
thought ! she will not die." «
*****
When he raised again his face from his
hands, the attendant who brought him his
evening meal, civilly asked him if any thing
ailed him ?
" Man, man, art thou a father ? "
" Yes, I have two blooming children."
" Ah ! then thou wilt scarcely do my bidding,
for thou hast not a child falling, withering,
dying; thou hast not a child whose life is
waning away, without one kindred soul near to
wipe away the drops of death gathering on her
brow, and whisper the last, sad farewell."
"Speak you of the fair Clementina, Signor?
Ah, yes, she is pale and thin ; and she sighs,
and sometimes smiles, just as an angel would
smile. But speak you of her ? "
" I do ! Hark ! didst hear that fearful cough ?
It is the knell of her death."
24 the astrologer's daughter.
" Man, man, thou art a servant, and I have
never bowed to crowned heads, but here I bow
me to thee ; hare, on my knees, I ask but one
grace ; deny it me, and I shall expire. Leave
but the bolt of my door unfastened."
" But the risk "
" Thou shalt have none, my child is too weak
to fly. I pledge my word to give her but one
kiss ; or, if more, not to wake her from her
slumbers. I will return at one in the morn
ing ; come thou then back and bolt the door."
" My death be on your shoulders if you break
your word, Signor ; but I have two children,
and they may prosper from my kindness."
" I understand thee ; here is gold, plenty of
gold ;" and the Astrologer poured more coins
into the servant's hands than he would have
received for a twelvemonth's wages which were
his due.
I will withdraw your bolt at twelve, Signor,
for the Duke is yet stirring."
" No, no, my word is as good as thine ; leave
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 25
the door unfastened. I will not sally forth till
twelve. Where does my daughter sleep?"
" See you yon light !" said th« servant, lead
ing Pettura to the window ; " she must have
retired, for that is her chamber."
" Thank you, thank you. Good night ; I can
not speak."
The man bowed, and retired.
Pettura pushed his untasted meal far from
him, and stood watching that light which
beamed from the chamber where his beloved
child was suffering ; whilst ever and anon, at
uncertain intervals, that distressing shrill cough
broke upon the father's ears, as he had heard it
in years gone by, when his bride was dying.
" Thank, thanks to the Duke, for bringing
me to this captive place," said the afflicted
Pettura ; for, at least, I may snatch a last fond
kiss from my child's pale brow."
*****
Poor consolation for a doting parent !
"Must she die—must she die?" cried the.
VOL. III. c
26 the astrologer's daughter.
afflicted Pettura, striking his hand on his poor
beating temples. " Oh, God ! again, again that
warning cough ! Unhappy parent, unhappy
being !" and again Pettura sunk on his knees ;
again he offered up a prayer, fervent—heart
felt—agonizing ; not through the whole course
of his life had he ever thus prayed. Vain belief
of man, that he can thus pass a sinful life,
careless of all futurity, careless of the commands
of his Maker, and that at the last hour of danger
his prayer will be heard ! "
Pettura felt a cold shudder through all his
veins, as there he prayed ; he dared no more
beg the boon of life for his child, and he it was
who had helped to undermine the fair young
tree. Now, all that he dared pray for was to
pillow the poor dying head—to listen to her
last sad breathing—to hope that, since die she
must, her death might come when he was pil
lowing her.
Lost in a chaos of by-gone reflections, Cle
mentina appeared before the father's gaze, as
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 27
if again a lisping darling child ; he shudder
ed—he thought her haby hands were round his
neck ; he groaned aloud—he thought her lips
were pressed to his. Unhappy parent ! what so
dreadful as tardy remorse ? Pale, pale, was
his brow ; like a spectre of the spell-binding
creature, that energetic being once had been,
and yet bruised and spirit-warped in mind. He
was feeling more hallowed fear in that one
dreadful night, than he had in a whole life be
fore. Now appeared before him many black
and dreadful scenes, far more terrific than pen
can describe. Now, now, he deemed in his
agony, that his child's death would be his
curse-like visitation.
" Visit not on my beloved child, thy wrath ;
God! Gracious God! if thou canst be the
Avenger, be Thou also the Merciful ? Impart
new health to the child ! Take ! oh ! take the
erring father ? "
No more he said—no more ; he laid himself
down upon his couch—the prisoned couch, near
c %
28 the astrologer's daughter.
the abode of his suffering child. He buried his
head in his hands ; he groaned from the depths
of his troubled soul; and then he seemed to
feel each moment magnified to an hour's en
durance. Some nameless power seemed to
spell-bind the time. Still, still, burned the
quenchless fire of the perturbed heart.
The heavy clock struck eleven, butthe sound of
human voices still resounded through the lonely
mansion ; still the rain descended in torrents,
and Pettura's head was not withdrawn from the
open casement. Another hour, and the confir
mation of his fears were to be realized—another
hour, and his own feverish lips would press
Clementina's pale brow. Pettura had not been
in the habit of meeting his child at each morn
ing meal ; he had not for many years nightly
given her a father's blessing ; but for sixteen
years of tier young life, she had been constantly
under his eye, and it is the ties of early life
which principally bind a father to his child.
Every limb of Pettura's body shook, as he
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 29
looked for, and yet dreaded, the coming hour ;
and the stormy heavens seemed to prognosticate
that his worst fears would be realized.
The world was wrapped in her night's garb ;
the bats and owls had left their hiding-place,
the discordant flapping of their wings sounding
against the jutting and irregular wings of the
mansion. Again Pettura clasped his hands, and
bowed his knees in prayer ; he uttered words
almost wild from their passionate energy, whilst
to his bewildering brain the world seemed
darkened, and he fancied he held converse with
spirits, which, whether they boded good or
evil, he had not power to know. Scarcely
could it be termed prayer, the broken excla
mations which fell from the Astrologer's lips ;
they were more the most eloquent outpourings
of grief; and yet, with his knees bowed, he con^
tinued long, for the lowly posture of genuflex
ion seemed to express the utter lowliness of his
spirit.
Meanwhile, the gentle Clementina had long
30 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER,
ft
reposed in a slumber which was refreshing,
although the sleeper sighed deeply and fre
quently, even when wrapped in the oblivion
which Nature grants to the wearied children of
earth. Grief then sung a requiem around her
couch, whilst the oppression of illness caused
those sighs to heave, which fell drearily from
her oppressed chest.
" Did she feel the warm breath which fanned
her cheek ? Did she hear the deep sigh which
surpassed the strength of her own 1 Did she
feel the scalding tear which laved her fair cheek ?
Did she hear her name pronounced wildly,
fondly, uttered from the depths of a doting
father's heart 1 Or was it instinctively that in
her slumbers her arms twined themselves round
Pettura's neck?
It was the passion of despair which nerved
the strain of affection in which her slumbering
form was clasped, till that distressing cough
fanned the Astrologer's cheek, and he laid her
then gently back on her pillow. •
the astrologer's datjghtbr. 31
He placed her as carefully as a mother
hushes her pretty babe to rest ; and he hung
around her, wondering if mortality had indeed
struck that face of almost marble whiteness.
The long lashes were reflected, as in downcast
heaviness they fringed the cheek. Then, Pet-
tura seized the lamp, and held it at a little dis
tance from the bed ; the dull reflection served
only to make Clementina's face appear paler,
and he placed it down again, lest his groan of
agony should awake the sufferer from her
slumbers.
" Shall I wake her V thought Pettura; " shall
I let her know that I am watching, tearfully, by
her bed-side ; that her cheek is bedewed with
my tears ? No ! rather let her slumber, igno
rant that one, far less pure than she is, is now
watching her angelic face."
Again the Astrologer found himself within
his chamber, and not for the wealth ofkingdoms
would he have wandered away. He heard the
bolt drawn outside his door ; and it was a
32 the astrologer's daughter.
welcome sound—*t seemed to bind him closer,
nearer, to his sick child.
The morning dawned, and, as if to lend a mo
mentary ray of gladness to the faded girl's
heart, it dawned in all the purity of the most
sunny loveliness ; it seemed as if it wished to
cheer the heart of the desponding bride.
CHAPTEE III.
" Henri, my mother died in a consumption."
These were words which, in spite of all his as
sumed lightness, haunted the young Duke's ears.
Was it true that Clementina was withering, like
the summer flowers droop, too lovely to be
seared by autumn's last breath ?
Whilst the unhappy Pettura prayed, the
Duke was watchful also. A boding fear he
could not surmount took possession of his heart,
and once or twice he paced up and down his
chamber.
He dare not ask himself whether he had re
34 the astrologer's daughter.
duced Clementina to her present state. All he
could wish was for the morrow.
Oh, man, man, canst thou not conceive that
the darkness of the night often-times veils sor
row and care in her keeping ?
Ah, Henri of Guise wished so ardently for
that morning to dawn : but suddenly he starts
—yes, upon his ears broke the same hollow
cough which had so sorely tried Pettura's feel
ings. Could that hollow, sepulchral sound,
* come from the chest of her he loved ? He"*stole
softly into the passage—he listened—it was
true.
Again, and again, it broke upon the mid
night stillness, forewarning the fate of her, so
lovely, so gentle.
Henri clasped his hands in agony to his
brow ; he returned to his room, and after a few
moments he left the house. .
A walk of some ten minutes brought him to
a white house, surrounded by high palings, and
situated in an isolated lane
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 85
He knocked, and was admitted ; he gave his
message to a sleepy servant, and presently a
portly, good-humoured-faced man, forty-three
or forty-four years of age, stood before' him.
" Good Heavens, my Lord Duke ! do you
feel ill?" said Monsieur Baptiste, with his
lowest bow. " You do look very pale."
"Nay, nay, good M. Baptiste; I come not
for myself. Is—is—is—Clementina worse ?"
The physician turned away his head, whilst
a tear trembled in his honest eye.
" Answer my question," said the Duke, in a
hollow voice. " Will she—will she die ? "
" The disease is often deceptive ; very, my
Lord."
The disease—what disease ? speak, man. Is
—is——"
" She is consumptive "
" Consumptive ! Man, man. Monsieur Bap
tiste—you mean she is in a consumption, and
she will die. Poor, poor Clementina ! But
you do not say she will die. Perhaps there is
36 the astrologer's daughter.
hope. Perhaps Italy's balmy clime may restore
her. Many persons are cured in Italy, Mon
sieur Baptiste ? She is not so very, very bad,
is she?"
Alas ! the physician knew she was very bad ;
but tender-hearted most medical men are.
They know what sorrow is,—they know that the
mind's sorrow is worse than that of the body ;
they see life waning, and unbelievers they must
be, if they asked not where went the soul,
wafted from its tenement of clay. Monsieur
Baptiste had a keen knowledge of human
hearts ; he felt that, since Clementina had been
taken by the Duke to become his wife, was
now the best reparation a dying woman could
wish.
It was for this event poor Clementina now
prayed, and it was for this event the kind physi
cian continued his exertions, although he felt
how utterly past recovery his hapless young
patient was.
" I dare not say I can save your affianced
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 37
bride," said Monsieur Baptiste, after a pause ;
"but "
" What, in tbe name of Heaven, is the use of
my marrying Clementina, if she is to die V ex
claimed the Duke, stamping his foot on the
floor ; but the next moment he seemed to read
the thoughts which were passing in the physi
cian's heart.
" Ah, yes," he cried, in softened accents,
" death will be no punishment to her ; she will
be far happier than here. I alone shall feel the
anguish. Clementina ! beloved Clementina !
yes, dearly do I love thee ; thou shalt be my
bride; none after thy death shall have the
power of saying ' the Due de Guise kept thee.'
Fear not, good Monsieur Baptiste, I am calmer
now. Tell me, I pray, can she not yet live some
time longer?"
" She may, perhaps, live longer than we can
even imagine," was the reply.
" Thank you, thank you ;" and pressing the
physician's hands in his, the Duke could add
38 the astrologer's daughter.
no more, but, bowing his head down, tears fell
on the hands he held.
The humble village physician never thought
to see the proud Duke humbled before him.
He felt most painfully affected by the scene,
and he vainly endeavoured to change the sub
ject. It was one which had taken complete
hold of the young Duke's mind.
" Well, then, to-morrow Clementina will be
my bride," said the Duke, looking up, whilst a
smile—a strange, sad smile—lighted his features.
" Good night, Monsieur Baptiste—good night
—pray for Clementina—good night."
* * * * *
He could not return home, but he wandered
forth in the night air. The bats and owls were
wandering about: they flapped their wings
rudely round him ; the young man shuddered.
Not a star was on the breast of heaven ; the
evening was calm, but dark ; it was close, too
—rno balmy wind fanned his heated brow, no
blithesome light guided his steps.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 39
He returned home, but he did not undress.
Oh, what a fearful night he passed ! If Clemen
tina sighed for the morning to complete her
sacrifice, how anxiously he watched for the
sun's earliest rays ! He walked forth once more
from his chamber, and trod with somewhat
more hope the dew-glistening lawns.
Alas ! alas ! Clementina came not forth as
usual ; as his fond heart had anticipated.
A fearful crisis had arrived, and, for the first
time, the invalid herself felt how near she was
to her end. In the exertion of the last night's
distressing cough, she had ruptured a vessel,
and the sanguinary drops were ebbing from her
gentle lips. Her old attendant, with tear-
streaming eyes, was propping her in bed, whis
pering in broken accents her words of conso
lation.
" She had known consumptive people re
cover after such catastrophes—the weather was
favourable for invalids—perhaps it would re
lieve her chest—she must not despair."
40 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
Poor Clementina ! she did not despair ; she
was prepared to die. " Not yet, though ; not
yet," she exclaimed. " Oh my poor father—"
she could not add another word until her faded
brows were refreshed.
Bidding at length the attendant to throw a
large loose robe over her, she begged that the
Duke of Guise should be summoned.
" Henri," she exclaimed, smiling sweetly as
he entered the room—" Henri, it is the first
time you have been in my room. I thought
not to send for you myself, but now that we are
alone (for the attendant had retired) repeat
again your words—injure not my father. I am
very, very ill, Henri. Nay, I cannot live long :
humour me now ; do not be angry with me."
" Angry !" cried Henri, and he approached
to encircle her in his arms, but a modest blush
covered her pale cheeks ; she waved her thin
hand so majestically, that he retreated.
" Nay, nay, take not advantage of my ill
ness," she said, rather bitterly. " You would
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 41
not have been here, but for the certainty I feel
I cannot live. God knows, I wish to forgive
you, but Henri—Henri—you have fearfully
embittered my young life. I am young—young
to die. I shall care less to leave the world
when the rites of the Church have obliterated
the shame which remorseless men dare cast
o'er my unsullied reputation. Thought you
not how dear fame is to a virtuous woman, when
you thus took me away from those of my own
sex, to abide here your pleasure ? And now,
hear your sentence. You must marry me, if
you have one spark of manly feeling left ; you
must and you shall hear my vows ! But, Henri,
my heart is not, never will, in life or death, be
yours !"
Her eyes were upraised ; her fair tresses were
in beautiful disorder around her shoulders ; and
so lovely did she look in her wrath, that Henti
sank upon his knees.
"Clementina, I dare not ask your forgive
ness. I have sinned passing woman's forgive
42 the astrologer's daughter.
ness; but here, humbled, sorrowful, wretched
—I sue for your pity. Let me press you once,
only once, to a heart aching as much as your own.
Let me pillow upon my breast your throbbing
temples."
Clementina wept aloud ; for she could not fail,
poor dying girl, of being touched by Henri's
devotion ; yet after a pause, she dried her tears,
and again she waved her hand, for her lover
was once more approaching.
" I sent not for you for this, Henri ; go,
leave me ; I shall be dressed—dressed in my
bridal robe—ere noon. Now repeat your oath,
and go ; leave me."
And, passive as an infant, the gay Duke dared
not disobey that gentle, yet commanding girl.
He repeated the words she imposed. Not even
by one kiss was his obedience rewarded.
Slowly and sorrowfully he left that chamber,
seeing too clearly all was lost.
Sad and painful, tediously long, was that
bridal toilette. Clementina was too proud to
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 43
kneel in disorder as the Duchess of Guise, and
she went through a lengthened process with all
the resigned patience and lofty dignity which
characterized her.
Painful, too, were her words to her only at
tendant.
" Thou art but an unhandy lady's-maid, al
beit a good nurse. See you not where those
once bright ringlets should be placed ? ^There—
there—well, never mind; look not awry ; though
many attendants await me at my ducal castle,
thou shalt be my last attendant ! Dost under
stand me ? And hark ! mind my words : seek
my father when the last stroke is placed to my
toilette, and tell him his heart would have bro
ken to see me, so I send him my last greeting."
The attendant turned aside and wept. " Haste !"
cried Clementina, " or I shall faint ! Bring the
satin dress—bah ! how large it is ; surely this
silver net will hang strangely over it. There,
invent some handicraft—stuff me with wool
around—do anything ! but send me not forth
44 the astrologer's daughter.
such a mummy, for the Duke to repent him of
his choice. Gracious ! am I to encircle all those
diamonds around me ? It is at best but a weari
some task."
The old attendant liked not the hilarity of
the weak voice, nor the brightness of the eye ;
she apprehended more than she dared express,
and her trembling hands almost refused to pro
ceed. Long and tedious was the manoeuvring
by which the attenuated ravages of that once
faultless form were concealed. But yet it
wanted ten minutes to the time for the cere
mony, when the veil and orange wreath were
brought. Henri had sent for these to Paris,
and the sight of the veil recalled the recol
lection of the one which poor Lorretta had
brought into Queen Catherine de M^dicis'
sitting-room. Once more, and for the last
time, Clementina burst into a flood of tears ;
and amidst that last anguish of the heart, many
—many scenes passed in quick succession across
her mind: even Poltrot de Merc's form, dying
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 45
as she had seen it last, came to bid the spirit
less girl both a farewell and a greeting.
" Never, never wish to be above your sta
tion," said Clementina, turning to the old
woman ; greatness brings care and sorrow.
Perhaps now, some merry, blithe-hearted vil
lage girl, is so joyously preparing for her
bridal morn—and I—I. Ah ! I have yet five
minutes ; bring me that vase of flowers—I will
make myself a bouquet ! "
It was affecting to see that faded, yet ex
quisitely lovely girl, wreathing together flowers
blooming, whilst she would no more bloom.
" I have always loved flowers," she said,
smiling artlessly ; " and yet, save that I have
scarcely had any girl-like feelings, I have felt
prematurely old ; and I am tired, yet still un
willing to leave the world. There, my dia
mond necklace has fallen again ; surely it is an
ominous sign ! You must tie it with a thread,
for my thin throat is no support for it."
The hands of the clock now went swiftly
46 the astrologer's daughter.
round : it wanted but two minutes to the time.
Alas! prepared as she was, ifpossible, that sweet
face grew paler ; and the quivering lips could
scarcely part to utter the words still lingering
there. She cast her eyes around, as iftaking a
farewell of her chamber ; and suddenly taking
her attendant's dry hands in her own, she looked
searchingly, earnestly, at her, as she said—
" Hearken to me, faithful, kind-hearted wo
man. Something within me tells me I shall
never, never see my ducal home. You must
not let the ill-natured world say what it pleases.
You have never left me; and you know that,
however I cannot love the Duke, I cannot re
proach him of any want of respect and pro
priety, since he took me from Paris. Testify to
this, albeit the rich and the great should dare
to speak against my good name. You have
been a mother—fancy I am your child."
"And a sweet, and fair, and good child,
truly," said the matron, arranging once more
the soft tresses. " Fear not ; you are not so
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 47
near your end; but fear less to leave your name
in my hands. Should Queen Catherine herself
tell me to hold my tongue, I would but speak
the louder."
" Nay, nay, be not rash, I pray you ; believe
me, it is no easy task to contend with Catherine
de M^dicis. It is as easy to bid the Seine
turn to dry land, as to bid her vengeance be
tarried."
" Poor young lady ! I am sure you have suf
fered ; but still, let me tell you, there seems
nothing so very dreadful in marrying the Duke.
See—see—he is giving directions in the court
yard below ; see how his diamond buckles and
diamond-hilted sword glisten in the sun's rays !
A pity you should not like him."
It was quite useless to explain to the well-
intentioned but simple woman, that her love
was buried with the dead. She did not, how
ever, go to the window, and the old woman
continuing there, Clementina poured out a glass
of refreshing medicine, and smiled faintly as
48 the astrologer's daughter.
she looked at the long row of phials on the
table.
" Poor Monsieur Baptiste," she said ; " if
medicine could aught avail, there lacketh no
display here. Give Monsieur Baptiste this
diamond ring from me. Nay, nay, I hear his
voice : call him up—I will speak to him in the
next room."
Her nerves temporarily strengthened by the
draught she had just taken, enabled her to sus
tain, with apparent firmness, the conference.
She rather gave her opinion than asked her
physician's, whilst, laying her tiny hands on
her chest, she said—" All, all is written there.
Thank you, dear doctor, for all your attention.
It must be soothing, in your trying position, to
hear it expressed that you have cheered your
patient. You have tried all that skill can do,
Monsieur Baptiste, but a broken heart has baf
fled you."
" Dear young lady, who knows ? Youth is
on your side."
the astrologer's davghter. 49
" And sorrow, and care, and wrong also,
kind doctor ; you know now you are speaking
against your heart. Tell me now, is there any
thing I can do for you ? At all events, wear
this as a little remembrance of me ; and when
I am low, low in the grave, shed a tear to my
memory."
Even the grave doctor was struck with the
particular expression, almost angelic in its inno
cent purity. "He could not answer the direct
questions placed to him, but at that moment
the village bells struck up a merry peal.
Clementina turned ghastly pale. " Silly,
silly girl," she exclaimed, rallying with a faint
smile, " it will soon be over. I beg you will
wait here, dear doctor. I am not quite coiffed.
I will return to you in a moment, and I will
lean upon your arm. I am not strong enough
to walk down stairs without support."
The physician only pressed her hand in silent
assent, and Clementina retired and rejoined her
attendant. " Now, now," she cried, affecting
VOL. III. D
50 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
a gaiety she did not feel. " Now, good woman,
heed well thy occupation, and place the finish
ing stroke to my bridal array. I will try and
adjust the veil myself; but I fear me I cannot.
Strange vanity! I fain would look well upon
my bridal day."
And, oh, she did look well ; she did look sur
passingly lovely! those golden-hued ringlets
brightly drooping round her snowy neck. It
seemed as if for that morning's ceremony all
her wonted beauty had returned; not so
brilliant, not so splendid, but gracefully, en-
trancingly lovely. And those sweet hps parted
to laugh faintly, as surveying herself, Clemen
tina saw how, by dint of hoops, and the richness
of her skirts, looped up with white rose garlands,
her slight form had a majestic appearance ; but
no dress could impart the charming beauty of
that expressive countenance, clear, painfully
clear, inasmuch as the too vivid rose on the
J
cheeks oflily whiteness told its own tale. Her
large blue eyes appeared languidly swimmingly
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 51
in lustre, and the fringy lashes rested in calmest,
sweetest beauty on her hectic glowing cheek.
" Now bind the orange wreath round nay
tresses," she said to the attendant ; " I cannot
lift my hands so high. How very faint I feel ;
have you no restorative near you ? "
The old woman went in search of one, and
Clementina feebly fell on her knees. Her white
dress hung in graceful folds around her, and
the veil streamed over her form ; she buried
her face in her hands, and she prayed.
• ••••*
#**»*#
The splendid carriage, almost equal to the
Medicis' newly-built one,* was waiting to take
Clementina to the castle of the Duke—her
home. The servants in their gorgeous trap
pings were talking in groups in the court-yard.
And Clementina knelt at the altar by the side
of the young Duke ; who, in his superb golden
* Carriages were first in use in France in this reign.
D 2
52 the astrologer's daughter.
laced Court dress, with his glittering sword,
the hilt all spangled with diamonds, and his
Mecklin lace ruffs, was as handsome as a
maiden's heart would wish her bridegroom to
look.
The Cardinal de Lorraine, in his richest
robes, held his gilded book in his hands. His
face was pale, and his lips quivered. He turned
over the leaves in search of a place he knew
well where to find.
Not a sound disturbed the silence of the
room which had been fitted up for the occa
sion. The Cardinal looked round as if he fain
would like something to occur ; anything, save
unite that deadly pale bride, who, with hands
clasped on her bosom, awaited with a cheer
less, unsmiling countenance, the beginning
of the ceremony. Lower, and lower, the
wreathed head bent on the desk of the high-
backed chair ; and in a low, solemn voice she
uttered the binding vow.
" I am your bride now," she murmured in
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 53
the ears of the Duke ; " I am your wedded
wife."
The Duke turned round to kiss the fair face
which had sunk on his shoulder. He raised
the bridal veil; he expected to see a blush,
and his eyes met the fixed gaze of a lifeless
corpse !
*»»»»*
• ••*•*
*••*•*
The midnight hour again approached; it
chimed its time dully on the air, and echoed with
cheerless, doleful sound on the ears of a fond
father, who knelt weeping, beside the couch on
which a pale corpse lay, all attired in bridal
white. The orange flowers, the badges of a
ceremony to which death alone had answered
Amen, were still around the glossy tresses.
There was a hallowed look about that cold,
young face, and no hands seemed pure enough
to disrobe it, so there it lay encircled in the trim
mings of fashion ; and the waxen tapers shed
54 the astrologer's daughter.
their mournful light on it. Lorraine knelt side
by side with the Astrologer ; he held a crucifix
in his hands. At the foot of the bed, nearly as
pale as the corpse itself, with dishevelled hair,
with up-clasped hands, and tear-streaming eyes,
knelt the bridegroom, whose hopes had been
defeated, even at the foot of the altar. Not a
sound save his own sobs disturbed the stillness
of the chamber, for Pettura was too stern in his
grief to find relief in tears ; whilst Lorraine
had more than once knelt by the death-bed of
youth and beauty, aad therefore there was calm
enough to pray.
Hope there was none ! for when death comes,
Hope's sunny wings ply elsewhere their gossa
mer lightness. All felt convinced that Clemen
tina's pure soul was at peace, in the haven of
everlasting rest, and yet they prayed ; but not
for Clementina—they prayed for their own sin
ful hearts.
At length the Duke arose from his knees,
and he glided close to Pettura's side ; he placed
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 55
his cold hand on his, and he said in faltering
accents—"Forgive me! forgive me." For a
moment Pettura hesitated ; it was an impres
sive sight to watch the strong man's sorrow
struggling with sympathy, and still more affect
ing to see the young Duke bowing his pride,
the inherent pride of his noble family, and
speaking in mild grief.
" Thou art, thou wert, my child's husband,
Henri of Guise ; let us be friends."
It seemed then as if the spirit of the departed
had caught the sound of those words. Henri
fancied a smile hovered round his death-stricken
bride, and his grief was less agonizing to bear.
At length Pettura too arose from his knees.
He pressed his child's face in that last sad fare
well embrace which the fond living bestow on
the dead, and silently he cut off two shining
tresses of those flowing curls : one he placed
in his own bosom, the other he handed to
Henri.
With passionate tears—with sighs so deep
56 the astkologek's daughter.
that they shook his frame—the Duke seized the
treasure ; and taking up the cold hand, he kissed
it, saying, " let her keep her wedding ring."
Deep were the sobs which lulled the death
slumbers of Clementina Pettura, as there she
lay so pale, but beautiful even in death's grasp.
What an awful lesson of the evanescing tenure
of all human happiness was this to the young
and buoyant Duke ! How plaintively soft were
the words which he recollected had fallen from
the tongue* of the now lifeless girl—how she
had raised the heads of the drooping flowers
—how she had called herself the twin-sister of
air. Then the Duke did as he had been bidden
by her, commune with nature's beauty ; and he
wandered not alone, for at early dawn Pettura
joined him, and their conversation was such as
might be expected, drawn from the fount of
the same sorrow, which occupied both then-
hearts.
CHAPTER IV.
Could the repentance of the Irving' atone to the
dead for the injuries or persecution they have
too often received in their lifetime, this com
pensation would often fall to their share. When
the cold lips are mute—when the eye is sunken
and dim—when the nearest relation would be
at a loss to recognise the withered and altered
features, then indeed compensation comes too
late. Then how often tardy justice is done to
the memory of beings to whom justice can no
longer bring weal or wo. Statues are raised
to the memory of heroes who were sacrificed
d 3
58 the astrologer's daughter.
at the shrine of their fellow-men's ambition.
Statesmen are applauded, who in their lifetime
withered under the opprobrium of following
unlawful politics. Poets have effigies and tab
lets raised to them, and their name is borne
triumphantly from mouth to mouth, whilst in
their lifetime they vainly mounted their Pe
gasus.
Thus goes the world, paying more attention
to the memory of the dead, than to the comforts
of the living*.
An author whose volumes in his lifetime
slumber in unmolested quietude on the shelves
of a bookseller's shop, may assure himself that
as soon as he is dead, he will be called a " di-
vinely-souled being," a rival of the productions
of "Walter Scott, a second Dickens ; he will have
the pathos of Bulwer, the harmony of a Camp
bell or Keat ; in fact, every author, living or
deceased, will form a component part of his
merits. In lifetime men hardly give " The
Devil his due," but after death they give the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 59
deceased more than his meed, with proper in
terest for keeping him so long waiting.
Your pardon, gentle readers, for getting in
a freer turn, and pardon too to the world, for
speaking scoffingly of thejustice of its opinions ;
whilst here my own unworthy production must
stand the test of its leniency, and even after
death my Pegasus* may have cantered in vain.
Good patience ! what a host of Heathen Gods
an author need call to his existence, before he
feels a Vdbri descoups da monde y of what a de
gree of ultra nervousness must his frame be
composed before he can send his Molian harp
to the breeze, and not care which notes the
wind will awaken.
" Pro and con." so often change places, that
con. is generally the victorious side ; and an au
thor may sometimes feel so dispirited at the
unfavourable result of a work (judged in his
lifetime, remember, kind readers), that in dis-
* Vide certain unfortunate Poems.
60 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
burdening his heavily laden brain : and he is
tempted to exclaim, with all due humility,
" Peccavi, Peccavi ! " " There is rest in Hea
ven," says the Latin Poverb (in ccelo quies);
and verily an Author's Allegro begins some
times after a dull reign of " II Penseroso,"
followed by what musicians call " Dolente ad
libitum."
For the benefit of those young beings who,
like myself, are daring enough to enter the list
of " literary hardships," I will tell them what
mythological gods come to their Court, when
thehymind " holds a levee." Then, a truce to
this long prologue, which (a pity we cannot
love our neighbour as well as ourselves) relates
too much to " number one." It is strictly clas
sical to begin with Minerva (because an author
likes to think his manuscript has found favour
with that goddess). Lead her all smiling to a
sort of Hesperian region (a kingdom of my
coining), holding a beau milieu, between an
Olympus and a Tartarus ; your locality is easily
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 61
explained. To lead our Minerva at once to an
Olympus would hardly suit her, insomuch that
wisdom likes to pave her way, not fall (like a
colonel raised by promotion,) too suddenly into
great happiness.
Tell Minerva that your kingdom is guard
ed by Hesperides, and that you have golden
apples which are beyond your reach, unless
she helps you by her wisdom to pluck them.
She will shake her head gravely (a type of
friends reading your manuscript), and she will
tell you that you must have patience. Cal
liope, Clio, Erato, Euterpe, Melpomene, Poly-
hynia, Thalia and Urania (namely, Eloquence,
Lyric Fancy, Poetry, Tragedy, Mirth, Music,
Rhetoric, and Astronomy), are summoned from
Apollo's Court to come to your levee. Whilst
Minerva talks of patience, they, holding up her
train, by their inspiring mirth inspire you with
an irresistible wish of being impetuous, and
you thirst for the golden apples. This brings
you to the period when your publisher is lei
62 the astrologer's daughter.
surely reading your work, and forming his well-
digested opinions of its merit—you, of course,
thinking his wisdom intolerably slow.
Your publisher—(I beg pardon, I forgot I
was high in the classics)—your Ulysses of con
summate wisdom, having read and approved of
your manuscript, you fancy you have attained
the golden apples. Patience pas encore. There
are Penates besides guardian ones, and your
neighbour's lares are not always your own.
The lares of the streets, the towns and countries,
are sometimes as unpropitious to you as if they
abetted the fabulous sphinx, and your immedi
ate friends warn you of the body of the dog, the
tail of a serpent, the wings of a bird, the paws
of a lion, concentrated in the human voice—the
Public. Minerva is too wise to be hasty, and
you suffer heart-aches, and head-aches, and fits
of impatience, and sympathetic nervousness,
and—mats e'en est assez, before your Ulysses
produces your work in the glory of three
volumes. If the Harpies reign, there is next a
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 68
famine in the land, and in the dearth, men want
better food than your mental nutriment ; they
will carry away the provisions from the dainty
table of Phineas, but they will not carry off
your three pet volumes from the bookseller's
shelves.
You are in a sort of Elysium, and you have
no Achilles to conduct you to Troy. Ancient
heroes would fight to rescue the beauty of their
age ; but were you, sister authors, as fair as the
lovely Helen, there are few Diomedes now
who will (at the risk of excommunication from
grand-fathers, grand -mothers, great-aunts, and
great-uncles, brothers, sisters, and friends, who
pronounce your work a pile of insipidity) res
cue your writing from oblivion.
Parthenope and her sister Syrens now come
to your levee, and they talk in such a melodi
ous voice, that your heart buoys with hope (a
new edition with a different title-page in per
spective) ; it seems as if some fairy had touched
you with an Orpheus'-wand, making printers,
64 the astrologer's daughter.
binders, and publishers, dance with a Polka-
toed nimbleness, as they advertise, and admir-
ize, afid raise your work to an Atlas height.
Sappho composed nine books, whilst you,
without being stimulated to lyrics, epigrams,
and elegaics, by the love of Phaon, may now
write as quickly as you please. You have
earned your reputation, and need not stand
on a Leucadia, and perish in the sea. Yet
as I before said, if you are unsuccessful, as
soon as you die (oh balmy consolation), Les
bians will rise to pay your memory a Sappho
like tribute ; and, instead of money stamped
with her image, they will obtain your picture,
drawn, of course, just as you were merg
ing into ugliness ; because, to have drawn
you when you were young, would have made
you vain. The famous painter of Rhodes, the
persevering Protogenes, slumbered in obli
vion, until, at length, Apelles came to Rhodes,
and, admiring his productions, the public chose
also to admire him.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER 65
Readers, fair young sister authors, this event
took place 328 years before Christ. Let us
then say that our world is no worse with re
gard to authors and aspirants to public fame,
than it was many long years back.
Now sum up my mythological theory. If
you court the poetical deity with her open
wings and her blowing trumpet ; if you pillow
her slumbers with the dreams of the Nine Sis
ters ; if you lave her at the fount where naiad
virgins lean on the urn of pure water ; if you
sing her riveilli in a syren's voice ; if you
lend her the grace of a Thalia, clothing her in
liberality, eloquence, and wisdom ; if you
endow her mind with actions great as the
twelve labours of Hercules ; if, like Jupiter
and Juno's daughter, you make your pet Fame
a Hebe of beauty, crowned with flowers, and
lightly clad ; then to make the tableau of your
Hebe complete, you must place a vase in her
hands ; and remember, young authors, that
your Hebe's vase will not always be filled with
66 the astrologer's daughter.
the nectar of admiration and triumph ; but that
a Midas-like portion of attention may fall into
the vase, whose proportions are large enough
to receive a Phrygian share of corn and wine.
The Gorgons had the power of transforming
those who guarded the golden fruit into stone,
and so the public will not always walk with
your work in a Castor and Pollux proximity.
Thus, sister authors, the pinnacle on which we
stand is not one to be much envied. There
are trials of patience, deep and and many to
endure. There are some who deem them
selves reflected, when the author is not inten
tionally personal. In fact, thorns arise where
the fervid heart of youth has imagined that
flowers of Eden-growth are blooming.
Now, farewell ; in the words of the song—
" The spell is broken, and we must part 1 "
part at least on this subject. But to return to
my tale.
CHAPTER V.
General Tavannes, Mariot, and the escort of
soldiers had now taken possession of the cha
teau of the Duke of Guise. The Duke's re
tainers made a feeble effort to keep their mas
ter's premises from invasion ; they drew up the
portcullis, raised every bolt and bar, until the
Jester, fearing that bloodshed would ensue,
behaved in a manner which stamped him a
second Puss in Boots, or a first, perhaps ; for
from bien dire, I do not know if " Puss in
Boots" was published in those days. His com
panion, Mariot, was transformed into a Mar
68 the astrologer's daughter.
quis of Carrabas, as Joseph, advancing towards
the portcullis, blew through a shrill speaking
trumpet, his wish of speaking to the head stew
ard, or retainer of the Duke's household. That
important personage came bare-headed to meet
his very respectable colleague, who thus began
a treaty which did honour to a man wearing
armour, instead of the fool's bells ; or rather,
it showed plainly that steel cannot hide a knave."
" My good friend, you are, methinks, the
steward of the Duke's household."
" I am," was the answer, with a bow,
which would have honoured a Michau's tui
tion.
" Pardi ! I should have known it ; the Duke,
your master, described you so well."
" You come then in amity. Why, then, those
armed men ? Why come you in so military an
array I
" Simply to represent part of the corps de
garde of the French King's Court, who intends
adding to the splendour of the Duke's ap
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 69
proaching marriage. We thought the Duke
had already arrived from—"
" From where ?" said the steward ; " for, by
all the saints dead and living, we know no
more where our young master is, than the man
in the moon."
" Perhaps he knows better than you do,"
said the Jester ; who, for all his assumed gra
vity, could not resist a jest. " Perhaps he
knows far better than you ; for you must re
member that his Majesty of the moon has an
extensive view of the haunts of men."
" I thought you just now began telling me
where the Duke was. "
" I am a dull scholar, and never remember
words. I began my sentence, thinking you
would perhaps have the goodness to finish it
for me. I am something like the cuckoo, who
never builds a nest, because it prefers taking
possession of that of another bird. Pardi!
you will find me a merry companion, and we
must needs quarter here until the Duke chooses
70 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
to make his appearance, which he will as soon
as my master, the great and valiant General
Mariot, despatches a messenger in all directions
to fetch him home."
" Where is thy master ?"
" La ! man, thou must be as dull as a calfs
head with the brains removed, not to be able
to distinginguish a General at a bird's-eye view.
Don't you see how heedlessly he holds his arms ?
He don't care to protect himself, not he ; all he
cares for is his trusty courser, true Arabia
breed ; came over from Palestine (if that be in
Arabia). The great Mogul, or the the King of
the Cannibal Islands, or the Sultan of , I
forget the name, but some great man, whose
grandfather was great before him, rode on it,
and at last my master bought it for a great sum
of money."
" Your master is a traveller, then ? "
" I believe you he is ; he has been through
Europe, Asia, Africa, and America; he has
discovered islands (so he has, on the map,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 71
thought the Jester). I cannot tell you all he
has not done ; his courage is surpassed by his
wonderful learning."
No wonder the steward, who was a simple
white-haired old man, was touched at the idea
of entertaining a guest of such quality. The
draw-bridge was raised, the portcullis was
thrown widely open, and Tavannes concealed
with difficulty a loud burst of laughter, when
the Jester pointed to Mariot, exclaiming : " My
master, the valiant General Mariot."
Mariot supported himself under this unwel
come introduction; for although this want of
truth sadly galled him, he remembered that the
fearful odds of a sanguinary rencontre were in
the balance.
Marshalled in with all due honour, Tavannes
was conducted to be, or thought, a lieutenant
in his train; whilst Mariot's unwieldy body re
ceived the obsequious bows of the liveried ser
vants who came to receive their master's guest,
and a General who had fought in the four
72 the astrologer's daughter.
quarters of the globe. Thus Mariot earned
the reputation of a warrior, because he had
held a gun, which reminds me of those persons
who, touching for an hour the terra-Jirma
of Boulogne, talk of having been on the Con
tinent.
Capons, rounds of beef, dishes of all kinds,
wine in abundance, huge pastiesj were hastily
collected ; and soon the board groaned beneath
the hospitable fare. Mariot ate sparingly,
feeling that he was a tacit approver of a false
hood. Tavannes ate abundantly, because he
thought " To-day we live, to-morrow we die."
Joseph ate till he could hardly move from ta
ble, from no philosophy whatever, save that he
was hungry, which, after all was the best philo
sophy ; although anchorites, who lose their ap
petites by long fasts, and the noxious food they
take, talk so grandly «f the virtue of starving.
It is like a man taking the pledge of teetotal-
ism, on the principle that he cannot take wine
without the danger of an attack of apoplexy.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 73
" Bless me," cried Joseph, as he swallowed a
large glass of sherbet ; " if this is not living
on the plan of ' Live well, and keep out the
doctor,' I do not know what is. How do you
like it, General?"
" Do not speak to me, sirrah."
" Ha ! ha ! ha ! I am blessed if Mariot does
not begin to think he is the General," said the
Jester, in a whisper to Tavannes, who had
insisted on his sitting at table with him, which
invitation Joseph accepted, saying, " He had
often sat down with his brother, the King of
France."
" You are hardy, to call the King your
brother ; you, who are his fool."
" And pray, General Tavannes, (your par
don, General Mariot) what is the difference
between the King of France and a fool ? He
is earning his bells as fait as he well can,
whilst I haye long worn them. The King is
as much a fool already as the eldest son of a
Duke is one in idea; insomuch, as he only
VOL. III. E
74 the astrologer's daughter.
waits with, tolerable patience to take his fa
ther's place."
" Thank goodness, I have no son."
" And if you had, brave Signor, a General
ship is not hereditary, only catching some
times." Here Joseph looked at Mariot.
" You are making maigre, chere," he con
tinued, looking at Mariot ; " a stranger coming
in, to see you look so doleful, would think you
were at the expense of the banquet."
" I wish I were ; it would be honestly pro
cured," said the man of scruples.
" I am sure it is honest enough, when the
steward invited us in, and the servants wait
upon us so submissively."
" Monsieur Mariot means he would rather
have had a fight and earn the repast, par con-
qaete de guerre," said the General.
" I—I—I am not'very hungrj ," replied poor
Mariot, swallowing a tart at a mouthful, which
exertion brought on a severe fit of cough
ing, which threatened to deprive him of the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 75
power of again performing such a dexterous
feat.
" Ha ! ha ! ha ! the enemv's food is too hard
for your honest heart, Monsieur Mariot. I
never knew before that a wise man's mastication
and digestion were so bad. What is the reason
ofit, General Tavannes ?"
" I suppose the tart did not savour classi
cally."
" No ! I dare say not," said Joseph ; " there
were not sufficient ingredients to compose the
whole pasty ; and one part of speech wanting,
makes it go down the wrong way. Take a
glass of wine, Monsieur Mariot, and I will
pledge you, and all such valiant Generals, who
sit at home, reposing from their warlike toils,
after winning their laurels."
" I have not won any," said Mariot ; " you
know I have not."
" More silly you ; the conquest was easy
enough ; there were laurel bushes in abundance,
and you might have plucked a few leaves here
e 2
76 the astrologer's daughter.
and there, as types at least of a martial prome
nade. What is the use of being so extremely
scrupulous? "When Princes are little boys,
and they go and shoot, the game-keeper strews
dead birds in their way, and the young Royalists
will sometimes fancy they have shot them, until
they persuade themselves it is the truth."
" I never persuade myselfthat a falsehood is
veracity."
" Oh, no, I am sure not," said the Jester,
rather nettled ; " you know champagne from
' vin ordinaire / but you drink the latter mode
rate in company, and the former con gusto e
spirito, when no one is near."
Mariot did not swallow champagne or vin
ordinaire, but he was forced to swallow the
insinuation.
It is curious to think how free men can some
times make of their neighbours' goods. Not
withstanding Mariot felt as ill-placed in the
chateau of the Duke as a cat would be chained
0
to a dog's kennel, still he found the smooth
THE ASTROLOGEK'S DAUGHTER. 77
bed prepared for his Generalship, far better
than he imagined an encampment outside the
portcullis would have been ; and, if it be right
to pray for peace, Mariot certainly prayed so
fervently, that had he been kneeling on Roman
ground, the gates of the Temple of Peace might
have had a chance of having their rusty gates
opened. With an Ode to Peace yet trembling
on his lips, Mariot slept. So much for the ex
alted courage of a General !
As to Tavannes, he was so accustomed to take
castles by storm, that to have comforlable quar
ters in one, without even loading a gun, was
such an extraordinary freak of fortune, that he
laughed heartily at the adventure ; thinking
that when the blows came, it would be like
dessert after dinner, from which he could ab
stain without feeling better or worse. At the
same time he enjoyed, beyond measure, the fa
cetious jokes of the King's jester, and owned
that though " the tongue is a little member,"
JCseph had found his particularly serviceable,
78 the astrologer's daughter.
since it had better contributed to open the gates
of a castle than any force of arms.
" What a beautiful place it is," exclaimed
Tavannes, surveying the rich tapestry on the
walls, and the beautifully carved oaken ceil
ing.
" How beautiful the mouse thinks the wired
palace, with its tempting bait," said Joseph.
" I wonder if that poor timorous Mariot will
sleep?"
" Why, you do not think we are in any par
ticular danger just now, do you?"
" Not now, oh, no ; I am sure the steward
looks honest enough, and he is sensible too.
How soon he recognised that he was speaking
to a gentleman."
" What ! dost call thyself a gentleman ? "
" Of course I do ! The moment a man
has shaken hands with a gentleman he is one
himself. Your Qeneralship has only to shake
hands with me, and you may style yourself one
directly ! "
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 79
" I have shaken hands with less honest men."
" I don't know that ; you do not call thieves
honest men ? "
" But you are not a thief, merry fool ! "
" Your pardon, for contradicting your sapient
wisdom, which flows almost as glibly as Ma-
riot's, only it is all spoken in one language. Your
pardon, I am a desperate thief. I steal time as
if it belonged to me ; whilst it is neither yours,
mine, nor the King's, nor any one's It be
longs to every one, and to no one ; and I rob
my Royal brother of the portion of it his lady
mother calls his own, when, instead of learn
ing politics, His Majesty is listening to my wis
dom. I rob authors, too, the same as I rob Ma-
riot of his Latin. I tell him, all donkies feed
on the same fodder ; and if I were not some
times munching from the same nettle-bush, ma
foi! , Mariot might prick up his ears and refuse
to own a brother."
" You ought to be proud of such a General,
Joseph!"
80 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
" Yes, lie has retired, overwhelmed with
honours, like the chevaliers who feel their
golden eperons rather too heavy to bear. But
let me tell you, General, that Mariot is about
as brave as many a man of pigmy courage who
keeps hovering round an army, giving plenty of
commands, and reserving the privilege of fly
ing all to himself. I would rather be a soldier,
than some of the chevaliers who earn a golden
fame. The trumpet which sounds one man's
praise never cares if, its shrill note speaks
against another. A less honest man than Ma
riot might follow up the game and be called
a General in good earnest ; therefore he is
doubly a fool, an eccentric fool, wishing to be
honest whilst all the world are the contrary."
In such conversation as this the evening
passed, and at length Joseph found that his
liberal potations were making him more sleepy
than merry. At his request he was shown
to a sleeping apartment, and there he reasoned
much to this effect—
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 81
" L'habitfait I'homme /" and if I prefer the
saying in French than in English, my dear
countrymen acknowledge that you prefer the
tournure of d l'habit Franqais ; there, then,
especially, " l'habit fait I'homme." I re
member reading, or rather learning, during
my school days, some admirable verses ad
dressed, " A mon habit." I cannot now
remember their versification further than they
begin—
" Oh mon cher habit,
Comme je te rcmercie ; "
which is as bad as when nurses drawl forth—
" On the tree top
The cradle will rock,"
and leave off the moment the child whom they
are nursing falls to sleep. At least, however,
I will claim the premium over the nursery ge
nius, inasmuch as I perfectly remember the
substantial meaning of the lines, namely, that
e 3
82 the astrologer's daughter.
such is man's blind folly, that the man of ge
nius was lost until the dexterous hand of his
tailor transformed him into a man of fashion.
Then he recounts the unexpected success he
met with, thanking his coat in due form, and
ending each verse with a praise to cloth. Poets
have written to ladies' lips, to ladies' faces ; they
have written sonnets to birds, sonnets to flowers,
sonnets to faithful dogs, and sonnets to faithless
lovers ; but to write to broad-cloth, no lady
poet would be guilty of such broad poetry.
Mais Vhabitfait Vhomme is as trite as it is old ;
and how much the gay and gallant ones they
admire are indebted for grace to their coats,
they would laughingly think of, if they had
perused that amusing little sketch. The idea
of recommending a poem, and forgetting its
author, is very much like the fox saying the
grapes were too sour, whilst they are pendant
and beautiful above his head. The words of
the poem are hovering round my lips ; and as I
cannot recollect them, I am tempted to follow
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 83
the example of the cunning fox, and say, " The
poem was not worth remembering."—(Behind
the scenes—which will serve for reynard and
myself—it was very beautiful.)
CHAPTER VI.
Mabiot and Tavannes held a long conversa
tion the next day, to take into consideration the
next movement they were to adopt. It was
worse than useless to call the Jester to the par
ley ; for he was so pleased with his own wit, in
having gained admittance to the castle, and so
intoxicated with the liberty they enjoyed, that
he would not hear of leaving it. One plan
was formed, and then another ; but still no
certain one was taken, for Mariot seemed al
most bewildered ; and even his Latin citations
seemed to have taken their night elsewhere.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 85
Poor Mariot ! how he longed to be safely in his
snuggery, instead of the castle of the Duke.
He felt hungry and could not eat ; he was al
most as bad as the crane, who was invited to a
sumptuous feast, but found his bill would not
contain the food.
It was noon : the beautiful grounds of the
chateau, watered by the meandering Seine, in
vited the lovers of harmony to court its delvy
groves. A bright sun glowed in the horizon ; all
was so beautiful, but Tavannes and Mariot felt
in an uncomfortable situation, and could not
admire the works of Nature, whilst uncertainty
hung over their steps. Suddenly the martial
ear of Tavannes, so practised in the sounds,
heard the trampling of horses, far off in the
distance.
" If that be the Duke," he said to Mariot,
" he comes very slowly. I know so well the
paces of horses, and now . How pale you
are, man ; it is no use dallying ; call the men,"
he said to an officer who stood in the room ;
86 the astrologer's daughter.
"we will go and meet the Duke. We can
shake hands in the open air and deliver our
King's message, or, if needs be, we have more
chance of retaking the fair Clementina there by
his side." ,
Mariot trembled in every limb, and he longed
to secrete himself in the castle, but he had not
the courage, or cowardice (which word is best ?)
to utter his wish. Before he actually had col
lected himself, he was on horseback by Ta-
vannes ; and the latter, seeing his companion
was as pale as a spectre and as silent as an
Egyptian mummy, now took upon himself the
control of the little band.
Presently the trampling ofthe horses appeared
nearer ; but to a less experienced ear than Ta-
vannes' it was plain they came slowly. Then
a soft, but very mournful music, broke upon the
air.
" The Duke's taste for music is all in the
melancholy style," whispered the Jester.
" Silence ! " said Mariot, imperiously ; and
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 87
Joseph knew not why, but this time no jocose
answer rose to his lips.
Still, on the balmy air that plaintive strain
was heard, and from a thicket of trees, which
skirted either side of the picturesque road, a
most impressive sight met the gaze of Mariot
and his band. The Duke's troops advanced,
followed by his servants, their arms reversed,
and their pace slow, whilst the Cardinal de
Lorraine, bareheaded, walked before a coffin
carried on men's shoulders, and covered with a
snowy cloth, on which was placed a wreath of
orange flowers. The young Duke of Guise
held a handkerchief to his weeping eyes, and
Tavannes had time to sign to his men, who
retreated immediately at a rapid gallop.
All left ; all save one chevalier, clad in ar
mour, and wearing a closely-drawn vizor. This
chevalier was of small stature ; he bounded
nimbly from his horse, and running towards the
coffin, threw himself on it with a piercing
cry.
88 the astrologer's daughter.
The Duke, in a hoarse voice, exclaimed—
" How dare you touch the coffin 1"
" Henri of Guise, do you not know me ?"
said a soft and plaintive voice.
Henri approached ; he drew up his vizor,
i»nd exclaimed—" Good Heavens, it is Mar
guerite of Navarre !"
" Ay, ay, I asked Mariot to bring me to you,
and he would not. He knows not what an
afflicted woman can do. I am weary, I am
faint—this heavy armour sits uneasily on my
frame, take me into your castle and then
hear my prayer."
The Duke drew down her vizor, lest the
curious should see the bold and indecorous step
the young Queen had taken, and he approached
the portcullis of his castle.
" Your pardon, my liege," said Mariot, of
fering his sword to the Duke ; " I came here
to do the King's bidding—to return to him
with—"
" Man, man, utter not her name ; I cannot
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 89
bear it. Do you think an earthly king should
have made me surrender my treasure—my pearl
of precious price ? There she lies, there, as I
point to that coffin; there, there, is all that
remains of my beautiful bride ! But she was
my bride ; and let any one speak disparagingly
of her if they dare. Now go thee back, Ma-
riot, and tell the King that next time I see him,
I shall come to lay my bride in her grave ; she
shall slumber where my ancestors slumber, and
every respect shall be paid to her memory."
" Had you not better return to your Royal
brother," said he, turning in a whisper to
Marguerite.
The young Queen paused. Henri of Guise
had been married, but he had no longer a
bride; surely it was not proper for her to
linger after that. She left the Duke's arm, and
she approached Mariot, who started when he
heard the words—
" I am the Queen of Navarre ; take me back
with you."
90 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
" Henri of Guise, promise me one thing,"
she said, whilst tears gushed from her beautiful
eyes ; " promise me that I shall see Clemen
tina's remains consigned to her last rest."
" She loved you well ; yes, yes, I promise
it; and now farewell. If you are unhappy,
do not despair ; it is death alone which sends
away hope. Think of those who are far less
happy than yourself—think of me."
" Ah, Henri ! it is woman, fond, trusting
woman, who feels real unhappiness under sor
row. Men have so many things to occupy
their attention ; . it is to woman belongs weep
ing ; tears, warm, deep, passionate man can
forget."
She said no more, but pressing Henri of
Guise's extended hand, she followed Mariot,
who had neither courage or inclination to re
primand or wonder, for the Princess's scalding
tears fell on her steel-gloved hand.
" Poor little Queen !" thought Mariot ; " how
soon her summer's mirth is changed to winter
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 91
sadness. How changed are her feelings which
so lately had a child's buoyancy. Oh, sorrow !
thou vast heirloom of mortality, thy bitter hand
spares neither the young nor the beautiful ; thou
art not a slave, going or coming at any-one's bid
ding ; thou canst pierce the palace wall, or thou
canst find adwelling-place in the cottager's lowly
dome. Happiness fleets as a bright midsummer
dream, and happy indeed are those who embark
on a sunny lake with the full conviction that its
still waters can be changed into a tempestuous
sea ; that the skies may be obscured, and the
dark surges may roar.
Yes! happy are those who amidst pros
perity, know and feel that a night can set, a
cloudy night, when no star can guide the bark
of human hope to the sunny shore of happiness.
The young Queen of Navarre recalled all
the sweet and holy converse she had held with
Clementina ; and no wonder her tears flowed
at the recollection, that her pure spirit had now
left the earth,
92 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
" Monsieur Mariot," she said, in a sweet and
solemn tone, " it is passing strange that some
persons do not believe in a future happiness.
How could I bear the troubles of life, if I di
rected not my thoughts to a higher world ? "
" But if those unhappy persons are prosper
ous, have you ever reflected, young Queen,
how little they can enjoy even this life, which
they blindly believe is the highest point of
bliss ?"
" I never thought of this before ; but it is a „
wise observation. It is so sweet to be grateful
for any favour received ; but how doubly sweet
when the soul is raised in thankfulness to our
great Creator ! "
"Beautiful thought!" replied Mariot, sur
veying with pious rapture that young and en
thusiastic countenance. " May your Majesty
ever preserve a lasting foundation of religion,
built on a rock which cannot be driven away
by the eddy of the wind."
" Alas ! alas ! " replied the Queen, " I some-
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 93
times feel most strangely wavering ; my tem
perament is so extremely impulsive, that ways
iind means are secondary when I obtain my
end."
"Impulse is often the daughter of impru
dence," said Mariot ; " and those hearts, espe
cially young hearts, who follow blindly the im
pulse of their feelings, will often take a most
fallacious view of the world. Their hearts
are warm and glowing, and they erroneously
fancy they can inspire others with the same
enthusiastic throbbing."
" You are right," said the Queen ; and the
warm blood mounted to ' her face, although
none could see her blushing face, which was
concealed by her vizor. " You are quite right,
Monsieur Mariot," she continued ; " it was my
impulse which led me to ask you to let me ac
company you to the Duke ; you refused, and
then impulse summoned the imprudence of
which you spoke, and I wilfully followed my
way, at the risk even of reputation. I shall re
94 the astrologer's daughter.
member, for the future, that an impulsive mind
makes an imprudent -woman."
" Not always." said Mariot, who had been
thinking deeply; "I think the argument be
tween right and wrong will often bear a me
dium. Impulse, when guided by reason, when
checked, when pruned ofits wild impetuosity by
a strong mind and a well-regulated heart, will
lead to deeds of virtue and undaunted cou
rage."
" Is it courage to sit at home, and not dare
the shafts of the lightning which are playing
around the head of the beloved object of our
affections ?"
" There is courage in resignation ! You
could not ameliorate the condition of your
Royal husband; and your Majesty must know
that affliction would be doubly felt by him if it
were shared by a being brought up in such
luxury and attention."
" And so he must suffer alone !" said the
Queen, passionately. " Oh, Clementina ! had I
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 95
only thy calm frame of mind ! had I only thy
pious resignation! Are the spirits of the
dead suffered to hover around us, Monsieur
Mariot?"
" It is a question, I ever think, our finite
reason hardly dares answer. The idea that de
parted spirits look down in compassion on their
kindred is very prevalent, hut yet I often think
that were hardly the consummate bliss of a
spirit at peace."
" Nor I," said the Queen. " Supposing—
which, alas ! I fear me is too likely to come to
pass—supposing I am tossed on a sea of afflic
tion, and that sorrow be my lot, oh ! then how
grieved a kindred soul would be to see me sink
in grief, or fall into temptation. Mariot, I can
hardly believe now that the spirits of the de
parted look down upon us."
" I consider the idea very allegorical ! When
we are inclined to sin, and we recal the sweet
voice of a friend who is dead, but who, were
the body still on earth, would give us the
96 the astrologer's daughter
strongest advice to the contrary course—when
the recollection of departed virtue restrains us
from committing evil, then we figuratively say—
' The spirits of the departed are hovering
around us.' "
In such conversation as this, the time wore
away ; and the young Queen scarcely feared to
meet the angry glance of her mother, so much
had her communion with Clementina's de
parted worth strengthened her heart. Thus,
* even after death, a virtuous life is beneficial to
the hearts of the living !
" Mother, mother, be not angry with me,"
cried the young Queen submissively, whilst
she related the mournful journey she had had.
And Catherine was not angry ; she was in
wardly pleased and proud to imagine that the
same daring spirit which was in her character,
existed in the lovely young Queen's heart.
She did not, like Mariot, tell her to avoid the
erring impulse of woman's heart ; she did not
tell her that to depart from the barrier of so
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 97
ciety, is unfeminine unless very peculiar cir
cumstances oblige a woman so to act. She did
not say that her daughter's flight had caused
many surmises, and might already have reached
the ears of Henri of Navarre ; but she left the
Royal bride to the rest she so much needed.
Then, for the first time, the conviction that
she had no mother to care for her spiritual wel
fare came across her mind. Her dreams were
scarcely less distressing that night than those
which hovered round the pillow of the Duke,
as, starting up from his hasty slumbers, he threw
his arms frantically on the coffin with its
wreath of flowers, which was in his room.
There, then, was his bride in her castle home,
of which he had so often temptingly spoken ;
there, then, she lay, his wedded bride—wedded,
and then clasped in death's arms. Awful les
son of the mutability of Earth's happiness !
All those who had known Clementina, shed
a tear over her remains, when, according to the
wish of Henri of Guise, she was buried with
VOL. III. F
98 the astrologer's daughter.
the honour due to a Duchess. Yet Pettura
insisted that her own name should be inscribed
on the sculptured urn ; for, to call her a
Duchess, would not better speak her worth.
A simple wreath of orange blossoms, entwined
with roses, was also there engraven ; and there,
beneath the cold sod, was buried " youth,
beauty, and worth." Those sweetly-tinged
flowers, the " Fleures Immortelles" were pro
fusely scattered round the turf.
Low, almost lying on the sward, the impos
ing-looking, and handsome Pettura, uttered a
last and fond farewell to the only earthly ob
ject of earthly mould he had to regret.
According to her own expressed wish, the
Queen of Navarre, clad in sables, her head
covered with a thick crape veil, also assisted in
at the ceremony. When the coffin was slowly
borne into the church ; when the many wax-
lights reflected dimly on the black drapery
around; when the Cardinal de Lorraine, ae
who had lately wedded a bride, uttered the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 99
solemn burial service of tke dead, oh, then,
scalding tears fell down her fair cheeks ; and
these were the last tears Marguerite shed as
purely, and for so good a cause.
No more will I speak of her. I have loved
to twine around her a wreath of youthful at
tractions. I have delighted in portraying the
Hans of her young guileless heart. History
has, and too justly, blackened her character.
Coquettish vanity succeeded to a moderate ad
miration of her really lovely person ; pique
succeeded to trust ; levity to buoyancy. Alas !
she had worse faults. Let History record them ;
and then, if my readers please, let them own it
is time to leave a picture of virtue ere it be
spoiled with vice.
A wonderful change took place in the Astro
loger's mind. He did not reproach the Me-
dicis for her ungrateful conduct towards him,
but he positively refused to see her.
Some years afterwards he entered a strict
monastery. His dark luxuriant hair was cut
f 2
100 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
/
close, and the monk's cowl replaced it. He
performed every penance—he followed every
fast which the Church enjoined. His knees
were very frequently bowed in prayer. If ever
his thoughts strayed towards human creatures,
they hovered not towards the Court of the M.6-
dicis, nor towards the home where he had spent
long days and sleepless nights, in the vain wish
of acquiring a knowledge of a futurity which is
wisely cased from the human eye. But he suf
fered his thoughts to dwell on that dear child
of his warmest affections, who slumbered at rest
and at peace ! How often he fancied he felt
her arms entwined round his neck. How often
he fancied he heard her voice speaking her own
flowing Italian language ! A new life, new
hopes, new thoughts, swelled Pettura's heart,
and he looked back on the wasted hours of his
life with deep regret, but with a firm hope of
forgiveness. Oh ! that men would not require
to be so severely chastised before they return
to their allegiance and submission towards God!
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 101
Who would have knownthe once proud man,
humbled, self-reproaching—subdued in every
feeling? ever bowed in prayer, those knees,
which had so long refused to bend—ever parted
in praying words, those lips, which had never
before so much prayed?
If Clementina appeared to his view, she
seemed no more to reproach—she whispered
some mystic words of forgiveness ; the fancied
words sunk calmly and balm-like upon his
affrighted ears, until at length the proud man
was resigned — resigned to trust, hope, and
await God's commands to return to a purer ex
istence.
And that stern man remembered so many
sweet recollections, as daily he returned to the
same monotonous round of life. To his lofty,
though erring mind, the monastic life was^ in
deed a punishment. And what was now the
Astrologer's dearest delight ? Ay, he sometimes
smiled at his own childishness—he took such a
keen pleasure inrecalling days solong, long riven
102 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
that it was like hailing spectres from another
world.
Sometimes he was wandering, in thought, in
his own native land ; Italia's sweet balmy sky
. was shining over him ; voices so richly toned,
saluted his ears ; and the mother so long slum
bering in death, his own Italian mother, was in
the picture ; and he was wandering in grounds
bathed by the flowing waves of the river ; he
was straying amidst vineyards ; orchards were
before him, pines and grapes, rich and lustrous,
overhanging his head. And then the scene
changed.
The first ambition of his boyish days re
turned, lie delighted then in pureT studies ;
but alas ! boyish ambition was succeeded by
the ambition of power ; he was introduced to
the^Jtalian Princess, and the crafty Catherine
de M^dicis became a dupe to his ambition,
whilst he helped to feed the fuel of her own.
Then, passions deep and unconfined arose, like
whirlwinds in their fury; they scorched the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 103
soil of the heart, they preyed upon every
vital spot of the mind ; there they were, like
fuel ready to be lighted upon every opportu
nity, tyrannically burning every better feeling.
Now, now, all was changed; but sweet Cle
mentina had been the sacrifice, ere that heart
returned to its duty. Pettura felt that the
poor maiden's death had recalled him to life.
To life ! Yes ; as sinners do feel they will
be forgiven, no matter the difference between
Protestants and Roman Catholics—in that*we
are agreed. It is the good man's belief; it is
the sinner's hope; it is the anchor—the pilot
to steer the benighted heart.
Oh, blessed forgiveness! like the rainbow,
so sweetly reminds us of a lasting promise.
There is a time when the repentant sinner feels
he will be forgiven ; there is a time when the
sinner's prayers become less confused, and the
throbbings of his heart less violent.
After indulging in retrospective views, poor
Pettura clasped his hands together; he lifted
104 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
on high his tearful eyes, and he felt he was
forgiven.
The King of France still continued on a sick
bed, and some historians say that the most re
volting remedies were tried, but without suc
cess. If they tell truly, we are informed that
Charles was bathed in the blood of infants, who
were born dead, in the hope of sustaining his
perishing frame. The tidings of peace in the
kingdom never wafted by his tossing couch,
for*the Massacre of St. Bartholomew was pro
ductive of no good effect. Instead of crushing
the Calvinists, the horrible, the appalling Mas
sacre, rendered them stronger, or rather made
them furiously angry against their opponents.
Oh ! how vain of weak man to raise his hand
to annihilate a religion, which the Almighty
stamps with his protection ! The Duke d'Anjou
had now the command of the army, and in 1573
the celebrated siege of Eochelles took place—a
siege which will ever be memorable. Women
and peasantry, artisans, the peaceful labourers
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 105
of the field, all ranks of men there formed a
soldiered band. Then the year 1574 dawned ;
the winter was succeeded by balmy, joyous
Spring. Summer approached ; the white blos
soms of the trees lay scattered on the ground,
and were replaced by the genial clustering
fruit, and Charles the Ninth was dying.
f 3
CHAPTEE VII.
To die with the consolotary voice of a good
conscience whispering peace to the parting
soul, is no doubt a blessed exit from this world
of wo ; and yet a good man feels the pain of
dying. To die with sin gnawing at the vitals
of the heart ; to see phantomed visions of mur
dered victims ; to hear the shrieks of the dying,
to live mentally in a range of impassioned re
morse—oh ! terrible passage of the soul to the
threshold of eternal life! No angelic forms
hover round the couch of sin ; no angels sing
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 107
their gentle numbers ; they dare not say, " Sis
ter spirit, come away."
Oh! for the agony of the mother of that
Royal youth, who, at twenty-four years of age,
in the first green blush of manhood, was
dying—dying in bodily and mental anguish.
Could any one, to have seen the haughty Me-
dicis' hands clasped in anguish—could any one,
after gazing at her pallid brow, have believed
that she would ever again be the all-political,
all-dark, Regent-Queen ? Yes, she shook off a
grief, which was so natural to a woman ; that
woman a mother. She wiped away the cold
drops which gathered on the Royal youth's
brow; she pillowed higher the sinking head,
and then she spoke in the dying ears—Oh !
horrible—not a mission of heavenly purport,
not words fit to marshal a soul to its new and
glorious abode. Her words were deep and
solemn, but they were all earthly, all selfish.
" Charles, if you have ever loved me," she
said, " Leave not the earth without making a
108 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
more binding arrangement ; it is for the public
weal I desire the Regency."
" Mother, mother, that will be when I am
dead."
" My son, we must all die once."
"But oh! my soul is so troubled, so dis
quieted ; I am so unhappy, so unfit to die !
Can you give me no comfort?"
"We will talk of that anon; sign the Re
gency Bill first."
" Are you sure the people will like it ? What
pain I am suffering ! pillow me up higher ;
moisten my parched lips. Now call Lorraine ;
call Mariot."
" You had better sign first."
" No, no, no," cried Charles, " let me pray.
But I am a sinner ! Mother, heard you that
dreadful shriek ? "
" No, my son, all is still, all is quiet ; you
hear the soft summer wind, wafting the lilac
and laburnums close to your chamber window.
All, all is still."
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 109
" It is not" said Charles. " Hark ! dost call
that the wafting of a tree ? It was Coligny's
dying shriek—it was, it was—"
" My son, it is my voice you hear ; none is
near to harm you."
" None near ! " said Charles, with a bitter
laugh ; " there are spirits ; dark, ugly spirits,
all around me. Coligny is first in the throng.
Oh, why was I not more wise, mother ? Why
was I so sinful ?"
" Peace, my son ; peace to your sorrowful
heart. You have naught to reproach yourself
with ; I alone am to blame."
" I might have silently allowed the massacre,
but I had the weakness to fire—to slay with my
own hands—and now—now, I am dying. No
scalding tears can erase the dark spot from my
soul ; no repentance can aught avail ; for re
pentance may sing a bitter requiem, yet it
cannot recall those injured martyrs to life.
Pray, mother, pray ; though it be too late, yet
prayer is the food of the dying soul. My eye
110 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
cannot rest on you ; it is dim, and an impene
trable film is crossing the line of light ; the sun
seems veiled in darkness, and darker is my
soul. Mother, mother, pray—"
*****
" Time is waning, Charles ; the light of life
is extinguishing. Would you leave your king
dom all distraught ? Others were my sins ; this
would be yours. Sign the Regency Bill ; give
me the charge of the kingdom ; your soul will
be easier."
"Will it?" cried the poor weak youth;
" give me the paper—guide my hand—I can
not see. Now it is done, will you not pray ?
No, no, you shall not pray. Call Lorraine—
haste—call him !"
* # * » #
Long and deep were Lorraine's prayers ;
convulsive were Mariot's sobs : they caught the
attention of the dying King.
" Come here, my faithful Mariot ; let me pil
low my head on your breast ; and let my heart
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. Ill
cease to beat whilst it is on your own so quickly
throbbing. Press on my pallid brow the last
kiss of affection. Oh ! that I had listened to
thee r
" Hope, trust ; rely on a merciful Provi
dence."
" Alas ! alas !" said Charles.
" Alas, for all the sins of mankind," said Ma-
riot ; " but, thanks to the forgiving One above,
who has pardoned sinners as deeply stained as
thou."
" Blessed words," murmured the dying King;
"and bless thee, faithful Mariot, for uttering
them. Farewell now, my life is waning. Mo
ther—Mariot—a long, a last farewell !
The head sunk heavily on Mariot's breast ;
and for a moment the latter thought the Royal
youth had expired ; but once again he spoke.
" Lorraine, when I am no more, cause masses
to be said for the rest of my soul Oh, Mariot,
I am in torture !"
" Where is the seat of your pain ?"
112 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
"Where? In the brain—in the soul—on
every waning vital spark. No sinner ever felt
worse remorse. I—"
No more words could the Royal youth utter.
A few hard and agonizing struggles, and Charles
the Ninth's soul had gone to the last rest of the
departed.
* * # « *
Hark ! hark ! There arose a wild, an awful-
sounding scream—the cry of a mother, who
now for the first time believed that there was no
more hope. That cry, proceeding from the Me-
dicis' hps, was shrill—it was the wail of an
erring and hopeless spirit : it was such a cry as
we should utter over the dead, if we had not
the blest assurance that " there is life beyond
the grave."
Yes, whatever has been said of Catherine de
Medicis, there was a deep root of maternal
pride in her heart, which necessarily filled it
with at least a shadow of that purest of all feel
ings—maternal love. It has been extolled by
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 113
poets, that feeling, surpassing all other in its
exquisitely beautiful refinement. But poets
are too rapturous in their ecstasies—they dazzle
more than they convince. Maternal love, as
a general, lofty feeling^, is less beautiful than
when it is individualized. The roaring lion
tames his nature, and loves his little ones.
The actual feeling of loving a child is no
virtue whatever—it is an inherent impulse im
planted in the human breast. But when a
mother enters into all the imaginations of her
child, until confidence, love — pure, unutter
able love —unites them — when the love is
passing general extol, it is then it is beautiful.
This feeling had never entered Catherine de
Medicis' ideas. She had much maternal pride,
but no sweet, dear, maternal love ; her chil
dren knew how ambitious, how imperious, how
searching she was—they obeyed her as every
one seemed to obey her—not from love, but
from the sway of a voice, manner, and will,
seeming formed to command. But death is so
114 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
different to any other stroke. No sooner was
Charles's poor suffering frame cold and still,
than the Queen merged into the woman—she
buried her face in the rich velvet coverlet, and
she wept. ,
Yet scarcely were those tears the same as
other mourners shed ; she repined rather than
regretted. She felt astonished that children
should be taken before their parent ; she felt
dissatisfied with the just dispensations of Pro
vidence ; but that unruly heart never asked
— " Where, oh, where, had the bright soul
flown ?"
The question would have been salutary.
Catherine would have next inquired—
" Whither her own soul would have gone ?"
But more Queenly, and more majestically,
proudly-beautiful, the Medicis arose from her
meditation—or rather with her self-argument,
for it all ended in this cold sophistry.—
That since all men must die, she should en
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 115
joy, whilst she might, the passing hours of
life !"
* * * • *
The day—that most solemn day—arrived,
when the corpse is placed in the coffin ; and
although the mother withdrew to a distant part
of the Palace, still the melancholy sound of
preparation was heard. A mother's ear alone
could have detected it. Yes, yes ! the mother
thought her once blithesome son was being
lifted up and placed in his coffin. She remem
bered the once untameable spirits, and all his
youthful glee ; but after one effort—an effort,
alas ! but too successful—a glow once more
visited her cheeks. Strange-hearted woman !
# * # » *
And upon the air, hark ! hark ! there is a
sound ! meaning—sad—lonely ! Hark ! the
dismal peal ! it is for Charles the Ninth's burial.
Poor, unhappy, monarch ! ^tfafibt -had once
had bright expectations, bufy^hen he saw his
hopeful pupil firing at the/Huguenots, what
116 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
must have been his feelings? Now, remorse
and sorrow were too late : the grave had
closed over his faults. No more could the dis
consolate tutor hope, and the vision he formed
of the future seemed only to augment his
tears.
Deeply, solemnly, tolled the deep-toned bell :
the sound is echoed afar on the balmy air ; the
fragrant lilac bends in the luxuriance of its
beauty ; the tfpsoaring lark utters her notes of
love; the gay children of earth spread their
heads to the breeze; all is tranquil, save the
troubled hearts of men, whilst Charles the
Ninth's corpse is borne by the sable-clad re
tainers, and the nodding black plumes tower
high.
' # * » * *
# « * * *
Deeply, solemnly, still tolled the deep-toned
bell. Did it tell that a soul was at peace ? Did
it seem to say, high up in the haven of Eter
nal happiness Charles the Ninth's soul is
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 117
wafted ? Away with the sad inquiry ! He was
a sinner, but we know that He who reads the
heart has sometimes forgiven sinners crimson-
stained.
*****
*****
Deeply, solemnly, tolled the deep-toned bell.
Did its mournful pathos speak salutary words
to the ambitious heart of Catherine de M6di-
cis ? She sits in the embrasure of a window
overlooking the lovely gardens of the Louvre ;
she is clad in the deep trappings of sorrow ; her
face, pale and tearful, is hidden in her hands.
She hears that bell, and she feels that Death
has been near, quite near. Yet a few days more
and she is too calm, too much the same as usual.
She is no more the weeping mother ; she is again
" Catherine de M^dicis."
Henri the Third, successor to his brother, is
still in Poland, and the Queen is once more
Regent. Her hatred to Henri of Navarre is
declared; she meets him no more with well
118 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
feigned pleasure; she has no more need to
dissemble, for, aided by the assistance of the
British Queen, the King is advancing towards
Rouen.
There are few persons who have a moderate
share of information, who will not discover, that
whatever grave faults they may find in my fic
tion, they will at the same time see, that I have
endeavoured to rein in with veracity historical
facts.
At this period, then, it is well to leave off
talking of France, as it is not my wish to en
ter into the subject of the Wars of the League.
The lovers of the reign of Henri Quatre
must also be acquainted with that of the less
significant Henri III., his predecessor. And
now for - a few reflections on Catherine de
M^dicis.
Let us view this very beautiful woman in
every possible light ; the shades of vice predo
minate, and the youngest novelist who has had
the boldness to give her opinions of her charac
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 119
ter, dares not palliate one part of her principles,
lest she herself should be accused of loving vice.
She was a woman, but she had a masculine un
derstanding ; and the softness she could some
times assume made her only the more danger
ously attractive. She was not Queen by right,
but the Regent of the kingdom, and the Royal
mother of a youth, who, in better hands, might
have lived in glory and died in peace. She was
doubly culpable, because she was doubly re
sponsible. Charles the Ninth was a great en-
courager of arts and sciences ; and although his
excessive love ofthe chase necessarily hardened
him, and prevented his giving much time to
literature, yet History records that he some
times bent his mind to the harmony of poetry.
Poetry, methinks, speaks so softly to the human
heart ; it can so lull the passions ; but the
M^dicis' voice was louder than the plaintive
Muse.
Mariot, the learned translator of Plutarch,
was not suffered to slumber in oblivion ; the
120 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
King had him created First Almoner of the
kingdom, and never forgot his services as his
much-patien,t preceptor. Perhaps the truest
tears of regret shed over his memory fell from
Mariot's eyes ; for the reflective mentor of
his deceased pupil, must then have recalled
that Charles had the seeds of knowledge en
grafted in his heart, which might have been
productive of the sunniest fruit.
Charles the Ninth's early death, his keen
sufferings in his last agony, his short, but
eventful reign, are indeed reflective truths of
the baneful influence of listening to bad ad
vice. That mother's voice, who spurred him
on to level his gun at the flying Huguenots,
had planted a poisoned dagger in her son's
heart. •
Perhaps in early life she had held that son
on her knee ; he had looked up to her in the
trusting confidence of infantine love, little
thinking that she would close the dying eyes
of a despairing sinner.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 121
Blessed and good are the counsels of those
who have the moral courage to tell us of our
faults. Wise are we when we follow their ad
vice. The type of a true, a disinterested friend,
is what? " Sincerity."
vol. 111. G
CHAPTER VIII.
When the King had breathed his last sigh—
when his erring soul was wafted to that bourne,
to meet punishment or forgiveness, but alas !
to find repentance too late—then arose a
doleful cry—such as a faithful mastiff utters
over the grave of the master he has so truly
loved. It was Joseph—the poor fool Joseph—
lamenting his master's death.
There he had remained in an adjoining ante
room to that in which the dying King lay ;
there he had heard each low moan ; and when
the last—the very last—was uttered, he turned
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. If
Z5
my
himself towards the very Regal chamber, r
jood
he dared to penetrate even before the presf
of Regal grief.
id the
And Catherine, the mother, was then
her knees ; she had placed her head o
coverlet, she saw not the Jester—and h'
trd thee
faithful creature, he advanced to the
the bed, and he gazed long and sori? C ^
, . „. , , , ie must
upon that once joyous .King s much alteri
-Priest,
Unable to contain his burst of sorrov
jester
roamed disconsolate down stairs ; and therv
met one of the priests, who had come to ast
'as
in administering comfort to the King.
if
" You are too late," cried poor Joseph,
shaking his head mournfully, whilst a chorus
of bells chimed, as he did so ; the Jester doffed
his ornamented hat.
"Curse those bells," he cried; "I will never
wear them more. I am lost now I have lost
my master. Royal Charles, thou art no better
now than thy poor Jester will be in death ; and
it may be, I shall fare better than thou wilt."
g 2
4: THE ASTROLOGER S DAUGHTER.
Peace to the King's memory," said the
st, twirling his beads. " It is the will of
3g, but it was the will of men—of priests
rafty astrologers, that the poor young
?ut his soul afar from the righteous ; he
wicked by nature. I remember the
jn he was otherwise than "
rest thou, Jester, talk thus to a holy
? Darest thou mean to insinuate, St.
„r ^olomew's day was not a glorious one ?
,c thou not a heretic, sinner?"
wr
'' I am a sinner and a heretic, if so it pleaseth
thee to call me, Priest ; yet, but an hour ago,
I was Joseph the jester—the fool—the buffoon.
And thou, Priest, what art thou ? what art thou
more than a Jester? what council wilt thou
give the Queen-Mother ? Is it the poison or
sword by which thou wilt say—' get rid of Jo
seph!' Ha! ha! ha!"
"The fellow is mad!"
" Mad!" cried Joseph; " wise men go mad.
■9
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 125
fools never. Is it mad to weep for Charles, my
master ? Why, Mariot wept ; Mariot the good
—Mariot the learned ; Is he a fool ? "
"And by my faith, indeed not," said the
Priest.
" Faith ! thy faith—thou hast no more faith
than a brute being ; nay, Priest, I heard thee
when Catherine de Medicis told thee to explain
to the King that before all things, he must
settle the Regency upon her. Catiff Priest,
was that thine office 1 Pardi! Joseph the jester
would have made as good a priest!"
" And Joseph the jester will hang as well as
any other man," said the Priest, laying hold of
his collar ; but Joseph shook him off as if he
were a mere babe.
" Thy fastings have made thee over light,
Sieur Priest ; get thee gone, and touch me not
again." j
"Son! reprobate son! I will pass my ana
thema upon thee."
" And so will I ! " cried Joseph ; " I, Jo
126 the astrologer's daughter.
seph the jester, Joseph the fool ; I excommu
nicate thee — thou false, caitiff Priest. Ha!
ha! ha!"
"Enter, never, the pale of the Church,"
cried the Priest.
" Grand merci! I shall not be obliged to
hear thy croaking voice," said the still more
angry Jester.
Faithful fool ! he could only show his anger
by choler, and he lacked none of that. How
the controversy would have ended is a matter of
doubt, but at that moment, General Tavannes
crossed the court-yard. It was a fortunate
contre temps. The Priest withdrew, sulkily,
casting a furious glance at Joseph from beneath
his thick lashes, whilst Joseph, for an answer,
snapped his fingers in derision.
" Joseph, my merry man, what art thou
about ?" cried General Tavannes ; " remember
—the ragout a la Medicis !"
"Go to the devil with your folly," said the
Jester ; " I am a wise man now !"
the astrologer's daughter. 127
" I have seen no signs of thy wisdom yet,"
said Tavannes.
" And tell me one man at Court who displays
any, save in his own opinion, Monsieur le
General?"
" Come, come, Joseph, cease thy prattling ;
the King is dead ; but we all knew he was
dying. Come along with me ; I will be a good
master unto thee."
" Master, indeed," cried Joseph, drawing
himself up with all the dignity he could com
mand. " Master, forsooth ! I, who have never
been apart from Royalty. Get a crown, Ge
neral, and then be my master ; for, hang me,
if I am not as proud as if Catherine de Medicis
had inoculated me."
"Come, come with me," still persisted the
General, soothingly.
" No more," cried Joseph ; " I will never come
to Court again."
The poor Jester cast one most sad glance
at a window on high; he howled piteously
128 the astrologer's daughter.
and then he ran away with the swiftness of
lightning.
And that poor creature knew where to find
sympathy ; he knew of one sweet spot away
from the Court of sin and folly. He turned to
the poverty-stricken mother who had given him
birth ; and he railed not at her as he had at
others.
" Here is gold—gold—gold, mother ; enough
for thee, enough for poor Joseph. I will never
go to Court again. I will die here. I cannot
serve two masters."
And that mother— old, barely clad —she
seemed more beautiful to the simple Jester's
eyes than the fair ladies of the Court he had
just quitted.
Holy, maternal love ! holy bond of nature !
it is the poor and ignorant who feel so truly
that balm of all sympathy, a mother's pathos
of consolation.
She let the Jester continue his raillery
against crowned and mitred heads ; she knew
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 129
it was no use stopping the torrent of his in
vectives, but by the time the shades of even
ing had descended upon the earth, the tur
bulent heart was calmed in the refreshment of
sleep.
Ay, and long after Charles the Ninth's death
was forgotten ; when even the horrors of 1572,
when Paris, Orleans, Lyons, Thoulouse, and
all the most persecuted provinces were calm,
still that faithful heart thought upon his once
gay young master.
But twenty-three years of age he was ; who
will not sigh at the thought of a death so un
timely ! And sad is the power of example ;
there arose another, guided as Charles had been,
by a woman whose every thought was tinged
with vice.
Fickle and pleasure loving, Henri the
Third was more truly cruel than - his unfor
tunate brother. The Poles, from whom he fled
on his brother's decease, never gave, one sigh
for the loss of such a King, and he ascended
g 3
130 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
the French throne with projects of tyranny ripe
for execution.
The Jester kept his word—he never returned
to the French Court ; he loathed the thoughts
of grandeur. Poor fool ! he had thought his cap
and bells as grand as a chancellor thinks his
wig ; and it was sorrowful, yet ludicrous, to hear
Joseph soliloquize, hat in hand, talking to it as
if it were a relic, such as pilgrims preserve.
I won each bright bell, one by one, as I de
served it," he would exclaim : " this I had for
outwitting a Duke—that for thrashing an Abbot
—that for finding my master's books, and
prompting him with a duplicate behind a door.
Ah, poor bells, poor bells ! how bright they
look ! laurels these are which never die—laurels
which I will leave behind me."
And truly the Jester did not live long. One
chilly November morning he kissed his mother
with more than wonted affection.
" I go a roaming, mother," he cried ; " hast
thou a message ?"
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 131
" No, Joseph, and it is a cold day ; sec how
bright is our little fire, and you look pale and
ill ; stop here, Joseph."
But for all answer, Joseph whistled to his
faithful dog, and Dodo looked up wistfully in
his poor master's face. " Come along, Dodo,
come along with me ; what care we for cold
weather ? come along."
He felt the rigorous cold—he felt benumbed
—he felt ill—ay more, he felt he was dying—
he felt his poor heart, once bruised, now bro
ken, and he knew where he fain would expire.
He wished to weep once more on his Royal
master's grave—there he wished to die. One
more look he turned upon the house where
that lonely mother would henceforth dwell; one
solitary tear fell upon his sunken cheeks, and
then he proceeded on his way.
What a thing is habit ! dull, ill, dying, still
the Jester continued joking ; yet each joke was
accompanied with a doleful finale.
What a merry, jolly fool, I was once upon
132 THE astrologer's daughter.
a time ! now—now—well—well it was summer
once—now, how cold and chilly it is. My
name is Joseph Winter, so it is. Come along,
Dodo, you are more slow than I am ; dance
along, my jolly fellow ; nay, nay, not so fast ;
thou must dance to the tune of a minuet—slow
and graceful, and gentle. I've seen Catherine
de M6dicis and pretty Queen Marguerite
dance a minuet ; they never danced better than
Joseph and Dodo"
But at length, after halting and panting, the
grave of Charles the Ninth appeared in view.
There, beside it, knelt the poor Jester ; and
gradually his aching head sunk low upon the
cold turf. And Dodo, too, drew near ; poor
faithful Dodo—faithful to his master, as Joseph
to his King. He licked those cold, clammy,
death-stricken eyes ; he howled piteously, and
then he crouched down by the dying Jester's
side. The damp of death was now upon his
brow; the vital spark beat slower and slower;
the snow descended in large flakes, and ever
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 133
and anon poor Joseph, feebly brushed away
the falling drops, as they fell pitiless upon his
face ; and his last act was kindness, for he took
Dodo and smiled a languid smile, full of the
pain of dying, as he sheltered the animal
under his own clothes, to keep him from the
cold tempest. A few moments more, and
Joseph existed no more ; whilst the weight
of the cold corpse, falling heavily on Dodo,
-the dog died with his master—poor faithful
brute !
Even Catherine was struck by so much
fidelity, and Joseph was buried with much so
lemnity; over his tomb two figures are erected—
Joseph and his dog, extended on a grave. The
solitary mother had long expected this catas
trophe, and Tavannes, who had really loved the
once merry Jester, provided for her, who never
ceased to lament the half-witted creature, who
had, amidst his bursts of folly, entertained bet
ter thoughts, than many of those refined beings
deemed—courtiers.
134 the astrologer's daughter.
Courtiers ! yes — they had shared all the
blithe hours of Charles's wildest merriment ; but
none, save the Jester, wept true tears over
his grave !
CHAPTER IX.
It was at the close of a stormy day, that Pet-
tura was one evening disturbed from his devo
tions by the entrance of a brother friar.
" Brother Pettura, there is one below wisheth
to see thee," he said.
And Pettura, who began to look back upon
life as upon a troubled dream, had scarcely col
lected himself, ere, descending to a small room
below stairs, to his astonishment the Due de
Guise stood before him. Pettura turned deadly
pale, and retreated back a few steps.
"What would'st thou with me?" he said.
136 the astrologer's daughter.
" Art thou here to recall a dream, pregnanf
with thoughts deeply, everlastingly rife ? Arf
thou here to bode some future evil ? Ah, Henri
of Guise, a father's grief never slumbers."
" Pettura," said Henri of Guise, turning
upon the bereaved parent a look full of young
melancholy; "Pettura, lay aside thy feeling
grief for a few moments, and listen to me. I
am no longer to be duped by the smiles of Ca
therine de M^dicis ; her beauty is waning, and
with it her power of disguising. Some presen
timent tells me I shall be assassinated. I have
met with traps at almost every step I have trod
den. Henri the Third is a pleasure-loving mo
narch, possessing not even his late brother's
freaks of generosity. Pettura, you will be re
venged, and I come to tell you."
" Tell me no more of a Court, vile, miserable,
degraded ! And as to revenge, ah ! I think of
it no longer. Why come to remind me I ever
lived in its contemplation ? Oh ! Henri of
Guise, shun those vicious haunts, where
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 137
wickedness, like lions let loose, run insatiate,
roaring for a new prey. Shun that majestic wo
man, who, when her beauty wanes, must still
be powerful, clad in wit and deception. I know
the poison lurking beneath each golden arrow.
Go, young man ! I have nothing save words
of regret and remorse to say. Go !—go ! leave
me!"
" Not yet ! not yet, Pettura ! there is still one
thing I would perform here ; take this key !"
he cried, detaching a small chain from his neck ;
" take it, and keep it, for the rust upon it is
grafted there by my falling tears. It is the key
of the chapel, where Clementina's remains are
laid ! If I die a foul death—assassinated—
thrown aside ignominiously—perchance my
pale corse may not be buried ; but if possible,
cause me to be buried near her, the young, the
beautiful, the bride !"
No more he said, but paced up and down the
narrow room, and then, with one last gaze at
Pettura, he rushed from the apartment.
138 the astrologer's daughter.
Even from his tranquil dwelling-place, the
Astrologer heard hereafter of Henri of Guise's
fate.
When he tottered, old and bent, and leaned
upon a stick—when he took a calm walk in the
enclosure ofthe convent, the young and hapless
Duke had slumbered his last sleep—assassinated
as he had predicted, and actually murdered by
orders of the King.
He died in the flower of his age ; yet none
wept a tear o'er his grave, for in those troublous
days, a selfish feeling pervaded all breasts ;
each one mistrusted the other.
Readers, let me add a few historical remarks ;
these many deaths are not imaginary, indeed ;
if we would sum up many facts to bring for
ward, with strength, a forcible lesson, let us
think of the awful retribution depicted in His
tory's pages.
After all her toil, after scaring her heart,
after staining the soul—once formed brightly
to type a purer nature—did the grasping,
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 139
longing, searching Catherine de M^dicis, reap
any positive benefit? Could even her callous
heart rejoice to witness the sad havoc, both of
war and the fatal spirit of revenge, marking
that period ?
Now do we look back with grave astonish
ment upon those days of hasty revenge ; and
we wonder, as we peruse a work of romance,
" how far all this may be true." A few words
may, therefore, be welcomed by the thoughtful
reader.
Poltrot de Mer£, a young man of English
extraction, did murder the old Duke of Guise ;
and the young Duke Henri, his son, was sacri
ficed in the reign of Henri the Third, to that
King's political revenge. And not only were
the Protestants, or Huguenots, persecuted by
Charles the Ninth, under the influence of the
Queen-Mother, but they met with the same
fate under the dynasty of Charles's predecessor,
Francis the Second.
Catherine de M6dicis, in her husband's life
140 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
time, and in that of three of her sons, was the
actual instigator of all these evils. She died
a short time before Henri the Third, in the
seventh-first year of her reign.
Oh ! then, like a calm after a tempest ;
like sun-beams dispersing a misty sky; like
hope on the heart, when sorrow has long there
reigned, there came another one to the
French throne—one who had caught a spark
from Queen Elizabeth of England's lofty
mind; one who threw a halo around the slum
bering genius of France. The great Henri
Quatre.
Memorable edict of Nantes ! when the per
secuted Protestants returned, hoping, joyful;
exalted by misfortune, improved by persecu
tion.
Hail, joyful throng of quiet Christians ! un
obtrusive followers of the Prince of Peace.
Hail, monarch ! hail, all monarchs, who bring
back peace to a long-disturbed country !
It is why Elizabeth of England has so im
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 141
mortal a name. Faults she had—some very
great ones; but when prisons were broken
open, chains were snapped and severed, the
brand was thrown aside, the persecution ceased,
oh ! then the woman's faults were lost in the
magnitude of the chaotic power of genius ;
and cold are the hearts which echo not—
" Great Queen Bess!" Strange to say, Henri
Quatre, her contemporary, was such another;
he was oftentimes wavering ; he was weak.
Lofty in genius, he knew not how to govern
his own heart ; his mind could cope with the
greatest ; his heart was a wanton thing, in the
power of many women.
It is not here my intention to talk of the
King husband's conduct to the lovely Margue
rite of Valois. As I have before dismissed her
from my realms of fiction, I dare not speak of
her any longer; whilst those latent observa
tions, lingering thoughtfully, retrospectively,
on the pages of a novel, may be dismissed by
some, and slighted by others.
142 the astrologer's daughter.
Yet there are some, aye, and many, who
will love the author's pen when steeped in
the thoughts of her heart ; who will patiently
and gently ponder over them ; and, perhaps,
think they see the mind more, than when fic
tion's thraldom glosses over the individual
writer. A word, then, to these ! Is there profit
or pleasure in revenge ?
Nay; by every written fact, by every re
corded word, I answer nay ; by the sorrow of
sinners' death -beds, by their unhappy lives
and unhallowed deaths—I answer nay.
Politicians, the horrors of the sixteenth cen
tury in France under the Medicis' dynasty—in'
England, under bloody Queen Mary's sway—
may never, never be repeated ; but may not
the sad and petty pique of political feeling be
carried to a great length ? may not some who
have enjoyed together early scholastic days
of pure, boyish friendship, hold against each
other's throats the dagger of jealousy, the
poisoned cup of retaliation? Oh, by the
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 148
memory of those early days, when political
thoughts were afar ; by the memory of all the
gentle ideas ye love, Politicians, pause ere
party-feeling would estrange your hearts ; and
pause, ere ye condemn one another's judg
ment; ere men, whose hearts swell with all
that is noble, all that is kind, are levelled
against with weapons of opposition, piercing
sometimes from the public press, unto the
domestic haunts of their love.
Remember, Politicians, that toleration is the
groundwork equally of domestic and political
virtues. Still not the cry—hear, hear—it is
often the voice, like a still, small sound, re
calling you to a sane step.
For aye, it is temporary insanity to tear each
other, manly English hearts, solely because
ye differ. Ye'have England's weal at heart—
ye are the loyal servants of a virtuous Queen.
Oh, then, that spirit of toleration but raises ye
higher—higher—far higher than woman's pen
can descry.
144 the astrologer's daughter.
Forgive the young author ; or if ye would
give her a quidpro quo for her heartfelt, though
" tremblingly brave" oration, tell her she has
not offended, and allow your attention to be
rivetted.
Happy England! happy politicians ! ye upon
whose names youthful eyes are turned ; ye to
whom young English politicians look up—old
England, never be extant; it is thy model to
whom all should direct their gaze. Invidious
pen ! dare not to trace a name—speak but in
hints of the father of England's liberty, he is so
tolerant, he is so truly noble. It is the blood of
intrinsic goodness flows in his veins ; he is as
the father of the child he loves ; the father of
England's welfare.
And seek not, young author—dare not trace
the name of that genius of oratory—that lion of
emphasis, that open hearted Politician ! No cry
can still his ardour, and death alone will silence
that voice rushing, falling, rising, like swell
ing torrents dashing down, but not to over
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 145
whelm. To relieve the heat of the heart, some
times to he quelled, and be convinced, oftener
to convince, but always harmoniously cadenced
to one tune—-who—who art thou ?
" And who art thou, young Member ? risen
like a bright star; twinkling yet modestly aspir
ing, but not vain ; lofty, but not obtrusive. And
who knows not another one, though no name be
traced—the Politician who stoops to grace his
leisure hours by embodying those ideas, those
thoughts taught by so grand a hand, to fall
gently upon Woman's ears ? Yes, Woman's
eyes can thus gaze, without flinching, upon
the word Politic ; and even if she understand
not all, she knows, she feels its practical theory
—-fame all centred in one word —good ; whilst
spangled with love-frighted imaginings —ro
mance, blended with wholesome truths—Wo
man reads—and reads to be convinced.
No more from my quiet home : who cares
what thoughts rest in my heart ? And when lay
ing my head to rest, at the hour others dress
VOL. III. H
146 the astrologer's daughter.
for a ball, -who cares that imaginative creation
is the companion of my pillow ? And still doth
the roar of the vast world reach me—not to
overwhelm, not to dazzle. Leisurely do I
pluck the faded leaves from my bouquet ; and I
fain would rear for the public a wreath—im
mortal, undying.
Catherine de Medicis, thy faults were as
spurs guiding the author's course to a deeper
loathing for thy erring career ; virtues, alas !
there were none to depict. In searching for
them, each grain was too deeply concealed, if
any there were, in that unwieldy soil. Un
happy woman; even the ruthless hand of Death
brought no salutary lesson to thy heart—none,
none ; and her sons died, and her friends and
foes dropped around her. She heeded not the
warning voice, and yet she lived long enough
to feel all the burden of her sins.
Oh, what a pity that genius should have been
sowantonly thrown away; for, doubtless, genius
there was amidst all that cruel sway.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 147
What a pity it was that Catherine felt not
the real tenure
" Of all that forms our true pre-eminence."
But nay ! on, on she went, until of her might
be exclaimed—
" Morn, noon, and night, in one eternal play,
Are thine ambition ! "
But we may not add—
" Till thou wear'st away ;"
for when did Catherine de M^dicis' ambition
wear away? How true it was of that ambi
tion—
" 'Tis thine to suffer through uncounted day."
Yet it was not on this subject the Poet wrote
—for, if I quote rightly, it is added—
" Yet, welcome, all."
"Welcome, means the Poet (Montgomery), all
h %
148 the astrologer's paughter.
proper exertions towards the welfare of trie
land of our kindred, but ambition, cemented
by cruelty, fostered by revenge, fed by horrid
vice—that ambition has no . welcome ; though
it may never die, its only requiem is re
morse.
Yet, fellow-mortals, fellow-readers of this
our world, who can answer this, save in the
spirit I answer it ? who dare affirm with cer
tainty what sins can be forgiven ? Think of
the superstitious times in which she lived ;
think of the encouragement even clergy gave
to every vice of that spoilt heart; bring the
sixteenth century before your gaze, and say—Is
Catherine de M^dicis, fallen from that balmy,
holy path of forgiveness ! Let not Disdain curl
her proud lips ; let not Cruelty cast the first
stone ; let not Ignorance bind each fetter ; let
not Blindness shut out the vale of mercy. And
now, robbing once more, the Poet's leaves—
" If ever thought of mine,
Hath woo'd a spirit into calm divine,"
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 149
let me woo it now, when I would cause those
feelings to be wrapt in a halo of brightness ; so
that having some lustre to spare, other minds
may, without blushing for the plagiarism, catch
up the lustre, and exclaim, " We will not judge
hastily."
Slumber, then, Catherine de M^dicis ! Thy
fatal beauty and thy vices slumber in Oblivion's
tomb ;—at least, never more shall my pen hover
oe'r thy name, albeit a choir of voices would not
be too many to my ears when conning over the
pages written in my first novel. If aught of
floweried sweetness should blossom o'er that
oblivious tomb, be they watered by the tears of
regret kind hearts shed over the sinner's grave.
They are hallowed, those tears, and they pu
rify the sternest soil. Hope blooms in renovated
freshness as the drops flow upon it ; and for
giveness, cherub-like, stretches its mild wings
forth even over the M^dicis' tomb.
CHAPTER X.
And Mariot, the faithful preceptor—he whom
even Catherine de Me'dicis respected—even
amidst his favourite orations he felt no more a
ray of delight. There was something of occa
sional frankness in the unfortunate King's dis
position. There had been seeds of good all
crushed, yet it never had been poor Mariot's
fault. How often he had railed against that
vile policy which makes men forget what a
purer mind bears ever in view ; how he railed
at that still viler spirit of revenge, which, de
moniac-like, rushed impetuous, unreined, over
. THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 151
the land of France. Nurtured in the land
where balmy air, orange groves, vineyards, sun
lit mountains, are extolled, Catherine de Me-
dicis—a woman—had bruised and broken most
• countless hearts ; and for many reasons Mariot
did all in his power to keep away from that
haughty Queen-Mother. He never felt "the
ruin of her smile," for no smile could allure
him ; but he felt the true rectitude of his own
heart would make him too boldly speak the
truth—truth too bold in itself for Catherine de
M^dicis to hear. But one evening Lorraine
broke upon Mariot's solitude ; and the latter,
who ever mistrusted the Cardinal, wondered
what new plot was brooding.
A frown passed over his face, but he bowed,
and pointed in silence to a chair.
" You are dumb," said Lorraine, haughtily ;
" but I forgot you loved Charles."
" You forget, then, my Lord Cardinal, that
which I can never cease to remember," was the
laconic reply.
152 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. , ,
" France will soon forget there was even a
Charles the Ninth," said the Cardinal.
" Nay, nay," said Mariot, with considerable
bitterness, "say not Charles the Ninth will
ever be forgotten. Not so long as men can
remember, will St. Bartholomew's dreadful
deeds be effaced either from the pages of His
tory or the pages of men's hearts. And thou,
my well-beloved, though erring pupil, thou
hast done all this. Not all, not all—thine were
the deeds; to another's conscience the advice
must be placed. My Lord Cardinal, I pray
you speak no more to me of the Past. When
I am shrined at rest, where oblivion's tomb
casts its shadows over men, then only shall I
be at peace."
" Gracious ! Mariot, there be many would
deem themselves fortunate in thy stead. The
King's bounty—"
"Talk not to me of gold," cried Mariot,
gradually warming ; " talk not to me of the
base metal, the price so often of all virtue.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 158"
Talk not of gain, I think only of loss—of the
loss which no gold can buy—the loss irreparable
of my young Royal master. Sin cannot be
retrieved with gold, and he, hapless youth—
he "
******
" Mariot, art thou unbelieving ? do I not
cause masses to be prayed for the deceased
King's soul ? and hundreds of tapers are burn
ing even now on the consecrated altar—"
" Churchman, hear me !" said Mariot. " Send
me to the confessional—send me to the torture
—send me to the Pope—send me to Catherine
de M^dicis—do as thou wilt afterward ! now
thou shalt hear my words !
" I believed once in every rite of our Popish
Church. If I sinned, I confessed ; if I were
absolved, I deemed myself forgiven ; but mine
eyes are opened ! Thou, Cardinal—thou, great
Lorraine ! thou didst absolve Catherine de Me '
decis, when sin black as hell lay at her heart !
thou didst hear her foul intentions ; thou didst
h 3
154 the astrologer's daughter.
give her thy absolution—and I believe no
more in that rite ! "
The Cardinal's face grew deadly pale with
the rage he could not conceal. He stamped
his feet, he threw back the cowl from his head,
and he peered into Mariot's face, as if to ascer
tain if he were in his right senses.
And Mariot, conscious in his own rectitude,
returned look for look, scorn for scorn ; his
loud voice rolled at length like angry thunder,
and Lorraine quivered as he continued :—
" Yes, Churchman, not only wilt thou an
swer for thy deeds, but thou hast made thyself
answerable for those of Catherine de Medicis.
I would not have thy conscience, to be Cardi
nal Lorraine this very night. Cankered must
be thy heart — and thy religion! God of
Heaven ! is that religion ? Was it religion to
persecute hoary-headed men, to learn the
secrets of Court-born maidens' hearts, and tell
them again to Catherine de Medicis? Was
this thy sacred avocation as Confessor ? And
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 155
to what image, save the mammon of thy cove-
teous heart, hast thou ever bowed thy knees '!
Go, Cardinal ; it is by men's lives, not the
abstract theory, we judge of their religion ;
and thou, with thy mitred head, thou hast a
heathen's heart. A heathen ! God forgive me
—thou art not as good. The poor fire-wor
shippers, gazing with reverence at the lumi
nary of their adoration, look up at least with
a feeling of awe. The Mahometan longs to
dwell in the paradise of his creation, with the
bright houries around him ; he believes that if
he be vicious his hopes will never be realized ;
but thou. Cardinal, thou hast made a mockery
of religion, and I scorn to follow the same
rituals thou hast disgraced ! "
" Man, be thou man, or be there some devil
in you—fear my revenge, and expect it too,"
continued Lorraine, in a voice choked with
passion. "Live to-day, and live tomorrow.
Yet, know not how soon thy end is at hand."
" I care not," said Mariot. " I expected
156 the astrologer's daughter.
this ; I have so lived as not to dread death ; I
have not murdered—ruined—betrayed ; I have
not held a sacred office, to work out worldly
ends ; I have not glanced at crowned heads,
and said, " Ye are mine, as much as if they
were mine." I have not accumulated riches,
by robbing others ; I am plain Mariot, the
simple, unpretending man—the man of sorrow,
pining over the sins of others ; and in thy
secret heart, thou art envying now even the
victim thou hast written in thy tablets."
" Mariot," said Loraine, " it was not to be
insulted I came here ; the Queen-Mother re
quires thy presence."
" I require not hers," said Mariot, " and, so
help me, God, I will not willingly seek her
presence. Go to that degraded woman, and
tell her other tales than those thou art wont to
con in her deluded ears ; go tell her there is an
hereafter, a terrible Tribunal, a God Merciful,
a God Avenger ! Go, tell her, that if poison
and steel tell no tales here, they record words
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 157
on high ; sent there by the very demons who
arranged and plotted, and then betrayed ! go,
tell her all this, and then "
" Ha ! ha ! ha ! " laughed Loraine, pre
tending to scoff at Mariot. " And thy learned
head, my virtuous, my saintish Mariot—at how-
many francs dost thou value it, that thou
would'sthave me bear a message, which, by
its purport, would bring the answer delivered
by the executioner ? "
" No executioner has power to change my
sentiment ; but, I read thy thoughts, Cardinal :
thou knowest I speak but the truth ; thou wilt
not repeat a word I have said ; thou fearest my
death more than I do."
" And why so, Mariot ? "
" Why, because even now, disease is written
on thy brow, and thou art thinking of thinning,
not burdening thy conscience with more vice.
Go on thy ways, my Lord Cardinal ; like the
poor fool Joseph, I am weary of Courts ; I will
158 the astrologer's daughter.
cross thy path no more, and I shall soon be out
of thy recollection."
Mariot turned away, and the Cardinal sul
lenly left the room.
" I will go no more to the Medicis," cried
Mariot, aloud ; and he kept his word. When
next a message came for him, he had retired
to a quiet house in a distant province. Poor
Mariot ! and for this had he toiled at night,
to inculcate precepts by day. A rude, remorse
less hand—albeit it had been a mother's—had
snapped the young twig, in its early growth,
and thus bent, and twisted, it had continued to
grow. A mightier architect than poor Mariot
was found in the architect raising up the
temple of vice ; and the pernicious poison of a
Medicis' advice had destroyed, with unrelenting
grasp, a young, wavering heart. The last
funeral knell sounding for Charles the Ninth's
death had struck a doleful chord in that faith
ful Tutor's heart
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 159
The clever translator of Plutarch was fast
growing morose, when, after a short illness, he
slumbered the death of the righteous.
CHAPTER XI.
Indulgent readers, cross we now the Channel.
Let us take a little survey of the house where
the unfortunate Poltrot de Mere's gentle sister,
Augusta, is living in harmony, and feels sorrow
for her brother's fate, tempered by the sweetest
hope of a promised forgiveness towards repent
ant sinners. She knew not who had dealt him
his death-blow; but the tidings that he was
dead, were wafted from that sister shore, so
wrapped in most degrading vice. Augusta re
called Poltrot's saddened, handsome face ; no
pale despair had been left there ; every calmed
feature spoke of hope and resignation.
Did the fascinating Edwina Ailesbury droop
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 161
under a passion as new as it was at the time
deep ? No, hers was not a disposition to in
dulge long in a dream which could never come
to a substance. Her political neighbour's coun
sels, who assured her "that the best of men
were hardly worth a fair girl's constant tears,"
might have weighed in the balance of the scale
which caused her (after a certain number of
sighs1', and lonely rambles, and pensive songs,
and melancholy-strained poems) to return to
her more sunny poetry, and the soft language
of flowers. A few months more, and the gay
girl's laughing brown eyes were as purely
youthful in their expression, as if no Poltrot de
Mere^ had ever caused them to shed a tear.
A very handsome young man is walking by
Edwina's side. His arm is twined round her
waist ; and the widowed mother, from her open
window, hears with heartfelt pleasure the sil
very tones of her gay young laugh.
" Do not speak again of my ' Amore dohre.
and furore? reign of love, bold one," exclaimed
162 the astrologer's daughter.
Edwina, in answer to a whisper from Count
Joceleyn; "I am older and wiser now, and
consider a love-sick illness is the grave play
which comes before the pantomine, and the
latter I hail as the most agreeable."
" And my love, then, is naught but an oppor
tune pantomine?"
" Exactly so ; if you proved faithless, I
would perform the tragedy first. Faint, droop,
*
sigh, cry, and pine ; walk up and down my
room at night like a bear in his den ; look at my
meals, but live on the food ofa balloon, the love-
tuned air ; grow interestingly thin, then "
"What then, beloved?"
"What then?" Edwina looked at Count
Joceleyn's handsome face ; she saw his eyes
resting on hers, and she hid her graceful head
on his bosom, whilst she spoiled her r£cit by
nothing save the truth, as she whispered, " Jo
celeyn, no pantomine would come after that
tragedy."
And Joceleyn imprinted a fond kiss On her
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 163
brow, whilst the happy girl was recompensed
for her sincerity.
A few weeks more, and she is sitting at an
open window ; her clustering brown curls are
waving to and fro, as the wind, fanning the
casement, disturbs their arrangement ; a beauti
ful blush is on her white skin, and as she bends
gracefully over her embroidery frame, her
syren-like voice is checking her cousin, Augusta
de Mere.
"How blessed a thing it is to be loved,"
she says. To-morrow, I shall be a bride.
Come pretty coz., I must be romantic or modest
enough to look more shy than I do, or the
whole village will call me 'Countess Bold
ness : ' what a name for a bride ! Yet I can
not boast that it is the influence of a bad exam
ple ; for, if I copied you, Augusta, I should
indeed look modest. Why are you sighing?
Are you afraid the count loves me better now,
than he will after the marriage is over ? yet I
assure, you I have taken a lease of his love for
164 the astrologer's daughter.
twelve months, with an earnest wish of renew
ing it after."
" May he love you for ever ; may you be as
happy as you deserve. I was not thinking of
Count Joceleyn ; I was wrapped in a dream of
the past."
" That is the worst of the three tenses for you
to dwell upon, sweet coz. ; why do you not think
of the present, with a perspective view of the
future, in the shape of orange flowers and white
satin ?"
" Oh ! you will spoil that flower, Augusta !
Pray have a care, or I shall say you are in
love. Is it with Lord Holdernese ? is it with
Colonel de Charpentier, or is it with our hand
some, though d mon gout, too grave minis
ter?"
" You think I have a capacious heart, Ed-
wina."
" You have at least an embarras de richesses,"
said her lively tormentor.
And at that moment, the grave, and hand
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 165
some minister was seen coming up the lawn.
Edwina looked at her cousin, and Augusta
looked low on her embroidery frame, the crim
son tide mounting to her brow.
" Le sage entend un demi mot," said Edwina,
kissing Augusta, and leaving the room as Mr.
Englefield was announced.
*****
Yes, she had pined, that gentle Augusta, she
had pined for her brother's loss ; and in the
stillness of night, as well as during the balmy
hours of day, still, still, a prayer quivered on
her chiselled lips.
No wonder if a soft melancholy sat upon her
interesting countenance ; no wonder when such
serious thoughts were ever at her heart's core.
Not only to lose a beloved relation, but to have
been pointed at—she, so good, so gentle—as a
murderer's sister.
If grief dimmed not her beauty, it was that
it was ever-tempered by holy and soothing
thoughts ! Inspirations of heavenly hope,
166 the astrologer's daughter.
kindling rays sent refulgently bright from a
beatified shore ! Many there were who offered
their affection to that most graceful being ; but
Augusta turned away with a sigh approaching
to a shudder, when light hearts spoke, and light
voices reached her hearing ; for these she could
not feel love, for they reminded her by their
very ardour of that fiery energy she had once
endeavoured to check in her impetuous brother.
And what a fate was his ! what a life he had led ;
what dreary thoughts, what bitter remorse had
followed him. But at length one there appeared
before the saddened gaze, one who brought tears
of holy comfort to the sweet dove-like eyes ; one
who led the grief-stricken heart to the cool fount
of never dying consolation—a holy Protestant
minister.
He knew what grief was, for his own family
had one by one been cut off in the bigotted
Mary's persecuting fury. None save those who
have steeped their eye-lids in a tear can shed
the same sympathizing grief.
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 167
So at length, words hitherto unheeded fell
more sweetly upon ears much dulled with grief.
Augusta learned—what many grief-stricken
persons learn—that when one holy love is dead,
another may rise up as pure—for love is a boon
from Heaven. It was the early boon bestowed
upon our first parents—it is the earliest feeling
with which the human heart throbs—it is the
commencement ofwoman's life ; she lives in a
hemisphere of love.
In infancy she turns crying and moaning,
and a mother's voice, a mother's holy love com
forts her. Brothers, sister, or companions next
claim her love ; and then, there arises a brighter,
dearer, keener, feeling—the love gentle woman
gives to man. What trust there is in that love
—that forsaking those with whom her earliest
thoughts are associated. Woman binds her
destiny to one she has perhaps accidentally
met. Strange mystic love—strange ! as poets
love to call it.
Augusta now felt her heart flutter with a
168 the astrologer's daughter.
new and strange delight ; she, who had never
thought she could love since her brother's
death, felt all the influence of the charm of the
gentle voice pouring words of entreaty into her
inmost soul. Loving, yet not passionate, speak
ing of quiet, domestic life.
" I cannot bring thee a title, my own much-
beloved Augusta," said the minister. " I can
but offer thee a heart, faithful—faithful unto
death. Tarry your tears, sweet one ; repay me
by at least a smile."
Augusta repaid him by more ; she returned
the gentle pressure of his hand, and her eyes
were the first to express all the love she felt.
By the power of their bright, glistening answer,
the amiable clergyman felt he might press his
suit.
Multum in pano. Two weddings in a day.
Cupid's arrows sometimes take long aim, espe
cially if the young and beautiful are the targets
on which they mean to rest.
Mrs. Grandison emphatically declared that it
THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER. 169
was more diplomatic of the quiet Mrs. Ailes-
bury than she should have imagined it was in
that lady's composition to manage ; whilst all
the time the placid widow had been knitting,
and (as all obliging mothers will do) allowing
the Count Jocelyn to win her daughter, and the
Minister of the Parish her niece. Which of
the two fair creatures, the graceful Edwina or
the commanding-looking Augusta, looked best
in her bridal attire, as that is not an his-
torical event, I leave it to my Readers to de
cide.
Merrily rung the wedding bells, and merry
smiles adorned the face of Edwina, as she rose
from the altar, and was greeted, not " Countess
Boldness," but the sweet-looking " Countess
Jocelyn." Augusta's noble features were less
radiant with joy, though her heart was equally
full of love, but she was not selfish enough to
think only of her own pleasure; her heart
breathed a fervent prayer that her brother's
soul might dwell at peace, and a tear started
VOL. III. I
170 THE ASTROLOGER'S DAUGHTER.
to her eye at the recollection that he could not
be present at her bridal.
Months, however, brought serenity, happi
ness, and joy to her heart; and, let us hope,
that like her merry cousin, she would each year
renew the lease of love.
THE END,
THE
SPANISH GIRL'S REYENGE.
a Stale
OF THE REIGN OF QUEEN MARY.
1
THE
SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
CHAPTER I.
Merrily sound our Sabbath bells ; 'welcome call
to Christian ears. All ranks ofmen crowding to
gether, gaily prepare to take their place in the
sacred temple ; there, rich and poor are under
the same roof, type of that heavenly choir,
where there is no distinction of persons—where
merit claims the highest place. We pass the
peasant in his lowly garb, the children of the
poor, as well as the wealthy and great, and
upon each face a smile appears to linger—a
sweet, a happy smile. Some, resting from a long
week of toil, seek the nearest place of worship,
176 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
to thank their God for the daily bread they have
received, and to invoke a renewed blessing on
the ensuing week's labour. Others, in jewels
and satin, lay open hearts aching with secret
sorrow, and pray for assistance and grace, for
pardon and support. How thankful ought we
to be, that we live in these happy days, when
the voice ofPersecutionishushed; when mothers
may instruct their lisping babes ; when together
we may commune in those accents of religion
which our Divine Saviour has taught us are
" the way, the truth, and the. life."
The hands which were raised to shed blood,
or to kindle the funeral pile, are cold and power
less, still in the never-waking sleep of death.
When we pause and look back into the lapse of
years, what pictures present themselves to our
imagination. Fellow creatures, possessed, like
ourselves, with feeling hearts, and warm affec
tions, loving the world as we do, clinging to
life as we do, hurried like sheep to the slaughter,
torn from their happy homes, their family re
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 177
unions, their evening fire-sides, and led to tor
ture and to excruciating death. Mary ! Bonner !
Gardiner ! what images of cruelty these three
names bring to mind. Unfeminine Mary ! was
it to execute thy bloody persecutions, that God
created thee a Queen and a Woman? Was it to
bury all thy noble and feminine attributes, all
Christian-like graces ? Alas ! we tremble when
we reflect, that long ere this, a tribunal of mercy,
but also of acknowledged justice, has judged
thee for thy unnatural conduct. What victims,
by thee made ! what family circles severed and
disunited ! The father, torn from the wife ofhis
choice, for a moment staggers under the load
of oppression ; he pauses—a word, almost a
sign, will save his life ; the word trembles on
his lips, but his tongue refuses utterance ; the
high-principled, the gifted soul, has triumphed
over the infirmities of the flesh ; that soul,
purified in the fire of faith, rises triumphant to
meet him, who set us himself so glorious an
example of constancy in death.
i 3
178 THE SPANISH GIRl/s REVENGE.
Readers, will you accompany me to the
scene, where my story commences? will you
wander with me in far-famed Woodstock ?
where then dwelt the Princess, afterwards our
great Elizabeth. As she walks in the midst of
the beautiful grounds, and softly treads the
verdant green, her mind is lost in a chaos
of great and searching thoughts, and the
beautiful influence of the summer's charm is
lost upon her, at the recollection that she, the
daughter of the proud and despotic Henry, was
little better than prisoner to the Queen of the
realm, and that Queen was her sister. A tear
involuntarily started to Elizabeth's pale-blue
eye, and she walked on, without raising her
head. Flowers spread their fragrance to the
day; a gentle murmur was heard from the
zephyr-like motion of the trees ; the lilac
drooped in the richness of its beauty, and swept
the daisied lawn ; but the Princess heeded not
the charms of Nature, for if she indulged herself
in contemplating the universal works of crea
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 179
tion, she only felt with double bitterness the
wish of being free. Only twenty-three sum
mers had passed over the Princess's head, but
youth's bright hilarity had long since given
place to a look of deep and anxious thought ;
the blue eye was thoughtful and searching, and
there was a quivering restlessness round the
parted lips, which indicated a mind ill at ease ;
whilst her tall, commanding figure, taller-look
ing still, from her long train, which swept the
ground, possessed a majesty, and even a grace,
which struck every person who beheld her
with the conviction, that a post of responsibility
and honour would be well placed under her
guidance. Elizabeth's lofty mind, soaring high
above the timid beings who composed her
Court, sought in vain for some kindred soul,
some high genius like her own, to share with her
the heavy burden ofher thoughts. Upon whom7
too, could she place her affections ? Not upon her
Royal sister, though both daughters of Henry
VIII., their minds and pursuits, their virtue*
180 THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE.
and faults, were essentially different. Elizabeth
was open, generous and vain ; Mary, vindictive,
cruel, and jealous ; to which, add suspicious, and
then conceive two such opposite characters assi
milating together. True, there were short and
passing moments when Mary relented, when, as
sisters, they communed together. Then would
the young Elizabeth take advantage of the
softened eye, and gentler voice, and plead with
the fervour of high spirits, and longing desire
for more liberty, more change of scene, and
more amusements.
Alas ! for Elizabeth. Perhaps at the very
moment her suit seemed likely to be granted,
when Mary gazed upon her sister's animated
countenance and princely bearing, and for a
moment felt the force of her superiority, some
word, too warmly spoken, or accompanied by a
look of unconquerable ambition, would dispel
the charm. As ice melts and leaves the water,
to rise and fall, to bubble and play, disburdened
of its heavy surface, so a word recalled Mary's
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 181
natural hauteur ; and, as she had not the grace
of speech or manner which causes a refusal to
be shorn of the prickly thorn of ungraciousness,
so the Royal sisters parted as they met—the
one as Queen, and her sister's mistress, severe
and almost spiteful ; the other, indignant and
haughty, gave way when she found herself
alone, in an unrestrained burst of passion, to
the pent-up feelings which she had smothered
during her interview with the Queen.
Thus Elizabeth formed her courageous and
dauntless character. She banished away fri
volity, she scarcely ever indulged in the femi
nine pursuits of her age, and the times she lived
in. Words doubly magnified by time-serving
courtiers, were repeated to Mary; and Eliza
beth, surrounded by persons appointed by the
Queen, found herself daily more rigorously
watched.
If Mary treated her Royal sister with se
verity, not so her husband ; Philip of Spain
both appreciated and admired Elizabeth's cha
182 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
racter. He thought her a talented and highly
intellectual female; he considered that her
amiability of disposition was marred by Mary's
severity towards her. He admired the manner
in which, without deviating from truth, the
Princess answered questions relative to her re
ligious opinions, with a force and yet a caution
astonishing for her years and sex, as well as
her critical position. Pity succeeded admira
tion, when Philip beheld the Princess the
slave of Mary's tyrannical temper. It was a
delicate task for the King -Consort to take
Elizabeth's part; Mary's watchful jealousy,
the many constructions she might place on his
conduct, rendered it very difficult to serve
the Princess as openly as Philip wished it.
At the same time, Elizabeth possessed a
high and Queenly bearing, a voice of au
thority, an eye of self-willed expression, which
marked her, at one glance, as a person likely
to have much influence over the people ; and
the King of Spain felt assured that the Prin
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 183
cess would be dangerous to Mary's peace, if
she were suffered to have unrestrained liberty.
Puzzled beyond measure how to act, fearing
Elizabeth's influence over him, PhiKp very
seldom visited his Royal sister, and sometimes
forgot her altogether, unless her name was
mentioned before him.
One morning, perhaps a week, after Eliza
beth's first introduction to my readers, a page
belonging to her household peeped cautiously
through the arras of the tapestry, into a small
drawing-room, situated in the Tower of London,
where the Court was then held. Seeing that
the King was alone, the page stole into the
room, and delivering a small note into His Ma
te
jesty's hands, placed his finger cautiously on his
lips, and hastily retreated. The precaution was
necessary, for Mary's step was heard in the cor
ridor. The King hastily glanced at the note,
recognised Elizabeth's hand-writing, and placed
it in his pocket.
" How fares it with your Majesty ?" he asked,
184 THE SPANISH GIRl's REVENGE.
as the Queen entered the apartment, with a
slow step and a gloomy brow.
" I doubt me if your Majesty cares much
about my health," answered Mary, bitterly ; " I
shall not ask where you have been spending
your long truant hours; but, methinks, that
some portion of your time might be devoted to
your consort, who is harassed and wearied of a
crown without peace, a continued persecution
without amelioration, Ministers without since
rity, and a husband without love. My bold
sister Elizabeth was perhaps right when she
refused her many suitors ; and I weary with
enforcing her to marry, for she is right enough
when she says that the marriage state is not so
enviable."
Said she so, the saucy maiden ?" answered
Philip, laughing, nothing disconcerted by his
wife's rebukes; "nay, methinks I will pay the
Princess a visit, and convince her that I my
self am a Royal exception to her list of unruly
husbands. I will convince her Highness, that
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 185
I am a pattern of amiable, conjugal, and—
and "
" Shall I finish your sentence ?" said Mary,
sneeringly.
" (Test comme tu voudras," replied Philip,
gaily-
" Say," continued the Queen, " that you are
a pattern of gallantry towards every one but
your own wife."
" Ha, ha, ha," laughed Philip, kissing the
angry frown from Mary's brow. " Come,
come, no more of this ; shall we visit the Prin
cess Elizabeth?"
" I shall not go !" answered the Queen ; I am
tired with her obstinacy, and moreover, have
been entertained during the past week with no
other topic save a panegyric account of her wit,
grace, and beauty.
" Take heed, giddy girl," continued Mary,
in an under-tone ; " for high as now stands thy
pretensions, and higher still thy pride and hau
teur, thou may'st yet feel that two daughters of
186 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
Henry VIII. cannot live at the same time, and
I am Queen ! "
" And I am King, and will protect the
Princess/' exclaimed Philip, drawn out of his
usual caution by the Queen's menacing words,
as well as the sinister expression of her coun
tenance.
" Ha ! " meaningly exclaimed Mary.
But Philip had left the room, and with angry
strides sought his own chamber, where he
perused Elizabeth's note ; it contained only
these words,
" The Princess Elizabeth wishes to speak
with His Majesty, Philip of Spain, on a matter
of great importance."
The Queen continued some time without
moving. Her feelings were highly incensed
against Elizabeth ; she imagined Philip's words
were fraught with meaning ; and now she
began to feel that pang of jealousy which de
stroyed her peace, jaundiced her years, and
rendered her more an object of scorn than of
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 187
love to her foreign husband. " I will cer
tainly go to Woodstock," thought Philip ; " but
at the same time, he did not like to leave his
Queen until he was reconciled with her ; for,
although afterwards unable to bear Mary's
increasing ill-humour, he left her, and returned
to Spain, it was not without endeavouring by
good-nature to disperse those clouds which too
often hung over the domestic happiness of the
ill-assorted pair.
On the present cloudy morning, Philip de
termined to make his niece, the Lady El-
drida, the means of reconciling him to Mary.
This young lady, the daughter of one of Philip
of Spain's sisters, was all-powerful with the
Queen of England. Less bigotted than her
Royal relative, she had considerable enthusiasm
in her devotions ; and her disposition, so warm
where she loved, so violent where she disliked,
might, under wise control, have been trained to
the noblest deeds. But, alas ! the stem was
branching forth rapidly, and the fruits of a
188 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
powerful mind were such as could be expected
from the tuition she received from her confessor,
Gardiner. If the tear of sympathy started to
her eye, or her bosom heaved a sigh, when she
heard ofthe persecutions of the Protestants, the
tear was dashed away, ere it had hardly appeared
on the beautiful lid, and the aching of the heart
was treated as a weakness Eldrida ought not to
indulge. If the Queen of England ever loved
any human being besides her Spanish husband
(to whom, notwithstanding her moody humours,
she was tenderly attached), it was this young
girl. Philip of Spain had brought her with him
to England, and she was associated with those
soft recollections which will crowd at times in
every woman's breast, when she looks back upon
days gone by, and especially that day, when her
fate was linked to another's, by bonds which only
death, or the unfortunate disuniting hand of
divorce, can break asunder. Gratified with the
warm reception she met with from her Royal
aunt, Eldrida returned her love with cone
THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE. 189
sponding affection. Blind to those faults others
felt to their cost, she looked upon the Queen as
a person of superior intellect, who was zealously
endeavouring to restore what Gardiner had
taught the young girl to consider the right
religion in the land ; and although her heart
.revolted at the persecution and the dreadful
fate of the Protestants, she was at last per
suaded to accuse them of blind obstinacy, for
refusing to listen to the persuasive voices which
were raised to induce them to recant, and turn
to the Roman Catholic faith. We may, during
the course of this tale, have occasion to view
Eldrida's character in its worst points ; we will
therefore now turn to her good qualities.
Pitying the agonizing death which the Pro
testants endured, the young girl's compassion
was further strengthened by witnessing an
affecting scene. A whole family, father, mother,
and children, gained admission to the Tower,
and knelt supplicatingly before Mary's throne.
They prayed for mercy ; they begged for life ;
190 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
their tears flowed in torrents on the Royal
robes, and their hands convulsively clasped
Mary's ermine-bordered mantle. Eldrida, inex
pressively moved, joined her tears to the afflic
ted group, and Mary pondered; she might
have relented, but the door opened, and Gardi
ner, stern, pale, saint-like, and resolute, entered.
No words of salutation to the Queen passed the
prelate's lips ; no expressions of wonder at the
scene before him : he drew from his breast an
ivory crucifix, which he always carried with
him; he approached the unfortunate victims of
persecution; "Kiss this cross," he said to the
eldest member of the group ; " kiss this cross—
turn from your heresy and live." With a gesture
of firm, though painful determination, each one
of the afflicted party refused the sign of recanta
tion, and were conducted back to prison and
death. Eldrida turned away from the prelate
with a shudder, and from that hour she de
termined to exert all her influence and de-
devote her time tothe instruction of the Protest-
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE" 191
ants ; happy if she could, however seldom,
at least occasionally have the pleasure of saving
one brand from the raging fire. Eldrida
thought the Roman Catholic religion the
best form of worship ; her motives were there
fore pure ; ardently she devoted herself to the
self-imposed task. She left scenes of gaiety,
tore herself from the voice of admiration which
everywhere followed her footsteps, and re
turned, day after day, to the soul-searching
object. When she succeeded, then she led
the converted person to her Royal aunt, ex
claiming—" Saved! saved!" and even Mary,
all bigotted and cruel as she was, felt in the
young girl's beaming countenance that hers
was a labour of love. What a picture to be
traced ! the young girl repairing each day with
renewed vigour to her task of mixed success
and disappointment. She pleads, and her large
eyes and full Spanish figure dilate into posi
tive majesty ! Now she reads, now she prays,
now entreats ; and whilst her beauty and grace
192 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
increase with her animation, she never thinks
that the loveliness of her person has a leading
influence even in the high task. Eldrida's
was a lofty style of beauty, which almost
baffles description, as it is the majesty of
the countenance, the expression of the dark
liquid eye, which forms the great attraction
of a Spanish girl, and indeed of every mental-
looking woman. The English rose did not
bloom on Eldrida's soft cheek ; her complexion
was dark, but of that beautiful soft pure brown
which harmonizes best with hair of the darkest
hue of black. The contour of her figure, her
walk, and general bearing were commanding in
the extreme. Scarcely above the middle height,
her figure was so well expanded, that she ap
peared taller ; but perhaps her greatest attrac
tion was her voice, so melodious, so soft, so en
ticing, that it was like the sound of a crystal
rivulet, falling drop by drop in the cascade
below.
Eldrida was sitting in her own room, when
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 193
her uncle gently knocked at the door ; she did
not hear the sound, for she was wrapped in one
of those reveries which the French call les
domes, reveries dejeunesjilles.
" Open your door, orfoi de roi, I will break
it with my sword hilt," said Philip, laughingly;
as he entered without further bidding ; but his
countenance fell, when his quick observation
made him aware that Eldrida had been weep
ing. Not a particle of colour was in her cheeks,
and her large eyes had an expression of deep
wretchedness.
" What is the matter ?" exclaimed Philip.
" Nothing at all, my very particular Uncle,"
answered Eldrida, endeavouring to force a
smile.
The King, however, could not be deceived ;
he put his arm round the young girl's waist, and
drawing her towards him—
" Eldrida," he said, "we musthaveno more of
this dull business ; you really must not go to the
heretics any more. Let Gardiner and Bonner
VOL. III. K
194 THE SPANISH GIRl's REVENGE-
do their business; if theywill not repent at their
bidding, so much the worse. Nay, I must in
sist on your abandoning your pursuits. You look
harassed and ill. Let me see ; you are almost
nineteen ; why, Eldrida, I have neglected you,
but nevertheless we can make up for lost time,
and, before long, sweet niece, you must make
your choice. The Swedish Ambassador—how
like you him ? "
" I have never thought of marrying," an
swered Edrida, quickly.
" Nay but it is time, then. Would that I were
one of your preuz Chevaliers. I will speak to
the Queen on the subject."
" No, no, pray do not think of me ; I am hap
pier as I now am," answered Eldrida, with a
sigh.
The sigh was scarcely audible, but Philip
heard it. He looked fixedly at the young girl.
Perhaps he was more severe than usual ; per
haps she felt some secret sorrow : be this as it
may, Eldrida burst into tears.
THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE. 195
There are some dispositions who so soon
yield to the emotion of weeping, that very lit
tle notice is taken of the circumstances which
cause the tears to flow ; but Eldrida's was one
of those high and daring spirits, who think it a
weakness to indulge in grief, and her uncle,
never before, since the days when in infancy
she dwelt with him, had seen one tear dim her
eye. The young girl's weeping was now very
violent from its unusual occurrence, and the
King, failing to console her, left the room with
a disturbed countenance and a painful feeling
at his heart, that all was not as it should be
with Eldrida.
k 2
CHAPTER II
We left the Princess Elizabeth walking in the
grounds which surround her habitation. There
was not anything particularlysoothing in'the con
templation of the past, nor in the fancied visions
of the future, which sprung up before her mind ;
but unwilling to enter into conversation with
the ladies of her suite, the Princess frequently
wandered about until late in the evening, and
on her return not unfrequently spent an hour
or two alone, either reading or studying.
" It is no use wasting life in vain hopes, or
useless regrets," exclaimed Elizabeth ; " I feel
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 197
a secret conviction that my day of glory will
come ; that Mary will leave the crown without
a successor; and when I am Queen of this
great realm, England shall say, that the Prin
cess Elizabeth knew how to employ the soli
tude of her early days, by spending them in
improving her mind. Poor England ! my heart
is with you, and I sympathize with your suffer
ings ; and sooner would I exchange place with
the meanest person of the realm, than, follow
ing the example of my bigotted sister, kindle
again the funeral pile."
Alas ! how little are we masters of our ac
tions ! What would the wise-minded Princess
have said, if any one had appeared to her, and
predicted her future life; have foretold how
the annals of her great history would be tar
nished by the recital of her unfeminine con
duct towards the unfortunate Mary of Scots ;
her weakness and subsequent treatment of the
condemned Essex. And the great Princess,
who during her young days cared only for the
198 THE SPANISH GIRL'S KEVENGE.
beauty of the mind, when she was approaching
her seventieth year, became so foolishly and
blindly vain, as to allow her courtiers, and
even foreign ambassadors, to compliment her
on her beauty.*
The Princess retired into the house, and
amused herself for some time in arranging the
flowers she had culled during her ramble.
After completing her task, she was on the
point of ringing the bell, in order to return to
her attendants, when the door opened, and a
venerable man stood before her.
" My good Cranmer," exclaimed the Prin
cess, rising, and placing a chair for the prelate,
" you do indeed surprise me ; we will have
lights."
" No, no," answered the Prelate, as the
* Hume brings forward two notes in corroboration of
this fact ; as if the historian feared persons would hardly
credit the circumstance unless authenticated. " See," says
"Birch's Memoirs, vol. n.f p. 442'; and Sydney's Letters,
vol. n, p. 171."
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 199
Princess was on the point of ringing a little
silver bell by her side ; " my words must be
spoken quickly and secretly, and I care not for
the light, for my body will soon repose in
deeper darkness than this. Princess, I have
come to bid you a last farewell."
" Gracious Heaven ! can it be true ?" an
swered Elizabeth. " No, no, dear Father, they
dare not do it. You are surely not talking in
earnest V
" Alas ! I speak too truly," replied Cranmer,
" and I shall soon be a heap of cinders ; think
you there is aught to be gained from Gardiner
and Bonner ? The latter stills his heart against
the very name of humanity, and practises
on himself the very cruelties he orders to
others. You have marked his shrivelled hand,
Lady?"
" Oh, yes," answered Elizabeth ; he held his
hand to the candle, until the sinews and veins
shrunk and burst ; and, sometimes he will whip
the prisoners with his own hands, until he is
200 THE SPANISH GIHl/s REVENGE.
tired of the violence of the exercise ; hut, per
haps, Gardiner will not he so ohdurate."
" Ah ! I repeat it," said Cranmer, " there is
nothing to be hoped for from these men, and
God's will be done."
" But it is not, it cannot, be His will that one
so good and holy as you are, should perish by
the hands of his own creatures. I will fall at
Mary's feet—she is my sister, and must pity
me ; I will place myself between her and the
door, and Queen Mary must trample over
Henry VIII.'s daughter before she escapes
my fervent prayer."
" You fall at Mary's feet," replied Cranmer;
" then would Henry the Eighth have some
trouble to recognise his daughter. Never,
never ; sooner would I that my blood now
stained this floor, than see the Princess Eliza
beth humble herself to that haughty woman.
Oh, Princess ! how vain it is to trust to the
promises of the great ! Once I rendered your
Royal sister a great service, and she earnestly
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 201
promised to serve me, if it were ever in
her power. How graciously she has kept her
word."
" Art thou sure, good prelate, that thy doom
is sealed ?" said the Princess.
" Quite sure," answered Cranmer; ** and
before to-morrow morning dawns, I must be in
my prison; but I have sought this interview
to speak with your Highness on an important
subject. Are we quite safe ?"
" Quite so," answered the Princess ; " but,
in order not to be disturbed, if you will retire
into the inner room, I will at once order
lights."
Fearing any interruption this time, the pre
late consented, and withdrew into the next
room, which led to the Princess Elizabeth's
private suite of apartments. The latter gave
orders to be left alone, pleading indisposition ;
nor was this statement incorrect, for she felt a
chill of horror, in thinking that before many
k 3
202 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
evenings closed, the venerable prelate's career
in this world would have closed.
When Cranmer returned, Elizabeth gazed
through her overflowing eyes on the prelate's
ghastly face. He appeared faint, and the Prin
cess earnestly besought him to take some re
freshment.
" Kind Princess," said the prelate, " allow
me to make use of the short time I have, in
communicating my dying wishes to you ; in a
week I shall be no more."
Elizabeth seized the venerable man's hand ;
she pressed it within her own: that hand, warm
with youthful energy, trembled and almost
recoiled when she felt the cold pressure of
the prelate's. One large tear after the other fell
from her blue eyes, but she was speechless.
" I harass your mind, young Princess, but,
nevertheless, I must begin with the early part
of my persecution. In an evil hour I was
tempted to recan.t, and to acknowledge myself
a convert to that religion which can sanctify
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 208
such deeds of horror as we daily witness in
our unhappy country. I recanted ; but, Lady,
you cannot understand the agony of my
feelings, the longing for a continuation of life,
which, in spite of myself, stole over my senses,
when Gardiner and Bonner multiplied by
strong language the horrors of a death at the
stake. My blood froze, my heart trembled,
my eyes saw through a thick mist ; I was be
side myself; I feared, I trembled, I durst not
die ; I—I—recanted ! My prison walls still
confined me, and none save Gardiner and
Bonner witnessed the scene of my unworthy
weakness. Not satisfied with my signature,
they declared that I must openly proclaim my
conversion to their tenets. Then the full force
of my sin rushed before me ; I remembered
that the Holy One, the Lord of all, suffered
for us ; I remembered, too, that he had declared
that " His cross was heavy to bear ;" that if
we would be His, indeed, we must leave
father, and mother, and brother, and every
204 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
tie which binds us to earth. Keligion com
forted my sinking heart ; I stilled the weak
desire of life ; I lulled human feelings into slum
ber ; I hushed all worldly ideas in the chaos
of oblivion ; I prayed for grace and strength.
Now will I lean on the Rock of ages, and when
this soul forsakes its tenement of clay—when
the flames have played their destructive part
around me—then shall I find a glorious and
everlasting reward. Princess, I can suffer now,
and not fear the blow."
" Pray let me save you" exclaimed Elizabeth ;
" that fiery persecution must surely cease. Do
as I do : worship God in your own manner, but
do it secretly ; God will accept your prayers."
" Lady, your position is different to mine,"
answered the Prelate ; I am called upon to de
clare openly my religion, whilst the Queen will
never expect that of you. If the ties of nature
and the bonds of affection do not restrain her,
she will consult policy. You are beloved by the
whole nation, and an open trial of your faith
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 206
would draw the public eye towards you, which
the Queen wishes to avoid."
" I believe you are very right," answered
the Princess ; " but all this argument cannot
make me waver. If my life is worth preserving,
yours is more so. Still live, good prelate, to
guide and instruct those who are led from the
right path of religion : fly, hide yourself awhile ;
I will assist you."
" Be calm, Princess," answered the prelate ;
let not your youthful spirits tempt me to err.
Indeed it is not in my power to escape, if I had
the wish."
" Then how came you here, good pre
late?"
" The Lady Eldrida assisted me, and I gave
her my word that I would return. Am I not
right in keeping my promise ? "
" The Lady Eldrida has much power," an
swered the Princess, somewhat bitterly.
" She has," answered the prelate, entirely
mistaking the meaning of Elizabeth's words.
206 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
But, all-powerful as she is, I would not that
on my account she incurred the displeasure of
such men as Gardiner or Bonner. Her life
would scarcely be safe, for their revenge is
sure and deadly; and surely, to the young,
life is even more valuable than to the old, who
know that the next step they take will be into
the grave."
" Ah ! it is strange how sweet is life,"
replied Elizabeth ; " how we cling to it, even
when beset by adversities, and borne down
with grief. How beset with perilous shoals and
fatal sands is our pilgrimage through this
world. Sometimes I envy the peasant, singing
as he daily repairs to his arduous toil ; I envy
the careless laugh, when lo ! the next morrow
dawns, and the enviable happiness has oft-
times fled ; some unforseen calamity has over
taken him. I turn away with a sigh, and am
forced to acknowledge that ' All here below is
vanity, and vexation of spirit.' "
" Ah ! your Highness "
THE SPANISH GIKL'S REVENGE. 207
" Nay, nay," interrupted the Princess, " not
your Highness ; call me sweet Elizabeth, or
sweet lady, as in the days of my childhood,
when first I heard divine truths fall from thy
tongue ; then thou lovedst me with parental
love, such as a father loves his child."
" Ay, as I do love my child" emphatically
replied the prelate.
" Thy child ! " exclaimed the Princess, start
ing from her seat ; " and yet thou canst not
joke."
" It is time to explain myself," answered
Cranmer. " Lady, yours is not one of those
narrow minds who can allow their intellects and
opinions to waver with every passing tenet of
the day; surely, if you know aught of the
human heart, you are aware, that, although
some resemble more than others the bright
image in which man was originally created.
Still, human inclination, human affections, hu
man admiration of Nature's most beautiful work
of creation —woman! is implanted in every.
208 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
heart. Although the clergy are now forbidden
to marry, it was not always thus, and every
right-judging mind must see the utter falseness
of a doctrine, which can deny man the privilege
ordained by Heaven itself. When was Adam's
happiness complete ? Though dwelling in
Eden's sweet garden, where ever-blooming
bowers were planted by his Maker's hands,
where streamlets of freshest waters flowed,
where fruits of richest ripeness grew ; in that
abode of peace and happiness, where scenery,
harmony, freshness, all, all that could enthral
the senses, and pour delight into the soul ex
isted, even then, Adam's happiness was not
completed until, waking from his deep trance,
by his side stood the fairest of the Heavenly
creation—woman, in her first innocence and
beauty. And when the bright and glowing
scene changed—when man, wretched, fallen, de
graded and sinful, spurned by the angels, tri
umphed over by the devil of wickedness, the
crawling, deceitful, insidious serpent—was ba
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 209
nished for ever from his dwelling-place, the fair
garden of Eden ; then Eve, equally wretched,
more culpable, followed her outcast husband,
united to him by a tie, considered binding by his
all-seeing Master. Alas ! the pleasure of loving
may be defined, but the anguish of parting from
the object of a long- cherished love can never
be depicted. I never see a happy couple, newly
united by the voice of the Church and deep
voice of love, but a dream of the future flashes
before me, at the very moment when my smiles
ought to co-mingle with the bridal pair. Alas!
I think, now both united, who first will break
the wedded tie ? Who will be the surviving
mourner ? Who will whisper, " go, join thy
Creator ; we- shall meet in a world above ? "
When I first looked upon my blushing bride, I
thought not of all this, though I have paused
upon it since ; nor dreamed I that consumption
had implanted her deadly seeds, that corruption
sat upon that glowing cheek, and the fire of the
destroying blaze within was kindled in the azure
210 THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE.
eye. My beautiful bride survived for two years
the birth of her only infant—years spent in
agony, baffling, as it were, in the arms of death,
till at length, calmly resigned, the victim of con
sumption died, as June's pale rose, before the
hand of Time had struck the root. Italia's
balmy skies availed naught : there poets love to
sing their strains ; there the canopy of Heaven
smiles brightest ; there the purple fruit ripens
to strengthen man's body by the juice of its
lustrous pendant fruit ; but to the dying, sink
ing body, what climate can restore fresh life, if
it is God's will to recall the spirit to its original
dwelling-place ? Grief for the loss of my beauti
ful wife for a time deprived me of the use of
my reason ; the lovely babe, slumbering in her
cradle, awoke and lisped her mother's name.
Oh, heart-rending call ! in vain the tiny hands
were stretched forth; in vain the azure eyes
wandered about ; they rested but upon a discon
solate father. When a mother brings a helpless
babe into the world of sin, can she feel the strong
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 811
affection twined round each delicate fibre ofthe
heart ? I cannot think it. My babe's cries were
different to other babes' ; and already a look
of pensiveness sat on the features scarcely yet
formed. Poor babe ! poor babe ! I grew weary
of its cries ; and she might have been neg
lected, when a kind hand was stretched forth
to watch over the delicate infant ; and my
blessing—the fervent blessing of a father—at
tend this friend, wherever she may be. The
lady I speak of, whose name is Mrs. Stracey,
arrived in Italy a few months after the death
of my wife ; she was accompanied by her little
boy, Alphonso, a handsome, noble-faced child,
scarcely five years old. The lady was attired
in the deepest black ; she never spoke of her
husband; there was an indescribable some
thing stamped on her lofty, intelligent coun
tenance, which spoke of much suffering : there
was a tremulous sweetness about the voice,
which seemed to indicate that smothered,
but soft affection, was still busy at her heart.
212 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
Her dark-eyed boy was as different to his
mother as an obscure November fog to June's
celestial sky. He could scarcely be called
spoilt, for Mrs. Stracey suffered not one way
ward wish to be gratified ; but even when with
prompt obedience the boy desisted from some
forbidden sport, there was a haughty toss of
the well-turned head, a quick rolling of the
large dark eye, and, above all, a slight curl of
the lip, which made the mother's heart beat ;
and once I heard her mutter to herself—" How
like his father !" a deep sigh followed this re
mark. There are sorrows into which no hu
man eye dare pry ; there are characters, with
whom grief is too sacred to be discussed. Un
happy, Mrs. Stracey evidently appeared, but
the word guilty associated with her pure ex
pression of countenance, could not be cou
pled.
We were then at Florence. Mrs. Stracey
resided at a beautiful villa, near the Palazzo
Pitti. Her grace, her excessive beauty, her
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 218
subdued look of sorrow, could not fail attract
ing attention; but it was evidently, not the
lady's wish to receive admiration. As, day after
day, she took her accustomed walk by the side
of the flowing Arno, her greatest pleasure
seemed to be embracing my little motherless
Constance ; she pressed her soft cheek to hers
with a fondness, which seemed to say—" I
want such a gentle being to comfort me !" Then
she turned to her high-spirited boy, who was
bounding before her, and her large blue eyes
filled with tears.
The city of Florence is divided into two un
equal parts, by the river Arno, over which
four handsome bridges are erected.
One fine morning, my child, accompanied by
an attendant, was taken for her usual walk,
when the nurse, in a moment of forgetfulness,
placed the infant on one of the projecting flat
pieces of iron of the bridge, that she might be
pleased with the view around. The child, no
doubt thought little of the scenery, but was
214 THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE.
delighted beyond measure with her elevated
situation. Constance was at the time little
more than two years old; she was so delicately
made, so fair, so sylph-like, that it was per
fectly wonderful how swiftly she trod, as if her
light feet scarcely touched the ground. Sud
denly the child darted away from her maid,
and before the terrified attendant could look
round, the agile creature bounded down the
narrow railing, which continued until it ended
in a slope, and before an exclamation could be
heard, Constance had reached the terminus
and was caught in Mrs. Stracey's arms. A
smile of triumph played round the infant's
dimpled cheek ; but not so her deliverer's :
had Constance paused one moment, had her
tiny foot stumbled only half an inch, a watery
grave awaited the daring infant; whilst, had
she not been caught in Mrs. Stracey's arms, she
would have been dashed with violence to the
ground, at the terminus of the bar on which
she stood, as the distance to the foot-path was
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 215
beyond a child's reach. Happy moment, when
Mrs. Stracey clasped the child to her bosom,
whilst Constance fainted from fright and ex
citement—when a numerous concourse of
persons assembled on the bridge, all eagerly
discoursing the child's perilous position. I say
that I felt deep gratitude for Mrs. Stracey's
timely assistance, and a train of circumstances
requiring my presence in England, I left my
child under her deliverer's care. Years passed,
and Constance improved as she grew ; the lily
scarcely surpasses her snowy skin, and the rose
might own her cheek its rival ; her hair, of
silken softness, is of the colour silk-worms spin
their fragile fabric, encircled by a slight shade
of darkness from Italia's sun ; in tapered ring
lets down her shoulders it streams, and shades,
without concealing, her faultless features.
Timid as the forest deer, Constance is firm in
one, alas ! too fatal point—she is a stanch Pro
testant. She has dwelt in the midst of Popery,
she has witnessed its most solemn rituals ; and
216 THE SPANISH GIRl's REVENGE.
her feelings are only more strongly drawn to
wards that pure, that simple, yet heart-search
ing religion, which our Saviour came down
from glory on high to inculcate. " Princess,
my fate is sealed, and so will my innocent
child's be, unless a strong and powerful arm is
stretched forth to protect, and save her. Lady,
it is worthy of your high hand."
" But where is Mrs. Stracey ?" quickly an
swered Elizabeth.
" There is a fearful mystery about that un
happy lady," said Cranmer. " Her son entered
the army, and by his courage gained rapid ad
vancement ; but, following the King of Spain
to England, change of climate enfeebled him,
and he became dangerously ill. The unhappy
parent, who doted on her son with a deeper
love than even maternal affection generally
bestows on her offspring, settled her affairs,
and, accompanied by Constance, repaired to
England. Affectionately Constance took her
place by the invalid's couch, and in her pure
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 217
heart grew a daily stronger flame, so unusual,
so strange, to the timid girl, that one day, when
I paid my daily visit to the country seat near
"Windsor, which Mrs. Stracey inhabited, I was
struck by my child's pale countenance.
" I do not think you are quite well, my love,"
said Mrs. Stracey, drawing her towards her.
"I am quite well," answered Constance, re
turning her caress, " but—but, there is some
thing here—I do not understand," and she
placed her hand upon her heart ; " I will go to
Alphonzo, and as he looks upon me, I feel com
forted."
Constance rushed from the room, and Mrs.
Stracey burst into tears. Before I could recover
mv astonishment, or offer condolence, the lady
began speaking in passionate but mysterious
language.
" Weak, short-sighted mortals that we are,"
she exclaimed ; " why had I not foreseen this
blow ? Constance loves my son— and he never
can be hers."
VOL. III. T,
218 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
" Why not ?" I asked, piqued at what. T
thought pride.
" Oh ! do not look proudly at me," answered
the afflicted lady, nor pry into what I dare
not reveal ; a terrible oath binds me to secresy;
and should memory fail from the intenseness
of pain which I feel from the restraint, still,
still, I may not speak ! Alphonzo belongs not
to me. What did I say ? Why did you start ?
Yes, yes ! he is my son, my only son ; the
noblest blood flows through his veins—he is
not the child of sorrow or shame, and yet I —
what have I said ? did I reveal it ? Cranmer,
take away your lovely girl—let not sorrow sit
upon her brow ; pleasure alone should fan that
angelic face. Alphonzo cannot marry—no, no,
I must not speak !" More words she uttered,
but they were more incoherent, more wild
than the first. I called loudly to Constance
—I rushed up stairs—I found her sitting by
Alphonzo's couch. Wrapped in a large cloak,
lined with crimson silk, he lay, with scarcely
THF SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 219
any index that life was in the tall body, for it
looked still and pale as statuary marble ; not a
drop of blood appeared to circulate in the
transparent veins, so pure, so smooth, was the
brow over which clustered the richest black
hair, making what was in fact an olive com
plexion, appear of dazzling -whiteness in the
darkened chamber. The large dark eyes were
subdued, and rested pensively on Constance,
who, sitting on a low scat by the couch, listened
to words which, no doubt, though I heard them
not, were breathed in the tenderest spirit of
love. £ Unhappy girl,' I exclaimed drawing her
away, ' come, come to your father's arms ; come
away from trial and sorrow ; come dwell where
hopeless love shall not blanch your cheeks, nor
your innocent smiles be withered by the de
stroyer's frowns.' Before the invalid could un
derstand the scene, before Constance could
recover her astonishment, she was on horseback
by my side, and cantering away from the home
where her young heart lingered. Then came
l 2
220 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
the time when the persecution began ; when
the clergy's marriages were not considered law
ful, and I concealed my Constance with her
faithful attendant in a little cottage, by a lonely
moor ; and as the wind blew, and the rain pat
tered down, as I kissed away her starting tears,
how my heart was rung ; how I—no I did not
curse, but I regretted the hour of her birth.
" No more of this ; my time is short. Lady, I
adjure you, by the remembrance of your injured
mother, by your hopes of the future, by your
recollection of your younger days, to every soft,
to every feminine feeling, I apply to you. Oh,
protect, protect my child. I will send her to
you ; call her Constance Comines, which is the
name of the lady the French Queen intended
sending you, for a maid in waiting. No one be
sides yourself and the person who brought you
the news know, that fearing Queen Mary's
irritable humour, the young lady refused to
leave her native country. Your messenger told
me the circumstance, for I had known him
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 221
abroad. Take my child, Princess ; she will wait
upon you, she will love you, she will twine
round your heart, and bless your name. Take
the fatherless girl to your Royal arms. God
will reward you, God will bless you. He is the
father of the small and the great, of the rich and
the poor. Take her—take her."
Sobs choked his voice, but Elizabeth's min
gled with his. The father felt his prayer was
heard ; and when Elizabeth looked up, when
she drew her handkerchief from her eyes, the
old man had eft, and she was alone.
Flow on, flow on, tears of sympathy ; pour
down from your crystal cell. Fear not to moisten
the fair cheek, to swell the beauteous eye ; there
is a secret hallowed feeling in the scalding, fall
ing drop. In after years, amidst scenes of
trouble, when love and its attendant passions
were harassing a Queenly breast; when, after
hearing the Countess of Nottingham's confes
sion, she shook the dying lady in her bed,
when she burst from her, with the hardened
222 THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE.
words," God may forgiveyou, but Inever can
when she refused consolation, sustenance, or
advice ; when she lay down on the hard floor
instead of her splendid couch ; when she raved
for the beheaded Essex, then lay down again
and died, what then would Elizabeth have given
for the relief of tears—for one of those sobs of
early feeling and of a softer heart !
CHAPTER III.
There are some natures upon whom affection
takes a stronger hold than on others ; and, ge
nerally speaking, a naturally cold heart, when
once warmed by the tie of love, of whatsoever
nature it may be—on such a heart the fire will
feed, until every particle of it beats with equal
warmth. Philip of Spain's coldness towards
his English wife is too generally known to
require speaking of; and that rich monarch,
who boasted " that the sun never set upon his
vast dominions," could not boast that the sun
shine of affection equally warmed his heart
224 THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE.
towards his wife. In one, point, however, the
Royal couple always agreed—they both doted
with fond affection upon Lady Eldrida ; and
her pensive, sometimes mournful, expression of
countenance, was strongly in her favour. Her
Royal relatives joined deep sympathy with
their love for the Spanish girl, whose morbidly
sensitive mind dwelt with warmth upon little
acts of kindness.
It is, indeed, very true, that upon " the
smallest trifles hang the sum of human happi
ness ;"* and none felt the maxim so strongly as
the dark-eyed Spanish girl. She was far from
the scenes of her early days—away from the
warmth which is not only felt in the sky, but
eloquently spoken in the rich Spanish eye, in
the quick gesture, and the rounded, voluptuous
lips. She could not accustom herself to the
equanimity of an English disposition ; with her,
all was love or hate ; she knew no medium, and
* Hannah More.
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 225
her hand could one hour have grasped a person
in friendship, or drawn a stiletto the next to
pierce an enemy's heart. Unhappy girl ! she
never paused to check this extravagant tem
per—her will was her law. Wild as the
Arab steed upon which, in her infant days,
she rode, nor place, nor time, nor danger
could stop the impetuous girl in her uncon
trolled career. And yet, under much self-will,
uiider much pride, and much obstinacy, there
lurked the seeds of a better nature. A pity it
was that some skilful hand was not stretched
forth to quell the stormy passions ; to speak of
gentleness, of meekness ; to pour words of en
couragement where they were wanted, and also
to speak severely, if required. Better let the
righteous man reprove, than listen to the plau
dits of the unworthy.
In Philip of Spain, Eldrida found an indul
gent, an affectionate and generous friend. Like
his niece he was enthusiastic, and would often
do a deed of goodness, more because there was
l 3
226 THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE.
a tincture of romance, or a display of energy in
the action, than because it was enjoined to us
by a Just and Holy One " to weep with those
who weep."
Did Eldrida like her uncle ? She doted on
him ; she watched his every look; she felt a glow
ing delight in having his praise ; she hung upon
his words, and if she displeased him, she knew
no greater pain. Willingly would she on these
occasions have made any sacrifice, but the words
of contrition died away. Pride, in its worst
form, interposed ; pride, in its most insidious
garb, clothed in obstinacy. Deeply feeling her
uncle's displeasure, yet unwilling to confess her
fault, Eldrida was on these occasions intensely
miserable, anda severe headache, which confined
her to her room, was generally the consequence ;
and the haughty Philip of Spain, who bowed
not his pride to any living being besides, was
the first to conciliate her. On the last occasion,
however, that Philip saw his niece, he was more
distressed than angry. Long after he left her,
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 227
he paced his room in great agitation. The
Princess Elizabeth's note was entirely for
gotten, and Woodstock far from his thoughts.
Tired of walking, Philip advanced to a bu
reau, and leaning his head on the slanting
desk, indulged in a reverie, deep and absorb
ing.
Twice he fancied he heard his name, and did
not raise his head ; but at length, heaving it
repeated, he looked up, and angrily asked who
dared intrude upon his solitude ?
" Ha ! is it you, Calipsa ?" he said, looking
fixedly at Eldrida's old attendant, who ap
peared quite heedless of the angry tone in
which Philip spoke.
" I thought," said the attendant, slowly
and firmly, " that I might be of some service to
your Majesty, who appears annoyed about the
Lady Eldrida."
" Annoyed," said Philip, in bitterness pro
nouncing the word ; " Eldrida's agitation has
unmanned me—has wrung my heart to its deep
228 THE SPANISH GIEL's REVENGE.
core. Is there one human being I love on
earth? it is Eldrida. Is there one whom I
regard with a pure and devoted love? it is
Eldrida. Calipsa, you, who, following my foot
steps, know much of me, and oft-times can read
my very thoughts—you, who know what none
save yourself even dreams of—still I defy you
to understand the whole delight there is in
feeling that the ties of nature have given me a
right, an undisputed right, to dote, to love, to
look with delight upon my niece. All other
beautiful and intellectual females I may meet
have other ties, other friends to care for, and
there is no pure affection in loving one of
these. But Eldrida is an orphan ; I am her
guardian, her protector ; hitherto I have filled
her heart, and she has cared for no other love
to take place of the affection she has for me.
Calipsa, your directions were plain ; I told you
I intended her hand to be given to one of the
most illustrious persons in Europe. "With the
dowry I intend for her, no obstacle would
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 229
arise, and her beauty would enrich the gift.
But fondly loving her as I do, I did not
wish her, in sweet blushing girlhood, to
leave me for a more binding, a holier love. I
intended seeing her grow up to womanhood;
I contemplated being within reach of her
smiles, of her looks of affection. Eldrida, in
thy haughty mood of pride, I love' thee still ;
if thou art unhappy, I cannot laugh, and to-day
I left thee bathed in tears ; poor Eldrida
old woman, beware of my vengeance if you
have betrayed the trust I reposed in you;
beware, beware ! Who does my niece love ?
for some secret passion is hidden in her breast."
Calipsa raised her bony figure to its utmost
heighth, and approaching the King, whispered
in his ears.
" 'Tis false," replied Philip, pushing the old
woman rudely from him ; " 'tis false as thou
art. Now hear me, old crone : shrine thy con
science ; take thy last farewell of earth ; thou
shalt die."
230 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
" Ha ! ha ! ha ! King of Spain, is that thy
dread punishment ? Thinkest thou I have not
long enough home the burden of life ? Look at
my sunken eye and shrivelled skin. Ah, not
half so sunken as my broken heart. Who would
think Calipsa had once been blithe and gay ;
that she rose with the sun, and sung with the
lark ; that Andalusia boasted not a bonnier
lass, when I was trusted by—"
" Mention not her name," interrupted
Philip, placing his hand on Calipsa's mouth.
Calipsa, when I fain would «epeak calmly, I
cannot ; my anger masters me. I have marked
Vesuvius' volcano ; I have marked the gradual
storm which shook the earth, arise. I have
stood nigh that burning mountain, where Pliny
lost his life ; where Pompeii and Herculaneum
were buried under the stones and ashes ; but,
Calipsa, the dreadful eruption does not take
place suddenly ; for years the mountain will
send forth smoke, sometimes throwing out
stones, scoriae, and cinders. Then appears more
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 231
smoke, and from the mountain's intestines
burst forth rumbling, strange, unfathomable
noises ; and during the night the sublime sight
of the most beautiful fireworks may be seen.
Beautiful did I call it? At last the curious
dare only gratify their curiosity at a distance,
and venture only to gaze through telescopes
at a sight too grand, too terrific for human
eyes. When the awful crash arrived, windows
shattered to atoms, shrieks rent the air,
drowned by the sound of the burning crater ;
fountains ofliquid, transparent fire, arose ; puffs
of dense smoke succeeded a pale, electrical
fire, playing in zig-zag lines. The fire spread,
the wind carried it backwards and forwards.
Awful, dreadful, soul-searching sight ! to what
shall I liken Mount Vesuvius ? Start not,
Calipsa ; it is like the human heart. Gradual
at first is the work of fiery passions—slow,
indeed, but sure ; burning, wearing, tearing
the human heart ; then bursting forth, in
jealousy, revenge, malice, and every hateful
232 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
passion. Calipsa, this must not be Eldrida's
fate ; I will stop her from falling into the vol
cano of unhappiness. Oh! 'tis a dreadful
thing to mark youth's grief; to see the open
brow lined with untimely marks ; to watch the
shades of care falling upon a creature God
has made naturally blithe and gay ; to see
youth's buoyant laugh blighted, and the fire
of the eye dimmed. Tell me, is there yet
time ? I will give young , let me say the
name—young Stracey—a post in a distant
army. Will time work the cure, Calipsa ? "
" Ah ! your Majesty, the Lady Eldrida is
not like these cold English girls ; and love,
which to them is a traffic of money, a change
of name, a position in society, is to our southern
blood a passion deep and lasting ; it will dull
the fire of our maidens' eyes, it will eat away
the damask tint, will sear the heart, will fever
the brain— but such love cannot change or
roam. Though ocean's billows, placed between
them, may divide each other's gaze; though
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 233
tossed by affliction's fury, the heart may sink,
it will not turn. Philip of Spain, curse me if
thou wilt—revile me, spurn me—but listen to
thy slave—sever not united hearts."
" Calipsa, you think not of what you ask,"
furiously answered Philip ; " you, who know
the revenge which lurks in Spanish blood,
would you have me trust Eldrida's happiness
to one who will hate the friend of her youth ;
who will despise and abhor me ? Even now,
he may know the secret of his birth ; and the
oath which bound his dead mother to secresy
may have been slighted ere this ; and when he
hears all, when he knows that * * *
Enough, enough, this must not be ; help me,
advise me ; here is gold, plenty of gold."
" Keep your money," answered Calipsa,
" I want none of your gold ; clothe not your
words in silken vesture. Speak plainly, even
as I speak. Advice do you want ? No, no ; you
want me again to sin^ to break more hearts.
Speak plainly, but offer me not gold ; Calipsa
234 THE SPANISH GJKL's REVENGE.
despises the Royal hand which gives it, and
serves your Majesty with the same blind fond
ness which causes a dog to caress his master's
hand, even when he beats him. Recompense !
What reward is my due for sending my soul
to everlasting punishment ?"
" Nonsense, woman, you shall be absolved !"
" Ha ! ha ! do I believe in those rites ? Ay,
once I did, when, as a girl, I confessed sins,
which now weigh light as wafers in the heavy
balance against me. But the veil of Popery,
the falsity of confession, where no amendment
ensues, is torn from my eyes."
" What ! art thou confessing thyself a here
tic ?" said the King, forcing a smile.
" Would I were as good as some of those
heretics," was the evasive reply.
" Well," answered the King, " the Prin
cess Elizabeth could scarce have spoken bet
ter -" and at the mention of her name, he re
membered his note. Hastily writing a few
lines, he gave them to the old woman. " Deliver
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 235
this to my Lord Gardiner. And now leave me
—more of this sad business anon."
* * » * *
And Calipsa was left alone—alone with
thoughts of deep and secret sin. There was
One, the wretched woman knew, who could
read every guilty line written on her hard
ened heart; there was One, she knew, who
could take revenge, passing man's retaliating
revenge, on the evil she had done. Burning
drops of sorrow coursed down her cheeks;
sighs, deep and loud, echoed from their . pent-
up abode.
" Of one sin, however, I am innocent," ex
claimed Calipsa, talking aloud, in the bitter
ness of her grief. " Agnes Stracey lives ; my
hand did not—poison her."
CHAPTER IV.
When Calipsa returned to Eldrida, she found
her very ill. The fire of fever sat upon her
dark eye, and tinged her southern cheek. Her
hair was negligently thrown back, her voice
was hasty and imperious.
" Where is my uncle?" she asked.
" He is going out."
" I must see him."
" Lady, he is displeased."
" What care I ?" answered Eldrida ; I have
given him no cause for displeasure."
" Lady, when the provident swallow flic
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 237
from her nest, it is not the present danger she
fears; she builds her anxiety upon the future."
" The future," replied Eldrida, bitterly ; "and
'what of the future for me ? When once young
Stracey is free, he will forget the Spanish Girl,
who loves him more than all the fair-eyed
English beauties. Though he bears an English
name, I know not why, I cannot trace his
English origin. There is a warmth in his dark
eye, an enthusiastic ardour in his voice, a some
thing which is too indescribable to dwell upon.
Calipsa, often in thy passing moods of humour,
I have listened to thy tales with pleasure, and
oft-times pleasant things were presaged, such
as that I should be happy and great. Come
now near my bedside, and say, shall I gain
young Stracey's love ?"
There was a pause. Eldrida raised her large
eyes, now flushed with fever, to the old wo
man's deeply-furrowed countenance. " Lady
Eldrida, indeed I dare not think of the future.
If you continue self-willed, difficulties must
238 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
arise; your enemy is your own heart, fortitude
your best friend. Forget young Stracey—he
never spoke to you of love ?"
" Never, Calipsa ; and still he is the theme
of my thoughts, the object of my dreams—my
first, my only love. The word " love" is im
prisoned in his breast, but it lurks in his smile ;
it trembles on his lips, and eloquently speaks
in the radiant glances of his searching eye.
Wretched I can be—I can smother my sobs, I
can bid the tear cease to flow ; but if I thought
his destiny were chained to another's, nor place
nor time should stand before me ; never should
he clasp his bride—sooner shall my hand pierce
her heart."
Calipsa started with horror ; but seeing the
delirium of a high fever approaching, she ad
ministered a soothing potion, darkened the
room, and at length, after restless, tossing,
and incoherent exclamations, the Spanish Girl
fell into one of those heavy dozes which follow
the excitement offever.
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 239
When Calipsa knew by the heavy breathing
that all pain was hushed, and that uninter
rupted sleep had taken possession of her
patient, she stationed a domestic in the ante
room; and clothing herself in a shawl, and
putting a large bonnet over her head, she
quickly but noiselessly trod the almost mystic
corridors, and descending the winding stairs,
now mounting a few steps, now descending,
until, by the light of a dim lantern, she found
herself in a small turret, where she paused.
She saw the guard outside the door leading to
the opposite side of the passage ; his back was
towards her, and by the attitude in which he
stood, he appeared drowsy. In breathless haste
Calipsa drew forth a key from under her
shawl, and in less than a second was in a small,
damp room. Seated by a small table, was
young Stracey, looking pale and intensely un
happy. After asking after Lady Eldrida's
health, he remained silent, unable to command
enough energy to enter into conversation.
240 THE SPANISH GIKL'S KEVENGE.
" Young man, would you like to leave your
dungeon ? "
" Certainly," replied Alphonzo Stracey ;
" especially as I know not why I am here."
" Yes you do," answered Calipsa, sternly.
" Your foreign Christian name, coupled with
your English surname, your foreign appearance,
give you a suspicious look ; and you refuse to
satisfy my Lord Gardiner's scruples, besides
being only an indifferent Roman Catholic."
" The latter opinion of me I care not to dis
pute ; an angel of purity taught me that the mild
Protestant religion was the right path in which
to walk, and one feather in the scale would
make me a heretic ; but such a confession now
is not necessary. As to the secret of my birth,
I would give more than my Lords Gardiner or
Bonner to discover it."
" Do you mean to say, you know not your
parents ? "
" Not myfather," answered Alphronzo ; " and
even had I deemed it generous to let merciless
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 241
men know my mother's place of abode, I can
not do it, for when I returned home one after
noon I found it desolate, and no traces of my
mother's future abode was left to cheer my
lonely steps. A note from her informed me
that she was quite safe, and that one day, per
haps, I should see her again, but not yet.
Although I can scarcely refrain making in
quiries about her, my mother once enjoined
me not to mention her name to any one, and I
dare not disobey her, for fear harm should
arise."
" Young man, your mother is right ; and now
listen to me. I know more of your early life
than you do yourself; never speak of your mo
ther to any one : she is safe, but one imprudent
word may forfeit her life. And hearken further.
The King of Spain will befriend you ; heed not
his hasty words, his heart is good ; but beware
on one point : give not encouragement to the
Lady Eldrida, for she thinks you love her. Do
you not ? "
YOL. III. M
242 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
" I know not what right you have to ask such
a question," answered Philip ; " but if the an
swer can save Lady Eldrida from one unpleasant
pang, I can candidly answer, that I have not en
couraged such an idea as love towards her.
Much gratitude of course I feel, for a young
and very beautiful lady sacrificing many hours
in cheering a lonely prisoner ; but I under
stand that Lady Eldrida was in the habit of
extending this favour to many other prisoners
besides."
" True," said Calipsa, rather tartly ; " but
all the prisoners do not look admiration, nor
cause unavailing sighs. Ah, you young people
may scoff, when I say that I know what it is to
love ; ugly I now am, but once I was fresh and
young. Lady Eldrida's eye is not brighter
than was mine, nor her hair more glossy and
black ; and time, which has left indelible lines
on my brow, has also imprinted a bitter lesson
on my heart ; and deep in its recesses, even
now I feel the pang of disappointed love. I
THE SPANISH GIRL'S BEVENGE. 243
am wearying you : no more of this ; I have come
to set you free, on condition that you seek not
afterwards to speak to Lady Eldrida."
" I have not the least wish to do so, only
pray forget not to return her my best thanks
for all her kindness to an unknown prisoner."
" Nay, nay, this will not do for me ; you
shall not move from hence until you have
bound yourself by a solemn oath never to
speak to Lady Eldrida ; a few words of common
place courtesy, should you ever meet, I will
exempt ; but if you ever meet her purposely,
if you suffer her to give you an appointment,
if you have any intercourse with her, by word,
or mouth, or letter, my vengeance will accom
pany you wherever you go, and your mother's
fate will be dreadful."
Alphonzo did not take the desired oath im
mediately ; he cross-questioned the old woman ;
he made her describe his mother. She did so
most accurately ; there was nothing wanting in
the portrait; her noble bearing, her look of
m 2
244 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
resigned sorrow, all was complete. Alphonzo,
firmly believing that his fate was in the old
woman's keeping, gave her the binding oath
she required, pronounced the words on the
crucifix she held to him, and then again Calipsa
spoke.
" Here is the King's signet-ring — you will
speedily gain an exit ; follow this pasage—give
the words, ' England and Spain ;' they are the
passwords this evening. "Wrap your cloak
around you ; show not the signet-ring unless
your passage is opposed. Go ! why do you
linger?"
" Because I have a few words to speak,
which are of more importance to me than liberty
itself—for what is liberty without happiness ?
If I could speak to Cranmer but for a few
moments, I care not how soon I go."
" Did any one but you speak to me as you
do," answered Calipsa, " it would not serve
their turn ; but you have your father's spirit,
his warm heart, his commanding voice. Come,
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 245
I will show you the way to Cranmer's cell ;
after to-morrow, he dies."
"Poor old man," said Alphonzo, touch-
ingly.
" Ah ! poor old man, you say now," an
swered Calipsa, musingly ; " wait yet a few
years, and, perhaps, that same voice will be
heard sanctioning deeds of equal barbarity.
Was I not pitying towards my fellow-crea
tures once ? Ha ! ha ! and now "
During this soliloquy, the young man and
his strange conductor passed the guards ; and,
as the right word of pass was given, no obstacle
occurred. The night guards did not know
Alphonzo, and he continued unmolested, fol
lowing his guide through turnings and wind
ings, which appeared to him a perfect laby
rinth.
" This is the room in which Cranmer is con
fined," said Calipsa; and going up to the
nearest guard, she asked where she could find
the turnkey ?
246 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
The man shook his head, but pointed to a
small door. Calipsa opened it cautiously, and
the first noise she heard was a loud snoring.
" Go on sleeping, good man," thought she ;
" the weight of these keys fatigue you." She
noiselessly passed the bed, and taking up a
candle which was on the floor, she held it be
fore a strip of wood, from which, suspended on
long hooks, hung many a huge rusty key. A
label was attached to each one, and when
Calipsa came to the name " Cranmer," she
detached the key and stole out of the room as
softly as she had entered it. Alphonzo un
fastened the door, and bidding Calipsa wait out
side, was soon by the approaching martyr's
side. Cranmer was sleeping soundly on a
miserable pallet ; the roof of his cell was so low
that the bed was almost on the floor to prevent
its touching the ceiling, which was green from
damp and the hand of time. The walls had
once been papered, but now hung in tattered
pieces ; whilst, here and there, patches were en
THE SPANISH GIEL's REVENGE. 247
tirely torn away, and coarse snatches of songs
written by profane hands substituted ; and in -the
smallest corner of that miserable room, slept
one more worthy to slumber on a downy couch
than Mary, the bigotted, who reposed upon it.
How unfathomable are theways ofProvidence;—
how past finding out ! It is a difficult, but very
necessary, doctrine, to believe that—
" He whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth."
Although the wicked prosper awhile, the blow
will eventually come to disappoint unrighteous
plans. Probably Queen Mary contemplated
establishing the Roman Catholic faith in Eng
land, not only intending its rituals to be ob
served during her reign, but hoping that, in
ages to come, her established religion would
be the acknowledged and only existing one
throughout Europe. Many historians exculpate
Mary from blame ; they declare that she acted
from conscientious motives, thinking her reli
gion the best. But, may I ask, are we certain
248 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
she did act from such motives? The Roman
Catholic religion, although different in some
material points from the Protestant, still has
one faith, one hope, tending to the same road.
Brethren and believers in Christ both sects are,
hoping alike to be saved through His interces
sion, knowing alike that by nature we are heirs
to Death, and everlasting punishment. How,
then, could Mary believe she was acting in the
spirit of Christianity, when the reeking blood
of the innocent martyrs daily called for
Heaven's vengeance ? Had not that Holy One,
whose life was peace, commanded Peter to
return the sword in its place, and not to shed
blood ? And was it for His sake—was it under
cover of serving the meek Prince of Peace—
that relentless men sacrificed their fellow-crea
tures ?
Again, Henry the Eighth, Mary's imperious
father, had turned to the Protestant religion, in
order to satisfy private feelings of revenge
against the Pope and his Roman Catholic sub
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 249
jects ; * and Mary, probably, was influenced by
the same motives, when she restored the Popish
forms. She disliked her sister Elizabeth—she
was jealous of her superior beauty and attain
ments ; and was it not very possible that she
imagined that if once she firmly instituted the
Roman Catholic religion in England, Eliza
beth would be excluded from the succession ?
Although the Princess had not been for
mally called upon to declare her religious
tenets, Mary could, at any time, have proved
how sincerely her sister leant to the Protestant
side.
Taking every view of the question, I cannot
agree with those persons who exalt Mary's
heinous transactions until they persuade them
selves she was virtuous. But I do sincerely
hope that many of her offences may be forgiven
by the One who sees more into the heart at
one glance than we short-sighted mortals can
after the severest historical research into the
* 1546.
m 3
250 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
character of that Queen, who, from childhood,
we are taught to call " Bloody Queen Mary."
Return we now to Cranmer. Alphonzo con
tinued some time gazing at the Prelate, as he
lay passively stretched in the arms of Morpheus.
He knew that every moment was precious ; and
still, when he would fain wake the venerable
man, his hand fell powerless by his side, for he
could not find courage to disturb a sleep, which
buried wo in temporary oblivion. Even in
repose, the integrity of mind, the bland suavity
of Cranmer's temper, were drawn on the un
conscious features ; and Alphonzo shuddered
when he contemplated the amiable slumberer,
and remembered that the span of his life had
nearly drawn to a close ; that his days were
numbered, and that man, sinful erring man,
would raise his hand to strike the blow. At
length the sleeper woke ; the expression of list
less indifference gradually subsided, and as the
prelate opened his eyes he heaved a heavy
sigh, a sigh of a conscious return to pain,
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. . 251
and grief, and solitude. Cramner was much
surprised when he saw Alphonzo standing
by him. His iirst impulse was anger, but he
looked again on the young man's pale counte
nance, and there he read not only sympathy
towards himself, but personal suffering. Deep
and earnest was their short conference ; Cran-
mer opened the subject nearest Alphonzo's heart
—he spoke of Constance, and at the sound of
her name a thrill of desponding feeling ran
through the father's breast, at the idea of
leaving his orphan girl ; no wonder, then, that
he listened eagerly, when young Stracey spoke
of his affection towards her ; when he assured the
astonished father that he loved, dearly loved,
his fair daughter, but that an insurmountable
obstacle must prevent their union ; and that
when Cranmer imagined he was pouring a tale
of love into the fair girl's ears, he was arguing
with her upon theological subjects, and both
were vainly endeavouring to remove the bar
which stood between them, for Constance was
252 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
most strongly attached to the Protestant reli
gion, and her lover was a Roman Catholic,
although Bonner had chosen to doubt the
strength of his principles. Poor Cranmer ! he
heard all, and he imagined he had discovered
the mystery which hung around Mrs. Stracey ;
he imagined that a great part of her grief was
owing to the difference between her religion
and her son's. He sounded the young man's
principles of conduct ; there was no one in that
lonely cell to bias or to advise. Cranmer knew
that his daughter was too firm in her religious
opinions to change her determination. He
questioned the young man concerning his pa
rentage ; and when Alphonzo, in unaffected sor
row, confessed that he was as ignorant as the
prelate, for a moment theJatter felt staggered
in his opinions, and disappointed in his hopes ;
but he looked up once more—he gazed ear
nestly at Alphonzo's handsome, noble, and
intelligent countenance ; he remmbereed poor
Mrs. Stracey's words, " he is not the child of
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 253
shame and without further hesitation, Cran-
mer informed the astonished Alphonzo of the
Princess Elizabeth's intention of protecting his
child ; but fearing danger might arise during
the journey, knowing no one who would escort
her, he entrusted her safety to the very being
from whom he had a short time ago severed
her, after solemnly declaring, that relying
upon Alphonzo's honour, a father's blessing,
or his deepest malediction, would attend him.
A few words of mutual blessing, a cordial
farewell followed, and the impatient Calipsa
sternly refused to wait any longer.
I do not know whether our intellects take
a different turn as we draw nearer to the eter
nal shore—whether a belief springs into the
heart, that we are inspired how to act ; but,
how frequently men are led, on their death
beds, to alter plans of long years' arranging, of
many anxious speculations.
Had any one told Alphonzo that Cranmer
intended committing Constance to his pro
254 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
tection, he would have laughed, and called it
the silly rambling of an insane mind ; but now
the event appeared perfectly natural. And when
Calipsa, in her dry, caustic manner, asked the
young man if he were satisfied with his visit to
the prelate, Alphonzo noticed not the sarcastic
manner of the speaker, but quietly answered,
that his visit had indeed cheered him.
Calipsa knew every turning and winding of
the intricate tower. There was something very
solemn in passing through the sombre building
in the dark hour of night, guided only by the
light of a dismal lamp. . Damp and unearthly
was the odour emitted by the humid air, as
they continued descending ; until Calipsa, with
a triumphant smile, exclaimed—" Here is the
mud wall again in view, and through this dun
geon is an exit known to few now living."
" You appear intimately acquainted with the
outlets of the Tower," said Alphonzo to his
conductor, breaking a long silence.
" So are the bats," answered Calipsa ; " they
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 255
wander about as I do. When there is no one
nigh to point at their ugliness, when animals of
a superior creation are slumbering, then alone
do the revolting creatures venture forth."
Alphonzo did not find an answer at first, for
there was a degree of bitterness in the old
woman's language which he could not under
stand. After a short pause, however, he con
tinued—
" Why compare yourself to so loathsome an
animal ? The bat wanders about at night, it is
true, but there is another cause beside hiding
its ugliness, for the bat loves to conceal its de-»
stroying propensity, and dilapidates the trea
sured remains of old buildings, assisted by his
companions, the mischevious owls, whilst you
assist your fellow-creatures ; and if you do the
deed in the secret of the night, accuse your
fellow-men, whose cry for vengeance and
blood prevent your openly showing your good
ness."
" Goodness ! did you say ?" almost shrieked
256 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
Calipsa ; " is there any goodness in the boa
constrictor, when he looks without vengeance
upon the harmless rabbit within his deadly
grasp ? Is he not sure, that with one disten
sion of his enormous mouth, he can satiate his
hunger ? "
" I do not understand you," answered Al-
phonzo, slightly, but perceptibly, shuddering.
" Perhaps not," replied the old woman; " but
it is my custom to speak in riddles. I bartered
my happiness for riddles I have never solved ;
the wjiole world is a riddle, and we the com
ponent parts of it ; go, then, and solve mine,
and add this—' The boa-constrictor when con
fined cannot seek the harmless rabbit, but
when it is brought to him he will gladly eat
it so Calipsa will not seek Alphonzo Stracey,
but should her keeper throw him into her den,
she must satisfy—if not her own feelings of
revenge—those of others, under whose direc
tions she acts. Young man, now we part ;
though now under the damp ground, there is a
THE SPANISH GIRT/S REVENGE. 257
trap-door above, which has the appearance
simply of a piece of pavement, over an old
spring of water. We are far from reach, and
although I have this night befriended you,
beware of me infuture, for I blindly follow my
chalked-out path,*hired by one who stops not
at any danger. Farewell." She raised the
trap-door; Alphonzo with difficulty climbed
up, and before he could thank the extraordi
nary old woman, she had already retreated,
and was retracing her steps. " Ha ! ha ! ha !
how I love this damp old place," she exclaimed,
sitting down, notwithstanding the chilly air.
" I am alone here, and under no one's control,
and I can jeer and laugh at human nature, and
I can think what fools the most cunning
persons are ; aye, and I can rail against Kings
and Queens without the attainder of treason.
Ha ! ha ! Philip ! Didst think I could have
poisoned her ? Didst think I could have with
stood that large blue eye, bathed in tears, and
the rending appeal she made to my heart ?
258 THE SPANISH GIRl's REVENGE.
Heart ! have I one left ? It never beats in fear,
it never palpitates in pleasure ; it never sinks,
it never rises ; and yet, perhaps, my heart is
warmer than Mary's, Queen of England ; and
they pray for her Christian Majesty in the
church ! And where is her heart ? Fathers
bend their knees to her, and she bids them
rise ; mothers, bathed in tears, supplicate, and
she spurns them, infants kiss her robes, and
she turns from their innocent pleadings. But
even in this world doth she receive her pu
nishment, for all the fond hopes she entertains
of having an heir to this fine country will be
blighted ; her husband, upon whom she dotes
with blind and devoted fondness, cares not
for his English bride ; and there lives one, -he
thinks now dead, who could move him more by
one tear, than the Queen with her pomp and
her glory. Is Royal happiness disguised grief?
Is Royal power the pleasure of ordering an
execution ? Are Royal passions revenge, bit
terness, and jealousy ? Mary, Mary, Queen of
THE SPANISH GIRL'S KEVENGE. 259
England, I envy not thy purple and gold ;
and oh ! I envy not thy cankered heart. And
Gardiner told me to shrine my conscience ; and
does he tell the Queen to do the same ? What
have I to do with the Queen ? Perhaps more
than she would like to know. Ha ! ha !
Mary, are we equal in any thing? Yes, in
wickedness !
CHAPTER V.
It was a calm moonlight night, in the mid
dle of June, when a young man, mounted on a
handsome charger, galloped across an open
space of ground in the neighbourhood of Wind
sor. He cantered on ; he paused not to look at
the canopy of Heaven, sprinkled with the
starry twinkling luminaries ; he thought not of
the refreshing night breezes, which gently
wafted around his cheek ; he thought not of the
beautiful reflection of the moon's rays upon
the grassy hillocks and the rising plains ; but
though the cavalier (whose sword hilt shone
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 261
brightly when the wind threw back his cloak)
paused not to think separately of the many at
tractions of the moon-tide beauty, he felt a
grateful sense of the enthralling splendour of
the scene. He passed Windsor Castle, that
seat of princely greatness, of princely plea
sures, and princely wo ; there some had wept
their last tears ; there others had buried their
last joyous laugh; comedy and tragedy were
there commingled, vice and virtue there had
dwelt. The horseman swept by the venerable
pile, and continuing his solitary ride, the beauty
of the scenery increased. Cottages of dazzling
whiteness appeared on rising mounds, appa
rently springing from fairy wand ; little pieces
->f water, upon whose surface the moon had
cast her silvery rays, and many a star had also
shed its brightness ; groups of solemn-looking
fir trees, tempering the lightness of the land
scape ; all was bewitchingly beautiful. But,
alas ! even in that calm spot Persecution had
cast her hateful touch, perverting and corroding
262 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
everything with her death-like embrace. Some
of the sweet little English cottages were de
serted; the windows were negligently open.
The rose, the honeysuckle, and the sweet-briar,
so thickly clustering round the porch, told only
that the inhabitants of the cottages had fled.
Fair hands, which were wont, year after
year, to cull the blithesome flowers, where, oh,
where were they? Dispersed and away, flying
from a country where rivulets ofhuman blood
flowed—where the voice of humanity was
drowned by the louder call of persecution. The
cattle looked lean and wan, and as the horse
man glided by, they * languidly raised their
heads, and uttered plaintive cries, as if to recall
their masters home. True, they had the rich
grass for their pasture ; but even dumb animals
love kindness ; and where now was the fodder,
and the soothing caresses, which their masters'
hands were wont to give. And here and there
a wretched-looking dog, houseless, wan, un-
cared for, unloved, wandered about in lean
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 263
wretchedness; and after a feeble effort to bark
at the horseman, crouched down with a piteous
howl by the deserted hearth. And as the rider
continued his course, another sign of the times
met his gaze. Many a closed chapel, where
. formerly Protestant worshippers repaired, were
closed, and the seal of heresy placed upon them ;
rising high a little further, was a Roman Catho
lic church in its stead ; whilst towering high
above all, above the houses, and the cottages,
above the trees, and all other objects, was the
cross, the emblem of undying faith, then, alas !
used only as a cover for barbarity and wicked
ness.
That solitary rider, upon whom the ravages
of persecution were bursting forth in unmasked
robing, was Alphonzo Stracey; and he be
longed to that sect who had vainly endeavoured,
by violence of the most appalling kind, to stop
the pure and holy Protestant faith. A secret
voice told him, that ere long he should turn ;
that continuing still in the same essential doc
864 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
trine, he should believe in truth ; that deeds
compatible with a Christian character, not an
outward show of religion, are required by him,
"' who cared more for the inward repentance of
the heart, than for the sacrifice of bulls and
rams. But the time of his conversion was not
yet ; he could not give up the love of liberty
and the love of life. Not yet had he seen the
bright lantern to guide him through the vale
of darkness ; not yet had he found the re
freshing fountain of life ; not yet heard a voice
say—
Weary Pilgrim, come and drink,
Let no more thy spirit sink.
Think no more of mortal strife,
After death—Eternal life.
At length, Alphonzo reached the end of his
journey. He stopped by the side of a clustering
group of trees ; and looking around, he appeared
to reconnoitre whether he was quite alone ;
and then, brushing aside with his whip the
clustering branches of lilac and laburnum
THE SPANISH GIRl's REVENGE. 265
which opposed his progress, he dismounted
from his horse, for fear the noise of his hoofs
should disturb the fair occupier of the cottage,
and leading him by the bridle, he gave a gentle »
knock at' the door. He had to repeat it, before
any notice was taken of it, and then a trembling
servant opened the highest window. She
shrieked when she saw the horseman, fearing
Gardiner or Bonner had traced her mistress
in her retreat ; but, before she could close the
casement, Alphonzo called to her in reassuring
accents, and bade her tell her mistress, that a
friend wished to speak to her. In a few
moments he was ushered into a little parlour,
and the servant placed lights on the table,
informing him that her mistress would come
down as soon as she had dressed.
During the time which necessarily elapsed,
young Stracey examined the little room. He
felt a pleasure in imagining how poor Con
stance had spent her time in her sequestered
^cottage. He opened several books ; they all
VOL. III. N
266 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
related to the Protestant faith ; and, in fear,
the young Papist closed them again. Flowers
were arranged in glasses ; they at least were
equally open for both sects tjo admire, and he
hastily placed a rose and a forget-me-not in
his breast. Dried flowers placed in leaves,
arranged for the purpose, next claimed Al-
phonzo's attention ; under each leaf an appro
priate motto was written, and as he turned
over the pages the lines under a rose attracted
his attention—
" When crushed by a summer's shower,
The rose loses her bloom,
Some kind hand oft will save the flower
From a watery tomb.
Alphonzo, if I were thine,
My sighs I'd cease to breathe j
But till thou hear'st the Truth Divine,
My hand 1 cannot give."
The book fell from Alphonzo's hand. "Alas !
I can save the rose, and can restore her to a
place of safety," he thought ; " but when she
blooms again in her renewed loveliness, her
freshness will he bestowed on some one else.
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 267
" Constance, I cannot believe thy religion the
best, although thy purity is angelic ; still there
is a want of ardour in the form of thy Pro
testant rituals. JVhere the mystic signs, and
the holy sprinkling of water, and the confes
sional disburdening of the soul, when, albeit
we are talking to sinful man, we are secretly
communing with God?" Lost in such reflec
tions as these, the moments quickly fled, and
long before the mental strife which those in
ward arguments produced was over, the door
opened, and Constance had smiled upon Al-
phonzo, and fearlessly placed her small hand in
his. There was something too imposing in the
young girl's appearance, to allow frivolous
ideas to give themselves utterance in conver
sation. She was one of those rare instances
of a gifted mind using its best energies for her
Maker's service, not giving negligently its
overplus. Although very young, and fair—al
most too fragile for human frame to be
moulded in—still there was a firm determina
n 2
268 THE SPANISH GIHL's REVENGE.
tion painted on the intellectual brow which
baffles description ; and when those liquid blue
eyes, shaded with the most exquisite light tresses,
were raised, they gave her whole expression in
one glance ! and that expression was so pure,
so free from personal vanity, that it chased
away all idea on the beholder's part of praising
one who appeared far above the vulgar voice of
personal admiration. Many tears besprinkled
the fair girl's cheeks, as she listened to the con
versation Alphonzo had had with her father ;
and when she heard of her approaching inter
view with the Princess Elizabeth, she exclaimed,
in all the fervour of youth, " Oh ! how I will
beg her Highness to use her power with her
Royal sister to obtain my father's pardon.
Oh, that men would not be so cruel ! Poor
old man ! his gray locks ought to plead his
cause ; but Alphonzo, you shake your head, and
think my father obstinate. He once recanted,
and the very fever of remorse he felt in conse
quence, shows .powerfully how much he was
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 269
in the wrong. Oft-times in the dark midnight
hour, will my father's image appear before me ;
for, although only lately united again, I warmly
feel the parental tie. Oft-times I shall fancy, I
see his frame writhing under the torments of
the flame ; but nevertheless, it would not be
possible for me to esteem him if he recanted.
Alphonzo, mine is not a wavering faith, founded
on the bent to which my childish heart was
-directed. I have studied the divine truths in
-which I believe ; I have well examined the dif
ference between the Roman Catholic and the
Protestant faith, and I cannot waver. Would
that you thought as I do ! Maiden mo
desty vanishes before this important point, and
I most solemnly promise, what our hearts both
wish, that I will be your affianced bride the
moment you renounce that faith, which is void
of humility and human charity. The blood of
my father calls for vengeance, and I cannot
unite myself to one who follows his enemies'
creed. Think me not forward if I have thus
270 THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE.
commenced a conversation without encourage
ment from you ; but, Alphonzo, I am not situated
as are other girls of my age, and it behoves me
to take care of myself. The friend of my in
fancy has left me—at least I am informed that
some mystery I cannot solve must now part us.
My venerable father dares not openly protect
me ; even if he does not suffer the horrible
stake, where then am I to turn for comfort ?
Where, but in my own principles, and my own
heart ? One severe pang is better than a pro
tracted uncertainty. Answer me, therefore,
friend of my childhood, companion of my early
days ; answer me now, in the same spirit of
truth in which we used to converse under
Italia's balmy sky ; answer, above all, as if you
were responsible not to a weak, silly girl, but
to an all-seeing God."
The simple, yet searching appeal, struck deep
into Alphonzo's sensitive heart ; every chord vi
brated with admiration, every pulse beat quickly
in his breast. More binding than the strongest
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 271
oaths, more sacred than the eyesight of a hun
dred witnesses, appeared to him that slight girl's
words, whose fate, though he knew not how
much ofher happiness, depended on his answer.
" You hesitate," replied Constance, with
drawing Alphonzo's hands gently from his face ;
" you cannot look up, you dare not contemplate
my unhappiness. But, Alphonzo, fear not ; I
am a lenient judge. I should despise any person
who could throw off his religion, as an old for a
new garment. Watch the seasons—how gradual
the opening ofthe tiny bud ; watch creation—
how graduating the scale of human growth ;
watch the passions—how very slow the path to
sure happiness. And thus it is with your heart,
Alphonzo ; gradual will be the workings of
your feelings, and yet, methinks they have al
ready changed."
" They have changed," answered Alphonzo,
fervently ; " they are lost in one absorbing prin
ciple of admiration ; they are centred wholly on
one point—that of gaining your love. Yes,
212 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
friend of my childhood—for no one can take
that title from us—companion of my early
rambles—well do I remember when first we
prattled together in infantine glee. Since then,
our hearts have altered on one essential point,
but still, in affection, together they are both
united. I will then examine this faith which
can calm every feeling of your heart, which
can make you tranquil in alarm, and resigned
e'en if death should stretch forth his pale
hands to grasp you. I will not hover around
your path ; I will not be influenced in my
determination by the beauty of your face, or
the grace of your deportment ; I will not let
any earthly claim bias me in this great
work; but listen to me, Constance, for this
may be for many long months our last in
terview : if I turn to your faith, if I brave
danger, if I embrace your religion, no place
shall separate me from you ; no argument, no
power shall estrange us ; my fate must be
yours, my home yours; if you suffer for re
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 273
ligion, encouraged by your example, so will I
if this persecution ceases, and we can worship
in peace ; then our prayers will mingle toge
ther. Constance, you may trust me ; although
my love for you is strong, I forget it in the one
wish of serving and pleasing you ; and during
our journey to Woodstock, no words of mine
shall cause you uneasiness."
Alphonzo pressed the young girl's hand
within his own, and was astonished to find how
violently she trembled; perhaps he knew not
how woman, when warmly attached to the reli
gion in which she has been trained, can sacrifice
her dearest hope, if it stands against her faith.
When Constance returned, she was equipped
in a riding habit, which displayed her well-
turned figure to great advantage, and her
glossy light hair hung gracefully round her
pretty face ; the words of admiration which
arose to Alphonzo's lips he instantly checked,
for he remembered his promise, and they de
termined as it were mutually to cast away all
n 3
274 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
light thoughts, and to devote the whole jour
ney to theological conversation; and thus the
youthful pair spent many hours, until, after
resting several times, their journey was drawing
to a close ; then Constance began to feel the
bashfulness of her situation, and, to make anx
ious enquiries about the Princess Elizabeth.
Alphonzo had seen her when she was almost
a prisoner in the Tower ; when Courtney, after
wards Earl of Devonshire, refusing to pay his
addresses to Mary, incurred her displeasure
by his devoted attentions towards the Princess,
her sister.
" But do you think I shall love the Prin
cess ?" said Constance.
" You will both love and fear her ; there
is something very commanding in her man
ners, but she is kind and affable, unless her
proud nature has been stung by some ungra
cious or unjust action towards herself; to
wards the Queen, the Princess bears herself
haughtily, but, alas ! she has too much reason
so to do."
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 275
Thus prepared to find the Princess of a
wavering disposition, Constance was almost
afraid of meeting a cold reception. If any
event during the day had displeased Elizabeth,
she knew not that the Princess could so per
fectly command her temper; that it was not
until many years afterwards that her disposition
became passionate, when her power, necessarily
left her sole mistress of her actions. Eliza
beth then often repented, too late, of deeds
which were past recalling, and thus became
fretful and passionate. Alphonzo had rightly
said that the Princess was haughty ; but where
her heart was touched, no signs of hauteur
could be discovered, and she received Con
stance with the most affectionate solicitude.
Nevertheless, she could not understand how
Mrs. Stracey's son had escorted her protige;
she felt inclined to question the servant who
had accompanied Constance, but her pride re
strained. She, however, treated ihe young
man coldly, and he had left the mansion when
276 THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE.
Constance next inquired for him, leaving her a
few lines, to tell her that their compact was
binding, and that in a few months she should
see him again. As Constance thought how
lonely she should feel without one human being,
save her maid, to remind her of her earlier days,
she vainly repressed her tears, and at length
sobbed aloud ; and although Elizabeth endea
voured to assuage her grief by every affection
ate caress she could bestow, the young girl re
flected with bitterness that her father's death
would seal this new tie ; she could not repress
the emotion which stole over her, but throw
ing herself on her knees before Elizabeth, she
exclaimed, " Save him, oh save my father ?"
" My power is very limited, Constance, and
I have done all I possibly can ; but I fear me
that amounts to little."
" God will reward you for your kindness,
lady ; but these fanatics "
" Hush, hush ; you must be cautious—indeed
you must."
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 277
" That is a difficult thing to learn ; but your
Highness knows that God loves the truth."
" Ay, that is true, but you are young and
beautiful ; and, remember, that one word spoken
against those persons you are now calling fa
natics, might cost you your life."
" Ab, lady, if I could suffer instead of my
father, willingly would I give my life ; for this
world is but a thing of naught, and we live as
it were in a dream, awakening only at the
threshold of death. My psth through life has
scarcely yet begun, but whether I tread the fra
grant lane of thornless roses or the chequered
vale of brambles and thorns, each coming morn
will usher one image before me—namely my
dying father's phantom spirit."
" Constance, dear Constance, you make me
shudder; come, seek some repose, and your
mind will be easier."
Constance complied, with a thankful smile,
for she was very weary.
Woodstock is sixty miles west-north-west of
278 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
London, and eight miles north of Oxford. It is
pleasantly situated on a rising ground, and a
clear rivulet flows through the plains around.
The journey from London had been slow and
tedious ; for though, thanks to steam, we now
perform our flying expeditions with magic
speed, in the days of Queen Mary it was very
different. No wonder, then, that the fair Con
stance eagerly courted repose ; and the Prin
cess, after seeing her charge asleep, walked
alone on the terrace which surrounded the
west side of her mansion. Bitter, many of
her thoughts undoubtedly were, but through
the darkened canvass glimmered a bright pic
ture, for the Princess felt she had done all in
her power to save Cranmer. She had sent a
message to Philip of Spain ; she had bowed her
haughty spirit—she had sued a favour, and
Philip had had an interview with the Princes s,
during which, though both often fell into bitter
expressions, still Elizabeth had gained her
point.
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 279
" You surprise me," said the King, when
he had silently heard the object of the Prin
cess's note. " I imagined your Highness had
some mighty plan in your head to consult me
upon. And has my long journey amounted to a
mere nothing?"
" Nothing, do you call it, Sire, when you
can save a fellow-creature's life ?"
" The obstinate old fool," replied Philip ;
" by one word of recantation, he could live,
without giving me or any one else any fur
ther trouble."
" Ah, Sire, talk not thus. Is religion, then, of
no weight, can we vascillatingly change from
one sect to another ? Albeit the good old man
clings to life, he dreads death less than to deny
that faith which has borne him through the
trials of life, guided his youth, supported his
manhood, and now comforts his sinking heart."
" Very eloquent, indeed," coldly answered
Philip ; " but I cannot see what great harm it
can do your favourite to change his religion."
280 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
" Hush, hush," said Elizabeth, rising indig
nantly ; remember, King of Spain, you are
talking to Henry the Eighth's daughter ; and
although I am of no consequence at Court—
although I have no influence, no power—still I
am so far mistress of my own actions, that I
brook not insult—no, not even from Philip of
Spain. Your, levity, Sire, not only marks dis
respect towards an English Princess, but it also
plainly shows that Philip of Spain is King by
birth, but that his heart is not equal to his high
rank."
" Well, Princess, you have not been spend
ing your leisure hours in learning to flatter,
that is very certain. Pray do not leave me in
anger, and accuse my education, not my heart,
if I have been trained in less mental gravity
with yourself. Now, what can you reasonably
expect me to do ? "
The Princess paused ; her pride was hurt ;
and had she followed the bent of her inclina
tion, she would have left the room; but the
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 281
prelate's pale face appeared to upbraid her for
her weakness, and she once more took a seat
opposite the King of Spain. She ' placed her
hand on his, and with an open expression of
countenance^ she continued the conversation.
" Philip of Spain, have you spoken idle
words, when you have so often assured me
that your relationship to me was pleasing in
your sight ? that you would never allow me to
be Mary's slave ? that "
" Enough, Princess ; order, and you shall be
obeyed. And in return, look not so proudly
upon me ; we are equally proud, and although
high in station, we are, methinks, equally un
happy. Princess, I will do your bidding, and
I will save the prelate's life."
" Now, indeed, I have gained a grand and
heartfelt pleasure in this interview," said Eliza
beth.
" Well then, Princess, I must place a condi
tion on my intercession with the Queen; I
must beg your Highness to endeavour to submit
282 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
to your Royal sister, and in peace and unity
to adorn our Court by your bright presence."
Elizabeth had not expected this burst of
gallantry, and an arch smile accompanied her
answer.
" Mary is my Queen, and she is your wife ;
therefore I will refrain from speaking of her."
" Tot de roi," replied the King, equally
archly ; " if you are only afraid of speaking
your mind of the Queen because she is my
wife, fear not, Princess ; my conjugal nerves
can bear it."
Elizabeth burst into a hearty fit of laughter,
in which the King involuntarily joined; and
when he took his departure he again promised
instant compliance with the Princess's request,
thinking at the same time that Elizabeth was
more bewitchingly persevering in her will,
more enchanting, and more witty, every time
he saw her. The Princess, however, was far
from feeling the momentary mirth in which she
indulged ; but she was so well acquainted with
THE SPANISH GIKl's REVENGE. 288
the bent of Philip's mind, she knew so well
when to plead in a jocose or a serious manner,
that studying thus her part, she generally
gained her point. The Princess Elizabeth's
tutor, Roger Ascham, had wisely trained her
mind to bear with equanamity the revolutions
of pleasure and pain. She studied not the
Roman and Greek languages ; she read not
Plato, for the sake of boasting of her love of
abstruse learning, but she gleaned crops of
useful knowledge from every page, and stocked
with unsparing abundance her mental store
house. EUzabeth thus learned that first and
essential rule to clever judgment. She said
everything in its proper place, and she gave
her advice at the seasonable moment when the
person to whom it was given, would receive it.
And, although she was sorry to hear Con
stance continue her lamentations when she
awoke, still the Princess feared to tell her all
she hoped, lest a disappointment of some kind
should occur.
CHAPTER VI.
It will not be ill placed here, to give a short bio
graphical account of Cranmer and other martyrs
in the Protestant cause. Cranmer's general
character is given in these words : " He was mild
and indulgent in his judgment of his fellow-
creatures, severe towards himself, charitable to
wards others." Yet his manners were extremely
conciliating ; he lived in that age when no
restraint was placed upon any action which
sprung from religious motives ; and following
this sad example, in the reign of Edward the
Sixth he caused a Kentish lady to be put to
THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE. 285
death. Painful is it when we read the biogra
phy of an illustrious person, and find the pages
sullied with one spot, which time and all the
leniency of biographers cannot efface. How
often, too, the very fault which mars the bright
page of a great man's career, is the very one by
which he suffers afterwards, as exercised to
wards himself. Cranmer, then, in the height of
his power, did not contemplate a death simi
lar to the Kentish lady who suffered by his
orders. The prelate was born in Nottingham
shire, and at the time of his death was in his
sixtieth year. When the persecution began
in Mary's reign, Cranmer was not called
upon to recant ; he was to see others suffer
before him as a type of what he would after
wards endure. In vain Pole pleaded ; in vain
he told Mary that the Emperor recommended
her to be more lenient towards the Protes
tants; nothing save their blood could satisfy
Gardiner, and his arguments were more agree
able to the cruel bigotry of Mary and Philip.
286 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
England was soon a scene of undisguised hor
rors ; and under cover of the mantle of religion,
cruelty of the most refined nature was practised.
The first person who suffered was Rogers, pre
bendary of St. Paul's, a man eminent in his
party for virtue and learning. Gardiner was
disappointed in his hopes of intimidating him,
and vainly strove to make him the first example
of recantation. Rogers had a beloved wife and
ten children, but he parted from them with
calm resignation, hoping to meet them again on
the eternal shore, where peace and happiness
reign. When his last moments drew near,
Rogers desired to see his wife, but Gardiner,
joining insult to cruelty, told him that as he
was a priest he could not have a wife.
Hooper, bishop of Glocester, was executed
at his own diocese ; but whilst the circumstance
was intended to strike terror amongst his flock,
the manner in which he cheerfully gave up his
life served only to impress on the beholders'
minds the strength of that religion which could
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 287
thus calm the parting soul, on the verge of
Eternity. Hooper suffered the most intense
agony. The wind being high, blew the flame
of the faggots around his body. Part of his
body was consumed before his vitals were at
tacked. One of his hands dropped off, with the
other he contined beating his breast. He was
heard to pray and exhort the people until his
tongue, swollen with the violence of his agony,
could no longer permit him utterance. He was
three quarters of an hour in excruciating tor
ture, whilst Mary's pardon in case he recanted
was all tbe while placed before his eyes.
Sanders suffered at Coventry : a pardon was
also offered to him on the usual conditions of
recantation ; but rejecting it, he embraced the
fatal stake, saying, " Welcome, the cross of
Christ ; welcome, everlasting life."
Taylor, minister of Hadley, was also exe
cuted at the same place amidst all his congrega
tion and personal friends. When tied to the
stake, he repeated a psalm in English ; one of
288 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
his guards struck him on the mouth, and bade
him speak Latin ; another struck him so vio
lent a blow on the head with his halbert, that
his torments ceased in death.
Philpot, archdeacon of Winchester, having
engaged in a dispute with an Indian, and such
being his zeal for orthodoxy, that forgetting all
rules of propriety, both of conduct and man
ners he spat in his adversary's face ; he after
wards wrote a treatise to justify this action, and
declared he had been led to the deed to signify
how unworthy was such a miscreant of being
admitted into the society of any Christian.
Philpot was a Protestant, and falling now into
the hands of people as jealous as himself, but
more powerful, he was condemned to death,
and suffered at Smithfield.
Ferrar, bishop of St. David's, was burned in
his diocese, and his appeal to Cardinal Pole was
disregarded.
Ridley, bishop of London, and Latimer, for
merly bishop of Worcester, two prelates cele
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 289
brated for learning and virtue, perished to
gether at Oxford. Latimer, when tied to the
stake, supported his brother bishop's constancy
saying, " Be of good cheer brother, we shall
this day kindle such a torch in England, as I
trust in God, shall never be extinguished."
The executioners had tied bags of gunpowder
about the prelates, in order to put a speedy
period to their tortures ; and this merciful in
vention immediately killed Latimer, who was
in extreme old age ; Ridley continued for some
time after, alive in the midst of the flames.
Hunter, a young man nineteen years of age,
having been seduced into a dispute by a priest,
had unwarily denied the real Presence. Sen
sible of his danger, he immediately absconded,
and Bonner, more cruel than Gardiner, more
relentless, more remorseless, laid hold of Hun
ter's father, and threatened him with the
greatest severities, if he did not produce the
young man to stand^his trial. Hunter, hearing
his father's uncomfortable situation, voluntarily
vol. hi. o
290 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
surrendered to Bonner, and that persecuting
prelate condemned him to the flames. Thomas
Haukes, another martyr, wishing even in his
last,moments to prevent the Protestants recant
ing, agreed with them, that should he find
the torture tolerable, he would make them a
signal to that purpose in the midst of the
flames. Supported by his devoted zeal, he
suffered with constancy, stretched out his arms
as a signal agreed on, and in that posture he
expired.
The female sex produced many examples of
inflexible courage; some were tortured, some
were condemned to the flames, and even chil
dren laid down their young lives for the sake of
the religion they had embraced.
Persons condemned to death were not con
victed of teaching, or dogmatizing contrary to
the established religion ; they were merely
seized on suspicion, and, refusing to subscribe
to articles offered them, they were instantly
committed to the flames. To exterminate the
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 291
whole Protestant party was impossible, and
every new martyr brought another stanch ad
herent to the faith, which inspires men with so
much hope and courage.
The Spanish Government became each day
more odious, and Philip endeavoured to re
move the reproach cast upon him, by a very
gross artifice. He ordered his confessor to de
liver in his presence a sermon in favour of tole
ration, a doctrine somewhat extraordinary in
the mouth of a Spanish friar. This step, how
ever, was of no avail ; Bonner, although
shameless and savage, found it impossible to
bear the whole blame of the dreadful persecu
tions, and cautiously throwing off the mask,
the relentless tempers of the Queen and the
King of Spain appeared without disguise. A
bold step was taken to introduce the inquisition
in England. The Queen, in imitation of it,
named a commission of twenty one persons,
armed with the power of searching out heretics,
by every political, or artificial, or cunning man
292 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
ner imaginable ; they were to arrest the bringers
in, the sellers, and readers of all heretical books.
They were to examine, and punish, all misbe
haviours or negligences, in any church or cha
pel ; and to try all priests who did not preach
the sacrament at the altar ; all persons who did
not attend mass in their own parish church ;
who refused to go in processions, or did not take
holy bread or holy water. They might search
premises, break into the domestic circle ofpeace,
and tear away, without any further notice, any
who refused to give up their Protestant docu
ments. Letters were even written to Lord
North, and others, ordering them to put to the
torture any persons who would not confess.*
With so many secret agents in every parish
to execute the Queen's will, executions were
very numerous ; and although for a time some
persons congratulated themselves on having
escaped the notice of the inqusitorial parties,
they were soon fatally undeceived. " The com-
* See Hume, Fox, Burnet, Strype, $c.
THE SPANISH GIRTHS REVENGE. 293
mon net at that time," says Sir Richard Baker,
" for catching Protestants, was the real Presence,
and that net was used to catch the Lady Eliza
beth. For being asked one time, what she
thought of the words of Christ, ' This is my
hody,' whether she thought it the true body of
Christ that was in the sacrament? it is saids that
after a pause, she answered :
" Christ was the word that spake it ;
He took the bread and brake it ;
And what the word did make it
That I believe, and take it."
If Elizabeth did not make use of these ambi-
gious words, which a?e supposed to have caused
her to escape the snare laid for her, it is certain
that it required all her presence of mind to free
herself from the machinations of Gardiner and
Bonner, who regarded her with a jealous eye ;
fearing that if Mary died without a successor,
the Princess Elizabeth would justly punish all
those now concerned in the bloody persecution.
The year 1555 had been marked by the exe
294 THE SPANISH GlitL's REVENGE.
cutions mentioned in the beginning of this chap
ter ; and the year 1556 witnessed another act
of barbarity in the execution of the venerable
Cranmer. This prelate's services towards the
Queen had been great, during the reign of
Henry the Eighth, and he had employed his
power in mitigating the prejudices which that
monarch had formed against his daughter ; but
the active part he had taken in obtaining the
mother's choice, as well as in conducting the in
formation, inspired Mary with hatred towards
him. The Primate, therefore, had reason to ex
pect little favour from her ; but it was his own
indiscreet zeal that brought on him the begin
ning of his persecution. "We must, to explain
this, look back in history to the year 155S,
when a report was spread that Cranmer, in
order to make his court with his Queen, had
promised to officiate in the Latin service. The
prelate, to wipe off this aspersion, drew up a
manifesto in his defence. Among other asper
sions, he said : " that as the devil was a liar
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE, 295
from die beginning, and the father of lies, so had
he at this time stirred up his servants to perse
cute Christ and his true religion. That the in
fernal spirit now endeavoured to restore the
Latin satisfactory masses, a thing of his own in
vention and device. And in order to effectuate
his purpose, had falsely made use of Cranmer's
name and authority. And that the mass is not
only without foundation, either in the Scriptures
or the Primitive Church, but likewise discovers
a plain contradiction to antiquity and the in
spired writings; and is, besides, replete with
many horrid blasphemies." *
On the publication of this exciting document,
Cranmer was imprisoned and tried for high
treason, the part he had taken in bringing the
Lady Jane Grey to the throne being alleged
against him. The execution of the sentence
pronounced against him was not enforced, and
" Hume corroborates this extraordinary manifesto, by
authentic testimonies —Fox, Heylin, Godwin, Burnet,
Cranmer's Memoirs, page 305.
296 THE SPANISH GIRL'S KEVENGE.
Cranmer's life was spared until the year 1556,
when the Queen was determined to satisfy her
revenge, and punish him, not for high treason,
but for heresy. He was cited by the Pope to
stand his trial at Rome. Although he was kept
in close custody at Oxford, he was, upon his
not appearing, condemned as contumacious.
Bonner and Thirleby exulted over the fallen
prelate with fiendish delight. But thr Queen'
was not satisfied ; to triumph fully over her
enemy, she wished him to sign a recantation in
the theological conversations. She well knew
the prelate was ever prepared with a ready
answer; but Gardiner and Bonner, following
the instructions they received, spoke to him in
glowing colours of the ornament he would be
to the Popish Church; they clad life in its
most attractive garb, and Cranmer, overcome
by the love of life, terrified at the thought of
the tortures which awaited him, agreed to sub
scribe the doctrines of the Papal Supremacy
and the real Presence. The Court, not only
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 297
cruel, but perfidious, determined that this re
cantation should be of no avail, and they sent
orders that he should be required to acknow
ledge his errors in church, before all the
people. Whether Cranmer had received a
secret intimation of these designs of causing
him to be executed equally for high treason,
or whether he repented of his momentary weak
ness, he surprised the audience by a contrary
declaration, and his fate was then sealed. The
last morning dawned, and Cranmer bade fare
well to hope. There, in the solitary walls of
his close imprisonment, he severely accused
himself for having, in an unguarded moment of
weakness, consented to make an insincere de
claration of the Roman Catholic faith. Having
fervently prayed for pardon, the prelate rose
from his knees with a resigned expression of
countenance, which forsook him not during the
writhing tortures he suffered. He raised his
meek eyes to Heaven, and breathed a prayer
for his lovely child, for the Princess Elizabeth,
o 3
298 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
and for all his unhappy countrymen ; and after
mentally bidding farewell to each loved person,
and each spot endeared by recollections of the
past, Cranmer folded his arms on his breast and
awaited his doom. Ten minutes more elapsed—
moments which appeared as long hours—and he
was then hurried to an open space of ground,
where the ominous stake, and all its fearful ap
pendage, were awaiting their victim. A deep
bell tolled solemnly, and at its knell, a con
course of some thousands hurried to the spot,
to witness the last moments of a candid, sin
cere, and beneficent prelate, possessed of virtues
eminently calculated to fender him useful and
amiable in society. The old man advanced
with firm steps towards the pile. Gardiner was
standing beside it, arrayed in a long canonical
flowing robe, holding a silver crucifix in the
one hand, and a vase of the same metal, con
taining holy water, in the other. Bonner, look
ing triumphant, but striving to disguise it, held
a scroll ofparchment and a pen. Both the pre
THE SPANISH girl's kevengb. 299
late% advanced towards their victim, and a thrill
of anxious expectation ran through the crowd.
" Sign this paper, kiss this cross, dip your finger
in the holy water, and your soul will be saved."
Cranmer answered not a syllable, but turned
from his wily tormentors with a look of un
utterable disgust. And looking at the dense
mob around him, the venerable Prelate ad
dressed his last words to his countrymen :—
" Brethren, and fellow pilgrims on earth, be
warned by my last voice; witness how a
Christian can die. Shake off the shackle
which binds your soul ; hold not the same faith
as men who depart from every law of equity
and humanity. What is life ? E'en at the
best, the retrospect has more pain than plea
sure ; life is a vale of tears, an echoing of
farewell. The God who breathed into man's
nostrils the breath of life, that God who made
him an accountable creature, who blessed him
with a soul, capable of the most refined feelings ;
that God, and he alone, should recall the life
300 THE SPANISH GIRl/6 REVENGE.
he gives. It is not His spirit, then, which
influences bad men to this barbarous persecu
tion ; the spirit of departed martyrs, of
Latimer, of Rogers, and of many more, all
loudly call for vengeance. Raise not your
voices, my friends ; vengeance will come, but it
is not yet time. Let me suffer ; I desire it : and
this hand, this weak member of a faulty body,
shall be held in the flames until every sinew
shrinks. Ah, shed your tears ; they will pray
for my forgiveness. Pray on, pray on, for my
soul, on the verge of eternity, is bewildered
and lost, amidst thoughts of the wondrous
things passing man's understanding, which I
shall soon see. My sight is dazzled, and my
voice trembles. No friends of early life can I
distinguish amidst yon dense crowd ; and yet,
methinks, that each heart palpitates in grief,
in alarm, and in sympathy. As long as this
earth lasts, man's heart, corrupt and fallen,
knows not what new wickedness to work.
Since the blood of righteous Abel stained the
THE SPANISH GIRL'S KEVENGE. 301
earth, like blood-hounds after their prey, men
scent out new objects of revenge. Becket, Arch
bishop of Canterbury, whose blood gushed to
the altar's precincts, since canonized and wor
shiped, does he now look down ! Did he see
through the lapse of years, and did he know that
Cranmer, holding his archbishopric, would suf
fer worse torments than he did. My blood, like
his', will not be shown to the anxious.* But,
countrymen, hear me. my spirit shall "
" Come, cease this noise," coarsely exelaimed
Bonner, perceiving the populace were deeply
touched ; " we seek not to send your soul to tor
ments worse than those awaiting you; recant
from your heresy, and let your soul live."
Welcome death; away with recantation! away
with detestable perjury !" answered Cranmer."
Far is it from my pen to trace the horror of
the scene which followed. The hangman's knot
is a brief mode of death; the block is a quick
* It is pretended that Becket's blood is still to be
seen marking the spot where he was slain.
302 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
transit from wo ; the guillotine, so called from
Dr. Guillotine, a Frenchman of mild and quiet
habits, who invented the machine, as a means
of quickly relieving the suffering criminal from
his pain (little thinking that the Republicans
would make it reek with innocent blood) ; this,
and all other modes of death, are light in com
parison to the dreadful sufferings endured at
the stake. A simple piece of burning sealing-
wax, a drop of scalding water, will cause the
most acute pain. What then must be the agony,
when limb after limb is destroyed by the fiery
element ? when the excitement, before the
operation begins, strengthens the nerves, and
the wind sometimes dispersing the flames, gives
a short respite from death ? and the vital spark
of life mil linger, even when the body is a
wretched mass of black, falling substance.
No words were uttered in that dense crowd.
The sufferings of Cranmer were dreadful ; a few
stifled groans burst from him, growing fainter
and fainter, lost in the noise of the hideous
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 303
cracking of the bones, as they were severed by
the dreadful flames. At last the scene was
drawing to a close ; the fire more brightly shone,
then embered slowly away. Thank God ! the
breath of life had departed ; the vital tenure of
existence had just fled ; the last remains of
Cranmer's body fell with a crash to the ground ;
the stake in flames, mingled with the dust,
when suddenly tearing over the ground, covered
with dense clouds of dust, an object, at first
indistinct, attracted the attention of the specta
tors ; nearer and nearer it approached, and a
horseman was seen spurring the flanks of his
reeking courser, whose sides were pierced, and
marked the dust which its speed raised. As
the horseman drew near, the crowd sponta
neously made room for him ; but when he cast
his eyes on the expiring embers, a mist came
over him, and he paused ; the instant his faith
ful charger left off its hurried course, he bowed
his head, the flowing mane became perfectly
rigid, the limbs bent, and he expired. The
304 THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE.
nearest bystander assisted the almost fainting
cavalier to dismount.
" Ah, poor beast ! poor beast ! " exclaimed the
rider, " I might have spared they bleeding sides,
for we are too late ; not one vestige is left of the
venerable prelate. The dust of his body, and
the embers of the faggots commingle. A few
moments more speed, and had I expired with
exhaustion, my friends, I would have saved
Cranmer. This paper," he continued, unfolding
a parchment, " contains her Gracious Majesty's
pardon, at the intercession of her husband,
Philip of Spain. All of ye be witnesses that I
have discharged my - duty. My Lords Gardi
ner and Bonner, ye will repent if ye have been
over hasty."
" Who art thou, daring intruder, to talk
thus ?" said Bonner, making his way through
the crowd. He pushed aside the high collar
of the cavalier's cloak, and then exclaimed, in
some amazement—" By my faith, it is young
Stracey, and I arrest thee as an unknown in
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 305
truder on the populrr tranquillity of the realm,
and retain thee as a prisoner unlawfully escaped
from the Tower. Guards, arrest your pri
soner ! "
No one moved ; the appalling scene just wit
nessed, the faintness which overspread Alphon-
zo's fine features, from exhaustion, the Queen's
signature on the parchment, all had their weight
with the guards who were stationed round the
stake.
Bonner, perceiving their thoughts, tore the
parchment from Alphonzo's hands, and, throw
ing it on the embers, a flame immediately re
kindled, and one of the bystanders approach
ing, rescued the prelate's heart from amidst the
flames.* The action was not unobserved, and
the guards, feeling by Bonner's deed how pow
erful that vindictive prelate was, reluctantly
seized Alphonzo, who was again conducted as
a prisoner to the Tower.
* It is pretended, that after Cranmer's body was con
sumed, his heart was found entire amidst the ashes—an
event which the Protestants considered as an emblem of
his constancv.
CHAPTER VII.
Very different were Alphonzo's feelings when
he found himself once more a prisoner in the
Tower. This time he was confined in a damp
and uncomfortable cell ; a wretched pallet was
his only bed, and coarse food his fare. No
voice came near the prisoner to cheer his capti
vity—the Lady Eldrida's dark eyes rested not
on his face. That she still loved Alphonzo
with the warmth her fervent nature was capable
of feeling, was true ; but it required only a
trifle with her Spanish heart to mix resentment
with love. Although the latter was not les
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 307
sened, Calipsa artfully insinuated that Alphonzo
ought not to have left the Tower without risk
ing any danger to see his kind advocate.
At first Eldrida scarcely heeded the insinu
ation, but as day after day passed, no message,
no note, arrived, when she vainly endeavoured
to conquer a passion equally hopeless and warm;
then anger took hold of Eldrida's heart, and
she daily grew more moody. Philip of Spain
noticed her dejection, but, knowing the cause,
he left it to time to cure the wound. The
Queen was so absorbed with the persecution
which was immediately under her command,
that she saw Eldrida only in those gay mo
ments when a Court wears, as it were, a veil,
when every face is smiling ; when sighs and
tears are hidden ; when each person vies with
his neighbour to be light and gay. A wonder
ful change, however, had passed over the young
girl's heart. It is truly astonishing how small
a weight will overbalance whatever is good in
our nature. Carefully as Eldrida concealed her
308 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
grief, striving, as she did, to keep it within her
breast, and "let the canker-worm prey upon
her damask cheek :" it was useless ; the bud
was blighted ; and an attentive observer could
easily trace hidden grief in that heavy eye,
and that cold, unchanging expression, which
replaced youth's smiling beams. In those days
of violence and bloodshed, the greatest secresy
prevailed through Court actions. Who thought
of inquiring openly into Bonner's secrets ?
Who asked him where he went? Who in
quired why a scowl sat on his countenance ?
Who wondered when a smile of scorn or dis
pleasure stole over his lips ? Who asked how
many persons, or what the name was of any
particular individual confined in the Tower ?
No one : secret as the inquisitorial tribunal in
Spain were the actions of that prelate, so detest
able to the whole nation. Ah, how would Bon
ner rest at night, when he reflected of the trans
actions of each day ; when, before going to rest,
he had each time to wash his hands from some
THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE. 309
innocent person's blood ? Did not their shrieks
sound in his ears ? Did not their voices call for
vengeance ? Did not their ghosts hover around
him in phantom mockery, calling for vengeance 1
Bonner had steeled heart ; he had bid his con
science be still ; he persuaded himself he was
following the right path ; he accused the heretics
of obstinacy, himself of firmness and courage ;
and daily a new victim was secreted in . the
Tower, and speedily replaced by another person
when death made room for the next martyr.
Secretly as Bonner acted, there was one person
who watched his actions, for motives better
known to herself than any one else ; this person
was Calipsa. Circumstances had made her
cruel ; one step in wickedness ha4 rendered her
heartless ; but hers was the heartlessness of a
despairing spirit, of one who knew hot where
to turn for advice and consolation ; no feelings
of personal revenge lurked in her heart. But
such was her love and obedience towards Philip
of Spain, that, had he commanded her to cut ofF
-310 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
her right hand and bring it to him, she would
have unhesitatingly complied with the request.
Poor soul ! she sinned for her Royal master,
and doubly sinful in the sight of Heaven, must
have been that heart, who, knowing her weak
ness, bade her sin.
Secretly as Bonner intended concealing Al-
phonzo, Calipsa had spies the prelate thought
not of; and the old woman lost no time in ap
prizing the King of young Stracey's detention.
Bonner had been closeted with Philip during
a great part of the day ; then voices were heard
in the rooms around—they were apparently
conversing angrily together, and Philip was
evidently in a towering passion. At last the
prelate left, and Calipsa arranged with the
King that he should visit the captive Alphonzo
as soon as it was evening. When the hour
arrived, and the King glided noiselessly through
the secret passages in the Tower, a bitter smile
crossed his features, when he reflected that he,
the powerful King of Spain—he, the King-con-
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 311
sort of England—he, whose vast dominions
stretched from north to south, and east to west,
thus sought the evening hour to avoid the at
tention of Bonner—a menial, subject, risen at
the expense of blood, treachery, and cruelty of
the most refined kind. The King had bidden
the gaoler to follow him ; and when Calipsa
at length told him that they had arrived at the
end of their journey, he commanded the man
to open the door.
The gaoler turned very pale.
"How J^~y, sirrah! dost hear me?" said
Philip.
"Ah, your Malesty, preserve me from my
Lord Gardiner ; he bade me refuse to open that
cell, even, if—if your Majesty commanded it."
" Give me the key directly," said Philip, in
a thundering voice, echoed far in the lofty cor
ridors around.
The man complied; and Philip, repenting his
momentary passion, assured the gaoler that he
had nothing to fear. Calipsa waited outside
-312 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
the dungeon, and Philip, taking the lamp from
her hands, was soon by Alphonzo's pallet. The
young man had just fallen into a restless sleep,
and as he tossed about on his hard couch, he
was wandering in dreams of early childhood.
Cranmer's daughter was near him ; now he
fancied that summer tints were blooming
around him, and that he was by Albano's still
waters ; he heard the gentle ripple of the lake;
and the murmuring song of the birds around ;
he was sitting, in imagination, on the verdant
turf, shaded by the spreading trees ; and Con
stance, young, smiling, trusting, and happy, she
was by his side.
The dream changed, and the sleeper fancied
he was spending a few months in exploring the
beauties of that country where his youth had
been spent. He stood by the Lago Maggiore,
he saw the lovely Arona ; and speeding on from
Laveno and the Bensca Hill, next Lake Ver-
banus appeared. Complete was the infatuation
of the dream: the lake, the land, the mountains,
THE SPANISH GIKL'S REVENGE. 313
and the vale; and afar, the Alps reared
their white-capped heads ; and many a floating
bark gracefully wended its way down the stream;
and the sun was gilding its surface with its
brightest tints : there was music on the earth,
and gladness in the air, and the isles around
echoed to the voice of mirth. Complete was the
deceiving dream ; and then the sleeper awoke,
not to find himself under Albano's sunny sky,
but in a damp and sickly-feeling dungeon.
The sensation of waking from a pleasingly de
ceptive dream, to the sad reality of sorrow and
pain, has often been delineated by able writers,
and does not want more description ; for those
who have felt the acute pain of this feeling
would not esteem a repeated description of it ;
and to those fortunate persons who wake only to
pleasure and enjoyment, to them I say, " ye are
blessed."
When Alphonzo beheld the King of Spain,
he could not recall the circumstance of his im
prisonment ; nor did he awaken from the sort
vol. in. p
314 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
of trance in which he had fallen, until he found
himself in a spacious and well-furnished room
leading to the King's bed-chamber. Anything
approaching to grandeur stole with a pleasant
feeling over the senses, for buildings and house
hold furniture were very rude in those days.
Hume quotes from Nicholson's Historical Li
brary, where he affirms that a Comptroller of
Edward the Sixth's household, paid only thirty
shillings a year of our present money for his
house in Channel Row.
Alphonzo, however, had dwelt in that land
where luxury and pomp were far before-hand
with our English isle ; and he felt himself again
in his own natural position, away from the
narrow dungeon, where useless sighs were
wafted, and scalding tears flowed in vain.
" You were too late to save the prelate,"
exclaimed the King, after desiring Alphonzo
to sit opposite to him ; " and when you found
that was the case, where was the use of naming
me, or reading the pardon aloud ? I had not
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 315
yet convinced the Queen of the good, probable
to arise, by showing clemency to Cranine*
and it is possible, that I should never have con
vinced her Majesty on the point. I had, how
ever, my own plan on the subject, and now
you have frustrated it by naming me as acces
sory to Cranmer's pardon. Full two hours
have I argued with Bonner, and have at length
convinced him it is all a mistake ; that I have
nothing to do with the document he de
stroyed."
" What ! " exclaimed Alphonzo, indignantly;
" has your Majesty really denied giving me
that paper, and making the venerable Cran
mer's pardon the condition for my enter
ing your Majesty's Spanish service, and en
gaging in the newly-kindling war against
France ?"
"No, I have not forgotten anything," an
swered Philip; " but it is no use wasting words.
When I gave you that paper, I thought not you
would be too late (which would not have been
p 2
816 THE SPANISH GIRL'S KEVENGE.
the case, had they not hurried the prelate's
end) ; then I never contemplated Bonner seiz
ing you, but had procured your passport, and
secured your passage to the Continent. When
once you were out of the reach of Bonner, it
mattters not now how I intended acting ; hut
now I tell you that Bonner has no conscience, no
scruples. He is in possession of a secret,
which a foolish domestic confided to him under
seal of the confessional—secresy. Bonner, how
ever, waits but his own time to reveal it; I
read it in his sinister smile, hidden under his
crouching language—he will perjure himself,
and the Pope will grant him absolution ; and
the knowledge of this secret will break the
best link which binds me to the Queen of
England; for few know, as I do, her keen
jeal6usy. All these difficulties you can re
move whilst you arc in England.. Bonner
fancies that you are at the head of a Spa
nish confederacy, watching his movements.
"When you leave this coast, I can hush up
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 317
matters. Young man, you know not how
much my fate depends on yours."
Alphonzo uttered an exclamation of sur
prise.
" Hush," said Philip ; " the time may come
when the mysterious language I now use will
be plain as the noon-day. But, mark me—
' Not until Queen Mary's death!' You must
remain here concealed in my own private
sitting-room until to-morrow evening. Bonner
will then be far away towards the north, whither
the Queen has despatched him to quell a body
of powerful heretics. Furnished with creden
tials to the Emperor, who is now in Flanders,
your progress to fortune is sure as rapid ; and
the moment you give the necessary assent, you
leave not this apartment as Alphonzo Stracey,
but Alphonzo, Duke de La Mancha, with all
the fortune and honours appertaining there
unto."
Alphonzo paused. The King had spoken
in his hurried characteristic manner, and the
318 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
young man had hardly time to realize the
bright prospects held out to him. A dukedom,
a situation in the army, fortune, and every wish
his heart could form ; still, in the chaos of ideas
which sprung from the bright scene, no answer
came to his hps.
" I will leave you for some hours," said
Philip ; " your answer will then be ready."
Alphonzo was left alone, with burning, in
tense, newly-awakened thoughts. What meant
the King's mysterious words? How was he
connected with Philip's fate ? Then a sudden
idea sprung to his mind, but he immediately
rejected it. Through all the feeling of plea
sure and astonishment, the image of Constance
arose before him. Oh, how often love has a
powerful effect in the whole future life of man !
Beauty would not waste one smile or speak one
frivolous heartless word, nor attire herself in all
her attractive charms, if she knew that once
her image was engraven on her lover's heart ;
her own folly alone could efface it. It was not
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 319
only in her grace and her beauty that Con
stance appeared now, before Alphonzo's search
ing imagination ; it was in the two-fold loveli
ness of her virtue, and her Christian graces.
He drew forth a faded flower from his bosom,
and repeated the lines he had seen traced in
her book :—
" But till thou hear'st the Truth Divine,
My hand I cannot give."
Her heart, then, was his, and it depended on
himself to secure her hand. Great, however,
would be the sacrifice ; and now, as in all ro
mantic love, mountains appeared to divide him
from her he loved. If he accepted Philip's
offer, if he invested himself with his dukedom,
his Roman Catholic faith must be sealed, and
an everlasting barrier placed between him and
Constance. If he refuse the honours held out to
him, wandering penniless, unknown, escaping
from prison with difficulty, what then would
be his lot ? Does Constance really wish me to
make the sacrifice ? Does she think that her re
320 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
ligion calls for so much denial V Then he re
membered that a year was to elapse before he
made up his mind to any decisive step, and he
resolved to let that year decide for him, when
Philip re-entered. Alphonzo was prepared with
an answer : he told the King he was ready to
accept his offer, under some conditions. He
would go to the Emperor in Flanders, and
would enter the Spanish army, but would de
cline the dukedom of La Mancha until a
year had elapsed, and, if the King then saw
fit to grant him a request, then it might
perhaps be one of a different nature. Philip
heard all, and he wondered at many of the
words Alphonzo spoke ; but as he himself had
spoken in mysteries to the young cavalier, he
felt it was only just he should in return bear
with Alphonzo's humour.
" I have one more request to ask," said Phi
lip ; " you shall see the Lady Eldrida before
your departure, and she must hear from your
own lips, words which no one else can pro
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 321
nounce so well as yourself : you must tell her
whether you love her or not."
"This is the second time," answered Al-
phonzo, " that I have given a negative reply to
this question ; and it is doing me too much ho
nour, to suppose that the Lady Eldrida cares
for such a knight-errant as I am."
" The lady appears to think otherwise,"
said Philip, evasively.
" I will speak to the Lady Eldrida, if it be
your Majesty's will and pleasure ; but unless
the young lady sees fit to call for an explanation
of a few words of simple gratitude and cour
tesy, I shall not have the boldness to begin the
conversation."
" You must be guided by circumstances, I
admit," said Philip ; " but I will prepare my
niece to bid you farewell. Rest here till
morning." So saying, he left the room, turning
the key outside. The apartment in which Al-
phonzo was placed, was the last of the suite of
rooms leading to it. No one disturbed him
p 3
822 THE SPANISH GIRL's> REVENGE.
for several hours in the morning. Breakfast
was little thought of in those days, when the
dinner-hour was eleven before noon. Towards
that hour, the door opened, and the Lady El-
drida, pale, but perfectly collected, entered,
gravely, leaning on her uncle's arm
Her dinner toilet was completed ; and if Al-
phonzo had before thought Eldrida handsome,
he now saw her beauty enriched by her attire.
Her robe, of rich blue velvet, was ornamented
with roses formed of riband to correspond ; in
the midst of each, shone a bright diamond;
the stomacher was ornamented with splendid
brilliants, and her arms ornamented with brace
lets of great value. Her dark, glossy hair,
hung in rich tresses, and was looped up care
lessly with a comb inlaid with diamonds. Al-
phonzo could hardly believe the dark, majestic-
looking beauty, was the same warm-hearted,
enthusiastic creature, who had sought his
prison-cell ; the quivering emotion of the lips
had fled, and the kindling expression of the
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 823
eyes, formed to speak love's powerful language,
had given place to melancholy. Eldrida's
whole appearance now wore the frigid look of a
firm purpose ; and as she spoke, her cold,
measured words, seemed as if pronounced with
condescending effort.
" My uncle has informed me that you wish
to see me."
" I am going to leave England," said Al-
phonzo," and I "
" You wish to thank me for visiting you in
prison. The desire was hardly necessary, for I
have visited many other prisoners beside."
" Farewell, lady," said Alphonzo, asto
nished at Eldrida's strange display of love ;
" farewell, and may every earthly happiness
be your lot."
This time, Eldrida answered, with a marked
emphasis on each word—
" Farewell, Sir ; and may the same earthly
happiness attend you, which you hope will fall
to my share." She made a low bow, and left
324 THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE.
the room. Her uncle remained rooted to the
spot with astonishment ; but totally misunder
standing Eldrida's disguised coldness, he in
wardly congratulated himself upon her return
to reason, and laughingly accused himself of
having given Alphonzo a very useless inter
view.
" You need not be sorry on my account,"
replied the young man ; " I am only sorry for
the young lady."
"Sorry! for why?" said the King, in as
tonishment ; but Alphonzo made no reply.
Was he right ? Had he seen through the
cold surface of the icicled water? Had he
traced the circulating current through the
frozen exterior ? Could he read the disap
pointment, the bitterness, the agony, which
filled Eldrida's heart ?
CHAPTER VIII.
Since the martyrdom of Cranmer, no particular
person is mentioned in the dates of history, as
suffering at the stake for the Protestant cause.
The same cruelties still continued ; domestic
circles were broken into ; property was confis
cated, and the secret tribunal, headed by the
persevering Bonner, was as active as ever. But
the Queen's attention was drawn in another
channel : she wished to engage in the war be-
ween France and Spain. Cardinal Pole, whose
cool judgment had much weight with the peo
ple, openly opposed this measure ; he repre
826 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
sented, in glowing terms, the binding marriage
articles which provided against Her Majesty's
entering into this war, besides, enlarging on
the disordered state of the finances.
At first, Mary listened to the Cardinal, and
other councillors who followed the same train
of politics ; but suddenly Philip of Spain re
turned from Flanders, where he had spent the
summer months, away from his fretful bride.
All Mary's tenderness returned with double
warmth from her temporary absence from her
husband. She promised him to fulfil every
wish of his heart; and he coldly threatened,
that if his reasonable request was not granted,
he would never again set his foot in England.
"What was this reasonable request? He
ordered Mary to brave the nation's displeasure,
to defy Cardinal Pole, to levy troops, to extort
money from the citizens of London ; andMary,
weak and loving, complied, though with great
difficulty.
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 321
A fortunate circumstance occurred to rouse
the populace in anger against France. Some
conspirators, headed by a man of the name of
Stafford, were detected in a design of surpris
ing Scarborough. Perhaps they were merely
acting for themselves, and willing to save them
selves by placing the blame on others ; be this
as it may, when Stafford was put to the torture,
he confessed that Henry of France had sent
them to make the attempt. Mary now deter
mined to make this act of hostility the founda
tion of a more serious quarrel, and war was de
clared against France.
The revenues of England at that time little
exceeded £300,000. The Parliament could
not afford to grant a fresh supply. The Queen
herself was very poor ; she owed great arrears
to her servants, but she continued to levy
money in the most arbitary and violent man
ner. She obliged the City of London to supply
her with £60,000 ; she levied before the legal
time, the second year's subsidy voted by Par
828 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
liament ; she issued many privy seals, by which
she procured loans from the people ; and she
victualled her fleet, by seizing all the corn she
could find in Suffolk and Norfolk, without
paying any price to the owners. By these
various expedients, Mary levied an army of
ten thousand men, which was sent over to
the Low Counties, under the command of the
Earl of Pembroke.
She gentry who resisted the taxation, and
the seizure of their corn, were hood-winked
and muffled, and then conducted to the Tower.
The King of of Spain's army, added to the
English forces, amounted on the whole to above
sixty thousand men ; and it was under Phili-
bert, Duke of Savoy, one of the bravest cap
tains of the age, that young Stracey began his
first campaign. Montmorency, who command
ed the French army, had a much smaller force
than his opponents. The Duke of Savoy,
after menacing Mariembourg and Ronoy, now
suddenly drew up his forces before St. Quin
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 829
tin ; and as the town was ill provided with a
garrison, he expected to become possessor of it.
The brave Admiral Coligny, Commandant ofthe
Province, threw himself into the town with some
troops of French and Scots gensdarmes. His
uncle, apprized of the Admiral's intention of de
fending St. Quintin, sent a reinforcement, and
a supply for the army, but the Duke of Savoy ;
fell upon the detachment, and not above five
hundred men reached their destination to tell
the tale of their disaster. Many of the ancient
French nobility were slain or taken prisoners ;
the old constable Coligny, uncle of the govenor
of St. Quintin, fell into the enemy's hands. The
Parisians now commenced fortifying Paris, fear
ing the Spaniards would make themselves mas
ters of their city. But Philip's whole determi
nation was centred upon possessing St. Quin
tin, in order to secure a communication with his
own dominions. Vainly, however, the Duke of
Savoy bravely fought; his opponents were
equally brave. Admiral Coligny, inspired the
380 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
French troops to the liveliest deeds of valour.
The Duke of Guise and his army were recalled
from Italy. Philip of Spain perceived that the
tide offortune was against him. Winter was fast
approaching ; he conquered Ham and Castelet,
and then broke up his camp.
The Duke of Guise now formed a plan
which, although hardy in itself, had every ap
pearance of being attended with success. My
readers have no doubt already guessed that I
allude to the conquest of Calais, by the French.
Winter had now approached, and the fortress
was very indifferently garrisoned, for the Eng
lish of late had not been able to spare many
of their troops, and their finances were too low,
besides, to furnish the necessities of a fresh
levy. It had been the custon of the Queen to
dismiss part of the garrison stationed at Calais
at the end of the autumn, and recall them in
the spring.
Aware of this circumstance, Coligny had se
cretly sent some engineers to survey the for
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 381
tress ; and although he was taken prisoner at St.
Quintin, his papers were fortunately found by
the Duke of Guise, who immediately began to
consider the great undertaking of the seizure of
Calais. I do not wonder at Mary's subsequent
grief when the noble fortress was lost, for,
Calais, standing exactly between the two coun
tries, when taken by the French seemed as it
were to say, " Ay, Englishmen, you may cross
your channel, but directly you place your feet
on dry ground, you are in France, on French
territory." Whilst before, we could cross our
Channel, and although away from our English
isle, still feel at home, and tread on our English
possession. Yet whenever I have been at Ca
lais, I have always felt that it ought to belong
to the French ; their possessions ought there,
and there only, to terminate. From the win
dows of the hotels, we gaze upon the flowing
channel ; we see the steamers gaily entering the
port ; and I hope others respond to my feelings
when I like to hear the passengers say on land
382 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
ing, " Here France begins." Deeply as Mary
regretted Calais, heartfelt as was her grief
when she declared. " The name of Calais
would be found engraven on her heart" not
more deep was her affliction, than the over
whelming sorrow of the bave men, who in Ed
ward the Third's reign had resigned the keys of
their fortress, with the fatal conl around their
necks. When Edward's Queen, on bended
knees sued for their life, then must she have
felt as I do, that " Calais rightfully belongs
to the French."
When the French were making secret
arrangements for taking Calais, Mary was re
conciling herself to Philip's absence by the
reflection, that she had been fortunate enough
to please him by leaving the forces he required ;
and although the news of her husband's pro
longed campaign annoyed her, she was com
forted by the assurance that the Spaniards, with
their colleagued English reinforcement, were
determined to continue their conquests.
THE SPANISH GIRL'S KEVENGE. 333
Mary now, more warmly than ever, strove
to use her influence over her sister, and oblige
her to marry. Sometimes she treated Eliza
beth with more than ordinary kindness : then
the Princess feared there was some secret
treachery concealed. Sometimes she^treated her
with great rigour ; and then the whole nation
were aware of it, looking with a scrutinizing
eye, fearing not only the succession, but the
life of their favourite Princess, was in danger.
The Spanish Ambassador had been for some
months studying the character of the English
Princess, at once the nation's pride and the
Queen's abhorrence ; and he rather surprised
Elizabeth when he made proposals to her, in
his master, the King of Sweden's name.
Recovering herself, the Princess asked
whether the Queen was acquainted with the
King of Sweden's, proposals ?
" No," answered the Ambassador ; " my
master the King, acting as a gentleman, first
addresses himself to you, after obtaining your
334 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
Highness's consent ; he will then, as a King,
to your Royal sister.*
The Princess broke up the conference, and
covered a respectful refusal by declaring her
attachment to a single life. When Mary ques-
tonedher on the subject, she received the same
answer ; but fearing the Princess would engage
her affections unknown to her ; she watched
her closely ; and not trusting the integrity of
the spies, who gave her every report concerning
Elizabeth, the Queen at length removed her
from Woodstock, and gave the Princess a
mansion at Hatfield. As Mary daily expected
the return of Philip, her nerves became so
irritable that she could not bear the slightest
restraint, and even her favourite Eldrida often
felt the Queen's temper was very intolerable ;
she therefore became anxious to absent herself
from Court, and at length obtained her aunt's
permission to visit the Princess Elizabeth.
* This conversation is an authentic fact.
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 335
The latter, although flattered by Eldrida's
evident marks of admiration, nevertheless felt
ill at ease with the Spanish Girl. Her talents
were perhaps equal to the Princess. Her
powers of pleasing were even greater ; but
there was lacking that confidence and that
candour which Elizabeth so much valued in
her protegt, Constance, or Mademoiselle de
Comines, as she was called.
Bonner, in his capacity of clerical surveyor
into every mansion he chose to enter, was much
ofter at Hatfield than the Princess wished. To
wards Elizabeth he entertained more fear than
dislike ; but, above all, he dreaded the time
when, in default of an heir to the Crown, the
Princess would reign over the realm, now filled
with cheerless subjects. He dreaded the shouts
of the multitude, and the proclamation of a Pro
testant Queen.
Towards the Lady Eldrida, Bonner was
greatly incensed. He falsely imagined she
had been instrumental in removing young
Stracey from his reach.
336 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
The King of Spain wronged Bonner, when
he imagined that prelate would reveal a secret
confided to him in the privacy of the confes
sional. He wocld advise and almost enforce
the person whose secret he had gained, to act
according to his wishes ; but he was too super
stitious, too firm in the belief that there was a
real absolution in the rite of confession, to
break through its first and most sacred rule.
Calipsa had once spoken to the Prelate^she
was then suffering under an illness which
threatened to terminate her life ; and in a mo
ment of fear she disburdened the heavy load
at her conscience. As soon, however, as health
again visited her frame, the^ld woman re
pented the part she had acted, and she boldly
told the prelate that she would be guided only
by that master who had hitherto cautioned her
—that master, the King of Spain.
Baffled in every hope of intimidating the
old woman, fearing to deal harshly with one in
whose fate the King of Spain must from neces
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 337
sity feel interested, the prelate now resolved to
possess himselfofyoung Stracey ; and imagining
he was acquaintedwith the mystery ofhis birth,
he trusted that the solitude of confinement, and
on the other hand, the offer of liberty if he
complied with Bonner's request, would induce
the young man to confide in him, and then the
prelate intended working his own pleasure
afterwards ; but Alphonzo's escape put an end
to Bonner's views. It was not, however, be
cause he wished to see the Princess Elizabeth
or Eldrida, that he was now a frequent visitor
at Hatfield; Bonner had gazed upon young
Constance—she had looked upon him in re
turn, and had not turned away her head as if
shrinking from his gaze, but boldly, yet sor
rowfully, looked again. There, then, stood
before her that prelate who had caused her
father's death—there, then, stood before her the
man of infamous repute, who, in the space of
three years, had destroyed 200 Protestants.
Her breath came and went quickly, and the
vol. iti. Q
338 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
colour forsook her cheek, as the prelate put
out his hand to press hers, after taking leave of
the Princess Elizabeth. The latter guessed
her feelings, and feared Constance would be
tray herself; when the next minute Bonner
retraced his steps, and looking earnestly at her,
exclaimed, with the tone of authority he always
used, " Young lady, I will speak to you on
religious matters to-morrow ; I have never seen
you at the confessional, and I shall now expect
you."
" I have my own chaplain," answered Eliza
beth, placing herself before Constance so as to
hide her colourless cheeks ; " this maiden is
very delicate, and cannot attend mass in the
chapel, but I will see to her religious worship."
" That may do for you, Princess, but not for
a servant of God—a minister of His holy rites.
Howbeit, if the young lady is delicate, I can
attend her here." But, as a thought occurred
to him that she might escape his vigilance, the
prelate continued, " Or, to be more agreeable to
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. S39
the young lady, I will depute the Lady Eldrida
to inquire into the young person's religious
feelings."
" I am mistress of my own establishment,"
said Elizabeth ; " and when I request the Lady
Eldrida to shrine the conscience of my maids of
honour, it will then be time enough for her to
offer her services."
" Princess," said the prelate, approaching
Constance, and looking at her again most
searchingly : " Princess, you mistake me ; it is
not because I am harsh towards the maiden,
that I thus speak, but the Lady Eldrida knows
so intimately my way of thinking, that my
mind on religious subjects is echoed by hers ;
and she has so much interested me already in
favour of your young attendant, that I would
willingly so fair a shell contained a pearl of
rarest size, and that the conscience may be
as clear as the exterior."
As Bonner concluded, he extended his hand
once more to Constance, but she burst into a
Q 2
$40 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
flood of tears, and left the apartment, rushed
into her own room, and there continued sob
bing for some time.
Elizabeth bit her lips, and, accustomed as
she was, from habit, to restrain the words
which flowed to her mouth, she felt this time
that the work of self-command was a very bit
ter task. She was angry with Lady Eldrida for
speaking to Bonner of her young friend; but her
judgment, even in the height of her passion,
whispered two things :—First, that Eldrida was
Mary's niece, and it was impolitic to talk against
her before the prelate. Secondly, that not
aware of Constance's real position in speaking
of her as a beautiful maid, in Elizabeth's suite,
the Lady Eldrida had committed no intentional
indiscretion. As her feelings softened by the
power of a correct argumental train of mind,
the Princess thought only of the necessity of
conciliating the prelate. Candour, she had
ever found her best armour in controversy
with him ; for men are often conquered by the
THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE. 841
very opposite force which they use ; and Bon
ner, who could baffle any crafty person, always
felt awed by Elizabeth's plain, truthful manner.
" My Lord Bonner," she now said, " the
young maiden you saw is like unto myself;
she passively submits to the present religion of
the realm, but she would more willingly
follow the Protestant faith." The Prelate pre
tended to be satisfied ; bowed, and left the
house, nor did he again come for several weeks.
" Ever wary, ever cautious, yet ever truth
ful Princess," exclaimed Bonner, on his way
home. " Those whom thou wilt afterwards
govern, will be ruled by no woman's weak
hand. My power leans now, as a tottering
tower ; one loose stone will throw down the
whole fabric. Mary's death will be that
loosened stone, for I rely but on her for sup
port; all feelings of this kind, however, are
weighed down before the one idea of the
moment. Is it possible that I love ? Have
the firm, yet dove-like glances of that fair girl's
342 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
eyes, shot through my heart? Or has Satan
clothed himself in that celestial garb, to entice
a holy priest to sin ? The Virgin Mary pre
serve me ! I must not see her again."
Edmund Bonner, Bishop of London, was
then in his forty-third or forty-fourth year ;
and had not every beholder naturally asso
ciated his image with all that is barbarous
and cruel, he would no doubt have been
pronounced a handsome-looking man. But
when once Vice has set her stamp on the hu
man heart, it will blight the fairest exterior ;
and under every smile, under every word
Bonner uttered, might be traced the hidden
serpent, lurking softly but surely, ready to
spring forth with its deadly sting.
Although Strype says he was born of poor
parents, who lived in an humble cottage,
known to this day as Bonner's Cottage, the
prelate had received an excellent education.
About the year 1512, he was entered as a stu
dent at Broadgate Hall, in Oxford. In 1519,
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 343
he was admitted Bachelor of the Canon and
Civil Law. About the same time, he obtained
preferment in the Diocese of Worcester, where
he first took orders. In 1525, he was created
Doctor of Canon Law. Having now acquired
the reputation of a shrewd politician and ci
vilian, he was soon distinguished by Cardinal
Wolsey, who made him his commissary for the
faculties, and heaped upon him a variety of
church preferments. Bonner was with Wol
sey at Caw-wood, when the latter was arrested
for high treason.
After the death of that minister, he soon
found means to insinuate himself into the
favour of Henry VIII., who made him his
chaplain, and employed him in several embas
sies abroad, particularly to the Pope. In 1532,
he was sent to Rome with Sir Edward Thame,
to answer for the King, whom his Holiness
had cited to appear personally or by proxy. In
1533, he was again despatched to Pope Cle
ment VII., at Marseilles, upon the excommu
844 THE SPANISH GIBl/s BEVENGE.
nication of Henry, on account of his divorce.
On this occasion, he threatened the Pope with
so much resolution, that his Holiness talked of
burning him alive, or throwing him into a
cauldron of melted lead, upon which Bonner
thought fit to decamp. In 1538, being then
Ambassador at the Court of France, he
was nominated Bishop of Hereford; but,
before consecration, was translated to the
see of London, and enthroned April, 1540.
Henry VIII. died in 1547, at which time
Bonner was Ambassador with the Emperor
Charles V. During this reign he was con
stantly zealous in opposing the Pope, and in
compliance with the King, favoured the Refor
mation. This Bonner did because Henry VIII.
was not to be trifled with ; but as soon as
Edward VI. ascended the throne, Bonner re
fused the oath of supremacy, and was committed
to the Fleet ; however, he promised obedience
to the laws, and was released. He continued to
follow the Reformation, but with such a want of
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 845
zeal, that he was twice reprimanded by the
Privy Council, and in 1549, after a long trial,
was committed to the Marshalsea, and deprived
of his bishopric. The succeeding reign changed
the scene, and gave Bonner ample opportuni
ties of revenge. Mary was scarce seated on the
throne, before she reinstated the prelate in his
bishopric, and soon after appointed him vicege
rent and president of the convocation* From
this time he became the chief instrument of the
persecuting spirit of the times, and with equal
imprudence and relentless remorse, severed
the sweetest ties of domestic life.
As Bonner traced his steps home, after his
last visit to the Princess Elizabeth, his heart
was unusually affected ; and whilst Constance
had inspired him with soft feelings long dor
mant in his breast, he had filled the young
girl's bosom with dread of him, and brought
again to mind her aged father, with his white
hair, surrounded by the glaring flames.
* See Biography of Bonner.
Q 3
CHAPTER IX.
The first month of the year 1558 had elapsed ;
the wintry reign of the season was beginning
to be less acutely felt ; the spring dawned, the
trees began to shoot, and the first flowerets of
the earth—the early crocus, and hardy hya
cinths—were peeping from the still hard earth ;
the birds were languidly uttering their long
imprisoned notes, and poor Constance awaited
in vain her true lover's return. Had he fallen
in battle ? Was the light of his bright-beaming
eye extinguished ? Were his limbs stretched
powerless on the blood-sodden field ? Had she
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 347
received the last pressure of his hand? Had
she listened to his last words ? and, above all,
had he died in that faith, which promised life
beyond the grave ? Should she meet him once
more in a world above, and in that ethereal
sphere would their spirits commingling com
mune in blissful union ? Here was a mine of
searching thought, and yet Constance retained
her own quiet, peaceful mien ; she appeared
-as a creature of superior mould, moving amidst
a sphere of beings, like them in flesh, but how
different in spirit! Her early life had been
tempestuous, but the raging war of the elements
had not burst upon a solitary tree, placed in
the midst of a forest, a meek mark to attract
the lightning's dart. Steeled by the power of
her faith in a God of mercies, she was as a
well-arranged conductor, ready to receive, but
to cast off again the elementary fire. Shaft
after shaft of sharpest arrowed grief pierced
her heart, and still one spo.t was ever brightly
shining amidst the darknessj for Constance
848 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
there to cast her anchor of hope. There are
indeed some few lovely characters upon whom
grief serves but more strongly to impress the
holy truths of religion ; but to give this as
surance in Divine mercy, the heart must be
hourly trained to survey in a chastened spirit
every trial which God sees fit to send.
There was a native grace, a dignified simpli
city of manner about Constance, which the Lady
Eldrida deeply admired. The Princess Eliza
beth's difficult studies were foreign to Constance's
nature ; and, although she esteemed her, there
was also one point of her character which the
young girl could not reconcile with her pure
way of thinking. That the Princess should
avoid, as necessary to her safety, every topic of
theological controversy, was a very needful, and
even an imperious duty ; but that she should
professedly ^follow the Roman Catholic rituals,
whilst her heart revolted at its superstitions,
was more than Constance could approve of. No
persuasion on Elizabeth's part had ever in
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 349
duced her young protigi to accompany her to
mass, or to perform one of the outward forms
of the Roman Church. At Woodstock the
frincess could screen the young girl from ob
servation, but now the task increased in diffi
culty, since Bonner had noticed her. Elizabeth
spoke at random, when she told the prelate
that her young maiden was too delicate to at
tend the chapel ; but one Sunday, the prelate
called upon the Lady Elizabeth, and positively
declared his intention of seeing Constance at
mass. Elizabeth did not tell the young girl
- of Bonner's orders, until she had used every
means in her power to persuade her with warn
ing her of the danger of a refusal. The prelate's
words, even when delivered by her kind friend,
fell heavily upon Constance's ears ; they seemed
as the parting knell, sounding her exit fromthe
world. A faint feeling stole over the gentle
girl. Elizabeth herself wiped away the heavy
drops which gathered on her brow, and then,
rather dragged than led the stupified Con
350 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
stance towards the chapel. Bonner was there ;
and when Constance met his gaze—when she
saw that instead of a triumphant or an imper:
tinent look, his eyes were resting on her pale
countenance, with a mingled expression of fond
ness and compassion—then the poor maiden
thought that all was conspiring to persuade her
against her better judgment, and she turned her
head aside to hide the fast falling tears. She re-
m
membered that the evil one, whilst tempting
Eve to sin, put on the sweet voice of insinuative
sympathy. She remembered that with the same
deceitful purpose, he tempted our Lord in dif
ferent guises, and she turned away from Bonner,
loathing his look of admiration more than his
most withering scowl of displeasure.
And now the service began : the unknown
Latin words trembled on the priest's tongue,
and the chorister children, in their white robes,
echoed in thrilling accents the loud amen. Deep
and impressive was the loud-toned seraphim ;
high above the people's heads the burning in
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 851
cense was thrown in the silver sconces, confined
to the priests' hands by their bright silver chains.
When the mystic bell rung, and the congrega
tion bowed low their heads, while the priest
above looked up and spake ; then, indeed,
Constance felt that she had lingered too long ;
she remembered how in a foreign land her
childish heart had revolted at all these rites. A
mist came over her; she felt the Princess Eliza
beth gently, but forcibly, bowing her head ;
lower still she bowed it herself, and with a
deep groan she fell to the ground ; her high-
backed chair dropping at the same time, caused
the noise to echo again on the stony floor.
Still no hand was raised ; not a head moved, and
the young girl would have remained until the
mystic bell had done sounding, so strictly was
the Church discipline enjoined, had not Bonner
himself, led by an irresistible feeling he could
not control, advanced towards Constance, and
raising her in his arms, he carried her carefully
into the vestry. Oh, how his head throbbed as
858 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
he bent over her pale features ; how his gaze
was rivetted on the only being he had for many
years contemplated with varying feelings. One
monomaniac sensatiohof revenge had lately pur
sued him ; and Constance had appeared in his
path as a creature of light—of dazzling beauty
—of innocence and Christian virtue, to stay his
uplifted hand and soften his heart. He lin
gered until Constance began slowly to recover ;
and, as he bade the Princess Elizabeth adieu,
again he feigned what he did not believe, and
said, with apparent sincerity—
" You are right, lady ; the maiden is too de
licate to attend the chapel—she need not go
again."
And Elizabeth, the usually quick-sighted
Princess, she believed Bonner ; she would as
soon have thought the roaring lion capable of
feeling the lamb's gentleness, as that fiery pre
late of a sensation of softness, much less of love.
Bonner, on his part, did everything in his
power to check the rising passion; but the more
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 353
he reasoned against it, the stronger it grew, and
absence only increased its warmth. Had many
hundred miles separated the prelate from Con
stance, they would not now be more asunder ;
for the young girl's nerves had received a se
vere shock, and she lay on a bed of sickness,
which might prove her bed of death. And
now the prelate wondered why he had not, in
years recently gone by (but as much beyond
recall as if a century had elapsed), sought some
gentle, soothing spirit, to curb the turbulent
feelings in his breast; and, tossed about in
mental strife, his spirit was lost in vain reviews
of the past, until the Queen claimed all his
spiritual advice and assistance, to cure the
wound of disappointed pride, for—Calais was
lost.
After well considering the plan laid out by
Coligny, the Duke of Guise made an unex
pected march towards Calais, and he next sent
a fleet to attack the fortifications. Although the
garrison of St. Agatha made a vigorous de
-354 THE SPANISH GIKl/s REVENGE.
fence, they were obliged to lay down their arms,
and retreated in great numbers towards New
man-bridge. Lord Wentworth, governor of
the castle, was a brave officer, but finding re
sistance was impossible, he ordered his troops
to surrender, and to join him in Calais, in
the vain hope of saving the town.
The Duke of Guise thought his success
certain, but he went on blockading the place in
breathless haste, for fear his fortune should
change. He planted his batteries against the
Castle. Coligny's brother drained the fosse,
and the French penetrated into the Castle. On
the night following, Wentworth endeavoured
to recover his post, but having already lost two
hundred .men, in a furious attack which he
made upon it, he found his garrison so weak
that he was obliged to capitulate. ' Guisnes fell
soon after, and thus the Duke of Guise, in
eight days, during the depth of winter, made
himself master of this strong fortress, that had
cost Edward the Third a siege of eleven months,
THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE. 355
at the head of a numerous army, which had,
that very campaign, been victorious in the bat
tle of Cressy.
No words are adequate to express the grief
of Mary, when she found herself bereaved
of her valuable fortress. The nation loudly
exclaimed against their Queen, for sending
her troops to foreign parts, and thus leaving
Calais an open mark, for the enemy to dart
upon. Philip of Spain returned to Eng
land, and he now boldly declared his in
tention of recovering Calais ; but how was
England ready to receive him ? The treasury
was exhausted, and burdened with debts ; the
people divided and dejected, and the people
of Scotland, at the instigation of the French
councils, began to make inroads on the borders
of England. And Mary, the Popish-minded
Queen, how did she feel? Listening to the
superstitious turn of her mind, she looked upon
the loss of Calais as a signal that Heaven was
visiting her for some evil which she had done.
856 THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE.
She ordered masses, and she endowed churches;
she wept tears of agony and remorse ; and still
the guilt-stained conscience was not relieved.
But bitterly, amidst all her burning thoughts,
arose the image of her sister Elizabeth ruling
over the nation.
Philip of Spain grew weary of her moody
fits ; and to add to all her grief, she daily ex
pected him to return to Spain, there to spend
the remainder of his days, which since his union
with Mary had never been sweetened by one
blissful moment of conjugal love. Ill-matched
pair ! Is there a sorrow in the page of regal life,
a sorrow passing description, it is when hands
are joined together from motives of interest
and ambition, whilst the hearts are severed and
cannot sympathize. In a private sphere, a dis
sension in married life is surely a moral evil,
passing the pen's power to trace ; but in Royal
dissension, a more dreadful picture of matrimo
nial strife is seen ; for, added to the cold lone
liness of the domestic hearth, busy tongues
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 357
abroad are canvassing the disunion of the pair
who cannot conceal their mutual estrangement.
Happy then a Sovereign, who has moral cou
rage to consult her own heart ; to marry, not
for interest, but for love—to add to the splendour
of a palace, and to regal pomp, domestic happi
ness, and affection's ties, to be severed only
when death, equally inherent to the beggar
and to Royalty, can alone sever the bonds of
united hearts.
The loss or gain of a battle, whilst in a mate
rial point of view it principally affects the
Sovereign, still causes many domestic pangs.
There are widowed mothers and disconsolate
brides; there are orphans, and brotherless
sisters to mourn the loss of gallant relatives,
who, when last pressed in close embrace, were
strong, and bright with life's uncertain pulse.
Philip of Spain returned after the battle of St.
Quintin ; but many brave Englishmen, who
left their native homes to fight under the ban
ner of the foreign King, returned no more to
358 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
cheer the domestic hearth ; and children raised
their tiny hands and pressed their weeping
eyes ; and mothers strained them to their be
reaved hearts, and taught their lisping tongues
to say—" Our father is slain."
Some gallant officers returned with mutilated
limbs and flowing wounds ; and as the wives
of their affections hovered around the suf
fering invalids, as they caught the groans of
agony, as they felt the burning hands, could
the afflicted ones pray for life, if it were to
continue such a tissue of anguish ?
Amongst the wounded officers was Alphonzo
Stracey ; often he had placed himself before the
King of Spain, and received the shot aimed at
his Majesty's breast. Foremost he dashed in
the fight ; he appeared reckless of life ; he
sought for no acquaintances; he sought not
observation. He appeared to have no tie to
restrain him from launching into the midst of
danger, and he performed extraordinary feats
of active valour, when arriving before the
THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE. 359
walls of Calais. On his return to England,
* after the hattle of St. Quintin, he reached the
frontiers in time to assist the garrison of St.
Agatha.
Many writers talk of love following the war
rior oh the hattle plain ; and Nelson, our
dauntless British hero, is said to have been
inspired with the image of " love and beauty ; "
but there are, no doubt, many officers, whose
reckless hand is warmest in the conflict, who
dart into the heat of battle with unrestrained
enthusiasm, precisely from wishing to bury in
oblivion the voice of, love. Well, after all, this
argument brings the subject to the same bear
ing ; one officer fights bravely, but cautiously
screens himself from danger, because he lives
for love ; another recklessly dashes foremost be
fore the enemy's darts, because he will not lis
ten to love. Thus—
" In peace love tunes the shepherd's lay,
In war it moves the warrior on ;
And well may every Poet say,
Love forms the burden of each song."
S60 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
Whilst the furious battle raged, and the can
non roared, and loudly echoed the voice of the
wounded and dying, then Alphonzo paused
not to think of one whose writing—
"Till thou hears't the truth Divine,
My heart I cannot give,"
ever sounded in his ears, when a momentary
pause in the action gave him room to think.
And for more than a year, the graceful form
of that lovely one, who had penned those de
cisive words, had haunted his daily thoughts
and his midnight watchings. And he had kept
his promise ; he had studie^d the Scriptures, and
weighed over and over the important subject ;
but wherever he went, the religion he professed
was observed, and no voice was near him to
speak in behalf of that mild faith, which teaches
better than any other the way to peace and
never-dyinghappiness. On one hand difficulties,
persecution, and poverty arose ; on the other,
peace, honours, and riches. Alphonzo next be
gan to wonder if Constance would not relent in
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 361
favour of his doctrine, but his heart gave him
spontaneously a negative reply. Then he asked
himself if he could not exist without the young
companion of his early life ? and he could not
satisfactorily answer the question ; therefore, he
dashed into the battle-field with the carelessness
of one who rather seeks, than dreads, the fatal
shot.
The scene changed ; and, weak and wounded,
the young man lay stretched on a couch ; the
warm drops of suffering stood upon his fever
ish brow, and the voice of anguish was wrung
from the force of his agony ; then, when the
priest offered- him the cross to kiss, as a way to
salvation—then, for the first time, the young
man felt a repugnance of the Popish rites.
The priest knew not, whether he had spent
his life in careless living, or had broken and
slighted the commandments, but he offered him
pardon for every sin. And who was this
priest? Alphonzo tremblingly asked himself.
Like himself, a fallenman, a-guilt stained mortal;
vol. m. R
362 THE SPANISH GIRl/s REVENGE.
like himself, heir to death, and saved only at
the intercession of Him, whose blood atoned
for the sins of the whole world. Perhaps, too,
that meek-looking priest, in his ecclesiastic
surplice, had imbued his hands in the blood of
the innocent Protestants. Those persons con
demned to death as heretics, Alphonzo knew,
spent much of their time in exploring the
Scriptures, and gleaned from the holy pages
that constancy, which kept up their faith in the
midst of the flames. From martyrs in general,
Alphonzo's thoughts wandered to particular in
dividuals, and the image of his lovely Con
stance arose brightly upon him. Surely her
mild spirit erred not ; surely her intellectual,
high, aspiring mind, had grasped the right faith,
and imbibed proper ideas ; and she pronounced
his religion superstitious and unavailing. A
restless wish to know more, to explore more
deeply into the sealed pages of ecclesiastical
lore, now took possession of his heart; and after
THE SPANISH GIRT/S REVENGE. 363
much conflict, and much tossing to and fro in
the spirit, Alphonzo felt ready to
" Hear the Truth Divine."
and to turn to the same faith as Constance.
Oh ! man, man ! creature of impulse, wavering,
changing, unstable man! must the hand of a
High Maker be constantly chastening, before
it can turn his creatures' hearts to hear his
sovereign will ? Must misfortune or sickness
lay the corner-stone of salvation ? Cannot men
be prosperous and believe ? cannot the hilarity
of the bodyvecho the joy of the soul? Must that
bright emblem of God's image be drowned in
the absorbing pleasures of the ocean of life ?
and must misfortunes arise, before it can be
wholly given to Him, who placed the soul in
the corrupt^ body, as a type of a likeness lost
through man's first disobedience, and conse
quent fall. Enough : burning thought echoes
enough.
r 2
CHAPTEK X.
Theke is a secret communion, between youth ;
and youth and friendship will spring into the
hearts of the most opposite characters when
they meet together ; the bold and enterprising
girl will look with admiration on the mild
virtues of a meek and quiet disposition ; and the
weak will gather strength and confidence from
a more energetic friend. Well is it when the
two characters blend, and friendship's bonds
unite the tie ; but, on the contrary, if the
stronger disposition twines itself around the
weaker sap, and uses its power to exercise its
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 365
strength over the the trusting heart, then bitter
is the havoc which may ensue. Far be it from
me to assert that Friendship is always an empty
name ; but still experience will daily show us
that those enthusiastic bonds of affection formed
between young and romantic minds, often lead
to bitter consequences ; and, allowing that no
greater mischief arises than the pang of the
dissolution of this friendship, surely that is an
evil of great magnitude. It leaves a blank on
the heart, and a void on the mind ; it clothes
life in its most sombre tints, and the hitherto
clear waters of the streamlet of trust are crus-
trated with the thick film of disappointed feel
ing.
The Lady Eldrida, deputed by Bonner to
inquire into the religious state of Constance's
mind, fulfilled her task in the most delicate
manner possible. Not understanding the mo
tives which inspired Bonner's pleasure when
he heard occasionally that her health improved,
the Spanish girl, who now began to love Con
366 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
stance, dreaded the time when her friend's con
valescence would place her within reach of the
prelate's power. One morning, when Eldrida
entered the invalid's room, her dark eyes were
red with weeping, and her whole frame shook,
notwithstanding all her efforts to appear calm.
Constance tolerated Eldrida's instructions, and
even strove to like hearing her controversies,
hoping, at the same time, to let her mild truths
shine through the Spanish girl's deeper thoughts ;
and thus both deceived herself that her friend
was believing. The Princess Elizabeth, al
though possessed of many great qualities, never
had the grace of patience ; and, from her earliest
days, always impetuously turned a subject of
conversation. The only reason she complied
with the Romish Church was because she
knew that violence would not be resorted to
wards her without the most learned and tedious
efforts being made to turn her from her own
faith ; and fearing her impetuous temper would
Lead her to contradict Eldrida's doctrines, the
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 367
Princess never assisted at her conference with
Constance, but secretly hoped that each one
would be the last.
The roseate hue of health was very slow in
revisiting the young invalid's cheek, and her
pulse still beat with languid faintness ; probably
the long conversations she had with the Lady
Eldrida retarded her recovery, and yet the
"Princess dared not check the interviews ; as
long as Constance was confined to her room,
and yet not so seriously ill as to require clerical
attendance—so long as Bonner could gain no
admittance to her ; and a secret voice, echoed
by many persons in the realm, told Elizabeth
that Mary's approaching death would soon call
her to the English throne.
The morning when Eldrida entered the in
valid's room, with her agitated frame of mind,
her eloquence failed her ; and, between a much
longer pause than generally occurred in her
reading, Constance took occasion to expatiate
on her own religious views. She spoke much
368 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
of the power of Protestant faith in calming all
earthly passions.
" There, I grant, you are right," answered
Eldrida, hardly knowing what she was saying ;
" at least, I cannot calm my poor heart, and
yours is always tranquil ; but, perhaps you
have nothing particularly distressing to annoy
you?"
Constance sighed, and evasively answered :
" We all have troubles here below."
" So we have ; but with some dispositions
they are more acutely felt. Constance, I have
no friend to lean upon ; I never confide in any
one. My Royal aunt has no time to listen to
me, and my beloved uncle is generally absent.
My poor head aches from sympathizing with
the throbbings of my heart, and many there are
who pronounce me cold and stately, but they
cannot see within. Constance, you can calm
this burning pain ; you can teach me the way
of peace, and I will confide in you. We would
not apply ice to a fevered brain, were it not
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 369
that we knowits calming properties; and I should
not open to you my heart, so full of warmth
and disappointed hope, were it not that you are
so passionless, so calm, so good. Constance,
there is a busy devil at my heart, and it will
not let me rest ; I look for peace, and I can
not find it; I wish to hate, and my hatred
turns to love. Oh ! happy-minded girl ! calm
English beauty ! teach me, oh teach me, a
cure for my woes."
" Lady Eldrida, pray calm yourself," said
Constance, almost as much agitated as the Span
ish girl ; " let not any earthly passion destroy
a mind which God has filled with other thoughts
than these wild ravings. Banish the image
of the person who now occupies too large a
share of your heart, and my prayers will be
united with yours to help you to the task."
" Very easy words to speak, young lady,
but not so easy to practise ; perhaps you think
I love one who will talk thus to me ? No, no ;
my love is not returned, and that is galling
k 3
370 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
enough for Philip of Spain's niece. But that is
not all ; more handsome, more endearing than
ever, the object of my affection has returned
from the wars more distanced from me than be
fore, for he has turned Protestant. And now the
cup of my wo is full—full to the brink, and even
overflowing ; and not only separated from him
by his coldness, my very heart's communion
now must be different from his. It would have
been sweet to have knelt down under the same
dome, to have listened to the same priest, per
haps to have confessed at the same confessional ;
and Revenge, dire Revenge, is working in my
heart, and she says : ' Eldrida, denounce him !
let him suffer ! he is a heritic ! let him die ! '
Then this fond heart interposes, and says, ' Re
member, it is Alphonzo Stracey ! ' "
" Alphonso Stracey ! and a Protestant ! " ex
claimed Constance, starting from her couch.
" Eldrida, still the throbbings of thy breast ;
to me Alphonzo now belongs'; his heart, his
soul, they are mine. It was for me he changed
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 371
his faith : together in early childhood we have
lived, and together now we will die."
Was this the calm, the passionless English
girl?
Back fell the silken ringlets on the pillow,
and the richest colour dyed her cheek. Con
stance clasped her hand, and she prayed aloud
for her lover ; she thanked God for his conver
sion ; she turned round to Eldrida, but the
latter had fled.
Long and deep were the Spanish Girl's sobs
that night; yet the burning tears which fell
quenched not the fire within ; she wrung her
tiny hands in agony, and she opened a book.
She tried to read, but the writing appeared as
strange hierographics ; the letters were indis
tinct. Eldrida clasped her brow, and then, as
if the action had caused the recollection there
to spring, before her eyes seemed traced in
large letters, her own long-since-uttered words :
' Sooner than he loved another, my hand should
pierce her breast.' Vainly Eldrida strove to>
312 THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE.
chase away the horrid words ; she thought
of Constance, so lately her friend, so pure, so
lovely ; she tried to close her eyes to sleep,
and awoke again with the words trembling
on her tongue. And Constance, what were her
thoughts? Ever leaning to the most amiable
point of view, Eldrida's confessions caused her
no pain, save the sorrow of knowing the Span
ish girl felt the pang of unrequited love. Such
was the elevated, yet meek tendency of her
mind, that if Alphonso had loved her ri
val, she would have resigned her place, and
blessed their union ; but, had she not
heard Eldrida confess that her lover was in
different in his feelings towards her ? Had he
not turned to the Protestant faith to possess
her affections ? Yes, yes, he was hers ; and
soon awaited her the task of impressing more
firmly on his mind the truths which she be
lieved with such ardour. And now Constance'
longed to see Eldrida ; to tell her how, in years
gone by, she had lived with Alphonzo under
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 373
the same roof; how his voice first taught her to
lisp his name ; how together they had wandered
where Italia's sun ripens as it were the growth
of love. All this she longed to tell her, and
next to convince the Spanish Girl how much
higher she ought to soar, and how unworthy it
was of her to stand between the happiness of
two persons beneath her in their station of life.
Many times, however, Constance arranged the
words she intended speaking, and Eldrida
came not. Then Constance remembered how
kindly the Princess Elizabeth had sheltered
her ; how she had protected her, and shielded
her from persecution ; and she reproached her-
guileless heart, for not having confided in her
. before.
Elizabeth listened to the gentle girl, and she
longed for the time to arrive, when the land
should be filled with like-minded Protestant
thinkers ; and as she embraced her young pro
tege, she assured her, that Cranmer had made
her acquainted with her secret. Then the happy
374 THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE.
Constance thanked her Eoyal friend for the
delicacy with which she had refrained speaking
on the subject, and both indulged together, as
young minds will indulge, in long and happy
dreams of the future ; dreams, alas ! never to
be realized !
Difficulties of course presented themselves:
first, if young Stracey's conversion were made
public, would he be allowed to keep his liberty?
Then, would Constance herself long escape the
vindictive Bonner's observant eye ? And who
was young Stracey ? Where was his widowed
mother ? All these questions, even the buoyant
spirits of young hope could not satisfactorily
solve ; and Constance felt a weariness of spirit
steal gradully over her, as she vainly strove to
find an exit to this labyrinth of thought. She
had always trusted in a Divine Hand to guide
her through every difficulty, and now she de
termined not to despond. As the sun gilds
the top of the mountains after the tempest is
over, so her spirits rose as she inwardly prayed
for assistance and grace.
CHAPTER XI.
Are there not moments of intense grief, when
the mind cannot hear the truths of religion ?—
when sympathy is ill-placed, and words of
comfort fall heavily on the mourner's ears ?—
when the pressure of the friendly grasp is not
felt, and nothing is heeded but the voice of
the sufferer's own grief? Was such grief to
be Constance's lot ? Let us not anticipate.
Some weeks had elapsed since the loss of
Calais, and Mary still brooded in melancholy
contemplation upon her loss. The nation at
large felt the disgrace of being thus beaten by
376 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
their French adversaries, and each warlike
heart palpitated with one desire, that of re
venging their loss. The Parliament granted
a supply of money, and the Queen fitted out
a fleet of a hundred and forty sail, which were
joined by thirty Flemish ships, and, carrying
six thousand land forces on board, were sent to
make an attempt on the coast of Brittany.
Finding Brest well guarded, the English landed
at Conquet; they plundered and burnt the
town, with some adjoining villages ; but a Bre
ton gentleman of the name of Theisimon, at the
head of some militia, fell upon them, put them
to the rout, and drove them to their ships with
considerable loss. An opportunity soon oc
curred to retrieve their fortune. The Marechal
de Thermes, Governor of Calais, had made
an irruption into Flanders, with an army of
fourteen thousand men; and having forced a
passage over the river Aa, had taken Dun
kirk and Berg St. Wiuoc. Advancing as far
as Newport, Count Egmont now came upon
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 377
Thermes, and obliged him to retire ; the
Spaniards obliged him to close with a battle
near Gravelines, and Thermes skilfully ar
ranged his men for the conflict. He fortified
his left wing with all the precautions possible,
and posted his right along the river Aa, which,
he conjectured reasonably, gave him a full
security from that quarter. The English ships,
roused by the distant noise of the firing, sailed
up the river from every side of the coast, and
flanking the French, did such execution by
their artillery, that they put them to flight,
and gained a complete victory*
The Queen of England and Philip of Spain
now consulted together upon the state of af
fairs ; and it was agreed to enter into a treaty
with France, negotiated on the following terms
—that France should restore Calais to the
English, and that Spain should relinquish Na
varre to its lawful owner, Henry, afterwards
* See Holingshed, page 1,150.
378 THE SPANISH GIRl/s REVENGE.
the great Henri Quatre. But this treaty was
not made immediately; it required long deter
mination on both sides. Meanwhile, Mary,
no longer active, and greatly enfeebled in
body, allowed Bonner to exercise unlimited
power oyer the Protestant party, over whom
he was more than ever master ; for Pole, whose
modest and benign deportment—and, it is
often imagined, a lurking feeling of love
which Mary entertained for him — alone
weighed with Bonner, was now confined to
his room, with an intermittent fever, and was
unable to mix his mild admonitions in the
dregs of the bitter cup which Bonner prepare d
for the Reformers.
It was a cold and stormy evening in October;
the snow descended in large flakes, and the
wind roared lustily through the many commu
nicating doors in the vast Tower. Winter was
exercising its iron rod ; but not more chilly was
the northern blast than the cold void which
Constance experienced, as, once more on a bed
THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE. 379
of sickness, she was the tenanter of a small, but
warmly-furnished room in the Tower. Why
was the fair young girl there, away from her
princely mistress ? Who had placed her there ?
Alas ! it was Lady Eldrida who had immured
her within those walls, where, in Mary's reign,
many hundred victims had last seen the light
of day. Readers, think not this improbable ;
though revenge is hateful, it is too common
a passion in the human heart. The raving
mastiff bites with deadliest aim the master who
has daintily fed him at his own table, and under
whose chair he has oft times reposed. The
raving maniac will speak most loudly against
his dearest friend. The monomaniac will, in
preference, slay one before dear to him; and
the worker of revenge will sting with deadliest
aim, where it has before loved with deepest
affection. Day after day Eldrida thought only
on one subject, only of Alphonzo Stracey; she
dared not speak of him to her uncle ; that
friend so indulgent, so kind, was as obstinate as
380 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
Eldrida, where he thought her happiness con
cerned. Philip heard Alphonzo's refusal of
the Duchy of La Mancha with sorrow, because
he heard also that the brave young soldier in
tended embracing the Protestant faith. Un
willing to allow him to fall into Bonner's hands,
knowing he was too weak to be sent on the
Continent, Philip procured him a place of
residence, placed guards, concealed at a short
distance from the house, filled the house itself
with armed men, under the guide of servants,
and daily received news of his safety, for Philip,
too, saw that the Queen of England was declin
ing, and then oh, awful ! to form daring
plans, to be executed after a living person's
death.
Eldrida was disappointed, when Calipsa, with
all her boasted vigilance, failed to trace the
young man's steps; and the latter was lost in
conjectures when she was unable to find Mrs.
Stracey, whom she had concealed, and to whom
she intended to apply, threateningly ifnecessary,
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 381
in order to obtain the news, which, perhaps,
that lady could reveal. And as to questioning
the King of Spain, Calipsa dared not, for his
Majesty was in no mood to be questioned ;
it was bad enough to answer his impatient
questions. Philip had several reasons for
being moody ; he cared not much for the Eng
lish repossessing Calais ; he was younger than
the Queen of England, and her Majesty
was daily growing worse from an incurable
dropsy. Philip feared the Princess Elizabeth
would ever think he had treated her with a
lack of courtesy, and if she succeeded to the
throne of England, what cared Philip, if Ca
lais appertained to her dominions ? Navarre
was a territory Philip valued, and that he must
give up to render the treaty binding. Domes
tic cause for anger weighed in the scale ; his
favourite niece obstinately refused to marry the
different suitors which were offered to her ;
And the young man whom Philip wished to
advance to honours, turned from his offer, and
382 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
from the Catholic faith. And Eldrida ; still
she loved her uncle, but her conscience now
was less pure than before ; evil thoughts were
busy at her heart, revenge crowding in her
brain. No more could she look into Philip's
face, with her dark but cloudless eye ; no
longer dared she let his lips imprint the fond
kiss on her brow, nor twine his arm round her
small waist, for Eldrida felt that he would
soon spurn her ! ■
Too proud to conciliate Constance, fearing
that the Princess Elizabeth would read into
her darkened heart, Eldrida now determined
to have possession of Constance, to watch her,
to have her within her power, to listen to the
first words Alphonzo should speak to her, to
catch those accents which were dearer to her
than life. "Well she remembered the last time
she had seen him, when, leaning on her uncle's
arm, she coldlybadehim farewell, and she deter
mined to see him once more, to conceal herself
where she could hang on his words, and pour
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVEXGE. 383
out her gaze, not in dissembled coldness, but
in a last burst of warmth ; and then—oh ! then
—what next ?
Bonner listened to Eldrida's words. He heard
the news ; he knew well that Constance was a
heretic ; he looked steadfastly at the Spanish
Girl's countenance, when she eagerly besought
the prelate to place Constance within the reach
of his spiriturl power. Eldrida flinched not
from his searching looks ; her eye did not turn
away, nor her lip quiver ; and Bonner turned
from her with disgust, for he knew her heart's
secret.
When a bad man meets a companion equally
abandoned as himself—when their heads work
together in the same evil course, and their
thoughts flow into the same channel—then no
real friendship exists between them, although
an outward show of amity may exist ; but when
man meets with a kindred spirit in wickedness
in woman, then he abhors that heart which
can change her naturally softened feelings of
884 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
gentleness into the hateful passion of ven
geance. Fain would a bad man, amidst his evil
course, know there was an object in creation
capable of stopping the bad tendency ofhis life
by the power of her goodness ; fain would he
find a resting place of peace in the bosom of
a woman. But when Bonner (who, in his ca
pacity of confessor, knew every Court secret)
discovered the rising passions in Eldrida's
breast, when he saw her covering jealousy
under the garb of religion, then many past
sins of his own appeared before his awakening
conscience, and he feared to look again at El-
drida, lest she should read that his bosom could
feel—Love !
After the first day, poor Constance was
transported to the Tower : too ill to plead, too
ill to think, there she lay, passively stretched
on a bed of illness uncheered by any familiar
face. Eldrida dared not come near her (for
guilt is always cowardly) ; and every time the
fair young girl lifted her eyes from under the
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 385
coverlet, she met the gaze of a withered-look
ing crone, and Constance almost shrieked as
she turned away from the sinister look of those
sunken, hut still piercing eyes. This person
was Calipsa : she was moody, but attentive ;
she thought the young girl was very ill, and
though she was sent more as a spy than as an
attendant, she fulfilled Eldrida's commands,
perhaps better than the latter wished it; for she
hourly administered the cooling draught, and
never failed to shake the invalid's pillow. It
would have been well for poor Constance, if
she could have avoided showing her abhorrence
to Calipsa ; but she had been accustomed to
look at the Princess Elizabeth, and her own
English maid had, like that Royal lady, an
open expression of countenance, on which
shone the reflection of an English heart. When
this servant, who had attended her many days
before she had accompanied her mistress to
Woodstock, to claim Elizabeth's protection, was
refused to accompany her mistress, then Con
voy, hi. -s
386 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
stance feared that some treachery was intended,
and she turned away from Calipsa's dark and
shrivelled form, with a dislike she neither cared
nor sought to disguise.
Calipsa, however, had received orders from
Bonner to attend assiduously upon her charge,
and the old woman sullenly but punctually at
tended to her commands. She was unchanged
in heart ; ever ready to obey rather than lead,
her strange nature would prompt her to deeds of
kindness as long as they were enforced, and
the next moment she was equally ready to dart
into the opposite path of cruelty. She was a
perfect windmill ; a passive creature in others'
hands; her conscience so blunted, that she
scarcely saw good from evil. She was wicked
without spite ; she was good-natured without a
heart ; she liked a change, and took a particular
delight in having a place assigned to her in- any
plot provided she was only trusted ; and " if
there is virtue amongst thieves," there is se-
cresy amongst rogues. Never had Calipsa be
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 387
trayed her employers ; never till the day when,
as a confessional trust, she had entrusted Bonner
with a secret which concerned many persons in
this tale.
One evening she had given Constance her last
dose ; she had arranged her couch, had reple
nished the fire, and turned her back towards the
young girl, knowing instinctively how much
she disliked her, when she heard her name
called, in the small room ajoining Constance's
apartment, which served for her own bed
room.
The old woman instantly tottered into the
room, and asked, in her own shrill voice, who
wanted her ?
" Hush ! not so loud," answered Bonner ;
" is your charge sleeping ? "
" She never sleeps," said Calipsa.
" Figuratively speaking, do you mean ? for
she could not exist without sleep," said the pre
late.
" Do you call it sleeping, when the night is
s 2
388 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
spent in talking and making incoherent excla
mations ? It is like the expiring flame of a lamp,
gaining strength and brightness to glimmer a
moment, and die away in darkness. That fair
English flower will not last long."
" Old woman, speak those words at your
peril."
" Ha, ha, ha, peril ! My Lord Bonner, will
that restore the bloom to the floweret ? Ay, per
haps I may be wrong. I have watched only the
darker flowers of Cadiz, and I have closed
many a lovely dark eye in death's last sleep,
and more than one dying breath has fanned my
cheek ; but perhaps this English bud holds her
life by a different tenure. Ha, ha, ha."
" Cease thy laughter, woman, and rather
bewail thy sins ; mourn,mourn, and laugh not."
" And why not, my Lord ? Why should I
not laugh? Many a glad demon has re-echoed
my mirth when I have obeyed my master's
orders. They laugh but at sin, and I have
sinned, so I may laugh. Ha, ha, ha."
THE 'SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 389
" Woman, have I not told you, that if you
repent, your sins will be forgiven ? Did I not
tell you, that your repenting, and refusing to
poison your mistress, showed a glimmering of
remaining good ? Did I not tell you, not to
continue scoffing and railing, hut to believe in
the efficacy of the holy rites of religion, and be
saved ?"
" No, no, my Lord Bonner ; talk not to me
of repenting : though I did not poison her, I em
bittered her life. You forget the left-handed
marriage."
"No, no, I repeat it woman ; there are greater
sinners than you, who can be forgiven : fall
down on your knees and repent."
"Ay, ay; perhaps some day when my cup
is full," replied the hardened woman ; " but
Calipsa will not repent to sin again. Now, my
Lord, what would you with me ? "
" I will relieve you for a short time," said
Bonner. " Go where you list ; I intend speak
ing to the invalid."
390 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
" I can remain here," replied Calipsa, sul
lenly.
" There is no reason why you should not,"
answered Bonner, " were it not that I am not
used to he contradicted : go now to some me
nials like yourself, and bandy not words with
the Bishop of London."
Calipsa left the room, with a heinous scowl
on her dark countenance. Bonner heeded it
not, but watched her until the corridor hid her
round the winding corner ; he then closed the
ante-room, took the key, as well as the one out
side Constance's chamber, and entering it by
the folding door opening into the ante-room, he
approached Constance. The noise of the voices
in the adjoining room, contrasting with the
silence which had previously reigned around,
had stupified the invalid, and she sunk into a
heavy sleep. Her white hand was extended
on the coverlet, and her long lashes rested
heavily on her pale cheek, so fair that each
soft hair was reflected as if pencilled there ;
THE SPANISH GIRL'S KEVENGE. 391
her light curls were confined with a small
comb, but escaping the restraining" curb, a few
long locks hung around her. The room was
darkened, and the bright fire reflected the only
light around, casting fantastic shadows on the
opposite wall. There was such a purity of
expression in the fair girl's face, that as Bonner
gazed upon it, he felt sorry to think that one
movement would awaken her to pain and care.
Fain would he have fallen on his knees by the
young slumberer's bed-side, but he felt un
worthy to kneel in the presence of one whose
heart was so much purer than his. Bonner left
the bed-side, and sat before the fire ; he watched
the burning coals, and imagined he could trace
living forms in the spiritless kindling mass.
What did that mass and another recall to
mind ? Oh ! horrible thought ! martyred saints
seemed to stand up ; he could trace the writhing
features, the agonized convulsions. The smoke
even was replete with meaning; it had the
repulsive smell—Bonner knew of what—and he
392 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
plainly heard the crackling sound. How hor
rible ! how appalling ! He stretched forth to
catch the coals, and then he remembered that
those heated pieces of the miner's produce were
not calling for assistance ; were not suffering ;
that they were not human creatures ; but they,
the injured martyrs, they would sooner or later
be revenged.
Terrified beyond measure, the words Bon
ner had determined to speak died on his lips,
when Constance, in a feeble voice, asked if she
was alone ? Bonner approached, and the young
girl recognised his features. Contrary to
the prelate's anticipation, she uttered not a
word of surprise, nor of abhorrence ; she ap
peared as if she had been prepared for the
interview. After begging the prelate to light
a taper, feeling perhaps that the dark re
minded her too forcibly of his far darker deeds,
Constance herself began the conversation.
" My Lord Bonner, in bringing me here, you
have of course treated me as many other Pro
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 393
testants ; but waste not your time in endea
vouring to turn me from a faith which is dearer
to me than life. I feel daily sinking; but if I
have strength, I will willingly go to the stake.
Only waste not words ; I cannot change."
" I know it, I know it," replied Bonner ;
" and if you were not to say the words, they
are spoken in your whole deportment, Con
stancy there is fully written. Constance,
for many months, and even years, I have gone
on sinning, and have never allowed the voice
of remorse to be heard in my heart ; and I
have never paused to contemplate the future,
or to examine the course of my conduct. Re
ligion, my religion, certainly has been the
main-spring of my actions ; and even now,
I believe my tenets the best, the true, and the
only road to savation. What would I then
give to see you, Constance, turn from your
blind-folded ways, and, kissing this cross, say
'I believe?'"
" Put it away, pray do, my Lord Bonner.
s 3
894 THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE.
Approach me not with that symbol of the Chris
tian faith ; for indeed, indeed, I will not worship
it it reminds me of the threats you have used
to better Christians than myself. My Lord,
speak no more to me. "
" Nay, nay, young girl, I seek not to dis
tress you ; nor_ can I convince you of the
feelings with which you have inspired me.
Pray for me1, Constance, pray with me ; but let
me now, though, never perhaps, again, tell you
how much I—I love you."
" Do you forget yourself, my Lord ? Do you
wish to insult me, because, I am alone, and in
your power ? "What, is it for this you brought
me hither ? "Where is the wretched old woman,
a proper tool of wickedness in your hands."
" Nay, hear me, Constance ! "
" Call me not Constance; speak not familiary
to me. I am none of yours ; I belong not to
your bigoted set. I am—yes I will own it.
Tremble, Bonner ! let his image come before
you ; let his pale ghost reproachingly warn you
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 395
to beware—martyred Cranmer, Archbishop of
Canterbury, appear before Bonner, and protect
thy child."
Bonner recoiled several steps ; then he ap
proached again, and next retreated. Constance
buried her face in her hands, and scalding
tears of mingled fear and emotion coursed
down her cheeks, and fell fast through her thin
fingers ; but when Bonner gently drew aside
he hands, and she looked upon him, a reassur
ing voice told her not to fear.
" Let me once more call you Constance," he
said ; " and 1 solemnly swear that this is the
last time I will bring my darkened image be
fore you. I dare not look upon Cranmer's
daughter with evil thoughts lurking in my
heart. But is it evil to love one, pure as those
bright angels, who raise on high their seraphic
voices ? Is it wrong to dwell with fondness on
one, meek, lowly, and yet firm, who bears
upon her the stamp of better things than
thoughts of this corrupt earth ? God forgive
396 THE SPANISH GIRL'8 KEVENGE.
me ; but if I could turn heretic, it would be
your fault. Constance, turn not away from
me ; I must speak feelings which long have
been dormant, are crowding in my brain ; and
Memory racks herself in vain to remember one
solitary hour like unto this. Fear not, young
girl, I could not harm yQu ; but is there no
medium between deep, burning love, and insa
tiable hate ? Albeit, your affections cannot be
mine ; although my office as priest places an
everlasting barrier between us ; yet, Con
stance, once again hear the voice of love, trem
bling for the first and last time on my tongue.
Now, young, girl, shudder not ; heave not one
sigh ; chase away the flowing tear. I have said
my say, I have disburdened my heart ; I have
calmed my feverish brain, and now thy tor
mentor is again Bonner ; but not Bonner,
burning for levenge, thirsting for blood, wish
ing to change tenets founded on a rock, hewn
deeply in thy breast. Bonner is now a passive
slave, ready to work thy will, ready to sacri
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVEMGE. 397
fice all for thee. Command, and though moun
tains should arise, I would wend my way along ;
through strife, through care, through weal or
wo, thy slave I am. Constance, I conjure thee,
speak."
But Constance could not answer directly ; the
prelate's last passionate appeal was lost upon
her. She was buried in prayer ; she was
thanking that All-seeing One, who rules men's
hearts ; who change them from the fury of the
lion to the gentleness of the bleating lamb.
Again Bonner addressed her, and Constance,
feeling his love now more tolerable than his
hate, suffered him to take his seat beside her,
and then calmly bade him restore her to the
Princess Elizabeth.
" I expected this," said the prelate, musingly,
" but it cannot yet well be ; there are others
beside myself who know of your captivity here,
and for a short time it must needs be so, or the
Queen would believe the Princess had a share
in shortening your captivity ; soon, young lady,
398 THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE.
an epoch will open for that Princess to protect
you without restraint—an epoch which you an
ticipate with pleasure, which will be the Pro
testant's glory, the Poman Catholic's overthrow.
Ay men have called me cruel, but methinks I
have been too weak to work out the glorious
work I undertook, to establish the Pope's su
premacy and the Romish faith. Long ere this,
by one firm blow, the Princess Elizabeth should
have been removed from the succession."
Again Constance shuddered, and turned from
the prelate ; and again she felt it was indeed
Bonner, her father's murderer, who was speak
ing in his own callous words. The prelate saw
the effect his last sentence had produced, and
he felt inwardly convinced that he was indeed
unfitted to hold any communion with one who
shuddered at his very words.
" Then you will not release me ?" said poor
Constance, breaking the ominous silence.
" I cannot refuse you anything," replied the
prelate ; " but you will not think me unreason
• THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE. 399
able if I ask you to remain here a week longer,
when T shall be going to the North, and will
tell the Queen, that you are better placed with
the Princess until my return."
Constance thanked the prelate so warmly,
she so patiently acceded to his will, in delaying
for a week her departure (and a week in cap
tivity is, comparativly speaking, an age), that
Bonner felt his softer feelings again dawning.
He therefore determined to close the confer
ence.
" This may be the last time I shall see you,
Constance, and a right understanding must
exist between us. I could not approach you
without giving utterance to words which are
not only repugnant to you, but unfitted to my
sacred character. I could not hold long con
versations with you, without feeling my faith
staggering ; and, besides, I cannot reconcile
it with my conscience to tolerate a heretic.
Conscience, you say ! Yes, Constance ; though
all men should disbelieve it—though, after my
400 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
death, my name be associated with all that is
cruel and bad—look not on the darkest side of
the picture ; pierce through the intricacies of
the path of my life, and if you can, Constance,
pause when you find one bright spot to rest
upon. As I have lived, so will I die, in the
Roman Catholic faith'; with my last breath, I
will uphold its tenets. I have caused the
martyrdom of many, but will you not believe
that my conscience told me I was right ? Will
you not believe that now my conscience is
telling me how to act towards you ? Con
stance, could I not have made you feel my
power ?"
" Yes, yes," replied Constance ; " though
all men should gainsay it, I shall remember
with gratitude, that Bonner was just and
honourable towards a young girl completely
in his power. Bonner, you have been my
enemy ; you deprived me of a parent ; but you
have saved the child. And if my prayers can
avail aught, as I trust they will, daily shall
THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE. 401
they be offered up for your conversion, and
your everlasting salvation. Farewell now ; if
we both have said more than men's ears might
hear, I trust we shall both be benefitted in a
manner passing man's finite understanding. I
shall believe that there is indeed in your breast
a conscience ready to be awakened, and to
turn once more into the right path ; and you
will, on your side, know, that through the
world's hate or fear, there is one being drawn
towards you with deep feelings of gratitude.
Farewell, Bonner ; farewell."
Bonner pressed her hand, and when the
young girl drew it away—was it a fancy? was
it the warmth of her feverish excitement ? or
had the prelate dropped a warm tear on his
saved victim ? Had that hard heart really
melted, and the tear of contrition flowed from
its frozen source ?
Bonner now wondered where he should find
Calipsa ; but he need not have wondered long,
for she had never left the turning of the passage,
402 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
where she was concealed behind a huge pillar,
which supported the chambers above ; and the
prelate, unwilling to meet curious eyes, until he
had subdued his agitation, walked for some time
down the long corridor ; and as he passed Ca-
lipsa, she vainly sought to catch the half-sup
pressed words which escaped from Bonner's
lips. At last he paused exactly before the spot
where the trembling woman stood, and she dis
tinctly heard him say, " Everything I can do
to please and comfort her, I will ; to-morrow,
before noon, she shall see her lover, young
Stracey."
Calipsa heard the words, and she heard the
deep sigh which followed ; and when the pre
late's footsteps died away in the distance, she
burst forth into a croaking laugh, exclaiming—
" Ha ! ha ! ha ! Don't Calipsa live to see
strange things ? By my faith, the worthy pre
late is bewitched by that pale English girl ; or,
if I could believe it, he is in love."
CHAPTER XII.
Oh, could we pierce through the darkness of the
night—could we pry into each other's secrets —
could we lift the mantle of thought—could we
draw aside the thick veil of hidden things—
what discoveries one single night would un
seal ! Whilst one person rests calmly in the
refreshing arms of sleep, another is tossing
about on a bed of pain. Whilst one is free from
even a distressing dream, another is holding
communion with the most - agonizing thoughts.
More sound were the slumbers of Constance
that night, when Bonner had left her, than she
404 THE SPANISH GIRl's REVENGE.
had experienced for many nights before : true,
she felt sorry to have listened to words of love
from the enemy of her Protestant party ; but,
contrary to her most sanguine expectations, she
had found the prelate not only well-principled
towards her, but she had secured his compas
sion, and that without having by any action, or
even a look, compromised her dignity or her
Protestant faith. Constance had not promised
in vain ; and before she closed her eyes in sleep,
she had mingled the name of Bonner in her
prayers.
Whilst others wished for his downfall and
his death, she prayed that his hard heart might
be permanently softened ; and that she, a weak
woman, would be the means of working out
this wonderful reformation.
Very different was the scene in a far off
chamber in the Tower. Not on the side appro
priated for captives, but in a regal bed, the
Spanish girl uttered her wild and impassioned
expressions.
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 405
"Calipsa could not deceive me, and to-morrow,
at noon, she is to see her lover. Oh, Constance !
fair and fortunate girl ! thou canst not know
the depth of sorrow into which I am plunged.
Oh, strange fate ! I have clasped the English
flower close, close to my heart, and in sickness
there I have pillowed her head ; and she did
not know why then my heart was so still ; it
was the stillness of despair. He returned, and
then its quick palpitations were intolerable to
bear, and—oh ! horrible—I opened that heart,
bleeding with anguish and pain. I opened
it before my rival's eyes, and she knows its
deep secret ; and when the bridal ring unites
that beautiful pair, when the fair English girl
leans on that arm I have never pressed, then
will she tell him of the Spanish Girl's love, and
recall to mind the scene of my grief. Why was
I not fair, like her ? What care I now that my
dark hair waves to please many admirers ? what
care I when they say the gazelle's eyes equal
not mine in brightness ? that not more stately
406 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
Juno's swan-like figure than my Spanish form ?
Perhaps it is this very stateliness he disliked ;
perhaps he liked not the vivid glances of my
black eye. What care I, then, for every boasted
charm ? I am not his English flower. It is the
pale, pale rose he loves, and not flowerets of
deeper bloom. Oh, Alphonzo ! would that we
had never met. But now—no, no, thou canst
not leave her. My hand must pierce her heart !
No, I did not say the words, but they will ap
pear before me. Could I even hold the mur
derous weapon ? Tush ! it is a phantom dream.
Oh, sleep, calm my throbbing temples—have
pity on my heart. Heaven send me a short
respite from pain. Sleep, throw thy heavy
hand on every pulse, and heal my troubled
breast !
» » * # »
How glowing are the sun's rays on a bright
October morning ! It does not shine like in
summer, from the earliest dawn of light, but
towards noon he sheds his glorious beams on
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 407
the snowy path, and reflects a thousand dia
monds on the snow-clad ground. The cap
tive, from his high-barred window, cannot dis
cern the beauty of his golden reflections over
mountain and streamlet, and on the white-
tipped trees, but his rays dart even into his
obscure room ; and then the captive knows it is
noon. With what different sensations are those
hues viewed ! Sometimes the prisoner knows
that he will contemplate the morrow's sun,
freed from his chains, freed from his confine
ment ; that in the possession of liberty, he will
watch the heavenly luminary glide down gra
dually in the setting west. Sometimes, alas !
the prisoner, for the last time, gazes at the
sun's rays, and knows that ere his next rising,
the spark of life will be extinct, and that the
warm pulse will be still. Then how his soul
lingers in a last contemplation of his bright
beams ! how the saddened spirit wishes the
pain of dying over, and that he were already
launched into that ethereal sphere, where his
408 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
eyes will behold more glorious things than even
the resplendent plenipotentiary of the sky.
Constance had risen; and, seated by the win
dow—or rather, as near to it as its height would
admit — she was lost in a reverie, in which
sweetness predominated over the bitter parts,
and bright hope had succeeded to keen despair.
A sweet smile played around the dimpled
mouth, and the bright tresses, more cared for
lhan usual, hung in glossy curls of luxuriant
growth. The young girl was still very weak ;
her fair cheek was like the blushing tint of the
palest rose, hardly pale, hardly pink ; and as
she reposed in a chair, well propped with pil
lows, she looked queenly in her solitude—not
Queen of a worldly domain, but Sovereign of a
world of thought, too exalted in their range
for man's improvement. The blue eyes, con
cealed under their deep fringe, were partially
closed, for the invalid could not bear much
light ; and the small mouth was languidly
parted, the upper lip disclosing the pearly teeth.
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 409
Constance was happy, and yet she knew not
why ; she was full of hope, and she knew not
of what.
What was that gliding noise, seeming to
steal from behind the tapestry? What, but
the breeze through the opened casement ? Yet
her cheek grew very pale ; and again a rustling
noise was heard, and again Constance chided
herself for being so childish.
Another half hour elapsed ; Calipsa had
been sent for, to speak with Bonner, and Con
stance had remained still, and in the same po
sition ; yet twice again had she heard a strange
sound, and her cheek had paler grown. A few
moments more, and Alphonzo had pressed her
to his heart, and had called her his own, his
beloved ; and she had leant her head upon his
bosom, and had sobbed tears of sweet joy ; and
her blue eyes had gazed on his darker orbs,
and reflected the mirror of her thoughts ; her
cheek had regained its bloom. What, was it
the breeze again through the casement? but
VOL. TIT. T
410 THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE.
once more she heard a sound ; and once more
6he heard a sigh. Closer still, Constance drew
towards Alphonzo, and then she bade him close
the window.
All now was still ; and long was the
uninterrupted conference the lovers held ; they
talked of happy childish ours, of sunny Italian
scenes ; they traced the growth of their love,
and the anguish of their absence; and then
Constance, looking earnestly in Alphonzo's face,
asked him, " Are you a Protestant?"
And Alphonzo playfully put aside the young
girl's tresses, and looking at her equally ear
nestly, he smiled as he replied, " Could I look
upon you thus, my own beloved, if I were
not?"
" Ah, then, my prayer has been heard ; and
if no other happiness awaited me ; I should be
secure of this one : chained now heart to heart,
worshipping in the same spirit, will we raise
our glad voices to the throne of grace ; and
since Bonner has thus given me this bliss by
THE SPANISH GIBL's REVENGE. 411
sending you to me, you too will pray for him
—for that wretched, but still reclaimable pre
late."
" Constance, you have showed me the true
path of religion, and I will do as you bid me ;
I will pray for the man who, amidst all his
dark and stormy passions, sought thee for harm,
and left thee admiring, and feeling unworthy
to hold again the language of love ; who found
a calming potion in your innocence, and a
safeguard in your prayers."
"My Lord Bonner seems to have turned
confessor to you," said Constance, blushing
deeply. " Are you not afraid of a rival?"
"No, no, these burning blushes avail you
nothing, and the smile which follows, alone I
heed ; and it says that you have not only bound
me to you by earthly ties, but with an angel's
purity have likewise linked my heart to yours
in faith ; so now in one faith, one belief, under
the same temple we will worship."
" Alphonzo, Alphonzo, what is that noise ?"
t 2
412 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
" I heard nothing ; your nerves are weak."
" There ! hark ! again I think I hear it ; and
ever and anon a deep sigh. What can it be?"
They both listened attentively, but all was
silent. Alphonzo looked into the little ante
room, but all was still.
" Indeed, dear Constance, you are fancying
things which do not exist."
" Perhaps I am, for I am very nervous ; ever
since the Lady Eldrida told me in passionate
words she loved you."
" Constance, I thought you above being
jealous."
" Jealous ! " said Constance ; " I know not
what the word means. I pity the Lady El
drida, but you wrong me if you think I am
jealous. If you love her, Alphonzo, do not
think of me ; I would not stand between her
happiness."
"But I cannot tell why you should even
think of the dark-eyed Spanish Girl. I owe her
some gratitude for visiting me in prison, though
THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE. 413
afterwards she coldly told me she would have
done the same for any other chevalier ; but I
never entertained any feeling like love towards
her. Hers was that commanding style of
beauty—that unfathomable power of intellect—<-
which either shines in noon-tide openness, or
can lurk in the dark ; and few could under
take to know the Lady Eldrida's heart, without
long examining her impressive movements.
Yet, without loving her, I feel interested in
her fate. Although her parting words were cold,
they had much meaning ; she wished me as
much happiness as she should feel herself;
and I fain would know that she was really
happy."
" She never sees me," said Constance ; " but
her own servant attends me."
" That is strange," said Alphonzo, musingly ;
" surely no treachery exists under that appa
rently too warm heart? 'tis a pity," he con
tinued, smiling, " that she cannot find another
Alphonzo."
414 THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE.
" Or," said Constance, joining in his smile,
,- that the laws will not allow you two wives."
" I should indeed look an enviable chevalier,
with my fair English rose, and my dark-eyed
Spanish bride."
And now an audible, gasping sigh, echoed
through the room. Alphonzo started up ; an
other was uttered, approaching almost to a
groan ; then followed a rustling sound, and
when he opened the door, he fancied he saw
the last glimpse of a woman's drapery, as a
slender figure glided rapidly down the nearest
turret-stairs. Fearing however, to alarm Con
stance, he returned to her, declaring that the
wind echoing through the turret windows had
caused the strange noise. The time was now
fully spent, and Bonner was waiting for him is
the court-yard below. Alphonzo therefore
once more embraced his blushing Constance,
and left her with a calmer heart.
Surely it must have been the wind, and she
must not be so weak; but in spite of all her
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 415
endeavours to reassure herself, the young girl
felt so lonely, that she almost wished for Ca-
lipsa's return.
Where was Calipsa? Bonner had detained
her for a long time, under plea of asking her
questions concerning her charge, but in fact,
to allow Alphonzo time to speak with Con
stance. How strangely blind, men are, when
they are buried in one absorbing thought ! Bon
ner asked questions, without caring for the
answer. Calipsa answered without heeding the
question ; she knew the prelate's secret, and he
knew hers. When the latter got tired of the
old woman, and despatched her on a useless
errand, then she had no more patience for such
silly trifling ; but instead of executing her task,
she sought Eldrida's chamber, intending to tell
that, conte qui conte, she would no longer wait
upontheyoung girl, since Bonner no longer dealt
openly with her. Calipsa had told her mistress
all she had heard concerning Bonner's intention
of allowing Constance to see her lover ; she
416 THE SPANISH GIKL's KEVENGE.
fancied that Eldrida's disguised coldness was
really felt, and had so blinded herself, so
wrapped herself in that idea, that she had no
pain in giving the news which sounded to poor
Eldrida as the parting knell of her happiness.
After waiting for some time, Calipsa was
preparing to leave the room, when Eldrida
rushed in, pale, dishevelled, and sobbing as if
her heart would break.
" My dear, dear young lady, what is the
matter ? " .
" Do not speak to me, ' Calipsa ; you can do
no good ; and yet, oh ! yet,I cannot bear alone
my bitter anguish : when, tossed by a thousand
contending feelings, I lay on a bed of sickness,
then you bode me chase away his image from my
heart, and I told you there it was engraven,
and there it has been fostering the warm af
fection into burning love. Calipsa, my brain is
distraught, my head is reeling ; a thousand fiends
are busily weaving their dread advice. The
poniard, poison, anything, but rid me of my
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 417
rival. What have I done ? Calipsa, you
shudder, and I have never seen you shudder
before. Well, then let her live ; but if she waits
awhile, I soon shall be no more. Unhappy
Eldrida, why wars she born to weep in the
prime of her days, to die of a broken heart, and
blighted affection ? Calipsa, speak, speak ; I
cannot bear my own voice."
Here, then, was a new plot for Calipsa, and
here she was trusted. She placed her mistress
on a couch ; she' bathed her throbbing temples
with a cooling lotion, and the young girl felt
refreshed.
" Give me something to drink," she said ;
" the sight of that cool lotion makes me wish
to drink it." ..
" Not that ; here is some water," replied
Calipsa, endeavouring to take away the bottle,
which Eldrida held tightly in her hands ; " talk
not of drinking the contents of that bottle. It
is poison."
" Poison !" exclaimed Eldrida, holding the
t 3
418 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
phial tighter still ; " then give me water ; fear
not, I am calm now ; but look not so wistfully
at the bottle, I do not want it now ; yet I will
keep it to cool my temples next time they
throb. Why do you stare at me ?"
" No, no, you cannot mean it," said Calipsa ;
" yet I would fain have again that phial, it is
most deadly poison ; know you not how I di
lute the smallest quantity with water ? It is a
Spanish prescription ; give it me, give it me
back."
" I am not used to be contradicted," replied
Eldrida, sumoning all the authority she could
command. " I tell you now, you shall see
that poison uo more. Go, talk of the scene
which has passed between us, and I will drain
the phial even to the last drop — my death be
then on your shoulders."
" Po not talk so," said Calipsa, bursting into
a flood of tears ; " I who could die for you, would
I betray you? But lady, dear lady J- if you
knew the horrors of a troubled conscience, you
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 419
would not burden it with this sin. And if you
really do poison the English girl, heed me now ;
a few drops will suffice, for it is the most
deadly poison! but no comforting drops will
ever remove the stain from your conscience."
'*' I did not say I intended poisoning any
one, " replied Eldrida, pettishly ; " but you
asked for the bottle, as if I were used to be
commanded. Once again I say, you shall not
have it. Now go to your charge ; I will remain
here alone."
*****
" How changed is now my heart," exclaimed
Eldrida ; " how full of love—how full of hate ;
and the two opposites meeting, are too much for
my. brain ; such intense passions can never com
mingle. Another day of like agony, and each
vessel in my head would burst ; the pain is in
tolerable, and fountains of freshest water would
not refresh the parched soil. Oh, what a short
space there is between misery and unhappiness ;
between a smile and a tear ; between life and
420 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
eternity ; and yet that short space is a barrier
difficult to surmount. The bear, confined in his
circular den, climbs to the highest top of its
pole, and there stands, the spectators looking
on in irony, laughing at the monster's grim
grimaces ; but one leap, and he would be in
the midst of them, and dart away from his pur
suers the freest of the free ; but it is that one
leap he cannot conquer, and there he must re
main on the provoking pole, or else retire
growling into his low den on the parterre.
There is but one step between me and happi
ness, for Alphonzp said it—' her heart requires
to be sued long ; and he might have sued it
long, sure to have found its most tender side,
its warmest affections, all for him. Surely he
would have loved me—he must have loved me ;
but the pale English rose stepped forth in her
almost child-like beauty, and the blue eyes
looked like a bud in the midst of a heavy
shower ; it required careful culling, gentle nur
turing, and she had it all. Whilst I, stricken
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 421
as the deer of the forest, by the sharp pointer
pursued, I waft in vain my heart-felt sighs, I
shed in vain my scalding tears ! Is there any
excuse in Heaven for a dark crime ? Is a
broken heart any palliation ? Is a reeling brain
any plea ? Dare I hope it ? I fear not. Then
Heaven see not the black deed. God forgive
me!"
CHAPTER XIII.
Another morning was nearly spent, and
again it was the noon-tide hour ; the sun shone
not upon the dark, stern tower, but its battle
ments frowned in darkness ; the elements
seemed at war ; the rain and the sleet battered
on the huge turrets, and the wind howled
through the long corridors. That morning,
Constance could not rise ; she felt more restless
than she had been for many days before ; and
her whole life passed before her memory, as if
she were collecting her journal to be read after
her death. She fancied she felt her mother's
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 423
voice, blessing her in her cradle bed ; and the
maternal embrace she had ever remembered,
appeared but as yesterday imprinted. Then she
dwelt with the friend of her childhood; she
stood upon the dangerous brink from whence
Mrs. Stacey had rescued her. Her childhood ad
vanced ; she wandered about in lovely gardens, '
the rich purple fruit hung around her, and its
graceful festoons formed a bower, her tiny fin
gers oft times disturbed. She thought she wan
dered by the borders of the lovely lakes, that she
gazed on the afar scenery of the Alps, and the
distant panorama of Switzerland. The palaces,
the noble buildings, the papal seats of granduer,
all passed in review before her ; and thus in
rambling contemplation many hours passed.
The evening shades were approaching, when a
low rap was heard at the door, and Constance
having answered " Come in," the Lady, El-
drida stood before her. Constance felt the co
lour forsaking her cheek, as she met the Spanish
girl's earnest expression of countenance ; the
424 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
latter looked half repentant at having sought
the interview, and Constance felt her whole
frame quivering with emotion. " I would have
risen, had I known Lady Eldrida intended
honouring me with her company ; but now it is
again in bed that I have the honour of receiving
her visit."
' " You think it no honour," said Eldrida,
sullenly.
" But there is a pleasure in welcoming a long-
absent friend."
" You think it no pleasure," said Eldrida."
" Well, Lady, at all events you will allow
me to say you are welcome here, but I really
cannot understand you."
" I am not welcome," replied Eldrida, bit
terly ; " I am an intruder—an intruder into
your room—an intruder into your secret. I have
come in unannounced, I shall go away when I
please : but you shall hear me—nay, I mind not
your tears ; I have shed mine till my eyes are
dry with weeping ; I mind not your sobs—I
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 425
uttered mine until, in convulsive agony, I was
forced to leave off. Why do you weep ? Are
you not blest ? Is not Alphonzo yours ? Why
do you fear ? Have I yet cursed you ? No, but
I have come to do it ! and more : if you stand
before my happiness, though Bonner may be
friend you, my vengeance will find you out. As
heretics, both shall suffer ; you and your be
trothed husband. Constance, you can save him
from the torment of the 6take ; your heart is
cold, your soul passionless. Have I not seen
how you bore his absence ? When my -heart
was being eaten up, when each vital part was
preyed upon by the canker -worm, which never
dies, you felt not this pain ; and you call this
love ! You slept calmly at night, and you call
this love ! No ! waking or sleeping, in silence
or in conversation, I am alike full of grief,
with the sapping mine of sorrow ever at my
heart. Fair-haired girl, you can live for friend
ship. You do not know what is love."
" Nor do I ever wish to do," said Constance,
426 THB SPANISH GIRTHS REVENGE.
" if this violent, passionate, outpouring of the
heart were fed at its shrine. Love with me
has been associated with a holier work of faith,
lady. I sought not to possess Alphonzo's heart,
so much as to claim a share in saving his soul.
You once asked me the road to peace—I taught
it him, and will teach it you. Keep your warm
passions under a sober, reasoning judgment ;
pray without ceasing, and faint not. What
would you have me do ? To give up Alphonzo
for a right cause, would wring, but not break
my heart ; to refuse him my plighted hand, and
to take away that love which he has now, and
thought of through the battle, through impri
sonment, and at the brink of the grave itself,
what for ? . To satisfy the malice and revenge
of a jealous Spanish girl. Eldrida, you have
roused my passion ; and now leave me, lest
your vehemence teach my passionless heart to
rebel."
Eldrida did leave her ; she gained her cham
ber ; she emptied the contents of a small phial,
THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE. 427
and substituted a colourless liquor. She re
traced her steps, and noiselessly entering the
ante-room, which led to Eldrida's, she placed
the phial again on the chimney. She listened
one moment : she heard Constance sobbing
convulsively; then she rushed down to her
own room, bolted the door, and sunk senseless
on the floor.
Hardly had Eldrida left Constance, when,
cautiously mounting the staircase, Alphonzo
once more entered the room where Con
stance lay stunned by the emotion her frame
had undergone in the trying interview with
the high - spirited Spanish Girl ; her generous
soul reproached her for having uttered one
harsh word. Perhaps she could have soothed,
perhaps she could have comforted, Eldrida. In
faltering accents she told her lover all that
had passed, but he did not upbraid her. He
suppressed with difficulty his indignation to
wards Eldrida for seeking her rival on a bed
of sickness.
428 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
'-' Calm yourself, my Constance ; our pros
pects soon will change. The Queen is relent
ing in her persecutions ; her continued illness
whispers in her ears, that after death comes
judgment. Bonner will pretend to be too busy
to look into the particulars of the case. We
will kneel before the King of Spain, and he
will bless our union."
" Ah, Alphonzo, as I hear you speak, I feel
my heart grow heavy ; but, think me not want
ing in trust, nor accuse my temper of being
pettish and superstitious, when I say, that
through your smiling hemisphere of hope and
love, I see dark clouds arising. Whilst angels
hover in your clear sky, mine is replete with
dark-looking creatures ; and, even now, the
Spanish Girl's eye is before my mind, and
makes me tremble."
" Constance," said Alphonzo, turning very
pale, he knew not why ; " you are ill and
weakened, and you do not take sufficient resto
ratives. You recover from one feverish attack
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 429
to be plunged into some fright, and new illness
succeeds. Do you not take any soothing po
tions ? Something to do you good ? Come, I
must be your doctor."
" Well, how very strange that I was thinking
that you looked ill ; and, at all events, I have
agitated you as much as Eldrida has harmed
me ; so we both require a calming potion.
There is one on the chimney in Calipsa's room ;
open this door, you can then go in."
Alphonzo obeyed ; he approached the chim
ney, carefully read the label, which ordered the
dose to be taken in two parts.
" That is the bottle," said Constance, " I
almost hoped I should not have required an
other ; but there is fortunately enough for two
persons. Now, bring a second glass, imd, in
stead of drinking together a good toast of
malmsey, gay knight, you must fain accept a
reviving draught."
. Alphonzo took the bottle, shook it, poured
out two glasses of it : " God bless you, my be
loved, and restore you to health."
430 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
" God bless you, and strengthen your faith
in Him," answered Constance ; and they both
swallowed the contents.
* * * * *
*
Eldrida lay for some time in a death-like
swoon ; but at length she recovered her con
sciousness, and with it, an indistinct idea of
having seen Constance, of having spoken harsh
words, and then—oh ! then, her reason re
turned, and she recollected everything. She
arose from the ground, hastily swallowed a
glass of water, to prevent herself fainting, then
rushed into the ante-room, and looked on the
chimney : the bottle was no longer there. A
dead faintness came over her ; she leant against
the wall for support ; she tried to pray, but she
dared not ; she tried to weep, but she could
not. Her trembling limbs at length regained
some strength ; she wiped the drops which had
gathered on her brow, and then tottered, rather
than walked, into the next room. Oh ! horrible
sight ! Gasping in the last agonies of death,
THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE. 481
Alphonzo Stracey was extended on the floor.
The fallen chair told that the writhing pain had
laid him there. His features were distorted in
horrible convulsions, and his hands were
tightly clinched. One deep groan after the
other burst from him ; once he looked upon
Eldrida, but his eyes grew sightless, his breath
short ; and looking still fixedly at the palsied,
wretched Spanish Girl, he expired in unspeak
able agony.
Eldrida rushed past him ; she almost trod on
the cold corpse ; she knew not what she did : she
approached the bed, she drew down the cover-
lit, and she contemplated the awful work of
her dire revenge. Her young rival lay cold
and inanimate ; she had apparently died in less
pain than her lover—perhaps expired in her
sleep. Her blue eyes were closed, and the only
alteration in her lovely countenance was, that
instead of the sweet smile round her mouth,
the lips were parted, and slightly, very slightly
convulsed. Lower and lower Eldrida bent
432 THE SPANISH GIRX'si REVENGE.
her head, until it touched the cold frame ; she
listened for one sound, one slight quivering
sign of life. No, no ; the bright spirit had
flown away. Constance was dead, cold, and,
gone !
» * * * *
Hours flew by, and Bonner grew angry with
Alphonzo for lingering with Constance. He
patiently waited for some time, for he had
promised to see her no more ; but at last he
could no longer command his temper, and he
rushed up to that fatal chamber. What there
met his gaze ? The brave young soldier, in his
first manhood's dream of hope and love ; and
the fair young girl, so lovely, so good, both
slumbering in one everlasting sleep ! What
did the awful sight mean ? Not a sound was
heard in that chamber of death, silent as the
tomb ; not a trace was there of el murderer's
hand, but its awful work was seen. Bonner
had destroyed many a warm, beating heart, but
there had ever been a hope of pardon, if the vie
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 433
tim recanted. He had never murdered thus the
young ; and he raised the young man's corpse
with the remaining hand he had (the other he
had burned) ; then he went to the bed where
Constance lay ; he strove to catch at a hope of
life ; he rubbed the hands, but no circulation
came ; he kissed the lips, but they were cold and
clammy : and, was it a fancy ? he tasted a strange
thing—a deadly, sickly taste—the poisoned
draught. Then Bonner guessed part of the
truth, and he swore over those cold pale forms
to revenge their death—to pursue their mur
derers with sure aim. How to proceed first
he knew not. Bonner was beside himself, and
for a moment he wondered if he envied not the
calm sleep of death. At the thought of death,
his sins ever recurred to his mind, and Bonner
rushed out of the room, daring to think only of
one thing—to bury thought in one feeling of
retaliation and revenge. With hurried steps,
he trod many dark passages in the Tower ; he
bent down through arches, descended winding
vol. hi. v
434 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
steps, and opened concealed doors known only
to himself. At last he reached a room ; he paused
not to knock, he rushed in. A woman, bearing
the traces of much loveliness, but very pale
and thin, started up as the prelate entered—so
ghastly, so heinously frightful, that the poor
lady drew back to the furthest end of the
room.
" What now ? what now V she said, in a
touching voice, seeming to say, " Have I not
suffered enough ? "
" Do you ask, what now ? Ah, poor lady !
you will know soon enough. Go, reach Philip's
presence ; throw yourself low at his feet ; ask
for revenge, for searching, never-pausing re
venge. Go, tell him that your son—his son,
is—is—lady, is poisoned."
" What, do you bring me these words to
terrify me ? No, they cannot be true ; yet your
agitation, your pallid face—yes, you are not
speaking false. Show me the way, Bonner ;
speed on, I will follow you. Is he not my hus
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 435
band ? Although he wished to kill me, he is
my husband ; and if he has anything to do
with this base action, he shall never escape my
vengeance ! Is it a dream?- Bonner, you could
not trifle with a mother's heart ? My poor
boy ! "
" Lady, hear me again ; hear me whilst I am
calm enough to speak. Your son, and his be
trothed Constance, Cranmer's daughter, they
are both dead ; they have both been poisoned,
and their memory asks for revenge."
" Revenge ! " said Mrs. Stracey. " Is there
a heinous sin that asks for it, it is this. Could
the sun of Heaven shine upon such murderers ?
Could they bear life ? Ought they to live ?
But why was the black deed done ? Why was
that sweet, fair girl, poisoned too? Oh, Bon
ner ! speed on, speed on. I cannot tarry."
" Where go you, lady ? "
" To the King ! "
They did not speak another word ; the pre
late hushed his lamentations, and the mother
u 2
436 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
her sighs ; and they sped on with the swiftness
of lightning. They opened Philip's most pri
vate rooms, but he was not there ; they rushed
by the wondering household ; they overturned
many a gaping page ; at last they gained the
presence-chamber. Bonner threw wide open
the door, and then crossed his hands in sullen
determination. Mrs. Stracey advanced : there
was the lover of her youthful days, gay and
gallant as ever ; his sullen bride, England's
Queen, was by his side ; he was holding long
and earnest conversation with her, and her face
was dark and gloomy; disease there had stamped
her hand, and pain had laid her wrinkles on
the brow.
How the King started. Was it a phantom from
the world of spirits ? Was it a ghost in earthly
form ? or did Agnes Stracey, his injured Agnes,
stand before him ? Philip's face turned ashy
pale, his hair stood erect on his head ; his
knees shook together ; and Mrs. Stracey, mis
taking all these symptoms for the quivering of
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 437
remorse felt for his last crime, burst forth in all
the wild eloquence of a mother's love—
" Base, mean, murderous man ! King of
Spain, dare you stand in the presence of your
English bride, of a crowned Queen, and fear
not an injured woman's revenge? Was it be
cause you found out that my life was saved,
that you sought to murder my beautiful boy ?
Was he not your son, your own brave boy ? Has
he not fought by your side ? Has he not been
taught to love the hand which was raised to
murder his mother? Has he not wandered
through life, without knowing whom to call
' father ? ' Has he not been separated from his
mother, lest your hand should again be put
forth to do her harm ? Have I not hidden my
self from your eye, and buried my life in seclu
sion, and for many months dwelt in a damp
and distant room in this Tower ? Then Bonner
told me, that you spoke softly to my boy ; that
(yes, tremble ; before your acknowledged wife
I say it) you waited but her death, to bring
438 THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE.
forward my son's claims to honour and high
station ; and now, false man ! treacherous hus
band ! King unworthy of a sceptre ! you have
poisoned my son. His dark eye, why was it like
yours ? Ah, it will never beam again ; and his
raven hair, which in his baby hours I loved to
twine, is now clustering damply around his cold
brow. Heaven, wilt thou see the deed of hor
ror? Wilt thou "
*****
" Woman, I know you not. You are raving.
How dare you approach the Queen with your
idle words. Go, you are raving !"
' Raving ?" said Mrs. Stracey, laughing, hys
terically ; " go with Bonner—he will show you
your murdered son ; go, look at the work of
death you have wrought ; go kneel down, and
ask God if perchance he can forgive you ; I
cannot?
" Woman, I again say I do not understand
you. I now acknowledge having a son, but I
never raised my hand to harm him. Bonner,
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 439
I follow thee ; haste, and thou shalt answer for
this scene."
But Bonner replied not ; he swiftly mounted
the staircase. Philip followed, and Mrs. Stracey
was left alone with the Queen.
Then she poured forth her heart before her
astonished hearer ; then she told the tale of her
early love ; how she had once been a fair and
guileless girl ; how Philip, in a tour through
Italy, met her in that clime ; how she withstood
his daring love ; how, not knowing his rank, she
confessed, at last, her own love in return ; and
when Philip at last threw aside his incognito,
how she wept and sobbed ; how her nights were
spent in watching, and her days in wretchedness ;
and still she refused to be his. Then she told
how, .imposing on her youth (for sixteen sum
mers had not quite gone over her head), the
King had persuaded her, that although he could
only unite himselfto Royalty, still a " left-hand
marriage would be binding ; " that he would
never marry any other way, and that she alone
440 THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE.
would ever lay claim to his heart; how she
pondered over his words ; how they fed upon
her mind ; how she consented. Then, for a few
short years, came love and bliss ; but at last,
Philip grew weary of his bride, and repented
of the tie, even of this " left hand-marriage
how, night and day, he sought to find the paper
which mutely witnessed the nuptial ; how he
removed from his path every eye-witness to
the act ; how next Calipsa was persuaded to
kill her; but when the time arrived, when
her dark-eyed boy was pressed to her bosom,
and in artless innocence he smiled upon the
very being who was sent to do the black deed ;
how then Calipsa turned from her sin, but em
bittered her life, by binding her by the most
solemn oath never to reveal her existence ; how
she had long wandered, wretched and forsaken,
without one tie save her boy ; and when that
son grew up, Calipsa once more appeared
before the mother, and bade her separate her
self from him, bade her choose between his death
THE SPANISH GIRL'S REVENGE. 441
and his advancement. Then was it that he loved
Cranmer's gentle daughter, and the task was
doubly embittered by this fact. But Calipsa,
fearing Philip would discover her existence,
tore her forcibly away, and kept her concealed,
until Bonner, finding her in his research after
heretics, had wrung the truth from Calipsa,
who was on a bed of sickness ; and now she
claimed vengeance for her murdered son.
Mary heard no more ; she fell down in a
swoon.
CONCLUSION.
What strange rumour is heard throughout the
land ? Why are those loud shouts echoed ?
The road from Hatfield is lined with people,
and from the Houses of Parliament the mem
bers are pouring. Hark ! they exclaim, " God
save Queen Elizabeth ! Long and happily may
she reign !"
The Princess Elizabeth arrived in London,
and she entered the gloomy Tower ; she re
flected on the difference in her present fortune,
and knelt down to thank her God.
The prison doors flew open, and the rescued
Protestants knew that " Mary was no more."
THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE 443
Where was Philip ? Away in the Low Coun
tries. Lord Cobham was despatched by Eliza
beth to inform him of his Queen's death, and her
own accession to the Throne. She thanked the
Spanish Monarch for the protection he had
often shown her, and hoped that their friend
ship would continue to exist.
( How did Philip receive the message ? He
refused, in the first place, to continue the pro
posed treaty with France. What cared he now
if the English regained Calais ? This, perhaps,
was the only cause why the nation regretted
Mary's death. First, Philip ordered the Duke of
Teria to make proposals of marriage to Queen
Elizabeth. Her Majesty refused him ; but in a
manner so obliging, so evasive, that Philip
heeded not the refusal, and sent his messen
gers to Rome, to order the dispensation.
Meanwhile, Philip passes much of his time
in endeavouring to comfort a pale, weeping
girl, who hangs upon his arm.
" Eldrida, you did it in a moment of revenge ;
444 THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE.
you were beside yourself. Be comforted ; look
up again ; there is surely some hope."
" Oh, none for such a sinner as I am. No,
thousands of masses could not calm my mind,
nor a deluge of tears relieve my brain. Now
I see Constance before me ; I feel her cold lips,
and I press her clammy hand. Oh, why paused
I not ? Why did I not dash the fatal phial to
the ground ? Why did I ever see poison."
Dreadful convulsive fits followed these ex
clamations of grief: the mind became enfeebled
by the body's sufferings, and soon the Spanish
Girl leant no more on her uncle's arm, but re
clined on a couch by the open verandah. The
warm sun shone through the blinds ; the room
was perfumed, and refreshingly sprinkled with
odoriferous waters ; delicacies of every kind
surrounded the dying girl's couch. But dark
was her broken heart ; well Eldrida knew that
the most gloomy prison-walls were too good for
her ; and she loathed the luxuries she was un
worthy to touch.
THE SPANISH GIKL's REVENGE. 445
The soft breeze fanned her sunken cheek ;
and she turned her head feebly aside, as if the
air were too pure for her. She spoke to her
uncle, but she never looked upon his face ; her
eyes were always downcast and heavy.
A few days more, and a priest knelt by her
bed-side. The physician shook his head ; and
naught was heard through the room but the
prayers of the priest. At the foot of the bed
Calipsa knelt, like a grim shadow, so unearthly
she looked ; so wan, so thin.
The King of Spain encircled Eldrida's head
with his arms, and his warm tears fell on her
long tresses. They shaded a face of such exqui
site beauty, that who would have thought shame
and guilt had robbed the colourless cheek of
its bloom ?
It is - a solemn thing to sit by the death
bed of departing worth—to watch the expiring
embers of a fire which has been well tended ;
but, how much more awful to whisper words of
comfort into the sinner's ears ? To hope and
446 THE SPANISH GIRL's REVENGE.
trust in mercy, but hardly dare to expect it.
The priest prayed, and clasped his hands in
fervent supplication ; but, alas ! he had heard
that young girl's confession, and he trembled.
Many other secrets, dark and gloomy, he had
heard, but never one like this ; and, as he
looked upon the dying girl, how he shuddered
to think that she would soon be launched be
fore a just tribunal, with her awful sins upou
her youthful head.
A calm stupor had succeeded to Eldrida's
violent fits of grief; and, for many days, al
though she prayed not audibly, her soul was
busily communing away from earthly thoughts.
Let us draw a curtain over those thoughts.
Surely she had seen a bright vision ; surely
some sustaining arm was, in mercy, stretched
forth to receive her parting spirit ; for, without
one groan, she expired.
Death, which, for a time, leaves a dreary
blank in the heart, in the home, in the very
THE SPANISH GIRL'S KEVENGE. 447
town in which we dwell, after a time is for
gotten in the world's husy throng.
Philip of Spain left the scene of his last sor
row, and Calipsa remained, watching with
earnestness over the couch of a lady, still
pale, still melancholy, but resigned to her fate ;
that lady is Mrs. Stracey. Upon her brow sor
row is written, and no smile plays upon her
lips, but a calm heart dwells within. She looks
forward to death as the harbinger of peace ;
for, in a world above, she hopes to meet again
her dark-eyed boy and his fair betrothed. And
now she has forgiven her enemies, and prays
for the forgiveness of that being, once innocent
—lately so wretched, so degraded—that un
happy " Spanish Girl ! "
Lea Grove, Blackheath.
THE END.
xondon :
Reding and Judd, Printers, 4, Horse Shoe Court, Ludgate Hill.
