{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__howitt___popular_history_of_priestcraft___7ed.pdf","mytitle":"Popular History Of Priestcraft   7ed","mylang":"de"}
A POPULAR
HISTORY OF PRIESTCRAFT
I"
ALL AGES AND NATIOXS.
BY WILLIAM HOWITT.
~
Help us to sa\·e free conscience from the paw
or hireling wolves, whose gospel ia the~~~:::..:.;.
We opirits are not eltizeno or the e~rth, but or the city or God, called the
unh·erse: and1our life ftlls not merely a n1oment, bnt -eternity. ln thia ex-
1\lterl position, '"hat can we do more worthy of our destination than, like
Christ, and by his word, to release spiriU from the shacklea or error, and to
bring them nearer unto God. t
SHOBERL'I Preletll SI<Jie of Chrilnanilylhroughoullhe World.
.iltbrnt{) JS'bition,
WITH LARGE ADDITIONS.
...
QJ;v
'
LONDON: / ~
JOHN CHAPMAN, 121, NEWGATE STREET.
MDCCCXLV.
,g, Jb,Google
JOHN CHILDS AND SON, BUNGAY.
Oa Truth ! immortal Truth ! on what wild ground
Still hast thou trod through this unspiritual sphere !
The strong, the brutish, and the vile surround
Thy presence, lest thy streamin~ glory cheer
The poor, the many, without pnce; or bound ;
Drownin~r thy voice, they fill the popular ear,
In thy high .name, with canons, creeds, and laws,
Feigmng to serve, that they may mar thy cause.
And the great multitude doth crouch and bear
The burden of the selfish. That emprise,-
That lofty spirit of Virtue which can dare
To rend the bands of error from all eyes,
And from the freed soul pluck each sensual care,
To them is but a fable. Therefore lies
Darkness upon the mental desert still,
And wolves devour, and robbers walk at will.
Yet, ever and anon, from thy bright quiver,
The flaming arrows of thy might are strown ;
And rushing forth, thy dauntl!!SS children shiver
The strength of foes who press too near thy throne.
Then, like the sun, or thy Almighty Giver,
Thy light is through the startled nations shown ;
And generous indignation tramples down
The sophist's web, and the oppressor's crown.
Oh! might it burn for ever! But in vain-
For vengeance rallies the alarmed host,
Who from men's souls draw their dishonest gain.
For thee th~y smite, audaciously they boast,
Even while thy sons are in thy bosom slain.
Yet this is thy sure solace-that not lost,
Each drop of blood, each tear,-Cadmean seed
Shall send up armed champions at thy need.•
18'27. W. H.
• From the " Desolation of Eyam, and other Poems."
, vGooglc
Various well-meaning people have expressed the wish that I had
defined what priestcrajt is, 11.nd distinguished it from priesthood.
Can that be needful? Do not the things clearly enough contra-
distinguish themselves? Is not this volume an embodied m~ss of
such distinctions ? Or will not any common dictionary do it?
Priesthood, the office of priest or teacher of ·a religion. Priest-
craft, the craft or selfish cunning which perverts that office, and
converts it into a mischievous machine to secure the base ends of
individuals, or of a party. Such also is the distinction between
kingship and k~"ngcraft.
ADVERTISEMENT
TO
THE SEVENTH EDITION.
ELEVEN y~ have elapsed since the .publication of the first
edition of this 'work, and perhaps no equal number of years has
ever aft'orded in.this country such demonstrations of the truth of
the great principle advocated in it-the enfranchisement of the
church of Christ from the thraldom of the churches of men.
Never, at any moment, did such glorious proofs present themselves
of the total inadequacy of state Establishments of religion to
efrect the vaunted objects of their erection and maintenance, as
are exhibited in the present position of the state churches of this
empire. After all that has been so loudly sounded in our ears,
of the absolute necessity of state religions for the maintenance of
the unity imd Uniformity of religious faith, and of showing to the
world what is really the religion of the fllltion, it would puzzle the
ablest head to tell us what even is actually the present religion of
the .tate.
In tlw first place, if we seek the religion of the fllltiim, we find
onrselves immediately in the midst of a host of di88entert, of such
overwhelming numbers that we are compelled to give up seeking
the religioo of the fiiJtion in the religion of the state. Ir, however,
we give up this point, and admit that the great object of govern·
ment is a failure, that it has not succeeded in making the religion
oigit<Zed by Coogle
~· .
vi ADVEllTISEMENT,
o/the. state the t•eligion of the nation, and content ourselves with
inquiring what is then the religion of the state, we find ourselves
in no less a dilemma. Some will boldly tell us that the religion
of the state is threefold-Episcopalianism, Presbyterianism, and
Catholicism; for that these are the three prevailing religions of
England, Scotland, and Ireland, and that all these have their
representatives in parliament. But if we are again driven by our
own convictio11.s that our state is nGt so fJerY religious as to have
three religions at once, and by the loud assertions of the state clergy
themselves, to seek for the state religion only in the state-paid
churches, we are still equally at a loss. Where, we ask, is the
unity and the uniformity of faith ? Never, indeed, was such a
spectacle of disunity and discordance of faith and of opinion as
amongst the clergy of each individual church !
The church of England, which is also called the church of Ire-
land, to its "popish liturgy, Calvinistic creed, and Arminian cler-
gy," to all its former internal sects of High and Low Churchmeu,
Nonjurors, and Evangelicals, has·now got a great Puseyite, or
popish sect in it; Oxford is at war with Cambridge, bishop with
bishop, parish priest with parish priest, and parishes with theH-
priests. The old leaven of popery which was left by the arbi-
trary act of government in the lump at the Reformation, has
worked bravely, and popery is almost as rife in the church of
England now as it was in the days of Laud. Is the religion of the
nation then Puseyism, or popery in disguise? For it is certain
that the nation is made to pay for its propagation. It is from
the national university, and from the national pulpits, by clergy
supported by national property, that this Puseyism is preached.
No one disputes that Dr. Pusey has a right to preach Puseyism,
or any other ism, but can any one tell what right he has to preach
it at the expense of the nation ? •
Of the unity and uniformity for which the church was set up
not a shred is to be found! Of the effectiveness of a national reli-
gion there is almost as little trace. In Wales, as may be seen
from an additional chapter in this edition, it actually suffered all
reli8ion to be lost; and when one of ~ curates pointed.out the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
ADVERTISEMENT. Yii
startling feet, be was driven out of the national fold, as a noisy
eur that would not let the shepherds sleep ; and the dissenters
came in and evangelized the land; the poor outcast curate, for
want of employment by hill own church, j~ining them in the good
work.
In Ireland the state church still remains the miserable fraction
that it ever waa. It baa not been able to proselyte the seven mil-
lions of people that were plUf.'ld.l;red of their fathers' property to
maintain this fraction of a foreign church, and it bas amply suc-
ceeded in the more,natural consequence of driving this seven
millions, by the constant irritatio,n of witnessing this monstrous
state of things, to the verge of destruction, and of rebellion. So
flagrantly does this state of things outrage all principles of justice,
common sense, and common humanity, that the leaders of the
Whig party begin to declare plainly that it must have an end;
that the clergy of both churches must be paid by the state, or
Deither; nay, the very Tories now in power are actually be-
ginning to carry out this principle, to the consternation of O'Con-
nell ; who feels that if the state is cunning enough to induce the
catholic_priesthood of Ireland to look towards it as the source of
emolument, they will speedily let fall the drum-stick ecclesiastic
with which they have so lustily thumped away for Repeal, and
then farewell to that magic word.
But in Scotland ?-In that third state church for creating uni-
formity, unity, and a national religion,-in that virtuous, moder-
ately paid, unambitious church without a hierarchy,-how is it
there? In that church which st;nt out Dr. Chalmers, even into
London, to demonstrate incontestably that it was not in religion
as in political economy; that a demand did not ezist for religion,
it must be created; and that no power was competent to the great
task but that of a nation !-bow is it with this church and its
mighty antagonist of the voluntary principle ? Astounding! As
Dominie Sampson would say, "Pro-di-gi-ous!" Why, this
church too has.been iri a tempest of internal distraction. It has
been rent to the very centre by its own agitations. It has burst
asunder, and out of its ruins have marched forth four hutidred and
oigit<Zed by Coogle
viii ADVERTISEMENT.
seventy of its clergy, who have quarrelled with the hand that fed
them; and at their head-can we believe our eyes !-this very
Dr. Chalmers,-this very Goliath of state churchism; this de·
molisher of the voluntary principle,-to set up a Free Scotch
Church on tAe volu"tary principle !
Thus, then, it seems that in this new Tale ofa Tub,-not a tub
of state can stand on its own bottom, or rather, can find a proper
bottom to standupon. Spite ofa\1 the coopering of kings and par-
liaments, these sacred vessels of state continually burst their hoops,
and fall into a confused heap of useless staves. But if these state
Establishments do not preserve unity and uniformity of faith ; if
. ~
they.do not enable a nation to show to the world what really is
its religion ; if they cannot even prevent their falling to pieces,
people ma.y very nat1;1rally ask,-What do they do?. And why do
we still maintain them at the costly rate of ten millions a year P
Instead of answering that question, I merely say,.as Abernethy
used to say io applicants for his advice-" Read my book!"-
though I will not undertake to affirm, but that, when my readers
arrive at the end, they may repeat the question still more earnestly
than ever.
It only remains to add, that a vast mass of new matter has
been added to this edition. It contains several entirely new
chapters, an.d the whole work has been so got up as to present
three times the original information, at a considerably reduced
price.
The El7m, Clapton Pond,
Jan. 1845.
W.H.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
THR two evil principle~ kingc,raft and prieatcraft, co-eval in their
oril!'in-lnnumerabie h1storians of the one, but none singly and en·
u reit of the other-The real and monstrous charaCter of p"rie•tcraft
-Evil system• attacked in this work without mercy, but not men •
CHAPTER II.
PAe•
Paganism distioguished universally by the same great leading princi-
ples-supposed to originate in the corruption of the patriarchal wor.
ship soou after the Flood-Probablediffusion of original population-
On~in of· the doctrine of three Gods, in Greece, Egypt, Persia,
Syr1a, among the Tartar!, Chinese, Goths, Americana, etc.-Of the
preservation of the ark in the religious ceremonies of all pagan DB•
tions-Of the doctrine of a succes•ion of worlds, and of a aeluge--
Ancient mysteries celebrated, eapecially by the Greeks, Egyptians,
Hiut.loos, and Druids- Advantage taken by priests of thiS great
system of auperstition • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • . 4
CHAPTER lll.
MYTHOLOGY OP THR AsSYRIANS AND SYRIANS-The horrors of MolO<'b
-Chemosh-Baal and Baal-tires-Bryant's theory ofthe Utthic tribes
agrees with the existence of castes iu all pagan nations-Spirit of the
Syrian priesl8 as 1hown in the Jewish history-Vile deceptions of
l>riests-The wife ofthe god-Priestly arts exposed by Daniel • . 9
CHAPTER IV.
The same •~stem of superstition and priestcraft which prevailed in Asia,
e~isting also among the Celrs and Goths of ancient Eurt'pe-Every
where the priests the dominant caste-In Britain, Gaul, and Germany,
their state shown by Coosar and Tacitus-The notions, sacrifices, and
. BUperstitions or Seandinavia • • • • • • . • • • • • . . u
CHAPTER V.
The same system discovered, to the surprise of the learned, in America
· -The gOds, doctrines, and practices of lhe northern Indians, Mexi-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
X CONTENTS.
PA.GZ:
cans, and Peruvians-Dominance of the priests and nobles, and
slavery of the people-Their bloody sacrifices and fearful orgies,
similar to those of the Asiatics-The amazin~ number of their human
sacrifices recorded by the Spanish writers-Striking picture of priest-
craft in Southey's Madoc . • • . • . . . • . . . . . . 21
CHAPTER VI.
The priest-ridden condition of Egypt notorious-involved in the same
system of ·priestcraft already noticed-Dr. ftobertson's theory of the
uniformity of pagan creeds insufficient, and why-Egyptian supersti-
tions-Excessive veneration of animals, and consequent singular rites
and facts-Horrid and licentious customs-Policy of their priests to
conceal knowledge from the people-place themselves above the
noblesand even the kings-regUlate all the daily actions of tbe kings
-Striking illustrations of the verity of the Greek accounts in the
history of Joseph-Priests supposed to have been sole kings in Egypt
for ages . • . • • • • • . • • • • • • . • . • . • ~
CHAPTER VH.
The popular theology of the Greeks-Another and more occult theology
-Effect of the jlOCtry of Homer on the spirits of his count!')'men-lits
noble maxirns-Priestcraft compelled to adopt a nice pohcy by the
free spirit of tbe Greeks; yet bloody and licentious rites introduced,
aud the people effectually enslaved by means of festivals, games,
sacrifices, oracles, augury, and mysteries-'fhe immense influence of
oracles-Description of tbe mysteries-Description of the Egyptian
dark_ness with respect to them-Taliesin's alhmons to them-Pnestly
avar1ce • • • . • • . . • . • . . • • . . • . • • 36
CHAPTER VIII.
INDIA. Priestcraft in its boldest aspect-Doctrines, sacrifices, and li-
centious rites-Women of the temple-Immense wealth accumulated
by the Brahmins--ileized by the Arabians-Mabmoud of Gazna.- V
h1s feast at Canaugha-bis adventure at the temple of Sumnaut-
Eternal slavery stamped by the Brahmins on tbe Hindooa by the in-
stitution of castes-Inviolable sanctity and immunities of tlie Brab-
mins-the Soodera-the Chandelahs-Remarks • . • • . • • 49
CHAPTER IX.
THE HEBREWS. Com11arison of the old man of the sea and the old man
of the church-The Hebrew priesthood the only one ever divinely
ordained, yet evil in its tendency, a01;! fatal to the nation-began in
Aaron, in dastardly equivocation-showed itself in tbe sons of l':li, in
avarice and lewdnes~t-and finally crucified Christ . • • • . • 61
CHAPTER X.
PoPERY. Christ and Christianity-the latter speedily corrupted-Acta
by which the papal church seized on power • • • • . . • • . 6!
oigit<Zed by Coogle
CONTENTS. xi
CHAPTER XI.
PAGE
PoPERY CONTINUED, Stl'llggles o( the popes for power-The emperors
favour them on account of their inllut'nce with the people-Scan-
dalous transactions between them and the French monarchs-Pepin
and Charlemagne-Gregory VII., the notorious Hildebrand, asserts
absolute power over kings-his intercourse with the Countess Ma-
tilda-claims the right of installing bishops-Further enormities of
the popes, and contests with the: monarclis of EW'ope for supreme
power-Thi• example followed by the bishops and clergy, who be-
come dukes and llObles-Evil iu11.uence of councila. • . . . . • 71
CHAPTER XII.
Establishment of monkery-Numbers and enormities of the monks-
are the spies and champions of popery-their quarrels-Strange his-
tory of Jetzer-Frauds-some gross ones practised in England-
Maid of Kent-Pilgrimage of grace-Forgery of the Decretals-lnfi-
nite modes of enslaving the popular mind-Relics, pilgrimages, cru-
sades, festivals, confessions, purgatory, pardons, mass, excommunica-
tions, Inquisitions, etc.-Treatment of learned men • • • . . . 82
CHAPTER XIII.
PoPISH ARROGANCE. The pope proclaims himselflord of the universe
-his treatment of Dandolo, of Frederic Barbarossa, and of Henry
IV.-sets UJl and dethrones kings-Imitated by the clergy-Thomas
aBecket-King John's humiliation-Wycliffe and the early English
martyrs . . • • • • . . • . • • • • • • • • • . . 91
CHAPTER XIV.
PAPAL ATROCITIES. Galileo-War of extermination waged by the
pope in Provence-Extinction of the Troubadours--Noble conduct
of the young co14Dt of Beziers-Rise of the Inquisition-Bloody per-
·secutions of the Vaudo.is-,-Risc of Loyola, and institution and ~rowth
of the Jesuit order-War for the extermination of protestantJsm in
Germany-The Unknown Student-Horrorsofthe Thirty Years'War
-Storming of Magdeburg-Protestantism utterly rooted out of Bohe-
mia by Ferdinand H.-Atrocities of Alva in the Netherlands-Dread-
ful war&ai(Rinst the Huguenots in France-Massacre of St. Bartholo-
mew-All Europe drenched in blood by the papists . • • • • . 109
CHAPTER XV.
JESUITS AND INQUISITORS. Pernicious doctrines of the Jesuits--Hudi-
bras'sexposition ofsuchdoc.trines-Loyola, theirfounder, sets UJ.l, under
the name of General, another sort of rope-The IJUCcess of hiS plans
-General character and progress o the Jesuits--their mercantile
concerns-their conduct in China-in Paraguay-in the European
countries--attempts on the lives of Queen Elizabeth and James I.-
their murder of Henry Ill. and Henry IV. of France-Tbe Inquisi-
tion-introduced into most catholic countries, but permanent in Spain
-The atrocities of the Spanish Inquisition against the Jews, Moors,
oigit<Zed by Coogle
xii CONTENTS.
PAGa
and Lutherans-Exeessive power of the Inquisitors-Cromwell's
threat-Limborch's account of the proceedings of the Inquisition-
'l'ortures-Auto-da-fe described by Ur. Geddes-Supprea1on of the
1~quisiti<?n by Napoleon-its restora~ion by Ferdinand-Preaent alate
of cathobe countnes . • • • • · • . • • , • • • • , • • 123
CHAPTER XVI.
CoNCLUDING REMARKS oN ·THB Roxtsa CHuRcH. ITs REAL CHA-
RACTER, AND EFFECTS ON THE WORLD, PAST AND PRESENT. The
true liberty of the gospel never yet enjoyed-Popery a l{reat trading
speculation-Assumes voluntarily all the marks of antlj!hrist-Sets
itself above all kin~, and gives away all newly-\liscovered parts of the
world-Debases th'! public mind by superstitions, and debauches
public morals-Mr. Macaulay's idea of Romanism-David Hume's
opinion-Infallibility and unity of the church made ridiculous by rival
popes-The scandalous lives and atrocities of those popea-They
overrun Europe with monks and collectorsofmoney-Theirenormous
levies-The hcentiousness poured with this wealth into Rome-Alex-
ander VI., Cmsar, and Lucretia Borgia-The real causes ofthe endur-
ance of popery stated in refutation of Mr. Macaulay's opinions-Truth,
and not error, ·eternal-The persecuting spirit bequeathed by popery
to protestantism-'l'he same spirit of imposture and ·persecution still
existing in popery,
-The case of the priest Ronge • . • . . • . 138
CHAPTER XVII.
•
ENGLISH CHURCH. Unfortunate circumstances under which the Re-
formation began in England-Regal powerfatal to religion-Arbitrary
conduct of the Tudors favoured by the corruption of the clergy-Pomp
ofCardinal Wolsey-Masses for Henry'uoul-Inquisition establishe<l
in England, under the names of the Star Chamber and High Commis-
sion Court-Popish bias of Elizabeth-her completion or-the liturgy
-Des11otism of the Stuarts-their persecutions in England and Scot-
land-The arbitrary spirit of Laud conducts himself and Charles I. to
the block-Laud's fondness for popish mummery-His singu)ar con-
secration of St. Catherine's church-Heterogeneous t¥teriala of the
English church, and consequent sehisms • • • • • • • • • . 150
CHAPTER XVIII.
A CHAPTER or PERSECUTIONS, Henry VIII.'• murders-Passes the
Bloody Statute, forbidding workmen and women to read the Bible in
Engli8h, on pain of death-Passes the Act of Supremacy-Syco-
phancy of the bishops-Fisher, of Rochester, an exception-lncon.
aistency and cruelty of Sir Thomas More-The Bishop's Book sub-
scribed by Gardiner, Bonner, etc.-lj~noraot monks mllde parsons-
Curious complaint of starvation on ten dishes, by the monks of St.
Swithin'a-A jolly abbot's confeuion-The martyrs of Henry Vlll.'s
reign-Edward VI. burns Joan .Bocher and Van Paris-Hoopet per·
secuted for disliking the popish rob-Martyrs of Mary's reign-
Elizabeth attempts reconciliation with the pope-Her attempts to
crush the Reformation-Dean Colet's candid description of the state
of the church-Elizabeth compela men to be bishops aga,inat their
conscien~~s-Persecuted bitterlv all who do not conform-Low state
of religion and"learoing-Tbe "queen e:otacts pasaivo obedience from
,g, Jb,Google
CONTENTS. xiii
PAO&
both parliament and biahops-Curions instances-Star Chamber
and High Commiaaion prosecutions-of Mr. Cartwright-An au-
thor, publisher, and printer, have each their right hand chopped oft",
for a pamphlet touching the queen's courtship-Other pun10bmenta
-Bisliop of London's logic-Prisons full of nonconformists; and
execution of several- The people flee abroad from religious ty-
ranny-Marty"' in this reign-Jam811 I. a weathercock in the bands
of the bishops-they wheeale and flatter him into persecution and
humin~ of heretics-his attempts in Scotland-Charles I.-his fatal
educauon-:-his fatal coadjutor, Laud-his fatal journey to compel the
Scots to receive EpisCOJ;lacy-his hatred of bishops that were not ty-
rants-Horrible mutilat!on of Dr. Leighton-his account of bia suf-
feriogs-1\tutilation, ruin, and imprisonment of Prynne, Baatwick,
and Burton-Persecution o{ the bishop of Lincoln and Mr. Osbal-
deston-Riae of the Society of Friends-Fox and his contemporaries
-their writings and sufl'ertngs for religious freedom-their mectiug-
hou.es pulled down-themselves cruelly abused-enormou• fines le-
vied on them-amount taken from them for church rates, etc.-made
the prey of informers-vast numbers imprisoned-many perish-some
banished, and sold for slaves-~avated tithe cases-Summary of
the sufFerings of the nonconformats after the Re•toration-Hopeless
nature of state religion-State of the clergy • • • • . • • . . 164
CHAPTER XIX.
ENGLISH CHURCH-THE BLATANT BEAST MUZZLED, BUT STILL IUS·
CHIBvous. Muzzled b7 the Toleration Act-William Ill. puta in
liberal biabo_ps-The:r stmplify and improve the liturgy-Outcriea of
the biJrotl-The usefUlness of bigotry-Unreformable nature of a state
church-The policy of the English church more absurd than that of
Rome-Queen Anne gives the first-fruits and tenths-The church
again in daoger-Dr. Sacheverel-Bill to prohibit dissenters from
keeping schools, teaching, etc.-Dr. Doddrid_ge prosecuted for keep-
ing a school-Persecution of Wesley and Whitefield-Church rate
and tithe persecutions • • • • • 1 • • • • • • • • • • 19rl
CHAPTER XX.
Ministerial plan of Irish Church Reform-See of Derry-Statements
respecting the Irish church-its revenues-a Lay Commission requi-
site to ascertain their real amount-Resultsof atate religion in Ireland
-Miserable farce of its church refot"1n-English churc6-lnjustice of
comJlelling dissenters to support the Establishment-People refuse
the church rates-Tithes-tlieir historv-Unalterable nature of state
religiolli-Curious anecdotes-Milton's opmion of a stillendiary clergy
-Advantages of appropriating church property to national education 2)6
CHAPTER XXI.
PERVERSION OF QUBBN ANNE'S BOUNTY. CoRRUPTION OF THE
UNiVEaSITIES. NUISANCE oF SPIRITUAL CouRTs AND PRIESTLY
FEEs. Clerical income-Salaries of the bishops-exposure of the
abuse of Queen Anne's Bounty fund, by the Edinburgh Review-In-
stances of the continuatio:t of those abuses-Pluralittes, and curates'
stipends-Universities-Rampant conduct of the Oxford scholars to
the, early Quakers-¥ilton's opinion of college education-Ecclesi-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
xiv CONTENTS.
, PAO&
astical courta-Sir David Lindsay's Satire on them-Absurditv of
the popular belief in the consecration of burial grounds-Fees of Con-
secration-Burton Easter roll-Awkward facts respecting family
vaults-Instances of prelatical despotism . • • • • 2?..3
CHAPTER XXII.
PATRONAGE AND ITS EPFECTS. Simony a11d almost all the abuses in
the church flow from it-Strange defence of the church by a clergy-
man-Proofs of the good effect~ of moderate clerical incomes-Scot-
tish clergy-Growing resistance in Scotland to a state clturch-Ger-
man clergy-False notions of gentility lteld by our clergy-Decker's
declaration that Christ was the first true gentlema11-What clergymen
might be-Instances of what they are under the patronage system-
Milton's and Spelman's opinions of surplice fees • • , • • • • 24.)
CHAPTER. XXIII.
EvEnY STATE EsTABLISHMENT A STANDING LIBEL oN CHRISTIAN·
ITY. CoNSTITUTION AND MACHINERY Of' THE ENGLISH CHURCH.
The folly of the clerical and Tory sophism, that there will be no re-
ligion at all without a state religion, amply shown-The testimony of
all history on the subject-christianity only flourishes in freedom-
dwindling in the caresses of mono.rcby,-hut growing in spite of its
hostile power,-as in the Reformation-America, eKhtbiting a trium-
phant example of the benefit of leaving religion to its own resources-
. America bas d~cided this great question, though she herself should
perish to-morrow-The rapid and all-sufficing spread of religion in
the United States-her schools and missions-change of Episcopacy
in America-The principle of voluntary contribution the sole proe-
pering principle, as evidenced by missions and dissent-Relative
proportion of church-goers and dissenters-The bounden duty of
every man, as a Christian, to assist in freeing Christianity-An ex-
amination of the constitution of the church of England, as described
in a rare tract of 1667, with all its officers, revenues, and functions-
What was got by its restoration • . • . . • • . • . . • 255
CHAPTER XXIV.
AN ANALYSIS OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND, AS AT PRESENT :EXIST·
ING. 'l'be king, as its bead, of no use but to plunder it, as it plun·ders
the peol'le-lnstances of tbis head doing as it likes witb its owD-
Tbe archbishops not to be found in Scripture-where they are to be
found-The theory of splendour and grand prizes dissected-Tlie
boasted prizes of the church the same which the devil offered to our
Saviour-Bishops of England, and bishops of Christ-Rev. Sidney
Smith's account of bishops' pro.cticea-Bisbop of Exeter's persecution
ofa curate-Bishop of Lonclon's ditto-Prelacy denounced by the early
reformers, and by many of the later dignitaries-Old Hugh Latimer's
opinion of lord bisbops-Tvndale's testimony-Dr. King's-Black-
wood's Magazine-Deans and chapters an excrescence-No eft'ective
discipline in the church-The parochial clergy independent of both
bishop and people-A dmnken curate, and his odd work in the pulpit
-Our anxiety about all elections, but the election of our preachers-
only assignable reason for t.his anomaly ?f nati?nal character-Patron-
age of government-'of btshops-Petheoat stmony-Hogarth's Asa
oigit<Zed by Coogle
CONTENTS. XV
P.&e•
laden with Preferments-Simony in ~~:eneral-A holy agent's circular
-Scene at a sale of church livings-I:Scott the Commentator's opinion
of dealers in men's soula-Simonista not to be bound by an oath-
Consequences of patronage and simony to the church-~tr. Acaster's
opinion-Blackwood's Magazine, on church abuses-Remarks of
foreigners on our clergy-GOod sort ofmen • . . • . . • • . 266
CHAPTER XXV.
PRIBSTCRAFT IN !aELAND. John Wesley's opinion oflegal Establish·
menta-Ireland treated as a conquered country-Their church pro-
perty taken and given to English priests-Massacres in consequence
-Regium donum, and ita effecta on the Presbyterians~English epi&-
COJlal church in Ireland a dead letter, spite of1ts enormous revenues-
Relative numbers of.protestants and catholics-Costs us a million and
a half yearly, in soldiers and police, to enable- the non-resident Irish
clergy to spend their time abroad-Comparative view of the effects of
state religion in Ireland, and of voluntary reli~ion in America-The
excellent policy of abolishing all our Establishments aa a means of
making religion ilourish . • • • • • • • • • . • . 289
CHAPTER XXVI.
PRIBSTCRAFT IN WALKS. Religion suffered by the English clergy in
Wales to die out of the country-This discovery made by a curate,
Thomas Charles-he is expelled for lnaki11g it known-The clergy
did not Ullderstand Welsh at .all-The .Methodista enter Wales and
evangelize it-Mr. Charles joins them, and establishes achoola-His
appealfor help to introduce Bibles leads to the formation of the BRITISH '. '•(
AND FoREIGN BIBLE SoclBTY:-The Royal Cambrian Society offers
a medal for the best Essay on the Causes of Dissent in Wales-Won
by Mr. Johns-Singular and striking facts from Mr. Johns's Essay-
Enormous engrossment of livings and leases by the English bishops in
Wales for their families and connexions-Particnlars of these-Con·
tnst of a native Welsh curate's duties and salary • • • • . • • 297
CHAPTER XXVII.
PatESTCRAFT IN ScoTLAND. In no country is state religion effective-
This inefficacy generally ascribed to wealthy endowments-but the
Scotch church moderately endowed and yet found abortive-Review
of the treatment of the Covenanters-Or. Chalmen, in face of this
fact, employed to preach up the necessity of state religions-vindi-
cates even the Irish Establishment-Raptd growth of the voluntary
principle in Scotland-Relative numbers of cburch members and dis-
sentera-Relative amount of population, and sittings in churches and
chapels-Causes of aeceasion-Neglected •l'iritualstate of the High-
lands till visited by the dissenters.-Opposi!IOn of landlords and clergy
to poeular instruction-Outcry of the church for more churches-
Singular results of an inquirr into this need-Persecution of seceders
for refaiag to pay Ministera money-Imprisonment of Messrs. Tait,
Chapman, and Russell-Mr. Fyfe's character of the Scottish estab-
lished clergy-Paid in grain, and therefore advocates of the corn
law-Grand contention on the subject of lay patronage-Rupture of
the church, and unparalleled schism • . • , . • . . . . • 306
oigit<Zed by Coogle
xvi CONTENTS,
CHAPTER XXVIII.
PAOB
THE Er<GLISH Cnuacu SINCE THE REFOUI BILL. Futile hopes of
church reform from the Whigs-Surrender of the appropriation clauae
of the Tithe Bill-The country dissenters the first to perceive the
hollowness of Whig promises-Deputation from Nottingham to Earl
Grey, prayiu!!' for separation of church and state-The ilissenters, in
a great meetmg at the City af London Tavern, adopting the same
radical principle, wait on LOrd Althorpe-Considerable good done by
the Ecclesiastical Inquiry commission•- Number of livings pos-
aesserl by different branches of the aristocracy, and different indi-
vidualii-False returns of the value of their livings made b,t the clergy
-these falsified by their subsequent returns under the fithe Com-
mutation Act-Monstrous waste of church property among•t the
bishops- Specimen• of their nepotism:....Act for the alienatioq ot'
church property-SALE OF THE GRKAT TATTENHALL ESTATE IN
LoNDON BY THII DEAN AND cHAPTER OF ST. PAUL's, TO Loan
SouTHAMPTON-The production of a record of such transactions
kept in Lambeth Palace, applied for by Mr. Duncombe, but refused
-Alienation of 0000 acres by the ·bishop of Bath and Wells-Other
cases-The bishops' desire to plunder the deans and chapters-Mr.
Baines exposes the gross misapplication of Queen Anne's Bounty-
Revival of a vindictive and persecuting spirit in the clergy-Imprison-
ment of l\1r. John Chilrls-of John Thorogood-Tithes demanded of
workin~ men-Jeremiah Dodsworth, for refusing, committed to the
house of correction-The dean of Ripon, in possession of church pre-
ferment to the amount of £3550 a year, tithes the milk of his poor
cottage parishioners, and sella up a poor tailor for refusal to pay-
Similar acts-The tithe exploits of the parson of Hackney . . • . 316
CHAPTER XXIX.
Confirmation in the country-its picturesque ·and poetical appearance-
its licentious consequences, arising from the apathy of the clergy, . • 3.~
CHAPTER XXX.
Retrospective view of the effects of priestcraft-The great moral and
politlcallesson it teaches-Concluding remarks • . . . • • . . 3t4 ·
AFTBR·WORDS, ILLUSTIIATIVB OF THE GREAT PRINCIPLE OF THIS
VOLUME-Politics inseparable from Christianity-Defence of men in
trade who indulge in authorship-Consecration-The plundering
church-The poor man's church-The true ..-burch pointed out by a
churchman-The churchman'• argument for enforcing tithes and
church rates, and where it ends-A very useful definition of blasphemy
-A word on behalf of cobblers-State church sophisms used to de-
fraud the state of its property-The Bible tbe great fountain of all
reforms-What we aim at in church reform • . . • . . . • . 3J9
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
CHAPTER I.
GENERAL VIEW OF PB.IESTCB.AFT.
THIS unfortunate world has been blasted in all ages by two evil
principles-Kin~craft and Priestcraft-that, taking advantage of
human necessities, in themselves not hard-salutary, and even
beneficial in their natural o~eration-the necess~ty of civil govern-
ment, and that of spiritual mstruction, have warped them cruelly
from their own pure direction, and converted them into the most
odious, the most terrible and disastrous scourges of our race.
These malign powers have ever begun, as it were, at the wrong
end of things. Kii1gcraft; seizing upon the office of civil govern-
ment, not as the gift of popular choice, and to be filled for the
good of nations, but with the desperate hand of physical violence,
has proclaimed that it was not made for man, but man for it-that
it possessed an inherent and divine right to rule, to trample upon
men's hearts, to violate their dearest rights, to scatter their limbs
and their blood at its pleasure upon the earth; and, in return for·
its atrocities, to be worshipped on bended knee, and hailed as a
god. Its horrors are on the face of every nation ; its annals are
written in gore in all civilized climes; and, where pen never was
known, it lias scored its terrors in the hearts of millions, and left
its traces in deserts of everlasting desolation, and in the ferocious
spirits of abused and brutalized hordes. What is all the history
of this wretched planet but a mass of its bloody wrath and detest-
able oppressions, whereby it has converted earth into a hell ; men
into the worst of demons ; and has turned the human mind from
its natural pursuit of knowledge, and virtue, and social happiness,
into a career of blind ra~, bitter and foolish prejudices ; an en-
tailment of awful and cnnie-creating ignorance; and has held the
universal soul of man in the blackest and most pitiable of bond-
age? Countless are its historians ; we need not add one more to
the unavailing catalogue: but, of .
That sister-pest, congregator of slaves
Into the shadow of its pinions wide,
B
oigit<Zed by Coogle
2 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
I do not know that there has been one man who has devoted him-
self solely and completely to the task of tracing its course of
demoniacal devastation. Many of its fiendish arts and exploits,
undoubtedly, are embodied in what is called ecclesiastical history;
many are presented to us in the chronicles of kingcraft; for the
two evil powers have ever been intimately united in their labours.
They have mutually and lovingly supported each other; .lrnowing
that individually they are "weak as stubble," yet, conjointly,
Can bind
Into a mass irrefragably firm
The axes and the rods which awe mankind.
Thus, through this pestilential influence, we must admit that
too much of its evil nature has )>een forced on our obServation in-
cidentally ; but no one clear and complete picture of it has been
presented to our view. It shall now be my task to supply to the
world this singular desideratum. It shall be my task to show,
that priestcraft in all ages and ail nations has been the same; that
its nature is one, and that nature essentially evil; that its object
is self-gratification and self-aggrandizement ; the means it uses-
the basest frauds, the most shameless delusious, practised on the
popular mind for the acquisition of power; and that power once
81lmed, the m<>st fierce and bloody exercise of it, in order to render
It at once awful and perpetual. I shall show, that nothing is so
servilely mean in weakness, so daring in assumption, so arrogant
in command,-earth, heaven, the very throne and existence of
God himself being used but as the tools of its designs, and appealed
to with horrible impudence in the most shameless of 1ts lies.
That, professing itself merciful, nothing on this earth, which is
by no means wanting in scenes of terror, has ever exhibited itself
in shapes of equal cruelty-cruelty, cold, selfish, and impassable;
that, claiming sanctity as its peculiar attribute, nothing has been
so grossly debauched and licentious; that, assuming the mien of
humility, nothing is so impiously proud, so offensively insolent;
that, proclaimin~ to others the utter vanity of worldly ~ods, its
cupidity is insatiable-of worldly honorirs, its ambition 18 bound-
less; that, affecting peace and purity, it has perpetrated the most
savage wars, ay, in the very name of Heaven, and spread far and
wide the contagion of sensuality ; that, in Europe, usurping the
chair of knowledge, the office of promulgating the doctnnes of a
religion whose very nature overflows with freedom, and love, and
liberal enlightenment, it has locked up the human mind for more
than a thousand years in the dens of ignorance ; mocked it with
the vilest baubles, the most imbecile legends ; made it a prey to all
the restless and savage passions of an uncultured and daily irri-
tated soul; robbed it of the highest joys of earth or heaven-those
of the exercise of a perfected intellect and a benevolent spirit; and
finally, by- its tyrannies, its childish puerilities, its inane pomps
and most ludicrous dogmas, overwhelmed the middle ages with
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 3
the horrors of an iron bigotry, and the modem world with the
tenfold horrors of infidel heartlessness and the wars of atheism.
This is a mighty and an awful charge. Alas ! the annals of all
people are but too affiuent in proofs of its justice. I shall prove
this through the most popular histories, that the genersl reader
may, if he please, easily refer to them, and be satisfied of the cor-
rectness of my statements. While I proceed, however, to draw
these proofs from the most accessible works, I shall carefully war
alone with the principle, not with individual men. The very
worst systems have often involved in their blind intricacies the
best of men: and in some of those which it will be my duty,·as
a man, to denounce, there have been, and there are at the present
moment, numbers of aincere and· excellent beings, who are an
honour and a blessing to their race.
B 2
,g, Jb,Google
4
CHAPTER II.
ORIGIN OF PAGANISM.
PRJ£STCRAFT and kingcraft began at pretty much the same time,
and that at an early age of the world, to exercise their baneful
influence over it. Whether they existed, and if so, what they did,
in the antediluvian world, we know not, and it concerns us little:
but immediatelr after the flood, they became conspicuous. Nim-
rod is usually supposed to be the first monarch; the first man who,
not satisfied with the mild patriarchal rule over his brethren, is
believ:ed to have collected armies, dispossessed the peaceful chil-
dren of Shem of part of their territories by violence, and swayed
aU whom he could by the terrors of overwhelming force. Priest-
craft, it is evident, by many indubitable signs, was busily at work
at the same moment. Certain common principles running through
idolatrous worship in every known part of the globe, have con-
vinced the most acute and industrious antiquarians, that every
pagan worshiJ,J in the world has the same origin; and that origin
could have comcided only with some early period, when the whole
human family was together in one place. This fact, now that
countries, their habits and opinions, have been so extensively
examined, would have led learned men of the present day, had
not the Bible been in our possession, to the confident conclusion
that mankind had, at first, but one source, and. one place of
abode : that their religious opinions had been at that time uniform :
and that, dispersing from that point of original residence, they
had carried. these opinions into all regions of the earth, where,
through the progress of ages, they had received many modifica-
tions, been variously darkened and disfilfllled, but not to such an
extent as to extintruish those great leading features which mark
them as the offspnng of one primeval parent. But the Bible not
only shows that such was the origin of the various human fami-
lies, not only shows the time when they dwelt in one place, when
and how they were thence dispersed, but also furnishes us with a
certain key to the whole theory of universal paganism.
We see at once, that every system of heathen mythology had its
origin in the corruption of patriarchal worship before the dis-
persion at Babel. There the whole family of man was collected
m the descendants of Noah's three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japhet;
and thence, at that time, they were scattered abroad by the hand
of God over the world. Japhet colonized the whole of Europe;
all those northern regions called Tartary and Siberia; and, in
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 5
process of time, by the easy passage of Behring's Straits, the entire
continent of America. His son Gomer seems clearly to have been
the father of those who were originally called Gomerians; and by
slight variations, were aftel'wards termed Comarians, Cimmerians,
Cymbri, Cumbri, Cambri, and Umbri; and, in later years, Celts,
Gauls, and Gaels. These extended themselves over the regions
north of Armenia and Bactriana; thence over nearly all Europe,
and first planted Britain and Ireland. Magog, Tubal, and Mesech,
as we learn from Ezekiel, dwelt far to the north of Judea, and be-
came the ancestors of the great Sclavonic or Sarmatian families;
the name of Magog still existing in the appellations of Mogli,
Mon~IIs, and Mongolians; those of Tubal and Mesech, in To-
bolski, Moschici, and Moscow and Moscovites: Madai was father
of the Medes, and Javan of the original inhabitants of\ Greece,
where we may trace the names of his sons Elishah, Tarshish, Kit-
urn, and Dodanim, in Elis, Tarsus, Cittium, and DodQna. .
· The posterity of Shem were confined to southern Asia; found-·
ing by his sons Elam, or Persia, Ashur, or Assyria, a province of
Iran, or great Assyrian empire of Nimrod, whose son Cush ap-
pears to have subdued these descendants of Shem. Arphaxad
became the father of the Hebrews and other kindred nations ; his
descendant Peleg founded Babylonia; and Joktan, stretching far
towards the east, probably became the father of the Hindoos.
Ophir, one of the sons of Joktan, is often mentioned in Scripture
as dwelling in a land of gold, to which voyages were made by ships·
issuing from the Red Sea, and sailing eastward; ·but Elam and
Cush occupied the whole sea-coast of 'Persia, as far as the Indus.
This, therefore, ·~rings us to the great penillt!ular of.Hindostan· for.
the seat of Ophir. Lud, the fourth son· of Shem, IS presumed to
be the founder of Lydia; and Aram, the fifth, the father of Meso-
potamia and Syria. ·
Ham was at first mixed with Shem throughout southern Asia,
and became the sole occupant of Africa. Of his sons, Cush ·be-
eame the founder of Iran, or central Asia, the great Assyrian
empire, 'and ·the progenitor of all those ·called Cushim, CushiiS,
Cuths,·Goths, Scyths, Scuths, or Scots. Mizraim peopled Egypt;
Phut, the western frontier of Egypt, and thence, passing west
and south, spread over the greater part of Africa; and Canaan,
it is well known, peopled the tract afterwards inhabited by the
Is:aelites.
· Thus, it is said,.was the world peopled; and that it was thus
peopled, we learn not only from Moses, but from profane writers;
and find both accounts confirmed by abundant evidence in the
manners, traditions, lan1r1age, and occupance of the different races
at the present day. Sir William Jones found only three great
original languages to exist-Arabic, Sclavonic, and Sanscrit: and
these three all issue from one point, central Asia, whence, by con-
sent of the most ancient records arid tradition& of the great
primeval nations, their original ancestors spread.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
6 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
But before they were thus scattered, they had corrupted the re-
ligious doctrines they had received from their great progenitor,
Noah; or rather, had set them aside, in order to deify NoSh and
his three sons, whom they had come to regard as a re-appearance
of Adam and his three sons, Cain, Abel, and Seth. The singular
coincidence of circumstances between Adam and Noah forced
this upon their imaginations. Adam, the first man, and father of
the first world,-and Noah, the first man, and father of the second
world, had each three sons conspicuous in history ; and of these
three, one in each case was a bad one-Cain and Ham. Led by
this, to consider the second family but an avater of the first, they
regarded them as immortal, and worship~ them. Hence we have
in all pagan mythologies a triad of princ1pal gods. In the Greek-
Jupite~, Neptune, and ~luto; i~ ~he Hmdoo-Brahma, Vishnu,
and S1va; m the·Ej:lYPtian'--Osms, Horus, and Typhon; one of
whom, in each case, 18 a deity of a dark nature, like Cain and Ham.
The Persians had their Ormuzd, Mithras, and Ahrinlan ; the Sy-
rians, their Monimus, Aziz, and Ares; the Canaanites, their Baal-
Shalisha, or self-triplicated Baal; the Goths, their Odin, Vile, and
Ve, who are described as the three sons of the mysterious cow, a
symbol of the ark ; the Jakuthi Tartars, their Artugon, Schugo-
teugon, and Tangara, the last, even in name, the Tanga.-tanga of
the Peruvians : for this singular fact stops not with the great
primitive nations; it extends itself to all others, even to those dis-
covered in modern times. Like China and Japan, the Peruvians
were found, on .the discovery of America, to have their triads,
Apomti, Churunti, and Intiquoaqui; or the father-sun, the brother-
sun, and the son-sun. The Mexicans had also their Mexitli.
Tlaloc, and Tezcallipuca; the last, the god of repentance. The
Vir~njans, Iroquois, and various nations of North-American
Indians, held similar notions. The New Zealanders believe that
three gods made.the first man, and the first woman from the man's
rib ; and their general term for bone is Eve. The Otaheitans had
a similar idea.
Thus, far and wide, to the very hidden ends of the earth, spread
this notion of a triad: and hence, in the second century, it found
its way, through Justin Martyr into the Christian church.
The vost-diluvians likewise held the Ark in the most sacred
veneration. It was that into which their great father and all living
things had entered and floated away safely over the destroying
waters. It was the type of the earth into which Adam had en-
tered by death; and, as they· supposed, re-appeared in Noah.
Hence, an ark is to be found in nearly every system of pagan
worship. After it, were fashioned the most ancient temples. It
was borne in the most religious processions of Osiris, Adonis,
Bacchus, Ceres, and amongst the Druids : and has been found, to
the astonishment of discoverers and missionaries, amongst the
Mexicans, the North-American Indians, and the South-sea
Islanders.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIBSTCRAFT IN ALL AGl!S, 7
Hence, also, the doctrine of a succession of worlds, from the
supposed re-appearance of Adam and his three sons, in Noah and
his three sons, which has expanded itself into the great system of
transmigrations and avaters of the Hindoos. Hence, also, the
traditions of a universal deluge to be found amongst all the an-
cient nations ; amongst the wild tribes of America; amongst the
Hindoos in the east, and the Celts in the west. Hence, the close
conne.xion of lakes with heathen temples; and hence, lastlr, the
ancient mysteries, which were but a symbolical representation of
entering the ark, or great cave of death and life; which, as the old
world was purified by the flood, was supposed to purify and confer
a new life on those who passed through those .mysteries, which
were celebrated with striking similarity in Greece, India, Egypt,
and amongst the Druids in these islands. These, and many ottier
. general features of paganism-for abundant illustration of which I
refer my reader to the learned works of Calmet, Br)'ant, Faber, and
Spencer, De Legibus Ritualibus Hebrreorum-sufficiently testify
to the common origin of all heathen srstems of worship; and we
shall presently fi'nd how amply the pnests of all ages and all the
Gentile nations, have laid liold on these rich materials, and con-
verted them into exuberant sources of wealth, and power, and
honour to themselves, and of terror, deception, and degradation to
their victims-the people.
It may, p«;rha~s, be said that they themselves were but the slaves
of superstition, m common with those they ta~ht; and that it
would be unfair to charge them with the wilful misleading of their
auditors, when they themselves were blinded by the comm&n delu-
sions of their times and countries. But we must recollect, that
though the people were taught by them to believe, and could not,
in dark times, easily escape the influence of their doctrines and
practices, studiously adapted to dazzle and deceive the senses, yet
1t was impossible for the priests to enter upon their office, without
discovering that those terrors were fictitious,-without findin~ that
they were called upon to maintain a series of utter fallacies. The
peoJ>le might listen to oracles, uttered amid a multitude of im-
posmg pageants and awful solemnities, in the sacred gloom of
temples and groves; and might really believe that a god spoke.
But where were the priests? Behind these scenes !-andmust soon
have found that, instead of the inspiration of a present god, they
themselves were the actors ofthe vilestimpositions; which, through
the temptations of power, and fame, and wealth, they became the
willing means of fixing on their countrymen.
When did any one, in any nation, on discovering that he had
entered an order of impostors, renounce their connexion, and
abandon his base calling? Never !-the spirit of priestcraft was
too subtly potent for him. He either acquiesced readily in mea-
sures, which were, to him, pregnant \\ith honour, ease, and abund-
ance; or saw that instant destruction awaited him, from the wily
and merciless spirit of priestcraft, if he gave but a symptom of ab-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
8 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
juring, or disclosing its arcana of gainful deceit. As the entrance
of the Adytus of the mysteries, so the vestibule of the priestly-
office was probably guarded by naked swords, and oaths full of
destruction to the backslider. Be that as it may, there is not a.
fact on the face of history more conspicuous than this-that no
order of men has ever clung to the service of its caste, or has ful-
filled its purposes, however desperate, or infamously cruel they
might be, witb the same fiery and untlinching zeal as priests. ·
oigit<Zed by Coogle
9
CHAPTER III.
MYTHOLOGY OF THE ASSYRIANS AND SYRIANS.
W.s have now seen how idolatry was·diffused over the globe, form-
ing a :field of no less amplitude than the world itself for priestcraft
to exercise itself in ; full of ignorance, and full of systems prolific
in all the wild creation of superstition, so auspicious to priestly de-
sires; and we shall soon see that sucl:t advantages were not neg-
lected by that evil J;lOWer, but were eagerly laid hold on, and by its
indefatigable actiVIty the earth was speedily overrun by every
curse, and horror, and pollution, that can :fix itself on unfortunate
humanity.
We shall take a hasty survey of its progress in the most ancient
nations, Syria and Assyria; we shall then pass rapidly into Scan-
dinavia and the British Isles, following tlie ~ourse of Druidism ;
and, ~tho'!t regard to the: order of time, g~ance at the confirm:'-tion
. of this anc1ent state of thin~, by that which was found to eXIst at
the time of their discovery m America and the isles of the Indian
Ocean. By this plan we shall leave our course clear in a direct
progress through ancient Egypt, Greece, and Hindostan; where
we shall leave the review of pnestcraft as it existed in paFism,
and contemplate its aspect in Judea, under the direct ordmances
of God; then, under Christianity, in the Romish church; and,
finally, in the ecclesiastical establishment of our own country.
The Bible furnishes us with abundant evidences of what idolatry
was in Syria, and the neighbouring kingdoms of Philistia, Moab,
Amalek, and others. The principal go<ls of these countries were
Baal, Moloch, and Chemosh: but the number of false gods alto-
gether was extremelr numerous. The more gods the more shrines,
the more priestly gams and influence. The principal character-
istics of the whole idol dynasty, were horrible cruelty and ross
licentiousness. Chemosh was the god of the Moabites; an his
rites were particularly distinguished by their lasci~ousness. In
Syria, those of Ashtaroth, or Astarte, the queen of heaven, were
similar ; but Baal and Moloch were the very impersonations of
savage atrocity. Moloch is represented as a huge metallic image
in a sitting posture, which, on days of sacrifice, was heated to red-
ness in a pit of :fire, and young children were brought as victims,
and placed in his extended and burning arms, where they were
consumed in the most exquisite agonies, while the devilish band of
priests and their retainers drowned their liercing cries with the
stunning din of drums, cymbals, hours, an trumpets.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
10 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
Baal, however, was the _{lrincipal idol of all those countries; and
-associated as he was in tdea with the suit, as was the chief god
of all pagan nllti~ns, from a.fanciful process o~ imagination, treated
of·at large by wnters on this subject, but whtch we need not trace
here-to him, on almost every lofty eminence, fires were kindled
at stated periods, and human sacrifices performed, in the midst of
unbounded and infernal glee. The Beal-fires, or Baal-fires, kin-
dled on the mountains of Scotland and Ireland by the peasantry
at Beltane, or May Eve, are the last remains of this most ancient
and universal superstition.
When we recollect over what an immense extent of country, in
fact over the greater part of the habitable ~rlobe, this idolatry ex-
tended ; and the number of ages, from the time of the flood to the
time of Christianity, a period of upwards of two thonsand years;
what a terrible sum of miseries must have been inflicted on our
race by the diabolical ~al and cupidity of pagan priestcraft. From
the temple of Buddh and Jaggemath in India, to the stony circles
of Druidism in Europe; from the snowy wastes of Siberia and
Scandinavia in the north, to the most southern lands in Africa
and America, the fires of these bloody deities rejoiced the demoniac
priests, and consumed the people.
Mr. Bryant contends, and his theory seems both supported by
strong facts, and is generally admitted by intelligent historians1
that the kindred of Nimrod, the tribe of Cush, a haughty and
dominant race, disdaining labour or commerce, disdaining all prq- '
fessions but those of arms or the priesthood, followed the progress
of diffusive population into all regions, and either subduing the
original settlers or insinuating themselves amongst them, as they
had been their ~neral corrupters, became their generals, priests,
and kings. ThlS theory certainly agrees well with what the re-
searches of late years have made known of the great tribes of emi-
gration from the east; agrees well with what we know of the
Gothic or Cuthic nations, and with the establishment of the des-
potism of the feudal system. Castes, which remain so unbroken
to the present day in Hindostan, and on which we shall have pre-
sently to remark, prevailed, in a greater or less degree, all over the
world. In Egypt, Herodotus shows it to have been the ease.
None but kings and priests were noble. In Greece, they had thei,r
race of demi-£i>ds, or descendants of the ancient Pelasgi, or Cuth-
ites, from wliom their priests, augurs, and kings were chosen.
Such was the case amongst the Gauls and Britons. The Druids
were a sacred and noble caste, who disdained to work or mingle
.with the people; an insult to one of whom was instant death, as
it was with the Brahmins at a former day : and the strong spirit of
caste throughout all the feudal nations of Europe, not only all
past history, but present circumstances, show us. Be the origin
of dominant castes what it may, nothing is more conspicuous than
their existence, and the evils, .scorns, and ignomimous burdens
they have heaped upon the people.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES. 11
Of the nincorous activity of the heathen priesthood to proselyte
and extend their influence on all sides, the Jewish history is full.
Scarcely had the Hebrews escaped from Egypt and entered the
desert, when the Moabites came amongst them with their harlot
daughters, carrying beneath their robes the images of Chemosh,
and scattering among the frail Jews the mingled fires of sensual
and idolatrous passion. Through the whole period of the ad-
ministration of the Ju~, they were indefatigably at work, and
brought upon the backsliding Hebrews the vengeance of their own
living and indignJillt God. The wise and magnificent Solomon
they plucked from the height of his peerless knowledge and glory,
and rendered the reigns of his successors continual scenes of
reproof 'll.lld desolation, till the whole nation was swept into
~ptivicy. .
There cannot be a more expressive instance of the darin~ hardi-
hood and fanatic zeal of the priests of Baal, nor a finer one of their
defeat and punishment, than that given on Mount Carmel in the
days of Ahab and Jezebel. Those pestilential wretches had actu-
ally, under royal patronage, corrupted or destroyed the whole
leszitimate· priesthood. There were but left seven thousand, even
o( the people, " who had not bowed the knee to Baal, nor kissed
him." They were in pursuit of the noble prophet himself, when
he came forth and challenged them to.an actual proof of the ex-
istence of their respective deities.
It may be argued, that the readiness with which they accepted
this challenge, is sufficient evidence that they themselves were
believers in the existence of their deicy; and it may be that some
were stupid or fanatic enough to be so ; bnt it is far likelier that,
possessing royal patronage, and a whol.e host of base and besotted
supporters, they hoped to entrap the solitary man : that, knowing
the emptiness of their own pretensions, they were of opinion that
Elijah's were equallr empcy, and therefore came boldly to a con-
test, in which, if neither parcy won, an individual against a. host
would easily be sacrificed to priestly fury and popular credulity.
Be it as it might, nothing is more certain than that the ferocious
zeal of priestcraft, for its own objects, has been in all ages so auda-
cious as not to fear rushing, in the face of the world, on the most
desperate attempts. This event was most illustrative of this blind
sacerdotal hardihood; for, notwithstanding their signal exposure
and destruction, yet in every successive ~ of the Hebrew kin~­
dom, the pagan priests ceased not to solicit the Israelites to their
ruin. The Hebrew kings, ever and anon, awoke from the trance
of delusion into which they drew them, and executed ample venge-
ance ; hewing down their groves, and overturning their altars ;
but it was not till the general captivity,-till Judah was humbled
for a time, before Babylon, and Israel was wholly and for everdriven
from the land, that the pest was annihilated.
The mythology of Assyria was of much the same nature ;~Baal,
however, being there held in far higher honour than all other gods;
oigit<Zed by Coogle
12 .PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
for the priesthood, according to the servile cunning of its policy,
had flattered the royal house by deifying its founder, and identify-
ing him with the sun by the name of Belus, or Bel. What I have
a.lieady said of this god will suffice ; and I shall only state, that
as the priesthood there had shown its usual character of adulation
to the high, and cruelty to the low, so it displayed almost more
than its customary lewdness. Herodotus tells us, that " at the
top of the tower of Belus, in a chapel, is placed a couch, ma!Plifi-
cently adorned; and near it a table of solid gold ; but there 1s no
statue in the place. No mali is suffered to sleep here, but a female
occupies the apartment, whom the Chaldean priests affirm their
deity selects from the whole nation as the object of his pleasures.
They declare that their deity enters this apartment by night, and
reposes upon this couch. A similar assertion is made by the
Egyptians of.Thebes ; for in. th~ interior part of the temple of the
Thebeau Jup1ter, a woman, m like manner, sleeps. Of these two
women, it is presumed, that neither of them have any communica-
tion with the other sex. In which predicament, the priestess of
the temple of Paterre, in Lycia, is also placed. Here is no regular
oracle ; but whenever a divine communication is expected, the
woman is obliged to pass the preceding night in the temple." That
is, the priests made their god the scape-goat of their own un-
bridled sensuality ; and, under the pretext of providing a sacrifice
ofbeauty to the deity, selected the most lovely woman of the nation
for themselves.
This species of detestable deception seems to have been carried
on to an enormous extent in ancient times. lf we are to believe
all the Grecian stories, and especially the Homeric·ones, of the
origin of their demi-gods, we can only explain them in this man-
ner. A circumstance of the same nature is related by Josephus;
which is curious, because the priests of the temple in that case,
were induced by a young noble to inveigle a married lady, of whom
be had become enamoured, into the temple, under pretence that ·
the ~d had a loving desire of her company; and showed that the
gratlfication, not merely of themselves, but of men in power, by
frauds, however infamous or diabolical, has been always a priestly
practice. ·
But to return to Assyria. The seeds of licentiousness, sown by
their early priests, grew and spread abundantly in after ages.
When the Assyrian was merged in the Baby-lonian empire, the
orgies of the temple of Mylitta, the Babyloman Venus, were in-
famous above all others ; so much so, that every woman, whether
high or low, was bound, by the national practice, to present her-
self before the temple once in her life, and there submit to ft·os-
titute herself with whoever first chose her ; and the price o her
shame was paid into the treasury, to swell the revenues of the
priests. So horrible a fact has been doubted ; but Herodotus
seriously asserts it, and it has been confirmed by other authorities.
That these crafty and voluptuous priests were not amongst those
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRJESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 13
deceived by their own devices, but were solely deceivers, living in
honour and abundance by juggling the people, we need no better
testimony than that ofthe story of Bel and the Dragon. They are
there represented as settingbefore the idol splendid banquets, which
he was asserted to devour in the night ; but Daniel, scattering
sand on the tloor, showed the people in the morning the footsteps
of the priests, their wives and children, who had, as they were re-
Jltl}arly accustomed, tlocked into the temple at night, and helped
ihe stod to despatch his viands. .
Tliough this story is one of those called apocryphal, it is cer-
tainly so far true, that it shows what were the opinions of the wise
at that day, of the. priests, founded, no doubt, on sufficient ob-
servation.
14
CHAPTER IV.
CELTS AND GOTHS.
WITHOUT following minutely the progress of original migration,
from east to west, through the great Scythian deserts, we will now
at once open upon. the human family as it appeared in Europe,
when the Romans began to extend their conquests into the great
forests and wild lands of its north-western regions : and here,
again, we behold with surprise, how exactly the nations had pre-
served those features of Idolatrous superstition which I have be-
fore stated to be universal, and which we have been contemplating
in central Asia. . ·
Part of southern Europe appears to have been peopled by one
great branch of the descendants of JaJ:>het, under the name of
Sclavonians, and to have maintained their settlements against all
future comers : but another great branch, the Gomerians, or Celts,
had been followed by the warlike and domineering Goths, and
had, in some cases, received from them teachers and governors ;
in others, had been totally expelled by them, or lost character,
language, and every thing, in their overwhelming tide. The
northern parts of Britain, Ireland, Wales, Gaul, and some atller
districts, retained the Celtic character; while England, Scandina-
via, Germany, Belgium, and some other tracts, became decidedly
Gothic. Of these facts, the very languages of the respective
countries, at the present day, rematn living proofs. But, whatever
was the name, the language, or the government of the different
parts of Europe, every where its religion was essentially tlle same ;
every where the same Cuthic race of domineering priests. "Every
where," says a sagacious antiquarian, "we find, first, an order of
priests; secondly, an ·order of military nobles; thirdly, a sub-
Jugated multitude; and institutions, the spirit of which ts, that of
thrusting the lower orders from all place and autllority, and sys-
tematically dooming them to an unalterable state of servile depres-
sion." Whoever will examine the system ofthe Druids, as he may
.in Toland's history of tllem, in Borlace's Cornwall, or Davis's
Celtic Mythology, will be perfectly convinced of its identity with
that of Persia, Egypt, and Hindostan. Their triads, their own as-
sumed sanctity of character, their worship of the god Hu, the
Buddhu of the east; their traditions of the flood ; the ark, which
their circular stone temples symbolized; their human sacrifices;
their doctrine of transmigration ; and other abundant character-
istics, arc not to be mistaken. Dr. Borlace was so struck with the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. • 15
perfect resemblance of the Druids to the Per1:>ian Magi and the
Indian Brahmins, that he declared it was impossible to doubt their
identity. Mr. Rowland argues in the same manner with regard
to the Irish Druids, who, as usual, constituted the first of the three
classes into which the community was divided, He feels assured
that they must have been Magi. Lon~, indeed, before our time
Pliny had made the same remark, applymg the very term of Magi
to them.
In Gaul, Cresar found precisely the same state of things-the
same dominant class; and has left so lucid an account of them,
that .~is representation will, ~t !'nee, place before us the actual
condition of both Gaul and Bntain. " Over all Gaul there are only
two orders of men in any degree of l\onour and esteem : for the
common people are little better than slaves ; attempt nothing of
themselves; and have no share in the public deliberations. As
they are generally oppressed with debt, heavy tributes, or the ex-
actions of their superiors, they make themselves vassals to the
great, who exercise over them the same jurisdiction that masters
do over slaves. The two orders of men with whom, as we have
said, all authority and distinctions reside, are the Druids and
nobles. The Druids preside in matters of religion, have the care
of public and private sacrifices, and interpret the will of the gods.
They have the direction and education of the youth, by wnom
they are held in great honour. In almost all controversies, whether
public or private, the decision is left to them ; and if any crime is
committed, any murder perpetrated, if any dispute arises touching
an inheritance, or the limits of adjoining estates, in all such cases
they are supreme judges.. They decree rewards and punishments;
and if any one refuse to submit to their sentence, whether magis-
trate or private man, they interdict him the sacrifices. This is the
greatest punishment that can be inflicted upon the Gauls ; because,
such as are under this prohibition, are considered as impious and
wicked; all men shun them, and decline their conversation.and
fellowship, lest they should suffer from the contagion of their mis-
fortunes. They can neither have recourse to the law for justice,
nor are capable of any public office. The Druids are all under one
chief.. Upon his death, a successor is elected by suffrage; but
sometimes they have recourse to arms before the election can· be
brought to issue. Once a year, they assemble at a consecrated
place in the territories of the Carnutes, whose country is SUJ?posed
to be in the middle of Gaul. Hither such as have any su1ts de-
pending, flock from all parts, and submit implicitly to their decrees.
Their institution is su1>posed to have come originally from Britain;
and even at this day, such as are desirous of being perfect in it,
travel thither ·for instruction. The Druids never go to war; are
exempt from taxes and military service, and enjoy all manner of
immunities. These mighty encouragements induce multitudes of
their own accord to follow that profession, and many are·sent by
their parents. They are taught to repeat a great number of verses
16 · PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
by heart, and often spend twenty years upon this institution; for
it is deemed unlawful to commit their statutes to writing, though
on othet matters, private or public, they use Greek cliaracters.
They seem to have adopted th1s method for two reasons,-to hide
their mysteries from the knowled~ of the vulgar, and to exercise
the memory of their scholars. It 1s one of their principal maxims,
that the soul never dies, but after death, passes from one body to
another. They teach likewise many things relative to th,e stars,
the magnitude of the world and our earth, the nature of things,
and the power and prerogative of the immortal gods.
"The other order of m!!n is the nobles, whose study and occu-
pation is war. Before Cresar's .arrival in Gaul, they were almost
every year at war, offensive ~r defensive; and they judge of the
power and quality of their nobles by the vassals and number of
men they keep in pay. .
. " The whole nation of the Gauls is extremely addicted to super-
stition, whence, in threatening distempers, and the imminent dan-
ger of war, they make no scruple to sacrifice ~en, or engage them-
selves by vow to such sacrifices ; in which case, they- make use of
the ministry of the Druids; for it is a prevalent opmion amongst
them, that nothing but the life of man can atone for the life of
man, insomuch that they have established even public sacrifices
of this kind. Some prepare huge Colossuses of osier twigs, into
which they put men alive, and setting fire to them, those within
expire amongst the flames. They prefer for victims such as have
been convicted of theft, robbery, or other crimes, believing them
the most acceptable to the gods : but when such are wanting, the
innocent are made to suffer.
" The Gauls fancy themselves to be descended from the god
Pluto, which, it seems, is an established tradition amongst the
Druids ; and for this reason they compute time by nights, not by
days. .
"The men have power of life and death over their wives and
families; and when any father of a family of illustrious rank dies,
his relations assemble, and upon the least ground of suspicion,
put even his wives to the torture, like slaves. Their funerals are
magnificent and sumptuous, according to their quality. Every
thing that was dear to the deceased, even animals, are thrown
into the fire; and formerly, such of their slaves and clients as
they loved most, sacrificed themselves at the funeral of their
lords." ·
In this valuable account, the striking resemblance of the Druids
to the Brahmins, must impress every one,-not the least their
-funeral rites, and doctrine of metempsychosis. But there are some
other things equally curious. We have here the BAN,-that tre-
mendous ecclesiastical engine, which the Romish church most pro-
bably borrowed of the.Goths; and which we shall find it hereafter
wielding to such appalling purpose. The tradition of the Druids,
that they are.descended of Pluto; is, too, a most remarkable circum-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT- IN ALL AGES. 17
stance; agreeing so perfectly with the theory of Bryant, that they
were Cutlis, the descendants of Ham, the Pluto of mythology.
Cresar proceeds to give Roman names to Gallic gods. This was
the common practice of the Romans; a fact, which, as it is known
from other sources that the Druids never gave them such names,
only proves that the Romans named them from their obvious attri-
butes; again confirming Bryant's theory,. that however the ethnic
~ be named, they are essentially identical. Cresar also adds,
iliat the Germans differed widely from the Ganls, having no Druids,
and troubling not themselves about sacrifices: but Tacitus, who
is better evidence than Cresar, where the Germans are concerned,
aasures us that they had priests and bards. That "jurisdiction is
vested in the priests ; it is theirs to sit in jud£ment on all offences.
By them delinquents are put in irons, and cliastised with stripes ;
the power of punishing is in no other hands." He add-;, " t.o im-
press on their minds the idea of a tutelar deity, they carry with them
to the field of battle certain images and banners, taken from their
usual depositories, the roves; and that one of these symbols was
a ship-the emblem o Isis." This, from what we now know of
mythologies, is a certain evidence of the eastern origin of their
religion :-the ship being the ark, or ship of the world; and Isis,
the great mother of all things, the earth. He assures us, that they
had also human sacrifices. . ··
The last European country we will now notice, shall be Scan-
dinavia. M. Mallet's most interesting antiquities of those regions
were written before our eastern knowledge was so much enlal¥ed,
and before Mr. Bryant had promulgated his theory of the ongin
of paganism; and, therefore, when we come to open his volumes,
we are prol?ortionably astonished and delighted to find all the
cnrious particulars he has collected of the Scandinavian gods and
reli~ous rites so absolutely confirmatory of that theory. Here,
agam, we have the same gods, under the different names of Odin,
Thor, Loke, with Frigga or Frea, the goddess of the earth, the
great mother. Here, again, we have the same dominant caste ()f
priests reigning amid the same assemblage of horrors and pollution:
The priests,ne says, of these inhuman gods were called Drottes,
a name equivalent to Druids. They were frequently styled pro-
phets, wise.men, divine men. At UJ:>sal, each of the three superior
deities had their respective priests, the principal of whom, to the
number of twelve, presided over the sacrifices, and exercised an
unlimited authority over every thing which seemed to have con-
nexion with religion. The respect shown to them was suitable to
their authority. Sprung, for the most part, from the tSatrUJjamily,
like those of the Jews, they persuaded the people that this family
had God himself for its founder. They often united the priest-
hood and the sovereignty in their own persons, after. the example
of Odin their p!"Ogenitor. 'rhe goddess Frigga was usually served
bv kings' daughters, whom they called proplietesses and goddesses.
These pronouriced oracles, devoted themselves to perpetual vir-
c
oigit<Zed by Coogle
18 '
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
~nity, and kept up the sacred fire in the temple. The power of
mflicting pains and penalties, of striking and binding a criminal,
was vested in the priests alone; and men so haughty that they
thought themselves dishonoured if they did not revenge the slight-
est offence, would tremblingly submit to blows, and even death
itself, from the hand of a pontiff, whom they took for the instru-
ment of an angry deity. In short, the credulity of the people,
and the craft and presumption of the priests, went so far, that these
pretended interpreters of the Divine will, dared even to demand,
m the name of Heaven, the blood of kings themselves, and ob-
tained it! To succeed in this, it was requisite only for them to
avail themselves of those times of calamity, when the people, dis-
tracted with fear and sorrow, laid their minds open to the most
horrid impressions. At these times, while the pnnce was slaugh-
tered at one of the altars of the ~. the others were covered with
the offerings, which were heapedup on all sides for their ministers.
But the general cause which regulated these sacrifices, was a
superstitious opinion, which made the northern nati'Ves regard the
number THREE as sacred, and peculiarly dear to the gods. Thns
every ninth month they renewed this bloody ceremony, which waa
to last nine days, and every day they offered up nine victims, whe-
ther men or animals. But the most solemn sacrifices were those
which were offered at Upsal in Sweden, every ninth year. Then
the kin.g, the senate, and all the principal citizens', were obliged
to appear in.person, and to bring offerings, which were placed in
the great temple. Those who could not come, sent their presents
by others, or paid their value in money to priests, whose business
it was to receive the offerings. Strangers flocked there in crowds
from all parts, and none were excluded except those whose honour
was stained, and especially such as had been accused of cowardice.
Then they chose amongst the captives in time of war, and amongst
the slaves in time of peace, nine persons to be sacrificed. The
choice was partly regulated by the opinion of by-standers, and
partly by lot. The wretches upon whom it fell, were then treated
with such honours by all the assembly; they were so overwhelmed
with caresses for the present, and promises for the life to come,
that they sometimes congratulated themselves on their destiny.
But they did not always sacrifice such mean persons. In great
calamities-in a pressing famine, for example, if the people thought
they had some pretext to impute the cause of it to the king, they
sacrificed him without hesitation, as the highest price they could
pay for the Divine favour. In this manner the first king of Venn-
land was burnt in honour of Odin, to put away a great dearth.
The kings in their tum did not spare the blood of their people;
and many of them even that of their children. Hacon, king of
Norway, offered his son in sacrifice to obtain a victory over his
enemy, Harold. Aune, king of Sweden, devoted to Odin the blood
of his nine sons, to prevail on the god to prolong his life. The
ancient history of th~ north abounds in similar examples.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIES}'CRAFT IN ALL AGES, 19
These abominable sacrifices were accompanied with various
ceremonies. When the victim was chosen, they conducted him
towards the altar, where the sacred fire was kept burning night
and day. It was surrounded by all sorts of iron and brazen vessels.
Among them, one was distinguished by its superior size; in this
they received the blood of their victim. When they offered up
animals, they speedily killed them at the foot of the altar ; then
they opened their entrails and drew auguries from them, as among
the Romans : but when they sacrificed men, those they pitched
upon were laid upon a large stone, and quickly strangledor knocked
on the head. Sometimes they let out the blood, for no presage
was more respected than that which they drew from the greater
or less degree of impetuosity with which the blood gushed out.
The bodies were afterwards burnt, or suspended in a sacred grove
near the temple. Pan of the blood was sprinkled upon the peo-
ple, on the grove, on the idol, altar, benches, and wall of the tem-
ple, within and without.
Sometimes the sacrifices were varied. There was a deep well
!n the neighbourhood of the temple ; the chosen person was
thrown headlong in, commonly in honour of Goya, or the earth.
If it went at once to the bottom, it had proved agreeable to the
goddess; if not, she refused it, and it was hung up in a sacred
forest. Near the temple of UJ?sal there was a grove of this sort,
every tree and every leaf of which was regarded as the most sacred
thing in the world. This, which was named Odin's grove, was full
of the bodies of men and animals which had been sacrificed. The
temple at Upsal was as famous for its oracle~~ as its sacrifices.
There were also ce(ebrated ones in Dalia, a province of Sweden,
in Norway, and Denmark. It should seem that the idols of the
gods themselves delivered the oracles t-iva voce. In an ancient
Icelandic chronicle, we read of one lndred, who went from home
to wait for Thorstein, his enemy. Thorstein, upon his arrival,
went into the temple. In it was a stone, probably a statue, which
he had been accustomed to worship. He prostrated himself before
it, and prayed it to inform him of his destiny. lndred, who stood
without, heard the stone chant forth these verses-" lt ·is for t
last time : it is with feet drawing near to the grave, that tho
come to this place, for it is most certain that before the su eth
the valiant lndred shall make thee feel his hatred."
The people persuaded themselves sometimes that se idols
answered by a gesture, or nod of the head.. Thus, i he history
of Olave Tryggeson, king of' Norway, we see ord, named
Hacon, who enters into atemple, and prostrates elf before an
idol which held in its hand a great bracelet of d. Hacon, adds
the historian, easily conceiving that so long the idol would ~ot
part with the bracelet, it was not disposed reconciled to him,
and having made some fruitless efforts to .lllke the bracelet away,
began to pray afresh, and to offer it pl'!sents; then getting up a
c 2
/
/
20 PIUESTCilAPT IN ALL AGES,
second time, the idol loosed the bracelet, and be went away very
well pleased. .
But they had not only their bloody sacrifices, and their oracles,
but their orgies of licentiousness. These occurred on the occasion
of the feast of Frigga, the goddess of love and pleasure; and at
Uulel, the feast of Thor, in which the licence was carried to such
a pitch as to become merely bacchanalian meetings, where, amidst
shouts, dancing, and indecent gestures, so many unseemly actions
were coJ;niilitted, as to disgust the wiser part of the community.
,g,. Jb,Google
21
CHAPTER V.
NORTHERN INDIANS, MEXICANS, AND PERUVIANS.
WE hal"e just seen that the same baleful sui_>erstitions extended
themselves from the east to the very extremities of Europe ; but
we must now share in the astonishment of the discoverers of
America, to find them equally reigning and rendering miserable
the people there. A new world was found, which had been hidden
from the day of creation to the fifteenth Christian age; yet there,
.through that long lapse of time, it was discovered, the same domi-
nant spirit, and the same terrible system of paganism had been
existing. The learned of Europe, on this great event, were ex-
tremely puzzled for a time, to conceive how and whence this distant
continent had been peopled. The proven proximity of Asia at
Behring's Straits, solved the mystery. But had not this become
apparent, so identj.cal are the superstitions, the traditions, and
practices of the Americans, with those of ancient Asia, that we
might have confidently pronounced them to have come from that
great seminary of the human race.
The North-American Indians, who preserved both most of their
liberty, their simplicity of life and of sentiment, worshi.pping only
the Great Spirit, and refusing to have any image of detty, liaving
in general no priests, yet retained many, and very.clear, traditions
of the primeval world. So striking were these facts, combined
with the Asiatic aspects of the Indians in their better days, before
European oppressions and European vices had wasted and de-
graded them, that the early missionaries and visitants of America,
Adair, Brainerd, Charlevoix, nay, William Penn himself, were
strongly persuaded that they had found the lost ten tribes of Israel
When they saw tltem carrying before them to battle an ark ; saw
tltem celebrating feasts of new moons, and heard them talk of the
times when the angels of God walked upon earth with their an-
cestors ; talk of the two first people ; of tlte two first brothers, one
of whom slew the oilier; oftlieflood, and similar traditionary facts;
it is not wonderful that they should have adopted such a notion,-
not perceiving, as we do now, that these are familiar features of the
Asiatic nations ; and that, though they did not prove them to be
Hebrews, they did, to a certainty, prove them to be Asiatics.
I must here passingly notice one inference, which seems unac-
cmmtably to have escaJled tlte minds of antiquarians, connected
with the peopling of this continent. In the North-American wilds,
22 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
exist strange mounds and foundations of old fortifications, cairns,
or burying-places, in which earthen vessels and other artificial
remains are found, which prove that some people occupied these
forests long before the rresent race of Indians; a people who had
more of the arts of civilized life amongst them than these ever pos-
sessed. In certain caves of Kentucky, mummies have even been
found. Now, connecting these facts with the universal traditions
of the Mexicans and South Americans, that they came originally
from a country far to the north-west, does it not seem'clear enough
that these remains were the traces of the earlier Asiatics who en-
tered America, and who, if the same 88 the Mexicans and Peru-
vians, unquestionably possessed more of civilization and its arts
than the northern tribes ?-that other tribes more savage and war-
like followed them ; and that they theiDSelves gradually sought
fresh settlements, in accordance with their own traditions!' This
simple theory seeiDS to solve the problem which h88 so long pnz-
zled both the European and American antiquarians.
The Natchez, who had advanced far before other tribes in their
civil institutions, worshipped the sun, and maintained, like the
Persians, the perpetual fire, his symbol, in their temrles. They
burnt, on the funeral pile of their chiefs, human victims ; giving
them, according toM. Dumont, large piles of tobacco to stupify.
them, as the Brahmins intoxicate their victims to the same hideous
custom. Ministers were appointed to watch and maintain the
sacred fire : the first function of the great chief, every morning,
was an act of obeisance to the sun; and festivals, at stated periods,
were held in his honour. Amongst the people of Bogota, the sun
and moon were like\\ise the great objects of adoration. Their
system of religion was more reuular and complete, though less
pure than that of the Natchez. 'They had temples, altars, J.>riests,
sacrifices, and that long train of ceremonies whiCh superstitiOn in-
troduces, wherever she has fully established her influence over the
human mind. But the rites of their worship were bloody and
cruel: they offered human victims to their deities, and nearly re-
sembled the Mexicans in the genius of their religion.
To the Mexicans and Peruvians we shall, indeed, principally
confine our observations. These nations had grown to compara-
tive greatness, and assumed a decided form of civil ,POlity, and
many of the rites of what is called civilized life; and m such na-
tions, the combined power of kingcraft and priestcraft has been
always found to be proportionably strong. In those conspicuous
nations there were found all the great features of that superstition
which they had brought with them from Asia, and which, we have
already seen, spread and tyrannized over every quarter of the old
world. They had their triads of ~ods; their worship of the sun;
their worshiP of the evil and vindictive principle; and worship of
serpents. They had the same dominant caste of priests and no-
bles; the same. abject one of the common people; human sac~-
PRIESTCRAIIT IN ALL AGES. 23
fices ; the burning of slaves and dependants on the funeral pile ;
they had the ark ; the doctrine ·of successive worlds ; and the
patriarchal traditions.
In the first place, their castes.-Robertson, on the authority of
Herrera, says,-" In tracing the great lines of the Mexican con-
stitution, an image of feudal policy rises to our view, in its most
rigid form; and we discern, in their distinguishing characters, a
nobility possessing almost independent authority ; a people de-
pressed into the lowest state of dejection; and a king intrusted
with the executive power of the state. Its spirit and principles
seem to have operated in the new world in the same manner as in
the ancient. The jurisdiction of the crown was extremely limited;
all real and etfuctive authority was retained by the nobles. In
order to secure full effect to these constitutional restraints, the
Mexican nobles did not permit the crown to descend by inherit-
ance, but disposed of it by election. The great body of the people
was in a most humiliating state. A considerable number, known
by the name of Mayeques, could not change their place of resi-
dence without permission of the superior to whom they belonged.
They were conveyed, together with the lands on which they were.
settled, from one proprietor to another ; and were bound to culti-
vate the ground, and perform several kinds of servile work. Others
were reduced to the lowest form of subjection, that of domestic
servitude, and felt the utmost rigour of that wretched state. Their
condition was held to be so vile, and their lives deemed of so little
value, that a person who killed one of them was not subjected to
any punishment. Even those considered as freemen were treated
by their haughty lords as bein~ of an inferior species. The no-
bles, possessed of ample temtories, were divided into various
classes, to each of which peculiar titles of honour belonged. The
people, not allowed to wear a dress of the same fasliion, or to
dwell in houses of a form similar to those of the nobles, accosted
th~m with the most submissive reverence. In the presence of
their sovereign they durst not lift their eyes from the ground, or
look him in the face. The nobles themselves, when admitted to
an audience, entered barefooted, in mean garments, and, as slaves,
paid him homage approaching to adoration. The respect due
from inferiors to those above them in rank, was prescribed with
such ceremonious accuracy, that it incorporated with the language,
and influenced its genius and idiom. The style and appellations
used in the intercourse between equals, would have been so unbe-
coming in the mouth of an inferior to one of higher rank, that it
would have been deemed an insult."
What a lively picture of that system of domination in the few,
and slavery in the multitude, which we have seen, or soon shall
see, to have prevailed in all regions; in the feudal lands of Europe;
in India and Egypt! and how perfect is the resemblance, when
we find, as we shall, that at the head of all these were the priests.
who, says Faber, formed a regular hierarchy, and dwelt together
oigit<Zed by Coogle
24 l'RIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
in cloisters attached to their temples. So likewise in Peru, the
royal family, that which constituted the nobility, were viewed as
an entirely distinct race by the abject plebeians: and they stu-
diously preserved the purity of their high blood, by intermarrying
solely amongst themselves. With these in the government of the
commonalty were associated the priesthood, who, as in Mexico,
were no straggling body, but a well-organized fraternity.
With respect to their triads, the same author says, the Peruvi-
ans supJ>osed Viracocha to be the creator of the gods: subordinate
to him, they believed two triads ; connecting, like the natives of the
eastern continent, the triple offspring of the great father with the
sun; and, as in the case of Juptter, with the thunder. The first
consisted of Chuquilla, Catuilla, and Intyllapa ;' or the father-
thunder, the son-thunder, and the brother-thunder; the second, of
Apomti, Churunti, and Inti-quaoqui ; as the father-sun, the son-
sun, and the brother-sun. Nor were they satisfied with these two
principal triads. So strongly were they impressed with the notion
of three deities inferior to that primeval god who sprung from the
sea, that they had likewise three images of Chuquilla, himself a
person of the first triad; as the Persian Mythras was not only one
with Oromasdes and Ahriman, but was also said to have tripli-
cated himself. They had also an idol Tanga-tanga, which they
said was one-in-three and three-in-one. Added to these, they ve-
nerated, like the pagans of the eastern he!uisphere, a great uni-
versal mother ; and what shows further the genuine character of
this weat demiurgic man of the sea, Noah, the superior of their
multiplied triad, the badge of the Inca, was a rainbow and two
_snakes; the one allusive to the deluge, the other the s1mbols of
the two great parents of both gods and men. Purchas, m his Pil- ·
grintage, quaintly calls this triad, an apish i!uitation of the Trini!}'
brought in by the devil. . Their worship was sufficiently diaboli-
cal, being debased with all the abominable impurities of the Ark-
ite superstitions. . . .
Remarks not dissimilar Iuight be made.on the deity of the
Mexicans, believed to be the creator of the world. They call him
Mex:itli, or Vitzliputzli. His ima~ was seated on an azure-co-
loured stool, placed in a litter ; hiS complexion was also azure ;
and in his hand he held an azure staff, fashioned in the shape of
-a wavingserpent. Their next deity they named Tlaloc ; their third,
Tezcallipuca. Him they esteemed the god of repentance. As for
the superior divinity of this triad, he was placed on a high altar,
in a small box, decked with feathers and ornaments of go1d; and
the tradition of the Mexicans was, that .when they journeyed by
different stations, from a remote country to the north-west, they
bore this oracular image along with them, seated in a coffer made
of reeds. Whenever they rested they placed the ark of their deity
on an altar; and at len~th, by his special direction, they built their
principal city in the nudst of a lake.
They went forwards, says Purchas, " bearing their idol with
oigit<Zed by Coogle
.
.PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 25
them in an ark of reeds, supported by four of their principal priests,
.with whomne talked, and communicated his oracles and directions.
He likewise gave them laws, and taught them the sacrifices and
ceremonies tlieystill observe. And even as the pillar of cloud and
of fire conducted the Israelites in their passage through the wil-
derness, so this apish d~vil gave them notice when to advance and
when to 11tay."
Every particular of this superstition shows its diluvian origin ;
and proves the supposed demmrge to be no other than the great
father. The ark of Mexitli is the same machine as that in which
the Hammon, or Osiris, of Egyj>t was borne in his procession ; the
same as the ark of Bacchus, the ship of Isis, and the Argha of
Iswara. His dark complexion is that of the Vishnu of the Indian,
and Cneph of the Egyptian triads. He was oracular, like the shiy
Argo of the Greeks ;·the Baris of Hammon ; the chief Arkite gods
of all Gentile nations. He connects his city with a lake, like the
ancient Cabiri, like that of Buto on the lake Chemmis in Egypt ;
and has evident connexion with the lake and floating islands of all
the pagan mytholo~es.
It is a curious circumstance, that we find the doctrine of the
succession of worlds, and of the death and revival of the hero-gods,
also amongst the Mexicans. They doubtless brought it out of
eastern Asia, with a mythology which is substantially the same as
that of the larger continent, agreeably to their standing tradition
respecting the route of their ancestors. They supposed the world
to nave been made by the gods, but imagined that, since the crea-
tion, four suns have successively appeared and disappeared. The
first sun perished by a deluge; the second fell from heaven when
there were ~any giants in the country; the third was consumed
by fire ; the fourth was dissipated by a tempest of wind. Three
days after the last sun became visible, all. the former gods died :
then, in process of time, were produced those whom they have since
worshipped. . This resemblance to the tradition of the Hindoos, is
striking enough, as well as to that of the Egyptians, who told He-
rodotus that the same sun had four times deviated from his course,
having twice risen in the west, and twice set in the east.
. When the Mexicans brought their Arkite god out of Asia, they
also brought with him the ancient mysteries of that deity. Like
the idolaters whom they had left behind, they sacrificed on the
tops of mountains, in traditional commemoration of the sacrifice
on Ararat; and adored their bloody ~rods in dark caverns, similar
to those of the worship of Mythras. Their orgies, like all the other
orgies of the Gentiles, appear to have been of a peculiarly gloomy
and terrific nature ; sufficient to strike with terror even the most
undaunted hearts. Hence their priests, in order that they might
be enabled to go through the dreadful rites without shuddering,
anointed themselves with a peculiar ointment, and used various
fantastic ceremonies to banish fear. Thus prepared, they boldly
eallied forth to celebrate their nocturnal rites in wild mountains
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
and the deep recesses of obscure caves, much in the same manner
as the nightly orgies of Bacchus, Ceres, and Ceri!lwen were cele-
brated by their respective nations. A similar process enabled
them to ofter up those hecatombs of human victims, by which
their blood-stained superstition was more eminently distinguished
than even those of Moloch, Cali,'Cronus1 or Jaggernath. They
had also their vestal virgins ; and both· those women and the
priests were wont frantically to cut themselves with knives while
engaged in the worship of their idols, like the votaries of Baal and
Bellona.
Of their bloody sacrifices, the Spanish writers are full; particu-
larly Herrera, Acosta, and Bernal Diaz. Fear, says those authors,
was the soul of the Mexican worship. They never approached
their altars without sprinklin~ them v.ith blood, drawn from their
own bodies. But of all offenngs, human sacrifices were deemed
the most acceptable. This belief, mingling with the spirit of
vengeance, added more force to it; every captive taken in war was
brought to the temple, and sacrificed with horrid cruelties. The
head and the heart were devoted to the gods : the body was carried
off by the warrior who took the captive, to feast himself and his
friends. Hence, the spirit of the Mexicans became proportionally
unfeeling; and the genius of their religion so far counteracted the
influence of policy and arts, that, notwithstanding their progress
in both, their manners, instead of softening, became more fierce.
Those nations in the New World, who had made the greatest pro-
gress in the arts of social life, were, in several respects, the most
ferocious ; and the barbarity of their actions exceeded even those
of the savage state. .
The Spanish writers have been charged with exaggerating the
number of human victims annually sacrificed by the Mexicans.
Gomara says, there was no year in which twenty thousand were
not immolated. The skulls of those unhappy persons were ranged
in order, in a building erected for that purpose ; and two of
Cortes's officers who had counted them, told Gomara they amounted
to a hundred and thirty-six thousand. Herrera declares that five
and twenty thousand have been sacrificed in one day. The first
bishop of Mexico, in a letter to the chapter-general of his order,
states the annual average at twenty thousand. On the other
hand, Bernal Diaz asserts that the Franciscan monks, who were
sent into New Sp8.in, immediately after the conquest, found, on
particular inquiry, that they did not exceed annually two thousand
five hundred. Probably the numbers varied with the varyin~
circumstances of war and other occurrences ; but from all anthon-
ties, it appears that their bloody rites were· carried to an enonnous
extent.
But enough of these terrible and revolting trophies of priest-
craft. We might follow the course of this pestilence into Africa
and the South-sea Isles ; but I shall rather choose to refer all
those who may be curious on the subject, to the narratives of our
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PIUESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
travellers and missionaries, in which they will see the same causes
operating the same effects. I prefer to give a concluding page or
two in this chapter, to the vivid picture of_priestcraft wh1ch Mr.
Southey has drawn in his noble poem of Madoc. No man has
felt and described the true spirit of this terrible race of men more
forcibly than Mr. Southey. His Madoc was a. Welsh prince,
who, according to Cambrian tradition, first discovered America,
and there settled with a colony of his countrymen. On this
foundation Mr. Southey has formed one of his most delightful
poems ; full of nature, of the working of strong affections, and of
the spirit of the subject. . _
Madoc discovers land, and falls in with a nati:ve who had fled
from his country to avoid being sacrificed by the priests. This
:youth, Lincoya, leads Madoc to his native land, where he is soon
mtroduced to Erillyab, the widowed queen, who sits before her
door, near the war-pole of her deceased husband ;-a truly noble
woman. Madoc, in his own narrative, says,-
She welcomed us
With a proud sorrow in her mien ; fresh fruits
Were spread before lRI, and her gestures said
That when he lived whose hand was wont to wield
Those weapons,-that in better days,-that ere
She let the tresses of her widowhood
Grow wild, she could have given to guests like us
A wortliier welcome. Soon a man approached,
Hooded with sable; his half-naked limbs
Smeared black : the people at his sight drew round;
The women wailed and wept; the children turned
And hid their faces in their mothers' knees.
He to the queen addressed his speech, then looked
Around the children, and laid hands on two ,
Of different sexes, but of age alike,
Some six lears old, who at his touch shrit:ked out.
But then incoya rose, and to my ftet
Led them, and told me thai the conqueror claimed
These innocents for tribute ; that the priest
Would lay them on the altar of his god,-
Tear out their little hearts in sacrifice,
Yca, with more cursed wickedness, himself
Feast on their flesh.
Madoc defends the children; sends away the disappoinfed priest,
and, in consequence, gets into war with the Azticas, the powerful
· tribe which has seized upon Aztlan, the .city of the Hoamen, the
people of queen Erillyab. He soon, however, obliges them to come
to terms ; to renounce their bloody rites ; and, having put things
into a fair train, returns"to Europe for fresh stores and emigrants.
In his absence, the priests of Aztlan, according to the wont of all
priests, stir up the king of Aztlan again to war. They cry, if
not exactly " Great is Diana of the Ephesians," Great is Mexitli
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCR.AFT IN ALL AGES,
of the Azticas. They pretend to hear voices and see prodigies ;
they pretend the gods cry out for the blood of their enemies, and
forebode all manner of destruction from them, if they- be not
appeased. Madoc does but just arrive in time to save his colony.
A aesperate war is commenced; an occasion is given for the full
display of the reckless atrocity, the perfidy, and vile arts of the
{lriests, and for many noble and touching mcidents arising out of
the contact of better natures with the casualties of battle and
stratagem. Hoel, a child, the nephew of Madoc, is carried off, at
the instigation of the priests, to be sacrificed. Madoc, in follow-
ing his captives, falls himself into an ambush, and is doomed a
victim to Mexitli ; but escapes through a national custom of
allowing a great warrior to fight for his life at the altar-stone, by
the timely arrival of his friends, and by the assistance of a native
maiden, to whom also Hoel owes his rescue from the den of Tlaloc,
where he was left to starve. The Azticas are defeated, and finally
abandon their territory, going onward and founding Mexico: call-
ingit after the name of their chief deity.
To quote all the passages which seem especially made for our
purpose, would fill this volume ; but I must ·select one or two. The
description of the idol : •
On a huge throne, with four huge silver snakes,
As if the keeper of the sanctuary,
Circled, with stretching neck and fangs displayed,
Mexitli sat; another graven snake
Belted with scales of gold his monstrous bulk.
Around his neck a loathsome collar hung
Of human hearts ; the face was masked with gold ;
His specular eyes seemed fire ; one hand upreared
A club, the other, as in battle, held
The shield; and over all suspended hung
The banner of the nation.
The chief priest, Tezozomoc, when about to present little Hoel
to the idol, and the child, terrified at his hideous appearance,
shrieks and recoils from him, is thus described:-
His dark aspect,
Which nature with her harshest characters
Had featured, art made worse. His cowl was white;
His untrimmed hair, a long and loathsome mass,
With cotton cords entwisted, clung with gum,
And matted with the blood which every mom
He from his temples drew before the god,
In sacrifice; bare were his arms, and smeared
Black ; but his countenance a stronger dread
Than all the horrors of that outward garb
Struck, with quick instinct, to young Hoel's heart.
It was a face whose settled sullenness
No gentle feeling ever had disturbed :
Which when he probed a victim's living breast,
Retained its hard composure.
.. oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRJESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES, 29
The whole work is alive with the machinations, arts', and fanatic
deeds of the priesthood. The kin~ of the. Azticas, in an early
conference with Madoc, says, speakmg of the priests,-
Awe them, for they awe me :
and his queen, after he has be~n killed in battle, and she is about
to perish on his funeral pile, calls out to his brother and suc-
cessor,-
Take heed, 0 king !
Beware these wicked men ! They to the war
Forced my dead lord. • . Thou knowest, and I know,
He loved the strangers; that his noble mind,
Enlightened by their lore, had willingly
Put down these cursed altars ! As she spake,
They dragged her to the stone..•. Nay! nay! she <,Tied,
There needs not force ! I go to join my lord I
His blood and mine be on you ! Ere she ceased,
The knife was in her breast. Tezozomoc,
Trembling with wrath, held up toward the sun
The reeking heart.
When the war is termiu'ated, Madoc declares,
No priest must dwell among us,-that hath been
The cause of all this misery !
And that, indeed, has been the cause of at least half the miseries
in the world, as I shall hereafter show. With this sentiment let
ns close this chapter.
30
CHAPTER VI.
EGYPT.
WE have now traversed an immense space of country, and of time;
and found one great uniform spirit of priestcraft, one uniform
system of :paganism, presidin~ over and oppressin~S the semi-bar-
barous nations of the earth; 1t remains for us to mquire whether
the three great nations of antiquity, Greece, Egypt, and India, so
early celebrated for their science, philosophy, and political im-
portance, were affected by the same mig-hty and singular influence;
and here we shall find it triumphing m its clearest form, ahd ex-
isting in its h~hest perfection.
The priest-ndden condition of Egypt is notorious to all readers
of history. Lord Shaftesbury calls it, "the mother-land of super-
stitions." So completely had the lordly and cunnina priesthood
here contrived to fix themselves on the shoulders of tge people, so
completely to debase and stupify them with an overwhelming
abundance of foolish veneration, that the country swarmed with
temples, gods, and creatures, which, in themselves most noxious,
or loathsome, were objects of adoration. Juvenal laughs at them,
as making gods of their onions ; growing gods in their garden-
beds by thousands-
0 sanctas gentes, quibus hrec nascuntur in hortis
Numina!
and dogs, cats, lizards, and other creatures, were cherished with
extraordinary veneration. Diodorus Siculus says, that a Roman
soldier having by accident killed a cat, the common people in-
stantly surrounded his house, with every demonstration of fury.
The king's guards were immediately despatched to sa>e him from
their rage, but in vain; his authority and the Roman name were
equally unavailing.
The accounts we possess, of the extreme populousness of ancient
Egypt; of the nUDiber and splendour of their temples ; of the
knowledge and authority of their priests; and the mighty remains
of some of their sacred buildings ; sufficiently testify to the splen-
dour and absolute dominance of this order in this great kingdom.
To show that the priestcraft of this ancient realm was part of
the same system that we have been tracing, a part of that still
existing in India, will require but little labour. We shall see that
the Greek philosoi>hers themselves assert the derivation of their
mythology from Egypt; and so strikingly similar are those of
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PIUESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 31
India and Egypt, that it has been a matter of debate amongst
learned men, which nation borrowed its religion from the other.
'fhe fact appears to be, that neither borrowed from the other, but
that both drew from one common source, a source we have already
pointed out-that of the Cuthie tribes. Egypt was peopled by the
children of Ham: and by whomsoever India was peopled, the
great priestly and military caste early found its way there, and in-
troduced the very same superstitions, founded on the worship of
Noah and his sons; and shadowed out with emblems and cere-
monies derived from the memory of the flood. Both nations are
of the highest antiquit,-; both arrived at extraordinary knowledge
of astronomy, of architecture, of mariy of the mechanic arts, of
government, and of a certain moral and theologic philosophy,
which the ~riests. retained to themselves, and made use of as a
mighty engme to enslave the people. Their knowledge was care-
fully shrouded from the multitude ; the populace were crammed
with all sorts of fabulous puerilities ; and were made to feel the
display of science in the hands of the priesthood, as evidence of
supernatural powers.
Dr. Robertson, in his Disquisition on Ancient India, and in
his History of America, has endeavoured to explain the uniformity
of pagan belief, by supposing that rude nations would every where
be influenced by the same great powers and appearances of na-
ture ;-by the beneficial influence of the sun and moon; of the
fruitful earth; by the contemplation of the awfulness of the ocean,
of tempests, and thunder; and would come to adore those great
objects as gods. But this will, by no means, account for the strik-
ing identity of the great principles and practices of paganism, as
we have seen them existmg. Different nations, especially under
the different aspects of widely divided climates, would have ima-
gined widely different deities; and the ceremonies in which they
would have adored them, would have been as infinite as the va-
garies of the human fancy. But would they have all produced
gods so positively of the $arne family, that whoever went from one
nation to another, however distant, amongst people of totally dif-
ferent habits and genius, would have immediately recognised their
own gods, and have given them their own names? Would Cresar
and Tacitus have beheld Roman gods in Germany and Gaul? Hero-
dotus, Plato, and Pythagoras, have found those ofGreece in Egypt?
Would these gods be, in every country, attended by the same tra-
ditionary theory of origin,-the three sons of one great father,
multiplyin~ themselves into the eight persons of the original gods
'-the prectse niunber of those enclosed in the ark? Would tra-
ditions of the flood in all countries, most full and remarkable, and,
in the oldest Hindoo writings, almost word for word with the one
in the Bible, have existed, as may be seen in the histories of the
various countries; and as may be found carefully collected by
Faber and Bryant in their works on the ~agan mythologies ? This
could not be ;-nor would so many nations, in different parts of
oigit<Zed by Coogle
......,
32 PRIESTCRAFT. I~ ALL AGES.
the world, retain the ark ; nor celebrate mysteries, substantially
the same, in the same terrific manner in caves; nor would they
have all hit on the horrid sacrifice of men; nor the same doctrine
of transmigration ; nor have permitted an imperious caste of priests
and nobles to rule over them with absolute domination. To sup-
pose all this to happen, except from one great and universal cause,
ts as rational as to suppose the system of earth and heaven lo be
the work ofchance: and the farther we go, the more clearly sball
we see this demonstrated.
The Egyptians, like all other nations, had their triad of gods :-
Horus, Osiris, and Typhon. This was the popular one ; but the
priests had another of a more intellectual nature, Emeph, Eicton,
and Phtha. They had also their great mother, Isis, Ceres, or the
earth : but they had besides many inferior deities, which we need
not enumerate. Every god had his shrine; every shrine its train
of priests ; besides which there were the shrines of the oracles, so
that there was plent; of influence and profit for the priesthood.
They bore the ark o Osiris once a year in procession ; setting it
afloat on the Nile at a certain place, and lamenting it for a time as
lost. It was taken up at another J?lace, with great rejoicings that
the god was found again. It was said to be pursued by the greatevil
serpent Typhon in the ocean ; but in time was triwnphant over him
-a direct allusion to the going of Noah into the ark, and b e i
_ 'ng
driven by the great power of waters for a time ; when he returned
to land, and peopled the world anew.
Their doctrine of transmi~ation, Herodotus tells us, some of his
countrymen, whom he eoula name, but does not choose, (meaning,
however, Pythagoras and others,) carried thence into Greece. Tlie
Egyptians, says the venerable Greek, believe that, on the dissolu-
tion of the body, the soul immediately enters into some other ani-
mal: .and that, after using as vehicles every species of terrestrial,
aquatic, and winged creatures, it finally enters a second time into
a human body. They affirm that it undergoes all these changes in
the space of three thousand years.
This is precisely the dQctrine of the Hindoos, and of those na-
tions we have already noticed; and hence proceedeQ. that excessive
veneration of the people for every species of animal ; fearing to
hurt or destroy them, lest they should dislodge the soul of a rela-
tive or friend. We have noticed their fury about a cat: their
veneration for dogs was equally extreme, till after the celebrated
eJtpedition of Cambyses the Persian, who, with the zeal of his
COUntry against all Images of deity, threw down their idols, and
slew their sacred. animals, which the dogs devoured, and thereby
became objects of abhorrence to the Egyptians. .
Their laws, says Herodotus, compel them to cherish animals.
A certain number of men and women are appointed to this office,
which is esteemed so honourable that it descends in succession
from father to son. In the presence of these animals the inhabit-
ants of the cities perform their vows. They ad!lress themselres
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 33
as supplicants to the divinity which is supposed to be represented
by the animal in whose presence they are. They then cut off their
children's hair ; sometimes the whole ; sometimes the half; at
others a third. This they weigh in a balance against n piece of
silver. As soon as the silver preponderates, they give it to the
woman who keeps the beast. It is a capital offence to kill one of
these animals. To destroy one accidentally is punishable by a fine
paid to the priests ; but he who kills an ibis or a hawk, however
mvolnntarily, cannot by any means escape death. Whenever a
eat dies, there is universal mourning in a family, and every mem-
ber of it cuts off his eyebrows; but when a dog dies, they shave
their heads and every part of their bodies. This, after the days of
Cambyses, would, of course, be somewhat altered. The cats, when
dead, are carried to sacred buildings, salted, and afterwards buried
in the city of Bubastes. Female do~ are buried in sacred chests,
wherever they happen to die, as are tchneumons; shrew-mice and
hawks are buried at Butos ; bears and wolves, where they die.
Otters and eels also excited great veneration. The crocodile was
held to be divine by one part of the kingdom; by another, it was
execrated. Where it was reverenced, it had temples, a large train
of attendants, and, after death, was embalmed. Maximus Tyrius
says, a woman reared a young crocodile, and the Egyptians
esteemed her hi~hly fortunate, as the nurse of a deity. The woman
had a child whiCh used to/lay with the crocodile, till the animal
one day turned fierce, an ate it up: the woman exulted, and
counted the child's fate blessed in the extreme, to have been the
victim of her domestic god. Such is the melancholy stupidity into
which priestcraft can plunge the human mind!
I shall not pursue th~ superstitions of this people further, but
refer my readers to Herodotus, Plutarch, Diodorus, and Porphy-·
rius, for all further particulars; except to state that the Egyptians,
were we to credit Herodotus, were singular in one respect-having
no human sacrifices, save, perhaps, in the very earliest ages. This,
however, is so remarkable an exception to the universality of the
system, that we find it difficult of belief; and, on turning to Strabo,
we are assured that they annually sacrificed to the Nile a noble
virgin; a statement confirmed by the Arabian writer, Murtadi,
who relates that they al"l'8yed her in rich robes, and hurled her
into the stream. Diodorus affirms, that the{ sacrificed red-baked
men at the tomb of Osiris, because his morta enemy, Typhon, was
of that colour. Busiris sacrificed Thracians to ap:pease the angry
Nile ; and three men were daily sacrificed to Lucma at Heliopo-
lis; instead of which Amasis afterwards hu~nely substituted
waxen images. .
They not only practised these horrors, but the Phallic rites in
all thculoathsomeness; and ingrafted a vulgar and indecent cha-
racter on the national manners, They propagated the abomin-
ations of Priapis, and the Bacchanalian and Saturnalian orgies
amongst the Greeks. The priests had so fast bom1d the people
D
34 PRIESTCBAFT IN ALL AGES.
in the strongest bonds-knowledge in their own order, and igDor-
ance in the multitude ; in puerile forms and ceremonies, and the
serpent-folds of sensuality; that they had established themselves
in-the most absolute manner on their shoulders. Rome and India
can alone present similar examples.
As we have seen in all other countries, so here they were the
lordly caste. The nation, say the authorities I have above quoted,
is divided into three castes-priests, nobles, and people; the latter
Of whom are confined to mechanic or rural employments, utterly
excluded from knowledge, advancement, and power. As in India,
to this day, the son must succeed his father in his trade. · "I know
not," says Herodotus, "whether the Greeks have borrowed thia
custom from them, but I have seen the same thing in various parts
of Thrace, Scythia, Persia, and Lydia. It seeiUS, indeed, to be an
established 11rejudice amongst nations, even the least refined, to
consider mechanics and their descendants as the lowest sort of
c;itizens, and to esteem those most noble who are of no profession.
The soldiers and the priests are the only ranks in Egypt which are
honourably distinguished; these, each of them, receive from the
public a portion of land of twelve acres, free from all ta.:z;:es : be-
sides this, the military enjoy, in their turn, other advantages; one
thousand are every year, in tum, on the king's guard, and receive,
besides their land, a daily allowance of five pounds of bread, two·
of beef, and four austeres of wine."
Plato, Plutarch, and Diodorus agree with him in this particular.
A prince, say they, cannot reign in Egypt if he be ignorant of
sacred affairs. The king must be either of the race of.priests or-
soldiers ; these two classes being distinguished, the one by their
wisdom, the other by their valour. When they have chosen a
' warrior for king, he is immediately adinitted into the order of
priests, who instruct him in their mrsterious philosophy. Tl).e
priests may censure the king; !five hun advice; and regulate his
actions. Br them is fixed the tune when he shall walk, bathe, or
even visit his wife. The sacred ministers pos!!ess, in return, many
and great advantages. They are not obliged to consume any part
of their domestic property ; each has a moiety of sacred viands,
· ready dressed, assxgned him, besides a large daily allowance of
beef, and geese, and wine.
What a striking illustration is this of what we find in Genesis,
chap. xlvii. 22, of the doings of Joseph, who adopted a policy
towards the,Egyptians more despotic than one would have ex-
~cted from hiS patriarchal character, or from a simple Canaan-
Irish shepherd-first, of gatherin~ up the com from all the land of
Egypt, and then sellin~ it out, m the horrors of famine, to the
people for their posilessxons, whereby the whole kingdom beca.uie
the purchased property of Pharaoh, except that of th_
e priests--
" only the land of the priests bou!fht he not, for the priests had a
portion assigned them of Pharaoh. '
The_priests; indeed, were too powerful for Joseph, or even for
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES, 35
PhiLl'IIOh himselt Darius wished only to plaee a statue of him-
self in a temple ; the priests violently resisted it, and Darius was
obliged to submit. Herodotus tells us that the priests showed
him the images of their predecessors for three hundred and forty-
one descents : and M. Larcher even supposes that these ptiests
were, for many ages, the sole princes of this strange country;
a most triumphant reign of priestcraft indeed ! Let us now turn
to Greece.
D 2
oigit<Zed by Coogle
36
CHAPTER VII.
GREECE.
THE popular theology of this noble and celebrated nation, as it
existed during its most enlightened ages, has been made familiar
to every mind, by its literature being taught in all schools, and
furnishing perpetual allusions and embellishments to all writers.
Herodotus says that Hesiod and Homer invented the theogonr of
Greece; that is, they, no doubt, methodized the confused traditions
of their ancestors, and organized them into that very beautiful sys-
tem, which we still admire, when it has become the most fabulous
of fables, more than the kindred creations of all other people.
Though it had the same origin as all other mythologies, yet, pass-
ing through the glorious minds of these poets, it assumed all those
characters of &:Rce and beauty which they conferred on their litera-
ture, their philosophy, and on all the arts and embellishments of
life. Familiar as Homer has made us all with that hierarchy of
gods which figures so conspicously in his writings, we are con-
tinually furnished by him with ~limpses of a more ancient dynasty,
and with theories of their origm, which clash with his more ge-
neral one, and at first puzzle and confound us. When we come,
however, to trace up these casual revealings, we soon find our-
selves in a new world. · These gods, which he at first taught us
were all the offSpring of Saturn, and of his three sons, Jupiter,
Neptune, and Pluto, we discover, to our astonishment, are the
gods of all other nations,-~ods assuming all the character of the
highest antiquity, and derivmg their being in a manner totally at
variance with the more modern system. His Hercules, Bacchus,
Apollo, Ceres, Venus, &c., instead of being the comparatively re-
cent children of Jove, are found to blend and become synonymous
with him or the great mother. Surprised at this strange discovery,
we pursue the inquiry, and are led into those very regions where
we have lately been-into central Asia, and to the period of the
Flood. The tombs of the gods were existing in Greece; they
were, therefore, but deified men,-and whence came these men P
From the Flood. Traditions of floods were the most familiar of
things in Greece ; and they agreed, both that of Deucalion and
others, with all the particulars of the real one. Herodotus tells
us that the Egyptians, into whose religion he was initiated, in-
vented the names of the twelve great gods; but we have already
seen whence the Egyptians drew their deities. Plutarch contends
that they came from Phrenicia. And who were the gods of the
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES; 37
·Phamicians? llus, or Ark-Ilus, or Hercules, i.e. Noah; and
Dagon; the old man, On, or Oannes, who, according to Sanco-
niathon, came out of the sea, and taught them to plant com and the
vine. Others say, that the gods came into Greece from Samo-
thrace, with the Pelasgi, an ancient wandering people, who bore
in an ark with them, the Cabiri, or mighty ones. These Cabin
have been the subject of much contention; but all writers admit
that they were three, or eight; that is, the three sons of Noah, or
the eight people of the ark. It is most likely that from all these
sources J.lOrtions of the same great system of corrupted worship
were denved. So conspicuous is the real origin of all the Grecian
traditions, that I shall not dwell upon it. It is enough to state,
that they celebrated the same mysteries, practised the same human
sacrifices, were contaminated With the same Phallic abominations,
as all the other nations of paganism; in fact, all the characters of
the great Noachic superstitions were ingrafted upon them. The
bold and free genius of the nation; that splendid and extraor-
dinary emanation of- intellect, which not only made it the wonder
of the ancient world, but has constituted it the well-spring of
knowledge to all ages, and almost the creator of the universal
modem mind, saved it from the utmost horrors and degradations
of priestcraft. · The national spirit operating in the soul of Homer,
~· through him, operated with tenfold force on the minds of
h1s countrymen. In all other countries the priests were the mo-
nopolists of knowledge. 'Limmured," says Maurice, in his Indian ·
Antiquities, " in the errors of polytheism, all was the great body
of the Egyftian nation, it has been incontestably proved by the
immortal Cudworth, that the hierophant, or arch-priest, in the
secret rites of their religion, taught the doctrine ofthe unity of the
Godhead ; but this noble sentiment, though they had the mag-
nanimity to conce.ive, they wanted the generosity to impart to the
deluded populace; for it was thouglit dangerous both to the
church and state, to shake the foundations of the reigning super-
stitions." This, if I have not already shown, it would be easy to
show, was the practice the world over; but this knowledge falling
on the mind of Homer, he disdained to make it an instrument of
slavery, but poured it abroad like light through the earth; and
his countrymen, listening to his glorious poems with enthusiasm,
became imbued with the same dauntless, untameable spirit, alike
intolerant of the despotism of the throne or the altar. Many of
his more timid compatriots, indeed, were terrified at the freedom
of his treatment of the gods. Every where we perceive that he
regarded them but as convenient poetical mac.hinery. Ever and
anon we find him rising into such sublime notions of Deity and
the Divine government, that we feel that he/ossessed that true
knowledge of the Creator, which Socrates, an Plato, and Cicero,
in Rome, afterwards displayed. So strikin~ly, indeed, does he
evince this, that many have thought that in his wanderings he had
come in contact with the Hebrew doctrines. I doubt this. I be-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
38 , P11IESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
lieve, rather, it came .to him from the earliest ages, by other
sources; .but be it as it may, his description of the gods exerting
their powe~ is almost worthy of Isaiah.
Mars shouts to Simois from his beauteous hill :
The mountain shook, the rapid stream stood still.
Above, the sire of gods his thunder rolls,
And peals ou peals redoubled rend the poles.
Beneath, stem Neptune shakes the solid ground;
The forests wave, the mountains nod around :
Through all their summits tremble Ida's woods,
And from their sources boil her hundred fioods.
Troy's turrets totter on the rocking plain,
And the tossed navies beat the heaving main. .
Pope's Tranalation. B. u.
The sentiments that abound in the Odyssey are worthy, not
merely of a Hebrew, but of a Christian ;-as this tine and just
opinion of slavery :-
Jove fixed it certain, that whatever day
Makes man a slave, takes half his worth away.-B. xviii.
This noble description of the power of conscience:-
Pirates and conquerors of hardened mind,
The foes of peace, and scourges of mankind,
To whom offending·men are made a prey,
When Jove in vengeance gives a land away : ·
Even these,-when of their ill-got spoils possessed,
Find sure tormentors in the guilty breast ;
Some voice of God, close whispering within-
" Wretch ! this is villany ; and this is sin ! "
And those many declaratioBS of Gad's guardianship of the poor
·and the stranger:-
'Tis Jove unfolds our hospitable door;
'Tis Jove that sends the stranger and the poor.-B. xiv.
Let first the herald due libations pay
To Jove, who guides the wanderer on his way.-:-B. yii.
By Jove the streger and the poor are sent,
And what to them we give, to Jove is lent.
Low at thy knee, thy succour we implore ;
Respect us human, and relieve us poor ;
At least some hospitable gifts bestow,
'Tis what the happy to the tmhappy owe,
'Tis what the gods require :-those gods revere,-
The poor and stranger are their constant care.
To Jove their cause, and their revenge belongs-
He wanders with them, and he feels their wrongs.-B. ix.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
.PKIESTCRAI'T Of .ALL AGES. 39
From Homer's mind, truth glanced abroad with a divine and
dreadless honesty ; unlike that of poor Herodotus, who, at the
utterance of a bolder sentiment, hopes he has not given offence to
gods or men.
We see in his writings not only continual indications of great
moral truths, but the same integrity evinced in sketching the man-
ners of the early ages of his country. We see his favourite hero
dragging his noble foe at his chariot, and immolating men at the
funeral of his friend-traits of savage character wiih which he
would not have invested him, but from regard to a genuine repre-
sentation of Grecian mind and manners at that epoch. What
Greece would have been in the hands of priests, but for its own
elastic spirit, and for the mighty influence of its poets and sages,
we have seen pictured in other nations; what it was, we have riow
to see. Priestcraft here did not rule with the same unmasked
mien and unrestrained hand, as in other countries ;-it adapted its
JX>lky to the spirit of the people. It gratified their curiosity after
philosophic knowledge, and after the future, by mysteries and
oracles ; their love of ~ce and festivity, by beauteous processions
·and joyous festivals ; 1t captivated and awed their sensitive ima-
ginations, by callin~ to its aid the fine arts, as the papal church
aid afterwards by 1ts adherents,--erecting the most magnificent
temples, and setting before their eyes those miracles of paintings,
now lost, except in the eulogiums of antiquity ; and of sculpture,
some of which remain to command the admiration; if not the wor-
ship of the world. By these means they attained their end,-im-
mense wealth and infiuence,-an influence, the strength of which,
on the common mind, may be estimated by facts about to be given,
but perhaps more by the circumstance of Socrates, the most saga-
cious of their philosophers, at the hour of his death, and when he
was delivering the most sublime sentiments, enjoining his friends
to sacrifice on his behalf a cock to lEsculapius. This influence
the witty enemy of Socrates, Aristophanes, shook not a little by
his free and resistless ridicule of the popular gods in his comedies.
Let us now briefly run over the great features of priestcraft in
Greece; and first, of human sacrifices, Archbishop 1'otter, in his
Antiquities of Greece, chap. iv., says," Neither was it lawful to
sacrifice oxen only, but also men. Examples of this sort of in-
·humanity were very common in most of the barbarous nations.
Among the primitive Grecians it was accounted an act of so un-
-common cruelty and impiety, that Lycaon, king of Arcadia, was
feigned by the poets to have been turned into a wolf, because he
offered a human sacrifice to Jupiter. In latter days it was un-
doubtedly more common and familiar. Aristomenes, the Messinian,
sacrificed three hundred men, among whom was TheoJ.>Ompus,
one of the kings of Sparta, to Jupiter of Ithome. Them1stocles,
in order to procure the assistance of the gods against the Persians,
sacrificed some captives of that nation, as we find in Plutarch.
Bacchus had an altar in Arcadia, upon which young damsels were
40 l'IUESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES,
beaten to death with bundles of ~; something like to which
·was practised by the Lacedemonians, who scour~ the children,
.sometimes to death, in honour of Diana Orthia. To the Manes
and infernal gods, such sacrifices were very often offered. Hence
we read of Polyxena's being sacrificed to Achilles ; and Homer
-relates how that hero butchered twelve Trojan captives at the
funeral of Patroclus._ lEneas, whom Virgil celebrates for bill
piety, is an example of the same practice :- .
Sulmone creatos
Quatuor hie juvenes, totidem, quos educat Ufens,
Viventes rapit; inferias quos immo!et umbria,
Captivoque rogi perfundat sanguine flammas.-Lib. x.
" Whoever desires to see more instances of human sacrifices,
may consult Clemens of Alexandria, Eusebius, and other Chris-
tian apologists."
· To this we may add, the well-known sacrifice of lphygenia, by
the assembled Grecian powers on their way to Troy; the sacrifice .
of two children by Menelaus, related by Herodotus ; and what.
Plutarch says, that the Greeks sacrificed many children annually
to Saturn: so that we see this famous people was sufficiently in-
fected by this bloody superstition.
. Of their Phallic rites we shall, for decency's sake, say no more
than refer to their own writers, whose descriptions of the Baechle
and·Priapic or~es are astonishing. ·
For their religious festivals and processions, we refer to Potter;
and shall only say tmat, in these, every charm of grace, every in-
toxication of festivity was exhausted, to fascinate a people so alive
to such influences; and they were made to contribute abundantly
to the coffers of the priests.
Another potential source of power and wealth was augury.
Augurs were a class of men frequently priests, but always bearing
much the same relation to the pagan priesthood, that the monks
.did to those of the papal hierarchy. They were but varieties of
the same class of ammals of prey. They pretended to discern and
declare the will of the gods, by the flight of birds, by the intestines
of animals, and by various other signs ; but it was through the
medium of the oracles that priestcraft awed, and practised on, the
.public mind most effectually. These were situated in solemn tem-
ples, or fearful, sacred groves ; were ~urrounded by every thing
which could terrify and confound the imagination; and, accom-
panied by dread and mysterious sounds, and by the cries and con-
tortions of the priest or priestess, were supposed to proclaim the
dicta of the gods. They were, consequently, a mine of wealth
and power to the priests. "Of all sorts of divination," says Pot,.
ter, "oracles had always the greatest repute, as being thought to
proceed in an immediate manner from the gods ; whereas, others
were delivered by men, and had a greater dependence on them,
who might, either out of ignorance, mistake, or out of fear, hope,·
PIUESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 41
ar other unlaWful and base ends, conceal or betray the truth.;
whereas, they thought the gods, who were neither obnoxious to
the anger, noi' stood in need of the rewards, nor cared for the pro-
.mises of mortal, could not be prevailed upon to do either of tl:iem.
Upon this account, oracles obtained so great credit and esteem,
that, in all doubts and disputes, their determinations were held
sacred and inviolable. Whence, as Strabo reports, vast numbers
flocked to them to be resolved in all manner of doubts, and to ask
counsel about the management of their affairs ; insomuch, that no
business of great consequence was · undertaken, scarce any war
waged, peace concluded, new form of government instituted, or
new laws enacted, without the advice"and approbation of an oracle.
Crresus, before he durst venture to declare war against the Per-
sians, consulted not only all the most famous oracles of G·reece,
but sent ambassadors to Libya, to ask advice of Jupiter Hammon.
Minos, the Cretan lawgiver, conversed with Jupiter, and received
instructions from him, how he might new-model his government.
·Lycurgus also made visits to the Delphian Apollo, and received
from him that platform which he afterwards communicated to the
Lacedemonians. Nor does it matter whether these things were
true or not, when lawgivers, and men of the lr"eatest authority,
were forced to make use of these methois to wm them into com-
pliance. My author also goes higher, and tells us, that inspired
persons were thought worthy of the greatest honour and trusts :
msomuch, that we sometimes find them advanced to the throne,
and invested with the royal power ;-for that, being admitted to
the councils of the gods, they were best able to provide for the
welfare of men.
"This representation f!tood the priests, who had their dependence
on the oracle, in no small stead; for finding their credit thus
thoroughly established, they allowed no man to consult their gods
.before he had offered costly sacrifices, and made rich presents to
them. Whereby it came to paSs, that few besides great and wealthy
men were adm1tted to ask their advice, the rest bein~ unable to
pay the charges required on that account, which contnbuted very
·much to raise the esteem of oracles among the common people ;
men being generally apt to admire the things they are kept at some
distance from, and, on the other hand, to contemn what they are
familiarly acquainted with. Wherefore, to keep up their esteem
with the better sort, even they were only admitted on a few stated
days: at other times, neither the w-eatest prince could purchase,
nor persons of the greatest quality any way obtain an answer.
Alexander himself was peremptorily denied by the Pythia, till she
was by downright force compelled to ascend the tripos, when,
finding herself unable to resist any longer, she cried out, 'Thou
art invincible !' which words were thought a very lucky OJ:Jlen,
and accepted instead of a further oracle."
· Thus we see how artfully and triumphantly the priests had
managed to enslave this great and most intelligent of people,
oigit<Zed by Coogle
42 l'lliESTCilAFT IN AL1- AGBB.
holding them in abjectand utter thraldom ev~n while they unagined
themselves free. To the priests they were obliged to come for
their original civil constitutions, and these they took care so to
frame as to make themselves necessary in every act and hour oC
existence, as they have done through the universal world. Our
author might have told us, however, what tricks statesmen WEft!
suffered to play with the oracles when it suited them so to do; he
might have added what prodigies and portents Themistocles caused
to appear in these oracular temples, when he wished to rouse the
Greeks against Persia. The arms of the temple at Delphi were
shifted from the interior to the front of the fane in the night, u
if done by Divine hands ; they were heard to clash as if by in--
vincible power; rocks fell, and thundered down in the faces of the
enemy as they approached these sacred defiles, and friends and
foes were impressed with an idea that the gods were present to
defend their sanctuaries. These and similar facts he might have
told us ;-but let us proceed.
Their sacred festivals, games, and celebration of mysteries, we
have already heard were almost innumerable ; some occurring
yearly, others monthly, so that they were seldom without. some-
thing of the kind to OCCUJ.>Y their attention, and bind them to the
national religion. To theu mysteries only can we devote a few
~sages.
These have occupied much of the curiosity of the learned; and
their researches have shown incontestably, that the mysteries cele-
brated in all ages and nations were substantially the same. Whe·
ther they were celebrated in Egypt, in honour of Isis and Osiris~
in Syria, of Baal ; in Phrygia, in Crete, in Phenicia, in Lemnos, in
Samothrace, in Cyprus, m India, or the British Isles, or in the '
Mythratic caves of Persia ; they had all the same object, and were
attended by the same ceremonies. In Greece"there might be dif-
fering particulars in the orgies of Bacchus, Ceres, Jupiter, Pan,
Silenus, Rhea, Venus; or Diana, yet their leading traits were the
same. _
Their objects have been stated variously; but they ap-
pear, in fact, to have been various, yet all subservient to one great
object,-which was, to teach the primal unity of the Deity, not,.
withstanding the popular multitude of gods, and to shadow <Molt
the grand doctrine of the fall and repurification of the human
soul: They appear evidently derived from. the flood ; representing
a descent into the darkness of that death which Noah's entrance
into the ark indicated to the world, and his subsequent return to
life. In all, there was a person lost, and sought after with la-
mentation; whether Isis was seeking Osiris, Ceres seeking Pro-
serpine; or Thammuz, Bacchus, Pan, Jupiter, or some other, was
lamented with tears, and sought through terrors ; and afterwards
rejoiced in as found. In all, the aspirants descended to darknesB
as of death, passed over a water in an ark or boat, and came into
Elysium. The accounts in Homer and Virgil of the descent of
Heruulea, Ulysses, and lEnea~~ into hell, aze considered to be but
,g, Jb,Google
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. ' 43
details of what is represented in the mysteries. In whatever mode
they were celebrated, we invariably find a certain door or gate,
viewed as of primary importance. Sometimes it was the door of
the temple ; sometimes the door of the consecrated grotto ; some-
times it was the hatchway of the boat \\ithin which the aspirant
was enclosed ; sometimes a hole, either natural or artificial, be•
tween rocks ; and sometimes a gate in the sun, moon, or planets.
Through this the initiated were born again ; and from this the
profane were excluded. The notion evidently originated from the
lloor in the side of ~he ark through which the primary epopts were
admitted, while ·the profane antediluvians were shut out. So
t!&Cred and secret were these mysteries in all countries, that who-
ever revealed any portion of them was instantly put to death.
The scrupulosity of the Romans with regard to the orgies of the
'Bona Dea, at which women only were admitted, is familiar to
every reader of Cicero, by his harangue against Clodius, who
violated this custom. Those who consulted the oracle of Tro-
phonius had to F.Ss through darkness, and descend. by a ladder
mto the cave, w1th offerings of cakes of honey; and drank of the
waters of oblivion, to forget all past cares, and of the waters of re-
membrance, to recollect what they were about to see.
They who had been initiated into the mysteries were held to be
extremely wise, and to be possessed of motives to the highest
honour and purity of life ; yet it cannot be denied that they were
made, by the introduction of the Phallic obscenities, a means as
much of debauchery as of refining the people. A little reflection,
says Mr. Maurice, will soon convince us, that as persons of either
sex were promiscuously allowed to be initiated, when the original
physical cause can1e to ·be forgotten, what a general dissipation-
what a boundless immorality, would be promoted by so scandalous
an exhibition as awaited them. The season of nocturnal gloom in
which -these mysteries were performed, and the inviolable secrecy
which accompanied the celebration of them, added to the inviting
solitude of the scene, conspired at once to break down all the bar-
riers of restraint, to overturn all the fortitude of manly virtue, and
to rend the veil of modesty from the blushing face or virgin inno-
cence. At length licentious passion trampled upon the moet
sacred obstacles which law and religion united to raise against it.
The bacchanal, frantic with midnight intemperance, polluted the
secret sanctuary, and prostitution sat throned upon the very altars
of the gods.
The eftect UJ?On the vulgar multitude cannot be doubted, how-
ever different 1t might be upon the few of higher intellect and
higher _pursuit. By them the most subli!f~e portions of t~e ancient
mystenes would be awfully felt. Nothing can be conceived more
solemn than the rites of initiation into the greater mysteries, as
described by Apuleius and Dion Chrysostome, who had both gone
through the awful ceremony,-notbing more tremendous than the
ecenery exhibited before the eyes of the terrified aspirant. After
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
entering the grand vestibule of the mystic shrine; he was led by
the hierophant, amid surrounding darkness and incumbent hor-
rors, through all those extended aisles, winding avenues, and
gloomy adyta, equally belonging to the mystic temples of Egypt,
Eleusis, and India. "It was," says Stobreus, as quoted by War-
burton, in his Divine Legation of Moses, " a Wide and fearful
march through ni{:\'ht and darkness. Presently the ground began
to rock beneath his feet, the whole temple trembled, and strange
and dreadful voices were heard through the Inidni~ht silence. To
these succeeded other louder and more terrific nmses, resembling
thtmder; while quick and vivid flashes of lightnin~ darted through
the cavern, displaying to his view many ghastly s1~hts and hide-
ous spectres, emblematical of the various vices, diseases, infirm-
ities, and calamities, incident to that state of terrestrial bondage
from which his struggling soul was now goin~ to emei·ge, as well
as of the horrors and penal torments of the gmlty in a future state.
The temple of the Cecropian goddess roared from its inmost re-
cesses; the holy torches of Eleusis were waved on high by mimic
furies; the snakes of Triptolemus hissed a loud defiance, and the
howling of the infernal dogs resounded through the awful gloom,
which resembled the malignant and imperfect light of the moon
when partially obscured by clouds. At this period, all the pa-
geants of vulgar idolatry-all the train of gods, supernal and
infernal, passed in awful succession before him; and a hymn, called
. the Theology of Idols, recounting the genealogy and functions of
each, was sung : afterwards the whole fabulous detail was so-
lemnly recanted by the mystagogue; a divine hymn, in honour of
ETERNAL AND lMli!UTABLE TRUTH, was chanted, and the profound-
er m)'steries commenced. And now, arrived on the verge of death
and mitiation, every thing wears a dreadful aspect : it is all hor-
ror, trembling, and astonishment. An icy chilness seizes his
· limbs : a copious dew, like the damp of real death, bathes his tem-
ples: he staggers, and his senses begin to fail, when the scene is
of a sudden changed, and the doors of the interior and splendidly
illumined temple are thrown wide open. A miraculous and divine
light discloses itself, and shining plains and flowering meadows
open on all hands before him. 'Accessi confinium mortis,' says
Apuleius, ' et calcato Proserpime limine, per omnia vectus ele-
ments remeavi; nocte medio SOLEM candido coruscantem lumine.'
Arrived at .the bourn of mortality, after having trod the gloomy
threshold of Proserpine, I passed rapidly through all the sur-
roundin~ elements, and, at deep midnight, beheld the sun shining
in meridian splendour. The clouds of mental error and the shades
of real darkne~s.~cing now a~e dissipate~, both t~t; s<?ul and the
body of the Imtiated expenenced a delightful vtcissitude; and
while the latter, purified With lustrations, bounded in a blaze of
glory, the former dissolved in a tide qf overwhelming transport.
At that periodof virtuous and triumphant exaltation, according to
the divine Plato, they ·saw celestial beauty in all the dazzling radi-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 45
ance of its perfection; when, joining with the glorified chorus·,
they were admitted to the beatific t:Uion, and were initiated into the
most blessed of all mysteries."
The author of the apocryphal WISDOM OF SoLOMON bas pre-
served a most curious Jewish tradition, relative to the nature of
the Ejp'_Ptian plague of darkness, which intimates that the votaries
of Osms were visited with the very terrors which they employed
in his mysteries. The passage is not only strikingly illustrative
of what is gone before, but is extremely sublime:-
"When unrighteous men thought to oppress the holy nation,
they, bein!f shut up in their houses, the pnsoners of darkness, and
fettered wxth the bonds of a long night, lay there, fugitives from
the Eternal Providence. For, while they were supposed to lie hid
in their secret sins, they were scattered under a dark veil of for~t­
fulness, being horridly astonished, and troubled with stran~ ap-
paritions. For, neither might the corner that held them keep them
from fear, but noises, as of waters falling down, sounded about
them, and sad visions appeared unto them with heavy counte-
nances. No power of the fire Inight give them light, neither could
the bright flames of the stars endure to lighten that horrible night.
Only there appeared unto them a fire kindled of itself, very dread-
ful; for being much terrified, they thought the things they saw, to
be worse than the sight they saw not. As for the illusions of art-
magic, they were put down, and their vaunting in wisdom was re-
proved with disgrace : for they who promised to drive away ter-
rors and troubles from a sick soul, were sick themselves of fear,
worthy to be laughed at. For though no terrible thing tlid fear
them, yet being scared with beasts that passed by, and hissing of
serpents, they died for fear, refusing to look upon the air, which
could on no side be avoided ; they, sleeping the same sleep that
night, wherein they could do nothing, and which came upon·
them out of the bottoms of inevitable hell, were partly vexed with
monstrous apparitions, and partly fainted, their heart failing them,
-for sudden fear, and unlooked-for, came upon them. So, then,
whosoever fell down, was strditly kept, shut up in a prison without
iron bars. Whether it were a whistling wind, or a melodious noise
of birds among the spreading branches, or a pleasing fall of water
running violently, or a hideous noise of stones cast down, or a
running that could not be seen of skipping beasts, or a roaring
voice of most savage wild beasts, or a rebounding echo from the
hollow mountains; these things made them to swoon for fear. For
the whole world shined with light, and none were hindered in their
labour; over them only was spread a heavy night, an image of
that darkness which should afterwards receive them."
On this interesting subject it would be easy to follow through
the mystl!ries of all nations, and write a volume ; but after
stating that the initiatory ceremonies of Freemasons, and those of
the Vehme Gericht, or secret tribunal, once existing in Germany,
seem to derive their origin from this source, .I shall merely give a
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PlliESTCilAFT Ilf ALL AGES.
few words of Taliesin, relative to their celebration in Britain, and
return to the regular order of my subject.
A.nlong the apparatus of the art-magic which the Druids used in
this ancient ceremony of being born ~n, was a cauldron ; and,
as in all other mysteries, and in the initiation of a. Freemason, men
with naked swords stood within the portal to cut down every cow-
ard who would fain turn back before he had passed through the
terrors of inau!flllation ; the Druids also, it appears, had to sail
over the water m this ceremony.
"Th.Ii.ce the number," says Taliesin, "that would have filled
Prydwen, (the magic shield ofArthur, in which he sailed with seven
champions,) we entered upon the deep,~xcepting seven, none
have returned from Ca.er Sidi. Am I not contending for the praise
of that lore which was four times reviewed in the quadrangular
enclosure ? As the first sentence, was it not uttered from the
cauldron? Is not this the cauldron of the ruler of the deep? With
the ridge of _pearls around its bOrder, it will not boil the food of a.
coward who IS not bound by his oath. Against him will be lifted
the bright gleaming sword, and in the hand of the sword-bearer
shall he be left ; and before the gates of hell shall the horns of light
be burning. When we went "1\<ith Arthur in his splendid labours,
excepting seven, none returned from Caer Vediwid. Am I not
contending for the honour of a lore which deserves attention? In
the quadrangular enclosure, in the island with the strong door, the
twilight and the pitchy darkness were mixed together, while bright
wine was the beverage placed before the narrow circle. Thiice
the number that would have filled Prydwen we embarked upon
the sea. ;~xcepting seven, none returned from Caer Rigor. I
will not redeem the multitudes with the ensign of the governor.
Beyond the enclosure of glass they beheld not the prowess of
Arthur. They knew not on what day the stroke would be given,
nor a.t what hour in the serene day the agitated person would be
born, or who preserved his going into the dales of the possession
of the waters. They knew not the brindled ox with the thick
headband. When we went "1\<ith Arthur of mournful memory,
excepting seven, none returned from Caer Vandwy."
Caer Rigor, Sidi, Vediwid, etc., are but different names for the
Druidical enclosure of Stonehenge, or, as they styledit, the Ark of
the World. The numbers seven have evidently reference to the
lieven persons of the ark; Noah himself being represented, ac.
cording to custom, by Arthur.
In another place, Taliesin alludes to the doctrine of the me•
tempsychosis, which was taught in those mysteries. " I was
first modelled in the form of a pure man, in the hall of Ceridwep,
(the ship goddess,) who subjected me to penance. Though small
within my ark and modest in my deportment, I was great. A
sanctuary carried me above the surface of the earth. Whilst I
was enclosed within its ribs the sweet a.wen rendered me complete;
and my law, without audible language, was imparted to me by the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PlUBSTCaAFT llf ALL AGES. 47
old giantess darkly smiling in her wrath ; but her claim was not
regretted when she set saiL I fted in the form of a fair grain ol.
pare whe&t; upon the edge of a covering cloth she caught me in
her fangs. In appearance she was as large as a proud mare,
which she also resembled (the Ceres-Hippa of the Greeks, who
similarly received Bacchus into her womb) ; then was she swelling-
aut, ·like a ship upon the waters. Into a dark receptacle she cast
me.. She carried me back into the sea of Dylan. It was an
auspicious omen to me when she happily suffocated me ; God, the
Lord, freely set me at large."
· To a timid asJ?irant, the hlerophant says, " Thy coming without
external purity, 1s a pledge that I will not receive thee. t Take out
the gloomy one. Out of the recevtacle which is thy aversion, did
I obtain the rainbow."-See Dar:iSs Celtic Mytholoqy.
It may seem widely -i\·andering from Greece to )jritain; but it
only shows more strikingly the oneness of the pagan faith.- And
now to return.
The priests thus providing for the tastes of all parties, wealth,
})OWer, and unlimited influence became their own. All these
things were sources of gain ; and whoever would form some idea
of the wealth of the Grecian priesthood, let him read in Herodotus
·ofthe immense riches conferred on the oracular temples by Crresus
and other monarchs. Let him also learn the following particulars
from Diodorus Siculus : " The principal hoards of treasure, both
in bullion and coined money, were in their temples, which were
crowded with presents of immense value, brought by the super-
stitious from every part of Greece. These temples were considered
as national banks ; and the priests officiated as bankers,-not
always, indeed, the most honest, as was once proved at Athens,
where the state treasurers, having expended or embezzled the
public money, had the audacity to set .fire to that part of the
tem~le of Minerva where the treasure was contained; by which
sacnlegious act that magnificent fane was near being wholly con-
sumed. Their purpose, however, was fully answered, since the
registers of the temple were reported to have perished with the
treasures, and all responsibility precluded."
The temple just mentioned, the superb fane of Jupiter Olympius
at Elis, and that of Apollo at Delphi, were the principal of the
three sacred depositones. The pnests at all times concealed the
total sum of the treasures lodged· in them with too much caution
for us to know the amount; yet, when the Phocenses, urged to
despair by the exactions of the Thebans, seized on the treasures
of Delphi, they amounted to 10,000 talents-above 2,250,0001.
aterling-nnd probably that was but a small portion of what holy
perfidy had previously secured. The deposits at the great temple
of Ephesus, considered through all ages as inviolable, probably
far exceeded those of the three last mentioned.
The spirit of avarice, which in all times characterized the J,>riest-
hood, and prompted them to such immense accumulation, 1s not
oigit<Zed by Coogle
48 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
more detestable than dangerous; for, let any one reflect what
must be the consequence to a nation where the monarch and the
priest are in coalition, as is usuallr the case, and the monarch,
as is usually the case too, is watchmg to extinguish every.spark
of popular freedom ;-what, I say, must be the conseqt~ence when
such overwhelming resources are within his reach? The fate of
Greece is a melancholy warning on the subject. These immense
treasures were eventually seized upon by rapacious conquerors,
and their soldiers paid by them to enslave these renowned states;
and thus the coin drained from the people by the hands of priest.,
craft, became in the hands of kingcraft the means of their d~
struction. So has it been in every country. So was it in Pales-
tine-so in ancient Rome-in Constantinople; and so pre-emi-
nently in India. To that country let us now proceed.
pt '
49
CHAPTER VIII.
INDIA.•
TuB ancient and venerable Hindostan furnishes our last and
most triumphant demonstration of the nature ofpagan priestcraft.
-In Greece we have seen that, notwithstanding the daring, restless,
and intellectual character of the people, it contrived to obtain a
most signal influence ; but in India, with a people of a gentler
temperament, and where no bold spirits, like Homer and the
philosophers of Greece, had ventured to make the national
theology popularly familiar, priestcraft assumed its most fearless
and determined air. In all other lands it did not fail to place
itself in the first rank of honour and power ; in this it went a step
further,-and promulgating a dogma diametrically opposite to the
humanizing doctrine of the Bible, that, "God made of one blood
-all the nations of the earth;" it riveted its chains indissolubly on
the mind of that mighty empire. Priestcraft here exhibits a mar-
·vellous spectacle.. The perfection of its craft, and the utter self-
-ishness of ils spir\t, are proclaimed by the fact of millions on
millions bound, from the earliest ages to the present hour, in the
chains of the most slavish and soul-quelling castes, and in the
servility of a religious creed so subtilly framed, that it almost
makes bopeless the moral regeneration of the swarming mr.riads
of these vastregions. I have already repeatedly stated that 1t par-
takes, in common with the whole pa!mn world, in one general
mythological system, and I shall not awell on its features more
particularly. In Mauriee'R copious Indian Antiquities, whence I
shall chiefly draw what I have to say, may be found ample details
ofthe Hindoo religion. It is ~ell known, from a variety of works,
that this venerable empire claims the highest antiquity, not merely
of national existence, but of the possession of knowledge in
philosophy, literature, and the arts; it is equally known, too,
since Sir William "Jones laid open the antique stores of the
Sanserit language, that this religion has all the common features
-of those mythologies, on which I have already dwelt. It has its
triad of ~ds, its doctrine of metempsychosis, its practice of the
Phallic bcentiousness, and the horrors of human sacrifice and
self-immolation. Who has not heard of the burning of Indian
widows--o( the bloody and wholesale self-slaughter at the temple
of Jaggernath-{)f the destruction of children, now restrained by
British interference-and of the absolute dominance of the
E
oigit<Zed by Coogle
50 PlUESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
Brahmins!' I shall pass, therefore, hastily over these ·matters,
and confine myself principally to the task of disJ.>laying, in the
Brahminical hierarchy, an example of priestcraft m its most de-
cided, undisguised, subtle, and triumphant character,-priestcraft,
at once in full flower and full fruit; in that state at which it has
always aimed, but never, not even in the bloody reign of the papal
church, ever attained elsewhere,-stamping itself on the heart of
a great nation in its broadest and must imperishable style, in all
its avowed despotism, icy selfishness, imperturbable pride, and cool
arrogance of fanatical power. ·
Two great sects onceexisted here,-those ofBuddh and Brahma:,
which preserved an inviolable separation, except in the temple of
Jaggernath, where, seemin~ to forget all their former prejudices,
they united in the commissiOn of lust and cruelty.
It is the Brahminical sect only which will now demand notice.
These profess the mildest of doctrines, refuse to kill any living
creature for food, and subsist on milk, fruit, and vegetables. Yet,
wlui.t is at first sight most remarkable, and which cannot be ac-
counted for by any other means than that of the immutable nature
of corrupted religion, they not only inflict on themselves, under
the character of Yogees, the most horrible austerities ; but have
for ages enco~ed the destruction of female children; did till re-
strained by BritiSh power, and that but recently, encourage, and,
under the influence of tne most powerful social causes, render
almost necessary, the immolation of widows; sanction aud stimu-
late, annually, thousands of simple victims to destroy themselves
at the shrine of the monstrous Jaggernath; and, till recently,
sacrificed not only animals but men. · In fact, the ambitious Brah-
mins, by the greatest cruelties, crushed, before A. D. 1000, the rival
aect of Buddh, which now exists chiefly in Burmah and China.
Of human sacrifices, the express ordination of the Rudhiradhy-
aya, or sanguinary chapter of the Calica Purana, in the fifth volume
of the Asiatic Researches, is sufficient testimony. No precepts
can be conceived more express, nor, indeed, more horrible, tlum
those which this tremendous chapter enjoins.
"By a human sacrifice, attended with the forms here laid down,
Deva, the goddess Cali, the black goddess of destruction, is pleased
1000 years.
" By a human· sacrifice, Camachya, Chandica, and Bhairava,
who assume any shape, are pleased 1000 years. An oblation of
blood which has been rendered pure by holy texts,·is equal to am-
brosia; the head and flesh also afford much delight to Cluindica.
Let, therefore, the learned, when paying adoratiQn to the goddess,
offer blood and the head; and when performing the sacrifice to
fire, make oblations of flesh." .
Here follow numerous minute directions, none of which I shall
quote, except one ;-itself sufficiently horrid.
" Let the sacrificer say, Hrang, hring! Cali, Cali! 0, horrid-
,g, Jb,Google
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
toothed goddess ! eat, cut, destroy all the malignant; cut with this
axe; bind, bind; seize, seize i drink blood! spheng, spheng! se-
cure, secure ! salutations to Cali !"
For the Phallic contaminations, let this passage from Maurice
auffice. Abundant matter of the like nature might be added; but
the less said on this subject the better. or the recent existence of
such things, Buchanan's account of the temple of Jaggernath may
satisfy the curious reader.
" What I shall offer on this head will be taken from two au-
thentic books, written at very different periods, and therefore fully
decisive as to the general prevalence of the institution from age to
age,-the Anciennes Relations, and Les Voyages de M. Tavernier,
-the former written in the 9th, the latter in the 17th century. .
" Incited, unquestionably, by the hieroglyphic emblems of vice
so conspicuously elevated and strikingly painted in the temple of
Mahadeo, the priests of that deity industriously selected the most
beautiful females that could be found, and, in their tenderest years,
with great pomp and solemnity, consecrated them, as it is im-
piously called, to the service of the divinity of the pagoda. They
were trained in every art to delude and delight; and, to the fascin-
ation ofexternal beauty, their artful betrayers added the attractions
arising from mental accom"plishments. Thus was an invariable
rule of the Hindoos, that women have no concern with literature,·
dispensed with on this infamous occasion. The moment these
hapless creatures reached maturity, they fell victims to the lust of
the Brahmins. They were early taught to practise the most al-
luring blandishments, to roll the expressive eye of wantonpleasure,
and to invite to criminal indulgence by stealing upon the beholder
the tender look of voluptuous languishing. They were instructed
to mould their elegant and airy forms into the most enticing atti-
tudes and the most lascivious gestures, while the rapid and most
graceful motion of their feet, adorned with golden bells and glit-
tering with jewels, kept unison with the exquisite melody of their
voices. Every pagoda has a band of these young syrens, whose
liusiness on great festivals is to dance in public before the idol, to
sing hymns in his honour, and in private to enrich the treasury of
the pagoda by the wages of prostitution. These women are not,
however, regarded in a dishonourable light; they are considered
as wedded to the idol, and they partake the veneration paid to him.
They are forbidden ever to desert the pagoda where they are edu-
cated, and are never permitted to marry; but the otfsprin~, if any,
of their criminal embraces, are considered sacred to the 1dol : the
boys are taught to play on the sacred instruments used at the fes-
tivals rand the daughters are devoted to the abandoned occupation
of their mothers.
" The reader has, doubtless, heard and read frequently of the
degeneracy and venality of PRIESTS ; and we know from Herod-
otus what scandalous prostitutions were suffered in honour of My-
litta; but a system of corruption, so systematical, so deliberate,
E 2
oigit<Zed by Coogle
52 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
and so nefarious,-and that professedly carried on in the nimle,
and for the advantage of religion,-;-stands perhaps unrivalled in
the history of the world, and the annals of infamy. It was by de-
grees that the Eleusinian worship arrived at the point of its ex-
treme enormity; and the obscenities, finally prevalent, were equally
regretted and disclaimed by the institutors; but in India we see
Rn avowed plan of shameless seduction and debauchery; the priest
himself converted into a base procurer; and the pa20da itSelf a
public brothel. The devout M~hometRn traveller, wliose journey
m India, in the ninth century, has been published by M, Renau-
dot, and from which account this description is partly taken, con-
cludes the article by a solemn thanksgiving to the Almighty, that
he and his nation were d~livered from the errors of infidelity,·and
were unstained by the enormities of so criminal a devotion."
In a country so immensely rich, and so obedient tG the dicta-
tions of priestcraft, the avance of the sacerdotal tribe would accu-
mulate enormous treasures. We have recently alluded to the
hoards gathered by priestly hftnds into the temples of Greece. In
the temple of Belus m Assyria, there were three prodigious statues,
not of cast, but of beaten gold, of Jupiter, Juno, and Rhea. That
of Jupiter was erect, in a walking attitude, forty feet in height ;
and weighed a thousand Babylonian talents. The statue of Rhea.
was of the same weight, but sitting on a throne of !fOld, with two
lions standing before her, and two huge serpt;nts m silver, each
weighing thirty talents. Juno was erect; wetghed eight hundred
talents; her right hand grtBped a serpent by the head, and her
left a golden sceptre, incrusted with gems. Before these stRtues
stood an altar of beaten gold, forty feet long, fifteen broad,
and five hundred talents in weight. On this altRr stood two vast
flagons, each weighing thirty talents ; two censers for incense,
each five hundred talents; and finally, three vessels for the con-
secrated wine, weishing nine hundred talents.
The statue of Nebuchadnezzar, in the plain of Dura, formed of
the gold heaped up by David and Solomon, Dr. Prideaux calcu-
lated at one thousand talents of gold, in value three millions and
a half sterling. · ·
Herodotus tells us, that Crresns frequently sent to Delphi amaz-
ing presents ; and burnt, in one holocaust, beds of gold and silver,
ornamental vessels of the same metals, purple robes, silken carpets,
and other rich furniture, which he consumed in one pile, to render
that oracle propitious; while the wealthiest citizens of Sardis
threw into the fire their most costly furniture: so that out of the
melted mass, one hundred and seventeen golden tiles were cast ;
the least, three spans long, the largest six, but all one span in
tnickness ; which were placed in the temple.
-When Cambyses burnt the temple of Thebes in Egypt, there
were saved from the flames t~ree hundred talents of gold, and two
thousand three hundred talents of silter; and amongst the. spoils
of that temple was a stupendous circle of gold, inscribed with the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IS' ALL AGES. 53.,
zodiacal characters, and astronomical figures, ~bicb ·encircled the
tomb of Oxymandias. At Memphis be obtained still greater
~~wcalili. ·
These seem astounding facts; but before the sacerdotal wealth
and templar splendour of India, they shrink into insignificance.
The principal use which the Indians seem to have made of the
immense quantities of bullion, from age to age, imJ.m.rted into their
empire, was to melt it down into statues of tl:ieir de1ties; if, indeed,
by that title we may denominate the personified attributes of the
Almighty, and the elements of nature. Their pagodas were
crowned with these golden and sih-er statues; they thought any
inferior metal must deJmUie the divinity. Every hoUBe, too, was
crowded with statues o1 their ancestors ; those ancestors that were
exalted to the stars for their piety, or valour. The very altars of
the temples were of massy gold ; the incense flamed in censers of
gold, and golden chalices bore their sacred oil, honey, and wine.
The temple of Auruna, the day-star, had its lofty walls of porphyry
internally covered with broad plates of gold, sculptured in rays,
that, diverging every way, dazzled the beholder; while the radiant
image of the deity burned in gems of infinite variety and unequal-
led beauty, on the spangled floor. The floor of the great temple
of Naugracut, even so late as in the time of Mandesloe, was
covered with plates of gold; and thus the Hindoo, in his devotion,
trampled upon the god of halfmankind. ·
. In the processions also, made in honour of their idols, the ut-
most magnificence prevailed. Thev then brought forth all the
wealth of the temple ; and every order of people strove to outvie
each oilier in displaying their riches, and adding to the pomp.
The elephants marched first, richly decorated with gold and silver
ornaments studded with I?recious stones ; chariots overlaid with
thOlle metals, and loaded Wlth them in ingots, advanced next; then
followed the sacred steel'S, coupled together wiili yokes of gold,
and a train of the noblest and most beautiful beasts of the forest,
by nature fierce and sanguinary, but rendered mild and tractable
by the skill of man : an immense multitude of priests, carrying
vessels, plates, dishes, and other utensils, all ofgold, adorned with
. Qiamonds, rubies, and sapphires, for the sumptuous feast of which
the gods were to partake, brought up the rear. During all this
time, the air was rent with the sound of various instruments, mar-
tialanli festive ; and the dancing girls displayed in their sumptuous
apparel, the wealth of whole provinces, exhausted to decorate
beauty devoted to religion.
. The Arabians burst upon India like a torrent ;-their merciless
grasp seized the whole Jlrey! The western provinces first felt their
fury. The rajah of Lahore, when taken, had about his neck six-
teen strings ofjewels ; each of which W88 valued at a hundred and
eighty thousand rupees ; and the whole at three hundred and
twenty thousand pounds sterling. A sum, however, comparatively
trifling, when compared with that of which the sultan o,f Gazna
oigit<Zed by Coogle
54 P..IESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
afte.rwards became mas~r in his eruption into that province; .and
which Mirkhond states at seven millions of coin in gold. seven
hundred maunds of gold in ingots, together with an inestimable
quantity of pearls and precious stones. The maund is a Persian
weight, never estimated at less than forty pounds.
Let us attend this valiant marauder on another or two of his
plundering expeditions into Hindostan. At the holy fane of
Kreeshna, at Mathura, he found five great idols of pure gold, with
eyes of rubies, of immense value. He found also three hundred
idols of silver, which, being melted dow.n, loaded as many camels .
with bullion ; the usual load of a camel being from seven hundred
to one thousand two hundred pounds weighL At the ~eat temple
of Sumnaut, he found many thousan~ of gold and stlver idols of
smaller magnitude ; a chain of gold. which was suspended from
the roof, and weighed forty maunda ; besides an inestimable hoard
of jewels of the first water. This prince, a day or two before his
death, ordered his whole treasury to be placed before him; and
.having for some time, from his throne, feasted his eyes on the in-
nUmerable sacks of gold, and caskets ofprecious stones, burst into
tears-perhaps from the recollection of the bloodshed and atrocities
by which they had been accumulated-but more probably from the
feeling of the vanity of all·human cupidity and power,-a dismal
conviction that they could not save him, but that they must pass
to other hands, and he to the doom of eternity.
Immense quantities of the beautiful coins of Greece and Rome
are supposed to have passed to India in the great trade of the an-
cients with it, for spices, silks, ~s, and other precious articles,
and to have been, melted down m the crucible, without the least
regard to the grandeur of their design, the majesty of the charac-
ters impressed, or the beauty of their execution, and went to swell
the magnificence of the pagodas. We are well assured. that all the
great pagodas of India had com.J?lete sets, amounting to an immense
number, of the avaters and deities, which were deemed degraded if
they were of baser metal than silver and gold ; except in those
instances where their religion required their idol to be of stone, as
Jaggernath; which had. however, the richest jewels of Golconda
for eyes; and Vishnu, in the great basin of Catmandu, in Nepaul.
Such was the wealth gathered by the Tartars in this wonderful
country, that Mahmoud of Gazna made feasts that lasted amonth;
and the officers of his army rode on saddles of gold, glittering with
precious stones; and his descendant, Timur, made a feast on a de-
lightful P.lain, called Canaugha, or the treasury of roses, at which
was exhtbitcd such a display of gold and jewels, that, in compari-
son, the riches of Xerxes and Darius were trifling. The treasures
which Timur took in Delhi were most enormous;-precious stones,
pearls, rubies, and diamonds, thousands of which were torn from
the ears and necks of the native women ; and gold and gems from
their arms, ancles, and dress : gold and silver vessels, money, and
bullion, were carried away in such profusion by the army, that the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
~RIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.· 55
common soldiers absolutely refused to encumber themselves with
more; and an abundant harvest of plunder was left to futUre in-
vaders. . .
Mahmoud of Gazna, hearing astonishing accounts of the riches V
of the great pagoda of Sumnaut, whose roof was covered with
plates of gold, and encircled with rubies, emeralds, and other pre-
cious stones, besieged the place, and took it. On enterin!f the
temple, he was struck \\ith astonishment at the inestimable nches
it contained. In the fury of his Mahommedan zeal against idols,
he smote off the nose of the great image. A crowd of Brahmins,
frantic at his treatment of their god, offered the most ex:trava,aant
sums for. his desistance; but the soldiers of Mahmoud only prO-
ceeded with greater ardour to demolish it, when, behold! on break-
ing its body, it was found to be hollow, and to contain an infinite
varieo/ of diamonds, rubies, and pearls of a water so pure, and a
magnitude so uncommon, that the beholders were overwhelmed
with astonishment. But the riches accumulated by the priests of
this a.ftluent region were so immense, that they exceed the power
of the imagination to grasp them; and I shall leave this subject
with what Mr. Onne, in his History of Hindostan, tells us :-that
the Brahmins slumbered in the most luxuriant repose in these
splendid ·pagodas ; and that the numbers accommodated in the
body of the great ones, was astonishing. He acquaints us that
pilgrims came from all parts of the Peninsula to worship at that
of Seringham, but none without an offering of money ; that a
large part of the revenue of the island is allotted for the mainte-
nance of the Brahmins who inhabit it; and that these, with their
fa.nrl,lies, fonnerly composed a multitude, not less in number than
forty thousand souls, supported without labour, by the liberality
of superstition.
So much for the ease and affluence of the Brahminical life ; now
for a glance at that system which they had rendered so prolific of
20011 things ;-a system, the most awful that ever X>roceeded from
the genius of priestcraft, fertile in cunning and profitable schemes.
I have already shown, that in all nations the priests placed them-
selves at the head, and even controlled the king, as they often
c;hose him. But in India, the Brahmins went, as I have remarked,
still further. Here, in order to rivet for ever their chains on the
people, they did not merely represent themselves as a noble and
mv10lable race, but they divided the whole community into four
castes. They wrote a book, and entitled it, "The Institutes of
Menu," the son of Brahma. This book contained the whole code
of their religious laws, which, as proceeding from the divinity,
were to last for all time,-be for ever and indissolubly binding on
every Hindoo ; and not to be violated in the smallest degree·, except
on pain of forfeiting all civil privileges and enjoyments, of life
itself. and of incurring the torments of hell. T\lese castes were
to preserve for ever their respective stations. Those born in one,
were not only not to pass into another, but every man was bound
oigit<Zed by Coogle
56 . PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
to follow the profession of his father. WHatever might be the
. difference of genius, it must be crushed; whatever desire to amend
the eofldition of life, it must be extinguished; all variety of mind,
all variations of physical constitution, all unfitness for one trade,
station, or pursmt, went for nothing :-to this most infernal of
priestlyimpositions, man, with all his hopes and desires, his bodily
weaknesses, his mental aspirations or repugnances, m'dst succnmb,
and be lulled, or rather, cramped into an everlasting stupor, that
the privileged Brahmin might tax him and terrify him, and live
upon his labours, in .the boundless enjoyment of his 0'11111 pride, and
insolence, and lust. "By this arrangement," says Mr. Maurice,
;, it should he remembered the happiness and security of a vast ern•
pire was preserved through a long series of ages under their early
sovereigns; by curbing the fiery spirits of ambitious individuals,
intestine feuds were, in a great measure, prevented; the wants of
an immense population were amply provided for by the industrv
of the labouring classes, and the several branches of trade and
manufacture were carried to the utmost degree of nttainable per-
fection." A singular kind of happiness, and one which none but
a p1iest could have a conception of. To plunge a great nation into
the everlasting sleep and sluggishness of ecclesiastical despotism,
is to.secure its happiness !-the happiness of beasts maintained for
the value of their labour, and fattened for the butcher !-a happi-
ness, which, in the very sentence preceding, the writer terms "a
barbarous attempt to chain d?wn the powers of the burna!! soul,
to check the ardour of emulation, and damp the fire of gemus."
To establish this system, the Brahmins resorted to the daring
fraud of representing Menu-su~posed to be Noah-as not "mak-
in?" all men of the same blood, but as producing four different
tribes of men. The first, the Brahmins, from his mouth; the Be-'
cond, the Kettri, or rajahs, from his arm; the third, the Bice, or
merchants, from his thigh ; and the fourth, the Sooder, or labour-
ing tribe, from his foot! Thus, this doctrine once received as true,
an everlasting andimpassable bar was placed between each tribe
by divine authority. That it should not be endangered, the land
of India was declared holy; and the Hindoos were forbidden, by
all the terrors of temporal and eternal penalties, to go out of it.
The Brahmins having thus, in the early ages of superstitious ig-
norance, taken this strong ground, proceeded to fortify it still fur-
ther. The rajahs, or provincial rulers, were al_l chosen from their
own, or the war tribe; and the rnarajah, or supreme king, was al-
ways chosen by them, often from themselves, and was entirely in
their hands. By them he was educated, and moulded to their
lvishes; they were aJ?pointed, oy these divine institutes, his guard-
ians, and perpetual, malienable counsellors.
Having thus firmly seized and secured the whole political J.X>Wer,
they had only to rule, and enrich themselves out of a nation of
slaves, at their pleasure; paying them with promises of future
happiness, or terrifying them by threats of future vengeance, into
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 57
perfect pa~siveness : and so completely had this succeeded, that
for thousands of years their system has continued; and it is the
opinion of Sir William Jones, that so ingt>niously is it woven into
the souls of the }Iindoos, that they will be the very last people
eonverted to Christianity. For what, indeed, can be done with a
nation who, from time immemorial, have been accustomed to r~rd
dleir priests as beings of a higher nature,-their laws as emanations
from Heaven,-and themselves as the creatures ofan unescapable
destiny; who, on the one hand, are stunned with fear of future
torments, and, on the other, are exposed to the dagger of the first
man they meet, authorized by those pretendedly divine institutes
to cut down every1lpostate that he encounters? From such a con-
summate labyrinth of priestly art, nothingshort of a miracle seems
capable of rescuing them. .
The Brahmins, like the popish priests, for the arts of priests are
the same every where, reserve to themselves the inviolable right of
tending the Vedas, or holy books, and thus impose on the people
what doctrines they rleMe. So scrupulouslr do they guard against
the exposure of thetr real contents, that It is only in compara-
tively modem times that they have become known. A singular
story is told of the emperor Akbar, which, although considered by
many apocryphal, is equally indicative of Brahminical secrecy on
•this subject. Desiring to learn the Hindoo tenets, he applied to
the Brahmins and was refused. Hereupon he had the brother of
his faithful minister, Abul Jo'azil, a youth, brought up with a Brah-
min, under a feigued character: but, after a residence of ten years,
and at the moment of beinlf. about to return to court, owing to his
attachment to the Brahmins daughter, he confessed the fraud, and
would have been instantly stabbed by his preceptor, had he not
entreated him for mercy on his knees, and bound himself by the
mQSt solemn oaths, not to translate the Vedas, nor reveal the mys-
teries of the Brahmin creed. These oaths he faithfully kept during
the life of the old Brahmin: but afterward.~ he conceived himself
absolved from them, and to him has been attribuk!d the first pub-
lication of.the real contents of those sacred volumes.
But let us look at t.he system a little more at large. " Though,"
says Maurice, " the functions of government by the laws of Menu
devolved on the Kettri, or rajah tribe ; yet it is certain that, in
evt'ry age of the Indian empire, aspiring Brahmins have usurped
and swayed the imperial sceptre. But, in fact, there was no ne-
cessity for the Brahmin to grasp at empire,-he wielded both the
empire and the monarch. By an overstrained conception of the
priestl;v character, artfully encouraged, for political purposes, by ·
tbe pnest himself, an<l certainly not justified by any precept given
by Noah to his posterity, the Brahmin stood in the place of Deity
to the infatuated sons of Indian superstition; the will of Heaven
was thought to iRsue from his lips ; and his decision was reverenced
as the fiat of destiny, Thus, bOasting the positive interposition of
oigit<Zed by Coogle
58 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL· AGES.
the Deity in the fabrication of its sin~ar institutions ; guarded .
from infraction by the terror of exciting the divine wraih; and
directed principally by the sacred tribe, the Indian government
may be considered as a theocracy-a theocracy the more terrible,
because the name of God was perverted to sanction and support
the most dreadful species of despotism :-a despotism which, not
content with subjugating the body, tyrannized over the prostrate
faculties of the enslaved mind.
" An assembly of Brahmins sitting in judgment on a vicious, a
tyrannical king, may condemn him to death; and the sentence is
recorded to have been executed; but no crime affects the life of a
Brahinin. He may suffer temporary degradation from his caste,
but his blood must never stain the sword ofjustice; he is a portion
of the Deity. He is im;olable! he is invulnerable! he is im-
mortal!
" In eastern climes, where despotism has ever reigned in its
meridian terror, in order to impress the deeper awe and respect
upon the crowd that daily thronged around the tribunal, the hall
of justice was anciently surrounded with the Ininisters of venge-
ance, who generally inflicted in presence of the monarch the
sentence to which the culprit was doomed. The envenomed
serpent which was to sting him to death; the enraged elephant
that was to trample him beneath its feet; the dreadful instruments
that were to rend open his bowels, to tear his lacerated eye from
the socket., to impale alive, or saw the shuddering wreteh asunder,
were constantly at hand. The audience chamber, with the same
view, was decorated with the utmost cost and magnificence, and
the East was rifled of its jewels to adorn it. Whatever little
credit may in general be due to Philostratus, his description of
the palace of Musicanus too nearly resembles the accounts of our
own countrymen, of the present magnificence of some of the
rajahs, to be doubted, especially in those times when the hoarded
wealth of India had not been pillaged. The artificial vines of·
gold, adorned with buds of various colours in jewellery, and thick
set with prec~ous stones, emeralds, and rubies, hanging in clusters
to resemble grapes in their different stages to maturity; the silver
censers of perfume constantly borne before the ruler as a god;
the robe of gold and/urple with which he was invested; and the
litter of gold fringe with pearls, in which he was carried in a
march, or to the chase,-these were the appropriate ornaments
and distinctions of an Indian monarch.
"In short, whatever cc;>uld warmly interest the feelings, and
strongly agitate the passions of men; whatever influences hope ;
excites terror; all the engines of a most despotic superstition and
a. most refined policy, were set at work for the purpose of chain-
ing down to the prescribed duties of his caste, the mind of the
bigoted Hindoo. Hence his unaltered, unalterable attachment to
the national code and the Brahminical creed. As it has been in
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTClUFT IN ALL AGES. 59
India from the beginning, so will it continue to the end of time.
For the daring culprit who violates either, heaven has no forgive-
ness, and earth no place of shelter or repose !
" An adulteress is condemned to be devoured alive by dogs in
the public market-place. The adulterer is doomed to be bound
to an iron bed, heated red-hot, and burned to death. But what is
not a little remarkable, for the same crime a Brahmin is only to
be punished with ignominious tonsure. .
" For insulting a Brahmin, an iron stile, ten fingers long, shall
be thrust, red-hot, down the culprit's mouth. For offering only to
instruct him in his profession, boiling oil shall be dropped in his
mouth and ears. For stealing kine belonging to priests, the
offender shall instantly lose half one foot. An assaulter of a
Brahmin, with intent to kill, shall remain in hell for a hundred
years; for actually striking him, with like intent, a thousand
years. But though such frequent exceptions occur in favour of
Brahmins, none are made in favour of kings ! The Brahmin,-
eldest-bom of the gods,-who loads their altars with incense,
who feeds them with clarified honey, and whose, in fact, is the
wealth of the whole world, ever keeps his elevated station. To
maintain him in holy aud voluptuous mdolence, the Kettri, or rajah,
exposes his life in front of battle; the merchant covers the ocean
with his ships; the toiling husbandman incessantly tills the burn-
ing soil of India. We cannot doubt, after this, which of the
Indian castes compiled this volume from the rememhered Insti-
tute/1 of Menu. ·
"The everlasting servitude of the Soodra tribe is riveted upon
that unfortunate caste by the laws of destiny; since the Soodra
was born a slave, and even when emancipated by his indulgent
master, a slave he must continue: for, of a state which ill natural
fQ him, by whom can he be divested? The Soodra must be con-
tented to serve; this is his unalterable doom. To serve in the
family of a Brahmin is the highest glory, and leads him to
beatitude."
There is, ·however, a fifth tribe,-that of the outcasts from all
the rest,-the Chandelahs; those who have lost caste, and the
children of mixed marriages, that abhorrence of the Hindoo code;
for, if once permitted, it would overturn the whole artful system.
It is ordained that the Chandelahs exist remote from their fellow
creatures, amid the dirt and filth of the suburbs. Their sole wealth
must consist in dogs and asses ; their clothes must be the pol-
luted mantles of the dead; their dishes for food, broken pots;
their ornaments, rusty iron ; their food must be givea them in
potsherds, at a distance, that the giver may not be defiled by the
shade of their outcast bodies. Their business is to carry out the
corpses of those who die without kindred; thev are the public
executioners; and the whole that they can be 'heirs to, are the
clothes and miserable propertY of the wretched malefactors. Many
other particulars of this outcast tribe are added by authors on .
oigit<Zed by Coogle
60 PRIESTCRAFT l:'f ALL AGES.·
India, and they form in themselves no weak proof of the unre-
lenting spirit of the Hindoo code, that could thus doom a vast
class of people,-a fifth of the nation,-to unpitied and unlJlerited
wretchedness. An Indian, in his bigoted attachment to the
metempsychosis, would fly to save the life of a noxious reptile;
but were a Chandelah falling down a precipice, he would not
extend a hand to save him from destruction. In such abomina-
tion are the Chandelahs held on the Malabar side of India, that
if one chance to touch one of a superior tribe, he draws his sabre
and cuts him down on the spot. Death itself, that last refuge of·
the unfortunate, offers no comfort to him, affords no view of
felicity or reward. The gates of Jaggemath itself are shut against
him; and he is driven, with equal disgrace, from the society of
men and the temples of the ~·
Such is the p1cture of pnestcraft in India; such the terrible
spectacle of its effects, as they have existed there from nearly the
days of the Flood. Towards this horrible and disgusting goal, it
has laboured to lead men in all countries and all ages ; but here
alone, in the whole pagan world, it succeeded to the extent of its
diabolical desires. We might add numberless other features: the
propitiatory sacrifice of cows, and trees of gold, prescribed by the
avaricious Brahmins; the immunities and privileges with which
they have surrounded themselves; the bloody rites they have laid
on others, especially among the Mahrattas, where, even at the
presentday, human sacrifices are supposed to abound; the tortures
they have mduced the infatuated Yo!iees to inflict on theiUSelves-
some going naked all their lives, suftering their hair and beard to
grow till they cover their whole bodies,-standing motionless, in
the sun, in the most painful attitudes, for years, till their arms grow
fast above their heads, and their nails pierce through their clenched
hands,-scorching themselves over fires,-enclosing themselves in
cages,-and enacting other incredible horrors on themselves, for
the hope, inspired by the Brahmins, ofattaining everlasting felicity.
But the subj!'Ct is too revolting; I turn from it in indignation, and
, here close my review of priestcraft in the pagan world.
Since the former editions appeared, a gentleman who has long
resided in India has pointed out to me various particulars in this.
chapter which do not exactly accord with the present state of
tllin~ there. Some I have, accordingly, altered; and others, np-
pennng in the shape of extracts from other writers, I have suffered
to remain. The whole may Le regarded as a true picture of India
while the Brahmins retained their power there. The British have
now relieved them of much of their power, as well as of their
wealth; but, as regards priestcraft, this chapter exhibits its opera-.
tions in India so long as the Brahmins ruled, and so far as they
yet retain their influence. .
oigit<Zed by Coogle
61
CHAPTER IX.
TllE HEBREWS.
WE have now gone to and fro in the earth, and have walked up
and down in it; not, like a certain celebrated character, seeking
whom we might devour,.but inquiring who have been devoured of
priests; and every where we have made but one discovery; every
.where, in lands however distant, .and times howe\·er remote, a
suffering p,eople and a proud and imperious priesthood have been
found. Sinbad the sailor, in his multifarious and adventurous
wanderings, once chanced to land in a desert island, in which a
strange creature, the Old Man·of the Sea, leapt upon his shoul-
ders, and there, spite of all his efforts to dislodge him, night and
day, for a long time, maintained his station. By day, he com~l­
led poorSinbad, by a vigorous application of his heels to his nbs,
to go where he pleased,-beneath the trees, whence he plucked
fruit, or to the stream, where he drank. By night, he still clung,
even in his sleep, with such sensitiveness to his neck, that it was
impossible to unseat him. At length, a successful stratagem pre-
sented itself to Sinbad. He found a gourd, and squeezed into it
the juice of the grape, and set it in a certain place till it had fer-
mented, and became strong wine. .This he put to the mouth of
the Old Man of the Sea, who drank it greedily, became drunk, and
fell asleep so soundlr, that Sinbad unfolded his clinging legs froxq.
his breast, hurled htm from his shoulders, and, as he lay, crushed
his head with a stone. The adventure of Sinbad was awkward
enough, but that of poor human nature has been infinitely worse.
THE OLD MAN OF THE CHURCH, from age to age, from land to
land, has ridden on the shoulders of humanity, and set at defiance
all endeavours and all schemes to dislodge him. .Unlike the Old
Man of the Sea, whose best beverage was a brook, he is too well
inured to strong drinks to be readily overcome by them. He is
one of those drinkers called deep-stomached and strong-headed;
who sit out,all guests, dare and bear all spirituous potations, and
laugh, in invulnerable comfort, over the intoxication of the pros-
trated multitude. And what wonder? His seat has ever been at
the boards of princes. The most sparkling cup has not passed
him by untasted; the most fiery fluid has not daunted him. He
has received the vintages reserved solely for kings and their fa-
vourites ; and though there was blood in it, he luis not blenched.
The tears of misery dropped into it, could not render it too bitter;
the bloody sweat-drops of despair, too poisonous 1 though the sound
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL .AGES.
of battle was·in his ears, he ceased not to grasp the flagon-it was
music,-though martyrs burned at their stakes before him, and
the very glow of their fires came strongly upon him, he interruJ>ted
not his carottse, but only cooled more gratefully his wine. He has
q,ua.ffed the juice of all vines ; presided at the festivities of all na-
tions; poured libations to all gods; in the wild or~es of the an-
cient German and British forests he has revelled ; m the midnisrht
feast of skulls he has pledged the savage and the cannibal ; the
war feast of the wilderness, or the sacred banquet of the refined
Greek, alike found him a guest: he has taken the cup of pollution
from the hand of the Babylonian harlot ; and pledged, in the
robes of the Gallic primate, renunciation of the Christian re-
ligion with the atheist. Lover of all royal f~tes ; delighter in
the crimson-cushioned ease of all festivals in high places; soul
of all jollity where the plunderers and the deluders of man
met to rejotce over their achievements ; inspirer of all choice
schemes for the destruction ofliberty and genuine knowledge, when
the vintage of triumphant fraud ferments in his brain, till the
wine of God's wrath, m the shape of man's indignation, confound
him,-what shall move him from his livin~ throne ? From the
days of the Flood to those of Queen Victona of England he has
ridden on, exultingly, the everlasting incubus of the groaning
world.
We have perambulated the prime nations of paganism. It
would have been easy to have extended our researches further, to
have swelled our details to volumes ; but the object was only to
give a sample from the immense mass of ecclesiastical enormities.
We now come to the Holy Land; and to the only priesthood ever
expressly ordained of Heaven. It might have been expected that
thts would prove a splendid exception to the ~neral character of
the order; but alas !-as the Jewtsh dispensation was formed un-
der the pressing necessity of guarding against the idolatry of sur-
rounding nations, and as merely preparatory to a more $piritual
one, so it would seem as if one design of the Almi~hty had been
to show how radically mischievous and prone t{) evtl an ecclesias-
tical order is, under anr circumstances. The Jewish priests had
this advantage. over al others whatever, that they were one tribe
of a great family, to whom, in sharing out the land given to them
of God, the altar was made their sole inberitance,-the whole
country being divided amongst the other eleven tribes. But, not-
withstanding this fair title, so strongly did the univer11al !pirit of
priestcraft work in them, that their history may be comprised in a
few sentences, and is one of the most striking in the world. It be-
gan in Aaron with idolatry, accompanied by most pitiful evasions;
it showed itself in its.prime, in the sons of Eli, in shameless pecu-
lation and lewdness ; and it ended in the crucifixion of Christ!
Such a beginning-a middle-and an end-the world besides can-
not show.
When we hear Aaron telling the people, in the face of the most
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 63
astounding nnracles,-when the sound of God's trumpets, which
had shaken them to the earth in terror, had yet scarcely ceased
to ring in their ears,-whcn God himself, in a fiery majesty, that
made the mountain before them smoke and tremble "to ita base,
was at hand delivering to Moses his eternal law-hear him tell:·n
them to brin their golden ornaments, and he would make a
to go before them; and, in the next moment, telling Moses at
the people constrained him, and he threw the gold into the fire,
and "out came this calf," as if by accident,-we are filled with
contempt for sacerdotal sycophancy and time-serving.
When we read that" the.sons of Eli were the sons of Belial,-
they knew not the Lord :-and the priests' custom was, that when
any man offered sacrifice, the priest's servant came while the flesh
was in seething, with a flesh-hook of three teeth in his hand ; and
he struck it into the pal), or kettle, or cauldron, or pot ;-all that
the flesh-hook brought up, the priest took for himself. So they
did in Shiloh, to all the Israelites that came thither. Also, before
they burnt the fat the priest's servant came, and said to ·the man
that sacrificed, ' Give flesh to roallt for the priest, for he will not
have sodden flesh of thee, but raw.' And if any man said unto
him,' Let them not fail to burn the fat presently, and then take as
much as thy soul desireth ;' and then he would answer him,-
' Nay, but thou shalt give it me now; and if not, I will take it by
force.' Therefore the sin of the youn~ men was very great before
the Lord; for men abhorred the offenng of the Lord. Now Eli
was very old, and heard all that his sons did unto all Israel, and
how they lay with the,women that assembled at the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation.'' When we read this, we are on
fire with indignation. But when we hear the chief priests crying
out against Christ-the hope, nay, the great object. of the form-
ation of their nation,-the most meek, and pure, and beneficent
being that ever existed-" Away with this fellow! he is not fit to
live! Away with him! crucify him!" we are thunderstruck with
astonishment !-we are silenced, and satisfied for ever, of the
rooted and incurable malignancy of priestcraft. If God himself
descended from heaven, and char~ed a priestly hierarchy with cor.
ruption, they would tell him to his face, that he lied. They would
assail him as a slanderer and misrepresenter of the good, and raise,
if possible, his owu world in arms against him ! If the fate of all
other nations spoke to us in vain-that of the Jews should be an
eternal warning. The very priests which God ordained, first cor-
rupted, and then destroyed the kingdom. They began with idol·
atry, and ended with killing the Son of God himself. Their vic-
tims, the Jews, still walk before our eyes, a perpetual and tearful
testimony against them. It was the priests who mainly contri·
buted to annihilate them for ever as a people, and to disperse
them through a~l regions, the objects of the contempt, the loath·
ing, and the pitiless persecution of all ages, and of every race.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
...-·
64
CHAPTER X.
POPERY.
Oh that the free would stamp the impious name
Of Pope into the dust ! or write it there,
So that this blot upon the page of fame
Were as a serpent's path, which the light air
Erases, and the flat sands close behind !
Ye the oracre have heard ;
Lift the victory-flashing sword,
And cut the snaky knots of this foul Gordian word,
Which, weak itself as stubble, yet can bind
Into a mass, irrefragably firm,
The axes and the rods which awe mankind.
The sound has poison in it-'t is the sperm
Of what makes life lbul, cankerou3, and abhorred ;
Disdain not then, at thine appointed term,
To set thine armed heel on this reluctant worm.
8HBLLBY.
CHRIST appeared;-the career of paganism was checked ;-the fate
of Judaism was sealed. A character and a religion were placed
before the eyes of men hitherto inconceivable in the beauty and
philanthropy of their nature. Unlike all other founders of a
religious faith, Christ had no selfishness, no desire of dominance 1
and his system, unlike all other systems of worship, was bloodless,
boundlessly beneficent, inexpressibly pure, and, most marvellous
of all, went to break all bonds of body and soul; and to cast down
every temporal and every spiritual tyranny. It was a systerl!. cal-
culated for the whole wide universe ;-adapted to embrace men of
all climes, all ages, all ranks of life, or intellect; for the rich and
for the poor; for the savage and the civilized; for the fool and the
philosopher; for man, woman, and child ;-which, recognising the
grand doctrine, that " God made of one blood all the nations of
the earth," represented the Almighty as the Father, and all men as
brethren born to one universal love,-to the same inalienable
rights,-to the same eternal hope. He himself was the living
personification of his principles. Demolishing the most inveterate
prejudices of men, by appearin~ a poor man amongst the poor;
by tearing from aristocratic pnde and priestlr insolence, their
masks of most orthodox assurance; by proclaimmg, that the truth
which he taught should make all men free 1 by declaring that the
Gentiles lorded it over, and oppressed one another,_ but that it
~·
' oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIILSTCRAFT IN ALL AGES, 65
should not be so with his followers ; by pullin~ down with in-
dignation spiritual pride in high places, and calling the poor and
affiicted his brethren, and the objects of his tenderest regard,-he
laid the foundations of civil and religious freedom, of mental power
growing out of unrestrained mental energies, and of love and
knowledge co-equal in extension with the world. This perfect
freedom of universal man he guarded by leaving no DECREES; but
merely great and everlasting principles, intelligible·to the mind
and conscience of the whole human race; and on which men, in
all countries, might found institutions most consonant to their
wants. By declaring that "wherever two or three were met to-
gether in his name, he would be in the midst of them," he cut off,
for ever, every claim, the most specious, of priestly dominance;
and by expressi!ll{ his unqualified and indignant abhorrence of
every desire of his disciples "to call down fire from heaven upon
his enemies," or to forbid those to preach and work miracles in his
name, who did not immediately follow him, and conform to their
notions, he left to his church a light more resplendent than that
of the sun, on the subject of non-interference with the sacred
liberty and prerogatives of conscience.
One would have thought that, from this epoch, the arm of priest-
craft would have been broken ; that it would never more have
dared to raise its head ;-but it is a principle of shameless avidity
and audacity ; and it is exactly from this time that we trace the
most amazing career of its delusions and atrocities, down to the
very day of our own existence.
Who is not familiar with the hqrrors and arro~nt assumptions
of the papal church? Scarcely had the persecutions of the pagan
emperors ceased, when the Christian church became inundated
with corruptions and superstitions of every kind. Constantine
embraced Christianity; and almost the whole world embraced it
nominally with him. From a conversion of such a kind, the work
of regal example and popular interested hOJ.>CS0 what effects were
to be expected? The martial tyranny of anc1ent Rome, which had
subdued the world, was coming to an end. The wealth of which
a thoqsand states had been stripped, had turned to poison in her
bosom, and brought upon the stem mistress of bloodslied and tears,
that retribution from which national rapine and injustice never
eventually escape. But, as if the ghost of departed despotism
hovered over the Seven Hills, and sought only a fresh body to arise
in a worse shape, a new tyranny commenced in the form of priest-
craft, ten times more terrible and hateful than the old,-because it
WRS one which sought to subjugate not merely the _persons of men,
but to extinguish knowledge; to crush into everlasting childishness
the human mind; and to rule it, in its fatuity, with mystelies and
terrors. The times favoured the attempt. With the civil power
of the Roman empire, science and literature were disappearing.
A licentious army controlled the destiny of a debauched and effe-
JPinated people; and the Gothic and Hunnish nations, rushing in
. . F
oigit<Zed by Coogle
66. l'RIBSTCRAFT IN .U.L A8BS.
immense torrents over the superannuated states of Euro~, scat-
tered, for a. time, desolation, poverty, and ignorance. At this crisis,
while it had to deal with hordes of rough warriors, who, strong in
body, and boisterous in manner, had yet minds not .destitute of
great energies, and many traditional maxims of moral and judicial
excellence, but clothed in all the simple credulity of children,-up
rose the spirit of priestcmft in Rome, and assumed all ita ancient
and' inflated claims. As if the devil, stricken with malice at the
promulgation of Christianity, which threatened to annihilate his
power, had watched the opportunity to inflict on it the most fatal
wound, and had found no instrument so fa-rourable t6 biB purpose
as a priest,-such a glorious and signal triumph never yet was his
from the creation of the world! Had he devised a system for him~
self, he could not have pitched upon one like popery ;-a system
which, pretending to be that of Christ, suppressed the Bible,-ex-
tingu.ished knowledge,-locked up the human mind,-amused it
with the most ludkrous baubles,-and granted official .licences to
commit all species of crimes and impurity. Satan himself became
enthroned on the Seven Hills in the habtt of a. yriest, and grinned
his broadest delight amidst the public and umversal reign of ig-
norance, hypocrisy, venality, and lust.
As if the popes had studied the pagan hierarchies, they brought
into concentrated exercise all their various engines of power, de.
ception, and corruption. They could not, indeed, assert, as the
pagan priesthood had done, that they were of a higher origin than
the rest of mankind; and therefore entitled to sit as lUngs, to
choose all kin~, and rule over all kings ; for it was necessary to
preserve some public allegiance to the doctrines of Christianity ;......
but they took ground quite as effective. Ther declared them-
selves the authorized vicegerents of Heaven; makmg Christ's words
to Peter their charter--~' On this rock I will build my church,"-
hence asserting themselws to be the only true church, though
they never could show that St. Peter ever was at Rome at all· Ort
this ground, however--imough for the simple warriors of the time
-they proceeded to mle over nations and kings. On this ground
they proclaimed the infallibility of the pope and his conclave
of cardinals, and thus excluded all dissent. Their first act, having
once taken this station, was that which had been the practice of
J>riests in all eountries,-to shut up the true knowledge amongst
themselves. As the priests of Egypt and Greece enclose6 it in
mysteries, they wrapt the simple tmths of the gospel in mysterieli
too: as the Brahmins forbid any except their own order to read the
sacred Vedas, they shut up the Bible,-the very book ~ven to
enlighten the world ;-the very book which declared of Its own
contents, that "they were so clear that he who ran might read
them;" that they taught a way of life so perspicuous that "the
wayfaring man, though a fool, could not err therein." This was
the most daring and Rudacious act the world had then seen; but
this act once successful, the whole earth was in their power. The
PRIESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES. 67
people were ignorant; they taught them what they pleased. They
delivered all sorts of ludicrous and pemiciotis dogmas as Scripture ;
and who could contradict them ? So great became the ignorance
ofeven their own order, under this system, so completely became
the Bible a strange book, that when, in after ages, men began to
inquire; and to expose their delusions, a monk warned his audi·
ence to beware of these heretics, who had invented a new Jan·
guage, called Greek, and had written in it a book called the New
Testament, full of the most damnable doctrines. By every act of
insinuation, intimidation, forgery, and fraud, they not only raised
themselves to the rank of temporal princes, but lorded it over the
greatest kings with insolent impunity. The BAN, which we have
seen employed by the priests of Odin in the north, they adopted,
and made 1ts terrors felt throughout the whole Christian world.
Was a king refracto17-did he refuse the pontifical demand of
money-had he an OJ?Inion.of his own-a repugnance to comply
with papal influence m his affairs P-the thunders of the Vatican
were launched against him ; his kingdom was laid under the ban ;
all people were forbidden, on pain of eternal damnation, to trade
with liis subjects ; all churches were shut; the nation was of a
sudden deprived of all exterior exercise of its religion ; the altars
were despoiled of their ornaments; the crosses, the relics, the
images, the statues of the saints, were laid on the ground ; and, as
if the air itself were profaned, and might pollute them by its con-
tact, the priests carefully covered them up, even from their own
approach and veneration. The use of bells entirely ceased in all
churches; the bells themselves were removed from the steeples,
and laid on the ground with the other sacred utensils. Mass was
celebrated with sbut doors, ~nd none but the priests were admitted
to the holy institution. The clergy refused to marry, baptize, or
bnry ; the dead were obliged to be cast into ditches, or lay putre~
(ying on the ground; till the superstitious people, lookingon their
children who died without baptism as gone to perdition, and those
dead without burial amid the ceremonies of the church and in con-
secrated ground as seized on by the devil, rose in rebellious fury,
and obli~ed the prince to submit and humble himself before the
proud pnest of Rome.
Realms quake by turna : proud arbit:resa of grace,
Tb.e church, by mandate shadowing forth the power
She lj.I'J"Og&tes o'er heaven's eternal door,
Closea the gates of every ~red dlace.
Straight from the sun and tainte air's embrace
All Sllcred things arc covered; cheerful mom
Grows sad as night-no seemly garb is wom,
Nor is a face allowed to meet a face
With natural smile of greeting. Bells are dumb ;
Ditches n.re graves-funereal rites denie!l ;
. And in the church-yard he must take his bride
Who dares ·be wedded! Fancies thickly come
F2
oigit<Zed by Coogle
68 PRIESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES.
Into the pensive heart ill fortified,
And CO!Jlfortless despairs the soul benumb.
WORDSWORTH.
But not merely kings and kingdoms were thus circumstanced;
every individual, every parish was liable to be thus excommuni•
cated by the neighbouring priest. The man who offended one of
these powerful churchmen, however respected and influential in
his own neighbourhood over night, might the next morning behold
the hearse drawn up to his hall door,- significant emblem that
he was dead to all civil and religious rights, and that if he valued
his life, now at the mercy of any vile assassin, he must fly, and
leave his family and his property to the same tender regards w~ch
had thus outlawed himself.
The invention of monkery was a capital piece of priestly in~­
nuity. By this means the whole world became inundated Wlth
monks and friars,
Black, white, and grey, with all their trumpery.
A standing army of vigilant forces was set up in every kingdom :
into every town and village they entered ; in every house they be-
came familiar spies, ready to communicate the earliest symptoma
of insubordination to the papal tpanny, ready at n signal to carry
terror into every region, and nvet faster the chains of Rome.
Like the frogs of Egypt, ther came up and covered the earth ; they
crept into every dwelling; mto the very beds and knea~t tubs,
sparing not those of the king himself-till the land s with
them.
That they mi~ht have something to occupy the imagination of
the people, eqmvalent to the numerous idols, gorgeous temples,
imposing ceremonies, and licentious festivals of the heathen; not
only had they J?aintings of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, but
images of Chnst, of his mother, and of a thousand saints, who
were exalted to be objects of a veneration little to be distinguished
from worship in the minds of the deluded people. To these they
prayed; to these they made offerings. Splendid churches were
built, and adorned with every fascination of statnary and painting;
and carnivals, religious festivals, and processions ordained without
numJ>er, in which all the lewdness and licence of the pagan wor-
ship were revived. Instead of the charms which the pagans gal'e
as a protection against evil, they gave relics-bits of wood, hair,
old teeth, and a thousand other pieces of rubbish, which were
pretended to be parts, or to have been the property of, the saints,
and were endued with miraculous powers. Thus were men made
fast prisoners by ignorance, by the excitement of their imag!ml.-
tions, and by objects on which to in4ulge their credulity. But
other engines equally potent were set to work. Every principle
of terror, love, or shame in the human mind was appealed to.
Oral confession was invented. Every person was to confess his
sins to the priest. Thus the priest was put into possession of every
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRlESTCRAFT lS' ALL AG'ES. 69
thing which could enslave a man to him. Who was so pure in
life and thought that, after having unbosomed himself to his con-
fessor-made him the depository of his most secret though,ts, his
weakest or worst actions, dare any more to oypose or offend him?
liut the chains of shame and fear were not ul ; those of hope were
added. The priest had not only power to hear sins; but to pardon
them. He could shut up in hell, or let out; he was not content
with enslaving his follower in this world-he carried on his influ-
ence to the next, and even· invented a world, from the tortures of
which no·man could escape without his permission.
How all this could be built on til& foundation of Christianity
might be wondered at; but it should never be forgotten, that the
Bible was locked up, and every thing was directed to the acquisi-
tion of power and gain. Every thing was a source of gain. Be-
sides the direct tribute to the popedom, every shrine had its offer-
ings; every confession, every prayer had its price. Esca~ from
purgatory and indulgence in sm were regulated by a certam scale
of payment- The rich, the foolish, and Hie penitent were wheedled
out of their property to maintain the endless train of pope, cardi-
nals, priests, monks, nuns, confessors, and their subordinates. By
them abbeys, cathedrals, and churches were endowed with ample
l~,inds; and every one who incurred the censure of the church,
added also by fines to its funds. For a thousand years this system
was triumphant throughout Europe :
Thou heaven of earth ! what spells could pall thee then
In ominous eclipse! A thousand years·
Bred from the slime of deep Oppression's den,
Dyed all thy liquid light with blood and tears.
Over a great part of it, it reigns still.
Millions of monks and secular priests, all forbidden to marry,
all pampered in luxurious ease and abundance to voluptuousness,
were let loose on the female world as counsellors and confessors,
with secrecy in one hand, and amplest power of absolution from
sin in the other; and the effect on domestic purity may be readily
imagined. So, smoothly ran the course of popery for many a cen-
tury: but when, spite of all its efforts to the contrary, the human
mind again began to stir; when knowledge again re\;ved, and
the secrets of the church were curiously pried into; then this
terrible hierarchy, calling itself Christian, let loose its vengeance.
Fire and fagot, chains and dungeons, exterminating wars, .and in-
quisitions, those hells on earth, into which any man might, at a
moment's notice, be dragged from his family, his fireside, or his
bed, at the instigation of malice, envy, cupidity, or holy suspicion,
to tortures and death ; these were the tender mercies of the papal
priestcraft in the hour of its fear.
This is a brief sketch of what the popish church was : we will
now go on to give evidence of its spint and proceedings from the
best authenticated histories.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
70 PRrtSTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
I. Of the means employed to obtain power.
2. or the uses of that power.
3. or the arrogance ofthe popish priesthood in power.
4. Of their atrocities.
The evidence I shall select must necessarily be a very small
portion from the immense mass of the deeds of this church ; for
Its history is such a continued tissue of ambition, cupidity, and
vice in its most hateful shapes,-dissensions, frauds, ana blood-
shed, that nothing but the desire to draw from it a great moral
and political lesson, could induce me to wade through it.
...
oigit<Zed by Coogle
71
CHAPTER XI.
POPERY COSTINUED.
They willeth to be king's peres,
And higher than the emperour;
And some that weren but pore Creres
Now woollen waxe a warnour.-CHAUCZB..
But, Lorde, we lewcd men knowen no God but thee, and we, with
thyne help and thy grace, forsaken Nabugodonosor and hyslawes. For
he, in his prowd estate, wole have all men onder him, and he nele be onder
no man. He ondoeth thy lawcs that Lho~J ordenest to be kept, and
maketh hys awne lawes as hym lyketh, and so he maketh hym kynge
aboven all other·kynges of·the erth; and maketh men to worschupen hym
as a God, and thye gret aacryfice he hath ydone away.
THB PLOWBJUN'a PBAIBII..
THE history of the Romish church may be divided into three
great eras : the first, in which the popes were by all imaginable
arts and assumptions seeking to establish their power ; the second,
in which that power being established, they exercised over the
whole civilized world, and its proudest princes, the most audacious
insolence and despotism ; and the third, in which knowledge ad-
vancing, their power began to feel itself checked by the civil
princes and governments, and in which, irritated by.this resistance
and the dangers if foretold, they let loose the most vindictive fury
on -the world that the world has ever witnessed. · The first era may
be said to have continued till the pontificate of Gregory VII., or to
the eleventh century; the second, from the time of Gregory, who
established the power of the popedom absolutely above that of all
kings, till the fifteenth century, when the advance of the Eu-
ropean nations in stability and intelli~nce, showed the evident
decline of papal supremacy; and the thud, from this period to that
of the sixteenth century, when the Reformation bursting out,
exhibited them in the foul and horrible characters, not of the pas.-
tors, but the wholesale butchers of the church of Christ.
The earliest means which the bishops of Rome employed to
acquire power was, to assert their supremacy over all other
bishops of the Christian church. This was not granted at once,
but Jed to ma:ny quarrels with their contemporaries. The bishop
of Constantinople, in particular, contended with them for the
superiority; the emperor Constantine .having shifted thither the
seat of ~ivil government. These odious squabbles I must neces-
PIUESTCRAFt IN ALL AGES.
sarily pass over, and confine myself entirelr to the Romish
church, as being more intimately connected WJth our object. I
mar state, once for all, that the patriarchs of 'constantinople
mamtained the contest with Rome throu~h every age, to the
very time of the Reformation ; and many d1sgraceful expositions
of priestly wrath were made on both sides. Of the Greek church,
it. will be sufficient to say, that its prelates partook largely in the
arts and vices of priests in general, and plunged that church into
an abundance of ceremonious puerilities, in which it remains to
this day.
The attempts of the Romish pontiffs to ,grasp at power were
not crowned with instant success, either over their fellow priests
or contemporary princes. It was a work of time, of continual
stratagem, and the boldest acts of assumption. The full claims
of papal dominion over the Christian world in Europe were not
admitted, indeed, till the eleventh century.
In· the fourth century, Mosheim says, in the episcopal order the
bishop of Rome was the first in rank; and was distinguished by a
sort of pre-eminence over all other bishops. Prejudices, arismg
from a variety of causes, contributed to establish this superiority;
but it was chiefly owing to certain·circumstances of grandeur and
opulence, :by which mortals, for the most part, form their ideas of
pre-eminence and dignity, and which they generally confound
with the.reasons of a just and legal authority. The bishop of
Rome surpassed all his brethren in the magnificence and splendour
of the church over which he presided; in the riches ofhis revenuei!
and possessions; in the number and variety of his ministers; in
his credit with the people; and in his sumptuous and splendid
manner of living. These dazzling marks of human power, these
ambiguous proofs of true greatness and felicity, had such an
influence on the minds of the multitude, that the see of Rome
became, in this century, a most seducing object of sacerdotal
ambition. Hence it happened, that when a new pontiff WaS' to
be elected by the suffrages of t.he presbyters and the people, the
city of Rome was generally agitated with dissensions, tumults,
and cabals, whose consequences were often deplorable and fatal.
One of these, in 366, gave rise to a civil war, which was carried on
within the city of Rome with the utmost barbarity and fury, and
produced the most cruel massacres and depopulations.
The picture of the church which Milton makes Michael fore-
show to Adam was speedily realized.
The Spirit
Poured first on his apostles, whom he sends
To evangelize the nations, then on nil
Baptized, shall them with wondrous gifts endue
To speak all tongues, and do nil miracles,
As did their Lord before them. Thus they win
Great numbers of each nation, to receive
-W1th joy tho tidings brought from Heaven: at length,
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
Their ministry performed, and race well run,
Their doctrine and their story written left,
They die ; but in their room, as they forewarn,
Wolves shall succeed for teachers, grievous wolves,
Who all the sacred mysteries of Heaven
To their own vile aJvantages shall tum
Of lucre and ambition: and·the truth
With superstitions and traditions taint,
Left only in those written records pure,
Though not but by the Spirit understood.
Then shall they seek to avail themselves of names,
Places, and titles, and with these to join
Secular power ;·though feigning still to act
By spiritual ; to themselves appropriating
The Spirit of God, promised alike and given
To all believers ; and, from that pretence,
Spiritual laws by carnal power shall force
On every conscience; laws which none shall find
Left them unrolled, or what the Spirit within
Shall on the heart engrave. What will they then
But force the Spirit of grace itself, and bind
His consort Liberty? What but unbuild
His living temple, built by Faith to stand,
Their own faith, not another's ? For, on earth,
Who against faith and conscience can be heard
Infallible ? Yet many will presume :
Whence heavy persecution shall arise
On all, who in the worship persevere
Of spirit and truth; the rest, far greater part,
Will deem, in outward rites and specious forms,
Religion satisfied : truth shall retire,
Bestuck with slanderous darts, and works of faith
Rarely be found : so shall the world go on;
To good malignant, to bad men benign ;
U~der her own weight groaning: till the day
Appear of respiration to the just,
And vengeance to the wicked.
In this century, many of those steps were laid by which the
bishops of Rome afterwards mounted to the summit of ecclesias-
tical power and despotism. These steps were laid, partly by the
imprudence of the emperors, partly by the dexterity of the Roman
prelates. In the fiftli century, the declining power of the em-
perors left the pontiff at liberty to exercise authority almost with-
out control; and the irruptions of the barbarians contributed to
strengthen this authority; for, perceiving the subserviency of the
multitude to the bishop, they resolved to secure his interest and
inftue·nce by loading hxm with benefits and honours.
This was the second mode by which they acquired power,-
ftattering the surrounding kill~; serving them occasionally, with-
out regard to honour or principle, or, as they grew stronger, sub-
duing them by menaces to their will. In the seventh century, the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
74 PIUESTCIUFT IN ALL AGES,
Roman pontiffs used all sorts of methods to maintain and enlarge
the authoritr and pre-eminence they had acquired, by a grant from
the most odious tyrant that ever disgraced the annals of history.
Boniface III. engaged Phocas, that abolllinable despot, who waded
to the imperial throne through the blood of the emP!!ror Mauritius,
to take from the patriarch of Constantinople the title of (Ecumen-
ical, or Universal Bishop, and confer it upon him. ·
But the next, that is, the eighth century, was destined to lay the
real foundations of that amazing papal power, which afterwards
astonished and cursed the world, and that by a most characteristic
transaction. We observe, says Mosheim, m the French annals,
the following remarkable and shocking instance of the enormous
power that was, at this time, invested in the Roman ponti1I.
Pepin was mayor of the palace to Childeric III., and, in exercise
of that high office, was possessed, in reality, of the royal power;
but, not content with thts, he formed the design of dethronmg his
sovereign. He therefore sent ambassadors to Rome to inquire,
whether the Divine law did not permit a valiant atld warlike people
to dethrone a pusillanimous and indolent monarch, who wcu inca~
ofperforming any of the functions of royalty, and to substitute 'n hits
place one more worthy to ruk 'I Zachary had need of the aid of
Pepin; · he saw the vast advantages to be drawn from this con-
cession ; and his answer was all that could be wished. When this
decision of the pope was published in France, Pepin stri\)ped poor
Childeric of his royalty, and stepped immediately into hiS throne.
This decision was solemnly confirmed by his successor, Stephen
II., who went to France ; and being under the necessity of solicit-
ing Pepin's aid against the Lombards, dissolved the act of alle-
giance and fidelity which the usurper had sworn to Childeric ; and,
to render his title as firm as possible, anointed and crowned him,
his wife, and two sons.
This compliance of the Roman pontiffs proved an abundant
source of opulence and credit to them. Pepin marched into Italy,
subdued all the pope's enemies, and put him in possession of the
Grecian provinces m Italy. The exarch of Ravenna, when Pepin
retired, threw off the yoke, and besieged Rome ; but Pepin ·re-
turned, and compelled him again to deliver up the exarchate of
Ravenna and Pentapolis to the pontiff; and thus raised the bishop
of Rome to the rank of a temporal prince. After Pepin's (ieatli,
a new attack was made upon the papal territory, by Dideric, king
of the Lombards. The then po{>e, Adrian I., lied to Charle-
magne, the son of Pepin; who, havmg need of the pope's sanction
to seize on the eastern Roman empire, hastened to Rome, re-
pelled the pope's foes, and, in consideration of his sanction of his
ambitious views, added fresh territories to the papal see. Thus, by '
the most shameless and unprincipled trafficking between the pre-
tended vicar of Christ and these bold bad kings, did the yopea
acquire royalty and dominion, and gave to treason and regal rob-
bery the assumed sanction of Heaven! Once placed by liings on
oigit<Zed by Coogle
P!liESTCilAFT IN A_LL AGES, 15
timlporal thrones, these audacious priests soon showed their royal
contemporaries what companions they had admitted .amongst
_them. Not contented with what royal robbery had given them,
they speedily assailed their princely neighbours ; sought to hurl
them from their thrones, and stirred up some of the most bloody
wars on record. ' ·
This, then, was the foundation of all the wonderful after-history
of popery. Charlemagne was the greatest monarch of his own,
and one of the greatest of any age. He was king of the Franks,
that is, of all France and Germany, the Netherlands, and, in fact,
·of the greater part of Europe. But he aspired to become still more,
.to become emperor, and, by establishing his power in Italy, to lay
.a claim to the title of Roman emperor. The designs of the pope
and his own therefore jumped wonderfully together. It was a
.case of mutual aid for mutual ~n. Charlemagne supported the
claims of the_pope,established htm firmly in the temporal possession
-of the exarchate of Ravenna, which hisfather had conferred on
him; and the pope, on his part, crowned him in Rome, as RoMAN ·
EMPEROR. This crowning,however,did not take place till the reign
of the third pope from Zachary, the one who had given the king-
dom to Pepin ; and even then, Charlemagne, who was not blind
to the pretensions which the conferring of the imperial crown
-might give rise to in the papal bosom, was, so far as appearances
went, and according to hts own account, taking by surprise. He,
like his father, had not been very particular in hts means of ex.
tending his power. He had been left by his father in joint pos-
Bession of the kingdom with his brother Karlman. Karlman ilied
young, leaving two infant sons, whom Charlemagne very coolly
.Bet aside, and assumed to himself the sole kingship. Charle-
.magne, therefore, was in need, like his father, of priestly sanction
to his usurpation and false title, and the pope, now Hadrian I., was,
-equally with his predecessor, in need of help from Charlemagne.
The king of the Longobards was invading and lopping fast away
·the newly conferred papal territory; the pope cried out to Charle-
magne for help, and to spur him on, told him that this same Lon-
gobardic king was raising a party in favour of Charlemagne's two
de~ed nephews. Charlemagne had married the daughter of
this Longobardic monarch, but as she_gave no heir to the throne,
he had sent her· home, and thus the Longobard was equally the
foe of the pope and Charlemagne. He freed himself and Hadrian
from the assaults of the Longobard, and at 1he Easter festival at
Rome, swore, over the tomb of St. Peter, eternal friendship to the
PPJ.>C· On a future expedition to Rome, to support the common
clauns of the pope and himself, this crowning as Roman emperor
took place. At Christmas, in the year 800, as Charlemagne was
praying in St. Peter's, not in his usual Frankish costume, but in
that of a Roman patrician, the 'pope, Leo III., suddenly stepped
• to him, and putting on his head the crown, saluted him, amid the
.acclamations of the spectators, with the title of RoMAN EMPEROR,
oigit<Zed by Coogle
76 PRIESTCRAFT IN. ALL AGES.
Charlemagne pretended, that, had he been aware of the pope'•
intention, he would have stayed away from the church; but tliere
is little cause to believe him sincere in this declaration, though he
betrayed by it how deeply he felt the consequences which would
and did spring from this act. By thus receiVing the crown from the
pope, he sanctioned the doctrine already advanced, and afterwards
maintained for ages with such terrible effects, that all temporal
crowns were the gift of Jesus Christ, through his vicar on earth,
the pope. Charlemagne was, in fact, the grent founder of the
papa1 power: he gave to the papal see and to the clergy tithes On
all his vaBt empire; and it is a remarkable fact in the history of
tithes, that the greatest blot on the fame and humanity of Charle-
magne·springs oQt of this circumstance. He WaB the first to sub-
due the Saxons, and incorporate them in his great Frank empire1
but the stout resistance and repeated revolts of these brdve pagana
so roused his wrath, that he committed on them the most bloody
and wholesale massacres. On one single occaBion, he ·caused four
thousand five hundred of them to be cut to pieces. He was ac-
customed to drive them to the banks of n deep river, and give them
the choice of baptism or death. And what was it which more
than all roused the ire and inspirited the wrath of these stout
heathens? That they slwuld be cmnpelled to pay tithts! to give up
a tenth of their income to maintain priests, whose religion they
did not believe in, and w'hich came to them in this questionable
shape of compulsion and butchery.
Sorely did the successors of Charlemagne, the whole empire, the
whole of Europe, and the whole world rue these his concessions .to
and endowments of the Roman sec. Every succeeding age saw
the popes of Rome advancing in their pretensions over mankind,
and the professed chief priest of the peaceful Jesus, more and more
openly exhibiting himself aB the Man of Sin, and that most re-
volting of human objects -a proud priest. For two hundred
years did the popes strive to obtain mastery over the Grecian
church, and the world was scandalized by the shocking sight of
the two highest Christian bishops,.the pope of Rome and the
patriarch of Constantinople, launching the thunders of the ban
at each other's heads, arid formally pronouncing each other's depo-
sition I This repeated and pitiful spectacle terminated in the total
separation of the two churches in 1054, when the emissaries of the
pope, with a haughtr audacity which incensed the Greeks beyond
descrivtion, pronounced the ban on the patriarch in his own me-
tropolitan church, St. Sophia, and quitted the city.
But if all hope of ever ruling over the eastern church thus
vanished, the pontiff~ only the more tenaciously and successfully
pushed their plans of domination over church and state in western
Europe. In the ninth century, they produced for this purpose
the famous DECRETALs OF IsiDORE. This WaB a set of documents,
purporting to be the resolutions of councils, and the letters of
early pontiffs, said to be collected by Isidorus, a Spanish bishop.
,g, Jb,Google
PRIESTCIUFT IN ALL AGES. 77
The SpaniSh collection, however, was found to be grossly altered,
garbled, and interpolated, to suit the purpose of Pope Nicolaus 1.,
who adopted it. The interpolations were so clumsily made, that
they quoted writings as of the first centuries, which were not writ-
ten before the seventh; so that even the archbishops, when they
saw them, declared that no such matters were to be found in their
copies. But the pope sharply asked them, if they thought nothing
was genuine but what was in their book. They were the most
barefaced inventions, but they declared the po:pe to be the bishop
of the universal church; that he was supreme JUdge of all bishop11
and their afiBirs ; that he alone could call councils, or confirm
their resolutions; that it was a presumptuous usurpation of the
power and majesty of God, for any worldly prince or authority to
pass judgment on a bishop; that the authority of the Romistt
church proceeded immediately from Christ, etc. eu;. It was seen,
even in that age, that this was intended not onlr to elevate the
power of the popes above all power of municipalities or princes,
but to place in their hands a charter for the most boundless assump-
tions. The various princes of Europe, but especially those of
France, Germany, and Italy, by their quarrels, gave the finest op-
portunities for the assertion of these claims. They appealed to
the popes as men of peace and education, all umpires in their dif-
ferences, and thus favoured the idea of their being their proper
judges and superiors. But Henry III. of Germany adopted a
measure, whicli still more furthered this plan of assumption. Si-
mony had in that age become enormous throughout the church.
There was scarcely a bishop or archbishop who did not buy his
post, and sell his subordinate livings. As Henry could not hope
that so corrupt a set would reform themselves or one another,
he exhorted the pope, Leo IX., to undertake the work of purging
the church from this sin. The pope grasped zealously at the un-
dertaking, and travelling about in Germanr and France, held
synods,in which he set up and pulled down btshops as he pleased.
Little did Henry imagine whatfie was doing. AU monarchs had
hithertojealouslypreservedtheprerogativeofappointingthebishops
in their own countries, but this was taken as a formal concession
to the claims put forth by the celebrated Decretals ; and the time
was now come, when all those claims should be asserted in the
most daring manner, by one of the most daring spirits that ever
sat on a throne, temporal or ecclesiastical. This spirit was at
this very moment in the train of Leo IX.; and continued to stand
in the presence of no less than four other popes, whose.election he
influenced, and whose measures he directed, planning and matur-
ing the gigantic scheme of papal dominion, which he himself
finally stood forth to establish in the most determined contest with
the crov.'lled heads of Europe.
This was no other than the notorious Hildebrand, a Tuscan
monk, ·of mean origin, who, having arrived at the pontificate,
lltyled himself Gregory VII., and displayed to the world the full
PIUZITCllAPT IN ALL AGES,
measure of the priestly spirit. He was a man, says Mosheim, of
uncommon genius, whose ambition in forming the most arduous
p~jects, was ~ualled by his dexterity in bringing them into exe-
cution. SagaciOus, crafty, and intrepid, he ,suffered nothing to
escape his penetration, defeat his stratageiiiB, or daunt his courage.
Haughty and arrogant beyond all measure ; obstinate, impetuous,
and intractable ; be looked up to the summit of universal empire
with a wistful eye ; and laboured up the steep ascent with unin-
terrupted ardour, and invincible perseverance. Void of all ~
ciple, destitute of every virtuous feeling; be suffered little restraint
in his audacious pursuits from the dictates of religion, or the re-
monstrances of conscience. Not content to enlarge the jwisdie-
tion and augment the opulence of the see of Rome, he strove to
render the universal church subject to its despotism ; to dissolve
the jurisdiction.of kings and princes over the various orders of the
clergy ; and exclude them from the management of the revenuee
of the church. Nay, he would submit to his power the kings, em-
perors, and princes themselves ; and render their dominions tribut-
ary to Rome. Such were the pious and apostolic'exploits that em-
ployed Gregory VII. during his whole life; and which rendered
his pontificate a continual scene of tumult and bloodshed. His
conduct to France wa!l worthy of the country which had first given
princely power to the Roman priests, and of himself. It was just
that the realm which had put power into such hands for such pUl'o'
poses as it did, should be bitten by a fiendish ingratitude. Hilde-
brand declared France tributary to the see of Rome ; and ordered
his legates to demand yearly, in the most solemn manner, the pay-
ment of that tribute. Nothing can be more insolent than the lan-
guage in which the priest addressed himself to Philip of France,
recommending a humble and oblildn~ carriage, from this con-
sideration, that botA hi& kingdom amf Ins IOUl were under the c/omin..
ion af St. Peter, i. e. hi& vicar, the pope, who had power to ln"nd and
to lo088 him both on earth and in hear:en. Nothing escaped his all-
grasping ambition. He drew up an oath for the emperor of the
Romans, that is, of Germany, from whom he demanded a profes-
sion of subjection and obedience. He pretended Saxony was a
feudal tenure, having been a pious offering of Cl\arlemagne to the
see of Rome. He claimed Spain ; maintained it had been the
property of the apostolic see from the earliest times of the church 1
and the Spanish princes paid him tribute. He made the like at-
tempts on England; but found in William the Conqueror a differ-
ent subject. William granted his Peter-pence, but refused to do
homage for his crown. He wrote cireular letters to the German
princes, to Geysa, king of Hungary, and Sweno, king of Denmark,
demanding submission. The son of Demetrius, czar of the Rus-
aias, went to Rome, in consequence of his letters, to obtain the
kingdom which would devolve to him on his father's death, as a
gift from St. Peter, after profesaing subjection and allegiance to
the Prince of the Apostles,-a gift readily granted by the oflicioua
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PJIIEBTCllAFT IN ALL AGES,
pope, who was extremely liberal of what did not belong to him.
Demetrius Suinimer, dnke of Croatia and Dalmatia, was raised to
TOyalty by him in the year 1076; and solemnly proclaimed king
at Salona, on condition that he should pay annually two hundred
J:!~s of gold to St. Peter, at the Easter festival. Boleslaus II.,
of Poland, having killed Stanislaus, bishop of Cracow, Gre-
~ not onlyexcommunicated him,but hurled him from his throne1
dissolved the oath of allegiance which his subjects had taken; and
forbade, by an ex~ress, imperious edict, the nobles and clergy of
Poland from electing a new king without his leave.
· In Italy his success was transcendant. Matilda., the danghts
of Boniface, duke of Tuscany, the most powerful and opulent
princess of that country, found that neither ambition nor years
had extinguished the tender passion in the heart of Gregory,-and
as a testimony of the familiarity which existed between them, set-
ded all her possessions in Italy and elsewhere upon the church of
Rome; an aet, however, strongly resisted by her successor,and the
cause of many struggles and mucft. bloodshed.
To complete his despotic power over every Uhristian prince, this
odious priestclaimedthe sole right ofinstalling bishopsin theiroffice.
It had been the custom of every prince to appoint the bishops of his
own land. At the death of any one of these, the ring and crosier,
the insignia ofhis office, were sent to the monarch, and were by him
delivered to the one he appointed. This right Gregory claimed as
the sole prerogative of the pope ; thus designin~ to make the whole
church dependent-on him, and entirely subservient to all the papal
views-powerful instruments in the pontifical hands against both
prince and people, the world over. The resistance this claim met
with, led to terrible wars ; and we shall have occasion to mention
that with the e)llperor of Germany, and his humiliation before the
haughty priest, under the head of priestly arrogance.
But thts was not all. As Hildebrand resolved to set the popedom
aboveevery princedom, he knew that this could never be fully effect-
ed while the election of the popes was dependent on any prince, or
any_ lay power. He cut, therefore, at once the old practice on this
subjeet ; and this he did before he himself was seated on the
papal throne. It had always been the case, that the nobles, the
people, and the clergy of Rome had jointly made the election,
whiCh was confirmed by the emperor. On some occasions, when
the emperor was particularly powerful, he a~pointed the pope him-
self, BJ1d his choice was confirmed by the ctty. But on the death
of Nicolaus II., by the advice of Hildebrand, who was all-powerful,
the cardinals proceeded of themselves to elect the pope in the per--
son of Alexander I1., and Hildebrand, on beinghimself thus elected
on the death of Alexander, as Gregory VII., confirmed these elec-
tions by a fixed papal law. He did still more, for his ylans were
vast in their grasp ; he resolved to prohibit the mamage of the
clergy; nay, to divorce all those who were married!
This ~ perhaps the most daring measure which ever was at-
PRIESTCRAFT Ul· ALL AGES•
tempted in human history. None but the most hardy and head~
strong ofmen, but nt the same time proudly sensible of thestupend-
ous power which superstitio\\ had put into his hands, would have
ventured on such an experiment. To rend asunder the tenderest
ties of humanity ; to call on a vast body of men to devote them,-
selves to the worst. solitude of life, to walk amid the joyous an<L
affectionate charms of existence in a living death, for the sole .
purpose of giving the last finishing point to ilie despotism ofpriest-,
craft, was the work only of a giant mind, hardened to a perfect cal-
lousness to every feeling but that of a priestly ambition. Accord-.
ingly, this papal ordinance raised the most terrific storm. The
clergy every where exclaimed vehemently against it. Gregory was..
declared to be an heretical monk. He had indeed fixed on the
popedom the mark of antichrist, as foretold by St. Paul, in the
act of forbidding to marry. "The pope," said the clergy, "would
have men live like angels; let him see, then, where he will get hi~
angels to rule the people." An assembly of the church in Pari11r
passed a resolution not to obey tAis law..In Rouen the archbishop,.·
and in Burgos the papal legate, were maltreated when they at-
tempted to take away the wives of the clergy. In Germany it was,
worse. The atchbishop of Mayence scarcely dared to make the
pope's command known in his diocese. He first gave to his
bishops half a year's time for making it public ; tpen he called a
synod at Erfurt, in which the outcry was so fierce against him,-
that some declared it would be good, as an example, to murder
him. It was the same in Passau, and other places. In many
parts the bishops took the side of the enraged clergy, and Otto,
bishop of Constance, gave to his clergy a formal permission to
take wives. But all this did not move one atom the iron resolve of
Gregory. He knew too well his power ;.and forbidding the people
to receive any religious office at the hands of a married clergyman,
the superstitious mob rose in all countries against their clergy,
.
and compelled them to put away their wives and families; nay,
they chased them away themselves; and where the wretched hus-
bands strove to protect their own flesh and blood, they heaped all
sorts of insults and abuse upon them, and in many cases actuallr.
killed them. Within a hundred years the law of Gregory VI •
had triumphed over human nature, over the .laws of God and
Christ, and, stamping the undeniable mark of antichrist on the
.
church, had, by the law of celibacy, established a standing army
of tieless men throughout the world..as its sworn instruments, in-
dependent of the influences of humanity, but slaves to the court
of Rome.
Thus did this race of most shameless and audacious men, while
they called themselves the/astors of the flock of the meek and
·tender Christ, daringly an recklessly advance to a pitch of the
most amazing, enduring, and universal despotism over the loftiest
and most powerful monarchs, and over human nature itself. But
tu display effectively the full character of the Roman pontiffs, we
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 81
miiSt write volumes on their deeds in the thirteenth and fourteenth
centuries, which were filled with their arrogant demands from,
and assumptions over, the sovereign powers of Europe ; for, at
once, Conrad, duke of Suabia, and !c'rederic of Austria, were
actually beheaded at Naples by order of Clement IV.; and another
emperor, Henry IV., is supposed to have been poisoned by a wafer,
in takin~ the sacrament from a Dominican monk. Tbeu excom-
munications,-their wars,-their vindictive quarrels with kings,
and with eii.Ch other,-these thin~ swell the numerous volumes of
ecclesiastical history. Nothin~, mdeed, is so revolting in all the
annals of the world as the malignant bitterness of these vicars of
Christ against each upon different occasions. Of all the revolting
objects in existence, the most revolting is THE PROUD AND Di-
HUMAN PRIEST.
The example of the pontiffs was not lost on the bishops, abbots,
and inferior clergy. These, even in the time of Charlemagne, had
actually obtained for their tenants and their J>Ossessions an im-
munity from the jurisdiction of the counts and other magistrates;
as also from taxes and imposts of all kinds. But in this cent'!'Y.
they carried their pretensions still further,-aimed at the civil
government of the cities and territories in which they exercised a
spiritual dominion; and even aspired to the honours and authority
of dukes, marquises, and counts of the empire. The nobles were
for ever resisting, in their resl?ective domams, the assumptions of
the clergy in matters of ~unsdiction and other affairs. These,
therefore, seized the opportunity which was offered them by the
superstition of the times, to obtain from the kings these, the an-
cient rights of.the nobles ; and, as the influence of the bishops over
the people was greater .than that of the nobility, the kings, to
cecure the services of so powerful a priesthood, generally granted
their requests. Thus they became bishops and abbots clothed with
titles and dignities so foreign to their spiritual office,-reverend
dukes, marquises, counts, and viscounts!
It was not, however, by these means only that they ·sought do-
minion over the world. They had a thousand arts to rivet their
Jl<lWer into the souls of the people. CouNCILS were one of them.
As if the sacerdotal name and inculcations were not influential
enough, they sought, by collecting together all the dignities of the
church into one place, to invest them with a more awful charac-
ter; and to render the enactments of these priestly congresses
everlasting and indissoluble laws. These enactments were such
as-the worship of images, decreed in the council of Nice, 787;
the holding of a festival to the virgin mother, instituted by the
council of Mentz in the ninth century; taking the cup of the sa-
erament from the laity; and _
a declaration of the lawfulness of
breaking the most solemn engagements made to heretics, by the
eouncil of Constance in the fifteenth century; with a thousand
other despotic or absurd decrees against all sects, and all freedom
gf opinion; and for the institution of exclusive rites and festi,·als.
G
,g, Jb,Google
82
CHAPTER XII.
POPERY CONTINUED.
(C!=tity~peakl.)
I blame the Emperour Constantine,
That I am put to sic ruine,
And baniest from the kirk ;
For since he maid the Paip an king,
In Rome, I could get na lodging ;
But headlong in the dark.
But ladle Sensualitie,
Since then, has guidit this cuntrie,
And monie of the rest :
And now scho reulis all this land,
And has decreed, at her command,
That I should be supprest.
S1a DAVID LYNDSAY's SATYilB OF THB Tuns EsTAITEs.
THE establishment of monkery was another means of building up
a :perfect despotism by ~e P.apists. These orders.originated in the
third century, and multiplymg through successive ages; became,
not only vanous in name, but countless in number: spreadi~g in
swarms throughout every part of Christendom; propagating super-
stition, lewdness, and ignorance ; actintr as spies and supporters of
the papal dominion ; fixing themselves m every fertile and pleasant
spot: awing or wheedling the rich and foolish out of their lands
and possessions; and at length, bursting out into the most bitter
quanels amongst themselves, became J.ik:e so many rabid dogs be-
fore the public eye; and hastened, in no small degree, the downfall
of the church which had set them up for its own support. They,
as well as the secular clergy, were forbidden to marry; and hence
flowed a torrent of corruption throughout the world. In the third
century they formed, says Mosheim, connexions with those women
who had made vows of chastity; and it was an ordinary thing for
an ecclesiastic to admit one of these fair saints to his bed, but still
under the most solemn declarations that nothing passed contrary
io the rules of chastity and virtue ! These holy concubines were
called mulieres subintroduct<e.
Yet more,-round many a convent's blazing fire
Unhallowed threads of revelry are spun;
There Venus sits disguised like a nun,-
. While Bacqhus, clothed in semblance of a friar,
Pours out his choicest beverage, high and higher
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES.
Sparkling, until it cannot choose but run
Over the bowl, whose silver lip hath won
An instant kiss of masterful desire-
'l'o stay the precious waste: through every brain
'l'he domination of the sprightly juice
Spreads high conceits, to maddening fancy dear,
'l'ill the arched roof, with resolute abuse
Of its grave echoes, swells a choral strain,
Whose votive burden is-" Oua KINGDOM's HBRB!"
83
WoaDswoaru.
These fellows too, especially the Mendicants, wandering over
Europe, were the most active venders of relics, and propagators of
every superstitious notion and rite. Their licentiousness, so early
as the fifth century, was become proverbial; and they are said to
have excited thus early, in various places, the most dreadful tumults
and seditions. In the next century they multiplied so prodigiously
in the east, that whole armies might have been raised of them
without any sensible diminution of their numbers. In the west-
ern provinces also they were held in the highest veneration, and
both monks and nuns swarmed. In Great Britain, an abbot,
Cougal, persuaded an innumerable number of persons to abandon
the affairs, duties, and obligations of life, and to shut themselves
np in idleness,or to wander about in holy mischief. In the seventh
century, the contagion spread still more enormously. Heads of
families, striving to surpass each other's zeal for the .advancement
of monkery, shut up their children in convents, and devoted them
to a solitary life as the highest felicity. Abandoned profligates,
terrified by their ~ty consciences, were comforted with the delu-
sive hopes of parcfon, by leaving their fortune to monastic ~cieties.
Multitudes deprived their children of their rich lands and patri-
monies, to confer them on the monks, whose prayers were to render
the Deity propitious. In the following century the mania had
reached such a height, that emperors and kings conferred whole
provinces, cit_ies, and titles of honour on these creatures. In the
succeeding ages, so much did their licentiousness and ignorance
increase, that in the tenth century few of the monks knew the rules
of their own orders which they had sworn to obey, bu.t lived in the
most luxurious and prodigal magnificence with their concubines.
The fourteenth century was distracted with the contentions of the
various orders of the monks, who had grown so full of wealth,
luxury, pride, and all evil passions, that they ~ot only turned their
wrath againsteach other, but against the popes themselves. Their
bitter and presumptuous bickerings filled this century with the
most strange and hateful scenes.
We must pass over an infinite quantity of the monkish history,
and content ourselves with a few remarks of Mosheim, on their
state in the sixteenth century, at the time when their crimes and
excesses were bringing on them the Reformation. The prodigious
•warms of monks, says this historian, that overran Europe, were
G 2
oigit<Zed by Coogle
84 PIUESTCRAFT Jlf ALL AGES.
justly considered as burdens to society; and, nevertheless,' such wu
·"the genius of the age, an age that was just emer~ng from the thick-
est gloom of ignorance, and was suspended, as 1t were, in a dubious
situation between darkness and light, that these monastic drom~e
would have remained ·undisturbed, had they taken the least paine
to preserve any remains even of the external air of decency and
religion, which distinguished them in former times. But the Be-
nedictine, and other monkish fraternities, who were invested with
the privilegeofpossessingcertain landsand revenues,broke through
all restraint, and made the worst possible use of their opulence;
and, forgetful of the gravity of their character, and of the laws of
their order, rushed he&dlong into the shameless practiceof vice, in
all its various kinds and degrees. On the other hand, the Mendi-
cant orders, and especially the Dominicans and Franciscans, lost
their credit in a different way; for their rustic impudence, their
ridiculous superstitions, their ignorance, cruelty, and brutish man-
ners, tended to alienate from them the minds of the people. They
had the most barbarous aversion to the arts and sc1ences, and ex-
pressed a like abhorrence ofcertain learned men, who, being eagerly
desirous of enlightening the age, attacked their barbarism in both
their discourse and their writings :-this was the case with Rench-
lenius, Erasmus, and others.
The Dominicans possessed the greatest power and credit of all
monks ;-they J.>resided in church and state ; were confessors to
the great, and JUdges of the horrible Inquisition-circmustances
which put most of the European princes under their control; but,
not content with these means of influence, they resorted to the
most infamous frauds, to en11lave the ignorance of the age. One
of the most singular instances of this sort, is that recorded by
Reuchat, in his Histoire de Ia Reformation en Suisse, by Hottinger,
and by Bishop Burnet, in his Travels on the Continent. So re-
markable is it, that I must give it as compendiously as I can.
"The stratagem was in consequence of a rivalry between the
Dominicans and Franciscans, and more especially of their con-
troversy concernin~ the immaculate conception ofthe Virgin Mary.
The latter maintamed that she was born without the blemish of
original sin; the former asserted the contrary. The doctrine of
the Franciscans, in an age of superstition, could not but be po_pu-
lar ; and hence the Dominicans lost ground daily. To obvtate
this they resolved, at a Chapter held at Vimpsen in 1504, to have
recourse to fictitious visions, in which the people at that time had
an easy faith ; and they determined to make Bern the scene of
their operations. A lay-brother of the nan1e of Jetzer, an ex-
tremely simple fellow, was fixed on as the instrument 6f theae
delusions. One of the four Dominicans who had undertaken the
management of tilis plot, conveyed himself secretly into Jetzer'.!
cell, and about midnight appeared to him in a horrid figure, sur-
rounded with howling dogs, and seeming to blow fire .from his
nostrils by means of a box of combustibles which he held near hi&
PRIESTCRAFT I~ ALL AGES. 85
mouth. He apyroached Jetzer's bed, and told him he was th~
ghost of a Dommican who had been killed at Paris, as a judgment
of heaven for laying aside his monastic habit; that he was con-
demned to purgatory for this crime, and could only be rescued
from his horrible torments by his means. This story, accom-
panied with horrid cries and howlings, frightened poor Jetzer out
of what little wits be bad, and engaged him to do all in his power
to rescue the Dominican from his torment. The impostor then
told him, that nothing but the discipline of the whip applied for
eight days by the whole monastery, and Jetzer's lying,prostrate on
ihe ebapel floor in the form of a cross during mass, could effect
this. He added, these mortifications would· secure Jetzer the
peculiar favour of the blessed Virgin ; and told him he would
appear to him again, with two other spirits.
"Morning was no sooner come, than Jetzer related these par-
ticulars to the whole convent; who enjoined him to undergo all
that he was commanded, and promised to bear their part. The
deluded simpleton obeyed, and was admired as a saint by the mul-
titude who crowded about the convent; while the four friars
who managed the iQtposture, magnified, in the most pompous
manner, the mirdcle of this apparition in their sermons and con-
versations. Night after night the apparition was renewed, with
the addition of two other impostors, dressed like devils; and
Jetzer's faith was augmented, by hearin~ from the spectre all the
secret of his own life and thoughts, which the impostors had got
from his confessor. In this and subsequent scenes, whose enormi-
ties we must pass over, the impostor talked much to Jetzer of the
Dominican order; which, he said, was peculiarly dear to the blessed
Virgin; that the blessed Virgin knew herself to be born in original
sin; that the doctors who taught the contrary, were in purgatory;
that she abhorred the Franciscans for making her equal to her
Son; and that the town of Bern would be destroyed for harbour-
ing such plagues within it.
"In one of these apparitions, Jetzer, silly as he was, discovered
the similarity of the spectre's voice to that of the prior-who it
actually was-yet he did not suspect the fraud. The prior ap-
peared in various disguises; sometimes as St. Barbaro, sometimes
as St. Bernard, and, at length, as the Virgin herself, clothed in
the habit which adorned her statue at festivals. The little ima~es
that on these days are set on the altar, were used for angels, which
being tied..to a cord which passed through a pulley over Jetzer's
head; rose up and down, and danced about the pretended virgin
to ·increase the delilsion. The virgin addressed a long discourse
to Jetzer; gave him a marvellons wafer,-a host which turned, in
a·moment, from white to red; and, after various visits, in which
the greatest enormities were acted, the virgin-prior told Jetzer she
would give him the most undoubted proof of her Son's love, by
imprinting on him the five wounds that pierce!~ Jesus on the
c:ra~S, as she had done before to St. Lucia and St. Catherine.
~ - - - 1
86 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
Accordingly she took his hand, and thrust a large nail through it;
which threw the poor dupe into the greatest torment. The next
night, this masculine vir~ brought, as she pretended, some of
the linen in which Christ had been buried, to soften the wound;
and gave Jetzer a soporific draught, composed of the blood of an
unbaptized child, some· incense, consecrated. salt, quicksilver,
the hairs of a child's eyebrows, with some poisonous and stupe~
fying ingredients, min~led br the prior with magic ceremomes,
and a solemn dedication o himself to the devil, in hope of
his aid. This draught threw the poor wretch into a·letliargy,
during which the otlier four wounds were imprinted on his body.
When he awoke and discovered them, he fell mto unspeakable jay,
and believed himselfa representation of Christ in the various :parts'
of his passion. He was, in this state, exposed to the admiring
multitude on the jlrinci,Pal altar of the convent, to the great mor-
tification of the FranciScans. The Dominicans gave him some
other ilraughts, and threw him into convulsions, which were fo].
lowed by a voice. conveyed through a pipe into the mouths of tWO
images, one of Mary, the other of the child Jesus; the former iif
which had tears/ainted upon its cheeks in a lively manner. The
little Jesus aske his mother why she wept; she answered; for the
impious manner in which the Franciscans attributed to her the
honour that was due to him. ·
· " The apparitions, false prodigies, and abominable stratagelns
were repeated every night ; and were, at length, so grossly over-
acted, that even the simple Jetzer saw through them, and almost
killed the priest. Lest th1s discovery should spoil all, they thought
it best to own the whole to Jetzer, and prevailed on him to join
in the imposture; engaging him, by the most seducing promises
of opulence and glory, to carry on the delusion. Jetzer appeared
to be persuaded, but lest he should not be faithful and secret, they
attempted to poison him; and it was alone owing to the vigour of
his constitution that they did not succeed. Once they gave hiin
a rich spiced loaf, which growing green in a day or two, he threw
a piece to a wolrs whelps, kept in the monastery, and it killed them
immediately. Again they poisoned the host, or consecrated wafer;
but he vomited it up. In short, the most detestable means to
destroy him and his evidence were emrloyed; but he succeeded in
getting out of the convent, and throWing himself into the hands
of the magistrates. The whole thus came to be sifted out; com-
missioners were sent from Rome to examine the affair; and the
four.friars were solemnly degraded, and ,burnt alive on the last
day of May, 1509. Jetzer died soon after. Had be been de-
stroyed before this exposure, this execrable riot would have bee:n
hal)ded down to posterity as a stupendous miracle."
Rome co~d hasten to punish such vile frauds when they were
made public; but- ~e was not the less ready to practise them her-
self in the most daring manner, as I Rhall proceed to show: but
before leaving this strange case of Jetzer it may be remarked, that,
,g, Jb,Google
PIUESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES, 87
audacious and even incredible as it may appear to inany, it rests
UJX>n too good authority to be doubted. · Hundreds, indeed, of
similar instances might be brought, for the whole history of the
Romish church is that of fraud and delusion : but we need not go
out of our own country for similar transactions. Who does not
call to mind the a.ffai.r of the Maid of Kent, enacted in the reign of
Henry VIII., at the very moment he was aiming a death-blow at
J.>OPCI'Y• and in the face of a people whose eyes were opening to
the acts and impostures of the papal sorceress P The case may be
seen at large inHume. The substance of it is this : some monks,
and one Masters, the vicar of Aldington, in Kent, got hold of a
girl of the name of Elizabeth Barton, who was subject to con-
Vulsive fits, and induced her to en.ter into a system of deception
on the public mind. They gave out that she was inspired, and in
these fits delivered the words of the Virgin Mary. Having once
imposed, not merely on the common people, but eng-.tged the arch-
• bishop of Canterbury and other dignitaries of the church in the
affair, they proceeded to promulgate heavenly messages against
the reforming principles, and even threatened destruction to the
king, if he proceeded in them. The friars, throughout the country,
countenanced the delusion, and propagated it with all their zeal
and mi~ht. But they had a man to deal with very inauspicious
fo:r: theu purpose. He arrested the holy maid and her accom-
J>lices, brouglit them before the Star Chamber, and soon terrified
ihem into a full confession oftheir imposture. A most scandalous
scene was laid open. Her principal accomplices, Masters the
vicar, and Dr. Docking, a canon of Canterbury, were found tg
have a private entrance to her chamber, and to hav.e led a most
licentious life with her. The girl and six of her coadjutors were
executed ; and the Lishop of Rochester and others were con-
demned for misprision of treason, because they had .not revealed
her criminal speeches, and were thrown into prison. This was in
England in the sixteenth century, and is a good specimen of the
s~irit of monkery : but another of a more menacing kind was soon
g~ven. Their " Diana of the Ephesians" was in danger; the king
threatened not only to destroy popery, but to root out the monas-
teries i and it was not in the nature ofpriests and monks to resign
their ill-gotten booty without a struggle. They set up the stand-
ard of rebellion. A monk, the prior of Darlings in Lincolnshire,
was at the head of it. He marched with 20,000 men at his heels,
till he fell into the Iring's hands. But another army from the
north was not so easily scattered. This, which consisted of 40,000
men, called its enterprise the Pilgrimage of Grace. · Some priests
marched before, in the habits of their order, carrying crosses in
their hands ; in their banners was woven a crucifix, with the re~
presentation of the chalice, and the five wounds of Christ. They
wore on their sleeve an emblem of the five wounds, with the pame
of Jesus wrought in the middle: and all ~k an oath, that they
had no motive but lm:e to God, care of tk• king'8 per8on and issue;
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
and a desire to purify the nobility, drive base-born persons from
about the king, aml restore the church, and suppress heresy.
With those r•retensions they marched from place to place;· took
Hull, York, and other towns ; excited great disturbance and cla-
mour, and were not dispersed but with great difficulty. This was.
a trial of force where fraud could not succeed of itself, according to
the established papal policy; but FRAUD was alone one of its most
successful means of acquiring power, and in order to contemplate
this instrument more clearly, we must goback again to an earlier age.
To advance their puwer, the popes did not shrink from the most
audacious FORGERY. Such was that of the notorious DECRETAL&
of IsiDORE, already mentioned. ·
FRAUDS were multiplied abundantly to besot and blind the po-
• pular spirit. Monks, bishops, warriors, and men of the worst cha-
racters, nay, of neither character nor real existence, as St. George
and his dragon, were canonized, made into saints, and their lives
written in a manner most calculated to beguile the ignorance of ·
the times. Shrines were set up, and churches dedicated to them,
where people might pray for their aid. Dreams and miracles were
pretended to throw light on the places of their burial; solemn
processions were set on foot to discover and take them up ; and ·
the most miraculous powers attribute(\ to them. Bones were
buried, and afterwards pretended to be found, and declared by
heaven to belong to saints and martyrs: and bits of bone, hairs1
fl"agments of filthy r.ags, and other vile things, chips of the true
cross, etc., were sofd at enormous !?rices, as capable of working
cures and eftectin~ blessings of all k:mds. The milk of the Virgin,
and the blood of :St. Januarius, which liquefied on the day of .his
festival, were particularly famous in Italy. In England, at the
dissolution of the monasteries, many very curious ones were found.
The parings of St. Edmund's toes; some Of the coals that roasted
St. Lawrence; the girdle of the Virgin, shown in eleven several
places; the belt of St. Thomas of Lancaster, an infallible cure for
the head-ache; part of St. Thomas of Canterbury's shirt; but
chiefofall, the blood of Christ brought from Jerusalem, and shown
for many ages at Hales in Gloucestershire. This sacred blood
was not visible to any one in mortal sin; uut in doing sufficient
good work, i.e., paying money enough, it revealed itself. It was
preserved in a phial, one side of which was transparent, the other
opaque. Into this the monks every week put a fresh supply of
the blood of n duck; and, on any pilgrim arriving, the dark: side
was shown him, which threw him into such consternation for his
sinful state, that he generally purchased masses and made offer-
ings, till his money or fortune began to fail ; when the charitable
monks turned the clear side towards him ; he beheld the blood,
and went away happy in l}i.s regenerate condition.
Rumours were spread of prodigies to ue seen in certain places;
robbers were converted into martyrs ; tombs falsely given out to
be those of saints; and fuany monks travelled from place to place.
,g, Jb,Google
l'RIESTCRAFT IN ALL ~GES. 89
not only selling, with matchless impudence, their fictitious relics;
but deluding the eyes of the people with ludicrous combats with.
spirits· and genii. Ambrose, m his diRputes with the Arians, pro-
duced men possessed with devils, who, upon the approach of the
relics.of Gervasius and Protatius, were obliged to cry out that the
doctrine of the council of Nice on the Trinity was true, and that
of the Arians false. One of the precious maxims of the fourth
century was, " that it was an act of virtue to deceive ,and lie when
it could promote the interest of the. church,"-a ma.xim never
afterwards forgotten; PILGRIMAGES to distant holy pl!lCeS weril hit
upon as a strong means to employ the minds and enslave the
affections of numbers; houses, as that of the Virgin at Loretto,
were even said to descend from heaven to receive the sacred en-
thusiasm of men; and CRUSADES, those preposterous and tremen-
dous wars, whose details are filled with the most exquisite miseries,
and most abhorrent crimes a:nd licentiousness, were promoted, as
potentmeans of employing the power and exhausting the treasures
of kings. In those crusades, millions of miserable wretches, men,
women, and children-the low, the ignorant, the idle, the dissolute
---after wandering from kingdom to kingdom, the wonder and hor-
ror of the inhabitants, were consumed ; and from those crusades,
in return, loads of relics were poured out of Syria over all Europe.
AJl kinds of CEREMONIES and FESTIVALS were imported from
paganism for the same end. AURICULAR CONFESSION was in-
vented, by which the clergy became the keepers of the consciences
of the whole world; and the spiritual tyrants, not merely of the
weak and the wicked, but of every one capable of a sense of shame
or of fear. INDULGENCES were granted for the commission of
crimes, and yast sins pardoned for money and ~fts of lands :-and
PURGATORY that most subtle and profitable mvention of priest-
craft, was contrived, to give the church power over both living and
dead. Thus was the religion of Christ completely disfigured by
pagan ceremonies, and made to sanction all wickedness for the sake
ofgain. The very CELEBRATION OF WORSHIP Was ordered to be in
LATIN ; an unknown tongue to the great mass of those who heard
it, so that they were reduced not only to feed on the chaff and
garbage of priestly fables, but in the very temple of God himself
to fill themselves with mere wind and empty sounds. The bread
was taken from the children and gi,·en to the dogs. MAss was
invented-that splendid piece of mummery, which, filling the eyes
while it enlightened not the mind, was at once an instrument of
keeping the people in ignorance; of fixing them fast by the imagin-
1\tion to the hollow trunk of formality; and of filling the pockets
of the priests, by whom it was never performed without a fee;-
for the souls of the dead paid more or less according to the imagined
need. For many a great sinner, masses were established for ever ;
and whole lordships were given to the church, to support chapels
and cbantries for the peace of souls thafewere already beyond
rescue, or need of redemption. Every prayer and Paternoster had
oigit<Zed by Coogle
90 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
its price. Thus was heaven, earth, and all therein turned into a
source of beastly gain. The rage for dominion in the popes, says
Mosheim, was accompanied by a most insatiable avarice. All the
provinces of Europe were drained to enrich those spiritual tyrants,
who were perpetually gaping after new accessions of wealth.
Another mode of mftuence was, eonstituting churches ASYLUXS
for robbers and .murderers ; another, that dark one of EXCOMMU-
NICATION; another, the borrowing of ORDEALS from the pagans;
another, the·right of PATRONAGE; and, lastly, the terrors of the
INQUISITION.
Such were the multiplied means employed for the monopoly of
all the wealth, power, and honour of the universe by this infamous
race of vampires ; and we have but too many instances of their
determination,to quench and keep down knowledge in their treat~
ment ofBacon, Petre d'Abano, Arnold of Vilia Nuova, and Galileo ;
to say nothing of the reformers, whom they re£&l'l].ed as their
natural enemies, and destroyed without mercy. Mankind owes to
the .Roman church an everlasting reward of indignation for its
attempts to crush into imbecility the human mind, and to insult
it in its weakness with the most pitiful baubles and puerilities.
And for what end were all these outrages on humanity~these
mockeries of every thing great,-these blasphemies of every thing
holy, perpetrated? That they might wallow, undisturbed, in the
deepest mire of vice and sensuality, and heap upon those they had
deluded and stripped of property, of liberty, and of mind, msult
and derision. Let every man who hesita~es to set his hand to the
destruction of state religions, look on this picture of all enormities
that can disgrace our nature, and reftect that such is the inevitable
tendency of all priestcraft. Isit said we see nothing so bad now!'
And whr? Because man has got the upper hand of his tyrant, and
keeps h1m in awe,-not because the natureofpriestcraftisaltered;
and yet, let us tum but our eyes to Catholic countries, Spain, Por.;
tugal, Italy, and the scene 1s lamentable ; and even in our own
country, where free institutions check presumption, and the press
terrifies many a monster from the light of day,-we behold things
which make our hearts throb with indignation.
I had intended to give some specimens of papal lust, gluttony,
and other infamous liabits, but I tum from them in disgust ; for
those who seek them, ecclesiastical history is full. I shall only
devote in a succeeding chaJ?ter ~ few passages to this purpose, and
here a few pages to Ronush arrogance and atrocities, and then
dismiss this Harlot of the Seven Hills. ·
•
~'9''"ed by Coogle
-----~·....;.. -~ · · -·
91
CHAPTER XIII.
POPISH ARROGANCE.
Unless to Peter's chair the viewless wind
--'Must come and ask pennission where to blow,
What further empire would it have ?-for now
A ghostly domination, unconfined
As that by dreaming bards to love assigried,
Sits there in sober truth-to raise the low,
Perplex the wise, the strong to overthrow-
Through ea.rth and heaven te bind and to unbind !
Resist-the thunder quails thee !-crouch-rebuff
Shall be thy recompence ! from land.to land
The ancient thrones ofChristendom are stufr
For occupation of a magic wand,
And 'tis the pope that wields it-whether rough
Or smooth his front, our world is in his hand!
WOR])SWORTH.
WE have seen, in the progress of this volume, that arrogance and
atrocity are prominent and imperishable features in the priestly
character under all modes of faith ; and it might be imagined that
instances had been giv-en in various ages and nations which could
not be surpassed : but if we consider the fierce and audacious ex-
hibition of those qualities in the Romish priests, the greatness
-and extent of the kin~oms over which they exercised them, and
the mild and unassummg nature of the religion they professed to
be the teachers of, it must be confessed that the world has no simi-
lar examples to present. The J?Rpal church seemed actuated by a.
perfect furor and madness of mtolerance, haughty dictation, and
m!lolent cruelty.
This was obvious enough, while the popes were only thus ascend~
ing towards their full altitude ofpower; but when Gregory VII.,as
we have seen, placed them there, it ~w beyond all bounds. The
whole world now became a theatre, m which the proud monarchs
of Europe contested with the still prouder priests of Rome for
the ascendancy, and were forced to submit. For two centuries
especially did this contest rage ; all order in government was con-
founded; the people were every where excited by those audacious
pretenders against their rulers, and the most humiliating exam-
ples were given how vain it was, in a s~rstitious time, for the
/
/
92 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
proudestkin~ to battle against the soi-disant possessors ofthe keys
of heaven and hell. We may take as ~pecimens one or two cases
out of numbers.
Henzr IV., the king of Gennany, was the first to come into
atrife With Gregory, on the promulgation of his papal supremacy
doctrines. Henry was a great and powerful monarch, and at
first treated the presumption of the pope with scorn. The pope
formally deposed, in 1075, several Gennan bishops ; and menaced
five of the king's counsellors with the ban, if they did not within a
few months appear before him, to answer charges in the matter of
serving Henry. Henry regarded not the papal proceedin~, where-
upon lie was summoned by the pope's legates to apyear himself be-
fore the pontiff in Rome, and answer to the accusations against him.
At this unparalleled piece of arrogant assumption, Henry was en-
raged beyond bounds. He called a council at Wonns, where the
Gennan clergy advised the deposition of Gregory. A synod at
Piaccnza took up and concurred in the opinions of the council or
Wonns, and a deputy was sent to Rome to deliver.in the two
resolutions, together with a letter from the king. Henry's letter
began, " Henry, not by assumption, hut by the good ordinance of
God, king, to Hildebrand, not the pope, but the false monk."
The pope read this letter to the synod then sitting at Easter, and
the utmost fury broke out in the whole priestly assembly. All the
cardinals and bishops shouted out that they would stand by the
pope to the death, and Gregory then hurled his ban not only at
the king, but at all the Gennan and other bishops who had sup-
ported him. He declared all his subjects absolved from their al-
legiance, and called on them to depose him. Henry had .probably
never conceived what was the real power of the pope, nor had the
world before any just conception of it, but both were now to learn
it. As soon as the news of the pope's ban arrived in Gennany,
it let loose the fiercest passions; hatred revealed itself in broad ,
day; the most ambitious hopes were awakened, and the whole
nation was thrown into the most violent discord. Radolf, duke
of Suabia, Welf of Bavaria, and Berthold of Karnthen, had all en-
tertained thoughts of rebellion, but the deep-rooted awe of the
sanctity of a crowned head, had hitherto kept down these base
thoughts. But now the pope's curse dissipated this ·Sanctity, and
from all.sides the tempest drew together over the king's head. The
Saxons, whom he had lately subdued, a&'ain flew to arms; and when
Henry appealed to his princes for aui, thPy replied, that, so far
from that, if they were not freed from the ban before the year
expired, they would choose another kin~. This opened a new and
horrible view of things, of which, in his monarchical dignity, he
had never dreamed. He was like a man who suddenly saw.the
ground open under his feet. In his turn, he determined to hasten
to Rome and humble.himself before the pope ; but as his enemies,
Radolf,.Welf, and Bert4Jold, were in possession o~ the passes of the
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 93
Alps, he was obliged to proceed as secretly a11 possible, accompa-
nied only by his family and a few faithful servants, and making a
detour through Burgundy to pass over Mount Cenis into Italy.
It was in the most savage winter of 1077, a winter such as no man
had witnessed, when the ice in the Rhine continued from Martin-
mas till April, that he was obliged to pass the Alps. There was
no time for delay; his year was nearly at an end. He .had to
encounter the most incredible difficulties and hardships on the
ti.elds of ice and the glaciers, where every step Wall attended with
peril of life. Now they had to creep on their hands and feet,
now to slide on their backs, now on their stomachs, down the most
llippery declivities. The ladies were frequently obliged to be set ·
on ox-hides, and thus to be drawn along. In dangerous plact'S the
horses were obliged to be slid down first with tlieir feet tied, by
which many of them were killed; and thus travelled the royal
ftunily of Germany towards Italy, to implore the pardon of the
pope!-
. When he arrived in the plains of Lombardy, fortune presented
!Jim the most unexpected means of avenging his wrongs, and
bringing the haughty pope to terms. Many Lombard nobles and
bishops collected round bini with their troops, imagining that
be was come to chastise the hated pope ; but his mind was too
much terror-struck br the effect of the ban on his own kingdom,
to allow him to see this advantage: he hurried on; declining all as-
sistance. The pope, who had been struck with terror at the news
of Henry's approach, fled from Rome to Canossa, and sought
refn.,ae with the great Countess Matilda, of Tuscany. This ladr,
who was not ·only a very able, but a very politically powerful
woman, was now a widow, and in possession of Parma, Modena,
Reggio, Piacenza, Verona, and most of the cities of Tuscany. The
pope soon learned the real state of Henry's retinue and mind, and
' beCame proportionably insolent. He long refused to see the sup-
pliant monarch; and was only prevailed on by the earnest solicita-
tions of the countess to permit him to appear. He insisted that
he should present himself in a garb of penance; surrender his
crownwith an acknowledgment ofhis unworthiness ofit,and in sign
of his sincere repentance. The countess, by unremitted entreaty,
however, at lenrh beut the haughty mind of this proud pope to
forego a little o his vengeance, and Henry only stood three days
and three nights, in one of the severest winters ever known in the
world, in the court of the fortress, within which the pope Wall
feasting with the countess, said to be his mistress. He stood with.
biB·head and feet bare, and with.no other raiment than a wretched
woollen shirt, which was handed to him, the gates being closed so
thai he could not make his escape. On the fourth day he was
admitted to the pontiff, who scarcely qeigned to grant him the ab-
IObttien he sought, and refused to restore him to his throne, till
after further delay, and further indignities, In fact, the wholQ
of his future life was imbittered by his quarrel with the papal
oigit<Zed by Coogle
94 PRIESTCR.AFT IN ALL AGES.
power. The pope actually gave away hia kingdom to hia enemy,
}tadolfof Suabia ; and Henry, enraged, set up another pope, Cle-
ment III., and marching to Rome, was crowned as emperor there
bf him. His enemy, the proud and stubborn G~ry VII., flung
htmself into the arms of the Normans for protection, and died at
Salerno, in 108.'>. But though Gregory. was dead, his successors
maintained the same proud policy that he bad laid down, and the
same inveterate enmity against the kiDff who bad dared to set up
another pope. His kingdom was kept m constant uproar against
him; his enemies and subjects were excited against him; as he
put down one anti-king the popes set up another ; and what
was worst of all, they stirred up h1s own children against him ; so
that his whole life wa8 made miserable, hia death hastened, and, to
satisfy the vengeance of these monstrous priests, all Germany was
wasted with fire, sword, and party- fury.
The same unseemly strife continued between the successors of
Henry and the popes. Emperor was set up against emperor by
the popes, and the humiliating spectacle was seen of the. ambas-
sadors of the counter-kings in Rome suing to the pope, for him to
decide which was the true king; while.the haughty priest studiedly
deferred all attention to these solicitations, botli because it flattered
hia vanity, and because it brought cash into hia coffers. On the con-
trary, pope was set up against pope, so that there were sometimes
not less than three popes at once, and the boasted infallibility of
these arch-priests, and the unity of the church, was converted
into a farce. The superstition of the age, however, could endure
all this, and the Beast of the Seven Hills held his place for hia
appointed time. Even Frederic Barbarossa, the first of that name,
of Germany, the greatest and most successful monarch of hia
time, and who was said by hia contemporaries and the historians
of the ~e to have been the first to teach the Italians how to
treat therr popes, was compelled to hold the pope's stirrup at his
own coronation in 1155, though he showed tlie utmost diSposition
to resist this degrading custom. At first he refused it altogether ;
but the pope was so enraged, the cardinals so astonished that they
fled suddenly back ~ to Castellana, and the pope so steadily
refused to proceed Wlth the ceremony, or give him the customa.ry
kiss of peace, till he had made the necessary satisfaction, that 1t
was on the point of coming to a terrible and bloody rupture. To
prevent this, after spending a day in discussing the matter with
his princes, he submitted to the shameful requisition, kissed the
foot, a ceremony introduced so early as the eighth century, held the
stirrup, and became for the moment the church's huntble vassal.
It was, however, but for a moment: he became a most determined
resister of the papal assuntption, set up two or three rival popes,
and dt:ove the l:iostile popes to great extremities ; yet, exactly two
and twenty years afterwards, in order to obtain peace with the
haughty Altxander III., he submitted huntbly again to renounce
the rival popepalixtus UI., and to kiss the toe. Some writel'll affirm
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAPT IN ALL AGO.
that the pope, in this act of submission on the part of his great
antagonist, trod upon his neck and repeated, from Psalm xci.,
" Thou shalt tread upon the lion and tlie adder; the young lion
and the dragon shalt thou trample under foot."
Our gm.t poet receives it as a fact :-
Black demons hovering o'er his mitred head,
To ClllSar's successor the pontiff spe.ke:
" Ere I absolve thee, stoop ! that on thy neck,
Levelled with ee.rth, this foot of mine me.y tree.d."
Then he who to the e.lte.r he.d been led,
He whose strong arm the Orient could not check,
He who he.d held the Soldan e.t his beck,
Stooped, of e.ll glory disinherited,
And even the common dignity of me.n !
Amazement strikes the crowd.-WoaiiswoaTH.
To follow the full stream of papal arrogance and assumption,
would be to write the history of Europe till the Reformation.
There is nothing like it in the history of the world. The lower
the ori~n of many of. these audacious priests was, and some of
them, like Sixtus V., were even swine-herds, the more towering
was their insolence to the greatest princes, verifying thoroughly
the old proverb,-" Set a beggar on horse-back, and see how he
will ride." But whether of patrician or plebeian origin, the un-
natural elevation to which tlie domineering system of Romanism
raised them, turned their heads, and engaged them in the never-
ceasing contest,.not for the post of peacemakers, but of fomenters
of distraction; and where they met with opposition from princes,
there they hurled their most unquenchable vengeance.
Never was this fierce conflict 1\lOre signally carried on than
between Frederic II. of Germany, the grandson of Frederic I.,
and the popes Gregory IX. and Innocent IV. Frederic was a
great and prosperous monarch; in the crusades, and in Italy, he
was victonous and glorious. He kept a s.Plendid court, was fond
of ~y pageants, and the festive processtons and banquets with
which he received his queen, Isabella, sister of Henry III. of
England, has ever been a favourite theme with the romancers of
Germany. He was a man of genius, a ~ood poet, and the patron
of poets and men of genius; but all avatled him nothing, so long
as he would not succumb to the haughty demands of the popes.
His children, one after another, were stirred up, by offers ofcrowns
and other temptations, in insurrection against their father, as in
th~ case of Henry IV. His whole kingdom was overrun with beg-
ging monks, sent out in swarms to preach up rebellion against
him, and the sacred duty of destro:ying him, and refusing all
obedience to him. His bOsom friend, Peter of Vinea, his chancel-
lor, was, even in his old age, bribed by the pope to poison him;
which was proved l>y" the drink being given to a malefactor, who
died immediately. These things broke the monarch's heart. He
oigit<Zed by Coogle
96 P1!JESTCRAFT IX ALL AGES.:
died, and Innocent IV., who had been compelled to flee before
him to Lyons, returned to Rome triumphin!? publicly in his fall.
BuL the papal ven~eance could not be satisfied with the death of
such a man ; all Ius race must be extirp~tted; and this the bloody
priests pursued with untiring energy into effect. His· son Konr.1d
was rleposed from the dukedom of Suabia, and died in his attempts
to maintain his rights. The pope offered the kingdom of Italy
to the kings of England and France, and even of Denmark, by
the latter of whom the wicked offer was treated with the indigna-
tion it merited; but he preyailed on Charles of Anjou, brother of
the French kin~, to invade Italy: a circumstance which led to
the celebrated Sicilian Vespers; for the French in Sicily conducted
themselves 11·ith such insolence and cruelty, that the inhabitants
rose at the hour of vespers, at Easter, 1292, against them, and
murdered the whole of them, sparing only two noblemen in all
Sicily. In Catanea alone eight thousand French fell, men, women,
and children. This was the death-blow to the power of the
French in Italy, whereas before their insolence and ambition
were grown so great, that Charles of Anjou, under patronage of
the pope, ruled all Italy, declared he would be crowned emperor
of the Romans, that is, of Italy and Germany, and threatened to
pull the German emperor from his throne. The pope hurled his
ban against the Sicilians, but never could restore the French
power there. But as regards the throne of Frederic II., Man-
fred, another son of the emperor, died fighting in defence of his
invaded right; Konradin, the son of Konrad, a boy of sixteen, was
publicly beheaded; other branches of the family were imprisoned
for life; the great and illustrious race of the Iiohenstaufens was
extinguished, and the throne of Germany, after years of confusion,
put into the possession of another line, by this terrii.Jle race of so-
called vicegerents of the Prince of Peace.
It was Philip the Handsome of France, who, perhaps, gave at
length the most decided check to the mad arrogance of the popes
in their attempts to put themselves above all powers and J?rinces
on earth. They had now succeeded in completely overturnmg for
a time the German empire, and Boniface VII L, an old fellow, as
haughty and obstinate as any of his predecessors, had ascended
the papal chair, and resolved to carry out the policy of Gregory
VII. and Innocent Ill. He now tried the same arts on France,
as had succeeded so well in Germany; but here he deceived him-
~elf. He did not sufficiently consider, how different were the cir-
cumstances of the two nations. Germany was an elective empire.
The emperor was elected only for life, by a set of princes, called
Kurftirsten, or electoral princes. It was, therefore, always liable
to internal di turbances, and the emperor was comparatively at the
mercy of so powerful a foe as a pope, anned by the superstition
of the age with the belief of Divine authority, especially as 'the
emperors, proud of the title of Roman, were always mixed up with
the affairs of Italy, where the pope could so readily foment rebel-
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 97
lion. But France was an heredi~ry monarchy, it was now become
compact and strong, and the authority o( the king over his no-
bles as effective as that of the Ge1man emperor had ever been
feeble. Here, then, Boniface VIII. struck on a rock. France was
at war with England and Flanders, and the pope offered, as the
head of Christendom, to arbitrate aifuirs between his children the
kings; but France refused the arbitration on any such grounds.
The pope then summoned Philip to appear before him, to answer
for hiS attack on the earl of Flanders. Philip expressed his scorn
of his assumption, and laid a heavy tax.on all the clergy of the
kingdom to carry on the war. The contest with the pope now
commenced in earnest, and did not terminate for seven years, and
then only with the capture of the pope in his own palace, and his
death, chiefly out of mortification over his humiliation. During
this contest he, as usual, launched his bulls and curses on the king
of France ; but without effect. The king appealed to his nobles
and subjects in the assembly of the states, and they declared that
they would stand by him to the death against any foreign pretend-
ers to power in his kingdom, be they poiJeS or whoever they might.
In answer to the pope's bull, banning him for taxing the clergy,
Philip issued an order, forbidding the sending money or valuables
out of the kingdom; so that he cut off the pope's income entirely
from France, a matter which brought him for a while to his senses.
But this could not last, and, in 1301, Boniface launched his curse
at Philip, beginning thus, " Boniface, bishop, servant of the serv-
ants of God, to Philip, the king of the French, greeting. Fear
God and obey his commands. Know that thou art made subject to
us in spiritual and worldly things, etc. etc.; and whoever· believes
otherwise, we declare him'a heretic, etc." To this Philip replied
contemptuously, beginning, " Philip, by the grace of God, kin~ of
the French, to the pretended pope Boniface, little or no greetmg.
Know thy great wrongheadedness, that we are subject to no man
in temporal matters, etc., and that whoever thinks otherwise, we
hold him for foolish and absurd." He ordered the bulf to be pub-
licly burnt, the fact announced by sound of trumpet to the whole
city, and forbade any clergyman to travel to Rome. The pope went
on to declare Philip incapable of governin~, nnd to release all his
subjects from their o~~:ths of allegiance to him ; but this was not as ·
in Germany, it was here a mere empty sound. Philip, on the
contrary, declared, in conjunction \\ith a third assemblr, of the
states, that it was necessary to depose the pope, and William of
Nogaret, one of his most able and active ministers, hastened to
Italy, secured a large party amongst the cardinals and others, and
actually seized the pope in his palace at Anagni, the mortification
of which, as alreatly observed, hastened his death.
This failure of papal arrogance, this exposure of the actual
progress of public opmion in Europe, put an end to the highest
tfiglits of that arrogance,-the contest with all the greatest mon-
archs of Europe for supremacy. From this time forward we be-
H
oigit<Zed by Coogle
98 fRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
hold no more of these most singular displafS of prieatly ambition.
Such vaunts as that of the pope proclairmng hunself THE LORD
OF THE UNIVERSE, as he did m the twelfth century; such deeds u
that of chaining the Venetian ambassador, Dandolo, under the
papal table, as occurred in the fourteenth, became rare. The hold~
mg of the yope's stirrup, which had been forced on all monarchs
who came m contact With the arch-prieat, and which had afforded
the edifying spectacle of an English monarch walking on one side,
and a French one on the other, performing this ignominious office
for Alexander III., as he rode into the French camp, gradually
disappeared, though the pride and J?Omp of the papal power con•
tinued over all Europe to an astonisliing degree till the Reformation.
The whole of:Europe was overrun with its legates and agents,
filling every country with Italian bishops and prieats, and selling
livings, and collecting money under a tbousand pretences, which
was sent in incredible heaps to be spent in Rome on the vilest
luxury and lusts. The power and pomp of the Romish priests in
different countries, down to the very hour of the Reformation, is
n<l where shown in more glaring colours than in our own country.
To go back a little, who can ever forget the notorious Thomas a
Becket, archbishop ofCanterbury? one of the most perfect personi·
fications of priestly insolence and audacity. This wretch, who had
been raised to his high dignity by his royal master, and loaded with
every honour, having once gained all that his ambition could hope
from the indulgent monarch, became one of the most captious and
troublesome villains that ever disturbed with priestly pride the
peace of kingdoms. Henry, by an act of the council of Clarendon,
endeavoured to bring into some tolerable degree of restraint, the
power and licence of the clergy. Becket most arrogantly refused
all obedience to the kinlts wishes; and, backed by Alexander III.,
the same pope who han so humiliated Frederic Barbarossa, com-
menced a course of annoyance to the king, which, ·even at this
distance of time, makes one's blood boil with indignation to read.
The monarch, aroused by it, compelled Becket to retire to France.
Hereupon the pope and the French king interposed; and so far
pacified the offended sovereign, as to obtain leave for Becket to
return to England, and resume his office. But who, that knows
any thing of priests, could hope that he would be touched with
any sense of shame, or ~titude toward his forgiving prince?
He returned in a sort of triumph; taking every conceivable means
to insult the king, and sow trouble and discord in his kingdom.
Evety day he became only more inveterately rebellious; and carried
his insolence so far, that four gentlemen, who witnessed with in-
dignation the vexations heaped on their sovereign, hastened to
Canterbury, and inflicted on the haughtyand sanctimonious wretch
deserved and exemplary death. .
But if Becket was dead, the haughty pope was alive, and soon
compelled poor Henry to the most humiliating degradations ;-to
go, bare-headed and bare-footed, on pilgrimage to Canterbury, and
o;g;,,ed by Coogle
·PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
do ~ance at the canonized shrine of the now sainted Becket,
which, in its turn, was speedily converted into a grand engine
of priestcraft. "No acts, no falsehood, no blasphemies," says
Southey, "were spared, which might raise the reputation of the
new shrine above.al~ others in England. Lost members were said
to be restored there ; and the dead, even birds and beasts, restored
to life. Parallels were drawn between this turbulent, ambitious,
unforgiving churchman, and our Lord and Saviour himself; and
a prayer was introduced into the service of his day, for salvation
through the merits and blood of Thomas aBecket. These abo-
minable artifices were successfuL A jubilee was accorded every
fi~ years, when plenary indulgence was to be obtained by all who
vistted his tomb: a ·hundred thousand pilgrims are known to
have been present at one of these seasons; and, at this day, it
:d;be seen where their knees have worn the marble steps. The
edral itself was commonly called St. Thomas's; and in the
account of one year, it appeared that more than six hundred
pounds had been offered at Becket's altar, when at the altar of
Chrillt nothing had been presented!"
Similar humiliations to those which Henry suffered, befell poor
King John,-the weak and wicked Lack-land. He ventured to
oppose the pope's power, who had proceeded to set aside the election
of John de Grey to the see of Canterbury, and to appoint, spite of
the king and the nation, Stephen Langton primate of England.
John assumed a high tone, and threatened to extinguish the papal
power in England. What was the consequence? Innocent laid
John's kingdom under the BAN. A stop was put to Divine wor'-
ahip; the churches were shut in every parish ; all the sacraments,
except baptism, were superseded; the dead were buried in the high~
ways, without any sacred rites. · Several, however, of the better
and more learned clergy indignantly refused obedience to this de-
testable interdict; and the pope accordingly proceeded to further
measures. In 1209, he excommunicated John; and two years after-
wards issued a bull, absolving all his subjects from their allegiance,
and ordering all persons to avoid him. The next year, the en-
raged pope assembled a council of cardinals and bishops, deposed
John, declared the throne of England vacant; and ordered the king
of France to take it, and add it to his own. The French king was
ready enough to do this: he assembled an army ;-John assembled
another to oppose him ; and had he been a monarch of an enlight-
ened mind and steady fortitude, England would have been rescued
from popish thraldom, and the Reformation accelerated by some
ages. But Pandolph, the pope's lega~e, arriving in England, so
succeeded by his artful representations of the power of France,and
the defection of John's own subje.cts, that his courage broke down,
and he submitted to the most abject humiliation. He promised',
among other things, that he would submit himself entirely to the
judgment of the pope; that he would acknowledge Langton for
primate; that he would resto~ .all the exiled clergy and laity who
H 2
oigit<Zed by Coogle
100 .PRIESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES,
had been banished on account of the contest ; make them full re-
stitution of their ~oods, and compensation for all damages, and in-
stantly consign e1ght thousand pounds in part of payment; and
that any one outlawed or imprisoned for his adherence to the pope,
should be instantly received to grace and favour. He did homage .
to the pope; resigned his crown to him; and again received it from
him as a gift! and bound himself to pay 11even hundred.marks
annually for England, and three hundred for Ireland; and con-
sented that any of his successors who refused to pay it, should
forfeit all right to the throne. All this was transacted in a public
assembly in the house of the Templars at Dover,-for the popish
priests ·always took care that refractory kings should suffer the
most public and excruciating degradations : and the legate, after
having kept the crown and sceptre five whole days, returned them,
as by specull favour of the pope. John, however, presented a sum
of moner in token of his dependence, which the proud prelate trod
under h1s feet.
The kingdom, by the pusillanimity of the monarch, was laid as
prostrate at the f()()t ofthe pope as the wretched king himself. The
great priest of the Vatican now lorded it in all his insolence and
avarice over the whole realm. He placed in its richest livings his
own Italian creatm-es. " His oppressions," says Fuller, "grew in-
tolerable; for it appeared, by inquisition made, that the ecclesi-
astical revenues of Italians in England-whereof many were boys,
mere blockheads, all nliens~amounted, per annmn, unto three-
soore and ten thousand marks; whereas die king's income, at the
same time, was hardly twenty thousand."
To guard so rich a harvest, not only was this swarm of paJ>al
slaves sent hither, but the most jealous watch was kept up for the
slightest ebullition of a free or liberal spirit, and power was
promptly put forth to crush both it and its authors together. The
celebrated Roger Bacon, the lightof his time, though he concerned
himself little with theology, was regarded with vindictive jealousy,
because he cultivated sc1ence, and science, the high priest of
popery instinctively knew, endangered his craft. Bacon had tra-
velled on the continent. He had gleaned up all the knowledge of
the age, in Greek and Oriental learning, in mathematics, natural
philosophy, and alchemy, and had added much to the latter science
by his own zealous and long-continued course of inquiry. He
spent several thousand pounds, a large fortune in those days, in his
experiments. He was denounced by the monks as a dealer with
the devil, his wor~s were prohibited b'- the pope, and himself
thrown into prison, where, after ten years confinement, he perished.
His rr-eat friend and patron, Grossteste, or Greathead, tlie bishop
of Lmcoln, narrowly escaped the same fate. He beheld with in-
dignation these tyrannical deeds, and exactions of Rome, and with
a soul which its own natural greatness, and the influence of liberal
learning, had raised above mere priestly interest, he used all his
power to restrain these hunilliating assumptions of a foreign power
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES< 101
over his country. By the lofty firmness of his spirit, and the
force of his venerable character, he did what monarchs,before him
could not do. 'fhe pope launched all his thunders against him;
he excommunicated him; but he stood unscathed, and died in his
see at the age of seventy-eight. Another noble exception to the
priestly character was Richard Fizr
. af, archbishop of Armagh.
He dared to expose and ridicule the lives and practices of the
Mendicant friars. 'fhey were the great vendors of the papal par-
dons, and, therefore, too useful a body of impostors to be meddled
with. lt'izraf was speedily cited to appear at. Rome, where he
was detained till he died.
These bold measures seemed to 'have answered their end. The
friars, against whom Fizraf had lifted his voice in vain, swarmed
over the land by thousands,
Black, white, and grey, with all their trumpery.
They carried on a fine trade in pardons, indulgences, and prayel'll
for the dead, and preached all the absurd dogmas with which
Rome at that day fed the multitude; legends, and traditions, and
miracles of canonized imp<!Stors, or firebrands like Becket-any
thing but the Bible, of whtch there was not a page in the vernacu-
lar tongue. But in the depth of this universal d~Nkness, more than-
Egyptian, which they had created, and in which they crawled
about like the vermin of the Egyptian plagues: up sprang in our
own country the glorious morning-star of reformation-Hie noble
and ever-to-be-venerated Wycliffe. It is an eternal satisfaction to
the heart of every true En~lishman, that, as in the general strife
for liberty, so in that for Sinritualliberty, England was the first of
modern nations. It was she who struck the first effectual blow.
The Vaudois had preserved alive the p~e principle of Christianity
Crom the apostolic age, through every succeeding one of darkness
and persecution. 'fhey had preserved its life at the expense or
their 6wn. They had been able to prevent its extinction, but not
to defend themselves from the ravages and assaults of tyrants in-
stigated by the most deadly of all tyrants, the triple tyrant of spi-
ritual death, except at the cost of nearly theu whole people.
Great and immortal shall be their honour on earth and in heaven
therefore, while earth and heaven rernain; but to Britain was con•
ceded the glory of giving the first great shock to the walls of the
ecclesiastical Babylon, the first trenchant and inimedicable wound
to the IP'eat dragon of all spiritual delusions, the first blow which
told m1ghtily for the enCranchisement of the church of Christ.
from the vampire incubus of popery. It was to Wycliffe, her son,
and our countryman, that it was given to begin that grand work of
religious regeneration, which should never pause till the whole
earth had felt its influence. Armed with all grave and Christian
learning, he came out in his frieze gown and barefoot info the
public fa~e of day. and attacked the swarming Criars and alien
oigit<Zed by Coogle
102 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
papists, the legends and the relics, the deluders and the delusiom,
with a dauntless front, and with a force of reason, that made them
gnash their teeth in rage. From his college chair of divinity, or
his rustic pulpit, from Iiis study, and from highways and market-
places, he alike launched the thunders ofinvincible learning andre-
ligion against them. He lifted aloft the Bible in their faces, and con-
founded them with the awful sound of truths and doctrines which
they had trodden under foot, and had hoped were crushed for ever.
He stood forth for king and parliament as their" peculiar clerk,"
whl'n, in the reign of Edward III., they refused to pay to Urban V.
the tribute ofan annual thousand marks; under which the base John
had laid this kingdom to the pope, and enabled them to break that
ignominious yoke of slavery. He daringly unmasked the audacious
practices of Rome, by which it made this great realm its vassal
and feudatory, drawing taxes from it tofice times the amount ofthe
king's whole reve11ues. He stirred up the people to petition par~
liament that these enormities might end; showing that, for the ap.-
pointment of bishops and other dignitaries, the pope received, "by
way of translation and death, three, four, or five several taxes:"
that he filled this country with ignorant Italians, to the exclusion of
the most learned and worthy Englishmen, giving to the former
offices of a thousand marks a year, while the most praiseworthy
Englishman could hardly get twenty marks ; that these aliens
were "enemies to this land, who never saw, nor cared to see, their
parisqioners," worse than Jews and Saracens ; that these cardinals
and other aliens remained at Rome, whither these English re-
venues were sent to them. "One cardinal is dean of York; an-
other, of Salisbury; another, of Lincoln ; another, archdeacon of
Canterbury; another, arcpdeacon of Durham; another, archdea-
con of Suffolk; another, archdeacon of York; another, prebendary
of Thane and Nassingdon; another, prebendary of York ; who
have divers others the best dignities of England, and have sent
yearly over to them twenty thousand marh, over and above that
which English brokers have." That" the pope's collector keep-
eth a house in London, with clerks and offices thereunto belong·
ing, as if it were one of the king's solemn courts," • where was
transacted the sale of dignities ami benefices, and the collection of
fees, to be sent over to Italy. This great champion of reform,
having thus oyened the eyes of England to its plundered and dis-
graceful condition, was sent with other delegates to Rome itself,
tO make personal remonstrance to the pope; whence, having had
a grand op~rtunity' of making hiruself well acquainted with all
. the corruptions and abominations of the papal court, during an
abode of two years, he returned with fresh augmentation of in-
d.U!nation and we~pons of power againRt it.
. '\Vell may be imagined the tempest of fury which such a daring
• Vaughan's Life of Wycliife.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCIUFT IN ALL AGJS.
display of the base arts and rapacious avarice of Rome raised
around him. The whole kingdom resounded with the howling
and teeth-gnashing of the monks, friars, priests, bishops, cardinals,
proctors, and brokers, as of so many rabid wolves. The bold re-
former had struck his staff at once into the nest of their unright-
eous gains, and they turned upon him with furious hands and
flaming eyes. But he had rendered too essential services to the
nation to be given up to his desperate enemies. The great John
of Gaunt, the queen-mother, and Lord Percy, especially stood his
friend, and though summoned before his mortal foes both at home
and at Rome, though chased from his college dignities and to his
parsonage at Lutterworth in Leicestershire, he yet maintained his
freedom of body and of mind to the last ; wielding his pen against
his arch-enemy, and the enemy of truth and knowledge, through a.
long life, with triumphattt effect. Besides all his other labours,
he accomplished the stupendous one of translating for the firat
flime into English the whole of the Old and New Testament; thus,
by the power of God, doing a. greater deed than Joshua when he
commanded the sun to stand still, and it obeyed him, for he actu-
ally restored the sun of Divine revelation to the moral hemi-
sphere, giving it to the eyes of wondering millions, and causing the
owls and bats, the vampires and the hyenas, of the long night of
popery, to flee before its beams in consternation and despair.
There is not a finer passage in history, nor one which in the
hands of a master painter would form a. nobler picture, than the
scenewhen helaydangerouslyill at Oxford. "Fourdoctors from the
four orders of friars, and several aldermen of the city, were com-
missioned to visit him ; hoping that, in the fear of death, they
might induce him to retract what he had written against the Men-
dicants. Having listened to them patiently, he desired his attend-
ant to raise him on his pillow, and then, with eyes fixed on them,
he sternly replied, " I akall not die! but live atilt further to declare
the evil deeds cifthe friara ! " ·
By a marvellous fortune, which may more truly be styled a
matvellous guardianship of Providence for the work's sake, Wyc-
llife lived in victory and died in peace. He escaped the fangs of
ten thousand enemies, who would have rejoiced to tear him limb
from limb; but his remains received the cowardly and implacable
resentment ·of the sacerdotal spirit. They were d~ up by order
of the council ofConstance, that Chriatian council wh1ch sentenced
John Huss and Jerome of Prague to the stake. This despicable
order was, however, delayed thirteen years, when, in 1428, Pope
Martin V. reiterated it to Fleming, the bishop of Lincoln, a fit
tool for such an office, having once himself professed Wycliffe's
o.pinions, but had now relapsed into a thoroughbred bishop. By
his officers Wycliffe's bones were dug up at Lutterworth, burnt, and
the ashes cast into the little adjoining river, the Swift; "whence,"
says Fuller," this brook conveyed his ashes into the Avon, Avon
into Severn, Severn into the narrow seas, they into the ocean J
oigit<Zed by Coogle
104 l>RJESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
and the ashes of Wycliffe are the emblem of his doctrine, which
now is dispersed all the world over."
From this moment the work of reformation went rapidly on,
and, spite of all efforts to crush it, never stood still till it burst out
formally under the headstrong ·~ida.nce of Henry VIII. The
writings and preachings of Wycliffe, but above all, his translation
of the Scriptures, produced immediate and wide effect. His fol-.
lowers showed themselves on all hands, in vast numbers, and with
a vehement zeal. Numbers of his " poor priests," as they were
called, traversed the nation, as he had done, in their frieze gowns
and with.bare feet, every where proclaiming the true doctlines of
the gospel, and denouncmg the impositions and the vices ofpopery.
They held up the monks and pnests to deserved scorn, and the
people, feeling the sacred truth, flocked round them, deserting
those who had so long deluded and fleeced them. The powerful
eloquenc·e and holy lives of the preachers of Wycliffe, were uni-
versally confessed. Men of all ranks, from the royal duke of
Lancaster to the peasant, joined them, and acquired the name of
Lollards ; said to be so called from the martyred reformers of Ger•
many. The inhabitants of London were especially warm adhe--
rents of the same doctrines. John of Northampton, one of its
most opulent and distinguished citizens, wall a decided Lollard,
and, during the time of his being lord mayor, particularly irritated
the popish clergy, who drove a brave trade in pardons and indul-
gences, by his active reformation of the vices of the peo.(>le. The
Lords Hilton, Latimer, Percy, Berkeley, and Clifton, With many .
other nobles, knights, and eminent citizens, became the protectors
and advocates of scriptural reform. Anne, the queen of Richard
II., a woman of exemplary piety, was a staunch admirer of Wyc..
litre, and protector of his followers. Through some of her at-
tendants, the writings of the great English reformer were conveyed .
into Bohemia, her native country, where they convinced John
Hu8s, and thus prepared the way for Luther. During her life;.
and that of the great duke of Lancaster, the reformers advocated
their cause under the most favourable auspices. It is not to be
supposed, however, that the clergy watched their progress in pas--
sive indifference. They exerted all the power and the art they
possessed to arrest so alarming a change. But it is a singular fact1
that up to this period the church had no legal authority to ;perse-
cute on a charge of heresy. To remove this bar to the des~es of
the church, Courtney, the primate, procured an act to be passed in
the House of Peers, requiring sheriffs to apprehend preachers of
heresy, and their abettors. The clergy also, though they dared
not submit such a bill to the Commons, contrived means to have
it enrolled amongst the acts of that house, as though it had really
received its sanction. On the fraud being discovered, the Com-
mons, with indignation, ordered the pretended statute to be ~­
pealed, which was done; yet had the clergy the cunning and the
1n1luence to have the knowledge of the repeal suppressed; and this
oigit<Zed by Coogle
---,· ~---- - ·- .
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 105
aet, which never had any legal authority, remains to this dlty on
the statute book.• ·
Acting on the authority of this truly disgraceful piece of priest-
craft, Courtney not only made his attempts on WyclHfe, but also
~ued others \\ith his vengeance; and though he did not succeed
m brin!fing any to the flames, a black distinction reserved for the
next re1gn, yet he practised great severities on many of the Lot-
lards. It was Arundel, who succeeded Courtney in the primacy,
who first lit tl\e martyr-flames in England. This man, one of the
most plausible and unfeeling persecutors that ever lived, has been
finely described by a modem poet, Nicholas Thirning Moile, whose
tine poem, The Trial of An·n Aylitfe for Heresy, should be read by
every lover of poetry, of pure philosophy, and religious liberty.t
Anmdel, and the rest of the clergy, with the exception of ·the
bishop of Carlisle, not finding Richard II. sufficiently disposed to
give a loose to their murderous desires, revolted from him, and
formed a compact with Henry of Lancaster,·whom they perceived
to be more fitted for their designs. "It was by the clergy," says
Southey, "that Henry IV. succeeded in usurping the throne; and
to prove himself as sincere in their cause as they had been in his,
and as little restrained by humanity or justice in supporting it, he
passed a statute, whereby all persons who yropagated a new doc-
trine, by preaching, writing, teaching, or d1scourse, were required
to renounce their heresy, and deliver up all their heretical books,
and submit themselves to the church, on pain of being delivered
oveT.to the secular arm, and burnt alive!'
By this base conspiracy bet\\"een bloodthirsty priestcra~ and re-
bellion, were the fires of the papal Moloch first kindled in this
kingdom, and' not only all those horrors of racks, dungeons, and
gibbets intrdduced, which for ages disgraced the nation, but those
wars of the rival factions of York and Lancaster began, which for
generations rent in pieces the whole land. For more than a cen-
tury, while, indeed, the papal church remained the established
religion, the hierarchy pursued the protestant& to the death. The
Lollards, as they were called, .were hunted out of their homes,
chased like wild beasts, and dragged to the fiery stake, or com-
pelled to flee for their lives into foreign countries. The greatest
of crimes was to read the Bible in the mother tongue ; it was made
the most penal offence of the statute book, high treason against
the state mcurring only forfeiture of J.r()ods and beheading, but
high treason against popery being puniShed with confiscation, and
burning of the man himself to ashes. In the year 1400, the arch-
bishop and arch-persecutor, Arundel, obtained a statute for the
b'IIJ'Iling of heretics, which he and his compeers did not permit to
lie a dead letter. He published several provincial constitutions,
ordaining that any persons preaching any thing contrary to the
• Cotton's Abridgement, p. 285. Statute Book, 5 Richard II., chap. 5.
· t State Trials, by Nichol!\8 Thiming Moile. London, 1838;
oigit,~··j by Coogle
· .·~
106 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
docttines of the church, should be excommunicated and declared
heretics; and any one reading the writings of Wycliffe or W.
tlisciples, without a special licence from one of the universities,
was declared a violator of the statute. In 1410, he and his col·
leagues got a yet more explicit law passed-" to be a law for ever:
That whatsoever they were, that should read the Scriptures in the
mother tongue, they should forfeit l;mds, cattle, body, life, and
20Qds, they and their heirs for ever, and so be condemned for
neretics to God, enemies to the crown, and most a.n:'tl.nt traitors to
the law."
"The bishops, the priests, the monks, and the friars," says Ball,
"had now got a world somewhat to their minds." And through the
reignsofHenriesiV., V.,and VI., Edward IV., Richardlii.,Hemy
VII., and Henry VIII., till he assumed the headship and the inqm-
sitorsh1p of the church himself, they made this country a perfect
hell. In the intervals ofcivil war, when menshould ha,·ebreathedin
peace from the troubles which kings brought upon them, up started
these dreatlful priests, imprisoning, anathematizing, and burning,
as If they held a commission from the devil himself for the pur-
pose. It would be a revolting task to follow them through all the
horrors of their state-church butchery; but it would be unfaithful
to history and to mankind, not to point briefly to some of their
leading acts, and the namesand numbers oftheir chiefvictims. Tile
first of Arundel's victims, and the ·first martyr for religious reform
in England, was William Sawtre, parish priest of St. Osith's, in
London. He was burnt at the stake, in Smithfield, for denying
transubstantiation, having been stripped of his cletical robes and
degraded from his office with great formality, according to the
most approved forms of the Inquisition. William Thorpe, &.
clergyman of note, was imprisoned with others, and is believed to
ha\•e perished in his dungeon through ill usage, in 1407. John
Badly, a tailor of 6loucestershire, was brought up to London, and
burnt there, in 1409. In 1413, Sir Roger Acton, Sir John Bever-
ley, John Browne, and thirl!j-BiX more, most of them gentlemen
by birth, were·condemned for heresy,and burnt in St. Giles's Fields.
In the same year, John Claydon, a skinner, and Richard Turmin,
a baker,were burnt in Smithfield. Numbers also suffered in various
parts of Engl11-nd ; but the grand and closing victim of Arundel,
was Sir John Oldcastle, Lord Cobham. Sir John was the most
active, devoted, and distinguished reformer ofhis time. He boldly
every where exposed the impositions and cruelties of the hierarchy.
" At great expense," says Milner, "he had collected, transcribed,
and dispersed the works of Wycliffe amongst the common peo-
ple, without reserve; and it was well known that he maintain-
ed a great number of itinerant preachers, in many parts of the
country, particularly in the dioceses of Canterbury, Rochester,
London, and Hereford."
Arundel having I?rocured a royal mandate for sendin~ to Ox-
ford "twelve inquis1tors of heresies," found. that uaivemty.over-
.........
oigit<Zed by Coogle
'PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 107
J:wl with the new opinions, and Lord Cobham was accused of
being the great cause of it. His destruction was therefore instantly
.resolved upon. He was accused to the kin~, committed to the
Tower, tried, and condemned by Arundel. Th1s arch-prelate being
mortally seized while pronouncing sentence on Lord Cobham,
and Lord Cobham managing to escape from the Tower, he seemed
for a time to have evaded the fangs ofhis grand ene~y: but Arundel
was succeeded by a worthy finisher of his labours, the infamoua
Ohicheley. This "firebrand of the age," as he has been truly
called, besides fomenting war abroad, pursued the reformers at
home with such implacable fury, that, Milner says, he almost ef-
faced the vesti~s of godliness ill the kingdom. But Cobham was
abroad, and wh1le that was the case, the priests deemed there could
be no effectual suppression of opinion. They determined, there-
(ore, to excite the fears of the king and aristocracy, and thus to
rouse such a· power against him as should render it impossible
that he could long escape. Rumours were industriously spread,
that Lord Cobham was secretly meeting the Lollards, with the
intent to murder the king and his brother at Eltham palace, and
to bum Westminster Abbey, St. Albans, and all the prisons in
London. The king took the alarm, and removed to Westminster,
where he was again assured that Cobham was mustering his Lol-
lards in St. Giles's Fields, to the number of twenty thousand. He
.accordingly caused the gates of the city to be shut, and rushing
into the fields, seized a number of ~rsons, out of eighty or a hun-
dred only found there; but they did not appear to be met for any
·treasonable purpose, or to be aware of any. Hume tells us that,
though this was the case, yet, on the trial, the treasonable designs
of the sect became certain, both from evidence, and from ihe
confession of the criminals themselves. Rapin, however, asserts,
that it was more tlwn probolJle, that the accusation was forged, to
render the Lollards odious to the king; and Fox declares, that
those who accused Lord Cobham on the trial, were forced to it by
threats and promises. The purpose of the priests was completely
etrected. Under the royal influence, a bill of attainder was passed
against Cobham; a thousand marks were offered for his head,
and a promise of peryetunl exemption from taxes to any town
that should secure h1m : so completely did priestcraft, as it has
generally done, delude the mind of royalty, setting it as a bloo4·
hound upon its own subjects. Lord Cobham, after bein~ chased
through various retreats, was secured in Wales, and speedily drag-
ged to London, and, being suspended alive in chains on a gallows,
was thus bnmt to death in St. Giles's Fields.
Amongst the numbers who fell the victims of Chicheley and
his successor, Stafford, were William Taylor, 1422; William White,
a clergyman of Norfolk, 1424, his followers being dreadfully
harassed. Humphrey, " the good duke of Gloucester," brother of
Henry V., and uncle of Henry VI., being a friend to reformation
and orderly life in the clergy, was mortally ha,ted by them, and
oigit<Zed by Coogle
";I
103 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
his death compassed through their machinations, the notorious
Cardinal Beaufort being at their head. He was murdered in his
bed, through the connivance of Beaufort, his own uncle, and the
queen. Reginald Pocock, bishop of St. Asaph, who had been
Duke Humphrey's chaplain, next fell under their murderous hands.
He was known to be a friend to reformation of the church. was
accused of heresy, compelled to recant, to burn his own books at
St. Paul's Cross, and then being thrown into a dungeon at Thomey
Abbey, there perished, as was firmly believed, by violent hands.
John Goose, a man with an unfortunate name, but with the heart
of an ea"le, was burnt on Tower Hill, in 1473. Joan Boughton,
a lady of quality, of more than ~ighty years of age, died in the ·
flames most valiantly in 1494, and soon afterwards her daughter,
Lady Young, suffered the same death. William Tylsworth was
burnt at Amersham in Buckinghamshire, his daughter being
compelled to light the pile with her own hands. · ,
The wretched stuff which the catholic church then taught for
Christianity, is sufficiently shown by these villanies on the one
hand, and the will of Henry VII. The monarch who had been
induced to believe that he was "doin~ God service" by these
legal murders, placed his hope of salvation in the prayers of these
rascally priests, commanding by his will 10,000 masses to be said
UY' them for his soul ; 1500 in honour of the Trinity ; 2500 in
honour of the five wounds of the Lord Jesus Christ; 2500 to the
five joys of Our Lady; 450 to the nine orders of angels; 150 to
the honour of the patriarchs ; 600 to the twelve apostles; and
2300 to the honour of all saints. In such principles and notions
was Henry VIII. educated; and therefore it is no wonder-that, to
the last, though he came to tread down the papal power in Eng-
land, he continued as great a persecutor and as superstitious a.'i
his father. Up to the periO!l of his assuming the rank of SU}Jreme
head of the church in this kingdom, he had brou~ht to the stake,
or to other death, a. whole host of pious, conscientious peoJ?le;
amongst them Thomas Man and Jolin Stilman, burnt in Snuth-
field in 1518; six men at Coventry in 1519, for teaching their
child~rn the Lord's l?rayer, etc., in English; a poor widow, named
Smith, at the same time; Richard Hunne, merchant of London;
Hinton, a curate, burnt at Maidstone, for bringing some books
from Tindal, then abroad; Bilney, Byfield, and Bainham, eminent
martyrs, in whose death Sir Thomas More was actively con~
cerned. Lord Tracy, for having stated in his will that he left'his
soul to God, and therefore could leave nothing for masses, had his
body dug up and burnt; and Frith and· Hewitt, a. London ap-
prentice, for denying purgatory and transubstantiation, were
bur_nt in Smithfield in 1523. These, and many others, marked
the bloody course bv which Henry VIII. qualified himself to
·become the head of Christ's church.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
109
CHAPTER XIV.
PAPAL ATROCITIES.
THE ATROCITIES ' OF POPERY Were on a par with its arrogance;
and so inseparable was one from the other, that in tracing the one
we have just detailed some of the other, as exhibited in this
country. In every age it has been ready with the fire and the
fagot; and every one who dared to dissent from its opinions waa
put to death with the cruelest brutality.
We have already adverted to its treatment of learned men,
whose discoveries tended to shake its power over the 1mblic mind;
and though not here exactly in its chronological place, we will
give a striking instance of it before we pass on, because we are
about to deal in this chapter with its wholesale barbarities.
Galileo's forced renunciation of what he knew to be the truth-
the verity of the Copernican system-has been a popular theme
in every succeeding age.
They bore
His chained limbs to a. dreary tower
In the midst of a. city vast and wide.
For he, they said, from his mind had bent
Against their gods keen blasphemy.
For which, though his soul must roasted be
In hell's red lake immortally,
Yet even on earth must he abide
The vengeance of their slaves ! a. trial,
I think men call it.-SnnLLEY.
He succumbed in the trial-he recanted the truth openly; yet,
as he rose from his knees before his stupid judges, he whispered
to a friend-" E pure ai mu01:e !-It does move though !" Yes !
it moved ! the world moved, and that in more respects than on&;
and popery is become a wreck and a scorn, and man and know-
ledge have triumphed.
Fear not that the tyrants shall rule for ever,
Or the priests of the bloody faith ;
They stand on the brink of that mighty river,
Whose waves they have tainted with death.
It is fed from the depths of a thousand dells,
Around them it foams, and rages, and swells,
And their sword~ and their sceptres I floating see,
Like wrecks in the surge of eternity.-SHELLEY.
o'"''"; byCoogle ·.//
llO PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
A list ofall the victims who have perished by papal cruelty, and
through papal vengeance, would amount to many, many millions.
One man in one country, as we shall soon see, the bigot emperor
Ferdinand II. of Germany, extirpated ten millwn11 of men to extir-
pate protestantism ! But all this is_I>erfectly natural, perfectly ac-
cording to the nature 9f things. The whole scheme of the papal
church was a daring and interested enterprise. It was a bold at-
tempt to set aside Christianity, and to palm upon the world a self-
ish scheme of domination and licentious life for a priestly corpol'l!r
tion. A scheme, therefore, more blasphemous and impious than
any other priestly brood had ever attemi>ted in the history of the
world, must be maintained at all costs. So long as mummery and
false dogmas could perpetuate delusion, all was well, all was smil-
ing; but it was necessary to the maintenance of this unhallowed
system, that every effort to check or destroy it, should be met with
a severity as hellish as the system itself was diabolicaL From
the earliest times, therefore, all herectics, as they were called, that
is, all who dared to have a soul or an opinion of their own, were
exterminated like so much vermin. The human mind, science,
poetry, philosophy, every thought and every feeling, must be in
bondage to the crazy old priest of the Vatican. But when, at
length, the mind burst forth in grandeur from its long thraldom,
when the Re.formatwn actually arrived, then it was a case of life
Jlnd death ; all the fury of the infernal court of Rome was letioose; -
and the dictum proclaimed, " Perish the world and every soul in
it, rather than popery lose its old empire of lust, deceit, and ty-
ranny over the human intellect!" All Europe was stirred up by
papal emissaries, by armies of monks, and serpent-like Jesuits, and
extermination was carried on in one bloody tide from Norway to
Spain. Never was such a scene beheld since the foundation of
the world ; and, what was most strange, it was declared to be for
the sake of tlw religion ofpeace.
We shall come anon to this dreadful spectacle ; we must take
first a passing glance at the earlier exhibit10ns of the slaughters or
this Moloch church.
One of the first exploits of this kind on a wholesale scale was
the terrific crusade against the Albigenses. In it the papal tyrant
quenched the literature of the Troubadours, which exerted a faint,
hut pleasant twilight gleam in the 13th century ; and waa highly
influential in the revival ofpoetry, byexciting the spirit ofPetrarch,
and through him of Chaucer, and the following English poets.
This light, Rome put out by exterminating the Provencal people
in a war, so singular and expressive of the nature of priestcraft,
when full grown, that I shall give a brief account ofit, principally
from Sismondi's Literature of the South of Europe, with a few
particulars from Milner's venerable History of the Cnurch of
Christ.
The excessive corruption of the clergy had furnished a subject
for the satirical powers of the Troubadours. The cupidity, the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
P·RIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES, Ill
dissimulation, and the baseness of that body, had rendered them
odious both to the nobility and the people. The J>riests and the
monks incessantly employed themselves in despoiling the sick, the
widowed, and the fatherl~ss, and indeed all whom age, or weak-
uess, or misfortune placed within their grasp ; while they squan-
dered in debauchery and drunkenness, die money which they ex-
torted by the most shameful artifices. If God, said ·Raymond de
Castelnau, will the black monks to be unrivaJI.ed in their good eat-
ing and their amours, and the white monks in their lying bnllil,
and the Templars and Hospitallers in pride, and the canons in
usury, I hold St. Peter and St. Andrew to have been egregious
-fools for suffering so much for the sake of God, since all tliese peo-
ple also are to be saved. The gentry had imbibed such contempt
lor the clergy, that thry would not educate their children to the
priesthood, but gave their livings to their servants and bailiffs.
The persecutions of Theodora in 845, and of Basil in 867 and 886,
after having effected the destruction of more than a hundred thou-
sand victims, compelled the remainder to seek refuge, some amongst
the Mussulmans, and others amongst the Bulgarians. Once out
of the pale of persecution, their faith, of a ~urer and simpler kind,
made rapid pro~ess. In Languedoc and Lombardy the name of
Paterins. W!l8 gwen them, on account of the sufferings to which
they were exposed wherever the rapal power extended ; and they
afterwards reoeived the name o Albigenses, from the numbers
that inhabited the diocese of Alby.
Missionaries were despatched into Hi&'her Languedoc in 1147
and 1181, to convert these heretics; but wtth little success. Every
day the reformed opinions gained ground, and Bertrand de Saissac,
Ule tutor of the young viscount of Beziers, himself adopted them.
At length, Innocent I II., resolving to destroy these sectaries, whom
he had exterminated in Italy, sent, in 1198, two Cistercian monks
with the authority of legates alatere, to discover and bring them
to justice. The monks, ambitious of extending their already un-
precedented powers, not contentedwith merely attacking the here-
tics, quarrelled with all the regular clergy who had attempted to
aoften their proceedings. They suspended the archbishop of Nar-
bonne and the bishop of Beziers; and degraded the bishops of
Toulouse and of Veviers. Pierre de Castelnau, the most eager of
the legates, accused Raymond of Toulouse of protecting the nere-'
ties, becat!Se that prince, being of a mild disposition, refused to
lend himself to the destruction of his subjects. The anger of the
priest at length led him to excommunicate the count, and place
his estates under interdict : and he proceeded to such irritatingin-
aolence, that one of the count's followers, in his indignation, pur-
llued him to the banks of the Rhone, and killed him. This crown-
ed the misfortunes of Languedoc. It gave Innocent a pretext to
proceed to bloodshed, and he took instant advantage of it. He
adil.ressed a letter to the king of France, to all the princes and most
powerful barons, as well as to the metropolitan bishops, exhorting
112 PRIESTCil.AFT IN ALL AGES,
them to vengeance, and to the extirpation of heresy. All the in-
dulgences and pardons, which were usually granted to the cru-
saders, were promised to those who exterminated these unbelievers.
Three hundred thousand pilgrims, induced by the united motives
of avarice and superstition, filled the country of the Albigensea
with carnage and confusion for a number of years. The reader
who is not versed in history of this kind, can scarcely conceive the.
scenes of baseness, perfidy, barbarity, indecency, and hypocrisy,
over which Innocent presided; and which were conducted partly
by his legates, and partly by the infamous Simon de Montford.
Raymond VI., terrified at this storm, submitted to every thing re-
quired of him; but Raymond Roger, viscount of BeZiers, indig-
nantly refused to give up the. cause of his subjects. He encou-
raged them to resist; shut himself up in Carcassone, and gave
Beziers to the care of his lieutenants. Beziers was taken by assault
in July, 1209, and fifteen thousand inhabitants, according to the
Cistercian monk, or sixty thousand, according to others, were ·pnt
to the sword. This Cistercian monk was asked before the city
was taken, how he could separate the heretics from the catholics ?
He replied, " Kill all; God will knozo l!i8 own!"
The brave young viscount of Beziers did not shrink; he still
defended Carcassone. Peter II. of Arragon, attempted .to make
terms for him with his monkish besiegers, but all that they would
grant was, to allow thirteen of the inhabitants, including the
count, to leaYe the city; the remainder were reserved for a but-
chery like that of Beziers. The viscount declared he would be
flayed alive rather than submit to such terms. He was, at length,
betrayed; poisoned in prison; four hundred of his people burnt,
and fifty hanged. Simon de Montford, the most ferocious monster
of all the crusaders, received from the legate the viscount's title;
and devastated the whole of the south of France with the most
"frightful wars. They who escaped from the sacking of the town,
were sacrificed by the fagot. From 1209 to 1229, nothing.wu
seen but massacres and tortures. . Religion was overthrown ;
knowledge extinguished; and humanity trodden under foot. In
the midst of these horrors, the ancient house of Toulouse became
extinct. ·
Connected with this melancholy history, is one of the last horrid
.instruments of papal tyranny which remains to be mentioned-
THE INQUISITION. These monks, Arnold Ranier and Pierre Cas-
telnau, were followed by the notorious Spaniard, Dominie, and
others, who, proceeding to seek out and execute heretics, gained
the name of INQUISITORS. On their return from this infernal ex.
pedition, the popes were so sensible of their·services, that they
established similar tribunals in different places. In time, Italy,
Spain, and other countries, were cursed with these hellish institu-
tions; and their history is one of the most awful horror that can
affright the. human souL But these, and the Jesuits, demand a
separate notice, ·
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES, 113
· But even this was exceeded by the unrestrained vengeance of
the great Roman antichrist against the poor Vaudois, a simple
people of Piedmont, who, from the apostolic age, had preserved
the purity of the faith, and refused to bow to the swollen pride and
worse than pagan idolatry of Rome. These primitive people
were, from age to age, persecuted with fire and sword ; thetr own
prince was at length stirred up, and compelled to become, against
i:hem, the butcher of the Roman pontiff. They were, even so late
as the time of our commonwealth, when the Protector, at the sug-
gestion of Milton, interceded for them, hunted from their houses,
suffocated in caves with flaming straw by hundreds; their wives
and children massacred without mercy :-but in vain ! They con-
tinned through all; and still continue, as may be seen by Mr.
Gillie's most interesting account of his visit to them; and their
sufferings have been immortalized by the fiery burst of Milton's
indignation :
Avenge, 0 Lord, thy slaughtered saints, whose bones
Lie bleaching on the Alpine mountains cold;
Even them who kept thy truth so pure of old,
When all our fathers worshipped stocks and stones,
Forget not; in thy book record their groans
Who were thy sheep, and in their ancient fold
Slain by the bloody Piedmontese, who rolled
Mother with infant down the rock. Their moiUI8
The vales redoubled to the hills, and they
To heaven. Their martyred blood and ashes sow
O'er all the Italian fields, where still doth sway
'l'he triple t)Tant; that from these may grow
A hundred-fold, "·ho, having learned thy way,
Early may fly the Babylonian woe.
•
But, in fact, as I have observed, from the moment that the doc-
trines of Wycliffe and Luther had taken decided hold of the
world, the whole of Europe became .a slaughter-house. All the
powers of antichrist were exerted, not merely to extirpate the new
opinions which threatened to shatter to pieces the ancient king-
dom of a most profitable pricstcraft, but to extirpate the holders
of those opinions. The pope and Apollyon took the field with all
their le~ons; and what constitutes one of the most singular facts
in all history, as it has been wittily written,
Wherever God erects a house of prayer,
Satan is sure to build a chapel there ;-
so, as God raised up his stout cnampion Luther, the devil had his
champion ready to meet him, and contest the world inch by inch
with him. Scarcely was Luther born, than in Spain another boy
was born, destined to become the necessary agent of popery in
resistance to Luther. This boy was Ignatius Loyola, who grew
up as firm, as daring, as indomitable a spirit as Luther himself.
He was inspired by the violent desire to acquire the name of a
1
114 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
saint, and to found a new order of monks, which should bear his
name and honour to the end of time. Singularly enough, scarcely
had he arrived at manhood, when there arose, from the rapid
S{lread of Luther's opinions, the most desperate need of his ser-
vtces. All the other orders of monks were grown rich, effeminate,
scandalous~ sensual, and still more scandalously ignorant. " In
my youth, says a writer of the end of the fifteenth century,
" there was scarcely to be found one amongst thousands of clergy-
men who had ever seen a university in his life."
The popedom was in danger of its very existence, and such was
the condition of its defenders. It was at this juncture that Loyola
caught the happy idea of establishing a new spiritual order, which
should stand forward as the army of papal defence. His proposal
was gladly grasped at by the pope. He gave himself the name of
its GcneraiJ and established his head-quarters at Rome, where be
distributed his army, with all its spies, _Pioneers, scouts, and de-
tachments, under their various officers, mto every quarter of the
civilized ~lobe. I have yet to sketch the character of this order,
and its htstory; it is only necessary here to say, that its members
most diligently qualified themselves in all respects for the pur-
poses for which they were called forth. They became learned,
adroit in polities and political science, as all other monks were
stupid and inert. They were vowed to poverty, and to freedom
from all fixed posts and offices in the church, so that *ey might
have time to accomplish themselves in all learning, all sophistry,
and all arts that tmght enal>le them to persuade, deceive, and ex-
cite. Their knowledge and address soon raised them high in the
estimation of princes and people. The most adroit and pro-
foundly artful, were sent to the different courts to become the con-
fessors of/rinces; the most learned assumed the teaching of
schools an universities; the most popular in style devoted them·.
selves to literature; the most enthusiastic, to preachers and prose-
lyters. So wonderfully did they prosper, for their founder had in
his deep sagacity exactly hit the need of the times, that though in
1540, when the order was founded, he had only ten followers, in
I60a the Jesuits amounted to l0,5!fl, and in 1710, to 20,000. 'fill
this very year the Reformation had gone on so prosperously in
Germany, that not only the states still protestant had adopted the
faith of Luther, but Austria, Bavaria, Bohemia, etc., countries
now again sunk in popery, were rapidly passing over to the re-
formed church, so that, says a German historian, in that year we
might have prophesied, that within twenty years there would not
be left a single catholic in GermAny. But who then could have
an idea of tlie Jesuits !
Loyola was a thorou~h fanatic, hard, feelingless, and whose soul
had but one care or obJect, to raise himself to the topmost height
of a saint's reputation, by doing battle for the church. He had no
compassion on himself, and it was not likely that he would on any
one else. He had practised the mo~t terrible hardships. and
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIKSTCRAPT lN ALL AGES. 115
penances on his own carcase, and, gaunt ·and rabid as a wolf, his
=Jidesire was to hand all heretics, were it by thousands or by
ons, over to the Dominicans, whose Inquisitors were now ac-
tively at work, or to the sword ofthe armies of the catholic princes.
In few years, the leaven which he had infused by his emissaries so
o~rated that all Europe was in the horrors of exterminating wars.
Unfortunately for protestantism, Charles V., a Spaniard, but by
his German descent, and in consequence of the able marrying
schemes of his gran
. dfather, the emperor Maximilian I. ofGermany,
was now become monarch of more countries than ever were held
by one man. He was Roman-German emperor; king of .the
Netherlands, of S~in, Milan, Sicily, and Sardmia; and lord of the
two greatest and nchest countries, and of all the islands of the New
World. With his Spanish blood, spite of all his pretences to liber-
ality, he inherited a superstition most favourable to the purposes
of the court of Rome, and he thus became the greatest tool in the
hands of the pope for the desolation and consequent dismember-
ment of his own empire. In 1546, six years after the founding of
the Jesuit order, he took the field against the protestants of Ger-
many, in conjunction with the pope, who contributed 200,000
crowns, 12,000 foot-soldiers, and 500 cavalry, with their support for
· half a year, and the surrender of half the income of all the Spanish
churches for one year to the emperor, for the total 3Uppreasion of
protestantism.
Tne German protestant princes, though formally combined in
their Smalkald league, were not, like Luther, "ready to face a
!lwusand devils" in defence of their ,faith. As German princes
have but tao commonly been, they were timid, hesitating, and
wanting in unity, at the moment that they should have acted.
Their brave general, Schartlin, could not inspire them with either
his spirit or his genius, or protestantism mightethen have been
rescued, and popery ruined for ever. As it was, Charles had
speedily the electors of Hesse and Saxony at his feet, and treated
them as his prisoners, with the deepest, but richly deserved con-
tumely. All Germany was traversed with hostile troops, and the
. country suffered every kind of ·harassing, exaction, and mischief.
It was not, however, till 1618, that the full vial of catholic wrath
was poured on this devoted country. Then broke out the thirty
years' war, which, after those thirty years of the most dreadful
horrors in history, left the nation a desert. The Bohemian hosts,
afrer the death of Huss, manfully maintained by arms their re-
ligion, and compelled their government to grant them peac~. But
fl()W the Jesuits were in existence, and busy about their bigot
king, Ferdinand II. By their advice, he determined to put down
protestantism, or annihilate the whole peo.ple. The people were
full of their- ancient spirit, and determined to resist. The war
spread not only through Bohemia, but all over Germany. The
Austrian annies, under the notorious generals Tilly and Wallen-
lkio, traversed in all dir(!(:tions the protestant states,laying waste
1 2
oigit<Zed by Coogle
IIu .l'RIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
whole territories with fire and sword, and committing the most in-
human excesses on record. The plan of these diabolical men was
not to subdue, but to annihilate, and the people were given up as
a prey to the bestial lusts and rapacity of their savage soldiers.
They cut off the noses and ears of the people, broke open all
chests, ransacked every house, carried off the cattle, or killed them
and sold the skins to the horse-killers; killed the population of
towns and villages, tossing the children on their spears, and
driving all the young women before them to their camp like cattle,
or bound them down on waggons, or strapped them to their sad-
dles. It is not within the compass of this work to follow the
horrors of this war: I can ouly note its general character, and the
state to which it reduced the country. The brave and pious Gus-
.tavus Adolphus of Sweden, moved with compassion for this suf-
fering people, and with a noble zeal for the prevention of the papal
hopes of the extirpation of protestantism, hastened over with an
army, but, after a splendid career of victory, was slain. The
Swedish generals who succeeded him, Baner, Torstenson, and
Wrangel, enraged at the petty spirit and jealousies of the princes
of Germany calling themselves protestant, who made peace each
for themselves, regardless of the general cause, laid waste their
territories, and committed atrocities almo t as great as the catholics.
In Bohemia, never was there such a butchery-a deep, deadly,
and persevering butchery of a people! From end to end of the
country marched great armies, O\'Crwhelming every attempt at re-
sistance by the outraged people, while in their train, from village
to village, and from house to house, went the Jesuits, with tr<>QPs
of dragoons, to convert the survivors to the holy mother-churCh.
The command was, to forsake heresy and be converted; the argu·
ments were bullets, and the refusal death. Hence comes the phrase
of dragooning tjle people into any thing. The whole land was
one amphitheatre of martyrdom; the horrible bigot emperor, with
true Spanish blood in his veins, knelt, telling his beads before his
saints, and, under the guidance of two arch-jesuits, issuing orders
to extirpate protestantism, till nearly every h·ace of it, and of
human life, had vanished together.
The people fought, and often conquered, but in vain; and then
issued forth that strange apparition,-the Unknown Student!
What a singular episode is his advent in the history of this war!
His real name and origin was unknown, and will always remain
so. He bad all the reckless enthusiasm of the student; the zeal
of the hero or the saint; and the eloquence which tingles in the
cars of wronged men, and runs through the quick veins like fire.
Solemn and mysterious, he stood forth in the hour of need, like a
s;pirit from heaven. The wondering }Jeople gathered round him,
listened, and followed with shouts to victory. They stood in the
field of Gmunden, in the face of the magnificent Salzburg Alps.
The Unknown Student was in the midst of them; and .Pointing
to the lakes, the forests, the hills, and the glitte1ing Alpme sum-
o;gm. ,yGoogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES; ll1
mits above and around them, he asked if they would not fight for
so glorious a land, and for the simple and true hearts in those
rocky fortresses? In the camp of Pappenheim they heard the
fiery words of .his harangue; they heard the vows which burst
forth, like the voice of the sea, in reply, and the hymn of faith
which followed. From rock, ravine, and forest rushed forth the
impetuous peasant thousands ; and even the victorious army of
Pappenheim could not sustain the shock. The right wing scat-
tered and fled; the peasant army, with the Unknown Student at
their head, pursuing and hewing them down. There was a wild
flight to the very gates of Gmunden. Then came back the fiery
Unknown with his flushed thousands. He threw himself on the
left wing of Pappenheim with the fury of a lion. There was a
desperate struggle; the troops of Pappenheim wavered; victory
hung on the uplifted sword of the Unltnown Student, when a ball
struck him, and his r11le was played out. His head, hoisted on a
spear, was a sign of shivering dismay to his followers. They fled,
leaving on the field four thousand of their fellows dead; Pappen-
heim and extermination in their rear.
What a picture is that which the historians draw of the horrors
which this so-called religious war inflicted on all Germany. Some
or them reckon that the half, and others that two-thirds, of the
whole J:::Pulation perished in it. In Saxony alone, within two
years, 900,000 men were destroyed. In the Saxon Switzerland
everv traveller is shown the rocks and caves in the wild woods,
to which the frantic people fled in crowds for refuge at this ter-
ri.. time. In Bohemia, at the time of Ferdinand's death, before
this last exterminating campaign of Baner and Torstenson, the
Swedish generals, the population was sunk to a fourth. Augsburg,
which before had 80,000 inhabitants, had then only 18,000, and
all Germany in proportion. In Berlin were only 300 burghers left..
The prosperity of the country was for a long period destroyed.
Not only did hands fail, and the workshops lie mashes, but the
spirit and diligence of trade were transferred to other lands.
After thirty years of battles, burnings, murders, and diseases,
Germany no longer looked like itself. The proud nation was
changed into a miserable mob of beggars and thieves. Famishing
peasants, cowardly citizens, lewd soldiers, rancorous priests, and
effeminate nobles, were the miserable remains of the great race
which had perished. Could it be otherwise? the princes them-
selws gave the examr.le of dastardly falsehood. Priests of all
sorts raged with a pitlless hate ; the generals sought to enri'Ch
themselves; the soldiers, who in the end ruled, were unmanned
and set loose from all moral restraints. All the deeds .of political
treachery, of religious fanaticism, of the rapacity of aspiring ad-
venturers, and of the brutality of the soldiery, were let loose on
the people. Driven from hearth and home, in eternal terror of
the soldiers, and without instruction, what could be expected
from the growing generation, but sordid cowardice, and the shame-
less immorality which they had learned from the army? Even
oigit<Zed by Coogle
ns PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES;
the last remains of political freedom perished in the war; sinee
all classes were plundered, and their strength exhausted, The
nobles could only maintain themselves in the service of princes;
the free cities dragged on a feeble existence ; the peasant waa
thorough!}• demoralized by the soldiers, and was out and out a
slave. The representatives of the states lo t their meaning, for
they could find with the emperor but a feeble protection against
the lesser princes, and none against the greater. Faith had, in
the contest, dis olved itself into super tition and unbelief. The
citizen, perpetually hara sed with pres ing anxietie , saw devil and
ghost ; and the soldier, through the manner in which he fought,
had become indifferent to that for which he fought, and was neither
catholic nor Lutheran. The early civilization of Germany had
d~generated into barbarism.
The atrocities which had been committed in this war were un-
exampled. In the storming of Magdeburg, the oldicrs of Tilly
had amused themselves, as a relaxation from their wholesale hor-
rors perpetrated on the adults, with practising tortures on children.
One man boa ted that he had tossed twenty babes on his spear.
Others they roasted alive in ovens ; and others they pinioned
down in various modes of agony, and pleased them elves with
their cries as they sat and ate. Writers of the time describe thou-
sands dying of exhaustion; numbers, as creeping naked into cor-
ners and cellars, in the madness of famine falling upon, tearing
each other to piece , and devouring each other; children IJeing
devoured by parents, and parents by children; many tearing up
IJodies from the graves, or seeking the pit.~ where hor e-kil el"S
threw their carcases, for the carrion, and even break-ing the bones
for the marrow, after they were full of worms ! Thousands of vil-
lages lay in a hes; and, after the war, a person might in many
parts of Germany, go fifty miles in almost any direction without
meeting a ingle man, or head of cattle, or a parrow; while in
another, in some ruined hamlet, you might see a ingle old man
and a child, or a couple of old women. "Ah, God!" say an old
chronicler, "in what a miserable condition tand our cities!
·where before were thousands of streets, there arc now not hun-
dreds. The burghers by thousands had been chased into the
water, hunted to death in the woods, cut open and their hearts
torn out, their ears, noses, and tongues cut off; the sole of their
feet opened, straps cut out of their backs; women, children, and
men so shamefully and barbarously u ed that it i not to be con-
ceived. How miserable stand the little towns, the open hamlets!
There they lie, burnt, destroyed, so that neither roof, beam, door,
nor window is to be seen. The churches? they have been burnt,
the bells carried away. and the most holy places made stable ,
market-houses, and some of the very altars being purposely de-
filed and heaped \vith filth of all kind ." Whole village were
fillecl with dead bodies of men, women, and children, destroyed by
plague and hunger, with quantities of cattle which had been
preyed on by dogs, wolves, and vultures, because there had been
oigit<ZedbyGoogle
PRIESTCR.lFT IN ALL AGES. 119
n6 one to mourn or to bury them. Whole districts, which had
been highly cultivated, were again grown over with W()od·: fami-
lies who had fled, in returning after the war, found trees growing
on their hearths: and even now, it is said, foundations of villages
are in some places found in the forests, and the traces of ploughed
lands. It is the fixed opinion, that to this day Germany, in point
of political freedom, and the pro~ss of public art and wealth, feels
the disastrous consequences of tnis war.
A more solemn lesson on the terrible eJfects of the violation of
conscience, and of Jesuitical bigotry, is not to be found in history.
Of this dismal Ferdinand II. it has justly been said, that Napoleon
was, in comparison of destructi¥e power, but a pigmy. Napoleon
traversed three quarters of the globe with fire and sword, yet came
far short in human destruction of this Ferdinand, who, while
he sat and told his beads, accomplished the extermination of TEN
MILLIONS OF MEN.
From that day to this the whole country of John Huss and
~erome of Pra~e lies prostrat~ ~n the most profo~nd catholic
JgllOrance and bigotry. Bohemia 1s a land of heredttary bonds·
men, and it looks like one.
' But this awful scene was only one out of the ·multitude. All
Europe had in the mean time been deluged with blood by the
papal vengeance. In Spain and Italy, where the principles of
the Reformation had made great J.>rogress, they were mercilessly
rooted out by the horrible Inquisition, as will be seen in the next
chapter. The gloomy Philip II. of Spain sent into the Nether·
lands the notorious monster of cruelty, Alva, and during his
government the protestants were destroyed like so much vermin.
Every day saw men burnt, hanged, beheaded, cut in quarters.
On the first of July, 1568, two and twenty nobles were executed.
The absent heads of the popular party, and also the prince of
Orange, were declared guilty of treason; and the counts Egmont
and Hom were brought from their prison.at Ghent, and publicly
beheaded in the market-place at Brussels. At these horrors more
than l00,000 of the most skilful artisans and merchants fled out of
the country, to England and other countries. Alva received from
the pope, Pius V., a consecrated hat and s;word, as the defender
of the Roman church, and caused a statue of himself to be cast
as the vanquisher of the nobility and people, which stood on two·
prostrate men, and had a most vain-glorious inscription. Philip,
Jeo.Wus of his holy glories, recalled him, but filled his place with
Requesens, who, if he did not bum and behead so much, still
plundered the people with the soldiery, and drove vast numbers
of the ablest workmen out of the country by his oppressions. The
monks stirred up assassins to murder the great champion of
protestantism, the prince of Orange, and gave their absolution be-
forehand for the deed, which they at length accomplished. By
these furious persecutions the pope caused the loss of all the
·Netherlands t9 Spain, which, in 1579, concluded at Utrecht an
,.o ,,Coogle
120 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
act of confederation, under the title of the United Netherlands,
including Holland, Zealand, Utrecht, Guelders with Zutphen,
Overyssel, Groningen, and Friesland; and two years afterwards
finally renounced their allegiance to Spain.
Not the less successfully did the pope and the Jesnits concoct
France into a slaughter-house of persecution. From the moment
that protestantism became conspicuous in that country, it was
persecuted by the kings at the instigation of the Jesuits. But the
protestants were soon so numerous and so powerful, and had such
leaders amongst the princes and nobles themselves, as the admiral
Coligny, the prince of Conde, etc., that they flew to arms in 1562,
and the country was for more thari seventy years tom to pieces-
with a succession of civil wars, called the wars of the Hugonots,
in which, as in Germany and the Netherlands, the most dreadful
cruelties were practised; the artisans; particularly the silk-workers
of Lyons and Nantes, fled out of the country, to the great enrich..
ment of England, whither they betook themselves. The most
furious of these wars were urged and carried on most characteristi-
cally by Katharine de Medici, the niece of the pope, Clemens VII.,
as queen-mother during the reign of her weak son Charles IX.
This artful and yerfidious woman, inspired with all the subtlety .
and bloodthirstmess of Rome, employed any means, poison,
assassination, and the vilest hypocrisy, to accomplish her purposes.
Whenever she was beaten by the protesta.nts, she feigned great
humiliation, to get them to conclude a peace, on promise of all
strife about religion ceasing for ever, which lasted only till she
had again recruited .her powers for further vengeance. The in-
fernal spirit in which these wars were carried on by the catholics
may be sufficiently J?Ointcd out by one passage from the history of
their commencement.
The protestant& desecrated the catholic churches and convents,
destroyed the pictures, dismembered the images, and le\ied the
hea\iest contributions on the rich priests. The catholics ~
more fiendishly. The Year Books of some French cities are full
of the most inhuman cruelties which were perpetrated. Whole
garrisons which surrendered were afterwards hewn to pieces,
their leaders and the wealthy horri!Jly broken on the rack,
women brutishly stoned, children cut to pieces, old people dread-
fully tortured to death. In Tours the president was hanged on a
tree, and his entrails torn out. Pregnant women were· dragged
out into the .streets naked, were cut open, and the children da.slied
on the stones, or thrown to the dogs. In Castres a hangman
skinned five men alive, and devoured their livers. . In Agen five
hundred were hanged at once ; and in Cahors were nearly as
many burnt. In Troyes a .procurator caused his own son to be
hanged; a brother caused bJS sister to be burnt, and basted with
briny bacon fat. . Throughout all Provence.nothing was heard of
but the most revolting histories of murders and horrors. More
than five hundred men were tortured to.death, blinded, hung up hy.
•
PRIESTCRAFT IX ALL AGES, 121
the bands or the feet, torn asunder by horses, stoned, Bung alive
into burnintr lime kilns, or buried alive. Thus ferine rage let loo8e
triumphed m its atrocities, as besides tke slaking of furious re-
venge, the conviction was added that all this was for the honour
of God.
Before these wars were brought to an end, two monarchs, Henry
II I. and Henry IV., although catholics, were murdered by the
popish emissanes, because they were not thought hearty enough
m the cause of fanatic destruction of their subjects. But the grand
event of these wars was that which, during the reign of Charles
·IX., horrified all Europe, and is eternized in men's minds with the
fearful title of THE MAssACRE OF ST. BARTHOLOMEw.
The massacre of St. Bartholomew will remain to the end of time
in characters of infamy on the history of France. This horrid
earnage, which was an attempt to exterminate at one blow the
)l(otestants, commenced at Paris on the 24th of August, 1572, by
'&he secret orders of Charles IX., at the inst-igation of the queen
dowager of Medici. The queen of Navarre was poisoned by
order of the court. About daybreak, says Thuanus, upon the toll
of the great bell of the church of St. Germain, the butchery began.
Coligny, admiral of France, was basely murdered in his own house;
and then thrown out of the .windows, to gratify the malice of the
duke of Guise. His head was cut off, and sent to the king and
queen-mother; and his body, after a thousand indignities offered
to it, hung up by the feet on a gibbet. After this, the murderers
ravaged the whole city, imd butchered, in three days, 10,000 lords,
gentlemen, and people of all ranks. A horrible scene, when the
very streets and passages resounded with the noise of those who
met together for murder and plunder; the groans of the- dying, the
shrieks of those about to be butchered, were every where heard.
The bodies of the slain were thrown out of the windows ; the
courts and ch&.mbers filled with them: the dead bodies of others
dragged along the streets ; their blood running in torrents down
the channels to the river: an innumerable multitude of men,
women, and children involved in one common destruction; and
the gates of the king's palace besmeared with their blood.
From Paris, the massacre spread through the provinces, through- .
out nearly the whole kingdom. In Meaux they threw above two
hundred intQ gaol; ill-treated and then killed a great number of
women; plundered the houses of the protestant&, and then ·exer-
cised their fury on their prisoners; calling them out, one by one,
and butchering them as sheep for the market. The bodies of some
were flung into the Maine, and others into ditches. The same
cruelties were practised at Orleans, Angers, Troyes, Bom-ges, La
Charite, and especially Lyons, where they inhumanly destroyed
above eight hundred protestants; children hanging on their pa-
rents' necks; parents embracing their children ; putting ropes
round the necks of soml', dragging them through the streets, and
tlinging them half dead into the river. The soldiers and very ex-
ecutioners refused, says a detailed account of this transaction ia
•
122 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
the fi1'8t volume of the Harleian Miscellany, to partake in this
hellish carnage; and the butchers and lowest populace were ad-
mitted to the prisons, where they chopped off the hands, feet, and
noses of the captives, and derided their agonies, as they mangled
them.
When the news arrived at Rome, where the lette1'8 of the pope's
l~te, read in assembly of the cardinals, gave assurance that all
thiS was done by command of the king, the joy was excessive ; and
it was instantly decreed that the pope and cardinals should march
to the church of St. Mark in solemn procession, and return thanks
to God for so great. a blessing conferred on the see of Rome and
the Christian world! That high mass should be celebrated, the
pope and all his cardinals attending; ajubilee should be proclaimed
throughout the Christian world. The cannon of St. Angelo were
fired, and·the city illuminated as for a most splendid victory.
In England, though the church of Rome could not mana1re to
excite the monarchs to wholesale massacres of their own subjects,
yet even here, as already shown, from the days of Wycliffe, they
were successful enough to arouse persecution, and from the mo-
ment that the writ de heretico comburendo, in the reign of Henry
IV., was passed, the fires of Smithfield consumed its scores of.vic-
tims, the prisons were crowded with .sufferers, the Lollards were
cut down as conspirators, and thousands of innocent subjects were
har3$sed by the papal priests; till fortunately Henry VIII., in his
wilful rage, broke the shameful sway of an Italian priest over the
people of England. Yet even in the reign of Queen Mary, when
this horrid religion was restored for a short space, two hundred
and seventy of our countrymen were brought to the stake, besides
those who .were punished by fines, imprisonments, and confisca-
tions. Amongst those who suffered by fire were five bishops,
twenty-one clergymen, eight lay gentlemen, eighty-four tradesmen,
one hundred husbandmen, servants, and labourers, fifty-five women.
and four children. This persevering cruelty appears astonishing,
yet is much inferior to what has been practised in other countries.-
A great author, Father Paul, computes that in the Netherlands
alone, from the time that the edict of Charles V. was promulgated
against the reformers, there had been fifty thousand persons lianB"-
ed, beheaded, buried alive, or burnt on account of religion; and m
France a great number.
Such was the blood-bath into which the malignant fury of
popery converted the whole ci\>ilized world, when the dread of
danger to its long honible reign and degrading craft made it stand
forth in its true demoniac shape. To call thi~ awful disP.lay of
limitless and sanguinary vengeance devili&h, would be a libel on
the devils themsefves, of whom there are no records to be com-
pared in frightful fiendishness with those actions of men, in whom
all fellow feeling, all sense of shame, all moral depravity, were
swallowed up by the one grand and striking desire to maintain
their reign of delusion, licentiousness, and cruelty, though it were
at the cost of the lives of half mankind.
,g, Jb,Google
123
CHAPTER XV.
JESUITS AND INQUISITORS.
The land in which I lived, by a. fell bane
Wa.s withered up. Tyrants dwelt side by side,
. And stabled in our homes-until the chain
Stifled the captive's cry, and to abide
That blasting curse, men had no shame--all vied
In evil, slave and despot; fear with lust,
Strange fellowship through mutual hate h&d tied,
Like two dark serpents tangled in the dust,
Which on the paths of men their mingling poison thrust.
REVOI,T OF lsLA.X.
But onward moved the melancholy train,
For their false creeds, in fiery pangs to die.
This was the solemn sacrifice of Spain-
Heaven's offering from the land of chivalry!
THE FoREST SANCTUARY.
WE have passed rapidly through strange scenes of priestly wick-
edness and bloodshed,-but of all the agents of the devil which
were ever spawned in the black dens of that earthly pandemonium,
the yapal church, none can compare with the Jesuits and In-
quisttors. To these we must give some further attention.
The Jesuits, as we have seen, arose in the latter days of popery.
Their doctrines were those of popery grown to thorough rtpeness.
They seemed created to show to what lengths that system could be
earned, and to crown it, in conjunction with their fellow demons
of the Inquisition, with that full measure of popular indignation
which should hasten its great "immedicable wound" from the
hand of Luther. The Jesuits took up the favourite dogmas of the
papal church-that the end sanctifies the lJleans-that evil may be
done that good may come of it-and pushed them to that degree
which causes the good and the simple to stand in astonishment at
the daring acts and adroit casuistry of" bold bad men." All oaths,
all obligations, all morality, all religio:~., according to their creed,
were to be adopted or set aside, just as it suited the object they
bad in view. They might cheat and lie, steal and kill, all for
righteousness' sake. They embodied in practice the pithy maxims
of Hudibras: ·
'Tis the temptation of the devil
That makes all human actions evil.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
124 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
For saints may do the same things by
The spirit in sincerity,
Which other men are tempted to,
And at the devil's instance <io,
And yet the actions be contrary,
Just as the_ saints and wicked vary.
For as on land there is no beast
But in som~ fish at sea's expressed,
So in the wicked thert~ 's no vice
Ofwhich the saints have not a spice:
And yet that thing that'a pious in
The one, in 't other is a sin.
Is 't not ridiculous and nonsense
A saint should be a slave to conscience!
These were their preci~us tenets-the quintessence of the wisdom.
of this world, to whtcb that of the children of light is unprofitable
foolishness. Their founder, Ignatius Loyola, a Spaniard-an omin-
ous name when connected with religion,-was a most acute and
happy genius in his way. He saw the advantages which the popes
had derived from their accommodating ecclesiastical logic, and he
conceived the felicitous idea of creating a sort of second series of
popes, taught and enlightened by the old series. He adopted their
facile code of morals, and he even outwent them in the exquisite
finesse of his policy. The head of this system was to take the
name of General of the Order ; his emissaries were to go forth into
all kingdoms; to insinuate themselves into all cities, houses, and
secret haunts of the people. They were to adopt all shapes, to fol-
low all circumstances ; to wear an outside of peculiar mildness,
and an inner-man of subtle observance; to have the exterior of the
dove-the interior of the serpent. With all this sequacity", flex-
ibility, and disguise, they succeeded wonderfully. What, mdeed,
could resist them, when they came in all shapes, and with all pre-
tences ;-at the first glimpse of discovery of their real designs, or
of popular indignation, ready to eat up their words, and swear that
they were any thing but what they really were? But ·when they
found themselves in any degree of strength,-when ther were de-
sirous of carrying some point that compliance and duplicity could
not carry,-who so dogged and insolent as they? They bearded
people, magistrates, kings,-the pope himself, with the most im-
movable assurance. Tl:ie popes, who regarded them as activemain-
tainers of.ignorance and obedience, were desirous to tolerate them
as much as possible. But they often found it a severe task for
their patience. They were in the condition of a man who has
tamed a serpent or a lion ; they might soothe the beast by coa..~ing,
perhaps, but were every moment in danger of rousing its ferocity,
and even of falling before its rage. When struck at, they stood
and hissed, and fought with true snaky pertinacity ; but if they
~~aw actual destruction coming, they suddenly disappeared, only to
raise their hydra heads in a thousand other places. ExJ.>elledfrom
states in their own characterof Jesuits, they came back m all sorts
oigit<Zed by Coogle
·PillESTCilAP'T IN ALL AGES. 125
~f disguises; and, instead of open enemies, the ~ople and their
governors had to encountl'r the secret influence of thl'Ir poison, and
their stingswhich struck in the dark. They insinuated thl'msl'lves
into colleges and schools under false colours, till they could Sl'ize
upon them and convert thl'm into engines of their designs. They
became confessors, especially of women, that they might learn all
the secrets of their husbands; of kings and ministers, to learn those
of states : all the intelligence thus gathered was regularly trans-
mitted to the Genl'ral from every kingdom, so that he and his
counsellors knew the condition and intentions of all nations'; and,
3t a moment's notice, his creatures were ready to seize upon uni-
versities, churches, governments, or whatever they desired. They
entered into trade, and were scattered all over the world, Wl'aring
no outward appearance but that of merchants; yet keeping up a
secret correspondence with one another, and with their General,
and transmitting intelligence and wealth from all quarters of the
globe. They were not satisfied with exercising their arts over the
~hristian world; they proceeded into all pagan countries as
missionaries, and sought to bring the savages of Asia, Africa, and
. America under their dominion. They evidently had formed the
bold design of acquiring the spiritual and political sovereignty of
the world: but, with all their subtlety, their ambition and their
unprincipled grasping at power so alarmed and disgusted all people,
that their history is a continual alternation of their growing into
numbers and strength, and of their expulsion from almost every
kingdom that can be named. England, France, Spain, Germany,
Poland, Bohemia, Italy, the East and the West Indies, America,
North and South, in all these countries their arts were repeatedly
tried, and they were as repeatedly expelled with ignominy and
vengeance.
The rapidity v.;th which they spread themselves, is shown by
the following statement from the memorial presented by the uni-
versity of Paris to the king in 1724:-" In 1540, when they pre-
sented their petitions to Paul I II., they only appeared in the num-
ber of ten. In 1543, they were not more than twenty-four. In
1545, they had only ten houses ; but in 1549, they had two pro- .
vinces, one in Spain and the other in Portug-.1l, and twenty-two
houses; and at the death of Ignatius, in 1556, they had twelve
large provinces. In 1608, Ribadeneira reckoned twenty-nine
provinces and two vice-provinces, twenty-one houses of profes-
sion, two hundred and ninety~three colleges, thirty-three housea
of probation, ninety-three other residences, and ten thousand five
hundred and eighty-one Jesuits. In the catalogue printed at
Rome in 1629, are found thirty-five provinces, two vice-provinces,
thirty-three Hlluses of profession, five hundred and seventy-eight
colleges, forty-eight houses of probation, eighty-eight seminarie6,
one hundred and sixty residences, one hundred and six missions,
and, in all, seventeen thousand six hundred and fifty-five Jesuits,
of whom seven thousand eight hundred and seventy were priests.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
126 PRIESTCRAFT IN J.LL AGES.
At last, according to the calculation of ~'ather Jouvency, they had,
in 1710, twenty-four houses of profession, fifty-nine houses of pro-
bation, three hun!lred and forty residences, six hundred and twelve
colleges, of which above eighty were in France, two hundred mis-
sions, one hundred and fifty- ·even seminaries and boarding-house ,
and nineteen thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight Jesuits."
On their mercantile concerns, M. Martin, governor of Pondi-
cherry, observes, "It is certain that, next to the Dutch, the '
Jesuits carry on the greatest and most productive commerce in
India. Their trade surpas es even that of the English, as \\·ell as
that of the Portuguese, who established them in India. There
may possibly, indeed, be some Jesuits who go there from pm·e
religious motives; but they are very few, and it is not such as
those who know the grand secret of the company. Some among
them are Jesuits secularized, who do not appear to be such, be-
cause they never wear the habit; which is the reason why at
Surat, Agra, Goa, and every where else, they are taken for real
merchants of the countries whose names they bear: for it is cer-
tain that there are some of all nations, even of America and Tur-
key, and of every other which can be useful and nece sary to the
society. These disguised Jesuits are intriguing every where. The
secret intercour e which i preserved among them instruct them
mutually in the merchandise which they ought to buy and sell,
and '~ith what nation they can most advantageously trade; so
that these masked Je ·uits make an immense profit of the society,
to which they are alone responsible; through the medium of those
Jesuits who traverse the world in the habit of St. Ignatius, and
enjoy the confidence, know the secrets, and act under the orders
of the heads of Europe. These Jesuits, disguised and disper ed
over the whole earth, and who know each other by signs, like the
Freemasons, invariably act upon one system. They send mer-
chandise to other disguised Jesuit , who, having il thus at first
hand, make a considerable profit of it for the ocicty. This traffic is,
however, vc;-y injurious to France. I have often written respect-
ing it to the East India Company tracling here; and I have received
express orders from it (under Louis XIV.) to concede and adYance
to these fathers whatever they might require of me. The Jesuit
Tachard alone owes that company, at this moment, aboYe four
hundred and fifty thousand livres. Those Je uits who, like Ta-
chard, pass and repass between this quarter and Europe, are am-
bulatory directors and receivers of the bank and of the trade."
"In the Antille ,"say Coudrette, "Lavalette, the Je uit, has
half the worth of the property for whose conveyance to France he
undertakes. In Portugal the Jesuits had ve sels employed ex-
clusively in their service, which facts are establishtd by the pro-
ce s of Cardinal Saldanha. All the accounts of travellers in the
East Indies speak in the same way, with astoni hment, of the
extent of their commerce. In Europe, and even in France, they
have banks in the most commercial cities, such as Mar eillcs,
PKIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 127
Paris, Genoa, and Rome. In addition to this, they J?Ublicly sell
drugs in their houses, and, in order to their sanction m this, they
procured from Pope Gregory XIII. the }lrivilege of ~xercising the
art of medicine. Even in Rome, in spite of the opposition of the
tradesmen, and the prohibitions of the pope, they carry on trade
in baking, grocery, etc. Let us imagine twenty thousand traders,
dispersed over the world, from Japan to Brazil, from the Cape of
GOOd Hope to the north, all correspondents of each other, all
blindly subjected to one individual, and working for him alone;
conducting two hundred missions, which are. so many factories,
six hundred and. twelve colle~es, and four hundred and twenty-
three houses of professors, noVlciates, and residents; which are so
many entrep6ts; and then let us form an idea, if we can, of the
produce of so vast an extent."
. There have not been wanting advocates for these persevering,
intriguing priests ; who have represented them as merely labour-
:ing to promote religion amongst the civilized, and civilization
amongst the sav~e nations. But what says all history P What
says the indignation of every realm which has ever harboured
them ? That wherever they were, whatever they undertook, whe•
. ther the education of youth in Europe, or that of the natives of
uvage lands, all their plans turned to one object-absolute do-
minion over the minds and bodies of their disciples. They seem
to have taken a particular pleasure in breaking in upon the la-
bours and in persecuting all other missionaries ;-and by their de-
testable and ambitious acts, Christianity has been expelled from
various regions where it Wl\8 taking root. This was the case in
Japan and China. Here they first thwarted the measures of other
missionaries, then got all power into their bands, and finally were
driven out with wrath by the natives. In China their suppression
was connected with circumstances of peculiar ag~ravation. The
bishop of Nankin names two-to the pope, whose Vlces had become
public. "But the crime of Fathe~ Arithony Joseph, the superior
.Of the mi!ISion, is yet more scandalous. This man has remained
there eight years past, continually ·plunged in the abominable
practice of !!inning with women at the time they come to
..confess, and even in the place where he confessed them; after
which he gave them absolution, and administered the sacrament
to them ! He told them that these actioRs need not give them
any concern,·since all their fathers, the bishops, and the pope
himself, observed the same practice !
" All this was known to Christians and to heathens. Some
persons represented these crimes to the superiors of the Jesuits;
but the commissary whom they sent for the purpose declared him
innocent-! know not upon what pretence. While I was con-
sidering the best means of punishmg this man, the mandarins
-caused him to be arrested, suddenly, with two of his brethren,
and about one hundred Christians. What occasioned still greater
sc:audal, the mandarins, who had been some time acqu~inted.with
oigit<Zed by Coogle
128 PRIESTCRAFT. IN ALL AGES.
part of the facts, collected correct depositions to establish hili
crimes, and announced them at full length in their sentence,
which they made public." He was condemned to death, with the
other Jesuit, on the 22d of September, 1748, and they were both
strangled in prison. Of the hundred persons who were arrested
'IIlith him, there was not one who did not renou.nce Christianity,
IUld the Chinese Inissionary was the first to do so.
For more than two hundred years they maintained a system of
opposition and vexation to the bishOJlS and missionaries of India,
in the very face of the pope's commands to the contrary. ·
The only bright spot m the history of the Jesuits, is that of
those fathers who attempted the civilization of the nations of
South America. On that continent they acquired acharacter of
IJiety and beneficence, strangely, but beautifully, at varia-qce with
lhe character of the order every where besides. Their conduct in
Brazil and Paraguay, amid the bloody and revolting atrocities of
their countrymen, was one of the mpst illustrious .examples of
Christian benevolence and disinterested virtue ; and .I record it
with the greater pleasure, because I once confounded the plans of
these worthy men with the general worldly schemes of thetr order.
I do not mean to say that they exhibited Christianity in all the.
splendour of its unadulterated .truth ;-no, they had enough of the
empty forms and legends, false pretences, and false miracles of
Rome about them; but they exhibited one great feature of its
spirit-love to the poor and oppressed, and it was at once acknow-
ledged by them to be divine. I do not mean to ssy that they
adopted the soundest system of policy in their treatment of the
Indians; for their besetting sin, the love of power, and the pride
of intellectual dominance, were but too apparent in it, and this
prevented their labours from acquiring that permanence which
they otherwise would; but they did a great thing in that age, they
showed what Christiattity, even in an imperfect form, can accom•
plish.in the civilization of the wildest people. This little band of
.Jesuits of the New World must therefore stand as a• noble con-
trast to those of the Old.
In Europe they signalized themselves by perpetual attem;pta
·against the peace of states and the lives of monarchs. In Vemce,
in 1560, they e:llicited great commotion, and were very near being
.driven away. They showed great anxiety to confess.the wives of
the senators, for the purpose, it was believed, of acquiring the
secrets of the republic. Trevisani, "the patriarch of Venice, sap;
Sacehini, sa'tisfied himself of the charge, and made other dts-
ooveries of still greater importance. In the Netherlands, in For-
. tugal.and Spain, they were busy in similar schemes, and with
similar results. In Poland they had the fortune to get a man of
their order, Sigismund, upon the throne. He desired to introduoe
.them into Sweden, where his uncle, Duke Charles, W88\ hisJieu-
tenant. Charles remonstrated, in vain, that the people of ~en
would not endure the Jesuita: the king persisted, and the people
oigitozed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 12~
took arms against him. He was beaten both by sea and land ;
taken prisoner; and only released on condition that he would '
8.88emble his states, and act in conjunction with them. He then
~aped from Sweden, and strove to arm the Poles against the
Swedes; but they refused the alliance, and in the ·mean time his
uncle seized .upon ais towns.
With the continual attempts of these pertinacious wretches
against the liberties of England, and the lives of Elizabeth and
James I., every English reader is familiar : the names of Crichton,
Garnett, Parry, Cullen, Gerard, and Tesmond, successivelr engaged
in the design of assassinatin~ the protestant queen, or m the at-
tempt to blow up our E~lish Solomon and all his parliament,
will for ever perpetuate theii' abhorrence in England; and in Ire~
land the general massacre of the protestant& in 1641, which they
were principally concerned in exciting, and similar proceedings in
that country, will keep alive their remembrance there. But of all
their atrocities there are none which more affect one with indigna-
tion, than their ~rsecutions and murder of Henry III. and Henry
IV. of France. In 1563, according to Mezerai, the famous catho-
lic league took its rise, the object of which was to extirpate the pro-
testant& in France. The Jesuits became the soul of this infamous
federation. Henry III. assembled the states at Blois in 1579, for
the purpose of dissolving this conspiracy; and from that time, was
marked for destruction. Sammier, a Jesuit, traversed Germany, •
Italy, and Spain, to excite the princes of tHose countries against
him. Matthieu, another, styled the courier of the league, made
several journeys to the pope, to obtain a bull against him; and
though the pope hesitated at this, he delivered his opinion that the
person of Henry should be secured, and his cities seized. Com-
molet and Rouillet were the trumpets of sedition. In the college
of the Rue St. Jacques, the Jesuits met and conspired the murder
of the king. It was there Baniere came to be stirred up by the
doctrines of Varade,-and that Guinard composed the writings, for
which he was hung. It was there that the Sixteen signed an abso-
lute cession of the kingdom te Philip of Spain ; and that Chastel
acquired the lesson of parricide he afterwards acted upon. There
Clement, animated by such horrible instructions, formed the re-
solve which he fulfilled on the first of August, 1589, the assassina-
tion of Henry III.
Henry IV., a. generous spirited and noble monarch, was educated
in protestantism ;-this was enough to arouse 'their murderous and
unappeasable hatred. It was almost by miracle that he escaped,
then a youth, from the massacre of St. Bartholomew. On his
coming to the throne, he was pursued by th~m with such continual
animosity, that to allay their fury, he consented to embrace catho-
liai.sm. This produced no effect-he was a man of liberal opinions ;
and sp.ch a man they could not tolerate. They made his life miser-
able j -and at length nearly effected his murder by the knife of
BMiere, at Melun, in August, 1593. On the 27th of December,
K
130 PRIBSTOBAFT IN ALL AGES.
1594, his life wa&·again attempted by Chaste}, another Jesuit. &
struck at him with a knife, but missed his aim, and insteadof kill-
ing him, only cut his lip, and struck out a tooth. This circum-
~>tance, and the ferment of infernal fanaticism, which induced the
papists and Jesuits to continually seek the destruction of the king,
caused the banishmentof the whole order. This, however, did not
mend the matter, as it regarded the king; he had only the same
enemies in~·ise, and, if possible, ten times more imbittered.
With that nature which characterized him, he at length coR-
sented to a ow them to return. It was in vain that Sully, his
minister, represented to him that no kindness could soften such
foes;-he recalled them, and fell a victim to their instigations, being·
stabbed by Ravaillac, on May 14th, 1610.
Many books had been written of late by the Jesuits, vindicating
and commending the killing of kings, particularly the work Of
Mariana, De Rege et Regis Institutione, in which the killing of
a king was termed a "laudable, glorious, and heroic action." It
was by such writings that this assassin was spurred on to his
diabolical act. Aubigny, his confessor. a Jesuit, when confronted
with the murderer, and charged with being privy to the design, at
first denied knowing the man at all; but when driven from that
assertion, he declared that "God had given to some the gift of
tongues, to others the gift of prophecy, and to him the gift of for-
getting confessions."
Such were the abominable principles which led them to these
abominable actions. For a full account of this assassination, the
reader may consult the fourth volume of Sully's Memoirs. So
generally was the conspiracy known amongst the catholic sub-
jects of this unfortunate monarch, that many people declared,on
the day when the murder took place, that the king was theB.
dying, though they were in distant places. An astrologer had
foretold the very day and hour to the king, the manner of the act,
and that it would take place in a coach. So much impressed was
the king with his approaching fate, that ~e was frequently in
great a~ny of mind, and would fain have put off the queen'a
COI'onation, which was about to take place at the time predicted..
He had terrible dreams, and so al8o had the queen, waking in
horror, and crying out.the king was stabbed. All these things,
which the common mind loves to believe supernatural intimations,
only show to the more reflecting one, the audacity of these bloody
wretches, who were 'so confident.in their power of doing evil, that
they spoke of.it till it became a universal impression.
From the terrible Jesuit there is but one step further in horror,
and that is to the Inquisitor! And, in fact, it can scarcely be
called a step at all, for both characters are frequently combined in
the same individual. Jesuits, it will be seen in all the histooes-of
the Inquisition, are as active as the Dominicans themselves, who
claim the peculiar honour, or more properly infamy, of possessing,
from the head of their order, the office of Inquisitors; that ill, fiend&
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PIUESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 131
incarnate. In speaking of the extermination of the Troubadours,
we have already noticed the rise of the Inquisition. It was an
institution so congenial to the nature of popery, that its HOLY
OFFICEs--its OPPJCES OF MERCY, as they were called in that
· apirit of devilish abuse of Christianity in which they were con-
ceived, were speedily to be found in various countries of Enrore,
Asia, and America, bnt distinguished most fearfully in Spnm.
Their horrors have been made familiar to the public mind by the
writers of romance, especially by Mrs. Ratcliffe ; but all the
powers of romance have not been able to overcolour the reality.
Spain has always claimed and gloried in the supremacy of her
Inquisition. She has strenuously contended with the pope for it ;
and has deemed it so national an honour, as to pam.de the auto-
lla-fe as one of her most fascinating spectacles. Her kings, her
queens, her princeS, and nobles, have assembled with enthusias~
to witness them. So great a treat did the Spaniards formerly
eonsider them, that Llorente states that on February 25th, 1560,
f;)ne was celebrated by the Inquisitors of Toledo, in which several
persons were burnt,with some effigies,and a. great number subjected
to penances; and this was performed to entertain the new queen,
Ehza.beth, daughter of Henry II. of France, a girl of thirteen years
Of age, accustomed in her own country to brilliant festivals suit-
able to her rank and age. So completely may priestcra.ft brutalize a.
nation, and so completely has this devilish institution stamped the
Spanish character, naturally ardentand chivalric, with gloomy hor- • .
ror, that both Llorente and Limborch represent ladies witnessing
the agonizing tortures of men and women expiring in flames, with
trans~ of delight. By means of this infernal machine, the
Spamsh kings have contrived to crush the mind of the country;
to check the growth of literature; to nourish a spirit of ferocity;
and to produce a race of people,the slaves of the worst government,
and the most ignorant and bigoted priests. To this cause, in fact;
Spain owes its present misery and degradation. Llorente, whose
work is founded on official documents, drawn from the archives of
the Inquisition itself, when he was secretary to it, gives a. long list
of the learned and ingenious Spaniards whom it nas persecuted
and condemned. The ostensible object of its early exertion$, was
to extirpate the Jews, Moors, and Mo~scoes; and so successful
were its efforts, that Llorente calculates, that in one hundred and
nineteen years it deprived Spain of three millions of inhabitants.
Mariana says 170,000 families of Jews were banished, and the
rest sold for slaves. They entered Portugal, but were again com-
mandM by the Portuguese king to quit that realm al11o. The
Moors were suffered to depart; but as the Jews were preparing to
do so, the king commanded that all those who were not more than
fourteen years old, should be taken from their parents and educated
in the Christian religion. It was a. most aftticting thing, to see
ehildren snatched from the embraces of their mothers ; and fathers
embracing their children, torn from them, and even beaten with
K 2
132 PRIESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES.
clubs; to hear the dreadful cries they made, and e\'ery place filled
with the lamentations and yells of women. Many, through indi~f•
nation, threw their sons into pits, and others killed them witn
their own hands. Thus prevented on the one hand from embark-
ing, and on the other oppressed and persecuted, many feigned
conversion to escape from their miseries. The cruelties practised
on these people, to compel them to embrace a religion which was
thus represented as only fit for devils, makes one's blood boil to
read them. The Reformation appeared, and found these monsters
fresh t;mployment. The doc~nes of Luther appear to.have made
so rap1d a progress scarcely many country as m Spa~n. Num~
hers of the highest ranks, of the most intelligent ladies, of ecclesi-
astics, embraced the .Principles of the reformer; and, had it ,not
been for the Inquisition, tlla.t country might now have figured in
the frgnt of Europe with a more glorious aspect, as a great and
enlightened state, than it did under Charles V. The InquisitioA
had the satisfaction of extinguishing the revived flame of Chris-
tianity, and of reducing Spain to its present deplorable conditiol'l.
All the fury and sti:ength of that great engine of hell was brought
to bear upon it: its auto-da-fes were crowded with Lutheran he~
tics ; its fire!! consumed them ; its secret cells devoured them....;.
men, women, children, were swept into its unfathomable gulf of
destruction. Priestly malice triumphed over truth aiid virtue.
To such gigantic stature of power did this dismal institution
attain, that no one waB safe from its fanW'. The confiscation or
the goods ofit5 victims whetted the appetite of/riestly avarice so
keenly, that a man to be guilty of heresy ha only to be rich;.
Llorente gives several cases of English merchants, who were
pounced upon by it in defiance of the law of nations. On one
occasion Oliver Cromwell had to intercede for an English consul>
whom they had got into their dens. The king replied, he had no
power over the Inquisition. "Then," added Cromwell, in a second
message," if you have no power over the Inquisition, I will declare.
war against it." The threat was' effet:tual. So little power had
the Spanish kings over it, indeed, that it did not hesitate to accuse
them; and Llorente's lists are full of nobles, privy counsellOI'S',
knights, magistrates, military commanders, and ladies of the
highest birth, on whom these daring priests laid their hands, and
loaded them with chains and infamy. It seemed a peculiar de-
light to them to insult and degrade those who had moved in· the
most distinguished spheres. In Portugal, says Limboreh, all the
prisoners, men and women, without any regard to birth or dig--
nity, are shaved the first or second day of their imprisonment.
Each prisoner has two p6ts of water every day; one to wash, and
the other to drink; a besom to cleanse his cell, and a mat of
rushes to lie upon. ·
The same historian gives, in a few {>BBsages, a vivid summary
of the operations of this odious institutlon. " In countries where
the Inquisition has existed, the bare idea of its progress damped
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 133
the most ardent mind. Formidable and ferocious as the rapacious
tiger, who from the gloomy thicket surveys his unsuspecting prey,
until the favoured moment arrives in which he may plunge fot·-
ward and consummate its destruction, the Inquisition meditates in
secret and in silence itS horrific projects. In the deepest seclusion
the calumniator propounds his charge ; with anxious vigilance the
creatures of its power regard its unliappy victim. Not a whisper
is heard, or the least hir.t of insecurity given; until at the dead of
night a band of savage monsters surround the dwelling; they de-
mand an entrance :-upon the inquiry, By whom is this required P
.
the answer is, ' The holy office.' In an mstant all the ties of na-
ture appear as if dissolved, and either through the complete do-
minion of superstition, or the conviction that resistance would be
.vain, the master, parent, husband is resigned. From the bosom
of his family, and bereft of all domestic comforts, he enters the
lnquisition house; its ponderous doors are closed, and hope ex-
cluded~perhaps for ever. Immured in a noisome vault, sur-
JOunded by impenetrable walls, he is left alone ; a prey to all the
ll8d reflections of a miserable outcast. If he venture to inquire the
reason of his fate, he is told, that silence and secrecy are here in-
violAble. Accustomed to the conveniences of social life, and per-
haps of a superior station, he is now reduced to the most miserable
expedients. The most menial offices now devolve upon him; while
the cruel reflection obtrudes itself upon hi& mind, that his family
may, ere long, be reduced to indigence by an act of inquisitorial
confiscation.'' And with such fiendish ingenuity is the punish-
ment of confiscation aggravated, that it is followed, as of necessary
consequence, by the person being rendered for ever infamous,-
that is, he is incapable of holding office of any kind; his children
are disinherited, and made infamous, or incapable to the second ge-
.aeration by the father's side, and to the first by the mother's. All his
relations are liberated from their obligations to him, or connexion
with him; his children are freed from his control; his wife is
liberated from her marriage vows · his servants or vassals arc freed
from their servitude; he is compehed to answer inquiries of others
on any atl&ir, but no one need answer him. He haa no protection
from the laws, and no remedy against oppression or injustice. Hi,
very children, brothers and sisters, ought to abandon him ; and
the only way of a son escaping the infamy of his father, is by be-
ing the first to accuse him to tlte tribunal of the Inguisition!
Then come the secret examinations, the accusations from un-
known sources, the intimidations,-the torture ! The torture has
five degrees :-first, being threatened to be tortured: secondly, be-
ing carried to the place of torture: thirdly, by stripping and bind-
ing: fourthly, the being hoisted on the rack: fifthly, sguassation.
The stripping is performed without regard to humanity or hon-
our, not only to men, but to women and virgins. As to squassa-
Uon, it is thus performed : the prisoner has his hands tied behind
his back, and weights tied to hiS feet, and then he is drawn up on
oigit<Zed by Coogle
134 PIUESTCIUFT IN ALL AGES.
h~h, till his head reaches the very pulley. He is kept hangingin
th1s manner for some time, that by the greatness of the weight
hanging at his feet, all his joints and limbs may be dreadfUlly·
stretched, and on a sudden he is let down with a jerk, by slacken-
ing the rope, but kept from coming quite to lhe ground : by which
terrible snake his arms and le~ are all disjointed, whereby he is
put to the most exquisite pam; the shock which he receives by
ihe sudden stop put to his fall, and the weight at his feet, stretch-
ing his whole body more intensely and cruelly. According to the
orders of the Inquisition, this squassa.tion is repeated once, twice,
or three times in the space of an hour.
Another mode of torture is, by covering the mouth a.hd nostrils
with a. thin cloth, so that the victim is scarcely able to breathe·
through them ; then, letting fall from on high water, drop by drop,
on hiS mouth, which so easily sinks through the cloth to the bot-·
tom of his throat, so that it is impossible for him to breathe, his.
mouth being filled with water, his nostrils with the"cloth; ·.so that•
the poor wretch is in the agony of death. When this cloth is.
pulled out of his mouth, as it often is, to answer questions, it is all,
over water and blood, and is like. pulling his bowels through -his:
mouth. All this time he is lyin!f in what is called the wooden-.
horse; that is, a. trough across wh1ch a bar is pla.ced, on which ther
man's back rests, instead of on the bottom, while his arms, shins,.
and thighs are tied round with small cords, drawn tight by screws,
till they tmt to the very bones. ·
The physician Orobio, a. Jew, gave a most lively account of the
torture practised upon him after pe had lain in h1s dungeon three
years. He was brought to the place of torture. " It was towards·
evening. It was a large underground room, arched, and 'the w'"ls,
covered with black hangings. The candlesticks were fastened to,
the wall, and the whole enlightened with candles pla.ced in them..
At one end there was an enclosed place, like a closet, where the
Inquisitor and notary sat at a table: so that the place seemed to
him the very mansion of death, every thing appearing so terrible
and so awful. After some preliminary torments, such as tying his
thumbs with small cords tHl the blood spouted out from beneath .
the nails ; they fastened him with small cords, by means of little.
iron pulleys, to a wall as he sat upon a bench; then drawing the.
cords which fastened his fingers and toes with great violence, they
drew the bench from under him, and left him suspended in the.
strings, till he seemed to be dissolving in flame, such was his
~ony. Then they brought a sort of lailder and struck it against
his shins, giving five violent strokes at once ; under the exquisite
pain of which he fainted away. They then screwed up his cords·
with fresh violence, and tied others so near that they slid into the
gashes the first had made, and produced such an effusion of blood
that they supposed him dying. On finding, however, that he was
not, they repeated the torture once more, and then remanded him
to his cell!' To imagine men practising these cruelties on men.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
P:RIESTC:RAFT JN ALL AGES. 135
and that in the outraged name of Christ, the fountain of love and
mercy, is revolting enough; but to read of them mangling, dislo-
cating, and dashing to pieces the delicate frames of young and
lovely women, of which Llorente gives variot'ls instances,.puts the
climax to our abhorrent indignation. Such, in particular, were the
treatment ofJane Bohorques, and her attendant, a young Lutheran
girl, afterwards burnt at the auto-da-fe.• ·
A word on these auto-da-fes, and we will escape from these hor-.
rors. Dr. Geddes' account of the manner of celebrating them, as
quoted in Limborch, is one of the best and most condensed. " In
the morning of the day the prisoners are all brought into a great
hall, where they have the habits put on they are to wear in the
procession, which begins to come out of the Inquisition about nine
o'clock in the morning.
" The.first in the procession are the Dominicans, who carry the
standard of the Inquisition, which orP the one side has their
founder Dominic's picture, and on the other side the cross between
an olive tree and a sword, with this motto, 'Justitia et Miserecor-
dia.' Next after the Dominicans come the penitents, some with
benitoes and some without, according to the nature of their crimes.
They are all in \)lack coats v.ithout sleeves, and barefooted, with
a wax candle in their bands. Next come the ~itents who have
narrowly escaped being burnt, who over thetr black coat have
flames painted with their points turned downwards, to signify
their having been saved, but so as by fire. Next come the nega-
tive and relapsed that are to be burnt, with flames upon their
habit pointing upward; and next come those who profess doc·
trines contrary to those of the church of Rome, and who, besides
flames on theu habit pointing upward, have their picture, which
is drawn two or three ilays before, upon their breasts, with dogs,
~nts, and devils, all with open mouths, painted about it.
" Pegna, a famous Spanish Inquisitor, calls this procession
' Horrendum ac tremendum spectaculum ;' and so it is, in troth,
there being something in the looks of all the /risoners, besidea
those that are to be burnt, that is ghastly an disconsolate be-
yond what can be imagined; and in the eyes and countenances of
those that are to be burnt, there is something that looks fierce
and eager.
"The prisoners that are to be burnt alive, besides a familiar,
which all the rest have, have a Jesuit on each band of them, who
is continually preaching to them to abjure their heresies ; but if
• The methods of torture are not merely such aa I have here given-
they are infinitely varied, and too dreadful to be bome even in the re-
cital. With them it is, indeed, a matter of science ; and is treated of
in a volume to be found in the libraries of this country-THE ART OF
ToRTURE-in which the most ingenious modes of producing physical
agony are detailed with the coolest accuracy. I recollect the horror
with which a friend of mine opened this book, in the library of the earl
of Shrewabury at Alton.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
136 P1UESTCR.f.FT I~ ALL AGES.
they offer to speak any thin~ in defence of the doctrines for which
they are going to suffer deatn, they are immediately ga.IM6d. This
I saw done to a prisoner presently after he came out ofthe gates
of the Inquisition, upon his having looked up at the sun, which
he had not seen for several years, and cried out in a rapture,
' How is it possible for people that behold that glorious bQdy, to
worship any being but him that created it!' After the prisoners,
comes a troop of familiars on horseback, and after them the In-
quisitors and other officers of the court upon mules; and last of
all comes the Inquisitor-general, upon a white horse, led by two
men, with a black hat and green hat-band, and attended by all the
nobles that are not employed as familiars in the Jlrocession.
· "At the place of execution, which at Lisbon is the Ribera,
there are so many stakes set up as there are prisoners to be burnt,
with a good quantity of dry furze about them. The stakes of the
professed, as the Inquisift>rs call them, may be about four yards
higp, and have a small board whereon the prisoner is to be seated,
within half a yard of the top. The negative and relapsed being
first strangled and burnt, the professed go up a ladder betwixt the
two Jesuits, who spend about a. quarter of an hour in exhorting
them to be reconciled to the church of Rome; '¥hich if they re-
fuse, the Jesuits descend, the executioner ascends and secures them
to the stake. The Jesuits then go up a. second time, and at part-
ing tell them-' they leave them to the devil, who stands at their
elbow to receive their souls, and carry them into the flames of
hell-fire.' Upon this a great shout is raised, ' Let the dogs' beards
be made!' which is done by thrusting flaming furzes, fastened to
long poles, against their faces. And this inhumanity is commonly
·continued until their faces are burnt to a coal, and is always ac-
companied by such loud acclamations ofjoy as are not to be heard
on any other occasion; a bull-feast or a fair being dull entertain-
ments to this.
~· The professed's beards having been thus made, or trimmed, as
they call it in jollity, fire is set to the furze which are at the bot-
tom of the stake, and above which the professed are chained so
high that the top of the flame seldom reaches higher than the
seat they sit on ; and if there happen to be a wind, to which that
place is much exposed, it seldom reaches so high as their knee&
If it be calm they may be dead in half an hour, but if windy they'
are not dead in an hour and a half or two hours, and are really
roasted, not burnt to death. But though, out of hell, there can-
not possibly be a more lamentable spectacle than this, being joined
with the sufferers' continual cry of, 'Mi&ererordia JX»' arrwr de DiotJ,'
Mercy, for the love of God! yet it is beheld by people of both
sexes, and all ages, with such transports of joy and satisfaction,
as are not witnessed on any other occasion.''
Mr. Wilcox, afterwards bishoJ? of Gloucester, wrote to Bishop
Burnet, that he witnessed at L1Sbon, in 1705, Hector Dias and
Maria Pinteyra burnt alive. The woman was alive in the flames
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAF'J' IN ALL AGES. 137
half an hour; the man about an hour. The king and his brother
were seated at a window so near as to be addressed for a con-
siderable time in very moving terms by the man as he was burn-
in~. All he asked was a few more fagots; yet he could not ob-
tam them. The wind being a little fresh, the man's hinder parts
were perfectly roasted ; and as he turned himself round, his ribs
opened before he left speaking, the fire being recruited as it wasted,
to keep him just in the same degree ofheat ; but all his entreaties
could not procure him a larger allowance of wood, to despatch him
more speedily. .
The victims who have suffered death or ruin from this diabo-
lical institution in various quarters of. the world, are estimated at
some millions. Llorente gives, from actual examination of its own
records, the follo'\\ing statement of the victims of the S))anish In-
quisition alone.
Number of persons who. were condemned and
perished in the flames • • . • • . • • 31,912
Effigies burnt • • • • • • • • • • .. 17,659
Condemned to severe penances • • • • • 291,450
341,0'21
And these things the choicest agents of the devil have dared to
Ret in the name of Christ, and men have believed them! Amid all
the crimes of Napoleon, let it be for ever remembered, that he an-
nihilated this earthly hell with a word,-but Englishmen restored
Ferdinand to the throne of Spain, and Ferdj.nand restored the In-
quisition. We fou~ht to give Spaniards freedom, and we gave
them the most blasnng despotism which ever walked the earth-
the despotism of priestcraft ; with fire in one hand, and eternal
darkness and degradation in the other. Cromwell had a different
spirit-he menaced war on the Inq_uisition-and the menace was
heard to the lowest depths of its mfernal dens. If the arm of
cruelty be shortened, it is neither owing to the priests nor their
ereature Ferdinand, but to the light which has entered Spain
during its political concussions. Who shall tell what effects on
the continental nations the rel{Cneration of the religious institu-
tions of this mighty and illustnous nation shall yet pl'oduce ?
oigit<Zed by Coogle
138
CHAPTER XVI.
CONCLUDING REMARKS ON THE ROMISH CHURCH, ITS REAL CHA·
RACTER A.SD EFFECTS ON THE WORLD, PAST AND PRESENT.
IN passing over from the Romish church to the Reformation, it
is not our fortunate lot to be able to leave that church, its history
Bnd its effects, entirely behind us ; because the Reformation was at
most, glorious blessin~ as it was, but a partial reformation. The
reformation of the Christian church, what -a vast signification:
lies in that term ! Tbe power .of priestcraft thrown down ; ita·.
lies, and ita usurpations, and cruelties, ita perversion of the truth;
and its corruption of morals, all swept away, and the pure and·
divine religion of Christ rising once more in all its heavenly
beauty and richness of blessing! Oh! that were a reformation
indeed ! Reli~on, pure and undefiled religion, the best birth- ·
right of mankind, and the everlasting foundation of all freedom,
justice, and sound knowledge, set free from the trammels of states,
from the fVCCdy hands and institutions of parties, from being the
slave of kmgs and aristocracies, from the selfish bondage of char-
tered universities, breeding up its young broods into a perpetual
swarm of bigots, spiritual and political tyrants, and devouring lQ.o
custs-set free to exercise its benign intluence on all hearts, distinct
from the bitterness and the bickerings which are infused into the
general mind by ita being bound up with all manner of narrow
and personal interests-that is what is implied by a reformation in
its genuine sense.
But in no such sense has there ever yet been a reformation.
It is only by a miracle that tpe human mind is at once to be cut
clear from the cords and the swaddling-bands that priestcraft hu
for thousands of years wrapped around it ; healed of the woundS
and the sores that have been inflicted upon it, its limbs straight..
enedand made suppleafter its longcrippling and corruptingbyliier"
archies and governments, restored to a healthy vigour in all its func-
tions, and unloaded of all its warpings and its prejudices. No;
ita injury, its degradation, was the work of fifteen hundred years;
BI\d if it had by a genuine reformation been endued with a per-
fect liberty, it could onlr by the exercise of that liber.!f for a long
series of years, have a~n recognised the full extent oftts faculties,
felt the full return of1ts strength, and learned to act with the wis-
dom and gracious beneficence that are revealed·to it in the gospel
of Christ. .
But that liberty was never granted it. Even in its most fa-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCR.lFT IX ..LLL ..LG~S. 139
TOured moment, that of its first outbreak in Saxony, under Luther
and Melancthon, it was but a giant running rashly abroad in the
obscurity of twilight ;-a giant which had been so long cooped in
the ~uil~n gloom of his captivity, that he knew not rightly the
use of hts limbs, and the danger of his progress. Before he could
recover from the blinding blaze of day, the powers of antichrist
and of the world were upon him, and he was once more a prisoner
-though a prisoner at large. It is nowseen, that old or primitive
Lutheranism was but a faint and feeble approach towards the
full recognition of the divine glories that lie in the New Testament.
Luther and Melancthon were men who had Jived in the bonds of
popery, and could not all at once shake them oft: It required time,
and free discussion, to purify Christianity from all the errors and
follies that had been piled up around it; like as we often see base
buildings, which in the night of time have been reared around some
~ficent cathedral, till they have shut out the light from within,
and cased up its proud exterior in a vile crust of sliops and offices.
But, as I hav-e observed, that liberty and that time for purification
were both speedily denied. Where human governments professed
to concede a reforumtion, it was but such an arbitrary distortion
IIUi they pleased ; and the greater portion of governments, influenced
by the cries of the };lOpe, end by Romish in\>red superstition, a).
lowed of no reformation, but with fire and sword annihilated men
and their opinions together.
We should not, then, have a real conception of what the Roinish
church was, and what it has inflicted on the world, if we did not,
before quitting it, take a concise retrospect of its acts and doc-
trines, and look fairly in the face the disastrous influence it still
continued and continues to exert, by its deeply ingrafted Inichiefs,
on the public mind.
Without wishing in the least to impugn the genuine piety and
sincere faith of mOdem catholics; we are bound to deal with the
old catholic church as an historical fact ; and so dealing with it,
history itself compels tis to state, that the crime of the Romish
church, its offenceagainst the hap~iness and interests ofhumanityr
admits of no parallel for its enormity. I believe that the catholics
of this country are enlightened enough to see what a curse it has
been, not only to the world, but to their own religion, that their
church became a state church ; thus having by designing men
been converted into a tool of ambition, instead of being left to
pursue its still and holy path of rooting out the ignorance and
soothing the woes of this world. I believe they deplore this fact
as deeply as we do, and may therefore regard my remarks as di-
rected by no means against them at the present day, but against
the system of the old papal hierarchy. That hierarchy was a
GRKAT TRADING SPECULATION. It was a scheme to set priestcraft,
with all its swarming brood of priests and harlots, on the shoulders
of mankind, and to give them an everlasting kingdom of luxury
and domination at the expense of the liberty, the enlightenment,
oigit<Zed by Coogle
140 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
and the happiness of the whole human race : to do this, it at once
set aside Christianity, and raised in its place THE ABOMINATION
OF DESOLATION.
Amongst all the forms of priestcraft which we have had ocea.-
sion in tnis history to notice, there is no other which, with all its
audacity and pretension, has attempted to extend its dominion over
every nation besides that in which it reigned. It is the exclu ·ive
character of popery, to have assumed to be the ruler and di poser
of the world, :mu to have claimed, as its own proper position, the
predicted throne of antichrist. So completely did it do thi in all
Its forms, that it not only affected to rule both over people and
kings, but to give away the New World on its eli covery, a. God's
vicegerent on earth, and therefore spread its hoJTors and calamities
over all those vast regions which were so strangely opened to the
view of the modern world.
The pope divided the whole New World between the Spaniards
and Portu~uese just as you would divide an orange, giving to each
a half. Tne farce in it solemn audacity is astounding to us \vith
our present ideas, but it proved no farce to the poor victim ; who,
as the unfortunate inca, Atahualpa, observed, had their co1mtries
lPven away by an Italian priest, whose name they had never be-
fore heard of. This act most completely fixed the title of anti-
christen the pope of Rome, as clearly predicted by St. Paul:-"The
son of perdition, who opposeth and exalteth himself above all
that is called God; so that he as God sitteth. in the temJ,Jle of God,
showing11imself that he is God. Even him, whose conung i after
the working of Satan with all power, and signs, and lyiJ1g wonders,
and with all deccivableness of tmri[Jlttcousness in them that perish ;
because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be
saved. And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion,
that they should believe a lie," 2 Thes . ii.
Nothino- can be more de criptive than this of the papal church
through tfte heyday of its influence. Let us consider what would
have been the state of men and morals, if Christianity in its sim-
plicity, independent of states and hierarchies, had gone on for a
thousand years in its celestial labours. Let us consider bow Rome
set this aside, and to what a state she reduced the mind and the
moral perceptions of men, and we shall comprehend her sin
against mankind, and shall not be surprised that the world has
not yet completely emancipated itself from this long incorporated
influence ; from state religions, and a spirit of persecution and
domination.
By the debauched moral principle, and the dislocation of . en e
of moral right and justice, which it had introduced in its long
career of a thousand years, it sent forth the Europeans, not as
Christians, but as robbers and murderers, into the New World,
and thus inflicted on it all the horrors it has undergone.
"We here see what effects it had produced on even the best
catholics in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries; but, what per-
PRIESTCRAFT IN. ALL AGES. 141
haps is not quite so much suspected, we shall have to learn in the
trucceeding section of this volume, to what an awful extent the
influence of this system operated and still operates on the protut-
antmind."
Yes ; popery became loaded with the superstitions and absurd-
ities of paganism, which it adopted to render itself more palatable
to the vulgar mind ; and these superstitious and pernicious maxims
and institutionR, it has again, through the imperfect reformation,
loaded protestantism with; amongst the most prominent of which
are state churches, hi~hies, love of idle ceremonies, and a
spirit of pel'llecution. Till protestantism is purged of these, it is
not purged of popery.
1t has from time to time been fashionable to talk with admir-
ation of the' profound policy of the Roman church, and to cite as
a proof of it, its continuance after the blow it received from the
Reformation. Mr. Babington Macaulay has even revived these no-
tions in'the Edinburgh Review ; but Hume long ago swept away
in a few sentences all that was plausible in such fancies.
" The policy of the court of Rome," he says, " has been com-
monly much admired; and men, judging by success, have bestowed
the highest eulogies on that prudence by which a power, from
such Blender beginnings, could advance, without force of arms, to
establish a uni~-ersal monarchy in Europe. But the wisdom of so
long a succession of men who filled the papal throne, and who
were of such different ages, tempers, and interests, is not intelli-
trible, and could never have place in nature. The instrument,
mdeed, with which they wrought, the ignorance and superstition
of the people, is so gross an engine, of such universal prevalence,
and solittle liable to accident or disorder, that it may be successful
even in the most unskilful hands, and scarcely any indiscretion
can frustrate its operations." Vol. I. p. 330.
Never' was a finer illustration given of the truth of this, than in
the history of the·Romish church. Never was such a series of
indiscretions and imprudences committed. In the first place, the
whole system was built on frauds, forgeries, and follies, that can
only hold their place in the minds of the ignorant and supersti-
tious. Its forgeries, as we have shown, of the Decretals, its mven-
tiona of purgatory, and all its trumpery miracles, such as we have
noticed; and such as were exposed in this country on the dissolu-
tion of the monasteries, as the angel's wing at Reading, which had
been shown as having brought over the spear's point which
pierced our Saviour's side; the Rood ofgrace at Bexley, that could
bow, roll its eyes, and look pleased or angry, and which, though it
had for ages drawn crowds of pilgrims, was exposed at St. Paul's
Cross, as a cheat, with all its springs and machinery; and all the
thousands of such things to be found then and still, all over the
world, in catholic churches and convents, are trumpery, addressed
only to the lowest state of the human mind. But if these were
paltry as.means of influence, how was the public conduct of the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
·~
PRIBSTCRAVT IN ALL AGES.
Romish church in every age, to the very time of the Reformation,
-calculated to shake all faith except that of the most besotted super-
stition,-the biekcrings, the rapacity, and. the scandalous lives of
its yoyes, cardinals, and clergy of every degree! Spite of the claim
to mtallibility, such were the wranglings and bitter strifes of the
rourt of Rome within itself, and with the citizens of Rome, and
different princes, that the church was continually tom to pieces,
and presented to the astonished world, its rival popes battling
with each other with all the fury of demons. More than once
there were no less than three popes at the same time. In the
eleventh century, Hepry III. of Germany found three rival popes
in existence, all of whom he deposed, and appointed Clement II.
in their place. In the fourteenth century, the schisms and civil wars
of the popes raged furiously. For seventy years, by the influence
of the French kihgs, the seat of the popedom had been removed
to Avignou ; and scarcely was it removed again to Rome, when
two popes were chosen, one of whom removed again to Avignon,
and for thirty-nine years the world saw again two infallible heads
to the tme catholic and indivisible church. The first of the Ro-
man line of these rival pontiflS, Urban VI., was a monster <If
cruelty. He put the cardinals on the rack who were opposed to
him; and walking in his garden, while he recited his breviary,
listened to their groans. He then bound them in chains, dra,aged
them about with him, and finally had them strangled. "Con-
cerning this miserable schism," says honest John Fox, "it would
require another Iliad to comprehend in order all its tragical faeb!.
What trouble in the whole church ; what parts-taking in every
country ; what apprehending and imprisonin~r of priests and pre-
lates, taken by sea and land, and what sheddmg of blood in con-
sequence ! Otho, duke of Brunswick, and prince of Tarentum, W!IS
taken and murdered. Johanna his wife, queen of Jerusalem and
Sicily, who had before sent to pope Urban, in addition to other
gifts, at his consecration, 40,000 duca~ in pure gold, was by the
said Urban committed .to prison, and there strangled. Battles
were fought between the two popes, whereof five thousand men
were slain on one side." But, m short, these rival popes filled the
world with horror. One of the last of these, John XXIII., had
been a sea-robber.
Besides these rivalries with each other, the popes were in con-
tinual contest with the citizens of Rome itself, and with most other
cities and princes. So little respect did the Romans entertain for
them, that they frequently chased them out of the city. One was
stoned to death in the street; another, Sylvester, was cut to pieces in
his own palace. They cutolfhis nose and ears, and toreout his eyes:
and on the death of Hadrian VI., they adorned the door of his phy-
sicianwith garlands,withtheinscriptionofDelivererofhisCountry!
Such, too, was the hatred of these hoary old sinners to one another,
and their eagerness to step into each other's shoes, that great num-
bers of til.em are said by their own historians to have been poisoned.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIE8TCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 143
One Brazutus is said to have poisoned no less than six popes; so
Ula.t the cup of Brazutus is proverbial in the church. Tlieir ra-
pacity was equally monstrous, and so drained all Europe, that
:nothing but the most stolid superstition could have tolerated it.
In this country, William the Conqueror, who resisted manyof the
pope's demands, yet found it necessary out of 60,215 knights' fees,.
1nto which he divided the country, to place 23,015 under the
church. But by the time of Edward I., to such an alarming ex-
tent had the absorption of lands by the monks and clergy gone,
that that monarch passed the statute of Mortmain to restrain this
abuse, as it was feared that the church would swallow up the
whole country. Legates were sent out into every country, who
levied the most surprising contributions, practised the most open
simony, selling bishoprics, and all other dignities and livings, as
well as absolutions; and Italians by troovs flocked into every
eountry, and occupied the best incumbenCies. To such a pitch
was this grown in Henry III.'s time, that the livings of the Italian
clergy in England were valued, and found to amount to 60,000
marks yearly, a sum exce~?ding the ·king's own revenue! The
-tenths and first-fruits of all livings were claimed by the pope; as
well as the property of all clergrmen who died intestate. St.
Bernard wrote to Pope Eugene III., that "his legate had so
thoroughly plundered all the French churches from the foot of the
Alps to the Pyrenees, that you might imagine that the Tartars had
invaded the country;" and John of Salisbury, in the twelfth cen-
tury, com~lained, that" when a Romish legate entered a province,
it was as If Job's devil were gone out from the Lord to lay waste
a land." To such a pitch did this shameless exaction arrive, that
it became the proximate cause of the Reformation itself, as is well
-
. known, in the sale of absolution fgr all sins past and to come, by
- Tetzel, the pope's agent in Gel::k~ who hawked them in the
public market-places, as mounte did_their nostrums. This
fellow, who was but one amongst hundreds of such holy hawkers
sent out all over Christendom, when he came into city or village,
made a great fire, or set up a cross in the market-place, where he
offered his wares. He then boldly showed the pope's bull, hy
· virtue of which he had authority from the holy father himself to
forgive sins. He protested that the red cross on which was the
pope's coat of arms, was as mighty as the cross of Christ itself;
that he had loosed more souls out of purgatory with his absolu-
tioDS, than St. Peter had with his gospel; Impiously crying,
Soon as the cash i' the coffer rings,
'fhe soul from purgatory springs;
and his price for freeing a soul from the fire of purgatory was-a
groat!
And for what purpose were these enormous sums drained from
evezy civilized nation? for works of pietr, and the spread of the
gospel? No ; for the J,llost unparalleled mdulgence of luxury and
oigit<Zed by Coogle
144 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
licentiousness. The very money so shamelessly collected by Tet-
zel and his fellows, under the pretence of forgiving sins, and re-
leasing from/urgntory, and which the poor dupes who paid it
fondly fancie was going to be spent in pions ~;>urposes, was to
raise a princely marriage portion for the pope's s1ster! There is
no history so scandalous and revolting as that of the popes, car-
dinals, and clergy of Rome. It was a perfect sink of wickedness .
and obscenity; whence the common proverb, " The nearel' to .
Rome, the farther from heaven." From very early times this was :
the caile, and the rank scandal grew rapidly WJth the flood of":
wealth which was poured in by the credulity of all nations. In'
the ninth and tenth centuries, a Roman lady, Theodora, and her
two daughters, Theodora junior and Marozia, mother and daugh-:
ters, rivallin~ each other in lewd lasciviousness, for nearly fifty
years, by therr influence with the nobles who ruled the city, made
their fnends and lovers, sons and relations, ~pes; so that the,
ILost scandalous and crime-laden men occup1ed the seat of the '
apostles. The fable of a female pope, Joan, had its origin in the,
complete command of the papal chair by these women. Leo X.
has b!len highly and justly celebrated as a man of taste ; he was,.
like most ofthe Medici, a finely accomplished man, ofalniable senti.,
timents, an enthusiastic friend and promoter of the fine arts; but,
at the same time, he was so addicted to the grossest sensuality, and
was of so unapostolic a spirit, that the papal dignity served him
chiefly as an excellent means of living in splendour and enjoyment
of life. The chroniclers of the time describe, in the strongest terms,
the corruption of his bishops and clergy, who were so hardened in
their crimes, that they took no. pains to conceal their pride, their
avarice, their voluptuousness, and beastly sensuality. Still worse
had been Alexander VI. This man, who was a Spanish adven- ·
turer, bad obtained the pa.I!al seat by the most lavish bribery. All
who knew him were homfied at the news of his election. He ill
described by contemporary historians, as a shameless fellow, who
knew no honesty, no decency, no love of truth. Truth and·re-
ligion were his ridicule. Driven by insatiable avarice and ambi"
tion, he committed the most horrible barbarities, and was bent ,
alone on elevating his bastards, he cared not by what means. He .
had five of these by one Rosa Vanozza, four sons and a daughter.
The second son, Cresar Borgia, his favourite, was a youth who
combined the strength of the Spaniard with the wild, fiery spirit
of the Italian. Out of his dark-red countenance blazed a parr of
flaming and ever-rolling eyes. Such was his strength, that he
could strike off the head of a bull at one stroke in full gallop. He
had all the reckless ambition, the sensuality, and malignant spirit
of revenge of his fa,ther. ,The pope heaped on his sons the most
affluent 1ivings and offices. Cresar was made archbishop of
Valencia, bishop of Pampeluna, and, finally, even cardinal; the
abandoned J?Ope having brought false witnesses to swear to his
legitimate brrth, and that he was the son of another person. But
PB.JESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. I~
u the po~ was not content to do as the popes generally· had
done, ennch their illegitimate children with the offices of the
church, which at their deaths passed to others, he resolved to rob
the neighbouring princes, especially the Orsini, and to establish
his 11ons in temporal princedoms. His eldest son was made duke
of Benevento, but the father's further designs for him received a
apeedy and terrible termination. The two brothers, John and
'Cesar, burned in an incestuous passion for their. sister Lucretia
Borgia, and as John was the greater favourite, Cesar murdered
nim one night as they returaed alone from a visit to their mother.
But this did not check Alexander's blind fondness for Cesar, he
only set on the more zealous schemes for his aggrandizement, and
the young man, aided by his father, now ran the most awful
course on record. He was made duke of Valentinois for his ad-
hesion to French interests, forsaking the church. The pope rent
away Pesaro, Rimini, Faenza, lmola, Forli, Camerino, and Urbino
from their possessors, and conferred them on Cesar. Where
arms did not avail, treachery was resorted to. Astorre Manfredi.
the lord of Faenza, being, on assurance of full security, in-
veigled into their hands, was first shamefully mutilated, and
then murdered. Cardinal Jphn Borgia, Cesar's cousin, was
poisoned by him. The third husband of his sister Lucretia,
Alfons, duke of Bisaglia, he caused to be murderously at~cked;
and as he did not die of his wounds, to be strangled. To supply
funds, both for his aggressions and for the most unrestrained ex-
cesses of the court, ·au sorts of exactions were resorted to.
Prelates, and other rich people, were compelled to make the pope
their heir, or their possessions were '\oiolently seized on at their
death. The offices of the church, as soon as they fell in, were
put·up to the highest bidders, and those who lived too long were
hastened off with poison. As the neighbouring powers saw the
hostile aggressions of the pope and his son spreading ever further
around, they made a confederation to defend themselves. At the
head of this were the principal members of the Orsini family.
Cesar's arms suffered defeat fiom their bravery, but he then flew
to his usual arts of treachery, made peace with them, lured them
into his clutches, and murdered them. The course of these
monsters was only cut short by their own poison. The pope and
his son had mixed this plentifully for a batch of rich cardinals,
whom they invited to a feast, in order to send them out of the
world and seize their riches, but by some accident the ~isoned
wine was changed, and the poisoners themselves drank tt. The
diabolical old pope died, but the giant constitution of the horrible
c-.though it could not throw it off, sustained ·the tortures
which made his life a misery for some time, and he peru,hed at
in battle.
These are but a sample out of the thousand years' annals of the
lawless and shameless .rapacity and licentiousness of papal Rome.
What the popes and cardinals were, became the monks, prelates,
L
146 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
and clergy all the world over. The history of every European
uation is full of the fearful' and disgraceful details of the rank
licentious cortuption of monasteries and priestly houses. The
disclosures made, as is well known, by our commissioners, of the
state of the monasteries in our own country, previous to their dis-
solution, are too offensive to human nature to be mentioned. What
was worse, while they had been, for generations, living in this
abhorrent style, having the very monasteries swarming with loose'
women, they had not only been burning all those who dared to
differ with them in opinion, but it is declared by an Act ofthe fourth
year ofHenry VII., that" upon trust of the pnvilege of the church,.
divers pel'8ons lettered had been made bold to commit murder,
rape, robbery, theft, and all other mischievous deeds," and had
when pursued been constantly admitted to benefit of clergy. The
&omish church, in fact, had not only become villanouslr licen-
tious itself through all its frame, but had set up the devils king.
-
dom on earth in the name of God, and licensed and protected al~
his most desperate agents. ·
Surely there is no greater policy in all this than there is genuine
reli~on in it. But, say the advocates of this strange church, its:
ability was shown in that it stood, and stillstands, through all the
wrath and vengeance which this corruption brought upon it..
True ; but how? By fire and sword, as we have seen in the pre-
ceding chapters. True, as Macaulay observes, protestantism has
never advanced its boundaries beyond what it gained within the
first few years of the Reformation, but, on the contrary, has loa.
t
some ground, where it was repressed by force, as in Austria, Italy,
Bohemia, and France. And why? Because the doctrine and prac-
tice of the church of Rome, that religion is a thing which must
be'subjected to arbitrary government, were a doctrine and practice
too agreeable to arbitrary monarchs not to be universally adopted.
Force is one of the prime curses which the fapal church has en-
tailed on mankind. To protestantism itsel it has handed over
this deadly doctrine, and in England we are groaning under it to
· this time. But if it be meant that the papal hierarchy has main•
tained itself unscathed and even in extended_prosperity, nothing is
more false on the very surface of things. Popery continues the
religion of great nations, because it is a most accommodating and
comfortable religion. It requires little.11trictness at the hands of
its disciples, and bleaches and white-washes the most foully sooty
soul at any moment for a few pence. But the power, the almost
superhuman power, which was once in the hands ~f the popes is
passed away from tl\em. They are mere shadows of the past, and
Napoleon demonstrated, when he insulted, brow-beat, imprisoned,
and almost trod on the pope of his day, to what a miserable
scare-crow the priest of the Seven Hills, who once thundered over
:Christendom, lias sunk. The power once in his hands is now
usurped by the different monarchs, and in the most thoroughly
catholic countries, as Austria and BavBJ.ia, the court of Rome is
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 147
C!ll"efully cut offfrom all interference with the temporal matters of
the church. The flood of wealth which rolled in stupendous tor-
rents towards Rome from all lands has now dwindled to a feeble
rill, the whole not being so much as the pontiff once received from
the poorest state in Cnristendom.
Lastly, the favourite opinion of Mr. Babington Macaulay, which
_he advances with a fondues& that makes one almost fancy that he
rejoices in the belief,-that so prosperous and strong does the
papal church stand, spite of all assaults, that there is no reason to
believe that it will not remain just as extensive and buoyant a
tho'Usand years hence as it is to day, an opinion which he sup-
ports with the additional one, that it is not true, as is often asserted,
that the perception of religious truth advances with the advance
ofscience and knowledge,-is too superficial to demand much argu-
ment in exposure. He asserts, that there is a wide difference be-
tween phys1cal and philosophical knowledge and religious know-
led!re. That the former have made great advances since the
Rel'ormation, but that the latter has made none, and in the nature
of things can make none, for that religieus knowledge is a matter
of revelation, and was made known and was in the hands of men
then as much as it is now. He instances Sir Thomas More, who
was one of the most learned and sagacious men of his age, y:et was
a. strict catholic and a persecutor ; and adds, that Sir Thomas had
the Bible as well as we, and w!!s as well acquainted with it.
Now, all this is in truth very poor and unsound. Sir Thomas
More had the Bible, it is true, as well as many other stanch cathO-
lics, and that he in his younger days understood its true spirit,.
comprehended its true philoso}Jhy, is plainly proved by his Utopia;
yet he became a. persecutor. This case is therefore simply one of
personal weakness, or relapse with advancing years into the errors
of his education. Spite of Sir Thomas More, Mr. Macaulay's
proposition is a. mere SOJ.>hism. There is as great an advance to
be made in religious as m physical or philosophical knowledge;
the only difference is, that it is to be made in an OJlposite direction.
In the developement of natural truth, we must go forward with the
l!lfream of nature; in that of religious truth, we mnst go back to the
fbuntain of the New Testament. The advance is out of the pre-
judices and abuses of education, and the false ideas of things in-
grafted on the human mind by Rome in the long career of its
domination. This was the advance which was wanted in Sir
Thomas More. Acute and enlightened as he was, his mental
vision was governed and coloured by the spectacles of papal edu-
eation, and he had not the power permanently to lay them aside,
arid to perceive the great and naked truths as they stand simply in
the Gospels. His case is the case of thousands; yet, spite of this,
great ~iscoveries of these ~ths have bee~ m~e. si~ce theRe-
tbrmation, and the very doctnnes of the anti-christiamty of state
cb11rehes, of the freedom of conscience, of our moral and religious
itldependcnce of all creeds and priests, of the pre-eminence of love,
L 2
148 .PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
and the vile nature of all spiritual compulsion and persecution,-:-
doctrines which prevail amongst the people, though they have not
yet won their" full victory over hierarchies and governments, are
' brilliant evidences of the advancing discoveries of the divine and
aflfuent treasure !{rid up in the gospel pages.
For our parts, let us never abandon the grand doctrine of an-
ti9.uity-" Magna est veritas, et prevalebit ;" and let us utter, wi~
Milton, that same noble sentiment, combined with the words of
his godlike confidence, " Let truth and error grapple, for truth ia
mighty and will prevail," rather than, with Mr. Macaulay, insinualle
that error is as mighty and enduring as truth. The prevalencfl of
no religion is a test of its value, while it is upheld by the arm of
political power or the reaction of persecution. Let state c~urches
. once be abandoned, and the progress of truth will not long remain
dubious. Indeed, it is not even now dubious. The very catho-
lics of to day are no more like the catholics of old, than we are
like the wild ancient Britons. In the darkest countries, they pro-
fess, at least, as much to abhor the atrocities of the past as we do.
Let us. take care that they do not eventually outtun us in the
essential spirit of Christianity. We have still a great work fD
perjonn - to root out of our govemments and our heart., the
.fatalle_aven which Rome /eft there of STATE COMPULSION AND PER-
SECUTION OF ONE ANOTHER. Let US then give eternal thanks,
gratitude, and honour to Huss, to Jerome of Prague, to Oldcastle,
to Wycliife, and othermartyrs and reformers, who attempted,and to
Luther and his contemporaries, who finally were enabled, to break
down the mightiest of spiritual despotisms, and free mankind from
the night-mare of a thousand years ; and let it now be our busi-
ness, to assist also by exposing the existin~ evils, to spread still
wider the impulse of !l'Ood they have gwen. Who shall tell
what effects on the contmental nations the regeneration of the re-
ligious institutions of this mighty and illustrious nation shall -yet
produce P
While writing this a circumstance has occurred in Germany,
which shows the spirit which still animates the catholic church,
even in countries where it exists side by side with r.rotestantism;
and should make us cautious of believing too easily the profes-
sions of catholics as to their church and actual liberality. Al
Treves, as at three or four other places on the continent simulta-
neously, a coat has been exhibiting by the clergy as the coat of
Christ without a seam. Thousands and tens of thousands have
flocked to see it, and a most profitable trade it has been. An
honest catholic priest of the name of Ronge, indignant at this
gross im~sition on the people, and at the misery an!! licentious-
ness exh1bited on the pubhc roads to and from Trev-:s, amon_gst
the poor ignorant creatures, drawn from their business and homes
by this vile cheat, addressed a noble letter to the bishop of Treves,
calling upon him to put an end to tile imposture, as derogatory to
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCR.4.FT IS ALL AGES.
the church and to Christianity. What has been the consequence?
The poor priest was called upon by his superiors, the bishop and
dignitaries of Breslau, in Silesia, to deny the authorship of this
letter; accompanied by the announcement, ·that if he did not he
would be forthwith excommunicated and degraded. The honest
man stood firm to the truth, and accordingly, on the 3rd of 'De-
cember, 1~ he was formally excommunicated and degraded from
the exercise of his office, by the assembled chapter in the cathedral
of Breslau. Here, then, is an act of the catholic church in 1844,
in philosophical Germany, declaring that the church shall be
supported by the practice of the grossest imposture ; and that any
pnest, a man, be It recollected, sworn and set aside to preach the
truth, shall, if he dare to speak the truth, be excommunicated and
degraded. When we add, that the catholic newspaper press, the
representative of the educated classes, has universally denounced,
not the imposture,but Ronge,the protester against it; 1t renders un-
n~essary any further argument about the altered spirit and moral
progress of the catholic church.
~.
150
THE ENGLISH CHURCH.
CHAPTER XVII.
The church of England doth all faction foster,
The pulpit is usurped by each impostor.
MAJESTY IN MisERY, DY KING CnAni.ES I.
Where one particular pries~ood has rank in the state, others arc not
free ; and where they all have, the people are not free. So far ns the
ceremonies ofone particular faith are connected with filling any particular
occupation, entering into the relations, or enjoying any of the advantages
of civil life, there is not religious liberty. It is a fallacious distinction
which has sometimes been drawn, that a state may patronize, though it
should not punish. A government cannot patronize one particular re-
ligion without punishing others. A state has no wealth but the people's
wealth; if it pay some, it impoverishes others. A state is no fountain of
honour. Ifit declare one class free, it thereby declares others slaves. If
it declare some noble, it thereby declares others ignoble. Whenever be-
stowed with partiality, its generosity is injustice, and its favour is op-
pression.
W. J . Fox's SERMONS ON THE MISSION, CliABACTER,
AND DOCTRINE OF .CHRIST.
ONE would have imagined, that when the horrors and enormities
of that long reign of spiritual slavery which I have been detailing
-that of the infamous papal hier&·chy-had roused a great part
of Europe to scotch the old serpentof Rome; to burst asunder the
vile and envenomed folds which she had wrapped round the soul,
the life, and liberties of man,--that the reformed churches would
have been careful so to organize themselves as to prevent temporal
power again enslaving religion. But, in the first place, it ts no
easy matter to escape the grasp of regal and political dominion;
and in the next, it is rarely the case Hiat men are prepared, after
a long sufferance of slavery, to enjoy and secure freedom. To ex-
pect this, is to expect that he whose body has been cramped by
chains and wasted by vigils in the dark dungeons of power for
years, should at once, on coming out, stretch forth his limbs, ac-
quire in a moment the vigour and elasticity of his muscles, and
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 151
oound over the bills with the breathin!f buoyanc.r of the youthful
hunter, to whom every day brings exercise, and w1th exercise, force
and adroitness. It is to expect that the issuer from the dungeon
shall bear at once the light of day with an eagle's glance, and re-
gard every thing around him with the perspicuous familiarity of
those who have daily walked about in the eye of heaven. Besides,
in the exultation of conquest over an old despotism, the populace
are always, for the moment, too credulously trusting to the pro-
fessions of those who pretend to rejoice with them in, order to en-
slave them anew. In a while they wake from their dream of good
nature, but it is too late,-they are again clasped in bonds, and
environed with bars that nothing but the oppressions of a~es can
corrode, and some far-off out-breaking of popular indignation can
dash asunder.
Such has been the fate, more or less, of all the reformed churches
of Europe; but their fortunes we cannot follow, we must confine
ourselves to the church of England-the least reformed, the most
enslaved of all. The Reformation in England was commenced
.and continued, so far as it went, under unfortunate circumstances.
It was not the result of such a ripened and irrestrainable enthu-
siasm of the popular mind as must have thrown down all before it;
but it was brought about by the arbitrary passions of that monster,
Henry VIII.-one of the most libidinous and bloody wretches that
ever disgraced a throne. At one moment it was h1s will, because
it suited his plea$ure, to be the advocate of the pope; at another,
.because it was necessary to the gratification of his indomitable
desires,-his most desperate antagonist. For this he threw offthe
papal yoke; but not to ~Pve the church freedom-nothing could
be further from his intentions; it was only to malce it his servant
and his slave. He declared himself the head of the church of
Christ in these kingdoms. What a head for such a church! He
suppressed the monasteries on pretence of their licentiousness, and
gambled away the money thence obtained, as Fuller assures us,
by many a thousand a year. Stow, in his Survey of London, re-
lates, that he staked a remarkably fine rin~ of bells, which belong-
'ed to a parish near St. Paul's, London, which were great favourites
of the people, and called Jesus' Bells, on a throw of dice with
Sir Miles Partridge, who, the very next day, took them down and
110ld them. It is added, that he gave away a whole monastery to
a lady who had made a dish of pudding to his liking. In fact, the
.hoary tyrant either gambled away those immense revenue& of the
s11ppressed religious houses, which might have formed a perpetual
fund for the maintenance of the poor, and the education of their
children, or squandered them amongst a few court favourites, thus
laying deeper the foundations of one of the greatest curses of the
national futllrity-a corrupt and liberty-hating aristocracy. The
despotism of opinion was only changed in name ; and it appears
to have been the effect of the merest accident that it was changed
at all. Every thing was on the point of being amicably settled
152 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
benl"een the Britil!h and the Italian tyrant, when it was rumoured
at the paJ?al court, that Henry had witnessed a dramatic repre-
sentation m which that court was ridiculed. In a moment of im"
_politic passion, the "triple tyrant" thundered against Henry his
bul~ of denunciation, and the breach was made immortal. Heavily
and·loo~ did the pontiff curse the moment in which he forgot, in
his passion, the priest's proper cunning; but his regret was un-
availing-England was lost for ever. ·
What the great Italian priest threw away by a momentary ex-
plosion of impolitic wrath, was snatched, however, from the Eng"
]ish people by the base and interested fears of the native clergy.
Henry, who " never spared man in his anger, or woman in his
lust," had made so awful an example of Wolsey, that he struck
·terror into the whole clerical tribe. "Wolsey," says Sir James
Mackintosh," had exercised the legantine power so long, that the
greatest part of the clergy had done acts which subjected them t&
the same heavy _Penalties under the ancient statutes which lHui
crushed the cardmal. No clergyman was secure. The attorney>
general appears to have proceeded against the bishops in the court
of Kinlfs Bench; and the conviction of the prelates would detet-
mine tfie fate of the clergy. The convocation agreed to petition
the king to pardon their fault. The province of Canterbury bottgM
this mercy at the price of a grant of £ 100,000; that of York con-
tributed only £18,840. Occasion was taken to introduce a new
title amongst those by which the petitioners addressed the.king-
" Protector qf the Clergy, and supreme Head qf the qhurch of Etlfl"
land." Arcbbishop Warham supported the designation; and dus
new title, full of undefined and vast claims, soon crept from the
_
petitions of convocation into the·heart of acts of parliament.
Thus, in the very outset of reformation, first the corruption, and
then the servile· selfishness of the cle!g)', cast at the feet of a
tyrant the whole spiritual liberty of England; and when, even
.for their own sakes, they would have recalled the gift, it waa
too late."
Edward VI. was a truly J?ious youth, and was unquestionably
desirous of doing what was nght; but he was a feeble invalid, and
was in the hands of priests, who did with him as they pleased:.
The litur~ framed for the church in this reign, Elizabeth after.
wards reVIsed by her bishops, and brought to that state in which
it substantially remains to this day. It was not in the nature of
that man in petticoats,-that Henry VIII. in a female mask,_..
consult the inclinations of the people so much as her own high
will, in which glowed all the dominance and all the spirit of the
Tudors. Instead of being.willing, say Heylin and Strype, to strip
reli/Pon of the ct>remonies which remained in it, she was rather
inclmed to bring the public worship still nearer to the Roman
·ritual ; and had a great propensity to several usages in the church
of Rome which were justly looked upon as superstitious. She
thanked publicly one of her chaplains who had preached in de.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PAIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. I~
fence of the real preunce ; she was fond of images, and retained
some. in her chapel; .af!d wo~ld undoubtedly have for?idden the
mamage of the clergy, if Cecil, her secretary, had not mterposed.
-Having appointed a committee of divines to revise King Edward's
liturgy, slie gave them an order to strike out all offensive passages
against the pope, and make people easy about the corporal pre-
sence of Christ in the sacrament. -
That an imperious woman, who, not finding it accordant with
the love ofundivided power to marry, was jealous of all who did;
who even imprisoned her relatives and maids of honour who rre-
sumed to marry, should attempt to prevent the clergy marrymg,
was not very wonderful : but she did not stop here. Those of her
subjects who were desirous of !1- purer, simpler, more apostolic! and
less worldly system of wol'shtp; who had fled to the contment
from the fire and chains of her sister Mary, and had returned,
hoping better things at her hands, she ordered to submit to her
roYal will! and passed the famous Act of UnifQ1"7nity, by which all
her subjects were commanded to observe the rules her bishops had
fnuned, and to take up with such a reformation of the church as
she had pleased to give them, with herself as the visible head of
the church upon earth. The puritans-for so they were called, for
·desiring a purer worship-refused their assent to these proceed-
ings; pleaded the dictates of their consciences in behalf of their
·l't!fusal; and complained heavily, that the gross superstitions o_f
popery, which they had looked upon as abrogated and abolished,
• were now revjved, and even imposed by authority. But they
pleaded and complained in vain. 'Nhnt were their consciences to
this she-tyrant? the indulgence of whose self-will was of more
precious value in her eyes than the rights and consciences of
-iuillions of people. She not only commanded and exacted; but.
mllowing the example of po~ry, she set up the fire and the fa~t,
and stopj:>ed all objections wtth those powerful arguments. It IS .a
-aingular fact, that no state religion, pagan or Christian, from the
foundation of the world, as this history will show, but is stained
with blood. Henry VIII., Edward VI., and Elizabeth, all re--
&orted to it, and while professing to reform religion, they gave
the death-blow to liberty of conscience, and reacted all the horrors
of Roman persecution. · - - .
- What could be expected of a church thus born in the throes of
the most evil passions, cradled in arbitrary power, and baptized in
blood P-Nothing but a melancholy death of all those high and
glorious hopes which the ReformatiOn awoke, and had it been per-
mitted, unsbackled by regal and priestly power, to take its course,
..,ould naturally have realized. Elizabeth proceeded, with that
rigorous and strong hand which made her civil government re--
spected, but was most u~thallowedly and calamitously thrust into
dle sacred tabernacle of conscience, to establish a court of high
commission to enforce those popish rites, doctrines, and ceremonies,
oigit<ZedbyGoogle .,....
-'
154 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
which she hnd compelled the English church to adopt. It took its
rise from a remarkable clause in the Act of Supreipacy, by which
the queen and her successors were emJ?Owered to choose persons "to
exercise under her all manner of junsdiction, J?rivileges, and pre-
eminences, touching any spiritual or ecclesiastical j~risdiction in
England and Ireland; as also to visit, reform, redress, order, correct,
and amend all errors, heresies, schisms, abuses, contempts, offences.
and enormities whatever ; provided that they have no power to
determine any thing to be heresy but what has been adju<W!d by
the authority of the canonical ScripturtoS, or four first generafcoun-
cils, or any of them, or shall be so declared by parliament with
consent of the clergy in convocation." These commissioners were
empowered to make inquiry, not only by legal methods, but also by
all other means which they could devise, that is, by rack, torture,
inquisition, and' imprisonment. They had authority to examine
all persons that they suspected, or feigned to suspect, by an oath
not allowed by their commission, and therefore called e:r-Qjficio,
who were obliged to answer all questions, and thus to crimi-
nate themselves and friends. The fines they imposed were dis-
cretionary; the im.Prisonment to which they doomed was ·limited
by no rule but the1r own pleasure ; they imposed as they pleased
new articles of faith on the clergy, and practised all the cruelties
and iniquities of a real Inquisition.
Thus, indeed, was the Inquisition as fully and completely set up
in England, by a soi-disant reforming queen and reformed churcn,
as in Italy, Spain, or any of the old priest-riddc;,_n countries of•
popery; and how its powers were exercised may 1'le seen in too
fearful colours on the broad page of English history ; in the more
full relations of the nonconformists and dissenters. Clergymen
who could not thus mould their consciences at the will of the state,
•were ejected without mercy from their livings, and they and their
families exposed to all the horrors of poverty, contempt, and per-
secution. So far as the regnlar clergy., however, were concerned,
tlhe grievance was not great; for these J?rihcipally consisted of
catholics, who had got in during Mary's retgn, and having a clear
perception that. they were well off, and that there was little hope
of another Romish prince succeeding very SJ?Cedily, they acted
according to the dictates of the priestly cunmng, accommodated
their consciences to their comfortable condition, and came over in
a body to the new state of things. The bishops, Hume says, hav-
ing the eye of the world more particularly on them, made it a point
of honour, and having, by a sickly season, been reduced to four-
teen, all these, except the bishop of Llandatf, refused compliance,
and were degraded: but out of the 10,000 parishes of England,
only eighty vicars and rectors, fifty prebendaries, fifteen heads of'
colleges, twelve archdeacons, and as many deans, sacrificed their
livings to their religious principles : a fact rendered more striking
to us by a future one,-that of the Presbyterian clergy, who had
oigitozed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES. 155
obtained livings during the Commonwealth, and who, on the pass-
ing of the Act of Uniformity again, on the restoration of Charles
II., resigned, to the number of 2000,• in one day, to the astonish-
ment of even their eneinies, who had no notion of the existence of
such high principle, especially as they had not failed to tempt the
most able of these clergy with offers of deaneries and other prefer-
ments~ and to Baxter, Calamy, and Reynolds bishoprics,-the last
of whom on)y was weak enough to accept it. It was chiefly, there-
fore, on the dissenters, and on the more conscientious clergy who
had been ejected from their livings in Mary's reign, that the weight
of persecution from the Ecclesiastical Vourt fell. These were
,harassed with every possible vexation. They were fined, imprison-
ed, and destroyed without mercy. This state of things did not
cease, excepting during the short interval of the Commonwealth,
till the Act of Toleration, in the reign of William III., put an end
cto it, and gave to conscience some degree of liberty. The Stuarts,
who succeeded Elizabeth, with far less talent than the Tudors, had
all their love of tyrannical power : and so inconigible was this
principle in them, that it soon brought one of them to the block;
inade his son a fugitive for the greater part of his life; and, finally,
notwithstanding the good-natured relentings of the people, who
had restored his line to the throne, made them rise once more, and
drive the hopelessly dC!lpotie family from the throne for ever.
But, before we quit Elizabeth, we must give some clearer idea of
her notion of a refom1ed church establishment. She insisted that
the simpler forms and doctrines of the church of Geneva should be
avoided; and'that a splendid hierarchy should be maintained of
archbishops, bishops, archdeacons, deans, canons, and other offi-
cials; declared that the church of Rome was a true church, and
adopted most of its relics and ceremonies. Its festivals and holi-
-days in honour of saints were to be kept; the sign of the cross was
&o be used in baptism : kneeling at the sacrament of the Lord's
_
supper; bowing at the name of Jesus; giving the ring in matri-
mony; confirmation of children by episcopalian hands ; forbidding
.marria~at certain seasons of the year, and many other popish
appen cs, were retained. The doctrine ofthe absolution of sins,
and the amnatory creed of Athanasius, were held fast; so that to
many-except as to the ~ge of the clergy, auricular confes-
sion, and a less pompous and ornate form of worship-little differ-
ence betweentopery and the English church could be discerned ;
and to make e case still more intolerable, matters of indifference,
such as were either commanded nor forbidden by Scripture-as
the external rites of worship, the vests of the clergy, religious fes-
-. • A clerical reviewer hns charged me with d~honcsty, in giving this
·tact, nnd omitting to state that three times that number of Episcopalian
clergy vacated on what he calls the rebellion against Charles I. 'l'he
lact is, ~~~~tmay be seen bl reference to the nuthorities given at the end of
Ule Chapter of Persecutions, they did not voluntarily resign ; they were
ejected, without option, and chie11y for scandalous lives.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
156 PRIESTCRAFT .IN ALL AGES.
tivals-were put under the authority of the civil magistracy; and
those who refused to conform to them were thus made rebels to the
litate, and punishable accordingly. It was impossible to conceive
a more thorough extinction of the rights of the subject in affai.PS
of conscience-even in popery itself! The bishops having thus got
P.OWer into their hands, speedily proceeded to exercise it,-to show
the old priestly spirit. In 1588, Bancroft, archbishop of Canter-
bury, declared that the episcopal orders were, by express appoint-
ment of God, superior to the J.>resbyters, and that all priests not
ordained by bis)10ps were spunous. This, says Mosheim, was the
form of religion established in England, which laid the foundation
f'or perpetual dissensions and feuds in that otherwise happy and
prosperous nation.
Such was the formation of the church of En~land! such it re-
mains to the present hour ! After such an ongin, can any one
wonder that it needs reform, thorough reform; not merely of ita
abuses, which are, as might naturally be expected from so absurd
.and despotic a constitution, become monstrous, but reform and
-entire remodelling of its canons? While all around it has been
progressing in knowledge and better understanding of the rights
of conscience, and the true nature of Christianity, here has t.h.if
eldest dau~hter of po~ry been standing still in body, covered with
all her deformities, With the mark of tlie beast blazmg on her fore-
head, and the filthy rags of cast-off popery fiutterin~ about her;
and while every clearer eye has been regarding thts patchwork
progeny of priestcraft. and barbarism with mingled wonder, ridi-
cule, and abhorrence, she has been hugging herself in the fond
idea, that she was the <JUeen of beauty, and the perfection of
holiness ! While the civtlized world has been moving about her,
casting off the mind, the manners, and the harsh tenets of feudal
rudeness, she has lain coiled up in the bright face of advancing
day, like some huge slimy dragon cast up by the sea of ages, in
the midst of a stirring and refined city; and·has only exhibited
signs of life by waving her huge scaled tail in menace of her foes,
and by stretching out her ten-taloned paws to devour a tenth of
the land. Can such a monster longer encumber the soirof Eng-
land? As soon might we expect St. George to come leading hJIJ
dragon into London, or Dunstan pre.ent the devil, pincered in his
fiery tongs, at the door of Lambeth palace.
· Dissent was forced on the nation by the bigotry of the rnlen
and the priests ; it has been fanned into inextinphable flame
by continual jealousies and persecutions under every reign, froJil
the Reformation to the present ~y; and in our own.time, has,_by
:the lukewarmness of the estabhshed clergy, led to tts extenSlon
tenfold in the new schism of the Methodists.• The history of
• ·The sagacious mind of Milton saw in his dny the adlllllltages of
that systcni which Wesley in ours has put so successfully-into operatiO!t.
" Thus taught, once for all, and thus now and then visited and confirmed
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRA'FT IN ALL AGES. '157
the Society of Friends is full of the most singular persecutions on
the part of the clergy, and the magistracy incited by them. To
escape from this, William Penn, one of the greatest and most illus·
trious men which this country ever produced, led on his persl!,,
cuted brethren to America, and there founded one of the states of
that noble country, which has now arisen to a pitch of prosperity
which is the natural fruit of liberty; and stands an every-day op-
l>robrium of priestcraft, and a monument not merely of the use-
lessness, but the impolicy and'nuisance of establishments. In the
new, butgreat cities of that vast empire-in the depths of its eter-
nal forests, and on its mountains, and its plains, that scorn to bear
the scorching foot of despotism, millions of free men, who have
escaped from the temporal and spiritual outrages of Europe, lift
up their voices and their hearts in thanksgivings to Him who has
g~ven them a land wide as human wishes, and free as the air that
envelopes it. They have gone out from us to escape our cruelties
and indignities, and are become our practical teachers in the phi-
losophy of religion and government.
, The English church, which has been so lauded by its interested
supporters, 88 a model of all that is pure, dignified, holy, and com-
pact, has not only thus compelled d1ssent by its tyranny ; but, by
the consent of all historians, has, from its commencement, been
composed, likeNebuchadnezzar's image, of most ill-agreeing mate-
rials, mingled-brass and clay; and has consequently been continu-.
ally rent with differing factwns. The Tudors established popish
cites, and Edward VI. introduced Calvinistic doctrines; and these,
retained by Elizabeth and James 1., Charles I. by a singular in-
consistency sanctioned, at the same moment that, under the man-
agement of his domineering archbishop, Laud, he wBB, strangely
enough, carrying Arminianism, and the claims of episcopal power,
to the highest pitch,-that is, the doctrine of free-will, and a pre-
latical despotism, destructive of all free-will, hand in hand; and
woUld not only force them upon the Entrlish, but on the Scotch.
This prelate, as complete a papist in spint as any that ever exer-
~sed despotism in the bosom of that arbitrary church, hBB been
much eulogized by ~ood men of the present day, who, themselves
inost amiaole in their own private circles, exhibit in their writings
in the most destit~te and poorest places ofthe land, under the government
of their own elders, performing all ministerial offices amongst them, they
may be trusted to :neet and edify one another, whether in church or
chapel, or, to save them the trudging of many miles thither, nearer home,
though in a house or bam. For, notwithstanding the gaudy superstition of
aomc still ignorantly devoted to temples, we may be well assured, that He
who did not disdain to be laid in a manger, disdains not to be preached in a
·bam ; and that, by such meetings as these, being, indeed, most apostolical
and primitive, they will, in a short time, advance more in Christian know,
ledge and reformation of life, than by many years' preaching of such an
j,Iw)lDlbent, I may say such an encumbrance oft-times, as will be merely
.)l,ired to abide long in such places."
oigit<Zed by Coogle
158 PIUESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
too much of the harshness and the bigotry-of the middle ages to
be ~eeable inthis. The opinion of Hume has been often quoted
in hts favour; let us therefore see what Hume does say of him.
" This man WaR virtuous, if severity of manners alone, and absti-
nence of pleasure, could deserve that name. He was learned, if
polemical knowledge could entitle him to that praise. He was
disinterested; but with unceasing industry he studied to exalt the
priestly and prelatical character, which was his own. His zeal
was unrelenting in the cause of religion; that is, by imposing, by
rigorous measures, his own tenets.and pious ceremomes on the
obstinate puritans, who had profanely dared to oppose him. In
prosecution of his holy purposes, he overlooked every human con-
sideration ; or, in other words, the heat and indiscretion of his
temper made him neglect the views of prudence, and rules of good
manners. He was in this respect happy (how exactly the charac-
ter of some eminent men of this day !)-tbat all his enemies were
also imagined by him the declared enemies of loyalty and true
piety; and that every exercise of his anger, by that means, t>e:.
came, in his eyes, a merit and a virtue. This was the man who
acquired so great an ascendant over Charles, and who led him, by
the facility of his temper, into a conduct which proved so fatal to
himself and to his kmgdom." He adds, that, " in return for
Charles's indulgence towards the church, Laud and his fqllowers
took care to magnify, on every occasion, the regal authority, and
to treat With the utmost disdain, or detestation, all puritanical pre-
tensions to a free and inde1)endent constitution." At the same
time, he continues, that " while these prelates exalted the kingly
power, they took care to set the priestly still higher, and endea•
voured to render it independent of the sovereign. They declared
it sacred and indefeasible; all right to private judgment in spi-
ritual matters was denied to laymen; bishops held spiritual courts
Without any notice taken of the king's authority; and in short;
rapid strides were made, not only towards the haughty despotism
of popery, but towards its superstitious acrimoniousness. Laud,
in sptte of public opinion and private remonstrance, introduced·
pictures into the churches, shifted the altar back to its old papal
standing, set up again the crucifix, and advised that the disctphne
and worshir> of the church should be imposed in all the colonies,
and in all the regiments and trading companies abroad, and that
no intimacy should be maintained With the reformed churches of
the continent.
In his own person, he asserted all the lordly state of the old
catholic dignitaries. "See," sayS' a contemporary, "the prelate of
Canterbury, in his ordinary garb, riding from Croydon to Bagshot
"\\-;th forty or fifty gentlemen, all mounted, attending upon him;
two or three dainty steeds of. pleasure, most rich in trappings and
furniture, likeWise led by bini; and wherever he comes, his gen.
tlemen ushers and his servants cryi~ out, ' Room, room for my
Lord's Grace ! Gentlemen, be uncovered, my Lord's Grace is com-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRlESTCRAJlT IN ALL AGES. 159\
i-og!' Again, if you should meet him coming daily from the Star
.Cbamber, and see whatpomp, grandeur, and magnificence he goeth
in, the whole multitude standing bare wherever he passeth, hav-
ing also a great number of gentlemen and other servants waiting
on him, all uncovered; some of them carrying up his tail; others
going before him, calling out to the folks before them to put off
their hats, and give place ; tumbling down and thrusting aside the
little children a-plaYJbg there, flinging and tossing the poor caster-
mongers' and sauce-wives' fruit and puddings, baskets, and all
into the Thames, though they hindered not their passage,-you
would think, seeing and hearing all this, and also the haste and
speed they make, that it was some mighty proud Nimrod, or some
furious Jehu, running and marching for a kingdom, rather than a
meek and grave priest." •
. He willingly accepted from the sycophancy of the university
of Oxford, in its Latin epistles to him, the titles of-Sanctitas
tua-Summus Pontifex-Spirltu Sanctoeffusissime plenus-Arch-
angelus, etc.-That is, Your Holiness-High Priest-filled over-
flowingly with the Holy Spirit-Archangel, etc.
All his measures, in fact, tended to a most popish state of cere-
monies in worship, and tyranny and intolerance m behaviour; and
if any one, after· reading the following account of his consecration
of St. Catherine's church, given on die authority of Wellwood,
Rushworth, and Franklin, can see any difference between him
and a most thorou~h-going papist, he has better eyes than I.
" On the bishops approach to the west door of the church, a
loud voice cried, ' OJ>Cn, open, ye everlasting doors, that the king
of glory may enter m.' Immediateir the doors of the church flew
open, and the bishop entered. Falling on his knees, with eyes
elevated, and arms expanded, he uttered these words : ' This place
is holy; the ground is holy: in the name of the Father, the Son,
and the Holy Ghost, I pronounce it holy.'
" Going towards the chancel, he several times took up from
the floor some of the dust, and threw it in· the air. When he
approached, with his attendants, near to the communion table, he
bowed frequently towards it; and on their return, they went round
the church, repeating as they marched along, some of the Psalms,
and said a form of prayer, which concluded in these words-' We
consecrate this church, and separate it unto Thee, as holy ground,
not to be profaned any more to common uses.'
" After this the bishop, standing near the communion table,
solemnly pronounced many imprecations upon such as should
afterwards pollute that holy place by musters of sol~rs, or keep-
ing in it profane law courts, or carrying burdens through it. On
the conclusion of every curse, he bowed towards the east, and
said-' Let all the pe.ople say, Amen.'
" The imprecations being also piously finished, there were
• The Library, by Jolm Borhvi<'k, 1627.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
\
\
\ PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
.poured out a number of blessings on all such as had any band in
building and forming that sacred and beautiful edifice ; and on
such as had given, or should hereafter give to it, any chalices,
plate, ornaments, ,or utensils. At every benediction he iq like
manner bowed towards the east, and cried,-' Let all the people
say, Amen.'
" The sermon followed: after which the bishop consecrated
and administered the sacrament in the following manner. Aa
he approached the communion table he made many lowly rever-
ences; and, coming up to that J.>art of the table where the bread
and wine lay, he bowed seven t1mes. After the reading of many
prayers, he approached the sacramental elements, and gently lifted
up the napkin in which the bread was placed. When he beheld
tlie bread, he suddenly let fall the napkm, flew back a step or two,
bQwed three several times towards the bread, then he drew nigh
again, opened the napkin, and ·bowed as before. . ,·
" Next he laid his hand on the cup, which had a cover upoa.
it and was filled with wine. He let go the cup, fell back, and
bowed thrice towards it. He approached again, and lifting up the
cover, peeped in. Seeing the wine, he let fall the cover, start:ed
bapk, and bowed as before. Then he received thesacrament, ami
gave it to others; and, many prayers being said, the solemnity .of
the consecration ended. The walls and floor and roofof the fabric
were then supposed to be sufficiently holy."
The consequence ofthese ridiculous ceremonies on the one hand,
and severities on the other,-for the English Inquisition, in the
form of the High Commission Court, and the Star Chamber, was
in full exercise, and many cruelties and iniquities were continually
practised in them on those who dared to have an opinion of their
own,-was, that Laud was brought to the block,• and his sovereUz;n
was left in that calamitous course of unsuccessful despotism whiu•.
actually brou~ht him there, and deluged the whole nation in bl(}()QJ
and tossed it m years of anarchy and crime. By these circum-·
stances, however, the church received, what Lord Chatham so
expressively designated in parliament-a popish liturgy, a Cal-
vinistic creed, and an Armenian clergy.
The heterogeneous mate1ials of the church showed conspieu-
• It is pity that an archbishop like Laud should be brought to such
an e.nd ; because there are so much cheaper ways, and more economical
of human suffering, than the real murder of political enemies in the
manner of Vane and Ney. But considerations of this kind should
hinder no map. from discerning, how entirely all that constitutes public
and private freedom, happiness, and honour, has been obtained by the
conquest and beating down, and is, in fact, the spoil of war carried of!'
by the subjection and trampling under foot, of that political and ecclesi-
astical party who have just received anotJter mighty bruise ; and o!
'vhom it has been truly said, that but fur their successive defeats,
England would at this moment have been Spain, Portugal, orTurkey.-
IVeltmituur Review, No. XXXIV.
oig''"~byGoogle
-PRII!STCRAFT IN ALL AGES. '161
-ously il1 the famous assembly of divines at Westminster during
part of Charles's reign and part of the Commonwealth. This
assembly consisted of cler~men expressly nominated by parlia.
ment, two from each Enghsh cou_nty, except Durham; one from
each Welsh county; two from each university; from Jersey and
Guerhsey two ; from London four ; amounting to 100; afterwards
increased to 120: with whom also were associated ten members
of the House of Lords, and twenty of the Commons, with subse-
quent additions from parliament, and four delegates from the kirk
of Scotland. Amongst the higher clergy were Browning, bishop
of Exeter, Prideaux of Worcester, Westfield of Bristol, and Usher,
lord primate of Ireland and bishop of Cashel, Morley, after-
wards bishop of Winchester, Sanderson of Lincoln, and Hackett
of Lichfield. Usher had already, in 1641, with the approbation
of several of his m<ist distinguished brethren, submitted to parlia-
ment a plan for reducing the hierarchy to a synodal government. '
A great portion of these divines were now for the pure Presbyte:.·
rian furm, others for that of the Independents, and seme for an
Erastian system of perfect freedom. Here was a house divided
against itself. Clarendon, one of the advocates of church and
state, declares, that "of the 120 divines of which the assembly
was to consist, there were not above twenty who were not avowed
enemies to the doctrine or discipline of the church of England ;"
yet Rushworth and Whitlocke tell us they were chosen from the
most eminent the church possessed. .
In after days, Tillotson, Burnet, and Stillin~eet were distin-
guished as authorized reformers of the church hturgy and canons,
dtough their reforms were not carried into effect : and after them
Bishop Clayton proposed, in the House of Lords, the omission of
..,_ _
Athanasian and Nicene creeds. Watson, Law, and Paley
IA1e propositions in their writings which startled their brethren;
..n\t Hoadley, preaching a sermon before George I., made such a
declaration of the anti-christianity of a state religion, as rel1't the
church with years of violent controversy. By the accession of
William and Mary a great schism was made; part of the hierarchy
adhering to the.Stuart line, refusing to swear alle!Jiance to the new
dynasty, and thus acquiring the name of Non-Jurors,-splitting
the church into High-church and Low-church, two parties whose
ft!uds and heart-burnings continued till late years, when the sect
of ·the Evangelicals has appeared, to bear prolonged evidence to
the internal destitution of the principles of cohesion in the Estab-
lishment. These lean towards the Calvinistic creed, which they
justly assert is the strict literal creed of the church according to
the Thirty-nine Articles; and advocate a reform in the ·manners,
aud a renewed zeal in the spirit of the clergy. To complete the
oonfusion, and, as if providentially meant to proYe before the
whole world the folly of attempting to achieve uniformity of
opinion by a state creed,-popery, under the sanction of the uni-
versity of Oxford, and the advocacy of Dr. Pusey, has made a
111
oigit<Zed by Coogle
'. .
162 J'RIESTCRAFT 11'1 ·ALL AGES,
party in the church. That popery which Henry and Elizabeth re..
fused to allow to be purged out of their church, like a pestilent
humour left in the coqstitution, has burst forth again. This party
declares that the church of Rome is the true church, and that the
church of England is not another church, but the same, purified
from some errors that had crept in. In the latter assertion they
are partly"right. It is, undoubtedly, as we have always asserted,
only the church of Rome in another shape, only not so much from
its errors cast off, as from its very worst spirit and principles re-o
tained; its dependence on state power, hot on the affection of iUI
people; its a!llbition, intolerance, persecuting spirit, and greedy
pursuit of the loaves and fishes. It is, however, gratifying to see
that this heresy is pretty much confined to the clergy, and that
the congregations begin to protest against it. Mr. Acaster, one of
their own body, tells us that almost all varieties of doctline have
been, or may be, found amongst the ministers of the Establish-
ment. When we add to this, that whereas in other countries the
church is under the government of one deliberative body, and i!;
in this split into two houses of convocation, which, again, have
been a dead letter these hundred years and more, we have before
us a I?icture of unconnectedness that is perfectly amazing.
This is but a melancholy sketch of the history of this celebrated
church; but it is one so broadly, copiously, and overwhelmingly
delineated in the annals of the nation at large, that it cannot be
controverted ;-a history, as that of every state religion must be,
of power usurping the throne of conscience; thrusting the spirit
of the people from free address to, and communion with, their
God ; and m refusal of obedience-an obedience more deadly and
1>hameful than the most outrageous resistance could possibly be-
following them with the fire and sword of extermination ; or if
that were not allowed, with the sneers and taunts of contempt.
Alas! that such should be the miserable results of the Reforma-
tion, which at first promised such glorious fruits; that the blood
of martyrs, and the fervid prayers and mighty exertions of the
. noblest intellects and holiest men, should be spent so much in
vain. .
But such ever has been, and ever will be, the result of that great
fundamental error, of linking in unnatural union church and
state; of making the church of Christ, who has himself declared
that "his kingdom is not of this world," a. tool of ambitious kings
and rulers.
The nature of the Christian religion is essentially free; the
voice ofChrist proclaims to men-" The truth shall make you free !"
~ The spirit of Christianity is so delicate in its sensibility, that it
shrinks from the touch of the iron and blood-stained hand of
political rule ;,it· is so boundless in its aspirations, and expansive
in its energies, that it must stand on the broad champaign of civil
and intellectual liberty, ere it can stretch its wings effectively for
that flight which is destined to e~compass the earth, and end
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 163
only in eternity. And what has been the consequence of attemJ?t-
ing to chain this free spirit to the car of state P Why, that in Its
days of earlier union, arbitrary power sought to quench in its own
sacred name, its own very life !-pursued with fire, sword, fetters,
dungeons, and death, its primest advocates. The history of dis-
sent is full of these horrors: and Ireland, in which the same sys-
tem was pursued ; and Scotland, that, sooner than submit to it,
rose and stood to the death in manr a mountain pass and bloody
valley, can testify to the same odious policy. The oppressions
and splendid resistance of the Scottish Covenanters ; the bloody -
havoc made amongst them by the soldiery of reformed kings and
a reformed church ; and their undaunted and most picturesque
celebration of their own simple worship, liftin~ up their voices
amid the rocks and deserts whither they were dnven for their ad-
herence to their reli~on, are well told by their own historians, but
liave been made of Immortal interest by Sir Walter Scott. From
the first to the last-from the accession of James I. to the throne
of- England, to the expulsion of James II. from that throne, a·
period of upwards of eighty years, the Stuarts· persisted in the
most tyrnnnical endeavours to force on their native country of
Scotland the episcopal church; and, in consequence, deluged
that high-spirited and beautiful country with blood. Many a
solitary heath, many a scene of savage rocks in that land, where
the peasant now passes by and only wonders at its wild silence, are
yet loud in the ear of Heaven in eternal complaints of the bloody
and domineering deeds of the English church, wrought by its ad-
vice and by the hireling murderers of its royal head; many a
name-as Kilsythe, Killicranky, and Bothwell Bridge-will rise up
for ever in the souls of men against her. But it will be as well
to go a little more particularly into these matters in a separate
chapter.
,
K2
oigit<Zed by Coogle
164
CHAPTER XVIII..
ENGLISH CHURCH, CONTINUED-A CHAPTER OF PERSECUTIONS,
I love to see a man zealous in a good matter, and especially when his
zeal shows itself in advancing morality and promoting the happiness of
mankind. But when I find the instruments he works with are racks and
gibbets, galleys and dungeons; when he imprisons men's persons, con-
fiscates their estates, ruins their families, and burns the body to save the·
soul, I cannot stick to pronounoo of such a one, that. whatever he q~a;y.
think of his faith and his religion,-his faith is vain, and his religion l,lJ
unprofitable. ADDISON.
Jl.ECORDEn.-My Lord, you must take a course with that same fellow.
MAYOn.-Stop his mouth, gaoler. Bring fetters, and stake him to the
ground.
PENN.-Do your pleasure ;-I matter not/our fetters.
REcORDBR.-Till now, I never understoo the reason of the policy
and prudence of the SPANIARDS, in suffering the bQi.JISITION among
them ; and certainly it will never be well with us, till something like the
SPANISH INQUISITION be in England. •
Trial of William Penn and William Mead, at tM
Old Bailey, for Preaching, in 1670.
Tax desolating effects of a political religion never were more con-
spicuous than during the reigns of the Tudors and the Stuarts in
this country. The combined influence of royalty and priestcraft
upon the Reformation deserves the most solemn consideration.
Never were their evil powers more evilly exerted. The rising
fabric of religious freedom was suddenly stricken into a melan-
choly ruin; and to this hour we feel the wounds inflicted on our
fathers.
Henry VIII. made himself the most absolute of monarchs;-
his will was the sole law. He declared that his. proclamation was
tantamount to an act ofparliament, and acted upon it both civilly
and ecclesiastically. He dealt out royal mw·ders abundantly.
This throned Bluebeard slaughtered his wives one after the other;
he attainted of high treason sixteen people at once, and executed
their sentence upon them without trial; and at another time, burnt
six persons together, half papists, half protestantst tying a pro-
testan~ and a papist arm to arm.. The papists he killed because
they did not go far enough for him; the protestant&, because they
would go too far. He made his parliament pass, in 1539, the fa-
mous Bloody Statute, or Statute of Six Articles, by which the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
'
PRIESTCRAFT I~ At.L· AGES. . 165
actual presence was declared to be in the sacramental bread and
wine ; priests were forbidden to marry ; vows of chastity were to
be observed; and mass and auricular confession maintained. This
Aet was in.force for the remainder of his reign; those who op-
posed it were to ·suffer death ;-yet this Wll8 called a rejarmafion !
This singular royal reformer issued his fiat, that no doctrine should
be believed contrary to the Six Articles ; no person ahould sing
or rhyme contrary to it ; there should be no book possessed py
any one against the holy sacrament ; no annotations, or pre-
ambles in Bibles or Testaments in English ; no women, artificers,
apprentices, journeymen, serving-men, husbandmen, or labourers,
should read the New Testament in English; nothing should be
moght contr~ to the king's instructions ;-yet this wtU a rejorm-
CIROn ! The btshops and priests took care to oppose his will no
further than they were safe ; 'and lay in wait for opportunities
to bring back what little popery was taken away. When the
pope excommunicated Henry, and declared by his bull that all
faith towards him was abolished ; that his subjects and enemies
t!hould cease all league and allegiance ; he issued his royal threat
of confiscation of all clerical property, if the clergy did not im-
plicitly adhere to him, and abandon the pope. They knew his
nature and their own ;-they clung to thetr livings, and were as
11uiet as they knew how. Towards the end of his reign, Gardiner,
Bonner, and others regained, by their artful conduct, much in-
11uence : they managed to overthrow and destroy Lord Cromwell,
the friend of liberal measures ; and to restore almost every attri-
bute of popery; but the pope himself;-if even that could be said,
for they had only abjured an Italian, and got an English one-
Pope Henry VIII. .
When Henry took the ecclesiastical power into his own hands,
nothing could be more despicable than the sycoph~mcy and sub-
serviency of the clergy. There was but one bishop, Fisher of
Rochester, who refused to take the oath of supremacy-and for
this he was beheaded with Sir Thomas More.• The rest, though
• Sir Thomas More, as we have seen, is one of the most signal in·
stances in all history of the inconsistency of human nature. He wa~
the·glory of the age in which he lived, for his brilliant genius, his refined
wit, and his integrity of mind,-he would rather lose his head than the
approbation of his conscience. Yet this man was at once a declaimer
against persecution, and a bloody persecutor himself. In his character
of lord chancellor and privy counsellor, he was excessively severe upon
those· who ciune before him for violation of the Iring's Bloody Statute,
and even had poor Bainham to his own house, and there whipped and tor-
tured him with,Jlis own hand, because he could not persuade him by
reasoning to alter his opinions. If we could believe that thiS resulted
from his sharing in the darkne88 of the age, from not comprehending the
diYine law of toleration, we might pity and lament; but when we tum
1o his own writings, and there behold what clear, what philosophical,
what Christian views of the truth he had, we are filled with the pro·
oigit<Zed by Coogle
166 PBIESTCBAFT IN ALL AGES.
they were ali hostile to the change as possible, as full of popish-
bigotry as ever, satisfied themselves with giving all the opposition
they could to the spread of real reformation amongst the peoJ;>le..
They voted, indeed, in parliament against the bill for investing
the king with the power of choosing the bishops and cutting off
all payments to the pope; but after it passed, they took care to
sign it, according to the custom of those times. They would
gladly have stirred up a rebellion, could they have hoped to see it'
succeed ; and henoe arose the Pilgrimage of Grace, and the insul'-
rections to which I have already alluded ; but the summary mea.-
sures of the king, the execution of More and Fisher, and of three
friars and a monk of the Carthusian order, and three monks of
the Charter-house, beside the unceremonious attainder of num-
bers without any trial, struck terror into them, and quieted them-·
for a time.
Their sycophancy was the more remarkable, in that Gardiner.
Bonner, and others of those bloody monsters, subscribed and re--
commended, along with the archbishops, seventeen other bishopt,·
forty abbots, various deans and prebendaries, and the lower house
ofconvocation, that remarkable book, "The Institution of a Chria..·
tian Man," called the Bishops' Book, because it was drawn up by
several of them; a work which maintains, that there are but two
orders of the clergy ; that no bishop has scriptural authority over'
another; that no church shall be consecrated to any being bot
God ; and that we are justified by the merits and salvation of
Christ: the very doctrines for which these very men imprisoned,
hanged, and burnt such members, and made such havoc amongst
honest people in the succeeding reign of Mary.
But it may readily be supposed what sort of a. reformation it
was, while the old papal canons were retained, with .a royal dis-
cretion in their administration ; while such a. man as King Henry
VIII. framed the articles of the phurch himself-amongst which,
transubstantiation, auricular confession, and worship of images
and saints, are conspicuous : while the parochial livings were
foundest wonder. ·In his Utopia, which he wrote when about thirty-
four years of age, he shows us that he saw completely through popery.
At pli.ge 21, he calls the abbots "holy men, who thought it not enough
to live at their own ease, and to do no good to the public, but resolved
to do it hurt instead of goocl." He was the friend of Erasmus, and
ridiculed the monks and friars as cruelly as he did in his caustic " Col-
loquies." He makes Utopians worship no being but God; put all
images out of their churches ; choose their own priests, who are inde-
pendent of all bishops, and exercise no authority over their flocks except
to exclude wicked members. He represents them dec.eing the -t
pwftJCt li!Hrly to nery man to tDOrship hOlD and VJMre M toould; that meR
might be persuaded, but not persecuted for their religion. P. 191. How
is such a fall from his philosophy to his practice to be explained, except
by force of a bigoted education over the generous liberality of youth, and
the contagious spirit of persecuting zeal l
.PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AO£S.
filled with ignorant friars and monks, who had been turned out
of their convents, in order to save government the forty-five
shillings which had been stipulated to be given to every such friar
and monk at the dissolution of their houses ;-monks so ignorant,
that they could not read a syllable; and so habitually luxurious,
that, says Giraldus Cambrensis, "the monks of St. Swithin's came
in a body to complain to Henry, that his commissioners had re-
duced their fare till there was no living. Henry inquired into this
lamentable reduction, and found that they had been accustomed
at dinner to thirteen dishes, and the commissioner had reduced them
to ten: on which'Henry exclaimed, with his usual oath-'By God's
teeth! my good fellows, he hath left you too many; for I myself
have but three!"' There is also a letter from these same commis-
sioners, preserved in the Bodleian Library, in which they give an
account of the good abbot of Maiden Bradley, who told them, in
perfect simplicity of heart, that he had brought up a large family
Of children,·and settled them all well in the world, except one
daughter, whom he hoped soon to portion off advanta~reously with
abbey revenue ; and wfio thanked God especially, that \;e had never
meddled with married women, but always maids, and the fairest
he could find, and afterwards got them well wedded! Such were
the men put into the pulpits of this sin~larly reformed church ;
and such is the manner in which the alliance of state and church
has always operated; the policy of the former poisoning the very
fountain-springs of the latter's existence.
- In fact, the head of the reformed church was as rank a papist
as he was a tyrant to the last. His will discovered the fact, that;
spite of the diffusion of the Bible, he put implicit faith in the most
groundless fables of the papal creed to the last moment of his
existence. Like his father, he left six hundred J?Ounds a year,
a great sum then, to the church at Windsor,for pnests to say mass
for hill 80Ul every day, and for four abiits a-year, and sermons, and
the distribution of alms at every one of them, and for a maintenance
Qf thirteen poor knights.•
Edward VI., as I have already observed, was well disposed, but
he was only a child; and Cranmer and Ridley, with a few privy-
counsellors, taking advantage of the Act of Supremacy passed by
aenry VIII., proceeded to model a religious establishment accord-
ing to their own notions ; and how unfit they were to organize a
Christian church, must be apparent from the circumstance of the
· spirit of persecution, even to the death, being alive in them. Hav-
ing drawn up their Book of Common Prayer, they obtained an act
of parliament, though eight bishops and several noblemen pro-
• The poor knights are kept up, but what is become of the funds for
the masses? Have the clergy, who, in the case of endowed grammar
~~ehools, contend that the testator's will can in no wise be departed from,
violated it in these ? Or who say the masses ? The quarterly abiits, I am
told, are still celebrated, though a popish practice, founded on the doc-
trine of purgatory.
168 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
tested against it, decreeing heavy penalties, even to imprisonment
for life, against all who should dare to refuse to use it, or should
write against it; thus making penal the very liberty they themselves
had just used of dissenting from Rome. Nay, as if to give practi-
cal proofof the folly- as well as wickedness of attempting to compel
uniformity of opimon in matters of religion, within three years,
having changed their own mind, they altered their Book, and got
another act to make dissent from that penal also. Cranmer in a
manner compelled the boy-king to sign the death-warrantof Joan
Bocher; who did it after much resistance and remonstrance, with
tears, and saying, that if it were wrong, Cranmer tnust answer it to
God. As Cranmer had been concerned in the burningof Lambert
and Ann Askew, a beautiful and witty· woman, of noble descent..
who gave them a very striking test for the real presence in the hal-
lowed bread, telling them to put it in a box for a fortnight, and
they would then see,-if it were mouldy, they might be very lllD'e
there was no God in it ; so he now proceeded to burn this poor
woman ; and two years afterwards Van Paris, or Pare, as Burnet
calls him, a Dutchman. He and his colleagues were doubtless
well-intentioned men, for they afterwards testified their sinceri'Y
in their own blood; but they had been nurtured in the cruel faith
of papacy, and were far enough from having truly learned tbe
merciful gospel of Christ. So little had they advanced out of the
Romish darkness when they began to leg~slate for Christianity,
that they stiffly persecuted the venerable Hooper, because he
could not consent to Wf!ar the popish canonical robes, on his in-
stallation into the bishopric of Gloucester. Rather than weu
those copes,'and tippets, and rochets, which afterwards occasioned
so much suffering, be would have declined tQe bishopric ; but, no I
-he must both be a bishop, and wear those abhorred robes ; and
till he consented. was harassed, menaced, and finally imprisoned.
So miserable was the progress made in real reformation in this .
boasted reign, that, after all their alterations, neither the king, the
bishops, nor the people, were satisfied with their handiworb•
Bullinger told the exiles at Frankfort, that " Cranmer had drawu
up a book of prayers, a hundred times more perfect than the one
then used; but that it couldnot be introduced, for the archbishop
was matched with such a wicked clergy and convocation, and
other enemies." The celebrated Bucer, divinity llrofessor at Cam-
bridge, drew up and presented to the king, at his own particular
request, a work containing a plan of ecclesiR.Stical reform, in
wliich he contended, that " the old popish habits should be.laid
IIBide ; that godfathers should not answer in the children's name
as well 118 their own ; that bishops should confine themselves
strictly to their spiritual functions ; that some should Qave coad-
jutors, and all a council of presbyters-an excellent suggestion;
that there should be rural bishops set over every twenty or thirty
parishes, who should often gather their clergy together, and in-
spect them closely; and that a provincial synod should meet twice
oigit<Zed by Coogle
.PRIESTCIIAJIT IN ALL AGES. 169
a year; when a secular man, in the king1s name, should be ap-
.pointed to observe their proceedings."
· Here was a plan of strict discipline, likely to keep the clergy
in order. The book made a great impression on the king's mind,-
as may be seen by remarks on it, left in his own hand-writing;
.but he was already sinking in health, and it never was proceeded
in ; although Cmnmer both approved·it, and exceedingly disliked
the plan of convocations ·now established.
. Mary succeeded, and deluged the country with protestant blood ;
.:and thc>se priests who had pretended conversion to keep their
.livings, now fell back to avowed popery, and became terrible per-
a!etltors ; especially Bishop Bonner, one of the most sanguinary
'Wretches in history-who, with the characteristic selfishness of all
tyrants, when confined in the Tower in Edward's reign, for his in-
aolent intractability, sent this message to his servants, that " he
81\Ve them tci the devil, the devil, and all the devils, .if they did not
llt!Dd him plenty of pears and puddings ;" a man who now thrust
the best spirits of the age into his coal-hole, and tortured them in
his own house, with a fiendish delight in agonies searcely to be
pa:ral.l.eled by the worst of Spanish Inquisitors.
It has been ~nerally calculated by historians, that the martyrs
ef this short ret~ amounted to from 274, as Speed has it, to 290;
IKtt Lord Burletgh, in his treatise, The Execution of Justice in
England, asserts that 290 were burnt alive, and that the total
number ofthose who perished by imprisonment, torments, famine,
and fire, amounted to nearly 400. Amongst these were twenty-
one clergymen, eight gentlemen, eighty-four tradesmen, a hundred
husbandmen, labourers, and servants ; fifty-jive women, and four
children! The most eminent were John Rogers, who had assisted
!Iyndale to translate the Bible; Bishop Hooper; Lawrence Saun-
ders, an eminent preacher at Coventry; Dr. Rowland Taylor, the
aoble pastor of Hadleigh in Suffolk; Dr. Farrar, bishop of St.
David's, at CaermiU'the.
n; John Bradford, prebendary of St. Paul's,
reputed the holiest man of his time ; and with him John Leaf, a
tallow-chandler's apprentice; the venerable and apostolic Latimer,
in his eightieth year; Ridley, and Cranmer. Four,five, si:c, seven,
lllld on one occasion thirteen, were murdered in ·one fire. The
prisons of London, and the Tower, were absolutely crammed with
victims, and thousands fled in consternation out of the realm.
EHzabeth followed, and filled all men with hopes, soon to be
lantentably disappointed. On her first coming to the crown, she
desired Oglethorpe, bishop of Carlisle, when officiating in the
royal chapel, to omit the elevation of the host in the mass, and
on his refusal, marked her displeasure by withdrawing with her
ladies ; yet immediately afterwards set about confimting all sorts
of popish ceremonies, and revising the liturgy of Edward to bring
it nearer to popery; omitting the prayer in the liturgy for delivery
"from the tyranny of the bishop of Rome, and all liis detestable
enonniti.es," and introducing words into the administration of the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
170 PRIESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES.
sacrament more favourable to the notion of bodily presence. In
her ch·il government she was prudent, bold, and successful,
though too harsh for a female sovereign; but in religion she was
one of the most intolerable of tyrants. The whole reign of thiS
queen, of glorious memory, exhibits but one continue~ attempt to
crush all reformation. In truth, she was a thorough papist, and
actually sent an ambassador to the pope, on her acce~ion to the
throne, to treat for the restoration ofEngland to the motherchurch;;
but the pontiffassumed such lofty langnage on the occasion, and
talked so largely of her unconditional submission to his paternal
authority, and of receiving her as an erring but repentant child,
that it touched her haughty spirit, and she broke off the negociao-
tion. She was a true daughter of Henry VIII., and could not bear
the ideaofsurrenderingthat precious supremacy,which he assumed
and transmitted to her. As with him, so it was with her, not &
question of religion, but of personal power. Burnet states, that
when the revived liturgy was introduced at Midsummer, 1559, the
oath of supremacy was tendered with it, and that out ofthe fifteen.
bishops, all then remaining, fourteen refused the oath. It seem.,.
therefore, more than probable, that the liturgy might have beeR
swallowed, had the oath of supremacy not been in the way; for the
compliance of the clergy in general was by no means trivial. lt
was found, that out of nine thousand four hundred beneficed mea
in England, there were no more than fourteen bisho,Ps, six abbots,
twelve deans, fifteen heads ofcolleges, fifty prebendanes, and eighty
rectors of parishes, that left their benefices on account of the change
of religion. In truth, none but the most compliant of consciences
could pass through the violent changes of those days ; from old
popery to Henry VIII.'s popery, from that to Edward VI.'s ,1_1rotest•
antism, then to Mary's old popery, and back to Elizabeth s sezni.-
popery. In her hands the bishops became most passive, non-resist..
~ng slaves. Every one is familiar with her message to one ofthem-;
" I made you, and, if you do not obey, by God, I will unfrock you !10
What she ordered, however contrary to their consciences or wills,
they dared not, for the life of them, oppose. Dean Colet, being
once appointed to preach before the convocation, in one of the
most remarkable sermons ever delivered, exposing and condemn..
in~rthe whole system of a state church in uncompromising terms,
satd-" The church is disgraced by the secular employment in
which many priests and bishops involve themselves; they are the
servants of men more than of God; and dare neither say nor do
any thing but as they think it will be acceptable and pleasant to.
their princes:" so it was now. There were a few, however, who
ought to be excepted from this charge-such were Parkhurst and-
Grindal, who suffered the queen's displeasure in consequence.
Parker, too, would fain have declined the primacy, and pleaded
strenuous~y ~s unfi~ess, both fr?m age, need of mental qutet, and
from bodily mfinmties, but, as m Hooper's case, the office wu·
forced upon him. Much better for him had it been, had he ~
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT· IN ALL AGES.
tinued firm·in his refusal, for the unnatural elevation of the arch-
bishopric brought him to become a persecutor. Other good men,
whose talents and piety had rendered them illustrious, kept out of
the way of the court as much as possible, to avoid being J;>Ut into
bishoprics, which they regarded as not founded in the spint of the
gospel. Parkhurst, returning from Zurich, in 1559, got quietly
down to his livin~ .in Gloucestershire, and zealously entreated all
his influential friends to get him excused when the bishopric of
Norwich was ofrered him, but he was compelled to accept it.
Sampson refused a bishopric, writing to his friend Peter Martyr,
that " he could not think it lawful to swear to the queert as su-
pl"eme head of the church under Christ. He thought, likewise,
that the want of discip}ine made that a bishop could not do his
duty. The whole method of electing bishops was totally different
from the primitive institution. The consent of the clergy or peo-
ple was not so much as asked." The worthy old apologist Jewel,
m a letter to his friend Simler, congratulated himself on his
nomination to a see, withthe" hope that our bishops will be made
pastors, labourers, and watchmen. And that they may be the
better fitted for this, the great riches of the bishoprics are to be
diminished, and to be reduced to a certain mediocrity; that so,
being delivered from that king-like pomp, and the noisiness of a
court family, they may live in greater tranquillity, and have more
leisure to take care of Christ's flock." In another letter, he earn"
estly denounces those popish vestments retained in the church,
calls them habits of the stage, and says a good cause does not need
them ; but that ignorant priests, stupid as logs of wood, having
neither learning, spirit, nor good life to commend them, seek to
recommend themselves by that comical habit ; and wishes that
these things may be taken away, and extirpated to the deepest
roots. On these grounds, also, the venerable Miles Coverdale,
Bernard Gilpin, John Knox, Whitehead, and others refused
bishoprics.
Such was the pernicious scheme of church government settled
by Elizabeth, and which has continued to this time to be lauded
by the interested of this age as beauty and perfection itself-a
acheme which, while it drove away such men as those we have
mentioned, or compelled, with reluctance, into its service such as
Jewel, Parkhurst, and Grindal, was -just to the taste of the time-'
serving and venal. Elizabeth, however, regarding neither scruples
on the one hand, nor greediness on the other, proceeded, without
parliament or convocation, to decree, reseirid, instal, or depose
di~itaries at pleasure-having no idea of the liberty of any con-
SCience but her own. She had Edward's forty-two articles revised
and reduced to thirty-nine, as they now stand ; bringing them as
near to popery as possible, and expectin~ every one to conform
entirely to them. She declared that she did not want to look into
peopie's hearts ;-they might think as they pleased; but they
should outwardly, and in all points, conform to her plan: with
172
)
.PRIBSTCRAFT IN ALL AGES•
.her, hypocrites and good subjects were synonymouti! Whoever
dared to differ in .doctrine, or rites, she visited with the utmost
severity. The distress this produced, wa.'l general and extreme.
Numbers of worthy cler~en were expelled from their livings;
and they and·their families brought to ruin. They were fined and
imprisoned, and that to death. By a survey made in 1585 and
1586, it appeared that out of nearly 10,000 parishes, tl1ere were
but 2000 which had niinisters ; the rest had been driven from their
pulpits by her arbitrary and sanguinary laws, and those who re-
mained were notorious papists, or men so iguorant that they could
not preach, but were ob1iged to have homilies framed for them to
read-many of them common mechanics, ordained because better
could not be had. The people prayed and petitioned earnestly for
preachers-the bishop of Bangor having but two in all his diocese·;
and when Archbishop Grindal ventured to urge her to comply with
the desires of her subjects, she told him it was good to have lmt
few preachers,-three or four in a county were sufficient. She
herself seldom attended preaching, thou~h she did prayers. She
was averse to the spread of education, thmking it made the people
less submissive. The universities were in an equally low condition:
There were few able and learned men in them, but the majoritr
of professorships were filled by i~orant and indolent papists.
Thus were all the noble souls of this great country cast at the feet
of one woman, who maintained with a feverish asperity her abso-
lute prerogative over the understandings, consciences, and persons
of every creature. Did any one print a pamphlet which in the
most distant manner reflected on the then state of things, or
breathed a freer sentiment, she speedily sent forth an order to
bring in all those books and burn them, and happy was the author
if he escaped a F sound fine and severe imprisonment. Did a
member of parliament venture on a bold expression, his fate was
the same. Privilege of parliament was utterly extinguished. The
Commons, in 1571, ventured to represent to her the woeful lack of
preachers, and to implore her to see that better instruction was
provided for the _people, but she broke it up without taking any
notice of the petition. In the next session, they ventured to touch
on the subject of church ceremonies, and framed two bills to regu-
late them ; but she quickly sent them word that those matters be-
longed exclusively to her, and desired them to give up the two
bills to her, which they did in the most humble manner. In 1579,
the House passed a vote, that the members should, on a certain-
day, attend Temple church, and hear preachin~ and prayers for
the preservation of the queen and the realm; which she no sooner
heard of, than she sent, b;r her vice-chamberlain, to let them know
"that she did much admire at so great rashness in that House, a&.
to put in execution such a project without her privity and pleasure
first made known to them." Whereupon the House humbly ac-
knowledged its offence, and craved forgiveness.
She exacted the same,passive obedience from the bishops. San--
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 173
dys, when bishop of Worcester, ventured to advise her to take
d.own a crucifix, with the Virgin and St. John, from her chapel,
but she threatened tG deprive him; and when Grindal refused to
put.in execution some of her arbitrary laws a~nst the clergy, and
went so far as tG tell her that, though a nughty queen, she was
accountable to God; and that without offence tG God, their minis-
try could not be suppressed; her wrath was so violent,·that by an
order from the Star Chamber she confined him to his house, sus-
pended him from his archiepiscopal functions, threatened to de-
prive him, and, in spite of his submission, continued his sequestra-
tion till the year before his death ; never after liking him.
· . The Star Chamber and High Commission Court, a court of her
own special erection, were the great instruments of her inflictions
0n her suffering people ; and sad would be the list of her victims,
could we afford to detail them. In one year she deprived one
hundred parish clergymen; and at the same time that she passed
a law, fining every person who absented himself from his parish
church twenty pounds a month, such was. the dearth of preachers,
that in many places there was not service done for twenty miles
round. Hume blames the nonconformists for not setting up sepa-
rJ.Ue congregations. But what were they to do? Had they with-
drawn from their parish church, the enormous penalty would have
fallen upon them, as it did on thousands. The truth is, however,
that they did attempt tG set up such separ&te congrejr<ltions; and
what was the consequence? They held meetings in pnvate houses,
in fields, and woods, near the metropolis. In 1567, a congregation
of about a hundred met at Plumbers' Hall, in London, where
ihey were soon pounced upon, and as many of them as could be
· seized, hurried off tG gaol, where they were kept for more than a
year. They formed also a presbytery at Wandsworth in 1572, the
first established in England; but the bishops had speedy intelli-
gence of it, and instructions were soon issued by royal proclama-
tion for a more rigorous prosecution of such offenders against
uniformity. In 1575, a congregation of Dutch Baptists were dis-
ct)Vered near Aldgate. The bishop's officers were soon amongst
them, and twenty-seven of them were seized and hurried to prison.
Four recanted, and were sentenced to bear fagots at St. Paul's
Cross during sermon, as a tGkeiL that they were worthy of the
flames. Te11 men and one womanToere condemned to the stake: the
· woman recanted; eight out of the ten condemned were banished,
and tioo actually burnt! Great and vehement appeals were made
to the queen on behalf of those sufferers, by John Fox, the mar-
tyrologist, and the Dutch residents, but they could not make the
slightest impression on her. Such were the inducements to set
v.p separate congregations under the rule of the virgin queen.
Let us select a few other instances of the treatment of her sub-
jects, from .the mass.
Mr. Cartwright, fellow of Trinity ~ollege, Cambridge, was a
profound scholar and most popular preacher, so much so, that his
oigit<Zed by Coogle
'
174 PRIESTCRAFl' IN ALL AGES.
lectures drew large crowds of students; and when he preached at
St. Mary's, they were forced to take down the windows. In his
lectures he attacked certain blemishes of the English hierarchy,
and insisted, .especially, that the names and functions of arch-
bishops and archdeacons ought to be abolished, 88 having no
foundation in Scripture : that bishops and deacons ought to be
reduced to the apostolical institution ; the bishops to teach, and
the deacons to take. care of the poor: that the church should
not be governed by bishops, chancellors, or officials of the arch-
deacons, but every church by its own minister and presbyters;
e\·ery minister to have charge of one certain flock; every bishop
to be chosen by the church, and not by the state. For these doc-
trines he was speedily deprived of his fellowship, and expelled the
university. Whitgift undertook to refute his opinions; and a long
and strenuous controversy was the result; Whltgift obtainin~ by
the defen-ce of the political creed, wealth, honour, and bishoprics-
poor Cartwright, poverty, houseless wanderings, vexations, and
Imprisonment, from his prosperous antagonist. One clergyman
was imprisoned till he died, for omitting some passages of the
marri~ service, and form of baptism. In 1578, John Stubbs, a
student of Lincoln's Inn, published a tract called the Gaping
Gulf, showing the danger of the projected marriage of the queen
with the duke of Anjou, a papist. Elizabeth quickly laid hold on
him, his printer, and publisher, and sentenced them in her wrath
to have their right hands cut off, which was publicly done upon
a scaffold in Westminster, by driving a cleaver through the wrist
with a mallet. What would our authors and publishers say to this
sort of treatment now-a-days P Copping and Thacker, for spread-
ing the tracts of the Brownists, were also, some time after, put to
death, after long and severe imprisonment, with many of their
friends.
The lords of the council, Lord Burleigh, the earls of Warwick,
Shrewsbury, and Leicester, Lord Charles Howard, Sir James
Crofts, Sir Christopher Hatton, and Sir Francis Walsingham, were
so much disgusted with the cruelties practised by the bishops, that
they wrote to Whitgift, now.primate, and to the bishop of London,
sayin~, " th,ey had heard of sundry complaints out of divers
counties, of proceedings against. the clergy ; some deprived, and
others suspended, by them anlf their offiCials ; but had delayed
writing them, in hopes their Lordships would have staid their hasty
proceedings; but they were compelled to do it now, hearing of
gre?t numb~rs of zealous and learned pr~chers bein~ ejected from
their cures m Essex ; and that no semce of any kmd was ·done
in many of those parishes ; in others, it was performed by persons
notoriously unfit, beingignorant, chargeable with enormous crimes,
as drunkenness, filthilless of life, gaming, haunting of alehouses,
etc., against whom no proceedings were taken." With this they
sent a list of worthy persons deprived, and one of vicious persons
continued, and a third of pluralists and non-residents-people as
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 175
common in that day as this ; bein~ the peculiar growth of the
aystem. The prelates took no notice of this remonstrance; but
went on persecuting the good, and winking at the bad. The ma-
gistrates of Essex ventured to make a similar expostulation, but
Qnly got thelnBelves into trouble: the people generally petitioned,
but in vain. What was to be hoped from these bishops may well
be imagined from this circUinBtance :-His Lordship of London,
before his preferment, J!Ublished a book, thus addressin~ the hier-
jll'cby: "Come off, ye btshops; away with your su~rfiutties; yield
up your thousands; be content with hundreds,. as they be in other
reformed churches, where be as great learned men as you are.
Let your portion be priest-like, and not prince-like.· Let the
queen have the rest of your temporalities and other lands, to
maintain the wars which you procured; and to build and found
schools in every parish; that every parish may have its preacher,
to live honestly, and not pompously, which will never be till your
lands be dispersed, and bestowed upon many, which now feed and
~ten but one." When he was, in his palmy days of bishophood,
reminded of this, he replied, " When I was a child, I thought as
a child, I spoke as a child!" A more striking instance cannot be
found of the Satanic influence of a political religion on the weak-
ness of human nature.
Most of the prisons were now filled with nonconformists, fifty-
six being committed at one time. "In these dungeons," says their
historian, "they died like rotten sheep," from hunger, cold, and the
noisome state of the prisons; and thl'ee of their ministers, Barrow,
Greenwood, and Penry, were executed at Tyburn with peculiar cir-
cumstances of severity. The two former were taken and placed
under the gallows, to see if the terrors of death would not appal
them ; but that not being the case, they were remanded for some
time, and then brought out and hanged. The latter was hurried
away unexpectedly from his dinner, and despatched with a fright-
ful haste.
. By these atrocities, misery was spread through the country, and
ignorance in an eqnal degree, for where the honest pastors were
turned out, who were to take their places but the low and unprin-
ciJ!lcd? Thousands fled to the continent, from the iron hand of
tillS reforming queen : spies frorq. the spiritual courts were every
where watching the ministers, ifl' they deviated in the least from
the prescribed mode of worshipping the image of uniformity which
this she-Nebuchadnezzar had set up; and the peopie, if they had
absented thelnBelves from church, were noted, and summoned into
these courts, the ruinous penalties laid on them, and, in default of
their payment, they w~;re cast into prison. The messengers of the
High Commission Court had thirty-three shillings and four pence
for forty-one miles, so that they looked out vigilantly for busmess ;
!Uld nothing but the preserving power of God could have left alive
a remnant of the fatthful. Burnet, the church's own historian,
closes his account of this reign witlt sad regret for the crushing of
176 PRJESTCRAF·T IN ALL AGES.
true reformation, and endeavours to console himself and readenr
with the hope of a better state of things in heaven ! The queen
obtained credit abroad, for sending to Scotland and to the con•
tinent aid to the protestants ; but her chief motive was the politi-
cal influence this gave her ;-at home she was one of the most im-
placable enemies to the freedom ofconscience. ·
\ ~ In 1583, John Slade, a schoolmaster, was hano-ed, drawn, and
Y quartered at Winchester for refusing to take the oath of the queen's
supremacy; and the same year John Bodie, also a schoolmaster,
suffered the same cruel death at Andover, on the same charge.
The next year, John M:undyer, a priest, had the same sentence
executed on him on the same ground, at Tyburn. Two years
afterwards, Robert Anderton and 'William Marsden, two catholic
priests, for a like charge, were similarly put to death in the Isle
of Wight. The same year, John Adams was executed at London
for being a catholic priest, and daring to exercise his religious
functions. In 1591, Roger Dickenson and Ralph Milner were
executed at Winchester; the former, a priest, for executing his•
office; the latter, a poor man with seven children, for aiding him.
Lawrence Humphrey, in the same city, was put to death the same
year for calling the queen a heretic in the delirium of a fever;
and Jonas Bird, a yo11th of nineteen, was, at the same place, in
1593, hanged, drawn, and quartered, and his head et upon a pole
over the city-gate, for being a catholic, and maintaining the pope's
supremacy. The whole number of those who were put to death
during this reign, on account of their religion, is calculated at 200,
exclusive of such as died in prison, in banishment, or from in-
juries and hardships.
With such prelates as Whitgift, and Bancroft, the first publisher
of the divine right of bishops, about her, as she grew old, she grew
more and more intolerant. Whitgift, who laid the foundation of
, his advancement in his controversy with Cartwright, and furthered
it by a course of most consistent bigotry, and subserviency to the
crown, was one of the most fierce persecutors that ever wore a.
mitre. He used to go clown on his knees before Elizabeth to
implore her never to give the lightest favour to the nonconform-
ists, lest they should be able to say that she had been in error.
Under his <ruidanee, she, in church matters, forsook the wiser
counsels of ~1er great statesmen, Burleigh, Walsingham, and Ra-
leigh, who protested against his cruelties, and even enacted a law,
that whoever above sixteen years of age should refuse to go to
church, should attend a conventicle, or deny her supremacy, should
be imp1isoned without bail till they conformed to the church, and
signed a formula of recantation. Refusing to sign this, they
should be banished for life; and if they diu not qnit the realm
within the time appointed, or returned to it without the royal li-
cence, should be put to death without benefit of clergy. uch'
was this nursing-mother of the English church ; and then came
James I.
oigit<ZedbyGoogle
PRlESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 177
- This poor man, whom the servile bishops of his court cried up
as a second Solomon, had been educated by the celebrated George
Buchanan, who had stuffed him outwith musty Latin, as his tailor
had done with padding and quilting till he assumed the shape of a
man, deplorable as it was. A more empty, silly, talking, self-sati&-
fied, vaunting, and despotic creature never sat upon a throDe.
Bishop Burnet says "he was the scorn of the age; a mere pedant,
without true judgment, courage, or steadiness ; his reign being a
continual course of mo.lpractices." While in Scotland, lie address-
ed the general assembly, and thanked God that he was the head
of the best and purest kirk in the world, making sad comparisons
against the English establishment," with its ill-sun~ mass, want-
ing nothing of popery but the liftings ;" and declanng that to his
death be would stand by his own kirk. But, when he arrived in
England, the bishops, with their servile obeisance ; their kneelings
before him; their rank flatteries ; their listening with affected ad-
miration to every word that he spoke, soon produced a marvellous
change; and he thanked God a8 fervently, that he was king where
the church knew how to reverence a king. The bishops were de-
lighted with their discovery. They had trembled at the appre-
hension of apresbyterian king ; and they found they had got a
weak, conceited boaster, who, by adulation,was ready to be the
creature of their -extremest will. They made him the most con-
temptible of tyrants. It is humiliating to hear his continual
boastings of the omnipotence of kingship : " As God can make and
kill in his creation, so can a king in hiS kingdom ;" this was his
favourite language to his parliament. The bishops having pre-
pared their puppet of a king so well that, within nine months after
his arrival in England, he was continually uttering tlie cuckoo-
note-:-" No bishop, no king," prevailed upon him to call a confer-
ence between them and the puritan divines ; where he thundered
out his displeasure against the latter, and declared he would" make
them conform, or he would harry them out of the land, or worse;"
and the prelates took care that he did not forget his promise.
They laboured to inspire him with tlie opinion of his absolute
power, a belief to which he was prone enough of himself. In the
Hampton Court conference, Whit!Pft, who had fi~rured as the
prime persecutor of Elizabeth's reign, was so dehghted at the
king's approbation of the ex ~ oath of the High Commission
Court, that he exclaimed," Undoubtedly, your Majesty spoke by
the special assistance of God's Spirit!" ·
Sir John Harrington, who was present, in relatin~ what passed,
said in reference to this remark,-" The bishops said his Majesty
spoke by the assistance of the Spirit. I wist not what they mean,
but the spirit was rather foul-mouthed." James, in fact, had not
allowed the puritans to send such persons to the conference as
they chose, but had summoned four of his own selecti.rn, and
pitched himself, nine bishops, and nine other dignitaries against
them. His object seemed only to insult and -
brow-beat them, and
N
oigit<Zed by Coogle
v
\-'
178 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
his language was such as would have disgraced a coal-heaver-
, 'When Dr. Reynolds requested that they might be allowed to hold
those meetings for religious worship called prophesyings, which
had been so much commended by Archbishop Grindal, he broke
out,-" Ay, is it that ye would be at? If you aim at a Scotch
presbytery, let me tell you, it agrees as well with monarchr as God.
with the devil. Then shallJack,and Tom,and Will,and Dtck meet,
and censure me and my council. Therefore I reiterate my former
speech, Le rai a'avilera. Stay, I pray you, for me seven ]earJJ
before you demand, and then if you find me grow pursy an fat,
I may perchance hearken to you, for that government will keep
me in health, and find me work enough."
Bancroft, at the hearing of language so delectable to episcopal
ears, fell on his knees, exclaiming-" I protest my heart melteth
for joy, that Almighty God, of his sin~Ztllar mercy, has given such lJ.
king as since Christ's time hath notbeen!"
. Bancroft became archbishop of Canterbury, one of the basest
sycophants that ever wore a mitre; what Neale calls" a perfect
creature of the prerogative, a11d a declared enemy of the religious
and civil liberties of his country." Under his superintendence the
book of canons, now in force, revised and enlarged from those of
Edward VI. and Elizabeth, passed the two houses of convocation.
By these canons it is provided, that whoever shall speak against
the Thirty-nine Articles, or against the established mode of
church government, shall be excommunicated, and not restored,
except by the archbishop; and whoever shall separate from th.e
church to form any new brotherhood, shall be excommunicated.
and by no means be restored ; that is, he should, at that time of
day, be put out of the benefit of all law, and subjected to all
manner of injuries and injustice. If a barrister presumed to
plead for him, he was himself, as in the case of Nicolas Fuller,
Immediately shut up in prison for life. A member of parliameu.t
even alluding in his speech to the sufferings of the people, James
was so highly offended, that he immediately dissolved the House,
and was advised by Bancroft and his servile associates to do
without a parliament. A more utter state of slavery cannot be
imagined than this, in which a man might neither speak a word
against any thing in the church, nor withdraw himself quietly
from it; the subject was gagged and bound, and reduced to some-
thing worse than an automaton. The ·Consequence was, that tho
nonconformists were persecuted with such bitter cruelty, that they
fled in crowds to Holland and German,, as in the last reign; and
now also in large companies to Amenca, where this royal bigot,
in the overruling of God's providence, was thus made the uncon~
scious means of planting tlie vast republic of the United States.
In 1611, James burnt two men for heretics; Bartholomew Le-
gate, iii Smithfield, and Edmund Wightman, at Lichfield. A
, third was to have shared the same fate, but the people expressed
liO strong a feeling on the subject, that it was tliought better to
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 179
Jet him lie for life in prison. Dr. Milner, in his History of Wiu-·
chester, says, that between 1604 and 1618 he signed the death ·
warrants of twenty-five catholic priests and laymen, besides ban-
ishing one hundred priests. ,
. In 1617, he went to Scotland, and there proceeded to aggravate
the evil of episcopacy, which he had inflicted on that country in
1606, telling the parliament and general assembly, that it was" a
special prerogative of king1!, with their bishops, to order the church
as they thought .fit; and, sirs," said he, "for your approving, or
disapproving, deceive not yourselves. l will not have my reason
opposed." So he went on to suspend, deprive, and banish, who-
ever did Ol_lpose him, as he had done here. Having finished this
work to hiS kingly satisfaction, he returned· home, and adopting
the doctrine of Arminianism, made it a fresh cause against manr.
of the clergy and people, who were disciples of Calvin; and, as if
this were not enough of royal folly and inconsistency, he endea-
voured to marry his son Charles to a popish princess. As the
foolish old man "despised any match for his son less than the
daughter of a king, he entered into treaty for the infanta of Spain;
and, to effect its accomplishment, submitted to make the youth
swear that the children resulting from the marriage ~hould be
educated in popery till thirteen years of a~, and that he himself
would, as often as the infanta desired it, hsten to popish persua-
sions .for his own conversion. When the match was happily
broken off, the hypocritical old fellow declared that nothing did
he detest so much as popery ; and that all this was but an ex-
periment of his kingcraft! A son thus educated in despotism and
jluplicity ; thus taught to regard all human laws as subject to his
fiat, and all conscience as a farce; might be expected to inflict
misery on the realm, if he did not experience it himself; but he
did both. The sins of the father fell heavily upon him. As for
James himself, like Hezekiah, the evil did not come in his day.
The parliament and people had both been so sinitten with the
iron hand of Henry and Elizabeth, that they were like a pack of
beaten hounds; they dared not for their lives resist the most arbi-
trary act; they crouched and trembled, and obeyed. But the
weakness of the Stuarts did not escape national observation; the
ass was discerned through the gaps of the lion's skin, in which he
had wrapped himself; the spirit of the people revived, and in •
Charles's reign showed itselfwith an aspect of terrible retribution.
Wealth, population, commerce; and intelligence, spite of all ob-
stacles, had been on the increase; the civil government of Eliza-
beth had been politic and successful. The Bible, too, had been
secretly working a Ini~hty revolution. in the popular Inind. In
the·troubles and suffenng11, which kings and priests had inflicted,
i~ had been the secre,t and precious companion : its poetry, the
most magnificent ; its maxims, the most profound ; its proinises,
tbe mogt momentous in the world, were not lost on the human
heart : its doctrines became more clearly upderstood; and the
N2
· .g, Jb,Google
180 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
spirit of man rose with its dignifying knowledge. .!n awful path
was before Charles. He was moulded to despotism, and the peo.-
ple to its resistance. The people had become conscious of their
strength. Charles, blinded by his royal education, perceived not
that consciousness :-he therefore proceeded·with the temerity of.
a man who has one day crossed a frozen lake, and the next ad-
vances upon the ice without observing that it has thawed in the
night, and is lost. He acted with a more fatal, because a more
solemn wilfulness, than his father had done under very different
circumstances; and at his right band soon stood a high priest
and counsellor, most admirably fitted to hasten and make sure his
ruin this was Laud. ,.J
There had been an ascent in prelatical evil through Pa.rkeq-
Wbitgift, and Bancroft-Laud completed the climax. Char}._
trod in thestepsofhisfather-Laud marched far beyond the~
of bill predecessors vQ.th a daring hardihood, more haughty ~
cruel than they ever reached. Every one is familiar with ~
deeds and their fate, and therefore I shall but glance at them.~ ~
Scotland, Charles proceeded to complete the work which ~ ~
ther had begun, of bringing the kirk to conformity with ,,)Ht
English church. Laud had filled him with a lofty idea of ~
glory to be derived from this labour ; stirred him up to go th~
in person; attended him there; and together, king and -prielt$
produced such a storm ofpopular resentment as prepared the ~y~
for the destruction of both these tyrannical men. When the~
of faculty began to read the new liturgy in St. Giles's church, the;
people assailed him with such violence, that it was with diffi~.
the provosts and bailiffs of the city could rescue him and -~
bishop from their hands. Jenny Geddes, an old woman, at nearly:
the first ~ords of the liturgy uttered, flung a stool at the a~··:
head, crytng, " A pape! a pape! " and the whole congregatiGQ.
followed her example with hideous noises, and clapping of Jia:n&,;
while the populace without thundered at the doors, ;md senti'
showers of stones through the windows. The whole town and.
country were in a ferment; and it did not end till the general as-
sembly had condemned the king's measures, and put down tho
bishops. Charles prepared to resent this, and to enforce his scheme
with arms 1 but here again the spirit of the Scots was too mu~
for him. They compelled him to retreat before them; followed:.
him over the border, and obli~ed him to treat with them at Ripon·
and to call a free parliament m England, where the matter shoul~
be decided. To what humiliation the priests had brought Pim ! It
was they who had inflated his silly old father with such notions
of kingly despotism ; they it was who had contaminated both
father and son with their pernicious doctrines ; who had set th~
upon this work of reducing their own country to the slavery they
had effected in England ;-history therefore does not present ,-.
more luminous fact than this-to priestcraft Charles became · ~
fearful victim, and the whole realm suffered risk with him. · <
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 181
V ·In England his conduct was exactly of the same character.
Those of his bishops who were inclined to be moderate, were diS-
graced and banished from their sees. Abbot, the primate, a ~ood
man, was suspended for refusing to license a sermon eulogtzing
the doctrine of passive obedience and non-resistance. Williams,
bishop of Lincoln, was treated in a similar :manner; whereas
Montague and Manwaring, for preaching up the royal prerogative
against the people's rights, were promoted to bishopncs, in defi-
ance of parliament, wliich had voted them incapable of any eccle-
siastical preferment; and Sibthorpe, whose sermon Abbot would
not license, was made prependary of Peterborough, and rector of
:Burton Latimer, in Wiltshire. Davenant, bishop of Salisbury,
Dr. Burgess, Dr. Prideaux, Dr. Hall, whose poetry and liberality
.
of spirit will both be held in long and honourable remembrance,
4W others, were harassed because they did not preach exactly to
b:ling's mind; but Dr. Leighton was treated m a manner that
cfCJa1d only have been expected from savages. ·He had published a
~phlet called "Zion's Plea ag-.1.inst Prelaey," wherein he had
iillOWn the bishops their own likeness, telling them that "they
were men of blood; and that there never was a greater persecution,
110r higher indignities done to God's people, in any nation, than
Hi this, since the death of Elizabeth : that prelacy was notoriously
aMi-christian, and that the church had the laws from the Scrip-
ture, not from the king; for no king can make laws for the house
of God." This was sure to raise all the prelatical fury. Accord-
ingly they soon had him in the High Commission Court, and
eondemned him to prison fur life ; to pay a fine of ten tlwtuand
. pounds ; to be degraded .from his ministry ; whipped; set on the
pillory; have one of his ears cut oj[; one side qf Ius nose slit ; and
to be branded on the forehead with a double S. S., for a sower of
..Ji4ion ; then to be carried back to prison, and, after a ftw days, be
pilloried agat"n ; whipped ; have the other side of his nose slit; the
flther ear cut off; and shut up t"n his dttngeon, to be released only by
death.
~Laud pulled off his cap when this merciless sentence was pro-
:aoonced. and fPLVe God thanks for it!!
··· All this was mfticted on this learned and excellent man, formerly
~feasor of mor.1.l philosophy in the university of Edinburgh ;
liud when, on the sitting of the long parliament, he' sent in his
~tion for his release, the whole House was moved to tears by the
reeital of those sufferings which priests had inflicted and rejoiced
id. They were thus expressed : " That he was apprehended
eoming from a sermon,by a HighCommission warrant, and dragged
along the streets with bills and staves to London House. That
the gaoler of Newgate clapped him in irons, and carried him, with
a strong power, into a loathsome and Iniserable dog-hole, full of
mts and mice, that had no light but a little grate; the roof being
1111covered, so that the snow and rain beat upon him, and where
he had no bed, or place for fire, but a ruinous, old, smoky chimney.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
182 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
In this woeful place he was shut up fifteen weeks, nobody being
suffered to come to him. That, the fourth day after his commit-
ment, the pursuivant, with a mighty multitude, came to his house
to search for Je uits' books, and used his wife in soch a barbarous
and inhuman manner, as he was ashamed to expres . That they
rifled every person and place; holdin~ a :pistol to the heart of a
child offive years old, threatening to kill him if he did not di cover
the books; broke open chests, presses, boxes; carried every thing
away, even household stuff, apparel, arms, etc. That, at the end
of fifteen week , he was served with a subpama, on an information
laid against him by the attorney-general, whose dealing with him
was full of cruelty and deceit. That he was then so sick that his
physician thought he had been poisoned, because all his hair and
, skin came off; and that in the height of this sickness, the cmel
sentence was passed upon him, and executed, Nov. 26th, 1630,
when he received thirty-six stripes upon his naked b~ck, with a.
threefold cord, his hand being tied to a stake, and then stood
almost two hours in the pillory, in fro t and snow, before he was
branded in the face, his nose slit, and his ears cut off; after which
he was carried by water to the Fleet; shut up in a room that be
was never well, and, after eight years, turned into the common
gaol!!I"
The treatment of William Prynne, of Dr. Bastwick, and Mr.
Burton, is known to every body; for Prynne being an eminent
lawyer, and Bastwick a physician, the indignation excited in the
members of their respective professions, caused their sentence to
become more _POlitical in its consequences. Prynne had written
"Histriomastlx," a work against plays, maypoles, church festivals,
and sports, things of which the royal family were extremely fond,
and which James, by his" Book of Sports," bad encouraged and
made not merely legal, but essential, but which the puritans con-
scientiously disapproved, and for the non-reading of which from
their pulpits, many of their clergy had been severely handled.
This strange book recommended races, football, dances, archery,
leaping, and various sports in the church-yard, immediately after
service, and tippling by the drinking of church-ales, clerk-ales, etc. :
to attack it was therefore to attack the church. For w1itiug "so
malicious and dangerous a libel," as the attorney-general styled it,
Prynne was condemned "to have the book burnt by the co=on
han~an ; to be put from the bar for ever, and rendered incapable
of his profession; to be turned out of the society of Lincoln's Inn;
to be degraded at Oxford; to stand in the _pillory at Westminster
and Cheapside; to lo e both his ears, one m each place; to pay
a fine of five thousand pounds, and suffer perpetual imprisonment."
Dr. Bastwick, for his book "Elenchus Religionis Papi ticre;"
which denied the divine right of bishops, was discarded from his
profession; excommunicated; fiued one thou and pounds, and
imprisoned till he chose to recant. Burton, who had been clerk
of the closet to two successive princes of Wales, for publishing
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 183
two sennons against Laud's popish innovations in the church, V
had his study broken open by the serjeant-at-arms, and was com-
mitted to the Gate-house.
:Bnt these stout fellows daring even in prison to protest against
the prevailing tyrannies, and to contendfor liberty of religion, were V
agam brou~ht up to the Star Chamber, and condemned;-Burton
to be depnved of his living and degraded from his ministry, as
Prynne and Bastwickhad before been from their professions ; each
· to be fined five thousand pounds ; to be set in the pillory, and have
their ears cut oft: Prynne had already lost his ears by the sentence
of the court of 1633; but it wa~ ordered that the remainder of the
amps should be cut out, and that he should be branded on each
eheek with the letters S. L. These sentences were all duly exe-
cuted, the hangman rather sawing the remainder of Prynne's ears
than cutting them off; and then they were sent, under a strong
~. one to the castle of Launceston, another to that of Lancas-
ter, and the third to that of Caernarvon in Wales ; but their prisons
110t being thought distant enough, they were afterwards removed
to the islands of Scilly, Jersey, and Guernsey, where they were
~t without pen, ink, or paper, or the access of their friends, till
they were released by the long parliament.
I have already said that Dr. Williams, bishop of Lincoln, was
ill-treated by this arch-demon Laud; butbefore closing the account
of his tyrannies, this case deserves a few more words. Dr. Wil- \.~
Iiams had been the strenuous advocate with King James for the
advancement of Laud, who, as soon as he ~t into the good will of
Charles, repaid his benefactor by getting htm removed from all his
preferments at court. Wilfui.ms retired to his diocese, and spent
bis time in· its duties; but the envy, or some similar passion of
Laud's, followed him there; and having once in conversation hap-
pened to speak well of the puritan clergy, and censure the king for
his treatment of them, this was carried to court-he was cited be-
fore the High Commission, suspended, fined ten tltousand pounds,
and committed to the.Tower during the kinlfs pleasure. Hts house
1Vll8 plundered of all his rich goods and liorary, and his private
papers seized. Amongst these were found two letters from Mr.
O.baldeston, written five years before, and contaSning some obscure
expressions, which Laud construed to apply to himself. As if it
baa not been unwarrantable tyranny enough to ruin the bishop for
words spoken in private conversation, be was charged with having
by these letters divulged scandalous libels against the kinis privy
aounsellors-letters he had never "{>Ut out of his desk, and liad even
forgotten. But proceeding on this their own violation of all. the
sacred ri~hts of the subject, of all privacy, they fined the bishop
another etght thousand pounds, three of them to go to Laud him-
self. Mr; Osbaldeston, the writer of the letters, they fined five
thousand pounds to the king, and five thousand to Laud, and .
ordered him to be def.rived of all his spiritual dignities, imprisoned,
pilloried in the dean s yard opposite his own school, and to havt
184 PltiESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
hi& ears nailed to tAepillory. His ears, however, were good enou2h
to save themselves, for not being in custody, but present in tlie
crowd when the sentence was passed, he escaped, and continued
to keep in concealment till the sittin~ of the long parliament ; bnt
in the mean time all his goods were seized, and property confiscated.
The catholics charge Charles with hanging no fewer than ten
catholic priests, in the early part of his reign, for the exercise of
their religion.
Such are a few specimens of the innumerable and amazing tyran-
nies of this king and this priest, which made all England such a.
scene of oppression and misery, that. a great part of the best sub-
jects fled out of it, and the rest at length rose in wrath and de-
stroyed tbeir bloody destroyers in their turn.
Before closing our brief sketch of the ruinous career of Charles,
we must notice the poetical justice which befell the bishops and
their victims. The bishops having stimulated Charles to over-
throw the church of Scotland, and restore episcopacy there,
brought him, as we have seen, to such shame, and into such a
dilemma, that by the clamour of the armed and victorious Scots.
whom he had roused to a desperate determination of securing
themselves from future royal inroads, he was compelled to call a
parliament. The parliament also showed immediately the tem-
per to which the arbitrary spirit of the king, stirred up to worse
violence by the insolent ambition and cruelty of the bishops, had
brought the English nation. This parliament, from its sitting ten
years, called the long parliament, immediately set to work in a way
which must equally have astonished the king and his hierarchy.
They at once abolished those two Inquisitions, the Star Chamber
and the High Court of Commission, in which so much villany
had been worked by those who pleased to call themselves the
Ininisters of religion. They did not satisfy themselves with that,
but cast about to see if they could not repair, in some degree, the
injuries of its last victims. Dr. Leighton was liberated on his pe-
tition. His relation of his sufferings during his incarceration of
eleven years, the three last of which had been in the common
prison, embodied such a scene of misery as rarely ever before was
laid open to English ears; and when it was recollected that all
this time his holy persecutors had been lying on their beds of
down, sitting at their luxurious tables, "raising their mitred fronts
in courts and parliaments," ministered to with every delicacy and
honour, and pretending to do the work of God in his national
temple, it raised a feeling which speedily dashed down these
priestly hypocrites from their mischievous elevation. The vener-
able old prisoner of conscience, when released from his dun~eon,
could hardly walk, or see, or hear. Parliament allowed h1m a
small pension for the remainder of his -
life, which was about four
years. He died in 1644, in his seventy-sixth year; so that he was
a prisoner to the age of seventy-two! All who had been impri-
soned by the same unholy authorities were set at liberty, and
oig''"ed by Coogle
PRJESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES. 1~ '
amongst them Prynne, Burton, and Bastwick, who were met by .:.. ~
immense multitudes, and conducted in triumph into London.
Dr. Williams, the bishop of Lincoln, was released from the Tower,
and made archbishop of York; and Dr. Hall was ordained to the
see of Norwich.
Parliament having shown this disposition to redress the griev-
bllces of the nation, was soon overwhelmed with petitions, which
exhibited a frightful state of ecclesiastical as well as civil affairs.
Inquiry laid bare the most wretched condition of·the church, from
t~~ties, non-residence, and the immorality of the clergy. Par-
ent put forth the pruning-knife of reform with right good will.
The bishops, who truste4 to the power and favour of the king,
' resisted with all their characteristic haughtiness and contumacy,
and were speedily expelled from the House of Lords. Laud, the
primate, was accused, with Strafford, for his crimes of high treason,
and beheaded. The prelates had soon the mortification to see the
inco~petent and immoral clergy whom they had put in, and had
auftered to remain in their parish livings, unceremoniously rejected,
and better men take their place, many of them those pious and
laborious nonconformists whom they had so barbarously treated.
It would have been worth something to have lived then, to see so
satisfactory a turning of the tables. But the end was not yet.
The king, equally ur~d forward by the bishops and the bigots of
the church, the Tones of the state, and his own wilful temper,
resorted to arms, and after a bloody warfare, whose details do not
lie within our province, brought his own head to the block.
During the Commonwealth arose a singular people, whose doc-
trines and conduct marked another epoch in the advance to the
true understanding of Christianity, and acquirement of its free-
dom,-this was the Society of Friends. It will have been seen
that,· notwithstanding all that the nonconformists had suffered,
notwithstanding all the great minds and noble hearts which had
appeared among them, they had not yet come to perceive the full
liberty of Christ. They objected to certain ceremonies and habits,
and certain religious opinions, but they did not object at all to the
.establishment of a state religion ; many of them even to the epis-
copal hierarchy, but were a part of it. The Independents had
made the nearest approach to the apprehension of perfect freedom;
ther had adopted and acted Qpon the opinion, that every congre-
.gation is independent of all others, and that no minister of the
gospel possesses any jurisdiction over another; but they still ad-
mitted the right of a state establishment, and under Cromwell
accepted office in one. The Friends not only proclaimed the
doctrine, that all state establishments of Christiamty are unscrip-
. tural, but that they violate the political rights of the subject; they
therefore denounced all usurpation of human lordship over con-
science·; all hireling teachers of a state creed; tithes, church rates,
and every ecclesiastical demand whatever. To George Fox we
owe this bold and manly system, this sudden leap from the chains
186 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
oflong spiritual slavery, into the full freedom of the gospellaw,-
a man to whom yet there has never been full justice done beyond
the pale of his own society. I do not assert for him an ex,emption
V from the spirit of fanaticism, prevalent at that time; both he and
his adherents were unquestionably a good deal touched with it;
but independently of this, the theory of his religious belief com-
prehended the ideal of all religious freedom. This I attribute in
a great measure to the circumstance of his being an unlearned
man. Free from' every educational dogma, he became struck with
the importance of religion, and taking the Bible with him into the
fields, he there carefully studied it, and soon discerned the true
nature of this beneficent dispensation ; that Christianity is a thing
V so spiritual, so entirely ~ gift of God to every man that is born,
that no other man in the sha:{le of king, bishop, or priest, has a
right to come between this divme gift and the human soul; con-
sequently, no state religion, no state priest, no state compulsion
for their support, can be justified; consequently, all tithes, church
rates, Easter offerings, and such things, are anti-christian, and to·
be resisted by every constitutional means. He saw as clearly that
Christianity proclaimed the civil freedom of every rational cre&-
ture; it enjomed obedience to good .government, but discounte- ·
V nanced by its very benevolence and its celestial maxim, " Do to ·
others as thou wouldst be done to," all tyranny and slavery. On
the same ground, he was thoroughly satisfied of the nature of that
most fatal of infatuations-war.
Whatever his sa~cious mind once embraced as trnth, he had
the integrity and bo1dness to proclaim every where. He advanced
into the presence of princes, and declared it there with the same
ease and freedom as amongst his own peers. It may well be
imagined, that when members began to flock around him, as they
soon did, and from every class of society, clergy, soldiers, magi&-'
trates, gentlemen, and men of the general mass; that his system
would·bring down upon him and his followers, the unmitigated
vengeance of the persecuting hierarchy. It was no partially re-
forming system; 1t did not object to this or that dogma, this or
that ceremony in the state religion, but it assailed, root and branch,
state religion itself. It was a system peculiarly odious to priests,
for it was an entirely disinterested one ; for it went even to de-
clare, that nothing should be received for preaching when it could
be at all dispensed with,-nothing, in any case, without the volun-
tary consent of the people. The state clergy saw, that if it suc-
V ceeded, priestcr~t was ~ne for ever;-royalty, on its restoration,
saw that it would lop oft the right arm of despotism,-a craft, paid
to preach the divine right of kings, and passive obedience of the
people. But Fox and his friends were prepared to speak, write,
• - and suffer for it. He himself traversed great part of the kingdom,
visited 'America and Holland, holding immense meetings in the
.open air, and addressed many letters to various princes and J.leople
in power, in its be~. Barclay delineated 1ts features m hi&
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 187
celebrated" Apology for the true Christian Divinity." Penn wrote V
boldly for it, and spoke boldly too on his trials, especially that
with William Mead at the Old Bailey, an account of which has
often been reprinted, as a splendid instance o~ the vindication of
trial by jury. Anthony Pearson, who had been a justice of peace,
published his " Great Case of Tithes," in which all the evils and.
anti-christianity of the tithe system were duly exposed. Thomas
Lawson wrote " A Mite in the Treasury;" .and " The Call, Work,
and Wages, of the Ministers of Christ and of Antichrist;" two
most spirited and able expositions of J;>Olitical religion. Elwood
.wrote his interesting Life, abounding With scenes ofimprisonment
and patient endurance for his principles. Besse compiled from
the official documents of the society, the " History of tbe Suffer-
ings of Friends ;" a work of everlasting condemnation to the priests
of the church of England; and Sewell wrote the " History of the
Society" at large, a work declared by Charles Lamb to be worth V
all ecc1esiastical history put together. In these, and other works,
they asserted those great principles of religiol!S freedom now so
generally adopted ; and for these they suffered. Seeing clearly
how a royal religion disturbed and oppressed the real church of
Christ, how it neutralized all its benign doctrines, they deter-
mined, cost what it would, to hold no communion with it. They V
would neither marry at its altars, nor bury in its soil; and for this
their dead were torn out of their graves by the parish priests and
their minions; and they were not only heavily fined and imprison-
ed for their marrying, but their children were declared bastards.
At Nottingham, in "1661, an attempt was made, by a public trial, v·
to disinherit some orphans on th1s ground ; but the worthy old
judge, Archer, brought Adam and Eve as J;>recedents, and declared,
that their taking each other in marriage m the presence of God
was valid, and if those children were bastards we were all bastards.
'On this singular decision, the marriages ofFriends were recognised
and made legaL But had it been otherwise, such waR the sturdy y
firmness of the Friends, that they would have suffered loss of both
property and life to the last man, sooner than concede an iota to
this unjust system; and the whole fury of the executive J;lOWer
was let loose upon them. They were ~ven up a prey to vmdic- V
tift parsons, and ignorant, priest-ridden JUStices of the peace; and
to the whole greedy race of informers, constables, and the lowest
of the rabble. In 1670, the king issued an order in council, signed V
by the archbishop of Canterbury and thirteen others, command-
ing Christopher Wren, Esq. to pull down their meeting-house at
Horsleydown, which was done, and the materials sold; the same
was done to Ratcliff meeting-house; and Peel meeting-house was
raneacked, and the doors and windows carried away. But the
Friends still met on the nuns of those J.>laces, where they were y
assailed by soldiers, who fell upon them WJth the but-end of their
muskets, and maltreated them so dreadfully, that the blood lay in
the streets, and several died in consequence. Old age was not
oigitozed by Coogle
188 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
r.pared; the women in particular were treated with brutal inde-
cency, and finally, all their places of worship were nailed up, and
soldiers set to keep them away. Nothing, however, could prevent
them meeting; and· often, especially all the hard winter of 1683,
they collected in the streets, and suffered incredible hardships from
the cold, the soldiers, and the mob. They were ruinously fined
under Elizabeth's statute of £20 a month. Twenty-eight indi-
viduals alone paid £520 15s. 2d. Their houses were broken open
without ceremony with sle~e-hammers and screws, and their pPO-
perty plundered by wholesa1e, under the plea of collecting tithes,
church rates, and fines for non-attendance at church. One parson.
declared, " he would rather see all the Quakers hanged than lose a
Bizpenee by them." . For shillings they generally took pounds, leav-
ing, in many instances, not a tool, or a piece of goods for a man to
pursue his trade by ; not a horse or a plough for him to work his
farm with. This one specimen may serve as an illustration of the
general mode. ·
The fines for non-attendance of church at Bristol, for 38 £
men for eleven months . • 8,360
For two of their wives, for the same time 220
For Ill men for three months . . 6,660
For forty of their wives for the same time 1,200
£16,440
By a careful examination of the records of the society, I find an
amount of property taken from them for these-fines, church rates,
tithes, and some few military demands, but chiefly the former,
given in from 1655 to 1833, of £1,192,820. Besides this, a great
quantity of property was given in with no value attached to it,
which, with the utter ruin of trade, and wanton destruction of the
effects of many families, cannot amount at all to less than one
million and a half-a sum which is still increasing, from distrainm
on this small society, at an average of £ll,OOO a year.
The very poorest, even the fatherless children, did not escape
this stripping system of the established priesthood. Amongst
thousands ofsuch instances, take this one. A poor orphan lad of
Farnsfield, in Nottinghamshire, Nathaniel Price, whom his friends
had yut out apprentice, being taken at a meeting, and having
nothmg else to pay his fine, the officers took away his coat and
breeches, four halfpence, his knife, sheath, and scissars. In some
instances, they threw away the food of infants, and carried away
the very vessels. Nothing is harder to bear than the vulgar inso-
lence oflow fellows in authority; and this the Friends were made
to feel in its fulness. These informers, constables, et 1wc genut1
omne, came into their houses and did as they pleased. When the
men were in prison, as they were at one time, to the number of
2500, they came and plundered their wives ; often frightened ~
abused them and their children ; put the key of the door in their
Digit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL .,GES. l89
pockets, so that they and their tribe bad free ingress and egress,
·night and day; and there they eat, drank, and caroused jovially,
declaring they " would eat of the best, and drink of the sweetest,
and those rogues of Quakers should pay for all!" There was no
redress. A deputation once waited on the Archbishop Sancroft,
and complained of such vile rascals being employed in the service
of his church; but be only replied, ''There requires crooked tim-
ber to build a ship."
But what avails attempting to delineate the sufferings of these
people for their adherence to the system of a free gospel, a
principle which I trust we shall live to see triumphant ? Their
sufferings lasted for thirty years ; and the simple and mere mat-
ter-<>f-fa.ct recital of them, fills two thick folio volumes, containing
upwards of one thous;md fo11r hundred closely printed pages.
They consist of every imaginable ·species of outrage and msult,
petty vexation, and agonizing sufferin~; confinement in horrible,
pestilential dungeons, as the HoLE m Newgate, which was the
death of numbers ; every species of legal and illegal plunder;
loss of estates, friends, liberty, and life itself; such as the same
number of Englishmen scarcely ever suffered, or suffered with
such invincible firmness. In London they filled the prisons in
suffocating crowds, where, in 1662, twenty died, and seven more
soon after their liberation, in. consequepc~ of their treatment ; in
1664, twenty-five more; and m the followmg year, fifty-two others.
Through the whole kingdom the same i_nhuman persecutions were
practised; and the number which perished under them, as may
be seen in Besse, was 369. Every where their meetings were
broken up by parish priests, with troopers and mobs at their
heels ; their persons shut up in f.rison, till scarcely an adult was
at large. At one time, in Bristo , this was literally the case ; but
the very children collected to meeting, in spite of the beatings and
insults of their persecutors, who struck them in the face, as they
were accustomed to do ev·
en the women, whom it was a favourite
plan. to drag by the hair of the head, })inch their arms till black
and blue, and prick them with bodkins and packing-needles.
When all this would not do, they baqished them to the colonies
and sugar plantations, and sold t~em for slaves, where their doc-
trines soon spread, and persecut10n became as hot as at home,
especally in Barbaqoes and New England, where monstrnus fines,
cutting off ears, and hanging, becatne the order of the day,
After the passing of the Toleration Act,'tithes and church rates
still exposed them to the persecution of the clergy, who were in-
clined to show no mercy, amongst whom I am sorry to find one
of my own ancestors, Thomas Howitt, rector of Eastwood in Not-
tinghamshire. The numbers prosecuted on these grounds from
1690 to 1736, were ll80; of whom 302 were imprisoned, and
nine died in prison, 1-'he list of these Cf!Ses exhibits many in-
stances of clerical rapacity and hard-heartedness, as,-W, Francis,
confined nineteen months for a groat; Adam Lawrence and
oigit<Zed by Coogle
190 PlliESTCilAPT IN ALL AGEl.
Elizabeth Vokin, between six and seven years for nine shillings
for both of them; A. Henderson and son, eleven months for one
penny : Thomas Kieling, two years for marriage fees : Israel Fell,
four years for one shzlling: Daniel Abraham, nearly three years for
twenty peMe: John Richards, for small tithes, five years, till he
died: John Constantine, five years for tithe of a little garden;
V Jamel Binim, aged 91, blind and deaf, several months for tithes;
Elizabeth Hughes, widow, with six childrell, sixteen months for
tithes, pretended to be due from her mother : Robert Grimes, for
fifteen shillings, about a year, till he died: several others till they
died ; Joseph Smith and Thomas Bird,for a clturch rate, eight years
andfour months: Boswell Middleton, for two pounds, five years;
and again, four months after his liberation, two years more for
small tithes, etc. etc. ·
Takiug this connected, though brief view of the sufferings of
Friends, has carried us beyond the due course of the sufferings of
the nonconformists in general, as well as of the catholics, who had,
between 1641 and 1654, twenty-one of their priests put to death.
Charles II., on his restoration, renewed all the persecutions of hifil
bloody race, and that in the very face of his promises, both before
and after his restoration, to restrain the power of the hierarchy,
and grant liberty of conscience. The liberty of conscience whieh
he granted was to the bishops to tyrannize over all other con-
sciences, and they made hil reign more bloody than that of any of
his predecessors. Sheldon, the bishop of London, was the Laud of
his time. He obtained the restoration of the " Act of Uniformity,"
which demanding unqualified assent to all and every thing in the
Book of Common Prayer, and subscription to the doctrine of pas-
sive obedience, at once threw out of their livings two tliousand of
the most able and honest ministers, without making the slightest
provision for their maintenance, a severity which neither Elizabeth
m enacting her litur~, nor Cromwell in ejectin~ the loy&lists, had
practised,-both havtng set apart a fiftlt of the revenue of e,ach
benefice for the ejected priests. " Many hundreds of those," says
Baxter1 "}vith their wives and children, had neither house nor
land." Such of them as dared not in their consciences lay down
their ministry, preached in fields and private houses, whence they
were haled to prison, where vast numb!!rS of them perished. They
who ventured to offer them sustenance, if discovered, were treated
the same. On the other hand, according to Burnet, the bishopa
and the clergy who rushed into .the vacant places of these pious
men, came as if with appetites made ravenous by abstinence. " The
bishops, by renewing leases of church estates, raised in fines a
million and a half of money. In some sees forty or.fifty thousand
pounds were raised, and applied to the enriching of the bishops'
families." High living, expensive luxury, and sloth, were intro-
duced. All these vices were imitated by the lower clergy to such
a degree that, he adds, " had not a new set of men of another stam~
appeared, the church had quite lost her esteem with the nation.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRJESTCRAIIT IN ALL AGES. 191
.Such being the state of the clergy, the churches were deserted by
·the people, w)lo had flocked after the ejected ministers, spite of
the penalties. To quash this altogether, and to oompel the people
into the churches, the famous "Conventicle Act" was passed,
empowering all magistrates to levy £10 on the minister, £5 on
every hearer, at any place of worship where the Common Prayer
was not exclusively used; and £'J/J on the house where it was
held. This for the first offence, or three months' imprisonment ;
·£10 a hearer, or six months' imprisonment, for a second offence;
£100 a hearer, or seven years transportation, for a third; and
4eath, without benefit of clergy, in case of return or escape.
This inhuman law was vigorously enforced by Sheldon; the
ll()Ods of the accused were sold for ihe fines, and if they did not
defray the whole, the whole congre~tion 'was hurried to prison.
This was the reason why, in this re1gn, the prisons were so filled,
and that so many perished in them ; for the informers, receiving
one-third of the penalties, were as ravenous of their prey as the
parsons themselves. All this being hardly sufficient to bring peo-
Jile to a church where the pastors were such unequivocal wolves
1n sheep's clothing, Sheldon, in 1665, procured" The Five Mile
Act," which, on the refusal of an oath so frumed that no honest
man could take it, restrained all ministers from coming within
five miles of any place where they had exercised their ministry, .
and from teaching school, under a penalty of £40 for every such
offence. .
Snch were a few· of the blessings which the restoration of the
Stuarts brought upon this country. NO· adversity could teach
that tyrannic family either wisdom or mercy ; but it is inlpossible
to wade through the wide sea of their cruelties till the expulsion
of James II. I shall therefore onlv remind my readers, that
Charles II. renewed the slaughter of the Scotch Covenanters,
pursuing them to the mountains and morasses with fire and sword;
enacting all the horrors of racks, thumb-screws, and the iron boot;
as can be seen no where so vividly detailed as in Sir Walter Scott's
"Tales of a Grandfather," and" Old Mortality,"-and then give
this summary from Neale. "The writer of the preface to Mr.
DeLaune's Plea for the Nonconformists, says, that De Laune
was one of near EIGHT THOCSAND who had perished in prison in
the reign of Charles II.; and that merely for dissenting from the
church in some points for which they were able to bring good
reason. As for die severe penalties inflicted on them for seditious
apd riotous assemblies, designed only for the worship of God, he
adds, that they suffered in their trades and estates, within the
compass of five years, at least Two MILLIONS. Another writer
adds, that Mr. Jeremy White had carefully collected a list of the
dissenting sufferers, and of their sufferings, and had the names of
SIXTY THOUSAND PERSONS who had suffered On a religious ac-
count, hvtween the restoration of Charles II. and the revolution of
King Willian!, FIVE THOUSAND of whom died in prison. Jan1ea
oigit<Zed by Coogle
192 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
II., during his reifl, heard of this MS., and offered one tltow-
sand guinea& for it . but Mr. White refused to part with it, yet
afterwards committed it to the flames. It is certain that, besides
those who suffered in their own country, great numbers retired to
the plantations and different parts of America. Many transported
themselves and their effects to Holland, and filled the English
churches of Amsterdam, the Hague, etc. If we admit the dissent-
ing families of the several denominations in England to be one
hundred and fifty thousand, and that each family suffered no more
than the loss of three or four pounds per annum, from the Act of
Uniformity, the whole will amount to twelve or fourteen millions;
a prodigious sum for those times. But these are only conjectures.
The dam~ done to the trade and property of the nation was un-
doubtedly Immense, and the wounds that were made in the estates
of private families were deep and large; many of whom, to my
knowledge, wear the scars of them to tliis day." Hist. of Puritans,
vol. ii. page 608-9.
The rei~ of James II. was remarkable for the striking instances
of retribullon which follow bad principles. James I. had boaste4.
of his "kingcraft," which meant any crooked policy which could
serve his tum. He had brought up his son Charles in it, and
kingcraft brought him to the block. Part of his kingcraft was,
"No bishop, no king," and that had been verified too. He had
wilfully allied his .son with popery, and popery descended as a
curse to his children. Charles II. was mean enough to hold it
without daring to avow it. James II. avowed it, and was chased
from the throne. So much for kingcraft ; it ruined the family for
ever.
But in James H.'s reign the bishops and the church were also
taken in their own net. To crush die dissenters, they had, in the
last three reigns, been for ever and most officiously preaching
up the doctrine of "non-resistance and passive obedience," and
now they were called upon by James to practise it in favour
of popery ; when at once they knocked down their own idol, and
showed what a farce they had been acting,-but at the expense of
the lives of at least 100,000 men, and of the happiness and repose
of the whole United Kingdom.
The persecutions of the dissenters in the early part of the reign
or James were as fierce as in the reign of Charles. All dissenting
places of worship were shut up; informers roamed all over the
land ; the prisons were full, and the spiritual courts the only pros-
perous portions of the empire. The bloody Jefferies had a par-
ticular hatred to nonconformists, and in his great western campaign
against the adherents of Monmouth, while llrofessing to hang off
rebels, he dragged into his clutches especially all persons that
were noted for piety. The cases of Mrs. Grant and Lady Lisle
will more particularly be held in lasting remembrance. The
Quakers, in an address to James, informed him that, since 1660,
above tl,rce hundredandfifty of their people had perished in prUim ;
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 193
~nd that at that ·moment there still lay in the common gaols one
lhouaand three hundred and eighty-three otthem ; of whom two hun-
dred were women•! When this wretched and heartless bigot saw
that there was no chance of obtaining the restoration of the
pa{lists except the dissenters would aid -him against the church,
h~ began to fawn on them, but they spurned his base overture, and
assisted zealously to chase him from the throne.
The lesson presented by the history of the English church, since
Henry VIII., is most solemnly important. If all the annals of
the world were set aside, the records of those reigns are enough to .
determine a rational people to put down a national church, as one
of the most terrible of the scourges of the earth ; the most inimi-
cal to human rights and interests. They present one fright-
ful image of kings and priests united to crush all religious re- .
formation, the exercise of free-will, or free understanding; to •set
themselves up as sole thinkers and actors for .the whole world ;
and prepared, if the multitude refuse to surrender their reason and
faith into their keeping, to deluge the earth with blood; to chase
the peaceable from their habitations, and people dungeons with
them and their miseries;
Does the Establishment stand before us and call herself -holy,
and meek, and beneficent, with all these crimes, all these lives, all
this blood and misery on her head? Well would it have been for
Ireland, well for England, well for the Episcopalian church itself,
if some Jenny Geddes had been found, as in Edinburgh, to launch
her three-legged stool at the head of the clergyman when he be-
gan to deal out a state liturgy; and had been followed by the
simultaneous efforts of the whole people, to teach kings and priests
to respect the inalienable rights of conscience: but in default of
this, what has beenthe consequence? While power was left to
the church, it persecuted, and would have continued to persecufe.
The act of William III. put an end to this, to the extent of blood
and total confiscation ; and we must henceforth look for the spirit
of priestcraft in a different sha_P!!. The whole course of this volume
has shown that this wily spuit has conformed itself to circum-
stances. Where unlimited power was within its grasp, it seized it
without hesitation, and exercised it withot1.t mercy. Egypt, India,
all ancient Asia, and all feudal Europe, are witnesses of this.
Where it could not act so freely, it submitted to the spirit of the
people; and worked more quietly, more unseen, but equally effec-
tually as in Greece and pagan Rome. England, after William
III., afforded no furthe_
r scope for the martyr's flaming pile, or the
bloody axe of the public executioner. It was rapidly careering in
a course of knowledge and civilization, which made men acquainted
with their rights, and has eventually lifted this nation to the proud-
eat position. ever occupied by any people in the whole history of
the world. The established clergy, therefore, restrained from the
most piquant department of persecution, for the maintenance of
their political power, addressed theiUSelves diligently to secure the
0
oigit<Zed by Coogle
194 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
full enjoyment of their revenues, and that parochial influence with
which they were invested; and the consequence is, that, in the
noblest nation of the earth, they have become the richest body of
priests, and the most apathetic towards the people, from whom their
wealth is drawn. The cler~, from these Cllcumstances, have been
long gradually diverging mto two classes,-one, sunk into the
slumberous bed of enormous wealth and gross luxury; the other,
into the miserable slough of interminable toil and poverty. Ifwe
look at the di~itaries of the church, and at the description of the
dignitaries of the papal church in its latter days of universal in-
fluence, can we avoid being struck with the coincidence of charac-
ter? "They pass their da.ys amidst the pleasures and cabals of
courts; and appear rather the slaves of pnnces, than the senants
of Him whose kin~om is not of this world. They court glory ;
they asJ.>ire after nches ; while very few emplov their time and
labour m edifyin~. the people, or in promoting among them the
vital spirit of religton; and, what is more deplorable, those bishops
who, sensible of the sanctity of their character, and the duties of
their office, distinguish themselves by zeal in the cause of virtue,
are frequently exposed to the malicious efforts of envy, often loaded
with false dccusations, and involved in perplexiti!:'s of various
kinds."
But it is not the bishops alone ~ whom this applies. These are
the features of the Establishment, at least as they &ppear in the
eyes of the people at large :-
A clergy, in part, overpaid, and inactive; in part, overworked,
and ill paid.
Loaded, in part, with opulent sinecures and shameful pluralities ;
the greater part doing the duty of the lazy and absent~n a pal-
try pittance.
Lukewarm in their duties; and proudly cold in their intercourse
with the poor of their flocks. ·
A clergy, doggedly adhesive to the Establishment as it is, in spite
of the progress of the public mind ; adhering to its most absurd
and most impolitic institutions, rites, and dogmas.
For ample details oC the facts given in this Chapter, and abundant
similar ones, see Fuller's Church History ; Strype's Ecclesiastical Me-
morials; Fox's Acts and Monuments; Heylin's History of the Reform-
ation; Neale's History of Puritans; Brooke's History of Puritans;
Burnet's History of the Refonnation. and History of his own Times;
GOdwin's Commonwealth; Rushworth's Historical Collections; Vaugh-
an's History of the Stuart Dynasty; Sewell's History of the People
called Quakers ; Gough's History of Quakers ; Besse's Sufferings of
the People called Quakers; Yearly Epistles of Friends; History of the
Covenanters.
195
CHAPTER XIX•.
ENGLISH CHURCB.-THE BLATANT BEAST MUZZLED, BUT' STILL
MISCHIEVOUS.
What is that blatant beASt1----
" It is a monster bred of liellishe race,"
Then answered he, " which often hath annoyed
Good knights and ladies true, and many else destroyed.
" Of Cerberus whllome he was begot,
And fell Chlmmra in her darksome den,
Through foul commixture of his filthy blot ;
Where he was fattened long in Stygian fen,
Till he to perfect ripenesd grew : and then
Into this wicked world he forth was sent,
To be the plague and scourge of wretched men :
Whom with vile tongue, and venomous intent,
He sore doth wound, and bite, and cruelly torment."
he took a muzzle strong
Of surest iron, made with many a link ;
Therewith secured he up hls mouth along.
• • • •
Yet greatly did the beast repine at those
Strange bonds, whose like till then he never bore,
Nor ever any durst till then impose.
SPENSER'S FAERY QUEBNE.-Book VI. C. i. and xii.
WILLIAM III. had the honour to quail and muzzle the blatant
beast, more commonly known by the name of state church ; but
he did not clip his talons. Had he I!Xpeditated him, as, according
to the old forest laws, they were wont to do all great dogs in the
neighbourhood of the king's deer, that is, had he chopped off his
toes, he would have prevented many a grievous injury whic~ he
has sil;lce inflicted on innocent people. He took away by muz-
zling the worst of his destructive powers, but be left him the
liberty to roam alon~, casting to the ri~ht hand and left the
venomous foam of his mternal rage; and h1s deadly paws, to plant
desperate wounds in the very front of piety and truth. That is,
William, by his Bill of Rights and Act of Toleration, took from
the church the axe and the fagot; but he left, as time has only
too well proved. the dungeon, and the hand of plunder, which has
been ever since stretclied forth triumphantly over house and
0 2 .
oigit<Zed by Coogle
196 PRIKSTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
field, and a thousand other means of insult and vexation, by
which the base may irritate the better, and the peace and fellow-
ship of society may be destroyed. No doubt, from the crouching
of the beast under his chastising hand, he thought he had humbled
him for ever. ·
He trembled underneath his mighty hand,
And like a fearful dog him followed through the land.
Him throughout all the land he 'followed so
As if he learned had obedience long,
That all the people, whereto he did go,
Out of their towns did round about him throng,
To see him lead that beast in bondage strong:
And seeing it, much wondered at the sight:
And all such persons as he erst did wrong,
Rejoiced much to see his captive plight,
And much admired the beast, but more admired the knight.
As Spenser, however, most prophetically foresaw, after William's
death, once more ·
he btoke his iron chain,
And got into the world at liberty again. ·
Thenceforth more mischief and .more scath he wrought
To mortal men, than he had done before;
Nor ever could by any one be brought
Into like bands,_nor mastered any more.
So now· he rangeth through the world again,
And rageth sore in each degree and state,
Nor any is that may him now restrain,
He growen i1 10 great and ltrong of late.
B. VI. c. xii.
Nay, even in William's own time, though muzzled, he did not
conceal his rage. The temporary subjection of the beast was not
effected without a determined struggle. Besides those instances of
retribution brought on the clergy, noticed in the last chapter, they
also had now caught themselves in this dilemma. In driving out
a monarch who threatened them with popery, on one hand, they
had got another who threatened them, on the other, with !1. liberal
settlement of religion on the basis of common right, which was
far more hateful to them: For this reason Sancroft the primate,
and seven other bishops, besides a ~eat number of the clergy, re~
fused to swear allegiance to Wilham, and thence acquired the
name of Non-jurors. William attempted first to abolish the Test
and Corporation Act, which required all who took civil office to sub-
scribe tlie Thirty-nine Articles of the established church, and to
take the Lord's supper in the prescribed form of ·th?t church, a
profanation of what the church itself professed to regard as a
most sacred rite, which one would have thought they themsel\"es
would gladly see removed. But what rites, or what sacred prin-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 197
ciples, has any state church ever regarded as of the value of
a midge's wing, in comparison of the grand delight of treading
down the heads of those who dared to tliink for themselves P The
attempt to free the consciences of his subjects in this respect was
rejected by the church bigots, though the king himself, their own
lawful church-head, particularly insisted on the scandal of thus
prostituting the sacrament. It was not till three attempts had
been made to relieve the nonconformists, that the firmness of the
king triumphed, and the Act of Toleration was passed in 1689.
Encouraged by this suc!cess, William proceeded to fill up the bi-
shoprics with such men as Tillotson, Burnet, Sharp, Patrick, More,
Cumberland, and Fowler, who were not only reckoned amongst
the most pious men, but the ablest preachers of their time. Fifteen
such men, in the course of two years, he elevated to sees, who were
esteemed the most wise, learned, and exemplary men that sustained
the episcopal dignitr. They preached diligently in their dioceses,
whence the.Y were ndiculed by the bigots both of church and state
as " preachmg bishops." William set them to work to reform the
liturgy and canons, and prepare such/roposals for the reformation
of die ecclesiastical courts, as shoul meet the objections of the
nonconformists, unite all the worthy and pious, and relieve all good
subjects from priestly irritations and vexations. For this p~e,
to those named he added such men as Stillingfleet, Kidder, Willtams,
etc., in fact, all that were eminent for learning and piety, forming
a. commission of thirty divines. ,"They began," says Dr. Nichols,
in his Defence of the Church of England, " with reviewing the
liturgy, and first they examined the calendar, in which, in the
room of apocryphal lessons, they ordered certain chapters of
canonical Scripture to be'read. Athanasius' creed, because of the
damnatory clauses, was left to the minister's choice, to use it, or
change it for the Apostles' creed. New collects were drawn up,
more agreeable to the Epistles and Gospels, for the whole course
of the year; and these With that eloquence and brightness of ex-
pression, and such a heat and flame of devotion,that nothing could
more street and excite the hearts of. the hearers, and mise up their
minds towards God. They were first drawn up by Dr. Patrick ;
Dr. Burnet added to them yet further force and spirit; Dr. Still-
ingfleet afterwards examined them with great judgment, carefully
weighing every word in them; and Dr. Tillotson had the last
hana, giving them some masterly strokes of his great and flowing
eloquence. Dr. Kidder, who was well versed in the Oriental
toni{Ues, made a new version of the Psalms, more agreeable to the
original. Dr. Tennison made a collection of the words and ex-
pressions through the liturgy, which had been excepted against,
and pro);losed others in their room, that were clear and plain,
and less liable to exception. Other things also were proposed,
that were left to be determined by the convocation ; 1lB, first, that
tbe cross in baptism might be either used or omitted, at the choice
of the parents: second, that a nonconforming minister, going.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
198 PRIESTCRA.FT IN ALL AGES,
over to the church, should not be ordained according t(} the com~
mon form, but rather conditionally, much in the same manner as
the baptizing of infants is ordered in the church, if there be not
evidence of their being baptized before, with the addition of the
episcopal benediction ; as was customary in the ancient church,
where clerks were received that had been ordained by heretics, .of
which way Archbishop Bramhall had given a precedent, when he
received some Scotch presbyters into the church in Ireland." It
was, moreover, proposed to lay aside chanting in the cathedrals; to
administer the sacrament to· such as objected to kneel in receiv-
ing it, in their pews; to abOlish all high titles to the king, queen, etc.
in the prayers, retaining merely the word sovereign, as. more ac-
cordant with the simplicity of Christian worship ; to omit the
prayer beginning, •0 God, whose nature and property,' as full of
strange and impertinent expressions, and, moreover, as not being
in the original, but foisted in by another hand ; to allow such liB
desired, to omit godfathers and godmothers for their children, and:
the children merely presented in their own names fof baptism."
At these proposals, 11rise and necessary as they were, the blatant
beRSt immediately set up all his bristles, raged and ramped with'
fury. The bigots who were inaluded in the commission fled 0\lt
ofit amain, and the convocation threw them out with indignation•·
But this transaction left a striking and invaluable example on thd ·
face of our history, of the real and incurable nature of a state
church. Here were those reforms, which the.fathers of the Eng-'
lish church,Cranmer, Latimer, Ridley, Tindale,Coverdale, Hooper,
etc., had declared were absolutely necessary to its perfect reform~
ation, and which for endeavouring to carry out, they had suffered
in property and life, now, under the direct sanction of the royal
head of the church, prepared by such a constellation of its own
divines, as for learning, eloquence, wisdom, piety, and prudence,
the church had scarcely ever seen a:t one time, and could not,
at any one time, hope to see again. Here were those refol'IXlB,
whicl). would ~ve to the ritual of their church an eminent charac-
ter for liberality and Christian wisdom; and to its offices, in the
words of one of its own members, "such eloquence and brightne811
of expression, and such a heat and flame ofdevotion, that nothing
could more affect and excite the hearts of the bearers, and raise up
their minds towards God." Here were the means offered by its
own bishops and dignitaries, which would annihilate that dissent
of which 1t expressed such jealousy and alarm, by absorbi~ it;
into its own substance, and thus strengthening its own constitu-
tion, and expanding its own borders beyond all reach of envy or
enmity :-and·what does it P It strikes down the offered benefit;
and snaps at the hand which presents it.
Thanks be to God for the everlasting blindness of bigotry ! In
the case of a state church, as in that of every thing which is un-
natural, irrational, and pernicious, it is one of the eternal laws of
Providence, that an institution hostile to the good of man, bow-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PaiESTCRAFT IN ALL .I.G'ES. 199
ever it may be built up by the power of kings, and cemented by
the cunning of selfish erudition, bears within it the ineradicable
principles of self-destruction ! A state church, once organized, can
never remodel itself-to this glorious fact all history testifies! A
atat.e church, onee organized, can never undel'lf> any change, except
that which time ploughs upon it in bringing It to the earth ! Like
those tabernacles and towers which bear its own name, amid the
everlastingfreshness and vitalityofnature, it grows grey, and crum-
bles piecemeal to the dust. Around it the elementi of free mind,
the winds of discussion, the dews of pure arid heartfelt sentiment,
the fructifying sun of knowledge, nay, the very thunder and
blackness of opposition and threatening, keep the whole world
beantifnl in perpetual youth; while overits walls creep grey lichens
ofage, humid mosses of superstitious s~ation; the worm and
tbe weather work faster than hands, wh1ch dare not renew lest
they endanger ; and the whole huge fabric stands at length a ve-
Jaerable ruin !
A state church, to secure the purposes of the state, must be
fOunded on narrow and corrupt principles. If the state, in patron-
Uiing religion, desires only to promote Christianity, all history shows
that no power can bring the human intellect to agree in one idea
of the whole scheme and form of Christianity; therefore, to pro-
mote Christianity, the state must promote the security and profes-
6lion of it.under all its denominations. But if the state requires a
Christian church to support and strengthen its own measures, it
requires it to support its measures for good and for ill. It requires
it to support those measures in opposition to the rights of the
lcllultitude; for if it requires only the support of measures right-
eous and of universal application, all good men of all creeds will
support these. A state, therefore, whatever may be pretended
otherwise, in seekmg the establishment of a state church, seeks an
ally and abettor for ~ood and for evil. A state church thus is
necessarily and unavoidably built on false principles, and as know-
ledge and political right advance, these principles must become
e.
very day more apparent, and must in time work its destruction;
fu.r, by the fatal law of a righteous Providence, it can never chan~e
in order to its own rescue! It is compelled to assert and maintmn
atonce its own divine origin, and its perfection. If its origin is only
human, men have a right to alter it; if it be not perfect, they have
the same right to make it so. While all voluntary institutions can
go on reforming and renewing themselves, it is therefore obliged
to stand still, protesting it is perfection, till it becomes the laughing-
litock.of the public. It cannot dissent from its own doctrines, or
it admits the ri~ht of dissent in others: it cannot even admit .that
it is not perfect, or it is .justly asked why it claims to take prece-
dence of all other churches.
: It is, in its own nature, rooted down in a suicidal dilemma; and
thus the history of the English Establishment has always present-
ed the singular inconsistency, of attempting forcibly to compel all
200 PB.IESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
men into it with one hand, while it has as pertinaciously, with the
other, driven the best men, and large numbers of them, out of it.
It has at once denounced and created dissent.
It has never, from the day of its origin, dared to rest its claims
on its own natural merits, but has leaned for life on enactments
and the arm of political power. Having an instinctive conscious-
ness of the unsoundness of its fundamental principles, it has
never for a moment trusted to tluJ principk qf attraction, but to tluJ
principle of rompul8ion. It has not pleaded, and so~ht, and in-
vited, but it has striven to yut all men into its hydraulic press, and
squeeze them into one dul and indistin~hable mass. For this,
then, have existed all its Acts of-Uniformity, Five Mile Acts,
Conventicle Acts, Schism Acts, Occasional Conformity Acts, Test
and Corporation Acts ; its Star Chambers, High Commission and
Spiritual Courts; which, with a vain ferocity, have battled from
age to age with the sturdy inde{M;ndence of English hearts and •
intellects. On the other hand, wtth that fatal madness which no-
tiring but so monstrous an invention as a state religion could have
produced, it has driven from it, and forced into a hostile host, its
best and most zealous members. It is another fatality of a state
church, not to be got rill of,-that it mmt dread every thing like a
zealous piety in its members, as much as dissent in opinion. And
why? Became zeal of sentiment will assuredly evoke difference
in opinion. The creed of a state church being not what Chris-
tiamty demands, but what state policy demands, will not bear in-
vestigation. Its only security depends on a state of indifference
which prompts no doubts and no inquiries. Its temperament,
therefore, must be a low, a frozen, and an inert temperament. The
moment the flame of zeal bursts out, the hearts of hearers will kin-
dle, the faculties, as well as the affections, will be excited by warmth
into activity; there will be inquiry into the origin of forms, search
into the grounds of opinions,-and the foundation of all being
found rotten a~d defective, th~re will be a speedy w~ng forth
, mtp the open rur of God's dayhght and freedom. Nothing can be
more conscious of all this than the low cunning of worldly na-
tures ; and therefore, from the earliest days of nonconformists to
those of Wesley and Whitefield, university professors, prelates,
and parish priests, have, with one accord, started at the first symp-
toms of religious zeal within the pale of the church, and have
hastened to drive out those who would have called thousands
. and tens of thousands to them, but being rudely refused, have
arrared as Inany against them. Why does the church complain
of dissent P For dissent is entirely its own work. In this respect
the church of England has not shown half the cunning of its
mother, the church of Rome. Unrelentingly, and in every na·
tion, as popery has burnt and slaughtered those who refused
utterly to have any thing to do with it, yet it has carefully em-
braced and employed all that could be so embraced and employed.
It has never expelled or burnt enthusiasts, or zealots, .however
oigit<Zed by Coogle
J'RIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGBB. 201
extravagant; but has set them to work in its cause. It8 maddest
women and maddest men have become saints, sisters of charity,
monks, heads of new orders, etc., who have roamed over the whole
earth preaching and proselyting. Its St. Anthonies, Loyolas, and
Dominic ; its Ursulas, Catherines, Lady Guions, might see as many
and as ab urd visions as they pleased, so that they worked for
mother church. Popery is like the Tarn-cup in the German
tory of Peter Schleiuihl, it may be stretched over the head of
one or of a thousand: but not so church-of-Englandism. Cold,
haughty, and re_pulsive, it wonders at the spread of popery, and
yet ;purn from It all the zealous heads and eloquent ton~es that
could not longer exist in its frozen field of immovable indifference.
It compelled the old nonconforiuists to go out, who assuredly did
not wish it; it has done the same in these days by We ley, White-
field, the countess of Huntingdon, and others. In Scotland and
England various have been the attempt to level the high barriers
of epi copacy so as to form one open platform for the meeting of
men of not widely differing faith, but in every instance the Eng-
lish hierarchy has refused the smallest concession. I shall notice
orne particulars of the treatment of such men as Wesley, White-
field, and others anon ; but my inimediate bu iness now is to
how the perpetual strift of the blatant beast, from the days of
·william to the present time, to get off his muzzle and fly open-
mouthed at tne dissenters.
William achieved the Act of Toleration, but all his endeavours
to reform the church failed, though he had taken the 11recaution
to put as many men of liberal minds into power as he could, to
enable him to accomplish that object. The nature of a state
church was too much for him, and it had even the effect of cor-
rupting in some degree such minds as those of Stillingfleet and
Tillot on, who in their latter days showed symptoms of a nar-
rowed, if not a persecuting spirit. But William, and Mary, who
was equal or superior to her husband in liberality and sense, being
gone, the blatant beast raised his head, and threw off all his tem-
porary tameness. Anne was a Stuart, and thouo-h surrounded for
a long time by the statesmen and liberal churcYunen whom Wil-
liam and Mary had raised, she gradually di covered more and more
inclination to Tory measures and men. This was felt, and scarcely
was she on the throne, when attempts were made to nullify the
Act of Toleration. This was by the proposed Act against Occa-
sional Conforiuity, which provided that all who took the sacrament
and test who held offices of trust, or were magistrates in cor-
poration , and did after that go to the meetings of the dissenters,
or any meeting for worship which was not according to the prac-
tice or liturgy of the church of England, whenjlce persons more
than the faiuily were present, were to be fined £100, and £5 a
day for every day which they continued to act in their employ-
ment after having been at such meeting. All persons, down to
the lowest, who filled offices in corporations, or took part in elec-
202 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
tions, were included in this bill, and, after conviction, were declared
incapable of holding any other office till after a whole year's con-
formity to the church.
This was one beautiful attempt of the church to crush opinion,
instead of influencing understandings ; to make proselytes, not by
convincing, but by convicting; and to swell its body, though it
were with slaves and hypocrites. A lovely system of religion, cer~
tainly ! Failing to carry this bill, they lowered the penalty from
£100 to £50, and enlarged the number constituting a conventicle
fram five to twelve; but it would not do. The late king had in-
fused too much liberality amongst the bishops, and when the con-
vocation found th!lt, it fell to loggerheads within itself, and the
clergy became split into the distinction of high and low church~
men ; that is, regular bigots, and men of some sense and con-
science. A third time this disgraceful bill was introduced, and
was lost. In all these cases, it passed the Commons, and was re-
jected in the Lords, through the influence of the liberal bishopa
created by King William. These repeated defeats of the wolve&
of the church, roused the wrath of the bigot herd to an excessive
heat. The cry of " The church in danger" arose, which alway&
marks the most rabid moments of intolerance ; a cry peculiar to.
state churches only, for churches which rely on Christ, and not
on a compulsory provision of loaves and fishes, never are in dan-
ger. Bishop Burnet, who, while he never failed to Stand firm for
the maintenance of religious liberty, and to whom the people of
England are, and ever will b_e, indebted for his liberal acts and,
counsels, and for his faithful record of the civil and ecclesiastical
transactions of his time, was always, at the same time, watchful
for the real wants of his own church, seeing now the destitute
condition of many of the small livings, prayed the queen to bestow,
for their augmentation, the first-fruits and tenths of ecclesiastical
livings, which at that time amounted to about £16,000 a year,
This, it was hoped, would allay, in some degree, the howling of"The
church in danger;" but, says Burnet, the clergy took it, and scarcely
showed themselves thankful for it. In fact, the wealth7 pluralists
got it, instead of those 'for whom it was intended, bemg equally
ready to rob their poor brethren as to crush the dissenters; Wba$
a most notorious job this became, and still is, we shall show else-.
where. ·
Spite, therefore, of this ncb sop the blatant beast kept crying
out, that the church, Jhat is, the money-bag, was in danger; and
Oxford, always the hotbed and high school of bigotry and popish
superstition, was loudest in the cry. It aimed to fill the church
with a race of the most hardened biaots, says Burnet, "by corrupt•
ing the principles of those sent thit~er to be educated, so that few.
of them escaped the taint. of it, and the generality of the cler!P'
were not only ill-principled, but ill-tempered." Failing to gam
their object through parliament, the clerw determined to try what
could be effected by rousing the mob and mtimidatinggovernment.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AOES.
Trtlllting, therefore, txt the well-known Tory bias ofthe queen, they
pushed forward that wretched, shallow, and vain creature, Dr. Sa-
cheverel. He had been declaiming rampantly from his pulpit
~inst dissenters and low-churchmen. He was now bro~ht up
to London; his sermons were cried up to the akies by the mtole--
rants ; all the world was made to run after him ; the rabble run-
ning after him, crying, " The church and Sacheverel !J' Being
impeached by the Commons, he was made the champion of the
church and the deluded people. For three weeks, during his trial,
he was conducted by crowds in his coach to Westminster Hall ;
the clergy every where beat " the drum ecclesiastic" in his behalf;
the queen's chaplains stood around him on the trial encouraging
him, and the queen, with satisfaction little concealed, was a spec-
tator of it. The cry grew to " The queen and Sacheverel !" The
mob, worked to a pitch of fury, and incited by the emissaries of
the clergy, who attended them in hackney coacbes, and were !let!n
throwing money amongst them, cried, " Down with the meeting-
houses!" and before they could be stopped, had ransacked five, and
burnt the pews in them. When the tnal ended in merely ordering
his sermon dedicated to the lord mayor to be burnt, the exult-
ation of the bigot priesthood and the priest-ridden mob was un-
bounded. Thel'e were general illuminations and bonfires, and
Sacheverel was speedily appointed to a good living in North
Wales, whither he was conducted in triumph. ·
· This success attained, the bigots :{lushed on their cause. The
queen, seeing the J.>Ublic current of opmion, seized the opportunity
to dismiss ilie Wh1g ministry, and chose a Tory one after her own
heart; and no sooner was this accomplished, than the Occasional
Conformity Bill was immediately passed. Fifty new churches were
ordered to be built in London and its suburbs; and to crown all
their efforts, and extinguish those hated dissenters, that would not
submit to have their feet put into the Establishment stocks, they
now got J.m.SSed their famous Schism Bill And what was this
bill? Ne1ther more nor less than a bill to prohibit dissenters
from educating children, or having any education for their own.
No person was to be allowed to keep " any public or private
settool, or seminary, or to teach or instruct youth, as tutor or
schoolmaster, unless he subscribed a declaration that he conform-
ed to the church of England, and had a licence from the arch-
bishop, bishop, or ordinary of the place, under his seal of office."
All otrenders against this Nebucliadnezznr decree, were to be
imprisoned for three months. And if any person licensed thus,
did not ~ach the catechism set forth in the Book of Common
Prayer, his licence became void, and he was liable to the penal-
ties of the act. This act would, if put into operation, as was
intended, at once shut out every dissenter from a liberal educa-
tion. He must not only not teach himself, but he must not have
his children taught, except by a churchman, and in the principles
1Jf the church. All learnmg would be monopolized by the church,
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
and it was hoped that a compelled ignorance would extinguish
the spirit of inquiry, and swamp dissent in Gothic darkness. A
more diabolical attempt, and which shows the deadly malignity
of priestcraft more thoroughly, never was made in the worst ages
of the church. And this bill passed in the year' 1714, having,
however, two mitigatory clauses, gained in the House of LordS.
One, that diuenters might have a schoolmmre&B to teach their children
to read; and another, that they might themselves instruct youth
in readir19, writi"9, or arithmetic, or such parts of the mathematics
as belong only to navigation and mechanics. Every thing like
the education fit for a gentleman or a minister, and which might
open the way to advancement in the state, or enable him to propa-
gate truth from the pulpit, was carefully guarded against. Such
was the fate prepared for the dissenters by the sj;ate church, but
Providence defeated its worse than murderous object; on the very
day on which the act came into OJl':ration Queen Anne expired,
a~d George I., a firm friend to religious liberty, became the pos-
sessor of the throne! ,
Bumet describes the cler~ of that period as "dead and lifeless;"
as being "the most remiss 1n their labours in private, and the least
severe in their lives," of all that he had seen amongst all religions
at home or abroad: the gentry, "the worst instructed, and the
least knowing, of any of their rank that he ever went amongst;"
and the common people beyond all conception "ignorant in mat-
ters of reli~on." The state church had, therefore, brought the
whole pubhc mind to a pretty ~ass ; a brute multitude, ready to do
any deed of Vandalism to which they excited them. So, though
the prince was liberal, the beast still raged. Not being able to
spread its intended boon of mental darkness over the dissenters,
the church was again in danger. Oxford again was in tumult.
Rather than a liberal protestant prince, it was, with its old popish
tendenc,y, for a popish one, and therefore was plotting for the
Pretender, who being defeated, with a hollowness equal to its dis-
affection, it presented a congratulatory address to the king, who
treated it with just contempt. At Oxford, the students, with a mob,
brokt into the meeting-houses of the Quakers, Presbyterians, and
Baptisb!, gutted them, and made bonfires of the seats, doors; win-
dows, etc., on the anniversary of the restoration of Charles II.
Similar outrages were perpetrated in Birmingham, Norwich, Bris-
tol, and other large towns. It was a bitter pill to this savage party
to see the Schism and Occasional Conformity Bills reY.ealcd in
1719, in which the celebrated Dr. Hoadly took a dec1ded part.
This noble-minded prelate, who ought to be held in everlasting
honour by all lovers of freedom of conscience, thus added to that
hatred with which they regarded him for his famous sermon
preached in 1717 before the lUng, in which he OJl':nly asserted that
Christ alone is head of his church ; that religion is entirely a
spiritual matter, with which the civil magistrate has no right to
interfere ; a sermon for which the convocation proceeding to cen-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PBIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 205
sure the bishop, the king prorogued it; and it is a singular fact,
that from that hour it has never been allowed to transact business
-to do more than to meet and separate again.
In the reign of George II., the clergy, though much curbed in
their malice towards the dissenters, still did not omit any occasion
which offered, to show that it still existed. From the very pass-
ing of the Toleration Act to that time, tithes and church rates had
enabled them, as shown in a .former chapter, to plunder and im-
prison even to death numbers of the Quakers. In this reign that
practice was still continued, and to the last hour, while the Schism
Bill was in force, they asserted the power it gave them. Dr. Dod-
dridge, by t4e advice of Dr. Watts, and other leading men amongst
the Independents, commenced an academy at Northampton for
training students for the ministry; but he was 'iPeedily prose-
cuted by the clergyin the spiritual court for teaching an academy,
and it was only by the king's express command that their proceed-
ings were put a stop to.
The treatment ofWesley and Whitefield, and their companions,
who were first ridiculed in the university, and then successively
driven from the pulpits of the church to which they belonged and
leaned, while the clergy stirred up the rabble against them, is well
known. By this means, that zeal and those members which might
have adorned the church, have been forced into a separate body. It
is only in ourday that the Test and Corporation Act has been abol-
ished, and emancipation granted to the catholics. The principle
ofcompulsion and restraint, instead of attraction and conciliation,
has been carried out to the last possible moment;. and at the
present instant, the persecuting spirit of an Establishment is mani-
fested in church rate and tithe persecutions, even to the display
of a spirit of dark and furious revenge by personal imprisonment.
We see, by the severe exercise of the power which is left, that "the
ancient spirit is not dead," and that, did the law allow it, the state
church would "play its fantastic tricks before high heaven" as
wantonly as ever. The tithe and church rate exactions we shall
notice under another head.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
CHAPTER XX.
ENGLISH CHURCH.-IRISH CHURCH A POLITICAL ENORMITY.
CHURCH RATES AND TITHES.
Thrice happy days ! thrice blest the man who saw .
Their dawn! The church and state, that long had held
Unholy intercourse, were now divorced!
PoLLOK's CouRSB OP TixB, B. IV.
Forced consecrations out of another man's estate are no better than
forced vows, hateful to God, "who loves a cheerful giver;" but much
more hateful, wruug out of men's purses to maintain a disapproved
ministry against their consciences. MILTON ON HIRELINGS.
So intolerable has the state of the church, described in the con-
clusion of the last chapter, become, that the public is loud in de-
mauding its reform. The ministers of"a reformed g,overnment under
Earl-Grey, while in the first glow of accession to power, and while
mighty things were expected from them, began their boasted plans
of church reform, with reform of the church of Ireland-that mon-
strous excrescence, where a revenue of £800,000, according to the
last clerical returns to parliament, but according to other calcula-
tions, little short of £2,000,000, is appropriated to a population of
800,000 protestants; while 8,000,000 of catholics not only help
to su.Pport their establishment, but their own priests. That reform
conststed·principally in reducing the archbishoprics and bishoprics
from. twenty-two to twelve; in reducing the incomes of the remain-
ing ones; in laying on a tax of fifteen per cent. on the general
income of the clergy ; in taking off the church cess, or rate, from
the people ; and in selling offthe lands of the extinguished bishop-
rics as they fall out of lease. This bill passed, and was received
by the Irish with raptures. In England, the reformers, on the
contrary, regarded ifas a meagre reduction of a monstrous excres-
cence, which ought to have been utterly removed. Ministers, they
said, had indeed taxed the Irish cler&Y. for the repair of their own
churches with one hand, but tlien, wxth the other, they had given
them the incomes of ten bishoprics. · They asked, what could the
Irisli people care whether there were twelve bishops or twelve thou-
sand, so that the same enormous wealth was doomed to maintain the
state church? The onlypracticalparticle ofreform,they contended,
was the abolition of the cess, in every other respect the evil being
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAI1T IN ALL AGES.
aggravated by leaving the same vast amount of revenue amongst
a-diminished number of ecclesiastics. But time has shown, the
Irish had cause to hail even this piece of reform with a joyful
surprise. It was the greatest which the Whigs achieved. In Ire-
land, the tithe bill has produced some quietness, if it have not re-
m?ved the ~evance itself; but no other re~orm of the monstrous
Insh establishment has been effected; and m England, the whole
corrupt mass of the church atands untouched, after the many
years of Whig government. All the fervour, or pretended fervour,
of church reform had evaporated in the cabinet, long before its
dissolution, and the public now looks with amazement at the sim-
plicity of expecting sweeping church reforms from such men as
Earl Grey, who had bishops to create out of his own family; Lord
Stanley, in possession of whose family is one living worth £8,000
a year; Loid John Russell, whose family has at least twenty-five
livings ; and the lord chancellor, with a vast mass of church
patronage to dispose of. But reform of the Irish church, an in-
stitution so opposed to every principle of justice, must one day
come; and what will satisfy them? Why, nothing short of the
utter abrogation of protestant episcopacy as a state religion. If
it were necessary that a religion should be established, as it is
called, it ought here to be the catholic: The opinions of the ma-
jority of a nation ought surely to command some respect ; ought
surely to be the guide in such matters. If a. nation is to patronize
and support one religion in preference to another, it ought surely
to be the religi!JI1 of the nation. The religion of Ireland is catholic,
-the religion of Scotland is presbyterian,-why should Scotland
be permitted to have a church of her own, and Ireland be refused
one ? Why should the majority in the other parts of the empire
decide the establishment of their party, and in Ireland an ins1f!ni-
jJcant sect be thrust upon the people as the NATIONAL RELIGIO!'f;
and be bolstered up with tithes, glebes, and wealth enormous P
·These are plain questions, and suggest a plain answer.
One circumstance connected with Irish church reform was cha-
racteristic of its real nature and extent, as proposed by the Whig
ministers, and ought to have opened the eyes of all men. The
·lrishopric of Derry, the most enormously endowed in Ireland, was
vacant at the very moment of the organization of this plan of re-
.form. If a number of bishoprics were to pe reduced, whr should
not this have been one ? Or if it were not thought desirable to
extinguish it, why should not the incumbent of one of those sees
'Which were to be withdrawn, be translated to this, and thus one
at least have been instantly removed? The surprise which the
appointment of a bishop to this see, under these circumstances,
created, was at once dissipated, and gave place, in the public mind,
to a higher $Urprise, and feeling of indignation, by the discovery
that the bishop thus installed, was Dr. Ponsonby, the brother-in-
-_/Qw of Earl Grey! This was an assurance sufficiently intelligible.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
209 PRlESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
Will a man set himself heartily to cut down a tree in whose
topmost branches he has placed his brother? Will a man essay
to sink a vessel in which he has embarked his own family? Will
a general proceed cordially to blow up a fortress in which his near
-relative is commandant ?-Then, was Earl Grey likely to set him-
self heartily to work, to reform efficiently the Irish church?
The abolition of this bishopric would have been a thing of the
highest importance. Its revenue, according to the last return,
was £13,000; and it was proposed to .reduce it to £8,000. But
what is the estimate of Mr. Wakefield of the value of this see?-
a most competent authority. He calculates that the whole of its
property, over and above the tenth part of the gross produce of
the land, cannot be much short of £3,000,000 ; and that the bi-
shop's land, at a fair rate of rent, would produce an income of
£130,000 a year. This, then, is the berth into which Earl Grey,in
the face of a reformed parliamept---1>f his own professions of real
reform-of suffering England and starvillg Ireland, comfortably
put his brother-in-law, and proposed to satisfy the country by the
abatement of £5,000 a-year out of this immense property. By
the extinction of this bishopric alone, a saving to the country
would have been made at once of £3,000,000 !-for the question
in this case is, not what the bishop actually derives from the land,
but what it is worth to the nation. .
But the whole ·of this extraordinary establishment of state re-
ligion is of a piece. For the government of the whole church of
England, twenty-six archbishops and bishops exist;-for 800,000
Irish protestsnts there were twenty-two, and·still the wealth which
maintained the twenty-two! According to former returns, there
are 1238 parochial benefices; according to the last, 1401, in which
are 860 resident clergymen. To provide for these archbishops
and bishops, who supenntend about as many people as one bishop
in England would very well manage, it is calculated that out of
14,603,473 statute acres under cultivation, 13,603,473 are tithed.
The glebe of the parochial clergy varies from 300 to 40,000 acres.
The glebe in the diocese of Derry alone, amounts to more than
17,000 acres. 'fhe glebes, indeed, it is calculated in Derry and
Kilmore would, if equally divided, give twenty acres to ~very
parish in Ireland. Mr. Wakefield estimates that the property of
six of the bishops, when out of lease, would produce £580,000 a
year ;-a sum which ...,_ould give an income of £500 a year for
each of the clergy, and a fund for the establishment of a school
in every parish in Ireland. But if the property of six bishops
amounts to £580,000 a year, what becomes of the clerical calc~
tion which makes the whole income of the Irish church but
£800,000?-leaving to the whole body of parochial clergy and
sixteen bishops little more than £200,000 ?
The followmg is an extract from the returns to the House of
Commons in February, 1824.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 209
S... Acff't. Seea. Acret.
Derry • • 94,836 Tuam • 49,281
Armagh . . 63,470 Elphin • . • . 31,017
Kilmore . • 51,350 Clogher • . • . 32,817
Dublin • . 29,784 Cork and Ross • 22,755
Meath • . • .• 18,374 Cashe1 • • • • 12,800
Ossory • • . . 13,391 Killaloe . . . • 11,081
Total, 439,953 acres; which, at 20s. per acre, give a rental of
£439,953. .
If we estimate the remaining ten bishoprics at one-third of
the amount, there is 146,651,-a rental ·of diocesan lands of
£586,604.
If we estimate the glebes at 100,000 acres, which is, probably,
far too little, when the glebe of Derry alone exceeds 17,000 acres,
and the parochial glebes vary from 300 to 40,000 acres, at 20s.,
here is £100,000•
.The tithe of upwards of 13,000,000 acres, at only 2s., a tithe of
the rental, not of the gross l?roduce, would be £1,300,000-making
a total ofincome for the Insh church, of £1,986,604.
Mr. Leader, in a speech in parliament, December 15th, 1832, cal-
culating on these returns, made the amount nearly the same. If,
therefore, the last returns of £800,000 be correct, we must ask,
what has become of a vast quantity of property ? The same ques-
tion strangely presents itself to our minds, as regards the English
church. The editor of the Extraordinary Black Book says, " The
returns to the circular inquiries by the Board of Agriculture, make
the tithe, throughout the kingdom, in 1790, averalfe, per acre,
41. o:a.; in 1803, 5s. 3~d.; in 1813, 7s. 9):d. AdO})ting the rate
of tithes of 1803, and taking, with the l.,luarterly Reviewer, the
land in tillage at 31,795,200 acres, the whole amount of tithes col-
lected is £10,267,200: from which, if we deduct one-third for lay.
tithes, and tithe-free land, the amount ofchurch tithes is £6,844,800
perannum." If, therefore, the church tithe alone, in 1803,was nearly
£7,000,000, and the whole income ojthe church,in 1833,was but about
THREE MILLIONS AND A HALF, where, we must demand, has an
immense amount of church property vanished? Nothing, I am
satisfied, will ever elicit the real amount of church revenue, except
a LAY cOMMISSION. Should any one think this opinion unjust to
the clergy, I refer them to the returns of the Commissioners of
Public Charities, which exhibit the clergy as the most whole-
sale atld unscrupulous betrayers of their trust in these endow-
ments; having, in a majority ofinstances, engrossed to themselves
the revenues bequeathed to th11 poor, to teacli the young, and pro-
vide for the old. But the commutation of the tithes has now
proved, that the church tithes actually amount to upwards of SIX
MILLIONS; thus at once most fearfully proving the utter falsity of
the clerical return of 1833, which made the whole income of the
church but about three millions and a half! !!
p
210 PRIKSTCRAFT IN ALL AGBS,
As women's fortunes are said to be paid in sixpences, so when
the incomes of the clet&Y are returned to government, tliey seem
to be calculated in farthmgs, or something less. Tithe and gleQe
Reem suddenly to lose their natural value, surplice fees and fines
shrink into insignificance. Yet these fines are pretty things,
though they do not always amount to so much as the present
bishop of Durham is stated, on the authority of Mr. Beverly, to
have received of Mrs. Beaumont, for the renewal of the lease of
her lead mines-£72,000.
Now, admitting that, owing to the low rate of clerical leases, to
waste land, to lay impropriation, and to the popular inability or
rel?ugnance to pay titHes, the income of the church falls far below
thiS estimate ; the question, so far as the country is concerned, is
the same. Here is a monstrous amount of proiJerty appropriated
to a certain purpose; and what good is done? Whatgood, mdeed,
as it regards Ireland ?-A prodigious waste of property, (for, in ad-
dition to all the rest, it appears that, at different times since the
Union, about half a millwn has been voted to augment poor liv-
ings,) only to render the name of Protestant hateful to that na-
tion, by the laziness, non-residence, and tithe-exactions of the
clergy of a church, which the Edinburgh Review, some years ago,
happily compared to an Irish regiment of volunteers, which con-
sisted of sixteen lieutenant-colonels, two drummers, and one pri·
vate! The same able journal has well remarked, that " whatever
may be the su_Pposed effects of a richly endowed church, in main-
taining a particular creed, it is evidently not the machine for the
conversion of a people."
The justice and intelligence of the British people cannot long
therefore, be satisfied witn lopping offa few enormities from such
a system; they will demand its total extinction. Religion, and the
best objects of all human government, demand it! For, if pro-
testantism is to prosper in Ireland, it must not come before the
people in the shape of a corporation, chartered in opposition to the
predominant feelings of the country, and endowed With a vast por-
tion of the people's wealth ; it must not come in the shape of two
and twenty archbisho_ps and bishops to superintend some few
hundred clergymen, on mcomes of £10,000a year;· in the shape of
tithe-fed clergymen without parishes, parishes without churches,
and churches without people; in the shape of men who profess to
be teachers of Christian meekness and love, but are seen only as
zealous collectors of tithes; in the shape of tithe proctors, with
troops of soldiery at their heels; in the shape of noon-day exaction,
and midnight retaliation and revenge ; in short, of wealth and
violence on the one hand, and destitution and despair on the other :
-but if it come really to prosper and to bless, It must come as
Christ himselfcame,-as a free personification ofdisinterested kind-
ness ; zealous love for the souls of men, rather than their purses ;
active endeavour to soothe the irritation and enlighten the minds
of the poor ; it must be offered to men's hearts, but not thrust upon
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES, 211
their shoulders: it must stand before the public eye as a thing to
be chosen, or refused; as a thing which mvites observation, and
can bear it; as a thing which obviously has no interest but what
is blended with the whole happiness of man ;-whose nobility is so
striking, and its beauty so attractive, that hearts are drawn to its
embraces, not crushed beneath its tread. The system of compul-
sion and lavish endowment has been tried long enough; long
enough has state religion, to use Burke's sophistical metaphor, .
"reared its mitred front in courts and parliaments ;" its effects are
before the public, in characters of fire and blood ! Instead of peace,
we have had horrible anarchy-instead of the milk of human kind-
ness, deadly exasperation and relentless murder ;-in God's name,
let us see what the system of the apostles will now do !-afree offer,
-an open hand,-and a zealous heart !-a system less of the bag
and scrip, than of virtues and arguments that address themselves
to the wanw, the understanding, and the generosity of a generous
nation.
To come now to England. The dissenters, now a great and im-
portant body of people-a people alive to their civil and religious
rights, must be relieved from church rates. Ministers, though they
may wish to for!{et it, acknowledged the justice of this demand, by
abolishing them m Ireland-the principle in both cases is the same.
'The Irish cess, it appears, produced only about £94,000; but the
church rate for England and Wales amounts to £665,114 188., be-
sides Easter offerin~, claims of bishops, deans, and chapters, etc.,
on parishes and private property ; and claims of the clergy on a
multitude of pretences, as fees most offensive in their nature ; and
I do know, that the Society of Friends, a comparatively small body,
suffers the violence and vexation of distraint of their goods, for
such thinjpl, to the amount of about £11,000 a year; and these
people mamtain their own religion, and their own poor.
That English dissenters should be compelled to contribute to
the support of an established church, is a moral and political ab-
surdity. By the Act of Toleration of King William, the rights of
consc~ence are reco~ised: but by this compulsion all the rights
of conscience are VIolated. In the words of the able writer from
whom I have ta.ken the motto at the head of the 17th chal>ter-
" A government cannot patronize one particular religion Without
puniShing others. A state has no wealth but the people's wealth.
If it pay some, it impoverishes others." To tell us that ·we may all
enjoy our own opiniomr, and celebrate our own worship in perfect
freedom, and yet to compel us to support another mode of religion,
and another set of opinions, in our eyes erroneous and unchristian,
is at once an oppression and a bitter mockery. It is not so much
the sum of actual money that we pay, which constitutes the
grievance,-that might be borne; but the gravamm lies here,-
that by supportin!{ an establishment, we support what, in the
abstract, both religiously and politically, we believe ought not to
exist. We believe it is the duty of a government, and especially
p :.!
:212 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
of a Clu-i tian government, which acknowledges the sacred rights
of conscience, to protect every modification of the Christian re-
ligion; but not to support one in yreference to, and at the expen e
of, the rest. This is not to patromze religion, but a party. That an
t:stablisbment, unjust and Impolitic in itself, never can, and never
has, promoted true religion, is shown abundantly by this volume;
it is testified equally by the apathy of the established church, and
the activity of the dissenters. Is it not a source of continual com-
plaints and bitterness amongst clerical writers, that the dissenters
are for ever intrudinu themselves into their parishes; and, with
what they are please8 to term their fiery fanaticism, continually
turn the heads of their pm-ishioners, and seduce them to the con-
venticle? Now, whether this zeal be healthful or not, whether it
he pure or alloyed, refined or coarse, rational or fanatic, it matters
not to our present question,-it is zeal,-and the vital question is,
whence does it arise? bow is it maintained? Not, certainly, from
a state establishment !-not by charters and endowments. It
springs from the soul of the people, and asks no breath of life but
their approbation. Here, then, is an acknowledged principle of
religious propagation, more efficacious than all the boasted in-
fiuence of canonicals and mitres; of cathedral piles and sounding
orchestra ; of all the political machinery of tithes, and glebes,
and church rates, and forced payments, called by the sarcastic
name of gifts and offerings, as if the imposition were not enough,
but we must suffer the mockery of being placed in the light of
free donors and bowing o!ferers of gifts at a shrine that we in-
wardly abhor. Here is a confessed power to keep alive the po-
pular zeal for religion :-if that zeal wants better guidance, it be-
comes every &ood man to lend his hand to its due direction,-but
the principle 1t. elf is indisputably manifested, and sets the seal for
e\·er to the non-necessity, and therefore to the political oppre ion,
of a state religion. Nothing could justify a state religious estab-
lishment but tne total and proYcn impossibility of keeping alive
Christianity \1-ithout it; but here it is seen that religious zeal
rather takes any other form than that stamped upon it .by legal
enactments. Like the acanthus, pressed under the tile, it rises up
with unquenchable vitality all around, and not only buries the
dead tile of policy under its vigorous vegetation, but gives origin
to new orders of Christian architecture. While the zeal of the
established clerical order langui ·bes under the weight of good
things which its friends have cast upon it; while bishoprics, and
deaneries, and prebends cannot stimulate it to the·vital point of
proselytism; while tithes, and glebes, and fines, and parochial
fees cannotenliven it,-the free breath ofpopular societies can blow
it into a flame that spreads far and wide, and even scorches the
canonical skirts of the state clergy. Who, after tbi , shall dare
to repeat the stale sophism, tl1at Christianity needs the arm of
human legislation to support bcr,-that she must be perched on
cathedral pinnacles to be fairly seen ; that she must be wrapped
D;gn; e< ,Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 213
in alb or stirplice, and crowned with shovel-hat or mitre, to be
reverenced, and seated on the episcopal throne to be adored? Who
shall dare to turn his eye on the United States of America, where
there is no state religion, yet where Christianity flourishes not
less than amongst us, and then attempt to palm upon us the cant-
ing and selfish falsehood, that religion is bound up in the bundle
of life with an act of parliament ?
By compelling us to support an established religion, we are
compelled to support and propagate all its errors, its injustice, and
its absurdities, however great, and numerous, and pernicious they
may be. Every sect in England at present, in contributing to
the Establishment, contributes to that which it abhors. The de-
nouncer of episcopacy is made to maintain a whole hierarchy of
bishops ; the catholic, what he declares to be pestilent heresies
of the most damnable sort; the Calvinist maintains Arminianism;
the Arminian, Calvinism; for, in the church are combined " a
Calvinistic creed and an Arminian clergy." The Friend, who be-
lieves all hierarchies anti-christian, who holds that all ministers
should speak from the immediate influence of the Holy Spirit, and
'abominates hireling ministers, written sermons, a cut-and-dried
liturgy, and half the doctrines of the church to boot, is forced, by
distraint of his goods, to feed and uphold all these enormities :
every man is made to maintain the doctrine.of priestry absolution,
for the church maintains it; and every man is made most heartily
to damn himself, for the Athanasian creed, which is one of the
creeds of the church, does declare every man to be damned who
doubts it. ·
Such a preposterous abuse of power never can be much longer
tolerated m this country. The church rates must be abolished,
and with them tithes must cease also. Spite of church rate im-
prisonments and tithe commutations, both these impQsitions must
disappear for ever. A more ingenious method than maintenance
by tithes could not have been devised for the support of a minister
of religion, had it been the object of the deviser to place an eter-
nal subject of hatred, heart-burning, and dispute between him and
his flock ; to place him in the position of a harpy over the table
of every one of his hearers ; and to thus render abortive all his
religious endeavours. A more iniquitous one never was conceived,
-for it taxes not simply a man's land, but his capital, his genius,
his skill, and industry; so that the priest reaps not merely a tithe
of the fruits of the earth, but of the fruits of every man's heart
and inind who ventures to till the eartlr:o
The history of tithes is a singular one. Never were any poor
people so troubled to contrive a plausible title to ill-gotten booty,
as our protestant clergy have been to this popish plunder of tithes.
They have asserted for them rights of all kinds,-a right divine;
a right constitutional ; a right from possession ; and have, in turn,
been driven from them all. Their right divine was founded on
the Mosaic law. But this they soon found they could ne\·er estab-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
214 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
lish, unless they could prove us all Jews, and themselves genuine
Levites; for God gave tithes only from his own people, and that
to the tribe of Levi. The PRIESTS, a particular fainily of that
tribe, were only to receive 'of the Levites a titAe oftheir titAe; tnat
is, a hundredth part ; so that could our priests have proved us real
Israelites, and bound to pay tithes, they could claim only a hun-
dredth part ; the ninety would go to the vergers and beadles, the
cleansers and orderers of the temple. As this did nol appear very
promising, they then fell upon the consti'tutional, or legislative
right. Here they grounded their claims upon various enactmehta.
The earliest were those of some of the kfugs of the Saxon Hep-
tarchy, which only extended to their own portions of the empire;
and were to be given by the people to what body of clergy or ~
ligious house tliey pleased. There was no general Act for their
payment till the reign of John, about 1200, when the mode ol ap-
propriation was sr.ecifically defined in obedience to the bull of
Pope Innocent II . But their institution was so perfectly popiah,
-<>rdered by the pope himself, given by a popish monarch; ancl
for most popish pretences, that no protestant clergy could ever ee1
up any claim to them o!l these grou~d.s. . They were obtained •
ia
tlie first place by a species of holy swmdling. They were granted;
both by monarchs and private individuals, not for the maiDte'i
nance of the"church and religion, but for a private and selfish ob-
ject,-for the expiation of enormous crimes, often crimes of blood;
as in the case of Athelsta'n, king of the West Saxons, to paei.ty
the soul of his murdered brother Edwin, of which he was sap-
posed to be guilty; and of Edgar, cruel to citizens, a deflowerer Of
virgins, and concerned in the murder of Ethelwold, that he might
possess his wife, Elfrida; of Canute, guilty of the blood of Edw&rd
and Edmund, sons of Ironside. The clergy had persuaded ~
and all othe.r men, that they could pray their souls out of purga;.;
tory, and remit the punishment of such heinous offences-thereby
creating such sins against society; and to obtain these inestimable-
services, the powerful and the wealthy gave these pretendecl
keepers of the keys of heaven and hell, the wages of tithes. They
were therefore so dyed in blood, both by the givers and the takem;
who were the actual encouragers to bloodshed, by holding out IKJ.
easy a remission, that no reformed clergy could plead upon this
title. But the ~oss deludon, by which they were obtained, was
equally indefensible. In this midnight of popery, tithes were
called THE souL's RANSOM; and were so preached up by the co--
vetous clergy, that the credulous .people gave them eagerly. Who
indeed would deny the souL's RANSOM-endless life, if so to be
purchased? By this fraud the church got into possession of the
third part of the land; and but for the Statute of Mortmain, it is.
believed, would have swallowed UJ;> the whole. That such was the
origin of tithes; that they were gwen, not with the pious .view of
affording an ecclesiastical maintenance, but in a private and selfish
bargain for salvation, may be seen by any one who will examine
oigit.zed by Coogle
PRlESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 215
the original grants. Take these specimens, from' the reign of
Henry II.
JJe it known w those that are present, and wthose that shall suc-
tU1611, tAat I, NICHOLAS, the son cifTERROLD, FOR THE SALVATION
0¥ MY SOUL, AND OF MY PARENT, etc., hat'e granted W the church,
to he heldfor ~. the TJTHES ofmy land, which I posse88 in the vil-
lDge qf CHlLTUNE. ·
I, WILLIAM DE ALBINEio, do grant 'fnW God, and wST. AN-
DREW OF RoCHESTER, and W th6 monk8 having residencf! there, all
my TITHBS, etc., for the BOul cif King WILLIAK; andfor th6 soul cif
King HENRY; and for my own IOfd; _andfor the souls cifmyfather
and mother; and ofmy wife: and ofmy brother N IGELLUS ; and cif
my brother HUMPHRBY,; andfor t'M souls cif my other parents, alive
tmddead.
And this passage from the charter of King Stephen to the priory
of Eye, in Suffolk.
,, I, STEPHEN, by the grace qf God, king of England, touched by
tk love qf God, and for the salvation ofmy soul; and cifmy fatWs
ttaal, and of my motlws soul; and of my atlCestm·s, kings, do give
unto God, and the church of ST. PETER of En:, and w the monks ,
~e serving God, that they may have all their prqfits, quiet, andfree
from all exactions, in land, tithes, church811, po68e&sions, etc. etc.
And having procured these good things by these hypocritical
means, they were always ready to maintain their possession of
them by the same, as may be seen by this curious farce, ~ot up to
suit the gross ignorance of the age. " St. Austin commg to a
certain place called Compton• to rreach, the priest of the place
made complaint against the lord o the manor, for detaining his
tithes. For which thing Austin excommunill3ted him; and, say-
ing mass at the altar, forbade excommunicated persons to be pre-
sent thereat. Pres8tltly, a dead corpse, buried one hundred and
'" HfJ6nty years before, arose out of his grave, ,and stood afar off during •
the celebrating cif holy mas1. Austin asked him what he was. He
~~aid he was a man that, -during his lifetime, would never pay tithe w
tbe priest, 8Q was excommunicated; and dying, went w/leU for the
Cf'ime. Austin raised the dead priest, who affir~ed-that that man
would never pay his tithe. Austin sent the live-dead'corpse to his
grave again, saying, he had suffered long in hell, that is, in pur-
gatory. The lord of the manor seeing all this, was much terrified,
andfell at Austin'sfeet, conf8118ing hisfault, and became a due payer
of hi& tithes all his lifetime !"-Anglici Hi&toria Aurea.
No protestant clergy, I say, could receive them on this found•
ation. When it was ohce admitted that they had been obtained
by a piece of the grossest priestly delusion, and that the object for
which they were,given was an utter chimera,-neither did nor
could exist in such agency,-they ought immediately to have been
• See, for a fuller account of this strange scene, Dugdale's War.
wi.ckshire.
216 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
restored to the families whence they had been thus extorted, or if
they could not be found, to the state. All modem title ·therefore
must rest on the act of Henry Vlll., who took them from their
original possessors, and gave them to whom he would. But the
very means by which they were converted into the maintenance of
a protestant clergy, implied a power of ~:esumption. They were
taken from the papal church; to which they were given for pur-
poses peculiar to that church, and given to another body of men.
Nobody could possibly have so good a title to them as the original
body, bad as we have seen it was; if therefore they were conveyed
to the protestant clergy by the gotJernment, because thi& appropria-
tion appeared to the government more for the public good-the only
justifiable reason,-itfollowed, that, wheri~ver the government saw
another plan, in its belief still MORE conducive to the public good,
or because the former plan did not produce the proposed end, the
government could resume them, and apply them according to it&
wisdom ;-besides, that no government can legislate for po~terity,
except conditionally. If we admit none of our laws in our own
day to be irrevocable, but are continually examining their utilitly,
revoking and framing anew, how much more must this power-of
rescinding belong to posterity, who cannot be present, and there-
fore cannot be consentin~ to our enactments? If, therefore, ·We
cannot legislate for postenty but conditionally, our ancestors could
bind no burdens upon us but with the same proviso of our appro-
val, and thus the clerical title to tithes, in every point of 'iew, re-
solves itself solely into the will of government.
One fact, not yet noticed, is very remarkable :-we have seen
that tithes were the accredited SOUL'S RANSOM; and as CHARITY
was declared by Scripture to cover a multitude of sins, they were
made to include the principle of charity as an effectual means of
expediting the operation of ransoming, or praying out of pur-
gatory. This was the cause that they were not merely given to ·
the clergy, but to the poor. One part to the bishop,-one to the
clergy,-oneto the support of ecclesiastical buildings,-and one to
the poor. All this, which was religiously observed, even by the
swindling, deluding popish priests, was done away with by the
reformed clergy. They robbed the poor of their part, and threw
both them and the churches on the country!
Such is the hutory of tithes; their operation has been shown by
the ablest writers to have been most deplorable-the source of
everlasting rancour between minister and people-of indolence and
riot on one hand, of poverty on the other-q.estructive alike to the
progress of agriculture and to religious reformation. But it is in
Ireland that the system has produced its amplest horrors. There
rapacious priests, for the most part pluralists and absentees, have
deputed their claims to voracious titlie proctors, who have dragged·
this soul's ransom from the members of the church which first held
it, to give it to the pastors of a church who do not believe it a
soul's ramom a:t all, but a very good body's comfort,-have dragged
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 217
it from the poorest cultivator of the J??Orest and smallest I>atch of
ground, till they have roused the sp1rit of the whole people to re-
sistance. Hence the hostile meetings of tithe proctors and tithe
payers,-hence interference of soldiers,-hence the murders and
bloodyskirmishes which have made that fine countTy a waste, and a
land of horrors in the ears ofall civilized nations. Let any one that
reads this recital from the Waterford Chronicle, December 19, 1831,
reflect that the countTy has been full ofsuch cases, from one end to
the other; and then wonder, if he can, at all that has occurred:-
" Catherine Carroll is a poor woman, liVing at Ballr.truckle, on
the Kil St. Laurence road, m a wretched cabin ; and, bll this year,
she was never called upon to pay incumbent-money. The hand of
afiliction was upon this poor creature ; her son lay on his death-bed,
if bed may be called a wretched wad of straw. A daughter, too,
was lying ill ofa severe cold, with lumps in her throat. The col-
lector called to demand the tax. The wretched woman had not the
means of paying it. Whatwas to be done? The whole house did
not contam a sufficient distraint; but-letme res~in my indigna-
tion while I tell it-the poor·woman had taken advantage of her
children's illness,~£ their being confined to bed,-to take off the
only shirt and shift they possessed towash them ; and unfortunately
had them upon a bush at the door, drying, at that moment. The
collector saw the prize-and at one fell swoop, carried off the shirt
of the boy!-the shift of the girl !-the trowsers of the poor man !
-his stockin~ !-a waistcoat, belonging to another child !-and an
apron belongmg to another daughter !-all went to make nectar of
the wine of some pampered ecclesiastic! The boy died yesterday;
and on the bed of death, although this worse than Turkish act oc-
curred on Friday week, this unhappy child knew not the comfort
of a shirt ; and his little corpse is now lying naked, owing to the
ruthless system of the church establishment."
· At length the people resolved, en masse, to refuse the payment:
and what did our reforming ministers? Abolish those od~ous tithes?
No! As the Irish would not pay them, they decreed that we should,
-giving us the Irish landlords as our sureties for repayment. A
million of good English money was knt to the Irish clergy to sup-
j>ly their lB.rders which no tithes came in to fill-money never to
find its way back to the lenders !
But tithes are condemned : and let them go, with this one ob-
servation of Milton's-" As well under the .gospel·as under the
law-say our English divines, and they rmly of aU proteatante-is
tithes. That the law of tithes is in force under the gospel, all
other protestant divines, though equally concerned, yet constantly
deny. When any one of ours has attempted, in Latin, to main-
tain this argument,-though a man would think they might suffer
him, without opposition, in a point equally tending to the advan-
tage of all mimsters,-yet tliey cease not to oppose lum, as in a
doctrine not fit to pass unopposell under the gospel : which shows
the modesty, the contentedness of those foreign pastors with the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
218 PIUESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
maintenance given them ; their sincerity also in truth, though less
gainful; and the avarice of ours, who, through the love of their
old papistical tithes, consider not the weak arguments, or rather
conjectures and surmises, which they bring to defend them." What
.a strikin~ fact is this! and what a singular feature it presents of
the English church-the oaly one that has advocated and suffered
itself to be fed by this iniquitous system! If we add to this the
following paragraph, which appeared in the Essex Independent,
and the principle of which, whatever the calculations may be, is
notoriously correct, what an image of clerical rapacity and want
of conscience we have before us! " The church ought to relin.
quish the property of the poor. The ori~Pnal tripartite division of
tithes is acknowledged-one-thiJ:"d portion of the revenue of the
church being the undoubted property of the poor. The entire
possessions of the church, in tithe and landed property, amount in
value to the sum of £I70,450,000 ; and the extensive leaseholds
lately reverted to the bishopric of London, rl!ise the amount to
£180,000,000. One-third of this, £60,000,000, is therefore the
sum which the state is most equitably entitled to demand from the
church." After reading this, who can prevent himself recalling
the words of Christ-" The poor ye have always with you, but 71UI
ye hat'e not ali.Cays !" .
In the next place, the church must be divorced from the state.
This unnatural union, the device of artful politicians, is an in.
justice to the subject, and an indignity to the church itself. The
natural effect upon a church in becoming a state religion is, that
its freedom is instantly extinguished; every principle of progres-
sion and improvement is annihilated ; and the generous spirit
which would lead it to expand, and spread itself abroad on the
kindred spirits of men, is frozen by the cold breath of worldly
policy. Like metal molten in the furnace, it flows into the state
as into a mould, receives its shape and stamp, and sets for ever.
It may be dashed to pieces by the application of external force;
but, last as long as it may, it will never be moved, remodelled, or
purified, from within. It becomes stationary for ever. However
all around may be <J.uickened with the moving spirit of knowledge,
and excited to actiVIty and fruitfulness, it stands silent and barren
-like a tree covered with the knots and burs of antiquated ab.
surdities ; its head, a chaos of rotten boughs amid the green vigour
of the forest; and while it is insensibly falling to decay, it bears
itself with a sturdy and sullen pride, and wears a ludicrous air of
superiority in the very morne11t of its fall. That such is the •
situ-
ation of the Establishment, who can deny P-Who that calls to
mind its doctrine of absolution of sins ; its Athanasian creed,--a
thing so monstrous as to horrifyand make ashamed the best minds
of its own sons, and which compelled Tillotson, long ago, to ~ish
they were well rid of it; and, moreover, its Thirty-nine Articles,
that precious medley of follies and contradictions,-a medley,
however, which every one, owing to the inflexible nature of the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 219
church, is oblis!ed to swallow before he can be ordained a minister;
and which Pafey, after acknowledging that it was a Gordian knot,
endeavoured to cut ~~Sunder, by declaring these Articles, articles qf'
p«Jell : as if it would enable men to escape the guilt of falsehood,
by treating bitter and contradictory professions of faith as physic,
and swallowing them as a necessity P· These Articles lie at the
door of the church as a thresho1d of lying; and, if perjury does
not depend on a form of words, but on tne inward denial of a
solemn truth,-of Jlerjury, to every one of its ministers who is not
wild enough to believe impossibilities; and in one university, stand
in the way of every student. The great Jeremy Bentham, one of
the noblest as well as most sagacious minds which ever blessed
earth by its presence, has left on record what it cost him to sub-
scribe them; and numberless are the conscientious spirits which
have turned away from them in disgust. Yet there they stand at
.the church-door, in all their glorious contrariety, and would for
ever stand while the church was a member of the state.
When a chureh stands on its own simple basis, it may renovate
its constitution ; it may explode worn-out creeds ; abandon dogmas
or rites that have become hideous in the increased light of uni-
versal knowledge, and preserve itself in keeping with the spirit of
the age, and in con&equent capacity for usefUlness; but, make it a
portion of the state, and it immediately becomes a species of high
treason to attempt the least chan~e in it. Make its ministers
illustrious with dignities, and fat With good livings, and they will
for ever cry," Great is Diana of the Ephesians!" The church
will be the best of churches,-immaculate and divine ; and they
will growl on any one who even dares to look curiously at it, as a
jealous dog growls over his bone. Make it the road to political
power and honour, and you make its highest ministers the most
obsequious slaves of state; the most relentless enemies of freedom
and mercy.• This has been too conspicuous in the House of
• The bulk of the incidents in the History of Priestcraft are bloody
and revolting ; but there are a few that are the very fathers of merri-
JI!Cnt. When Tetzel was selling indulgences in Germany, for all sins,
pest, present, and to come, and had well filled his chest with the money
of pious fools of that generation, and was about to depart, a nobleman
called on him to procure one for a future crime. Tetzel inquired what
it was. · The nobleman replied, he could not tell-he had not yet quite
decided; but the holy father could charge what he pleased, and leave
that to him. Tetzel charged accordingly; and the next day, as he was
riding through a wood near Jiiterbogk, the nobleman met him, and
seized on his chest. " This," said he," is the sin I meant to commit:"
and rode back in triumph to Jiiterbogk, where the chest is preserved to
this day.
Waller, in his Life, gives a curious instance of prelatical obsequience,
which most miraculously was well met, by a brilliant instance of pre-
le.tical wit and independence. At a dinner with James I., were Neal,.
bishop of Durham, and Andrew, bishop of Winchester-" Have not I a
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
Peers. Lord Eldon said some years ago in the House of Lords,
that he could not bring himself to believe the slave trade was
iiTeconcilable with the Christian religion, as the bench of bi-
shops had uniformly sanctioned, by their votes, the various acts
authorizing that trade. A biting sarcasm, which ever way in-
tended!
But, say the advocates of state religion, how does this appear, in
the recent conduct of the bishops in the same House? Have they
not opposed both government and people, to their great exaspera-
tion, by voting against the Reform Bill? Yes; they have-and
on the same principle. What Selden says, is most true-" It hath
ever been the gain of the church when the king would let the
church have no power, to cry ·down the king, and cry up the
church; but when the church can make use of the king's power,
then to bring all under the kin2's prerogative." In every case, the
state clergy are the enemies of the people. They may occasionally
spurn at the monarch, when he ceases to be a prelatical jackal-
but at all times they are averse to the liberty of the subject. Their
hostility to the Reform Bill will not readily be forgotten, and has,
no doubt, hastened by many years the downfall of their order.
Let us now-hear our noble Milton, on the effect ofa state relig!.on.
" That the magistrate should take into his power the stipendiary
'right," said James, "to take money from the people, without all this
-ceremony of going to parliament?" " Undoubtedly your Majesty has ·a
right," replied Neal; "you are the breath of our nostrils!" "But what
says my lord of Winchester?" added. James. "I say," returned ·the
bishop, " that your Majesty has a right to take brother Neal's ; for he
has given it you."
\. • Bloody Mary sent a commissioner over to Ireland, with a royal commis-
sion to the lord lieutenant to burn, destroy, and confiscate the property of
the protestants, and bring them to what is called justice. The man lodging
at a widow Edmonds', in Chester, was waited on by the mayor; to whom
he boasted that he had that with him that would bring the Irish heretics
to their senses-and opening a box, he showed him the commission. The
widow, who had a brother in Ireland, a protestant, happened to hear
this, and was alarmed. As the commissioner showed the mayor down-
stairs, she adroitly withdrew the commission, and supplied its place
with a sheet of paper, in which was wrapped a pack of cards, with the
knave of clubs uppermost. The deception was undiscovered. On the
commissioner's arrival at Dublin, he had an audience of the lord
lieutenant, in the presence of a splendid assembly. He made a fine
speech. and boasted much of his powers-when, on going to produce his
commission, behold, to the astonishment of himself and his hearel'lf;
nothing but the pack of cards, and the knave of clubs uppermost ! " It
toa8 the queen's commission," said the crest-fallen delegate, " but how
it is changed I know not." "Well," said the lord lieutenant, "you
must return to England for fresh powers ; and in the mean time we will
shuftle the cards!" He returned, but he was too late-the q,ueen was
dead ; and on the subject being related to Elizabeth, she was highly di-
verted by it, and settled on Mrs. Edmonds £40 a year.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PniESTCRAFT IN .UL AGES, 221
maintenance of church ministers, as compelled by law, can stand
neither with the people's thought, nor with Christian liberty, but
would suspend the church wholly upon the state, and turn the
ministers mto state pensioners. For the magistrate to make the
church his mere ward, as always in minoritr;-the church, to whom
he o~ht, as a magistrate, 'to bow down his face towards the earth,
and lick up the dust of her feet,'-her to subject to his political
drifts, or conceived opinions, is neither just nor/ious ; no honour
done to the church, but a plain dishonour: an upon her whose
head is in heaven,-yea., upon Him who is the only head in effect;
and, what is most monstrous, a human on a heavenly, a carnal on
a spiritual, a political head on an ecclesiastical body ; which at
length by such heterogeneal, such incestuous conjunction, trans-
forms her ofttimes into a beast of many heads and many horns."
Such a beast has the church become by this. state commerce,
even by the confession of her friends ; and that com~erce must
be annihilated. Justice, impartial justice, to this ~eat and Chris-
tian ·nation demands it; the ~owth of Christiamty demands it;
the prosperity of the church Itself demands it as well. This is a
measure called for on behalf of the nation ; and there are numbers
who will contend that the church, ceasing to be a state church,
should restore its .Property to the nation whence it was drawn.
That, in strict justice, all national property should revert to the
nation when the object for which it was bestowed ceases, there
can be no question; in strict justice to the other Chtistian com-
munities of this country, this ought clearly to.be the case,-since,
admitting the ri~hts of conscience, the nation ought not to enrich
one body of Chnstians at the expense of the rest: and that parli,.a-
ment has a right to recall the loan of church property, is clear as
daylight. The present priesthood fonn a standing proof and
precedent of it, since it was taken from the catholics and given
to them.
In resuming the national property, respecting ai the same time
all private endowments made since the Refonnation, which ought
to be.held as.sacred as the privateendowments of the dissenters,
every lover of his country, and its monuments of history and art,
would desire to see a sufficient fund appropriated to maintain in
repair our noble cathedrals-specimens of the architectural genius
of our ancestors ; and our parish churches-objects of picturesque
beauty. This fund need not be large, since a handsome sum would
arise from letting them as places of worship; giving always, as a
matter of courtesy, the original preference to their present occu-
piers; and to pass out of their hands only .in case of neglect,
desertion, or abuse ; the existence of such sufficient causes to be
determined in a manner prescribed by parliament. The par-
sonages and glebes might also be valued at a moderate price ; the
option of purchase given to the Episcopalians, and the payment to
be made by such instalments as would render it as little burden-
some as possible; or, let the n~tion act munificently as becomes a
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRJESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
great nation, and give them freely the parsonages and glebes ;
always, and in every case, demanding the surrender of private
patronage, and investing the election of the ministerin the peoJ>le.
' In the disposal of the bulk of the church property, regard, I think,
should be had to the original intentions of the donors; and this
intention was, according to the best of their knowle~, and the
knowledge and opinions of the age,-the Christian enlightenment
and instruction of the people. No appropriation of tllis wealth
appears, therefore, so conducive to this object as that of establish-
ing with it a national system of education. I say a national, not a
gooernment system, that is, a system in which government shall
have nothing to do but to sec all existing funds imJ.lartially dis-
tributed amongst all ,denominations, those denominations holding
the whole management of the education of their own youth in
their own hands.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
CHAPTER XXI.
THE ENGLISH fHURCH-CONTINUED. PERVERSIO,.'< OF QUEEN
ANN'S BOUNTY. CORRUPTION OF l'HE UNIVERSITIES. NUIS.\NCE
OF SPIRITUAL COUR;I'S AND PRIESTLY FEES.
Oh! said the hind, how many sons have you
Who call you mother, whom you never knew?
But most of them who that relation plead
Are such ungracious youths as wish you dead ;
They gape at rich reYenue$ which you hold,
And fain would nibble at your grandame gold.
HIND AND PANTHER.
He is the true atheist, the practical enemy to teligion, who can offer to
dtfend the present condition 11f the church of England.
· WESTJUNBTER RE'I"IEW. No. xxix.
HAVING in the last chapter touched on the subject of the church
revenue, we must not leave it without adverting to one parti_cular.
·whenever the excess of clerical income is introduced, we are im-
mediately attempted to be disarmed by a statement, that, were the
whole .revenue of the church equally divided, it would give but
nbout £112 per annum to each clergyman. The British or Cle"
rical Magazine for March, 1832, admits, from the Parliamentary
Returns, that it would be £:WO ~r annum.• Now, did we admit
this to be correct, what a shame xs it that in a church so economi-
cally provided, so many individuals should be allowed to wallow in
the wealth and idleness they manage to combine! Can the t:hurch
answer it to her conscience, if she have one, that in such a slen-
derly beneficed system, there should be many a parish priest who
holds from £I to £5000 a year; and that the scale of payment to
its dignitaries should stand thus, according to their own showing in
.the Report of the Church Commission in 1835:-
Archbishop of Canterbury £19,183 a year.
- York .. 12,629 -
Bishop of Durham . 19,066
London . 14,000
Winchester 11,151
Ely . . . 11,105
Nine others on an average 5,000
The rest on an average . 3,000
• The present Parliamentary Returns make it about £287.
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
But if we were now to take as the basis of our calculations, the
value of the bishoprics as given in Liber Regis, they would appear
as below. Those estimates were made when labour was a penny
a day; now it is twenty-four pence ; so that if we place .pounds
instead of shillings, that is, an advance of twenty-fold, we shall
make a moderate calculation, according to the mcrease in the
value of general property; and if of general property, why not
that of the churcli? I have applied this scale to various parochial
livings whose income is welll!:nown, and the result was ~onder­
fully accurate. The bishop of London's income will alone form
\. an exception; for, according to the statement of Mr. Baring in
parliament, it has increased seventy-fold, and by the falling in of
leases, will soon be one hundred-fold. ·
Archbishop of Canterbury £56,650 a year.
York 32,200
Bishop of Durham . 36,420
-- London 70,000
Winchester 57,479
-Ely . • 42,698
Salisbury • 27,700
The rest on an average of 10,000
I am afraid we never can prove the church to be poor, or to
have been at any time indifferent to the doctrine, that " godliness
is great g-din." There is nothing in which the spirit of priestcraft
has shown itself so grossly in the English clergy, as in tlieir appro'
priation ofwhat iscalled Queen Anne's Bounty. The mostshameful
selfishness and disregard of every thing like common honesty, like
feeling for their poorer brethren, or respect for the motives of the
deluded queen, mark the whole affair. The Edinburgh Review,
in an able article in No. Lxxv., made a very salutary exposition
of this wretched business. Let the reader take this condensed
view of it:-
"It is well known that, by the statute of Henry VIII. chap. 3,
the first-fruits and tenths of spiritual preferments (which had for--
merly been paid to the pope, or some other spiritual persons) were
given to the king. The first-fruits were the revenues and profits
for one year, of every such preferment; and were to be satisfied,
or compounded for, on good security, by each incumbent, before
any actual or real JlOSSession, or meddling with the profits of a
benefice. The tenths were a yearly rent of a tenth part of all the
revenues and emoluments of all preferments, to be paid by each
incumbent at Christmas. These revenues were, as the statute
phrases it, united and knit to the imperial crown for ever! By the
same statute a provision was made for a commission .t{) be issued
by the king's Highness, his heirs and successors,.from time to time,
to search for the just and true value of the said first-fruits and pro-
fits ; and similar means were provided for ascertaining the value of
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
tenths. In consequence ofthis statute, which was suspended during
the papistical reign of Mary, but recovered by the 1st of Elizabeth,
a valuation was made, which is supposed to have been at the time
an accurate one, of the yearly profits of the ecclesiastical prefer-
ments: and, according to this valuation, the first-fruits an!} tenths
were, as the lst of Elizabeth has it, 'well and justly answered and
paid, without grief and contradiction of the prelates and clergy l.lf
ihe realm, to the great aid, relief, and supportation of the inesti-
mable charges of the crown,' which inestimable char~es may then
possihly have amounted to a two-hundredth part of the present
yearlr sum.• .
"Under this valuation, which in course of time became quite
unequal to the real emoluments of the preferments; these charges
contmued to be paid till the second year of Queen Anne, 1703;
when an act was passed reciting the queen's most religious and
tender concern for the church ·of England, stating that a suffi-
cient settled ·provision for the clergy in many parts of the realm
had never yet been made; and ~Pving to a COlJ>Oration, which was
to be erected for the ailgmeritatJon of small hvings, the whole of
the first-fruits and tenths. Her Majesty, h.owet,er, in her religious·
and tender coneern, was completely ot:erreaclwd by the clerffiJ· The
professed object of the queen waR to increase the provision.of the
poor clergy; the real and only immediate effect of It was to release
the rich clergy from a <!barge to which, by law, they were liable. We
have before mentioned, that a provision was made in the statute of
Henry VIII., for revising, from time to time, the valuations under
which the first-fruits and tenths were paid. It is not improbable
that the clergy were apprehensive, as the nation was then engaged
in an expensive war, that such a revision might be made ; and
in persuading the queen to renounce her hereditary revenue
for the sake of her poor clers-r, tl1ey contrived most effectually
to secure tltemselves by an mgenious clause in the statute in
question. ·
"If the real purpose of this act of Anne had been to augment
the small livings, nothing could have been more reasonable than
to do it by enforcing the legal claims for the first-fruits and tenths
on the holders of the larger benefices. The scandalous poverty of
some livings-for there wet·e then 1071 which did not exceed £10
a year-woulcl then have speedily disappeared : but as the old and
inefficient rate of payment was fixed and made perpetual, the most
religious queen went to her grave without seeing any effect from
• The income of the tenths and first-fruits in Queen Anne's time,
was about £16,000 a year. But this was but a fraction of their real
nlue, for the bishops were allowed to collect them, and embezzled the .
greater part; giving annuities out of them to their children and friends.
When this money did reach the court, it was never paid into the trea-
sury, but was spent in corruption. ln Charles H.'s reign it went amongst
his ladies ; but his bishops, who were always crying sacrilege ! never
mentioned this worst sacrilege of all. Why ?-
Q
oigit<Zed by Coogle
226 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
her bounty; as, in consequence of the encumbrances on the funQ.
and the impossibility of increasing its produce, it was not till 1714;
that the governors of the Bounty were enabled to make their first _
gyants.
"The cunning of the rich clergy in thus shiftinif from them-
selves the burden of contributing to the relief of then poorer bre-
thren, is ~nly to be matched in degree by the folly shown in the
application of the diminished revenue which this trick of theirs
still left for the improvement of small livings. At the time when
Queen Anne's Bounty Fund was establislted there was, according
to the returns, which were. not quite accurate, 5597 livings in
England and Wales, with incomes not exceeding 501. They were
thus classed:-
Not exceeding £10
20
30
40
50
1071
1467
1126
1049
886
" The sum which the governors of Queen Anne's Bounty had to·,
apply to the augmentation of these livings, averaged about £13,000
a year. Any rational being would supp<?se that, under such cir-
cumstances, the governors and the legislature, by whom the dis-
posal of the money was directed and superinten!led, would have
made some inquiry into the circumstances of the different livings.
Some of these livings were of very small extent, and scarcely any
population, and might therefore have been advllnta~usly united
with one another, or with other parishes. The specific evil which
was to be remedied was set forth in the preamble to the statute of
Anne in these words :-•Thatdivers mean and stipendiary preach-
ers are, in many places, entertained to serve cures, and officiate
there; who, deP.ending for their necessary maintenance upon the
good-will and hking of their hearers, have been, and are, thereby
under temptation of too much complying, and suiting their doc-
trines and teaching to the humours, rather than to the good of
their hearers, which has been a great occasion of faction and
schism.' Precious philosophy! At least, therefore, one would have
thought that some distinction would have been made between
places where there were many hearers, and where tl:tere were few
or none. Some even might have been so extravagant as to expect,
that when a sum was bestowed on any particular livin~, some se~
curity would have been taken for the residence of the mcumbent.
All these notions were, however, very far from .the minds of the
persons who had the distribution of Queen Anne's Bounty; The
governors of this fund proceeded upon the idea which is commonly
entertained in England respecting the church establishment.
especially by its own functionaries-that, provided a sufficient sum
of money be laid out on the clergy, every other good will follow :
that, how alJsurd soever the distributio!l may seem, it is not for.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
human hands 'to destroy the latent harmony of casilRl proportions.
Above all things did they eschew the idea, which the church ab-
hors, that where the public confers an obligation, it has a right to
exact the performance of a duty. Among the livings on which
they had to scatter the money, several were large and populous
}J&rishes, where the tithes had been impropriated; and tliese, if
the holders of the tithes were not, as is often the case, ecclesiasti-
cal sinecurists-<>r dignitaries, as they are called-whose incomes
were at the disposal of parliament, would have been proper objects
for augmentation,-always supposing, what is false in point of fact, '
that an mcrease in the emoluments of a living has any tendency to
secure the performance of clerical duties. Others were rectories,
of which some were endowed with the tithe of all the produce of
their district, but which were so insignificant as neither to need a:
separate clergyman, nor to afford a separate maintenance for him.
In the case of such livings, instead of attempting to swell the in-
comes of needless offices, the natural course would have been, to
have consolidated their neighbouring benefices ; and in no case
have made any augmentation, exce.Pt where the revenue arising
from a district of extent and population sufficient to need the cares
of a clergyman, should have been found insufficient to maintain
him. Dut this would have violated the fundamental principles of
the excellent church; it would have insinuated a connexion be-
tween money expended and duty performed ; it would have seemed
like an adaptation of means to an end; it would have made some
inquiry and consideration necessary. ·
" '!'he governors of the Bounty proceeded bountifully; they dis-
tributed a part of their money in sums of £WO, on any poor livings
to which any private person would give an equal sum. The rest
and far greater part of their money, showing them no respecter of
persons nor of circumstances, these representatives of the ecclesi-
astical wisdom of the nation distributed by lot, letting each poor
living take an equal chance for a prize, without any regard to the
degree of urgency of its claim. After this, the story of Bridoye de-
ciding suits at law by dice, after making up a fair pile of papers on
each side, seems no longer an extravaganza. Up to January 1,
1815, the governors had made, in this way, 7323 augmentations of
£200; but with benefices, as with men, fortune is not proportioned
to desert or necessity. Some of the least populous parishes had a
wonderful run of luck. We are not sure that, taking a few of those
which meet our eye in running over the return~, we have selected
the must remarkable. In the diocese of Chichester, the rectory of
Hardham, which in 1811 contained eighty-nine persons, has re-
ceived six augnientations by lot, or£1200. The vicarage of Soiling~
ton, with forty-eight people, has had six augmentations, £1200. 'fn
the diocese of Salisbury,Brewilham drew a prize; it contained four-
teen people. Rotwood drew another ; ithad twelve people. Calloes
had £1000, including a benefaction of £200; its population was, in.
IBII, nineteen. In the diocese of Winchester, Saint Swithin, with
Q 2
,g, Jb,Google ....
223 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
twenty-four people, has received £800, including a benefaction of
£'liXJ; and £200 has been expended on Ewhurst, which has seven
people. In the diocese o( York, Ruthewick, with sixty-two people,
has had five prizes, £1000; while Armby, with 2941 people, aml
Allendale, with 3884, have gained only one each. In the diocese
of Rochester, two livings, with twenty-eight and twenty-nine _
peo-
ple, received separate augmentations. In the diocese of Oxford,
Elford, or Yelford, with sixteen inhabitants, drew a .Prize. In
Lincoln, Stowe, with the same number, and Haugh, received £800.
The number of all its inhabitants is eight. When it is considered
too, that Haugh pays vicarial tithes, which amounted in the reign
of Henry VIII. to £6 13s. 4d. of yearly value, it must be ad-
mitted that this im~rtant district has been guarded against the
danger of schism, with 8. liberality worthy of a protestant govern-
ment. If the rest of the people of England were fortified in sound
doctrine at the same rate of expense, the proper establishment of
religious teachers in England and Wales would cost about twelve
hundred millions sterling, and 1,500,000 parochial clergy, who, as
Dr. Cove allows each of them a family of nine, would form a con-
siderable portion of the population. In the diocese of-Llandaff
we find two places following each other in the returns, which illus-
trate the equity of le sort des dez. Usk, with 1339 people, has had
an augmentation, though its value remains low. Wilcock, a rec-
.tory with twenty-eight people, has had three. In Hereford, Hop-
ton-Cangcford has had £1000 for thirty-five people. Mon~outh,
£200 for 3503.
"Even in cities, where the scattered condition of the population
could afford no pretext against the union of parishes, the same
plan of augmentations has been pursued. In Winchester, sepa-
rate augmentations have been given to seven parishes, the popula-
tion of all which would, united, have amounted to 2376, and would
consequently ha\'e formed a very manageable, and rather small
town parish. In short, the whole of the returns printed Ly the
House of Commons in 1815, No. 115, teem with instances of the
most foolish extravagance,-just such a result as the original con-
ception of this clerical little-go would have led any rational being
to anticipate. The conviction is irresistibly forced upon us, that
nothing could have been further from the minds of those who
superintended this rlan, than to secure a competent provision for
all the members of the church, and to remove the poverty of some
of its members,-which is, by a strange manner of reasonin~,
made a defence for the needless profusion with which the pubhc
wealth is lavished upon others. Indeed, we are led to suspect,
that' the church, in her corporate capacity,' looks upon the po-
verty of some of her members as sturdy beggars look upon their
sores; she is not seriously displeased with the naked and excoriated
condition of her lower extremities, so long as it excites an ill-
judged compassion for the whole body, and secures her impunity
in idleness and rapacity.
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
... we are sometimes told that the poverty of a large body of the
parochial clergy is such, that it is out of bhe power of the higher
clergy, even by the surrender of their whole revenues, to remedy
it. The statement we have given shows most clearly, that this
povert.y is to be attributed, in the first place, to the fraudulent
subtraction of the higher clergy from the burden of contributing
to the relief of their poorer brethren ; and, in the second place, to
the absurdity of the ecclesiastical division of the kingdom, which,
on the slightest effort of the clergy, would have been remedied by
the legislature. If the first-fruits and tenths had been paid sub-
sequently to the gift of Anne, according to the rate which the law
provided for, and as they had been paid, 'without grief or contra-
diction,' i. e. according to the real value of the benefices, instead
of a million and half, at least thirty millions would have been
raised from these taxes ;-a sum not only quite sufficient to have
removed the poverty of all the poor livings in the kingdom, but
to have established schools in every parish of England, and to have
left a large surplus for other useful purJ.>Oses.
"In the course of these augmentations no security has been
taken against non-residence, or plurality. The governors go on,
therefore, increasing the incomes of two small livings, in order to
make each of them capable of supporting a resident clergyman ;
while after, as well as before the augmentation, one incumbent
may hold them together-reside on neither-and allow only a
small part of the accumulated income to a curate, who performs
the duty of both!" ·
This absurd system, which is at once au insult to the memory
of Queen Anne, and to the whole British nation, has been con-
tinued to the present moment. By the returns made to the pre-
sent parliament, the same shameful additions to rich livings, of
that. which was intended to have gone to poor ones, are made ap-
parent.; the same shamelessly miserable payment of the curates,
who do the actual work for which the money is received by the
·selfis'h and the idle, has been continued. It is not within the com-
·pass of this volume to go at great length into these details ;-a
sample will suffice. These cases were adduced by Lord King
in the House of Peers.
"Dean and canon of Windsor, impropriator of the following
parishes, received from parliamentary grant and Queen Anne's
Bounty :-Plymsted, l8ll, £600; 1812, £400; 1815, £300.
·Plympton,--, £600. St. Ger';llan's, 1811, £800; 1814, .+:400.
Wembury, 1807, £200; 1816, £1400. Northam, 1764, £200;
1812, £400. South Moulton, 1813, £600.
"Dean and canon of Winchester, impropriators of tithes of two
large parishes in Wales :-Holt, 1725, £200; 1733, £200. Iscoyd,
1749, £200; 1757, £200; 1798, £200; 1818, £200.
" Dean of Exeter, impropriator of tithe:-Landkey, 1775, £200;
'1810, £200; 1815, £1400. · Swimbed, 1750, £2<)()1 1811, £400.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRlESTCRAPT lN ALL AGES,
"Dean. and chapter of Carlisle, impropriators of va.hJable
tithe :-Hesket, 1813, £000; 1815, £2000 to purchase land; 1816,
£300; 1817, £300.
"Dean of Bangor, impropriator of tithe (curate paid £32 4s.) :-
Gyffin, 1767, £200; 1810, £200; 1816,£1400.
" Bishop of Bangor, impropriator of valuable tithe. (curate paid
£30 12&.):-Llandegar, 1812, £200; 1815, £1600; - , £300;
--,£300.
" Bishopof Lichfield, impropriator of l~ tithes in Merioneth.
shire (curntepaid only £27):-Tallylyr, 1808, £200; 1816, £1400.
Penal, 1810, £200."
Thus these returns proved, that for thirteen parishes these
Rev. gentlemen had drawn £14,500, which ought to have been
paid from·their own pockets. Other instances of a like nature
will occur as we proceed. .
The Edinburgh Review, in the same able article above quoted,
says-" Those who com\llain of the poverty of the clergy, pretena
to suppose that no secunty for residence is necessary ; and thati,
RS soon RS the small livings are raised high enough, non-residence
will disappear as a matter of course. · For instance, Dr. Cove
says, ' All the church of England's sons are, with few exceptio1111,
ever intent on their appropriate duties ; and would be still more
diligent were each of them possessed of a more enlarged and~
.fortab~ independence, and furnished with more suitable abodes.'
This, unfortunately for the doctor, is more capable of beingbrought
to the test than the 'unrecorded revelation' to Adam in favour of
tithes. We have returns of small livings, and we have returns of
non-residence. In the diocese of Rochester there are only six
livings under £150 a year, and of those six not. one is returned.
under £110. Of the 107 benefices retumed in that diocese, there
were, in 1809, but 50 with resident incumbents-leas than half
the livings. In the diocese of Chester, where the livings under
£150 a year are numerous, 377 out of 592 being of that descrip-
tion, a considerably larger proportion of the benefices have· resi-
dents than in Rochester-there are 327 residents. In other dio-
ceses the number of poor livings bears no regular proportion to the
number of non-residents. The fact is, that under the discipline
of the church of England, where there are so many grounds of
exemption or of licence for non-residence, tl\e only persons who
may be expected to reside, are those whose narrow incomes mklr.e
their residence in their own parsonages a matter of necessity or
convenience.
I shall speedily have occasion to show, that in all .countries
where the incomes of the clergy are moderate, there the ·clergy
themselves are at once the most attentive to their duties, and most
respected and beloved by the people. For the present, the follow-
ing statement from the Carliale Journal will afford a striking con-
finnation of the justice of these.remarks1 and so impressive aft
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 231
·example of the shameless pluralities of the higher clergy, and the
miserable manner of their paying the poor labouring curates, as
may render further, selections superfluous.
PLURALITIES, AND CURATES' STIPENDS.
Small as is the see of Carlisle, it affords some admirable speci-
mens .of the working of the church system, and of these we will
now give a sample. And first, of the pluralists, we have-
Hugh Percy, bishop of Carlisle, a prebend of St. Paul's, and a
chancellor of SIU'um.
R. Hodgson, dean of Carlisle;vicar of Burgh-on-Sands, rector
of St. George's, Hanover Square, and vicar of Billington.
E. Goodenough, prebend of Carlisle, Westminster, and York;
vicar of Wath All Saints on Deam, chaplainof Adwick, and chap-
lain of Brampton-Bierlow.
S. J. Goodenough, prebend of Carlisle, ·rector of Broughton
Poges, vicar of Hampton, and deputy lord-lieutenant of Cum-
berland.
Wm: GOO)lenough, archdeacon of Carlisle, rector of Marcham-
-le-Fen, and rector of Great Salkeld.
W. Vansittart, D. D., prebend of Carlisle, master of Wigston's
Hospital, Leicester, vicar of Waltham Abbas, and vicar of Shottes-
brooke.
W. Fletcher, chancellor of the diocese of Carlisle, frebend of
York, vicar of Bromfield, vicar of Dalston, and vicar o Lazenby.
It is not our intention, at present, to inquire into the incomes of
these dignitaries; but as they are pretty considerable, it may be
worth while just to contrast the salaries they award to those who
really work, with the moneys they receive from the livings. The
tithes received by the dean and chapter for Hesket, amount to
£1000 or £1500 a year; they pay to the curate who does the duty
£18 58. a year!-that is to say, Is. a day-being after the rate of the
bricklayer's labourer's wages ! In Wetheral and Warwick, the dean
and chapterdraw about£1000 a year from tithes, and £1000 a year
from the church lands ; and they pay the working minister (pro-
bably one of the most exemplary and beloved men in England in
his station) the sum of £50 a year-the wages of a journeyman
cabinet-maker! The tithes of the parishes of St. Cuthbert and
St. Mary, amount at the least to £1500 a year. The two curates
(who do the duty) receive each the sum of £2 13s. 4d. a year!!!
. And then, to the minor canons, who do the cathedral duty, (such
as it is,) they pay the sum of 6&. Sd. a year each !. The dean and
chapter hold several other impropriate rectories, pay the curates a
mere nominal sum for performing the duties, and.pocket the tithes
themselves-for doing nothing!
The Rev. W. Pullen, rector of Little Gidding, Huntinlllionshire,
asserts in a pamphlet of his, that a late bishop held twelve places
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
of preferment at the same time, and the greater number parochial
:benefices!
' With such things as these before our eyes,-and which way can
we turn and not see them ?-who can believe that the British
public can much l.onger suffer the chureh to re'!lllin unregen~rated?
Look where we wtll, we behold the most gross mstances of·slmony,
pluralities, non-residenc<', and penurious remuneration of the
working cler~rr.. But of these matters in the next chapter:-
two other ramifications of the Establishment which require reform
-ecclesinstical courts nnd the universities, I .must passingly no-
tice, and then close this. ·
These two organs nnd auxiliaries must necessarily come within
the sweep of any reform which visits effectually the church ;-they
are vital parts of that great priestlv system which has so long
rested in case and comfo~t on the shoulders of this much-enduring
country. As their reform is a necessary consequence of that of
the church, I shall say less of them; but they involve enormities
of such a nature, as nothing bnt the apathy iuduced by long cus-
tom could have brought Englishmen to tolerate.
The universites, founded and endowed by kings and patriotic
men, for the general benefit and encouragt-ment of learning in the
nation, are monopolized by the priests of the Establishment. All
offices in them are in their hands ; no lavman, much less a dis-
senter, can hold a \lost in them. The Thlrty-nine Articles are set
up like so many G1ants Despair, to drive away with their clubs of
intolerance all who will not kiss their feet. These chartered priests
grasp the emoluments and the immunities of these ancient seats
of learning, and triumplumtly tell us of the great men which the
Establishment has produced. This is a little too much for the
patience of any but an Englishman. Had the gates of these great
schools been thrown open to the whole nation for whose benefit
they- were established, and to the popular spirit of ill)pro'\""ement
wh1ch has been busy in the world, they might have told us af
thou~ands more ns great, as good, and far wiser, inasmuch as
they would have been educated in an atmosphere of a more liberal
and genial character. As it is, they have lagged, like the Estab-
lishment to which they are linked, behind the spirit of the age, to
.a degree which has disgu~tcd the most illnstlious even of their
own sons. It never Wits my lot to make a practical acquaintance
with the advantages or abnscs of either of them; but, if the best
authorities are to be trusted, the devil never found himself more
in his element, t~ince he descended from his position in the tree
of knowled~e in the garden of Eden, to mount those of Oxford
and Cambndge.
There is a party which has o-iven its-testimony to the state of
the universities as to morals, which has not hitherto been brought
forward-my own society; and as it so completely corrobor11.tes
the general decision on the character of these schools, I shnll here
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 233
·gi,•e one passa!l'e from Besse's " Sufferings of the People called
Quakers," vol. 1. p. 565.-" The students at Oxford had a short
time before fallen on two women, Friends, who presumed to pree.ch
in the town, and to advise there some youngsters to amendment of
life ; they dra,~d these females to the pump of·St. John's college,
pumped on their necks and into their mouths till they were almost
dead; after which they tied them arm to arm, and inhumanly drag-
ged them up and down the college, and through a pool of water;
and finally flung one of them, Elizabeth Fletcher, a young woman,
over 11. grave-stone into a grave, with such violence that she died
in consequence." But now (this was in 1658) these religious stu-
dents-these embryo prophets of a nation-" came into a meeting
there, and drew a Friend out by the hair of the head ; the proctor
himself pulled John Shackerly by the hair, and out of doors, from
Richard Bettins's house. and violently thrust out others. And
several times the scholars have thrown stones and dirt at Friends,
and broke the door to pieces; and broke the windows sever11.l times;
and took away the key of the door; and knocked tenterhooks into
the key-hole; and pulled up part of the porch. And came into
the meetinl?, and turned up tlie seats which Friends sat on; and
rid upon tne backs of men and women like wild horses ; and
brought gunpowder and squibs, and fired them, and set the room
on a smoke, and among people under their clothes, like to set the
house on tire, and to undo people; and have shot bullets amongst
Friends to knock out their eyes; stamping wildly and unruly, like
tavern fellows, crying, Git·e us beer and tobacco! And the schol11.rs
have come into the meetings among the people of God, and called
for wenches, or harlots, like fellows that haunt bawdy-houses: and
brought strong beer into the meetings, and drank to Friends, and
bec11.use they have refused to drink, have thrown it on their necks,
and clothes, and bands ; and have sung b11.wdy songs, and cursed
and swore. And several times came into the meetings blowing and
puffin~ with tobacco-pipes in their mouths, cursing, swearing, and
stampmg, making the house shake again, and insulted the women
too shamefully for description. And the scholars have come into
the meeting to act Tobit and his dog; and one of them divided his
filthy stuff' int? uses an~ points a~ter the manner of the priests ;
and another raised doctnnes of a tmker and a cobbler, 11.nd many
morewicked actions, bymockings and scoffings and filthy language.
And these scholars have been so shameless, that after meeting,
·they hav~ pressed in by violence, and took meat from off the table;
took the bread and the pottage out of the pot ; like greedy dogs
lapping them up; and stole and carried away the Friends' books.
One friend they dra~ed into John's college,. threw beer upon him,
struck and beat ana p)lnched him till he lost his consciousness ;
and then thrust pins into his flesh, and kept him there scoffing at
him, and asking him-' Ifthe Spirit did not move him now'!'
"But I am weary," sa~s Besse, "of transclibing their abomina-
tions, and shall cease Wlth this remark, which, however ~>evere, is
234 PIHESTCII,AFT IN ALL AGES,
just and natural, viz.-Hadthose sclwlar& been e:rpreBily educatedfor
rnin~ter& of the dcL"il, they cuuld Mt hare git•en rnoro certailJ proofs
oftheirprqftcieMg." · .
There is so much of the fidelity of nature in this account,
stran~ as it is, that one cannot for a. moment doubt it: yet we
..imagme ourselves got rather amongst the wild Burschen of Ger-
many than the youth of England.
To the two great popular journals of Edinburgh and West-
minster, the country is indebted for several most able expositions
of the abuses of both spiritual court11 and universities; and the
latter in No. XXIX. speaks thus-" The rents and llnes arising
from broad lands, amongst the most fair and fertile in the realm ;
from lordly manors and goodly farms ; the profits of the advowson,s
of numerous and valuable benefices; tithes, and tolls, and every ad-
vantage that earth can yield; palaces, for such indeed are most of
our colleges, for the habitation of the learned; noble churches,
halls, libraries, and galleries for their use and delight, with gal"-
dens, groves, and pleasure-grounds; plate, and pictures, and mar--
bles; a countless store of hidden books and MSS., as well a.<! a
more vulgar wealth accumulated in vast sums of money, yielding
interest in the funds, or upon mortgage. How strange would the
large opulence appear, were the inventory correctly taken, to the
inhabitants of foreign universities, which ne\·ertheless are no-
counted wealthy; and not less strange to its rightful owne\"8, the
people of England, to a brave, generous, and loyal people, who have
been ready in all ages to contribute largely from their store to
works of learning and piety, but who have ·been ill-requited by
their rulers !
" Astonishing is the wealth of our llnivel"Sities, greatly exceed-
ing the sum of all the possessions of all the other learned bodies
in the world; yet, would it be an unfair and injurious statement to
affirm, that not a single shillin~ of their enormous income is truly
a.Pplied to the purposes for whtch it was designed? The accW!a.
tlon is still more grave; not only do these cor\lorations neglect to
.furnish any direct encouragement to the studiOus, but they offer
much positive discouragement. The sedulous youth who entered
the walls of his college thil"Sting for honourable distinction, can
best tell how his ardent curiosity was chilled by the oscitancy, the
.inertness, the narrow illiberality of those to whom he looked for
assistance, excitement, and support. The favour that Locke found
at Oxford is matter of history. Gibbon has recorded his con-
temptuous scorn for ' the monks of Magdalene.' It would be easy
.to name other children of genius, who have proved that the self-
styled alma mater w~ a. most unjust and cruel step-mother.
"Amongst the evils of ecclesiastical sway, there is a mischief
which annuls our universities, and destroys their very existence
for every purpose of utility; it arises out of their spiritual consti-
tution, and converts establishments that ought to be schools of
learning, into race-courses and amphitheatre&, wherein competitors
,g, Jb,Google
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
and gladiators, M worthless as our jockeys, or the Thracians of old,
struggle, or collude, to get rossession of livings. This is the grand,
the sole object of acadenucal existence ; the pursuit of learning
is the flimsy pretext-the real aim is to obtain preferment in the
church. The cause of the evil must be instantly removed; we
will speak briefly of its operation. A university ought to be, and
at all other places except Oxford and Cambridge really is, one
establishment, every part co-operating for the augmentation and
communication of knowledge. Simony, in its most pernicious
form, has destroyed at once the unity and utility of institutions
.which we would gladly venerate. Ancient schools, designed for
the use of the wlio.le body, still exist at Oxford, to attest the de-
gradation of modem times; each of these is inscribed \vith the
title of one of the liberal sciences, or of one of the faculties, but
it is never applied to the use for which is was designed. Numer-
OWI I?rofessors are decorated with honourable titles, and receive
salaries for ~ving various lectures, which are.never delivered; or
.if, as sometimes happens, an obstinate statute, which cannot be
neglected or evaded, compels him to discourse in public, the dis-
honest priest gives what are significantly called 'wall-lectures,'
since he addresses himself to the walls fi].one; and it is general!)'
understood that no one ought to stand between them and thell'
teacher. Unless these abuses be speedily remedied, it is manifest
that the march of mind, of which some now boast, is a retreat, a
shameful flight; and if the schoolmaster be indeed abroad, as some
affirm, it is because he is not at home: having robbed his scholars,
the scoundrel has absconded. ,
" The university of Oxford has long ceased to exist, except for
the purpose of electioneering: for some time it was doubtful whe-
ther it was creditable to represent its M. M. A. A. in parliament;
but the·dispute has been finally determined, and we may reason-
ably question, whether an unworthy abuse f)f almost unbounded
.)?lltronage be not too high a price to pay for the credit, whatever
·
lt be, that arises from sitting for the sister university. Excep't
for the purpose of vain pageants, designed to aucupate benefices,
.by cajoling the patrons, the university of Oxford has long ceased
~ exist; for the purposes of learning it has been annihilated. dis-
aolved, and destroyed, by having been divided into many minute,
insignificant, and worthless- portions. There are about thirty col-
leges ;-the system of education, if it deserve that name, is sepa-
rate and distinct at each, and miserable in all : the greater part of
.the funds, and the best apartments of every college, are set apart
for a priest who, under the name of master, provost, warden, prin-
cipal, or the }ike, enjoys, at the expense of the public, every luxury
iliat the most sensual could desire; yet this person contributes as
little to the instruction of the youth of his society, as the chief of
the black eunuchs in the Grand Sultan's seraglio, or the Jew who
.takes toll at one of the turnpikes near London. A stranger would
suppose that, being thus pampered in idleness, and growing fat
o;9,,.,edby Coogle
236 PRIESTCRAFT 1:-i ALL AGES.
upon the appropriation of charitable funds, the reverend sinecurist,
dirough a certain decorous shame, would be at least civil and un-
presuming; we appeal to those who are experienced in the de-
portment of contumelious insolence, whether it be so.
"The residue of the funds of the college is wnsted upon a long
list of fellows, the greater part of whom are absentees, and are
alike unwilling and incapable of earning their salaries. The lowest
and least of these is usually the tutor ;-with or without the as-
sistance of a drudge, still more unworthy than himself, this poor
hack endeavours, by a few wretched lectures, to conceal the total
want of all sound and wholesome instruction, and the monstrous
misapplication of the wealth of the nation. He is often a man
of low birth, whom laziness or physical infirmity rendered unfit
for the flail or the loom; and, having availed himself of some
eleemosynary foundation, he has won his way to an office which
ought to be accounted honourable, but, by the accumulation of
the grossest abuses, has been rendered servile. If the aspiring
clown had elevated himself by a genero~ excellence, by a pre-
eminence in liberal learning, his low birth, far from being a stain,
would shed a lustre upon his new station; but, under the present
unhappy constitution of our universities, these mushrooms are
culled for deleterious, not for wholesome properties. If his birth
was loYo(, his mind is commonly lower; he is not selected on ac-
count of his learning, but of his subserviency. When a teacher
of gentle blood is taken, it may happen perchance, that although
he was born a freeman, he has the soul of a slave. The fellow-
ships, in like manner, are for the most part conferred upon kins-
men, upon tools, upon all but those who are best entitled to hold
them. It may be that, with much pomp and ceremony, and an
ostentatious display of the favour shown to letters, some little
·proficient in the course of elementary instruction, pres~ribed to
keep up the show of attention to education, is now and then put
into possession of one of those valuable annuities; but the yawn-
~ng sluggard, the dull sot, is generally deemed mere eligible than
the zealous scholar.
" Let us suppose, however, that all fellowships were fairly be-
stowed upon the youn~ men who were most worthy to hold them,
still would our universities fall far short of that utility which we
have an unalienable right to insist upon reaping from our public
domains. In the case we have supposed, all improvement would
cease at the end of the first year of academical residence ; after
taking the first degree, there would be no motive to advance fur-
ther on the road to learninll'. Each college would be, as it now is,
a clerical tontine ; an abommable institution, alike hostile to learn-
ing and subversive of piety. Surely our sagacious, clear-headeq
fellow countrymen are not aware, that every one of the numerous
colleges which they maintain at such an enormous cost, is merely
a. clerical tontine ! The instant a young man is elected a fellow,
he has but one object-to outlive his brethren~and thus to receive,
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 237
in succession, the valuable benefices attached to his college, which
were designed to reward the most learned, but which are blindly.
and dishonestly handed over to the longest liver." •
Now, what is thus written in the present day, is exactly of the
same stamp as what was uttered by Gibbon:-" The schools of
Oxford and Cambridge were founded in a dark age of false and
barbarous science; and they are still tainted with the vices of their
origin. Their primitive discipline was ada)?ted to the education of
prie.sts and monks ; and their government ts still in the hands of
the clergy-an order of men whose manners are remote from the
present world, and whose eyes are dazzled by the light of philoso-
phy." Nay, it is exactly the same as what Milton wrote in his
time. We hear those who have studied there, continually declar-
ing that the system of education pursued is infinitely behind that
given by dissenters to their ministers, so fur as it regards their real
preparation for the office of Christian teachers. I have frequently
heard young men declare that they had no need to study there.
With a certain· quantity of mathematics, or of Greek and Latin,
they could take a degree, and that was enough. So it must have
been in Milton's days. "They 'pretend that their edU<;ation,
either at school or university, hath been very chargeable, and there-
fore ought to be repaited m future by a plentiful maintenance;
whereas it is well known that the better half of them are ofttimes
poor and pitiful boys; that havin()' no merit, or promising hopes,
that might entitle them to the publlc provision, but their poverty,
and the unjust favour of friends, have had their breeding both at
school and university at the public cost; which might eng-dge
them t~ rather to give freely, as they have freely received.
"Next, it is a fond error, though too much believed among us,
to think that the university makes a minister of the gospel. That
it may conduce to other arts and sciences, I dispute not now; but
that which makes fit a minister, the Script1,1res can best tell us to
be only from above. Huw shall thmJ preach, unless tlury be sent?
By whom sent? By the university, or the magistrate, or their
belly? No, surely; but sent from God only, and that God who
is not their belly. And whether he be sent from God, or from
Simon Magus, the inward sense of his calling and spiritual ability
will sufficiently tell him.
"But yet, they say, it is also requisite he should be trained up in
other learning, which can be had no where better than at the uni-
versities. I answer, that what learning, either human or divine,
can be necessary to a minister, may as easily and less chargeably
he had in any private house. How deficient else, and to how little
purpose, art! all those piles of sermons, notes, and comments on all
parts of the Bible,-bodies and marrows of divinity, beside all
other sciences in our English tongue ; many of the same books
which in Latin they read at the university! And the small ne-
cessity of going there to learn divinity I prove first from the
most part of themselves, who seldom continue there till they have
PKIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
well got through logic, their first rudiments. And those theo-
logical disputations there held by professors and graduates, are
such as tend least of all to the edification or capacity ofthe people,
but rather perplex and leaven pure doctrine with scholastical
trash, than enable any minister to the better preaching of the
gospel." -MilUm on Hirelings.
When past and present authorities thus agree to describe the
great universities of the nation, woe be to that nation if it do not
break the slumbers of these clerical drones, throw wide the gates
to the influx of real knowled.,ae, and of all those who thirst for
knowledge, that we may never more hear of such men as Locke
being expelled for their love of freedom, or Wesley for their piety.
Recent circumstances have rendered the necessity of university
reform more glaringly imperative. The outbreak of popery in Ox-
ford, and the ·outrageous conduct of the students of Cambridge
towards the com-law lecturers, mark both the doctrines and man-
ners of these places, as the very worst which can prevail in the
schools of the nation's priesthood.
Of the continuance of eccle&iastical courts to this enlightened
period, what shall we say,- but that Englishmen are a most
patient race? A dark and mysterious assembl;lge, as of bats and
owls ! A sort of in9.uisition, shorn of its power by public opinion,
and suffered bypublic opinion to exist. Pnests, allowed still to sum-
mon men to their hidden tribunals,and impound their persons; per-
mitted still to seize on their wills with rude hands, and rack their
purses without mercy! Clerical peers and clerical legislators are
anomalous enough ; but clerical taxers of orphans, clerical guard-
ians of testamentary documents, and clerical jailers, are still more
anomalous. Here is a popish institution existing in a protestant
country, which even popish countries have abandoned, and con-
veyed its functions into the hands of laymen! Our wise Saxon
ancestors suffered nothing of this kind amongst them : it is true,
they permitted bishops to take their seats in the civil courts to
protect their own rigl:its; but it remained for the Norman invader
to concede to Rome this dangerous privilege of clerical courts.
Time and knowledge have thrown into desuetude most of those
powers by which they formerly harassed our forefathers, but John
Childs, Williams of Carlow, David Jones, and John Thorogood,
can tell you that they still have dungeons for those who refuse
tithes, or church rates. They no loriger trouble themselves about
the reformation of manners, the punishing of heresy ; nor do
churchwardens care to present scandalous livers to the bishop :
but refuse to pay a fee, and they will speedily "curse thee to thy
face." They are, in fact, a sort of obscure and duf!tf incorpora-
tions, for collecting and enjoying good revenues, 1
1lnder the names
of bishops, surrogates, proctors, registrars, deputv-registrars, and
so forth, from fees on wills, consecrations, and various other
sources and immunities. For the greediness of these clerical owls
in past days, let any one consult Chaucer. The worthv Lyon-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIEsrcnAFT IN ALL AGES. 23!)·
king-at-arms of Scotla"Qd, Sir David Lindsay of the Mount, also
made merry with them6(·lus days:- , '
Marry, I lent my gossip my mnre to fetch home coals,
And he her drowned in the quarry holes. .
And I ran to the consistorie, for to pleilue,
And there I fell among a greedy meinze.
'l'hey gave me first a thing they call citandwn;
Within eight days I got but libelland11m ;
Within a month I got ad apponetulwn;
In half a year I got inter loquendum ;
And then I got-how call ye it ?-ad replicu.mlum ;
But I could never a word yet understand 'em.
And then they made me pull out many plaeks,
And made me pay for four and twenty acts;
But ere they came half way to concludendum,
'l'he devil a plack was left for to defend him.
'l'hus they postponed me two years with their train,
'l'hen, hodu ad octo, bade me come again.
And then, their rooks, they croaked wondrous fast;
For sentence-sih·cr they cried at the last.
Of pronunciandum, they made me wonder fain,
But I never got my good grey mare again ! ·
This is spoken in the character of a poor man; another charac-
ter then adds :-
My Lords, we must reform thc,l!e consistory laws,
Who3e great defame above the heaven blows.
I knew a man, in sueing for a cow,
'Ere he had done, he spent full half a bow.•
So that the king's honour we may advance,
We will conclude as they have done in France;
Let spiritual matters pass to spiritualitie,
And temporal matters unto temporalitie.
SATYRE OF 'l'HREE EsTAlTEs.
'Vhoever would see what troublesome and extortionate nuisances
these courts are, has only to consult the voluminous returns made
to parliament in 1829 on this subject, if more recent and vengeful
incarceration of honest men is not sufficiently satisfying.
Amongst the lesser evils of the system, are the consecration of
burial grounds, and what are called surplice fees. Nothing is
more illustrative of the spirit of \>riestcraft, than that the church
should have kept up the superstitwus belief in the consecration of
ground in the minds of the people to the present hour, and that,
m spite of education, the poor and the rich should be ridden with
the most preposterous notion, that they cannot lie in l>ence except
in ~ound over which the bishop has snid his mummery, and for
whtch he and his rooks, as Sir David Lindsay calls them, have
pocketed the fees, and laughed in their sleeves at the gullible fool-
• Half a fold of cows.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
240 PRIESTCRAFT IS ALL AGES,
ishness of the people. \Vhen will the day come, when the webs
of the clerical spider shall be torn, not only from the limbs, bot
the souls of men ? Does the honest Quaker sleep less sound in
his grave, over which no prelatical jug:glcry has been practised,
and for which neither prelate nor priest nas l?ocketed a doit? Who.
has consecrated the sea, into which the British sailor in the cloud
of batlle-smoke descends, or who goes down, amidst the tears of
his comrades, to depths to which no plummet but that of God's
omnipresence ever reached? \Vho has consecrated the battle-
field, which opens its pits for its thousands and tens of thousands;
or the desert, where the weary traveller lies down to his eternal
rest? Who has made holy the sleeping-place of the solit.'lry mi.-
~;ionary, and of the settlers in new lands? Who but He whose
hand has hallowed earth from end to end, and from surface to
centre-for His pure and almighty fingers have moulded it! ·who
but He whose eye rests on it day and ni&ht, watching its myriads
of moving children-the oppressors anu the oppressed-the de-
ceivers and the deceived- the hypocrites, and the poor, whose
souls are darkened with false knowledge, and fettered with the
bonds of daring selfishness! and on whatever innocent thing that
eye rests, it is hallowed beyond the breath of bishops, and the fees
of registrars. \Vho shall need to look for a consecrated spot of
earth to lay his bones in, when the struggles and the sorrows, the
prayers and the tears of our fellow men, from age to age, have
consecrated every utom of this world's surface to the desire of a
repose which no human hands can lead to, no human rites can
secure P \Vho shall seek for a more hallowed bed, than the bosom
of that earth into which Christ himself descended, and in which
the bodies of thousands of glorious patriarchs, and prophets, and
martyrs, who were laid in gardens, and beneath their paternal
trees, and of heroes, whose blood and sighs have flowed forth for
their fellow men, have been left to peace, and the blessings of
grateful generations, with no rites, no sounds but. the silent falling
of tears, and the aspirations of speechless, but immortal thanks?
From side to side, from end to end, the whole world is sanctified
by these agencies, beyond the blessings or the curses of priests !
God's sunshine flows over it-his providence surrounds It; it is
rocked in his arms, like the child of his eternal love; his faithful
creatures live, and toil, and pray in it; and, in the name of heaven,
who shall make it, or who can need it holier, for his last resting
couch ! But the greediness of priests persists in cursing the poor
with extortionate expenses, and calls them blessings. The poor
mun, who all his days goes groaning under the load of his ill-paid
labours, cannot even escape from them into the grave, except at a
dismal charge to his family; his native earth is not allowed to ,re-
c~ive him into her bosom, till he has satisfied the priest and his
satellites. \Vith the exception of Jews, Quakers, and some few
other dissenters, every man is given up in England as a prey, in life
and in death, to the parson, ana his echo, and his disturber of bones.
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES, 241
The following, from the Leeth MerC1Jry, is not quite a fair ex-
ample of the e~nse incurred for what is called consecration of
the smallest addition to a burial-ground-for in some dioceses the
charge is £45, and, it is said, the charge for the consecration of a
church has often been from £100 to £300.
· To the churchwardens of Tadcaster W88 sent the following
letter:-
(COPY.)
Gentlemen,-1 send you tlnciosed the charges on the consecration of
the additional churchyard at Tadcaster.
I am, Gentlemen, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH BUCKLE.
York, 26th March, 1829.
Fees on consecration of the additional Burial-ground at Tadcaster.
1828. £ .'· d.
Drawing and engrossing the petition to the Archbishop to
consecrate • • • • • • •
Drawing and engrossing the sentence of consecration •
Drawing the Act . • • • • • • •
Registering the above instruments and the deed at length ;
I 5 0
2 2 0
0 13 G
and parchment 2 2 0
The Chancellor's fee • 5 0 0
The principal Registrar~& fee • • 5 0 0
The Secretary's fee . . • • • . 5 0 0
The Deputy Registrar's attendance and expenses . 3 15 6
The Apparitor's fee . 1 1 0
Fee on obtaining the seal I 1 0
Carriage 0 5 0
£27 5 0 '
For burying a poor man, this is the common scale of charge :-
For the burial of even a pauper, 7•. 6d.-for a child six months
old, the same-if the childbe not baptized, b. ; for in that state it
is, by clerical logic, deemed not a human being, but a thing, until
their mummery has ennobled it-a thing beneath God's notice-it
is therefore thrust into an;17 hole by the sexton. In the J.>rincipal
churchyard, a man who WIShes to choose the place of bunal, must
pay £10 for 'the size of a grave; and for opening such a grave,
about £2 158. 6d. For permission to lay down a fiat stone, which
used to be £1 lB., now £3 31.! For an upright stone, 101. 6d.
·For liberty to clean his father's grave-stone, the vicar of Newark
charged a man 21. 6d. There is nothin~ cQnnected with the church,
but must be paid for. Nor when it 1s paid for is the payer free
from· danger of citation. The case of the widow Woolt'rev of
Carisbrooke in the Isle of Wight is a striking instance. This
poor woman.was cited into the Arches Court, to answer for the
a
,g, Jb,Google
242 PRIRSTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
enormous crime of having placed this inscription on her husband's
tombstone:-
"Pray for the soul of Joseph Woolfrey.
It is a holy and wholesome thought to pray for the dead, 2 Mac. xii."
Now, though popery,like an old and badly heaied sore, was break-
ing out in fue church at Oxford unreproved by the spiritual courts ;
though it was shown that the first and second books of Maccabees
are ordered by the Thirty-nine Articles to be read by the church;
and that inscriptions, invoking prayers for the dead, are still to be
seen on the walls of our churclies and cathedrals ; though it was
proved that the very vicar who caus~ the citation, had given his
permission for the inscription, and the bishop had declared that
for himself it did not concern him; though the vicar had taken
his fee, and what is more strange, though a tombstone with the
very same inscription, had been standing near the spot where the
widow Woolfrey placed this, for three and twenty years, without
objection, yet was the poor widow thus harassed, though finally
discharged. It appeared afterwards that the real offence was, that
Joseph Woolfrey had been a RADICAL!. Besides the regular fee,
the compliment of a guinea, or more, for a scarf, hatband, and
~loves, is not merely expected, but demanded. There are many
mstances, where clergymen have refused to take a corpse into the
church where these were denied. From o.Pulent people, a com-
pliment of five guineas is looked for at marnages ; at cliristenin~,
a guinea. By this greediness of filthy lucre, our finest ecclesiasti-
cal buildings, ana professedly the temples of God, are degraded
into rel!lllar show shops ; especially those magnificent piles, St.
Paul's "Cathedral and Westminster Abbey. These noble build-
ings, to which are attached immense revenues, are not merely
made traps for daily gains from a laudable curiosity, but of enor-
mous sums on public occasions ; particularly, the coronations in
the latter bring mines of gold to the chapter. Yet it is to the clergy
we owe it, that we do not possess in St. Paul's the finest ecclesi-
astical building in the world. Sir Christopher Wren had re-
solved that it should be I!O; and had drawn, with all his skill, plans
for the purpose ; but the cler~ who were on the building com-
Inittee, after having in vain tried to f.revent the old church being
removed at all, resisted its remova , indeed, and insisted on its
being patched up, though Wren declared it would fall, till it ac-
tually tumbled about their ears,-finally, threw aside his most glo-
rious designs, and actually/itched, to his infinite mortification, on
one which he had sketche as a mere foil. But I digress.-For
opening a vault, even in village churchyards, £5 is commonl;r
demanded; in the church, £10; and what is worst, after all, It
has been proved by more than one legal .decision, no man's fainily
vault is sacred and inviolable. The church and churchyard are the
parson's freehold. In them, during his life, he can work his own
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCKAFT IN ALL AGES.
will, but he cannot sell a right of vault beyond his own life. There
are numbers of families wlio flattered themselves that they had a
place of family sepulture, into which no stranger could intrude;
but let them excite the wrath of some clerical parish tyrant, and
he can show them, that not only can he refuse to permit the open-
ing of their vault to receive their dead, till his demands, however
exorbitant, are satisfied, but that he can refuse to have it opened
.at all; and, moreover, can thrust in, at his_pleasure, the carcasses
.of the vilest wretches in the parish; Thus, by dealing with
priests, the people are served as they always have been-jug~led
out of their money for" that which is nought;" and thrown mto
the absolute power of a most mercenary order of men. They are
suffered to buy that which cannot be really sold; and when they
look for a freehold, they find only a trap for clerical fees.
Easter dues, which were ori~nally presents made by the people
to the minister, or rather offenngs in honour of the resurrectiOn
()f the Saviour, but which were soon converted into a forced pay-
ment by priestcraft, have been made a cause of citation and per-
secution to many poor men. 'These, though small in amount, are
wnerally rigorously exacted by the clergy, though the various
Items of the sum are not separately SJ?ecified, as they used to be
formerly, denoting the ground of clatm. It may be curious to
many to see what these demands were. The following is the
EASTER RoLL of Burton-upon-Trent, as it was delivered in at the
bishop's visitation, according to a presentment made by the church-
wardens, with the consent and approbation of the minister, and
the rest of the parishioners of Burton, the 6th of January, 1699.
THE EASTER ROLL.
For every householder, twopence.
For smoke, one penny.
For garden and orchard, one penny.
For every son and servant man, that is sixteen years of -age or
above, fourpence.
For every daughter or servant maid of the same age, twopence.
For every stock of bees, one penny.
For every cast of bees, one halfpenny.
For every foal, twopence.
For every milch or barren cow, one penny.
Forevery calf, one halfpenny.
For every plough land, one penny.
I see by a rule of vestry made in that town so late as 1829, per-
mission to make a vault south of the church is charged as many
ten shillings and eightpences as the vault will hold bodies ; and
for every j"oreigrt,er double. Why every foreigner double ? Can so
barbarous and inhospitable a custom be common in this country,
as to charge double for a burial place for a foreigner 1
The Easter dues are now in many places converted by the grasp-
a 2
oigit<Zed by Coogle
I'RIESl'CRAPT 1:-i ALL .,GES.
ing avarice af the clergy into a tithe, and thus into a fixed and
perpetual rent-charge under the Tithe Commutation Act.
From root to branch the whole system is rotten ;-GIVE! GIVE!
GIVE! is written on every_ wall and gate of the church : and
thou~h a man quit it and Its communion altogether, he must still
pay, m life and in death, to it. Nay, by a recent case in the dio-
cese of Salisbury, it is shown by the bishop, that a man once
having taken orders can never lay them down a~n. A Mr.
Tiptaft having resignt)d his living, from conscientious motives,
began to preach as a dissenter; but the \>ishop attempted to sto,P
his mouth 'il'ith menacing the thunders of the church ; and, on hts
astonished declaration that he was no longer a son of the church,
the {>relate let him know that he was, and must be-for clerical
orders, like Coleridge's infernal fire, must
Cling to him everlastingly.
To this church, which empties the pockets of the lJOOr, and stops
the mouth of the conscientious dissenter,let every Englishman do
his duty.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
245
CHAPTER XXII.
THE ENGI.ISH CHURCH-CONTINUED. PATRONAGK AND ITS
EFFECTS•.
The ch1,1rch of England is unpopular. It is connected with the crown
and the aristocracy, but it is not regarded with affection b,r the mass of
the people; and this circumstanoo greatly lessens its utility, and has
powerfully contributed to multiply the number of dissenters.
KDINBURGH RBVIBW. No. lxxxviii.
We are overdone with standing armies. We have an at1ny of law-
yers with tough parchments and interminable words to confound honesty
and common sense; an army of paper to fight gold; an army of soldiet·s
to fight the French; an army of doctors to fight death; nnd nn army of
parsons to fight the devil-of whom he standeth not in awe !
Tlio late WILLIAM Fox, of Nottingham.
BuT while the nation demands those alterations just enumerated,
the internal prosperity, nay, the very existence of the episcopal
church, as a vital anrl fruitful Christian community, demand
others. And, first of all, that it should be delivered from the
curse of patronage,-the source of a thousand evils,-the cause of
lamentable moral lethargy and paralysis. While every Christian
society around it enjoys the just privilege of choosing its own
ministers, will it be long endured by this Church that it should be
kept in a condition of everlasting tutelage ; that its members, how-
ever \Ioise, enlightened, and capable of managing all their affairs
for themselves ; who would hold it as the highest insult that the
state should appoint overseers to choose for their children school-
masters, and for themselves stewards, attorneys, or physicians,-
will it be endured long that some state favourite, who never saw
them, or their place; or some neighbourin~ fox-hunting squire,
whose intellect, if it exhibit itself any where, IS in his.boot-heels,-
that some horse-jockey, or gambler, some fellow whose life is a
continual crime, his conversation a continual pestilence; who, if
he were a poor man, wonld have been long since hanged, but
being a rich one, he is at once the choicest son and purveyor of
Satan, and the hereditary selecter of the minister of God,-will it
be endured that E:uch a man shall put in over the heads of a re-
spectable, pious, and well-informed community, a spiritual guide
nnd teacher ?-put him in, in spite of their abhorrence and re-
monstrances ? and that once in, neither patron nor people shall
get him.out, though he be dull as the clod of his own glebe, and
oigit<Zed by Coogle
246 PRlESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
vicious as the veriest scum of his parish, who prefers the pot-house
to his polluted house of prayer? From this source has flowed the
most fatal results to the church; nay, it may be safely asserted,
nine-tenths of the evils which afflict it. By this means it has
been filled with every species of unworthy character ;-men who
look upon it as a prey; who come to it with coldness and con-
tempt; who gather its fruits, while other and better men toil for
them; and squander them in modes scandalous, not merely to a
church, but to human society. By this means it has been made
the heritage of the rich man's children, while the poor and on-
patronized man of worth and talent has ploddea on m its labours,
and despaired. By this means so worldly a character has grown
upon its ministers, that they have become blind to the vilest
enormities of the system, and now look on simony as a matter of
course. Whoever doubts this-and yet who does doubt it ?-let
him look into the British, or Clerical Magazine, and he will find
the reverend correspondents asking with the utmost simplicity-
How can the bishops help men selling advowsons? It never
seems once to occur to them, that if there were no clerical buyers
there would be no sellers. In the same journal for June, 183"2;
p. 357, is also the following statement :-" Of the whole number
of benefices in England, very nearly 8000 (that is, more than
two-thirds of the whole) are in private patronage. Of the cle~,
a very considerable number have purchased the livings wh1ch
they hold; and of the remainder, most have been brought up to
the church, and educated with a view to some particular piece of
prefe~ent iu the gift of their family and relations. Whether this
be right or wrong, it is an effect almost necessarily following from
so large a portion of the property of the church being private pro-
perty; a state of things not to be altered, and which they who
wish to abolish pluralities do not talk of altering."
Now here, in one sentence, \11<-rltten by a clergyman, and pub-
lished in a clerical magazine, we have the root and ground of
three-fourths of the evils and enormities of the Establishment.
We have a statement, that out of 10,000 livings in England, nearly ·
8,000 are in the hands of private people ; that is, in the hands
each of a man who, whatever be his life or his qualifications for
judging, can and does put in a clergyman over the heads of his
neighbours, to serve his own views, which are commonly to estab-
lish some rake, or blockhead of a son or nephew, or to make what
monev he can out ofa stranger, ifhe has no children; that is, not to
seek the most pious man, but the highest bidder. And consequently
the next assertion is, that a very considerable number have pur-
chased these livings ;-thus, not the pious man, but the highest
bidder, the boldest dealer in simony, has had the l.j.vings. Oh!
poor people, who are doomed to sit under such pastors, and vainly
hope to ~ow in heavenly knowledge! The remainder, says th1s
most logxcal writer, have been brought up with a view to some
particular piece of preferment from their friends and ~lations.
,g, Jb,Google
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 247
Yes, younger sons-no matter what their heads or their hearts are
made of-aoomed to deal out God's threats and yromises to the
people. Desperate handlers of God's sacred thmgs-who rush
fearlessly into his temple, not because he has called them, but
because their relAtions have the key of the doors. And all this, this
clerical writer puts forth with the most innocent face imaginable1
W~le he enumerates causes enough to have made St. Paul's hair
stand on end; when he tells us that simony is common as day-
lifrbt; that the bulk of the livings in England are not open to the
ptous and the worthy, but are the heritage of certain men who may
be neither-he is so Car from seeing any thing amiss, that he goes
on to pointout the advanta~e ofsuch a state of things. He declares
it cannot be altered; and thts is one of his reasons why the church
should not be reformed. He does not at all perceive, that no church
with so scandalous and preposterous a foundation, can possibly .
stand many years in the miast of a country where the spirit of
man is busily at work to pry into the nature of all things, and
where any monopoly, but esJ?fcially of religious patron,a$.e, must
assuredly arouse an indignation that will overturn it. Miserably
dark must be the moral atmosphere ofa church where its member~
come forward with a mental obtuseness like this, to advocate its
abominations as if they were virtues, while the very people gape
round them with astonishment, and they perceive it not. But
there are no labourers in the demolition of a bad institution like
its own friends. They are like insects in a rotten tree ; roused by ·
.external alarm to activity, they bustle about and scatter the trunk,
which bolas them, into dust. Such men put a patch of new cloth
into the old garment of corruption, and the rent is made worse.
To proceed.-By these means the church has been filled with
pride and apathy; and·it is notorious, that of all Christian minis-
ters, the ministers of the Establishment are the least interested in
their ftocks,-cultivate and enjoy the least sympathy with them.
I accidentally, the other day, took up Sir Arthur Brooke Faulkner's
Tour in Germany; and immediately fell on this passage, which
coming from a man fresh from the observation of the continental
churches, is worthy ofattention. "Nowhere else in Europe are cler-
gymen, and no wonder, less respected among the multitude than in
the British dominions." He yroceeds to account for this, by their
apathy, their pluralities, theu exorbitant revenues, maintenance
by tithes, and acting as legislators. He adds-" If the statement
which has already been alluded to may be credited, the clergy of
the United Kingdoms are paid more than the clergy of all the rest
of Christendom besides by a million sterling and upwards, the full
amount of their annual revenue being £8,852,000. In primitive
times, and in the different countries at the present time which I
have visited, the remuneration of their labour is, as we have seen,
in many cases, chiefly voluntary. In these countries it neeas no
prelacy strutting in lawn sleeves, and ' raising their mitred fronts
m courts and parliaments,' to clothe it with respect."
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
This, in contradiction of the many assertions of the advocate&
of our English Establishment, who contend that without dignities
and large revenues the clergy would sink into contempt, is borne
out by the experience of all the world. The dignities and large
revenues of the papal church did not embalm its clergy in public.
estimation; and to whatever country we turn, we find that wher-
ever the clergy are but moderately endowed, there they are dili~nt,
and the:-e they are esteemed. What is the opinion of Milton, of
the-preferments which have been so much vaunted as stimulants
to activity and talent in the church? That they are but "lures
or loubells, by which the worldly-minded priest may be tolled, from
parish to parish, all the country over." The Scotch clergy are but
slenderly mcomed, and what is the testimony of their countrymen.
the Edinburgh Reviewers, concerning them? "In Scotland there
arc 950 parish clergymen, whose incomes mar average £275 a year
each ; and the Scottish clergy are not infenor in point of atta.io.
ments to any in Europe: no complaints have ever been made of:
the manner m which they perfonn their duty; but, on the contmry.;.
their exemplary conduct is the theme of well-merited and ~t>
eulogy." Yet, since the first writing of this work, a wonclerfulr
dislike to a state religion has shown itself in the country; a~
and most general and energetic aversion to forced payments to-ita·
clergy. Even in that moderately endowed church, the evils of tho,
system of political religion have made themselves strongly lelt.~
The growing demand is for the. voluntary support of all religious
ministers ; and with the serious, philosophical, and determined
character of the Scotch, this demand will speedily become irre-
sistible.
Let us now turn again to Sir A. B. Faulkner's account of the
Gennan clergy.-" The Hessean clergy are exemplary in the dis..
charge of their multifarious duties. A clergyman, no matter what
his grane, deems it in no respect dero!Pltory from his dignity to
prove his faith by his works. The spintual and temporal comfort
oftheir flocks, and their nurture in all sound impressions ofreligion,
is their unceasing care; while they hold out, in their own respect..
able and uncompromising conduct, both in public and private, tbe
fairest patterns to enforce the precepts which they teach. How,..
ever this may appear to onr church-of-Englanders, it is fact. The
average of a Hessean clergyman's stipend, is about. forty dollars
a year-the dollar three shillings sterling-to which there is added
a house and garden, or little fann."
"The clergy at Marberg," he says," are, in the strictest sense,
a working ciersr. They arc perpetually among their flocks, cor-
recting, and traming, and guiding; and in such unremitting labours
of love, earn a reputation not the less likely to abide by them for
being the capital on which they must chiefly rely for most of their
comforts and happiness. And it surely is most fitting there shonld
exist this reciprocity of feeling and good offices between the pastor
and his tlock. The protestant and the catholic ·are on the best
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCt:AFT IS ALL AGES.
possible footing with each other; and share equally in the offices
of g?vernment." Wherever he mentions the clergy, it always is in
similar terms•. It is only necessary for us always to remember,
thai this is a clergy very moderately paid, and we then see the
exact value of the arguments for high salaries.
Sorrv should I be to see our noble ecelesiastical piles deserted
and falling to decay, because the national funds were withdrawn;
but I should like to see them filled with ministers of zeal, and over-
fiowing congregations. Sorry should I be to see, in my Sunday
rambles into the country, the picturesque village church deserted
by it-; accustomed minister, and oecn~ied by some ignorant and
clamorous fanatic; but I should rejoiCe when I entered, to find
there, not a mere journeyman hireling, but the worthy pastor,-not
a man standing like a statue, and reading in monotonous tones, a
discourse cold as his own looks ; but one full of overflowing love,
and a lively, though l'ational zeal, that made his hearers warm at
once to him, towards each other, and towards God ;·and when we
went forth I should be glad to see, not what l too often see, a state-
ly person who smiles sunnily, shakes hands heartily, talks merrily
with the few wealthy of his fold; gives to those of a lower grade
a frigid nod of recognition, to the poor a contemptuous forgetful-
ness of their presence, and stalks away in sullen stateliness to his
well-endowed parsonage. Whatever be chargeable on the catholic
priests, it cannot ·be denied that they excite a strong and lasting
attachment in their followers. They are more affable, more humble
in manner, kind and condolent in spirit, and are found dilibrently
at the bedside of the sick, and at the councils of the poor man be-
set with difficulties. But he who enters on his living as his birth-
right, who looks on himself as a gentleman, and his hearers as
clowns, what can arouse his zeal? He who has no fear of censure,
or removal, whence spring his circumspection and activity? "My
fatht!r," said the natural son of a nobleman, "said to me-It is time
you should choose a profession. You must not be a tradesman, or
you cannot sit at my table; you have not shrewdness enough for a
lawyer; you would for~et or poison your patients through careless-
ness were you aphysician;-I must make a parson,orsome de11il ofa
thing of you:-andhemade a F.rsonofme ;-and I hate the church
and every thing belonging to 1t!" From sueh ministers what can
be expected ? and such ministers are supplied to the church in
legions, by this odious system of private l)atronage. 'fhe ambition
of maintaining .the character of gentlemen has made elergymen
cold, unimpassioned, insipid, and useless. It was the same in the
latter days of popery. Chaucer sketches us a priest:
That hie on horse willith to ride
In glitterandc goldc of gretc arraie,
Painted and portrid all in pride,
No common knight maie go so gnie;
oigit<Zed by Coogle
250 PRIESTCRJ.FT IN ALL AGES.
Chaunge of clothing every daie,
With goldin girdils grete and small,
As boistrous as is bere at baie,
All sochc falshede mote nedis fall.
Now, we don't want a set of fine ~ntlemen; we want a race of
zealous, well-informed, kind, and diligent parish priests. If we
must have gentlemen, let us have them of the school of the car-
penter's Son, whom honest Decker, the tragic poet, declares, was
A soft, meek, patient, humble, tranquil spirit;
The first true gentleman that ever breathed !
After this pattem;we care not how many gentlemen we have in
the church ;-gentlemen who are not ashamed, like their Master, ·
Christ, to be the friends of the poor. Who desire to live for them 1
to live among them; to learn their wants, to engage their affec-
tions, to be their counsellors and guides. Men who can under...
stand and sympathize with the struggling children of poverty and
toil, in villages and solitary places, and are therefore understood
by them, and are beloved by them, and will follow them, and make
their precepts the rule of their li\'es and the precious hope of their
deaths. Oh ! what have not our clergy to answer for to God and
to their country, that they are not such men! what blessings may
they not become by being such! I know.no.men whose sphere 0!
influence is more capacious and more enviable. It is the easiest
thing in the world to become the very idol of ·the poor; there
nt.>edg but to show them that you feel for them, and they are all
ardour and attachment. For the man who will condescend to be
what Christ was, a lover of the poor, they will fly at a word over
land and water in his service. He has but.to utter a wish, and,
if it be in their :power, it is accomplished. In the language of
Wordsworth, " it IS the gratitude of such men that oftenest leaves
us mourning." The parish clergyman has faCilities of aiding
the poor, tha:t few other men have. At his slightest recommenda-
tion, the medical man is ready to afford them his aid ; at his s~­
gestion, the larder and the wardrobe of the hall expand wit.b
alacrity their doors, and the ladies are ready to fly and become the
warmest benefactresses of the afH.icted. I am ready to admit that
there are many such men already in England; but were it not for
the cursed operation of this private patronage, there would be
thousands more. such. Numbers who now have no hope but of
doingthe drndgery of a curacy, would then be called by the voice
of a free people, to a course of active usefulness. The land would
be filled with burning and shining lights, that are now hidden be·
neath the bushels of stipendiary slavery, and the effect on our
labouring population would soon be auspiciously visible.
But what IS the actual picture presented to us now under the
operation of·this detestable system P Look where we will, we be-
hold the most gross instances of simony, pluralities1 non-residence,
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES. 251
and penurious remuneration of the' working clet;ey. If every man
were to declare his individual experience, such tlimgs would make
part of his knowledge. In towns, where the clergy are more
under the influence of public opinion, we see too many instances
of lukewarmness, arrogance, and unfitness. I have seen gamblers,
jockeys, and characterless adventurers put into livings by the vilest
influence, to the horror and loathing of the helpless congregations
-and that in populous cities ; but in obscure, rural villages, the
fruits of the system are ten-fold more atrociously shameful. There
the ignorant, the brutal, the utterly debauched, hve without shame,
and tyrannize without mercy over the poor, uncultivated flocks,
whom they render ten times more stupid and sordid. Within my
own knowledge, I can go over almost innumerable parishes, and
find matter of astonishment at the endurance of Englishmen. I V
once was passing along the street of a county town in the evening,
and my attention was arrested by the most violent ravings and
oaths of a man in a shop. I inquired the occasion. "Oh!" said
one of the crowd, who stood seemingly enjoying the spectacle,
" Oh ! it is only Parson ; he has got drunk and followed
a girl into her father's house, who meeting him at the top of the
stairs in pursuit of his affri~hted daughter, hurled him to the bot-
tom, and the worthy man or God is now evaporating his wrath in
vows of vengeance-." From these spectators I found it was one
of the commonest sights of the town to see this clergyman thus
drunk, and thus employed. But why, said I, do not the parishioners
get him dismissed? A smile of astonishmen.t at ~he .simplicity of
my query went through the crowd. "Get h1m dismtssed! Who
shall get him dismissed? Why, he is the squire's brother; he is,
in fact, born to the living. There is not a man in the parish who
is not a tenant or dependant in some way on the family; conse-
quently not a man who dare open his mouth." They have him,
auch as he is, and must make their best of him ; and he or his
brother will be sure to rear a similar prophet for the next ge-
neration.
I entered a village not five miles off. This I found a lovely \ •
retired place, with a particularly handsome church, a noble par-
sonage, a neglected school, and an absent clergyman. The livin~
· was £1800 a year-the incumbent a desperate gambler. " Why,
again I said," don't you ~t this man dismissed?" I saw the same
smile arise at my simplicity. "La! sir, why he is his Lordship's
cousin!" It was a decisive answer-to the principle of private
patronage this village also owed the irremediable curse of a. gam-
bling parson.
I went on.-In a. few miles I entered a fine open parish, where \ . '
the church showed afar off over its surrounding level meadows of
extreme fertility. Here the living was added to that of the ad-
joining parish. One man held them. · Together they brought
£2400 a year. A curate did the duty at two churches a.nd a. chapel
of ease, formerly for £80 a year-now for £100 a year. The rec-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
v
252 PRIESTCilAFT IN ALL AGES.
tor wns ne'l"er seen except when he came and pocketed his £2300
and del'arted. This man too was hereditary parson.
But m the parish which I know perhaps better than any other,
a large and populous parish in Derbyshire, no one could recollect
having heard of it possessing a decent clergyman. The last but
one was a vulgar and confirmed sot. The last came a respectable
vouth, well married, but soon fell into dissipated habits, seduced a
voung woman of fine person and some property, who, in conse•
qucnce, was abandoned by her connexions, married a low wretch
who squandered her money:, and finally died of absolute starva-
tion. The clergyman's wtfe, heretofore a respectable woman,
wounded beyond endurance by this eircumstans:e, took to drink-
ing; all domestic harmony was destroyed; the vicar began to
drink too. A young family of children grew up amid all these
evil and unfortunate influences: the parents finally separated;
and as the pastor fell into years, he fell into deeper vice and
degradation. I well remember him. I remember seeinghim up-
held, in a state of utter intoxication, over a ~ve, by two men,
while he vainl~· strove to .repeat the burial semce,-saying, " there
is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the sun"-till they
led him away, and closed the grave. I remember well his small,
light person, his thin but ruddy countenance, and his singular
appearance, as he used to trot at a quick pace up to the church,
or down the village street back again,-for at that time he per-
formed duty at three churches, each of which was three miles
distant from the other. On one occasion, in winter, wishing to
make great haste, he put on his skates, and took the canal in his
way; but it was not well frozen beneath the bridges, and the ice
let him in. He hurried home, and changed his clothes, but left
his sermon in the wet pocket, and arrived only to dismiss his long
expecting congregation. The old man, notwithstanding his vices,
had much good-nature and no pride. He accepted every im;ta-
tion to dinner at the weddings of his humblest .Parishioners, for
his own dinners were, like those of the miser Elwes, generally
cold boiled eggs and pancakes, which he carried in his pockets,
and ate as he went along. His hearers were many of them col-
liers; and in their cabins he has sometimes got so drunk that he
has fallen asleep, and they have put him to bed, with a slice of
bacon in one hand, and one of bread in the other. .I remember
him meeting a labourer in the fields one Sunday, as he returned
from church, and seeing that the man had been nutting instead of
to prayer, he said-" Ah, William! you should not If? a nutting
on a Sunday! Have you got a few for me, William ? ' When he
administered the sacrament to the sick, he advised them not to
take much of the \\;ne, lest·it should increase their fever; but
added, charitablv, he would drink it for them, and it would do as
well. In short; he was not without redeeming qualities; but he
is dead; or rather, was kicked out of the world by a horse, when
he was in a state of intoxication. Another came in his stead;
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 253
and such another! I see him now in fancy-he is still the in- V
cumbent, or encumbrance of the llarish, and may be seen by any
one who lists-a hard-faced, vulgar-looking fellow, whom, at a
glance, you know to have a heart like a pebble, a head full of
stupid mischief, and a gripe like iron. I think it was Alderman
W aithman who said in parliament, that of all tyrannies, none are
so odious as the tyranny of a parish priest. And this fellow is a
tyrant in perfection. To the poor he speedily showed himself a
fierce and arbitrary dictator; they must abide his pleasure as Jo
the .times of marrymg, burying, and baptism ; and he extorted from
them the uttermost farthing. . It is a coal district; and the coal
had been got in the surrounding country, but had been left under
the houses to prevent injury to them. This he claimed and sold.
In getting the coal, he threw down a part of several houses,
cracked and undermined otherS, and would probably have thrown
down the church, for the workmen were actually beginning to
undermine it, ·When the churchwardens interfered. He bQught
farms, and borrowed money to pay for them; and, when compelled
to pay part of the interest, lie persuaded the attorney to give
bini a memorandum of the receipt without a stamp, and then laid
an information against him in the Exchequer; He got a commis-
sion to prove wills, and charged the poor ignorant people double,
till some one more experienced informed the bishop. and got his
occupation taken away. He was to be found at public-houses,
and m the lowest company, till the very family who got him the
living, absented themselves from the church; yet, with a very
common kind of inconsistency, when the people compl(tined, and
asked if he could not be removed, this very family declined acting
in it, alleging-it would be a great scandal for a clergyman to
be dismissed from his living!! At length some unwise guardians,
who had lent him the money of their orphan wards on his bare
note, and the strength of his clerical character, have put him in
prison ; and the longer he lies, the greater the blessing to the people.
The following is part of the report of the Insolvent Debtors'
Court when he applied to be discharged;-"The Rev. gentleman's
debts set forth in his schedule amounted to £8945 8s. 9d. It ap-
peared that he had exercised certain lay vocations; speculated
somewhat in land ; dabbled a little in twist-lace machinery ; worked
a colliery! and now and then enjoyed a bit of horse-dealing. The
insolvent's income was £246 per annum, and his out-goings
£500 a year."
Such is the ecclesiastical history of this one parish ; such would
be that of thousands were they related; and all this is the natural \ ·
result of the absurd and iniquitous system of state and individual
patronage. Till this scandalous mode-this mode so insulting to
the people of a nation like this, of aJ.>pointing parish ministers~
be abandoned, vain is every hope of mtel'Ilal strength and life to
the church. Let every parish choose its own pa.Stor, and a new
course will commence. The worthy and the talented will take
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT fS ALL AGES.
heart,-piety will meet its natural reward, and work its natural
works ; the sot and the hireling incubus will disappear ; the vicar
will no more come and· pocket his yearly £2000, and leave his
curate to do his yearly labour for £ 100; multitudes of needful 're-
forms will flow into the heart of the church; a religious regimen
and new life will animate its constitution.
The canons of the church must be revised ; its Articles abolished
or reduced to rationality; surplice fees done away with. It is a
crying scandal and oppression, that none of the children of Heth
are left who will say, "Bury thy dead out of thy sight-what is it
between me and thee ?-bury thy dead;" but the poor man cannot
Luryhis dead except by feeing the parson to an amount that willcost
him days of hard labour and months of privation. " To ask a fee of
such," says Milton, " is a piece of Jlllltry craft befitting none but
be~rly artists. Burials and mamages are so little a part of the
pnest's gain, that they who consider well, may find them to be no
part of his functions. It is a peculiar simony of our English di-
vines only. Their great champion, Sir Henry Spelman, in a book
written to that purpose, shows by many cited canons, and some of
times corruptest in the church, that fees extorted or demanded for
sacraments, marriages, and especially for burials, are wicked, ac-
cursed, simoniacal, and abOminable."
But we have only hitherto exhibited an incidental and passing
glance at many of these matters ; let us, before quitting the rrul>-
ject, take one regular and complete view of the presumption, folly,
and injustice of n state religion ; at the constitution and present
condition of the English Establishment.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
255
CHAPTER XXIII.
ENGLISH CHURCH-CONTINUED. A STATE CHURCH A STANDING
LIBEL ON CHRISTIANITY. CONSTITUTION AND MACHINKRY OF
THE ENGLISH CHURCH.
Erroneous constitutionS, craftily first creeping in under hypocritical
.liee, for advantage. Loan CoBHAK, THB MARTYR.
· A glorious church is like a magnificent feast : here is all the variety
that may be, but every one chooses out a dish or two that he likes, and
lets the rest alone. How glorious soever the church is, every one
chooses out of it his own religion, by which he governs himself, and lets
the rest alone. ' SELDEN's TABLE TALK.
.EVERY institution professing itself to be a state establishment of
Christianity, is a gross insultand standing LIBEL upon Christianity;
for it goes UIJ<>n this presumption, that it is a religion not capable
of its own inherent pc;>wer to propagate, maintain, and perpetuate
itself. It is founded upon the avowed principle, that the Christian
-religion requires the arm of royalty, the protection of legislative
enactments, the stimulus of compulsory provision, to prolong its
existence ; that, unless a government mgrafts upon a whole peo-
.ple the form of this religion, holds in its pay a host of hireling
.ministers, and recommends it by the sanction and force of law,
it has not attractions sufficient of its own to draw to it voluntary
.votaries. Never was this glorious religion more scandalously
libelled; never was the understanding of a whole nation more
.insulted, than by this invention and doctrine! Yet that such is
the real principle of state religions, their advocates make no secret
of confessing. · Every day we are told by reverend and right
reverend polemics and pamphleteers, and by the Tory literary
and newspaper press, that " if we had no established religion we
should soon have no religion at all."
What! is this said of that religion for which Christ lived and
died ?-that religion, which a prophetic metaphor of most singular
truth and beauty represented as "a stone cut out of the mountains
witlundhands, which grew and filled the whole earth?" that religion,
of which its Divine founder, so far from commanding or recom-
mending any national establishment, declared that it was a king-
dom not of this world; of which he promised that" where two or
three were met ~ther in his name, there he would be in the
midst of them?" Two or three-not whole nations, whole hicr-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRI~STCRAPT IN ALL .t.G£8.
archies merely, but two or three,-not of any particular naJill!;
description, or peculiarity of doctrine; not merely those sanctio11ed
by kings and priests, bv bishops or presbyters ; not great and leam. ·
ed only; but two or three, of any class, any name, any nation, so
that they were but men, aDd so that they were·met together in his
name. Can it be this religion which we are told shall dwindle and
expire excel?t it be chartered and riveted on a state by its govem.
ment P Thui religion, to whose first ministers Christ said, "Pro-
vide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses ; neither scri~
for your journey : neither two coats, neither sliocs, nor yet staves:
but added, " GQ ye into all nations, and preach the gospel ;" assur•
ing them that he would "be with them alway, until the end of the
world P" Can it be of this religion that its professed believers, after
eighteen centuries of its triumphs, can thus speak P thus fling back
in the face of their Redeemer, in contempt and scom, his own
eternal words? thus insult the reason of his whole people, in every
church and nation, in defiance of history overfloWing with proolil
that his gospel is an immortal and invincible principle, asking of
human !l:ovemments none of their purblind enactments, none Of
their artificial establishments, but only room and freedom to spread
and brin~ every spirit beneath its influence ?
· What 1s the testimony of all history? Did this religion require,
or did it enjoy in its infancy the protection of power andthe smile!
ofearthly governments P Every body knows that it arose and gr.ew
in spite of them. It had to contend singly with the prejudices and
old idolatries of the whole world. The Jews slew its founder-
their own brother-and scattered with bitter persecutions his fol·
lowers : the Romans, the universal masters of the knoY:n earth,
pursued them with desolating fury, and heaped every extenninato.
mg terror on them ; but in the very teeth of all this hatred, they
spread and increased till theirs became the predominant religion,
and the Roman emperor received it as his own. This was the in-
fancy of Christianity. Instead of tithes and national favour, the
aliment on which it grew was poverty, persecution, and slau!l:hter,
the hatred and the envy of the wise and strong. This waa Its in-
fancy ;-but perhaps it will be said, that it was an infancy unilef
the immediate watch and guardianship ofits Divine founder; under
the first out-pourings of his omnipotent Spirit. What then P Has
this religion grown old? Can 1t become decrepit, wasted, ana
wearyP Has tliat gushingforth ofthe Divine Spirit entirely ceasedP
Has Christ indeed spoken a lie P Has he failed to be with his
disciples alway, to the end of the.world P Has he failed to be in
the midst of the tl\•o or three P Let the events of these latter
days speak for themselves. · For a thousand years this eelestiai
faith suffered eclipse; for a thousand years, clasped in the iron
arms of monarchy, overwhelmed with delusive flatteries, bouncl
by law upon law, and tradition upon tradition, it has been "cribbed,
cabincd, and confined." Lies have been propagated in ita name;
swarms of vile creatures have ~de it an ineXhaustible prey, and
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCilAFT IN ALL AGES.
h&n heaped UpOn itS head abuses scandalous and loathsome; It
baa had to contend with the desolations of barbarism, the selfish
pretences of kings and priests, and the stupified spirits of a trod-
Clen pOpulace; but it has lived through all. It has suffered that
which would have been ten-fold death to aught less than divine ;
and has even given life and beneficent power to institutions in
themselves deadly. Like the fabled lamp of the Rosicrucians, its
light has lain buried in the ruins of cities and temples, and has
8ashed through the chinks of tombs ; till, in these latter times, it
has burst on the 1tartled eyes of the explorers into the waste places
of the earth, with a blaze like that of the sun.
~ Yet this is the religion which Dr. Chalmers and such men went
about libelling with the stale and threadbare maxim, that there can
be no free trade in religion. That in its case the doctrines of
political economy must be reversed,, That the supply will not be
j)receded by a demand. That there will not be a demand for
Christianity without a host of preachers prepared and maintained
hy the state to excite that demand. A more shallow and false
dogma never was held up as a grand spiritual discovery to the
eya of gaping ignorance. we tell the doctor and all his dtsciples,
that the promises of Christ, and the history of all ages, cast ridi-
cnle on the assertion. Men will, and do seek after a ltnowledge of
Christianity and its saving truths without the intervention of
state priests. Preachers have ever arisen, do, and will arise, to
offer these truth11 to their fellow men, not from the fulness of state
bread, but raised up and made willing, and capable of divine vic-
tories, by the immortal pOwer of Christianity itself.
It was triumphant in its early career; has it been less so in its
Jatest P Let the chamyions of the Reformation 1 let America ; let
our missionary societies ; let the dissenters in general, and the
Methodists in particular, reply. Nay, let the doctor look back to
the Covenanters of his own country, and to the hosts of dissenters
of that country now, who compete in numbers with the state church
itself, and every day alarm it by fresh increase. Out of that very
a1arm do not the doctor's own clamours spring? Was it by the
aid of states that the doctrines of the reformers spread ? Let Huss
lllld Jerome of Prague, let Oldcastle, let Cranmer, Latimer, and a
thousand other martyrs sveak to this. But what establishment
bas given Christianity such splendid prevalence in America? Has
this been the effect ofmitres and lawn sleeves, of wealthy lordships
and fat livings presented by governmentor t>rivate patrons in scorn
of the pOpular choice P No! religion has m the United States all
that true Christianity asks,-freedom to operate, and human hearts
to operate upon. This is a great experiment on the intrinsic and
unabated vitality of this blessed faith, which is worth a world of
arguments,-which includes all arguments within itself; an ex-
periment which will put to silence every cavilling of the interested,
=-lor it has succeeded even to the amplitude of the apOstolic age.
Fain would the spiritual despOts escape from the inevitable con- ·
8
.-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCKAFT IN ALL AGES.
elusions to be drawn from this great'example,-but they ca.nnot
do it. They tell us that British America is yet in its infancy ; and
they add, in the bitterness of an ,unhallowed hope, it may yet
stumble in its career. What then? Let America fall from iti
high estate to-morrow; let it grow drunk with prosperity, and rend
itself to pieces in the frenzy of ambitious discord; let Christianity
be fettered to the car of state, as in Europe: I say-what then?
The great trial is made and decided ! Christianity has been cast
upon the bosom of a multitudinous people,-a people compounded
ofmany a mingled origin; daily contaminated by swarmintrarrivals
of the most debased outpourings of European population, and,
even in snch a soil, it has proved that so long as a legislature re-
frains totally from interference with it, it will flourish with all the
energy of its youth. " Look," says an American writer quoted by
Mr. Marshall in his work on Establishments, " at the ten thou-
sand clergymen, the free choice of the people, living in the hearts,
and supported by the free-will offerings of their respective flocks,
and exerting a moral influence, and imparting a moral benefit, far
more extensive and lasting than the English priesthood, with all
its secular power, and patronage, and wealth." But it is not
merely to the settled population of the United States, that Chris-
tianity thus shows itself in its native strength; it can afford to go
forth, by its domestic missions, to every obscure haunt of the back·
woodsmen; nay, it can afford, in the power of voluntary contribu-
tion, to have its foreign missions. The" Christian Advocate," for
Nov. 1830, published at Philadelphia, says, "There are forty-
seven missionary stations under the direction of the Board. One
is at Bombay, five in Ceylon, one at Malta, one at Bayroot, six at
the Sandwich Islands, and thirty-three among theNorth American
Indians. About ll,OOO converted heathens have been received
into the mission churches, a large portion of them within the last
year, and great numbers are brought under religious restraint, giv·
ing more or less an evidence of piety. At least 50,000 learners are
enrolled in the mission schools ; and about 600 teachel'll, most of
them natives, who have thelDSelves been taught by missionary in-
fluence, are employed in them. The missionaries and the Board
have made use of the press for the dissemination of know}~ in
eleven languages,-namely, Mahratta, Tamul, Armeno-Turxish,
Arabic, Greek, Italian, Cherokee, Choctaw, Seneka, Abernakee,
and Hawaiian."
And all this is done by a nation in that stage of its career in
which all other people have been cruel barbarians; a nation that
takes not a penny fiom the state to maintain,its preachers; a na-
tion that our state-fed priests have dared to brand as irreligious
and even atheistical, while they have themselves been rioting in
idleness on those prodi~ous funds sacrificed by England to a state
creed. But in this nation the state priests of England see causes
of everlasting alarm. They see, and they know that the world
observes it-that a free state has shown how religion would mod!l·
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRA,FT IN J.LL AGES. 259
bite itself if freed from the fetters and,corrupting influences of
political alliance. There, state religion was not abolished by the
peremptory act of government, but at the request of the people
themselves. No one particular church was there established, but
in one state episcopacy, in another presbyterianism was the state
religion ; and these states, once freed from English control, sever-
ally and successivelr. petitioned that their establishments might
be withdrawn, and 1t was complied '1\ith. Then, that episcopacy
which, in alliance with the state, r.ranks itself with archbishops,
deans, and a long train of popish dignitaries, divested itself of all
but bishops and priests ; and oh ! horror to the eyes of English
orthodoxy! abolished patronage, and admitted the laity not only
to unite in choosing their own ministers, but also to govern the
church in convocation!
This is a revelation of.the tendency of Christianity, when freed
from state compulsion, most awful for the lovers of individual
patronage, simony, pluralities, the dictation of spiritual pride, and
the" grand prizes" of a political church to contemplate. Another
fact equally hateful to the state priesthood of England, revealed by
the free constitution of America, is, that that episcopacy which
they have maintained to be the only orthodox species of Chris-
tianity, and to force which on the consciences and shoulders of all
Englishmen, they have inflicted such burnings, stripes, imprison-
ments, waste of wealth and of temper,-there, left to the attraction
of its own chamiS, out of a population of 15,000,000, and 18,000
congregations, musters only 850 congregations, and 600,000 ad-
herents!
Lolid, too, as the assertions of Tory travellers, and churchmen
at home, have been, that there is no religion in America, and that
especially in the new states, where, as population spreads, 110 pro-
vision· being made by the government for the religious teacliing of
the people, they of course declare there is none-nothing, in fact,
but ignorance, infidelity, and brutality; yet does the American
Almanac of 1839 show, that the ministers of religion in that
country, which in 1830 were but about 10,000, are now 16,438,
having in ten years increased by more than one half of their then
number.; that is, 6,4.18 ministers beyond the old amount have
sprung up in ten years to supply the wants of a growing and
spreading population. Can any thing like that be shown in anv
other country of the world? Does any thing like it exist in any
country where religion is paid by the state? Look at England,
with its swarming and growing population of about 15,000,000,
and a state priesthood of about 10,000, having an income of
£10,000,000 for their services. And look at Ireland, where the
enormously endowed ministers remain stationary at about 889,
\\·ith 800,000 hearers, and a population of 8,000,000.
But wherever we tum, we find that it is the principle of volun-
tary contribution that is Ch1istianizing the world. It is by the
missionary societies that the Indies, East and West, hnYe received
5 2 .
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
the gospel; that l!uch wonderful effects have been produced in
the South Sea islands ; that the fri~htful wastes of Labrador and
Greenland have been visited with 1ts happy sound. What have
our establishments to offer in comparison with these facts ? Yet
their advQCates, with ·a blindness or an audacity equally amazing,
persist in declaring that without these engines religion cannot be ,
either maintained at home or propagated abroad; and this, too,
while they are absolutely doing nothing, even at their own doors i
-while, as is shown by the parliamentary returns ·of non-resi-
dence for 1831, out of 10,560 incumbents, only 4649 are doing
duty, and therefore nearly 6000 are living in the mire of utter
slotb, with the awful responsibility of millions of souls upon their
heads! The Moravian Brethren have done more for tlie exten-
sion of Christianity, small a body and poor a body as they are, than
all the establishments that ever existed. Whoever doubts this,
let him turn to the history of their wonderful missions in all quar-
ters of the world.
· But beyond all this mass of startling facts, on the very domestic
soil which our establishments are chartered and fed to cnltiva~
it is the prin<;iple of voluntary Christianity that is doing the work·.
The clergy are enjoying their livings, for the most part, in care-
less ease, but their people are daily falling away to the dissenters
for spiritual instruction,• and above all is this principle most mar-
vellously demonstrated by the ¥ethodists. These people, whose
founders were expelled the state university for their pious zeal, in
about ninety-five years have grown to upwards of a million; nay,
in the course of a. single year, one class of them alone has added
ninety thousand to its body,-a number greater, it may be well
believed, than the priests of the Establishment have actually prose-
lyted since this church sprung from the great harlot and mother
of enchantments.
Thus, whether we look to the past or the present, whether at
home or abroad,·we behold Christianity vindicated by its own vic-
torious strength, from the base libel of the necessitr of state
establishments. All history is eloquent in the assertion of its
freedom. Beautiful and prosperous wherever it is left to its own
energies, and the natural love of men ; lan~uishing and disgraced
by all monstrous abuses, wherever it is allied to the state ; it be-
comes the sacred duty of each lover of his God and his fellow men,
to stand boldly forward, and demand, that in a great and wise
nation like this, such violence shall no longer be done to the most
. .
• At the moment I "write this, (Dec. 14, 1837,) an example is af-
forded of the relative proportions of church people and dissenters in this
town, in a paper read before the Nottingham Literary Society, by R.
Hopper, Esq., founded on careful inquiry :-attenders of chapel,l2,o0o;
of church, 5800. In many manufacturing districts, the balance in favour
of dissent would be far greater. In the Staffordshire Potteries and the
populous Lancashire towns, a.s eight to one.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PIUESTCR.AFT IN ALL AGES; 261
precious of God's lrifts-the everlasting gosj>el. If we needed any
®~onstration of tne·anti-christianity of an establishment, beyond
the evils and sqandals it has ~nerated, we need only bear in mind
Christ's command to his mmisters-" Freely ye have received,
freely give;" but the command of an establishment is-" By force
ye have received, and by force ye shall give." The essence of
Christianity is freedom-that of an establishment is compulsion;
the distinction is eternal and convincing.
But in order to judge more correctly of the real nature and con-
dition of the English church, let us take a cursory view of its
constitution and present state, as represented by its friends, pre-
ceded by an outline of what it was in our fathers'.days. In a, rare
tract, entitled "Omnia Comesta a Bello," printed in 1667, is given
the following sketch.
"THE CONSTITUTION OF THE CHURCH.
"First. THE REVENUE, POMP, AND STATE OF THE PR.ELATES.
" There are two provincial archbishops, Canterbury and York,
with their princely retinue, domestic chaplains, officers for tem-
~ralities, their spiritual officers, vicar-general, guardian of the
Spiritualities, dean of the Arches, wit,h all their under officers
aiid attendants.
"Secondly. THEIR COURTS.
Court of Faculties. Prerogative. Court.
Court of Audience. Delegates.
" There are four-and-twenty bishops diocesan, with their trains,
domestic chaplains, officers, and courts. To these belong-
. 26 Chancellors,_.and their attendants.
24 Registrars, with their clerks.
24 Gentlemen apparitors.
120 Inferior apparitors.
48 Proctors.
"There are, under these bishops-
. "60 Archdeacons; and these have 60 courts, to which belong....;
Commissaries. 60 Registrars.
. . Officials. 120 Proctors.
· Surrogates. 200 Apparitors.
. " So that the number belonging to archbtshops, bishops, arch-
deacons, and their trade, are judged to be no less than ten thomand
per«m8; which will require for their maintenance, two hundred
tlwusand pound& per a)lllum, reckoning them at twenty pounds &
man; whereas some of them have one hundred pounds, some jQUr
hundred ,Pounds, squeezed out of the poor_ people. As for their
standing rents, they are well known. Thetr lordly palaces, sum}.>" -
tuons houses, ecclesiastical dignities, etc., cij. a. et modia, such ts
their income, that it amounts, at least, to four hundred and fifty
tlwutand pounds a year.
"THEY IIAVE MANY OTHER WAYS TO ENR.ICB THEMSELVES,
AND IKPOVER.ISB THE NATION: 88,
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
" First; By ordaining deacons and ministers four times a ·year
for money; by which they put up yearly, hundreds of pounds. .
"Secondly; By instituting and inducting ~ns and vicars to
benefices when they falL For every sucli mduction, they have
three pounds at the least. ~nd in E~la!ld there are 9295 parishes ;
so that, at the rate &f one m a parish, 1t amounts to twenty-:aeven
thousand eight hundred and.ft.ftyjive pound&.
"Thirdly; By making rural deans yearly; and for the oath~
taking they pay eight ahillings and sixpence.
" Fourthly ; By granting licences to beneficed ministers t()
preach in their own cures. Though they be ordained before, and
strictly commanded to preach, yet they must not do it without a
licence ; and thiS licence costs them ten shilling& ; so that in 9285
parishes, this comes to four thousa11d Biz hundred and fifty-two
pounds, ten shilling&. .
" Fifthly ; By granting-
!. Licences to curates to preach.
2. for schoolmasters to teach schooL
3. for parish clerks.
4. to midwives, to do their office.
5. to marry~which thing of itself arises to a vast
sum.
6. For absolving excommunicated persons.
'/. For putting men to clear themselves by oath with their
compurgat{)rs.
8. For commutation of penance; for so the rich come offwith
a round sum of money, but the poor, doing their penance in kind,
must stand excommunicated till they have paid their fees.
" Sixthly; By probates of wills, and granting letters of lid-
ministration ; which brings 'i1 constantly great sums qf mone.lf.
" Seventhly; By framing new articles, and forcing churchward-
ens to present upon oath, whereby many innocent persons are
brought into their courts, and squeezed, both in conscience and
purse (the penalty for non-attendance of church being twenty
pounds a month);.and the churchwarden is squeezed also, if he
do not take the oath prepared for him.
"BY THEIR VISITATIONS FOR MONEY.
" First; Churchwardens ofevery parish in England, and chafl,
are called ; who receive a Book of Articles to present by ; an if
any are wanting, they are warned to appear at their courts, with
costs. These churchwardens pay for their Book of Articles every
year (though the·very same); as also for writing their present--
ments by a clerk, (which they themselves could do, but are not
permitted,) two aMUings and .four ~; which in 9'295 parishes,
cometh to one thousand and.ftfly-elflhtpounds, odd numey, yearly.
" Secondly; Ministers that are licensed, pay one shilling and
eight pence, or thereabouts, for showing their licence to preach, to
the registrar, at every bishor.'s visitation, though seen and allowed
before : after that, four shillings for procuration to the bishop ;
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PKIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
arid to the gentleman apparitor, eight ~ ; most pay twelce
~·shall omit the poor curates' suit and service at this court ;
on1y let you know, that when an archbishop comes newly to York,
all the parsons and vicars in his jurisdiction, though never so poor,
and their charge never so great, give him a tenth of their livings
for a Benevolence, to help the poor bishop to settle himself infoe
or &iz tllmuand& a year; and if any, yea, the meanest vicar, whose
~r children want bread, ~o! throng~ po'!'erty, omit the paymel!t,
this reverend father doth p1tifully wh1p him to the very bones m
his merciless spiritual court.
"BY ARCHDEACONS' VISITATIONS.
"These are twice a year. At Easter visitation they pay their
Paschal rents, or synodals, which it seems are not alilie to all ;
some pay 56, some less. At Michaelmas they pay procurations;
some seven ahillinga, some ten shillinga, some less; but it is judged
that ministers pay yearly at visitations .ftr:e tlwusand pound& and
upwards.
"BY THE VAST CHARGES IN COLLEGIATE CHURCHES.
"There are twenty-six great deans with their attendants and
servants.
"544 Canons, residents, and prebendaries, with a numerous
train of-
Vicars,
Peti-canons,
Singing men and boys, choristers,
Organists,
Gospellers,
Epistelers,
Vergers.
"Now this jovial crew have belonging to them aboutjour hun-
dred tlwtuand pound& yearly in lands, rents, leases, and other
rtevenues and profits thereunto belonging."
This is a curious picture enough of a REFORMED CHURCH in
1667; but seven years after the restoration of Charles II., by which
it regained its power. Wise and good men would have been
taught by the adversities and humiliations of the commonwealth,
temperimce and forbearance; but the dignitaries of the church
ruslied again to the seats from which they had been driven by the
people, like so many hungry wolves rendered mad by their tem-
porary abstinence, and ready to prey on all that came into.their
power, even upon their own order, "whipping the poorest vicars
to the very bones if they failed of their payments." The whole of
the cathedral property had been sold by the state during the com-
monwealth to pnvate individuals ; all this was reclaimed in the
most summary manner, and not a penny of compensation paid.
" And what," this writer goes· on to ask, "did the nation get by
the restoration of this hierarchy ? In all other trades men have
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PlliBSTCilAJI'T JN ALL -AGES.
something for their money. The farmer hath goOd lands -from the
gentleman for his money ; the clothier hath good wool from the
farmer for his money ; the merchant hath good cloth from the
clothier for his money ; and thus it goes round to every one's be-
nefit. But, pray, what have w~t from the bishoJ>S for our money!'
"We have all our able, y, orthodox mirusters ruined and
belwu'ed, and no manner o supl'ly provided for the maintenance
of-tnem and their families; and m their rooms, in many places, a
company or debauched, illiterate, superstitious, profane priests,
which, blind guides, must needs leaddiem thatfollow them to hell
" We have gotten most of our churchwardens ~ured, t._t do
swear to present according to their Visitation Articles, and moet·of
them undone that do not swear; although the i~posing of 88ch
an oath is a breach of the fundamental law of the land.· lf•
.a
minister, never so godly, preach in a cloak, and not in aganaeat
canonical, he is bound to present him. If any person go to•
heaa
sermon from his own J>B:rish church, thou~h there be no preacbing
there, and though he 1s botmd by his baptismalvow to hear~
ing, this man is to be presented. If a poor man hath not·,J.ead
for his family, but wli&t he esmeth by his daily labour, and..-he
work on a holiday, appointed by Romish institution, he is iOi\e
presented. If any person coming to church, do not stand -upat
the creed, do nQt bow at the name of Jesus, do not keep hisdlat
offall the while, he must be presented. Now there are in all,llree-
sooreandfourteen thoU&and churchwardens and Bidu-men in England
every year: and what a dreadful thingis it, to have all these yearly,
either per;juredperucutors, or persecuted! ·
"We have gotten most of the sober, trading part of the nation
discouraged by citations, excommunications, writs to take them
excommunicated, imprisonments upon ecclesiastical accounts. By
this means, thousands of families are already ruined, and many
hundreds are ready to leave the land, and seek some other country
where they may have liberty of conscience, and freedom from tllese
devouring harpies.
"We have got, instead of the gos.t>el in the power and purity of
it, a service collected out _of the Rom1sh books, the Mass, Breviary,
etc.: which service of ours King James called an ill-sung nuu&.
We have got surplices, copes, tiJ?pets, cringings, etc., out of the
Romish rituals, so that the papists themselves call it un apisla
imitation l!f the mau. We have gotten a swarm of ecclesiastical
officers which the Scriptures never knew, nor reformed churches
never owned. We have got a sort of proud prelates, of mean ex-
tract, not of the highest rank f9r godliness, learning, and labour
in the world, nor the greatest champions for the reformed religion :
yet very elate they are, affioonting our nobility, trampling upon our
gentry, grindin~ to powder all that put not into their mouths, or
offer not at their shnne; insomuch that a. gentleman of quality, of
£3000 per annum, speaking to one of the said prelates boldly, but
with due respect, the prelate, in a fume, answered-• Wlaat, sir, do
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAF'r IN ALL AGES.
yim 1hink that it i8fit for every Jack gentleman to speak thus .to a
bishop f'-deriding the gentry of our land as not worthy to speak
to a peevish prelate. Surely a gentleman of £500 per annum
would not be allowed to speak to his postilion ! .
"We have gotten all manner of misery to soul and body,-
plague, fire, sword, universal beggary, and, without seasonable
mercy, the total ruin of the wlrole kingdolll."
Such is the lamentable tes~imony of one of that time to the'fruits
of restoring, in the rear of monarchy, that evil spirit-the Legion
of Prelacy, which had been so well cast out. Let the reader bear
in mind, that the sums of money here mentioned are but about
the fourth part of what the same property would now produce,
and it will give some curious results; In pl!rticular, the dean
and chapter property still continues to be valued by the clergy at
about £290,000 per annum ; where88 at that time it was estimated
.-at £400,000 a year.
Another curious fact presented is, that many of the assumed
prerogatives of the church, the growing infonnation of the people
·bas wrested from it. Physicians, schoolmasters, and midwives,
have rescued themselves from the talons of the ecclesiastical har-
pies, and set a good example to the country at large ; and shall
not the now mighty body of dissenters be able to do for themselves
-what the schoolmasters and midwives have done?
We will now take a survey of the church as it appears at pre-
sent; by which we shall, I trust, arrive at some useful ideas.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
266
CHAPTER XXIV.
•
ENGLISH CHURCH-CONTINUED. THE CHURCH, AS AT PRESENT
EXISTING.
Why do the apostolical writings say-" honour the king, and be subject
to principalities," so often, but hOfiOUr th6 llpiritual pritaee, or 1mate, doth
never occur? ••.• Of these things in the apostolical writings, or in any
near those times, there doth not appear any footstep or pregnant intima-
tion. But supposing the church was designed to be one in this m&llJier
of political regiment, it must be quite another thing, nearly resembling
a worldly state, yea, in effect, soon resolving itself into one; supposing,
as is now pretended, that its management is now committed to an ecclesi-
astical monarch, it mu,;t soon become a worldly kingdom; for such & .
polity could not be upheld without applying the same means and engines,
without practising tlte same methods and arts, whereby secular govern-
ments arc maintained. Its majesty must be maintained by conspicuous
pomp and phantasy: its dignity and power must be supported by wealth
which it must corrade and accumulate by large incomes, by exaction o(
tributes and taxes. It must exert authority in enacting laws for keeping
its state in order and securing its interests, backed with rewards and
pains; especially as, considering its title being so dark, and grounded on
no clear warrant, many always will contest it. It must apply constraint
and force for procuring obedience, and correcting transgressions. It
must have· guards to preserve its safety and authority. It must be en-
gaged in wars to defend itself, and make good its interests. It must use
subtlety and artifice for promoting its interests, and countermining the
policy of its adversaries. It must erect judicatories, aud decide causes
with the formality of legal proce!lS; whence tedious suits, crafty pleadings,
quirks of Jaw and pettifoggeries, fees and charges, extortion and barratry,
etc., will necessarily creep in. All which things do much disagree from
the oripnal constitution and designs of the Christian church, which is
averse from pomp, doth reject domination, doth not require craft, wealth,
or force to maintain it; but did at first, and may subsist without any
such means.--DR. BARROW, Vice-Chatu:tllor of Cambridge in Charlu
II.'• r~n, and oM ofth6 brigh~lt orna111411tl of tM church of Englafld.
The national church groans and bleeds, " from the crown of the head
to the sole of its feet," through the daily intrusion of unworthy men into
its ministry. Patrons, parents, tutors, colleges, are annually pouring a
torrent of incompetent youth into tlte church, and loading the nation
with spiritual guilt. Hence souls-are neglected and ruined,-bigotry and
ignorance prevail,-church pride triumphs over church godJincss,-ond
the Establishment is despised, deserted, and wounded.
TilE REV. LEGH RICBIIOND.
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 267
ON the fl.rst glance of the outline of the church given in the last
chapter, one would be ready to exclaim, here is a constitution
carefully marked out, and filled up with abundant officers ; but
when we come to examine it, we find it a constitution merely for
collecting money, and not at all for moral discipline, as I shall
presently show it continues to this day. We will, therefore, forth-
with contemplate it as it now exists, and shall, I doubt not, arrive
at some useful notions.
FIRST AND FOREMOST WE HAVE THE KING, HEAD OF THE
CHURCH, AND DEFENDER OF THE FAITH.
Of what use it is that the king should occupy this singular
station it is difficult to see, except that it enables him to appoint
all bishops, and keep them subservient to his secular power•
. This was the obJect of Henry VIII., of Elizabeth, and the
Stuarts, and this influence has been exercised with the most fatal
results to the character of the hierarchy and to religion ; but as to
any active exertion of it for the good of the church, we may look
for it in vain. No reform can take place in the doctrines of the
chUTch except at a convocation, and this cannot be summoned ex-
t."e,Pt by the king, in conjunction with the archbishops. Thus, not-
Withstanding the desires of a few good men, occasionally appear-
ing amongst the prelates or general cler~, the church has stood
an object of wonder for its strange doctnnes and want of moral
discipline, amid the growth of the public mind, while the scan-
dalous lives of many of the kings, its legal heads, have heaped
upon it unavoidable disgrace. One thing, however, has been
made apparent by the close alliance of king and church in this
nation-the monarchs have always looked upon the church as a
public sponge, through which they could suck up, and squeeze out
again at their pleasure, the wealth of the peoJ>le. The clergy
have gathered up the fees, and tithes, and donations given under
many a pious de1usion, and the kings have put their hands into
the church-box and helped themselves with great delight. Wil-
liam the Conqueror, says Matthew of Paris, and other chroniclers
of those times, to furnish his wars in the fourth year of his reign,
took all the money, jewels, and plate out of the religious houses,
making a rigorous search, and sparing not even the chalices and
shrines. He reduced the lands of the church into knights' fees,
making the bishops do military service for their baronies, and ex-
pelled such as opposed the measure. His son Rufus trod dili-
gently in his steps. Leland, Matthew of Westminster, and Mat-
thew of Paris, all declare that he spared no manner of rapine or
simony. As soon as bishoprics and abbeys became vacant, he
seized upon all their temporalities, farmed them out to his favour-
ites, or to such as, giving most for them, did not spare to raek the
tenants to the utmost; the offices themselves he conferred, not
on persons of merit, but sold t~em to the high~st bidde:, and thus
raiSed great sums out of the church. At the time of his death he
held .in his OWil hands the archbishopric of Canterbury, the bi-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
P·RIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
shoprics of Winchester and Salisbury, and twelve abbeys. Henry
I. continued the same custom, holdin~ the primacy in his hands
five years, and regularly selling bishopncs, particularly that of Dur-
ham, for £l000, an enormous sum in that day. Stephen, throu&h
his troublesome reign, during which the whole country was pil-
l~ed by armies, and reduced to famine, kept church lands, and
se1zed on church money wherever he could find it. Florence of
Worcester says, that the bishop of Salisbury, dying, it is supposed,
with not less than forty thousand marks in silver, besides gold,
and a variety of rich ornaments in his castles, Stephen helped
himself to it all. Henry II. reacted the same thing on the death
of the archbishop of York in his reign; and in 1173, say Ralph
Cogshall and Walter of Gisborn; there were no less than seven
bishoprics vacant, being held in his own hands-namely, Canter-
bury, ·winchester, Ely, Lincoln, Bath, Hereford, and Chichester;
and in 1175, twelve abbeys were vacant from the same cause.
Richard 1., to enable him to go to the crusades, exacted immense
sums of money from both laity and clergy; and likewise, on his
return, to pay the ransom of his captivity in Germany, even seizing
all the wool of the Cistercian monks, who had never before paid
any thing, and compelling them to redeem it. He found, also, in
Hugh Pudsey, bishop of Durham, a very gainful subject. This
man, a true churchman, being wealthy, and seeing the king's ne-
cessities, bought of him the whole county of Durham for an im-
mense sum, being made earl as well as bishop of Durham. We
find the same man still holding on his way to rank and power
by his money. He purchased the lord chief justiceship of the
king, not content with being both earl and bishop; and after-
wards the primacy. At length, glutted with spoil and honour, he
prayed to be allowed to retire from the government of the king-
dom ; and the king, inspecting the records, found that this good
and faithful servant had exacted for him, within the two last
years, from the people 1,100,000 marks. It was this miscreant
that enabled John to seize upon the throne and destroy his nephew
Arthur; and John repeated all the exactions and simony on the
church practised by h1s ancestors. To give the history of tl1e free-
handed plunder of the chmch by king after king, would be. to
write a volume; it is enough to say, that it was continued through
every reign. The Henries and the Edwards, in their continual
wars, had great occasion for money, and they did not fail to levy
freely on the clergy, to the amount frequently of fifty or one·hun-
dred thousand pounds at a time,-monstrous sums for those days,
but indicating that the church was a mine of wealth. At length
Henry VIII. laid his bold hand on the whole booty, and swept it
all into his capacious crypt, to the amount of £30,503,400; the
gold and jewellery he estimated at one million alone; giving back
just what he pleased, and making even that still subject to the
payment of his first-fruits and tenths. All which may be seen
at large in the Cotton MSS.; Strype's Ecclesiastical Memorials;
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES~ 269
Spelman's History of Sacrilege; Speed, Stowe, and Camden.
QUeen Anne finally took compassion on the poor clergy, and was,
as already shown, cheated by the rich out of these first-fruits and
tenths. . All this loving intercourse of king and church, in every
period of our history, demonstrates that church property has al-
ways been deemed state property. The king, bemg head of the
church, did what he thought proper with the cash he found in the
pockets of his lower members : a fact which the clergy are now
anxious to get rid of, raising the outcry of veated righta, that cant-
word of all corruptionists when government would recall what it
once lent for political pu'rposes. .
NEXT WE HAVE TWO ARCHBISHOPS."
For the existence of these men in a reformed church, the advo-
cates of the system have been sorely puzzled for a plea. For the
bishops, they could find a name in the New Testament, the book
by which all churches should be fashioned, although the name
agrees but little with the present office; but for these men there
does not exist in the Scnptures even a name. They are noto-
riously and integrally popish. They are standing monuments of
the wretched patchwork which was made by our k:ings, and called
a reformation. They have no duties distinct from the bishops, nor
does it appear that they have any jurisdiction <Wer them. They
do not appoint them-the king does, and they ca~ot remove
them ; they cannot, without the king's concurrence, call them to-
gether in convocation. Their sole use, therefore, seeJilll to be " to
rear their mitred fronts in courts and parliaments ;" to vote in the
train of ministers; to rule their wide and opulent domains; count
their enormous revenues, and dispose of good livings to sons, bro-
.thers, nephews, cousins, and relations and dependants without
end, as their own interest, or the interest of mimsters, reserved by
special agreement, may dictate. The system of nepotism was
never carried to a more scandalous extent in the court of Rome.
Two reasons, indeed, and two only, have been advanced for
these offices in a protestant church,-to add Bplendour to it, and to
form grand prize&, by which learning and talent may be stimulated
to exert themselves in the church. Most marvellous reasons they
are ! What is the,.~~plendour which should adorn the church of
Christ? The splendour of princely revenues ?-of secular pomp
and power? Why, then, did not Christ give such to his apostles?
Why not invest his infant church with this splendour, which
might have charmed monarchs, attracted the nobles, and dazzled
the common people? Why sent he them out to toil and J!OVerty
with empty purses; without a scrip, or a chan~ of rannent ?
Again, I say, this is a most gross libel on Chnst and his or-
dinances•
.But this reformed church would have prizes held out to learning
and talent. Then let it give them to secular objects. Let learn-
ing and talent be rewarded as they ought,-roads enow are open
to them. .The army arid navy may furnish grand prizes to talent;
270 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
-law is a famous path for talent and learning, to wealth and title,
as every day shows ; but if you will offer prizes in a Christian
church, in the name of God, let them be such as become it. You
will not have us to believe that talent and learning are always to
be found distinct from piety,-that piety cannot necessarily exist
in the same breast with them? If so, let us have piety alone, for
so Christ and his church would demand. But if it be not so, let
your offers be such as 11iety will seek, and talent and learning will
come along with it. The demand in this cast>, as in all others, will
insure a supply. In all great emergencies, men of the necessary
character spring from obscurity as by miracle. The immense
mass of talent, energy, learning, wit, genius, which slumbers in"the
great chaos of human society, quickened by the breath o[ high
occasion, starts up, and is ready to carry to its accomplishment
every mortal enterprise. This has been found marvellously the
case in all revolutions of state, of mind, or morals. The French
revolutidn is an instance at hand, and familiar to every one.
What wit, what genius, what statesmen and senators, what mighty
generals, what an awful conqueror, sprung from the body of the
people to the amazement of the world, who would otherwise have
gone fGrward on " the noiseless tenor of their way" unheard of.
But the momentous crisis called them into activity; and had that
crisis been of an aspect as religious and beneficent as it was other-
wise, actors as religious and beneficent in theirs would have come
forth as abundantly. Let, then, your prizes be adapted to the ob-
ject you desire. Yon will not be more foolish than the angler or
the fowler ? They offer baits suited to the prey they would take.
They do not offer grain to eagles, and live lambs to doves or fishes.
You want active piety, and you offer temptations to worldly-mind-
cdness, to unprincipled ambition, to the base, the time-serving, and
the rapacious ! At the sight of yom prizes of enormous wealth
and political distinction, so absmdly held aloft,-" the very prizes,·•
says a noble old writer, " which the devil offered to our Saviour,"
-the worst of our species,-the greedy of gold; the panters after
pleasure and dissipation; the hard, the ·~Tasping, the shameless,
msh in crowds to the temple doors, and snoulder away those who
fain would enter and do the work of Christ for the work's sake.
But where are your prizes for piety ?-ay, where are they? These
are what are wanted in a Christian church; and these are not
palaces and parks, \vide lands, a hundred thousand a year, or ac-
cess to the circles of fashion and heartless splendour -they are a
fair field for the exercise of a Christian pastor's love and zeal, a
dwelling amongst men with whom they can sympathize, and to
whom they can communicate that spirit of life which animates
them,-their knowledge, and their refined affections. To po ·sess
these men, the church must offer what their nature seeks, and
which will preserve them pure; but I must presently sho\1·, that
not only is nothing of this kind offered, but that the door is carefully
closed Hgo.inst men of this class by the deadly system of patronage.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAI1-T IN ALL AGES, 271
Wg HAVE THEN TWENTY-FOUR BISHOPS.
Here we have the apJ;learanee of coming upon scriptural ground;
but when we examine mto facts, we find we are as far off as ever.
This reformed church would have us to believe that it is founded
on the rock of ages, an:d organized in the strict principles of the
New Testament; yet in almost the only instance in which it has
retained the scriptural name, it has taken care to separate it from
the scriptural office. So far from having any connexion, even
nominally, with the gospel, in its archbishops, archdeacons, deans,
chapters, and long train of officers of its spiritual courts, chancel-
lors, commissaries, surrogates, registrars, etc., etc. ; it has not even
permitted its bishops to be the bishops of the Christian church in
Its original purity. What sort of a reformation must that have
been, which went not to the original model, but to that sink of
all corruptions from which.it professed to free and purify Chris-
tianity ? St. Paul tells us that a bishop "must not be given to
filthy lucre ; but a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober,
just, holy, temperate." But the bishop of the apostolic churches
was Rynonymous with the elder and presbyter-was, in fact, the
pastor of a flock. This is admitted by all the most celebrated
commentators-and Mr. Scott, the esteemed commentator of the
English church, among them. On chap. xx. of Acts, he says,
that " the same persons are in this chapter called elders or pres-
byters, and overseers or bishops ; it must, therefore, be allowed,
that these were not distinct orders of ministers at that time." St.
Jerome, in the fourth century, expressly states how this original
order of thin~ was changed. " By the ordinances of Christ,
priests and htshops were all one ; but afterwards the empet"Or
diYided them, and made bishops lords, and priests servants ; and
this was the cause of envy, and quenched much charity; for the
ordinances ofChrist are framed in meekness, in unity, and charity,
and in contempt of riches and high estate." Johannes Parisiensis
says, that when Constantine gave temporalities to the bishops, a
voice .was heard from heaven, crying, "·This day is poison poured
into the church!" Yet the English church, which affects to be so
tr!lly apostolical, has abandoned the scriptural bishops, and taken
those which popery borrowed of C~mstantine. The English
.bi&hop has not an attribute in common with the a_postolical. He
is not the pastor of one flock, dili~nt in preachin~, and caring
for the comfort and salvation of hts charge; all this is devolved
on the common clergy-and well would it be, if even they fulfilled
it: but for the bishop, he has no flock at all; preaching does not
make part of his vocation; he does not even come in contact with
the clergy over whom he is nominally set, except once in three
years, when he makes his .hurried viiitation to one or two of the
chief towns of his diocese. When he does come in contact with
his clergy, if we are to believe the Rev. Sidney Smith, than whom
no man is better acquainted \\;tlt bishops, it is too often as an in-
quisitor and tyrant.
PRIBSTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
"There is a practice among some bishops, which cannot be too
severelv reprobated. They send for a clergyman, and insist upon
his giving evidence respecting the character and conduct of h».
neignbour ;-' Does he hunt? Does he shootP Ia he in debt? Ia he
temperate P Does he attend to his parish ?' etc. etc. Now, what is
this but to destroy for all clergymen the very elements of social
life,-to put an end to all confidence between man and man,-
and to disseminate among gentlemen who are bound to live in con-
cord, every feeling of resentment, hatred, and suspicion ? But the
very essence of tyranny is to act as if the finer feelings, like the
finer dishes, were delicacies only for the rich and great, and that
little people have no taste for them, and no right to them.'' •
In the exercise ofprelatic tyranny over clergymen, Philpotts of
Exeter has been the most undisguised. The successive cases of
treatment of the Rev. Messrs. Head and Malkin, have established
the lordly prelate's character for as much overbearing insolence
to his clergy, as his haughty temper on all other occasions has
given him .a much greater resemblance to Thomas ABecket than
to Moses.
Philpotts, on his visitation circuit in Cornwall, publicly, in his
charge, invited the Methodists to commune with the church, to
unite their flocks, and become part and parcel of one religious
body. On his very next visit, in 1836, he showed how very sin~
cere he was in this affectionate invitation, by suddenly falling on
the Rev. J. Malkin, the curate of St. lves, a man generally beloved
by the people, with the heinous charge of "attending a conven-
ticle." Mr. Malkin proved that he liad not entered a Methodist
meeting, for that was the conventicle meant, for two years. But
he did not pretend to deny that his wife and children did occasion-
ally, nor could ·he undertake to dictate to his wife's conscience.
"If you cannot command your wife and family, sir," replied
the haughty bishop, "you are not fit to be a minister of the Estab-
lishment.'' "My Lord," rejoined the honest curate, "I received
this gown from your Lordship's hands, and I now return it to you
without a blemish ;"-taking it off, and laying it down. The
inhabitants of St. lves, reluctant to lose the services of their
esteemed minister, sent a deputation to Philpotts with an address
signed by several hundred ~rsons, praying him to restore Mr.
Malkin to their church, but m vain.
In 1838, the bishop having ordered the clergy to read a certain
.formula at least four Sundays before a confinnation, Mr. Head, a
clergyman of Feniton in Devonshire, wrote to assure him that he
coulo not comply with his order, the form being contrary to cer-
tain of the 1'h1rty-nine Articles. To punish so daring a piece of
presumption against the infallible fiat of a bishop, Phil~tts
adopted this mode of inflicting effective chastisement. Invttiog
• Letter to Archdeacon Singleton, on the Ecclesiastical Commis-
llion, 1837.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
].'RIBSTCRAIIT IN .~LL AGES. 273
Mr. Head to attend a confirmation at Honiton, he then and there,
in presence of the assembled clergy, burst forth upon him, charg-
ing him with being forsworn, a slanderer, with having insulted
GOd when he insulted Dr. Philpott&, and with having done more
than any man living to bring the holy rite of confirmation into
contempt.
Still more cowardly and atrocious than even this conduct of the
notorious Philpott&, was that of Bloomfield, bishop of London, to
Mr. Gompertz. Mr. Gompertz, a curate, for some time officiated
in the village of Harlington; in Middlesex. He left Hariington
for Little Bromley, but soon afterwards wished to return to Har-
lington. For this purpose it was necessary to have a licence, and
this licence the bishop refused on the wound of complaints against
Mr. Gompertz's character. He had, m fact, been calumniated by
a secret accuser, on the system exposed by the Rev. Sidney Smith.
The bishop refused to give up the name of the accuser on the very
plea, that without such secret communications it would be im-
possible to K.now what the conduct of clergymen was in many
cases. The poor curate, thus cut off from all prospect in the
church, and denied the knowledge of his accuser, brought his ac-
tion in the court of Common Pleas, 1S.'l7, where the whole was
proved to be a most groundless slander. Mr. Serjeant Talfourd
admitted for the defendant, that he could not substantiate the li-
bellous allegations; that his client had acted on a misconception.
The jury gave Mr. Gompertz £200 damages.
Now, how did this pious bishop act when he found that he had
thus been persecuting an.innocent man on a false charge? Was
he not overwhelmed with shame and remorse? Did he not drag
the slanderer to the light, and hasten to make reparation to hi~
victim? Nothing of the sort. He still declared his intention to
refuse Mr. Gompertz a licence, and confessed, though reluctantly,
that without such licence, or testimonial, from him, no other bUlwp
wOflld liceme himjr»" any other pamh !
. Well may it be said by the SpectatQr, that, next to a chimney
sweeper apprenticed to a ruffian by his :{>arish, a curate without
patrons is the most helpless of human bemgs. He crouches like
a guilty creature before his diocesan, whose bureau may be the
repository of some secret slander; submission, fawning, and flat-
tery may all be tried in vain; his stern and prejudiced censor
may wither him with a frown or a sneer. Never did Tom Hood
shine so in a pun as in his definition of a curate-
The man who Jives hard by the church.
Suclt are a bishop's acts, his duties are not of the most celestial
nature. To sit as a judge and law•maker in parliament; to super-
intend his great estates, and revenues of £70,000 a year, as in Lon-
don, or £30,000, as Durham ; to preside in his courtover a variety
of secular matters. Yet :would the members of the Establishment
persuade us that these men are the legitimU6 successors and re-
T
,g, Jb,Google
274 PRIESTCRAFT Ill' ALL AGES.
presentative& Of the martyrs and first reformers of the AngH.zt,
church. They are not members even of the same church. The-
present church is the church of Elizabeth-who, I have already
shown, was in heart a papist ; and in spite of her best-informed
and best-intentioned clergy,·left as little difference between it &lid
popery as possible ; and would, with her good will, have let:t none.
Wycliffe, Tyndale, Lambert, Cranmer, Latimer, Ridley, etc., held,
as may be seen in their writings, or their oral testimonies on their
tria16, widely different doctrines ; and in particular this, that the
bishop and priest are scripturallyone: Henry VI II. issued, in 1537,
a Dcdaration, signed by Cromwell, hissecre.
tary, by the two ar~h­
bishops, eleven ·bishops, and various other learned persons, " tba.t
the New Testament sanctions no de~ or distinctions in religiou.a
orders, but those of deacons or mimsters, pri~sta or bishops." Nor
~this all. Mr. Conder, in,his able work on Nonconformity, bu
shown that the very same opinions have been avowed by maay of
the dignitaries and learned members of the present E.stablishlilent
-Bishops Alley, Pilkington, Jewel, and Morton; and br Doctanr
Willet, Whitaker, Humphrey, and Holland. The sentimenta,.of
good old Hugh Latimer have often been quoted, respecting:•»nt
bishops:-" This much I dare say, that since lording and loiteriag
hath come up, preachina hath come down, contrary to the apolltlea~
times ; for they preachea, and lorded not.....,-and now they lord,: anll
preach not. For they that be lords will ill go to the plough; itill
no meet office for them ; it is not seeming for their estate. .TbUa
came up lording loiterers ; thus creeped in unpreaching prelallell ;
and so they have long continued. For how many unlea.m~ -
pre--
lates have we at this day: and no marvel; for if the ploufZhmea
that now be were made lords, they would clean give over plo~~
ing; they would leave off their labour, and fall to lording outright,
and let the plough stand : 'and then both ploughs not walking, no-
thing could be in the commonwealth but hunger. For ever ainoe
the prelates were made lords and nobles, the plough standeth J then
is no work; the people starve. They hawk, they hunt, they card;
they dice, they pastime in their prelacies with gallant gentlemen;
with their dancmg minions, and with their fresh companions;- 110
that ploughingis set aside, and bythe lording and loitenng, preaeh-
ing and ploughing is clean gone. ·',· ·
"But now, for the fault of unpreaching prelates, methinks·.l-
could guess what might be said for acusing of them. They areeo
troubled with lordly living; they be so placed in palaces 1 couched
in courts ; ruffling in their rents ; dancing in their dominions; bul'-
dened with embassages ; pampering of their paunches, like a monk
that maketh·his jubilee ; munching in their man~ers, and moiling
in tl\eir fl8Y manours and mansions, and so trouoled with lording
in their lordships, that they cannot attend it."-Sermon. on the
Plough.
The words of the venerable martyr, Tyndale, are not less strik-
ing:-" Woe to the realm where prelates are of the council! · Aa
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PlliESTCJl.UT IN ALL AGES.
pro&table are the prelacy to the realm with their counsel, as wolves
to the sheep, as fOxes to the geese ;• for there is no mischief, or
disorder, whether it be in the temporal regiment or the spiritual,
whet'OOf they are not the chief causes, and ~\·en the very founda-
tion and spring; so that it is impossible to preaeh against any
mischief, uilless thou begin at them ; or set up any reformation in
the world, except they are first reformed. They are as indurat as
Pharaoh, and therefore persecute God's word, and the preachers
~ereof. They stir up mischief in the world, setting princes to
war; they get into the consciences of kings, and persuade them
what they list-neither can any king have rest for them. They
pretend they are for God and the church, but their secret intent is
to bring all under their power; and when they are once set up on
high, then are. they tyrants above all tyrants. . . . • Bishops
thll.t preach not, or that preach aught save God's word, are none.
of Christ's, nor of his anointing, but servants of the beast, whose
mark they bear, whose word they preach, whose law they main-
tain clean against God's law." ·
Such are the sentiments of these great lights of the English
:Reformation, to whom our clergy now affect to look up to as the
founders ·of their church: and what are the sentiments of the
friends of the Establishment in more modern times? Dr. King,
Principal of St. Mary Hall, Oxford, and author of " Political and
Literary Anecdotes of his own Times," who died in 1763, says,-
" To speak freely, I know nothing that has brought so great a
reproach on the church of England as the avarice and ambition
of our bishops. Chandler, bishop of Durham, Willis, bishop of
Winchester, Potter, archbishop of Canterbury, Gibson and Sher-
lock, bishops of London, all died •hanuJ.fidly rich ;t some of them
worth more than £100,000. I must add to these, my old antago-
:aist, Gilbert, predecessor to Drummond, the present archbishop of
York. Some of these prelates were esteemed great divines, and
I know they were learned men,-but they coold not be called good
Chri.tiam. The great wealth they heaped up, the fruits of their
bishoprics, and which they left to enrich their families, 1008 not
Uteir owa : it t.Dtl8 due to God, to the church, and their poor brethren."
Blackwood's Magazine, the great champion of Toryism and the
church, in a fearful article in Nov. 1830, on the prese11t state of
the Establishment, than which nothing more 11tartling and severe I
ever was written by its worst enemies, asks,-" Why is this man
~ a bishop P He has been tutor in one family, or he is con-
nected in blood with another, or he enjoys the patronage of some
polluted female favourite of royalty, or he is the near relative of
· • At Blackburn, when making some alterations in the church, a piece
of carved work was lately discovered, in which some wag of a workman
had actually delineated this scene-the fox preaching to the geese.
t These are said to have been Chandler's own words, on his death-
bed,-" I dH tllamifvlly rich."
T 2
oigit<Zed by Coogle
276 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
the minister; or at the nod of the premier he has been a b'aitor
to the church in a matter affecting lier existence."
Mr. Beverly gives the following list of bishops as they were at
the date of the publication of his Horrida Hystrix, in 1826:-
Tomline,
Haye,
Bethel,
Bloomfield,
Sharpe,
Pelham,
Huntingdon,
Howley,
Law,
Bishop of Winchester, tutor to Pitt.
-- Bristol, married a Mortlock,whose family
govern the borough of Cambridge for
the Rutland interest.
Gloucester, tutor to the duke of Northum-
berland.
Chester, married into the Harvey family.
Ely, tutor to the ftuke of Rutlan~.
Lincoln, brother to the earl ofChtchester.
Hereford, tutor to Lord Sidmouth.
London, tutor to Prince of Orange.
Bath and Wells, brother to Lord Ellen-·
borough.
To these we may now add:-
Grey, Bishop of Hereford, brother of Lord Grey.
Ponsonby, -- Derry, brother-in-law of Lord Grey.
Ryder, -- Lichfield, brother of Lord Harrowby
Bagot, -- Oxford, brother of Lord Bagot.
Vernon, archbishop of York, brother of the late Lord Vemon.
If such be the nature of English episcopacy, as delineated by
its founders and friends; if it exists only for purposes of state, or
the aggrandizement of political tools and family flatterers, to what
part of the system must we look for that moral discipline which a.
Christian church requires? Is it to the archdeacons and their
deputies? They are busied in the bishop's courts, collecting his
revenues, or transacting his secular matters of wills and licences ;
and as to those archidiaconal functions which have reference to
the moral conduct and personal duties of the parochial clergy, the
Rev. Dr. Nihill, one of their own body, declares that" any arch-
deacon who should attempt to revive the full powers with which
he is theoretically armed, would only expose himself and the
church to derision."
Is it then to the deans and chapters we must turn? Why, these
are mere excrescences in this diseased and disjointed system.
They have no vital connexion with any part of it. They exist
only for themselves; and have been happily termed the rotten
boroughs of the church. The deans and chapters nominally elect
the bishops ; but this is mere farce-the ministers of the crown do
it virtually. The only.real functions of the chapters are to per-
form semce in the cathedrals, and to keep tltem in order. For
this tltey possess about half a million of yearly income. Their
only object is to draw clergymen from their own proper livings,
to cluster in idleness round these great buildings, thus aggravating
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCR.UIT IN ALL AGES. 277
the already crying sin of pluralities,-which pluralities the canons
of the church declare to be " execrable befure God." •
, In thus goin~ through this great and imposing pageant of our
national Establishment, endowed with its ten millions a year, and
crowded with its archbishops, bishops, deans, archdeacons, pre-
bendaries, vicars-general, chancellors, commissaries, surrogates,
registrars, proctors, apparitors, etc. etc., we can discover no real
system of moral discipline; no effective connexion between these
officers and the parish clergy. These live as the ancient Dan-
ites did, " every man doeth what seemeth good in his own eyes ;"
and who shall hinder him? The archdeacon· may, if his own
hands are clean-which they seldom- are, being generally one of
those "execrable before God,"-a pluralist, a sinecurist, a non-
resident, most probably one of the " sect of prebendaries," as
Cranmer calls them, " !rOod vianders, too much given to belly
cheer;" he may cause tfie churchwardens to present such·delin-
quents in the bishop's court; and the bishop may reprimand or
menace; and what will they heed? Nothin!f! They know that
neither archdeacon nor bishop has power to eJect them from their
livings. They boast of their indeptindence of the people, as one of
the chief beauties of their system ; and they may boast of their
independence of the bishop, for it is equally P.ositive. Let the bi-
shop bring a guilty clergyman before h~ tnbunal ; convict and
sentence him to deprivation; he turns upon his diocesan with the
stubborn truth, that his living is his freehold, in many cases a
purchased freehold, and who shall deprive him of it? Let at-
tempt be made to carry the sentence into effect, the delinquent will
appeal from court to court till the costs amount to from four to
seven thousand pounds, and which he knows how to cast entirely
on the bishop. Such a power of expulsion is, in fact, no power at
all. Bishop Porteus tried it, and it hiis been tried in a few instances
since, but prelates in general know better how to spend their re-
venues, and so all control of the clergy becomes a dead letter.
• The collegiate church of' Southwell, a village of Nottinghamshire,
has sixteen of these " good vianders " belonging to it, with incomes of
from £300 to £600 each ; and these prebendaries, with the vicars-choral,
share amongst them twenty-three livings, most of which they supply with
curates, seldom or ever see the places themselves ; and besides this, are
compelled by tenure of the prebend to desert their own proper livings
for three months every fourth year to officiate in this church. The con•
sequence is, that effective duty is done no where. The vicar of St.
Mary's, of- this town, a parish of 30,000 inhabitants, has been recently
performing his prebendal duties at this village, while his own large
parish has been committed to curates ; and, as often happens where a 1
man has too many irons in the fire, one of these deputies got drunk;
staggered up on the Sunday mo'nling into the pulpit, gave out the aftflr•
noon prayen, committed other similar eccentricities, to the amazement
of the people, and finished, on discovering his blunder, 'by_ bursting into a
great horse-laugh. Of course the man was removed, but not the scandal.
-I.e Edition.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
278 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
Thus, having shown that the whole English hierarchy, with its
courts and officers, exists merely for splendour, for Jl?litical and
personal objects, we must now contemplate the pansh clergy as
an independent body, and the rmly body actually employed for pur-
poses of religious instruction. To do this properly, we "ill in-
quire how these ministers enter the church, what kind of men does
enter, and what kind is kept out. ,
A foreigner, well acquainted with the general character of Eng-
lishmen ; who had learnt our spirited love of freedom; who knew
the licence of remark assumed by our newspapers ; our feverish
anxiety for the purity of parliamentary electiOns ; the fennent
they invariably throw the whole nation into ; who had observed
how the same spirit was carried down to the most trivial offices
of municipal corporations; nay, into the choice of a sexton, or a
watchman ;-would stand in astonishment when he came to in-
!JUire into the mode of appointing our national teachers of re-
ligion. When he saw the jealous care with which we cling to
every imagined right ; that to assume an air of dictation in the
smallest of our affairs,-to say to a gentleman,-" Take this man
for your ~m, or your gamekeeper;" nay, to the poorest pauper
who recetves his weekly dole at the workhouse,-" Lay out your
money in this Or that manner-with this or that person ;" to tell
the very scavenger in the street to hold his broom in a manner
difi'erent to that dictated by his own well-satisfied mind,-I say,
when he saw the wrath and indignation with which such inter-
ference would be received; what must be his amaze to find that
this great, this wise, this liberty-loving, this tremblingly sensitive
people, most readily abandoned all right of private judgment in
the choice of its most important functionaries-the teachers of re-
ligion, and that to the most stupid, most wicked, and venal of•the'
community? The immediate conclusion at which he would arrive
must be, that, as a nation, we were totally devoid of a religious
feeling. He never, otherwise, could comprehend how we can thus
lay down our beloved free-will on the most sacred of occasions, an
occasion vitally affecting the eternal well-being of ourselves and
children; to say nothing of the shame of being duped and preyed
on in the most open manner, by the greedy and the ignorant.
How we cari take fire at a single phrase-in a discussion over our
wine, and run out and shoot at one another ; how we can enter
into the most bitter, endless, and ruinous contentions about the
direction of a hedge or a ditcb,-and yet can suffer ourselves to put
our consciences into the keeping of mercenary statesmen, pamper-
ed prelates, and heavy-headed country squires, to be treated as a
nation of children or idiots ! •
This amazing spectacle is produced by one of those anomalies
of the English mSnd that fill the world with wonder. We are
burningly alive to our rights when we once comprehend them ;
hut the miratle of the thing is, that custom.has such a power of
blinding us, that in many cases, where other people w?nld see
oig''"ed by Coogle
PDIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
tl}rough the subject matter in a moment, we stand with our eyes
open, but perceive nothing; our senses are bound up as by witch-
craft; we go about in a sort of noon-day somnambulism, and our
neighbours laugh .in our faces, and pick our pockets at pleasure.
Wlien we wake, however, it is with a sudden start, and with a
terrible spirit of retribution upon ~· Let. us see if we cannot
burst from our trance. '/
The present situation of the English church is this.-Here is a <of
;
glorious nation, the most"powerful and refined, and, with the ex- '-·
eeption of Ameriea..the most free in the world ; a nation impatient
ofdespotism, and intoferant ofmonopolv; which has spent millions
of money, and thousands of lives, to brenk the tyranny of Buoha-
parte; which has east down the monopoly of parliamentary repre-
sentation ; the monopoly of trade to the East; and yet sits 9.uietly
under the most foolish, fatal, and insulting monopoly imagmable.
The J?rivilege of choosing its own ministers of religion is snatched
from It; yet it bears it: it sees this privilege usurped by the sordid.
the ignorant, the worldly-minded; by the distant, the unknown,
br anybody but itself, and yet it feels no resentment. It sees the
dissenters exercising this right, and flourishing under it, yet it
feels no shame ; it beholds their ministers orderly and zealous,-
its own, scandalous and apathetic, yet it is not roused to self-vin-
dication. This is a spectacle sufficientl)" degrading, but it is a
J>art only of the marvel. It sees its church livings openly sold to
the highest bidder, however unqualified or profii~ate, and the
whole land polluted with SIMONY from one end to tne other.
A calculation founded on the population returns of 1821, makes
the following the state of church patronage :-
Livings in the gift of the crown • • • • • 1,048
-- -- bishops • • • . 1,301
deans and chapters 982
universities • 743
private people 6,619
10,693
'the first are notoriously made use of by ministers to purchase
·adherents. Br. means of these, parliamentary votes are bought,
and popular hberty sold. By meafls of these, eon·upt legislators
and corrupt subservient parsons are disJ?Crsed through the country
to aid the views of government. Dunng the long reign of the
Tories, which has heaped such debt and difficulties on our heads,
these state-beneficed parsons were Joud in the pulpits, busy at
public meetings and public dinners, busy in all houses where they
had access, especially those of the squirearehy, disseminating those
doctrines which have brought us to the brink of ruin.
The livings in the gift of the bishops go, p( course, amongst
their sons and relatives, or to the slaves of.government, for whom
they were .expressly re~erved as the price of the bishop's own
oigit<Zed by Coogle
280 PIUESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES,
preferment. "There is, too, a species of simony," says the author
of Ecclesiastical Reform, a beneficed clergyman, in 1792, "which
prevails in our church, styled PETTICOAT SIMONY; where a clergy-
man, by marrying the mece or daughter of a bishop, becomes a
pluralist of large income, his lady being portioned out of the
church. I could point out several persons now living; but it
, might seem invidious, and shall therefore only instance a noto-
rious one. The dean of Canterbury married a daughter of Arch-
bishop Potter's, and became possessed of six or seven pieces of
preferment, to the amount of above £4000 a year of the church
revenue, by way of marriage portion." ,
. This was the man satirized by Hogarth, in the print of the
" Ass laden with Preferment; " but, so far from being abashed by
the sarcasm, he publicly declared that Mr. Hogarth was mistaken
in making his back bend under the load, for he could bear a great
deal more.
. The livi.ngs in the hands of deans, and chapters, and universi-
ties, every one knows, are snugly divided amongst their own mem-
bers; those of private people, of course, go amongst the sons and
relations of the patrons, but if these are wanting; they are .Publicly
sold to the highest bidder. The traffic in church livings IS one of
the most notorious things in England. The oath on the institu-
tion to a living is studiously framed in the most solemn and par-
ticular manner to prevent this ·sin of simony; but it.matters not,
-he who does not boggle at simony, will not boggle at an oath.
Public offices are opened in London for the sale and purchase of
livings ; and I have in my possession a printed circular letter of
one of the holy agents-a letter industriously introduced amongst
the clergy, patrons, and those concerned in such affairs. In this
""he s·ubmits to the clergy,''-these are his own words,-" a scale
of charges for business intrusted to his care; he also takes this
opportunity ·to express .his acknowledgments for the extell8ir:e
patronage he has hatJ. during the la8t ten years, and to assure the
clergy, that every commission confided to his care will continue to
be executed with fidelity and promptitude.
"TERMS:
"INTRODUCTORY FEE, ONE GUINEA.
To be considered a8 part payment of the first commission exceeding
that amount.
}
if the purchase-money does
" For the sale of an advowson • not exceed £4000, 2i- per
cent. .
• ) if the purchase-money is
" For the purchase of an advowson >- above £4000 and under
) £7000, 2t per cent.
" For the sale of a next presenta-l if the purchase-money is
tion to a living . • . . . J above £7000 and under
£10,000, 2 per cent.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCDAPT IN ALL AGES. 281'
" For the purchase of a next pre-I if the purcbase-mon;y is
&entation to a living >- above £1~000, 1~" per
· . · · J cent.
"For the sale of a chapel • . . • • • • · ·
" For the purchase of a chapel • • • , •
"1~~f;oc~g •a _ro~ei~ ~h~p-JI
" J:c'or procuring lectureship • • 5 t n h t r
'' For procuring a curacy for a per'Cen . o t e amoun o
client in orders • • • • • one year's emolument.
" For procuring an exchange of a
living or a curacy • • • •
"Every description of clerical busl'ness transactsd: lim'ngs t:alued,
etc. etc.
"FOR EVERY LETTER WRITTEN, 38. 6d."
He then proceeds to inform the clergy, that be has alwavs the
names of several highly respectable clergymen on his bookS, and
can supply at a day or two's notice deputies to those who incline
to be absent: that he bas always an extensive list of livings t'or
sale, curacies vacant ; livings, chaplaincies, and curacies for ex-
change. Begs them to remark, that all communications to and
from him are strictly confidential, offers his services to spare them
all publicity in advertising, etc., and then boasts that he has been
already employed by upwards of 5000 clergymen !!! ·
Accordin!flY advertisements appear every day in the public
papers, oftenng advowsons and next presentations for sale, or seek-
mg to purchase such ; and even the evangelical cle!'lfY are not too
evangelical to enter the sheepfold of Christ by thts simoniacal
golden ladder; and thus, in the express terms of Christ himself,
.brand themselves as" thieves and robbers." The law allows the
.sale of advowson&; and to purchase an advowson, a clergyman ,
therefore thinks no simony. It is the law, he says, and therefore
not wrong. No! not wrong, when your canons declare it simony?
when you swear a solemn oath that you have obtained the living
neither by money nor favour? What the law contemJ?lates is, the
sale of advowsons from one layman to another : but it Is the cler!J!I-
man who volunteers himself as a purchaser, and does purchase
with a clear knowledge that he outrages the spirit of the law,
though he evades the letter ; that he actually comlnits moral si-
mony, and perjures himself by taking the most solemn oath on the
English Statute-Book. But law or not law, advowsons which the
law permits, but the canon forbids, or next presentations which
both forbid, it seems all one to the clergy,-there are plenty of
purchasers; and their agent boasts of having had his 5000 custom-
ers for his simoniacal wares.
In 18'24,Mr. Robins sold in Regent Street, the next presentauons
.of seven livings, Wanstead and others, in Essex, contingent on
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
th'e lives of Mr. and Mrs. W. T. P. L. Wellesley, aged thirty-aix:
'and twenty-five years respectively, the ages of the incum~nt&
ran~ng from forty-six to sixty~two. ·These were eagerly pur-
chased by clergymen, and brought.a &urn total of £ 13,~. ·
In the su~mer of 1844, going one day into the Auction Mart,
Bartholomew Lane, I found George Robins in the act of com-
mencing the sale of several church livings. . Mounted at his ele-
vated desk with hammer in hand, he was addressing a crowd of
clergymen, and others, many of them regular speculators in
church livings, in this style:-" Now,geutleman, I have some prime
things for you to-day. Th~ church, let me remind you, gentlemen,
is now become the only good BJHCUlatum. . It is the only line in
which you can establish yourselves, or your sons, like gentlemen,
and wtth a chance of success. The army and navy used to be
good things, but I need not tdl you, who are a devilish deal
cleverer tltan myself, that it's no go there now. 'Var, gentlemen,
is a bad spec.-it's over, I can tell you, to the end of the world.
You may get_ a commission, and then go and broil in Bengal, get
the yellow fever in Jamaica, imprison yourself on the rOok of
Gibraltar, or doze away your life 1n a country barrack; but as for
promotion-don't you wish you may get it! Law uaed to begood,
but it is overdone now by a pretty heap. There are ~ things
still to be got in the law, but then there are a deucea multitude
after them, and let me remind ye of one thing-you cannot bug
'em! The church, my friends, that's the profession, that's the
only genteel, gentlemanly, and certain profession. And why
certain 1 Because, you can certainly buy the best of livings, you
that have the money; and here's, in the first place, a good speci--
men of what's to be had. Let me see-the income of this living
il altogetlter £2000 now the tithes are commuted, which are them•
1elvea £1000, and no bother now about collecting. It's a rent,
now, gentlemen; it's a rent, and comes in cheerfully, easily, ~
cioualy-ahnost of itself. It's within thirty miles of'London, ma
fine sporting neighbourhood, and"-
" How old's the incumbent?" shouts a short, round, thick man
in rusty black, with a great bundle of papers in his hand.
"Old P-why, my friend, you could not well wish him older, he'll
turned eighty."
· "And means to live to a hundred!" cried another voice.
. "Ia he ill?" bawls another.
"Is he ill?" says George Robins. "That's a delicate point,
gentlemen; I do not like to enter into delicate matters, but my
IearQed friend here," turning to a pale young man sitting close
under the desk, the legal broker of church livings-" mrlearned
friend has seen him lately, and I dare say can tell you.'-" Ia he
ill, old --P"
" Why no, not ill exactly. I should not say ill, but he 'a not
1trong.''
" My friend. is cautious, gentl~e11. 'fhe worthy old man, he
,g, Jb,Google
PRIESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES,
says, is not ill, but he's not strong,and when a man is turned tighty,
and is not strong, why, I leave you to judge for yourselves. De.
pel!d upon it, he's soon for kingdom come.
The next presentation was knocked down for £ 10,000.
Mr. Rollins seeing a youth with me, now fixed his attention
'3D me. ·
"Now, sir, I have just the thing.for you. That young gentle--
man won't want a Jiving for these ten years. Ay, I'm a judge in
age-he's about fifteen-in ten years, he's taken orders, seen a
little of the world, tried his hand as a curate here and there, got
the heart of some rich old bishop's handsome daughter, and at
twenty-five, a good age, a very nice age, wishes to settle down in
his parsonage. As he's well off himself, and's got a warm wife,
he does not want any thing extra~nF--rather, a plea~ant neigh-
bourhood, and easy duty-and here 1t is. Population of the whole
parish only 347; excellent shooting; income, £600 a year. The
meumbent is fifty, but, as my learned friend said of the last worthy
ol~ gentleman, is not strong. I give him at the farthest ten year11
-and there you are !" Or course, as· I did not want this good
thing, and plenty of others did, it was quickly knocked off to a
nod of the httle thick man in rusty black ; and I retired, wondering
what could be said in defence of a chureh where such shameless
and irreverent, heartless traffic as this was daily going on in the
face of all London, except what George Robins himself said for
it, "that it is a certain speculation for those who hare rmmey." ·
"The commerce in the souls of men," says their own Mr. Scott,
in his Commentary on the Revelation, "is the most infamous of
all traffics that the demon of avarice ever devised, but by no meam
uncommon. • • • • • The slave trade, cruel, unrighteous,
and hateful as it is, is not the worst traffic of our land-for the
souls of men are traded for by those who take the care of them,
fi>r the sake of the emoluments, and the abundance of the delica-
cies obtained by it; and then, either leave them to perish in
ignorance, or poison them by heresy, or lead them on die road to
liell by a .Profligate example." "A clergyman," says the author
of Ecclesiastical Reform, "upon his institution, swears that h•
gace not the least. cumideration wltaterer, either him~elf directly ur
indirectly, nor arty per8011 fur him, fllith hi• privity, k1Wfllledge, urc~
Bent, when perhaps he 'had been personally treating with the
patron for the purchase, and even prelent at the payment of the
money. I was witness to a notorious instance, in the diocese of
Lincoln, where both patron and incumbent were present at the
payment; yet the latter, a. few days after, took the simoniacal
oath, without a scruple, and now resides upon that benefice, near
Atherston, in Wa.nnckshire."
But volumes might he advanced on this subject. It is a thing
so notorious, that I shall here stop, only adding, that in general no
decency or precaution is taken in these bargains: when there is
any sense of shpme, or tenderness of conscience left, a man's friend
oigit<Zed by Coogle
284 PB.IESTCB.AFT IN ALL AGES,
or lawyer buys the living, and presents him to it: he 1uu ONLY ~
pay the money, and swear that he 1uu notpaid it. · .
The consequence of this base venality, of this hardened, shame-
less traffic in souls, is, that almost all good men are thrust out of
the church, by their conscientious scruples against the oaths and
subscription to the Articles, as Milton tells us he was, or by the
mere weight of money; and it is inundated with those who have
no conscience, no scruples, and who have consequently covered it
with disgrace-with fine gentlemen, fox-hunters, haunters of
levees, drawing-rooms, theatres, operas, clubs, taverns, races,
hells, and places of worse name; flatterers of the great ; flutterers
in assemblies and saloons ; card-players, diccrs, cock-fighters,
boxers; men who are to be found all over the continent, and in-
deed the world-except at home; men who draw their annual thou-
sands from their pansh livings, but spend them in Italy, France,
Germany, or perhaps so near home as in London! where they are
on tiJ.>toe after promotion, in that church in which they already
disdain to work. An eminent author, who has had occasion to
mix much amongst this class of men for these forty years, ob-
served to me, that he could say but little good of them:-" They
arc," said he, "such an unsettled generation ; they cannot rest,
they cannot stay at home, bein~ always agape after some fresh
preferment." "There has been, says the Rev. J. Acaster, in his
"Church in Danger from Itself," "always a great and fearful
laxity in this respect. Had not this been the case, the church
would never have groaned under such a swarm of insufficient·and
worthless creatures, as Hooker quaintly observes,~d who, be-
sides endangering the souls of nnllions, have brought the priestly
office into much contempt, and alienated th~ minds of men from
·the Establishment of the land." He adds, " Nearly four-fifths of
the parishes throughout the whole kingdom have no resident in-
cumbent. They have none to watch over them, to feed them, to
care for their best and highest interest; none to whom they resort
for advice, counsel, or succour, in all the trials, sorrows, tempta-
tions, and difficulties; none to soothe and comfort them on the
bed of affliction and death. Their legal, paid, rightful, and most
solemnly avowed instructors, are fled. Some, they never see or
.hear for five, len, fifteen, twenty, and even thirty yearB together.
Some, again, are born, brought up, marry, have jamilieB, live, and
die, and enter i~ eternity, witlwut ever once ~~eeing or hearing their
legal teacher. I speak o{numerous facts in all the abj>ve instances
within my own knowledge, and of several incumbents, whose
churches and parishes I can see from the place in which I sit and
write ; so that in regard to the incumbents, there are milliom
through the land who have, liter..ally, no man that careth for their
soul&. What a consideration! What a fearful consideration !
" And all this is known, and yet tolerated ! Yes, it is known, it
is tolerated ; it is often facilitated by those whose duty it is to
stand in the gRp; and what is still more fearful and alarming, it
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
i8 oorredfrom remedy by the di&pmsatiom andliceneeB ofour spiritual
rulers." .
"Why," asks Blackwood'll Magazine, after a similar question re-
specting the bishops, "is this stripling invested with-an import-
ant di~ity in the church ? He is the illegitimate son of a mem-
ber of the royal family ; or he is the same of some nobleman ; or
he .belongs to a family which, in consideration of it, will give the
ministry a certain number of votes in pa,rliament. And why is
this man endowed with a valuable benefice? He has potent
interest; or it will prevent him giving further opposition to mea-
sures for injurin~ the church; or he has voted at an election for a
ministerial candidate ; or his connexions have much election in-
fluence; or he is a political tool of the ministry. • •· • The
di8]1061Jl of church patronage in this manner is not the exception, but
the ,-ule; it is not a matter of secrecy, or one which escapes observ-
ation; it is looked upon as a thing of course ; and so far has the
monstrous abuse been sanctioned by custom, that, while no one
·expects to see a vacancy in the church filled according to merit,
.the filling of it in the most profligate way scarcely provokes
reprobation. ,
" A great number of livings are private property. On what
principle are they disposed of? The owners fill them without the
least regard for qualification ; they Jlractically giye them to their
relatives while yet in the womb orin the cradle; and these relatives
enter into orders for no other reason than to enjoy them as private
fortunes: or, clergymen and othera buy auch livings solelyfor private
benefit. In the appointment of curates, those are chosen who are
the cheapest, the least formidabl.e as rivals, and in consequence,
the most disqualified: care for the interests of the church is out
of the question.
" These are some of the inevitable consequences. In the first
place;the office of clergyman is sought by the very last people who
ought to receive it. Before it is decided that a youth shall be a
barrister, a physician, an officer in the army, or even a member of
a mechanical trade, it is ascertained that he possesses the requisite
ability and turn of mind; but his lack of these is too often the
reason on which it is decided that he shall be a clergyman. How-
ever brainless or :profligate he may be, he must still enter into holy
orders, because his friends have property or interest in the church.
Perhaps they select him for it in preference to his brothers, be-
.-cause he happens to be the dlmce of the family. While the most
imJ?roper men are thus impelled to enter into holy orders, the most
fittmg men are restricted from it. What can the man of talent
and piety hope for as a clergyman, if he be destitute of fortune and
friends ? Preferment is to him impossible; his merit alone'is a
positive bar to it. He can scarcely regard a curacy as an attain-
able matter,-for his ability might make him too popular; his in-
tegrity- might incapacitate himforjoining in an illegal bargain ; and
his p1ety might bring on him the imputation of evangelism. To
oigit<Zed by Coogle
P1UESTCUP,. 1111 ALL AGES.
give all this the most comprehensive powers of mischief, abm!st
any man may, so far as concerns abihty and character, gain ad-
mission to holy orders. A clergyman may be destitute of religious
feeling; he may be grOBSly immoral; he may discharge his duties
in the most incompetent manner, and loae his flock ; he may
almost do any thing short of legal crime, and still he will neither
forfeit his livmg, nor draw upon himselfany punishment. • • •
Can a tingle relUIOn 1M urged, whfl tlai8 momtrotU etatt ofthings mould
66 continued'!"
This, surely, will be enough f9r any man ofreason or feeling: a
description of the church, nia.de by its own friends, representing it
more pernicious, profli~te, and nationally disgraceful than any
churcli which ever e:nsted, scarcely excepting the papal in its
worst days. Mr. Acaster does not hesitate to declare that, unless
unhoped-for reformation comes, it must speedily fall. Not a syl-
lable more is necessary; yet, before taking-leave of it, let us see
in what light it is held b.Y, intelligent foreigners ; for they can have
no interest to contend With, no partiality or prejudice to blind their
judgment. The German prince Piickler Muscau, who a few yean~
· ago visited England, describes the strange sensation it .produ~d
in him to &ee clergymen flying over hedge and ditch after·the
hounds, or betting on the race ground; to find prelates with their
£50,000 a year who never preached, pastors who never saw their
flocks, and in Ireland often with several thousands a year, and no
flock at all. He came to one place in which the protestant cler-
gyman, compelled to preach once a year in his parochial church
by the terms of his induction to the office, was obliged to get a
catholic to act as clerk for him, there being no single protestant in
that or the adjoining parishes. Another foreign nobleman also
gives this ··
CHARACTER OF A DIGNIFIED ENGLISH CLERGYMAN.
" An English clergyman is a man of distinguished birth, sur-
rounded by a numerous family, provided with a rich benefice, liv-
ing in luxury, participating in every pleasure, in all the enjoyment!!
of the world, playing, hunting, dancing, attending the th_
eatres,
neither grave nor serious, unless nature has made him so : he is
one who hoards his emoluments in ot"der to settle his children·;
who spends his fortune in wagering, in horses, in dogs, sometimes
(when he is thou!l'htless and devoid of foresight) with a mistress;
in any event, giVIng little to the poor, and leaving their care, and
the fulfilment of duties which he disdains, to some unfortunate
curate, who for a miserable stipend is obliged to exhibit the virtues
which the incumbent despises and neglects.
" A black dress, but not distinguished in its cut from that of the
rest of society, is worn by clergymen of bon ton, by those younger
sons of noble families, who only belong to the church in conse-
quence of the fortune it provides for them. These are the priests
who are oftener seen at Epsom, Doneaster, and Newmarket, at
oigit<Zed by Coogle
P1UE5TCRAFT IM ALL AGES. 287
the sporting parties of Norfolk and Yorkshire, than in the pulpit.
The clerical costume interferes in England with none of the en-
joyments of the world ; those who wear it do not hesitate to appear
At balls and routs, or in opera stalls, and they have no scruples at
being seen in a box at the Adelphi or the Olympic.
· " There are very few clergymen who know tlie number, or the
names, or the wants of the poor of their parish; these matters they
consider as being out of the pale of their obligations. They are
not seen leaving their commodious dwellings to sit by the bed of
the sick, or to carry to the chamber of death the consolations of
religion."-(Great Britain in 1833, by Baron d'Hausu:.)
Here, then, let us pause, with this concluding observation. There
are fond friends of the church who will say all its ministers are
not such. They are not. We will hope and believe that there
are not wanting really good men amongst them; but how few
JDust they be under such a system! There is one class, indeed,
which does not rank amongst the profligate; a class which goes·
under the name of " good sort of men." And what are these good
sort of men? Why, they are men who regularly read their Sunday
sermon, and are sober and quiet when they are seen. They are
men that one should not blame if they were merely laymen; and
should not blame now, except that they do nothing but read their
sermon ; that on week days they are scarcely to be found in their
parish three hours ; or if they be, it is either farming or dining
with the squire. As to visiting the poor, enlightening their ig-
norance, comfortin~ their harassed mmds, sitting by the sick bed
and cheering the ·smking soul with views of a better world,·pro-
moting schools for the children, contributing to the wants of their
humble parishioners, or, in short, exercising one of the many iJn-
portant functions implied by the very name of a village pastor,
these good sort of men are utterly strangers to the whole business,
and often totally unfit for it, were they disposed to attempt it. I
knew the rector of a large country parisli, with at least 500 in-
habitants, who the year round, excepting during the shooting
season, when seen at all, was only seen to mount his gig imme-
diately after breakfast, and drive away ;-where he went, nobody
11eemed to know or inquire ; all that was known of him was, that
IIIncb to himself he thought and little spoke,
And, undeprived, his benefice forsook.
The poor people, when in need of sympathy and solace under the
loss of their dearest relatives, or whenever the cheering voice of
true religion is most precious, would as soon have thought of seek-
ing it from the village butcher, as from him; when on their death-
beds, they would as naturally have looked for the ·prayers of the
village pmder. They might venture to open their hearts to the
squire in some of their little troubles, and ask him to see that there
was a school for their children, but to have told them that they
l'RIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
should go to the rector on these occasions, as their appointed ad-
viser and best friend-they would have been stricken into a strange
silence; and if you asked the cause of it,-" Oh! the rector was such
a gentleman, and so close, and they really did not know much of
him;" (after ten years' posseBSion of the living ;)-and yet they
would add in their ignorant -simplicity, "but he is a good sort of
man ; he regularly .does service once a week, and marries and
buries all himself!" What would Bernard Gilpin or George Her-
bert have said to this" good sort of man P" Nay, what would
Fenelon,and many a good catholic have said?-much more the host
of missionaries ofallcreeds, who have put their lives in their hands, ·
and gone out to encounter and dwell amongst the savages of every
savage region of the world. Eliot, Zeisberger, Brainerd, Swartz,
Hans Egede, Jens Haven, or the pious and unwearied Herrnhuters?
These gOod men, be they of what church they will, are the salt of
the earth; and be they bound up with whatever system they may,
we acknowledge them the beneficent children of that beneficent
Christ, who suffered all evil and wrought all good.
,g, Jb,Google
289
CHAPTER XXV.
PRIESTCR.AFT IN IRELAND.,
· But to go a little deeper into this matter of legalutabli&hmmu. Does
Mr. Conon, or you, think, that ~ king and parliament have a right tQ
prucribe tQ me tDhat ptUror I shall we 1 If they prescribe one which I
know God never sent, am I obliged to receive him with a clear con-
science till I know he is ? And even when I do know, if I believe my
former pastor is more profitable to my soul, c.an I leave him without sin ?
Or, HAS ANY IUN LIVING A RIGHT TO RBQUIRB THIS OF ;liB ?
JOHN WESLEY--LIFE OF WESLEY, p. 313.
THE Irish and Scotch churches have been incidentally introduced
into the preceding chapters on the English church, and some o.f
the existing enormities of ecclesiastical injustice in Ireland pointed
out ; but the destructive and dis~aceful nature of a state religion
would be very imperfectly perceived, did we omit to make a more
distinct statement of-its effects in Ireland, Wales, ~nd Scotland.
Those effects have been uniformly the moral, intellectual, and phy-
sical oppression of the people. ,
Ireland has always been treated as a conqueredcountry:. Though
it had been annexed to the English crown by the g~ft of Pope
Adrian III., who, as the vicegerent and representative of Chnst
on earth, claimed to do what he willed in the kingdoms of men,
and by the arms of Henry I1., in the middle of the twelfth century,
yet so little was the attention paid to it, that it is scarcely heard of
in English history till.the reign of Queen Elizabeth, four hundred
years after. All this time it had remained in a semi-barbarous
state, and, in a great measure, in the hands of its native chiefs.
The church of Rome, however, having ~ot footin~ in it under
Henry II., had more diligently cultivated Its power m it, and had
converted it wholly to its faith. Elizabeth, resolving to subdue it
at once to her civil and ecclesiastical power, se!lt over the largest
army she ever raised, first under the command of the unfortunate
Earl of Essex, and afterwards of Lord Mountjoy and Lord Carew.
· By her arms she succeeded in reducing the rebel chiefs to obe-
dience, but she did little or nothing to consolidate the civil govern-
ment of the island with the rest of the empire, treating it entirely as
a conquest, parcelling out the land aJ;llongst her officers and nobles,
and refusing thenatives thebenefitofEnglishlaws, thoughearnestly
petitioned for by them. James I. gave tliem such laws, and treated
them in some degree better; but from that day to our own times, the.
'[]
oigit<Zed by Coogle
....
290 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
treatment of Ireland by the British government has been one tissue
of the mo t gross inju tice and impolitic oppression. It appears,
from the historians of the age, that the revenue of Ireland in.
Elizabeth's time amounted to but about six thousand _
a year, and
that it cost her twenty thousand a year more to maintain sufficient
soldiers there to keep down the people. In every age of our pos-
session of it, it has been a loss to the government, and a gain only ·
to those English soldiers and adventurers who sought it as a prey.
It is beyond the scope of this chapter to trace the career of our
crimes in Ireland, through the massacres and slaughters of the
different periods, especially of Charles 1., of Cromwell, Charles II.,
and William III. Suffice it to say, that its sturdy chiefs were
subdued, and their lands divided amongst English and Scotch ad-
venturers ; the natives of the whole province of Ulster being
dispossessed, and their place usurped by the conquerors. The na-
tives saw their kings and chiefs successively overthrown and de-
stroyed; their ancient families, whom they held in high veneration,
reduced to beggary and exile; hau~hty strangers lording it over
their heritages; nay, their very rehgion was not left sacred. It
was denounced as a bloody and detestable superstition; all those
wealthy lands, tithes, churches, and monastenes, which the piety
of their fathers had conferred on this church, were rudely rent out
of their hands, and given over to a knot of English grandees, and
of :priests whom they looked on as heretics and robber . Seeing
theu property, their honour, theu· religious endowments, the civil
and municipal government of their own country, thus ravished
from them, and put into the hands of their conquerors, and
themselves treated with personal ignominy and violence, the con-
sequence was, that the first opportunity which presented itself for
the recovery of their liberties and the revenge of their wron~,
they seized upon, when Charles I. was involved in hostilities With
his own parliament, and massacred the greater part of the English
in the island. Great have been the l:iorror and indignation of
English historians, at what they call this barbarous and devili h
massacre. Dreadful and cruel indeed it was, but they who so
vehemently condemn it, should reflect on the insults, the injuries,
and ages of rapine and violence of every kind, which had provoked
it. It is a thing to shudder, but not to wonder at. It was per-
fectly natural in all its detestableness. It was just such an out-
burst of revenge as mi~ht be expected from a semi-barbarou and
superstitious people, wnom no p<:.ins had been taken to conciliate,
to civilize, or to evangelize. It was not, in fact, to be expected,
that a rude but high-spirited nation would willingly submit to see
their pastors all driven from the churches built and ·endowed by
their fathers, and their places supplied by a handful of English, who
enjoyed the revenues, and were established by law to preach pro-
tcstantism, but knew no language but their own, and therefore
could be of no use to the natives. Laud had introduced the Thirty-
nine Articles of the English church in 1634, and insisted on per-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES, 291
feet conformity to its creed; in other words, the swarming popula-
. tion of that country were to renounce the religion of their fathers,
and to take that of' a handful of strangers amongst them, or to be
cut off from all civil functions and privileges, and be treated as
aliens on their native soil. These msults, added to a thousand
others of a political nature, brought on the massacre in 1641, in
which a vast number of English perished, variously estimated at
from 40,000 to 150,000. As soon as the civil war allowed leisure,
Cromwell passed over to Ireland, and took a bloody vengeance for
the massacre. In about nine months he had laid the whole country
prostrate before him. Clarendon says," Nearly 100,000 natives,
called Tories, were transported into foreign parts for the service
of the kings of France and Spain; double that number were con-
sumed by the plague, famine, and other severities exercised upon
them in their own country ; the remainder were transplanted by
Cromwell into the most inland, barren, desolate, and mountainous
parts of the province 'of Connaught. Thus they lived in all the
mfamy of a conquered nation till the restoration of Charles II."
Charles himself, contrary to all his promises, as was his wont,
restored the English hierarchy in all its strength.
The continued system of outrage and oppression practised by
England upon Ireland, both in church and state, again brought
on a rebelhon in the rear 1798, in the reign of George III. In
1791, a number of lnsh patriots formed themselves into "The
Society of United Irishmen," binding th~Inselves by oath to seek
"an equality oC civil rights amongst all religious professions;" and
"to obtain a complete reform in the 1er,slature, on the principles
of civil, political, and religious liberty.' On the other hand, the
protestant bigots and leeclies of Ireland, who lived on its miseries,
and flotmshed on the exclusion of the great catholic multitude from
all office and power, organized " Orange Societies," to keep up the
cry of political faction, and, in the name of the protestant faith,
to do the worst injuries to the protestant religion. The spirit
that was raised by this antagonism, by witnessing the triumph of
American liberty, and the destruction of the old system of tyranny
and popular exclusion in France, terminated in that unfortunate
rebellion, in which Ireland lost some of her 'finest spirits, as Lord
Edward Fitzgerald, Robert Emmett, etc., and saw the destruction
oC thirty thousand lives. What is more, as has been clearly de-
monstrated by Mr.' O'Connell, on his late trial, government by it!!
spies fomented and encouraged this rebellion, that it might use it
as a plea to take away the Irish parliament; which it did by the
most monstrous practice of bribery and corruption in history, and
at a. cost oC nearly five millions of money to this country!
If we except the brief reign of James II., the catholics of Ire-
land, the bulk of its people, have received not the slightest favour
for the last three hundred years from our government till the pass-
ing of the Catholic Emancipation Bill. The Tories and high
churchmen now plume theinselves with the title of the Defenders
u 2
oigit<Zed by Coogle
292 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
of Protestantism, are proud of being Orangemen, and toast the
glorious memory of King Winiam, though theh· own ancestors of
King William's time were the enemies of King William. They
hated him as a presbyterian, and did all they could to v.ithstand
his government, while they would fain have extirpated their bro-
ther protestant&, the presbyterian& of Ulster. Even in that pro-
vince, where the presbyterians were the multitude, and their
ministers did the duty, the established clergy claimed all the tithes.
Yet such is the effect of state pay, that, the presbyterians being
allowed by grant of William an allowance from the government,
which has been repeatedly augmented by subsequent monarchs,
under the name of regium donum, we have lately seen these said
presbyterian& eoalescin~ with their ancient enemies, laudi~g the
princtple of state establishment, .and callinfr the English episcopal
church their sister church ! That sister whtch drove them with fire
and sword out of Scotland, which would have extirpated them in
Ireland if permitted! That sister church which their covenantiQg
ancestors declared to be the daughter of the ~eat harlot of Rome;
which, on the other hand, as Stephens, in h1s Life of Archbishop
Sharp, candidly confesses, "has never yet conceded the title of a
sister cli.urch to the church of Scotland;" which, indeed, declares
and maintains that " no church, which cannot show an unbroken
chain of episcopal ordination from the av,ostolic age, is a church at
all, or its ministers ministers ofthe gospel. " That church, thus re-
jecting scornfully the title of sister, they have seen living till the
very moment of this laud?-tion, on the wealth of a nation which
it did not teach, and filling the country v.ith blood and bitterness
for tithes for which it did not preach ;-priests, many of them,
without churches, and otllers with churches, but no people. Truly,
"a fellow feeling makes us wondrous kind." In what does the
sistership between presbyteria.nism and episcopacy consist, except
i11 state pay 'l
So extraordinary a spectacle as the established church of Ire-
land the whole world beside does not present. Here is a nation
of 7,943,940, according to the Report of the Commissioners of
Public Instruction of 1835, or, in round numbers, 8,000,000 of
inhabitants, of whoin, according to the same authority, 6,427,712,
or, in round numbers, allowing for increase of population since,
7,000,000, have been treated as aliens; tlleir religion barely tole-
rated, and made a reason for thrusting them out of the civil and
political privileges of their own land; tlleir own church prO-
perty taken from them, and bestowed upon about 800,000 of this
body, chiefly the descendants of strangers. Here are the priests
of these 800,000 living on tile plundered wealth of the 7,000,000,
amounting, by the ecclesiastical returns of 1834, to £873,233; but
by more probable calculations, as I have shownin Chapter XVIII.
of this work, to nearly£2,000,000 per annum; and contending
that the 7,000,000 are not fit to be trusted with the management of
their own affairs. The Emancipation Bill made them fit to transact
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. ~3
the afthlrs of the united empire, yet to this hour they have not
been able to acquire a right to share in the enjoyment of their own
special property. How, then, is this, that they are so unfit, when
a body of churchmen are kept by the state at an expense of·
£2,000,000 a year to convert and to enlighten them? ·
But all the world knows the wondrous story of the Irish church.
With all this wealth, it has not converted anybody. Why P Let us
look at a few statistics of this church, and we should wonder much
if it had. Mr. Rilands, a clergyman of the church of England,
in his "Ecclesire Decus et Tutamen," says, "From the time of the
conquest of Ireland down to this hour, the church of Eagland
established in that country, has entirely neglected to preach to
nearly two-fifths of the population." He adds, that they could not
even preach or speak the language of those they were paid to
convert, and that the state had never taken any means to secure
such ministers as could speak Irish. That though they did no
duty, they yet had always exacted the pay even from the most
destitute, with a savas-e ferocity unknown to our courts of law,
while many of the panshes of this starving population " have been
without incum&nts, without houses for their residence, or churches
in which they can preach." Such, from age to age, has been the
condition of the Irish clergy; yet was Trinity college, Dublin,
erected and endowed with an archiepiscopal revenue to educate
and send forth clergymen well prepared for the office; and one
would have thou~ht that the first qualification would have been
to speak the nat1v'e tongue. Schools, too, were founded and en-
dowed so early as 1669, by Erasmus Smith, a worthy alderman of
London, for the education of youth, and charters obtained; and
various other schools were established and chartered by govern-
ment, chiefly for cducatin~ foundlings, or the children of popish
parents, in protestant pnnciples. Fijty-&even of these schools
were in existence in 1769, but so little did the dignitaries of the
church watch over them, that Howard the philanthropist found
them soon after that period in the most wretched condition-the
children in all these schools amounting only to 1,400, and those
" such sickly andmiserable objects that they were a disgrace to all
society." The funds were embezzled by individuals instead of
educating the people. At the end of the 18th century, the com-
missioners reported that no considerable reform had been effected
in those schools.
Butif the schools were bad, the church itself was worse. Twenty-
two archbishops and bishops, thirty-three deans, thirty-three
archdeacons, one hundred and sixty-eight J>rebendaries, four
canons, and nineteen chancellors, with 1,338 churches, which, of
course; ou~ht to have had parsons, and these d4rnitaries and par-
sons enjoymg a revenue of nearly two millions, Iiad not been able
to work any conversion, while the religion of the 7 out of 8,000,000
of the population was carried on and paid for on the voluntary
principle f In the reports of parliamentary commissioners in 1833
oigit<Zed by Coogle
294 PRIES.TCRAFT lN ALL AGES.
and 1835 appear these facts. Out of 1,472 endowed benefices, there
l!l'e only 889 resident incumbents. In 210 there i8 no church.: in
15B of the benefices, no divine service i8 performed either by the in-
cumbent or by a curate. In 57 parishes or districts,comprising 3,030
nominal members of the established church, there is no provision
for religious .ordinances according .to the forms of that church.
There are 41 benl!fice• in which there i8 no member of the established
church. Out of·20 benefices, in which the total income is £5,019
lls., there were but 179members or hearers; 1B out of the 20 had
no resident clergyman, and, what was worse, had no church.
Arclldeacon Glover, in 1B35, when called upon to attend a meet-
ing to address the king to preserve the temporalities of the church,
denounced, in a letter to Dr. Pellew, the dean of Norwich, the sta~e
of the Irish church in strong terms, and particularly adverted to
the fact of " eight, ten, or even more parishes being consolidated
to form one ricli living; that living without either church,or manse,
or prot~stant congregation ; its incumbent enjoying, through a tithe
agent, Its large emoluments; and these emoluments wrung from a
population, who never behold the face of their minister, or hear
from his lips one word of exhortation." Nothin~ is more common
:-nothing for years was more common-than while the tithe agents
were rifling the houses of the starving peasantry for this revenue,
or carrying them to prison ; while the soldiers attending him
were firing on the peasantry, or the peasantry were mi:lrdering
them; the parson himself was comfortably rolling in his carriage
through Italy or France, or enjoying the luxuries of London, Bath,
or Paris. Of such unions of parishes the reports are full I can
give only a specimen or two :-Ballynakiltin Tuam, a union of nine
pariBhes, one of which is thirteen miles from the rest of the benefices,
and twenty-set:en Iniles from the church. Bumchurch in Ossory,
is a union of fout·teen pari8hes, three of which are at opposite ex-
tremities of the county of Kilkenny. In the diocese of Emly, out
of a population of 9B,363, the numbers of the established church
are 1,246, or only 1~ per cent. of the whole. The diocese, which
contains 42 parishes, IS divided into 17 benefices, in sevenof which
the incumbent is resident, and is non-resident in the remainin~ ten,
in five of which no divine sen:ice iB performed. The amount of tithes
in this diocese exceeds £7,000. The dignitaries and prebendaries
of this diocese have separate revenues, to the annual amount of
£4,554 lOs. 6~d. The united incomes of the 17 benefices is
£7,967 1&. 5d. There is an economy estate of Ill acres, and
there have been granted, for building churches and glebe houses,
£5,670 in gifts and £4,320 in loans. Such is the state of the
'church in the diocese of Emly.
But we Inight travel over all Ireland in this manner. Lord John
Russell, in a debate, in April, 1B35, on church reform, stated that
"four adjacent parishes,havingfor incumbentsfour absentee rectors,
drawing a total revenue from those benefices of £2,025, or £500
on the average, were served by two curate• for twenty years at £75
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 295
each. Thus, in twenty years, the curates who performed the ser-
vices drew £5,000, while the sinecurist absentees drew for doing
nothing £37,000." Yet, with these facts before him, and moreover
all the facts of the atrocities occasioned by the collecting of this
revenue-the distraints, the imprisonments, the wrath, the starva-
tion, the violence and bloodshed,-such as that at the ever-memor-
able Rathconnac; at Inniscarra, where the Rev. Mr. Beresford him-
self loaded the pistols with t;wan-drops; at Newtownbarry, in 1~
where twenty-three peoplewere massacred; atWallstown, at Moon-
coin, and a hundred oilier places,-did this same Lord John soon
after declare, that the church of England, of which this church is
part and parcel, was "eBtabliBhed on just, wile, and benfjkent prin--
f;iples."• .
The "justice, wisdom, and beneficence" of the foundation and
practice of this church, however, do not stop here. Thel do not
cease with thus making over Ireland to a small body o drones
thus revelling in the honey of the industrious bees, but they also
burden this country with the costof a great army, to enable these
clerical drones to seize this honey, and to prevent their bein~ stung
to death in return. In 1834, Mr. Ward stated in his place m par•
liament, that, "since 18'25, from 23,000 to 29,000 men have been
regularly quartered in Ireland; as nearly as possible the same ·
amount of forces as was required for our Indian empire, and with-
in one-third of the forces emplored to occupy all oor cokmies in the
other tlwee quarters ofthe wor7d. From Apn11, 1833, to March 1,
1834, during which there were 19,452 men quartered in Ireland,
the expense of the officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates,
for the Irish department, amounted to £1,025,621. In addition to
this there was a police force, the expense of which had been in-
creasing each successive year. In 1830, the Irish police force cost
£256,663; in 1831, £268,119; and in 183'J, £287,192; and since
1832, the expense had been greater in proportion. All this expendi-
ture had been occasioned by the tithe system." Thus, in soldiers
and police, it has cost us annually nearly a million and half to
enable the Irish non-resident parsons to be .Playing cards at Bath,
while the tithe was forced from their starvrng victims, and such
scenes as that at Rathcormac perpetrated, where the Rev. Arch-
deacon Ryder, and a body of other magistrates, ordered the soldiers ·
to fire on the people, and saw twelve killed, besides others wound-
ed! All this, besides lending the same merciful clergy a million
ofmoney which they never repaid,-clergy who, so far from spread-
ing the gospel themselves, have steadily resisted its diffiision by
others. A portion of their body being struck with a sense of their
awful responsibility, and having formed themselves, about the year
1832, into "·A Home Missionary Society," to perambulate the
• No doubt of it. We now see that every dny, in the elevation of
some Russell to some church dignity. Is not that a ·wise church too, in
which the Russells have twenty-seven hereditary lh·ings?
oigit<Zed by Coogle
296 ·PRIESTCBAFT IN ALL AGES.
country, and preach to the neglected people, soon found themselves
attacked by the dog-in-the-manger incumbents, and persecuted on
the plea of irregularity, in preaching in unconsecrated buildings!
Rather than souls should be saved on a common or in a barn,
these pious and well-paid priests had rather they were not saved
at all! Now, let any one who wishes to convince himself .of the
comparative value of state-paid and voluntary churches, look back
to Chapter XXI., where the rapid increase of the church in
Americais noticed, and then revert to this Irish state establishment,
which in land, tithes, soldiers, and police, costs this country about
three and a half millions a year, to maintain about a thousand par-
sons, to disseminate bigotry, dissension, ignorance, plunder, and
bloodshed !-hated amongst the people, and terrible to govern-
ment!
What labour might our government save itself, to be more use-
fully bestowed, where, moreover, it is most cryingly wanted, in the
settlement of the vast, and accumulating, and every day ·more en-
tangling civil affairs of this nation, if it would cut the foul snaky
knot whlch binds church and state together, appropriate the
enormous wealth with which the ecclesiastical machine is loaded
to the dischall{C of our debts, and leave the clergy, instead of ob-
structing religton, to exert themselves, and make it flourish as
beyond the Atlantic! What an unspeakable relief to our encum-
bered government, to be quit of all care about churches; to leave
them to take care of themselves, as they are well able to do; and
to have only on their hands·the care ojthe 1/tate!
oigit<Zed by Coogle
297
CHAPTER XXVI.
PR!ES'l'CRAFT IN WALES.
WALES presents another striking example of the folly and abomin-
ation of a state church. It presents another proof of the awful
responsibility of a people, which suffers its government to maintain
at their expense such an engine of spiritual ruin.
The inhabitants of the principality, at the Reformation, being
made over to the care of four bishops, certain deans and chapters,
and about 800 parsons ; the Enghsh government very comfort-
ably concluded, as it has been accustomed to do in its wisdom,
that it had done all that mortal man could do for the salvation of
the souls of Welshmen ; and the English people as comfortably, in
their accustomed acquiescence, concluded, that all was going on
well. How much then was this public of easy f!lith astonished,
about the latter end of the last century, to find that it had been
comJ.>letely. de~ud~d, and that for 200 years, it~ well-fed parsons
and Jolly d1gmtanes had absolutely done nothmg at all towards
the regeneration of the population. All that it had done was just.
what state-endowed priests always did do, and always will do,
take care of themselves and families, and leave the devil to shep-
herd their flocks, on condition that he do not meddle with the
fleece.
The Rev. Thomas Charles, a young clergy!Jlan, having taken
his de.wee at Oxford, married, and settled at Lanymowddy, near
:Bala, m North Wales, began to enter on the duties of the curacy
there with all that zeal which a young spirit, impressed with the
importance of the pastoral office, naturally feels. He was speedily
struck with amazement and consternation to find, that, instead of
his·ardent and active services for the ~ood of the people being
cordially responded to by the neighbounng clergy and the gentry,
they were made causes of wrath and complaint against him. He
was, in short, quickly dismissed from his curacy, and found it
im{>ossible to obtain any other employment in the church. He
intimated his willingness to serve gratis, but his services were not
wanted on any terms. In order to procure that engagement else-
where that the clergy of Wales would. not give him, lie forwarded
his credentials to the well-known Rev. Robert Mewton, to Lon-
don. These, by some chance, were lost, and the doors of the
church being thus, at least for a time, shut against him, he betook
himself to the education of the children of the poor. The more
oigit<Zed by Coogle
293 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
he looked about him on all sides, the more he became struck with
the scene of i~orance and neglect which all Wales presented.
The old were s1tting in the darkness of centuries of neglect; the
young were growing up in the same. No pains had been taken
to instruct tliem from the pulpit in their mother tongue ; few or
none of the clergy could even speak it. No care had been taken
to teach the young even to read the New Testament; nay, New
Testaments they had none. To use the words of an authority to
which we shall quickly turn again, " During the reign of the
houses of Tudor and Stuart, several Welshmen were inducted; but
110t one since the acce88ion of the hou&e of Brunswick ! The conse-
quence waa, that the prelate& brought into tl~ir respectir;e diocese&,
their sons, nephews, and cousins, to the ninth degree ofconsanguinity;
the next consequence was, a chan~e of service, on the borders,
from Welsh into English; and a third and important consequence
was, the desertion of the church."
That was the beautiful and legitimate consequence of a state
establishment ; of setting Mammon to appoint and fatten in his
Castle of Indolence the ministers of a church, instead of leaving
it to the people to select and appoint their own. As direct a con-
sequence also was, that any one like Mr. Charles, presuming to
disturb their slumbers, would be chased away, as, and that truly,
a very dangerous fellow, not to the people, not to religion, but to
them. As I have before pointed out, the invariable practice of a
state-fed and corrupted clergy is, not only to cover the whole dis-
trict in which they are· located with an Egyptian darkness,. in
which they may the better hide their own sloth, but also to drive
from the church any man who would really and even gratuitously
instruct the people. ·
In the early part of the last century, the Rev. Griffith Jones,
the rector of Llandowrer in Caermarthenshire, had started from
the slumber which surrounded him,. and commenced a zealous
ministry amongst the people, to the no small scandal of his·slug-
gish brethren. He went out into the fields and churchyards
through the country, to preach tq the people, thousands of whom
flocked to him, so that he soon acquired the name of the Welsh
Apostle. His zeal was not only contagious amongst the people,
but amongst the younger clergy. The Rev. Howell Harris, curate
o( Llys y frAn in Pembrokeshire, the Rev. Daniel Rowlands of
Cardiganshire, Mr. Howell Harris of Breconshire, a gentleman
educated for the church, but who refused to take orders on ac-
count of what he had witnessed in the church; these joined Mr.
Jones, in his zealous _prea.c~ and instruction of the poor, but
soon found the pulpits and houses of the clergy closed against
them, and were compelled to join with Whitefield on his appearance
in Wales. Though repelled by the state parsons, the people re-
ceived them with open arms. They preached through the country,
in houses, barns, and fields, on commons or on mountains, and
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PB.IESTCilAFT IN ALL AGES. 299
the Author of Christianity proved to them that his religion was as
effectually to be propagated there as when he taught it tn such
~ces himself.
Mr. Charles now found himself compelled to join this body, if
he did not mean to forego his usefulness in the world. He found
himself received in a very different manner to what he had been
by the plethoric Sybarites ofthe state Sleepjng-Establishment. The
people flew to hear him, and though every church in the country
was closed, the country itself was all open to him. Preachers also
6pmng up in numbers ; he travelled through the entire princi-
pality, forming associations, encouhlging the erection of chapels,
and preaching every where. If any evidence was wanting to
prove whether the established church had neglected the people,
or the people their instructions, that was soon aftorded, for wherever
the people were addressed in their own tongue, and with earnest-
ness, they immediately responded to it. Here, then, the useless-
ness of a state establishment, and the all-sufficiency of the volun-
tary .principle, was once more shown. That which the whole
Welsh staffof state clergy could not do in two hundred years, was
accomplished by voluntary labourers, and the hills and valleys of
Wales were soon covered every where with dissenters of various
kinds.
But Mr. Charles did not content himself with preaching and
or~nizing societies; he saw the whole population of children ex-
istin!f in profound ignorance, and he J?lanned a system of itinerant
charity schools. He raised subscriptions amongst the wealthy of
England, and sent out a number of- schoolmasters to teach the
.children of the poor to read the New Testament. This task they
generally accomplished on children of a proper age in about nine
months, when they again moved on, each to a fresh location.
The grand difficulty which arose in this process, was the want of
Welsh Testaments. There were no sucli things in the hands of
the people, though they had had the presence, benefit I cannot
say, of a wealthy hierarchy for two centuries. Mr. Charles, there-
fore, made a strong appeal once more to the piety and benevolence
of the English public, representing, to its surprise, the utter want
of the Scriptures in Wales; and br this appeal he became the
originator of The British and Foretgn Bi~ Society ! He set up
night and Sunday schools for those who could not attend his
day schools. The "Society for the Supl?ort and Encouragement of
Sunday Schools" in London, made h1m their agent for North
Wales, and, thusassisted, he spread about Testaments and spelling
books in abundance. In 1803, such was the great demand for school
books, etc., that he set up a printing press at Bala. " Whatever,"
said he in one of his letters, " we attempted of this nature, succeed-
ed wonderfully; till the whole country was filled with schools of
one sort or another, and all were taught at once. The blessed
effects were corresJ?Onding." "Not only," says Mr. Timpson, in
his British Eccleswtical History, '' was Mr. Charles tlie chief
300 P1l1ESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
leader of the Calvinistic Methodists in Wales for many years, but
his various, and judicious, and persevering labours were, under the
blessing of God, the means of a general reformation ofthe country."
Let the advocates of political machinery for manufacturing re-
ligion, pause and reflect a moment on that. Let them contemplate
what may be done by the zeal of one man, one state-priest rejected,
and, therefore, unfettered man. Let them reflect with shame, that
this man, spurned from them, set about and did that which these
stall-fed pnests should have done two hundred years before, but
never did at all. But let them not blame those priests, but the state
which corrupted them. They were but human nature, and human
nature in all ages and all places, under the same circumstances,
has been found exactly the.same. Set any number of shepherds on
cushions, and place before them a luxurious feast which is to last for
life, and if they do not speedily grow gross, lethargic, drop asleep,
and let fall their crooks into the hands of Satan, to catch their
own sheep with, they will be the most extraordinary shepherds
that the world ever saw! It seems, indeed, as if, on the contrary,
it was necessary that, for men to become successful winners of
men, they should be rejected men,-rejected of the high priests
and political authorities of their time, as their Master, Cnrist, him-
self was. Wycliffe, Luther, Russ, and Jerome of Prague, were all
rejected men. Cranmer, Latimer, Ridley, and their contempora-
ries, had sore cause to rue what they did under the commands of
royalty·; it was only when they became rejected that they became
great and useful Fox, the Wesleys, Whitefield, the founders of
every fiourishin~ body ofChristians, were all rejected men.
The astonishm~ and sudden growth of dissent in Wales at-
tracted that attent1on which its former ignorance and neglect had
failed to do. The RoYAL CAMBRIAN SociETY of London, therefore,
offered a medal for the best "Essay on the Causes of Dissent in
Wales," and this medal was awarded, at an Eisteddvod of the In-
stitution in May, 1831, to the masterly essay of Mr. Arthur James
Johns. From the reprint of this able work in 183ll, I shall give
the followin~ extracts as sufficiently explanatory of the causes of
the extraordinary facts !.have already stated: Nothmg but Ire-
land can show us a similar scene of national wealth apportioned
so mischievously to both clergy and people.
"Churches and chapels of ease in Wales in 1832, 829. Some
new churches have been built within the last century, but more
have fallen to ruins. Total number of dissenting chapels in 1832,
1,428.'! Mr. Johns says, that "before the rise of Methodism in
W1\l.es the churches were as little attended by the great m6Ss of
the people as now. Indifference to aU religion prevailed 6S widely
as di8sent in the present day. That, if the influential members of
the church had evinced the same zeal as was done by Griffith
Jones and his coadjutors, the Welsh peasantry would have con-
• Now, 1840, supposecl to amount to about 1,800.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 301
tinued to look to the church for instruction, instead of seeking it
from the Methodists. But that it hi many years since the people
of Wales had a prelate that was at all imbued with a religious
spirit, or who paid personal and unremitting regard either to their
temporal or spiritual interests. From the year 1601 to 1640, St.
Asaph w.as governed by Welsh bishops, but from 1761 to 1800
exclusively by English. During the English period, the best
benefices were generally bestowed on gentlemen conspicuous only
for their connexion with the prelate or their patrons. They
were constant absentees from Wales, and neither reason ·nor jus-
tice required that the principality should be drained to reward
them. Pluralities existed under the Welsh bishops to much less
extent, and were then, too, enjoyed chiefly by Welshmen resident
in the country, and not, like most of the present modem English
sinecure pluralists of St. Asaph, stationed on another clU&ter ofplu-
ralities in the remotest counties of .England.,
"From 1745 to 1830, of the highest dignities of the church,
~e~:enty-three were ·enjoyed by Englishmen, and ten only by
Welshmen."
" Should an English bishop be guilty of nepotism in England,
the duty may still be efficiently performed; but in Wales, every
relation of a bishop is in language a forei~er ; and his uncouth
attempts to officiate in a tongue unintelligible to himself, can be
felt by his conr-egation as nothing but a profanation of the
worship of God.'
When this was complained of in parliament in the time of the
Whigs, that great and enlightened stateB171an, Lord John Russell,
scouted the idea of the clergy making themselves masters of and
preaching to the people in the language they understood. On that
principle, he observed, we might also govern the country in' Welsh ;
adding, that as Wales was now a part of this country, it was fitting
the people should rather learn our language. Very true ; but
why don't you then teach it them ? Have your clergy for three
hundred years made the slightest attempt to do that ? And were
they not sent there and well paid to evangelize the country? Till
the people, therefore, were taught to speak En&'lish, it. surely be-
came a handful of learned and well-paid Chnstian ministers, to
study the tongue of their hearers. If they neither took pains to
learn Welsh, nor teach E~glish, what did they there? The Me-
thodists have given the answer ;-they were there to take their
pay and lose all the people.
"Were I to affirm," continues Mr. Johns," that the English
bishops of Wales have been more fastidious in the distribution of
their patronage than their brethren of England, I should contra-
dict the indignant assertion of almost every intelligent writer on
Welsh subjects. No where has the church of England been more
disgraced by a selfish distribution of patronage. On putting to a
gentleman, upon whose accuracy I can rely, the following ques-
tion-• What proportion of the collective income of the Welsh
oigit<Zed by Coogle "'-
302 PRIESTCRAFT IS ALL AGES.
church is held by Englishmen?' I received this answer,-Four bi-
shoprics (the whole); a great proportion of the deaneries, prebends,
and sinecure rectories ; and many, if not most, of the canonries!"
"PATRONAGE IN SouTH WALES. Most of the church patronage
is shared between laymen, the crown, and sinecurists in England
and Wales. Hence, under the influence of -r:rsonal friendshiJ? or
political connexion, the parishes are filled With ministers unsmted
to them. The bishops usually take but very little pains to en-
courage deserving pastors, and often prefer Englishmen to Welsh
benefices. Pluralists and absenteeism exist to a great extent.
Thus a very small fund is left for the generality of the clergy,
who are reduced to abject poverty. Many of them are obliged to
keep farms, situated often in distant parishes from those which
they serve. A great many of them serve two or three places of
worship every Sunday; in many churches, service is only per-
formed once a day, and that at an inconvenient hour. These
abuses exist to a less extent in the southern parts of South Wales ;
but in Cardiganshire, Radnorshire, and Caermarthenshire this is
the general course of things. Of seventy-one parishes in Cardigan-
shire, including chapels of ease, not more than thirty are held by
residents, at the same time that the revenues of the church are
squandered in sinecures, under the circumstances just described."
"PATRONAGE IN NORTH WALES. ABSENTEEISM. Anglesea
contains seventy-five parishes, chapelries included; sixty-two of
these are in the hands·of non-resident incumbents; fifty-five have
no resident minuter whatever! Total number of incumbents forty;
non-residents, twenty-two; benefices without either incumbent
or curate, nineteen. CuRATES. Nineteen parishes are served by
Biz curates. The curate of Lhinrhyddlad and three other parishes,
travels fourteen miles every Sunday. The curate of Ceirchiog and
of two others has to travel ten miles along a wretched road. The
curate of Llanvachreth and of two others has to travel eight miles.""
" BISHOPRIC OF ST. AsAPH. Dr. Carey, bishop. Manors and
lands in Flintshire, £1,600; manor of St. Martin's, £200; ditto at
Llandegle, £80. The above manors produce little emolument to
the bishop, in consequence of -their having been almost all leased
on very advantageous terms by Bishops Shipley and Luxmoore ;
and, in most instances, to their relatives. The Rev. C. J. Lux-
moore is lessee of Llandegle. Mrs. Shipley, of one half of St. Mar-
tins, etc. Pensions, spiritualia, and lectualia, £400. Rectories of
Llanasaph, £600, Llan-y-Bodwel, £150, St. Asaph, £30, Rhuddlan,
£12. Tithes of Aberchwiler, £400, Hellan, £300, Llansilin, £130.
In 1567, the following rectories were annexed: Newmarket, £250,
Abergele, £150, Llangwstenin, £300, Llysvaen, .£35, Llanelian,
£130, Bettws, £120, Dyserth, £400, Llan St. Ffraid, £300. In
1662, taken into commendam Llandrinio, £560, Llandysilio, £450,
Melorley, £200. Added in 1687, Northope, £800, Flint, £60.
Added 1759, Llandrillo, 320. In 1810, Pennant taken into com-
l!lendam, £300. Some of the preceding parishes are leased-
PlUESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 303
Aberchwiler to Mrs. Shipley; Llanasaph to the Very Rev. C. S.
Luxmoore.
" Total amount of the revenues of the bishopric, £9,<JJ37.
Let it be noted, that the income of this. bishopric was returned
by the commissioners in 1835, as £6,301 only; £3,000 less than
its real value. This is only another proof of the worthlessness of
the report of that commission, on which sat Bizteen bishops, who
held at the time of making that report, sixty-one pieces of prefer-
ment! that is to say, sixteen ·bishoprics, six deaneries, one chan-
cellorship, three archdeaconries, two cathedraltreasurerships, eight
cathedral prebends, twenty-one rectories, and two vicar~s !
These were not very fit men to sit on a commission of inquiry mto
ecclesiastical revenues; but beyond this, the clergy having to make
out their own cases, returned all church reyenue at about three
millioM and a half, whereas the tithe commutation has now shown
the church tithe alone worth Biz millioM a year!
" RELATIVES oF BISHOP LUIItMOORE. C. S. Luxmoore, dean
and chancellor, house, etc. belonging to the deanery, £40.
Parishes of Hellan, £1,500, St. Asaph, £426, Llan Nevydd, £300,
Llanvair-Tal-Haiam, £220, Darowain, £120. Chancellorship,
ft·om fees, £400. Total, £3,066.
Besides the above, the reverend gentleman enjoys, at least, £600
in this diocese, as lessee "under certain leases granted to him by
his father, Bishop Luxmoore, of tithes and manors belonging to
the see. He also owes to the SaiJle patron, the following prefer-
ments in Hereford diocese. Cradley R. £1,200; Bromyard V.
£500; prebend of Herefortl, £50; portion of Bromyard, £50 at
present; but on the expiration of a lease depending on a very
old life, this preferment .will be worth £1,400. Thus, the re-
verend gentleman is possessed of no less than eleven sources of
emolument! The total value of his church preferments may be
estimated, at least, at £6,356 !
"I. M. Luxmoore, brother of the Rev. C. S. Luxmoore. March-
wiail R. £720, Llanamion-yn-Sal, £500, prebend of Meivod in
St. George's parish, £60, Morton chapelry, £800, from land pur-
chased with Queen Anne's bounty! Whitford, £1,060. Total,
£3,000.
" Besides the above, the reverend gentleman enjoys £200 as
joint registrar of Hereford; but the tithes of Whitford being on
lease, tliey are not, at present, of any great value to him. The
total actual value of his church preferments may be stated at about
£3,000.
"C. Luxmoore. Borriew, £450, Llanymanach, £450, confer-
red when the reverend gentleman was only twenty-five years of
age. Total, £900.
"Coryn Luxmoore, £300.
"Total enjoyed by relatives of Bishop Luxmoore, in the diocese
of St. Asaph alone, £7,'}f}.6.
" The value, however, of church property belonging to the rela-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT JN· ALL AGES.
tives of Bishop Luxmoore,in Hereford and St; Asaph, is"£,I0,776!
Such is the amount at present in the hands of this single family.
In the time of the late Bishop Luxmoore, the case stood thus:-
Such was the prosperity of the times, that the revenues of the see
of St. Asaph were worth, at least, £12,000, and the parishes be-
longing to his relatives were worth, at least, £ 15,000 ; so that the
country has had to J:lllY £27,000 per annum for the services of
one prelate ! .
" RELATIVES AND COSNEXIONS OP BISHOP HoRSLEY,
"H. Horsley. Gresford V., £450, Castel Caereinion V., £600,
Llanvair-Tal-Haiarn Preb., £240.
" G. Robson, prebendary of ditto, £200, Chirk V., £600, Erbis-
tock R., £350.
"H. Neve.· Llan St. Ffraid V., £250.
"Total enjoyed by connexions of Bishop Horsley, £2,690.
"REtATIVES AND CONNEXlONS OF BISHOP CLEAVER.
" J. Cleaver. Corwen, £300, Newtown, £400, exchanged·for a
living in England.
" W. Cleaver, as precentor of St. Asaph ; lands, £60, Llan- .
gernyw, £250, St. George's, 30, St. Asapli, £500, Dinmeirchion,
£300, as a sinecure rector, Llanv.awr, £340.
"Total enjoyed by relatives of BishoJ? Cleaver, £2,180.
" RELATIVES OF BISHOP BAGOT.
" R. Wingfield. Rhiwabon, £700. C. Wingfield. Llanllwchai-
am, £400. · .•
"Total enjoyed by relatives of Bishop Bag9t, £1,100.
" DEAN AND CHAPTER, consisting of the relatives and conuex-
ions of bishops. Ll'ansilin R., £670.
"SINECURISTS, who owe preferment to mere influence and per-
sonal favour, who are unconnected with the country, have never
done any duty in this diocese, and are all resident in remote parts
of England!-
" S. Thurlow, son of Lord Chancellor Thurlow, Hope, £600,
Llandrillo-in-Edeyrnion, £350. Gibson, Llanbryn-MaU", £300.
R. Finch, Cwrn, £210. F. Corle, Kilca.in1, £400. · H. Milner,
treasurer of St. Asaph, Meliden, £300. J. D~e, chancellor of
St. Asaph, £15. C. Thoroton, Llan St. Ffr81d, £500. Total,
£2,675.
"Deans and chapters of Winchester, Gosford, and Wrexham,
£2,400.
" SlNECURISTS AND ABsENTEES, but connected with the diocese.
· S. Holland, Llangwrn, £260. R. Clough, Llansannan, £200.
Total, £460. ·
" Cathedral of St. Asaph, £1,040; added in the reign of Charles
II., £1,040.
"CoLLEGEs.-Guilsfield, £900, Pool, £900, Buttington, £200,
Meivod, £500; all added since the time of Henry VIII. Total,
£2,500.
"To schools of Llanrwst, not properly applied. Eglwys-Fach,
£860.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 305
"Incumbents, ignorant of the Welsh language,_Llanrhaiadr,
£45(), Machynllaeth, £400. Total, £850.
"Absentees from the country in which their benefices are situ-
ated, and residing remote from them, £3,185.
"Total unemployed as above, (deducting salaries of curates of
bishops, absentees, etc. £2;680,) £34,369.
"Total enjoyed 6y the general body of the resident clergy,
(including the salaries of the curates of bishops, absentees, etc.,
£2;680, and exclusive of Queen Anne's Bounty and fees, £2;230,)
£18,3~1. 1
" The amount enjo,Yed from this diocese, by the bishop and the
relatives of former b1shops alone, _
amounts to £23,679; an~ thus,
on the most liberal calculation, exceeds the whole amount en-
joyed by aU the resident clergy put together !
"Such is the picture of the church in North Wales in the nine-
teenth century! I shall abstain froni all-comment; for I can little
hope to add any thing to the lllain force of facts, by any comment
ohnine,-facts,indeed, which 1t is equp.lly imJ>ossible to strengthen,
to palliate, or to deny !"
· Yet, when we add to this account drawn up by a churchman,
the idea of the poor curates going their rounds of thirteen miles
on a Sunday from church to church, for their salaries of £75 a
year-of the nineteen parishes served by six ministers, and con-
trast their labour and their pay with the unearned thousands of
those En~lish cormorants which English bishops have fixed on the
principality, one cannot help feeling still more forcibly the mon-.
strous nature of a national church, which can be so desperately
perverted, and yet be l?ronounced by a sci-disant reform minister,
to be built on "just, Wise, and beneficent principles."
oigit<Zed by Coogle
306
CHAPTER XXVII.
PRIESTCRAFT IN SCOTLAND.
!'request my reader to have this always in mind, THAT THB TRUE END
FOR WHICH RELIGION 18 ESTABUSRED IS NOT TO PROVIDE FOR TRB Tli.UE
FAITH, BUT FOR CIVIL UTILITY, as the key to open to him the whole
mystery of this controversy ; and the clew to lead him safe th!ough all
the intricacies and perplexities in which it has been involved.
BISHOP WARBUBT«m.-Euay 011 tJuJ A.Uiance between Ch.urcl& an.d
State.,-Works, vol. iv. p. 240.
· Orthodoxy is my doxy;· heterodoxy is another man's doxy. •
BISHOP W ABBURTON.
IN our controversy with state establishments, we have hitherto
been led to look upon the extravagant and unnatural wenlth and
power with whicli, for the purposes of the aristocracy, they have
been invested, as the great causes of their corruption, and of the
hostility ofthe people to them. But we now come to a church in
.which the endowments are moderate, and the constitution any-
thing but ;~.ristocratic, yet which has failed to secure the puryoses
for which it..was created, and which is every day creating a
stronger spirit of repugnance to it in the public mind. It would
seem as if Providence had ordained that the principle of a state
religion should be tried in a variety of forms, in order t{) demon-
strate its inutility, and, what is more, its anti-christianity, in all.
In no country in the world have state Establishments accom-
plished the object fur which they have ostensiblybeen created, that
of evangelizing the people, and, the more highly they have been
endowed, the less has been their success, as in Ireland and Eng-
land. "Till very- recently," says the editor of tlie Spectator news-
paper, a native of Scotland; "the church of Scotland was spoken
well of by every body. Most of the objections urged against other
established churches have been thought inapplicable to the Scot-
tish. Its revenues have been sufficient to support the ministers in
decency and respectability ; while there has not been that glaring
and unreasonable inequality in the income of the various livings,
which is a disgt'llce to the ecclesiastical Establishments in England
and Ireland. Till within a comparatively late period, the great
majority of the Scottish people have been members of the ldrk.
Many eminent men have adorned her ministry; and; which is of
far more consequence, and much more to her credit, the private
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PlliESTCilAFT IN ALL AGES, 307
character of her clergy has been genei-al.ly t1nimpeachable. The
church of Scotland has been considered almost a model for an
Establishment."
It was in this light that in former editions I represented it, be-
cause I had been accustomed thus to think of it. "But," adds this
able writer, "it would seem that the Scottish clergy are imJ?atient
at the decent seclusion from political contests which has hitherto
been so advantageous to the character of the kirk. Not only are
they active abroad, but even in their pulpits they sound the alarm
of faction."•
We have already noticed the same change of character and
principle in the Scotch presbyterians of Ulster, who receive state
pay. Thus, in Scotland and in Ireland, equally the same effect
bas followed the same cause, exhibiting, in what James I. used to
call, in his early days, "the sincerest kirk in the world," the same
lamentable but inevitable truth, that Christianity cannot thrive
on political hire ; sooner or later a worldly support will produce a
worldly character. However the excess of honour, riches, and
power may hasten the catastrophe, the catastrophe of desecration
Will arrive, even though the corrupting influence be infused in the
very smallest degree. A splendid aJ?.d proud hierarchy of arch-
prelates, prelates, deans, canons, chancellors, archdeacons, elevated
m courts temporal, and exercising dark powers in courts spiritual,
are sure to render a church arrogant and intolerable; but one of
the simplest construction, of the most popular constitution, will
as surely become intolerable too. The pride of rank, however
moderate; the indulgence in exclusive power, however lhnited; the
enjoymenf of state wealth, however small; are as sure to create a
spirit of craft, of insolence, of jealous assumption, of dislike to
free discussion and competition, as that water will stagnate in
artificial rest, though cooped in a golden CUJ?·
Never was this f~~;ct so ~tri!tingly ex!!mplified as in the Scottish
church! In past times 1t liberated Itself from the thraldom of
popery ; and afterwards, from the still more ferocious fangs of the
English church. We have already alluded to its stout resistance
to English episcopacy in other parts of this volume, but we may
as well here give a glimpse of the nature of the sufferings it un-
derwent in almost every reign of the Stuarts, that we may see
more clearly the extraordinary changes which political establish-
ment can produce. Laing gives this sketch of Charles II.'II treat-
ment of the Covenanters soon after his restoration.
" A court of ecclesiastical commission was procured by Sharp,
archbishop of St. Andrews, consisting of nine l,lrelates and thirty-
five commissioners ; but a bishop with four assistants composed a
quorum, to which the civil and military officers were all subordi-
nate. Neither time nor place was :prescribed for their meetings;
and an ambulating court was established on the principles of the
• The Church Political in Scotland, Dec. 26th, 1835.
x2
oigit<Zed by Coogle
308 PRIESTCRAPT IN ALL AGES.
Inquisition; an ecclesiastical court, bound by no forms of law,
was instituted, to exercise a civil jurisdiction for the preservation
of the church. Its summary proceedings were conducted without
.accusation, evidence, or defence. The persons cited were convicted
on captious interrogatories, and if legal defences, or satisfactory
answers, were returned to the questions, they were punished on
their refusal to receive the oath of alle~Pance, which was invariably
tendered, or to acknowledge the spintual supremacy of the king.
The violence of Sharp was abetted by Rothes, who overruled toe
moderation of the temporal judges; and the eommission proceed-
ing from imprisonment, and ruinous penalties, to corporal punish-
ments, appeared to emulate, or even exceed, the severity of the
,privy council.• ·
Such was the fury of the church militant, that thousands fled
to their brethren in Ulster; the gaols were crowded, and only
emptied again by transportation to Barbadoes. The clergy: were
the sole accusers, furnishing lists of the recusants to the soldiers,
.who were at once judges and executioners. Turner, an Eno-lish-
man, naturally ferocious, and always drunk; was let loose with his
.troops on the country: The inhabitants were hunted to the inO-
_
rasses and the mountains. Driven to desp&ir, and having taken
,Turner prisoner, and found, on examining his instructions, that
they were still more atrocious than his conduct, they soon after
fought the battle of the Pentlands. The fury of the persecutors
now knew no bounds. The prisoners who had yielded on as-
surance of quarter, were tortured, and then gibbeted, many of
them at their own doors. Dalziel and Drummond, two merciless
officers, hardened in the Russian service, put some to the sword ;
.executed others on the highway; some they tortured with lighted
.matches between their fingers, to extort confession. Amongst the
jltrocities attributed to Dalziel, a son was executed because he re.
fused to discover his father, and a woman tortured to death be-
cause she was accessory to the escape of her husband. The whole
country lay at the mercy of the licentious soldiery: Rapes, rob-
.beries, and murders, were every where committed. Gentlemen
were accused, tried, and condemned in their absence, and their
.estates·given to Dalziel and Drummond. The laws against con-
venticles were increased in severity. Husbands were made re-
_
sponsible for their wives, fathers for their children, magistrates for
those within their jurisdiction ; preachers were condemned to
forfeiture and death, and their hearers to double fines, and the
penalties of sedition. Those who refused to inform, and those
·who sheltered the 11nfortfinate Covenanters, were to be punished
as if themselves t.
he offenders. In a single writ,.above ninety
clergymen, gentlemen, and ladies, and all who dared to receive or
aid them, were cut off from all the rights and privileges of social
·life. "At a moderate computation," says Laing, corroborated by
• History of ,s,cotland, iv. 37_.
''0'''. ,,Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 309
Burnet and Wodrow, "seventeen: thousand persons of ehher sex,
and every description and rank of life, were already harassed and
oppressed in the west for attendance' on conventicles, or absence
from church. Above two thousand persons were outlawed for
conversing with the proscribed J?arties, and others driven into the
wildest recesses of the mounta,ins, where they worshipped God
with arms in their hands. Six thousand lawless Highlanders
were let loose on their country, and an indemnity given them to
commit every excess. The horrors they perpetrated are too fearful
for description. These atrocities led to the battle of Bothwell
Brig, and that to fresh cruelties. Twelve hundred persons, taken
prisoners at that battle, were confined in Grey-Friars churchyard
tn Edinburgh, uncovered and exposed to the elements for·five
months ; when some were dismissed, and others transported. The
fines imposed on the nonconformists were made a regular branch
of revenue, and in eleven counties the penalties alone amounted to
£180,000 sterling. Diligent inquisition was .made by the clergy
in every parish, and lists of delinquents prepared for the courts.
To such a pitch was the fury ofgovernment carried at length, that
those who refused to abjure their principles were shot without
ceremony on the roads and in the fields at their labour; and, says
Laing, "a sanguinary petiod ensued, from which historians have
turned away their eyes in horror." Such was the condition of
Scotland under Charles II., and till James II. was chased from
the throne of these realms.
Could it have been believed, after such scenes as these, after
the long and determined endeavour of the church of England to
annihilate the church of Scotland, that the time would ever come
when the latter would forget its injuries, the ruin and butchery of
its people, and the curses, moreover, which it had denounced on
thiS church of the malignants, this offspring of the ~eat harlot?
Yet, in our day we have beheld t:Jte unnatural sight, If not of for-
getfulness .and forgiving on the part of the kirk, yet of actual
coalescing, and making common cause with this proud church
in its endeavour still to maintain its arrogant ascendancy over
those who now endeavour, as the fathers of the kirk endeavoured,
to throw off the yoke. We have actually seen mutual fawnings
between these once hostile powers, and heard the sickening saluta-
tion of "sister church" uttered by the kirk to its ancient devourer.
We have heard it sent from the rocks of Edinburgh and the
mountains of Ulster simultaneously; though the haughty Angli-
can hierarchy did not deign to acknowledge the kinship. It is
enough to make the bones of the murdered Covenanters shake in
their graves! But we have seen and heard more. We have seen
Dr. Chalmers sent forth as the representative and champion of
this recreant kirk, to trumpet his recognition of the rightful estab-
lishment of that rank prelacy, which his ancestors and his church
resisted as the very incarnation of Satan himself, as all that was
anti-christian, murderous, and unholy. We have heard him
310 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
jtlStify this establishment of prelacy in the most monstrous shape
in which it ever yet was presented on the earth:....in the bloody,
murderous, and barren abortion of Ireland! This church, which
has been thrust on the catholic millions of Ireland, to the disgustof
the whole Christian world, for its bigotry, its cruelty, its avarice,
its wallowing in wealth, amid starving hosts of wretches that it
has neither fed, nor clothed, nor enlightened,-Dr. Chalmers has
not hesitated to sanction in its most abhorrent position. Covered
with the blood of Ireland and with ages of the neglect of .souls,
he has not shrunk from declaring its cause and his own as one.
"I have always," says he in a letter to Mr. Campbell of Monzie,
quoted in the Spectator of Aug. 20, 1836, "regarded the appro-
priation of any part of the revenues of the Irish church, to other
than strictly ecclesiastical objects, as a very gross violation of the
principle of an "Ejtablishment. And I further think, that the
actual appropriation carried in the House of Commons militates
in the strongest manner against all the principles of protest-
autism."
Thus the doctor would rather that the church of lrelaDd eon-
tinned in its present iniquitous state, or that those principles which
the kirk has always professed to denounce as damnable, and even
popish, should be taught, than that the mammon of an Estab-
lishment should be reduced, and devoted to diffuse sound and
liberal education through the country. So monstrous a per-
version of mind, through the influence of a state religion, was
never before exhibited.
· The doctor's notioll of the necessitr of state endowment to cre-
·ate and supply a spiritual appetite IS of much the same value.
notwithstanding Lord Brougham has thought fit to take it up
and echo it in the Honse of Peers. All history shows that Chris-
tianity has an immortal vitality in it to create its own demand;
that every attem~t of govern~ents to supply that demand by
enactment has failed most grievously, and that the voluntary
impulse of the Christian public in every free nation is the only
victorious principle ofreligious advance.
It is the very demonstration of this principle in its modem Ufe
and grandeur which has, I suspect, aroused the alarming cries
for the kirk. In every portion of the United Kingdom growing
.multitudes attest the absorbing progression of the voluntary prin·
ciple. The Establishment ofEngland, Ireland, and Wales, with all
its pompons political. apparatus, sees dissent shooting far a-head of
it, and cries out lustily, for its craft is in danger. We hear Scot-
land join the cry, and we are constrained to ask, is that modestly
endowed and popularly constructed kirk, that saintly kirk, stripped
of the vanities of prelacy, and the seductions of courtiersliip,
JlU&l'lled from the lust of translation, and the traffic of Simon
!d$gUS, is that also in dan~r? We may draw an answer from
this statement. Gorton, m his Topographical Dictionary of
Great Britain and Ireland, states, that the number of perso1111
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
• 311
above ten years of age belonging to the Scottish kirk in 1830 was
estimated at-
Scottish established church • • • • • 900,000
Scottish dissenters :
Presbyterian seceders •·
Independenm and others
Roman catholics . . .
Episcopalians • . • .
330,000
610,000
100,000
60,000 1,100,000
Total population 2,000,000
. If in 1830 more than half the population of the country were
dissenters, we can understand the outcry of the kirk, though we
sink our belief in the veracity of Dr. Chalmers. But that such is
probably the fact, would appear from this statement of Dr. Cle-
land's respecting Glasgow. ·
Po~tlon in city
audoaburbs.
1780 42,832 .
1821 147,043 .
1831 202,426 .
Sittings Ia ebarehec
aud ebapela of eue.
. . 14,980 . .
. • 24,780 . .
. • 30,9'28 ••
Sittings in diaoenten'
placeo of 11·onbip,
. . 8,101
. . 32,397
. . 42,497
This table, which seems strikingly to bear ou~ the other, more-
over displays an alarming progression of dissent. In 1780, the
church in that city had a maJority of sittings of 6,679, but in 1821,
the tables were turned by a majority of dissenting sittings of 7,617,
which in 1831 was increased to 11,569.
The rapid advance, iudeed, of dissent in Scotland of late years,
shows that something must have been sadly wrong in the Estab-
lishment; and the more so, when we come to discover that it is
not dissent from the religious doctrines, but from the constitution .
of the kirk that has advanced. The episcopalian&, if they have
increased, have done so on very obvious grounds. They consist
of those classes chiefly, who will always belong to that church
which is the most aristocratic and fashionable. The catholics, we
have it on the authority of various statistical works, are chiefly
the descendants of Scottish catholic progenitors, or settlers from
lreland. The grand dissent has shown itself amongst those who
hold the strict fresbyterian faith, but who find the restraints and
subserviency o an Establishment irreconcilable to their con-.
sciences, and have gone out to escape the evils of forced patronage,
oppressive oaths, and similar obstacles to religious independence,
Thus THE REFORMED PRESBYTERIAN SYNOD, or CnrERONIANs,
the descendants of the CovENANTERS, dissatisfied with the com-
plying spirit of the church, left it in 1743. The GLASSITES are
the adherents of the Rev. John Glass, who in 1130 was deposed
by the general assembly for declaring that there is no warrant in
the New Testament for a national church. THE SECESSION
CHURCH originated in direct resistance to the re-imposition of state
oigit<Zed by Coogle
312. • PRIESTCBAFT IN ALL .lGES•
patronage by Queen Anne; and afterwards split into Burghera B.Bd·
Anti-burghers on the burgess oath, which is administered in the.
royal burghs, and. which requirell all to swear that they profess
and allow 'with their hearts the true religion fJ8 authorized by the
laws ; to abide by and defend the .same to their life's end. The
RELIEf SYNOD originated .in .1752, in the attempt of the general
assembly to force a minister on the parish 9f Inverkeithing, con-
trary to the wishes of the people. . . .
Thus it will be seen, that those which are the chief dissenters
have, in reality, dissented from those acts and that domination
which belong, ex natura, to a state Establishment, and point out
the principle of Establishment itself as incurably at war with free-
dom of conscience, and progression of Christianity. No sooner
had these parties freed themselves from state thraldom than they
began to go a-head, and to such a degree, as shown in the in-
stance of Glasgow, that the kirk took tile alarm, and set about, in
the true state-church spirit, not to inquire what were the internal
causes of its want of growth and loss.of affection, but to cry lustily
to ~overnment for more.money to build churches, and endow them.
Th1s, under the good old Tory regime, was speedily granted them.
In 1810, parliament voted £10,000 per annum; in the first place,
to increase the smaller stipend,s of ministers, so that no minister
should have less than £150 a year. The greater portion of this
sum has been exJ>!lnded in the Highlands, where various churches
had been built w1th money granted, from time to time, by the Brit-
ish parliament, but which were not sufficiently endowed. Up to
1838, no less than 44 churches were thus erected in the Htgh-
lands; about which, the ministers of the kirk raised a loud cry,
representing these districts as in the most awful state of spiritual
destitution: What is remarkable, however, is, that though this
destitution had existed for centuries, little or nothing had been
said of it till the dissenters began·actively to endeavour to·intro·•
duce Christianity there. Then the kirk at once beheld it, and
raised a lamentable appeal to government for help. But the dis-
senters protested against the injustice of money grants for such a
purpose, both to the country and to themselves, showing that they
were ready and willing to diffuse religion through the Highlands,
without an expense of a shilling to government; and thence ar-
guing that it was unjust to saddle the country with a burden which
might be avoided, ~nd the work as well done; and unjust to saddle
them with state patronage and ministers' salaries, when they were·
prepared to carry a free religion through the country. In 1838,
the United Associate Synod, meeting at Edinburgh, in a series of
resolutions to be submitted to government on the subject, asserted,
that that synod, and other denominations of dissenters, without
seeking or wishing for government aid, would long ago have spent
large funds in the conversion of the Highlands, " had it not been
that all·attempts made there, and in other sequestered and desti-
tute places, had met with the !JTeatest, arul o.ftm lamentabl!f &-ucctU-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PIUESTCRAFT JN ALL AGES; 313
.foil opp63itiini from Co718e-rmtit·e landlords, as the friend& of the
established church, orfrom endowed ministers, who, if they did not
aspire to the honour of being church-builders in any sense, seem
to have regarded with peculiar suspicion all attempts to diffuse the
lia'ht of evangelical truth amongst those most destitute of it, from
wlmtever quarter that light might proceed."
- But not only was the cry raised for church extension in the
Highlands, where, in fact, the church had thus rejected it when
offered voluntarily, b1.1t it was raised too for the old cities of the
south. These, even Edinburgh and Glasgow, were represented as
suffering dreadfully from want ofchurches. Dr. Chalmers was sent
forth on a crusade to kindle the spiritual sympathies of the religi-
ous world for the destitution of these great cities. It was repre-
sented thatin Glasgow, the population of which then, in 1835, was
202,000, there was only accommodation for 26,000 persons! Thus,
if the whole number of persons of an age to attend church or cha-
pel.was estimated at 97,500, there would lack sittings for 71,500
persons, if every place of worship in Glasgow of every denomina-
tion were filled. Dr. Simpson of Kirknewton asserted this at a
great meeting for church extension held in Edinburgh .that year,
the lord provost in the chair. He also added, that " there existed
eighteen thousand families in Glasgow, not one individual of whom
was, connected with any Christian congregation, or came in con-
tact with any Christian pastor, and who were in as complete a
state of heathenism as if they were thousands of miles removed
from a Christian shore."
This, it might have been remarked, was but a poor compliment
to the efficacy of a state religion which costs about £300,000 per
annum for that country, or for those ministers who, if attentive to
their duty, must have been aware of the growth of this evil, and
yet till recently kept silence. But the excitement raised by these
and similar statements was great. Government was appealed to,·
and had the Peel ministry remained in office the appeal would
probably not have been in vain. But the Whigs, being reinstated,
preferred inquiry into the factS; and what was the result? Such
a mass of misrepresentations and attempts at public delusion as
ought to have covered any m~n, much more Christian ministers,
with everlasting confusion. In this very Glasgow, so far from up-
wards of 70,000 persons destitute of seats, there were found nearly
12,000 seats unlet, of which nearly 5,000 belonged to the Estab-
lishment itself; and so far from there being only 26,000 seats in
places of worship of all·denominations whatever, the dissenters
alone provided seats for 48,230, and the church 33,100-total of
accommodation, 81,330! In Edinburgh, again, where the want of
church-room was represented as equally appalling, the commission-
ers reported 36,001 sittings in the established churches, 42,705 in
dissenting churches-total 78,706, of which 21,154 wm·e unlet!
9,794 being those unlet in the established churches! The Report.
of the City Mission for 1836, discovered a still more astounding
oigit<Zed by Coogle
314 PRIESTCRAF'r Il!f ALL AGES~
fact, that in nine pariahes of the Old Town, having thirleen mini&-
ters and a population of 25,000, only 1,070 sittings were let in the
established churches ! It was thus discovered, that in these two.
cities alone, where such a fearful want of church room had been
asserted, there were together actually 32,671 sittings which found
no occupants. It was moreover discovered, that in all their calcu-
lations the established clergy had paid the dissenters the compli-
ment of reckoning their accommodation as twthing at all. To ac~
count, however, for the vacuum in their own churches, where they.
had so unblushingly endeavoured to impose on the government and
the country, with a statementof such excessive overflow, they now
began to assert that the high price of sittings prevented their being
talien ; and that new churches well endowed ought to be raised.·
to enable them to offer cheap seats. But.how was it that the dis-
l!enters, as they asserted, who maintained entirely their own minis-
ters and churches, could afford to underlet them, who had their
churches built for them, and their salaries made a tax on the na--
tion? The Scotsman, however, showed that it was not the ease
that the dissenters let their seats chea)?t!r; and Tait, in his ·Maga-
zine in May, 1838, showed that even m the established churche~~
they were not the high-priced but the cheap seats.that were chiefly.
unlet•. "Of·seats at 408. only8 percent. are unlet; of those at&.
to 88., 45 per cent. ; and of those at 2s., 69 per cent. !" '
The whole of this nefarious design of the churchmen on the
country being thus blown up, by the watchfulness of the dissenters:
and the caution of the government, they soon showed, as the
church has done in England, that they could help themselves if
let alone ;-by beatin~ the drum ecclesiastic they speedily raised
£150,000 by subscription to build churches-giving a grand proof
themselves of the efficacy ofthe voluntary principle.
The growth of dissent and the resistance ofthe public to eccle-
siastical imposition, have not had in the Scotch church the effect·
of sweetening the temper, any more than elsewhere. The clergy:
soon began to exhibit signs of rabies, showing their teeth, desiring
to bite, and at length actually demanding at the hand of the execu-
tive their "J>?und of flesh." It seems that the clergy in towns, in.
default of tithes, are maintained by a tax called the Annuity tax..
or Ministers' money. This tax many dissenters objected to pay,
as an unjust tax on them, who derived no benefit from those
ministers, but maintained their own. It had been the custom to
take the goods ofsuch by distraint, but they now resolved to have.
nothing but the perso~ of the objector. Mr. Tait, the spirited
and straightforward proprietor of the Magazine of that name, was
the first on whom tliey laid hands; they threw him in 1833 into
the Calton gaol, where he lay till he was released by a public sub-.
scription, and fetched forth in triumph. In 1836, according to.
the Scotsman, no less than 600 prosecutions were going on in
Edinburgh by the clergy for Ministers' money, and they again
iinprisoned, for the same cause, Mr. Russell, a member of the citf
oigit<Zed by Coogle
P'RIESTC'RAFT IN ALL AGES. 315
council, and Mr. Chapman. The latter gentleman got out on a
sick bill, and Mr. Russell was released through the means of a
public subscription. The effervescence of the public mind on this
occasion was excessive, and must have done more to undermine
the Establishment than all the efforts of all the dissenters and
catholics i!l the country could have done in fifty years. Indeed,
by a return made by the town council, it appeared that between
February, 1837, and the same month, 1838, there had been a fall-
ing-offof occupied sittings in the city churches of 180.
These facts, and the equally mischievous one, that the country
clergy are paid their salaries in grain, which leads them to join
the landlords in opposition to the people, on all occasions to peti-
tion for the continuance of the com laws, are fast unrooting the
kirk in the hearts of the thinking Scots. There is a recent history
of this church by Mr. Fyfe, which shows that, on all occasions,
~e Scotch clergy have been the flatterers of Tory governments,
and the obsequious aiders of their most arbitrary measures; tyrants
to the eeceders, opposers of missionary societies, sabbath schools,
and itinerant preachers; strenuous advocates of the Tory war
with France, and most pertinacious in maintenance of the corn
laW8.
. To crown all, the general assembly next engaged in a contest
with the patrons, for the extinction of lay patronage-a thing ex-
cellent in itself; but the peo_ple, made suspicious by the flagrant
and growing symptoms of priestcraft in the kirk, looked on the con-
trove~y :with indifference. They regard~d it but as an attempt less
to annihilate patronage than to transfer It to the general assembly,
where it would become an engine of intolerable priestly power.
They had seen the assembly, as well as lay :\latrons, engaged in
forcing ministers on parishes in spite of the wishes of the people.
~n fact, out of such a circumstance grew the Relief Synod Jn
1752; and from the spirit displayed by the established clergy of
}ate years, they dreaded any increase of their influence. A~
pealing from the people to the.government for assistance in this
singular contest, but at the same time, as already observed, the kirk
denying its dependence ongovernment,it met,as might be expected,
:with a decided repulse from the government; and in its wrath at
the rejection of Its overbearing claiins, the kirk literally burst
asunder. Nearly five hundred of its clergy, with Dr. Chalmers
and its greatest men at their head, marched at once out of it, and
presented to the astonished public the most extraordinary and
wholesale church schism of modern times. This body of clergy,
and their adherents, have assumed the title of THE FREE ScoTCH
CHURCH, and have sent out a host of missionaries throughout
England and A~erica, to beg funds for their support; and thus
l}oing, the kirk of Scotland furnishes another example, that neither
moderate endowments, nor a popular form, can preserve a state
religion; a thing in itself unnatural and unjust, and therefore in-
capable of standing in the presence of a free people.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
316
CHAPTER XXVIII.
THE ENGLI!!H CHURCH SINCE THE PAS~lNG OF THE REFORM BILL,
Enormous wealth was granted to clergymen for inadequate services.
This was the complaint,-this is the complaint,-this must cease to be
the complaint. A prelate must no longer be estimated at thirty admirals;
a greater number than were ever in commission at once during the .most ·
prosperous of our wars.
WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR'S LETTERS OF A CONSERVATIVE
ON THE ENGLISH CHURCH.
ON the 7th of June, thirteen years will have elapsed since the
Reform Bill became the law of the land~ and no thirteen years in
the world's history have more clearly demonstrated the power and
the nature of 'priestcraft. The efforts made by this great nation,
during this period, and the end of those efforts, afford the mOIIt
serious warmng to all new countries, to prevent the principle of
state Establishment obtaining the slightest countenance, for, once
admitted, it strikes its roots to the very foundations of a political
constitution, corrupts the whole mass of its life-blood, and cannot
be tom from its ho1d wi.thout the deadliest strain, and at the peril
of a general convulsion. '
Wfien the Reform Bill was once passed, the whole nation, ex-
cepting the aristocracy, seemed to rise with one spirit ofexultation,
in the hope of redress from its long sufferings and insults from the
national church. The spirit of eager and rejoicing anticiJ.>ation,
marked the deep sense of hatred and indignation. The mmistry
appeared as prompt to gratify the popular desire. They had been
placed in power by the· zeal and energy of the people. When king
and peers stood up against them, and they gave way to the storm,
they were borne back on the shoulders of the multitude, and the
royal and aristocratic power succumbed before them. They felt
. how much they owed to the great body of the dissenters, and they
aplleared well disp<Jsed to repay their support by a grand deed of.
religious justice. They had themselves sfiown that energy which .
inspired a confidence in their decision and perseverance. To carry
the Reform Bill, and seat themselves firmly in office, they had even
threatened, in the Commons, to stop the supplies, and called on
the king to create as many peers as would insure the carrying of
the measure. The people fondly asked themselves what "tliese
men, who could thus act, and dare, could not carry in the great
cause of necessary reforms!" For a time the ministers seemed
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES, 317
ready to justify, too, these bright expectations. They quickly
abohshcd in Ireland the churcli rates, there called cess, and re-
duced ten out or twenty-two bishoprics. 1t is true that the in-
come of these bi~hoprics were, as they fell in, to be applied to
repair the churches, to augment small livings, and to make in-
comes for deacons and chapters. But ministers did not stop here.
They introduced a tithe bill, into which they introduced a clause,
declaring that all surplus revenue from these bishoprics or other
church property should be applicable to such purposes of national
improvement, education, etc., as the government should, from time
to time, deem wise and necessary. This clause, the most import.:
ant one which had been introduced into any. church bill since the
Revolution, was called" the appropriation clause," and was hailed
by the nation with a general burst of delight. The ministers
vowed and pledged themselves with the most !!mphatic solemnity,
that by this clause they would stand or fall ; that they would
never abandon it, but With entire and irretrievable loss of office !
Raised by this most auspicious aspect of affairs, the dissenters
throughout the nation were filled with the highest hopes. They
every where stood out against the ancient impost of cliurch rates,
and even dared to petition government for the separation of church
and state. Ifany one will look back to the period between the pass-
ing of the Reform Bill and the end of 1836, he will now observe
with surprise the high state of excitement in which not only the
people but the parliament were on the question of church reform.
Every where meetings to petition for the abolition of church rates;
vestries refusing to grant these rates; petitions for the removal
of the bishops out of the House ofLords; petitions for a dissenters'
marriage bill, liberating them from attendance at the state altars ;
for a new re/Pstry, having a similar liberation in view ; petitions
for the abolition of tithes ; for the abolition of spiritual courts.
Every where severe contests were going on to appoint dissenting
churchwardens, or churchwardens advocating the abolition of
rates, and for postponing. the passing of such rates. In Man-
chester polling was carried on for many days, and all the heat of
• a contested election of a member of parliament equalled, or ex-
ceeded. The dissenters held large meetings in London,,apd sent
delegates to ministers warm with their wishes on these subjects.
In parliament the warfare between the church and anti-church
party was carried on with equal fervour and perseverance. Let
any one look over the parliamentary debates of from 1832 to 1837,
or even 1838, and behold with astonishment what a preponderating
mass of their contents is made up of debates on ecclesiastical
questions. Commission after commission was issued ; bishops
were compelled to appear in the novel characters of church re-
formers ; not an abuse but was threatened :-and what now is the
result? Scarcely one abuse reformed! The Marriage and Regis-
,tration Bills were passed; ·bishops' revenues and sees underwent
·
some trivial regulations, which, however, gave not the slightest re-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
318 PlliBSTCRAPT IN ALL AGES.
lief to dissenters ; pluralities were also regulated, so as to take off
the most rank offence and to preserve the Ilrovit; tithes were placed
on a new footing in both Ireland and England, certainly doing
away with much heart-burning, and, in Ireland, with much blood-
shed, but fixing that gross impost only the more permanently lllid
heavily on this nation, and rendering a fresh agitation needful at
a future day. And here behold the end of that mighty effer-
vescence of the government and the millions of England, and the
labours of eight years in church reform ! After all the vaunts of
those ministers that they would live and die with the appropri-
ation clause, that was cast to the wind ; after their positive asser-
tions that church rates should be abolished, they are not abolished,
but on the contrary they exist, a daily source of strife in every town
in the kingdom, and the ecclesiastical courts are let loose to fine
and imprison those who resist them. The bishops roll in their
immense wealth and patronage unmolested ; the chapters COJl-
tinue their golden slumbers undisturbed; and the clergy every
where are active as ever in resisting cheap food for the starving
millions, and cheap government for the whole nation.
After the first flush of official zeal had faded from the Whig
ministry, they soon began to betray to the eyes of the nation the
fact that, in ecclesiastical as in general affairs, they were but part
of that aristocracy which feeds on corruption, and never woula of
themselves cut oft'one source of that wh1ch had so long nourished
their order. They who with the popular aid had compelled prince
and peer to submit to reform, when 1t was necessary to their power,
soon began to plead the resistance of these same peers, and the
want of support from the middle classes. But the lamentable
thing was, that they should have been peritiitted to succeed in their
plans for swampin~ reform by the old stratagem of" Divide and
c.onquer." They dtvided the radicals from their own cause, and
the dissenters amongst themselves. Of the former they made,
especially of those in,Parliament, a perfect cat's-paw by the mere
cry of" Wolf! wolf! By exclaiming," Vote wtth us, or you let
in the Tories," they induced those to support them in their de-
sertion of reform, and thus to become the lauj5'hing-stocks of both •
peers and people, when, by voting with Whigs or Tories as the
cause of the peo~le required, they might have commanded in the
House. The radical members, amongst whom the Irish ones wer~
most notorious, who, by voting steadily against whatever ministry
would not move, be their name what it might, would have become the
leaders of the Home, and rendered it impos:n'ble that ANY MINISTRY
SHOULD RETAIN POWER w}tich did not go on with reform, were jug•
gled out of their vantage ground by the shallowest scheme of a
recreant party, and lost an everlasting reputation for themselves,
and many years of £GOd government for the nation. But the
dissenters were equally juggled with the same pleas. An odd
member or two in parliament, and a committee in London, calling
itself"The United Committee of Dissenters," assumed the name
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 319
of the Te{lresentatives of the dissenters ofthe nation. These opened
(l()mmurucation with ministers; ministers smiled on them ; and for
the poor honour of appearing to be in the confidence of ministers,
and of retailing to their party, as Dickens makes somebody in
Nicholas Nickelby term it, "what government whispered to me
last night,"-they threw a wet blanket on the zeal of the dissent·
ers, and lost the confidence of the country dissenters altogether.
The country dissenters, who are every where a fine, intelli~nt,
and active body, were the first to discover the hollowness of mmis-
terial professions; but the UnitedCommittee still cried, "Have con-
fidence, have confidence; ministers will certainly do all they pro-
mise !" When the dissenters of Nottingham, by a deputation, of
whom I was one, presented a memorial to Earl-Grey, praying.for
separation of church and state, four days after this fact was re-
ported in the papers, this committee sent a de:t>utation to Earl
Grey, u to reinstate the dissenters in his good opmion ;" denying
that the sentiments of that memorial were the sentiments of the
dissenters in general, but merely of a few wild people at Nottin~­
ham. When, soon afterwards, Lord Althorpe brought in his
Jnise:rable scheme of a Church-rate Bill, this committee, seeing the
dilemma into which their false confidence had led the dissenters,
reque11ted delegates to be sent from all parts of the kingdom to
eon11ider what should be done. I was one of these delegates, and
to undeceive the dissenters at large, and to execute a piece of
poetical justice on this committee, en~d the delegates of Man-
chester to join those of Nottingham m moving an amendment at
the meeting at the City of London Tavefi\, (in May, 1834,) declar7
ing that the committee, and the dissenters at large, sought nothing
less than entire separation of church and state. The amendment
was carried by acclamation; the country delegates, ·of whom
there were about 300, being joined bv a body of equally zealous
London ones; and a deputation wfth the Resolutions of the
meeting, headed by that for separation of church and state, and
closed by one recommending Anti-church Associations through-
out the country, was despatched to Lord Althorpe. His Lordship,
on seeing the first resolution, complained loudly that ministers
had been grossly deceived by the United Committee in regard
to what the dissenters really demanded ;-and from that day the
confidence of the country dissenters in this Committee was at an
end. The want of a body in London really representing the
talent, the zeal, and the desires of the great and spirited mass of
the dissenters, which was then laid open, became a subject of
general anxiety; and the government, availing themselves of the
then headle&s condition of the dissenters, soon threw offall dis~ise,
so much so that Lord John Russell avowed his honest opmion,
that "the church is founded on just, wise, and beneficent prin-
ciples," and, of course, that all the threatenings of hiniself and
colleagues to reform it, for so many years, was a farce.
But though the Whigs playedoff their piece ofstate-craft on the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
l'RIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGE!t.
dissenters'in this respect, much good has actually been done bythe
agitation of the question, and a mass of facts has been made pnb.-
lic which will yet produce their due effect. A series of Commis-
sions of Ecclesiastical Inquiry have been issued, whose reports
stand as lasting records of the necessity of thorough reform of the
Establishment ; and a number of other particulars have risen to the
light in the concussion of popular agitation which will never again
be forgotten. .
.In the first place, the great, wealthy, and spirited body of dis.
senters, both in town and country, became aware of the inefficient
manner in which they had been represented by the so-called United
Committee, and have since formed themselves boldly into a ~eneral
"Association for Separation of Church and State," from which the
most essential services may be expected. .
:··In the next place, the people have become better informed of
the real nature of the Establishment; of its actual extent, power,
ramifications, objects, spirit, and su{lporters. They have seen, what
they never saw so clearly before, With wh&t, and with whom they
have to do. They have made the important discovery, that the
church is but one of those many machines of the aristocracy, with
which they have loaded the ~overnment of this country, for the
slavery of the people, and their own support. The church, in fact,
has been made to show itself as it is-the church of the aristocracy;
their own property, their invention to get hold of at least ten mil-
lwlls a year for themselves and children. Never till the discussions
which have arisen out of the Reform Bill was the public; aware
how entirely this· is the case, how completely aristocracy and
hierarchy are identical; riever before did it stare them in the face;
that in contending with the church, they have to contend with the
whole race and order of the aristocracy. Never did they see so
clearly revealed the root and ground of that intimate alliance be-
tween despotism in the church and despotiim in the state, which
had often surprised them. Never were they fully before aware,
that that which starved their spirits, and stinted the food of life,
was that which. starved their bodies also; that the tithe law, the
church-rate law, and the corn law were the work of the same hands,
and the different parts of the same machine !
All that is flung into the open day-light now, and the more it is
pored on the more foul will this conspiracy against the people
appear. The whole history of the church of England shows how
completely the aristocracy have looked upon it as a source of
plunder, and a mere money concern. The amount of property
which they managed to get hold of when Henry VIII. brolie Up
the catholic establishment was cnonnous. It constitutes the im-
mense estates of some of our proudest nobility, particularly of the
house of Bedford. Few of the old families of the nobility and
gentry but hold comfortable morsels ofit. The amountof tithes that
got into the possession of the laity is immense. But the property,
still called church prope_
rty, is not the less the prey of the aristo-
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PIUESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 321.
c:racy. In the first place, they hold possession of the whole of the
par:ish livings in one shape or another. By a return to parliament
m 1818, the number of churches and chapels of the Establishment
in the kingdom, was 11,743. Of these the crown presented 1,041,
or, in other words, the aristocracy in power had the patronage of
them under the following heads.
The first lord of the treasury • • • . 103
- lord chancellor • • . • • • • 899
- chancelloroftheduchyofLa.ncaster :J9
The 26 bishops • • • • .
- 30 deans and chapters •
- 20 colleges of Oxford •
- 18 colleges of Cambridge
300 peers and baronets . • .
Six schools, etc., in London, etc.
About 4,000 private patrons
1,041
1,303
1,037
403
280
1,400
45
6,234
11,743
Thus, with the exception of perhaps a few out of the forty-five
presented by schools, though public schools in the country are
generally, too, under the management of the aristocracy, the whole
of the livings of England are the property of the aristocracy, to
present to tlieir children and relatives, and, in default of these, to
sell to the highest bidder; as we have shown is done every day.
The following list will show some of the causes of opposition to
church reform in the House of Peers, besides what origtnates with
the bishops.
WHIGS.
The Earl of Craven is patron of
- Earl of Albemarle . • • •
Duke of Cleveland
Duke of Sutherland
Duke of Portland .
Duke of Bedford
Earl Fitzwilliam .
·Duke of Devonshire
Duki! of Norfolk .
Lord Yarborough • . .
TORIES.
The Marquis of Aylesbury
- Marquis of Bath • .
Earl of Lonsdale . •
Duke of Buckingham
Marquis of Bristol
. y
Lhiogo.
13
9
14
8
10
27
31
48
21
15
9
13
32
13
f.lO
oigit<Zed by Coogle
Pllllt8TCR4FT IN ALL AGES.
The Earl of Sbaftesbury . •
Duke of Northumberland
- Duke of Rutland • . .
- Duke of Beaufort • • .
Uvlnp.
12
• )3
• 29
. 29
The bishops, including the four Irish ones now in parliament.
have upwards of 1,900 livings in their gift, and the peers alto-
gether about 4,050." ·
Let any one suffieiimtly ·ponder over these facts, and he will ·
quickly perceive that nothing but a gigantic effort, and that by
the whole P.Cople, in their most determined mood, will ever carry
,any thing like efficient reform of the church through the House of
Lords. It is not merely in·the Holise ·of Peers, however, that the
resistance created .by this property exists. All these livings are
filled by the blOod connexions and political partisans of themselves
and governme~t; and through every part of the country, and into
every obscure ~illage, are scattered by them the zealous watchers
and upholders of the system. .
I have given, under the head of Priestcraft in Wales, a: pretty
good specimen of the way in which the bishops settle their families
on the count.ey. Besides filling all offices in the chapters, pre-
bends, and canonries, that fall into their hands, with them; th,ey
fill also the livings in their gift, and lease out the bishopric lands
to them. The enormous extent of public property which has been
intrusted to the bishops is altogether unltnown ; as, indeed, is the
case with the dean and chapter property, and that of the parochial
livings. By report of the Royal Commission of 1834, the returns
of the ecclesiastical incomes, as made by the clergy themselves,
were as under:
Bishops, £180,000; cathedrals, etc., £350,86); benefices,
£3,253,662.
Total annual income of the English church, £3,784,985.
These returns were, at the moment, deemed culpably deficient in
the true amount.. It was certain, from the known amount of in-
come in past times, that of the cathedral property in Charles Il.'s
reign bemg upwards of £400,000, that eit.her the present income,
conside1ing the greatly increased value of property in modern
times, was grossly understated, or that much of this property had
been made away with by the clergy. Both of these suppositions
have proved true. The value of many livings has come out by
their being offered to sale, and the clerical return of these livings
thus shown to have been excessively under the mark. But the
gr"dnd exposure has been made by the carrying out of the act for
the commutation of tithes, by which it has turned out, that the
value of the church tithes alone is upwards of Biz millions, or nearly
double the whole income of bishops, chapters, and parish priests,
according to their own return in 1834. Even where dignitaries
may have returned their actual income, it is proved afterwards by
them.~elves that that income is nothing to what the property would
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRil:STCRAFT IN ALL AGEl!. 323
warrant; but is reduced to a merr fraction, by the ,;ystcm of leas-
ing on lives, and by the bad treatment of the lands which ·such
leases naturally produce. Persons holding lands on such terms will
not expend that capital upon them which they would on more cer-
tain tenures. Thus the archbishop of York returned the actual
income of his diocese, in the First Report of the Ecclesiastical
Commissioners in 1835, at £12,629, and the probable future income
at £10,600; but in the Report on Church Leases in 1838, he re,
turns the net annual value at £42,030! Thus on this estate alonE'
the country is robbed ofnearly £33,000 annually! In the Report of
1835 the bishop of Peterborough returns hisjneome at £3103, and,.
the probable future income at £3000, but in the ReJ?ort of 1838
he returns the annual value at £8969! Here again 1s, in a 8mall
see, a loss to the country of £5866 per annum! So scandalous is
thejobbing in this property,that many ofthe bishops refused to give
any return at all, some of them, as Philpotts of Exeter, insolently
defying the authority of the House of Commons. The Report con-
tains no returns from the bishops of Bangor, Carli8le, Exeter, Glou-
~. Brilltol, O:iford, Rochester, St•.A.saph, Winchukr, Worcester,
erSt. Dat:itfs. Nothing is, therefore, really known of the actual
amount of the property of the bishops, or of the deans and chap-
ters. But there is every reason to believe it monstrous. The
glimpses given by the Report of 1838 of the inquiry into the
leases of these lands, show that a vast extent ofjobbing and nepo-
tism is connected with it. It is leased by the 4ishops chieflv to
their relatives, who again underlet it, and live on the profit thus
made. Being let on their lives, and renewable by the payment of
a fine, these lands are looked upon almost as so much private pro-
perty, and mortgages and marrmge settlements are made on them.
It may be fairly ima~ned, from the sample of the archbishopric
of York, that two-thirds of the real annual value is sunk amongst
the bishops' families and relatives, and thus lost to the countlJ.
Then, again, so much is received,.not in the shape of rent, but m
fines, that it is difficult to tell what is the gross income' Lord
John Russell, in May, 1838, moving for the aJ?pointment of a select
committee to inquire into the mode of grnntmg and renewing bi-
ehopa' and dean and chapters' leases, stated that many instancea
might be given of the reduction of such property by the manage-
ment of dignitaries, and mentioned one instance where by a biAhop
the income had been reduced from £11,000 to £4000 or £5000 a
year. He quoted the statementof Burnet, that in Charles I I.'a rei~
the bishops pocketed nearly a million and a half from the falling m
of leases, which ought to have gone to the general advantage of
religion. He added, that the dean and chapter of Durham in
recent times had pocketed £40,000 in one instance, and £100,000
in another, from the renewal of leases of coal mines.
A correspondent of the Spedator newspaper gives the following
facts. showmg the manner in which the bishop of Bath and Wella
hill fixed his sons and relatives on the church property; a bishop
Y2
,g, Jb,Google .~
PIIIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
who, be says, during the whole Qf his career in this diocese, bas
never yet promoted one poor andfriendless curate. · :
Archdeacon of Wells Rev. H. Law · Cleanalue:
Chancellor Rev. H. Law
Treasurer • . . Rev. Robt. Law
West Camel • . Rev. H. Law
Christian Malford Rev. Robt. Law
Corston Rev.- Morgan.
Stowey • . • . Rev. H. Harkness
Weston-super-Mare Rev. W. Barlow
Rev. H. Law
Rev. H. Law
Yeovilton .
West Camel
• Rev. R. Law
Hon. W. Law . . .
R. W. H. Lushington .
£270
672
150
183
264
264
445
445
445
270
Several other living~~ are given to gentlemen on condition that his
sons shall have other P?Sts in lieu of them. While bishop of
Chester, moreover, he did not neglect to quarter his kith and kin
on the country. Thus, out of the six,J>rebends are given to his
near relatives-James Slade; R. V. Law; formerly a midship-
man; W. Barlow, formerly a dragoon officer.
Commissary of the archdeaconry
of Richmond . . . • • •
Chancellor of Lichfield •
Prebendary of Lichfield • ·
Vicar of Harborne . . •
-- Bowden
Rector of Tattenhall . •
Vicar of Bolton-le-Moors
Rector of Shirley West
- Wallagey .
-- Weverham .
Coddington .
J.T.Law
J. T. Law
J.T.Law
J. T. Law
J.T.Law
J. T. Law
J. Slade
J. Slade
R. V.Law
R. V. Law
R. V.Law
W. Barlow
£624
487
277
464
703
393
325
262
262
Certainly here is much more Law than jU6tice. Who can think
without indignation, of all the poor and .friendteBB curate., who,
from the engrossing of these living~~ by the bishops' brood, must go
through life with heart-ache, contempt, and £75 a year! Nay,
the furnisher of these facts stli.tes, that he was led to make the in-
quiry by witnessing this circumstance. Being in a small town in
Somersetshire, he o})served a venerable old man pass by. Struck
by his appearance, he inquired who he was. It was an aged cu-
rate. He found that he was beloved by every body, and had every
qualification for a parish pastor, but having no interest, he had
never been presented to a living, and now could not even get em-
ployment, except by supplying occasionally for the absent. He had
then been preaching for a gay rector, who, with hfs family, was at
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCEAFT IN ALL AGES• 325
Cheltenham. This bishop, who had piled livings in heaps on his ·
sons IIDd nephews, had. not even one of the poorest for this worthy
old man in his extreme age: · . .
But the bishop's rredecessor, Beadon, was equally carefUl to
stock the country wtth his own connexions. All the following
are such, and almost all the livings not given by Bishop Law, are
held by the relatives of Bishop Beadon. .
Richard Beadon, the bishop's only son, has the
manor of Wiveliscombe, worth • • • .
Hi& son is registrar of the diocese
F. Beadon, chancellor of the church
canon of Wales • • . •
-- prebendary of Compton Bishop
W. H. Barnard, canon of Wells •. • • • .
vicar of St. Cuthbert's, Wells
late vicar of Yatton • . • .
£
4,000 a year.
800
800
500
422
. R. A'Court Beadon, prebendary of Wiveliscombe
F. F. Beadon, vicar of Compton Bishop . . . . 185
vicar of Pilton . • • 235
C. Beadon, rector of Uxbridge . 158
D. Tremlctt, rector of Rodney Stoke 339
N. Ruddock, Westbury • • • • • 251
C•.Johnson, junior, South Brent . . 548
-- . White Lackington 219
Barrow . 186
C. Rockett, East Brent • • 902
Weston Zoyland 284
Butler Beadon, Over Stowey 150
-- Middlezoy • 185
George Rous, Laverton • • 277
And this is not one half that has been held by this family within
twenty years.
The following letter to the editor of the Morning Chronicle,
will show the working of the system in another quarter.
DEANS AND CHAPTERS.
Sra · . ·
· ' In passing through York the other day, I leamt the beauty
of the system of deans and chapters, and the present order of ec-
clesiastical ~ things, as set forth in a family at Bishop Thorpe.
Ought such things to be ? ·
Total,
Hon. E. Vernon; archbishop of York, per an- £ £ ·
num: on an average for twenty-three years 26,000 638,000
All sons of the archbishop, viz. ·
Rev. L. Vernon, chancellor of the chureh,
prebendary, and two rectories, for ten years 3,000 30,000
Rev. W. Vernon, canon residentiary,preben-
326 PJUESTCB4.FT IN A.LL AGES.
dary, and three reetories, (one sinecure,) for
ten years • • • • • ••.•.•
Rev. G. Vemon, chancellor of the diocese, a
deputy allowed, ten years • • • . • •
Rev. C. Vemon, one rectory, for ten years .
Rev. E. Vernon, registrar of diocese, a deputy
;illowed, ten years • • • • • • • •
Total.
£ £
2,500 25,000
1,800 18,000
2,000 2A>,OOO
2,000 .20,000
Annual income £37,300
Total ·receipt by family, exclusive of daugh- -'----
ters' husbands, relatives, nephews, &c. &c. 751,000
Leeds, Jan. 2Dth, 1831. SwiNG WESLJi:Y.
These are curious specimens of the doings in " the poor man's
church," and the demonstration might be extended over the whole
kin~om. When you hear these prelates declaiming in parliament
• agamst radicals, infidels, and papists, that would commit sacrilege
on the holy church, and rob the poor man _of his religion, you
would hardly think them such unblushing hypocrites, as these
plain figures show them to be. But not content '1\ith plundering
the church for their relatives in this wholesaJe style; not content
with depreciating the value and diminishin~ the income of the
lands put into their keeping, by their mischievous mode of leas-
ing; they actually rob the church in the most felonious manner,
by selling the lands, and pocketing the money.
Great have been the heats and the battles about the ·appropria-
tion clause ; Lord. Stanley has made it his boast, that he sacri-
ficed office to oppose it; yet nothing is more certain, than that
alienation of church property to a vast extent has been going on
amongst the bishops and deans for a great number of years; and
acts of parliament have been readily obtained to sanction it. Cob-
b~tt, in his" Legacy to Peel," declares, that" in 1797 an act was
passed to appoint a board of commissioners, to allow of the SELL-
ING, out and out for ever, to lay persQTUJ, part of the glebes of the
college property, of the tithes and oblatiom appropriated to bi8lwprictt,
deans and chapters, and colleges. This act went into effect; it is in
effect now; such sales are ?lOW taking place every day ; and the
proceeds have been, and are, paid into the Treasury! A pretty
" thimble-rig" statesman, then, who glories in having sacrificed
office to the '"great principle of the unalienable nature of church
property!"
However this may be, particular-acts of parliament have easily
been obtained when wanted. In 1837, a writer in the Morning
Ohronicle made public this fact. In -the year 1768, the duke of
Grafton was prime minister. His brother, Mr. Fitzroy, was the
lessee of the manor and lordship of Tattenhall, the property
of the dean and chapter of St. Paul's, London. Dr. Richard
Brown, tbe then prebend of the stall of Tattenhall, having pock-
eted the emolument attending the renewal of the lease, and there
oig''"~byGoogle
PllJEBTCRAFT 11' ALL AGES~ 327
being ·little chance of any further advantage tO hiin from the
estate, readily listened to a proposal ofMr. Fitzroy for the purchase
of the estate. The thing was agreed, and through the influence of
the duke of.Grafton, the minister, an act of parliament was ob..
tained, which from the 25th of March, 1768, divested the estate,
with all its rights, privileges, and emoluments,from the prebendary,
and convered the fee-simple, entire and without reserve, to Mr.
Charles F1tzroy and his heir1for ever. The act states it tQ be, with
the C07IIe7lt of Richard, lord bishop of London, and the privity of
the dean and chapter of St. Paul's. ·
Now, what was, and where lay this estate, so readily detached
from the church. " The estate commences at St. Giles's parish,
extends some distance on the north side Q( Oxford Street, and in
other directions embraces a large part of St. Pancras parish, ·
Kentish town, and up to Highgate ; including coppices, woods,
and grounds lying beside Highgate, of great extent, and from
its situation equal in value to any land round the metropolis.
Very considerable buildings were at that time erected upon it ;
the ground was in great request for building on, and could then be
disposed of.in leases at a considerable rate perfoot. A fair estimate
of the value of the land may be made by Mrs. Fitzroy's settlement
of £400 a year being sufficiently secured on only twenty-three
acre11 of it, the estate consisting of some thousands. Any one
knowing th.e situation and extent of the property, must be aware
of the astounding value of it at present."
And for what did this good ana provident steward of the church
dispose of this princely estate? "The full equivalent and com-
pensation given to the church is a rent-charge on the eltate of £300
per annum; which, as £46 of it was receivable under the lease,
inakes the amount given for the fee simple £254 per annum ; and
this was stated to be a much greater revenue than could possibly
accrue to the successors in the prebend, either by fines in renewal
of leases, or by any othermeans whatever.
" The possession of this estate in twelve years (1780) caused
Mr. Fitzroy's exaltation to the peerage by the title of Lord South-
ampton; by which name the estate is now known." Tattenllall
is kept out tif vrew, and this church pl'llfllier is probably all the title
JIOII8C8&e8. Upon a moderate calculation of all the advantages ob..
tained by this act of parliament, Mr. Fitzroy and his family have
received from the estate upwards of • • • • • £1,500,000
The full equivalent which bas been paid to the
church, amounts to • • • • • : • • . 17,784
Total of which the church has been plundered
up to this time • .· • • • • • • • • £1,482,216
That 18 pretty well for one transaction by these tender consciences,
who are so fearful of radicals robbing " the poor man's church."
There is in the library of Lambeth palace, a set .
of Parliamentary
Surveys of Church Lands, which are believed to record many
oigit<Zed by Coogle
328 P'RIE!ITCilAJ'T IN ALL AGES;
similar deedi. Mr. Duncombe has repeatedly moved for copies or
them to be made and laid on the table of the House of Commo111,
but, as might be expected, his motion, when pressed to a. division,
was rejected by a. la~ majority. Yet why need the aristocratic
Commons be ashamed of bringing to light acts of their fathers
which they do not blush to rival? A writer in the Momifi{J
Clronick, again, points out the following transaction between the
very families of'the bishops of Bath and Wells, whose monstrous
alienation of church property we have just noticed.
"Until a very few years ago the entire P-arish of Wiveliseombe,
in Somersetshire, consisting of between 8000 and 9000 acres of
good land, belonged to the bishopric of Bath and Wells, and con-
nituted theff!r greoter JX1rlion of the revenues attached to that see.
The late bialwp let the whole of the said_property to his son for a
term of three lives, at a nominal rent. The present bishop, find-
ing his revenue reduced to a mere trifle by this proceeding of his
predecessor, agreed to make over the property •n fee to the late
bishop's family, on condition that £36,529 in money should be
settled on the bishopric ; and an act tif parliament passed through
an unreformed House of Commons, and a Tory HOUBB tif Lordi,
enabling the parties to fulfil this agreement." Thus the present
bishop's family are not only fattening on the property ofthe church,
but have managed to aJlpropriate for ever the bulk of the endow-
ment of the see of Batli and Wells. But the transaction in its
full infamy is not understood tiU the fact is stated, that this prO.:
perty, for which little more ~han £36,000 is given, is estimat~ to
be of the annual value of £7660! How many other instances or
the working of this process of plunder and alienation by the
bishops would have come to li~ht, had not the prudent prelates
refused to obey the demand of mquiry by parliament P Nay, we
have it on the authority of the Rev. SU/ney Smith, canon-resi~
dentiary of St. Paul's, that the plunder does not only go on by the
bishops, but by petticoat stratagem. "The worst case," he says,
"is that of a superannuated bishop.. Here the preferment is given
away by wives and daughters, or by sons utterly unacquainted with
ecclesiastical matters; and the wor dying patron's paralytic hand i8
guided to the signature ofpapers, the content8 of which he i8 utterly
unable to comprehend!" , .
These details might be greatly extended, but they il.re too nu-
merous for otir limits ; these must be taken as a sample of what has
been going forward on a. large seale, and that from the bishops
and deans down to the ordinary clergy. In the parish of St.
Andrew's, Holbom, it was shown to the vestry, met on the subject
of a church rate in 1837, that though an estate had been left by
Mr. Thavie, in 1384, for the suprort .of thefabric ofthe church, and
that in 1835 the annual rental, mdependent of the vestry house,
was £1,317, the parishioners had all along been called upon to
pay church rates. On inquiring to what purpose the funds had
been applied, it was found, that they had been expended, raot on
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCBAFT IN ALL MlES. 329
'the church, but on repairin,,·fitting up, painti_ng, 8\!PPl~ng with
coals, etc., the rB()tory Jwuse • In.l814, for repairs, £697; m 1835,
for coals, surrender of lease, etc., £114; in 1816, for two water-
closets, etc., £264; in 1819-20, for carpenters, paintef8, paper-
hangers,· at rectory house, £261 7s. 6d.; in 1820-1, for bialwp ofSt.
A .apia's fixtures, £40 ·2s.; in 1825, for repairs of rectory again,
£690 I&. 5d. .For an act of parliament to get an estate at Bangor
chanl!e(l, to the agent in 1828, £500; in 1829, £299; 1831, £200;
totallor the rector's advantage out of the parish fund for repairing
the church, £997! In 1830, vestry clerk's bill, paid out of these
funds, £515. In 1831, repairs of rectory again, including fifteen
pieces of flock and gilt paper, £15158.; bell-hanging, £10 12s. 6d.;
wash-hand stand, fixing looking-glasses, etc., £3 28. 6d.; repair-
ing chopping-blocks, tables, chairs, etc., £2 15&. 6d.; total, £201
1&. ! Sunilar abuses of their ·funds were discovered by other
~hes when they came to search into the matter of church rates,
showing that the clergy and their satellites, from the highest to the
lowest, had become most corrupt, and converted the church liter-
ally into "a den of thieves."
.But one of the most singular facts brought to light by the inves-
tigations and commissions of these years has been to show, that the
clergy were not more ready to plunder the church, than to plunder
one another. The bishops on the Commission of Ecclesiastical
Inqniry, in their second and fourth Report, brought in in 1836, re-
commended a reform in the cathedral property. They showed that
the deans and chapters had been sharing amongst them a gross
income of £530,861. They complained of the abuse of their pa-
tronage; recommended that the canons should be considerably re-
duced in numbers ; the patronage tramferred to them&elves : all
livings without cure of souls to be abolished, and the proceeds to
be applied to the augmentation of small livings ! From these
sources they expeeted to extract out of the dean and chapter pro-
perty about £130,000 per annum! Mighty was the wrath of the
chapters at this cannibal desire evinced by the bishops to devour
them. They sharply recriminated in memorials to government,
bidding it look at the manner in which the bishops had exercised
their own patronage before it bestowed theirs upon them. They
did not deny but that they had taken good care ofthemselves and
relatives, but they showed that the bishops had done so much more.
The Rev. Sidney Smith, canon-residentiary of St. Paul's, in a pam-
phlet assailed the prelates hotly, and charged home th
.eir crunes.
Mr. Smith has the character of a shrewd man of the world, but
passion throws even the shrewdest off their guard, and Mr. Smith
told many tales out of school that will not readily be forgotten.
It was remarked as curious, that in this internal war no regard
was shown for the interests of the church, or for each other, but
solely for the security of the booty each was possessed of. The
worldly and ravenous charscter of churchmen was never rendered
more conspicuous than in this contest. It was noticed, too, that
oigit<Zed by Coogle
·330 .PRIESTCRAFT IS ALL A'OES.
even the chapters, in their memorial, pleaded not the·ad'fantage of
.reli~on, but ~olely the advantage, of their own o"Cder; and the me-
morral of the chapter of Canterbury, contending that the 6th chap-
ter of their statutes enjoined them " to grow fat, and by no means
to get 1ean,"-pingue8cere enim optamm eccleliam no~~tram, fiDft
macrescere,-occasioned a good deal of merriment, 88 most emi-
nently characteristic,
The propensity to prey upon each other was found. however,
not to be confined to bishops, deans, or chapters, the whole body
of the clergy was possessed by it. Mr. Baines called the attention
of the House of Commons in March, 1837, to the state of the first--
fruits and tenths which had been given by Queen Anne to aug-
ment the poor livings. This fund, we have shown in a former
chapter, had speedily been diverted by the rich clergy from the
legitimate objects, the poor clergy, to themselves; it had, in a great
)Ilcasure, gone to increase wealthy pluralities, rather than to make
limall livings such 88 would maintain a humble clergyman. But
not only had this misappropriation taken place, but, lest any por-
tion should reach the poor clergy, all classes of the richer clergy
had united in drying up the fund at its source. Instead of paying
the firstfruits and tenths accordin!f to the value of the times, they
had continued to pay them according to their value in the time of
Queen Anne. Thus, the bishop of Chichester, instead of paying
for firstfruits a year's income, £4,000, had paid £600; the bishop
of Exeter, £400, instead of £2,700; the bishop of London, £900,
instead Qf £13,000; the bishop of Durham, £1,600, instead of
£19,600. So it was, too, with the parochial livings ;-Manchester
collegiate church, instead of £4,0'25, paid £53 h. Sd.; Rochdale,
instead of £I,730, paid £ 11 4s. 9d.; Lancaster, instead of £I,709,
paid £41: this W88 the rate at which the generality paid. And
for tenths, he named.livings which paid £3 12s. 4d., ~nstead of
£107; £4 12s. 5d., mstead of £123; £2 138. 4d., mstead of
.£140: this W88 the general rate of tenths. He showed that, ac-
cording to the income of the English church, 88 returned by the
commissioners, the firstfruits ought to be £166,266; and the tenths
£266,000; or an aggregate, £43'2,266. And what were actually
paid on these accounts P Only £13,000! Such is the manner in
which the clergy rob one another. This is certainly
The good old rule, the ~,mcient plan,
'l'hat he should take who has the power,
And he should k~p who can.
Bishops rob the country and one another, deans and chapters de
the same, rich clergy rob the poor, the whole is a scene of robbery
together. Where the highest example of Christian charity and
contempt of worldly wealth should be sho\\<'11, there we have the
most shameless and disgusting display of cupidity, dishonesty, a.nd
ruthless wa.nt of feeling. And whose is the fault P It is that of
the government which permits andupholds such a. system. Human
,g, Jb,Google
PRIESTCRAJIT l!!f ALL AGES. 331
nature is weak,.and readily corrupted; and here, where every cause
of corruption should be carefully removed, every possible means
of cormption is brought together, and to such a degree, that the
.clergy must be more than men if they are not converted into
something worse than the most worldly of those they are set .to
reform. Mr. Baines's motion for a committee was, of course, vi-
~rously opposed by Lord John Russell, who pointed out a clause
m the act of Queen Anne, which limited the payment to "such
rates and proportions only as the same were usually rated and
paid;" a clause, no doubt, carefUlly inserted by the bishops at the
time; and which certainly ought to be sacredly observed and per-
petuated, if their tithe3 were le\-ied by the 11ame rule. While,
.however, they have taken good care to exact every farthing of
·benefit, both which change of times and expenditure of capital
would enable them to clutch from the laity, a clause which, on the
·other hand, very eminent lawyers have decided to be contrary to
the provisions of tl\at and other acts, ought not to stand "
in the
·way of the comfortable subsistt!nce of the poor clergy, out of
property which we have seen the bishops and dignitaries have not
·at all been chary of towards their own· families. Mr. Baines
pointed out that here was a fund of upwards of £400,000 per
annum, which, besides raising every poor living to £150 a year,
would leave £300,000 for payment of church rates, or general
education. He long persisted in his endeavours·to obtain a bill
for this purpose. He might just as soon have got a railway to the
moon, even though he proposed to abolish the payment of first-
fruits altogether, as a placebo. Let any one, who would again
make such an attempt, look at the facts pointed out in this cliap-
ter; let him just ask himself, who but the Lords and Commons
are the possessors of the whole church? and if he has yet sim-
plicity enough to hope that they will listen to any such proposition,
let him again ask h1mself, when, at any time, the slightest sympa-
thy or feeling was IDBnifested towards the race of poor parsons?
The church wealth is not intended for them, any more than plum
puddings are for cart horses. The vast property of the church is
an aristocratic provision for the aristocracy. The curates are the
helots of the church; the humble drudges, who, except they have
early learned to toady to some lord, never get any thing, nor are in-
tended to have any thing, but as much labour as they can perform,
and as much starvation as they can endure. " Blessed are the
poor," say the aristocratic portion of the clergy," for theirs is the
·kingdom of heaven;" as for themselves, disinterested men! they
are contented to enjoy the kingdom of earth.
It was not to be expected that all those public inquiries into the
~onopolies of the church, those exposures of its thorough corrup-
tion, and those attempts of the dissenters to free themselves from
·its trammels, would be received in the meekest of spirits. Nor
were they. Every where a vindictive and peJ:Becuting spirit showed
oigit<Zed by Coogle
332 PRlESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
itself amongst the clergy. Tithes and church rates were exacted
with increased acrimony where there was the power. The Shy-
lock of ecclesiastical revenge began to insist upon his bond, and
to demand his pound of flesh:.· Wliere goods had before been taken,
it was now the resolve to take the person. The old powers of the
.spiritual courts were revived as far as possible, and the clergy of
the nineteenth century showed that, had they still the law for it,
they had the most hearty 2QOd will towards the ra.ck and the fag-
got. This is another gooo which the agitation of the last eight
years has produccd-;-it has made tAe establi8'Md clergyknown in tlieir
Jrue character to thepeople, and the knowledge will not perish. In
England, Wales, Scotland, and Ireland, the dungeon was again re-
sorted to. The meanest man was not too insignifica"Qt for a. victim;
the meanest object was not too mean to be taxed and tithed. The
tailor on his board, and the labourer in his ditch, painfully delving
for his eight or ten shillings a. week, was each called upon to con-
tribute to the fat pluralist, who held deaneries, prebends, and livings
by the half dozen ; and if he refused to take the food from the
mouth of his children and give it to the c.lerical dog that had got
under his table, he was sold up, pot, pan, stool, and straw bed; or
he was cast into prison. In S"cotland, as we have seen, Tait,
Russell, and Chapman, the sturdy foes of priestcraft, were inca,rcer-
ated. In Ireland, Mr. Williams ofCarlow, a member ofthe Society
of Friends, who had am,Ple means to distrain upon, was :vengefully
seized lftld cast into pnson, and only got out of the hands pf the
clerical Shylock by an act of parliament. In Wales, David Jones
was imprisoned, and eventually lost his life through the persecu-
tion of the priests. In England, Mr. John Childs, of Bungay in
Suffolk, was, in ill health, thrown into prison for refusal to J?II-Y a
church rate, and the animua of the persecutors was sufficiently
shown by the writ being endorsed Take M bail. Mr. Childs, a man
of substance and talent, and having the press at his command, a
man, moreover, not of a spirit tamely to submit to such an instance
of clerical rigour, far and wide raised a storm ofindignation against
the reverend coercionists, which one would have thought would
make them hesitate in future to preach Christianity by constables,
and teach " Love thy neighbour as thyself" by wnts and gaolers;
but there was soon lying in Chelmsford gaol John Thorogood,
where he continued a year and half, for the simple cause of having
refused to pay a church rate of5&. 6d. Parliament was petitioned
on his behalf, and a motion made in order to his release ; but
in vain. It was on this occasion that Lord John Russell pro-
nounced the principles of the church, of which this of persecution
is one, "just, wise, and beneficent;" and there probably, but for
si~lar exertions in his behalf, John Thorogood would have re-
mamed, till from its beneficence death released him.
The wisdom and beneficence of this pious church were con-
cerned, between 1833 and 1837, in 375 prosecutions of persons
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 333
in the spiritual courts for these church rates; the Oc>sts in many
instances being forty times the sum due ! But the most villanous
meanness and ferocity of the state clergy were shown in their.
ruthless exactions of tithes from the poor. While they protest
against paying their tenths and first-fruits in any but the smallest
viilue of Queen Anne's time, they insist upon having the largest
possible share of the poor labourer's wages, or, in lieu of them, hiR
llO()ds or body. In August, 1833, a document was laid before the
llouse of Commons, showing that Francis Lundy, rector of Lock-
ington, in the east riding of Yorkshire, had demanded the follow-
ing tithes on the wageB of the following working men :-
Jeremiah Dodsworth, for tast year
DittQ, for this year, hired weekly
William Hall • . . • . . . •
Harrison Moment . •
Henry Blakeston . .
William Foster . . .
George Fenby . . .
John Hall, half a year
John Milner
Matthew Blakeston
Carling Risim . •
John Dodsworth . . • • •
William Fallowfield, miller, servant •
Roberth Braithwllite, ditto • . • .
Wages.
£ 8. d.
13 0 0
15 0 0
10 10 0
9 0 0
15 0 0
8 8 0
6 6 0
10 10 0
15 0 0
8 0 0
16 0 0
15 0 0
18 0 0
15 0 0
Sumo
demanded.
8. d.
4 4
5 0
3 6
3 0
5 0
2 8
2 0
3 6
5 0
2 6
5 4
5 0
6 0
5 0
Jeremiah Dodsworth refused to pay. He was summoned be-
fore two magistrates, JoHN BLANCHARD, a J?Rrson, and RoBERT
WYLIE, who sentenced him to pay the four shillings and four-pence,
and the costs and char~es of the prosecution. He still refusin~ to
pay, the same tv.-o magtstrates issued a warrant of distress agamst
his goods and chattels. He having no goods and chattels, JOHN
BLANCHARD, the parson, committed him to the lwuse of correction
at Beverly, there to be keptf!»' three calendar monthB !
But perhaps the exploits of the dean of Ripon, and his Chris-
tian mercies towards William Damborough, a poor tailor there,
show, in the most striking manner, the "wisdom, justice, and be-
neficence" of Lord John Russell's church, (I can neverrepeat often
enough his words on this head,) in setting up a lot of Pharaoh's fat
kine to devour the lean ones. In this respect, the church strik-
ingly realizes one ofChrist's benedictions: "Blessed are the hungry,
for they shall be filled." Never were there such hungry rogttes as
bishops and deans, and whether they are not pretty well filled all
England may be brought in evidence. Filled they will be, even
though it be with the brown bread and bacon snatched from the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
.PRIBSTCRAVT IN ALL AGES.
hard hands of the hedger and ditcher, or even the very ~ of
the poor tailor, and the sweepin~ of his board. "Hungry'dD!P','~
aaith the old proverb, " will eat dirty pudding," and dirtier pudcting
than these hun~ black hounds of the state devour never wu
c>aten. Their digestion, outdoing that of the ostrich, is not even
daunted by so tough a morsel as the tailor's goose.
It aJ.lpears that the late dean of Ripon, Dr. Waddilove, left be-
hind lilin thejretty sum of £120,000. It might therefore have
been suppose that his successor, treading only in his steps, mllllt
have no fear of poverty; but Dr. Webber, the present dean, and
holder of various other rich preferments, did not think so. He
was already in possession of the following good things :-
Deanery of Ripon • • • . . . . £ 600 per annum.
Prebend of Westminster . 1400
Uectory of Kirkham in Lancashire . 1200
Perpetual curacy of St. Margaret's 350
Total £3550
Dr. Webber had shown his taste for income, and his abhorrence
of a"ndustn;, in his living of Kirkham, so strongly as to bring down
upon him chastisl'ment from so stanch a friend of the church as
Lord Stanley. On May 18, 1835, he presented a petition from
Kirkham, complaining of the conduct of Dr. Webber, and added
to it~ statements severe animadversions of his own. It appear-
ed, that in 1814 the doctor had been inducted into that living.
That the parish of Kirkham includes 130 square miles, is divided
into 17 townshi.Ps, of which 8 townships are without any means
whatever of rehgious instruction, though the great tithes amount
to £3500 a year. The doctor claimed only the small tithes, which
in his predecessor's time made £250 a year. Dr. Webber, however,
called for an alteration, and the parishioners agreed to guarantee
him £1000 a year. At this his gratitude so overflowed, that he
volunteered a statement to these liberal parishioners, that no further
alterations should be made by him, and that nothing should indilce
him tQ become non-resident, to absent himself from the discharge af
his parochial duties. Alas! what man knows his own strength!
In 1825 or 6, he was presented with the deanery of Ripon, and in
1827 with a prebendal stall in Westminster, and the doctor and
his gratitude vanisheq. together ! The parishioners complained
that the very t'et·erend dean, while absenting himself, had appointed
a curate in his place, who was comJ>letely occupied with teaching
a school. The doctor returned m 1832 to Kirkham, in high
dudgeon, and resolved to make the complainants pay for their lugu-
brious piping. If they would have him, he determined that tliey
ahould know that they had him. He, therefore, coolly kicked aside
the agreement for £1000 a year, which he before rrotested fi8V6I"
11ho1dd be altered by him, and ·demanded £1600. On t~ the
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PIUESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
parifbioners demurred, and prayed the interference of paxlia-
ment.
No sooner was the doctor safely landed in t.he Ripon deanery,
than he demanded a tithe of 58. upon every milch cow kept in
the deanery. This was a demand which It appears bad ne-rer
been made, at least on much of the land, since the dissolution of
the monasteries; but the doctor had found that about fourteen
hundred cows were kept within the tithing, which, at !>8. per head,
would yield £350 per annum. The Leed8 Mercury of Aug. 20,
1833, mentioning this fact, says," We believe two or three hundred
individuals have been served with processes from the Court of Ex-
chequer,jor dematuh hitherto unheard of, at the suit of the clean
and chapter. They have attacked individuals in detail. Many
poor families, just able to maintain themselves, and keeping a cow,
have had a demand made of 5s. for tithe of milk ! From some
they have claimed arrears of two or three years, to which has been
added the expense of the Exchequer Collrt. Other persons, ten-
ants of lands tithe-free from time immemorial, having originally
belonged to dissolved monasteries, have had the same litigious
measures adopted against them. Remonstrance has been vain; the
dean and chapter would not condescend to show their title, but,
with the arrogance of a wealthy hierarchy, demanded of the
parties the proof of exemption."
Amongst the poor people thus laid hold of. by this ~rged but
iusa.t:iable- horse-leech, or rather cow-leech, was Wilham Darn-
borough, a tailor, with nine children, and expecting of a tenth. He
· did not refuse to pay the tithe, but he insisted that the dean and •
chapter should collect it every day. This, which was only a
reasonable demand according to the law of tithes, did not suit the
haughty claimants, who, though not too proud to demand it, were
too dignified to have it fetched every day. Darnborough, more-
o-ver, declared in public, that the demands were not correct in fact,
even if they were in law. That the said dean, in 1826, had charged
him forfive cows when he luuJ not one: in 18'..!7, for.five, when he
·had ooly one: in 18'J8, for four, when he luuJ only two: in 1829,
for jour, when he had but'two, and two calVN: and in 1831, for a
meadow-field, when it was in pasture. He stated, also, that the
demand was originally £14! tlien rcdured, on his refusal to pay,
to £6 98.; then, again, by a magistrate's order, to £4 Ss., with
1&. 6d. costs and warrants, total £!) 43. 6d. For this a distress
warrant was issued, and his goods, valued at £'J8, soJd for 2s. 7d. !
In 1835, a fresh demand of £3 158. was made on him; and
ugain in 1836 he was sold "R for a demand of £1 4a., when the
proceeds of the sale were 3& 7¥J.! Great was the execration ofthe
people at this miserable spoliation of the poor, the very children
m the streets crying after the dean,-" Milk-Dean! Milk-Dean!"
Darnborough's tenth child, being born, was .christened-TITHE
Darnborough, and offered to the dean, but not accepted. Nothini,
oigit<Zed by Coogle
336 PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
however, could shame the very rm;erend gentleman from the pur-
suit of his prey, particularly being, according to Lord Stanley's·
statement in the House, with his £3500 a year, still "suffering
under pecuniary and family distress ;" the milk claims were en-
forced and saddled on the district. Yet it is only justice to the
Very Reverend Dean Webber to state, that there are brother clergy
in the county of'York, who lay on a still heavier hand than him-
self. The Leeds Times of May 21, 1836, states that in Warmfield,
near Waketield, the tithe on a milch cow is £I 58., which operates
so much against cow-keeping that the villagers have to go to the
neighbouring townships to buy milk. The Leeds Mercury of
August 31, 1833, calculated that the number of prosecutions for
tithes, if they averaged in other counties their amount in that of
York, could not be less than IO,OOO. Prosecutions for the most
trivial claims, even of a few pence, have, of late years, been car-
ried on with the most malignant pertinacity. In 1836, the town
of Melton Mowbray was thrown into violent agitation by the pro-
secution of a poor man for 7~., as a tithe on eggs, by the vtcar,
deriving from the parish benefice £700 a year! But perhaps the
complete climax of all tithing is to be fnund in a paragraph from
the Liverpool Mercury, stating that "J. Howard, a farmer of North
Meols, on the Lancashire coast, had been summoned on the 6th
of March, 1840, by the Rev. E. Hesketh, to pay the sum of 5s. 5d.
fur small tithes, namely,-potatoes, 4.~.; hay grass, 9d.; two cows,
3d.; wife Ita.! The ladies, I hope, will duly acknowledge the com-
pliment thus paid them in their estimated value by the clergy-a
wife being exactly that of a cow; two ccnos, 3d.; wife, IId. ; making
the real annual value of a wife FIFTEEN PENCE! ! Possibly the men
escape tithing too, only because the wife being the better half,
the value of the worst half is found to be nothing at all ! Inge~
nious fellows are these clergy ! and this comes oflearning mathe-
matics. We never could have discovered to such a nicety the
value of a wife without their aid ; but, I imagine, when any one
has read the whole of this chapter carefully, he will know pretty
accurately the value of THE CHURCH OF.ENGLAND. I have, never-
theless, given only tfie merest samples of its modern merits ; the
details alone of its tithe and poor.rate transactions would till a
folio.
The working of the Tithe Commutation Act has, all over the
kingdom, but especially in the neighbourhood of towns, given a
fresh proof of the unprincipled and brawn greed of the state
clergy. Take the doings of the pars<m of the parish of Hackney,
in which I now live, as a specimen. This man, Thomas Oliver
Goodchild, bought the livin~, and candidly declares that he
means to make the most of It. Accordingly, in 1840 he stated
the amount of his tithes for the past year to be £442 17s. 6d..;
they u;ere then to be asBe88ed to the poor rate. In 1842, he made
a claim for £981 ; they were then to be commuted into a perma-
-.,
oigit<Zed by Coogle
. PRIESTCil"AFT ll'i ALL AGES. 337
nent rent-charge for him : and he has since raised them up to
£1035! In this charge it has been shown at the vestry, and not
denied by him, that he has included £93 on lands never charged
before! and £154 of Easter offerin~, which he thus summarily
converted from a free gift to a positive rent, and then had the
audacity to send round his begging officer at the follov.ing Easter
for fresh Easter offerings! Nor was this all; it was found that,
whereas he had thus more than tripled his odious charge on his
parishioners, he had taken measures to avoid paying his ahare of
poor rates on these tithes, an~ounting to £ 134 .
For a" forty-parson power" of digesting tithes, this man might
be matebcd against an archbishop!
z
,g, Jb,Google
CHAPTER XXIX.
THE EMOLI8H ,CHURCH.-CONFmHATION.
I look on both sides of this human life-
Its brightne88 and its shadow.
ONE of the most beautiful and impressive rites of the church, is
the confirmation of young people as it is seen in the country. On
some bright summer mommg, you see troops of vill~e boys and
girls come marchin~ into the town, headed by the village clerk,
or schoolmaster. Fust one, then another little regiment of these
rural embryo Christians, is seen advancing from different parts
towards the principal church. All are in their best array. Their
leader, with an air of unusual solemn dignity, marches straight
forward, looking neither to the right hand nor to the left, but
sometimes casting a grave glance behind at his followers. His
suit of best black adorns his sturdy person, and his lappels fly
wide in the breeze that meets him. His charge come on in garbs
of many colours ;-the damsels in green and scarlet petticoats ;
stockings white, black, and grey ; gowns of white, bearing testi-
mony to miry roads and provoking brambles; gowns of cotton
print of many a dazzling flowery pattern; gowns even of silk in
these luxurious days ; long, flying pink sashes, and pink, 11nd yel-
low, and scarlet bunches in bonnets of many a curious make.
The lads stride on with slouching paces that have not been learn-
ed in drawing and assembly-rooms, but on the bam-floor, beside
the loaded waggon, on the heathy sheep-walk, and in the deep fal-
low field. They are gloriously robed in corduroy breeches, blue
worsted stockin~, heavy-nailed ancle-boots, green shag waistcoats,
necK-handkerchiefs of red, with long comers that flutter in the
wind, and coats shaped by some sempiternal tailor, whose fashions
know no change. Amid the bustling, spmce inhabitants of the
town, their walk, their dress, their faces full of ruddy health and
sheepish simplicity, mark them out as creatures almost of another
tribe. They bring all the spirit of the village-of the solitary
farm-of heaths and woods, and rarely frequented fields, along
with them. You are carried forcibly by your imagination, at the
sight of them, into cottage life,-into the habits and concerns of
the rural population. Vou feel what daily anticipations-what
talk-what an early rising and bustling preparation there bas
oigit<Zed by Coogle
-PlliESTCllAFT IN ALL AGES. 339
been in many a lowly dwelling, in many an out-of-the-v.-ay hamlet,
for this great occasion. How the old people have told over how
it was when they went to be confirmed; what a mighty place
the church is ; what crowds of grand people; what an awful thing
the bishop in his wig and robes ! How ihe fond, simple mothe1·s
have sent forth their sons and daughters; and given them injunc-
tion on injunction; and followed them from their doors with eyes
filled with tears of pride, of joy, and of anxiety. How the youth-
ful band, half gay, more than half _grotesque, but totally happy,
have advanced over hill and dale. The whole joyousness of their
holiday feeling is presented to you, as they progressed through
bosky·lanes and dell~t, through wwds, over the open breezy heaths
and hills,.:....the flowers, and the dews, and the green leaves breath-
ing upon them their freshest influence; the blue, cheering sky
above them, and the lark sending down, from his highest flight,
his music of ineffable gladness. You feel the secret awe that
struck into their bosoms as they entered the noisy, ·glittering,
·polished, and, in their eyes, mighty and proud town ; and the no-
tion of the church, the assembled crowds, the imposing ceremony,
and the awful bishop and all his clergy, came strongly and dis-
.tinctly before them.
Besides these, numbers of vehicles are bringing in other rural
·neophytes. The carnages of the wealthy drive rapidly and gaily
·on to inns and houses of friends. 'filted wagons, gigs, ample
cars, are all freighted with similar burdens ; and many a strange,
old, lumbering cart, whose body is 'smeared with the ruddy marl
·of the fields it has done service in, whose wheels are heavy with
the clinging mire of roads that would make M•Adam aghast,
rumbles along, dragged by a bony and shaggy animal, that, if it
must be honoured with the name of horse, is the very helot of
horses. These open conveyances exhibit groups of young girls,
that, in the lively air, and shaken to and fro by the rocking of their
vehicle, and the jostling of chairs, look like beds of. tulips nodding
in a strong breeze.
As you approach the great church, the bustle becomes every
moment more conspicuous. The clergy are walking in that direc-
.tion in t_heir black gowns. Groups of the families of the country
clergy strike your eyes. Venerable old figures, with their sleek
and ruddy faces-their black silk stockings glistening beneath
their gowns-their canonical hats set most becomingly above, are
walldng on, the very images of happiness, with their wives hang-
·ing on their arms, and followed by lovely, genteel girls, and
·graceful, growing lads. As the rustics' aspects brought all the
spirit of the cottage and the farm to your imagination, they bring
all that of the village parsonage. You are. transported in a mo-
.ment to the most perfect little paradises which are to be found in
the world-the country dwellings of the En~lish clergy. Those
aweet spots, so exactly formed for the " otlum cum dignitate."
z 2
oigit<Zed by Coogle
340 .PRIES'roRAFT IN ALL AGES.
Tlioae medium ·abodes, bet'l\ixt the rudeness and vexations of
poverty, and the cumbrous state of aristocratic opulence. Those
lovely and picturesque houses, built of all orders and all fa&hioJlll,
yet preservmg the one definite, uniform character of the comfort-
able, the pretensionless, and the accordant with the scenery in
which they are placed ;-houses, some of old, framed timber, up
which the.pear and the apricot, the pyracanth& and the vine
clamber; or of old, grey, substantial stone ; or of more modem
and elegant villa architecture, with their roofs which, whether of
thatch or slate, or native grey. stone, are seen thickly screened
from the north, and softened and surmounted to the de~hted eye
·with noble trees : with their. broad, bar. windows, which bring
all the sunny glow of the south, at wtll, into the house; .and
around which the rose and jasmine breathe their delicious odoura.
Those sweet abodes, surrounded by their bowery, shady, aromatic
shrubberies, and pleR&ant old-fashioned glebe-crofts,-homes in
.which, under the influence of a .wise, good heart, and a good
system, domestic happiness may be enjoyed to its highest con-
.ception, and whence piety, and r.ultivation, and health, and com-
fort, and a thousand blessings to the poor, may spread through
the surrounding neighbourhood. Such are the abodes brought
before your minds by the sight of the country clergy ; such are
thousands of their dwellings, scattered through this great andbene-
ficent country,-in its villages and hidden nooks of scattered popu-
lation,-amid its wild mountains; and along its wilder coasts;-
endowed by the laws with earthly plenty, and invested by the
bright heaven, and its attendant seasons, with the freshest sun-
shine, the ·sweetest dews, the most grateful solitude and balmy
seclusion. .
But the merry bells call us onward; and lo! the mingled
crowds are passing under that ancient and time-worn porch. We
enter,-ahd how beautiful ami impressive is the scene! The
whole of that mighty and venerable fabric is filled, from side to
side, with a mixed, yet splendid congregation,-for the rieh and
'the poor, the superb and the simple, there blend into one human
mass, whose varieties are but as the contrast of colours ·in a fine
painting,-the spirit of the tout ememble is the nobility of beautr.
'.l;'he whole of that gorgeous assembly, on which the eye rests 1n
palpable perce.\>tion of the wealth, the refinement, and the ·eleva-
tion of the soc1allife of our country, is hushed in profound atten-
tion to the reading of the services of the day by.one of the clergy-
men. They are past; the bishop, followed by his clergy, advances
to the altar. The solemn organ bursts forth with Its thunder
.of harmonious sound, that rolls through the arched roof above,
·and covers every living soul with its billows of tumultuous music,
and, with its appropriate depth of inexpressible feeling, touches
·the secret spnngs of wonder and mysterious gladness in the
aopirit ; and amid its imperial tones, the tread of many youthful
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PIUESTCllAFT IN · ALL AGES• 341
ftlet' is heard in the aisle. You turn, and behold a scene that
brings the tears into your eyes, and the throb of sacred sympathy
into your heart. Are they creatures of earth or of heaven P Are
they the every-day forms which fill our houses, and pass us in the
streets, and till the solitary fields of earth, and perform the ·
homely duties of the labourer's cottage-those fair, youthful be-
ings, that bend down their bare and beautiful heads beneath the
lumds of that solemn and dignified old man P Yes, through the
drops that dim our eyes, and the surprise that dazzles them, we.
.
discern the children of the rich and the .poor kneeling down to-
gether, to take upon themselves the eternal weight of their own
souls. There, side by side, the sons and daughters of the hall,
and the sons and daugliters of tl:\e hut of poverty, are kneeling in
the presence of God and man--acknowledging but one nature, one
ho~, one heaven; and our hearts swell with a triumphant feeling
of this homage wrung from the pride of wealth, the arrogance of
birth, and the soaring disdain of refined intellect, by the victorious
-might of Christianity. Yet, even in the midst of this feeling, what
a contrast is there in these children ! The sons and daughters of
the fortunate, with their cultured forms and cultured features-the
girls just budding into the beauty of early womanhood, in their.
white garbs, and with their fair hair so simply, yet so gracefully
disposed,-the boys, with their open, rosy, yet declined counte-
nances, and their full locks, clustering in vigorous comeliness ;-
they look, under the influence of the same feelings, like the chil-
dren of some more ethereal planet: while the offsprin~ of the
·poor, with their robust figures and homely dresses; With their
hair, which has had no such sedulous hands, full of love and lei-
sure, to mould it into shining softness-nay, that has, in many in-
atances, had no tending but that of the frosts and winds, and the
midsummer scorching of their daily out-of-door lives; and with
countenances in which the predominant expressions are awe, and
simple credence ; these touch us with equli.l sympathy for the
hardships and disadvantages of their lot.
Successively over every bowed head those sacred hands are ex-
tended, which are to communicate a subtle but.divine influence;.
and how solemn is the effect of that one grave and deliberate, yet
earnest voice, which, in the absence of the organ-tones, .in the.
bushed and heart-generated stillness of the place, is alone heard
pronouncing the words of awful import to every youthful recipient
of the rite. 'Tis done,-ag_ain the tide of music rolls over us,
fraught with tenfold kindling of that spirit which has seized upon
us; and amid its celestial exultings, that band of youthful ones
has withdrawn, and another has ta.lien its place. Thus it goes on,
till the whole have been confirmed in tlie faith in which their
sponsors vowed to nurture them, and which they have now vowed
to maintain for ever. The bishop delivers his parting exhortation,
and solemnly charges them to return home in a manner becoming
P!tiESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
the sacredness of the occasion and of their present aCt. Filled witft
the glow of purest feeling~~, breathing the very warmest atmosphere
of poetry and religious exultation, we rise up with our neighbours;
and depart. We depart-and the first breath of common air dis~
sipates the beautiful delusion in which we have been, for a short
space, entranced. We feel the rite to be beautiful while we cease
to think; but the moment we come to penetrate into the mind
which lies beneath, it becomes an empty dream. We feel, that did
our after consciousness permit us to believe that he who adminis-
tered this rite was filled with its sanctity, and relied implicitly on
its efficacy,-that the youthful tribe of neophytes were nghtly pre-
pared by the ministry of their respective pastors, and possessed
the simple credence of past ages to wve vitality to the office-then,
indeed, might it be in fact, what It can now only appear for an
instant. We feel, moreover, taking yet lower ground than this,
that were the clergy a body filled with the zeal of their calling,
they possess in this ceremony a means of powerful influence. But
I have hitherto spoken only of its poetical and picturesque effect,
and that effect endures not a step beyond the church doors. At
that point, the habitual apathy of the clergy converts this rite into
one of the most awful and hideous of mockeries. The bishop
charges the recipients to return home in soberness and decon1m;
but he should charge their respective clergymen to conduct them
thither. But where are the clergy!' They are gone to dine with
the bishop, or their clerical brethren; and what are the morals of
the youth to good dinners ?-they have turned the children over
to the clerks. And where are the clerks? They have some mat.
ters of trade to transact ;-some spades, or cart-saddles, or groceries
to buy-and what is the health of the children's souls to spades,
and cart-saddles, and groceries ?-they have turned the lambs of
the flock over to the schoolmasters. And where are the school·
masters? They, like their clerical lords, are gone to dine with
their brother dominies of,the town; having reiterated the injunc·
tion of the bishop with a mock-heroic gravity, as highly, but not
as well assumed as that of the bishop himself, and with as little
effect. While they sit and discuss the merits of the last new'
treatise of arithmetic or spelling, the work of some new Dilworth
or Entick, their charges have squandered into a dozen companies,
and each, under the guidance of some rustic Coryphreus, have sur-
rounded as many ale-house fires. They are as happy as their bet·
te~. The loaf and cheese melt like snow-balls before them ; the
stout ale is handed round to blushing damsels by as many awk-
ward blushing swains. Hilarity abounds-their spirits are kin-
dled. The bishop, and the church, and the crowd all vanish-or
rather, their weight is lifted from their souls, which rise from the
abstracted pleasure with a double vivacity. Already heated, they
set forward on their homeward way. At every besetting ale-house
the revel is renewed. Over hill and dale they stroll on, a rude.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCR.UT JN ALL AGES.
roietering, and disgraceful rabble. For the effects of this confirm-
ation, let any one inquire of parish overseers, and they will tell
him, that it is one of the most fruitful sources of licentiousness and
crime. The contagion of vice spreads under such circumstances,
with the fatal rapidity of lightning. Young and modest natures,
which otherwise would have shrunk from it and been safe, are
surprised, as it were, into sin, and shame, and-misery. Instead of
a confirmation in Christianity, it becomes the confirmation of the
devil. And this clergymen know ; and yet, with the same apathy
whence the evil has sprung, they continue to suffer its periodical
recurrence; and thus, for want.of a little zeal, and a little personal
exercise of the ROOd office of a shepherd, they convert one of the
fairest rites of their church into one of the worst nuisances that
nfllict our country. •
,g, Jb,Google --
--- ._..- ............. ___.......
CHAPTER XXX.
THE ENGLISH CHURCH.
Yet thus is the church, for &11 this noise of reformation, left still un-
reformed. MILTON.
THus we have traversed the field of the world. We have waded
through an ocean of priestly enormities. We have seen nations
sitting in the blackness of darkness, because their priests shut up
knowledge in the dark-lanterns of their selfishness. We have
seen slavery and ignorance blasting, under the guidance of prie~~tly
hands, millions on millions of our race, and making melancholy
the fairest portions of the earth. We have listened to sighs and
the dropping of tears, to the voice of despair, and the agonies of
torture and death; we have entered dungeons, and found there cap-
tives wasted to skeletons with the years of their solitary endurance ;
we have listened to their faint whispers, and have found that they
uttered the cruelties of priests: We have stumbled upon mid-
night tribunals, and seen men stretched on racks ; tom piece-
meal with fiery pincers ; or plunged into endless darkness ·by the
lancing of their eyes ; and have asked whose actions these were
-and were answered-" The priests'!" We have visited philoso-
phers, and found them carefully concealing their discoveries,
which would suddenly have filled the earth with light. and power,
and love,-because they knew the priests would tum on them in
their greedy malice, and doom them to fire or gibbet. We have
walked among women of many countries, and have found thou-
sands lost to shame, rolling wanton eyes, uttering hideous words;
we have turned away from tbem with loathing, but have heard them
cry after us, as we went-" Our hope is in the priests,-they are our
lovers, and defenders from eternal fire." We have entered, for
shelter from this horror, the abodes of domestic love, and have
stood petrified to find there all desecrated-purity destroyed-faith
overthrown- happiness annihilated ;-and it was the work of
priests! Finally, we have seen kings, otherwise merciful, instigated
by the devilish logic ofpriestcraft,become the butchers of their peo-
ple ; queens, otherwise glorious, become ~nts and executioners ;
and .People, who would otherwise have lived in blessed harmony,
wamng on each other with inextingui!bable malice and boundless
blood-thirstiness ; and behold! it was priestcraft, that, winding
amongst them like a poisonous serpent, maddened them with
its breath, and exulted, with fiendish eyes, over their horrible
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRA,FT IN ALL AGES,, 345:
carnage. All this we have beheld, and what is the mighty lesson
it has taught P It is this-that if the people hope to enjoy happi-
ness, mutual love, and general :prospenty, they must carefully
snatch from the hands of their s.Pintual teachers all political power,
and confine them solely to the1r le~Ptimate task of Christian in-
stnlction. Let it always be bof.ne m mind, that, from the begin-
ning of the wor~d to this time, there never was a single conspiracy
of sCHOOLJUSTKR9 against the liberties and the mind ofman : but,
in every age, the priests,the SPIRITUAL SCHOOLMASTERS, have been
the most subtle, the most persevering, the most cruel enemies and
oppre88ors of their species. The moral lesson is stamped on the
deatinies of every nation,-the inference is plain enough to the qull-
est capacity.. Your preachers, while they are preachers alone, are
hannless as your schoolmasters-they have no motive to injure
your peace; but let them once taste power, or the fatal charm of
too much wealth, and the consequent fascinations of worldly great-
DI!BS, and, like the tiger when It has once tasted blood, they are
heUceforth your cruellest devourers and oppressors.
We may be told that there is no such pernicious tendency now
in our Establishment,-that it is mild, merciful, and pious : my at-
tention may be triumphantly turned to the great men it has pro-
(luced; and the number of humble, sincere, and exemplary clergy-
men who adorn their office at the present day.
Much of this I am not intending to deny ; but if it be said, there
is no evil tende\lcy in the church, I merely point to Puseyism, to
the more recent detailsof this volume, and a thousand things around
ua. The present corruption, the present admission, even of the
clergy, of the necessity of reform, is sufticient refutation; and if it
does not now bum and destroy, we owe it to the refinement of the
~· as the history of the past world will amply show. That it can
sbll imprison, and for very slight cause, even for the withholding
of a few shillings of church rate, we have had latelr but too much
-evidence. Human nature is for ever the same : it IS the nature of
priesteraft to render the c~rgy t~nts, and the people slaves ; it
always bas been so; it always Will be so; the only preventive lies
in the general knowledge of the community. That the church has
produced great men, or rather the national universities, who will
not admit, that remembers that Plato of preachers-Jeremy Tay-
lor; Tillotson, Butler, Barrow, Beveridge, Stillingfteet, Hoadley,
Hooker, and others P
· I honour and love the lZOOd men who, even now, in many an ob-
scure village, in the midSt of a poor and miserable population,
•pend their days with no motive but the fulfilment of their duty·;
cheerfully sacrificing all those .refined pleasures,-that refined so-
ciety which their character of mind, and their own delightful tastes,
would naturally prompt and entitle them to. Who do this, badll.
J>&id, worse encouraged; compelled by their compassion to despoil
themselves of'll great \)Srt of their meagre salaries, to stop the cries
pf the terrible necessities by which they are surrounded ;-who do
PIUSSTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
this, many of them at the expense of remaining solitary, uMllied
individuals; unmarried,-childless; or if husbands and fathe1111
expending tht>ir wives' comforts, their children's education, on the
poverty which the wealthy incumbents neither look on nor relieve.
When I observe them do this, and all the while see their parishes
drained by some fat pluralist, or sinecurist, who scorns to. take the
cure of souls whom he never goes near, except to take the living,
and appoint his journeyman-when I see them look on wealth,
dignittes, and preferments showered on the well-born, well-allied,
or well-impudenced, while there is a gulf between themselves and
their attainment as impassable as that between Dives and Lazarus,
-then do I indeed love and honour such men; and it is for such
that I would see the church reformed; and the road to greater
comfort and more extens~ve usefulness thrown open. I would not,
as the bees do, appoint o. killing day for the drOnes, but I would
have no more admitted to the hive.
There are excellent men, we admit; but are the multitude &ucft P
We shall undoubtedly be told so. The whole body will be repre-
sented as the most disinterested, holy, beneficent, industrious;won-
der-working, salvation-spreading body imaginable. In their own
periodicals and pamphlets, they are, in fact, represented so. Whe-
ther they be so or not, let one of the greatest intellects of the age,
and one of their own warm friends, testify :-
The sweet words
Of Christian promise, words that even yet
Might stem destruction, were they wisely preached,
Are muttered o'er by men, whose tones proclaim
How fiat and wearisome they feel their trade:
Rank scoffers some ; but most too indolent
To deein them falsehoods, or to know their truth.
CoLERIDGE.
And let one great truth be marked ;-The prevalent charad6r of
a public body stamps itself in the public mind as faithfully as a
man's face in a mirror. There may be exceptions to a body, and
they may be considerable: but when that body becomes pro'De'l'-
bial; when it is, as a whole, the object of the jokes, the sarcasms,
and contempts of the people; that body is not partiaiJy, but altnM
wholly corrupt. Now, snch is the character of the chureh-of-E~­
land clergy, in the mind of the British people. We may be told tt
is the vulgar opinion, and the vulgar are wrong. In judgments of
this kind the vulgar, as they are called, are right. They always
were so : but this, too, will be denied. A body in its corruption
never did, and never will admit it: its only feeling will be anger,·
not repentance. When the Romish church was utterly corrupted ;
when its priests and monks were the scandal and the seom of all
men, did the church admit itP did it reform them?-When Luther's
artillery was thunderin~ a~inst it, and shaking it to its found-
ations, did it admit the JUStice of his attack? No! it only turned
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PalES'tCRAPT IN ALL AGES. 347
in rage, and would have devoured him, as it devoured all other re-
formers. When he had knocked down many of its pillars, blown
up mMy of its bastions, laid bare to public scorn and indi!jllntion
its secret fooleries and horrors, it relaxed not an atom of 1ts pre-
tensions ; it abated not a jot of its pride ; it stayed not its bloody
arm; shunned not to proclaim itself still holy, invulnerable, and
supreme. While Dante and Bocaccio laughed at its. errors, or
declaimed against its abuses, in its own territories; while Erasmus
in the Netherla.nds, Chaucer in England, and Sir David Lindsay,
the Chaucer of Scotland, were pouring ineffil.ble and e\·erlasting
ridicule on its monks, its priests, and pardoners, they were told
that theirs was but the retailing of vul~ ignorance and envy ;-
but what followed? Time proclaimed rt TRUTH. The corrupted
tribes were chased away by popular fury and scorn, and have left
only a name which is an infamy and a warning.
From age to age, the great spirits of the world have raised their
voices and cried, Liberty! but the cry has been drowned by the
clash of arms, or the brutish violence of uncultured mobs. Homer
and Demosthenes in Greece, Cicero in Rome, the poets and mar-
tyrs of the middle ages ; our sublime Milton, the maligned, but
immovable servant and sufferer of freedom, who laid down on her
altar his peace, his comfort, and his very eyesight; our Hampdens
and Sidneys, the Hofers and Bolivars of other lands, have, from
age to age, cried, Liberty ! but ignorance and power have been
commonly too much for them. But at length, light from the eter-
nal sanctuary of truth has spread over every region ; into the
depths and the dens of poverty it.has penetrated; the scholar and
the statesman are compelled to behold in the marriage of Chris-
tianity and knowledge, the promise of the establishment of peace,
order, and happiness,-the reign of rational freedom. We are in
the very crisis m which old things are to be pulled down, and new
ones established on the most ancient of foundations,-justice to
the people. To effect safely this momentous change, requires all
the watchfulness and the wisdom of an intelligent nation. The
experience of the world's history warns us to steer the safe middle
course, between the despotism of the aristocracy and the mob, be-
tween the highest and the lowest orders of society. The int~lli­
gence, and not the wealth or multitudes of a state, must give the
law of safety ;-and to this intelligence I would again and finally
say,-Be warned by universal _
history! Snatch from your priest-
hood all political power; abandon all state religion ; place Chris-
tianity on its own base-the universal heart of tlie people; let your
preachers be, as your schoolmasters, simply teachers; eschew re-
verend justices of the l?eace, very rcverend1politicians, and right
reverend peers and legrslators, as you would have done the re-
verend knights, and marquises, and dukes, of the past ages. They
must neither meddle with your wills, nor take the tenth of your
com; they must neither tax you to maintain houses in which to
preach agaiPst you, and read your damnation in creeds of which
oigit<Zed by Coogle
348 PRIBSTCRAPT IN ALL .AGBS.
no one really knows the origin ; nor peneeute yon, nor seize your
goods for Easter offerings and smoke-money. The system by
which they tax you at your entry into the world; tax you at your
marriage ; tax you at your death ; euft"er you not to descend into
your native earth without a fee,-must be abolished. The system
by which you are made to pay for every thin~, and to have a voice
in nothing-not even in the choice of a good minister, or the dis-
missal of a vile and scandalous debauchee; by which you are made
the helpless p~ppet of some obtuse squire, and the prey of some
greedy and godless priest,-must have an end.
On this age, the liappiness of centuries-the pl"OIIperity of Truth
depend ;-let it not diSappoint the expectations and mar the dea-
tif!ies of millions!
THE END.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
•
AFTER-W 0 R D S,
ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE GREAT PRINCIPLE OF THIS
VOLUME.
POLITICs INSEPARABLE FROM CB:O.I8TIAN1TY.
Wa are often warned against indulging in polities, as if it were
110me 1injul indulgence, like swearing or gin drinking. The re-
ligiolis warn us with a solemn shake of the head; and none more
dian the members of the Society of Friends deal in cautions
against this bugbear of polities, " lest," say they, " it disturb the
sereni7 of our minds; lest it unfit us for religious meditation."
Now, am totally at a loss to comprehend the solid ground of
these pious exhortations. It is because I am religious tkat I feel
myself compelled, irresistibly compelled, to be also politicaL The
very practices of the Society of Friends have educated me into
·this necessity. One excellent practice they have; I wish it were
Jllliversally adopted, and then we should speedily have a stupendous
host of honest, ardent, Christian politicians. It is that of reading
every day aloud in the family circle a portion of the sacred Scrip-
tures. I will defy any one to proceed far in the New Testament
without coming upon practices and commands of our Saviour,
that, if he comprehend their true and practical import, \vill com-
pel him into a politician. Nay, if we go back to the Old Testa-
ment, what is the predicted character of the Saviour? Is it.merely
that he shall be a spiritual Saviour? No, but that he shall be a
temporal one too. He is " to open the prison doors, to loosen the
bonds of the captive, and to let the oppressed go free." But when
we enter on the New Testament, when we come to follow that
great object of our reverence and model of our conduct in his
life, and to listen to his commands, there is no alternative left to
·us. What is the great command of human duty? What is that
greatest of all, next to the adoration and zealous service of our
Creator? It is to love our neighbour as ourself. But will any
man tell me how we are to love our neighbours as ourselves, if we
·see them oppressed, made poor, made miserable, made ignorant
.and crimimil by the measures of a bad government, and this not
in individual cases, but by thousands and tens of thousands, if we
move neither hand nor foot to help them? If we are commanded
"to do justice, to love mercy, and walk humbly before God;" if
we are again commanded " to do to others as we would be done
by ;" if, again, we are told, that the very mark and distinction of
our Christianity, is that" we love one another;" if we are told that,
inasmuch as we give but a cup of cold water in the name of
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES,
Christ to one of his very least disciples, we give it to him : is there,
let me ask you, any turn or escape from these great cardinal com-
mands and injiUlctions P Is there any exception in favonr of
r.>litical crimes and oppressions? If we are clearly bound, nay,
If our very hope and chance of heaven, if our very claim on the
name of Christian, depend on our fulfilling these commands to
the letter, and to the spirit, in isolated and individual cases, is
there any exemption from fulfilling them in the great, the multi-
tudinous, the cryin~ and flagrant one of political misgovernment P
The feater the m1schief, the greater the need of our assistance;
and will boldly challenge any one to show me any.causes or
machinery of human suffering, so mighty or prolific as that of
bad ~overnment. Where private causes make one man miserable,
pubhc causes make a milhon so. Where even the evil pli8MODB
and propensities of the low and ignorant bring down calamity,
discord, disease, and death on them, and their innocent connexions,
the mischiefs of. bad government bring these down tenfold more 1
nay, the evils of bad government are the very parents of these
evils. Bad governments perpetuate ignorance and low habits, as
good go:vernments would promote knowledge, and religious and
moral training. Bad governments promote drunkenness, bylea.ving
people ignorant, and making them poor and desperate. Bail go-
vernments actually instigate to wholesale murder, to soldierly idle-
ness, and the growth and indulgence of the worst passions. But,
besides this, It is the practice of bad ~overnments, by heavy
taxation, restrictions on trade, accumulation of heavy debt, and
the pursuit of selfish and false principles of action, by monopoly
and class legislation, by primogenit~re laws, and ga~e l~ws, t~
fill our streets, and our manufactunng towns and districts, With
distress, filth of person, and house, and life, with crime, and every
hateful feeling and revoltin~ act.
Where, then, is the religious man, who can feel himself bound
to weep over a single beggar and drop a penny into his hat, and
yet can l!ersuade himself that he is not equally bound, nay, that
It is a vtrtue in him, to avoid touching this greatest of mortal
sources of crime and misery? Can such lamentable perversion of
understanding exist?
Yes, it does exist, and that to an immense degree. There are
those, and tliat perhaps in nearly every third house, who think
that religion consists in cultivating certain inward feelings ; in
reading certain books, in ·making certain prayers, and passing
through certain forms. This may be a religion of some kmd, but
I will boldly tell all those who ~ractise it, that it is not the C!&ria-
tian religion. The religion of Christ is a religion not of negative
-virtues, but of active, ardent, generous deeds, and sympathies with
our fellow creatures and their sorrows. A religion of inward feel-
ings without outward work is the religion of monks, let its votaries
call themselves what else they will. The religion of Christ led him
out into the highways and hedges, into the streets and 'the market-
places, and to the daily denouncement of public oppressors, as well
oigit<Zed by Coogle
•
PRIESTCRAFT IN' ALL AGES. 351
u to the alleviation ofprivate woe. The religion thatis not prepared
to att;u:k human evils at their root, and to prevent them as much as
possible by destroying their causes, has been Ion* ago pronounced
tQ be "a sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal. The man who
sees trade destroyed by the mischievous acts of a bad government,
and his poor neighbours suffering all round him in consequence,
and does not set heartily to work to reform that government, to
endeavour to procure a better system; but, on the contrary, shrinks
into his house and his closet, lest he ruffle or excite his feelings, is
but acting over again the proud Levite, and leaving it to the goOO.
Samaritan to pour the oil and the wine into his neiglibour's wounds.
It is in vain even that such men may attempt to remove the
mischief done, by pecuniary aid to the sufferers, when they have
neglected to attack and annihilate, when they still leave, in all its
malignant activity, the orifl1nating cause. Such men are like
madmen, who, instead of diverting the stream at its source, at-
tempt to dam it up when it has become a mile wide. The Chris-
tian of the _
highest class calls in his understanding to direct and
make effective his feelings. He looks carefully for the source of
the mischief, and when he sees that it lies in bad government, to
that government he applies his corrective energies ; and, leaving
the man of " faith without works" to give a aor:ereign where he
should aim at a 110t:ereign renudy, to relieve some dozen of work-
less people for a few days or a few weeks, when he should seek to
defend and establish those measpres that would give constant
work to all, he shows the world" his faith by his works." In a
word, Christianity is not merely a religion. of principles, but of
conseq_uences ; and he who does not dare to look those principles
freely m the face, and, without fear of man or devil, of high or
low, of unpopularity or personal sacrifice, to carry these divine
principles boldly out into their full, direct, and legitimate conse-
quences; that man may talk of Christianity, but has yet to learn
what it is.-.l'rom a Speech delivered by me at Nottingham, in 1835.
DE}'E..'iCE OF MEN IN TB.ADE WHO INDULGE IN AUTHORSHIP.
And, indeed, now I think of it, what business had I to quit my
laboJ"Rtory, and indulge in the pleasures of literature? in those
pursuits which, according to Cicero, "adolescentiam alunt, senec-
tutem oblectant, secundas res ornant, adversis perfugium ac sola-
tium prebent; delectant douii, non impediunt foris ; pemoctant
nobiscum, peregrinantur, rusticar.ltur?" What business had I to
do this? It is true, little as I have done, I have already had my
reward, in the life and strength and joy of my own spirit, and in
the communion into which it has brought me with.some of the
first of living minds. What business had Burns to leave his fields,
where he
----walked iJi glory and in joy,
Following his vlougll along the mountain side r
•
l'BI&ST.C&AFT IN .t.LI. AGES<
Why left he his fathoming of ale firkins, to write the men')''Tam
O'Shanter; the beautiful picture o( humble and pious Scottish
life, the Cotter's Saturday Night; and songs and small poems, to
whose quick spirit the heart of the Scottish exile, "encamped by
Indian rivel'S wild.w throbs tumultuously,
And glows and gladdens at the channs
Of Scotia's woods and waterfalls P
And what business had Hogg to march out of Ettrick forest, and
go waving his grey tartan up the streets of Edinburgh, strong in
his marvellous resolve, to enrol his name amid the poets of the
land? Oh, James! James! "with whom hast thou left those few
sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the naughtiness
of thy heart!" What business hadst thou at the Queen's Wake P
At the court of Queen Hynde ?-reclining in the glen, listening to
the unearthly words.of the pure Jf.ilmeny; dancin~ with the ·fai-
.ries ; telling of the Brownie of Bodsbeck; or singmg ·one strong
and peerless sbng of God's Omnipresence ? What business had
Allan Ramsay to go before thee, chanting of the Gentle Shep-
herd ?~r a far greater Allan to come after thee, from the depths
of Nithsdale, and casting down his mallet and chisel amongst his
native rocks, dare to enter London and seat himself amid all the
fair handiworks of Chantry? What had he to do with collecting
the Songs of Scotland ; or making mighty ballads of his own P
A wet sheet and a flowing sea-
what were they to him ?-he was ovel'Stepping his natural func-
tions. 0 honest Allan Cunningham! what business hadst thou
with these things P And what business had William Roscoe to
leave his mother's tap; to give over carrying out her pots of beer,
and to~ and write the lives of Popes and Italian princes; to eQ-
noble his own mind ; to cast a splendour over his native town, and
to leave a heritage to his children richer than a patent of nobility P
And what business had.those shoemakel'S, Bloomfield. the Farmer's
Boy, and Gifford, the terror of dunces and the pride of Tories, to
quit their stalls and dare to become .famous P And those drapers,
or drapers' sons, Pope and Southey, and honest lzaak Walton,
what wrong-headedness was theil'S! What right had lzaak to
haunt the Dove, and Shawford Brook, and the Thames, with his
rod and line, and go, in summer meadows, making sermons to
himself of such beautiful and serene piety, as-seldom issues from
the lith~phic press for the use of state priests ? He has '1\'nt-
ten the lives of certain church worthies, too; and yet it is very
questionable, that presumption of his_
. Those apothecaries, Crabbe
and Keats, why did they hot stick to their vocation, and avoid
spoiling us with so much good poetry? What pity is it that our
prudent archdeacon was not present when· Ben Jonson threw
down his hod of mortar, and Shakspcare left off poaching, to warn
them against the sin of writin~ dramas? Could he have prevailed
on John Wilson, and John G1bson Lockhart, and Walter Scott,
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 353
and Sharon Turner, to abide by their parchments and pleas, what
reading of multitudinous volumes mtght we have been spared!
Washington left his farming, to liberate his country, and Franklin
his types, to frame a constitution for her, and Dr. Wilkins was not
at hand to cry, " Overstep not the proper limits of your profes-
Rions !" From the ranks of trade, from the very peasantry of the
country, ascend to eminence clergymen, lawyers, and merchants ;
three-fourths of our nobility have sprung from the same source;
and yet the enterprise of these men 18 very questionable, for num-
bers of them, with the happy daring of Sir Richard Arkwright,
reached distinction by overstepping the proper limits of their
original professions. Nothing, therefore, can be more question-
able, for Archdeacon Wilkins qllestions it!
Yet!, sir, without further irony, you have pronounced an atro-
cious libel on your country and your countrymen. You have at-
tempted to sneer away from the gatea of science and literature all
those who are contaminated with trade. You have outraged what
is the peculisr glory of England; for you may go over all ages and
all nations-and in antiquity pitch on an Esop or a Terence; in
modem times, on a Rousseau or a Biirger; but itIS alone in England
that 80 numerous a host of the sons of genius rise up 'from the
plough and the spinning-jenny, and take their stations, with bold
and unblushing brows, amon~t the great and shining lights of the
- land. Nothin~ is so expressive of the contracting and blinding
influence of pnestcraft, as the fact that you do not look upon the
venerable Milton as the sublime poet, as a man whose noble sen-
timents will influence the spirits of countless generations ; as all ,
other men look upon him-the glory of the nation ; nor -as that
grand old Tory and stanch lover of the church, Wordsworth, looks
on him:-
we must be free or die, who speak the tongue
'fhat Shakspeare spake ; the faith and moral• hold
Which Milton held. In every thing we 're sprung
Of earth's best blood,-have titles manifold.
You only, through the mist of sectarian prejudice, see in him " the
republican and Arian Milton!" Well! welcome be ye to a faith
which shuts the heart to sympathy with all that is noble, and im-
bitters it with hatred of all that is independent.
I think I have said enough to obtain even your future permis-
sion for men in trade to write.-From't1uJ Vindication f!f" the Ht8-
tory of Prieltcraft " against thl attack of.drcluleacon Wilkins.
CONSECR.\TIO~.
You now touch on the subject of consecration; and make this
statement:" Now, sir, this superstitious belief, and all this priest-
craft, by which the rich and poor, for 80 many ages to the present
. 2 A
PR.IESTCR.AFT IN ALL AGES,
hour, have been led to prefer a consecrated spot of ground for the
interment of the dead, arises from this ; that it is congenial with
the feelings of both the poor and rich, that the place of sepulture
should, in the first instance, be made sacred, by prayer offered up
to God on their behalf by their chief priest, and by a perpetual
e.xcluaive dedication of the soil for such holy purpose." •
I must take the liberty to deny entirely, that the real cause of
consecration arises from its being congenial to the feelings of both
rich and poor, that the place should be first made sacred by the
prayers of the priest. It is, unquestionably, congenial to the feel-
lU!r-' of all men to desire that their remains, and those of their re-
lanves and friends/should repose in ground 1<1l&fded from violation
and change ; but it do,es not follow that pre1atical consecration is
the only or best means of arriving at this end. If we are to argue
on what is congenial to the feelings of men, we must argue on the
ground of our common nature ; and if so, what is congenial to the
natural feelings of a Churchman is equally congenial to the natural
feelings of a Quaker. Now, we have no such ceremonies. 'Ve.
desire that our dead should be buried with the solemn decorum
that is appropriate to the occasion ; we desire that our burial-
grounds ahall be secured from intrusion and desecration ; but we
find in the feelings of our common nature, sufficient sanctity for
this purpose. And where, let me ask, are there burial-grounds
which possess more perfect security ? Some of them now lie in
110litary, and, of themselves, fol'llaken and unprotected places in
the country, from Friends having, through their commercial habits,
and in order to escape the plague of tithes, now generally Inigrated
into towns ; yet, they are as unmolested, and as inviolably pre-
served from insult or invasion, by the solemn sanctity of death, as
if all the bishops of all the churches in Europe had muttered over
them. If, then, as it clearly appears, prelatical consecration is not
required by our common nature, this feeling must be an ingraftecl
feeling, and have hecome congenial to Episcopalians by habit and
priestly inculcation, not by nature.
You proceed,-" In the next place, they know that the wisdom
of the legislature has provided, that such soil, so set apart and so
consecrated, shall not be desecrated ; shall not be again appropri-
ated to any worldly purpose. And the same of their cli11rclies ;
for it is not an uncommon event, from various causes, that a meet-
ing is literally converted from 'a house of prayer into a house of
merchandise ;' the state has carefully ~a.rded against any such
occurrence in the temples and cemetenes of the Establishment."
You add,-" By this operation, a consecrated spot of ground is
changed from mutable to ipimutable property."
I pass your assertion, tl\at you consecrate places of worship and
of burial in obedience to the directions of both the Old and the
New Testament, because in the Old Testament there is little to
the purpose, except the dedication of the temple, and in the New
absolutely nothing; and proceed to declare, tllat if you can show
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
that any such effect, as stated above, is produced by/our conse-
cration; if you can show that by it "a spot of IP'oun is changed
from mutable to immutable property," so that "It cannot again be
appropriated to any worldly purpose;" then we will admit that it
luis some use. But if I shall show that it does produce no such
effect; that it does not protect fabric or soil from the invasion of
the strong and the bold; that it does not prevent them becoming
again appropriated to any worldly purpose; thea all your argu-
ments for its use fall to the ground. It will be then shown to be
a work of supererogation ; and that you have set aside the eternal
influences of our nature, to substitute unavailing rites,-rites, more-
over, inspiring false views and feelings in the people, and burden-
some to their pockets. .
Has, then, consecration effected these purposes? Did it at the
Reformation protect churches, abbeys, and cemeteries from the
daring and rapacious hand of Henry VIII.? Where are the
splendid piles of Malmsbury, Glastonbury, Battle, Waltham, Mal-
vern, Lantony, Rivaux, Fountains, Kirkstall, etc. P Where are
numerous churches? Where ·are the cemeteries of scores of con-
ventual buildings ?-Oh! you will say, these were broken up by
a violent convulsion, and by lawless men. Well, then, where is
the efficacyof your consecration ? It is against the shock of such
convulsions, against the rapacity of the avaricious, and the hands
of bold, bad men,. that you seek security. There waats none
against peaceful times, peaceful and temperate people. I repeat
it, the feelings of our common humanity are ample guarantee in
ordinary cases. But these noble \>laces, consecrated by prelatical
hands, are fallen,-these cemetenes are desecrated; are become
the property of laymen; and are appropriated to any and many
worldly purposes.
What availed your consecration against the Protector Somerset,
in the rei~ of that pions youth, Edward VI.? What availed it
against his pulling down, in· London, three episcopal houses, two
churches, a chapel, a cloister, and a charnel-house, to clear the site
for his palace, and supply materials for it ? How availed.it, when
he earned away the bones by cart-loads, and threw them into &·pit
in Bloomsbury P What availed it against John Knox, in Scotland;
when, animated by his fiery eloquence, the people rose, and tore to
fragments the magnificent cathedral of St. Andrews, and which
now stands a melat1choly ruin ot1 a melancholy coast; nay, more,
whet1 under his influence they destroyed almost every cathedral in
the country P What availed it against the troopers of Cromwell,
who turned your churches into stables, as completely as you repre-
sent meeting-houses to be turned into houses of mereh.andise P Y.llt
all these peoJ>le were men ; they had the common feelings of men;
they had a vehement, though erratic sense of piety,-but they hid
outwown the ingrafted feelings supplied by P.riestcraft; and, in
their wrath against that power, they set all artificial restraints at
nought: ere the natural feeling of reverence for such objects }lad
2 A 2
PIUESTCR:1PT IN .ALL AGES.
time to revive in their bosoms, they committed many abominable
outmges.
If your consecration be an influential safeguard against churche11
and cemeteries being again converted to ordinary purposes, what
is the reason that Flawford church hl\8 disappeared, and its burial-
ground become a common field P Itis true the grave-stones remain,
but it is used for all the worldly purposes of a field, and for no-
thing more. 'Vhat has become of Bradmore church too, once conse-
crated, but now gone ? What of the cemeteries of the abbeys and
friaries of this town and neighbourhood (Nottingham)? They
are all now, in spite of consecration, desecrated, and devoted to
the common uses of life.
If burial-grounds, under the mysterious influence of consecra-
tion, can, as you assert, be thenceforth only appropriated to the
uses for which they are consecrated, then, abundance of church-
yards are consecrated to many a good game of marbles and hop-
scotch; and were formerly to that of football, after Sunday ser-
vice; and St. Nicholas's churchyard in this town, is consecrated
to a certain odd little Shetland pany, which regularly pastures
there; to say nothing of yonr own churchyard, from which a
piece is cut off, fenced ont with wall and palisades, and converted·
to an ordinary walk, often used for very ordinary purposes.
You say that no charge is made by the clergy for consecration.
Suppose we admit it. Suppose neither bishop nor incumbent is
benefited by it ;•-suppose 1t merely an expense of the form of law;
it still is an expense to the people, incurred for what I have now
shown to be superfluous and unavailing; and it is equally clear
that it is incurred by the Bishop's Court, an integral and inse:par-
able part of that great priestly system which is fixed on the natlon;
and it is of little consequence by whose hands the people's money
is taken, if it be taken for the system. It matters little to the man
who is taxed, whether the king or the king ~s servant is fed by his
contribution-it is gone. When you are separated from the state,
as you will one day be, then you will have a great right to impose
whatever doctrine, ceremony, or tax upon your voluntary adherents
they will permit, and no one else will have a right to complain:
but so long as you are a part of the state, we shall have a right to
criticise your customs, and denounce expenses incurred for that
which is worth nothing.
There is, then, sufficient sanctity about the place of human se-
pulture in itself. When we enter one, however lonely and exposed,
what are the feelings and the sentiments that impress us? Do
we think, at such a time, of the forms and the words by which
they were consecrated? No! there spring up feelings of so much
higher a nature, that the memory of them would be cast away as
an unworthy intrusion. In the wilds ofScotland I have suddenly
• Yet bishops demand from £ 100 to £300 for consecrating a chJUCh-
who gets fuis?
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PBIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES, 357
•
come upon an ancient cemetery. Not a house or human being
has been within view. The turf, the enclosing mound, the droop-
ing stones, have all worn the grey aspect of anti<Juity; yet, hal-
lowed by the solemnity of death, it has lain in the wide, brown
wilderness in most inviolate security. When I sat down in this
place, what were my thoughts? They were of the awful mystery
of our.nature-of the common ~nalty of death~of the everlasting
regions of unknown being wh1ch lie beyond. They were of the
life, the thoughts, the passions which once agitated this now silent
mass ; and of the inseparable idea that my own lot would be one
day as theirs. · They were, that many of these very mouldering
bodies had once stood up and done battle against the bloody des-
potism of your church, and inveRted themselves with the glories
of the patriot and the martyr!-Let us change the subject ;-it is
not I who have desecrated it, but you, who have buried the con-
secrating influences of God's awful law oC mortality and man's lot,
under tlie cold forms ofa priestly system.-Ibid.
THE PLUNDERING CHURCH.
But lest it should be said that all this was owing to the spirit of
the times, it is as well to ask, has this church ceased to plunder?
This is a serious question, and how is it to be answered? Into
whose com-field has it not entered, and taken away the tenth
shock? Whose field or whose garden has it not plundered?
Whose pig-stye has it not ransacked ? Whose hen-roost has it
not scaled? Whose apple~tree has it not robbed? In Ireland it
has driven a whole people to desperation, and soaked the earth
with blood. And in that.country or this has it spared the poor?
Let poor Watson, the shoemaker, whom it persecuted and im-
prisoned for some few pence of Easter-dues, (so called,) answer
this. Let Jeremiah Dodsworth and his fellow-labourers answer
this. These poor labouring men were charged by the rector of
Lockington, in Yorkshire, in 1833, a titlie upon their wageB: which
wages in the highest, and that a single instance, amoun~d to only
twenty guineas a year; few of them more tllan fifteen gwneas, and
some not more than six. Yet did this greedy parson demand a
tithe u~n their hard-earned wages; his own living, by his own
confessiOn, in the Liber Ecclesiasticus, bein~ £532 ! and because
Jeremiah Dodsworth refused to pay this iniqmtous demand, another
clergyman committed him to die house of correction, at Beverley,
for tbree months.-From "The Three IJeath-CrieB of a Perishing
Church," pub_lillhedby. tlieautlwr at Nottingham, inreply to Archdeacon
Wilkins '" tile Journal. Republi8/wd bu R. Sutton, Nottingham.
THE POOR MAN'S CHURCH.
Let Jeremiah Dodsworth and his fellow-labourers answer this
claim of kindness to the poor! And let the poor tailor, Darn- •
oigit<Zed by Coogle
358 .PRIESTCRAIIT IN ALL AGES•
•
borough, of Ripon, and all the poor people there, that were harassed
by the dean and chapter and their lawyer, for a tithe upon theiT
milk, join him. If this be kindness, it is an odd way of showing
it. And if we would see for.ourselves, what is the present comfort
and accommodation afforded to the poor in this state church, we
have only to go and look; and what is the case? There sit the
wealthy people all in their pews, snugly boxed up; pews lined
with the finest clath, often of gay crimson, with luxurious cush-
ions and hassocks; there sit the aristocracy, with their armorial
escutcheons and coronets hoisted proudly above their heads ; and
there sit those poor for whom the church has such bowels ofcom-
passion, on a few naked benches, J?laced in the cross aisles, near
the door, with a cold stone or pla:tster floor under their feet, and
every blast which visits the place blowing upon them. Which of
these are the direct blessings, and which the indirect, which the
writer talks of as conferred by the church on the poor, we do not
take upon us to determine. It is no wonder that such accommo-
dations have had their natural effect, that the poor have migrated
in legions to the more equal distribution. of comfort in dissenting
chapels, a confession which the writer unwittingly makes.-Ibid.
THE TRUE CHURCH POINTED OUT BY A CHURCHMAN.
" We will not for a moment admit," says the above writer, " that
any considerable number of the additional recruits to the cause of
schism, have been furnished by desertions from the ranks of the
church." Whence, then, did these numbers come? For before
dissent commenced, the church must have held all. Did they drop
out of the clouds ? No; the inevitable inference is, that they were
old deserters from the church, who had been occupying a sort of
neutral ground. And, accordingly, in the next sentence the writer
at once confirms this, and pays the highest compliment to dissent
that can possibly be devised. "Those," he says, "who formerly
were of no religion, and who never entered any temple, except those
of Mammon, now, impressed by conacientioU& feelings, enter with
heart and hand into the service of the enemies of the. national
Establishment." Dissent! thine enemy has thus declared that
thou hast the e8pecial mark of Christ's church upon thee! Those
who had no religion, who never entered any temple, except those
of Mammon, thou hast sought out and converted, and brought into
thy simple temples of unostentatious piety. Thou hast followed
Christ's own example,-for those who had no religion were the
very objects of his mission. He declared that he did not come to '
call·the righteous to repentance. It was the poor and the ignorant
-those whom the state church and the Tories particularly delight
to pour their contempt upon, whom they brand as the rascal rab-
ble, the swinish multitude, the great unwashed, the scum of the
earth_, the very lowest of the people,-these did our Saviour come
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 359
to seek an\'l :to saYe, and these thine enemies of the stipendiary
church proclaim, that thou bast songhtand converted. Thus have
they pronounced thee the true church of Christ !-Ibid.
THE CHURCHMAN'S ARGUMENT FOR ENFORCING TITHES AND
CBUBCB RATES, AND WHERE IT ENDS.
But the writer goes on to answer the question,-Why does the
church persist in attempting to force church rates from those who
maintain their own chapels? and replies, "SimJ>ly, because the law
enjoins us to do so." Is every law, then, just? May there not be a
law of God, higher than any human law? and were there not certain
apostles who said, "Whether shall we obey God rather than men,
judge ye?" Does this writer perceive the length to which his prin-
ciple of enforcing every law, because it is law, leads him? Does he
really see the horrible picture he has drawn of himself? The blind
zealot, who is ready to enforce any law because it is the law, is the
most fearful and revolting monster that walks the earth. In every
land and age he is the same, for he has but one principle, to obey
and enforce whatever law is in existence. Had he lived when Ne-
buchadnezzar made his famous law of the fiery furnace, he would
have been the first at the furnace door, to fling the righteous in;
and would probably have got a worse scorching than we shall give
him before we have done. In pagan Rome, he would have been
eagerly employed in throwing martyrs to the wild beasts, forcing
them on gridirons, or flaying them alive; and his sole answer to
all twinges of conscience, or words of the more merciful, would
have been," It is the law." He would have been agrand Inquisitot
in Spain, racking, torturing, and consigning unhappy wretches to
the flames of the auto-da-fe. He woUld have gloried in all the
massacres of protestants in the Netherlands,-he would have been
great at St. Bartholomew-in Calabria, where the poor Waldenses
were butchered like sheep, hunted through the woods like deer,
and cut in quarters, and stuck on posts all along the road sides,
from one town to another,-he would have revelled in blood, and
cried," It is the ·law." In our own country, under the Tudors and
the Stuarts,-in England, Scotland, and Ireland, he would have
cried "havoc!" and been a bloody Bonner, thrusting good meti
into his coal-hole, till he could bnng them to the stake, while he
doomed his serW.nts to the devil; if they did not brin~ him plenty
of mellow pears; or a Claverhouse, riding over the hdls, rea with
the gore of men murdered for the faith. But in all this, he cannot
see tlte full enormity of his danger or his crime ;-he would have
been one of the greatest revilers and crucifiers of Christ, for it was
with this very language in their mouths, that the Jews perpetrated
that awful deed,-" We have a law, and by that law he must die!"
We trust that we have shown him enough to make him at least
tremble at the rashness of his assertion, and we are thankful, fot'
oigit<Zed by Coogle
360 PBIBSTCRAPT IN ALL AGES.
his own sake, that he lives under laws which, if they permit him
to rob, will not permit him to slay.-IbUI.
A VERY USEFUL DEFINITION OF BLASPHEMY.
What is blasphemy P .Christ himself was accused of blasphemy
by the Jews, because he denounced the corruptions of their Estab-
lishment. The meaning of blasphemy, therefore, in a Tory's head,
is, not to speak irreverently of God, but to speak irreverently of
Establishments. Let every body keep this plain distinction in
mind, and they will always understand a Tory perfectly, and will
suffer no needless alarm.-lbid.
A WORD ON BEHALP OF COBBLIIBS.
The journalist is very anxious, too, he says, that the dissenters
should disown this writer. No doubt of it; but we cannot hold
out to him the least apparent prospect of a speedy release from his
anxiety. He thinks, moreover, that we are a Quaker. What pecu-
liar si~s of Quakerism he sees in us, we cannot imagine. We
are netther very Bilent, nor very meek, nor very apt to turn ()De
cheek when we have been smitten on the other. But if the jour-
na.l'xst can make it out to his own satisfaction, we are satisfied too.
He taunts the Society of Friends with having a presumptuous
cobbler for their origmal apostle. That presuntptuous cobbler,
we know, the Friends glory in, and justly. He pricked the church
with his awl deeper than it ever was pricked before. The weunda
have not healed yet, and the.Y never will heal; they are now in a
regular process of rrwrtification, and will end in diuolution. That
presuntptuous cobbler so thundered, in his day, against the cor-
ruptions of the Establishment, and the infamy of mere hirelings,
that the very parsons, in many instances, ashamed of their base
trade, came blushinftiown from their pulpits, and followed him,
in the honester cal of preaching truth, for the truth's sake.
That presuntptuous co bier happened to be no cobbler at all, for,
being apprenticed to a shoemaker and farmer, he chose to follow
the farming branch, and tltat only till the expiration of his ap-
prenticeship, when he set off on his religious mission,·and never
m his life followed any trade at all on his own account. That
presumptuous cobbler, who was no cobbler, carried a bead on his
shoulders worth a gross of parsons' heads, and a heart in his
bosom tltat feared the face of no man; there was neitlter bishop
nor priest, that could eitlter stand tlte flash of his eye, or the force
of liis argument. The journalist quoted Coleridge the other day,
and as he seems a great autltority with him, we will quote him
too-" There exist folios on the huntan understanding, and the
nature of man, which would have a far juster claim to their high
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRJESTCR4FT IN ALI. AGES. 361
rank and celebrity. if, in the whole huge volume, there could be
found as much fulness of heart and intellect, as bursts forth in
many a simple -page of George I<'ox."- Biographia Literm-ia.
What ·says Thomas Carlyle, too, in his Sartor Resartl18? " This
man, the first of the Quakers; and by trade a shoemaker, was one
of those to whom, under ruder form, the divine idea of the uni-
verse is pleased to manifest itself; and across all the hulls of ig-
norance and earthly de!!Tadation, shine through, in unspeakable
awfulness, unspeakable ~uty on their souls ; who, therefore, are
rightly accounted prophets, God-possessed. Mountains of en-
cnmbrance, higher than Etna, had been heaped over that spirit;
but it was a spirit, and would not lie buried there. That Lei-
cester shoe-shop, had men known it, was a holier place than
Vatican or Loretto-shrine. Stitch away, thou noble Fox! every
prick of that little instrument is pricking into the heart of slavery,
and world-worship, and the Mammon-god. Thy elbows jerk m
strong-swimmer strokes, bearing thee into lands of true liberty.
Were the work done, there would be in broad Europe one free
man, and thou art he !"
But does this sapient scribe think .the Quakers date the origin
of their religion in George Fox P-No, they trace it up to the
old tent-mak.et·s, arid fishermen, and the reputed Son of the car-
penter; and let him caBt-contempt upon them if he pleases; for
1t is in the true Tory and church spint of contempt for the poor
and the low-a contempt, it seems, in which Christ did not par-
take. We really wonder they are not ashamed of Christianity,
which had such a beginning-amongst poor fishermen and tent-
makers, and a being " who bad no place to lay his head." Pro
pudor! why don't they abandon such a plebeian religion? No-
thing less than a king should be the head and founder of their
church, and therefore let it have a king for its head-King Henry
VIII.-a monster of l118t, of cruelty, and tyranny, but still a king
-and therefore fit head of a church that scorns all humility of
origin. But is there something so peculiarly contemptiblein a
cobbler? We could draw such a picture of the talent and worth
of cobbler8, as would aBtonish tliese Tory sticklers. Was not
St. Crispin a cobbler ? Was not Gifford, the editor of the Quar-
twly Review, that great Tory champion, a. cobbler ? Was not
Bloomfield, the poet, a cobbler? Was not Drew, the author of
that standard work on " the immortality and immateriality of the
son!," a cobbler? Was not Professor Lee, of Cambridge, a zeal-
0118 advocate of the church, originally a cobbler ? Were not
Hans Sachs and Jacob Behmen, two celebrated writers of Ger-
many, cobblers? There have been cobblers that would stitch up
such puny despisers of their order, in ten minutes, in a logical
dilemma, from which they should never escape, while good soles
are trodden under foot. There have been painters, poets, his-
torians, divines, and metaphysicians, out of the cobbler craft; and
John Wesley used to say, that he thought half the sense of the
oigit<Zed by Google_.-
.J
362 PIUKSTCII.AFT rN ALL AGES;
working class had got into the cobblers' heads ; and no wonder,-
that, holding their heads so low, a deal of sense should run into
them, which never gets into the heads that are held too high.
Let this despiser of ihe poor henceforth have a care of contemn-
ing cobblers.-Jlna.
STATE CHURCH SOPHISMS USED TO DEFRAUD THE STATE OF ITS
PROPERTY.
But this profound writer denies that the property of the church
ever came from the state. He may deny it, for a Tory will deny
anything; but we defy all the Tories in the kingdom to prove it.
We know the stale sophism by which they attempt to make this
appear well enough ; .they say it came from the catholic church,
and they are the catholic church-that the church was never
changed, it was only ;·ejormed. They may make the best they can
of this ; it is just as good as the Methodists calling theJnselvea
church people. We will leave them and the catholics to settle
this point; it does not concern us or the question. Wherever the
catholic church got this property, we know that the church. of
England got it from the king. It is quite enough for us that
Henry VIII. seized all church property into his hands, to do what
he pleased with it; and some he sold, and some he gave away,
partly to the lay nobility and gentry, and partly to that new church,
of which he made himself the precious head. If he had pleased
so to do, he would not have given this new church a. farthmg, for
"he did what he pleased both with his own" and other r;ople's ;
and there was not a man that dare say nay to it, if he wtshed his
head to stand on his shoulders. He took it, then-and .if the.
church people have a mind to see the fact, they have only to look
into the Acts of the 27th and the 31st of Henry VIII., by which
all this church property was granted to him. The old church had
the pope for its head, but Henry set U_{l a new church with a netc
head, to wit, himself, and passed a vanety of new ordinances, at
total hostility with the canons of the catholic church, and en-
forced them,too, with fagots and axes. This violent chan~ from one
church to another, and this claim of legislating and dtsposing of
the ecclesiastical property assumed by Henry, were maintained by
Edward V1., in hts Acts of his 1st, 2d, and 3d years ; and by Eliza-
beth, in her Acts of her lst and 13th years; and it has been well
argued by Cobbett, that if the catholic church had a prescriptive
right to its property which no government could destroy, and this
present church be the catholic church, then all the lay impropri-
ators have .no title at all to thf:ir property; and moreover, that
while, under King Edward and Elizabeth, there required fires;
fines, and dungeons, to compel the people to adopt the new chJtrch;
there required none of these under Mary to induce them to return
to the old; a '{>lain indication of the opinion of the people then;
as to whether tt was the same- church or not. ··· •
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 363
These Tory advocates, when arguing for corruption, are ~r­
petua.lly declaring, that all corporate property, whether ecclesias-
tical or lay, is as sacredly and completely the property of the bodv,
as private property is of its owners. Now, these people alwa)·s
take care to leave out one little fact, which creates the distinction
between corporate and private property. Private property, when
granted by government, is granted for the sole use and benefit of
the person himself; but all corporate J?roperty is granted, not for
the sole use and benefit of the corporatiOn, whether it be a church
or a lay body, butfor publicpurposes. Here is the grand and eternal
distincti<m; and people have only to keep this simple distinction
firmly before them, to see through the sophistry of all Tory argu-
ment that can be brought forward. Corporate property is given
for a public purpose, and whenever government conceives that
purpose absurd, nullified, or is a pu~ose no longer desirable, it
can undoubtedly recall the grant.-Ibid.
THE BIBLE THE GREAT FOUNTAIN OF ALL REFORMS.
We warn the church, not" to beware ofthe principles ofdissent,"
but to beware of the BIBLE! They that love the Bible and the
Establishment too, love two things that can as ill agree as two
wives in one house. The Establishment must cast out the Bible,
or the Bible will cast out the Establishment. That is the !P'eat
enemy that it has to fear. It is that which has been the rwn of
every nation& church yet-it is that which has vroduced all the
great changes and reforms that have appeared m the Christian
church yet. It overthrew paganism-it split asunder popery-it
ruined monkery in this country-it destroyed it in Spain. The
catholics were deeper in worldly wisdom than the church of Eng·
land ; they knew it to be an enemy, and they ·treated it as an
enemy-they kept it down and out of sight as long as they could.
Henry VIII. and Elizabeth were wiser in tl}.is respect than their
successors. Henry passed an act in 15.'39, called the Bloody
Statute, in which he decreed, that "no women, artificers, appren-
tices, journeymen, husbandmen, or labourers, should read theNew
Testament, on/ain of death;" and Elizabeth was equally averse
to it. She di not wish the people to read at all, lest it should
make them less submissive. She disliked even /reaching, lest
the mischievous principles of Christianity shoul steal abroad
through it; three or four preachers in a county she declared quite
sufficient. Such was the policy of the catholic church, and of
the cunning founders of the English ~burch ; but now this· super-
annuated state church, allows the Bible to walk abroad, over the
whole land, and then wonders to see it produce its natural effects~
Oh ! foolish and stiff-necked generation ! wherf!f!er that book goes,
there goesfreedom of6pirit and opinion. There the peasant learns to
feel that lie is a man-and the man that he is an immortal cre&'
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AOES.
ture-the child of God-the heir of precious rights and a deathless
hope; a being too good to be trodden on by priestly pride, or rob-
bed by priestly pretences. It was because the peasants of Scot-
land had, in every mountain glen and lowland hut, listened to
the animating topics and precious promises of the " big ha' Bible,"
that they rose and resisted the bloody emissaries of this church.
And now, throughout England, in city and in hamlet, in field and
forest, that great charter of. man is studied, and will cast down
every thing that is opposed to freedom of spirit and independence
of purpose. It matters not ~hether it be m church or in state-
the Bible is the great reformer. You may mow down whole crops
of reformers as you would grass, but if you leave the root of all
reform, the Bible, in the earth, it will raise up ten times more.
Make what laws and destroy what liberties you will, if you leave
the Bible free, it will again leaven the whole lump of society, and
your labour is in vain. It is abroad ; it is in every man's house,
on every man's table; and its still small voice is perpetually whisper-
ing, "Woe to all tyrants, and oppressors of God's children !" It is
the voice of God, and the power of God; and against it what voice,
or what power, or what wisdom of man can prevail ? From the
Bible breathes on every soul near it, the eternal sentiments of
liberty, independence, and contempt of death. While the Bible
is free, mM is free. Therefore, we say to the established church ·
~ware ofthe BIBLE !-Ibid.
WHAT WE AIM AT IN CHURCH REFORM.
Here we lay down our pen. We have taken" ample verge and
room enough," and, whether jocose or serious, have had but one
object, to diffuse sound information on the empty pretences of a
state Establishment, the nuisance it is to the pubhc, and the bene-
fit to nobody but the parsons and aristocracy. One thing we desire
to remind our readers of before we finally conclude, the wide differ-
ence between the church as an Establishment, and the church as
a body of Christians. The Tories always try to confound these
two essentially different things, but he who cannot see the distinc-
tion, must have a most uncommon skull. It is against the Estab-
lishment alone that we make war; and it is for the rights of the
church as a body of Christians that we contend as earnestly as for
the rights of the dissenters. Against that institution which imposes
church rates, Easter offerings, tithes, and pays parsons in all their
multifarious characters of bishops, deans, and deacons, parish
priests, curates, etc., out of them, without the consent and in spite
of the people, we protest; against that body which worships only,
we have no quarrel. It is for this body, in fact, that we contend.
We wauld restore to them their undoubted right to choose their
· own ministers. We care not a button about the disposal of the
church property; that we leave to the wisdom of the natioR ; as-
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. 365
sured of one thing, that were it taken from the Episcopalians, the
dis11enters would have none of it.. But of this we take no care ; our
concern is, to see that all bodies of Christians whatever have full
freedom to choose and maintain their own forms of worship in their
own way. And we hope to see the day when the people of the
church,socalled, will thank us as their best friends, who have striven
to free them from the thraldom of the state, and the wretched
hirelings imposed upon them by patrons. Let that day once come,
and then '\\ill the cliurch flourish as the diRsenterR flourish. Every
parish will choose its own pastor, and every honest, pious clergy-
man '\\ill have a chance of being chosen ; all the host of imbecile,
diss~ated, and worldly aristocrats being removed out of their way.
This is the end we aim at-the freedom and prosperity of Christ's
religion ; and he who aims at any end less pure, less disinterested,
Jess noble, deserves not the name of man. This is the end we aim
a.t, and this end once attained, then \\ill commence those internal
reforms and adaptations to the advanced knowledge of the times,
which Tyndale, Hooper, Jewel, Burnet, and others, declared, long
ago, were needed ; which the eloquent Barrow particularly desired;
which Coxe, Nihil, Acaster, and other clergymen of the present
time, proclaim the necessity of. Then wili those reforms com-
mence, which none but the members of the church themselves
have the least conceivable right to introduce. Then will the objec-
tionable parts be struck out of its creed, and its otherwise fine
ritmtl; and so SJ.>lendid and animating would be the change, with
all those fine sptrits that would rise into its pulpits from the halls
of purified and unshackled universities, and at the call of a free
people, that thousands would flock into it, and we should go thither
too, if it were only to witness that great, that glorious, and Chris-
tian revolution, for which we had laboured, and for which we had
suffered calumny and shame. That day will come, whether we see
it or not; and the cause of all divisions and misre.Presentations1
an
Establishment, with its tithes, church rates, and mvidious distmc-
tions, removed out of the way,-blessed will be that day, and
beautiful in the harmony of all hearts, and the mighty spread of
pure religion. So, in thts inspiriting faith, we say, for the present,
farewell to the church, and even wliile she slumbers in· the stupi-
fying influence of established thraldom, may
. .
Ten thousand angels on her slumbers wait,
With glorious visione of her future state•
To be had ofaU Boobellers, Price Siz Shillings,
WILLIAM "HOWITT'S
HISTORY OF PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
A PB.OPBECY·
" We predict for this work a popularity and utility equal to those of
any book of the season; but as for Mr. Howitt. the clergy will be ready
to • swallow him up quick.' "-Chmtuus .ddi/OCGts, June 17th.
" All who fatten on the delusions which disgrace religion, will de-
nounce its author as an atheist, an infidel, a leveller, etc.; but let not
our countrymen be again deceived with this stale manreuvre."-Wuk/y
Dilpatch, June 23.
THE PB.O:PHBCT S:PBBDILY FULFILLBD.
" Hil conception.~ of Chrntianity are, that Chrilt came to brinu FREE-
DOll into the world. • • • He il coar1e and tntl!lar in ltyle. • •
• Antichriltian in 6pirit. • • • Ignorant and abmrd. • • •
• Radical in politiu-Socinianiud in belief. • • • Turlmlent and
milchktloU~. • • • A dunce. • • • A pro.fellor of bombaat and
rhodomontack. • • • He 1com1 /tis God. • ll • He hae tDrilten
hinuelf FIBND in Bf1WY page. • • . • A paltry atom of a fomrl. •
• • A toad. • • • A viper!! I "-British, or Clerical Magazine,
July lst. ·
" We com;~ to the notice of thil 'popular hiltory ' with OO.Olute loath-
ing, for the dilgU~ting naU~IIOIUnes• of our author'1 prineiplea. Of thil
hil wretched farrago of audaciow fallehooth-of thil impioUI compound
of vulgarity and violence, in all point. of tliew wicked and scandalotu, we
feel how uturly incompetsnt we at·e to apeak in urms of adequate reprolxJ..
tion and abhorrence. Iu illiterate andfurioUI author may be fitly described
an !ail own words, for HIS ancleed il ' a career of blind rage, bitter and
foolilh prejudices;' nor do we know ANY HODERN PUBLICATION of such
• horrible impurlmce in the mo•t •hamelel• of iu lies,' or • 10 offensiwly
insolent' an iu general unor, 41 the t10lum6 on our table.
" The clergy are mightily obliged to him for !ail.friendly rksigns. They
thank him heartily for !ail tsnder met·cie• ; they forgitle him NOBLY hia
wholesale •lander• ; they pity !ail agnorance ; they dete•t hil prineiplel ;
they •mile at Ais pedantic conceit; they abominats his nypocrily ; they
loathe his herellfj ; they tknotm~ him 41 a rmler of ChrUitian orclinance1 ;
but they FORGIVE IIIK HIS INJURIOUS ATTACKS, and they pray to God to
gitle him grace to repent of !ail enormous bla6phemip. • • • TMy
adtlile the Quaker• to excommunicate thil faZ.e dilciple I I 1-Carus-
TIAN (!!!) Remembrancer, or Churchman's Ecclesiast.ical and Literary
Miscellany, Nov. 1833.
A COUNTER•BLAST TO CLERICAL BILLINGSGATE.
" That such a man as William Howitt can have no object in exposing
priestcraft, but to sene true religion and true liberty, will be believed
oigit<Zed by Coogle
PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES. · 367
by·all, except those who, if an angel from heaven were to denounce the
state creed, would declare him an enemy to the church, and an infidel.
We can see that, with all the gentleness of Christian feeling, the author,
in exposing the errors and abuses produced by the union of church and
state, cannot avoid the expression of a virtuous indignation."-Ma,wllu-
tw Timu, June 29.
A WISB CAUTION.
• " We candidly GtlOtD our !DUh, tJw.t thO. eoork 11aottld not be read at thi8
juncture."-Metropolitan Magazine, now edited by a Conservative.
. " It is as bold and uncompromising a denunciation of the system as
ever issued from the press of this or any other country. It shows Mr.
Howitt to be intimately acquainted with history, and especially the history
of religion, ancient and modem. Many passages are not more remark-
able for the sterling sense they eXhibit, than for the eloquent style in
which they are composed."-Lilleryool Albion, July 1.
" A splendid piece of eloquence, and reminds 1\11 a good deal of the
prose of Milton."-Athen.rum.
" On the ecclesiastical courts and universities, Mr. Howitt has some
striking observations."-Monthly Ret7i8vl, July 1.
... Such a book as this needs from us no recommendation as a passport ;
its eloquence, its power, its truth, will find a way to every heart alive to
a sense of true religion and true liberty. It will be read and valued by
every man who is a lover of his God, and of his fellow-mcn."-Brighton
Gvardtan, July 3.
" We have great pleasure in noticing this work, which is well adapted
to the spirit and necessities·of the present times. The belief is deeply
rooted, and is daily becoming more widely spread, that established reli-
gions are incompatible with good government. It is a duty incumbent
upon us to spread those opinions which will eventually destroy the church
a an imtrument of the· 1ta~, which will sever the unholy and baneful
alliance, which has too long existed, and leave Episcopacy in England to
act, as it does in America, upon the support of its adherents, and of them
alone."-She.f!ield Independent, July 13.
"This work is tl1e production of Mr. Howitt: a highly-gifted mem~r \.,
of the Society of Friends, and is likely to become extremely popular,
and to awaken an intense inter~st."-York Herald, July 13.
"It has given us particular pleasure to find William Howitt, the \
Quaker, of poetical and literary celebrity, enlisted in the ranks of the
most zealous political and ecclesiastical reformers. Indeed, we have
often marvelled at the servility or indifference of minds, gifted like that
of the author before us, upon questions directly affecting the welfare
and happiness of the human race. How could a poet, (we hsve often
aaid,) one of those who are especially 'quick to feel and wise to know,'
look calmly on all the oppressions that are done under the sun, or even
lend the powers of his genius to celebrate the triumph of the tyrant and
evil-doer ? Poets aliould rather be the chosen spirits to guide and cheer
the world, and to redeem their fellows from the doom of ignorance, pri-
vation, and slavery. Upon these grounds we hsve sometimes felt inclined
to quarrel evenwithShakspeare, and to tum withmoreheartfelt admiration
and gratitude to the immortal vindicator of liberty, the patriotic Milton.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
.PRIESTCRAFT IN ALL AGES.
" We are glad to find, by the conclusion of the preface, that the author
is prepared to meet the abuse and hostility of bigots and time-~~eners :.
he will, doubtless, have enough of these to contend with,-let him despi88
and defy their utmost rancour, and content himself with the coll8Cioua·
.ness of his OWII good works, and the approving testimony of the liberal
and the wise."-Kmt Herald, July 11.
"The qualities of William Howitt's Popular Hitotory of Pridstcraft
are, fearless discuasion, honest independence, an obvious Jove of truth,
and a wann interest in every thing that can promote the welfare of hu-
manity."-TIIe Scot. Timu, July 9.
" The author of this deeply interesting little volume takes a rapid sur-
vey of prieetcraft, as it has existed from the earliest periods, and ends
with an able exposition of the manifold corruptions of the existing church
of England. It will supply the long-existing deficiency of a pop~
history of religious imposture."-TAe Satiri.t.
"Mr. Howitt is one of the very few bold nnd avowedly Christian
writers which the present age has produced."-T""' Srm, July 8.
'' Of the general, historical, and reftective character of the work before
us, however, we can speak in the highest tenns ; and to our readers we
recommend it ·aa an amusement and a study, from the indulgence in
which they cannot fail to become wiser men, and more imboldened cham-
pions in that great cause of religious reformation, the final ·battles of
which must in a few years be fought and won, in the mother·boeom of
our poor hierarchy-bestridden England."-BeU'• NftD Muunger.
"William Howitt here presents himself in a new character. We were
acquainted with him as a Quaker, a naturallst, a poet, a man of observant
mind, kind feelings, and pure taste ; but had not associated him with the
idea of a reformer in church and state, a warm politician. We rejoice
to meet him in this character.
" The little book now before us is rich in poetical beauty and relisious
feeling. The stern trntl1 is told both of tho past and the present ; and it
ia ao told aa to make tu feel, that in tlae lnet·eat contkmnation tJiere il no
malig,.ity; that in the proposed changes there is no ainl at party triumph;
but that the writer's single object is to show how mnnkiud have been in-
jured, by what arts, unaer what pretences, and how their deliverance
from this wretched thraldom may be effected. In the latter portions of
the volume, those which relate to the present condition and practices of
the church of England, there is a dignity, a beauty, and a richness of
style, with a distinctness of poetical conception, and an elevation of sen-
timent, that reminds us strongly of the prose works of Milton.
" We hope that this little book will widely circulate, and that it will
aid in bringing on that spiritu&l renovation which is so pre-eminently to
be desired for our country."-Mont.\ly &politory, July 1.
JOHN GUILDS AND SON, B'CNGAY.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
WORKS
PUBLISHED, Olt Dl THE PRESS,
BY
WILLIAM AND MARY HOWITT.
PUBLISHED BY
LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, & LONGl\fANS,
PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON.
I .
THE RURAL LIFE OF ENGLAND.
NEW EDITION,
Medium 8vo., with Engravings on Wood by BEWICK and WILLU.XS, uniform
with" VISITS TO RBMARKABLB PLACBS," price 2ls. cloth.
CONTBNTS.
PABT 1, Life of the Aristocracy . PABT 6.
- 2. Life of the Agricultural
Population.
Habits, Amusements, and
Condition of the People;
in which are introduced
Two New Chapters de-
scriptive of the ltural
Watering-Places, and Edu-
cation of the Rural Popu-
lation.
3. Picturesque and Moral Fea-
tures of the Country.
4. Strong Attachment of the
English to Country Life.
:1. The Forests of England.
"Only inferior to Nature herself.
English farmers, farm servants, life in
the Dales or Lincolnshire and York-
shire and Lancashire, scenes of wild
and lonely cottage life in the High-
lands, and the co•mtry pleasures and
pursuits of our mechanics, are all
drawn and descanted on with singular
haR~~~s~.~~le anft!~b::~~i~n&~d
liberal spirit has this work been con-
ceived. ln its execution, the work
is in its best sense national: every
page, too, otf~rs traces of character;
and they are all of them welcome for
their individuality and genuineness.
He is always fearless and earnest;
often excellently graphic; frequently
nervous.''
Lon®n and Wellmin1ter Rl!f!ieUJ,
,. There is or wa~ but one man in
the kingdom capable or having ex-
celled this work, and that is Professor
Wilson."-Metropolitan ComertJalifH!
Journal, Jan. 6, 1838.
"A work of great merit, extensive
rtlsearch, much minute inquiry, and
containing a faithful, accurate. and
we may add daborate history of rural
life, rural pastimes, and rural man-
ners." Spectat~W, Jan. 7, 1838.
"Thrice beautiful-beautiful in its
subjects, beautiful in its literary
execution, and beautiful in the get-
ting up.''
St. Jame•'• Chronicle, Jan. 2.
" A valuable work, and cannot fail
ofb~comlng popular."
Literary Gazette, Jan. 20.
[Prlnt~d hy Mannlnr and Muon, hy.lan~, St. Paul's].
oigit<Zed by Coogle
WII.J.IAM HOWITI'S WORKS.
II.
VISITS 'fO REMARKABLE PLACES;
61lr l}aUd, !lattle ;firllrd,
And Scenes illustrative of Striking Passages in English History
and Poetry.
NEW EDITION.
Medium 8vo. with 40 IUustrations by S. WILLIAMS, price 2ls. cloth.
CONTBNTH.
CHAP. I. Visit to Penshurst in Kent,
the Ancient !Seat of the
Sidneys.
2. Visit to the Field of Cullo·
den.
3. Visit to Stratford-on-Avon,
and the Haunts of Shak-
•P"are: Charlecot Hall,
Clopton Hall, etc.
4. Visita to Combe Abbey,
Warwick.shire, as con·
nected with Elizabeth of
Bohemia and the Gun·
,POWder Plot.
5. Vtsit to Lindisfarue,Fiodden
Field, and the Scenery of
1\Iarmion.
6. Visit to Bolton Priory, and
Scenes of the White Doe
of Rylston.
"Oneof the most charmin!:volumes
we have chanced upon durtng many
yearl'-a book that is likely to be
d:.if·htc:\~ris~~~~et~~~ :!j~~!
whlfe the interest of its publication
is fresh. It was a felicitous thought
in William Howitt to undertake so
poetical a pilgrimage, for which he is
so admirably, and we had almost said
peculiarl;r,qualified by the character
of his mmd, the purity of his taste,
CHAP. 7. Visit to Hampton Court.
- 8. Visit toCompton-Winyates,
Warwickshire, a solitary
old Seat of the Marquis of
Northampton.
9. A Dav-Dream at TintageL
10. Visit 'to Staffa and lona.
l!. Visit to E<lge-Hill.
12. Visit to the Great Jesuits'
College at IStonyhurst in
Lancashire.
13. Visit to the Ancient City of
Winchester.
U. Visit to Wotton Hall, Staf-
fordshire : Alfieri aud
Rousseau in England;
Traditions of Rousseau at
Wotton.
- 15. Sacrament Sunday at KiJ.
morae in the Highlands.
and his deep love of old traditions
and their picturesque and historical
associations. We can confidently
recommend the volume as one of the
most delightful works of its class in
the lan$uage. It is richly embel-
lished wtthwoodcuts by Mr.Williams,
whose talents are evidently of a high
order." Atlas, Jan. 4, 1840.
H A book for all seasons.,.
Examiner, Dec. 29, 1840.
III.
VISITS TO REMARKABLE PLACES.
SECOND SERIES.
Cllli:FLY IN TBB COUNTIES OF
DURHAM AND NORTHUMBERLAND.
WITH A STROLL ALONG THE BORDEL
With upwards of 40 highJy.finished.Woodcuts. Medium 8vo., price 2Is. cloth.
"William Howitt has produced a
volume that will be garnered up while
the language lasts in the Jocaliti~s to
which it is dedicated."
Atlas, Dec. I, 1841.
"A rich treat for all genuine lovers
of literature, historical antiquities,
and natural scenery. The most de-
lightful book which the present fer·
tile season has yet produced."
United Sen>ice Ga•ette, Jan.l,l842.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
WILLIAM HOWITT's WORKS.
IV.
THE
RURAL AND SOCIAL LIFE OF GERMANY.
ILLUSTRATED BY G. F . SARGENT.
Uniformwith the " RuRAL LIFE oP ENGLAND," medium Svo., price 21s. cloth.
"We think this work the most
interesting of any thing William
Howitt has done. It possesses all his
well-known excellE-nces, and derivea
from its subject the attraction of both
novelty and knowledge." Spectator.
"This author, wlio bas become
so c~lebrated and appreciated from
many of his works, bas given us, in
the above volume, an extremely in...
teresting and chara.cteri.stic descrip..
tion of Life in Germany, as well as
an accurate account of the Manners
and Customs of this country, which
he made himself during his residence
on the Continent, and his journ~y
through the different States of Ger-
many ; and he has used every endea-
vour to picture to those ofhis country-
~~rc;h~o'::}t~~~~~~Gth~ranJ;ei~!~
interest. Whoever travels in a foreign
country without being aware of 1ts
peculiarities will find mu~h that is dis-
agreeable and uncomfortable, where
he does not know how to comply
with its usages. It was therefore a
praiseworth)' undertaking on the part
of Mr. Howitt, to impart to his coun-
trymen all the information be could
obtain on the subject, and we are
convinced that his work will prove
a great acquisition to the Euglish
travell~r in this country. Without
this book, much that is highly in-
teresting will escape his notic~."
Jugel's Unirersal Magazine.
" Howitt, a man of mature years,
with all the youthful fire of poetry
v.
and humanity-every inch an Eng·
lishman-gives ushere amostoriginal
work on Germany. He treats us and
our affairs with such an earnestness
of conviction, sucb a love of impar-
tiality, such an amiable candour, that
we cannot censure him ; but must
respect what he says. The descrip·
tions of scenery and of life are extra-
ordinarily true. He presents through·
out contrasts between the two coun-
tries, so that a German. may learn
more ofEnglandfrom this work, than
out of most that are written for that
very purpose. That in every contrast
where PUBLICITY and PllACTIOABILITY
are concerned, he assumes over us
for England ,. triumphant tone is
true, but his vrophecy of the future
of Germany 1s noble-we sincerely
wish it may prove true. All that be
says of our literature and art, as in
Munich, is excellently said: many
chapters are real masterpieces of
description, and the whole work dis·
tir.guishes itself as one of the most
correct and favourable repr<'senta·
tions of our life and circumstances
~fh!~\;";?tis~~~:~~ed from the pen
AlYegmeine Zeitung, Feb. 1843.
" We return our hearfy thanks to
Howitt, whose work we have so often
quoted, for the extraordinary accu..
~i~h' ~h~~mhea~'!_.n~~~li~,;:~eW1.!
describe the life, character, and cir-
cumstanc~s of our country."
Ko!niche Zeitung, March, 1843.
THE STUDENT LIFE OF GERMANY.
(From the unpublished MSS. of Dr. CoRNELIUS.)
WlTI1 NUMEROUS lLLUSTR.\.TIONS ON WOOD BY O. F. SAROBNT,
AND SEVEN STEEL BNORAVINOS,
Medium Svo. with 2! Woodcuts and 7 Ste~ll'lates, price 21s. cloth.
"Mr. Howitt is right in his remark,
that, taken as a whole, the volume
contains more that is entirely new
and curious than any one which bas
issued from the press for years.
. . . .
It will be felt as a most charming
addition to the book, that the music
of all the songs (in themselves a de-
lightful serie~ ) is givt•n with, in every
case. the original words."
Eraminer, Oct. 16, 1841.
"This work is a public benefit,
and as such it cannot be too cordially
or earnestly recommended to our
readers......It is elegantly'got up,'
and dOf'B credit in its appearance to
the taste, liberalit{; and spirit of the
fn~:\\'.~b~~~ld~ wA~ ~h~e:::fcrg:~:
plete' treatise on the suhject of which
1t treats-the on!i. comph~te treatise.
~:~~~rfs"i~:~~l~Jat;l~~.~ny toOt~!!.~
oigit<Zed by Coogle
WJLLlAl\1 HOWITT'S WORKS
VI.
THE BOY'S COUNTRY BOOK:
BEING
THE REAL LIFE 0 F A C 0 UN TRY B 0 Y,
WRITTEN BT HIMSELF.
2d Edition, rep. Svo. with about 40 Woodcuts by S. WtLLIAlllS, 8s. cloth.
" A volume that children will de·
light to read."
Athenmum, Feb. 16, 1839.
" It is with no common satisfar.tion
that we Introduce to our readers this
little book- book which is the very
best adapted to fill, occupy, and
fascinate the leisure hours of the
young." Atla1, Jan. 20, 1839.
"We !<now of no book which we
should be more apt to select as a
present for a young person in whom
we might feel interested."
. Clmmher1' Journal.
"We have read this book as if it
were some fairy chronicle of boyish
days of our own. and have closed it
with a sigh for the memory of those
brief but sweetest pleasures which
boyhood onlv knows."
Examiner, April 6. 1839.
"The style is healthy and animated,
and, sufficiently plain to meet the
capacity of boys at school; whilst
tht! numerous Jivelyiucidents, aud the
various con~enial topics introduced,
will rivet his attl"ntion, and afford
him a wide field for gratification!'
Ccmservative, Jan. 20, 1839.
" There is not in all England a
more competent f'ditor for such an
autobiography as this, than theauthor
of the • Book of the Seasons;' nor
are we aware that any other •real
life of a country hoy' could ever
have been morenaturally, spiritually,
and heartily describPd. We see him
in every passage and every scene,-
we actually hear him, or feel as if we
did, telling his story to a loved com·
panion of kindred disposition... . .
Every boy in the British Empire
should have a copy of this book.'
Monthly RefJietD, 1\farch, 1839.
" A deli~htful book, full of enjoy·
ment and 1nformation, anecdot~ and
adventure, such as boys like, told in
a simple and hearty way, as one
school-feiJow would talk to another."
Spectator, Jan. 20, 1839.
" One of the most fascinating fie.
tions for young and old, but especially
of the former, that has ever graced
our literature." Afoothly Chronit•le.
'- One of the most bewitching little
volumes which we have read for a long
time; full of the history of junmile
ad,·enturps; and ofthe information-
sterling, varied, and of lasting value
-which mature years have picked
up. Though intended for the young,
it will have, we venture to prophesy
many seniors among its admirers.": '
Eclectic RefJiew, April, 1839.
VII.
COLONIZATION AND CHRISTIANITY:
A Popular History of the Treatment of the Natives by the
Europeans in all their Colonies.
Post 8vo. price lOs. 6d. cloth.
" The volume is full of a painru1and
tragical interest: it enforces a terrible
Jesson uyon the consideration or the
people o this country•• ... We know
not, indeed, how any man could sit
down to such a narrative cahnly, and
few men could have conducted it to
a close with so much abilitv and dis·
cretion." Atlaa, July 7,1838.
''We earnestly recommend this
volume to the notice of our readers
as a most masterly compendium of
correct intelligence on all subjects
connected with colonization. the slave
trade, aud slavery."
E~angelical Magazine, Sept. 11!38.
"There is enough to strike every
feeling heart with horror and detesta·
tion, and to call aloud for remedy
and redress." Literary Gazette.
" We have no hesitation in pro•
nouncing (this volum.,) in its object
aud scope, the most imp~rtant and
valuable of any that he (1\fr. Howitt)
has yet produced."
Tait's 1
J1agazine, Aug. 1838.
u We cannot dismiss the volume
without expressing our deep sense of
its value, and of the SPf\'ice its pub·
lication will render to the cause of
humanity.''
Ec/eclic Review. Dec. 1838.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
WORKS BY MARY HOWITT.
PUBLISHED BY
LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS,
PATERNOSTER ROW, I.ONDON.
J.
THE NEIGHBOURS:
A STORY OF EVERY-DAY LIFE.
TRANSLATED FROM TilE SWEDISH OF FREDERIKA BREMER.
Third Edition, 2 vols., post 8vo., ISs. boards.
"The best novel published this sea.
son ; and we are sure that it will not
only afford greatdelight t.. the reading
world, but have a beneficial influence
on our literature.'' Britannia.
.. The execution ofthis exceedingly
curious picture ofmauners is very felt·
citous : minutt> in its touches. pains..
taking with its details, and yet not so
literal as life-like in its effects; re-
sembling, in this respect, the care..
fully -labourell pictures of the ~'lemish
school. In •The Neighbours' the
reader will meet with something very
different from anything to be found
in En,;!ish novels of the present day.
A!though a translation, it has all the
ease and ra~iness of an original."
spectaror.
THE
"These lively volumes graphically
display our social human nature
under aspects new to the English
reader.''
Atla1.
'' The great charm of this agreeable
book is the fresh and life.Jik~ picture
it furnishes of the domestic economy
of Sweden. The scenes it unfolds, the
ch<~racters it paints, the manners and
hilhits it describes, arc hoth original
and obviously true to nature; while
~~~ ~e;~~~~i~·~t!r~xftr~~~~da~i~~feh~~J
pur~. adapted to cha.•ten the heart by
rectifying the affections."
· Eclectic ReoierJJ.
II.
HOME:
OR,
FAMILY CARES AND FAMILY JOYS.
TRAN!IILATED FR.OM THB SWEDISH OF FREDERIKA BREMER.
Second Edition, 2 vols., post 8vo.. 11. b. boards.
" It would certainly be •omitting
the !?art of Hamlet,' were we to clo•e
this mvitation to •The Home· with-
out speaking of the eentral ftgurt• in
all its joys and sorrows-the 1\lother.
Nothing more dtdicate, or womanly,
or b<•autlful is to be found in our
domestic fiction than her character:
and we like it none the less for a
certain touch of romance and senti·
ment not altogether English. ... . .. .
It is impossible to read this book as
a piece ofmak•-helit!f'e. We have had
nothing sosimply life-like since Galt's
•Annals of the Parish •-no pictur!'9
of female nature so finely touched,
since :Miss Austen's. As an illustra·
tion of Northern life and mannE"rs,
too, the tale has great value.,
.Athen<ZUm.
"This new story, tl\ken as a whole,
fully sustains all that we said in praise
of the penetrative subtlety, nice dis-
crimination. and ~xqui~ite deUcacv of
touch, which nredispla)·ed in the Ant
delightful fiction of !Ifiss Bremer."
7'rlit'l ~lagazint.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
WORKS BY MARY HOWITT.
•• THE HOME."-Opinions of the Pre11 continued.
" Nothing like the works of this
channin~ Swedish writer has ap-
peared smce Illiss Austen. The prin-
ciples which they inculcate are too
sound, the facts which they detail are
of too truthful and convincin~ a cha.
racter. not to have been welcomed
with the warmest terms of congratu-
lation in thi3 country. MissBremer's
high and distinctive quality con>ists
in her minute dissE"ction of character,
her eloquent detail of incident-'-the
warmth of tone with which she ex-
presses every amiable feeling; the
unobtrusive, yet cogent manner in
~~~~~ ~f:ir~~~~h~e:ai:!!ln:!!~\~f
which she endeavours to convince
evt>ry one of the necessity of abhor.
ring vice." Alla1.
"A bonk which will assuredly fulfil
the end for which it is written, and
aftord delight to every one who can
appreciate faithful pictures of the
fairest side of human life, and find
~~':Jas'::':ei~J.:'ct'.!~s~g ~h~nl~:i."o~\11,!!
a rigtt to claim from the press of this
country the courtesy of an introduc-
tion; and the critic's privilege in this
111.
case is truly one of the most grati-
fying kind. Miss Bremer's portraits
are drawn with exquisite truth, and
are among the most purely natural
descriptions ever penned."Britannia.
"Ernst Frank, with his high prin·
ciples, sound sense, and deep feelin~,
couched beneath a cold exterior, witn
Elise, his bejl.utiful and loving wife,
partakins Jar~cly ofthe virtues of her
st>x; then t>luest and only boy Hen-
rik,themother's •summer child;' a.nd
tlieir four daughters, each distin-
guished from the others, and all pre-
senting, whether apart or in r-omhi-
nation, a mixture ofqualities adapted
to awaken both the pride and the
apprehension of their parents, consti·
lute a group of which the like may
O<'cnsionally be seen, and which, once
beheld, can never be forgotten. Our
young friends- and, if we mistake
not, many old ones too-will find
these volumes full of interest, and it
will not be the fault of their fair
authorif the t•tl'eet of their perusal be
not to strengthen domestic affections,
and to correct many evils hy which
the happiness ofhome is impaired."
Eclectac Re~Jiew.
THE PRESIDENT'S DAUGHTERS:
INCLUDING NINA.
TRANSLATED FROM THE SWEDISH OF FREDERIKA BREMER.
Three vols., post 8vo., 311. 6d. boards. '
" 1\Iiss Bremer possesses beyond
any other living writer of her class the
power of realising to the imagination
every individual she introduces.
There is scarcely a single person in
her multitudinous groups that does
not stand out _palpabl)' 1n his living
lineaments. The minute fidelity of
her details, the vivid di•tinctuess
=~h s:c~cthe!"o;i~n,~n~~~c!:J~gfl!!
moral beauty and womanly purity
which steadily illuminate her narra.
tive; and the calm Christian philo·
sophy out of which all its earnest
lessons of truth, and justice, and re-
signation, and serene wisdom,- are
drawn, must receive implicit admi..
ration on all hands." E.raminer.
"In the exhibition of every·day life
in Sweden, so far as we are able to
judge of it, Miss Bremer is without a
rival,-full of matter, close in obser.
vation, characteristic in touch, and
felicitous in expression, by the exact
adaptation of style and diction to the
thing described." Spectator.
'"The President's Daughters' is a
worthr companion to 'The Neigh·
bours - simple and trutllful; an<!
though we may never havP. met else..
where any one of the characters, all
ili~Yr ~~';.eh~:~~s
1
~v~~e~late~inJ~!d
and acquaintance with them. There
h not one that offends by t>xaggera-
tion- not one that is not recognised
at a glance by thP humanities of our
common nature-they are creatures
of flesh and blood, and walk the stage
of life as it has been trod for ages,
and will be trod for ever. No impos·
sible vice, no super..human virtue,
startles us in MissBremer's page: we
recognise in her heroes and-
beroines
men and women with whom we our.
selves could have lived and been
happy." Atlwn<PUm.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
WORKS BY !IIARY HOWITT.
TALES
FOR THE PEOPLE AND THEIR CHILDREN.
Price 2s. 6d. t>ach, in cloth.
PuBLISHED BY THOl\IAS TEGG, CuEAPSIDI!.
STRIVE AND THRIVE. •
HOPE ON! HOPE EVER!t
SOWING AND REAPING.
WHO SHALL BE GREATEST?
WHICH IS THE WISER?
LITTLE COIN, MUCH CARE.
WORK AND WAGES.
ALICE FRANKLIN.
NO SENSE LIKE COMMON SENSE.
• "We ~joice to see the works of
the Howitts, whatever ther be, re·
published among us. Theil' names
have a pleasant sound; their writings
are sure to be animatt>d by a kindly,
humane spirit; and no one can leave
them without feeling that he has bet>n
in delightful ~;,~aA~can lfet1ierb.
a:e;ie~i; !si~:s8
i~~~~e9
re~ii:~~J
their Children,' which has latefy been
commenct>d by one well fitted for the
task; and truly a more delighiful
story, either for parent or child, we
ha•e seldmn read. Mary Howitt pos-
sesses, in a singular detzree, that
charming art, which so few writer~
can ever attain, of con•eyin8 the 11Wit
mblime le11on1 qf morality in a /ONTI
at once a• simple and a1 attractif'e a1
a fairy tale. And then the magic
skill with which, by her deep, quiet,
but earnest enthusiasm, she invests
the most or<Unary objects and inci..
dents with poetic beauty ! Yet all is
done with a degree of mt>thod, which
rendt>rs her pictures alike harmoni-
ous and free from dull formality. It
is not merely that
1 From common thing• which round Ul lie
Some random truths de can impart.'
The truths she teaches, though drawn
from common sources, are never
given at random. Impulsive though
her genius be, it never parts company
witli her judgment; and hence it may
he truly said, that she possesses her
genius, ratbt>r than abe is possessed
by it.
WORKS FOR YOUTH.
PuBLISHED BY DARTON & CLARKE, HoLBO&N HILL.
BIRDS AND FLOWERS, 12mo. cloth, 6s.
TALES IN VERSE, 12mo. cloth, 3s. 6d.
TALES IN PROSE, 16mo. 3s. 6d.
HYMNS AND FIRESIDE VERSES, 12mo. 6s.
SKETCHES OF NATURAL HISTORY, 16mo. cloth, 3s. 6d.
oigit<Zed by Coogle
• .(X THE PRESS.
§W WOiblbO~~ [}'{]@WOTI.
'·
THE ROMANCE OF MERIT:
OR,
TilE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF JACK OF THE MILL,
COMMONLY CALLED LORD OTHMILL.
Two vols. small8vo., be~utifully illustrated with Wood-cuts.
"·
WANDERINGS
THROUGH EUROPE AND THE EAST:
DURING 'l'HE YEARS 1824 To 1840 ;
BY D. P. HOLTHAUS,
Journeyman Tailor, from Werdohl in Westphalia, Finland.
Translated from the Third Edition of the original German, 1 vol. small 8vo.
Ill.
GERMAN EXPERIENCES:
ADDRESSED TO THE ENGLISH,
BOTH GOERS ABUOAD AND STAYERS AT HOME.
One Volume sma118vo.
I.
STRI~'E AND PEACE;
OR, LIFE IN NORWAY:
THE H- FAMILY: AXEL AND ANNA; etc.
3 Vols. 8vo.
FROM THE SWEDISH OF MISS BREMEn.
II.
THE
CHILD'S PICTURE AND VERSE BOOK:
CO)olMONLY CALLED
OTTO SPECKTER'S FABLE-BOOK.
This most admirable book for children, and their great favourite almost all
over the Continent, from Poland to France, and especially to be found in
every house in Germany where there are children, the Translator is bringing
out io a new and unparalleled form; i.e. with the text in GERMAN, FRENCH,
and ENOLISII, so as to present not only a channing book of amusement for our
children, but a capital first-book Ia the other two J?Opular languag~s. The
Hundred Woodcuts will be executed in a style super10r to any of the Conti-
nental ones, and tbe whole will be included at a price not exceeding that of the
original with its single text. A celebrated German Review says, "Of this
production, which makes of itself an epoch in the world of children, it is
superfluous to speak. This ~·able-Book is throughout all Germany in the hands
~~Jd~e'::'~~eab~,.:',~.i,ldren, and will always be new because every year fresh
[Printed by Mnnnlng and M11on, by.Jane, St. Paul's],
o;g;,,ed by Coogle
