{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 3953 5924 1961","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v2_22_november_1883.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V2 November 22 1883","mylang":"de"}
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHIOAL RESEARCH.
PROOEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
Thwrsday, November 22, 1883.
The fifth General Meeting of the Society was held at 11, Ohandos
Street, Oavendish Square, on Thursday, November 22, 1883.
PROFESSOR HENRY SIDGWICK, PRESIDENT, IN THE OHAIR.
I.
FOURTH REPORT
OF THB
OOMMITTEE ON THOUGHT-TRANSFERENOE.
[The Report has been somewhat enlarged sinoe it was read.]
Comnn.ittee:-EDMUND GURNEY,· M.A. ; F. W. H. MyERS,. M.A.;
and PROFESSOR W. F. BARRETT,* Hon. Sec.
Since the last report was presented to the Society, the Oommittee
on Thought-transference have been steadily pursuing their inquiries,
and have not only obtained a considerable amount of additional
evidence confirmatory of their previous work, but also evidence of a
new and important character. Moreover, we are happy to find that the
inquiry is beginning to bepursued by independent groups ofinvestigators
throughout the country; some of these have communicated with us and
have courtElQusly permitted us to examine their mode of experiment,
.and g1adly availed themselves ofthe precautions upon which experience
has taught us to insist. To Mr. Malcolm Guthrie, J.P., of Liverpool. we
owe our warm thanks for his most capable and courteous co-operation,
and we are glad to say that he has lately joined our Oommittee. Since
the extensive and careful series of experiments published in Part IV. of
our Proceedings, Mr. Guthrie has enlarged his range of experiments
and obtained remarkable success in the transference of visual impressions
-diagramsand the like-of tastes. and of pains. The only sort of distinct
sensation of which the transference yet remains to be obtained, is that of
smell,-there being, of course, special difficulties in so arranging the
experiment that a "subject" shall have no opportunity of detecting
• TRB COUNCIL ROLDS I'l'SBLIi' GBNBRALLY RlIiSPONSIBLB FOR TRB RBPORm Oli' ITS COKKITTns.
AT mB RBAD Oli' BACR RBPORT TRB NAKBS Oli' TROSB MID!BBRS Oli' COKKI1"rBB WHO ARE
SPBCIALLY RBSPONSIBLB FOR ITS COKPOSrrION ARB KARKIID WITH ASTBRISKS.
B
Digitized by Coogle
/
·2 Report of the Oommittee on Thought-Tra,asference. [Nov. 22,
by direct means any strongly odorous substance which the II agent" is
smelling close by. In many of Mr. Guthrie's later experiments the
80le II agent" has been himself, or one or other of the gentlemen
. engaged with him in the investigation.
We trust that Mr. Guthrie's example will stimulate others among
our members to conduct experiments of the same kind. Not all
investigators, indeed, may have similar advantages of wide command
of II subjects" for experiment; but anyone among us may very possibly
find in his own family circle some one" subject" of value; and it is,
of course, in the family circle that it is easiest to secure that· continual
and patient repetition of experiments which seems essential to any
marked success.
1. Transference oj Tastes.
The experiments which we shall first detail have reference to the
transference of tastes. This particular form of transferred sensation
had been often experimented upon, by ourselves and by others,
with .. subjects" in the hypnotic state; but, so far as we know,
Mr. Guthrie was the first person to procure the phenomenon when
agent and percipient were both of them in a normal condition. There
was no chance of collusion, conscious or unconscious; for the taste to
be discerned was known to no one except the actual experimente-.rs;
and the sensations experienced were verbally described by the
..subjects" (not written down), so that all danger of involuntary
muscular guidance was eliminated.
The following series of experiments were made in Liverpool
during the first week in September, 1883:-
A selection of about twenty strongly-tasting substances was made.
These substances were enclosed in small bottles and small parcels, pre-
cisely similar to one another, and kept carefully out of the range of
vision of the" subjects," who were, moreover, blindfolded, so that no
grimaces made by the tasters could be seen. The·" subjects," in fact,
had no means whatever of knowing, through the sense of sight, what was
the substa'.nce tasted.
Smell had to be guarded against with still greater care. When the
substance was odoriferous the packet or bottle was opened outside the
room, or at such a distance, and so cautiously as to preventany sensible
smell from escaping. The experiments, moreover, were conducted in the
close vicinity of a very large kitchen, from whence a strong odour of
beefsteak and onions proceeded during almost all the time occupied. The
tasters took pains to keep their heads high above the .. subjects," and to
avoid breathing with open mouth. One substance (coffee) tried was
found to give off a slight smell, in spite of all precautions, and an
experiment made with this has been omitted.
Digitized by Coogle
1883.] Report of tM Oommittee on TkougM.TJ"amfirence. 3
The tasters were Mr. Guthrie (M.G.), Mr. Gurney (E.G.), and Mr.
Myers (M.). The percipients were two young ladies employed in Mr.
Guthrie's establishment, whom we will call R. and E. The tasters
lightly placed a hand on one of the shoulders or hands of the
percipients. During the first experiments (September 3rd and 4th)
there were one or two other persons in the room, who, however,
were equally ignorant as to the substance tasted. During the
experiments silence was preserved. During the last 15 experi-
ments (September 5th) only M. G., E. G., and M., with the two
percipients, were present. On this evening Miss E. was, unfortunately,
suffering from sore throat, which seemed to blunt her susceptibility.
On this occasion none of the substances were allowed even to enter the
room where the percipients were. They were kept in a dark lobby out-
side, and taken by the investigators at random, so that often one
investigator did not even know what the other took. Still less could
any spy have discerned what was chosen, had such spy been there, which
he certainly was not. .
A very small portion of each substance used was found to be enough.
The difficulty lies in keeping the mean between the massive impression
of a large quantity of a salt, spice, bitter, or acid, which confounds the
specific differences under each general head, and the Jading impression
which is apt to give merely a residual pungency, from which the charac-
teristic fiavour has escaped. It is necessary to allow some minutes to
elapse between each experiment, as the imaginary taste seems to be
fully as pe1"lJistent as the real one.
&pttJmber B, 188B.
JIXP'.r. TASTBIL PBROIPIJIBT. SUJlSTANOII. ANSWERS GIVEN.
1 .•• M••..•.....••.•• E.•••..• Vinegar..................... "A sharp and nasty taste."
2 ••• M••..••.••.••.•. E•.••.•• M1lIItard .................. "Mnstard." .
3 ••• M•••.•••••..•.•• R....... Do. .•..•..••.•.....•. " Ammonia."
4 ••• M...... .•.....•. E....... Sugar ..................... "I still taste the hot taste of
the mustard."
• September 4.
o ••• E. G. & M.... E....... Worcestershire lauce... "Worcesters1!ire lauce."
6 ... M. G.......... R....... Do................ "Vinegar."
7 ••• E. G. & M.••• E....... Port wine.................. "Betweeneau de Cologne and
beer."
8 ••• M. G.......... R....... Do. .................. "Raspberry vinegar."
9 .•• E. G. & M.... E....... Bitter aloes ............... "Horrible and bitter."
10 ••• M. G.......... R....... Alum ...................... " A taste of ink~f iron~f
vinegar. I feel it on my
lips-it is as if I had been
eatin~ alum."
11 ... M. G.......... E....... Alum ..................... (E. perce1ved that M. G. was
fIOt tasting bitter aloes, as
E. G. and M. supposed,
but something different.
No distinct ~ption on
account of the J\ersistenoe
of the bitter taste.) ,
Jh2
Digitized by \..::.oogle
4 Report oftke Committee on Tlwugkt-l'ransference. [Nov. 22,
Septtf1ll'btlr 4 (cO'IItintuJtl).
JIXPr. TASTD. PBBCIPIBlIT. SUBS'rAl'ICB Al'I8WBlI8 GIVBl'I.
12 ••• E. G. & M•••• E•.••••• Nutmeg ••.....•.•••••.••• "Peppermint--no-what you
put in puddings-nut-
meg."
..................... "Nutmeg."·
.................... Nothing perceived.
......................fs!::gsro~v:med at an
13 ... M. G.......... R....... Do.
14 ... E. G. & M.... E...... Sugar
15 ... M. G.......... R....... Do.
earlier stage in the series,
as, after the aloes, we
could scarcely taste it
ourselves.)
16 ... E. G. & M.... E....... Cayenne pepper ......... "Mustard."
17 ... M. G.......... R....... Do. ......... "Cayenne pepper."
8tpttf1llber 5.
(After the cayenne we were
unable to taste anything
further that evening.)
18 ... E. G. & M.... E....... Carbonate of soda ...... Nothing perceived.
19 ... M. G.......... R....... Carraway seeds ......... "It feels like meal-like a
seed loaf - carraway
seeds."
(The ""b,tafI.C6 of the seeds
seemto beperceived before
their tute.)
20 ... E. G. & M.... E....... Cloves ..................... "Cloves."
21 ... E. G. & M.... E...... Citric acid ......... ... Nothing felt.
22 ... M. G.......... R....... Do. .................. "Salt."
23 ... E. G. & M.... E....... Liquorice.................. "Cloves."
24 ... M. G.......... R....... Cloves ..................... "Cinnamon."
25 ... E. G. & M.... E....... Acid jujube............... "Pear drop."
26 ... M. G.......... R. ..... Do. ._............... " Something hard, which is
giving way-acid jujube."
27 ... E. G. & M.... E....... Candied ginger ......... "Something sweet and hot,"
28 ... M. G.......... R....... Do. ............... " Almond toffy."
(M. G. took this ginger in the
.dark, and was some time
before he realised that it
was ginger.)
29 ... E. G. & M.... E....... Home-made Noyau ... "Salt."
80 ... M. G.......... R....... Do. ............ " Port wine."
(This was by far the most
strongly smelling of the
sllbstanoestried ; the scent
of kernels being hard
to conceal. Yet it was
named by E. as salt.)
31 ... E. G. & M.... E....... Bitter aloes ............... "Bitter."
82 ... M. G.......... R....... Do. .................. Nothing felt.
• In some cases t",o experimentS were oarried on simultaneously with the
same Bubstance; and when this was done, the first percipient was of course not
told whether her answer was right or wrong. Bnt it will perhaps be maintained·
that, when her answer was right, her agent unconsciously gave her an intimation
of the fact by the pressure of his hand ; and that she then ooughed or made some
audible signal to her oompanion, who followed suit, Whatever the theory may
be worth, it will, we think, be seen that the BUooesB of the SBcond percipient with
the nutmeg was the only occasion, thronghout the series, to which it can be
applied.
Digitized by Coogle
1883.] Report of tke Oommittee on Tltought-Transjerence. 0
We should have preferred in these experiments to use only
substances which were wholly inodorous. But in order to get any
description of tastes from the percipients it was necessary that the
tastes should be either very decided or very familiar. It would be
desirable, before entering on a series of experiments of this kind, to
educate the palates of the recipients by accustoming them to a variety
of chemical substances, and also by training them to distinguish, with
shut eyes, between the more ordinary flavours. It is well known how
much taste is helped by sight and determined by expectation; and when
it is considered that the recipients in these cases were judging blindfold
of the mere ~ow of a savour, it will perhaps be thought that even
some of their mistakes are not much wider of the mark than theymight
have been had a trace of the substance been actually placed upon their
tongues.
The interest and novelty of the foregoing experiments consist ~n the
fact, already mentioned, that the " subjects" were apparently in their
normal waking state. It has long been on record that such transference
of impreaaions may take place between a mesmeriser or hypnotist and
a sensitive" subject; " and some instances will be given in the subjoined
report of the Mesmeric Oommittee. But,here no preliminary mesmeric
passes nor fixation of the eyes had been resorted to; nor indeed have
the "subjects" ever been mesmerised.
2. Trans/erence 0/ Pains.
The same subjects, Mias R. and Mias E., who proved sensitive to
the transference of tastes, were also found sensitive to. the transference
of pains whilst in their normal waking state. Mr. Guthrie has made
a number of experiments in this direction, the record of which he
hopes to present to the Society shortly. Here, too, the results are
paralleled by those of hypnotic experiments, of which some have
been already recorded (Proceedi'T/{/s, Part IlL, p. 225-6) and others will
be described in the ensuing Report.
3. Oasual Ezperimenta.
We have received from correspondents in different parts of the
country, records of more or less successful trials made amongst
members of their own families. As a rule, however, these experiments
have been too few and too fitful to be of much value; at the same time
they are of interest as affording information that the faculty of Thought-
transference is probably tolerably widely diffused. Here, for example,
is the result of a casual trial by one of our members, the Hon. Mrs.
Fox Powya, as "percipient," with her husband as "agent."
, I send the results of a trial my husband and I had alone. To me it
seemed like magic ! We had tried, I· think, three. times before this, with
Digitized by Coogle
6 Rf'port of the Oommittee on ThougM-Traniference. [Nov. 22,
indifferent success. I was the guesser, and he held my left hand with his
right, and merely thought of a number. I sat with my eyes closed. The
rapidity with which the thing was done astonished us; the number seemed
to flash instantaneously into my brain. In fact, so simultaneous was it that
I began to think that I, perhaps, had impressed the number upon
Colonel Powys' brain first. However, when we reversed the operation, and
my husband guessed, he was not at all successful Here are our experiments;
the complete series, including failures as well as successes, is given.
" First we tried single figures, and only one 'guess' was allowed.
NUHBER THOUGHT Ol!'.
3
2
4
6
5
'9
3
8
RESULT.
I perceived nothing.
I answered 2.
" 7.
I perceived nothing.
I answered 5.
"
9.
"
3.
"
8.
"Here out of 8 trials 5 were right. We now tried numbers of two
figures, and where a second •guess' was given it is noted.
NUDER THOUGHT Ol!'. RESULT.
58 24
36 36
27 72 On a. second guess, 27
69 28
" "
82
100 100
42 42
55 55
22 79
" "
97
38 38
30 42
" "
78
22 120
" "
20
" Here 5 were right the first time, and 1 the second time,if out of 11
trials. We tried again the next evening, but out of 20 only got 5 right on
the first tnal, and 2 right on a second trial. l'he secret of success the
previous evening I believe to lie in the fact that I felt almost absolute con·
fidence in my power to guess correctly, and to this height of confidence I
have never since been able ro attain."
The coincidences here recorded seem clearly beyond the power of
pure chance to account for.
Another correspondent, writing from Brunswick Place, Leeds, sent
to us an account of some successful experiments of his own, which,
however, seemed probably due to mere muscular interpretation. We
explained this to him, pointing out the precautions necessary to
guard against the error. In reply he writes to us as follows :-
"I have made a. number of experiments since wtiting to you last ;
perhaps the best of these was my finding a pin secreted in a purse which was
• It will be noted that this sixth esse was all but a. sucoess on thejir8t trial-
the digits being correctly given, but Uavertea.
1883.] Report of tke Oommittee 01' Thought-Transference. 7
in my sister's pocket. I also found the number of a bank note correctly,
and correctly discovered 10 figures out of 12. But these experiments were
made when contact was permitted, or by my running the' agent's' hand
over a series of figures from 0 to 9. When I tried yesterday to toll the
figures witlwut contact, I failed completely.
" I then blindfolded my sister, aged 13, and placed a piece of pencil
and paper before her. Then I drew, with a piece of chalk on a school
slate, a simple diagram (a circle with a crOBS inside), without her hearing
the scratching of the chalk. To my surprise she drew the enclosed,'" in about
a minute, there being no contact between us, and I giving no indication
whatever, merely thinking and staring at the slate. I then made other ex-
periments in a similar way, and enclose you the results."
These, and a few other diagrams subsequently received, made
in all 10 trials, with diagrams of various random and irregular shapes.
Of the 10 trials six were as good reproductions of the original as could
have been drawn had the child seen the original drawing and attempted
to draw it blindfolded. The remaining four bore less, but still some,
resemblance to the original. The hon. secretary of the Oommittee has
visited this correspondent in Leeds, and seen the way in which the
experiments were made. As far as could be judged from such a visit
no information could have reached the percipient through the ordinary
channels of sense. The" agent" is a highly intelligent young man,
and quite alive to the precautions necessary to be taken to avoid obvious
errors of experiment.
The following is an extract from a letter written to one of us by
Mr. R. Gibson, of Limerick. He has since supplied us with additional
details, lmd tells us that tIle "subject" (who has a large apothecary's
business), and several of the agents, had previously been quite
incredulous as to the phenomenon.
March. 20th, 1884:.
On last Tuesday week we were trying some experiments, at a friend's
house, and a Mr. Day who was there told the number thought of in five
different cases, by five different people-told them one after the other
without a bungle or any hesitation whatever. After these five consecutive
trials he got a violent headache, and on trying again could not tell any more.
He was successful by picturing to himself (with his eyes shut) a black-board,
and the number seemed at once to stand out on it in white.
The headache is an interesting, but (we are happy to say) not a.
frequent feature of these experiments. The imagining of the black-
board is a device worth noting.
* Some of the drawings made in this series will be engraved for the next number
of the Proceedings.
Digitized by Coogle
8 Report of tlte Oommittee on Tkougkt-TranWerence. [Nov. 22,
The following account was received, some weeks ago, from Miss
Crabbe (Gordon College, Ohatham Street, Liverpool), a lady known to
two members of the Committee:-
One evening, at a rectory where I have been staying, we were trying pin-
finding, when I said I had seen much more wonderful things than that done,
and told them of what is done in your Society, such as placing figures and
other objects behind people, &C. .
They were 'IJIlry sceptical about it, said it could not be done without
trickery, collusion, &c., that it was nonsense, &c., &c., and we had quite a
lively argument about it, for I stuck to my point, and vowed it could be, and
was done. At last the rector said he would try it, for that if anyone was able
to do it he would. He acted as agent, and his daughter as percipient. The
latter was blindfolded and placed in the usual position; the background was a
large piece of white cardboard, and on that I pinned a pink oblong card, and,
to my astonishment, in about a minute or two's time MiBB -- described it ;
for I must confess I expected a fail~re on account of the scepticism of all
parties.
Of course this success slightly changed their opinion, and they tried again.
The next object I placed up was a round fan or hand-screen, which was most
accurately described; the order we proceeded in was lat, colour, 2nd,
shape, and 3rd, object. Object after object was tried, and eoory time was a
success. They declared it was wonderful. Night after night we tried it, and
the whole time I was there Miss -- never once made the slightest error,
and often named the object after the lapse of a second or so, with no second
guess.
We tried everything we could think of, including spoons, door-keys,
oranges. In describing the latter Miss -- said : "It is something with a
reddish tinge, not quite round but a little flat at the top and bottom. Oh,
I see ; it is an orange."
After the objects, we tried taste-transference. The effect was marvellous.
Salt, sugar, nutmeg, &c., &c., were tasted by Mr. -- and transferred to
his daughter•.
Next we tried the number-reading, which was also a grand success; in
this case we sometimes reversed the agent and percipieut, Mr. -- acting
as the latter (and not as the former, as on the previous occasions), and either
Miss -- or I as the agent. Whichever planwe took proved successful, and
we tried very many times. The percipient wrote the numbers down while.
the agent was in contact with either the left hand or the forehead."if.
After the number-writing, we tried objects again, without contact. This
was also done without an error, Mr. -- acting as agent alld making a few
downward passes while fixing his mind on the object to be described.
Next we tried reading sentences written on the background, i.e., I wrote
in large hand on a card "Don't kill doW'''; then, "Thou shalt not kill,"
both of which were read by Miss --, with the exception of oneword, where I
stopped her on account of an interruption. ThenMr. --acted as percipient
• This is not satisfactory, for the reason given at the bottom of p. 10.
1883.] Report oj tke Oommittee on Tkought-Traniference. 9
and Miss-- as agent, and I wrote up, "Be quick." Mr. -- said, "B-e-
be, q-u-i-e-t-quiet." "No," we said, "not quite right." "No," he said,
"the last two letters are c-k, not e-t; it is '.Be quick.'" Miss -- how-
ever, never even made that much of a failure.
Of all the experiments I have seen performed, I never saw any to equal
these, which were all BO quickly and accurately made. I can tell you I felt
elated at having turned" sceptics" into such clever performerB.
In a second letter Miss Orabbe adds :-
When I proposed trying taste-transference, I said to Mr. --: " It must
be something that has no smell," whereupon he replied, "Well, write down
the name of anything you wish me to taste ona piece of paper." I did so,
writing the word" Ginger." He then put the paper in his mouth, and I
suppose imagined he tasted the ginger, for in a minute or two Miss--
said what it was. The reason I did not mention this before is that I am not
sure whether Miss -- actually tasted the ginger, or whether the 'W01'd was
impreaaed on her mind, and ahe felt bound to say it. This was the first ex-
periment in taste-transference ; afterwards I always gave the substance to
Mr. -- to taste himself first, and then his daughter evidently did really
perceive the taste.
In the 8e1~tence-Teading I wrote up first, "Don't kill dogs," but BOrne
one entered the room before this was read at all, and an interruption ensued,
whereupon I said, "Nevermind that one now, don't tell us anything about
it, and I will write another." I thtln wrote, "Thou shalt not kill." This
was read correctly,and immediately afterwards Miss --said, "I may as well
tell you what I thought the first sentence was. Was it-Don't kill 1" and
then she made some remark about the last word being a short one or some-
thing of the kind,but I really don't remember what the remark was.
4. UnconBcious Muscular Action.
The subject of "Thought-reading" is just now in a rather singular
position; for it is obtaining immense vogue throughout the country by
dint of public exhibitions which, however clever and interesting, have
no claim to be considered " Thought-reading" at all These exhibitions
usually produce a perfect deluge of letters in the local journals, in which
•the "willing-game" and its results are discussed from every possible
standpoint and in every possible key, by believers, disbelievers, and
doubters. In the more scientific contributions to this correspondence,
expression is usually given to three distinct views, each of which deserves
serious attention.
Some contributors are certain to give an adequate explanation of
the process of "muscle-reading"-an explanation which easily covers the
successes of the public performers, as well as 99 out of 100 cases of
success in tho "willing-game."
Some one else is pretty sure to put forward. the hypothesis
Digitized by Coogle
10 Report oj tke Oommittee on Tkougkt-Tramjerencc. [Nov. 22,
strongly suggested by the IOOth cue of the "willing-game "-where
what is done is of BO subt~e or complicated a k'ind as to raise doubts
whether unconscious muscular preaaure, or rather release of pressure
in a certain dkection, is adequate to account for it ; and one is tempted
to look: deeper for the springs of action, and to conceive the governance
of one organism by another through some BOrt of nervous induction.
And finally, some prudent correspondent will point out that-u
long as the form of experiment adopted is the performance of some
action-the problem can never be solved as long as contact of any sort
is allowed between the "willer JJ and the cc willed" ; and will perhaps
do us the honour to refer to some of our own experiments, in which
success in far more delicate operations than pin-finding and number-
writing has been attained without contact.
It is clearly only to experiments .performedunder~t condition$
n' hi h 1 d:t/<f ,..,,110'1;"" of • 'd fro h JJ
I liB W C prec u elt aa,,,,unconSCIOUS gw ance m t e "a.",aent
-that the word cc Thought-reading" can be safely applied. That name,
of course, in no way implies the absence of a physical basis for the
phenomena; the theory of brain-waves (which would be only an instance
of "nervous induction") hu been suggested to supply such a basis.
But of such a physical basis we know nothing; of the paychicaZ facta
we know a great deal, all of them being, in various forms, transferences
of impression oridea from mind to mind otherwise than by the recognised
sensory channels. The difference between these cues and the public
exhibitions of muscular andtactile sensibilityis, of course, fundamental;
and it is unfortunate that the word "Thought-reading" should have
become associated with the latter. Even for the genuine cases
" Tlwught-tranaference" is a much better expression-the other term
having apparently conveyed to some persons the notion that, if once the
reality of the phenomena were established, we should all be able to
cc read JJ each other's secrets.
We must emphatically repeat, then, what we laid down in our first
report,-that wherever contact! is permitted, succeaa in the per-
formance of a desired action must be attributed to indications given
by the cc willer"- that his unconscious and involuntary variations
in preaaure are unconsciously and involuntarily, or consciously and
voluntarily, interpreted by the percipient.* We have thought it
desirable to make a series of experiments to ascertain what can be
done in this way; and the results have been most striking, but not
unexpected. The note on "Muscle-reading" by one of our members,
• The same objection naturally applies to all cases where the subject f/Yritu
lonm IIOmething which is in the agent's mind-the action, due to unconscioDs
guidance, being then the movements of the pencil or chalk. The objection does
not apply to cases where the "subject .. gives his notion of the "transferred
impreasion"-word, number, taste, or whatever it may be-bll1fJorll of mouth.
---:T"~1 .../.<;--:-t ..Iu. /....~-':- :...: ,-~,_,( f ,", ....." ,t. ;,./ ."I;-~~ " " , _
,,"_ .: "-'-7 er-- ,.../~._,~oJ •.i~•••i.._~ ~~lb~~t}g-l.e. ,.. J~
J.... .•
1883.] Report oj the Oommittee on Tlwught-Tramjerence. 11
published in Part IV. of our Proceedings, shows the result of some
such trials. The same gentleman has since given a lecture on the
subject in the Ulster Hall, Belfast, where he performed the following
muscular feat, as described by a local newspaper. "A .£5 note was
handed to Mr. W. Gray, who fixed the number of it in his mind, the
lecturer being blindfolded. The blackboard was brought into requisition,
having five sections or colours marked upon it. Mr. Sugden, whose
right hand, holding a piece of chalk, was in contact with Mr. Gray's
left, then made the figures 5, 5, 3, 4, 0 with great deliberation, and these
were acknowledged as the correct number of the bank-note." Further
experiments have been made by the hon. secreta!" of the Oommittee
with another "subject." Numbers thought of have been written with
perfect accuracy by the "subject," when the tips of the agent's fingers
were allowed to rest on the hand that held the pencil, provided that the
agent himself followed the movements of the pencil with his eye.
When the "agent's" eyes were averted, and there was no more chance
of unconscious guidance, failure was at once the result. Diagrams have
been accurately reproduced in like manner, while failure has inevitably
followed the closing or blindfolding of the agent's eyes. With a lady
as agent, two drawings were even reproduced with a considerable
degree of accuracy when her fingers lightly touched the "subject's"
left hand, he holding the pencil in his right.
We may conclude with a practical suggestion. Public perform-
ances, such as those which are exciting so much interest throughout tho
COU!ltry, have this advantage-that they invariably set people to work
in private houses; and it would clearly be a great thing if this rellult
could be made useful as well as amusing. We would venture, then, to
suggest to those who feel drawn to the pursuit that, instead of repeating
the old "willing-game," and merely re-proving what has been proved a
hundred times before, they t:hould devote themselves to experiments
toitlwut contact, or else adopt some form of experiment where the
" subject" has only to name an object or sensation-and so aid in the
establishment of facts completely new to science. Oards, numbers.
names, diagrams, all supply good forms of experiment; and we may
remind our friends that convenient blank schedules for recording
experiments may be had gratis by anyC?ne willing to forward the
work of the S.P.R., on application to the Assistant-Secretary.
Digitized by Coogle
12 Beport of tke Committee on Me8merism. [Nov. 22,
II.
THIRD REPORT
OF THE
OOMMITl'EE ON MESMERISM.
[The Report bas been somewhat enlarged since it was read.]
Committee:-W. F. BARRETT,*M.R.I.A.; EDMUND GURNEY,* M.A.;
RICHARD HODGSON, B.A.; A. T. MYERS, M.D.; FREDERIC W. H.
MYERS, M.A.; HENRY N. RIDLEY, M.A., F.L.S.; W. H.
STONE, M.A., M.B.; GEORGE WYLD, M.D.; and C. LoCKHART
ROBERTSON, M.D. and FRANK PODMORE, M.A., Hon. Secretaries.
In previous Reports, attention has been frequently called to the
affinity between transference of impressions .obtained when the
" subject" is in a normal state, and those results which have been held
to indicate a special sympathy or " rapport" between a hypnotist or
mesmerist and a sensitive "subject." The latter class of sympathetic
transferences has been far longer observed than the former: we may
say, indeed, that the recognition of the special case preceded by about
a century the recognition of the more general faculty. This was
natural enough. Observations in this particular department of hypnotic
or mesmeric effects reaped the benefit of all the other striking pheno-
mena which hypnotism or mesm.erism had to show. The" community
of sensation" was only one more wonder in a veritable wonder-
land. Here, too, it often presented itself in a high degree of perfec-
tion, and (between suitable persons) with a high degree of certainty-
in higher perfection and with higher certainty than we can often
hope to realise in experiments where the "subject" is ina normal
waking state. The narrowing down (so to speak) of the exercise of
the faculty to a single channel-the fact that the rapport is confined to
a single pair of minds-seems to concentrate and enhance the force
of the influence. And in these cases, therefore, results were soon
manifest the possibility of which, outside mesmerism,was scarcely dreamt
of, and which have only lately been seriously looked for and distinctly
obtained in cases where no specific rapport had been established.
There remains, however, one sort of transference where the
relation of the hypnotic to the normal state is harder to establish than
might at first sight appear, and presents a certain peculiarity. It is
sometimes loosely called the transference of volition; but is, more
accurately, an influence which takes effect on the motor-SY8tem of the .
" subject," either by originating or inhibiting motor impulses. This sort
of transference seems to be specially rare when the "subject" is in a
Digitized by Coogle
1883.] Report oj the Oommittee on Mesmerism. 13
normal state. For we must be careful to avoid interpreting in this way
those cases in the "willing-game"where a person,without contact with
the "willer," does some action which the latter intends him to do; for
in such cases it is, as a rule, merely the ideo, of the action that is con-
veyed to him; and he acts on the idea merely because he knows he is
to do 8omething. He is only acting in accordance with the spirit of
the gameif he does that of which the idea comes across him; but he
does not feel any special compulsion to do it. Nor can the allegations
of certain persons that, e.g., they can make strangers in church or in
a theatre turn their heads by "willing" that they should do so, be
accepted as establishing even a primd.facie case ; till success and failure
in such experiments are accurately noted, chonu:e must always be the
readiest explanation of the results. We may provisionally say," then,
that persons in a normal state seem to be little if at all liable to have
their will dominated, or their actions dominated against their will, by
the silent determination of another. There are, however, cases where
persons who appeared to be in a perfectly normal state, and had not
been subjected to any process of fixation or passes, have been impelled
to do things by a power which they felt themselves unable to resist;
always, however, through the will of some person who had been proved
to possess strong mesmeric power. And outside the sphere of mesmeric
influence, we have in our possession a few very strik~g cases of
'lllTl.deaigned results,where a powerful and emotional desire has in1luenced
the movements of an absent person in a way which it is almost impos-
sible to parallel by a process of deliberate experiment. On the whole,
then, the evidence seems to tend to the conclusion that these telepathic
affections of the will, or of the motor-system, involve profounder
changes in the person in1luenced than the mere transference of passive
sensations; and that, as a rule, they demand in the·" willer " either
distinct emotion or some amount of that specific faculty which we have
called" mesmeric."
1. Tranaf6'l'ence of Motor 0'1' Inhibito'l'1J Impul8es.
To proceed now to the experimental work of this Committee :-It
will be remembered that in our last report we recounted a series of
experiments, in which a hypnotised" subject" had been made to answer,
or not to answer, the question "Do you hear1" according to the un-
expressed intention of the operator. A further series was carried out
last November in his own house, at Dublin, by Professor Barrett; who,
for convenience, will now speak in the first person.
The hypnotist was Mr. G. A. Smith. The"subject" was an
entire stranger to Mr. Smith, a youth named Fearnley, to whom
nothing whatever was said as to the" nature of the experiment aoout
Digitized by Coogle
14 llep01·t of tke Oommittee on Me8meri8m. [Nov. 22,
to be tried, until he was thrown into the hypnotic state in my study.
He was then in a light sleep-waking condition-his eyes were closed
and the pupils upturned-apparently sound asleep; but he readily
answered in response to any questions addressed to him by Mr. Smith
or by myself.
I first told him to open the fingers of his closed hand, or not to
open them, just as he felt disposed, in response to the question
addressed to him. That question, which I always asked in a uniform
tone of voice, was in each case, "Now, will you open your hand 7" and
at the same moment I pointed to the word " Yes" or " No,"
written on a card, which was held in sight of Mr. Smith, but
entirely out of the range of vision of the" subject," even had his eyes
been open, which they were not. Without the slightest change of
expression or other observable muscular movement, and quite out of
contact with the" subject," Mr. Smith then silently willed the subject
to open or not to open his hand, in accordance with the "Yes" or
" No." Twenty successive experiments were made in this way; 17
of these were quite successful, and three were failures. But these three
failures were possibly due to inadvertence on Mr. Smith's part, as
he subsequently stated that on those occasions he had not been prompt
enough to direct his will in the right direction before the question was
asked.
The experiment was now varied as follows :-The word "Yes"
was written on one, and the word " No " on the other, of two precisely
similar pieces of card. One or other of these cards was handed to
Mr. Smith at my arbitrary pleasure, care, of course, being taken
that the "subject" had no opportunity of seeing the card, even had
he been awake. When "Yes" wad handed Mr. Smith was silently to
will the "subject" to answer aloud in response to the question asked by
me, "Do you hear me 7" When " No "was handed Mr. Smith was
to will that no response should be made in reply to the same question.
The object of this series of experiments was to note the effect of in-
creasing the distance between the willer and the willed,-the agent and
the percipient. In the first instance Mr. Smith was placed thr66 feet
from the "subject," who remained throughout apparently asleep in an
arm-chair in one corner of my study.
At three feet apart, 25 wIs were successively made, and
in every case the c. subject" responded or did not respond in exact
accordance with the silent will of Mr. Smith, as directed by me.
At 6 feet apart six similar trials were made without a I!ingle
failure.
At 12 feet apart six more trials were made without a single
failure.
At 17 feet apart six more trials were made without a single failure.
Digitized by Coogle
1883.] . Report oj tke Oommittee on Me8merl8m. 15
In this last case Mr. Smith had to be placed outside the study
door, which was then closed with the exception of a narrow chink
just wide enough to admit of passing a card in or out, whilst I remained
in the study observing the" subject." To avoid any possible indication
from the tone in which I asked the question, in all cases except the first
dozen experiments, I shuffied the cards face downwards, and then
handed the unknown "Yes" or "No" to Mr. Smith, who looked
at the card and willed accordingly. I noted down the result, and then,
and not till then, looked at the card.
A final experiment was made when Mr. Smith was taken across
the hall and placed in the dining.room, at a distance of about 30 feet
from the" subject," two doors, both quite closed, intervening. Under
these conditions,three trials were made with success,the "Yes" response
being, however, very faint and hardly audible to me, who returned to
the study to ask the usual question after hn.nding the card to the
distant operator. At this point, the "subject" fell into a deep
sleep, and made no further replies to the questions addressed to
him.
Omitting these final experiments, the total number of successive
trials at different distances was 43. If the result had been due to
accident, there would have been an even chance of failures and of
8uccesses,-whereas in fact tlUf1'6 was not a single failu'l'6 in tlt6 6nti'l'6
8eries.
I subsequently made a series of a dozen successive trials in an
absolutely dark room, conveying my intention to Mr. Smith by
silently squeezing his hand, once for "No," twice for "Yes." Every
trial was successful When Mr. Smith was placed outside the darkened
room, I handed him the card through a small aperture, which could be
closed. Eight trials gave six results quite right, one wrong, and one
doubtful. Afterwards 20 trials, made when Mr. Smith was recalled,
and the room lighted, were all entirely successful. There was, I need
hardly say, no contact between operator and "subject" in any of
these experiments.
The difference in the power of the :will of the hypnotist and that of
any other person was strikingly manifest, and the proof of the existence
of a peculiar " 'l'appo'l't " between operator and subject was simply over-
whelming. I several times exerted my will in opposition to that of
Mr. Smith-that is to say, willed that the "subject" should or
should not respond, when Mr. Smith willed the opposite, both of us
being equally distant from the "subject." In every case his will
triumphed. As in the case of Mr. Beard, recorded in our last report,
the " subject," on being aroused, stated that he had heard the question
each time, but that when he gave no answer he felt unaccountably unable
to control his muscles so as to frame the word.
Digitized by Coogle
16 Report of the Oommittee on Mesmeri8m. [Nov. 22,
It was noticeable that neither in the normal nor in the hypnotic
state was this subject able to tell any word or number or describe any
diagram thought of or viewed by the operator. Only his ability to act
in a particular way could be controlled, and he was not susceptible to
even the most rudimentary form of thought-transference proper.
The following shorter series with another operator, Mr. Kershaw
of Southport, and with Mrs.Firth, a nurse, as ''Bubject,'' thoughthe pre-
cautions were less elaborate than in the case just recorded, was to an
eye-witness almost equally satisfactory. For the trial was quite sud-
denly suggested to Mr. Kershaw by the experimenter, Mr. Gurney
(who will, for the remainder of the report, speak in the first person).
Not only was it planned out of Mrs. Firth's hearing, but Mr. Kershaw
himself had some difficulty in understanding what was wanted. A
variety of small circumstances combined to show that the form of
experiment was entirely new both to operator and "subject."
The trial took place at Southport, on September 7th, 1883. Mrs.
Firth, who had been previously thrown into a light stage of trance,
was placed in a chair in the middle of a bare room. Mr. Kershaw and
I stood about three yards behind her; and sight of us, or of any part of
us, on her part was out of the question. The window was in the wall
in front of her, but altogether on one side; and there were no
reflecting surfaces in the room. I drew up the subjoined list of
yeses and noes, and held it for Mr. Kershaw to see. He made
a quiet connecting motion of the hand (not touching me, and
being many feet from Mrs. Firth), when there was to be an
answer, and an equally quiet transverse or separating pass when
there was to be none. I attribute no virtue to the passes, except so
far as they were a means of vivifying Mr. Kershaw's silent intention
to himself. The passes were almost absolutely noiseless, and the ex-
tremely faint sound which they made was, from the very nature of the
gentle motion, the same in every case. Complete silence was preserved
but for my question, "po you hear 1" repeated time after time, in a
perfectly neutral tone ; and there did not appear to be the very faintest
chance of signalling, even had there been an opportunity for arranging
a scheme.
1. yes......... Right (i.e., Mra. Firth responded).
2. No ........• Right (i.e., Mrs. Firth did not respond).
3. yes......... Right.
4. Yes........• Right.
5. No ........• Right.
6. yes........• Right.
7. No ......•.• At first no answer, which was right: then I gave
a very loud stamp, which provoked a -" Yes."
8. No ......•.• Right.
9. Yea......... Right.
Digitized by Coogle
1883.J Report of tlte Oom";ittee on Me8merism. - 17
The next short series took place at my lodgings at Brighton, on
September lOth, 1883. The operator was Mr. Smith, the" subject" a
very intelligent young cabinet-maker, named Conway. Mr. Smith and
I stood behind him, without any contact with him. I held the list, and
pointed to the desired answer each time. The silence was absolute. I
repeated the question, "What is your name 1" in a perfectly neutral
and monotonous manner.
1 yes......... Right (i.e., the "-subject," said" Conway").
2 Yes.. _
...... Right.
3 No......... This time the answer "Conway" was given; but when the
mrl question was asked, the" subject" lIeemed unable to
answer for some seconds, as though Mr. Smith's intention
had taken effect a little too late.
4 yes......... Right.
5 No ......... Right.
6 No ......... Right.
7 yes......... Right
8 No ......... Right
9 yes......... Right
1
10 yes......... Right
11 No ......... Right
12 yes......... Right
2. Trans/eTence of Pains and Tastes.
The following short series of experiments in transference of pains
and tastes was carried out the same evening with the same operator
and "subject." Conway sat with his eyes closed, in a tolerably deep
trance. Mr. Smith and I stood behind him, without contact, and Mr.
Smith preserved absolute silence. I from time to time asked Conway
whether he felt anything, but of course gave no guiding hint or indica-
tion of whether he was right or wrong.
I pinched Mr. Smith's right upper arm. Conway at once showed
signs of pain, rubbed his right hand, then passed his left hand up to
his right shoulder, and finaIly localised the exact spot.
I silently changed to Mr. Smith's left arm. In a very few seconds
Oonway's right hand flew to the corresponding place on his own left
arm and he rubbed it, uttering strong complaints.
I nipped the lobe of Mr. Smith's right ear. Conway first rubbed
the right sid~ of his neck close to his ear; he then complained of his
right leg, and used threats. I then gave a severe nip to his own right
ear, and he made no sign of any sort. He then rubbed close to the
left ear, and finally localised the spot on that ear exactly corresponding
to the place touched on Mr. Smith's right ear.
I now pinched the right side of Mr. Smith's right thigh. Conway,
without receiving any hint that he was expected to feel anything, im-
mediately began to rub the corresponding part of his left leg.
Mr. Smith now put a succession Of substances into his mouth,
according to my indications, still keeping behind Conway, and pre-
serving total silence. I kept Conway's attention alive by asking him
from time to time what the taste was like, but gave not the faintest
a
18 . Report of the Oommittee Oil Mesmerism. [Nov. 22,
guidance,except in the single case of cloves,when-to seeif Conway would
take a hint-I asked if it tasted like spice and he said it did not.
MUBtard.-" Something bitter." "It's rather warm."
Clove8.-"Some sort of fruit." "Mixed with spirits of wine." "Not
like spice." "Tastes warm."
BitterAloe8.-"Notnice." "Bitter and hot." "Sort of harshneBB."
" Not sweet." (I had suggested that it was sweet.) "Not nice." " Frightful
stuft'." " Hurt your throat when you swallow it." "Bitterness and saltneBB
about it." . .
Bugar.-" It's getting better." " Sweetish taste." " S1'.eet." "Some-
thing approaching sugar."
Powd.ered -Alum.-"Fills your mouth with water." "Precious hot."
" Some stuft' from a chemist's mop, that they put in medicine." "Leaves
a brackish taste." .. Makes your mouth water." "Something after the
style of alum."
Oayenne Peppe·r.-Conway showed strong signs of distreBS. .. Oh! you
call it good, do you 1" .. Oh ! give us somethingto rinse that down." "Draws
your mouth all manner of shapes." " Bitter and acid, frightful." " You've
got some Cayenne down my throat, 1 know." Renewed aigns of pain and
entreaties for water.
The "subject" was now waked. He immediately said, "What's
this I've got in my mouth' " "Something precious hot."· "Something
much hotter than ginger." " Pepper and ginger."
In the next series, which took place on September 20th, 1883, at
Heckmondwike, in Yorkshire, Mr. and Mrs. Sidgwick were also
present. Mr. Kershaw was the operator. The"subject," who had
come to the place by the merest accident, was Mrs. King, the wife of
a neighbouring clergyman. Mrs. King was in a light hypnotic trance,
with closed eyes; and was questioned, as to what she tasted, by Mrs.
Sidgwick, without the very slightest guidance-Mrs. Sidgwiok not
knowing herself what the substances were. Mr. Kershaw put the
substances into his mouth, according to my directions, in another room.
He then stood three or four yards behind Mrs. King, keeping absolutely
still
Oayenm Pepper.-" Dry." "Choking feeling." "Not so choking."
" Sandy and dry; thirsty feeling.'J (I took Mr. Kershaw out to renew the
dose.) " Thirsty, parched feeling." " J nat the same"-though Mrs.
Sidgwick, who thought it had been changed, had made a remark which would
have naturally led her to believe that such was the case. Mrs. SidgWick
said, "Is it cool, hot, sour, acid, dry, or bitter 1" ..Hot, dry."
Mrs. King was woke, and said that she had a burning feeling in her
throat, and it was suffocating her. She took some water, and was then
re-hypnotised. .
Digitized by Coogle
1883.J Report of tke Oommittee on Mesmel·ism. 19
Bitter Alou.-" Something sour." "As if I'd been eating acid drops."
Mrs. Sidgwick said "Not disagreeable," in a tone of agreement. "No."
She was given some water-"Mouth's nasty."
Sugar.-" Slightly sweet, I think." " Mixture; rather hot, but sweet."
" Jnat the same ; rather sweet taste."
Alum. - "Something like sour-bitter." "More sour than bitter."
"Don't know the taste." " Not particularly nice nor particularly disagree-
able." "Gives a watery feeling." "Tongue feels watery." "Watery
feeling, as if I had been tasting something sour." She was woke, and was
given a little of the stuff; she said that was just the taste she felt in her
mouth.
Olotle8.-" Like nutmeg." "Spicy taste; nutmeg, or cinnamon, or some
other spice."
Ginger.-" Saltpetre sort of taste." "Gone." "Salty taste slightly."
In both these series every experiment has been given, and there
has been no selection of results. The results would not be convincing,
if taken alone; especially since Mrs. King failed completely in similar
trials on two subsequent occasions. But no one who had witnessed
more conclusive experiments could doubt that the genuine phenomenon
was exhibited here, though the faculty was imperfectly developed.
Two other trials made about the same time with two other
"subjects," one with Mr. Smith and the other with Mr. Kershaw as
operator, gave results about as satisfactory as the above. In both
cases, as in the two series just recorded, Oayenne pepper was described
as strongly burning.
In the middle of this latter series with Mr. Kershaw, I suddenly
pinched the upper part of his left arm. The"subject," who was sitting in
a trance about eight feet o~ with her back to us, did not know what
sort of experiment I was going to try, and was only asked by me
" What do you feel 'I" She instantly started up, as if in great excite-
ment, rubbed the exactfAJ corresponding place on her own person, and
complained of violent pain. Being woke, she said her arm was
dreadfully painful, as if some one had nipped her. A few more
experiments on tastes followed, and then I nipped Mr. Kershaw's left
little finger, and asked the " subject" if she felt anything beside the
taste. She began at once to complain of pain in her left side and
arm, all down to the finger ends.
Digitized ~<:;oogle
20 ..Appendial to the Report on Mesmerism. [Nov. 22,
APPENDIX.
It may be convenient to our readers if we quote or refer to a few cases of
transference of tll8tes and pains to hypnotised ., subjects," recorded by
previous observers. .
Mr. Esdaile, who WII8 for many years Presidency Surgeon in Calcutta.
gives the following case of transference of tll8te between himself and a.
patient he had mesmerised. The subject WII8 a young. Hindoo, Baboo
.Mohun Mittre, who had been operated upon painle881y whilst in the
mesmeric trance.
One day that the Baboo came to the hospital to pay his respects, after
getting well, I took him into a side room, and mesmerising him till he could not
open his eyes,I went out and desired my assistant surgeon to procure me somesalt.
a slice of lime, a pieoe of gentian, and some brandy, and to give them to me in
any order he pleased, when I opened my mouth. We returned, and blindfolding
Lallee Mohun, I took hold of both his hands: and, opening my mouth, bad a.
slioe of half-rotten lime put into it by my assistant. Having chewed it, I asked.
.. Do you taste anything 7" .. Yes, I tll8te a nasty old lime:" and he made wry
facesin:correspondenoe. He was equally correct with all the other substanoe8,
calling the gentian by its native name, cluJrtJtta. ; and when I tll8ted the brandy.
he said it WII8 Shrab (the general name for wine and 8pirits). Being asked what
kind, he said, "What I used to drink-brandy." For I am happy to say he is cured
of his drunken habits (formerlydrinking two bottles of brandy a day) 118 well 118
of his disease. (Pra.ctica.Z Mel1ll8ri8m, by J. Esdaile, M.D., p. 125.)
Rev. C. H. Townshend, in his Facts in Mesmeriam, gives several
examples. (See especially pp. 68,72,76,122,150,151,184.) The fotlowing
experiments were made on a servant of his own, in whom he had produced
the trance-condition.
Wine, water, and coffee were banded to me sucoessively, in such a way 118 to
prevent the patient from perceiving, by any usual means, what the liquors were.
He, however, correctly named them in order. The order was then changed, and
the results of the experiments were the same. Flowers were given me to smell.
I WII8 holding the patient by one hand at the time, but turning altogether away
from him to a table, over which I bent, so as to interpose myself between him
and anything that might be handed to me. He, however, when I smelt of the
flowers, imitated the action, and on my I18king him what he peroeived, replied,
without hesitation, "Flowen." Upon this, one of the party silently changed the
flowers for a bottle of ea.u de Oologne, when he observed, " That is not the same
smell; it is ea" de (JOZOffllt." With the manner of conducting this experiment and
its results, all who were present declared themselves perfectly satisfied•
.. Three of my sleep-wakers," Mr. Townshend says in another place
" could in no way distinguish substances when placed in their own mouths'
nor discriminate between a piece of apple and a piece of cheese; but th~
moment that I was eating, they, seeming to eat also, could tell me what I
had in my mouth."
The next case is also one of Mr. Townshend's.
Did anyone strike or hurt me in any part of the body when Anna M. was
in 81eep-waking, she immediately carried her hand to a corrclpOfUling part of her
Digitized by Coogle
1883.] .dppendiol: to tke Report on Me8merism. 21
own person. Then she would rub her own shoulder when mine was smarting
with a blow, manifeating that the actual nerves of that part were, pro tempora,
restored to their funotions. Once an inoredulous penon came near me unawares,
and trod uponmy foot, whioh was quite hidden lUlder a ohair. The sleep-waker
illStantly darted down her hand and rubbed her own foot with an expreuion of
pain. Again, if my hair was pulled from behind, Anna directly.raised her hand
to the back of her head. A pin thrust into my hand elioited an equal demonstra·
tion of sympathy.
Stimulated by Mr. Townshend's experiments, the Rev. A. Gilmour, of
Greenock, made BOme experiments on one of his servants. He desoribed
the results in a letter to ProfeBBor Gregory (quoted in Animal Magn.etiam,
p. 211), in whioh the following paeeage OOOUrB :-
I could throw her into the mesmeriosleep in 40 seconds. She is able to tell
what I taste, suoh as soda, salt, sugar, milk, water, &0., though not in the _e
room with me. When my foot is pricked, or my hair pulled, or any part of my
pe1'8On pinched, she feels it, and desoribes it unerringly.
ProfeBBOr Gregory himself says (Animal Magnetum, p. 23):-
I have seen and tested the fact of community of sensation in so many oases
that I regard it as firmly established. No one who has had opportunities of
observing this beautiful phenomenoncan long hesitate as to its entire truth_uoh
is the expression of genuine sensation in the face and gesture, besides the distinot
statements made by the sleeper.
The following aooount is given by Dr. ElliotlOn in the Zoist, Vol. V.,
pp. 242-245.
I requested my butler to enolose, in five di1ferent paokets of blotting-paper,
salt, sugar, cinnamon, ginger, and pepper. These were wrapped in one common
cover when given to me, and I handed them over to Mr. Scarlet, the eldeatson of
Lord Abinger, who gave me one packet after another, any that he chose, as each
was done with by me. The Archbishop of Dublin and several olergyman and
other friends were present.
When I put each into my mouth, I was ignorant ofits contents, and leamtits
nature as the paper became moistened and gave way. Thefirst was salt, and I stood
with itin my mouth at .Mrs. Snewing's sideand rather behind her, saying nothing.
Before a minute had elapsed she moved her lips, made a face, and said, " Oh, that's
BaBtyenough." liWhat do you mean 7" "Why you've put salt into my mouth,
you needn't have done that." I removed the packet of salt, and took another,
which proved to be cinnamon. Presently she said, "Well that is odd; I never
heard of suoh a thing; to put such things together into one's mouth I" " Why
what do you mean 7" .. Why now you've given me something nice and warm,
very pleasant, but you've mixed salt with it." The impreBSion of the II&lt thus
still remained. " What is it 7" "I don't know the name of it, but it's very
nice; it's what we put into puddings ; brown, and in stioks." She puzzled a
long while and then on my asking if it was oinnamon, "Yes, that's it," she re-
plied, "How odd that I shouldn't recolleot the name." I then removed it, and
~k into my mouth another packet, which proved to be sugar, and I observed
that Mr. Scarlet very properly peeped into it before he gave it to me. After a
minute or two she began, "Oh, that's very sweet; I like that; it's sugar." I
removed it from my mouth and took another packet, whioh proved to be ginger.
Digitized by Coogle
22 Appendig; to tke Report M Me8merism. [Nov. 22,
After a minute or two she exolaimed, "Well, thU is the funniest thing I ever
heard of, to mix salt, and oinnamon, and sugar, and now to give me something
elee Rot." " What is it 7" " I don't know; but this is very hot too. It sets
all my mouth on fire." In fact, I felt my mouth burning hot. After
some difiioulty, for she was puzzled between these conflioting im-
pressions, she said it must be ginger, and went on complaining of the heat of
the mouth. I took a glass of cold water, and she instantly said, smiling, "That
isn't ho~ that's nioe a::!.d 0001, it makes my mouth quite comfortable." "What is
it 7" .. Why it's water; what else can it be 7" The last packet was now put
into my mouth, and proved to be pepper. She oried out, "Why you're putting
hot things again into my mouth. It gets downmy throat, and up my nose; it's
burning me," and she soon declared it was pepper. I could scarcely endure it,
and took a draught of water. She was instantly relieved, and said, .. How 0001 and
~~~~~~~~~was~~~~~~
A gentleman now Q&IIle beside me and prioked one of my fingers with a
pin. She took no notioe of it at first, but, after a few minutes, slowly began to
rub the fingers of her corresponding hand, and at last rubbed one only, that
corresponding with my finger whioh ~ been pricked, and complained that
someone had pricked it. The back of one of my hands was now pricked.
She made no remark, but remained in quiet sleep. The pricking
was at length repeated at the same spot, and pretty sharply,
in silence. Still she made no remark. We gave it up, and my other
hand was pricked in silence. After a little time, she began to rub her hand,
oorre8ponding mtA that 0/ mine '1IIltioA n:a, the fir,t pricketl, and complained of
its having been pricked at the very same spot as mine. Gradually she ceased to.
oomplain, and was still again. After the lapse of another minute or two, all the
party observing silenoe, she complained that the other hand, corresponding with
that of mine last pricked, was,prioked, and wondered that any person should do
so. This's a most remarkable circumstanoe ; perfectly corresponding to the
phenomena of sympathetio movements in the Okeys, whioh often came out so
long after the movement of the operator had been made. Indeed after he.
in despair of any effect, had made another motion for them to imitate.
and when he was expecting the latter, the first would take place. It shows
how easily persons ignorant of the subject and unqualified to make experi-
ments may oome to false conolusions, and set themselves up as the discoverers
of failures and imposition. In my patients the movement given for sympathy
and not produotive of apparent effect has often oome out again in a
IUb8equent ,Zeep-'1IIaking, the impressiOJl. remaining unoonsciously in the brain.
The heat and taste of the pepper still remained in Mrs. Snewing's mouth, and
she went on good-naturedly, as always, oomplaining of it. While she was com-
plaining, I suddenly awoke her, and asked what she tasted and whether her
mouth was hot. She looked surprised, and said she "tasted nothing" and her
" mouth was not hot; " and she smiled at the question~.
A few weeks afte1"Wards, I'repeated these experiments with all the same
precautions, in the presence of Mr. H. S. Thompson and Mr. Chandler, who are
very accurate observers, Mrs. Thompson, and a few other friends. I stood quite
behind her large high-backed leat~ ohair. Mr. Chandler gave me the packets
at his own pleasure, and, on tasting each, I wrote on a slip of paper what I
tasted, and held up the slip at a distanoe behind her, that all might judge of her
accuraoyand my truth. These were the same articles as in the former experi-
ments ; but, as they were OJI. both occasions taken at random, the order, of course,
turned out to be different. In addition, Mr. Chandler gave me a pieoe of dried
orange-peel from his pooket; and I tasted water and wine. She named each
Digitized by Coogle
1883.] .A.ppend~ to tke Report on Me81ne1·ism. 23
artiole with perfect accuraoy, and readily; remarking that it was very strange
she onoe could not recollect the name of oinnamon. Indeed, on the first
oooasion, she described the taste and the external oharacter and uses of the
various articles with perfect accuracy, but hesitated in giving the names of
the cinnamon and ginger and pepper; a fact showing that the sleepiness
extended a little more over the mental powers than one might imagine. In a note
Bent me lately by Mr. Thompson are the following remarks :-
The patient's lips moved, and in a very short time after you had detected its
nature, she appeared to taste it as well as yourself; and when it was anything disagree-.
able begged you would not put the nasty stuff into her mouth in this way. She told,
without the slightest mistake, everything you tasted: salt, sugar, cinnamon, pepper,
ginger, orange-peel, wine, water, and some others. Not a word was spoken by any
of the party to each other, and the only question that was asked the patient was,
what she had in her mouth that she complained of. After the spices, when you
drank water, ahe seemed to enjoy it much, saying it cooled her mouth; but at
other times, as you drank it very freely, she requested that you would not give·
her any more water, for that so much water was disagreeable to her. There were
present, Mr. Chandler, Lord Adare, Baron Osten, a friend of his, whose name I
do not know, myself, and my wife. We were all perfectly satisfied with the entire.
8Uooesa of the experiments.
I then smelt ea.u de Cologne,without any noise. She presently said, "How nioe;
what a nice thing you've given me to smel1," But she could not tell what it was ;
when I mentioned its name she recognised it. I did the same with water. She
made no remark. I asked her if she smelt anything. She replied, "No, I don't
smell anything; what should I smell? ..
I put muff to my nostrils: she almost immediately complained of snuff being
given to her.
Digitized by Coogle
24 &periments in Tkougkt-Tram!erence. [Nov. 22,
III.
AN ACCOUNT OF SOME EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-
TRANSFERENCE,
Conducted by M..u.COLM GUTBRIB, J.P., and JAMES BIRCHALL, Hon. Sec. of
the Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool.
By MALCOLM GUTHRIE.
After Mr. Irving Bishop's visit to Liverpool in the spring of this
year, it became a favourite amusement to imitate his skill in pin-
finding ; and some persons also made experiments in reading numbers
thought of by others, they themselves meanwhile being blindfolded.
Out of experiments made in this casual way arose the systematicstudy
which it is my business to recount in the present paper. A party of
young ladies amusing themselves after business hours found that certain
of their number, when blindfolded, were able to name very correctly
figures selected from an .a.lmana.ek suspended on the w~ of the room,
when their companions, having hold of their hands, fixed their attention
upon some particular day of the month. There, so far as the young
ladies were concerned, the matter ended. They had their few evenings'
amusement, and other occupations and interests supervened.
It so happened that about this time I read an article by Mr. F.
Corder in the February number of 0a88elf)8 Magazine, which was
written with such an air of truthfulness, and spoke of Thought-
transference as a matter of such very ordinary experience, that for the
first time I began to think that there must be some foundation in fact
for the belief so confidently expressed. Up to that time I had been
thoroughly sceptical, nor had I read any literature on the subject. I
thereupon determinfld to try the experiments, as described in Mr.
Corder's paper, upon my son, a nervous and susceptible fair-haired boy
of ten years of age. Much to my astonishment, and his own, he
named quickly and without difficulty objects which I placed behind
him when blindfolded under the usual conditions. He, however, would
not perform more than two or three experiments at a time, saying that
it made him "feel queer." Moreover, after the first experiments, when I
asked others to witness the curious phenomenon, he seemed disposed to
ensure success by taking a sly peep at the object, which indeed made
me suspicious of ,the whole thing. Under these circumstances of the
boy's reluctance and the difficulty of imposing strinll;ent conditions, I
abandoned him as an unsuitable subject for study, more particularly as
other satisfactory means shortly afterwards came under my notice. I,
Digitized by Coogle
1883.] Eaperimellt8 in Thought.TranRjerence. 25
however, at a subsequent .period, tested my son's powers under proper
scientific conditions with the assistance of Mr. Birchall; and we were
both satisfied as to his possession of the faculty, although we did not
consider him a useful subject for study.
It was after the discovery of my son's powers of receiving impreasions
that I heard of the casual experiments before referred to; and having
tested the accuracy of the reports which I had received, I mentioned
the matter to the Oouncil of the Literary and Philosophical Society of
Liverpool, asking for assistance for the purpose of a scientific study
of the phenomena. Mr. James Birchall, the Hon. Secretary, to whom
the subject was quite new, having, I suppose, some confidence in my
good judgment, agreed to give me the advantage of his assistance, and
we thereupon Ileld our first meeting. From the very beginning it was
arranged between us that Mr. Birchall should make a full and complete
record of every experiment, and I have to tender him my grateful
thanks for the exactitude and care with which this record has been
kept. He has performed his office as a man free from any prepos-
sessions, and simply as a matter of official duty. His suggestions have
all been in the direction of stringency of conditions, and I may state
that he very shortly became convinced of the bona fides of the experi-
ments, and interested in the scientific prosecution of the study. I very
much regret that he is not able to be present at this meeting as
we had arranged, in order personally to present the valuable and
interesting register of the experiments which he has prepared. I hope,
however, that he will be able to attend some future meeting with a
report upon experiments which we are continuing week by week.
And now as to the party of young ladies to whom I referred, as
having discovered the possession of the power of Thought-transference.
You must know that I am a partner in one of the large drapery estab-
lishments in the city of Liverpool, and that the young ladies are con-
nected with one of the thow-rooms of that establishment. A relative
of mine (entered in Mr. Birchall's report as Miss 0.), also in the business,
had been present at the careless, offhand experiments made in imita-
. tion of Irving Bishop, and, recognising their genuine character, informed
me of the circumstance, being aware of the experiments I had made with
my son.
One of the most important considerations connected with my
study has been that I have been made cognisant, through this relative,
of the very beginnings of the affair. I have, as it were, been behind
the scenes from the first, and through my representative have been
informed of almost every experiment which has been made outside
·our weekly meetings,-although after the first month the young ladies
agreed only to practise at these meetings, as I (rightly
or wrongly) thought it desirable. on considerations of health
Digitized by Coogle
26 Experiment8 in Thought-Transference. [Nov. 22,
to limit their work in this direction. Thus I have had
the advantage of studying a series of experiments ab 0170.
I had not to enter upon an examination of the achievements of people
who had been working together for years j but have been acquainted
with the origin and whole development of the manifestations and have
witnessed the genuine surprise which the operators and the subjects have
alike exhibited at their increasing successes, and at the results of our
excursions into novel lines of experiment. The affair has not been the
discovery of the possession of special powers, first made and then
worked up by the parties themselves for gain or glory. The ex-
perimenters in this case were disposed 'to pass the matter over alto-
gether as one of no moment, and only put themselves at my disposal in
regard to experiments in order to oblige me. The experiments have all
been devised and conducted by myself and Mr. Birchall, without any
previous intimation of their nature, and could not possibly have been
foreseen. In fact they have been to the young ladies a succession of
surprises. No set of experiments of a similar nature has ever been
more completely known from its origin, or more completely under the
control of the scientific observer.
As to the young ladies concerned, I have known them all for many
years, and am able to speak in the highest terms of their probity and
intelligence. I know also that they have a high regard for me, and
would not willingly lead me into any error.
The two" subjects," Miss R. and Miss E., are about 20 years Of·
age, engaged at business all day from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., in the same
show-room. and they discovered their aptitude with their companions in
the same room as operators or "agents." They do not meet elsewhere,
as all the assistants live with their friends, and do not board on the
establishment. The lady, Miss ~d, who is supposed to have the
principal influence in conveying impressions, is the head of the room,
and occupies a position of great trust and responsibility.
The experiments were commenced with simple shapes, such as
diamonds, circles, triangles, &c., cut out of brightly-coloured ribbons,
and exhibited upon a black background j also with cards, and letters
of the alphabet printed in a bold type. Afterwards objects were
introduced, and short words were fonned of the letters. The first
series of experiments were of a 'Disual kind, and were very
. successful. They were conducted in the presence of Mr. Birchall,
myself, several lady companions of the subjects, and usually one or two
members of the Literary and Philosophical Society. In the earlier
experiments the "subject" was in contact (that is to say clasped
or touched hands) with Miss ~d or some other lady friend. I
need not say that the" subject" was always effectually blindfolded, and
that the object was placed in such a position that it could not. be seen
Digitized by Coogle
1883.] Ereperimcnts in Tllought-Tramifercnce. 27
by her, even if she were not so incapacitated for observation. These
conditions apply to all the experiments, and, to save iteration, I state
them once for all.
After a short time experiments of this description were performed
without any contact whatever. This was a suggestion of my relative,
and under her superintendence the first set of experiments with Miss
R, under these new conditions, was completely successful, and will
be found recorded in Mr. Birchall's report.* At the next meeting after
this discovery, the experiments were tried without contact, and were
almost uniformly successful. The party sat in a semi-circle before
• Miss R. or Miss E., the object being placed behind her, and the attention
of all being concentrated upon it, the object was very speedily desGribed
and sometimes named. It is noteworthy that the idea or name of
the object did not come first to the percipient, but the appearance
seemed to dawn gradually upon the mind, and' sometimes it only
presented itself in its generalfeatures, so that very often it could only
be described and not named. First the colour impression was received,
then the general shape, and afterwards any special characteristic, and
finally, .the name. This was the usual order of the process. As an
illustration, take the case of a blue feather. The "subject" said, "It is
pale t It looks like a leaf; but it can't be a leaf-looks like a feather
curled. Is it a feather ~" Again a key was described as "A little tiny
thing with a ring at one end and a little flag at the other, like a toy
flag." Urged to name it, she said, "It is very like a key."
The foregoing is a summary of our work during the first few weeks.
All our regular meetings were successful, but in our desire to exhibit
our discovery to our fellow members, we had some extra meetings,
which proved total failures, much to our chagrin and much to the
disappointment of our subjects. It would appear that any mental
disturbance on the part of the operators or on the part of the "subjects,"
• due to anxiety to succeed, or to the novelty of the entourage of persons
or things, very much interferes with the success of experiments. I
may here remark that the result of our experience is that success or
failure depends as much (if not more) upon the condition of the agent
as upon that of the percipient. It has happened that after a C10mplete
failure before strangers, the agent and percipient have been almost
immediately able to obtain a successful transference of a number of im-
pressions-the previous failure having been probably due to the mind of
the agent occupying itself with the presence of the visitor, instead of
* The first series of experiments was 8Ilmmarised and reported by Mr.
Birchall at .. meeting of the Literary and Philosophical Sooiety of Liverpool,
and the experiments referred to are included in his report. This report is a
record of every experiment made-with only two exceptions, when the subjects
were hurriedly called upon to exhibit their powers to callers.
Digitized by Coogle
28 E:rperiment8 in Tllougkt·T,·ansference. [Nov. 22,
being directed exclusively upon the object to be described. As regards
the condition of the agent, I may say that although I have been
very successful myself in giving impressions to each of the" subjects "
without the presence of any other person, still, under precisely similar
conditions, when I have not felt equal to the required effort of
concentration, I have been unable to repeat the success. We have
also found that wandering attention on the part of the agents is
misleading;, and it would, I think, be fair to explain in this
way one or two failures of the following type...:-that although a
certain article was placed for observation, a picture hanging on
the wall a little above it was described. On account of the
disturbance of the agent's mind as well as that of the
" subject," it is judged that experiments in a drawing-room,
before a large Jl!iscellaneous company, are not likely to be
successful.
At the conclusion of the first series of experiments some new
departures were made. .
First we tried the experiment of producing an article in the absence
of' the subject from the room and after concealing it re-admitting her,
and, after blindfolding and isolating her, asking her to describe the object
we had been looking at. This experiment was tried both before ,and
after the summer interregnum and was successful. Thus a lady's
purse, in form of a satchel, with a bright metallic frame and steel-bar
handle above, was thus described: "Is it something not quite square t
Something bright in the middle. Is it a purse t There's something very
bright at the top. Has it anything else over it 1 Don't know what this
is-whether it belongs to the purse. I'ye lost it-is it a bag t" On
another occasion a key was correctly named, and Mr. Johnson's gold
watch-chain, hanging in a curve from his watch-pocket to a button-hole
of his waistcoat, elicited the answer: "Is it a chain, a watch-chain,
hanging from a pocket like this t " the patient then describing in the air
a curve similar to that formed by the chain we had been looking at but
which was now concealed. Then she added, "There is a little pendant
at the end of it."
Proceeding a step further we agreed, in the absence of the subject
from the room,.to imagine some object, and, under similar conditions, to
ask her to describe, it. This experiment was also successfully performed,
on several occ8Jilions, by both subjects. A gold cross, pine-apple, and
other objects imagined in this way have been correctly named.
We tried also the perception of motion, and found that the
movements of objects exhibited could be discerned. The idea was
suggested by an experiment tried with a card which, in order that aU
present should see, I moved about and was informed by the percipient,
Miss R., that it was a card, but she could not tell which one because it
Digitized by Coogle
1883.] .Ea:per;ments in Tkougkt-Trans/etvmce. 29
seemed to be moving about. On a subsequent occasion, in order to test
this perception of motion, I bought a toy monkey, which worked up and
down on a stick by means of a string drawing the arms and legs together.
The answer was: II I see red and yellow, and it is darker at one end
than the other. It is like a flag moving about-it is moving. . • •
Now it is opening and shutting like a pair of scissors."
We have also tried experiments in the transference of real or
imaginary pains, which Miss R. is able to receive from Mr. Birchall.
This branch of our studies has not as yet been carried very far,
for want of time, although I think it more likely to throw light upon
the nature of the mode of transmission than any other branch of
the inquiry. In particular, it would be desirable to ascertain byobser-
vation or even experiment, if the part affected in the subject shows
signs of physical change, such as contraction, tension, rush of blood,
redness, or any other physical change similar to that produced upon the
person of the agent in causing the pain.
At the conclusion of our Spring Session, we tried (without contact)
the transference of names, short quotations, &c., all the company
thinking of the word, or words. In this we met with but little success,
but on one occasion, the proverb, "Time flies," having been thought of
by the company, elicited the answer, II Is it two words f-is it' Time
flies'1 "
On this occasion, seeing that the subject was so apt, I proposed to
the company that we should think of a historical scene, and two experi-
ments were made, which are published in Mr. Birchall's report. They
were imperfect, viewed critically, each of them having been done at the
second instead of at the first attempt; but if the fact of Thought-
transference is accepted as proved on other grounds, they are sugges-
tive of further experiments in the same direction.
We discontinued our experiments at the end of May, on account of
press of business and arrangements for holidays; and I am told by the
"subjects" that no experiments whatever were made until we resumed
our meetings, towards the end of August, in preparation for a visit by
Mr. Myers and Mr. Gurney. As I expected, after the interregnum we met
with very little success, and I wrote to those gentlemen not to expect
much under the circumstances. And, indeed, the cc subjects" were able
to do very little, and our visitors would have gone away ~ppointed,
had not our inquiries taken the direction of experiments in transference
of tastes. As to these you have just heard the report prepared by Mr.
Myers, and he and his coadjutor appeared fullysati!sfied IW to the
genuineness of the.transference of impressions.
I may add the results of a few casual experiments, made in the
course of the last week in London, which illustrate the partial
Digitized by Coogle
30 E:r:pe1'iments in Tkougkt-Tra.nsJerence. [Nov. 22,
transference of somewhat more complex visual impressions than most
of those above described.
One evening I caJled Miss E. and a friend of mine, Mr. Lee, out of
the room, and requested them to assist me in imagining the large stained
glass rose-window in the transept of Westminster Abbey, opposite to
which Miss E., Miss R., and I had been sitting at the service the same
afternoon. I then asked Miss R. to say what object we were thinking
of. After a while she said, cc I cannot tell what you are looking at,
but I seem to be sitting in Westminster Abbey, where we were this
afternoon." After anotherinterval she said, cc I seem to be looking at a
window," and again, cc I think it is the window in the chancel with the
figures." When afterwards told which window it was, she said that she
did not see any window distinctly, and certainly not the rose-window
thought of.
I next proposed another object, and decided upon something
which had struck our attention in a lamp shop in New Bond-atreet, a
lighted lamp with a stuffed monkey clinging to it-the lamp at the
same time revolving, and the monkey moving a cocoa-nut, which was
suspended from its foot. This experiment took a very long time, and
was only partially successful. First Miss R. said she thought of a cat,
or it might be a dog. After a while she said it was something long,
dark, and hanging-describing the size and shape pretty well with her
hands. Then she said that she saw something hanging straight down,
and moving up and down. After the removal of the blindfolding, she
looked at the gas chandelier, and said, "·Was it not that 7" and then
immediately, "No, it was not that-it was a lamp and it was
lighted." Asked if the cat she saw had anything to do with the lamp,
she said" No."
The following completely successful results in the simpler forms of
Thought-transference were also obtained on the same occasion as the
.above.
I proposed to Miss R. to tell a name thought of by myself, Mr.
Lee, and Miss E., without contact and blindfolded. The name" Polly"
was written on a card and passed round in strict silence. In a few
minutes Miss R. said, "I can only think of Polly."
The name cc Isabella" was then selected by me, and passed round
silently. After a longer interval Miss R. said, "I don't know what it
can bt'. Somehow I can only think of my own name." Asked what
was her name, she said "Isabel"
Mr. Lee proposed thinking of a number, and as only single numbers
had previously been thought of it occurred to me to take a double one
-34-which I wrote down and passed round. Miss R. shortly said,
" Are there two figures 7" I said " Yes." "One is 4 and the other
3." She did not know whether it was 34 or 43.
Digitized by Coogle
1883.] .Ea:periments in Tkougllt-Tt·aniference. 31
Our endeavours recently have been towards the ascertainment of
individual powers on the part of the agents in regard to each of the
two "subjects." The test selected has been the production by the
blindfolded "subjects" of copies of drawings placed behind them.
An improved method has been to place the drawing on a stand,
with a wooden back between the agent and the "subject," and
we ~aent placing himself on the opposit.e side of a small table,
either joins hands with the "subject," or, by preference, does not touch
her at all, and gazes at the drawing until the" subject" says she has I
an impression thereof. The drawing is then taken down and concealed,
the blindfolding is removed, and the "subject" being already provided
with drawing materials, proceeds to delineate the impression she has
received. Inmost of these cases, no one besides the agent and the "sub-
ject" has been present in the room, and the result is held to establish
the relative power of each agent in giving off an impression oftbis '
kind. In this way it has been found that all the agents have been
successful in giving information individually to each of the subjects,
although the range of experiments is not yet complete, because some
new operators we have iD.troduced have not yet had time to develop
or settle down properly to their work. However, it has been found that
both Miss R. and Miss E. have been able to receive impressions of
drawings singly from myself, Mr. Birchall, Miss R--d, Mr. Steel,
President of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Liverpool, and
imperfectly from two or three other gentlemen. Since my arrival in
London, a very successful producer of impressions has been discovered
in the person of one of your members, Mr. F. S. Hughes. Mr. Gurney
was also successful at one of our meetings.
Under these circumstances about 90 drawings have been produced
in Liverpool. and 60 in London. It is difficult to classify them. A
great number of them are decided successes; another large number give
part of the drawing; others exhibit the general idea, and others again
manifest a kind of composition of form. Others, such as the drawings
of flowers, have been described and named, but have been too difficult
to draw. A good many are perfect failures. The drawings generally run
in lots. A number of successful copies will be produced very quickly,
and again a. number of failures, indicating, I think, faultiness on the
part of the agent, or growing fatigue on the part of the "subject."
The originals of the Liverpool experiments and the corresponding
copies have all been mounted, and I shall be pleased to show them at
the close of this meeting. Every experiment, whether successful or a
failure, is there in the order of trial, with the conditions, name of
"subject" and agent, and any remarks made by the "subject" specified
at the bottom. Some of the copies exhibit the curious phenomenon of
inversion. These drawings must speak for themselves. The principal
Digitized by Coogle
32 Experiments in Thought-Traniference. [Nov. 22,
facts to be borne in mind regarding them are that they have been
I executed through the instrumentality, as agents, of persons of unques-
• tioned probity, and that the responsibility for them is spread over a
considerable group of such persons; while the conditions to be observed
were so simple-for they amounted really to nothing more than taking
care that the original should not be seen by the" subject "-that it is
extremely difficult to suppose them to have been eluded. The results
may thus be considered a solid addition to the evidence for the trans-
ference of impressions from one mind to another otherwise than by
the ordinary channela of sense.
The originals of the following diagrams were for the most part
drawn in another room from that in which the "subject" was placed.
The few executed in the same room were drawn while the" subject"
was blindfolded, at a distance from her, and in such a way that the
process would have been wholly invisible to her or anyone else, even
had an attempt been made to observe it. During the process of
transference, the "agent" looked steadily and in perfect silence at the
original drawing, which was placed upon an intervening wooden stand;
the "subject" sitting opposite to him, and behind the stand, blindfolded
and quite still. The" agent" ceased looking at the drawing, and the
blindfolding was removed, only when the "subject" professed herself
ready to make the reproduction, which happened usually in times
varying from half-a-minute to two or three minutes. Her position
rendered it absolutely impossible that she should glimpse at the
original. She could not have done so, in fact, without rising from her
seat and advancing her head several feet; and as she was almost in the
same line of sight as the drawing, and so almost in the centre of the
" agent's" field of observation, the slightest approach to such a move-
ment must have been instantly detected. The reproductions were made
in perfect silence, and without the "agent" even following the actual
process with his eyes, though he was of course able to keep the
" subject" under the closest observation.
In the case of all the diagrams, except those numbered 7 and 8, the
" agent" and the "subject" were the only two persons in the room
during the experiment. In the case of numbers 7 and 8, the "agent"
and "subject" were sitting quite apart in a corner of the room, while
Mr. Guthrie and Miss E. were talking in another part of it. Numbers
1-6 are specially interesting as being the complete and consecutive
series of a single sitting.
1883.] Ezperiment8 in Thougllt-Trallsferetacc. 33
No. I. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
lIr. Guthrie and lIIs8 E. No eontoot.
No.2. ORIGINAL DRAWINQ.
Mr. Guthrie and lIIs8 E. No contact.
No. I. REPRODUCTION.
No.2. REPRODUCTION.
D
Digitized by Coogle
34 Experiment8 in ThougM.Tranifercnce. [Nov. 22,
NO.3. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
lIr. Guthrie and Miss E. No
contact.
NO.4. ORIGINAL DRAWING,
Yr. Guthrie and Mia E.
No contact.
No.3. REPRODUCTION.
No 4' REPRODUCTION.
1883.] EaJp81-iments in Tlwzegkt."Transjerence. 35
"0. 6. ORIQlNAL DRAWING. No 6. REPROOUCTION.
Mr. Guthrie and MIaa E.
No contact.
NO.6. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
Mr. Guthrie and MIaa E. No contact.
No.6. REPRODUCTION.
¥1811 E. almost directly said, .. Are you thinking of the bottom of the 8ea, with ahelJa and
fIBheB;" and then, ..Is It a anaIl or a IIsh7"-then drew as above.
Digitized by ~6ogle
36 &perimentB in Thought-Transference. [Nov. 22~
No.7. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
~ Gurney and Miss R. Contact for half-a-mlnute before the reproduction was drawn_
No.7. REPRODUCTION.
Digitized by Coogle
1883.' Experiment8 i" Thought.Transference. at
NO. S. ORIGINAL DRAWING. No S. REPRODUCTION.
llr. Gurney and lliss R. X0 contact.
NO.9. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
\Q.QQ)
)Ir. Birchall and )lias R. Xo contact.
NO. 9 . REPRODUCTION.
lUss R. said she secmell to see a lot of rings. as If they ",ere moving, and she could not get thom
ateadlly before her eyes.
Digilized by CoogIe
38 EzperinJenh in Tlwllght-Transfer~. [Nov. 22.
No. 10. ORIGINAL DRAWING. No. 10. IIEPRODUCT1ON.
lIr. Blrcball and Miss R. No contact.
No. II. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
No. II. REPROOUCTION.
lIr. Birchall and Miss E No contact.
Digitized by Loo
1883.] Ezperimenis in Thought-Transference. 39
No. 12. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
Mr. Steel and Mlss R. No contact
No. 12. REPRODUCTION.
Digitized by Coogle
40 .EzperimentB in Tllougkt-T.,.amjerence. [NQv.22,
No. 13. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
Yr. Steel and 1I1aa E. Contact before the
reprodnction was made.
No. 14. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
Mr. Hughes and lIl88 E. Contact before the
reprodnction waa made.
No. 13. REPROOI.\CTION.
No. 14. REPROOUCTIOH.
lIlaa E. said, .. A box or chair badly
shaped"-then drew .. above.
Digitized by Coogle
1883.] Ezperiment8 in Tkougkt-TranVerence. 41
No. 16. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
Mr. Hughes and lIias E. :No contact.
No. 16. REPRODUCTION.
lIias E. Baid; "It Is Uke a mask at a pantomime,~ and immediately drew as above.
Digitized by GoogIe
42 Experiment8 in TkougM-TranBjerence. [Nov. 22, 1883.
NO. 16. ORIGINAL DRAWING.
Mr. Hughes and MIss E. No contact.
NO. 16. REPRODUCTION.
Digitized by Loo
