{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__humboldt___kosmos____v1.pdf","mytitle":"Kosmos","mylang":"de"}
K O 2 M O 2 :
A
General £>urbep
OF
THE PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
OF THE
UNIVERSE.
BY
ALEXANDER VON HUMBOLDT.
Vol. I.
Natune vero rerum vis atque majestaa in omnibus
moment is fide caret, si quia modo partes ejus ac
non totam compiectatur animo.
Pi- in., Hist. Nat. lib. yH. cap. 1.
LONDON:
HIPPOLYTE BAILLIERE, PUBLISHER,
AND FOREIGN BOOKSELLER,
219, REGENT STREET.
1845.
TCI
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING OF PRUSSIA,
FREDERICK-WILLIAM IV,
THIS SURVEY OF THE PHYSICAL HISTORY OF THE UNIVERSE,
3Jg Betifcatrti,
WITH FEELINGS OF DEEP RESPECT AND
HEARTFELT GRATITUDE,
BY
ALEXANDER von HUMBOLDT.
PREFACE.
In the evening of a long and active life, I present the public
with a work the indefinite outlines of which have floated
in my mind for almost half a century. I have, in many
moods, regarded this work as impracticable; and when
I had abandoned it, have still, rashly perhaps, returned
to it again.—I lay it before my contemporaries with the
diffidence which a reasonable mistrust in the measure ^of
my abilities inspires. I also endeavour to forget, that
works long looked for are commonly less indulgently
received.
If circumstances, and an irresistible propensity to pur
sue science of various kinds, led me to devote myself for
many years, and almost exclusively as it seemed, to parti
cular branches,—to descriptive botany, geology, chemistry,
astronomical observation and terrestrial magnetism,—as
preparatives for a journey on a great scale, the special
purpose of my studies was always one still higher than
this. My main object was to prepare myself to compre
Vlll PREFACE.
hend the phenomena of corporeal things in their general
connection; to embrace Nature as a whole, actuated, ani
mated by internal forces. Intercourse with men of rare
ability, however, led me, at an early period in my career,
to the .conviction, that without serious devotion to the
science of individual things, all great and general views
of Nature could be nothing more than airy dreams.
But particulars in physical science are endowed by their
intimate nature with an appropriative and dispensive
power, whereby they are reciprocally fructified. Descriptive
botany, no longer circumscribed within the narrow circle
of determining genera and species, leads the observer who
visits distant countries, and ascends lofty mountains, to
the doctrine of the geographical distribution of plants
over the surface of the earth, according to distance from
the equator, and perpendicular elevation above the level
of the sea. And again : to interpret the complex causes
of this distribution, the laws of climatic difference in
respect of temperature and the meteorological processes
of the atmosphere must be investigated. In this way is
the observer athirst for knowledge carried from one class
of phenomena to another, by which it is illustrated, or
on which it depends.
It has been my fortune,—and few travellers have enjoyed
this advantage in the same measure as myself,—that I have
PEEFACE. IX
seen not merely the coasts of islands and of conti
nents, as in voyages round the world, but that I have
visited the interior of two great continents which present
the most striking contrasts to one another—the Alpine
landscapes of tropical America, and the dreary steppe-
lands of Northern Asia. Such enterprises, with the par
ticular direction of my studies, were felt as a stimulus to
general views; they almost necessarily aroused and kept
alive a purpose to treat the knowledge at present possessed
of the sidereal and terrestrial phenomena of Cosmos in
their empirical connection, in a separate work. Through
larger views, and the comprehension of created things
in celestial space as well as on earth — yielding to
the suggestion of perhaps too bold a plan—the hitherto
imperfectly seized idea of a Physical Geography thus
gradually came to assume the shape of a Physical Cos
mography.
The form of such a work, if it make any pretensions
to a literary character, becomes, from the superabundance
of material which the ordering mind must overrule, a
matter of very difljcult determination. The descriptions
of nature must not be left without animation, and yet
does the stringing together of mere general results pro
duce even as wearisome an impression, as the heaping up
of too many minute details of observation. I do not
X PREFACE.
flatter myself with having fulfilled every varied requisite
in the composition, with having always escaped the rocks
which I am only competent to point out. A faint hope
does, however, possess my mind, founded on the favourable
reception by the public of the small work which I pub
lished soon after my return from Mexico, under the title of
" Views of Nature." This work treats of several particular
portions of the life of the earth—the physiognomy ofplants,
grassy plains and deserts—under general points ofview. It
has had more influence through what it has excited in sus
ceptible youthful minds, possessed of fancy, than through
aught that it has bestowed. In the Cosmos, upon which I am
now engaged, as in the " Views of Nature," I have sought
to show that a certain completeness of treatment of the
particular subjects was not incompatible with a certain
liveliness of colouring in the representation.
As public lectures afford an easy and decisive means of
testing the excellence or indifference of arrangement in the
particular parts of a doctrine, I made a point of delivering
a Course of Lectures, of several months' duration, on the
Physical History of the World, as I had conceived this
science, first at Paris, in the French language, and sub
sequently at Berlin, within the walls of the University,
and in the great Singing Academy simultaneously, in my
native tongue. Speaking- without notes, I have no
PREFACE. XI
memoranda either of my French or German lectures.
Even the notes that were made by some of my more
diligent auditors have remained unknown to me, and
have therefore not been used in the composition of the
work which now appears. With the exception of the
first forty pages of the first volume, the whole was written
by myself, and for the first time, in the course of the years
1843 and 1844. Where present states of observation and
opinion (and increasing abundance in the former brings
about irrevocable changes in the latter) are to be por
trayed, the representation gains, I imagine, in interest,
in freshness, and in intimate life, when it is connected with
a determinate epoch. The Lectures and Cosmos, con
sequently, have nothing more in common than the
sequence in which the subjects they embrace are treated.
I have only left the " Introduction" with the form of the
Discourse, in which the subjects it comprises were in part
at least originally presented.
It may perhaps be agreeable to the numerous audience
which, with so much kindness, followed my course
delivered within the walls of the University of Berlin,
(between the 3rd of November, 1827, and the 26th ofApril,
1828, in 61 lectures,) if I here add a note of its divisions,
as a memorial of times now long gone by. They were as
follows : Nature and Boundary of the Physical Descrip
Xll PREFACE.
tion of the Universe, and General Survey of Nature, five
Lectures; History of the Contemplation of the Universe,
three Lectures; Motives inciting to the Study of Nature,
two Lectures; Celestial Space, sixteen Lectures; Figure,
Density, Internal Heat and Magnetism of the Earth,
and the Northern Light, five Lectures; Nature of the
Solid Crust of the Glohe, Hot Springs, Volcanic Action,
four Lectures; Rocks and Types of Rocky Formations,
two Lectures ; Figure of the Earth's Surface, Divisions
of Continents, and Elevation of Mountains along Fis
sures, two Lectures ; The Liquid Envelope—the Ocean,
three, and the Gaseous Envelope—the Atmosphere, in
cluding the distribution of heat, ten Lectures ; the Geogra
phical Distribution of Organized Beings in general, one
Lecture; the Geography of Plants, three ; the Geography of
Animals, three ; and the Races of Man, two Lectures.
The first volume of my work comprises introductory
considerations on the various sources of our enjoyment
of nature, and the establishment of the laws of the uni
verse; the circumscription and scientific treatment of
Physical Cosmography; and a general picture of nature as
a survey of the phenomena of Cosmos. The general survey
of Nature, beginning with the farthest nebulae, and the
revolving double stars of heaven, and coming down to the
terrestrial phenomena of the geography of organic beings,
PREFACE. Xlll
—plants, animals, and the races of mankind—contains the
most important and essential portion of my whole under
taking : The intimate connection of the General with the
Particular; the spirit pervading the treatment ofthe subjects
of experience discussed ; the form and style of the compo
sition. The two succeeding volumes will comprise the
discussion of the means that incite to the study of nature
(through animated accounts of natural scenery, landscape
painting, the cultivation and grouping of exotic plants in
the hot-house) ; the History of the contemplation of the
universe, in other words, the gradual comprehension of the
idea of the natural forces co-operating as a whole ; and the
Specialities of the several departments, whose reciprocal
connections were indicated in the General Picture pre
sented in the first volume.
I have always separated bibliographical references
from the text, as well as evidences of the value of
observations, where I have thought it necessary to adduce
them, appending them at the end of the several sections.
Of my own works, through which, as may be imagined,
the facts are variously and widely scattered, I have always
referred to the original editions, as it was of importance
here to be very particular in the numerical indications,
and I am full of mistrust of the accuracy of translators.
Where, in rare instances, I borrow short passages or state -
XIV PREFACE.
ments from the writings of my friends, the quotation
is always indicated hy inverted commas. After the
manner of the ancients, I prefer the repetition of the
same words, to any arbitrary substitution of less appro
priate terms or round-about expressions. Of the history
of discoveries, as also of rights of priority, in a work so
opposite to controversy as this, there is seldom or never
any mention made in the Notes. If I have occasionally
referred to the times of classical antiquity, and to the
brilliant transition period of the fifteenth and sixteenth
centuries, distinguished by so many great geographical
discoveries, it is only because, in the province of general
views of nature, man feels the necessity of escaping from
time to time from the severe circle of modern dogmatic
opinion, and of losing himself in the free and imaginative
realm of old anticipations.
It has often been held as by no means a very grati
fying consideration, that whilst purely literary productions
take root and flourish in the depth of the feelings
and the fancy, every thing that appertains to empiri
cism, that is connected with the determination of natural
phenomena and physical laws, through increasing power
of instruments, and the gradual extension of the horizon
of observation, acquires another shape in the course of a
*mr decenniums; indeed, that antiquated works on natural
PREFACE. XV
science become, as it is said, unreadable, and are consigned
to oblivion. He who is inspired with a true love of the
study of nature, and who deeply feels its exalted excellence,
however, can be disheartened by nothing that reminds
him of a higher degree of future perfection for human
science. Many and important parts of this science, in
the phenomena of celestial space as in the terrestrial rela
tions, have already attained to a solidity of foundation
which it will be difficult to shake. In other parts, general
laws will take the place of particular and partial laws,
new forces will be discovered, the substances now held
simple will be decompounded, or their number will be in
creased. An attempt, in glowing colours, to delineate
nature in the grandeur of her proportions, in the wave
like recurrence of physical change to discover the
constant, the unchanging, will not, I believe, remain
uncared for even by remote posterity.
Potsdam,
November, 1844.
XV11
The
Celestial
Sphere,
87.
SYNOPTICAL TABLEJ)F CONTENTS.
Introduction : The Sources of our enjoyment of Nature. The scientific foun
dation of the Laws that rule the Universe, 1—42 (Notes, 43).
Limitation and scientific treatment of the physical history of the Universe, 51—74
(Notes, 75).
"General Survey, 81—87.
Nebulae, 87.
Nebulous stars, 90.
Astral systems, 92.
Our astral system, 93.
Double stars, 95.
The solar system, 96.
The planets, 97.
The satellites, 101.
Comets, 107.
Shooting stars, fireballs, aerolites, 122.
The zodiacal light, 145.
The sun, 161; his translation in space, 152; mo
tions of the fixed (154) and of the double stars.
155 ; distance, mass, &c. of the fixed stars, 156
visible effects of the sun's motion in space, 157 ,
systems of attractions among the fixed stars,
159; milky way of stars and nebulaj, 160 i starless
regions, 161 ; propagation of light, 162.
Figure of the earth, 174.
Density of the earth, 179.
Internal heat of the earth, 181.
Mean heat of the earth, 185.
Magnetic phenomena, K87.
Northern lights, or aurora borealis, 201.
Reaction of the interior of the earth upon its
exterior, 211.
Earthquakes, 213.
Gaseous effusions, 228.
Springs—cold, 231 ; hot, 232.
Mud-volcanoes, 235.
Volcanoes, 237.
Geology and physical geography, 261.
Rocks, and their fundamental forms, 262.
Endogenous,eruptive,orunstratifiedrocks,265.
Exogenous or sedimentary rocks, 270.
Metamorphosis of rocks, 271.
Artificial production of simple minerals, 285.
Conglomerates, 286.
General chemical constituents ofrocks, 287.
Geographical distribution of rocks, 287.
Relative age of rocks, 288.
Paleontology—fossilised organic remains, 288.
Palaeozoology—fossilised animal remains, 289.
Palffiophytology—fossilisedvegetableremains,
and coal, 297.
Palaeopetrology—primaeval rocks, 303.
Palasogeography—state of the surface of the
primaeval globe, 305.
Physical geography in general, 308.
Physical geography in particular—the land, 310.
The ocean, 326.
The atmosphere, and meteorology, 337.
Pressure, 341.
Climate ; distribution of heat ; isothermal, iso-
theral, and isochimenal lines, 345 ; limits of
perpetual snow, 361 ; hygrometry, 364.
. Electricity of the atmosphere, 367.
' Organic life, 372.
Animals, 375.
Vegetables, 379.
PICTURE
OF
NATURE,
81—392.
The
Terrestrial
Sphere,
164.
The
Geography of plants, 380.
Man, 384.
(Notes, 393.)
Organic
Sphere,
372.
The temperature, unless when otherwise stated, is indicated in degrees
of the Centigrade scale*. The miles are always, unless where otherwise
signified, German miles of 15 to a degree of the equatorf. Thefeet and
inches are after the old French or Parisian standard! ; toises are calcu
lated at six Parisian feet. The geographical longitudes are reckoned from
the meridian of Paris.
[* = 1-8° Fahr. The Centigrade degrees are very commonly reduced
to Fahrenheit's scale in the English text.
t = 4 English geographical or sea miles of 60, and fo 4-603 British
statute miles of 69-038 to a degree of the equator.
+ The old French foot is = l-fa English foot very nearly.]
COSMOS:
SKETCH OF A PHYSICAL HISTORY OF THE
UNIVERSE.
INTRODUCTION.
THE VARIOUS SOURCES OF OUR ENJOYMENT IN THE CON
TEMPLATION OF NATURE. THE SCIENTIFIC FOUNDATION
OF THE LAWS THAT GOVERN THE UNIVERSE *.
In undertaking thus, after so long an absence from my
native country, to discourse with you freely on the general
physical phenomena of our globe, and to develope the
connection of the forces which actuate the universe, I feel
myself oppressed with a two-fold difficulty. On one hand,
the subject I have to treat is so vast, and the time allowed
me is so short, that I am fearful either of appearing super
* A Discourse delivered on opening the Course of Lectures in the
Great Hall of the Singing Academy of Berlin.—Many interpolations
belong to a later period.
4 INTRODUCTION.
ficial, or else, generalizing over much, of proving tiresome
to you through aphoristic brevity. On the other, the life
of action I have led has prepared me indifferently for the
duty of a public teacher ; so that, in the embarrassed state
of my mind, I fear I may not always succeed in expressing
myself with the clearness and precision which the vastness
and the variety of my subject require. But the realm of
nature is also the realm of freedom; and to exhibit in
lively characters the ideas and emotions which a true love
of nature inspires, the language must likewise move in
harmony with the dignity and freedom of the subject,
and this it is only given to high mastery to impart.
He who regards the influences of the study of nature
in their relations not to particular grades of civilization or
the individual requirements of social life, but in their
wider bearings upon mankind at large, promises himself,
as the principal fruit of his researches, that the enjoyment
of nature will be increased and ennobled through insight
into the connection of her phenomena. Such increase,
such nobility, however, is the work of observation, of
intelligence, and of time, in which all the efforts of the
understanding of man are reflected. How the human
kind have been striving for thousands of years, amidst
eternally recurring changes in the forms of things, to
discover that which is stable in the law, and so gradually,
by the might of mind, to vanquish all within the wide
spread orbit of the earth, is familiar to him who has
traced the trunk of our knowledge through the thick
strata of bygone ages to its root. To question these ages
is to trace the mysterious course of the idea stamped with
the same image as that which, in times of remote anti
ENJOYMENT OF NATURE. 5
quity, presented itself to the inward sense in the guise of
an harmoniously ordered whole, Cosmos, and which meets
us at last as the prize of long and carefully accumulated
experience.
In these two epochs in the contemplation of creation—
the first dawn of consciousness among men, and the ulti
mate and simultaneous evolution of every element ofhuman
science—two distinct kinds of enjoyment are reflected.
The mere presence of unbounded nature, and an obscure
feeling of the harmony that reigns amid the ceaseless
changes of her silent workings, are the source of the
one. The other belongs to a higher stage of civiliza
tion of the species, and the reflection of this upon the
individual ; it springs from an insight into the order of the
universe, and the co-ordination of the physical forces.
Even as man now contrives instruments by which he may
question nature more closely, and steps beyond the limited
circle of his fleeting existence ; as he no longer observes
only, but has learned to produce phenomena under de
terminate conditions ; as, in fine, the philosophy of nature
has doffed her ancient poetical garb, and assumed the
earnest character of a thinking impersonation of things
observed, positive knowledge and definition have taken
the place of obscure imaginings and imperfect inductions.
The dogmatical speculations of former ages only exist at
present in the prejudices of the vulgar, or in circumstances
where, as if conscious of their weakness, they willingly
keep themselves in the shade. They also maintain them
selves as a heavy inheritance in language, which is dis
figured by symbolical words and phrases innumerable.
A small number only of the elegant creations of the
6 INTRODUCTION.
imagination which have reached us, surrounded as it
were with the haze of antiquity, acquire a more definite
outline and a renovated shape.
Nature, to the eye of the reflecting observer, is unity in
multiplicity; it is combination of the manifold in form
and composition ; it is the conception of natural things
and natural forces as a living whole. The most important
consequences of physical researches are therefore these :—
To acknowledge unity in multiplicity ; from the individual
to embrace all ; amidst the discoveries of later ages to
prove and separate the individuals, yet not to be over
whelmed with their mass ; to keep the high destinies of
man continually in view ; and to comprehend the spirit of
nature which lies hid beneath the covering of phenomena.
In this way our aspirations extend beyond the narrow
confines of the world of seiise, and we may yet succeed,
comprehending nature intimately, in mastering the
crude matter of empirical observation through the might
of mind.
When, in the first place, we reflect on the different
degrees of enjoyment which the contemplation of nature
affords, we find that the first or lowest are independent of
all insight into the operation of her forces, yea, almost of
the special character of the objects that are surveyed.
When, for instance, the eye rests upon the surface of some
mighty plain, covered with a monotonous vegetation, or
loses itself in the horizon of a boundless ocean, whose
waves are rippling softly to the shore, and strewing the
beach with sea-weed, the feeling of free nature penetrates
the mind, and an obscure intimation of her " endurance
in conformity with inherent everlasting laws," takes pos
ENJOYMENT OF NATDRE. 7
session of the soul. In such emotions there dwells a
mysterious power ; they are exciting, yet composing ; they
strengthen and quicken the jaded intellect ; they soothe
the spirit, painfully commoved by the wild impulses of
passion. All of earnest and of solemn that dwells with
us, is derived from the almost unconscious sentiment of
the exalted order and sublime regularity of nature ; from
the perception of unity of plan amidst eternally recurring
variety of form—for in the most exceptional forms of orga
nization, the General is still faithfully reflected ; and from
the contrast betwixt the sensuous infinite and the particular
finite, from which we seek to escape. In every climate
of the globe, wherever the varying forms of animal and
vegetable life present themselves, in every grade of intel
lectual eminence are these beneficent influences vouch
safed to man.
Another kind of enjoyment of nature, which is like
wise wholly and solely addressed to the feelings, is that
which we experience, not from the simple presence of
unbounded nature, but from the individual characters of
a country, and for which we have to thank the peculiar
physiognomical attributes of the surface of our planet.
Impressions of this kind are more lively, more definite,
and therefore especially adapted to particular moods of
the mind. Here, it is the magnitude of the masses,
exposed amidst some wild conflict of the elements, that
arrests us ; there, it is a picture of the immoveably fixed that
meets the eye, as in the waste and stillness of the boundless
prairies of the New World and of the steppes of Northern
Asia ; or it is a softer and more hospitable view that
attracts us—a cultivated country, or the first hermitages
8 INTRODUCTION.
of man amidst the wilderness, surrounded by craggy
peaks, on the margin of the leaping brook. For it is not
so much the strength of the emotion that indicates the
degree of the particular enjoyment of nature, as the de
terminate circle of ideas and feelings which induce and
give it endurance.
If I might here, for a moment, yield to my own recollec
tions of grand natural scenery, I would revert to the ocean,
under the softness of a tropical night, with the vault of
heaven pouring down its planetary and steady, not twink
ling, starlight upon the heaving surface of the world of
waters ; or I would call to mind the wooded vallies of the
Cordilleras, where, instinct with power, the lofty palm-trees
break through the dark canopy of foliage below, and
rising like columns, support " another wood above the
woods (1);" or, I transport myself to the Peake of Teneriffe,
and see the cone cut off from the earth beneath by a
dense mass of clouds, suddenly becoming visible through
an opening pierced by an upward current of air, and the
edge of the crater looking down upon the vine-clad hills
of Orotava, and the Hesperidian gardens that line the
shore. In scenes like these, it is no longer the still
creative life of Nature, her peaceful strivings and doings,
that address us; it is the individual character of the land
scape, a combination of the outlines of cloud and sky, and
sea and coast, sleeping in the morning or the evening light ;
it is the beauty of the forms of the vegetable world, and
their groupings, that appeal to us ; for the immeasurable,
and even the awful in nature—all that surpasses our
powers of comprehension—becomes a source of enjoyment
in a romantic country. Fancy brings into play her erea
ENJOYMENT OF NATURE. 9
tive powers upon all that cannot be fully attained by the
senses, and her workings take a new direction with each
varying emotion in the mind of the observer. Deceived,
we imagine that we receive from the external world what
we ourselves bestow.
When, after a lengthened voyage, and far from home,
we for the first time set foot in a tropical land, we are
pleased to recognize in the rocks and mountain masses,
the same mineral species we have left behind—clay slate,
basaltic amygdaloid, and the like, the universal distribu
tion of which seems to assure us, that the old crust of the
earth has been formed independently of the external in
fluences of existing climates. But this well-known crust
is covered with the forms of a foreign flora. Yet here,
surrounded by unwonted vegetable forms, impressed with
a sense of the overwhelming amount of the tropical orga
nizing force, in presence of an exotic nature in all things,
the native of the northern hemisphere has revealed to
him the wonderful power of adaptation inherent in die
human mind. We feel ourselves, in fact, akin to all that
is organized; and though at first we may fancy that one
of our native landscapes, with its appropriate features,
like a native dialect, would present itself to us in more
attractive colours, and rejoice us more than the foreign
scene with its profusion of vegetable life, we nevertheless
soon begin to find that we are burghers, even under the
shade of the palms of the torrid zone. In virtue of the
mysterious connection of all organic forms (and uncon
sciously the feeling of the necessity of this connection
lies within us), these new exotic forms present themselves to
our fancy as exalted and ennobled out of those which sur
B 2
10 INTRODUCTION.
rounded our childhood. Blind feeling, therefore, and the
enchainment of the phenomena perceived by sense, in the
same measure as reason and the combining faculty, lead
us to the recognition which now penetrates every grade of
humanity, that a common bond, according to determinate
laws, and therefore eternal, embraces the whole of ani
mated nature.
It is a bold undertaking to subject the magic of the
world of sense to dissection, to a separation of its ele
ments; for the character of grandeur in a landscape is
especially determined by this, that the most impressive
natural phenomena present themselves at once and toge
ther to the mind—that a host of ideas and feelings are
simultaneously excited. The extent of mastery over the
feelings which is thus gained, is most intimately connected
with the unity of the impression. But if we would ex
plain the power of the entire impression by the diversity
of the phenomena, we must descend into the realm of
determinate natural forms and active forces, and there
discriminate and distinguish. The widest and most varied
scope for investigations of this kind is afforded by
the landscapes of Southern Asia and of the New
World ; countries where stupendous mountain masses
form the bottom and boundary of the atmospheric ocean,
and where the same volcanic powers which once forced up
the mighty rampart of the Andes, through vast chasms in
the earth, still continue to shake their work to the terror
of its inhabitants.
But natural pictures, arranged in succession and in
harmony with some leading idea, are not calculated merely
to engage the attention agreeably; in their sequence they
ENJOYMENT OF NATURE. 1 I
may farther be made to compose a kind of scale of natural
impressions, which, in their gradually increasing intensity,
may be followed from the waste without a blade of grass,
to the luxuriant vegetation of the torrid zone ; from the
monotonous level, to the grandest mountain chains.
Were we, giving the rein to fancy, to suppose Mount
Pilatus piled upon Shreekhorn (2), or Schneekoppe set
upon Mont Blanc, we should still fall short of one of the
higher peaks of the Andes, Chimborazo, which has twice
the height of Etna ; and were we to throne the Rigi, on
Mount Athos, on Chimborazo, we should only have an
image of the highest summit of the Himalaya, Dhawalagiri.
Although the Indian mountains, therefore, far exceed the
Andes in colossal massiness, a fact now made certain by re
peated measurements, they still present nothing like the
variety of feature which characterises the Cordilleras of
South America. It is not elevation alone that gives Nature
her power of impressing the mind. The Himalaya range
lies far beyond the limits of tropical climates ; scarcely do
we find a palm-tree straying into the beautiful vallies of
Nepaul and Kumaon (3) . Between the 28th and 34th
parallels of latitude, in the dependencies of the ancient
Paropamisus, the vegetable kingdom no longer displays
the same luxuriance of arborescent ferns and grasses, or
of large-flowered orchideous plants and bananas, as she
does within the tropics, even to plateaus some thousands
of feet above the level of the sea. Under the shadows of
the cedar-like deodwara pines and large-leaved oaks, the
vegetable forms of Europe and the north of Asia are
found covering the granitic rocks that form the substrata
to the soil of the Indian mountains. They are not the
12 INTRODUCTION.
same species, indeed, but they are similar forms : junipers,
alpine birches, gentians, parnassias, and prickly species of
Eibes (*) . The Himalaya, too, is without the varying phe
nomena of active volcanos, which, among the islands of
the Indian ocean, threateningly remind us of the internal
life of the globe. And then, on its southern ridges at
least, where the moister air of Hindostan deposits its bur
then, the line of eternal snow is mostly met with at an
elevation of from eleven to twelve thousand feet, and so sets
an earlier limit to the evolution of organic life, than in the
equinoctial countries of South America, where organiza
tion extends almost two thousand six hundred feet
higher (5) .
Mountainous countries near the equator have another
peculiarity, not sufficiently regarded : they constitute the
portion of the surface of our planet, where, within the
narrowest limits, the multiplicity, or variety, of natural
impressions attains its maximum. In the deeply-cleft
Andes of New Granada and Quito, mankind have the pri
vilege of contemplating all the varieties of vegetable form,
and of seeing all the stars in the firmament at once. The
same glance rests on heliconias, feathery palms of the
loftiest growth, and bambusas ; over these characteristic
forms of the tropical world, are seen oak forests,, mespilus
kinds, and umbelliferous tribes, as in our European lati
tudes ; and turning from earthto heaven, the eye takes in the
southern cross and Magellanic clouds, and the northern
polar star. There, the fruitful bosom of the earth, and
both hemispheres of the heavens, display at once the whole
stores of their phenomena, their endless variety of forms
ENJOYMENT OF NATURE. 13
and features ; there are all the climates of the globe, and
the vegetable zones they severally determine, superim
posed ; there are the laws of declining temperature, clearly
understood of the careful observer, written in everlasting
characters on the precipitous slopes of the mountains.—I
but lift a corner of the veil from my recollections of tro
pical landscapes here, that I may not weary this assembly
with the repetition of ideas which I have endeavoured to
represent in an illustrated work on the " Geographical
Distribution of Plants (6) ." What to the feelings melts into
indefiniteness and indistinctness, like misty mountain-air,
is only to be comprehended by searching reason, when
viewed in its causal connection with general phenomena,
resolved into its constituent elements, and as the expression
of an individual natural character. But in the circle of
science, as in the brilliant circles of descriptive poetry and
landscape painting, the representation still gains in clear
ness and objective animation, as the Individual is more
clearly indicated and defined.
If tropical countries be richer in means of impressing
the feelings, through the variety and luxuriance of Nature,
they are also (and the point of view now taken is the most
important in the train of ideas which I am at present pur
suing) especially fitted, in the uniform regularity of their
meteorological phenomena, in their succession of organic
developments, and the sharp separation of forms effected
by the perpendicular rise of the surface, to present to the
mind the order and harmony of the heavens, mirrored, as
it were, in the life of the globe. Let us pause for a
moment, and contemplate this picture of harmonious regu
larity, which is itself connected with numerical relations.
14 INTRODUCTION.
In the burning plains raised but little above the level of
the southern ocean, we find, in their greatest luxuriance,
Bananas, Cycadeas, and Palms ; after them, shaded by
the lofty sides of the vallies, arborescent Ferns ; next in
succession, in full plenitude of growth, and ceaselessly
bedewed by cool misty clouds, the Cinchonas, which yield,
the far-famed and precious febrifuge barks. Where lofty
trees no longer grow, we meet with Aralias, Thibaudias,
and myrtle-leaved Andromedas, associated and blooming
in company. The Alpine rose of the Cordilleras, the
Befaria, rich in resinous gum, forms a purple belt about
the mountains. In the stormy region of the Paramos,
all the more lofty vegetables and large flowering herbs
gradually disappear. Glumaceous monocotyledonous tribes
now cover the surface without variety, and form un
bounded meadows, looking yellow in the distance, where
the Llama sheep is seen feeding in solitude, and the cattle
introduced by Europeans roam in herds. Upon the
naked masses of trachytic rock, which here and there rise
above the surface of the turf-clad soil, none but plants of
the lowest organization can thrive : the tribe of liverworts,
which the atmosphere, now of greatly diminished density,
and containing little carbonic acid, supports but sparingly :
Parmelias, Lecideas, and Leprarias with their many-
coloured sporules, form the flora of this inhospitable zone.
Patches or islets of lately fallen snow now begin to cover
the last efforts of vegetable life, and then, sharply
defined, the line of eternal ice begins. Through the
white, and probably hollow, bell-shaped summits of the
mountains, the subterranean powers strive, but mostly in
vain, to break through. Where they have succeeded in
ENJOYMENT OF NATURE. 15
establishing a communication with the atmosphere,
through cauldron-shaped fiery throats or far penetrating
chasms, they rarely send forth lava, as in the Old World,
but carbonic acid, hydrosulphurets, and hot watery vapour
in abundance.
So magnificent a spectacle, in its first assault upon the
rude natural feelings, could excite nothing but wonder and
dull amazement in the mind of natives of the tropical
world. The intimate connection of grand periodically
recurring phenomena, and the simple laws according to
which these phenomena are grouped zonewise, present
themselves there, above all other places, with signal clear
ness to the senses of mankind ; but from causes which, in
many portions of this highly favoured quarter of the earth,
oppose the local development of high civilization, all the
advantages of this more facile study of these laws have
remained without effect,—so far, at least, as historical data
enable us to conclude. The profound researches of recent
times have made it more than doubtful that the peculiar
seat of the Indian civilization—one of the fairest flowers
in the history of humanity, the south-eastern spread of
which has been so ably investigated by William von
Humboldt (7) — was within the limits of the tropics.
Airyana Baedjo, the ancient Zend country, lay to the
north-west of the upper Indus ; and after the religious
disunion or secession of the Iranians from the Brah-
minical institutes, and their separation from the Hindoos,
the original common language acquired its distinguishing
features, and the social institutions gained their peculiar
characters in Magadha(8), or Madhya Desa, between the
little Windhya and the Himalaya chain.
1 6 INTRODUCTION.
A clear insight into the operations of the physical
agencies was first, although, indeed, at a much later
period, acquired by the races that people the temperate
zone of our northern hemisphere, and this, in spite of all
the obstacles which, under higher latitudes, complicate
the phenomena of the atmosphere, and render difficult
the discovery of general laws in the climatic distribution
of organic beings. From hence has a knowledge of
the character of tropical countries, and of countries
situated near the tropics, been brought by larger move
ments of masses of mankind, or by individual foreign
settlers — a transplantation of scientific culture which
has had a like beneficial influence on the intellectual
existence and industrial prosperity both of colonies and
parent states. And here we touch the point at which, in
the commerce between mind and the world of sense,
another form of enjoyment is associated to that which
depends on excitement of the feelings—an enjoyment of
nature, which springs from ideas ; the point at which, in
the war of the conflicting elements, the orderly, the
legitimate, is not merely surmised or suspected, but is
positively known by force of reason ; the point at which
man, as the immortal poet has it,—
Amidst fleeting phenomena, seeks the stable pole. (9)
To follow this variety of enjoyment, springing from
ideas, to its source, we have only to cast our eye back
upon the rise and progress of the history of the
philosophy of nature ; in other words, of the ancient
doctrine of Cosmos.
ENJOYMENT OF NATURE. 17
An indefinite dread sense of the unity of the powers
of nature, of the mysterious bond which connects the
sensuous with the super-sensuous, is common even
among savage communities ; my own travels have satisfied
me that this is so. The world which is revealed to man
through the senses. Mends, often without his conscious
ness, with the world which, in obedience to his internal
promptings, he creates in the guise of a realm of wonders
in his own interior. The latter, however, is nothing like
a true reflection of the former ; for however impotent the
External be to dissever itself from the Internal, still
creative fancy, and the disposition to represent in concrete
shapes the significant in phenomena, proceed incessantly
in their workings, even among the rudest nations. That
which presents itself to single more gifted individuals as
the rudiments of a natural philosophy, as an induction
under the guidance of reason, acquires existence as the
product of instinctive susceptibilities among whole tribes
of men. In this way, out of the depth and activity of blind
feeling, is also eliminated the first impulse to adoration,
the sanctification of the preserving as of the destroying
powers of nature ; and, if man, in passing through the
different phases of his progress, now feels himself less
fettered to the earth, and rising by degrees to mental
freedom, he can be satisfied no longer with a mere in
definite feeling, an obscure suspicion of the unity of the
natural forces. The faculty of thought, with its attributes
of analysis and arrangement, now asserts its rights, and
growing in the same measure as the human kind improves,
in presence of the plenitude of life that flows through
out creation, the eager desire to penetrate more deeply
18 INTRODUCTION.
into the causal connection of phenomena is expe
rienced.
It is extremely difficult to obtain speedy and, at the
same time, certain satisfaction to such a desire. From
imperfect observations, and still more imperfect inductions,
erroneous views of the character of the natural forces
arise ; views which, embodied and fixed in significant
words and phrases, distribute themselves, a common inhe
ritance of fancy, through all classes of a nation. By the
side of the scientific system of nature, another is then
seen growing with an equal growth— a system of un-
proven, and, in part, entirely mistaken empirical know
ledge. Embracing but few particulars, this kind of
empiricism is the more presuming, because of its utter
ignorance of the facts by which it is assailed. Shut up
up within itself, it is unchanging in its axioms, and
arrogant, like every thing else that is restricted ; whilst en
lightened natural science, inquiring, and therefore doubting,
goes on separating the firmly established from the merely
probable, and perfects itself daily through the extension
and correction of its views.
The crude heap of physical dogmas which one age
transmits to and forces upon another, is not merely
injurious because it cherishes individual errors, because it
obstinately presents indifferently observed facts for accep
tance ; it does more than this, it opposes every thing like
grand or comprehensive views of the fabric of the
universe. Instead of investigating the medium point
about which, despite the apparent unfettered aspect of
nature, all phenomena oscillate within narrow limits, it
takes cognizance of the exceptions only to the law ; it
ENJOYMENT OF NATURE. 19
seeks for other wonders in phenomena and forms than
those of regulated and progressive development. It is
ever disposed to presume the train of natural sequence
interrupted, to overlook in the present all analogy with
the past, and, trifling with the subject, to discover the
cause of some fancied disturbance now in the depths of
the vault of heaven, now in the interior of the globe we
inhabit. It leads away from that comparative geognosy
which Ritter's great and masterly work has shown can
only acquire any thing like completeness when the whole
mass of facts, which have been collected in all the cli
mates of the earth, comprehended at a glance, stands
marshalled at the disposal of the combining intellect.
It is one of the objects of these discourses upon nature,
to correct a portion of the errors which have sprung from
rude and imperfect empiricism, and continue to live
on among the upper classes of society, associated fre
quently with distinguished literary tastes and acquirements,
and thereby to increase the relish for nature by giving a
clearer, a deeper, insight into her constitution. The
want of such an ennobled relish for nature is generally
felt ; for a peculiar character of the age we live in, is
proclaimed in the tendency among all the educated classes
to enhance the pleasures of existence by adding to the
store of ideas. The lively interest which is taken in
these prelections bears witness to the prevalence of such
a disposition.
I cannot, therefore, yield any place in my mind to the
solicitude to which either a certain narrowness of under
standing, or a kind of sentimental dulness, appears to lead
—the solicitude, namely, that nature loses aught of her
20 INTRODUCTION.
magic, of her charms in respect of mysteriousuess and gran
deur, by inquiries into the intimate constitution ofher forces.
The forces of nature, indeed, only operate magically, in
the legitimate sense of the word, shrouded, as it were, in the
gloom of some mysterious power, when their workings lie
beyond the boundaries of generally ascertained natural con
ditions. The observer who determines the diameters of the
planets with a helionieter, or a prism of double refracting
spar(10), who measures the meridian altitudes of the same
star for a series of years, who discovers telescopic comets
amidst thickly aggregated nebulous spots, does not, pro
bably, feel his fancy more excited than the descriptive bota
nist, whilst he is counting the divisions in the calyx and
corolla of a flower, or is ascertaining, in the structure of a
moss, the state of distinctness or coalescence of the teeth
that surround the seed capsule ; but measurements ofangles,
and the development of numerical relations,—the careful
observation of the Individual, prepares the mind for the
loftier knowledge of nature as a whole, and lends to the dis
covery of the laws that rule the universe. To the natural
philosopher, who, like Young, and Arago, and Fresnel,
measures the undulations of unequal length, the inter
ferences of which strengthen or weaken the ray of light ;
to the astronomer, who, by the space-piercing power of
Ins telescope, studies the satellites of Uranus on the outer
most verge of our system, or, like Herschel, South, and
Strove, detects glimmering points of brighter light in the
coloured double stars ; to the initiated eye of the botanist,
who perceives the circular movements of the sap-globules
so conspicuous in the Charas, in almost all vegetable cells,
and who finds unity of formation, in other words,
ENJOYMENT OF NATURE. 21
enchainment of forms, in species and natural families ;—
these cultivated intellects surely look into the depths of
heaven, as they survey the flower-clad surface of the
earth, with a grander eye, than the observer whose intel
lectual vision is not yet sharpened by any apprehension of
the enchainment of phenomena. We cannot, therefore,
assent to the proposition of the eloquent Burke, when he
says, that " out of the uncertainty of the nature of
things alone, do admiration and the feeling of sublimity
arise."
Whilst vulgar sense conceives the stars inlaid in a crys
talline vault, the astronomer actually extends the bounds of
space; for if he circumscribes the cluster of stars, of which
our sun is one, it is only that he may show others and
others, a countless multitude of groups of suns, the infinite
depths of space, till vision fails, still studded with astral
systems like our own. The feeling of the sublime, in so
far as it seems to spring from the simple contemplation
of infinite space, is closely allied to that wrapt mood of
the mind which, in the realm of the spiritual, in abstract
converse with our own consciousness, arises from the medi
tation of the endless and the free. Upon this affinity,
this relationship of sensuous impressions, depends the
magic, the feeling of infinitude, which we experience
when we are gazing over the shoreless ocean, surrounding
some isolated mountain peak, or are penetrating the
depths of heavenly space with the telescope, and resolving
nebulous specks into their constituent stars ;—nothing im
presses the cultivated imagination more powerfully than
spectacles like these.
One-sided treatment of the physical sciences, endless
22 INTRODUCTION.
accumulation of the raw material, might indeed appear to
countenance the now almost superannuated objection,
that scientific knowledge must of necessity chill the
feelings, quench the creative light of fancy, and so inter
fere with the enjoyment of nature. But he who counte
nances this idea, in the stirring times in which we live,
very certainly misunderstands the joys of that higher
intelligence which is the appanage of the general progress
of human society,—of that tendency of the mind which
resolves multiplicity into unity, and loves especially to
dwell with the General and the Exalted. To taste, to enjoy
this Exalted, it is imperative that the individualities which
have been the prize of the carefully cultivated field of
special natural forms and natural phenomena be carefully
kept in the background ; he who has himself most clearly
seen their importance, and whom they have most safely
led to loftier views, must more especially hold them
in reserve.
To the groundless fears for the loss of an unfettered
enjoyment of nature, under the influence of reflective sur
veys, or scientific scrutinies of her domains, may be asso
ciated those which are derived from alarm lest a due mea
sure of this knowledge, or an adequate conception of its
bearings, prove unattainable to the mass of mankind. In
the wonderful tissues of organized beings, in the eternal
tendencies and workings of the living powers, each new
and deeper inquiry seems but to lead to the entrance into
a new labyrinth. But this very multiplicity of untrodden
and intricate paths excites a kind of joyful amazement on
each successive grade of science. Each natural law
which reveals itself to the observer leads to the inference
ENJOYMENT OF NATURE. 23
of one yet higher and unknown; for Nature, as Carus
well says (11), and as the word itself was understood by
the ancient Greeks and Romans, " is the Ever-becoming,
the Ever-engaged in fashioning and evolving." The
circle of organic types extends the wider the more the
earth is searched over, in travels by land and voyages by
sea ; the more living organic forms are compared with the
remains of those that are extinct, the more the microscope
is improved, and adds to the empire of the eye. In the
multiplicity and changes of organic forms, in consonance
with climatic influences, the prime mystery of all forma
tion is incessantly reproduced ; it is the problem of meta
morphosis, so happily developed by Goethe, upon the
grandest scale, and proclaims the necessity for an ideal
reference of organic forms at large to certain elementary
types. With an extension of knowledge, the feeling of
the immeasureableness of the life of nature is still increased,
and we perceive that, neither in the solid crust of the globe,
nor in the aerial covering that invests the solid, neither in
the depths ofthe ocean, nor in the depths of heaven, will the
bold scientific conqueror (12) lack scope for his inquiries
for thousands of years to come.
General views of the Fashioned, be it matter aggregated
into the farthest stars of heaven, be it the phenomena of
earthly things at hand, are not merely more attractive
and elevating than the special studies which embrace par
ticular portions of natural science ; they further recom
mend themselves peculiarly to those who have little
leisure to bestow on occupation of the latter kind. The
descriptive natural sciences are mostly adapted to particular
circumstances : they are not equally attractive at every
84 INTEODUCTION.
season of the year, in every country, or in every district
we inhabit. The immediate inspection of natural objects,
which they require, we must often forego, either for long
years, or always in these northern latitudes ; and if our
attention be limited to a determinate class of objects, the
most graphic accounts of the travelling naturalist afford
us little pleasure if the particular matters, which have been
the special subjects of our studies, chance to be passed
over without notice.
As universal history, when it succeeds in exposing the
true causal connection of events, solves many enigmas in
the fate of nations, and explains the varying phases of
their intellectual progress—why it was now impeded, now
accelerated—so must a physical history of creation, hap
pily conceived, and executed with a due knowledge of the
state of discovery, remove a portion of the contradictions
which the warring forces of nature present, at first sight,
in their aggregate operations. General views raise our
conceptions of the dignity and grandeur of nature ; and
have a peculiarly enlightening and composing influence on
the spirit; for they strive simultaneously to adjust the
conteations of the elements by the discovery of universal
laws, laws that reign in the most delicate textures which
meet us on earth, no less than in the Archipelagos of
thickly clustered nebulee which we see in heaven, and
even in the awful depths of space,—those wastes without a
world. General views accustom us to regard each organic
form as a portion of a whole ; to see in the plant and
in the animal less the individual or dissevered kind, than
the natural form, inseparably linked with the aggregate of
organic forms. General views give an irresistible charm
SCIENCE OF NATURE. 25
to the assurance we have from the late voyages of dis
covery undertaken towards either pole, and sent from the
stations now fixed under almost every parallel of latitude,
of the almost simultaneous occurrence of magnetic
disturbances or storms, and which furnish us with
a ready means of divining the connection in which the
results of later observation stand to phenomena recorded
as having occurred in bygone times ; general views en
large our spiritual existence, and bring us, even if we live
in solitude and seclusion, into communion with the whole
circle of life and activity — with the earth, with the
universe.
Who—to select a particular instance from the realms of
space—who, that has paid any attention to scientific events
in the course of the last few years, can perceive, without a
general knowledge of the ordinary orbits of comets, how
pregnant with results is Encke's discovery, that a comet,
which, in its elliptical orbit, never leaves our planetary
system, reveals the existence of a fluid controlling its
centrifugal force ? With the recent spread of a kind of
half-education, which attracts scientific conclusions into
the circle of social amusement and conversation, but so
commonly distorts them, we have seen the old solicitude
revived about a collision between the heavenly bodies,
threatening danger or destruction to all, and cosmic
influences, in an altered and therefore more deceitful
guise, quoted to account for presumed deteriorations
of climates, and the like. Clear conceptions of nature,
though they may not be more than historical, preserve us
from the presumptions of dogmatizing fancy. They assure
us that Encke's comet, which completes its revolution in
vol. i. c
26 INTHODUCTION.
1 200 days, by reason of the form and position of its orbit,
must ever be harmless to the inhabitants of the earth—as
harmless as Halley's comet, the great comet of 1759 and
1835, with its period of 76 years ; but that another comet,
of shorter period, Biela's, to wit, with its course of six years,
actually crosses the orbit of the earth, though it can only
approach us nearly when its perihelion falls at the time of
our winter solstice.
The quantity of caloric which one of the planets
receives, and the distribution of which determines the
grand meteorological processes of the atmosphere, is modi
fied by the light-evolving power of the sun,—the property
of its surface, and the relative position of the sun and the
planet; but the cyclic changes which the form of the
earth's orbit, and the obliquity of the ecliptic, undergo, in
conformity with the general laws of gravitation, are so
slow, and confined within such narrow limits, that their
influence will scarcely be perceptible to such instruments
as we now possess for measuring temperature in the course
of several thousand years. Cosmic causes of diminished
temperature, of lessened fall of rain, and of epidemic dis
eases, which were much canvassed in the middle ages, and
of which mention has again been lately made, are conse
quently seen to be entirely beyond the pale of actual ex
perience.
If I would quote other instances from physical astro
nomy, which could excite no interest without a general
knowledge of what has been already observed, I would refer
to the numerous instances of differently coloured double
stars which move in ellipses round one another, or rather
around their common centre of gravity ; to the periodical
SCIENCE OF NATURE. 27
rarity of spots in the sun ; to the regular appearance of
innumerable falling stars, which have now been the sub
ject of observation for so many years, and which are in all
probability planetary in their nature, circulating round
the sun, and crossing the earth's orbit, in their course on
the 12th or 13th of November, and also, according to
later observation, on the 10th or 11th of August.
In the same way, general views of Cosmos will alone
enable us to perceive the connection betwixt the theory
of the pendulum swinging in air, and the internal density
—I might say, the degree of congelation or solidifica
tion— of our globe, a theory happily completed by the
acuteness of Bessel ; betwixt the production of crystal
line rocks in stratified streams of lava upon the acclivities
of still active volcanoes, and the endogenous granitic,
porphyritic, and serpentine rocky masses, which, forced
up from the interior of the earth, have burst through
the floetz formations, and produced various effects upon
them — hardening or silicifying them, converting them
into dolomite, producing drusy cavities, filled with crys
tals, &c. ; betwixt the elevation of islands and conical
mountains, through elastic forces, and the uplifting of
mountain chains and entire continents— a connection
which has been acknowledged by the greatest geologist
of our age, Leopold von Buch, and illustrated by a series
of admirable observations. Such upheavings of granular
mountain masses and floetz strata, as have even lately
been witnessed over a vast extent of the coast of Chili,
in connection with an earthquake, shew us how possi
ble it is that the marine shells, which Bonpland and I
28 INTRODUCTION.
discovered on the slopes of the Andes, at an elevation of
14,000 feet above the level of the sea, were brought
thither, raised from the bed of the ocean by volcanic
forces, not by any general flood that overspread the sur
face as it now presents itself to us.
By Plutonism, or Vulcanism, taking either word in its
most general sense, and using it not only with reference
to the earth, but also to its satellite, the moon, I mean the
reaction which the interior of a planet exerts upon its
crust. He who is unacquainted with the observations
that have been made on the gradual rise of temperature,
as the crust of the earth is penetrated more deeply,
(observations which have led distinguished naturalists to
conclude that at the depth of five geographical miles
below the surface, a temperature adequate to keep granite
in a state of fusion prevails13), is not prepared to appreciate
many recent observations on the simultaneousness of the
eruptions of volcanoes, separated by vast extents of country,
on the limits of the circles within which earthquakes are
likely to be felt, on the permanence of the temperature, of
hot mineral springs, and on the difference of temperature
of the water in Artesian wells of different depths. And
yet this knowledge of the internal temperature of the
earth throws a feeble light upon the primary history of our
planet. It proclaims the possibility at a former epoch of
the general diffusion of a tropical climate over the surface
of the globe, as a consequence ofheat inherent, and of clefts
pouring forth heat, in the lately concreted and oxidated crust
of the earth. It reminds us of a state of things in which
the temperature of the atmosphere may have been more
SCIENCE OF NATURE. 29
intimately connected with the reaction of the interior upon
the exterior, than with the position of the axis of revolution
ofour planet to the great central mass ofour system, the sun.
Numerous productions of the tropics are now dug up
by eager geologists from their tombs in the temperate and
colder regions of the earth : coniferous vegetables, trunks
of palm trees, erect as when they grew, arborescent ferns,
goniatites, and fishes with rhomboidal pearly scales, in the
old coal formations (u) ; skeletons of colossal crocodiles,
long-necked plesiosaurians, the scales of planulites, and the
stems of cicadeee, in the Jura limestone ; polythalamians
and bryozoa in chalk, in several instances identical with
species still existing in our seas ; vast agglomerations of
infusory animalcules, as brought to light by Ehrenberg's
all- animating microscope, in beds of tripoli, semiopal
and siliceous sinter (?) (Kieselguhr) ; bones of hyenas,
lions, and elephantine pachydermatous animals, lying
exposed in caverns, or covered merely with a layer of
sand or mud. With a competent knowledge of other
natural phenomena, these productions do not remain
objects of mere idle curiosity and wonder; they become
more worthily the occasion of much varied and interesting
reflection.
In the multiplicity of objeets which I have thus cur
sorily enumerated, the question presents itself: whether
general views of nature can be brought to any thing like
precision without deep and earnest study of the several
departments of natural science—natural history, natural
philosophy, and physical astronomy ? Here it is proper to
distinguish carefully betwixt the teacher, who makes
selections and delivers an account of results, and the pupil,
30 INTRODUCTION.
who receives the account as something presented to him
not investigated for himself. For the former, the most
intimate knowledge of specialities is indispensably neces
sary ; he must have long familiarised his mind with the
several sciences, he must himself have taken the length
and the breadth of things, observed and made experi
ments, before he can, with any confidence or propriety,
venture on a picture of nature as a whole. The entire
bearings of the problems whose investigation lends such
attractions to the physical history of the world are
perhaps scarcely to be comprehended in all their clearness
where special preliminary knowledge is wanting ; although,
without it, the greater number of the propositions can still
be satisfactorily discussed. If the great picture of nature
be not presented with its outlines equally clear and sharp
in every part, it will still be found sufficiently true and
attractive to enrich the mind with ideas, and to arouse
and fructify the imagination.
It has been made matter of reproach—and perhaps
with some propriety —that the scientific works in our
language do not sufficiently separate the General from the
Particular—the review of actually established facts from
the narrative of the means by which the results have
been obtained. This imputation has led the greatest poet
of our age(15) humorously to say, that "the Germans
possess the faculty of making the sciences inaccessible."
But the scaffold left standing, we are hindered from
obtaining a clear view of the building. And who will
doubt, that the physical law in the distribution of the con
tinental masses, which assume a pyramidal shape towards
the south, whilst towards the north they spread out into
SCIENCE OF NATURE. 31
vast bases—a law by which the division of climates, the
prevalence of particular winds, the extension of tropical
vegetable forms into the temperate northern zones, is
explained in the most satisfactory manner—can be under
stood without reference to the trigonometrical surveys, and
the astronomical determinations of precise geographical
positions, by which the dimensions of the pyramids referred
to have been ascertained ? In the same way, we learn from
physical geography, that the equatorial axis of our planet is
greater than the polar axis by a certain number of miles,
that the southern hemisphere is not flattened in a greater
degree than the northern hemisphere, &c, without its
being necessary to narrate at length how, by measure
ments of degrees of the meridian, and experiments with
the pendulum, the figure of the earth has been finally
determined to be that of an irregular spheroid of revolu
tion in an ellipsis ; and how this figure is reflected in the
motions of our satellite, the moon.
Our neighbours on the other side of the Rhine possess
an immortal work, Laplace's " Systeme du Monde," in
which the results of the most profound mathematico-
astronomical investigations of the phenomena of past
centuries are luminously presented, freed from the
individualities of the demonstration. The structure of
the heavens there presents itself as the simple solution of
a great problem in mechanics. Yet no one has ventured
to charge the " Exposition du Systeme du Monde" with
want of depth, because of its form. The separation of
the Dissimilar in views, of the General from the Special,
is not merely useful in facilitating the acquisition of know
ledge ; it farther gives an elevated and earnest character
32 INTRODUCTION.
to the treatment of natural science. As from a higher
station we overlook larger masses at once, so are we
pleased mentally to grasp what threatens to escape the
powers of our senses. If the successful cultivation of
every branch of natural science in recent times, appear
especially calculated to extend the study of particular
departments—the chemical, the physical, the physio
logical, &c.—the progress made in each will nevertheless
contribute in an eminent degree to abridge and render
easy the way to the attainment of general principles.
The more deeply we penetrate into the essence of the
natural forces, the more do we perceive the connection of
phenomena, which, severally and superficially regarded,
seemed long to resist every attempt at co-ordination and
arrangement ; the more do we see simplicity and brevity
possible.
It is a certain indication of the extent and value
of the discoveries which were to be looked for in
any science, when the facts present themselves as still
unconnected, almost, as it seems, without any thing like
mutual reference, and when several of them, the fruit of
the same degree of careful observation, even appear contra
dictory or subversive. We stand at this time in a state
of lively expectation in regard to meteorology, to some
of the departments of optics, and especially, since
Melloni and Faraday came upon the stage, to the
radiation of heat and electro-magnetism. The field of
brilliant discovery here, has certainly not yet been
exhausted, although a very remarkable connection of
electrical, magnetical, and chemical phenomena has un
doubtedly been developed in the voltaic pile. And who
SCIENCE OF NATURE. 33
shall guarantee us that the entire number of the vital
forces efficient in the universe has been fathomed ?
In my mode of considering the scientific treatment of
a general description of creation, I make no question of
that unity which is arrived at by induction from a few
fundamental principles supplied by reason. What I
entitle a Physical History of Creation—in other
words, a comparative natural history of the earth and
heavens—consequently, makes no pretensions to the rank
of a rational science OF Nature ; it is a simple
consideration of the phenomena that are known empiri
cally, or by experience, as a natural whole. With the
entirely objective constitution of my mind, it is under
such restrictions alone that the history of creation falls
within the scope of the inquiries which have exclusively
occupied me in the long course of my scientific life.
I do not venture upon a field that is strange to me, and-
that will probably be cultivated to better purpose by
another. The unity attainable in such a history of
creation as I propose to exhibit, is no more than that
which historical representations in general can hope to
achieve. Details, whether as to the form or arrangement of
natural things, no more than in reference to the struggles of
man with the elements, or the wars of one nation against
another—all, in short, that falls within the sphere of muta
bility and true accident,—cannot be derived or built up from
a priori conceptions. The natural history of the earth,
and universal history, consequently, stand on the same
grade of the empirical ladder ; but a luminous treatment
of either, a rational arrangement of natural phenomena
C 2
34 INTRODUCTION.
and of historical incidents, impresses us deeply with a
belief in an old inherent necessity, which rules all the
operations both of the spiritual and material forces
within circles eternally reproduced and only periodically
contracted or enlarged. This necessity, indeed, is the
very essence of nature ; it is nature herself, in the two
spheres of her being—the material and the spiritual—
and it leads to clearness and simplicity of view, to the
discovery of laws which, in experimental science, present
themselves as the ultimate term in human inquiries.
The study of every new science, especially of one
which embraces the infinite field of creation, the universe
at large, may be compared to a journey into a foreign
country. Before undertaking such an expedition in com
pany, we inquire as to its feasibility ; we measure our own
powers of endurance, and we look with a suspicious eye
at the powers of our intended companions, with the per
chance unjust anxiety lest they prove impediments in the
way. But the times in which we live diminish the diffi
culties of the enterprise, and my confidence in ultimate
success is based on the brilliant position now occupied by
natural science itself, whose increasing stores may now be
said to add less to the amount than to the enchainment
of observation. The general results, which so power
fully interest every cultivated mind, have been wonderfully
augmented since the end of the eighteenth century.
Facts now stand less insulated ; numerous gaps between dif
ferent orders of beings and phenomena have been filled
up ; points which had remained inexplicable to the
inquiring spirit at home, within the narrower circle of
SCIENCE OF NATURE. 35
experience accessible to it, are frequently made clear by
journeys undertaken into the remotest regions of the earth.
Vegetable and animal forms that long appeared isolated,
now appear connected by intermediate links or transition
forms. A general concatenation, not in simple linear
directions only, but in reticulate or more intricate modes,
according to the higher development or the arrest of
certain organs, according to relative preponderance in the
several parts or systems, now presents itself to the mind
of the enlightened naturalist. Appearances of stratifica
tion in trachytic syenite or porphyry, in green stone and
serpentine, which are doubtful in Hungary, so rich in
gold and silver, in the platina districts of the Ural chain,
or deeper into Asia, in the south-western Altai, are
unexpectedly cleared up by geological observations in the
lofty plateaus of Mexico and Antioquia, and in the vallies
of Choco. The materials which universal geography
employs are not indiscriminately accumulated. In the
present times, in virtue of the tendency which their indi
vidual character impresses upon them, it is admitted that
new facts are only pregnant with future good, when the
traveller is familiar with the actual state and requirements
of the science whose boundary he pretends to widen;
when ideas, in other words, insight into the spirit of
nature, guide the taste for observation and collection.
Through this direction of the study of nature, through
the happy, but, at the same time, often too readily satisfied
taste for general results, can a very considerable portion
of natural science be made the common property of culti
vated humanity, and this with a full sense of the import
36 INTRODUCTION.
and form, of the grandeur and worth of the subject, alto
gether different from that popular science which was held
sufficient for the world at large np to the end of the last
century. Let him, therefore, whom circumstances permit
to escape from time to time from the narrow circle of his
every-day occupations, lament that he has " remained so
long a stranger to nature, unconscious of her charms,"
and learn, that in the contemplation of her grandeur and
freedom, there dwells the purest delight which exalted
intelligence can obtain for man. The study of general
natural science, indeed, awakens organs in our interior
that have long slumbered. We enter upon a new and
more intimate intercourse with the external world, and are
brought to feel a larger sympathy with that which proclaims
at once the industrial progress, and the intellectual im
provement of mankind.
The clearer the insight we obtain into the connection
of phenomena, the more readily do we emancipate our
selves from the error of believing that every department
of natural knowledge is not equally important in the
culture and welfare of mankind,—whether it be that depart
ment which measures and describes, or chemical inquiries,
or the investigation of the generally diffused physical
forces of matter. In the observation of a phenomenon
which seems at first to stand isolated and alone, there
frequently lies the germ of a great discovery. When
Galvani stimulated the nerves of sensation by the contact
of two dissimilar metals, his most intimate friends and
contemporaries could never have expected that the voltaic
pile, with its electricity of contaction, would one day show
SCIENCE OF NATURE. 37
us a brilliant metal in the alkalis, silvery in its appearance,
readily inflammable, and so light as to float upon the
surface of water; that the same arrangement would by
and by become the most powerful instrument in analytical
chemistry, and prove at once a thermoscope and a magnet.
When Huyghens began to investigate the optical proper
ties of double refracting spar, no one imagined that the
phenomena of coloured polarization would lead one of the
singularly clear-sighted natural philosophers of our day (16)
to discover in the fragment of a mineral a means of know
ing whether the light of the sun proceeded from a solid mass
or from a gaseous canopy ; whether comets have the power
of emitting light in themselves, or merely reflect the light
they receive from other sources.
A like respect for every department of the study of
nature is, however, especially necessary in the present times,
when the material wealth and the increasing welfare of
the nations is so closely connected with a more diligent
use of natural productions and natural forces. The
most superficial glance at the condition of Europe in
these days, assures us that with the struggle against
serious odds, any relaxation of effort would be followed,
first by diminution, and then by annihilation of national
prosperity ; for in the destiny of nations it is as in
nature, in which, as Goethe (17) says, finely, " there is
neither rest nor pause, but ever movement and evolu
tion, a curse still cleaving to standing still." Nothing
but serious occupation with chemical, mathematical, and
natural studies, will defend any state from evils assailing
it on this side. Man can produce no effect upon nature,
can appropriate none of her powers, if he be not con
38 INTRODUCTION.
versant with her laws, with general relations according
to measure and number. And here, too, lies the power
of popular intelligence. It rises and falls with this.
Science and information are the joy and the justifi
cation of mankind ; they are portions of the wealth
of nations, sometimes a substitute for material wealth,
which nature has in many cases distributed with so
partial a hand. Those nations which have remained
behind in general manufacturing activity, in the practical
application of the mechanical arts, and technical chemistry,
in the transmission, growth, or manufacture of raw mate
rials, nations among whom respect for such activity does
not pervade all classes, must inevitably fall from any pros -
perity they may have attained ; and this by so much the
more certainly and speedily, as neighbouring states, instinct
with powers of youthful renovation, in which science and
the arts of industry co-operate or lend each other assist
ance mutually, are seen pressing forward in the race.
The taste for manufacturing industry, and for those
portions of natural science which bear upon it more im
mediately—a characteristic of the present age—can in
nowise be prejudicial either as regards philosophy, anti
quities, or history, nor quench the all-animating flame
of fancy, in the direction of the liberal arts. Where
all the offshoots of civilization are permitted to expand
in vigour, under the protection of wise laws and free
institutions, no effort of mind in any one direction will
be found to interfere with its aspirations in another
quarter. Each presents its own peculiar fruit to the com
monwealth : one, the means of maintenance and comfort
to the citizen, another, the product of creative fancy,
SCIENCE OF NATURE. 39
which, more durable than material wealth, transmits the
name and fame of the community to the latest posterity.
The Spartiates, despite the austerity of the Doric mind,
prayed " the Gods to vouchsafe them the beautiful asso
ciated with the good" (18).
As in those higher circles of ideas and feelings—in the
study of history, of philosophy, and of oratory—so in all
the departments of natural science, the first and highest
aim of intellectual activity is one that is internal ; namely,
the discovery of natural laws, the establishment of co
ordinate members in the images, the perception of neces
sary connection between all the changes that happen in
the universe. So much of this science as flows over, and
mingles with the industrial life of communities, elevating
manufacturing industry, does so in virtue of the happy
connection in human things, by which the true, the exalted,
and the beautiful, mix unintentionally, as it seems, but
certainly, with the useful, and co-operate with it in bringing
about results. The improvement of agriculture by the
hands of freemen, and on lands of moderate extent ; the
flourishing condition of manufactures, emancipated from
oppressive restrictions ; the extension of commercial rela
tions, and the unimpeded progress of mankind in mental
development as well as in their social institutions, are
all inseparaby connected, and severally and powerfully
advance each other. The impressive picture of the late
history of the world forces this faith upon the minds even
of those that most eagerly oppose it.
Such an influence of natural science upon the welfare
of the nations, and on the present condition of Europe,
can receive nothing more than a passing allusion in this
40 INTRODUCTION.
place. The course we have to complete is so vast in
itself, that it would not become me to depart from the
main object we have in view, namely, the survey of
nature as A whole, and intentionally to widen the field of
our inquiries. Accustomed to wanderings in distant lands,
I have, perhaps, without this, indicated the path to my
fellow travellers, as more distinctly traced and more at
tractive than they will find it in fact. This is even the
way with those who take pleasure in guiding others to the-
tops of mountains : they praise the view, though perchanoe
large tracts of the country he hidden in mist. They
know that even in this concealment there dwells a cer
tain mysterious charm ; that the misty horizon calls up
the image of the sensuous infinite in the mind, a picture
which, as I have already observed, is reflected in grave
and grand tints in the mind and affections. From the lofty
stand, too, from which we propose to make our general
survey of nature on the basis of science, all that is re
quisite cannot be commanded. In natural science, much
yet lies but ill defined, and much—and shall I not gladly
own to this in entering on a field so vast ?—will appear
indefinite and incomplete only because every thing like
embarrassment becomes doubly detrimental to the speaker,
who feels himself indifferently at ease in his subject, when
separated from its individualities.
The purpose of this Introduction was not to present a
picture of the importance of natural science, a thing
universally admitted ; it was rather to show how, without
detriment to the deepest study of the several special de
partments of natural science, a higher position for physical
scientific inquiry may be won, from which all the forms
SCIENCE OF NATURE. 41
and powers of things shall be seen to reveal themselves,
in the guise of a natural whole, actuated by intrinsic
aptitudes. Nature is no dead aggregate ; she is, " to
the inspired inquirer," (as Schelling grandly expresses
himself, in his admirable Discourse on the Fine Arts),
" the holy, the eternally creative prime mover of the uni
verse, engendering and evolving all things out of her
pregnant self." The hitherto imperfectly seized idea of a
physical history of the earth expands, under more
enlarged views and the comprehension of all created
things in earth and heaven, into the idea of a phy
sical history of the universe. The latter of these
titles is fashioned from the former. But it is the history
of the universe, or the doctrine of Cosmos, as I conceive
it; by no means an encyclopeedic exposition of the most
general and important results derived from particular
natural historical, natural philosophical, and astronomical
books. Such results will only be introduced incidentally
into my description, and be used as materials only in so
far as they illustrate the connection and co-operation of
the forces of the universe, the production and limitation
of natural phenomena. The study of the distribution of
organic types according to soil and climate, the geography
of plants and animals, is as dissimilar from descriptive
botany and zoology, as geological knowledge of the crust
of the Earth is different from oryctognosy. A physical
history of the universe, consequently, must not be con
founded with an encyclopeedia of the natural sciences. In
our survey of the Universe, the Individual will only be
regarded in its relations to the General, and the higher
the point of outlook now indicated is assumed, the more
42 INTRODUCTION.
will this surrey be made susceptible of especial treatment,
and of interesting discussion.
Thought and Language, however, stand in most inti
mate and old relationship to one another. When speech
adds grace and clearness to ideas, when its picturesque-
ness of derivation and organic structure favour our efforts
sharply to define natural phenomena as a whole, it scarcely
fails at the same time, and almost unconsciously to us, to
infuse its animating power into the fulness of thought
itself. The word is, therefore, more than the mere sign
and form, and its mysterious influence still reveals itself
most strikingly where it springs among free-minded com
munities, and attains its growth upon native soils. Proud
of our fatherland, whose intellectual unity is the prop and
stay of every manifestation of mental power, we turn our
eyes with joy upon this privilege of our native country.
Highly-favoured, indeed, may we call him who draws, in
his accounts of the phenomena of creation, from the
depths of a language, which, through the force and
unfettered application of intellect, in the regions of
creative fancy, no less than in those of searching reason,
has for centuries influenced so powerfully all that affects
the destinies of man.
43
NOTES to INTRODUCTION.
1 (Page 8.)—This expression is borrowed from a fine description of a
forest in Bernardin de St.-Pierre's Paul and Virginia.
s (p. 10.)—These comparisons are only approximations. The more
accurate elements (heights above the sea-level) are for the Schnee- or
Riesen--koppe, in Silesia, 824 toises, according to Hallaschka ; for the
Rigi, 923 1., assuming the surface of the Lake of Lucerne to be 223 1.
(Eschmann's Results of Trigonometrical Measurements in Switzerland in
1840, p. 230) ; for Mount Athos, 1060 1. (Capt. Gaultier) ; for Mount
Pilatcs, 1180t. ; for Etna, 17004 1., or 10,874 English feet, after
Capt. Smyth. According to Sir John Herschel's barometric measurements,
communicated by him to me in 1825, it is 10,876 Eng. ft. — 1700-7 1. ;
and, according to Cacciatore, from angular measurements, and, assuming
the terrestrial refraction to be = 0-076, it is 10,898 Eng. ft. or 1,704 1.
For the Schreckhorn, 2,093 1. ; the Jungfrau, 2,145 t. (Tralles) ;
for Mont Blanc, according to the results discussed by Roger, 2,467 1.
(Bibl. Univ. May 1828, pp. 24—53) ; whilst Carlini determined it, from
Mont Colombier, in 1821, at 2,460 1. ; and Austrian engineers, operating
from Trelod and the Glacier d'Ambin, fixed it at 2,463 1. The actual
height of the Swiss snowy mountains varies, according to M. Eschmann,
about 3Jt., owing to the variable thickness of the coating of snow. For
Chimborazo, my trigonometrical measurements give 3,350 1. (Humboldt,
Rec. d'Obs. astr. vol. i. p. Mil.); for Dhawalagiri, 4,390 1. All
these mountain-heights are given in toises, of six Paris feet each. As
Blake and Webb's determinations differ by 70 t., I must here remark that
the measurements of Dhawalagiri (or White Mountain, from the Sanscrit
44 NOTES TO INTRODUCTION.
dhwala, white, and giri, mountain,) cannot pretend to equal accuracy
with those of Jawahir (4,027 1.=24,160 Par. ft. = 25,749 Eng. ft.=
7,848 metres), founded on a complete trigonometrical operation (ride
Herbert and Hodgson, in Asiat. Res. vol. sir. p. 189 ; and Supp. to
Encycl. Brit. vol. iv. p. 643). I have shown in another place (Ann. des
Sciences nat. Mars 1825), that the height of Dhawalagiri (4,391 1. =
26,345 Par. ft. = 28,077 Eng. ft.) simultaneously depends on several
imperfectly settled elements of astronomical positions and azimuths
(Humboldt, Asie cent. vol. iii. p. 282). Still more unfounded is the
surmise that some snowy peaks of the Tartarian chain, in the north of
Tibet, near the Kuenlun chain, rise to the elevation of 30,000 Eng. ft.
(4,691 1., nearly twice that of Mont Blanc), or at least to 29,000 Eng. ft.
or 4,535 1. (vide Capt. Alexander Gerard and John Gerard's Journey to
Boorendo Pass in 1840, vol. i. pp. 143 & 311). Chimborazo is styled
" only one of the highest points of the Andes," since the learned and
able traveller, Mr. Pentland, in 1827, during his memorable expedition
to Upper Pern, or Bolivia, measured two mountains east of Lake Titicaca ;
namely, Sorata (3,948 1. = 23,688 Par. ft.) and Illimani (3,753 1. =
22,518 Par. ft.), which far exceed Chimborazo (3,350 1. = 20,100 Par. ft.)
in height, and nearly approximate to Jawahir (4,027 1.), the highest of
the hitherto accurately measured Himalayan mountains. Mont Blanc
(2,467 1. = 14,802 Par. ft.) is, therefore, 883 1. lower than Chimborazo,
and Chimborazo 598 1. lower than Sorata, which is 79 t. lower than
Jawahir, but probably 443 1. lower than Dhawalagiri. The measurements
in this note may be taken as more accurate from being given in various
scales, since false reductions of these scales have led to erroneous nume
rical statements in modern maps and profiles. Pentland's more recent
measurement of Illimani, in 1838, gives 7,275 met. = 3,732 1. for its
height, differing only 21 1. from the measurements of 1827.
1 (p. 1 1 .)—The absence of Palms and arborescent ferns in the temperate
zones of the Himalaya is shown in Don's Flora Nepaliensis (1825), as
also in the lithographed and remarkable catalogue of Willich's Flora
Indica,—a catalogue which contains the enormous number of 7,683 almost
entirely phanerogamous Himalayan species, although not yet sufficiently
examined and classified. We as yet know of only one species of palm,
Chamaerops Martiana, Wall. (Plant. Asiat. vol. iii. p. 5, t. 211) in Nepaul
(lat. 264°—27i°), 5,000 feet above the sea, in the shady valley of Bunipa.
NOTES TO INTRODUCTION. 45
The splendid arborescent fern, Alsophila Brunoniana, Wall, of which the
British Museum has had a stem, 45 feet long, since the year 1831, does
not come from Nepaul, but from the mountains of Silhet, north-east of
Calcutta, lat. 24° 50'. The Nepaul fern, Peranema cyathoi-des, Don,
formerly Sphaeropteris barbata, Wall. (op. cit. vol. i. p. 42, t. 48), is
nearly related to the Cyathea, of which I saw a species, 30 feet high, in
the South American Missions of Caripe ; but it was still no tree, properly
so called.
4 (p. 11).—Ribes nnbicola, R. glaciale, R. grossularia. In spite of a
declaration of the ancients on " Eastern Asia" (Strabo, lib. xi. p. 510,
Cas.), the vegetation of the Himalayas is characterized by 8 species ofPinus,
25 oaks, 4 birches, 2 species of Aesculus (the 100 feet high wild chesnut-
tree of Casbmir is inhabited up to 33° N. lat. by a great white ape with a
black face—Charles von Hiigel, Kashmir, 1840, part ii. p. 249), 7 maples,
12 willows, 14 roses, 3 strawberry species, 7 Alpine roses, (Rhododendra),
one of which is 20 feet high, and many other Northern forms. Amongst
the Coniferse we find the Pinus Deodwara, or Deodara (properly dewa-
(hiru, god-timber,) nearly related to Pinus Cedrus. Near the eternal
snows the Gentiana venusta, G. Moorcroftiana, Swertia purpurescens,
S. speciosa, Parnassia armata, P. nubicola, Pseonia Emodi, Tulipa stellata,
display their large blossoms. Even next to the peculiar Hindoo mountainous
species of European orders, we find eight genuine European species, as
Leontodon taraxacum, Prunella vulgaris, Galium Aparine, Thlaspi arvense.
The heath, already mentioned by Saunders, in Turner's Journey, and
which has even been confounded with Calluna vulgaris, is an Andromeda—
a fact of great importance for the geography of Asiatic plants. If, in this
note, I make use of the unphilosophical expression, " European forms,
or European species, growing wild in Asia," it is a consequence of the
ancient botanical language, which very arbitrarily subjects the idea of the
distribution, or rather of the coexistence of organic forms, to the historical
hypothesis of an immigration, even premising a movement from west to
east, out of prejudice to European cultivation.
1 (p. 11).—The snow-line of the southern declivity of the Himalayan
chain is 2,030 t. = 12,180 ft. above the sea-level, whilst on the northern
side, or rather on the peaks which rise, in 30|° to 32° lat., above the
Tartaro-Tibetan table-land, it is 2,600 t. = 15,600 ft., the snow-line
being at the height of only 2,470 t. = 14,820 ft. under the equator in
46 NOTES TO INTRODUCTION.
the Quito Andes. I have deduced this result from comparing together
several observations of Webb, Gerard, Herbert, and Moorcroft. Vide
my two Mimoires sur les montagnes de I'Inde of 1816 and 1820, in the
Ann. de Chimie et de Physique, tom. iii. p. 303 ; tom. xiv. pp. 6, 22, 50-
The eternal snow-line on the Tibetan declivity is a consequence of the
radiation of heat by the near table-land, of the serenity of the sky, and of
the scanty formation of snow in very dry cold air (Humboldt, Asie cent.
tom. iii. pp. 281—326). The conclusion, in regard to this line on bpth
sides of the Himalayas, which I proposed as the more probable one, had
the sanction of Colebrooke's great authority. " I find," as he wrote to
me in June 1824, " that the height of the eternal snows, according to the
materials which I possess, is 13,000 English feet ( = 2,033 t.) On the
southern declivity, under the parallel of 31°, Webb's measures would
give me 13,500 Eng. ft. ( = 2111 t.), or 500 feet more than Captain
Hodgson's observations. Gerard's measurements perfectly confirm your
announcement, that the snow-line is higher on the northern than on the
southern side." Only in this year (1840) have we at length received,/
through Mr. Lloyd, a copy of the entire journal of both the brothers,
Gerard (Narrative of a Journey from Caunpoor to the Borrendo Pass, in
the Himalaya, by Captain Alexander Gerard and John Gerard, edited by
George Lloyd, vol. i. pp. 291, 311, 320, 327, and 341). A great deal
on single localities is comprised in the " Visit to the Ghatool, for the
purpose of determining the line of perpetual snow on the southern face of
the Himalaya, in August 1822 ;" but, unfortunately, the travellers always
confound the height where accidental snow falls, with the maximum
height at which the snow-line rises over the Tibetan plateau. Captain
Gerard distinguishes the peaks in the middle of the plateau, the eternal
snow-line of which he fixes at from 18,000 to 19,000 Eng. ft. ( = 2,815
to 2,971 t.), and the northern declivities of the Himalayan chain, which
limit the passage of the Sutlej, and where the plateau is deeply furrowed,
with, of course, little radiation. The village Tangno is placed only at
9,300 Eng. ft. ( = 1,454 t.), whilst the plateau about the sacred lake,
Manasa, is said to be 17,000 Eng. ft. ( = 2,658 t.) high. Capt. Gerard
finds at the break in the chain, that the snow is 500 Eng. ft. ( = 78 t.)
lower on the northern declivity than on the southern towards India ; on
which latter face the snow-line is estimated by him at 15,000 Eng. ft.
(=2,346 t.) The botanical relations offer the most striking differences
NOTES TO INTRODUCTION. 47
between the Tibetan tableland and the southern aspect of the Himalayan
chain. In the latter, the harvest (and the corn is often cut green) extends
to 1,560 1. only ; the upper woody limit, with tall oaks and Dewadaru firs,
to 1,870 1., low dwarf birches to 2,030 1. On the plateau, Capt. Gerard
taw pastures up to 2,660 1. ; cereals prosper up to 2,200 1. and even to
9,900 1. ; tall birches to 2,200 1. ; underwood, for fuel, to 2660 t. that is,
200 1. higher than the eternal snow-line under the equator at Quito. It
is most desirable that travellers, accustomed to general views, should
re-determine the mean altitude of the Tibetan table-land, which I assume
to be 1,800 t., between the Himalaya and Kuen-liin, as also the relative
glacial heights on the northern and southern declivities. Hitherto esti
mates have been often confounded with actual measurements, and the
heights of some prominent peaks, with that of the table-land wherefrom
they rise (compare Carl Zimmermann's acute hypsometric remarks in his
" Geographical Analysis of the Map of the Interior of Asia," 1841 , p. 98).
Mr. Lord directs our attention to a contrast between the heights of
eternal snow on both declivities of the Himalaya and the Apine chain,
Hindoo Koosh. " In the latter," he says, " we find the table-land in
the south, and the altitude of the snow-line is consequently greater on the
southern declivity : the reverse of the Himalaya, which is bounded by
warm plains on the north, as the Hindoo Koosh is on the south." How
ever considerable the critical corrections that may be required for these
several details, it is still an indisputable fact, that the wonderful configu
ration of a portion of the earth's surface in the interior of Asia allows to
the human race the possibility of propagation, food, fuel, and colonization,
at a height above the sea-level, which, in almost every other district of
both continents (excepting the parched, snow-free Bolivia, where Pentland
found the snow-line under 16°—17i° S. lat. at the mean height of
2,450 1. in 1838,) is eternally covered with ice. The probable differences
of the north and south declivities of the Himalaya range, in regard to the
eternal snow-line, have been amply confirmed by the barometric measure
ments of Victor Jacquemonl, who so early became the victim to his noble
and untiring zeal {vide his " Correspondance pendant son Voyage dans
l'Inde, 1833, tom. i. p. 299 ; and " Voyage dans l'lnde pendant les
annees 1828 a 1832, livr. 23, pp. 290, 296, 299). " The eternal snows,"
says Jacquemont, "descend lower on the southern than on the northern
declivity of the Himalaya, and their limit constantly rises as we advance
48 NOTES TO INTEODUCTION.
to the north of the border-chain of India. On the Kioubrong peak,
5581 metres high (2863 t.), according to Captain Gerard, I was still
considerably beneath the limit of the eternal snows, which in this part
of the Himalaya I believed (certainly too great—Humboldt) to be at
6,000 metres = 3078 t." The same traveller observes, that, to whatever
height we rise on the southern declivity, the climate retains the same
character, the same division of seasons, as in the plains of India. " The
summer solstice brings the same showers of rain, which uninterruptedly
last until the autumnal equinox. Only at Kashmir, which I have found
to be 5,350 Eng. ft. high," ( = 837 t., therefore nearly that of the cities
Merida and Popayan,) " begins a new and distinct climate."—Jacquem.
Corresp. tom. ii. pp. 58 and 74. Leopold von Buch accurately remarks
that the monsoons do not impel the moist and warm sea-air of the Indian
lowlands across the Himalayan barrier to the tramontane Tibetan dis
trict of Ladak and Lhassa. Carl von Hiigel estimates the height of the
valley of Kashmir above the sea-level, from observations of the boiling
point of water (Part ii. p. 155, ant. ; Journal of the Geog. Soc. vol. vi.
p. 215) at 5,818 Eng. ft. (= 910 1.) In this perfectly calm and almost
tempest-free valley, under 34" V lat., the snow lies many feet deep from
December to March.
6 (p. 12).—See generally my " Essai sur la Geographie des Plantes et
Tableau Physique des Regions equinoxiales," 1807, pp. 80—88 ; on the
diurnal and nocturnal oscillations of temperature in the ninth plate of my
" Atlas geog. et phys. du nouveau Continent," and the tables to my
work, " De distributione geographica plantarum secundum cteli temperiem
et altitudinem montium," 1817, pp. 90—116 ; the meteorological portion
of my " Asie centrale," tom. iii. pp. 212—214 ; lastly, the more recent
and accurate account of the height-decreasing temperature among the
Andes in Boussingault's " Memoire sur la profondeur a laquelle on trouve
la couche de temperature invariable sous les tropiques," Ann. de Chimie
et de Phys. 1833, tom. liii. pp. 225—247). The essay last quoted con
tains the determination of the height and mean temperature of 128 points,
from the sea-level to the declivity of Antisana, at 2,800 1. height, between
the aerial temperatures of 27"5 and 1°7 Cent. ( = 81°5 and 35° Fahr.)
7 (p. 15).—" On the Kawi Language in the island of Java, with an
introduction on diversities in the structure of language, and their influence
on the mental development of the human race, by William v. Humboldt,"
1836, vol. i. pp. 5—310.
NOTES TO INTRODUCTION. 49
s (p. 15.)—Respecting the proper Msdbjadeca, vide Lassen's excel
lent Indtiche Alterthtimskunde, vol. i. p. 92. The Chinese term South
Bahar Mo-kie-thi, meaning the part lying south of the Ganges.—Vide
Chy-Fa-Hian's Foe-toue-ii, 1836, p. 256. Djambu-dwipa is entire
India, sometimes comprehending one of the four Buddhist continents.
• (p. 16.)—Schiller's Elegy, Der Spaziergang, or the Walk, which first
appeared in 1795, in the Horen :—
Within his silent chamber, casting circles
Pregnant with meaning, sits the thoughtful sage—
Creative mind compelling new results :—
Testing the forces that inhere in matter,
Proving the magnet's wondrous hate and love,
Pursuing sound through the air, the ray of light
Through ether, still intent on finding laws
Amidst the incongruous in what seems chance,
Intent on making out the stable pole
Amidst the flight of mere phenomena.
10 (p. 20.)—Arsgo's ocular micrometer, a happy improvement upon
Rochon's prismatic or double-refraction micrometer, vide M. Mathieu's
note in Delambre, " Hist, de l'Astr. au 18°* siecle," 1827, p. 651.
11 (p. 23.) —Carus on the Elementary Parts of the Osseous and Crus-
taceous Frame-work of Animals, 1821, p. 6.
13 (p. 23.)—Plut. in vit. Alex. Magn. cap. vii.
13 (p. 28.)—The melting-points of difficultly fusible substances usually
assumed are too high. Mitscherlich's always accurate researches limit the
melting-point of granite to 1,300° C. = 2,372° F.
14 p. 29.)—Louis Agassiz's classical work on fossil fishes, " Rech.
surles Poissons fossiles," 1834, vol. i. p. 38; vol. ii. pp. 3, 28, 34,
Addit. p. 6. The entire species Amblypterus, Agass. nearly related to
Palteoniscus (Palseothrissum), is buried beneath the Jura, in the old coal
formation. Scales, which, in single layers, are farmed like teeth, and
are covered with enamel, from the Lepidoid family (Order Gano-idet),
belong, after Placo-ides, to the oldest forms of fossil fishes, whose now
living representatives are found in two species, Bichir (Nile and Senegal)
aid Lepidosteus (Ohio).
VOL. I. D
50 NOTES TO INTRODUCTION.
is (p. 30.)—Goethe's '* Aphorismen iiber Naturwissenschaft" (Works,
small edit. 1833, vol. l. p. 155).
16 (p. 37.)—Arago's discovery in 1811 (Delambre, op. cit. p. 652).
17 (p. 37.)—Goethe's " Apboristisches iiber die Natur" (op. cit.
vol. L. p. 4).
18 (p. 39.)—Pseudo-Plato, Alcib. ii.p. 148, ed. Steph. ; Plat. Institute
laconica, p. 253, ed. Hutten.
51
LIMITATION AND SCIENTIFIC TREATMENT OF A PHYSICAL
HISTORY OF CREATION.
In the general views with which I have opened my pro
legomena to a survey of universal nature, I have sought
to explain, and, by examples, to illustrate, how the enjoy
ment of nature, diverse in its intimate sources, may be
enhanced through clear ideas of the connection of her
phenomena, and of the harmony that reigns among her
actuating forces. It will now be my endeavour to enun
ciate more particularly the spirit and leading idea of the
following scientific inquiry ; carefully to separate from
it all that is foreign ; and with comprehensive brevity to
convey the scope and contents of the doctrine of the
Cosmos as I have apprehended and worked it out, after
long years of study in various climates of the globe.
Let me flatter myself with the hope that such an expo
sition will bear me out in the bold title I have given my
work, and free me from the charge of presumption. My
prolegomena comprise, under four divisions, and in
consonance with my introductory remarks on the founda
tion of the laws of the universe, 1st. The conception
and limitation of physical cosmography, as a separate
and distinct science.
52 LIMITATION AND TREATMENT
2d. The objective contents, the comprehensive empirical
survey, of nature at large, in the scientific form of a
general picture.
3d. The reflex action of nature upon the imagination
and feelings, as stimulating to its study, through animated
descriptions of remote countries, landscape poetry (a
branch of modern literature), beautiful landscape paint
ing, the cultivation and contrasted grouping of exotic
plants, &c.
4th. The history of creation, — in other words, an
account of the gradual development and extension of the
idea of the Cosmos as a natural whole.
The higher the point of view from which the phenomena
of nature are contemplated, the more distinctly must the
science, the foundations of which are now to be laid, be
bounded, and marked off from all allied departments of
natural knowledge. Physical Cosmography embraces the
description of all that is created, of all that exists in
space, both natural things and natural forces, as a simul
taneously existing co-ordinate whole. It divides itself
for man, the inhabitant of the earth, into two principal
divisions ; one telluric, another sidereal or uranological.
To confirm the scientific independence of physical cosmo
graphy, and show its relations to other departments—
to physics or natural philosophy, to natural history or the
special description of natural objects, to geognosy and
comparative geography, or the description the earth—
we shall first pause over the telluric portion of our subject.
Even as little as the history of philosophy consists in a
crude arrangement side by side, or in sequence, of the
various philosophical opinions that have been entertained,
OF A SCIENTIFIC COSMOGRAPHY. 53
so little is the telluric portion of cosmography any
encyclopeedic aggregate of the natural sciences enumerated
above. The lines of demarcation between branches so
intimately allied as these, are the more confused in con
sequence of the custom which has prevailed for centuries,
of designating by specific titles certain groups of experi
mental knowledge, which are now too narrow, now too
comprehensive for the matters comprised, and which, in
times of classical antiquity, and in the languages from
which they were borrowed, had a totally different significa
tion from that now attached to them. The titles of par
ticular natural sciences, such as anthropology, physiology,
natural philosophy, natural history, geognosy, and geo
graphy, arose and became universally current before
mankind had attained to any clear conception of the
diversity of objects embraced by these several sciences,
and the precise line of demarcation between each —
that is to say, of the grounds of separation themselves.
In the language of one of the most polished nations of
Europe, natural philosophy (physics) is scarcely dis
tinguished from medicine (physic) ; whilst technical che
mistry, geology, and astronomy, treated in an entirely
empirical manner, are jumbled together, and papers on all
are published under the joint title of Philosophical
Transactions, by a Society whose fame is justly as wide
as the world.
Alterations of old, often ill chosen, but generally well
understood names, for newer titles, have been repeatedly
attempted, but always, as yet, with indifferent success, by
those who have turned their attention to the classification
of the several departments of human knowledge, from the
54 LIMITATION AND TREATMENT
Margarita Philosophica (a great Encyclopeedia) of the
Carthusian monk Gregory Reisch (l), to Bacon; from
Bacon to d'Alembert, and, not to forget the very latest
times, to the acute geometrician and natural philosopher,
Ampere"(2). The unfelicitous choice of a fantastical
nomenclature has perhaps been more prejudicial to every
attempt of the kind, than the excessive number of divisions
and subdivisions that have been introduced.
Physical cosmography, whilst it embraces the world " as
an object of the external senses," requires, it is true, the
association of general physics and natural history as
auxiliary sciences ; but the consideration of corporeal
things, under the guise of a natural whole, moved and
actuated by inherent forces, has an entirely special cha
racter as a distinct science. Physics occupies itself with
the general properties of matter : it is an abstraction from
the manifestations of force by matter; and in the very
place where its first foundations, as a science, are laid,
viz. in the eight books of the Physics of Aristotle (3),
all the phenomena of nature are represented as vital
manifestations of a general cosmic force. The telluric
portion of physical cosmography, to which I willingly
concede the old title, Physical History of the Globe, treats,
among other matters, of the distribution of magnetism over
our planet, with reference to intensity and direction ; not
of the laws of magnetical attraction and repulsion, nor of
the means of exciting electro-magnetical effects, now of a
more passing, now of a more permanent character. Physi
cal cosmography displays, in bold outlines, the partitionings
of continents and the distribution of their masses in either
hemisphere—points that influence climate and the more
OF A SCIENTIFIC COSMOGRAPHY. 55
important meteorological processes in the most remarkable
manner ; it goes farther—it indicates the prevailing charac
ters of the several great mountain ranges, their extension
in more continuous and even chains, or their connections
in the manner of a grating, and their association with the
several epochs and systems of formation ; it determines
the mean height of continents above the present level of
the sea ; the points of the centres of gravity of their
volumes ; the relations of the higher peaks of extensive
chains to their acclivities, to neighbouring seas, and to the
mineral nature of their constituent rocks ; it informs us
how these mountain masses, now active and moving,
breaking through a superimposed crust, now passive
and moved, present their strata under every variety of
inclination—level, sloping, perpendicular ; it considers
the succession or isolation of volcanoes ; the indications
of their manifestations of activity, the extent of the circles
they severally shake, and which in the course of centuries
enlarge or contract. It farther informs us, to select a few
examples from the conflict of the fluid with the solid, of
the points of resemblance between all mighty streams in
one part or another of their course : how they are liable
to bifurcate, either in their superior or inferior channels ;
how at one time they cut across colossal mountain chains at
right angles, at another, run in lines parallel to them,
whether this be near the declension of the chain, or at some
considerable distance from it, as a consequence of the influ
ence which an elevated mountain system has exerted upon the
surface of entire districts of country, and on the saline bot-
toms ofneighbouringplains. Only the chiefresults of com
parative orography and hydrography belong to the science
56 LIMITATION AND TREATMENT
which I here circumscribe, not minute descriptions of
mountain masses; of volcanoes that are now active; of
the volume of waters of particular rivers, &c. : all this,
according to my views, belongs to special or descriptive
geography, and will be comprised in the notes which illus
trate my work. The enumeration of similar, or closely-
allied, natural relations, the general survey of terrestrial phe
nomena with reference to their distribution in space, or their
relations to particular zones of the Earth, is not to be con
founded with the consideration of the individual things of
Nature, to wit, terrestrial substances, animated organisms,
physical phenomena ; a consideration which would only lead
to a systematic arrangement of objects, according to their
intimate analogies.
Special geographical descriptions are, it is true, the
most available material for a general physical geography ;
but the most painstaking accumulation of such descrip
tions would as little convey to the mind the characteristic
idea of terrestrial nature at large, as the mere co
ordination of all the individual floras of the earth would
give a notion of the geography of plants. It is the business
of the combining intellect, out of the individualities of
organic forms (morphology, the doctrine of the external
forms of plants and animals), to extract the common in
climatic distribution ; to fix the numerical laws—the pro
portions in the number of certain forms of natural
families, to the entire number of plants or animals of the
more perfect types ; to determine in what zone each of the
principal forms attains its maximum in point of numbers
of kinds and organic development, and even to show
how the impression made upon the mind by a landscape
OF A SCIENTIFIC COSMOGRAPHY. 57
at different distances from the equator, in so far as this is
connected with the vegetable growths that cover the surface
of our planet, is mainly dependent on the laws of vege
table geography.
Those systematically arranged catalogues of organic
forms, which in former times were designated by the some
what ostentatious titles of Systems of Nature, present
a wonderful enchainment in reference to similarity of form
(structure), to the conception of a gradual unfolding or
evolution of leaf and calyx into coloured blossom and
fruit, but not any concatenation with reference to distribu
tion in space, that *s to say, to climate, elevation above
the level of the sea, and to temperature, to which the whole
surface of the globe is exposed. The highest aim of
physical geography, however, as already observed, is the
recognition of unity in multiplicity, the investigation of
the Common and Intimately-connected in all terrestrial
phenomena. Where individualities are indicated, no
more is done than may help to bring the laws of organic
arrangement into unison with those of geographical
distribution. The mass of living forms, in this point of
view, appears to be arranged rather according to the zones
of the earth, or to the course of isothermal lines, than in
conformity with internal relationship, or the principle
of gradation and individualizing development of organs
inherent in the whole of nature. The natural sequence
of vegetable and animal forms will therefore be here
assumed from our ordinary descriptive botany and zoology
It is the province of physical geography to investigate
the mysterious genetical relations in which, with an ap
parent dispersion of families and species over the surface of
d2
68 LIMITATION AND TREATMENT
the earth, the most dissimilar forms still stand to one ano
ther ; to show how the various organisms constitute a natu
ral whole ; how they modify the atmosphere by the slow
processes of combustion and assimilation that go on in
their interior ; and how, influenced by promethean light in
their evolution, in their very being, despite their incon
siderable mass, they act upon the whole life of the globe.
The mode of presenting the subject which I here
propose as alone appropriate to physical cosmography,
gains in simplicity when we apply it to the uranological
portion of the Cosmos, to the physical history of heavenly
space, and of the heavenly bodies. - If we distinguish
physics, or natural philosophy, as used formerly to be
done, but as deeper and clearer views of nature allow us
no longer to do,—physics, or the general consideration of
matter, of force, and of motion, from chemistry, or the
consideration of the different natures of matter, its com
binations and changes through admixture, not through
affinities in virtue of the simple relations of mass, we
then perceive, in the telluric region, physical and chemical
processes existing together. Besides that fundamental
property of all matter, attraction at a distance (gravita
tion), other forces affect us here upon earth, which come
into operation at infinitely small distances, or upon
immediate contact between material particles (4), forces
which are designated chemical affinities, and which, called
into action variously by electricity, caloric, and even
simple contact, are incessantly efficient in inorganic nature,
as well as in living organisms. In the celestial spaces we
have as yet no apprehension of any other than physi
cal processes, affections of matter which depend on
OF A SCIENTIFIC COSMOGRAPHY. 50
mass alone, and which are subjected to the dyna
mic laws of a pure doctrine of motion. Such affections
are regarded as independent of all qualitative dif
ferences — of heterogeneousness or specific difference
of matter.
The inhabitants of the earth are brought into relation
with the matter dispersed over space, only by the pheno
mena of light and the influence of general gravitation
(attraction according to mass). The influences of the
sun and moon upon the periodical variations of terrestrial
magnetism, are still buried in obscurity. We have no
immediate knowledge or experience of the qualitative
nature of the matter which circulates in, or perhaps fills,
the universe, unless, perchance, it be through the fall of
aerolites, if these heated masses, involved in vapour, be
assumed as constituting small planetary bodies which
have come within the sphere of the earth's attrac
tion in their course through space ; an assumption which
the direction and extraordinary centrifugal force of the
bodies in question appears to render probable. The
familiar aspect of their constituent elements, and the iden
tity in nature of these with such as we have in abundance
among the mineral masses of the earth, are very striking.
They may serve, on analogical grounds, to lead us to
conclusions in regard to the nature of such planets as
belong to the same group, and have been formed, under
the dominion of one central body, by precipitation from
revolving rings of vaporous matter. Bessel's pendulum-
experiments, which bear the impress of such accuracy as
has never yet been attained, have given a renewed faith in
the truth of the Newtonian axiom, that bodies of the
60 LIMITATION AND TREATMENT
most dissimilar constitution—water, gold, quartz, granular
limestone,- aerolites—experience a perfectly similar acce
leration of motion through the attraction of the earth.
Many purely astronomical results, indeed, for example
the almost equal mass of Jupiter, in consequence of the
influence of the planet on his satellites, on Encke's
comet, on the small planets Vesta, Juno, Ceres, and
Pallas, assure us that every where it is the quantity of
matter alone which influences its power of attraction (5).
This exclusion of every appreciable circumstance re
ferrible to diversity of material, simplifies the mechanism
of the heavens in a remarkable manner; it brings the
infinite realms of space under the sole dominion of the
laws of motion; and the astrognostic portion of physical
cosmography draws from established theoretical astronomy,
in the same way as the terrestrial portion draws from
physics, chemistry, and organic morphology. The depart
ments of science just mentioned, indeed, embrace phe
nomena so intricate, and at times so opposite to mathe
matical views, that the terrestrial portion of the doctrine
of the Cosmos cannot boast of the same certainty and
simplicity of treatment as the astronomical portion. In
the distinction now indicated lies undoubtedly the reason
wherefore, in the earlier periods of the Greek civilization,
the Pythagorean philosophy of nature was rather directed
to the heavens than to the earth; wherefore it became
fruitful, with reference to our solar system, in a much
higher degree, through Philolaus, and, in later times,
through Aristarchus of Samos, and Seleucus the Ery-
threan, than the Ionic natural philosophy could prove in
regard to the physics of our globe. More indifferent aa
OF A SCIENTIFIC COSMOGRAPHY. 61
to the specific nature of that which filled space, as to
qualitative differences of matter, the forces of the Italic
school were directed with Doric earnest upon regulated for
mations, on shape, on form and measure alone (6) ; whilst
the Ionic physiologists occupied themselves especially with
the consideration of species of matter, with their supposed
transmutations and generic relations. It was reserved
for the powerful, truly philosophic, and, at the same time,
thoroughly practical mind of Aristotle, to plunge with
equal delight into the world of abstraction, and into the
measureless abundance of material diversity in organic
forms.
Several, and these very excellent works upon physical
geography, comprise an astronomical section in their intro
duction, in which the earth is first considered in its plane
tary dependence, or in its relations to the rest of the solar
system. This plan is the very opposite of that which I
have chalked out for myself. In a system of cosmography,
the astronomical portion, which Kant entitled the Natural
history of the heavens, must not appear as subordinate to
the telluric portion. In the Cosmos, as the old Copernican
philosopher, Aristarchus of Samos, said, the sun with
his attendants is a star amongst innumerable stars. A
general survey of creation must consequently begin with
the heavenly bodies that occupy space, with a graphic
delineation, a kind ofmap of the celestial universe, such as
the bold hand of the elder Herschel first ventured to
design. If we see that, despite the relative insignificance
of our planet, the terrestrial portion still occupies the
largest space in the history of the universe, and is most
fully handled, this only happens in respect of the unequal
62 LIMITATION AND TREATMENT
mass of that which is Known to the inequality of that
which is Empirically accessible. This subordination of
the uranological portion we already find in the great geo
grapher, Bernhard Varenius, in the middle of the 17th
century (7) . He distinguishes with much acumen between
the General and Special description of the earth, and sub
divides the former, into the absolutely terrestrial and the
planetary, according as the relations of the surface of the
earth in different zones, or the sol-lunar life of the earth—
the relations of our planet to the sun and moon—are con
sidered. It is a great and enduring honour to Varenius,
that the realization of this plan - of a General and of a
Comparative Geography attracted Newton's attention in a
very decided manner; but owing to the imperfect state of
the accessory sciences from which Varenius drew, the way
in which the idea could be carried out was not in accord
ance with the grandeur of the conception. It was reserved
for our own times to see comparative geography, in the
widest sense of the expression, even in its reflex on the
history of mankind—the influence which the figure of
continents has had on the course of the great migrations
of the human family, and the progress of civilization,
worked out in the most masterly manner (8).
The enumeration of the various rays which unite as in
a focus in the natural sciences considered as a whole,
may serve as an apology for the title of the work which I
venture to produce in the late evening of my life. This
title is perhaps even bolder than the undertaking itself,
considering the limits which I have prescribed myself. In
the special departments, I had hitherto avoided as much as
possible the use of new names for the indication of new
OF A SCIENTIFIC COSMOGRAPHY. 63
conceptions. Where I attempted any extension of our
nomenclature, it was always confined to individual objects
in zoology and botany. The term, Physical Cosmo
graphy, which I here employ, is imitated from the phrase,
Physical Geography, which has long been familiar to all.
The great extent of the subject embraced, the purpose
of surveying nature at large, from the remote nebulous
specks in the heavens, to the climatic distribution of the
organic tissues that colour the face of our rocks, make the
introduction of a new term necessary. And however com
pletely our old and usual terms earth, and world, blend
together, as we see them in the familiar phrases of, a
voyage round the world, a map of the world, the new
world, &c.; this is a mere consequence of the former more
limited knowledge of mankind ; the scientific distinction
between the world, or universe at large, and the earth we
inhabit, is now felt to be a matter of common necessity.
The grander and more correct expressions, universe, fabric
of the universe, creation, and nature,* employed to
designate the conception and origin of all matter, terrestrial
as well as that of the farthest stars, seem to approve the pro
priety ofthis distinction. To make this more definite, I might
say more solemn and impressive, and also to recur to the
antique name, I have placed the word Cosmos (K02M02)
at the head of my work ; this term, in the Homerio times,
having been used to indicate beauty and order, but by
and by employed as a philosophical expression to indicate
the harmony or arrangement of the world, even of the
* Weltgebaude, Weltkorper, Weltschopfung, Weltraum, German ;
literally Worldfabric, Worldbodies, Worldcreation, Worldspace.
64 LIMITATION AND TREATMENT
entire mass of matter filling space, of the universe at
large.
The difficulty of distinguishing the normal—the regular
and legitimate—amidst the ceaseless changes of earthly
phenomena, appears at an early period to have directed
the mind of man, in an especial manner, to the uniform
and harmonious movements of the heavenly bodies. Ac
cording to Philolaus, and the concurring testimony of the
whole of antiquity (9), Pythagoras was the first who em
ployed the word Cosmos as synonymous with creation,
with the order and arrangement of the earth and heavenly
bodies. From the Italic philosophical school, the word
passed into the language of the poets of nature, Parme-
nides and Empedocles ; and by and by it was adopted by
the prose writers. It is beyond my purpose to expatiate
in this place on the various particular applications of the
term, according to Pythagorean views,—now to the planets
that revolve around the focus of the world, now to groups
of stars in the firmament ; or to explain that Philolaus, on
one occasion, distinguishes between Olympus, Kosmos,
and Uranus. In my plan of a cosmography, as this was
understood in times posterior to Pythagoras, and as the
term is used by the unknown author of the book, De
Mundo, which was so long ascribed to Aristotle, Cosmos
is used to designate the conception of the heavens and
earth,—ofthe whole ofthe material universe. The Romans,
in the spirit of imitation, and when they came to
pay a tardy attention to philosophy, adopted the word
Mundus, which originally signified ornament, never order,
for the designation of the universe. The introduction of
the technical term into the Latin tongue, the literal trans
OF A SCIENTIFIC COSMOGRAPHY. 65
lation of the Greek Kosmos, used in a double sense, is
probably to be ascribed to Ennius (10), a disciple of the
Italic school, and the translator of the Pythagorean philo
sophical speculations of Epicharmus, or of one of his
imitators.
As a physical history of the world, in the widest sense
of the word, were the materials accessible for such an
undertaking, would pass in review the changes which the
Cosmos undergoes in the lapse of time, from the new stars
which suddenly make their appearance in the heavens, and
the nebulee which either dissolve and disappear, or become
condensed in their centres, to the most insignificant vege
table tissue that first covered the cold crust of the earth,
or that gradually and progressively overspreads the coral
reef which rises from the bosom of the ocean, so would
a physical description of the world, on the other hand,
portray the coexistent in space, the simultaneous agency of
the natural forces, and of the concrete forms that are the
product of these forces. The Existing, however, in our
conception of nature, is not to be absolutely distinguished
or separated from the Coming into Existence ; for it is not
the organic alone that is to be conceived as ceaselessly in
volved in coming into being and ceasing to be ; the whole
life of the globe, in each stage of its existence, refers us
to earlier conditions that have been successively passed
through. The various superimposed strata, of which the
outer crust of our earth consists in principal part, inclose
the remains of a creation that has almost entirely disap
peared ; they give us to wit of a series of formations,
which, in groups, have successively supplanted one another ;
they disclose to the eye of the observer the aggregate
66 LIMITATION AND TREATMENT
faunas and floras of bygone millenniums. In this sense,
the Description of nature, and the History of nature, are
not entirely to be dissevered. The geologist cannot appre
hend the present without understanding the past. Each
penetrates the other, and blends in a natural picture of the
globe; just as in the vast domain of language, the etymolo
gist finds reflected in various states of grammatical forms,
in their rise and progressive development, the whole of the
present in the past. But this reflection of what has been,
is by so much the clearer in the material world, as we now
see several products forming themselves under our eyes.
Among mountain masses, to choose an example from
geology, trachytic cones, basalt, layers of pumice and
amygdaloidal scoriee, enliven the landscape in a remarkable,
manner. They work upon our imagination like tales from
antiquity ; their form is their history.
Existence in its whole extent and intimacy is first com
pletely known as a something that has become. To this
original blending of conceptions, classic antiquity bears
witness in the use of the word History, both by Greece
and Rome. If not included in the definition which
Verrius Flaccus(u) gives of the term, History is used
in the zoological writings of Aristotle to signify a nar
rative of things investigated, of matters recognized by the
senses. The description of the World of the elder Pliny
bears the title Historia Naturalis; in the letters of the
nephew, it is more worthily designated " a History of
Nature." In the times of classical antiquity, the early
historian makes little distinction between descriptions of
countries and the narrative of events of which these
countries were the theatre. Physical geography and his
OF A SCIENTIFIC COSMOGRAPHY. 67
tory continued long to present themselves pleasantly
mingled together, until increasing political interests, and
deeper movements in civic existence, pushed aside the
former element, which then took its place as a separate
department of human science.
To embrace the multiplicity of the phenomena of the
Cosmos in unity of thought, in the form of a purely
rational series, is not, as I conceive, possible in the
present state of our empirical knowledge. The sciences of
experiment are never complete ; the realm of the impres
sions of sense is not to be exhausted ; no generation of men
will ever have it in their power to boast, that they have
surveyed the whole of the world of phenomena. It is only
where phenomena can be grouped, and separated from one
another, that we recognize in the individual groups the
empire and agency of grand and simple natural laws. The
more the physical sciences improve, the wider also does
the boundary of this empire extend. Brilliant instances
of the truth of this have been afforded by recent views of
the processes going on in the solid crust of the globe, as
well as in the atmosphere, which depend on electro
magnetic forces, on radiant heat, and the propagation
of pulses of light; brilliant examples, too, are supplied
by the late insight gained into the laws of organic
evolution, where all that is to be, is indicated beforehand,
where the continuous growth and progressive develop
ment of cells give rise to all the varied tissues of plants
and animals. In this generalization of laws, which at
first seemed only to comprise much narrower circles, mere
isolated groups of phenomena, there are numerous grades.
The empire of recognized laws gains in extent, that
68 LIMITATION AND TREATMENT
of ideal connection in clearness, so long as inquiries are
pursued in what may be called analogous and allied
masses. But where our dynamic views, which are based
on figurative atomic premises, no longer suffice us, be
cause the specific nature of matter, and its heterogeneous-
ness come into play, we find ourselves striking suddenly
upon reefs that rise from fathomless depths, when we
strive after unity of comprehension. Here the operation of
a new kind of force is unfolded. The law of definite pro
portions, or numerical relations, which the genius of
modern chemistry has recognized, and has applied so
happily, so brilliantly, but still under an antique vesture,
in the symbols of atomic representative expressions, has
yet remained isolated, has not been brought under the
dominion of the laws of pure dynamics.
The individualities to which all the immediate percep
tions of the mind are limited, can be logically arranged
into classesandfamilies. Such arrangementslead, as I have
already had occasion to remark, in so far as Nature is
concerned, to the high-sounding titles of Systems of
Nature. They facilitate the study, it is true, of organic
forms and their linear enchainment with one another ; but
as catalogues, they present a mere formal enumeration;
they introduce more of unity into the exposition than
into the knowledge itself. As there are degrees in the
generalization of natural laws, according as they comprise
larger or smaller groups of phenomena, wider or narrower
circles of organic forms and members, so are there also
grades in empirical inquiry. It begins with isolated
views, which are separated and ordered according to their
kinds. From observation it goes on to experiment, to
OF A SCIENTIFIC COSMOGRAPHY. 69
evocation of phenomena under determinate conditions,
according to guiding hypotheses ; in other words, accord
ing to the presentiment of the intimate connection of
natural things and natural forces. What is attained
through observation and experiment, leads, on grounds
of analogy and induction, to the knowledge of empirical
laws. These are the phases through which observing
intellect must pass, and which indicate, at the same time,
particular epochs in the history of natural science among
men.
Two forms of abstraction dominate the entire mass of
our knowledge : one, quantitative, indicative of rela
tionship according to number and volume ; the other,
qualitative, relationship in reference to material consti
tution. The former, and more accessible form, belongs to
the mathematical, the second to the chemical sciences.
In order to subject phenomena to calculation, matter is
assumed as composed of molecules, or atoms ; the number,
form, position, and polarity of which give occasion to
phenomena. All myths about imponderable matters and
special vital forces inherent in organised beings, only
render views of nature perplexed and indistinct. Under
great variety of conditions and forms of apprehension, the
heavy burthen of our accumulated, and still accumulating
knowledge, is moved lazily and reluctantly. Reason, boldly
and with increasing success, now seeks to break down the
ancient forms, by means of which, as with mechanical
contrivances and symbols, man has still been wont to strive
to obtain mastery over rebellious matter.
We are still far from the time when it will be possible to
concentrate all perceptions of sense, into unity of con
70 LIMITATION AND TREATMENT
ception of Nature. It may even be said to be problema
tical whether this time will ever come. The complicated
character of the problem, and the infinity of the universe,
seem almost to render vain the hope that it ever will. But
though the complete solution of the problem may remain
unattainable, its partial solution may still be anticipated ;
the effort, indeed to understand the phenomena of the
universe is still the highest, as it is the eternal goal of all
natural investigation. Faithful to the character of my
early writings, as to the nature of my occupations, which
have still been devoted to experiments, to measurements,
to the minute examination of facts, I limit myself in my
present undertaking to the empirical, or experimental
method. It supplies the only ground upon which I feel
that I can move with less of uncertainty. But this treat
ment of an empirical science, or rather of an aggregate of
empirical knowledge, does not preclude arrangement of
the conclusions come to, in harmony with leading ideas,
the generalization of the special, the ceaseless search after
empirical natural laws.
Knowledge acquired under the guidance of thought, the
attainment ofa rational comprehension of the universe, holds
out yet a higher object. I am far from blaming efforts in
which I have myself made no trial of my strength, because
their fruits still remain subject of doubt. Greatly misunder
stood, and much against the views and the counsel of the
powerful thinkers whom these, the special matters that en
gaged antiquity, have again attracted, systems of what was
called the Philosophy of Nature, threatened, for a time, to
lead men away from the study of the mathematical and phy
sical sciences, so important in themselves, so intimately con
OF A SCIENTIFIC COSMOGRAPHY. 71
nected with the material welfare of mankind. The in
toxicating delirium of possession obtained by toil, a
peculiarly adventurously symbolical language, a schematic
discipline, narrower than ever the middle age of humanity
forced itself into, have, in the youthful misapplication of
noble powers, been the features that distinguished the
brilliant, but short-lived Saturnalia of this purely ideal
natural science—I repeat the expression, misapplication of
powers ; for the sober spirits dedicated at once to philo
sophy and to observation, continued strangers to these
excesses. The conception of Experimental Science in
general, and of a Philosophy of Nature complete in all its
parts, if such perfection can ever be obtained, cannot
stand in contradiction or opposition to one another, if
the Philosophy of Nature, true to its promise, be the
rational comprehension of the phenomena of the universe.
Where contradiction shows itself, the blame lies in the
hollowness of the speculation, or in the arrogance of em
piricism, which thinks it gains more from experience than
experience warrants.
And here the realm of the Spiritual might be opposed
to the Natural; as if the spiritual, too, were not
contained within the concept of nature as a whole ! Or
Art may be opposed to Nature, by Art being implied
something more than the idea of the spiritual faculty of
producing which is inherent in man. Yet these opposites
must not lead to such a separation of the physical from
the intellectual as would make the physics of the universe
gink down into a mere heap of empirically collected
individualities. Science begins at the point where mind
dominates matter, where the attempt is made to subject the
72 LIMITATION AND TREATMENT
mass of experience to the scrutiny of reason ; science is
mind brought into connexion with nature. The external
world exists to us only when we receive it into our
interior, when it has fashioned itself within us into a
natural perception. Mysteriously indivisible, as are
mind and language, as are thought and the fructifying
word, even so and to us all consciously, does the exter
nal world blend with the interior in man, with thought
and with emotion. " External phenomena," says Hegel,
in his Philosophy of History, " are thus translated into
internal conceptions." The external or objective world,
conceived by us, reflected in us, is then subjected to the
eternal, necessary, and all-influencing forms of our
spiritual existence. Our intellectual activity then exer
cises itself upon the material that has been taken in
through perceptions of sense. There is, therefore, a
tendency to philosophical ideas even in the infancy of
human society, in the simplest views that can ever be
taken of nature. This impulse is various, more or less
lively, according to the temper of the mind, to national
peculiarity, and to the state of intellectual culture among
communities. The work of the mind begins so soon as
thought, impelled by internal necessity, takes up the
material of sensible impressions.
History has preserved us records of the oft and va
riouslyrepeated attemptto comprehend the world ofphysical
phenomena in its multiplicity, to get at the knowledge of
a peculiar penetrating, moving, compounding, and decom
pounding power pervading the universe. These attempts, in
classical times, constituted the physiologies and doctrines of
the primeval matter of the Ionic school, in which, by the
OF A SCIENTIFIC COSMOGRAPHY. 73
side of a poorly arranged empiricism, a scanty display of
facts, ideal efforts, or efforts to explain nature upon grounds
of pure reason, prevailed. But the more the material of
certain empirical knowledge accumulated, under the in
fluence of a brilliant extension of all the natural sciences,
the more did the impulse cool which led men to seek to
comprehend the essence of phenomena, and to discover
their unity as a natural whole, by the construction of
systems prompted by pure reason. In times that have but
recently gone by, the mathematical portion of natural
philosophy has had to rejoice in a great and noble
development. The methods and the instrument (Analysis),
have advanced towards perfection simultaneously. And
what was elicited in such a variety of ways—by ajudicious
application of atomical premises, by a more general and
more immediate contact with nature, by the invention and
improvement of new instruments, is now, as of old, the
common inheritance of mankind, and ought not to be
lost to the freest operations of philosophy, however chang
ing in her forms. Hitherto, indeed, the inviolability of the
material has run certain risks in the process of reconstruc
tion ; and in the ceaseless change of idealistic views, it
is little to be wondered at, if, as finely observed by
Bruno (12), " Many regard philosophy as susceptible of no
more than a sort of meteoric existence, so that even the
larger and more remarkable forms in which she has revealed
herself to mankind share the fate of comets, which are
not regarded as belonging to the imperishable and eternal
works of nature, but are merely reckoned among the
number of fiery vapours."
Misuse or misdirection of the mental energies, however,
VOL. I. B
74 DEFINITION OF A SCIENTIFIC COSMOGRAPHY.
must not lead to any conclusions tending to degrade
intellect ;—as if the world of thought were, from its very
nature, the realm of phantasms and deceptions ; as if the
precious stores of empirical knowledge, which have been
accumulating for centuries, were threatened by philosophy
as by some hostile power ! It becomes not the spirit
of these times to reject, as groundless hypothesis, every
generalization of ideas, every attempt, based upon analogy
and induction, to investigate the concatenation of the
phenomena of nature ; and, among the noble faculties
with which nature has so wonderfully furnished man, to
condemn at one time reason, inquiring, searching every
where for causal connections ; at another imagination, the
active, the exciting, the indispensable to all invention, to
all discovery.
7!,
NOTES to PRECEDING SECTION.
1 (p. 54.)—The " Margarita philosophica" of the Carthusian prior of
Freiburg, Gregorius Reisch, first appeared under the title of " Aepitome
omnia Philosophize, alias Margarita philosophica tractans de omni genere
scibili," tide the Heidelberg edition of 1486, and that of Strasburg of
1504. In the Freiburg edition of that year, and in the twelve following
editions, which appeared in the short interval till 1535, the first part of
the title was omitted. This work exercised a great influence on the dif
fusion of mathematical and physical knowledge at the beginning of the
16th century ; and Chasles, the learned author of the " Apercu historique
des methodes en geometrie" (1837), has shown how important is Reisch '«
Encyclopedia for the mathematical history of the middle ages. I have
endeavoured, by means of a passage of the " Margarita philosophica,"
and which only occurs in the edition of 1513, to unravel the important
relations of Hylacomilus (Martin Waldseemuller) the geographer of St.
Die, who first (1507) named the New Continent America, with Amerigo
Vespucci, with Rene King of Jerusalem and Duke of Lorraine, and with
the celebrated editions of Ptolemy of 1513 and 1522. Vide my " Examen
critique de la geographie du nouveau Continent, et des progres de
l'astronomie nautique aux 15' et 16' sieclcs," tom. iv. pp. 99—125,
' (p. 54.)—Ampere, " Essai sur la Phil. des Sciences," 1834, p. 25.
Whewell's Inductive Philos. vol. ii. p. 277 ; Park's Pantology, p. 87.
3 (p. 54.)—All changes of state in the material world are reduced to
motions. Aristot. Phys. ausc. iii. 1 and 4, pp. 200—201 ; Bekker, viii.
1, 8, and 9, pp. 250, 262, 265 ; De gener, et corr. ii. 10, p. 336 ; Pseudo-
Aristot. de muodo, cap. vi, p. 398.
76 NOTES.
4 (p. 58.)—Respecting the question raised by Newton of the difference
between mass-attraction and that of molecules, vide Laplace's " Exposit.
du syst. du monde," p. 384, and in the " Supplement au livre x. de la
mecanique eel." pp. 3, 4.—(Kant's Metaphysical Elements of Natural
Philosophy, in collective Works, 1839, vol. v. p. 309 ; Peclet's Physique,
1838, tom. i. pp. 59—63.)
5 (60.)—Poisson, in Conn, des tems pour l'annee 1836, pp. 64—66 ;
Bessel, in Poggendorffs Annalen der Physik, vol. xxv. p. 417 ; Encke,
in Berlin Academy's Transactions, 1826, p. 257; Mitscherlich's Man.
of Chemistry, 1837, vol. i. p. 352.
6 (p. 61.)—Compare Otfried Miiller's Dorians, vol. i. p. 365.
7 (p. 62.)—" Geographia generalis in qua affectiones generales telluris
explicantur." The oldest Amsterdam edition (Elzevir) is of 1650 ; the
second of 1672, and the third of 1681, were edited by Newton. This
all-important work of Varenius is a Physical Geography in its proper
sense. Since the excellent description of the New Continent by the Jesuit,
Joseph da Acosta (Historia natural de las Indias, 1590), never had the
telluric phenomena been so generally contemplated. Acosta is richer in
individual observations ; Varenius embraces a greater circle of ideas,—his
residence in Holland, then the centre of the commerce of the world, having
connected him with many intelligent travellers. " Generalis sive univer
salis Geographia dicitur, qua? tellurem in genere considerat atque affec
tiones explicat, non habita particularium regionum ratione." Varenius-s
Universal Geography (Pars absoluta, cap. i.—xxii.) is altogether a
comparative one, although the author uses the term Geographia compa-
rativa (cap. xxxiii.—xl.) in a much more restricted meaning. The
remarkable parts are the enumeration of mountain-systems and reflections,
or the relations of their directions with the whole continents (pp. 66—76,
ed. Cantab. 1681) ; the list of the active and extinct volcanoes; the con
junction of results on the division of islands and island-groups (p. 220) ;
on the depth of the ocean compared with the height of the coast (p. 103) ;
on the equal levels of the surface of all open seas (p. 97) ; on the current*
as dependent on the prevailing winds, the unequal saltness of the sea, and
the configuration of the coasts (p. 139) ; the directions of the wind as
resulting from differences of temperature, &c. Excellent likewise are the
considerations on the general equinoctial current, from east to west, as
the cause of the gulf-stream which begins at Cape St. Augustine and
breaks forth between Cuba and Florida (p. 140). The directions of the
NOTES. 77
current along the Western African coast, between Cape Verd and the
island of Fernando Po in the gulf of Guinea, are most accurately described.
Varenius considers sporadic islets to be " the elevated ocean-bed;"—
" magna spirituai inclusorum vi, sicut aliquando montes e terra protrusos
esse quidam scribunt" (p. 215). The edition of 1681, by Newton (auctior
et emendatior), unfortunately has no additions by this great man. There
is no mention of the spheroidal flattened figure of the earth, although
Richer's pendulum experiments were published nine years before the
Cambridge edition, but Newton's " Principia mathematics philosophiae
naturalis" was only communicated in manuscript to the Royal Society in
1686. There is much uncertainty about the native country of Varenius.
According to Jbcher, he was born in England ; according to the
"Biographie Universelle" (torn, xlvii. p. 495), in Amsterdam : but the
dedication of the Universal Geography to the burgomasters of this city,
shows that bolh assertions are equally false. Varenius expressly says
that he had fled to Amsterdam, " his native town having been burnt to
ashes and completely destroyed in the long war." These words appear
to refer to Northern Germany, and the ravages of the 30 Years' War.
Varenius likewise remarks, in the dedication of his " Descriptio Regni
Japonicse" (Amst. 1649) to the Hamburg Senate, that he had made his
first studies at the Hamburg Gymnasium. It is probably incontroverti
ble that this acute geographer was a German, and, moreover, of Liineburg.
(Witten's Mem. Theol. 1685, p. 2142; Zedler's Universal Lexicon,
1745, part xlvi. p. 187.)
8 (62.)—Charles Ritter's Geography in relationto Nature and the History
of Man, or general comparative geography.
9 (64.)—K6<r/ios, in its original and proper meaning, signified ornament
(for men, women, and horses) ; figuratively, order, for el/ra^la, and
ornament of speech. The ancients unanimously assure us that Pythagoras
was the first to employ this word in the sense ot order of the world, or
world itself. Not having written himself, the earliest proofs are in the frag
ments of Philolaus (Stob. Eclog. pp. 360, 460 ; Heeren's Philolaos, by
Boeckh, pp. 62, 90). We do not cite Timaeus of Locrus, his authenticity
being doubtful. Plutarch (de plac. phil. ii. 1) decidedly says that Pytha
goras was the first to call the whole universe Cosmos, by reason of the order
observed therein : (likewise Galen, hist. phil. p. 429). In its new mean
ing, the word passed from the philosophical school to the poets of nature
78 NOTES.
and the prosaists. Plato continues to call the celestial bodies Uranos ;
but he still styles the order of the world Cosmos : and, in the Timseus
(p. 30, B.), the universe is called a soul-endowed animal (fedtr/tos fow
ifujn>xpv). Compare, on the immaterial world-arranging spirit, Anaxagoras
Claz. (ed. Shaubach, p. Ill) and Plutarch (op. cit. ii. 3). With Aristotle
(de Cffilo, i. 91), Cosmos is, "World and its Arrangement;" it is also
considered as spacially divisible into the sublunary world and the higher
above the moon (Meteor, i. ii. 1, and I. iii. 13, pp. 339, a, and 340, b,
Bekk.) The definition of Cosmos, cited by me in the text, is from the
" Pseudo-Aristoteles de Mundo," (cap. ii. p. 391), namely : xoanos itrri
ff/iarrtfia ££ ovpavov xal yrjs xal twv &v ro&rots ireptt^ofxevav (pvaeuv,
A^yerai 8^ xal irepus xotrfios t; tuv $Xw tA^is re koI itcuciafiriais, inrb
tfwv t« ko'i Si'a BtZv tyvgarropivTi. Most passages of the Greek writers
on Cosmos are collected,—1. In Richard Bentley's polemical pamphlet
against Charles Boyle (Opuscula philologica, 1781, pp. 347, 445;
Dissertation upon the Epistles of Phalaris, 1817, p. 254) on the historical
existence of Zaleucus, the Locrian legislator : 2. In Nceke's excellent
Sched. crit. 1812, pp. 9—15 : and 3. In Theop. Schmidt ad Cleom. cycl.
theor. met. I. i. pp. ix. 1, 99). The closer meaning of Cosmos was like
wise used in the plural (Plut. i. 5), as, either every star (celestial body)
was so called (Stob. i. p. 514; Plut. ii. 31), or many singular systems
(world-islands) were assumed in infinite space, each having a sun and
moon (Anaxag. Claz. fragm. pp. 89, 93, 120 ; Brandis's History of
Grteco-Roman Philosophy, vol. i. p. 252). As each group became a
Cosmos, the universe rb iray receives a higher signification distinct from
Cosmos (Plut. ii. 1). The last word is used for the Earth only a long
time after the Ptolemaic age. Bockh has communicatee^ inscriptions in
praise of Trajan and Hadrian (Corp. Insc. Grsec. tom. i. N08334, 1306),
wherein koV/uo* is used for o'ucov;xirri, just as we often understand by
world only the earth. The above-mentioned strange threefold division
of space into Olympus, Cosmos, and Uranos, (Stob. i. p. 488 ; Philolaos,
pp. 94—102) refers to the different regions which surround the hearth
of the universe, the Pythagorean 'Earia toO ncanii. The inner region,
between the earth and moon, the realm of the variable, is termed Uranos
in the Fragment. The middle portion, that of the unchangeable orderly
circulating planets, is exclusively termed Cosmos, after a very partial
view. The exterior region, a fiery one, is the Olympus. " If," gayg
NOTES. 79
that profound diver into the affinities of language, Bopp,—" if we derive
niaiutt from the Sanscrit root **tuf, purificari, as Pott has done (Etymol.
Researches, part i. pp. 39, 252), we must regard, in respect to the sounds
— 1. that the Greek k (in xitrpos) has proceeded from the palatal t,
(expressed by Bopp with an *' and Pott with a c,) like 8e«o, decern, Gothic
tnihnn, from the Indian das'an ; 2. that the Indian d' regularly corres
ponds (Compar. Gramm. § 99) to the Greek 8, whence we clearly ascer
tain the relation of x6anos (for koB/ios) to the Sanscrit root s'ucC, whence
KaBapos. Another Indian word for World is g'agat (pronounce dschagat) ,
properly meaning the going, as a participle from g'a-gimi, I go (from the
root go)." In the inner circle of Hellenic etymology, xiaixos is (accord
ing to Etym. M. p. 532, 12) nearest connected with Kafui, or rather
xiivviuu, whence xixafffityos or xtxaSfityos. Herewith Welcker (eine
Cretische Col. in Theben, p. 23) connects the name Ka.Sp.os, as in
Hesychius tcad/ios denotes a Cretan suit of armour. When the Romans
introduced the philosophical technical language of Greece, they similarly
employed the word mundus, originally used like xiafios for female orna
ment, to express the world or universe. Ennius appears to have been the
first to venture on this innovation : he says, in a fragment preserved to
us by Macrobius (Sat. vi. 2), in his strife with Virgil, " mundus cseli
vastus constitit silentio ;" like Cicero, "quern nos lncentem mundura
vocamus" (Timseus g. de univ. cap. 10). The Sanscrit root tnonil,
whence Pott (Etym. Res. part i. p. 240) deduces the word mundus,
unites both meanings of shining and adorning. Lota signifies world and
men in Sanscrit, like the French monde, and, according to Bopp, is
derived from Uk, to see and illuminate : similarly the Slavonian swjet
(Grimm's German Gramm. vol. iii. p. 394) is light and world. This word
Welt, which the Germans now use, old High German wtralt, old Saxon
worold, Anglo-Saxon veruld, originally denotes, according to Jacob
Grimm, only " the idea of time, satculum (age of man), not the spacial
mundus." Amongst the Tuscans, the open mundus meant an inverted
dome, which turned its cupola towards the world below, and imitated the
heavenly vault.—(Otf. Muller's Etruscans, part ii. pp. 96, 98, 143.)
In its narrower telluric signification, the world appears in the Gothic
language as the sea- (marei, meri) surrounded horizon, as merigard, &
sea-garden.
" (65.)—Vide about Ennius, Leopold Krahner's acute researches in
80 NOTES.
his " Grundlinien zur Geschichte des Verfalls der römischen Staats-
Religion," 1837, pp- 41—45. Probably Ennius did not draw from the
Epicharmic pieces, but from poems which went by the name of Epicharmus,
and were written according to his system.
11 (p. 66.)—Gellius, Noct. Att. v. 18.
12 (p. 73.)—Schilling's Bruno on the Divine and Natural Principle of
Things, p. 181.
81
PICTURE OF NATURE.
GENERAL SURVEY OF NATURAL PHENOMENA.
When the human mind essays to dominate matter—in
other words, to comprehend the world of physical pheno
mena—when we strive, in thoughtful contemplation of
existing things, to penetrate the life of Nature in its
ample fulness, and to unveil the empire of her various
forces, we feel ourselves raised to an eminence, whence,
in the wide-spread horizon around, individualities present
themselves gathered into groups, and surrounded with a
kind of vaporous haze. This figurative language is used
to give some idea of the point of view from which we
shall here attempt to survey the universe, and to present
it for contemplation in both of its spheres—the celestial
and the terrestrial. The boldness of such an attempt I
do not conceal from myself. Of all the kinds of repre
sentation to which these pages are dedicated, that of the
General Picture of Nature is by far the most difficult.
Here we do not condescend upon the minutiee of individual
forms ; we only pause upon the grander masses, whether
in the world of fact or of idea. By separation and sub
division of phenomena, by a kind of foreboding penetra
tion of the play of obscure forces, by liveliness of repre
sentation, in which the impression made on the senses is
e 2
82 PICTURE OF NATURE.
reflected true to nature, may we hope to grasp and to
describe the Infinite All (to irav), in a way that shall
become the grand word Cosmos, in its sense of Universe,
Order of Creation, Beauty of Arrangement. May the
infinite diversity of elements that crowd into a picture of
Nature so vast, not disturb the harmonious impression of
repose and unity, which it is the last purpose of every lite
rary and artistical composition to convey !
We begin with the depths of space, and the region of
the farthest nebulee ; we descend, step by step, through
the stratum of stars to which our solar system belongs,
and at length set foot on the air- and sea-surrounded
spheroid we inhabit, discussing its form, its temperature,
and its magnetical tension, till we reach the life, that,
under the stimulus of light, is evolved upon its surface.
A picture of the universe, therefore, worked with a few
grand touches, comprehends the immeasurable depths of
space, as well as the microscopic organisms of the vege
table and animal kingdom that live in our stagnant waters,
and cling to the weatherworn faces of our rocks. All that
the most careful study of nature, in its present direction,
up to the passing hour, has discovered, constitutes the
material in harmony with which the canvas is to be filled ;
it includes within itself the evidence of its truth and
endurance. A descriptive natural picture, however, such
as we would indicate it in these prolegomena, must not
present all the individual, all the single ; it needs not, to
be complete, an enumeration of all the forms of life, of
every natural thing and natural process. Striving against
the tendency to endless subdivision of the Known and
lixe Collected, the thinker who orders and arranges must
GENERAL SURVEY. 83
rather seek to escape the danger of empirical overabund
ance. A considerable mass of the qualitative forces of
matter, or, to speak in the language of the philosophers of
nature, of its qualitative manifestations of force, is cer
tainly still unknown. The discovery of unity in totality
must, therefore, and on this account, remain imperfect.
Beside the joy, mixed as it were with woe, which we
feel in knowledge possessed, there dwells in the eager
spirit, unsatisfied with the present, the longing after yet
untrodden, yet unimagined, regions of knowledge. But
such a longing only knits more firmly the bond which, in
virtue of ancient laws, controlling the very core of the
world of thought, binds the Sentient with the Super-
sentient ; it vivifies the commerce between that " which
the mind receives from the world without, and that which,
from its own depths, it gives back."
If nature, therefore, or the conception formed of natural
things and natural phenomena, considered in its boundary
and contents, be infinite, so is she also, with reference to
the intellectual powers of man, an incomprehensible, and,
in the general causal co-operation of her forces, an unre-
solvable problem. Such an avowal is proper where exist
ence and evolution (Being and to Be) are only subjected
to immediate scrutiny, in circumstances where the empi
rical path, and the strictly inductive method, cannot be
quitted for a moment. But if the ceaseless longing to
comprehend nature in its totality remain unsatisfied, the
history of human progress in contemplating nature, which
is reserved for another section of the prolegomena, teaches
us, on the other hand, how, in the course of centuries,
mankind have gradually attained to a partial insight into
84 PICTURE OF NATURE.
the relative dependence of phenomena. It is my duty to
pass in review the contemporaneously known, according
to the measure and the boundaries of the present. In all
that is mobile, changeable in space, mean numerical values
are the ultimate object—they are the expression, indeed,
of physical laws ; they show us the stable in the change
and in the flight of phenomena. The progress of our
modern measuring and weighing physics is particularly
distinguished by the attainment and correction of the
mean values of certain quantities or masses; and here,
as dwelt on by the old Italic school, but in a wider sense,
we find those wide-spread, hieroglyphic signs, numbers,
coming into play as powers in Cosmos.
The serious inquirer rejoices in the simplicity of nume
rical relations, by which are indicated the dimensions of
the celestial spaces, the magnitude of the bodies they
enclose, and the periodic perturbations which these suffer;
the threefold elements of terrestrial magnetism ; the mean
pressure of the atmosphere, and the quantity of heat
which the sun dispenses in the course of every year, and
in each division of the year, over the several points of the
solid or liquid surface of our planet. The poet of nature is
less satisfied with such results; the appetite for the mar
vellous, inherent in the many, is less appealed to by them.
The poet complains that science has made a desert of
nature ; the vulgar find many questions returned to them
with doubtful solutions, or declared unanswerable, which
formerly were met without misgivings. In her graver
form, in her less ample garments, she is robbed of that
seducing grace by which the dogmatic and symbolic
physics of former times sought to deceive the reason, to
GENERAL SURVEY. 85
occupy the imagination. Long before the discovery of
the New World, it was thought that land could be seen in
the West from the Canaries and the Azores. These were
phantasms, not produced by any extraordinary refraction of
rays of light, but merely by a longing for the distant, for
that which lies beyond the present. The natural philosophy
of the Greeks, and the physics of the middle ages, and
even of much later centuries, presented swarms of such
fantastic forms to the imagination. The mental eye still
essays to pass the horizon of limited knowledge, even as
the material eye endeavours to pierce the natural horizon
from an island height or shore. Faith in the unusual
and wonderful gives definite outlines to every product of
imagination, and the realm of fancy, a strange land of
cosmological, geognostical, and magnetic dreams, is inces
santly blended with the world of reality.
Nature, in the manifold significance of the term, now
.as implying entireness of that which is, and is becoming ;
now as an inherent actuating force ; and again, as the
mysterious prototype of all phenomena, reveals itself to
the simple sense and feeling of mankind as something
more especially terrestrial, as something that is near akin
to them. We seem at first to recognize our proper home
in the living circle of organic formation. Where the
bosom of the earth is adorned with fruits and flowers,
where it supports and nourishes innumerable kinds of
animals, there does the image of nature come up in living
tints before the soul. We are more immediately connected
with the earth, with the terrestrial ; the canopy of heaven,
inlaid with shining stars, the boundless realms of space,
belong to a picture, the magnitude of whose elements—
86 PICTURE OF NATURE.
hosts of suns, glimmering nebulous specks, infinity of
space—arouse our wonder and amazement, indeed, but
still remain foreign to our mind and feelings, through
a sense of desolation, and a total want of immediate
impression through the presence of -organic life. To
mankind at large, therefore, the heaven and the earth
have still remained distinct, as the above and the below in
space, in consonance with the earliest notions entertained
on the subject. Were a picture of nature at large, then,
solely intended to meet the requirements of sense, it would
have to be begun with a representation of our proper home
for a foundation. It would first portray the earth in its
dimensions and configuration, in its increasing density and
temperature as its centre was approached, in its solid and
fluid superposed strata; it would exhibit the severance of
sea and land ; the life which in both is evolved as cellular
tissue in plants and animals ; and the atmospheric ocean,
with its waves and currents, from the bottom of which wood--
crested mountain-chains emerge like reefs and shoals.
After this exhibition of purely terrestrial relations, the eye
would rise to the celestial spaces; the earth, the well-
known seat of organic formative processes, would now be
contemplated as a planet. It would fall into the series
of bodies which circulate around one of the innumerable
host of self-eflulgent stars. This sequence of ideas indi
cates the path pursued in the first contemplation of nature,
by the senses ; it still reminds us of the " sea-surrounded
disc of earth," which supported heaven : it sets out from
the station of simple perception, from the known and the
near, to the unknown and the far removed. It corresponds
with the method observed in our elementary astronomical
GENERAL SURVEY. 87
works, which pass from the apparent to the true motions
of the heavenly bodies.
In a work, however, which undertakes to speak of the ac
tually known, of that which, in the present state of science,
is held for certain, or which, in various degrees, is looked
upon as probable, but which does not propose to give the
details upon which results are founded, another course of
procedure appears advisable. Here we do not set out from
the subjective point of view, from that which regards
human interests. The terrestrial can only appear as a
part in the whole, and as subordinate to this. The
view taken of nature must be general, it must be grand
and free, not contracted by notions of vicinity, of affec
tion, of relative usefulness. A physical cosmography, or
true picture of the universe, cannot, therefore, commence
with the terrestrial ; it must needs begin with the contents
of heavenly space. But as the spheres of contemplation,
-in reference to space, contract, the amount of indi
vidual details, the variety of physical phenomena, know
ledge of the qualitative heterogeneousness of matter,
augment. From regions in which we can only distinguish
the empire of the universal laws of gravitation, we descend
to our planet, to the intricate play of forces that constitute
the life of the globe. The natural descriptive method
now sketched out is opposed to that which establishes
conclusions. The one enumerates what the other demon
strates.
Man assumes the external word into his interior by
means of certain organs. The phenomena of light make
us aware of the existence of matter in the farthest depths
of heaven. The eye is the organ by which the universe
88 PICTURE OF NATURE.
is perceived, and the discovery of telescopic vision
some century and a half ago has conferred a power upon
later generations whose limits have not yet been reached.
The first and most general consideration in Cosmos is
that of the contents of space, — the contemplation of
division in matter, of Creation, as we are accustomed to
designate all that is or is about to be. We perceive
matter here aggregated into revolving and circulating
masses of most dissimilar density and magnitude ; there
diffused in the shape of self-luminous clouds or vapours.
If we first turn our attention to these nebulae (world-
mists, separating into determinate forms), we discover
that they are in course of suffering change in their state
of aggregation. They present themselves to our eyes
apparently of small dimensions, as rounded or elliptical
discs, single or in pairs, occasionally connected by a lumi
nous streak ; of larger size they are variously shaped,—
elongated or shooting out into several branches ; or they
look fan-shaped ; or they form sharply defined rings with
dark included centres. These nebulee are believed to be
in process of various and progressive changes, according as
the star-dust or vapour composing them is becoming con
densed, in harmony with the laws ofattraction, around one or
several nuclei. The number of these unresolvable nebulee—
nebulee in which the most powerful telescope does not enable
us to distinguish a single star—that have been reckoned,
and their position in space determined, now amounts to
about one thousand five hundred.
The genetic evolution, the ceaseless, progressive forma
tion that appears to be going on in these portions of
infinite space, has led reflective minds to the analogy of
GENETIC EVOLUTION NEBDLfi. 89
organic phenomena. As in our woods we observe the
same kind of tree in every stage of growth at the same
time, and from this view, this co-existence, derive the im
pression of progressive vital development; so do we, in
the mighty garden of the universe, recognise different
stages in the progressive formation of stars. The process
of condensation, indeed, which Apaximenes and the Ionic
school once taught, seems here to proceed, as it were,
under our eyes. This object of inquiry and conjecture is
peculiarly attractive to the imagination. That which, in
the circles of life, and in all the internal impulsive forces
of the universe, fetters us so unspeakably, is less the
recognition of Being, than of what is About to be ; even
though the latter be nothing more than a new condition
of matter already extant; for of proper creation as an
efficient act, of a protogenesis of matter, of entity succeed
ing nonentity, we have neither conception nor experience.
It is not merely by a comparison of the various mo
ments of development which are exhibited by nebulee, in
greater or less degrees of condensation of their interiors,
that astronomers have inferred changes in their structure.
We have now a series of observations made immediately
upon particular nebulee, on the one in Andromeda, on that
which occurs in the ship Argo, and also in the flocky
portion of that which presents itself in Orion, which
lead to the belief that actual changes in their form have
been observed. Inequality of power of light in the instru
ments employed, however, different states of our atmos
phere, and other optical conditions, it must be admitted,
render a portion of these results questionable as true his
torical data.
90 PICTURE OF NATURE.
The peculiar multiform nebulee, the several parts of
which have different degrees of brightness, and which,
with a diminution of their areas, will perhaps become
concentrated into stars, and those nebulee that have been
entitled planetary, the round or somewhat oviform discs
of which shine in every part with a mild and equable
light, are not to be confounded with nebulous stars.
Here there is no appearance of a star projected acci
dentally, as it might seem, upon a remote nebulous
ground; no, the vaporiform matter, the light-cloud,
forms a single mass with the star which it surrounds.
From the frequently very considerable magnitude of their
apparent diameters, and the distances whence they glim
mer, both planetary nebulee and nebulous stars must possess
enormous dimensions. New and acute considerations (2) on
the very different influence of distance upon the intensity
of the light of a disc of measurable diameter, or of a
single self-luminous point, make it not improbable that
planetary nebulee are extremely remote nebulous stars,
in which the distinction between the central star and
its hazy envelope has disappeared even to our telescopic
vision.
The brilliant zones of the southern celestial hemi
sphere, between the parallels of 500 and 800, are particu
larly rich in nebulous stars, and concentrated but un-
resolvable nebulee. The Magellanic clouds which circulate
round the starless, desolate south pole, (especially the larger
of the two), appear, according to the latestobservations (2),
" as a wonderful mixture of groups of stars, of glo
bular clusters of nebulous stars of different magnitudes,
and of unresolvable nebulee, which, producing a general
THE FIXED STARS. 91
brightness of the field of vision, form a kind of back
ground to the picture." The aspect of these clouds, of the
light-streaming ship Argo, of the milky way between the
Scorpion, the Centaur, and the Cross—the whole of the
charming landscape presented by the southern heavens,
has left an indelible impression upon my mind. The
zodiacal light, which rises like a pyramid from the sun,
and in its gentle radiance proves another of the eternal
ornaments of the tropical night, is either an immense
nebulous ring rotating betwixt the earth and Mars, or
(but this is less probable) it is the outermost stratum of the
sun's atmosphere itself. Besides these luminous clouds and
nebulee of determinate form, accurate and still coinciding
observations seem to proclaim the existence and general
diffusion of an infinitely rare, and apparently not self-
luminous matter, which, offering resistance, reveals
itself by lessening the eccentricity, and shortening the
period of revolution of Encke's, and perhaps also of Biela's
comet. This impeding eetherial and cosmic matter may
be conceived as in motion, despite its original tenuity as
gravitating, as condensed in the vicinity of the great body
of the sun, and even as increased in the course of myriads
of years, by vapours thrown off from the tails of comets.
If we now pass on from the nebulous matter of the
infinities of heavenly space (ovpavov xoproe3), here scat
tered without form or boundary, a cosmic world-ether,
there condensed into nebulous specks, to the conglo
bated solid portions of the universe, we approach a class
of phenomena which are exclusively designated by
the title of stars, or fixed stars. And here, too, the
degree of solidity or density of the conglobated matter is
92 PICTURE OF NATURE.
different. Our own solar system presents us with every
grade of mean density ; in other terms, of difference betwixt
the relations of volume and mass. When we compare the
planets from Mercury to Mars, with the sun and with
Jupiter, and Mars and Jupiter, again, with Saturn, we
proceed in a descending scale of density; selecting
familiar objects as standards of comparison, from matter
of the density of antimony, to matter of the density of
honey, of water, and of pine timber. In Comets, which,
numerically speaking, constitute the largest portion of the
individualized physical forms of our solar system, the most
concentrated part, which we call nucleus or head, still allows
the light of the stars to pass through it unrefracted. The
mass of comets, perhaps, never exceeds the five-thousandth
part of the mass of the earth : so variously do the forma
tive processes meet us in original and perhaps progressive
conglobations of matter. Setting out from what is most
general, it was especially necessary to indicate this 'diver
sity, not as a thing possible, but as a reality, — as a
datum in universal space.
What Wright, Kant, and Lambert, have deduced
from the conclusions of pure reason, in regard to the
construction of the universe, to the distribution of
matter in space, has been established by Sir William
Herschel upon the securer basis of observation and mea
surement. This great, inspired, and yet cautious observer,
first cast the plum-line into the depths of heaven, to
determine the boundaries and the form of the separate
cluster of stars which we inhabit ; and he was the first who
ventured to offer an explanation of the relations in point
of position and distance, of remote nebulous specks
THE FIXED STARS ASTRAL SYSTEMS. 93
to our own astral system. William Herschel, as the
elegant inscription on his monument, at Upton, says so
happily, " broke through the barriers of the heavens
(c<elorum perrupit claustra)." Like Columbus, he forced
his way into an unknown ocean, and caught a glimpse
of coasts and groups of islands whose true position it is
reserved for future centuries to determine.
Considerations on the varying intensity of the light
of the stars, and on their relative numbers, —in other
words, their numerical abundance or rarity in equal fields
of the telescope,—have led to inferences concerning the
unequal distances and distribution in space of the strata
which they compose. Such inferences, considered as
leading to circumscription of the several portions of the
universe, do not, however, admit of the same degree of
mathematical certainty as is attained in all that concerns
our own solar system, the revolutions of double stars,
with unequal velocities, around a common centre of
gravity, and the apparent or actual motions of the stars
in general. We are almost disposed to compare the
chapter in our physical cosmography which discusses the
nebulous specks of heaven, with the mythological portion
of general history. They both begin alike—the one
in die twilight of remote antiquity, the other in the depths
of illimitable space ; and where reality threatens to
disappear, fancy is doubly excited to draw from her own
abundance, and to give form and endurance to the Indefi
nite and the Changeable.
If we compare the universe with one of the isle-studded
oceans of our planet, we think that we can perceive matter
distributed group-wise : now, collected into unresolvable
94 PICTURE OF NATURE.
nebulous specks of various age ; now condensed around one,
or several, nuclei, and again rounded into clusters of stars,
or isolated sporades. The cluster of stars, the islet in
the infinity of space, to which we belong, forms a lenticular,
compressed, and everywhere distinct or separate layer,
the longer axis of which has been estimated at from
seven to eight hundred, and the shorter axis at some one
hundred and fifty, distances of Sirius. Presuming that
the parallax of Sirius is not greater than that of the
bright star in the Centaur, which has been accurately
ascertained (viz. 0"-9128), light would pass through
one distance of Sirius from the Earth in three years,
whilst, from Bessel's admirable earlier paper (*) on the
parallax (0"-3483) of the remarkable star in Cygnus
(the 61st), the very distinct proper motion of which
must admit of a very close approximation, it follows,
that the light of this star only reaches us after travelling
through space for some nine years and a quarter. Our
stratum of stars, a disc of relatively moderate thickness,
is divided, through one-third of its extent, into two
arms ; and it is thought that we are placed some
what near to this division—nearer to Sirius than to the
constellation of the Eagle, almost in the middle of the
material extension of the layer, in the line of its thickness,
or lesser axis.
This position of our solar system, and the formation
of the whole lens, are deduced by means of a process of
what has been aptly designated gauging the heavens; i. e.
reckoning the number of stars included in the same field
of the telescope turned on every side around. The increas
ing, or decreasing, number of stars measure the depth or
OUR ASTRAL SYSTEM. 95
thickness of the layer in different directions. Precisely
as the point at which the plummet strikes the bottom
determines the length of the line that it is cast
from the hand, do these soundings of the heavens give
the lengths of the visual ray, when the bottom of the
starry depths, or rather, and more correctly, as there
is neither above nor below here, when the limits of
starry space are attained. In the direction of the longer
axis, and where the greatest numbers of stars lie
one behind another, the eye perceives the farthest off
thickly crowded together, connected, as it seems, by a
milky glimmer (light-mist), and projected, in perspective,
upon the visible vault of heaven in the form of a belt or
girdle. This narrow belt of beautiful, but unequal radiance,
for its continuity is broken by less luminous spaces, divides
into two branches, and, save where it is interrupted for a
few degrees, forms a great circle upon the hollow sphere of
the heavens. This is in consequence of the position of
our system, near the middle of the great astral group to
which it belongs, and almost in the plane of the milky way
itself. Were our planetary system placed far without the
cluster, the milky way would present itself to the assisted
eye as a complete ring, and, at a still greater distance,
as a resolvable disc-shaped nebula.
Amongst the many self-luminous bodies, erroneously
designated fixed stars, for they are all in motion, which
constitute our island in the universe, our sun is the only
one which we know, through actual observation, as a cen
tral body in reference to the conglobated masses of matter, in
the shape of planets, comets, and aerolitic asteroids, which
revolve around, and immediately depend upon him. Among
96 PICTURE OF NATURE.
the multiple or double stars or suns, in so far as theirnature
has yet been studied, there does not appear to reign the
same planetary dependence, in respect of relative motion
and illumination, which characterises our solar system.
Two or more self-luminous stars, whose planets and moons
—if any such exist—escape our present telescopic powers
of vision, revolve unquestionably around a common centre
of gravity ; but this centre falls in a space that perchance
is filled with unaggregated matter (world-mist), whilst
with our sun it is always situated in the inner
confines of a visible central body. When we con
sider our sun and earth, or our earth and moon, as
double stars, and our whole planetary system as a
multiple group of stars, the analogy with the proper
multiple or double fixed stars, which such a designation
presents to the mindj extends no farther than to motions
connected with systems of attraction of different orders,
quite independently of light evolving processes, and kinds
of illumination.
In this generalization of cosmic views, which befits the
sketch of a Picture of Nature or the Universe, the solar
system to which our earth belongs may be considered
in a two-fold relationship : immediately, to the several
classes of individualized conglomerate matter,—to the
magnitude, the fashion, the density, and the distance
of the bodies of the system ; and, next, in its relations to
other parts of our astral system, to the sun's change of
place within the same.
The solar system, in other words, the very variously
fashioned matter which circulates about the sun, consists, ac
cording to our presentknowledge, ofeleven principalplanets,
THE PLANETS. 97
of eighteen moons or satellites, and of myriads of comets,
three of which, called planetary comets, never quit the
limited spheres of the proper planets. We may further,
with no slight show of propriety, reckon as falling within
the empire of our sun, as included within the sphere of his
central force ;— 1st, a ring of vaporous matter, revolving,
in all probability, betwixt the orbits of Venus and Mars,
certainly extending beyond the orbit of the earth, (5)
which is visible to us in a pyramidal form, and is
known under the name of the zodiacal light; 2d, a
host of very small asteroids, whose orbits either inter
sect the orbit of the earth, or approach it very nearly, and
give occasion to the phenomena of aerolites and falling
stars. When we direct our attention to the complexity
of formations which circulate about the sun in orbits more
or less excentric, unless, with the immortal author of
the " Mechanique Celeste," we regard the greater number
of comets as nebulous stars which sweep from one oentral
system to another (6), we must confess, that the planetary
system, strictly so called—the group of bodies which
revolve, with their attendant satellites, in but slightly
excentric orbits round the sun,— constitutes but a small
portion of the entire system, when the number, not the
mass, of the individuals is made the basis of consideration.
The telescopic planets, Vesta, Juno, Ceres, and Pallas,
with their mutually intersecting, much inclined, and
more excentric orbits, have been viewed as constituting a
kind of zone of separation between two divisions of
our planetary system, and as forming in themselves a
middle group. According to this view, the inner plane
tary group, comprising Mercury, Venus, the Earth, and
vol. I. F
98 THE PLANETS.
Mars, presents several remarkable points of contrast
with the outer group, consisting of Jupiter, Saturn, and
Uranus (?). The inner planets, nearer to the sun,
are of moderate dimensions, of greater density, turn
more slowly upon their axes, and, very nearly in the
same period of time (twenty-four hours), are flattened
towards their poles in a less degree, and, with one
exception, are unaccompanied by moons. The outer, and,
from the sun, more distant planets, are vastly larger, of
but one- fifth of the density, more than twice as rapid in
their periods of rotation about their axes, flattened towards
their poles in a much greater degree, and attended by a
far larger number of moons; in the ratio of 17 to 1, if
Uranus have actually so many as six satellites.
These general observations on certain characteristic
peculiarities of the two great groups, are not, however,
precisely or in all respects applicable to the particular
planets of each group ; for example, to the ratios of their
absolute magnitudes, to their distances from the central
body, to their densities, to the times of their rotations on
their axes, to their excentricities, and to the inclinations of
their orbits and of their axes. Weknow asyet ofno intimate
necessity, of no mechanical natural law, like the beautiful
law which connects the squares of the times of revolution
with the cubes of the greater axes, which makes the six
elements of the planets just indicated, and the form of
their orbits, dependent on one another, or on their mean
distances. Mars, more remote from the sun, is smaller
than the Earth or Venus; he approaches Mercury,
—the nearest of all the known planets to the sun,—
most closely in his diameter ; Saturn, again, is smaller
THE PLANETS. 99
than Jupiter, yet much larger than Uranus. The
zone of the telescopic planets, so insignificant in point
of volume, lies, in a series of distances setting out from
the sun, immediately before Jupiter, the most consider
able of all the planetary bodies ; and yet these asteroids,
several of whose discs can scarcely be measured, are
barely one half more in their superficies than Trance, or
Madagascar, or Borneo. Again, however remarkable the
very small density of all the colossal planets that lie
farthest from the sun, there is still nothing like a regular
sequence among them (8) . Uranus appears to be more dense
than Saturn, even when Lamont's smaller mass, a4 j6t, is
adopted ; and although the differences in point of density
of the inner group of planets (9), are insignificant, we
still find Venus and Mars, on either side of the Earth,
of less density than itself. The time of rotation de
creases, it is true, with the distance from the sun ; but for
Mars it is relatively greater than for the Earth, andfor Saturn
it is greater than for Jupiter. The greatest excentricities in
the elliptical orbits of any of the planets, occur in those of
Juno, Pallas, and Mercury; the least in those ofVenus and
the Earth, the two planets which follow each other imme
diately. Mercury and Venus present the same contrast in
the excentricity of their orbits which we observe in the four
so closely allied asteroids. The excentricities of Juno and
Pallas, which are very nearly alike, are three times greater
than those of Ceres andVesta. It is the same with reference
to the inclination of the planetary orbits to the plane of
projection of the ecliptic, and to the position of the
axes of rotation on their orbits, this position influencing
climate, season, and length of day, still more than
100 THE PLANETS.
excentricity. The planets which have the most elon
gated elliptical orbits, Juno, Pallas, and Mercury, are
also inclined in the greatest degree, although not in equal
measure, to the ecliptic. The orbit of Pallas is almost
comet-like, and its inclination is nearly twenty-six times
greater than that of Jupiter ; while the orbit of the little
Vesta, which is so near to Pallas, scarcely exceeds the
angle of inclination of the orbit of Jupiter six times. The
positions of the axes of the four or five planets, whose
axes of rotation are known with any degree of certainty,
also offer nothing like regularity of series. Judging from
the position of Uranus's satellites, two of which (the 2d
and 4th) have recently been certainly seen again, we
should say, that the axis of Uranus, the outermost of
all the planets, was scarcely inclined 1 1 ° to the plane of
his orbit; but Saturn, whose axis of rotation almost coin
cides with the plane of his orbit, revolves between Jupiter,
whose axis is nearly perpendicular, and Uranus, where,
as we have seen, it is but little inclined.
The world of planetary formations, in this brief enume
ration of the relations of these bodies in space, is assumed
as a fact, as a thing that exists in nature, not as an object
of intellectual intuition, of internal causally-founded con
catenation. The planetary system, in its relations of
absolute magnitude and relative position of axis, of
density, time of rotation, and different degree of excentri
city of orbit, does not strike us as naturally more necessary,
than is the measure of separation between the land and
the sea on the surface of our planet, than are the outlines of
its continents, or the heights of its mountain-chains. In
this respect there is no general law discoverable either in
THE PLANETS. THE SATELLITES. 101
celestial space, or in the inequalities of our earth's surface.
The things that we meet with are facts in nature, which
have proceeded from the conflict of multifarious forces in
operation under former and unknown conditions. But in
formation of the planets, man sees as accidental what
he is incapable of explaining genetically. If the planets
have been formed out of separate rings of vaporous
matter circulating round the sun, differences in the
density, the temperature, and the electro-magnetic ten
sion of these rings, may have given rise to the most
diverse fashions of the conglobated matter ; in the same
way as the amount of the velocity of projection, and
trifling aberrations in the direction of the projection, may
have given rise to manifold forms and inclinations of
the elliptical orbits. The attraction of masses, and the
laws of gravitation, have undoubtedly been at work here,
as in the geognostic relations of continental upheavings ;
but we are not to draw conclusions from the present
state of things, as to the entire series of conditions which
have been passed through from their commencement.
Even the law, as it has been styled, of the distances of
the planets from the sun, the progression from the failing
member in which Kepler was led to suspect the existence
of a planet betwixt Mars and Jupiter, has been found
incorrect numerically for the distances between Mercury,
Venus, and the Earth, and because of a supposed first-
member, inapplicable to the idea of a regular series.
The eleven principal planets which have been discovered
circulating round the sun, are accompanied by at least
fourteen, and very probably by eighteeen, secondary
planets (satellites or moons). The primary planets are
102 SATELLITES, OR MOONS.
therefore, in their turn, central bodies with reference to
subordinate systems. And here, in the structure of the
universe, we recognize the same formative process which
the evolution of organic life so often exhibits to us in
the extremely complex groups of animals and plants,
in the typical repetition of forms of subordinate spheres.
The secondary planets, or moons, occur in larger numbers
in the outer region of the planetary sytem, in connection
with the three great planets that lie without the zone
formed by the four telescopic planets. With the single
exception of the earth, all the planets within this zone are
moonless, and the satellite of the earth is relatively of
very large dimensions, inasmuch as its diameter amounts
to one-fourth of that of the earth ; whilst the largest of
all the secondaries known, the sixth of Saturn, is
not more perhaps than the -ryth, and the largest of
Jupiter's moons, the third, is not above ^-th the diame
ter of its primary. The planets which have the greatest
number of moons are the most remote, and they are, at
the same time, the largest, the least dense, and the
most flattened at the poles. The late measurements of
Madler seem to indicate Uranus as the planet which
is flattened towards the poles in the greatest degree,
-5-.-5-T- In the earth and her moon, whose mean dis
tance from one another amounts to 237,000 English
miles, the differences in the masses and the diameters
of the two bodies are much smaller than we are ac
customed to meet with them in primary and secondary
planets, and bodies of a different order in the solar
system (10). Whilst the density of the earth's satellite is
fths less than that of the earth itself, it would appear,
SATELLITES, OR MOONS. 103
supposing we can depend on the determinations that have
been come to on the magnitudes and the masses of the
satellites, that of the moons which attend upon Jupiter,
the second is denser than the primary planet.
Of the fourteen satellites the relations of which have
been determined with something like accuracy, the system
of Saturn presents instances of the most remarkable
contrast in the absolute magnitudes and distances from
the primary. The sixth satellite of Saturn is probably
not much smaller than Mars, whilst the earth's moon is
only one-half the diameter of this planet. Next in order,
in point of volume, to the two outermost satellites of
Saturn (the sixth and the seventh), comes the third and
brightest of the moons of Jupiter. On the other hand,
the two innermost satellites of Saturn, which were dis
covered by Sir William Herschel, in 1789, with his great
40 foot telescope, and which have been again seen by Sir
John Herschel at the Cape, by Vico at Rome, and by
Lamont at Munich, belong, in common with the satel
lites of Uranus, to the smallest of the visible bodies that
enter into the constitution of our solar system. These
satellites, indeed, are only to be seen under peculiarly
favourable circumstances, and with the most powerful
telescopes. All determinations of the true diameters of
satellites, deductions of these from measurements of
the apparent magnitudes of small discs, are exposed
to many optical difficulties ; and physical astronomy,
which calculates before-hand, and with such admirable
precision, the motions of the heavenly bodies, as they
are exhibited from our place of observation, the
earth, is more concerned about motion and mass, than
volume.
104 SATELLITES, OR MOONS.
The absolute distance of a satellite from its primary,
is greatest in the case of the outermost or seventh satellite
of Saturn, which is half a million of geographical miles*
remote, or ten times as far as the distance of our moon
from the earth. In reference to Jupiter, the outermost or
fourth satellite is no more than 260,000 geographical
miles* from the planet ; the fifth satellite of Uranus, how
ever, if it actually exist, must be at the distance of
340,000 miles.
On comparing, in each of these subordinate systems,
the volume of the primary planet, with the distance of
the farthest orbit in which a satellite has been formed, we
discover totally dissimilar numerical relations. Expressed
in semidiameters of the principal planets, the distances of
the farthest satellites of Uranus, Saturn, and Jupiter,
are as 91, 64, and 27. Saturn's outermost satellite,
therefore, is but a very little (-rj-th) more remote from
the centre of the primary than our moon is from the
the earth. The satellite that approaches its primary most
closely, is undoubtedly the first or innermost of Saturn,
which, in addition, presents the only instance of a revolu
tion in less than 24 hours. The distance of this satellite
from Saturn's centre, according to Madler and Beer,
expressed in semidiameters of the primary, is only 247,
or 20,022 geographical miles*. This satellite cannot,
therefore, be distant from the surface of its primary
more than 11,870 g. miles; and from the outer edge
of the ring, only 1,229 g. miles. One who has been
a traveller readily forms an idea of so short a distance,
the more so when he thinks of that bold seaman, Captain
* The miles are always German geographical miles, 15 to a degree of
the Equator.—Translator.
SATELLITES, OR MOONS. 105
Beechey, having sailed over 18,200 geographical miles
in the course of three years. Recurring to semidiameters
of the primary as measures of distance, we find that the
first or innermost satellite of Jupiter is no more than six
semidiameters of the planet from his centre ; our moon,
on the contrary, is 60-^- semidiameters of the earth from
its centre. The first satellite of Jupiter is, nevertheless,
6,500 miles farther from his centre, than our moon from
the centre of the earth.
In the subordinate systems of the satellites, in other
respects, all the laws of gravitation are reflected that have
been established in connection with the sun and the pri
maries which revolve around him. The twelve satellites
of Saturn, Jupiter, and the Earth, all revolve, like the
primary planets, from west to east, and in elliptical orbits,
which differ but little from circles. It is only the
moon, and probably the first, or innermost satellite of
Saturn (0-068), which have orbits, whose eccentricity sur
passes that of Jupiter. Bessel's very accurate observa
tions on the 6th satellite of Saturn show that the eccen
tricity here (0-029), exceeds that of the Earth.
It is only in connection with the satellites of Uranus,
on the extreme limit of the planetary system, at nineteen
times the distance of the earth from the sun, and where
his central force must be notably diminished, that we
find any thing like contrasts to admitted laws. Instead
of moving, like all the other satellites, in orbits but little
inclined to the ecliptic, and from west to east, (the ring
of Saturn, a kind of fused or undivided satellite, not
excepted), the moons of Uranus revolve in planes nearly
f2
106 SATELLITES, OR MOONS.
perpendicular to the ecliptic, and, as Sir John Herschel
has found, after many years of observation, in retrograde
courses from east to west. If the primary and secondary
planets of our system have actually been formed out
of rotating rings of vapour, by condensations of former
solar and planetary atmospheres, there must have been
strange, and to us altogether inconceivable conditions of
retardation or counteration among the vaporous rings
that revolved around Uranus, to have brought about such
a singular opposition to the motions of the central body
as we observe in his 2d and 3d satellites.
It is highly probable, that the period of rotation of all
the satellites is the same as their period of revolution, so
that they still keep the same side turned towards their
primaries. Inequalities, as a consequence of slight varia
tions in the revolution, nevertheless, occasion oscillations
of from 6 to 8 degrees—an apparent libration—both in
longitude and latitude. We therefore actually see, in suc
cession, more than one half of the surface of the moon ; at
one time more of her eastern and northern, at another more
of herwestern and southern limb. By the libration(n) the
annular mountain Malapert, which the south pole of the
moon covers at times, is made more visible to us, and then
we obtain a better view of the arctic landscape around the
mountain-crater Gioja, as also of the extensive grey level
near Endymion, which surpasses the Mare vaporum in
superficial extent. In spite of all this, however, three-
sevenths of the moon's surface remain, and, unless some
new and unexpected cause of perturbation interferes, will
ever remain withdrawn from our eyes. These cosmic
COMETS. 107
relations remind us, involuntarily, of a nearly similar
position of things in the intellectual world, in the products
of thought, where, in the deep investigation of the dark
elaboratory of nature and the prime creative power, there
are also regions turned from our ken, and that seem unat
tainable, though, in the course of thousands of years, man
kind have, from time to time, caught a glimpse of some
narrow stripe or margin, now in a true and steady, now in a
more false and flickering light.
We have hitherto regarded the principal planets, their
satellites, and the concentric ring that belongs to at least
one of the outermost of them, as products of a projectile
force, and as connected with one another by intimate bonds
of mutual attractions.
We have still to speak of Comets, an innumerable
host, which revolve around the sun in definite orbits, and
from him derive their light. When we estimate the rela
tive lengths of the orbits of these bodies, the boundaries
of their perihelia, and the great likelihood of their
remaining invisible to the inhabitants of the earth, by the
rule of probabilities, we find that they must amount to
such myriads as makes the imagination pause amazed.
Kepler, with the liveliness of expression that distinguished
him, says, that there are more comets in the depths of
space, than there are fishes in the bosom of the ocean ;
and yet we have scarcely the accurately-computed orbits
of some 150 of the six or seven hundred of these bodies,
upon whose appearance and course through known con
stellations we have indications more or less rude. Whilst
the classic nations of the west, the Ancient Greeks and
Romans, occasionally give the place in the heavens where
108 COMETS.
a comet was first seen, but never say a word of its appa
rent course, the ample literature of the Chinese, those
accurate observers of nature and of individual things,
contains circumstantial notices of the constellations
through which each comet passed. These notices extend
to more than five hundred years before the commencement
of the Christian era, and many of them are used by astro
nomers at the present day(12).
Of all planetary bodies, comets are those which,
with the smallest masses, occupy the largest fields of
space. The particular observations that have hitherto
been made upon them, indicate masses much under the
3 0i0 0th of that of the earth ; yet have these bodies tails,
which often extend over many millions of miles, both in
length and breadth. The light-reflecting tail, or cone of
vaporous matter which comets emit, has occasionally been
observed to be as long as is the distance of the earth from
the sun, a line which intersects the orbits of two of the
planets, those of Mercury and Venus. This was the case
with the remarkable comets of 1680 and 1811 ; and it is
even probable that our atmosphere was mingled with the
vapour of the comets' tails of the years 1819 and 1823.
Comets exhibit such variety of forms or appearances,
often appertaining to the individual rather than to the
kind, that a description of one of these travelling light-
clouds—for so they were called by Xenophanes and
Theon of Alexandria, the contemporaries of Pappus—can
only be applied with certain precautions to another. The
feeblest telescopic comets are generally without any
visible tail, and resemble the nebulous stars of Herschel.
They appear as rounded, palely-glimmering nebulae,
COMETS. 109
with the light stronger or more concentrated towards the
middle. This is the simplest type ; but it is even as little a
rudimentary or nascent type on this account, as it is a type
of a planetary body grown old, and become exhausted by
exhalation. In larger comets we distinguish a head, or
nucleus, as it is commonly called, and a simple or com
pound tail, which the Chinese astronomers entitle, very
characteristically, the brush (sui). In general the nu
cleus has no definite outline, although, in some cases, it
has the splendour of a star of the first or second magni
tude; and in the great comets of 1402, 1532, 1577, 1744,
and 1843, it had such brilliancy, that it could be seen in
bright sunshine (13). This last circumstance seems to
testify to the existence, in some members of the family at
least, of greater density and a highly reflective faculty in the
mass. But no more than two comets have yet been seen,
which, in Herschel's great telescope, presented well-defined
discs (14); these two are the one of 1807, discovered in
Sicily, and the magnificent one of 181 1. The disc of the
former appeared under an angle of 1", that of the latter
under an angle of 0"-77, from which an actual diameter
of 134 and 107 miles respectively is obtained. The less
precisely defined nuclei of the comets of 1798 and 1805,
indicated diameters of no more than 6 or 7 miles. In
several comets that have been accurately observed, par
ticularly in the one of 18] 1, mentioned above, and that
was seen so long, the nucleus, and the misty envelope
which surrounded it, were wholly separated from the tail
by a darker space. The intensity of the light of the
nucleus does not go on increasing continuously towards
the centre ; bright zones are repeatedly separated by con
110 COMETS.
centric misty envelopes. The tail, as stated, has appeared
now single, now double; but rarely, although this was the
case in the comets of 1809 and 1843, of very different
lengths in the two branches; one comet, that of 1744,
has appeared, which had six tails. The tail, again, is either
straight or curved, now to both sides, now outwardly
(1811), or convex to the side towards which the comet
is tending (1618) ; occasionally the tail has been waving
or flame-shaped. The tails of comets are always turned
from the sun in such wise that their axes produced would
pass through the centre of that luminary ; a fact which
Biot assures us was notified by the Chinese astronomers
so long ago as the year 837, but which was first distinctly
mentioned in Europe by Fracastorius and Petrus Apianus
in the 1 6th century. These effusions may be regarded as
conoidal envelopes, havingthicker or thinner walls,—a view
upon which several very remarkable optical appearances
may readily be explained.
The several comets, however, are not so characteris
tically distinguished by their mere forms or appearance—
they are not in one case tailless, in another provided with
a tail of 104 degrees in length, as was the third of the
year 1618; we further observe them passing through
a rapid succession of varying formative processes. This
change of form was most accurately and ably observed
by Heinsius, of St. Petersburgh, in the comet of 1744,
and in Halley's comet, on its last appearance in 1835, by
Bessel, of Konigsberg, by whom it has been very carefully
described. On the part of the nucleus which was turned
towards the sun there was a kind of tufted emanation appa
rent. The rays of this that bent backwards went to form
COMETS. Ill
part of the tail. " The nucleus of Halley's comet, with its
emanations, presented the appearance of a burning rocket,
the train of which was deflected sideways by a current of air."
The rays proceeding from the head were seen by Arago
and myself from the Parisian observatory on successive
nights with very different appearances (15). The great
Konigsberg astronomer, from numerous measurements
and theoretical considerations, concluded " that the out-
streaming cone of light departed distinctly, both to the
right and left, from the line of direction towards the sun ;
but always returned to this line again, to pass over to the
opposite side ; that the outstreaming cone of light, there
fore, as well as the body of the comet itself, which engen
ders and throws it out, has a rotatory, or rather a vibra
tory motion in the plane of the orbit." He found,
further, " that the ordinary attractive force of the sun
which is exerted upon heavy bodies, is not adequate to
account for these vibrations ;" and is of opinion " that
they proclaim a power of polarity in the comet, which
keeps one semi-diameter of the body turned towards, the
other semi-diameter turned from, the sun ; thatthe magnetic
property possessed by the earthmay present something of an
analogous nature ; and should the opposites of the telluric
polarity inhere in the sun, the influence of this might
show itself in the precession of the equinoxes." This is
not the place for a more particular development of the
grounds upon which explanations that accord with the
phenomena have been built ; but observations so remark
able (16), views of such magnitude in reference to the
most wonderful class of bodies that belong to our solar
112 COMETS.
system, could not be passed by unnoticed in this sketch
of a general picture of nature.
Notwithstanding the rule according to which the tails of
comets increase in size and brightness as the perihelion is
approached, and are turned from the central body of our
system, the comet of 1823 presented the remarkable
example of two tails, which formed an angle of 1600 with
each other, and of which one was turned from the sun,
as usual, whilst the other was turned towards him.
Peculiar modifications of the polarity, and unequal distri
bution and conduction of this, may, in the rare instance
just quoted, have occasioned a two-fold and uninterrupted
effusion of nebulous matter (,7).
In the natural philosophy of Aristotle, the phenomena
of comets and the existence of the milky way may be
found brought into a most strange juxtaposition or con
nection. The countless multitude of stars which compose
the milky way give off a self-igniting or luminous mass ;
and the nebulous streak that divides the vault of the
heavens is therefore regarded by the Stagirite as a mighty
comet, which ceaselessly reproduces itself (18).
Occultations of the fixed stars by the head or nucleus
of a comet, or its immediate vaporous envelope, might
throw some light upon the physical constitution of these
wonderful heavenly bodies ; but we have no observations
which give us unquestionable assurance that any occulta-
tion has been observed which was completely central (19) ;
for, as we have above observed, there are alternate concen
tric scales of dense and very rare vapour in the parts lying
near the nucleus. On the other hand, there is no question
COMETS. 113
of the fact, that on the 29th of September, 1 835, the light of
a star of the 10th magnitude passed through an extremely
dense vapour, at the distance of 7-"78 from the cen
tral point in the head of Halley's comet, according to
Bessel's very accurate measurements ; and that the light
of this star suffered not the slightest deflection from its
rectilinear course at any moment of the passage through this
vapour (20) . Such an absence of refractive power, if it
actually extends to the centre of the nucleus, renders it
difficult to imagine that the matter of comets is at all of the
nature of a gasiform fluid. Or, is the absence of refrin-
gent power the mere result of an almost infinite rarity of
a fluid of this description ? or does a comet consist of
segregated particles, forming a cosmic cloud, which affects
the ray of light passing through it in no greater degree than
the clouds of our atmosphere, which have no influence in
altering the zenith distance of the fixed stars or the edges
of the sun ? A greater or less diminution of the light of
a fixed star has indeed been remarked during the passage
of a comet over it, but this has been ascribed, with great
propriety, to the lighter ground from which the star
appears to stand out during the occultation.
The most important and decisive observations which
have yet been made upon the nature of the light of
comets, are those of Arago on its polarization. The
polariscope of this distinguished philosopher gives us
information of the physical constitution of the sun as well
as of that of comets ; the instrument, in a word, in
forms us whether a ray of light that reaches us after
travelling many millions of miles, is direct or reflected
light, and whether, in the former case, the source of the
114 COMETS.
ray is a solid, a liquid, or a gaseous body. The light of
Capella, and that of the great comet of 181 9, were examined
by the same apparatus : the comet showed polarized and
therefore reflected light ; the brilliant star, as was to have
been anticipated, proclaimed itself a self-luminous sun (21).
The existence of polarized light in connection with the
comet, however, was not merely made known by the in
equality of the images ; on the reappearance of Halley's
comet in the year 1835, it was still more distinctly
indicated by the striking contrast of complementary
colours, in accordance with the laws of chromatic polariza
tion discovered by Arago, in 181 1 . But it still remains un
determined, even by the beautiful experiments just referred
to, whether, besides the reflected sun-light, comets have not
also a light proper to themselves. In some, at least, of
the true planets, Venus for example, it appears to be
extremely probable that there is an inherent independent
capacity to evolve light.
The variable brightness of comets is not always to be ex
plained from their position in their orbit, and their distance
from the sun. It certainly points, in particular indivi
duals, to internal processes of condensation, and of aug
mented or diminished power of reflecting borrowed light.
In the case of the comet of 1618, as also of the one with
a period of three years, Hevelius observed the nucleus to
be lessened as the sun was approached, increased as he was
quitted; and this remarkable phenomenon, so long ne
glected, has lately been again referred to and confirmed by
Balz, the able astronomer of Nismes. The regularity in
the alteration of volume according to the distance from
the sun is particularly striking. The physical explanation
COMETS. 1 1 8
of the phenomenon cannot well be sought for in any
increased density of the layers of the world-ether at
distances progressively nearer the sun ; for it is difficult
to conceive the vaporous envelope of the comet's nucleus
as vesicular, and impenetrable to the ether that fills the
universe (22).
The very dissimilar excentricities in the elliptical orbits
of comets has led in recent times (1819) to brilliant addi
tions to our knowledge of the solar system. Encke
made the discovery of a comet of so short a period that
it always remains within the limits of our planetary
orbits ; he found that the place of its aphelion or greatest
distance from the sun lay between the orbits of the teles^
copic planets and that of Jupiter. The excentricity of
this comet's orbit is 0845, that of Juno, (the greatest
excentricity among all the planetary orbits) being 0-255.
Encke's comet has repeatedly been seen with the naked eye,
although it is not easily discovered ; it was seen, however,
in Europe in 1819, and, according to Rumker, in New
Holland in 1822. The period of this comet is nearly
3J years ; but from careful comparisons of the times of
its return to the perihelion, the remarkable fact has been dis
covered that its periods from 1786 to 1838 have been
going on regularly contracting from revolution to revo
lution, viz. in the course of 52 years, by one and -^ths
of a day. So remarkable a circumstance has led to
the admission of the very probable existence of a vapori-
form matter diffused in planetary space, and capable of
opposing a certain resistance to bodies in motion through
it. Something of the kind, indeed, seems necessary in
order to bring the most careful consideration of every
116 COMETS.
source of planetary perturbation into harmony with the
results of observation and calculation. The tangential
force is diminished, and with it the greater axis of the
cometary orbit. The value of the constant of resis
tance appears, moreover, to be somewhat different
before and after the passage of the perihelion, which
is perhaps to be ascribed to the altered form of the small
nucleus, and to the effect of inequality in density of
the layers of ether in the sun's vicinity (25). These facts,
and their explanation, must be reckoned among the
number of the most interesting results of modern astro
nomy. And then, if Encke's comet led us at an earlier
period to subject the mass of Jupiter—always so important
in every reckoning of perturbation—to a closer scrutiny,
its course has subsequently obtained for us the first,
although merely approximative, determination of an
inferior mass for Mercury.
The first comet of short period, namely, Encke's, of
3J years, was followed, in 1826, by another planetary
one, the aphelion of which lies beyond the orbit ofJupiter,
butmuch within that of Saturn. This, orBiela's comet, com
pletes its revolution in 6f years. Its light is still more
feeble than that of Encke's comet. The motion of both
these comets is direct, whilst that of Halley's is retrograde
—contrary to the motion ofthe planets properly so called.
Biela's comet presents the first certain instance of the
orbit of a comet intersecting that of the Earth ; its path
is, therefore, one of possible danger—if we can regard as
dangerous a phenomenon which has not been observed
within the historical period, and of which the conse
quences are doubtful. Small masses, possessed of enormous
COMETS. 117
velocities, may certainly exercise a notable force ; but,
though Laplace demonstrated the mass of the comet
of 1770 to be less than the 1 -5000th of that of the Earth,
he supposes, with a certain degree of probability, that the
average masses of the comets are much below the one hun
dred thousandth part of the Earth's (about the l-1200th
of the moon's) mass (24) . We must not confound the
passage of Biela's comet through our earth's orbit, with its
proximity to, or absolute encounter with, the Earth itself.
When this passage took place on October 29th, 1838, the
Earth was still a full month off from the point of inter
section of the two orbits.
The drbits of these two comets of short period mu
tually intersect each other ; and it has been correctly ob
served (25), that owing to the numerous perturbations
which such small celestial bodies suffer from the planets,
it is not impossible for them to encounter, and that, should
this occur about the middle of the month of October, the
inhabitants of the Earth might behold the extraordinary
spectacle of a cosmical combat ; in other words, of the
mutual penetration of two comets, of their agglutina
tion, or of their destruction, in consequence of exhaustive
emanations. The immense ethereal expanse may have
witnessed during millions of years several events of this
kind, consequences of deviations produced by perturbing
masses, or of originally intersecting orbits ; still they are
insulated phenomena, having as little general influence in
modifying the form or state of the universe, as the
appearance or extinction of a volcano in the limited
sphere of the Earth.
A third planetary comet of short period was discovered
120 COMETS.
ledge), I need only remind the reader that the most recent
estimates of parallax still make the nearest fixed star 250
times farther from the sun than the aphelion of this comet,
which is only 44 times as remote as Uranus, whilst the
star a Centauri is 11,000, and the star 61 Cygni (after
Bessel's very accurate observations) is 31,000 times more
distant than the planet.
After this consideration of the greatest elongations of
comets from the central body of the solar system, let us
glance at those which have approached it most nearly. The
instance of the greatest known proximity of a comet to the
earth occurred with that of Lexell and Burkhardt, cele
brated for the perturbations it suffered from Jupiter ; this
comet was only six times the distance of the moon
from us on June 28th, 1770. In 1767 and 1779, the same
comet twice traversed the system of Jupiter's satellites,
without causing the slightest perceptible derangement in
their orbits ; orbits which have been so thoroughly investi
gated by physical astronomers. But the great comet of
1 680, when at its perihelion, was from eight to nine times
nearer to the surface of the sun than Lexell's was to the
earth. On December 17th, the sun and the comet of
1680 were only one-sixth of the diameter of the former
body apart ; in other words, seven-tenths of the moon's
distance from us. Owing to the feebleness of the light of
distant comets, perihelia beyond the orbit of Mars are
rarely observable by man ; the comet of 1 729 is, in fact,
the only one of those hitherto computed which has its
perihelion between the orbits of Pallas and Jupiter,
and which has been observed beyond the path of the
latter planet.
COMETS. 121
Since scientific acquirements, some solid, by the side
of much superficial learning, have penetrated in wider
circles into social life, the fears of the possible evils where
with comets threaten us have increased in weight, and
their direction has become more definite. The certainty
of there being several periodical comets within the known
planetary orbits, visiting us at short intervals ; the con
siderable perturbations which Jupiter and Saturn cause in
their paths, whereby apparently harmless wanderers of the
sky may be converted into peril-fraught bodies ; the orbit
of Biela's comet passing through that of the earth ; the
existence of a cosmical ether, that resisting and retarding
fluid which tends to contract the orbits of all the planetary
bodies ; the individual differences in the bodies of comets
which permit us to suspect considerable gradations in the
quantity of the mass of the nucleus ;—all these circum
stances amply replace, in multiplicity of grounds, the
dread which, in former centuries, was entertained of
flaming swords, and an universal conflagration to be
lighted up by fiery stars.
As the grounds for confidence derivable from the doc
trine of probabilities only operate on the understanding,
are only of avail among the reflecting, and produce
no effect on gloomy apprehension and imagination, mo
dern science has been charged, not altogether without
reason, with seeking to allay the fears which it has itself
created. It is a principle laid deeply in the desponding
nature of man, in his inherent disposition to view things
on the dark rather than on the bright side, that the unex
pected, the extraordinary, excites fear, not hope or joy (27).
The strange aspect of a mighty comet, its pale nebulous
vol. i. o
122 COMETS. SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES.
gleam, its sudden appearance in the heavens, have in all
countries, and almost at all times, been held as porten
tous indications of change or dissolution of the old-esta
blished order of things. And then, as the apparition is
never more than short lived, arises the belief that its
significance must be reflected in contemporaneous or
immediately succeeding events. And such is the enchain
ment of events, that some particular incident scarcely
fails to turn up which can be fixed upon as the calamity
prognosticated. It is only in these times that a spirit of
greater hopefulness, in connection with the appearance of
comets, has shewn itself among the people. In the beau
tiful vallies of the Rhine and the Moselle, ever since the
appearance of the brilliant comet of 1811, comets have
been regarded as exerting a favourable influence on the
ripening of the grape ; nor have various years of indiffe
rent vintage, along with the appearance of other comets,
instances of which have not been wanting, been able to
shake the faith of the wine-growers of the north of
Germany in their beneficial influences.
I now pass from comets to another and yet more
enigmatical class of agglomerated matter, to the smallest
of all asteroids, which, in their fragmentary condition,
and when they have arrived in our atmosphere, we de
signate by the name of Aerolites, or Meteoric Stones.
If I dilate at greater length on these bodies than I have
done on comets, and accumulate those individual features
which should otherwise be excluded from a general survey
of nature, it is done with a purpose. The very remarkable
characteristic diversities of comets have been long known.
SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES. 123
From the little that has yet been learned of their physical
condition, it is difficult, in an exposition such as is here
required, to seize the Common, and to separate the Neces
sary from the Accidental, in phenomena observed with
very different degrees of accuracy. The measuring and
calculating astronomy of comets has alone made marvel
lous progress. In this state of our knowledge, a scientific
consideration must be limited to physiognomical dif
ferences in the fashion of the nucleus and tail; to exam
ples of closer approximations to other planetary bodies ;
to extremes in orbits with reference to space, and in
periods of revolution to time. Natural truth in these, as
in the phenomena that are immediately to be spoken of, is
only to be attained by a delineation of the Individual,
and by the animated and contemplative expression of
reality.
Shooting Stars, Fire-balls, and Meteoric Stones,
are, with great appearance of probability, regarded as
small masses moving with planetary velocity in conic
sections round the sun, in harmony with the laws of
universal gravitation. When these masses encounter the
Earth in their course, and, attracted by it, become lumi
nous on the verge of our atmosphere, they frequently let
fall stony fragments, heated in greater or less degree, and
covered on their surface with a black and shining crust.
By careful analysis of all that has been observed at diffe
rent epochs when great numbers of shooting stars have
fallen, as at Cumana in 1799, in North Amerioa in 1833
and 1834, &c., it seems no longer proper to separate
fire-balls from shooting stars. Both phenomena are not
only frequently contemporaneous and intermingled, but
124 SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES.
they also pass into one another, and this whether we pay
particular attention to the dimensions of the discs, to
the sparks or trains of fire which they emit, or to the
velocities of their respective motions. Whilst there are
fire-balls that have the apparent diameter of the moon, that
explode and emit smoke, and possess such brilliancy that
they can be seen at noon-day (28), there are, on the other
hand, shooting stars in countless multitudes, of such small
dimensions that they only present themselves to the eye
in the form of moving points or of phosphorescent
lines (29) . But whether or not among the many luminous
bodies that shoot through the sky in the form of falling
stars and meteors, there are not several of different natures,
remains to be shown. Occupied, shortly after my return
home, with the impression which the phenomena of
shooting stars had left upon my mind, and remembering
that I had observed them in greater numbers, of brighter
colours, and more commonly accompanied by long and
brilliant trains, both on intertropical plains just raised
above the level of the sea, and on mountains at the height
of twelve and even fifteen thousand feet above its surface,
than in the temperate and frigid zones, I soon perceived
that the ground of the more vivid impression lay in the
glorious transparency of the tropical atmosphere itself (30) .
There one sees deeper into space. Sir Alexander
Burnes, too, speaks of the magnificent and constantly
recurring spectacle of coloured shooting stars, which he
enjoyed in Bokhara, and which he attributes to the purity
of the atmosphere.
The connection of meteoric stones with the grander and
more brilliant phenomena of fire-balls—that stones actually
SHOOTING STABS AND AEROLITES. 125
fell from these fire-balls, and penetrate ten or fifteen feet
into the ground, has been shown, among many other in
stances of the kind, by the well-known fall of aerolites at
Barbotan, in the department Des Landes, on the 24th July,
1790, at Lima on the 16th of June, 1794, at Weston, in
Connecticut, on the 14thof December, 1807, and atJuvenas,
in the department of Ardeche, on the 16th of June, 1821.
Other phenomena connected with the fall of aerolites are
those where the masses have descended, shaken, as it
were, from the bosom of a small dark cloud, which had
formed suddenly in the midst of a clear sky, accompanied
with a noise that has been compared to the report of a single
piece of artillery. Whole districts of country have occa
sionally been covered with thousands of fragments of
stones, of very dissimilar magnitudes, but like con
stitution, which had been rained down from a pro
gressive cloud of the kind described. In rarer instances,
as in that which occurred at Kleinwenden, not far from
Muhlhausen, on the 16th of September, 1848, large
aerolites have fallen amidst a noise like thunder, when
the sky was clear and without the formation of any cloud.
The close affinity between fire-balls and shooting stars is
also shown by the fact of instances having occurred, of
the former throwing down stones, though they had
scarcely the diameter of the balls that are projected from
our fireworks called Koman candles. This happened
notably at Angers on the 9th of June, 1822.
With regard to the form-producing forces, the phy
sical and chemical processes in these phenomena, we
are still completely in the dark. We know not whether
the particles which form the compact mass of the aerolite
126 SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES.
lay originally apart from one another, in the shape of
vapour, as in comets, and first contracted and ran to
gether when they began to lighten within the gleaming
ball ; we know nothing of what takes place in the black
cloud, where it sometimes continues to thunder for
minutes before the stones descend ; neither are we aware
whether from the smaller shooting stars there be any
precipitation of solid matter, or only an attenuated dry-
haze, ora ferruginous and nickeliferous meteoric dust (31).
We, however, know the immense, the wonderful and per
fectly planetary rapidity of shooting stars, fire-balls, and
meteoric stones ; we recognise the General in reference
to them, and in this Generality perceive uniformity of
phenomena only, nothing of genetical cosmic process,
the consequence of change. If meteoric stones revolve
already consolidated into dense masses32 (less dense,
however, than the mean density of the Earth), then must
they form very insignificant nuclei to the fire-balls, sur
rounded by inflammable vapours or gases, from the interior
of which they shoot, and which, judging from their height
and apparent diameters, must have actual diameters of
from 500 to 2600 feet. The largest meteoric masses of
which we have information, those to wit of Bahia and
Otumpa in Chaco, which Rubi de Celis has described, are
from 7 to 7^- feet in length. The meteoric stone of
Aegos Potamos, so celebrated through the whole of anti
quity, and which is even mentioned in the Marble-
chronicle of Paris, is described as having been of the
magnitude of two millstones, and of the weight of a
waggon load. Despite the vain attempts of the African
traveller, Browne, I have not yet abandoned the hope that
SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES. 127
this great Thracian meteoric stone, which must be so
difficult of destruction; though it fell more than 2300
years ago, will again be discovered by one or other of the
numerous Europeans who now perambulate the East in
safety. The enormous aerolite which fell in the beginning
of the 10th century in the river at Narni, projected a
whole ell above the surface of the water, as we are assured
by a document lately discovered by Pertz. It is to be
observed, however, that none of these aerolites, whether of
ancient or modern times, can be regarded as more than
principal fragments of the mass which was scattered by the
explosion of the fire-ball or murky cloud whence they
descended.
When we duly consider the mathematically determined
enormous velocities with which meteoric stones fall from
the outer confines of our atmosphere to the earth, or with
which, as fire-balls, they speed for long distances through
even the denser fields of air, it seems to me more than
improbable that the metalliferous mass, with its internally
disseminated and very perfect crystals of olivine, labrador,
and pyroxene, could have run together in so short an inter
val into a solid nucleus from any state of gas or vapour.
The mass that falls, besides, even in cases where the chemi
cal constitution varies, has always the particular characters
of a fragment ; it is commonly of a prismatoidal or irregu
lar pyramidal form, with somewhat arched surfaces and
rounded edges. But whence this figure, first observed by
Schreibers, of a mass detached from a rotating planetary
body ? Here, too, as in the circle of organic life, all that
has reference to the history of evolution is hidden in ob
scurity. Meteors begin to lighten and to burn at elevations
128 SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES.
which we must look upon as almost perfect vacuums, or that
cannot contain 1- 100,000th of oxygen. Biot's new re
searches on the interesting crepuscular phenomenon (83),
reduce the line very notably which, somewhat hardily
perhaps, is frequently spoken of as the limits of our
atmosphere ; but luminous phenomena take place inde
pendently of the presence of oxygen, and Poisson has
admitted the combustion of aerolites, or meteors, as
occurring far beyond the confines of our atmosphere. It
is only in so far as calculation and geometrical admeasure
ment can be applied to meteoric stones, as to the greater
bodies of the solar system, that we feel ourselves proceed
ing on surer grounds. Although Halley had already pro
nounced the great fire-ball of 1686, the motion of which
was in opposition to that of the earth, a cosmic pheno
menon (34), Chladni was the first (1794) who, in the most
general terms, and most clearly recognised the connection
betwixt fire-balls and the stones that fall from the at
mosphere, as well as the correspondence between the
motions of these bodies and those of the planetary masses
at large (35). A brilliant confirmation of this view of the
cosmic origin of such phenomena has been supplied by
Denison Olmsted, of Newhaven, Massachusetts, in his
observations on the showers of shooting stars and fire-balls
which made their appearance in the night from the 12th
to the 13th of November, 1833. On this occasion, all
these bodies proceeded from the same quarter of the
heavens—from a point, namely, near the star y Leonis,
from which they did not deviate, although the star, in the
course of the lengthened observation, changed both its ap
parent elevation and its azimuth. Such an independence of
SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES. 129
the rotation of the earth proclaimed that the luminous
bodies came from without—from outer space into our
atmosphere. According to Encke's calculations of the
entire series of observations that were made in the United
States of North America, between the parallels of 350
and 420, the whole of the shooting stars came from the
the point in space towards which the earth was moving at
the same epoch (36). In the subsequent American obser
vations on the shooting stars of November 1834 and
1837, and the Bremen ones of 1838, the general paral
lelism of their courses, and the direction of the meteors
from the constellation Leo, were perceived. As in the
November periodical recurrence of shooting stars, a more
decided parallel and particular direction has been noted
than in the case of those that appear sporadically at other
seasons, so in the August phenomenon it has also been
believed that the bodies came for the major part from a
point between Perseus and Taurus, the point towards
which the earth is tending about the middle of the
month of August. This was particularly remarked in
the summer of 1839. This peculiarity in the phenome
non of falling stars, the direction of retrograde orbits in
the months of November and August, is especially worthy
of being either better confirmed or refuted by the most
careful observations upon future occasions.
The altitudes at which shooting stars make their appear
ance, by which must be understood the periods between
their becoming visible and their ceasing to be so, are
extremely various ; in a general way, they may be stated
as varying between four and thirty-five geographical miles.
This important result, as well as the extraordinary velocity
G 2
130 SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES.
of the problematical asteroids, was first arrived at by
Benzenberg and Brandes, by means of a series of contem
poraneous observations and determinations of parallax, at
either extremity of a base line 46,000 feet in length (37).
The relative velocity of the motion was from four and a
quarter to nine miles per second ; it was therefore equal
to that of the planets (38) . Such a velocity of movement,
as well as the frequently observed course of shooting stars
and fire-balls in a direction the opposite of that of the
earth, has been used as a principal element in combating
that view of the origin of aerolites, in which they were
presumed to be projected from still active volcanoes in
the moon. The supposition of any volcanic power, of
greater or less energy, inherent in a small planetary
body surrounded by no atmosphere, is, indeed, in the
nature of things, and, numerically considered, extremely
arbitrary. It is not difficult, indeed, to conceive the re
action of the interior of a planet against its crust, as ten
or even a hundred times greater than that which we now
observe in connection with the volcanoes of the earth.
The direction of the masses, too, which could be projected
from a satellite moving from west to east, might appear
retrograde, in consequence of the earth, in its orbit, arriv
ing later at the point of its path where the masses fall.
But, then, if the entire circle of relations, which I felt
myself compelled to specify, even in this general picture
of nature, to escape the suspicion of making unfounded
assertions, be surveyed, it will be found that the hypothesis
of a lunar origin of meteoric stones (39) is dependent on a
majority of conditions, the accidental association of which
could alone give to the barely possible, the form and
SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES. 131
substance of reality. The admission of the original exist
ence of small planetary masses circulating in space, is
simpler, and seems more in harmony with what we
know or infer with reference to the formation of the solar
system.
It is highly probable that a great proportion of these
cosmic bodies pass undestroyed in the vicinity of our
atmosphere, and only suffer a certain deflection in the
excentricity of their orbits by the attraction of the earth.
We may conceive that the same bodies only become visible
to us again after the lapse of several years, and when they
have made many revolutions round their orbit. The
ascent of some fire-balls and shooting stars (which
Chladni endeavoured to explain, not very happily, by a
reflection produced by a body of greatly condensed air,)
appears, at first sight, to be a consequence of a mysterious
projectile force throwing off the meteors from the earth ;
but Bessel has shown on theoretical grounds, and indeed
proved, by means of Feldt's very accurate calculations,
that in the absence of perfect agreement in point of time,
of the disappearances recorded, there is not one amongst
the whole of the observations published which impresses
the assumption of an ascent, with a character of proba
bility, none which does not allow us to regard it as
an effect of observation (40) . Whether the explosion
of shooting stars, and of the smoking and flaming fire
balls which do not always move in straight lines, may
force the meteors upwards in the manner of rockets, or
otherwise influence the direction of their path, in certain
cases, as Olbers supposes, must remain matter for further
observation.
132 SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES.
Shooting stars fall either singly and rarely, and at all
seasons indifferently, or in crowds of many thousands
(Arabian writers compare them to swarms of locusts), in
which case they are periodical, and move in streams gene
rally parallel in direction. Among the periodic showers,
the most remarkable are those that occur from the 12th
to the 14th of November, and on the 10th of August;
the " fiery tears" which then descend, are noticed in an
ancient English church-calendar, and are traditionally
indicated as a recurring meteorological incident (41). In
dependently of this, however, precisely in the night from
the 12th to the 13th of November, 1823, according to
Kloden, there was seen at Potsdam, and in 1832, over the
whole of Europe from Portsmouth to Orenburg on the
river Ural, and even in the southern hemisphere, in the
Isle of France, a great mixture of shooting stars and
fire-balls of the most different magnitudes ; but it appears
to have been more especially the enormous fall of shooting
stars, which Olmsted and Palmer observed iu North
America between the 12th and 13th of November, 1833,
when they appeared in one place as thick as flakes of snow,
and 240,000 at least were calculated to have fallen in
the course of nine hours, that led to the idea of the
periodic nature of the phenomenon, of great flights of
shooting .stars being connected with particular days.
Palmer of Newhaven recollected the fall of meteors in
1799, which Ellicot and I first described (42), and from
which, by the juxtaposition of observations which I had
given, it was discovered that the phenomenon had oc
curred simultaneously over the New-continent from the
equator to New Herrnhut in Greenland (N. Lat. 64° 14'),
SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES. 133
betwixt 46° and 82° of Longitude. The identity in
point of time was perceived with amazement. The
stream, which was seen over the whole vault of heaven
between the 12th and 13th of November, 1833, from
Jamaica to Boston (N. L. 40° 21'), recurred in 1834,
in the night between the 13th and 14th of November, in
the United States of North America, but with something
less of intensity. In Europe, its periodicity since this
epoch has been confirmed with great regularity.
A second, even as regularly recurring shower of shoot
ing stars as the November-phenomenon, is the one of the
month of August—the feast of St. Lawrence-phenome
non—between the 9th and the 14th of the month. Mus-
chenbroeck (43) had already called attention in the middle
of the preceding century to the frequency of meteors in the
month of August ; but their periodic and certain return
about the time of the feast of St. Lawrence was first pointed
out by Quetelet, Olbers, and Benzenberg. In the course
of time other periodically recurring showers of shooting
stars (**) will very certainly be discovered,—-perhaps from
the 22d to the 25th of April; from the 6th to the 12th
of December, and, in consequence of the actual fall of
aerolites described by Capocci, from the 27th to the 29th
of November, or about the 17th of July.
However independent all the phenomena of falling stars
yet witnessed may have been of polar elevation, tempera
ture of the air, and other climatic relations, there is still
one, although perhaps only accidental, accompanying phe
nomenon which must not be passed by unnoticed. The
Northern Lights showed themselves of great intensity
during the most brilliant of all these natural incidents, that,
134 SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES.
namely, which Olmsted has described (Nov. 12—13, 1833).
The same thing was also observed in Bremen in 1838,
where, however, the periodic fall of meteors was less re
markable than at Richmond, in the neighbourhood of
London. I have also referred, in another work (45), to
the remarkable observation of Admiral Wrangel, which
he has confirmed to me verbally of'tener than once,
that during the appearance of the Northern Lights, on
the Siberian shores of the Icy Sea, certain regions of the
heavens which were not illuminated, became inflamed
and continued to glow whilst a shooting star passed
through them.
The different meteor-streams, each of them made up
of myriads of little planets, probably intersect the orbit
of our earth in the same way as Biela's comet does.
Upon this view we may imagine these shoot-star asteroids
as forming a closed ring, and pursuing their course in
the same particular orbit. The smaller telescopic planets
between Mars and Jupiter, with the exception of Pallas,
present us, in their closely connected orbits, with a similar
relationship. It is impossible as yet to decide whether
alterations in the epochs at which the stream becomes
visible to us, whether retardations of the phenomenon, to
which I long ago directed attention, indicate a regular
recession or change of the nodes (the points of inter
section of the earth's orbit and the ring), or whether from
unequal clustering or very dissimilar distances of the
little bodies from each other, the zone is of such con
siderable breadth, that the earth only passes through it in
the course of several days. The lunar system of Saturn
likewise shows us a group of most intimately associated
SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES. 135
planetary bodies of amazing breadth. In this group, the
orbit of the 7th or outermost satellite, is of so considerable
a diameter, that the earth, in her orbit round the sun,
would take three days to pass over a space of like extent.
Now, if we suppose that the asteroids are unequally dis
tributed in the course of one of the closed rings which we
picture to ourselves as forming the orbits of the periodic
currents, that there are but a few thickly congregated groups
such as would give the idea of continuous streams, we can
understand wherefore such brilliant phenomena as those of
November 1799 and 1833 are extremely rare. The
acute Olbers was inclined to announce the return of the
grand spectacle, in which shooting stars mixed with fire
balls should fall like a shower of snow, for the 12th—14th
of November, 1867.
Hitherto the current of the November asteroids has
only been visible over limited portions of the earth's
surface. It appeared, for example, with great splendour
in England in the year 1837, as a meteoric shower ;
whilst an experienced and very attentive observer at
Braunsberg, in Prussia, saw nothing more than a few
scattered shooting stars in the course of the same night,
from seven o'clock in the evening till sun-rise, the sky
having continued uninterruptedly clear the whole of the
time. Bessel concluded from this, " that a group of the
great ring which is occupied by these bodies, of but
limited extent, had approached the earth over England,
whilst districts to the east passed through a relatively
empty portion of the ring " (46) . Should the idea of a
regular precession or variation of the nodal lines,
occasioned by perturbations, acquire greater likelihood,
136 SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES.
the discovery of older observations of the phenomenon
would become a matter of particular interest. The Chinese
annals, in which, beside the appearance of comets, there
are also notices of great showers of shooting stars,
go back beyond the time of Tyrteeus, or the second
Messenic war. They describe two streams occurring in
the month of March, one of which is 687 years older
than the commencement of the Christian era. Edward
Biot has already remarked, that among the fifty-two ap
pearances which he finds recorded in the Chinese annals,
the most frequently recurring were those that fell near the
date from the 20th to the 22d of July (old style), which
may very possibly be the now advanced stream occurring
about the time of the feast of St. Lawrence (47). If the
great fall of shooting stars which Bogulawski, jun. finds
recorded in Benessius de Horowic's " Chronicon Ecelesiee
Pragensis," as having been seen in full day light on
the 21st of October, 1366 (old style), corresponds with
our present November fall, the precession in the course of
447 years informs us that this shoot-star system (that
is to say, its common point of gravity), describes a retro
grade course about the sun. It also follows, from the views
now developed, that when seasons pass by in which
neither of the streams as yet observed—that, namely, of
November and that of August,—is seen in any part of
the earth, the reason of this lies either in the interruption
of the ring—in other words, in the occurrence of gaps or
vacancies between the clusters of asteroids that follow each
other, or, as Poisson will have it, in the influence which
the larger planets exercise upon the form and position of
the ring (48).
SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES. 137
The solid, heated, although not red-hot, masses which
are seen to fall to the earth from fire-balls by night, from
small dark clouds by day, accompanied with loud noises,
the sky being generally clear at the time, show, on the
whole, a very obvious similarity, in point of external form,
in the character of their crust and the chemical composition
of their principal ingredients. This they have maintained
through centuries, and in every region of the earth in
which they have been collected. But so remarkable and
early asserted a physiognomical equality in these dense
meteoric masses is subject to many individual exceptions.
How different are the readily forged masses of iron of
Hradschina, in the district of Agram, or that of the
banks of the Sisim, in the government of Jeniseisk, which
have become celebrated through Pallas, or those which I
brought with me from Mexico (49), all of which contain
96 per cent. of iron, from the aerolites of Siena, which
scarcely contain 2 per cent. of this metal, from the earthy
meteoric stone of Alais (Dep. du Gard), which crumbles
when put into water, and from those of Jonzac and
Juvenas, which, without metallic iron, contain a mixture
of oryctognostically distinguishable, crystalline and dis
tinct constituents! These diversities have led to the
division of the cosmical masses into two classes—nicke-
liferous meteoric iron, and fine or coarse-grained meteoric
stones. Highly characteristic is the crust, though it be
but a few tenths of a line in thickness, often shining like
pitch, and occasionally veined (50). So far as I know, it
has only been found wanting in the meteoric stone of
Chantonnay, in La Vendee, which, on the other hand—
and this is equally rare — exhibits pores and vesicular
138 SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES.
cavities like the meteoric stone of Juvenas. In every
instance the black crust is as sharply separated from the
clear grey mass, as is the dark-coloured crust or varnish
of the white granite blocks which I brought from the
cataracts of the Orinoko (Sl), and which are also met with
by the side of other cataracts in different quarters of the
globe— those of the Nile, the Congo, &c. It is impossible
to produce any thing in the strongest heat of the por
celain furnace which shall be so distinct from the un
altered matter beneath, as is the crust of aerolites from
their general mass Some, indeed, will have it that here
and there indications of penetration of fragments, as if
by kneading, appear ; but in general the condition of the
mass, the absence of flattening from the fall, and the not
very remarkable heat of the meteoric stone, when touched
immediately after its fall, indicate nothing like a state of
fusion of the interior during the rapid passage from the
limits of the atmosphere to the earth.
The chemical elements of which meteoric masses con
sist, upon which Berzelius has thrown so much light, are
the same as those which we encounter scattered through
the crust of the earth. They consist of eight metals
(iron, nickel, cobalt, manganese, chrome, copper, arsenic,
and tin) ; five earths ; potash and soda ; sulphur,
phosphorus, and carbon ; in all, one-third of the entire
number of simple substances at present known. Despite
tins similarity to the ultimate elements into which inor
ganic bodies are chemically decomposable, the appearance
of meteoric masses has still something that is generally
strange to us ; the kind of combination of the elements is
unlike all that our terrestrial mountain and rocky masses
SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES. 139
exhibit. The native iron, which is met with in almost
the whole of them, gives them a peculiar, but not there
fore a lunar character; for, in other regions of space,
in other planetary bodies besides the moon, water may be
entirely wanting, and processes of oxidation may be rare.
The cosmic gelatinous vesicles, the nostoc-like or
ganic masses, which have been attributed to shooting
stars ever since the middle ages, and the pyrites of Sterli-
tainak (westward from the Ural Mountains), which have
been said to be composed of hail-stones in the interior,
belong to the fables of meteorology (52) . It is only the
finely granular texture, only the mixture of olivine,
augite, and labrador spar (53), of some aerolites, of the
doloritic-looking mass of Juvenas in Ardeche, for example,
that gives them somewhat more of an indigenous character,
as G. Eose has shown. These aerolites, indeed, contain
crystalline substances exactly similar to those of the
crust of our Earth ; and in Pallas's Siberian mass of
meteoric iron, the olivine is only distinguished by
the absence of nickel,, which is there replaced by
oxide of tin (54) . As meteoric olivine, like that of our
basalt, contains from 47 to 49 per cent. of magnesia,
and this earth, according to Berzelius, generally consti
tutes one-half of the earthy ingredients of aerolites, we
must not be astonished at the large quantity of silicate of
magnesia which we find in these cosmic masses. If the
aerolite of Juvenas contains separable crystals of augite
and labrador, it is at least probable, from the numerical
relations of the ingredients, that the meteoric mass of
Chateau-Renard is a diorite composed of hornblende and
albite, and those of Blansko and Ohantonnay of horn-
140 SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES.
blende and labrador. The indications of a telluric or
atmospheric origin of aerolites, which have been derived
from the oryctognostic resemblances just mentioned, do
not appear to me of any great weight. Wherefore should
not—and here I might refer to a remarkable conversation
between Newton and Conduit at Kensington (SS)/—where
fore should not the matter belonging to a particular cluster
of celestial bodies, to the same planetary system, be for
the major part the same ? Why should it not be so,
when we feel at liberty to surmise that these planets, like
all larger and smaller conglobated masses which revolve
about the sun, have separated from particular and formerly
much more widely-expanded sun-atmospheres, as from
vaporous rings, and which originally held their courses
round the central body ? We are not, I believe, more
authorised to regard nickel and iron, olivine and py
roxene (augite), which we find in meteoric stones, as
exclusively terrestrial, than I should have been had I in
dicated the German plants which I foundbeyond the Obi, as
European species of the flora of northern Asia. If the
elementary matters in a group of planetary bodies of
various magnitudes be identical, why should they not also,
in harmony with their several affinities, run into deter
minate combinations,—in the polar circle of Mars, into
white and brilliant snow and ice ; in other smaller cosmic
masses into mineral species that contain crystalline,
augite, olivine, and labrador ? Even in the region of the
merely Conjectural, the unbridled caprice that despises
all induction must not be suffered to control opinion.
The extraordinary obscurations of the sun which have
occasionally taken place, during which the stars became
SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES. 141
visible at mid-day (as in the three days' darkness of theyear
1547, about the time of the fateful battle near Muhlberg),
and which are not explicable on the supposition of a cloud
of volcanic ashes, or of a dense dry-fog, were ascribed by
Kepler, at one time, to a materia cometica, at another to a
black cloud, the product of sooty exhalations from the
sun's body. The observations of shorter periods of dark
ness—of three and six hours, in the years 1090 and 1203
—Chladni and Schnurrer have explained by the passage of
meteoric masses. And since the stream of shooting stars
from the direction of its orbit has been regarded as forming
a closed ring, the epochs of these mysterious celestial phe
nomena have been brought into a remarkable connection
with the regularly recurring showers of shooting stars.
Adolph Erman has, with great acuteness, and after a care
ful analysis of all the data collected up to the present
time, directed the attention of philosophers to the coin
cidence of the conjunction with the sun, as well of the
August asteroids (7th of February) as of the November
asteroids (12th of May), at the epoch which coincides with
the popular belief in the celebrated cold days of Mamer-
tius, Pancratius, and Servatius (56) .
The Greek natural philosophers, little disposed in
general to observation, but incessantly, inexhaustibly
addicted to speculation on the manifold import of half-seen
truths, have left views behind them on shooting stars and
meteoric stones, several of which chime in most remark
ably with those at present so commonly entertained of the
cosmic nature of the phenomenon. " Shooting stars,"
says Plutarch (57), in the Life of Lysander, " according
to the opinion of some naturalists, are not excretions
142 SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES.
and emanations of the ethereal fire, quenched in the air
immediately after their ignition ; neither are they any
kindling and combustion of the air, produced by those
which have become dissolved in quantities in the upper
regions ; _they are rather a fall of celestial bodies, occa
sioned by a certain abatement of the centrifugal force, and
the impulse of an irregular motion, and are cast down,
not only upon the inhabited earth, but also beyond it into
the ocean, on which account they are not then found."
Diogenes of Apollonia (58) speaks still more clearly on
the subject. According to his view, " along with the
visible stars, others move that are invisible, and therefore
are unnamed. These last frequently fall to the earth and
are extinguished, as was the case with the stony star which
descended in fire at Aegos Potamos." The Apollonian, who
also regards all the other stars (the luminous ones) as
pumice-like bodies, probably founded his opinions of the
nature of shooting stars and meteoric masses upon the
doctrines of Anaxagoras, of Clazomenre, who maintained
that all the heavenly bodies were " mineral masses, which
the fiery ether, in the power of its revolution, had torn
from the earth, had ignited and converted into stars." In
the Ionic school, according to the statement of Diogenes
of Apollonia, and as it has come down to us, aerolites and
the heavenly bodies were placed in one and the same class ;
both are alike terrestrial in their original production ; but
only in the sense that the earth, as the central body, had
formerly (59) fashioned all around her; in the same way as
our present ideas lead us to conceive that the planets of a
system arise from the extended atmosphere of another
central body—namely, the sun. These views, conse
SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES. 143
quently, are not to be confounded with that which speaks
familiarly of meteoric stones, as of telluric or atmospheric
origin, nor yet with the extraordinary conjecture of
Aristotle, to the effect that the enormous mass of Aegos
Potamos had been raised by a tempestuous wind.
The presumptuous scepticism which rejects facts with
out caring to examine them, is, in many respects, even
more destructive than uncritical credulity. Both interfere
with rigour of investigation. Although, for fifteen hun
dred years, the annals of various nations have told of the
fall of stones from the sky—although several instances of
the circumstance are placed beyond all question by the
unimpeachable testimony of eye-witnesss— although the
Bcetylia formed an important part of the meteor-worship
of the ancients, and the companions of Cortes saw the
aerolites in Cholula, which had fallen upon the neighbour
ing pyramid— although Caliphs and Mongolian princes
have had sword blades forged from meteoric masses that
had but lately fallen, and men have even been killed by
stones from heaven (a certain monk at Crema, on the 4th
September, 1511; another monk in Milan, 1650; and
two Swedish sailors on ship-board, 1674), so remarkable
a cosmical phenomenon remained almost unnoticed, and,
in its intimate relationship with the rest of the planetary
system, unappreciated, until Chladni, who had already
gained immortal honour in physics by his discovery of
phonic figures, directed attention to the subject. But he
who is penetrated with the belief of this connection, if he
be susceptible of emotions of awe through natural impres
sions, will be filled with solemn thoughts in presence, not
of the brilliant spectacles of the November- and August
144 SHOOTING STARS AND AEROLITES.
phenomena only, but even on the appearance of a solitary
shooting star. Here is a sudden exhibition of move
ment in the midst of the realm of nocturnal peace-. Life
and motion occur at intervals in the quiet lustre of the
firmament. The track of the falling star, gleaming with
a palely lustre, gives us a sensible representation of a
path long miles in length across the vault of heaven;
the burning asteroid reminds us of the existence of uni
versal space every where filled with matter. When we
compare the volume of the innermost satellite of Saturn,
or that of Ceres, with the enormous volume of the Sun,
all relation of great and small vanishes from the imagina
tion. The extinction of the stars that have suddenly
blazed up in several parts of the heavens, in Cassiopea, in
Cygnus, and in Ophiucus, leads us to admit the existence
of dark or non-luminous celestial bodies. Conglobed into
minor masses, the shooting-star asteroids circulate about
the sun, intersect the paths of the great luminous planets,
after the manner of comets, and become ignited when
they approach or actually enter the outermost strata of our
atmosphere.
With all other planetary bodies, with the whole of
nature beyond the limits of our atmosphere, we are only
brought into relationship by means of light, of radiant
heat, which is scarcely to be separated from light (60),
and the mysterious force of attraction which distant masses
exert upon our earth, our ocean, and our atmosphere,
according to the quantity of their material parts. We
recognise a totally different kind of cosmic, and most
peculiarly material relationship, in the fall of shooting-
stars and meteoric stones, when we regard them as plane
THE ZODIACAL LIGHT. 145
tary asteroids. These are no longer bodies, which, through
the mere excitement of pulses, influence us from a distance
by their light or their heat, or which move arid are moved
by attraction ; they are material bodies, which have
come from the realms of space into our atmosphere, and
remain with our earth. Through the fall of a meteoric
stone, we experience the only possible contact of aught
that does not belong to our planet. Accustomed to
know all that is non-telluric solely through measurement,
through calculation, through intellectual induction, we are
amazed when we touch, weigh, and subject to analysis a
mass that has belonged to the world beyond us.—Thus
does the reflecting, spiritualized excitement of the feelings
work upon imagination, in circumstances where vulgar
sense sees nothing but dying sparks in the clear vault of
heaven, and in the black stone that falls from the crackling
cloud the crude product of some wild force of nature.
If the crowd of shooting asteroids, upon which we have
paused so long with pleasure, be assimilated in some re
spects, in their small masses and in the variety of their
orbits, with comets, they are still essentially distinguished
from these bodies in this—that we first become aware of
their existence almost in the moment of their destruction,
when fettered by the earth they become luminous, and
ignite. But to embrace everything that belongs to our
solar system, which has now become so complex, so rich in
variety of forms, by the discovery of the telescopic planets,
of the inner comets of short period, and the meteoric
asteroids, we have still to speak particularly of the ring of
Zodiacal Light, to which we have already alluded inci
dentally oftener than once. He who has lived for years in
VOL. I. H
146 THE ZODIACAL LIGHT.
the zone of the palms, retains a delightful recollection of
the mild radiance with which' the zodiacal light, rising
like a pyramid from the horizon, illumines a portion of the
unvarying length of the tropical night. I have seen it
occasionally more intensely luminous than the milky way in
Saggitarius ; and that not only in the thin and dry atmos
phere of the summits of the Andes, at the height of twelve
or fourteen thousand feet above the level of the sea, but
also in the boundless grassy plains (Llanos) of Venezuela,
as well as on the coasts of the ocean under the ever-
serene sky of Cumana. Of most peculiar beauty was the
phenomenon, when small fleecy clouds appeared projected
upon the light, and stood out picturesquely from the lumi
nous back-ground. A leaf of my journal, during the
sea voyage from Lima to the western coast of Mexico,
preserves the memorial of this air-picture :—" For the
last three or four nights (between 10° and 14° N. lat.) I
see the zodiacal light with a splendour such as I have
never observed before. In this part of the Pacific, judg
ing from the brilliancy of the stars, and the distinctness
of the nebulee, the transparency of the air is wonderfully
great. From the 14th to the 19th of March, very regu
larly for three-quarters of an hour after the disc of the
sun has dipped into the sea, there is no trace of the
zodiacal light, although it is by this time completely dark ;
but, an hour after sun-set, it suddenly becomes visible,
of great brilliancy, between Aldebaran and the Pleiades ;
and on the 18th of March having an altitude of 39° 5'.
Long narrow stripes of cloud show themselves, scattered
over the beautiful blue, and deep on the horizon in front
of a kind of yellow screen. The higher clouds are
playing from time to time with variegated tints. It
THE ZODIACAL LIGHT. 147
seems as if the sun were setting for the second time. On
this side of the vault of heaven, the brilliancy of the
night appears to be increased, almost as it is in the first
quarter of the moon. Towards ten o'clock, the zodiacal
light, in this part of the Pacific, was usually extremely
faint ; about midnight I could merely perceive a trace of it.
On the 16th of March, when the phenomenon presented
itself in its greatest splendour, there was a counter-blush
of mild light apparent in the east." In our misty northern
temperate zone, as it is called, the zodiacal light is only
to be distinctly seen in the early spring, after the evening
twilight, in the western, and towards the end of autumn
before the morning twilight, in the eastern horizon.
It is difficult to comprehend how a natural phenomenon,
so remarkable as the zodiacal light, should only first have
attracted the attention of natural philosophers and astro
nomers about the middle of the 1 7th century, and how it
could have escaped the observant Arabians in Ancient
Bactria, on the Euphrates, and in the south of Spain.
The tardy observation of the nebulae in Andromeda and
Orion, first described by Simon Marius and Huygens,
excites almost equal astonishment. The first distinct
description of the zodiacal light is contained in Childrey's
Britannia Baconica(61), of the year 1661; the first ob
servation upon it may have been made two or three years
earlier; but Dominie Cassini has the indisputable merit
of having, in the spring of 1683, investigated the pheno
menon in all its relations in space. The luminous appear
ance which he observed in 1668, at Bologna, and which
was seen at the same time in Persia by the celebrated
traveller, Chardin, (the court - astrologers of Ispahan
148 THE ZODIACAL LIGHT.
called this light, which they had never seen before, nyzek,
or little lance,) was not, as has been frequently said (62),
the zodiacal light, but the monstrous tail of a comet,
whose head was hidden amidst the vapours of the horizon,
and which* in point of length and appearance, presented
many points of resemblance to the great comet of - 1843.
It might be maintained, with no slight show of probability,
that the remarkable light, rising pyramidally from the
earth, which was seen in the eastern sky for forty nights
in succession, on the lofty plateau of Mexico in 1509,
was the zodiacal light. I find this phenomenon mentioned
in an ancient Aztekan manuscript (Codex Telleriano-
Eemensis) of the Koyal Library at Paris (63) .
The Zodiacal Light, of primeval antiquity, doubtless,
though first discovered in Europe by Childery and
Cassini, is not the luminous atmosphere of the sun itself;
for this, from mechanical laws, cannot be more oblate
than in the ratio of two to three, and not more dilated
than 9-20ths of Mercury's distance. The same laws
determine that, in the case of a revolving planetary
body, the height or distance of the extreme limits of its
atmosphere,—the point, namely, where gravity and the
centrifugal force are in equilibrium, — is that alone in
which a satellite can revolve around this in the same time
.is the primary rotates upon its axis (64) . Such a limi
tation of the sun's atmosphere in its present concentrated
state, comes to be more particularly remarkable when
we compare the central body of our system with the
nucleus of other nebulous stars. Herschel discovered
many in which the semi-diameter of the burr which sur
rounds the- star appears under an angle of 150". As
THE ZODIACAL LIGHT. 149
stiming a parallax which does not quite reach 1", we find
the outermost nebulous layer of such a star 150 times
farther from its centre than the earth is distant from the
sun. Were the nebulous star in the place of our sun, con
sequently, its atmosphere would not merely include the
orbit of Uranus, but would extend 8 times beyond it(65).
With the narrow limits of the sun's atmosphere now
indicated, there is great probability in the hypothesis
which assumes the existence of an extremely oblate ring
of nebulous or vaporous matter revolving freely in space
between the orbits of Venus and Mars, as the material
cause of the zodiacal light (66). Meantime, of its proper
material dimensions, of its increment by emanations
from the tails of myriads of comets which approach near
to the sun(67), of the singular variability ofits extent—for
it seems at times not to extend beyond the orbit of the
earth, and lastly, of its very probable close connection
with the denser world-ether in the vicinity of the sun,—
nothing certain can be concluded, The vaporiform par
ticles of which the ring consists, and which circulate
about the sun in conformity with planetary laws, may
either be self-luminous, or lighted by the sun. Even a
terrestrial haze or fog (and the fact is very remarkable)
appeared at the time of the new moon (1743), which at
midnight was so phosphorescent that objects at the dis
tance of 600 feet could be plainly distinguished by its
light (68) . In the tropical climate of South America, the
variable strength of light of the zodiacal gleam struck
me at times with amazement. As I there passed the
beautiful nights in the open air, on the banks of rivers
and in the grassy plains (Llanos) for several months
150 THE ZODIACAL LIGHT,
together, I had opportunities of observing the phenomenon
with care. When the zodiacal light was at its very
brightest, it sometimes happened that but a few minutes
afterwards it became notably weakened, and then it sud
denly gleamed up again with its former brilliancy. In
particular instances, I believed that I remarked—not any
thing of a ruddy tinge, or an inferior arched obscuration,
or an emission of sparks, such as Mairan describes, but
a kind of unsteadiness and flickering of the light. Is it
that there are any processes going on in the vaporous ring
itself ?—or is it not more likely that, though I could de
tect no change, by the meteorological instruments, in the
temperature and moistness of the regions of the atmos
phere immediately above the ground, and though small
stars of the fifth and sixth magnitudes appeared to shine
with undiminished strength of light, that in the superior
strata of the atmosphere condensations were proceeding
which modified the transparency, or rather the reflection
of the light, in a peculiar and, to us, unknown manner ?
For the assumption of such meteorological processes on
the limits of our atmosphere, the " explosions and pulsa
tions" observed by the acute 01bers(69), "which, in the
course of a few seconds, went trembling through the
whole of a comet's tail, with the effect now of lengthen
ing, now of abridging it by several degrees," appear to
vouch. "As the several parts of the millions-of-miles-
long tail are at very different distances from the earth,
the laws of the velocity and propagation of light do not
permit us to suppose that actual alterations in a body
filling an extent of space so vast, could be perceived by
us in such short intervals of time." These considerations
TRANSLATION OF THE SUN IN SPACE. 151
by no means exclude the reality of varying emanations
around the condensed nuclear envelopes of a comet, the
reality of suddenly supervening brightenings of the zodiacal
light, through internal molecular movements, through al
ternately augmented or diminished reflections of light by
the matter of the luminous ring; they should only make
us careful to distinguish between them and all that belongs
to the celestial ether—to universal space itself, or to the
aereal strata composing the atmosphere through which we
see. What in other respects takes place in the outer limits
of our atmosphere—the subject of great diversity ofopinion
—is, as well-observed facts indicate, by no means to be
completely or satisfactorily explained. The wonderful
lightness of many whole nights of the year 1831, in which
small print could be read at midnight in Italy and the
north of Germany, is in obvious contradiction with all
that the latest and ablest observations on the crepuscular
theory, and the height of our atmosphere, make known (70).
Luminous phenomena are dependent on conditions that
are yet unexplored, the unstableness of which, within the
limits of the twilight, as well as in connection with the
zodiacal light, strike us with astonishment.
Thus far we have considered what belongs to our sun,
and the world of formations that is ruled by him—the pri
mary and secondary planets, comets of shorter and longer
periods of revolution, meteoric asteroids which move
singly in closed rings, or in multitudes like a stream ;
finally, a luminous nebulous ring which circles round the
sun near to the orbit of the earth, and which from its posi
tionmayremain with itsname ofzodiacal light. Everywhere
1 52 TRANSLATION OF THE SUN IN SPACE.
the Law of Return prevails in the motions, how different
soever the measure of the projectile velocity and the quan
tity of conglobated material parts; the asteroids alone,
which fall from space into our atmosphere, are interrupted
in their planetary round, and united to a larger planet.
In the solar system, whose limits the attractive force of
the central body determines, comets, at the distance of
forty-four times the distance of Uranus from the sun, are
compelled to return in their elliptical orbits ; in these
comets themselves, indeed, whose nuclei, from the small-
ness of the masses they comprise, present themselves
to us in the guise of flitting cosmic clouds, these nuclei,
nevertheless, bind, by their attractive force, the very
outermost particles of the tail that is streaming away at
the distance of millions of miles from them. The central
forces, therefore, are the forming, the fashioning, and even
the preserving forces of a system.
Our sun, in its relations to all the returning or circu
lating, greater or smaller, denser or almost vaporiform
bodies that belong to it, may be regarded as at rest ; yet
does it revolve around the common centre of gravity of
the whole system, which, however, still falls within itself;
which, in other words, despite the variable position of the
planets, still remains attached to its material bounds.
Altogether different from this phenomenon, is the motion
of translation of the sun,—the progressive motion of the
centre of gravity of the entire solar system in Universal
space. This goes on with such velocity, that, according to
Bessel, the relative motions of the sun and of the 61st star
in Oygnus do not amount to less than 834,000 geogra
phical miles in a day(71) . This change of place ofthe whole
TRANSLATION OF THE SUN IN SPACE. 153
solar system would remain unknown to us, were it not that
the wonderful perfection of modern astronomical instru
ments for taking measurements, and the advances of the
astronomy of observation, render our progress obvious
towards distant stars as towards objects on a coast ap
parently in motion. The proper motion of the 61st star
in the constellation of the Swan, for example, is so con
siderable, that in the course of 700 years it will have
amounted to a whole degree.
The measure or quantity of alteration in the heaven
of the fixed stars,—of alteration in the relative positions of
the self-luminous stars to one another,—canbe determined
with more of certainty than the phenomenon itself can be
genetically explained. Even after we have allowed for
all that belongs to the precession of the equinoxes and
the nutation of the earth's axis, as consequences of the
influence of the sun and moon upon the spheroidal
figure of our planet, to the propagation or aberration of
light, and to the parallax produced by diametrically op
posite positions of the earth in its orbit round the sun,
—when a correction has been made for each and all of
these particulars, there is always a quantity in the remain
ing annual motion of the fixed stars, which is the conse
quence of the translation of the whole solar system in
space, and which is the consequence of the proper and actual
motion of the stars themselves. The difficult numerical
separation of these two elements, of the proper from the
apparent motion, hasbeen made possibleby the careful speci
fication of the directions in which the motions of the several
stars take place, and by the reflection that, were all the
other stars absolutely at rest, they would appear to recede
h2
1 54 MOTIONS OF THE FIXED STARS.
perspectively from the point towards which the sun was
movingin his course. The final result ofthe investigation,
which the calculus of probabilities confirms, is this :
that both the stars and our sun change their place in the
Universe. From the admirable researches of Argelan-
der (72), who in Abo extended and materially improved
upon tho labours begun by the elder Herschel and Pre-
vost, it appears that the sun is in motion towards the
constellation of Hercules, very probably towards a point
in this constellation, which lies in a combination of 537
stars (for the equinox of 1792'5) in 257° 49' Right Ascen
sion; + 28° 49'' 7 Declination. In this class of investi
gations it is always matter of great difficulty to separate
the absolute from the relative motion, and to deter
mine what belongs to the solar system in particular and
alone.
If the non-perspective proper motions of the stars be
considered, many of them appear group-wise opposed in
their directions ; and the data hitherto collected make it
at least not necessary to suppose that all the parts of our
astral system, or the whole of the star-islands which fill
the universe, are in motion about any great, unknown,
luminous, or non-luminous central mass. The longing
to reach the last or highest fundamental cause, indeed,
renders the reflecting faculty of man as well as his fancy
disposed to adopt such a supposition. The Stagirite
himself has said—" All that is in motion refers us to a
Mover, and it were but an endless adjournment of causes
were there not a primary immoveable Mover" (73).
The manifold changes of place exhibited by the fixed
stars in groups, not- parallactic motions, dependent on
MOTIONS OF THE DOUBLE STARS. 155
changes in the position of the observer, but actual and
ceaseless motions in universal space, reveal to us in the
most incontrovertible manner, through a particular class
of phenomena, namely the motions ofthe double stars, and
the measure of their slower or more rapid motions in
different parts of their elliptical orbits, the empire of the
laws of gravitation beyond the limits of our solar
system, in the remotest regions ofcreation. The curiosity
that is inherent in the nature of man needs not any
longer to seek satisfaction upon this field of inquiry in
gratuitous assumptions, in the limitless ideal-world of
analogies. By the progress of the astronomy of observa
tion and calculation, it stands at length even here upon
stable ground. It is not so much the numbers of the
double and multiple stars that have been discovered
(2,800 to the year 1837 !) circulating about a centre of
gravity lying beyond the confines of either or any of
them, that excites our amazement ; it is the extension of
our knowledge of the fundamental force of the whole
material world, the indications of the universal dominion
of mass-attraction, that arrest us, and that belong to
the most brilliant discoveries of our age. The time of
revolution of double stars of different colours presents
the greatest imaginable diversity ; it extends from a
period of 43 years, as in 77 Coronee, to one of several
thousands, as in 66 Ceti, 38 Geminorum, and 100 Piscis.
Since Herschel's measurements in 1782, the nearest
leader in the triple system of £ Cancri, has now accom
plished more than a complete revolution. By a skilful
combination of observations of altered distances and
angles of position (74), the elements of the orbits
of more than one of the double stars have been
156 DISTANCE, MASS, &C. OF THE FIXED STARS.
discovered,—nay, conclusions as to the absolute dis
tance of double stars from the earth, and comparisons
of their masses with the mass of the sun, have even
been made. But whether here, and in our solar
system, the quantity of matter is the sole measure of the
force of attraction, or whether specific attractions, not in
proportion to the mass, are at the same time efficient, as
Bessel first showed, is a question the solution of which
it remains with late posterity to accomplish (7S).
If we compare our sun, with the other so-called fixed
stars in the Astral system to which we belong,—with other
self-luminous suns, therefore,—we discover, in connec
tion with several of them at least, ways opened up, which
enable us to approximate, within certain extreme limits,
to a knowledge of their distance, of their volume, of their
mass, and of the rapidity with which they change their
places. If we assume the distance of Uranus from the
sun at 1 9 of the distances of the earth from the sun, then
is the central body of our planetary system 11,900
Uranus distances from the star a Centauri, almost 31,300
of these distances from 61 Cygni, and 41,600 of the same
measures from a Lyree. The comparison of the volume
of the sun with the volume of fixed stars of the first mag
nitude, depends on an extremely uncertain optical ele
ment; viz. the apparent diameter of the fixed stars. If,
with Herschel, we assume the apparent diameter of
Arcturus at but one-tenth part of a second, the actual
diameter of this star would still come out eleven times
greater than that of our sun (76). The distance of the
star 61 Cygni, for the discovery of which we are indebted
to Bessel, has led us approximatively to a knowledge of
the quantity of material particles, which, as a double
VISIBLE EFFECTS OF THE SUN'S MOTION. 157
star, it contains. Although the portion of the apparent
path which has been passed through since Bradley's
observations, is not yet sufficiently great to enable us. to
conclude with perfect certainty upon the true path, and
the semi-axis major of the same, it has still become matter
of probability to the great astronomer of Konigsberg,
" that the mass of the double star in question is not mate
rially either less or more than half the mass of our
sun(77)." This is the conclusion from actual measure
ment. Analogies which are derived from the greater
masses of the moon-attended planets of our solar system,
and from the fact that Struve finds six times as many
double stars among the brighter fixed stars as among
the telescopic ones, have led other astronomers to conjecture
that the mass of the greater number of the twin-stars is
in the mean greater than that of the sun (?8) . General
results, however, cannot be looked for in this direction for
long years to come. With reference to proper motion in
space, our sun, according to Argelander, belongs to the
class of fixed stars which are in rapid motion.
The view of the heavens inlaid with stars, the relative
position of the stars and nebulous spots, as also the dis
tribution of their luminous masses, the charms of the land
scape, if I may here make use of the expression, presented
by the firmament at large, will depend, in the course of
millenniums, relatively on the proper actual motions of the
stars and nebulee, on the translation of our solar system
in space, on the bursting out of new stars, and on the
disappearance, or sudden diminution in the intensity of
light in old stars ; finally, and especially, on the alterations
which the axis of the earth experiences through the
158 VISIBLE EFFECTS OF MOTION AND PRECESSION.
attraction of the sun and moon. The beautiful stars of the
Centaur and the southern Cross will one day become visible
in these northern latitudes, whilst other stars and constel
lations, Sirius and Orion's belt, will have sunk. The
stationary north pole will be indicated in succession by
stars in Cepheus (/3 and a), and the Swan (S), until, after
the lapse of 12,000 years, Vega in Lyra will appear as the
most brilliant of all the possible polar stars. These state
ments serve to bring sensibly before us the vastness of
the motions which in infinitely small divisions of time
go on incessantly like an eternal clock—the timepiece
of the Universe. If we imagine, as in a vision of the
fancy, the acuteness of our senses preternaturally sharp
ened, even to the extreme limit of telescopic vision, and
incidents compressed into a day or an hour, which are
separated by vast intervals of time, everything like rest
in spacial existence will forthwith disappear. We shall
find the innumerable host of the fixed stars commoved in
groups in different directions; nebulae drawing hither and
thither, like cosmic clouds ; the milky way breaking up in
particular parts, and its veil rent; motion in every point of
the vault of heaven, as on the surface of the earth, in the
germinating, leaf-pushing, flower-unfolding organisms of
its vegetable covering. The celebrated Spanish botanist,
Cavanilles, first conceived the thought of " seeing grass
grow," by setting the horizontal threads of a micrometer
attached to a powerful telescope, at one time upon the tip
of the shoot of a Bambusa, at another upon that of the
fast-growing flowering stem of an American aloe
(Agave Americana), precisely as the astronomer brings a
culminating star upon the cross wires of his instrument.
SYSTEMS OF ATTRACTIONS AMONG THE FIXED STARS. 159
In the aggregate life of nature, organic as well as sidereal,
Being, Maintaining, and Becoming, are alike associated
with motion.
The disruption of the milky way, to which I have
alluded above, seems to require a more particular expla
nation in this place. William Herschel, our safe and
admirable guide in these regions of space, discovered, by
means of his star-gaugings, that the telescopic breadth of
the milky way is six or seven degrees greater than it
appears upon our maps of the heavens, and than the
star-glimmer indicates it to the unassisted eye (79). The
two brilliant nodes in which both branches of the milky
zone unite, in the regions of Cepheus and Cassiopea, as
in those of Scorpio and Sagitarius, appear to exercise
a powerful attraction upon the neighbouring stars; be
twixt /3 and y Cygni, however, in the most brilliant region,
of 330,000 stars that lie in 5° of latitude, one-half draw
towards one side, the other half towards the opposite side.
Here Herschel suspects that the stratum breaksup (80) . The
number of the distinguishable telescopic stars of the milky
way,—stars that are broken by no nebulae,—has been esti
mated at eighteen millions. In order, I will not say to
give any idea of the magnitude of this number, but to
contrast it with something analogous, I will remind the
reader, that of stars between the 1st and 6th magnitude,
that are visible to the naked eye, there are but some 8,000
scattered over the whole face of the heavens. In the barren
astonishment, excited by vastness of number and of space,
without reference to the spiritual nature or the faculty of
perception inherent in man, extremes in respect of dimen
sions of the things that exist in space, likewise meet and
contrast,—the heavenly bodies with the smallest forms of
160 THE MILKY WAYS OF STARS AND NEBUL.E.
animal life : a cubic inch of the tripoli of Bilin, contains,
according to Ehrenberg, 40,000 millions of the siliceous
coverings of the Galionellae !
To the milky way of stars, to which, according to
Argelander's acute observation, many of the bright stars
of the firmament appear remarkably to approximate, there
is a milky way of nebulae opposed almost at right
angles. The former, according to Sir John Herschel's
views, forms a ring, a detached and somewhat remote
girdle, from the lenticular star-island similar to the ring of
Saturn. Our planetary system lies excentrically, nearer
to the region of the Cross than to the diametrically oppo
site point of Cassiopea (81). The form of our astral
stratum, and the parted ring of our milky way, present
themselves reflected with wonderful similarity in a nebida
discovered by Messier, in 1774, but imperfectly seen by
him (82). The milky way of the nebulae does not properly
belong to our astral system; it surrounds this, without
having any physical connection with it, at a vast dis
tance, and passes nearly in the form of a great circle
through the thick nebulosity of Virgo (particularly in the
northern wing), through the Coma Berenices, the Great
Bear, the girdle of Andromeda, and the Northern Fish.
It probably intersects the starry milky way in Cassiopea,
and connects its poles, which are poor in stars, made deso
late by cluster-forming forces, at the place where the stra
tum of stars is of least thickness in space (83).
It follows, from these considerations, that whilst our
duster of stars bears traces, in its diverging branches, of
greater transformations effected in the lapse of time, and
strives, through secondary points of attraction, to resolve
decompose itself, it is surrounded by two rings, one
THE MILKY WAYS OF STARS AND NEBULA. 161
vastly remote, made up of nebulee, and one nearer, con
sisting of stars. The latter ring, which forms our milky
way, is a mixture of unnebulous stars, on an average
from the 10th to the 11th magnitude (84), but, severally
observed, of very dissimilar magnitudes, whilst isolated
clusters of stars have almost always the character of same
ness.
Wherever the vault of heaven is searched with powerful
space-penetrating telescopes, stars, though perchance
telescopic only, and from the twentieth to the twenty-
fourth in order, or luminous nebulee, are discovered.
Numbers of these nebulee will probably resolve themselves
into stars, when they come to be examined with yet more
powerful instruments. Our retina receives the impression
of single or of thickly aggregated luminous points ;
whence, as Arago has lately shown, totally different
photometrical relations of the sensibility to light result (85) .
The cosmic nebulosity, formless or fashioned, generally
diffused, producing heat by condensation, probably modi
fies the transparency of space, and lessens the equal
intensity of luminousness which, according to Halley
and others, must result, were every point of the vault
of heaven beset with an endless succession of stars in
the direction of its depth (86). The_ assumption of
any such continuous inlaying of stars contradicts obser
vation ; which, in fact, shows us vast starless regions—
openings in heaven, as William Herschel calls them—
one in Scorpio, four degrees in breadth, and another
in the loin of Ophiucus ; in the vicinity of both of
which, and close to their edges, we discover resolvable
nebulee. That which is situated on the western edge
162 STARLESS REGIONS.
of the opening in Scorpio, is one of the richest and
most thickly set clusters of small stars that ornament
the heavens. Herschel himself ascribes the openings,
the starless regions in the sky, to the attraction and
cluster-forming force of these marginal groups (87).
" They are portions of our star-stratum," says he, in the
fine liveliness of his style, " which have suffered great
desolations from time." If we picture to ourselves the
telescopic stars that lie one behind another, as forming a
starry canopy investing the whole of the visible vault of
heaven, then, I believe, are those starless regions of the
Scorpion and Serpent-bearer, to be regarged as tubes,
through which we see into the farthest regions of space.
The layers of the canopy are interrupted ; other stars,
indeed, may lie within the gaps, but they are unattainable
to our instruments. The sight of fiery meteors had al
ready led the ancients to the idea of clefts and chasms in
the canopy of heaven ; but these were regarded as passing
or temporary only. Instead of being dark, they were
luminous and fiery, by reason of the translucent igneous
ether that lay behind them(88). Derham, and even
Huyghens, appear not indisposed to explain the mild light
ofnebulee on some such grounds (89).
When we compare the brilliant, and on an average cer
tainly nearer, stars of the first magnitude, with the tele
scopic or resolvable nebulee, and contrast the nebulous
stars with the wholly unresolvable nebulee (with the one
in Andromeda, for example), or even with the so-called
planetary nebulee, in the contemplation of distances so
different, plunged, as it were, in the boundlessness of
space, we have a fact revealed to us by the world of
PROPAGATION OF LIGHT. 1 63
phenomena, and the reality, which, in causal connection
with it, always forms its substrate — the fact of The
Propagation of Light. The rate of this propaga
tion, according to Struve's latest researches, is 41,518
geographical [166,072 English] miles in a second;
nearly a million times greater, therefore, than the rate of
sound. From what we know through the measurements
of Maclear, Bessel, and Struve, of the parallaxes and
distances of three fixed stars of very unequal magnitudes
—a Centauri, 61 Cygni, and a Lyrae—a ray of light re
quires 3 years, 9\ years, and 12 years, to reach us from
these celestial bodies severally. In the short but remark
able period from 1572 to 1604, from Cornelius Gemma
and Tycho to Kepler, three new stars blazed suddenly
forth in Cassiopea, in Cygnus, and in the foot of Ophiu-
cus. The same phenomenon shewed itself in 1570 in
the constellation of the Fox ; but here it recurred several
times. In the very latest times, since 1837, Sir John
Herschel during his sojourn at the Cape of Good Hope
observed the star ij of the constellation Argo increase in
brilliancy from a star of the second magnitude to one
of the first (90) . Such incidents in the universe belong,
however, in their historical reality to other times than
those in which the phenomena of light notify their
commencement to the inhabitants of the earth ; they are
the voices of the past which reach us. It has been well
said, that with our mighty telescopes we penetrate at
once into space and into time. We measure the former
by the latter, the latter by the former ; an hour of travel
for the ray of light is one hundred and forty-eight
millions of geographical miles passed through. Whilst the
164 TERRESTRIAL SPHERE.
dimensions of the universe are expressed in the theogony
of Hesiod by the fall of heavy bodies— "the brazen
anvil falls in no more than nine days and nine nights
from heaven to earth"—Herschel, the Father (91), believed
" that the light of the farthest nebulae, which his forty-
feet reflector showed him, took about two millions of
years to reach the earth." Much, therefore, has long
disappeared, much has already been otherwise arranged,
before it becomes visible to us. The aspect of the
starry heavens presents us with evidences of diversity in
point of time ; and diminish as we will the millions or
even thousands of years which serve us as measures for
the distance of the unresolvable nebulae with their soft
lustre, and of the resolvable nebulae with their twilight
gleamings, bring them as close to us as we may, it still
remains more than probable, from the knowledge we have
of the velocity of light, that the light of the remote
celestial bodies offers the oldest sensible evidence of the
existence of matter. So rises reflecting man, from his
stance on simple premises, to solemn and noble views of
natural formations to the deep fields of space, where
flooded with everlasting light—
" Myriads of worlds spring up like the grass of night"(K).
From the region of celestial formations, from the
children of Uranos, we now descend to the narrower
domain of terrestrial forces, to the children of Geea. A
mysterious band surrounds and binds together both
classes of phenomena. In the import of the old Titanian
Mythus (93), all the powers of the universal life, the
TERRESTRIAL SPHERE. 165
whole mighty order of nature, is connected with the
co-operation of the heavens and the earth. And, indeed,
if the terrestrial hall, like all the other planets, belongs,
in virtue ofits origin, to the central body, the sun, and to its
atmosphere, once parted into nebulous rings, an inter
course is still kept up, by means of light and radiant heat,
with this neighbouring sun, as with all the farther suns
that sparkle in the firmament. The diversity of the mass
of these influences must not restrain the physical astro
nomer from referring in a natural picture to the connec
tion and the dominion of common and similar forces. A
small fraction of the terrestrial heat belongs to that of the
universal space through which our planetary system
pursues its way, and which, the product of all the light-
radiant stars, is nearly of the mean temperature of our icy
circumpolar regions, according to Fourier. But what it
is that excites the light of the sun more powerfully in the
atmosphere and upper strata of the earth,—how, producing
heat, it gives rise to electrical and magnetical currents,—
how it magically kindles and beneficially feeds the flame
of life in the organic forms that people the earth,—
all this will form the subject of our considerations by
and by.
Whilst we here apply ourselves exclusively to the
telluric sphere of nature, then, we shall first take a
glance at the relative proportions of the Solid and the
Fluid, at the figure of the earth, its mean density, and the
partial distribution of this density in the interior of the
planet ; at the contained heat, and the magnetic charge
of the earth. These relations in respect of space,
and these forces inherent in matter, lead to the reaction
166 TERRESTRIAL SPHERE.
of the interior upon the exterior of our earth ; they lead
through the special consideration of an universally diffused
natural force—sub-terrestrialheat—to thenotalwaysmerely
dynamic phenomena of earthquakes in circles of concus
sion of various extent, to the outbreak of hot springs,
and the mightier operations of volcanic processes. The
crust of the earth shaken from below, now in pulses,
suddenly and violently, now smoothly and continuously,
and therefore scarcely perceptibly, alters in the course of
centuries the relations in point of elevation between the
Dry and the surface-level ofthe Fluid ; nay, the form ofthe
bed ofthe ocean itself. There are, atthe same time, either tem
porary cracks, or morepermanent openings formed, through
which the in'terior of the earth comes into relationship
with the atmosphere. Welling up from unknown depths,
molten masses flow in narrow streams along the slopes of
the mountains, here precipitously, there slowly, gently,
until the fiery spring runs dry, and the lava, emitting
vapours, solidifies beneath a crust which it has formed
for itself. New rocky masses then arise before our eyes,
whilst older ones, already formed by Plutonic forces,
suffer change, rarely through immediate contact, more
frequently from their vicinity to heat-radiating centres
or masses. In situations where there is no eruption,
crystalline particles are still displaced, and then combined
into denser textures.
The waters present us with formations of a totally dif
ferent nature : aggregations of the remains of plants and
animals; earthy, cretaceous, and clayey deposits; conglome
rates of finely pulverized mountain species, overlaid by
layers of siliceous-shelled infusoria, and bone-containing
TERRESTRIAL SPHERE. 167
drift, the resting place of the remains of animals that
peopled a former world. All that we see engendered in
such variety of ways beneath our eyes, and arranged in
layers, all that we observe so variously cast down, and
bent, and raised again, under the influence of opposing
pressure and volcanic force, leads the reflective observer,
who yields himself to the guidance of simple analogies,
to the comparison of the Present with times that have long
gone by. Through combination of actual phenomena,
through ideal amplification in reference to the extent as well
as to the mass of the forces in operation, we reach at length
the long-de3ired, the dimly-imagined, but first, in the
course of the last half century, firmly-founded domain of
geognosy.
It has been acutely observed, that, " with all our loot
ing through powerful telescopes, we actually know more
of the interior of other planets than of their exterior—
the moon, perhaps, excepted." They have been weighed,
and their volumes have been measured ; their masses and
their densities are known, in either case—thanks to the
progress of the astronomy of observation and calcula
tion—with still increasing numerical certainty. Over
their physical constitution there hangs a deep obscurity.
It is only in our own earth that immediate vicinity brings
us into contact with the various elements of organic and
inorganic creation. Here the garner of matter, in its
multifarious diversity, in its endlessness of admixture and
modification and change, in the ever-varying play of forces
evoked, presents the spirit with its proper food : the joys of
investigation, the unbounded field of observation, which,
cultivating and strengthening thefaculty ofthought, gives to
168 TERRESTRIAL SPHERE.
the intellectual sphere of man's existence a portion of its
grandeur, of its sublimity. Theworld ofsensible phenomena
reflects itselfin the deeps of the ideal world : the abundance
of nature, the mass of things discernible, passes gradually
into the domain of knowledge approved by reason.
And here, again, I touch upon an advantage to which I
have already alluded several times,—the advantage of
that knowledge which has a home origin, and of which
the possibility is most intimately connected with our
earthly existence. The description of the heavens, from
the far-gleaming nebulous stars (with their suns) down to
the central body of our own system, we found limited to
such general conceptions as volume and quantity of matter.
No vital movement is there revealed to our senses. It is
only after resemblances, often after fanciful combinations,
that we arrive at conjectures as to the specific nature of
matters of different kinds, as to its [presence or] absence
in this or in that planetary body. The heterogeneousness
of matter, its chemical diversity, and the regular forms
into which its particles arrange themselves, as crystals and
granules ; its relations to the penetrating deflected or
decompounded waves of light, to radiating, transmitted, or
polarised heat, to the brilliant, or invisible, but not on that
account less powerful, phenomena of electro-magnetism—
all this vast treasury of physical knowledge, which so
exalts our views of nature, we owe to the surface of the
planet we inhabit, and to the solid rather than the fluid ele
ment in its constitution. How this knowledge of natural
things and natural forces, how the measureless variety
of objective perceptions, calls forth the intellectual activity
of our kind, and hastens our progress in improvement,
TERRESTRIAL SPHERE. 169
has been already observed upon above. These relations
as little require farther development in this place, as the
enchainment of the causes of that material force which
the control of a portion of the elements has given to par
ticular nations.
If it was imperative on me to direct attention to the
difference which exists betwixt the nature of our telluric
knowledge, and our knowledge of heavenly space and its
contents, so is it also necessary for me to indicate the
narrowness of the field from which the whole of our
knowledge of the heterogeneousness of matter is derived.
This field is somewhat inappropriately called the crust
or the earth; it is the thickness of the strata that lie
nearest the surface of our planet, and that are exposed in
deep chasm-like vallies, or by the labour of man in his
boring and mining operations. These works scarcely
attain a perpendicular depth of more than two thousand
feet (less than -^th of a German mile) below the level of
the sea ; consequently only d ai6 0th of the semi-diameter of
the earth (94). The crystalline masses which are ejected
by active volcanoes, and which are mostly of the same
nature as the rocky matters of the surface, come from
unknown, certainly sixty times greater absolute depths than
those which the labours of man have reached. In situa
tions where seams of coal dip to rise again at distances
determinable by accurate measurements, it is easy to
ascertain the depth of the basin in which the strata he.
In this way we learn, that in some places (Belgium, for
example) the coal measures, together with the organic
remains of a former world, which they contain, frequently
lie more than five, or even six, thousand feet below the
VOL. I. I
170 TERRESTRIAL SPHERE.
present level of the sea (95) : aye, that the mountain lime
stone and Devonian basin-shaped bent strata, descend
even to twice that depth. If we now contrast these sub
terraneous basins with the mountain summits which have
hitherto been held as the highest portions of the uplifted
crust of the earth, we obtain a distance of 37,000 feet, or
nearly -3-^t of the earth's semi-diameter betwixt the
point of extreme descent and that of highest elevation;
This, in the perpendicular dimension and space-filling
superposition of rocky strata, would still be the only theatre
of geognostic investigation, even did the general surface of
he earth reach the height of Dhawalagiri, in the Himalaya
chain, or of Sorata, in Bolivia. All that lies under the sea
level deeper than the basins referred to above, than the
works of man, than the bottom of the ocean, attained in
various places with the plumb-line (Sir James Ross
sounded with 25,400 feet of line, without reaching the
bottom), is even as much unknown to us as is the interior
of the other planets belonging to our system. We also
know but the mass of the whole earth and its mean density,
compared with the superior and to us solely accessible
strata. Where all knowledge of the chemical and mine-
ralogical natural constitution of the interior of the earth
fails us, we are again thrown upon conjecture, just as we
are with reference to the farthest bodies that revolve about
the sun. We can determine nothing with certainty upon
the depth at which the rocky strata of the crust of the
globe should be regarded as existing in a tenacious softened
state, or as a molten liquid ; upon the cavities filled with
elastic vapours; upon the condition of liquids when they
are heated red-hot under enormous pressures ; or upon the
TERRESTRIAL SPHERE. 171
law of the increment of density from the surface of
the earth down to its centre.
The consideration of the increment of temperature of
the interior of our planet with increasing depths, and of
the reaction of the interior upon the surface, has led us to
the extensive series of volcanic phenomena. These mani
fest themselves as earthquakes, effusions of gaseous fluids,
hot springs, mud-volcanoes, and lava-streams, from craters ;
the influence of elastic force is also shown in unquestionable
alterations in the level of the general surface. Extensive
levels, variously-partitioned continents, are upheaved or
sunk ; the solid is parted from the fluid ; but the ocean
itself, traversed by hot and cold currents that flow through
it like rivers, congeals at either pole, and sets into solid
rocky masses, here stratified and immoveable, there
broken into moveable packs and islets. The boundaries
of the sea and land, of the fluid and the solid, are va
riously and frequently changed. Plains, too, oscillate
upwards and downwards. After the elevation of conti
nents, long clefts or chasms took place, mostly parallel to
one another, and then, in all probability, at similar epochs
in time, and through them, were mountain-chains up
heaved : salt pools and great inland seas, which were long
inhabited by the same creatures, were forcibly separated,
The fossil remains of shells and zoophytes bear witness
to their original connection. And so we come, following
the relative dependence of phenomena, from the consi
deration of the fashioning forces, working deep in the
interior of the earth, to that which shakes and shatters
its upper crust, and which, through the force of elastic
vapours, flows out as a molten stream of earth (lava) from
open fissures.
172 TERRESTRIAL SPHERE.
The same forces that uplifted the Andes and Himalaya
chains, even to the regions of eternal snow, produced new
admixtures and new textures in the rocky masses, and
altered the strata which had been thrown down at earlier
periods, from waters teeming with life and organized
matters. We recognize here the succession of formations,
separated according to their age and superposed, in their
dependence upon the alterations in form of the surfaoe,
upon the dynamical relations of the upheaving forces, upon
the chemical actions of out-breaking vapours upon the
fissures.
The form and distribution of continents—in other
words, of the dry land—of that portion of the crust of the
earth which is susceptible of the vigorous evolution of
vegetable life, stands in intimate relationship, and poten
tial reciprocity of action, with the all-surrounding sea. In
this the organizing force is almost wholly expended upon
the animal world. The liquid element, again, is invested
by the gaseous atmosphere, an aerial ocean, into which
the mountain chains and lofty plateaus of the dry land
rise like reefs and shoals, induce a vast variety of currents
and changes of temperature, collect moisture from the
region of the clouds, and by the running streams that
furrow their sides, spread motion and life over all.
If the Geography of Plants and Animals depends
on these intricate contrasts in the distribution of sea and
shore, in the formation of the surface, and the direction
of isothermal lines (or zones of mean annual temperature) ,
so, on the other hand, are characteristic differences in the
races of men and their relative numerical distribution over
the face of the earth—the last and noblest object of a
physical description of the globe—influenced not by these
TERRESTRIAL SPHERE. 173
natural relations alone, but at the same time, and especially
by progress in civilization, in mental improvement, in
political superiority grounded upon national cultivation.
Some races, clinging to the soil, are supplanted and
annihilated by the dangerous vicinity of more politic
communities : a faint historical trace is soon all that
remains of them ; other races, in numbers not the
strongest, put forth upon the liquid element ; and almost
omnipresent by means of this, have they alone, though
late, attained to a general graphical knowledge of the
surface, of all the seaboards at least, of our planet from
pole to pole.
Here, then, and before I have touched upon the indi
vidual, in our natural picture of the telluric sphere
of phenomena, I have shown in General, how from con
siderations on the form of the globe, and on the cease
less manifestations of force in its electro-magnetism
and subterranean heat, the relations of the earth's surface
in horizontal extension and elevation, the geognostic
type of mineral formations, the realm of the ocean,
and of the atmosphere with its meteorological processes,
the geographical distribution of plants and animals, and,
finally, the physical gradations of the human race, alone,
but in all circumstances susceptible of spiritual culture,
may be comprised in one and the same contemplative
survey. This unity of contemplation presupposes an
enchainment of phenomena according to their inti
mate connections. A mere tabular arrangement of
phenomena would not accomplish the purpose I pre
scribed myself; it does not satisfy the want of that
cosmical representation which the aspect of nature
by sea and land, the diligent study of formations and
174 FIGURE OF THE EARTH.
forces, and the lively impression of a natural whole,
which has been made upon my mind in the course of my
travels in various and dissimilar climates of the globe.
Much that in this essay is so exceedingly defective, with
the accelerated rate at which knowledge of all the de
partments of physical science advances, will probably ere
long be corrected and filled up. It lies, indeed, in the
path of development which every science pursues, that
that which long stood isolated, becomes connected by
degrees and subjected to higher laws. I but point out
the empirical way, along which I, and many minded like
myself, advance, full of expectation that "Nature," as
Plato tells us Socrates once desired, " shall have inter
pretation according to reason" (96).
Our account of terrestrial phenomena, in their principal
features, must begin with the form and relations in space
of our planet. And here, too, it may be said, that not
merely does the mineral constitution,—the crystalline,
the granular, the dense masses filled with petrefactions,
but also the geometrical figure of the earth itself, bear
witness to the mode of its origin; its figure is its
history. An elliptical spheroid of rotation indicates a
once soft or semi-fluid mass. To the oldest geog-
nostic incidents, writ down, and clearly legible to the
understanding eye, in the book of nature, belongs
he flattening [of the poles of the earth], and to adduce
another and nearly related instance, the perpetual direc
tion of the greater axis of the moon's spheroid towards
the earth ; i. e. the accumulation of matter upon that half
of the moon which we see, and which determines the
relation between the period of rotation and that of revolu-
FIGURE OF THE EAKTH. 175
tdon. And the same law extends to the oldest formative
epochs of all the satellites. " The mathematical figure of
the earth is that which it would have were its surface
covered with water in a state of repose;" to this are
referred all geodetic measurements of degrees reduced to
the sea-level. From this mathematical surface of the
earth, the physical one, with all its accidents and in
equalities of the solid, differs (97). The whole figure of
the earth is determined when the quantity of oblateness
and the magnitude of the equatorial diameter are known.
To obtain a complete picture of the figure, however, it
were necessary to have measurements in two directions
perpendicular to each other.
Eleven measurements of degrees, or determinations of
the curvature of the earth's surface in different countries,
of which nine belong exclusively to the present century,
have given us accurate information on the dimensions of
the earth, which Pliny long ago designated as " a point in
the infinity of space" (98). If these measurements do not
agree in the curvature of different meridians under the
same degrees of latitude, this very circumstance vouches
for the sufficiency of the instruments and of the methods
employed, for the accuracy of partial results true to nature.
The inference from the increase of attractive force pro
ceeding from the equator towards the pole, in reference to
the figure of a planet, depends on the distribution of den
sity in its interior. If Newton, upon theoretical grounds,
and also excited to the inquiry by Cassini's discovery of
the flattening of Jupiter's poles in 1666 ("), determines
the flattening of the earth as a homogeneous mass at
-j-^Tjth, in his immortal work, the Principia, actual ad
measurements, under the influence of the new and more
176 FIGURE OF THE EAETH.
perfect analysis, have shown that the ohlateness of the
earth's spheroid, the density of the strata being assumed
to go on increasing towards the centre, amounts to -rkoik
very nearly.
Three methods have been employed to determine funda
mentally the curvature ofthe earth's surface : measurements
of degrees, pendulum experiments, and certain inequalities
of the moon's orbit. The first of these methods is an im
mediate geometro-astronomical one ; in the other two,
conclusions are drawn from carefully observed motions,
in regard to the forces which occasion these motions,
and, from these forces, in regard to their causes, viz. the
oblateness of the earth in its polar axis. I have here,
in the general picture of nature, referred exclusively to
the application of these methods, because their certainty
reminds us forcibly of the intimate concatenation of
natural phenomena in their forms and forces, because this
application has itself become the happy occasion of im
proving all our instruments, whether optical or those that
are employed in the measurement of space or of time—the
very foundation of astronomy and mechanics in reference
to the moon's motions, and the determination of the resis
tance which the oscillation of the pendulum experiences
—and because it has even served to open up peculiar
and untrodden paths to analysis. After the researches
on the parallax of the fixed stars, which led to
the discovery of aberration and nutation, the history
of the sciences presents us with no problem second in
importance to that in which the result sought is a know
ledge of the mean oblateness of the earth, and the cer
tainty that the figure of our planet is not a regular one.
In none of the long and laborious ways by which the
FIGURE OF THE EARTH. 177
goal is attained in scientifie investigations, is higher
general cultivation, or more perfect knowledge of mathe
matical and astronomical science required than in this.
The comparison of eleven measurements of degrees,
among which three extra European—the old Peruvian
one, and two East-Indian—are included, calculated in
conformity with the severe theoretical requirements of
Bessel, has given -s-j-^th as the measure of oblateness
of the polar diameter of the earth (100). From this
it appears that the polar semi-diameter is 10,938 toises,
about 2-f geographical miles, shorter than the equa
torial semi- diameter of the elliptical spheroid of rotation.
The bulging under the equator, therefore, in consequence
of the curvature of the surface of the spheroid in the
direction of gravity, comes to something more than 4-f
times the height of Mont Blanc, only 2^ times the probable
height of Dhawalagiri, in the Himalaya range. The moon's
equation, in other words the perturbation in longitude
and latitude of the moon, from the latest researches of
Laplace, give nearly a similar degree of oblateness as the
measurement of degrees of the meridian — viz. TJ-g-th.
Experiments with the pendulum indicate a much more
considerable amount of flattening—viz. Trs-th(101).
Galileo, when a boy, during divine service, and some
what inattentive to the matter in hand, as it would seem,
perceived that the whole height of a roof might be ascer
tained from the dissimilar times in which chandeliers,
suspended at different elevations, oscillated ; but he cer
tainly did not imagine that the pendulum would one day
be carried from pole to pole, with a view to determine the
figure of the earth ; or rather to afford evidence of the
i 2
178 FIGURE OF THE EARTH.
length of the seconds-pendulum being affected by strata
of the earth of unequal density. These local attractions
are complex, undoubtedly ; but over extensive districts of
country they show themselves almost identical in point
of amount. These geognostic relations of an instrument
for the measurement of time ; this peculiar property of the
pendulum to act as a plumb-line, and give us intelli
gence of the unseen deep, even in volcanic islands (102),
and on the acclivities of uplifted continental mountain
chains (103), to indicate dense masses of basalt and
melamphyx instead of caverns, combine to render diffi
cult, despite the wonderful simplicity of the method, the
attainment of any general result as to the figure of the
earth from observations on the oscillation of the pendu
lum. Even in the astronomical part of the measurement
of a degree of latitude, the occurrence of mountain
masses, or of denser strata in the ground, have a disturb
ing and prejudicial influence, although not to the same
extent as in pendulum experiments.
As the figure of the earth exerts a powerful influence on
the motion of other planetary bodies, especially on that of
her immediate satellite, so, on the other hand, does the
very perfect knowledge we possess of the motion of the
moon enable us to draw counter-conclusions in regard to
the figure of the earth. From this, as Laplace (104) has i
significantly observed, might an astronomer, " without
leaving his observatory, by a comparison of the lunar
theory with positive observations, determine, not only the
figure and magnitude of the earth, but farther, its dis
tance from the sun and from the moon ; results which
have only been obtained by long and toilsome journeys
DENSITY OF THE EARTH. 179
undertaken to the remotest countries of either hemi
sphere." The oblateness which has heen deduced from
the inequalities of the moon has this advantage, possessed
neither by single measurements of degrees nor pendulum
observations, that it is a mean applicable to the whole
planet. Contrasted with the velocity of rotation, it informs
us, moreover, of the increase of density of the earth's
strata from the surface towards the centre ; an increase
which the comparison of the relation of the axes of
Jupiter and Saturn with their periods of rotation also
reveals in both of these great planets. In this way does
knowledge of mere external configuration lead to conclu
sions in regard to the internal constitution of the heavenly
bodies.
The northern and southern hemispheres appear to have
nearly like curvatures under equal parallels of lati
tude (>05) ; but pendulum experiments, and measurements
of degrees of the meridian, give such different results in
reference to particular portions of the surface, that nothing
like a regular figure can be inferred which would accord
with the whole of the results hitherto obtained in these ways.
The true figure of the earth stands in the same relation to
a regular figure, " as the uneven surface of ruffled stands
to the even surface of unruffled water."
After the earth has been measured, it must be weighed.
Pendulum vibrations and the plumb-line have alike served
to determine the mean density of the earth—whether the
relative density was investigated by a combination of astro
nomical and geodetical operations, through the deflection
of a plumb-line from the perpendicular in the vicinity of a
mountain, or by contrasting the length of the pendulum
180 DENSITY OF THE EAETH.
beatingseconds on a plain and on the summit of aneighbour
ing height, or, finally, by the application of the torsion-
balance, which may be regarded as a delicate horizontally
swinging pendulum. Of these threemethods (106) , the lastis
the safest, inasmuch as it is independent of the difficult de
termination of the density of the minerals composing the
spherical segment of a mountain in the neighbourhood of
which the observations are made. The latest researches,
which are those of Reich, give 5'44 as the mean density
of the whole earth ; that is to say, the earth is nearly 5\
times more dense than pure water. But as the mineral
species which constitute the dry land have a mean density
of no more than about 2-7, and the dry land and the ocean
together a density of but 16, it follows from this assump
tion how much the elliptical unequally oblated strata of
the interior must increase in density through pressure, or
through heterogeneousness of material towards the centre.
And here we see, again, with what propriety the pendulum,
both that which swings perpendicularly and that which
swings horizontally, has been designated a geognostical
instrument.
But the conclusions to which the use of such an instru
ment leads, have induced distinguished natural philo
sophers to take entirely opposite views of the constitution
of the earth's interior. It has been calculated at what
depth liquid, and even aeriform bodies, would come to
surpass platinum, and even iridium, in density, through the
proper pressure of their own superimposed strata ; and in
order to bring the oblateness of the. earth's spheroid,
known within a very small quantity, into harmony with
the assumption of a single and infinitely compressible sub
stance, the acute Leslie has gone so far as to have described
INTERNAL TEMPERATURE OF THE EARTH. 181
the nucleus of the earth as a hollow sphere, filled with " im
ponderable matter of enormous repulsive powers." These
daring and arbitrary conjectures have given rise to still more
fantastical dreams in non-scientific circles. The hollow
sphere has, by degrees, been peopled with plants and ani
mals, and furnished, moreover, with a couple of small sub
terranean planets— Pluto and Proserpine, which there dis
pense their gentle light. An unvarying temperature reigns
in this internal space, and the air, self-luminous by
compression, might well make the presence of the subter
raneous planets, Pluto and Proserpine, unnecessary. Near
the north-pole, under the 82d parallel of latitude, where
the aurora borealis streams up into the sky, there is an
enormous opening, through which it were easy to descend
into the hollow sphere. To such a subterranean expedition
the late Sir Humphry Davy and I were repeatedly and
publicly invited by Captain Symmes. So strongly is the
morbid disposition of man inclined, unencumbered with
the contradictory testimony of well-established facts or
generally admitted natural laws, to fill unseen space with
marvellous forms ! But the celebrated Halley himself, at
the end of the 1 7th century, had hollowed out the earth in
the course of his magnetical speculations : a subterraneous
freely rotating nucleus, by its varying position, occasions
the diurnal and annual variations of the magnetical de
clination ! What was a mere lively fiction with the clever
Holberg, has, in our days, with tedious solemnity, been
attempted to be decked out in a scientific garb.
The figure of the earth, and the degree of solidity or
density which it possesses, stand in intimate connection
1 82 INTERNAL TEMPERATORE. OF THE EARTH.
with the forces which animate our globe, in so far, namely,
as these forces are not excited or awakened from without
by our planetary position opposite to a self-luminous
central body. The oblateness, a consequence of the
operation of the centrifugal force upon a rotating mass,
reveals the pristine or former state of fluidity of our
planet. On the setting or solidification of this fluid, which
we are accustomed to conjecture as existing in the shape
of a vaporiform matter, originally heated to a very high
temperature, an enormous amount of latent caloric became
free. If the process of consolidation began in the way
Fourier will have it, by radiation from the surface into
celestial space, the parts of the earth which are situated
towards the centre must still be hot and molten. While,
after long radiation of the heat of the central parts
towards the surface, a state of stability in the tempera
ture of the earth is finally attained, it is at the same time
assumed that, with an increase in depth, there will also be
a regular progressive increase of temperature. The tem
perature of the water which flows from bores of great
depth into the bowels of the earth (Artesian wells), im
mediate experiments on the temperature of the rocks
in mines, above all, however, the volcanic activity of the
earth, in other words, the discharge of molten mineral
streams through fissures in the surface, bear testimony in
the most incontestible manner to this increase of tempera
ture in the upper strata of the earth at considerable depths.
From conclusions which, it is true, are only founded on
analogy, it is more than probable that the temperature goes
on increasing in a still greater degree towards the centre.
The conclusions which have been presented to us by
INTERNAL TEMPERATURE OF THE EARTH. 183
an ingenious, and, for this class of inquiries, singularly
perfect analytical calculus, on the motion of heat in
homogeneous metallic spheroids (107), can only be applied,
with many precautions, to the actual constitution of our
planet, in consequence of our ignorance of the matter of
which the earth is composed, of the various capacities for
heat and powers of conduction inherent in the superim
posed masses, and of the chemical transformations which
solid and fluid bodies undergo under enormous pressures.
Most difficult of all, for our powers ofcomprehension, is the
conception of the boundary line betwixt the fluid mass
of the interior and the concrete mineral species of the
outer crust of the earth, of the gradual increase of solidity
in the strata, and the state of tenacious semi-fluidity of
earthy matters, to which the known laws of hydraulics
can only apply under considerable modifications. The
sun and moon, which keep the ocean in a state of alter
nate ebb and flow, act in all likelihood even down to these
depths. Beneath a vault of already consolidated mineral
strata, periodical rises and falls of a molten mass may,
indeed, be readily enough conceived as taking place, and
occasioning inequalities in the pressure exerted against
the vault. The amount and the influence of such oscilla
tions can, however, be but small; and if the relative
position of the attracting heavenly bodies must here also
produce spring-tides, it is still certain that the concussions
of the earth's surface which take place, are not to be
ascribed to these, but to other more powerful internal
forces. There are groups of phenomena, the existence of
which it is still useful to adduce in illustration of the
universality of the attractive influences of the sun and
184 INTERNAL TEMPERATURE OF THE EARTH.
moon upon the external and internal life of the globe,
however little we may feel ourselves in a condition to
determine numerically their amount.
From experiments on Artesian wells, which agree
pretty closely, the temperature of the upper crust of the earth
appears, on an average, to increase 1° of the centigrade
thermometer for each 92 Paris feet in perpendicular depth.
Did this increase go on in arithmetical progression, then,
as I have already had occasion to observe (108), would a
granitic stratum at the depth of 5-fe geographical miles
(from four to five times the depth of the highest peak in
the Himalaya range) be in a molten state.
In the body of the earth there are three kinds of motion
of heat to be distinguished :—the first is periodical, and,
according to the position of the sun and the season of the
year, alters the temperature of the earth's strata according as
the heat penetrates from above downwards, or as it passes
in the same way from below upwards. The second kind of
motion is likewise an effect of the sun, and is of extraordi
nary slowness : part of the heat which has penetrated the
equatorial regions is propagated along the interior of the
crust of the earth towards the poles, and there escapes
into the atmosphere and distant space. The third kind
of motion is the slowest of all : it consists in the secular
cooling of the body of the earth, in the dissipation of the
small amount of the primitive heat of the planet which
at the present time is still given off from its surface. This
loss which the central heat suffers was very considerable
at the epochs of the oldest revolutions of the globe ; since
the commencement of the historical period, however, it is
scarcely mensurable by our instruments. The surface of
MEAN TEMPERATURE OF THE EARTH. 185
the earth, from the foregoing view, is intermediate be
tween the red heat of the interior strata, and the tempe
rature of space, which is probably below the congealing
point of mercury.
The periodical variations of temperature which the
altitude of the sun and the meteorological processes of
the atmosphere occasion, are propagated in the interior of
the earth, but only to very small depths. This slow con
duction of heat by the ground, however, lessens the loss of
warmth in the winter, and is favourable to deeply-rooted
trees. Points which he at different depths in a vertical
line come to the maximum and minimum of the commu
nicated temperature in very different times. The more
distant they are from the surface, the smaller are the
differences of these extremes. On the continent of
Europe, between the parallels of 48° and 52°, the stratum
of invariable temperature occurs at from 55 to 60 feet
deep ; even at half this depth the oscillations of the ther
mometer, in consequence of the influence of the seasons,
scarcely amount to half a degree. In tropical climates,
on the contrary, the stratum of invariable temperature is
met with at no more than a foot below the surface ; and
this fact has been used by Boussingault, in an able man
ner, as a convenient and, in his opinion, accurate way of
determining the mean temperature of the air of a
place (109). This mean temperature of the air at a deter
minate point, or in a group of points of the surface lying
near to one another, is, in a certain measure, the funda
mental element of the climatic relations, and also of the
relations in reference to civilization of a country ; but the
mean temperature of the whole surface is very different
186 MEAN TEMPERATURE OF THE EARTH.
from that of the earth itself. The oft-repeated questions,
whether, in the course of centuries, this has suffered any
considerable change ?—whether the climate of a country
has become deteriorated ?—whether the winters have not
become milder, and the summers in the same proportion
colder ?—can only be decided by the thermometer ; and
the discovery of this instrument scarcely dates three half-
centuries back; its rational application no more than
about 120 years. The nature and novelty of the means,
therefore, prescribe very narrow bounds to inquiries into
the temperature of the air. It is quite otherwise with the
solution of the great problem of the internal heat of the
whole globe. In the same way as from the unaltered rate
of a pendulum we can conclude on the unchanged pre
servation of its temperature, so does the unaltered velocity
of rotation of the earth on its axis inform us of the
degree of stability of its mean temperature. This per
ception of the relations between the length of the day and
the earth's temperature, is one of the most brilliant appli
cations of a long knowledge of the heavenly motions to
the thermal condition of our planet. The velocity of
rotation of the earth, to wit, depends on its volume:
precisely as the axis of rotation of the mass that was
cooling gradually by radiation would become shorter,
so through diminution in temperature must the volocity
of rotation be increased, and the length of the day be
abridged. Now by a comparison of the secular in
equalities of the moon's motions with the eclipses that
have been observed in the more ancient times, it appears
that since the age of Hipparchus, for full 2000 years
therefore, the length of the day has not varied by the
MEAN TEMPERATURE OF THE EARTH. MAGNETISM. 1 87
one-hundredth part of a second. From this, again, and
within the utmost limits of the decrease (uo), the mean
temperature of the body of the earth is discovered not to
have altered, in the course of 2000 years, by the Troth
part of a thermometrical degree.
This invariableness of form farther implies great inva
riability in the distribution of density in the interior of
the earth. The translatory movements effected by the
eruptions of our present volcanoes, the outbursts of fer
ruginous lavas, and the filling up of empty chasms and
hollows with dense masses of rock, are therefore to be
regarded as mere superficial phenomena, as peculiarities
of parts of the earth-s crust, which, in point of magni
tude, when contrasted with the semi-diameter of the earth,
are utterly insignificant.
The internal heat of the planet, in its course and dis
tribution, I have described almost exclusively from the
results and beautiful experiments of Fourier. Poisson,
however, doubts the uninterrupted increase of the terres
trial heat from the surface to the centre. He believes
that all the heat has- penetrated from without inwards, and
that the temperature of the interior of the earth depends
on the very high or very low temperature of the universal
space through which the solar system has moved. This
hypothesis, devised by one of the most profound mathe
maticians of the age, has satisfied himself only; it has
met with little countenance from other natural philoso
phers and geologists.
But whatever be the cause of the internal temperature
of our planet, and of its limited or unlimited increase in
188 MAGNETISM.
the deeper strata, it still leads in this Essay to present a
general picture of nature, through the intimate connec
tion of all the primary phenomena of matter, and through
the common hond which surrounds the molecular forces,
into the obscure domain of Magnetism. Changes of tem
perature elicit magnetical and electrical currents. Terres
trial magnetism, whose principal character in the threefold
manifestation ofits force is an uninterrupted periodic chan-
geableness, is ascribed either to the unequally heated mass
of the earth itself (l11), or to those galvanic currents which
we consider as electricity in motion, as electricity in a
circuit returning into itself (112). The mysterious march
of the magnetic needle is equally influenced by the
course of the sun, and change of place upon the earth's
surface. The hour of the day can be told between the
tropics by the motion of the needle, as well as by the
oscillations of the mercury in the barometer. It is sud
denly, though onlypassingly, affected by the remoteAurora,
by the glow of heaven, which emanates in colours at one
of the poles. When the tranquil hourly motion of the
needle is disturbed by a magnetical storm, the perturbation
frequently proclaims itself over hundreds and thousands
of miles, in the strictest sense of the word simultaneously,
or it is propagated gradually, in brief intervals of time,
in every direction over the surface of the earth (113).
In the first case the simultaneousness of the storm might
serve, like the eclipses of Jupiter's satellites, fire signals,
and well-observed shooting stars, within certain limits,
for the determination of geographical longitudes. It is
seen with amazement, that the tremblings of two small
magnetic needles, were they suspended deep in suhterra
MAGNETISM. 189
neous space, measure the distance that intervenes between
them ; that they tell us how far Kasan lies east from
Gottingen, or from the banks of the river Seine. There
are regions of the earth where the seaman, enveloped
for days in fog, without sight of the sun or stars, with
out all other means of ascertaining the time, can still
accurately determine the hour by the variation of the dip
of the needle, and know whetherhe be to the north or south
of the port towards which he would steer his course (114).
If the sudden perturbation of the needle in its hourly
course makes known the occurrence of a magnetic storm,
the seat of the perturbing cause,-^whether it be to seek in
the crust of the earth itself, or in the upper regions of the
air—remains, to our extreme regret, as yet undetermined.
If we regard the earth as an actual magnet, then are
we compelled, according to the decision of the deepr
thinking founder of a general theory of terrestrial mag
netism, Frederick Gauss, to admit, that every eighth of a
cubic metre, or 37/i0ths of a cubic foot of the earth, pos
sesses, on an average, at least as much magnetism as
a one-pound magnetic bar (115). If iron and nickel, and
probably cobalt also —not chrome, as was long sup
posed (116), be the only substances which become per
manently magnetic, and retain polarity by a certain coer
cive force, the phenomena of Arago's rotative magnetism,
and Faraday's induced currents, assure us, on the other
hand, that probably all terrestrial substances may pass
ingly comport themselves magetically. From the experi
ments of the first of the great natural philosophers just
mentioned, water, ice (117), glass, and charcoal, affect the os
cillations of the needle precisely as quicksilver does in the
190 MAGNETISM.
rotatory experiments. Almost all substances show them
selves in a certain degree magnetic when they are conduc
tors ; that is to say, when they are traversed by a current
of electricity.
However ancient the knowledge of the attractive power
of natural magnetic iron appears to have been among
the western nations (and this historically well-authenti
cated fact is remarkable enough), the knowledge of the
polarity or directive force of themagnetic needle, and its con
nection with terrestrial magnetism, was, nevertheless, con
fined to the extreme east of Asia, to the Chinese. A thousand
years and more before the commencement of our era, in the
dark epoch of Oodru and the return of the Heraclidee to
the Peloponnesus, the Chinese had already magnetic cars,
upon which the moveable arm of a human figure pointed
invariably to the south, as a means of finding the way
through the boundless grassy plains of Tartary; in the
third century, indeed, of the Christian era, at least seven
hundred years, therefore, before the introduction of the
ship's compass upon European seas, Chinese craft were
sailing the Indian ocean under the guidance of mag
netic southern indication( 1 18) . I have shown in another
work (119), what advantages this method of determining
topographical position, this early knowledge and applica
tion of the magnetic needle, wholly unknown in the west,
gave the Chinese geographers over those of Ancient
Greece and Rome, to whom, for example, the true course
of the Appenines and Pyrenees was never known.
The magnetic force of our planet reveals itself on its
surface in three classes of phenomena, one of which shows
the variable intensity of the force, the two others indicate
MAGNETISM. 191
the variable direction in the inclination or dip, and in the
horizontal departure, or declination, from the terrestrial
meridian of the place, the aggregate outward effect of
which may be graphically exhibited by means of three
systems of lines, one isodynamical, another isoclinial, a
third isogonial ; or lines of equal force, of equal dip, and
of equal variation. The distance and relative position of
these ever-moved, oscillatingly-progressive curves, do not
always remain the same. The total variation or declina
tion of the magnetic needle has not, however, changed
appreciably, or at all in certain parts of the earth (120), in
the Western Antilles and in Spitsbergen, for example, in
the course of a whole century. Even so, the isogonial
curves, when, in the course of their secular movement,
they have passed from the surface of the sea to a conti
nent or island of considerable magnitude, are seen to
linger long upon it, and then they curve off again in their
farther progress.
These gradual transformations which accompany the
translation, and in the course of time extend the empire
of the Eastern and Western variations so unequally,
render it difficult, in the graphic representations that
belong to different centuries, to discover the transitions
and analogies of the forms. Every branch of a curve
has its own history ; but this history, among the Western
nations, nowhere mounts higher than to the remarkable
epoch, the 13th of September, 1493, when the re--
discoverer of the Now World recognised a line of no
variation, three degrees west from the meridian of Flores,
one of the Azores (121). The whole of Europe, a small
portion of Russia alone excepted, has, at the present time,
192 MAGNETISM.
western variation; whilst, at the end of the 17th cen
tury, first in London (1657), and then in Paris (1669),
with a difference of twelve years, consequently, despite the
short distance between them, the needle pointed directly
to the north pole. In East Russia, to the east of the
mouth of the Wolga, of Saratow, Nijni-Novogorod and
Archangel, the Eastern variation presses in upon us from
Asia. Two excellent observers, Hansteen and Ad. Erman,
have given us intelligence of the remarkable double
curvature of the variation-lines in the wide-spread realms
of Northern Asia ; convex towards the pole betwixt
Obdorsk and Obi and Turuchansk, concave betwixt lake
Baikal and the bay of Ochotsk. In this last part of the
earth, in the north-east of Asia, betwixt the Werchojansk
mountains, Jakutsk and Northern Corea, the isogonial
lines form a remarkable system enclosed within itself.
This ovoidal formation (122) is more regularly repeated,
and on a larger scale, in the South Sea, nearly in the
meridian of Pitcairn island and the Marquesas group,
betwixt the parallels of 20° N. and 45° S. latitude. One
might feel disposed to regard so singular a configuration
of self-included, almost concentric lines of variation, as
the effect of a peculiar local constitution of the body of
the earth ; but should these apparently isolated systems
move on in the course of centuries, then, as in all grand
natural forces, must some more general cause of the phe
nomenon be presumed.
The hourly changes in the variation, dependent on the
true time, and apparently determined by the sun so long as
is above the horizon of a place, decrease in their angular
amount with the magnetic latitude. Near the Equator,
MAGNETISM. 193
in Rawak Island, for example, they are scarcely more than
from 3 to 4 minutes, whilst in the middle of Europe they
amount to from 13 to 14 minutes. Now, as the north
end of the needle, in the whole of the northern hemis
phere, travels, on an average, between half-past 8 a.m. and
half-past 1 p.m. from east to west, and in the southern he
misphere the same north end traverses from west to east
during the same period of time, it has been recently, and
with reason, remarked (123), that there must be a region of
the earth situated, probably, between the terrestrial and the
magnetic equator, in which no horary changes of the
variation will be observed. But this fourth curve, that of
no-movement, or rather of no change in horary variation,
has not yet been discovered.
As the points of the earth's surface where the horizon
tal force disappears, are called magnetic poles, and a
greater degree of importance has been attached to these
points than belongs to them of right (m), in the same
way is that curve called the magnetic equator upon which
the dip of the needle is nothing. The position of this
line, and its secular variations of form, have been made
objects of particular investigation in recent times. From
the admirable work of Duperrey (125), who, between the
years 1822 and 1825, crossed the magnetic equator six
times, it appears that the two points in which the line of no
dip cuts the terrestrial equator, and so passes from one
hemisphere into another, are so unequally divided, that, in
the year 1825, the node by the island of St. Thomas, on
the west coast ofAfrica, lay in a direct line 1884-° from the
node in the south sea by the little Gilbert's Island (nearly
in the meridian of the Viti group), in the Southern Pacific.
VOL. I. K
194 MAGNETISM.
In the beginning of the present century, at an elevation
of 11,200 feet above the level of the sea, in 70° 1' S. lat.
and 48° 40' W. long., I was enabled astronomically to
determine the point at which the Andes betwixt Quito and
Lima, in the interior of the New continent, are crossed
by the magnetic equator. From this point, proceeding
westward, it lingers in the southern hemisphere, through
almost the whole of the South Sea, slowly approaching the
terrestrial equator. It first crosses over into the northern
hemisphere shortly before it reaches the Indian Archipe
lago ; it then just touches the south point of Asia, and
enters the African continent westward from Socotora,
close to the straits of Babelmandel, where it is at its
greatest elongation from the terrestrial equator. Tra
versing the unknown regions of central Africa in a
south-western direction, the magnetio equator returns, in
the gulph of Guinea, into the southern tropic, and in its
course across the Atlantic separates so far from the terres
trial equator, that it meets the coast of Brazil at Os
Ilheos, to the north of Porto Seguro, in 15° S. latitude.
From thence to the loftyplains ofthe Cordilleras, betwixt the
silver mines of Micuipampa and the old seat of the Incas,
Caxamarca, where I had an opportunity of observing the
inclination, it traverses the whole of South America,
which, in these southern latitudes, like the interior of
Africa, remains a magnetio terra incognita up to the
present time.
Late observations collected by Colonel Sabine (126),
inform us that the node of the Island of St. Thomas has
travelled four degrees, from east to west, between 1825 and
1837. It would be of the highest importance to know
MAGNETISM. 195
whether the opposite node of Gilbert's Island, in the
South Pacific, had not travelled as far westward, towards
the meridian of the Carolinas. The general survey now
given must suffice to connect the different systems of not
perfectly parallel isoclinal lines with the great phenome
non of equilibrium which manifests itself in the magnetic
equator. It is no small advantage for the establishment
of the laws of terrestrial magnetism, that the magnetic
equator, whose fluctuating alterations of form, and whose
nodal motion in the midst of the various magnetic latitudes,
exert an influence (127) upon the dip of the needle in the
remotest countries of the world, is, with the exception
of one-fifth, wholly oceanic ; it is therefore, through the re
markable relations betwixt the sea and the land, by so much
the more accessible, as we are now in possession of a
means of determining both variation and dip, with great
accuracy, on ship-board, whilst the vessel is holding her
course.
We have now portrayed the distribution of magnetism
upon the surface of our planet, according to the two
forms of variation and dip. The third form, that of in
tensity of the force, still remains, and this is graphically
expressed by isodynamic curves (lines of equal intensity).
The investigation and measurement of this force, in its
terrestrial relations, by the oscillations of a vertical or
horizontal needle, have only excited general and lively
interest since the beginning of the nineteenth century.
The measurement of the horizontal force has been made
capable of a degree of accuracy, particularly by the appli
cation of delicate optical and chronometrical instruments,
which far exceeds that of all the other magnetical deter
196 MAGNETISM.
minations. If, with reference to the immediate application
to navigation and steering, the isogonal lines be the more
important, the isodynamic, especially those that indicate
the horizontal force, present themselves, according to the
most recent views, as those which promise the richest har
vest for the theory of terrestrial magnetism (128). One of
the earliest facts discovered by observation, was this : that
the intensity of the sum of the force increases from the
equator towards the pole(129).
For a knowledge of the measure of this increase, and
the establishment of all numerical relations of the law of
intensity, embracing the whole earth, we are especially in
debted to the ceaseless activity of Colonel Sabine, who, ever
since the year 1819, after he had made observations on the
same needle oscillating at the American north pole, in
Greenland, in Spitzbergen, on the coast of Guinea, and in
the Brazils, has been incessantly engaged in collecting and
arranging whatever may serve to illustrate the direction of
the isodynamic lines. I have myself given the first
plan of an isodynamical system, divided into zones, for
a small part of South America. These isodynamic lines
are not parallel to the lines of equal dip ; the intensity of
the force is not, as was at first believed, weakest at the
magnetic equator; it is not once equal at any part of
the same. If Erman's observations in the southern
portion of the Atlantic, where a zone of declining in
tensity runs from Angola, over the island of St. Helena,
to the coast of Brazil, (0-706), be compared with the
very latest observations of that distinguished navigator
Sir James Clark Boss, it is found that the force upon
the surface of our planet increases nearly in the ratio of
MAGNETISM. 197
one to three towards the magnetic south pole, and where
Victoria Land stretches away from Cape Crozier towards
Mount Erebus, that volcano which rises from everlasting
ice to the height of 11,600 above the level of the
sea(130). If the intensity in the vicinity of the mag
netic south pole be expressed by 2-052, (— the intensity
which I found on the magnetic equator in North Peru is
still assumed as unity, or TOOO), Sabine found it, in
Melville Island, 24° 27' N. lat., near the magnetic north
pole, only T624; whilst, in the United States, near
New York—nearly under the same parallel of latitude as
Naples, consequently—it was 1-803.
Through the brilliant discoveries of Oersted, Arago, and
Faraday, the electrical charge of the atmosphere has been
brought to approximate more closely to the magnetical
charge of the earth. If Oersted found that electricity
induced magnetism in the vicinity of the body which was
conducting it, so, on the other hand, it was shown in
Faraday's experiments that free magnetism gave rise
to electricity. Magnetism is one of the numerous
forms in which electricity manifests itself. The ancient
suspicion of the identity of electrical and magnetical
attraction has been demonstrated in the present age. " If
electrum" (amber), says Pliny (131), in the sense of the
Ionic natural philosophy of Thales, "becomes inspired
by friction and warmth, it attracts bark and dried leaves,
exactly like the magnetic iron stone." The same words
occur in the literature of a people inhabiting the eastern
most parts of Asia, in the discourse, laudatory of the
magnet, of the Chinese natural philosopher, Kuopho (132).
It was not without surprise that I myself observed, among
198 MAGNETISM.
the children at play on the woody banks of the Orinoco,
the offspring of native tribes in the lowest grade of civili
zation, that the excitement of electricity by friction was
known. The boys rubbed the dry, flat, and shining
seeds of a creeping leguminous plant (probably a negretia),
until they attracted fibres of cotton wool and chips of the
bamboo. This amusement of these coppery children is
calculated to leave a deep and solemn impression behind
it. What a chasm lies between the electrical play of these
savages, and the discovery of the lightning conductor, of
the chemically decompounding pile, of the light-evolving
magnetical apparatus ! In such gulphs, millenniums in
the history of the intellectual progress of mankind lie
buried !
The ceaseless change, the fluctuating movements which
are observed in all magnetical phenomena—those of the
dip, variation, and intensity, according to the hour of the
day and even of the night, according to the season and
the lapse of whole years, permit us to suspect the existence
of very dissimilar partial systems of electrical currents in
the crust of the earth. Are these currents, as in See-
beck's experiments, thermo-magnetical, and immediately
excited by unequal distribution of heat ? Or shall we
not rather regard them as induced by the position of the
sun, and through the influence of his heat ? (133) Has the
rotation of our planet and the accident of the different
velocities impressed upon the several zones, according to
their distance from the equator, any influence upon the
distribution of magnetism ? Shall the seat of the currents,
in other words, of the electricity in motion, be sought for
in the atmosphere, in the interplanetary spaces, or in the
MAGNETISM. 199
polarity of the sun and moon ? Galileo, in his celebrated
Dialogo, is disposed to ascribe the parallel direction
of the earth's axis to a magnetic point of attraction
in space.
When the interior of the earth is regarded as molten
and subjected to an enormous pressure, as raised to a degree
of temperature such as we have no means of estimating,
then must the idea of a magnetical nucleus of the earth
be abandoned. All magnetism is certainly lost at a white
heat (134) ; it is still manifested when iron is raised to a
dull red ; and however different the modifications under
gone by the molecular condition, and the coercive force
of matter dependent on it, may be in experiments,
there still remains a considerable thickness of the crust
of the earth which might be assumed as the seat of mag
netic currents. In what regards the old explanation of
the horary variations of the deflection, by the progressive
heating of the earth in the apparent course of the sun from
east to west, it must be owned that we are here limited to the
very outermost surface ; inasmuch as the thermometers
now sunk in the ground in so many places, and so care
fully observed, show us how slowly the sun's heat pene
trates even to the moderate depth of a few feet. And
then the thermal state of the surface of the ocean, cover
ing two-thirds of the globe, is little favourable to such an
explanation, when the question is one of immediate mean
influence, not of induction from the aerial and vaporous
covering of our planet.
To all questions as to the ultimate physical cause of
phenomena so complicated, there is no satisfactory answer
to be given in the present state of our knowledge. It is
200 MAGNETISM.
only in reference to the three-fold manifestations of the
earth-force, to that which meets us as mensurable relations
of Space and of Time, as the Normal or conformable to
laws in the Variable, that brilliant advances have lately
been made, through the determination of numerical mean
values. Since the year 1828, from Toronto, in Upper
Canada, to the Cape of Good Hope and Van Dieman's
Land, from Paris to Pekin, the earth has been covered
with magnetical observatories (135), in which uninterrupted
and simultaneous observations are made of every regular
and irregular excitement of the earth-force. A decrease
of the magnetic intensity amounting to the 4 0 1 0 0th part
is measured; at certain epochs, observations are noted
every 2j minutes through an entire period of 24 hours.
An illustrious English astronomer and natural philo
sopher (136) has calculated that the mass of observations
accumulated in the course of three years, which remain
for discussion, amounts to 1,958,000 ! Never has there
been so grand, so delightful an effort made to get at the
root of the Quantitative in the laws of a natural phenome
non. We may therefore be permitted to entertain a well-
grounded hope, that these laws, compared with those which
prevail in the atmosphere, and still more distant spaces,
will gradually bring us nearer and nearer to the Genetical
in magnetic phenomena. Until now we can only boast
that a greater number of ways which might possibly lead to
information have been opened up. In the physical doctrine
of terrestrial magnetism, which must not be confounded
with the purely mathematical one, as in the doctrine of
the meteorological processes of the atmosphere, some com
pletely satisfy themselves by conveniently denying as
NORTHERN LIGHTS. 201
realities all the phenomena which cannot be explained in
conformity with their views.
Terrestrial magnetism, the electro-dynamic forces which
have been calculated by the able Ampere (137), stands at the
same time in intimate relationship with the Earth- or
Northern-Lights [Aurora borealis], as with the internal
and external temperature of our globe, whose magnetic
poles must be regarded as poles ofcold(138) . If Halley(139),
some 128 years ago, gave it out as a mere bold conjecture
that the northern light was a magnetic phenomenon,
Faraday's brilliant discovery of the evolution of light
through magnetic power has raised that conjecture to the
rank of an empirical certainty. There are heralds or
harbingers of the northern-lights. In the course of the
day on which the lights are to appear, irregular horary
movements of the magnetic needle usually indicate an
interruption of equilibrium in the distribution of the
terrestrial magnetism. When this disturbance has attained
a great intensity, the equilibrium of the distribution is
restored by a discharge, accompanied with an evolution
of light. " The northern light itself is not, therefore,
to be regarded >as an external cause of the disturbance,
but rather as a terrestrial activity raised to the pitch
of a luminous phenomenon, one of the sides of
which is the light, the other the oscillations of the
needle" (uo). The splendid phenomenon of coloured
northern lights is the act of discharge, the conclusion of
a magnetic storm; in the same way as, in the electrical
storm, an evolution of light—lightning—indicates the re
storation of the disturbed equilibrium in the distribution of
K.2
202 NORTHERN LIGHTS.
electricity. The electrical storm is usually limited to a
small space, beyond which the state of the electricity
remains unchanged. The magnetic storm, on the con
trary, reveals its influence on the march of the needle
over large portions of continents, as Arago first observed,
and far from the place where the development of light is
visible. It is not improbable that, as in the case of heavily
charged and threatening clouds, and of frequent transitions
of the atmospheric electricity into opposite states, it does not
always come to discharges by lightning, so also may mag
netic storms produce great disturbances in the horary
motions of the needle over extensive circles, without there
being any necessity for explosions, for luminous effusions
from the pole to the equator, or from one pole to another,
in order to restore the equilibrium.
He who would have all the particulars of the pheno
menon embraced in one picture, should have the origin
and course of a complete appearance of the northern
lights set before him. Deep on the horizon, nearly in
the situation where it is intersected by the magnetic meri
dian, the heaven, up to this moment clear, grows black.
There is a kind of hazy bank or screen produced, which
rises gradually, and attains to an altitude of from 8 to 10
degrees. The colour of the dusky segment passes over
into brown or violet. Stars are visible in it, but they are
seen as in a portion of the sky obscured with dense
smoke. A broad bright luminous arc or seam, first
white, then yellow, bounds the dusky segment; but as
the brilliant bow arises later than the smoky-grey
segment, it is impossible, according to Argelander(141), to
ascribe the latter to the effect of mere contrast with the
NORTHERN LIGHTS. 203
bright luminous border. The highest point of the lu
minous arc, when it has been carefully measured (142), has
usually been found to be not exactly in the magnetic me
ridian, but to vary between 5 and 18 degrees from it,
towards the side on which the magnetic declination of the
place of observation lies. In high northern latitudes,
very near the north pole, the smoky-looking spherical
segment appears less dark; sometimes it is even entirely
absent. In the situation, too, where the horizontal force
is least,. the middle of the luminous arc is seen to depart
farthest from the magnetic meridian.
The luminous bow, in constant motion, flickering and
changing its form incessantly, sometimes remains visible
for hours before anything like rays and pencils of rays
shoot from it, and rise to the zenith. The more intense
the discharges of the northern lights, the more vividly do
the colours play from violet and bluish-white, through
every shade and gradation, to green and purplish-red. In
our ordinary electricity produced by friction, in the same
way, the spark first becomes coloured when the tension is
high, and the explosion is violent. The magnetic fiery
columns shoot up at one time singly from the luminous
arch, even mingled with black rays, like thick smoke ;
at another, many columns arise simultaneously from
several and opposite points of the horizon, and unite in
a flickering sea of flame, to the splendour of which no
description can do justice, and whose luminous waves
assume another and a different shape at every instant.
The intensity of the northern light is at times so great,
that Lowenorn perceived its oscillations, in bright sun
shine, on the 29th of January, 1786. The motion in
204 NORTHERN LIGHTS.
creases the brilliancy of the phenomenon. Around the
point of the vault of heaven which corresponds with the
direction of the dipping needle, the rays at length collect
together, and form the corona or crown of the northern
lights. This surrounds the summit, as it were, of a vast
canopy, the dome of heaven, with the mild radiance of its
steaming but not flickering rays. It is only in rare in
stances that the phenomenon proceeds the length of forming
the corona completely. With its appearance, however, the
whole is at an end. The rays now become rarer, shorter,
less intensely coloured. The crown and the luminous
arches break up. By and by nothing but broad, motion
less, and almost ashy-grey, pale gleaming fleecy masses,
appear irregularly dispersed over the whole vault of heaven ;
these vanish, in their turn, and before the last trace of the
murky fuliginous segment, which still shows itself deeply
on the horizon, has disappeared. Of the whole brilliant
spectacle, nothing at length remains but a white delicate
cloud, feathered at the edges, or broken up, as a cirro-
cumulus, into small rounded masses or heaps, at equal
distances.
This connection of the polar light with the most deli--
cate cirrus-clouds, deserves to be particularly mentioned;
inasmuch as it shows us the electro-magnetic evolution of
light as part of a meteorological process. The terrestrial
magnetism here manifests itself in its effects upon the
atmosphere, in a condensation of the watery vapour which
it holds dissolved. The observations, made in Iceland
by Thienemann, who regards the cirro-cumulus, or divided
fleecy cloud, as the substrate of the northern lights,
have been confirmed in later times by Franklin and
NORTHERN LIGHTS. 205
Richardson, near the North American magnetic pole, and
by Admiral Wrangel, on the Siberian coasts of the icy
sea. All observed " that the northern lights sent forth
the most brilliant rays when masses of cirro-stratus
floated in the upper regions of the atmosphere ; and when
these were so thin, that their presence was only known by
the formation of a halo about the moon." These light
clouds occasionally arranged themselves, by day, in the
same manner as the rays of the Aurora, and had the same
effect as these in disturbing the magnetic needle. After a
grand nocturnal display of the northern lights, the same
streaks of clouds that had been luminous over night, were
discovered in the morning arranged in the same man
ner (143). The apparently converging polar zones of
clouds (streaks of clouds, in the direction of the mag
netic meridian), which constantly attracted my atten
tion in the course of my travels on the lofty platforms
of Mexico, as well as in Northern Asia, belong apparently
to the same group of diurnal phenomena (144).
Southern lights have been frequently seen in England
by that able and diligent observer, Dalton; northern
lights in the southern hemisphere, as low as 45° of lati
tude (Jan. 14,1831). In instances that are not veryrare, the
magnetic equilibrium is disturbed at both poles simulta
neously. I have distinctly stated that northern polar lights
are seen within the tropics, even as far south as Mexico and
Peru. It is necessary to distinguish, however, between the
sphere of a simultaneous apparition of the phenomenon, and
the zone of the earth in which the phenomenon is displayed
almost every night of the year. As each observer sees his
own rainbow, so also, doubtless, does he see his own polar
206 NORTHERN LIGHTS.
light. A great portion of the earth engenders the radiating
Light^phenomenon at the same time. Many nights can he
mentioned in which it was observed simultaneously in
England, in Pennsylvania, in Borne, and in Pekin. When
it is maintained that the northern lights decline with the
decrease of latitude, this must he understood as referring
to magnetic latitude, measured from the magnetic pole.
In Iceland, Greenland, and Newfoundland, on the banks
of the Slave lake, and at Fort Enterprise (in North
Canada), the Aurora is lighted up, at certain seasons,
almost every night, and with its shifting, shivering rays, per
forms its " merry dance " through the sky, as the natives
of the Shetland Islands term it(145). Whilst in Italy
the northern light is a great rarity, it is seen with extreme
frequency in the latitude of Philadelphia (39° 57' N. L.),
in consequence of the southern position of the American
magnetic pole. But in the districts of the new continent,
and also of the shores of Siberia, which are remarkable
for the frequency of the phenomenon, there occur what
may be called especial regions of the northern lights-—
longitudinal zones in which they are peculiarly splen
did (146). Local influences are, consequently, not to be
overlooked. Wrangel observed their brilliancy decline as
he left the shores of the icy sea, about Nijne-Kolymsk,
behind him. The experience of the Northern Polar
Expedition seems to indicate that the evolution of light
is not greater in the immediate vicinity of the magnetic
pole than it is at some distance from this spot.
What we know of the altitude of the northern light is
based on measurements, which, by reason of the incessant
oscillations of the luminous rays, and the consequent
NORTHERN LIGHTS. 207
uncertainty of the parallactic angle, cannot be greatly
depended on. The conclusions come to (not to speak of
older estimates) vary between several miles and three or
four thousand feet (147). It is not improbable that the
northern light is at very different distances at different
times. The latest observers are disposed to connect the
phenomenon, not with the outer limits of the atmosphere,
but with the region of the clouds itself ; they even believe
that the northern streamers may be moved by winds and
currents ofair, if the luminous phenomenon, by which alone
the existence of electro-magnetic emanations becomes
obvious to us, be actually connected with material col
lections of vesicular vapour, or, to speak more correctly,
penetrates these collections, darting over from one vesicle
to another. Captain Franklin saw a streaming Aurora
on Bear lake, which he believed illuminated the
under side of the stratum of cloud; whilst Kendal, who
had the watch through the whole of the night, and never
lost the heavens for a minute from his sight, at the dis
tance of but 4£ geographical miles, observed no luminous
phenomenon whatsoever. The statement, repeated several
times of late, to the effect that streamers of the northern
light have been observed close to the ground, and between
the observer and a neighbouring height, is one of those
points, which, like lightning and the fall of fire-balls, is
exposed to the manifold dangers of optical deception.
Whether or not the magnetic storm, of which we have
just quoted a remarkable example of local circumscription
within very narrow bounds, have the noise, besides the
light, in common with the electrical storm, is now ren
dered extremely doubtful, since the testimony of the
208 NORTHERN LIGHTS.
Greenland sledgers, and the Siberian fox-hunters, is no
longer taken uncondition ally. The northern lights have
become more silent since they have been examined more
carefully with the eye and the ear. Parry, Franklin and
Eichardson, near the north pole ; Thienemann, in Iceland ;
Gieseke, in Greenland ; Lottin and Bravais, at the North
Cape; Wrangel and Anjou, on the shores of the icy sea,
have, altogether, looked at thousands of northern lights,
yet never heard any noises. If this negative testimony be
not admitted against two positive witnesses, Hearne, at
the mouth of the Coppermine river, and Henderson, in
Iceland, it must still be remembered that Hood heard the
same noises—as of musket balls shaken rapidly together,
and slight cracklings, during the occurrence of the northern
lights, indeed, but also on the following day, when there
was no Aurora in the heavens ; and then it must not be
forgotten, that Wrangel and Gieseke were firmly con
vinced that the noises heard were owing to contractions
of the ice and crust of snow, in consequence of a sudden
cooling of the air. The belief in a crackling noise did not
take its origin among the people, but with learned tra
vellers, and in this way :—the flashing of electricity in
attenuated atmospheres having been known from an early
period, the northern light was forthwith declared to be an
effect of atmospheric electricity, and then the noises were
heard that ought to have been heard. Recent experiments
with the most delicate electrometers, however, contrary to
all expectation, have hitherto given merely negative results :
the state of the aerial electricity has not been found altered
during the prevalence of the most brilliant Auroras.
All the three manifestations of force of the terrestrial
NORTHERN LIGHTS. 209
magnetism—Declination, Inclination, and Intensity, on
the contrary, are affected at once by the northern lights.
In one and the same night, and from hour to hour, the
Aurora affects the same end of the needle differently, now
attracting it, now repelhng it. The assertion that the
facts collected by Parry at Melville Island, near the mag
netic pole, lead to the conclusion that the northern lights
do not disturb the needle, but rather have a " calming
effect" upon it, is completely contradicted by a more
careful perusal of Parry's own journal (148), by the beau
tiful observations of Richardson, Hood, and Franklin in
North Canada, and, more lately still, by Bravais and
Lotten in Lapland. The process in the northern lights
is, as we have above observed, the act of restoration of
an equilibrium disturbed. The effect upon the needle
varies according to the measure of force in the explosion.
It was only unobservable at the nocturnal winter station at
Bosekop*, when the luminous phenomenon showed itself
very feebly and deep on the horizon. The upshooting
radiate cylinders of the northern light have been aptly com
pared to the flame which, in the closed circuit of the Voltaic
pile, arises between two charcoal points at a distance from
one another, or, according to Fizeau, between a silver and
a charcoal point, and to that which is drawn or thrown off
from the magnet. This analogy at all events renders
superfluous the assumption of those metallic vapours in
the atmosphere which some natural philosophers have
imagined as the substrate of the northern lights.
If the luminous phenomenon which we ascribe to a
galvanic current, i. e. a motion of electricity in a circuit
* [Vide Kaemtz's Complete Course of Meteorology, by C. V. Walker,
(Plates, 8vo. Lond. 1845), for a full account of the Aurora.—Tn.]
210 LUMINOUSNESS OF THE EARTH.
returning into itself, be designated by the indefinite name
of the Northern light, or the Polar light, nothing more is
thereby implied than the local direction in which the be
ginning of a certain luminous phenomenon is most gene
rally, but by no means invariably, seen. What gives this
phenomenon its greatest importance is the fact which it
reveals, viz. that the Earth is luminous ; that our
planet, beside the light which it receives from the central
body, the sun, shows itself capable of a proper luminous
act or process. The intensity of the Earth-light, or
rather the degree of luminosity which it diffuses, exceeds
by a little, in the case of the brightest coloured rays that
shoot up to the zenith, the light of the moon in her first
quarter. Occasionally, as on the 7th of January, 1831,
a printed page can be read without straining the sight.
This light-process of the earth, which the Polar regions
exhibit almost incessantly, leads us by analogy to the
remarkable phenomenon which the planet Venus presents.
The portion of this planet which is not illuminated by the
sun, glows occasionallywith a proper phosphorescent gleam.
It is not improbable that the Moon, Jupiter, and Comets,
besides the reflected sun-light recognisable by the polaris-
cope, also emit light produced by themselves. Without
insisting on the problematical but very common pheno
menon of sheet-lightning, in which the whole of a deep
massy cloud is flickeringly illuminated for several minutes
at a time, we find other examples of terrestrial evolutions
of light. To this head belong the celebrated dry-fogs of
1783 and 1831, which were luminous by night; the
steady luminousness of large clouds, perfectly free from
all flickering, observed by Rosier and Beccaria ; and even
the pale, diffused light, as Arago has well observed (U9),
REACTION OF INTERIOR ON EXTERIOR OF THE GLOBE. 211
which serves to guide us in the open air, in thickly
clouded autumn and wintry nights, when there is neither
moon nor star in the firmament, nor snow upon the ground.
As in the phenomenon of the Polar lights occurring in
high northern latitudes, in other words, in electro-magnetic
storms floods of flickering and often parti-coloured light
stream through the air, so, in the hotter zones of the earth,
between the tropics, are there many thousand square miles
of ocean which are similarly light-engendering. Here,
however, the magic of the light belongs to the organic
forces of nature. Light-foaming flashes the bursting
wave, the wide level glows with lustrous sparks, and every
spark is the vital motion of an invisible animal world. So
manifold is the source of terrestrial light. And shall we
conceive it latent, not yet set free in vapours, as a means
of explaining Moser's pictures, — a discovery in which
reality still presents itself to us as a vision shrouded in
mystery ?
As the internal heat of our planet is connected on one
hand with the excitement of electro-magnetic currents
and the light-producing process of the earth (a conse
quence of the bursting of a magnetic storm), so on the
other hand does it also manifest itself as a principal
source of geognostic phenomena. These we shall consider
in their connection, and in their transition from a merely
dynamic concussion, and from the upheaving of continents
and mountain masses, to the production and effusion of
gases and liquids, of boiling mud, and of red hot and
molten earths, which harden into crystalline rocks. It is
no trifling advance in the newer geognosy (the mineralo
212 REACTION OF INTERIOR ON EXTERIOR OF THE GLOBE.
gical portion of the physics of the globe), that it haa
firmly founded the concatenation of phenomena here indi
cated. The views of modern geognosy lead off from mere
hypothesis, which trifles or plays with its subject, and
seeks to explain, severally and apart, every manifestation
of force of the old globe ; they shew the connection of
the various matters ejected with what appertains only to
change in reference to space—concussion, elevation, de
pression ; they arrange side by side groups of phenomena
which at first sight present themselves as extremely hetero
geneous—thermal springs, effusions of carbonic acid gas,
escapes of sulphureousvapours, harmless eruptions of mud,
and the awful devastations of burning mountains. In a
grand picture of nature all this becomes fused in the
single conception of the reaction of the interior ofa planet
upon its crust and surface. So do we recognise in the
depths of the earth, in its temperature increasing with the
distance from the surface, at once the germs of concussive
movements, of the gradual elevation of entire continents,
or of mountain chains through lengthened chasms, of
volcanic eruptions, and of the varied production of mineral
species and rocky masses. But it is not inorganic nature
alone that has felt the force of this reaction of the interior
upon the exterior. It is extremely probable that in the
primitive world immense discharges of carbonic acid gas
mingled with the atmosphere, excited the faculty possessed
by vegetables of separating carbon from the air, and that
thus, in revolutions which destroyed extensive forests,
inexhaustible supplies of combustible matter—lignites and
coals of different kinds—have been buried beneath the
upper strata of the earth. The destiny of man we even
EARTHQUAKES. 213
recognise as in part dependent on the fashion of the outer
crust of the globe, on the partitioning of continents, on the
direction of their mountain chains and high lands. To the
inquiring spirit is it given to mount from link to link in
the chain of phenomena, till the point is gained at which
in the incipient consolidation of our planet, in the first
transition of the conglobated matter from the vaporous
form, the internal heat of the earth, that heat which does
not belong to the action of the sun, was developed.
In our survey of the causal connection of geognostical
phenomena, we shall begin with those which, in their
principal features, are dynamical, which consist in motion
and a change in space. Earthquakes of every kind and
degree are distinguished by a series of perpendicular,
or horizontal, or rotatory vibrations following each other
in rapid succession. In the course of the considerable
number of earthquakes which I have felt in both hemi
spheres of the globe, on shore and at sea, the two first
kinds of motion have appeared to me very frequently to
take place together. The explosive movement such as is
produced by the firing of a mine—the perpendicular action,
from below upwards—was displayed most conspicuously
on the occasion when the town of Riobamba was destroyed
(1797), when the bodies of many of the inhabitants were
thrown upon the hill of La Culla, which is several hun
dred feet high, and rises on the other side of the Lican
rivulet. The propagation of the motion generally
takes place in a linear direction, in waves, and with a
velocity of from five to seven G. geographical miles in a
minute. Sometimes it is in circles, or in great ellipses,
from the centre of which the vibrations are propagated
214 EARTHQUAKES.
with decreasing force towards the circumference. There
are districts which belong to or fall within two mutually
intersecting circles of concussion. In North Asia, which
the father of history (I50), and, after him, Simocatta (151)
characterise as " the Scythian territories free from earth
quakes," I found the southern part of the Altai Moun
tains, so rich in mineral treasures, subject to the influence
of the concussive foci both of Lake Baikal and the volca
noes of Thian-Schan, or the Celestial Mountain (152).
When the circles of concussion intersect each other—
when, for instance, a lofty plain lies between two simulta
neously active volcanoes,—then may several systems of
waves exist at once, and not interfere with each other,
just as in the case of fluids. Interference, however,
can be conceived here, as in mutually intersecting waves
of sound. The magnitude of the transmitted wave of
succussion is increased at the surface, in conformity with
the general laws of mechanics, according to which,
when motion is communicated in elastic bodies, the
outermost free-lying stratum tends to detach itself from
the others.
The waves of succussion can be pretty accurately mea
sured in their direction and total strength, by the pendu
lum and the sismometer bowl, but in no way investigated
in the intimate nature of their alternations and periodical
intumescences. In the city of Quito, which stands at the
foot of an active volcanic mountain—the Rucu-Pichincha,
8,950 feet above the level of the sea, and boasts of beau
tiful cupolas, lofty fanes, and massive houses several
stories high, I have frequently been surprised at the
violence of the earthquakes by night, which nevertheless
EARTHQUAKES. 2 1 5
very rarely occasion rents in the walls; whilst in the
plains of Peru, apparently much weaker oscillationa
injure lowly houses huilt of cane. Natives who have
stood the shocks of many hundred earthquakes, believe
that the difference of effect is less connected with the
length or shortness of the waves, with the slowness or
rapidity of the horizontal oscillation (,53), than with the
equality of the motion in opposite directions. Circular
or rotatory concussions are the rarest, but they are the
most dangerous of all. Twistings round of walls without
throwing them down ; plantations of trees, which had pre
viously stood in parallel rows, deflected; the direction
of the ridges of fields covered with various kinds of grain
altered, were observed on occasion of the great earthquake
of Riobamba, in the province of Quito (February 4th,
1797), as well as of those of Calabria (February 5th and
March 28th, 1783). With the latter phenomenon of
rotation, or the transposition of fields and cultivated plots
of ground, of which one has occasionally taken the place
of another, there is connected a translatory motion, or
mutual penetration of several strata. When taking the
plan of the ruined city of Riobamba, I was shown a place
where the whole of the furniture of one dwelling-house had
been found under the ruins of another. The loose earth
of the surface had run in streams like a fluid, of which it
must be conceived that it was first directed downwards,
then horizontally, and finally upwards. Disputes about
the property, in those instances where things were carried
many hundred toises from their original stances, were
adjusted by the Audiencia, or Court of Justice.
In countries where earthquakes are comparatively much
210 EARTHQUAKES.
rarer, in the south of Europe for example, a very general
belief, grounded upon an imperfect induction, prevails (154) ;
viz. that calms, oppressive heats, and a misty state of the
horizon, are always preludes to an earthquake. The
erroneousness of this popular belief is not, however,
shown by my own experience only ; it is farther gainsaid
by the observations of all who have lived long in countries
where earthquakes are frequent and violent, as in Cumana,
Quito, Peru, and Chili. I have experienced earthquakes
when the air was clear and a fresh east wind was blowing,
as well as during rain and thunder storms. Even the regu
larity in the horary variations in the declination of the mag
netic needle, and in the pressure of the air (15S), remained
unaffected within the tropics on the day of the earthquakes.
The observations which Adolphus Erman made in the
temperate zone on the occasion of an earthquake at
Irkutsk, near lake Baikal, on the 18th of March, 1829,
agree perfectly with my experience. During the violent
earthquake of Cumana which happened on the 4th of No
vember, 1799, 1 found the declination of the needle and the
magnetic intensity unaffected ; but to my astonishment
the dip was diminished by 48' (156). I had no suspicion
of any error ; yet in all the other earthquakes which I
have experienced in the high lands of Quito and in Lima,
the dip of the needle remained equally unaffected with the
other elements of the terrestrial magnetism. If in a
general way the acts that proceed deep in the interior of
the earth are announced beforehand by no special meteoro
logical phenomenon, by no peculiar aspect of the heavens,
it is on the contrary not improbable, as we shall see imme
diately, that in certain very violent earthquakes the atmos
EARTHQUAKES. 217
phere has sympathized or partaken in some measure, and
that these, therefore, do not always act in a purely dyha -
mical manner. During the prolonged tremblings of the
ground in the Piedemontese vallies of Pelis and Clusson,
extreme changes in the electrical tension of the atmosphere
were observed, whilst the heavens were free from storm.
The strength of the dull noise which generally accom
panies an earthquake does not by any means increase in
the same measure as the strength of the vibrations. I
have satisfactorily made out that the grand concussion in
the earthquake of Riobamba (Feb. 4th, 1797), one of the
most awful catastrophes in the physical history of our
earth, was accompanied by no noise whatever. The great
noise (el gran ruidoj which was heard under the cities
of Quito and Ibarra, but not nearer the centre of the
motion in Tucunga and Hambato, occurred from
eighteen to twenty minutes after the proper catastrophe.
In the celebrated earthquake of Lima and Callao (28th
Oct. 1746), the sound was first heard like a subterraneous
peal of thunder in Truxillo a quarter of an hour later, and
without any trembling of the ground. In like manner,
long after the earthquake of New Granada (Nov. 16th,
1827), which has been described by Boussingault, sub
terraneous detonations were heard in the whole of the
valley of Cauca, with great regularity at intervals of thirty
seconds. The nature of the noises heard on such occa
sions is very various : rolling, rattling, clanking like
chains, occasionally in the town of Quito like thunder close
at hand ; or it is clear and ringing, as if masses of obsidian
or other vitrified matters were struck in caverns under
ground. As solid bodies are excellent conductors of
VOL. I. L
218 EARTHQUAKES.
sound, as sound, for example, is transmitted with ten or
twelve times the velocity in burnt clay that it is in air,
the subterraneous noise, it may be easily imagined, will be
apt to be heard at great distances from the place where it is
occasioned. In Caraccas, in the grassy plains of Calabozo,
and on the banks of the Rio Apure, which falls into the
Orinoco, in the whole of a region of 2300 square miles
in superficial extent, there was heard an extraordinary
thundering noise, without any shock of an earthquake, on
the 30th of April, 1812, at the very time that the volcano
of the Island of St. Vincent, lying 158 geographical
miles off, was pouring an immense stream of lava
from its crater. This, in respect of distance, was as if an
eruption of Vesuvius were to be heard in the north of
France. In 1 744, on the occasion of the great eruption
of Cotopaxi, subterraneous cannonadings were heard at
Honda on the Eio Magdalena. The crater of Cotopaxi,
however, is not only 17,000 feet above the level of Honda,
but the two points are separated by the colossal mountain
masses of Quito, Pasto, and Popayan, as well as by
vallies and precipices innumerable, besides lying 109
geographical miles apart. The sound was certainly trans
mitted not through the air, but through the earth from a
great depth. In the violent earthquake of New Granada
(February, 1835), subterraneous thunder was heard at the
same time in Popayan, Bogota, Santa Martha, and
Caraccas (in the latter for a period of seven hours without
any shock), in Haiti, Jamaica, and round the lake of
Nicaragua in Mexico.
These sonorous phenomena, when they are accompanied
by no perceptible shocks, leave a remarkably deep im
EARTHQUAKES. 219
pression even with those who have long dwelt in districts
subject to repeated earthquakes. All seem to expect with
alarm what is to follow the subterraneous rumbling. The
most remarkable example of uninterrupted subterraneous
noises, without any trace of earthquake, and comparable
with nothing else, was presented by the phenomenon which
was known in the high lands of Mexico under the name of
the subterraneous bellowings and thunderings (bramidos
y truenos subterraneosJ of Guanaxuato (157). This
celebrated and flourishing mining town lies far remote
from any active volcano The noise continued from mid
night of the 9th of January, 1784, for more than a
month. I have been able to give a particular account
of it from the report of many witnesses, and from the
documents of the municipality which I was permitted to
use. It was (January 13th—lfith) as if heavy thunder
clouds lay under the feet of the inhabitants, in which
slowly rolling thunder alternated with sharper claps. The
sound drew off as it had come on with decreasing loud
ness. It was confined to a limited space ; at the distance
of a few miles off, in a, district abounding in basalt, it was
not heard at all. Almost all the inhabitants fled the
town in alarm, although great piles of silver bars were con
tained in it ; the more courageous becoming accustomed to
the subterraneous noise, by and by returned and disputed
possession with the bands of robbers who had seized on the
treasure. Neither on the surface of the ground, nor in
the workings at the distance of 1500 feet below it, was
there the slightest movement of the earth perceived.
Over the whole of the Mexican highlands no noise of the
same kind had ever been heard before, neither has the
220 EARTHQUAKES.
alarming incident recurred. Thus do chasms in the
interior of the earth open and close; and the sonorous
waves either reach us or are interrupted in their pro
gress.
The influence of a volcanic mountain in action, however
terrific or picturesquely grand as an object of sense, is
still always limited to a very narrow space. It is very
different with the shocks of earthquakes, which are scarcely
appreciable to the eye, but their undulations occasionally
extend simultaneously to the distance ofthousands ofmiles.
The great earthquake which desolated Lisbon on the 1st
of November, 1755, and whose influences have been so
admirably investigated by the great philosopher Emanuel
Kant, was felt among the Alps, on the coast of Sweden,
in the West Indian islands, Antigua, Barbadoes, and
Martinique, and on the great Canadian lakes, as well as
in the small inland lakes of the basaltic plains of Thurin-
gia and the northern flats of Germany. Distant springs
were interrupted in their course, an incident in earthquakes
to which Demetrius the Galatian directed attention in
ancient times. The hot springs at Tepliz ran dry, and
then returned deeply tinged with a ferruginous ochre,
flooding every thing. At Cadiz the sea rose sixty feet
high ; in the lesser Antilles it became of an inky black
colour, and the tide, which generally rises but about twenty-
six or twenty-eight inches, mounted twenty feet above
its usual level. It has been calculated that a territory
more than four times the superficial extent of Europe was
shaken by the earthquake of November 1st, 1755. - There
is, therefore, no other outward manifestation of force
known,—the murderous inventions of our race included—
EARTHQUAKES. 221
through which, in the brief period of a few seconds or
minutes, a larger number of human beings have been
destroyed: in 1793, sixty thousand perished in Sicily;
from thirty to forty thousand fell victims in the catastro
phe of Riobamba of 1797, and perhaps five times as many
in Lesser Asia and Syria under Tiberius and Justin the
Elder, about the years 19 and 526 of the Christian era.
There are instances among the Andes of South America
of the earth having quaked incessantly for several days
together ; but I only know of shocks that were felt almost
every hour for several months, having occurred far from
any volcano, on the eastern slopes of the Alps of Mont-
Cenis, about Fenestrella and Pignerolo, from April, 1808;
in the United States of America, betwixt New Madrid and
Little Prairie (158), to the north of Cincinnati, after De
cember, 1811; in the Paschalic ofAleppo, in the months of
August and September, 1822. As the vulgar mind
can never rise to general views, and therefore always
ascribes great phenomena to local processes of the earth
or of the air, wherever succussions continue for any
length of time, fears for the appearance of new volcanoes
take their rise. In single, rare instances, this fear has
indeed shown itself well-founded, as in the case of the
sudden rise of volcanic islands, and in the production of
the volcano of Jorullo, a new mountain, rising 1580 feet
above the old neighbouring level, on the 29th of Septem
ber, 1759, after ninety days of earthquakes and subter
raneous thunderings.
Could we have daily news of the state of the whole of
the earth's surface, we should, in all probability, become
convinced that some point or another of this surface is
222 EARTHQUAKES.
ceaselessly shaken; that there is uninterrupted reaction of
the interior upon the exterior going on. This constancy
and general diffusion of a phenomenon, which is probably
connected with the high temperature of the deepest strata
of the earth, explains its independence of the nature of
the rocky masses among which it is manifested. Shocks
of an earthquake have been experienced even in the
loosest alluvial deposits of Holland, around Middleburg
and Flushing. Granite and mica slate are shaken in
the same way as mountain limestone and sandstone, as
trachytic and amygdaloidal formations. It is not the
chemical nature of the constituents, but the mechanical
structure of the mineral species, that modifies the pro
pagation of the motion (the wave of succussion). Where
the wave proceeds regularly along a coast, or by the foot,
and in the direction of a mountain-chain, it is occasionally
observed that there is an interruption suffered at certain
points. This has been noticed for centuries. The undu
lation advances along the depths, but at the points in
question it is never felt at the surface. The Peruvians
say of these unshaken superior strata, that " they form
a bridge" (159). As mountain-chains appear upheaved
through fissures, the walls of these cavities may very well
favour or influence the course of the undulations that run
parallel with the chain; occasionally, however, the waves
of succussion cut across several chains, almost at right
angles. We thus see them break through the littoral
chains of Venezuela and the Sierra Parime in South
America. In Asia, the earthquakes of Lahore and the
foot of the Himalayas (Jan. 22d, 1 832) were propagated
transversely through the chain of Hindoo Cusch to
EARTHQUAKES. 223-
Badakhchan, to the Upper Oxus, and even to Bok
hara (160). Unfortunately, too, the circles of concussion
enlarge, in consequence of a single extremely violent
shock. It is only since the destruction of Cumana (14th
Dec. 1797) that every shock of the southern coast is felt
in the mica-slate strata of the peninsula of Maniguarez,
which lies opposite the limestone or chalk-hills of the
fortress. In the almost incessant undulations of the
ground of the vallies of the Mississippi, Arkansaw, and
Ohio, which occurred from 1811 to 1813, the progress
of the motion from south to north was very striking. It
was as if subterranean impediments had been gradually
overcome, and the wave of commotion then advanced
upon each occasion along the way which had been opened
up.
If an earthquake appear, at first sight, to be a pheno
menon of motion wholly dynamieal, having reference to
space only, it is still recognised, on the grounds of the
most careful experience, that it is not only competent to
raise whole districts above their old level (Ulla-Bund, east
ward from the delta of the Indus, for example, after the
earthquake of Cutch, in June, 1809, and the coast of Chili,
in November, 1822), but farther, that during the shock,
hot water (Catania, 1818), hot steam (valley of the Mis
sissippi, near New Madrid, 1812), mephitic or irrespirable
gases, which are injurious to the pasturing herds and
flocks of the Andes, mud, black smoke, and even flames
(Messina, 1782, Cumana, 14th Nov. 1797), have been
discharged. During the great earthquake of Lisbon,
Nov. 1, 1755, flames and a column of smoke were seen to
rise from a newly-formed fissure in the rock of Alvidras,
224 EARTHQUAKES.
near the city. The smoke became on each occasion where
it appeared, by so much the more dense as the subterra
neous noise increased in loudness (161) . When the town of
Riobamba was destroyed in 1797, the earthquake was not
accompanied by any eruption of the volcano which is so
close at hand ; but Moya, a singular mass, compounded of
carbon, crystals of augite, and the siliceous coats of infu-
sory animalcules, was pushed out of the ground in nume
rous small and progressive cones. The escape of carbonic
acid gas during the earthquake of New Granada ( 1 6th Nov.
1827), from fissures in the Magdalena valley, caused the
suffocation of many snakes, rats, and other creatures that
live in holes. Sudden changes in the weather, too, the
setting in of the rainy season at unusual periods in the
tropics, have occasionally followed great earthquakes in
Quito and Peru. Do gaseous fluids, escaping from the
interior of the earth, then become mingled with the atmos
phere ? or, are these meteorological processes the effect of
a disturbance of the atmospherical electricity by the earth
quake? In the countries of tropical America, where
sometimes not a drop of rain falls for ten months, the
inhabitants look upon repeated shocks of earthquakes,
which cause no danger to their low cane huts, as a happy
indication of plenty of rain, and consequently of fertility.
The intimate connection of all the phenomena now
described is still buried in obscurity. Elastic fluids are
undoubtedly the cause, as well of the slight and uninju-
rious tremblings of the earth, which continue for many
days (as in 1816 at Scaccia, in Sicily, previous to the
elevation of the new island called Julia), as of the frightful
explosions which are announced by noises. The focus of
EARTHQUAKES. 22.5
the mischief, the seat of the moving power, lies deep be
neath the crust of the earth; how deep, we know even as
little as we do what the chemical nature of the vapour of
such high tension may be. Encamped on the edge of two
-craters, on Vesuvius, and on the castellated rock which over
looks the vast gorge of Pichincha, near Quito, I experienced
periodical and very regular shocks, and, each time, from 20
to 30 seconds before red-hot ashes or vapours were ejected.
The shocks were by so much the stronger as the explosions
were later of occurring, and the vapour consequently
had been longer accumulating. In this simple fact, con
firmed by the experience of so many travellers, lies the
general solution of the phenomenon. Active volcanoes
are to be regarded as safety-valves for surrounding dis
tricts. The danger of the earthquake increases when the
opening of the volcano is stopped up, and there is no
longer a free communication with the atmosphere ; but
the destruction of Lisbon, of Caraccas, Lima, Cashmir
(1554) 162, and of so many towns of Calabria, Syria, and
Asia Minor, teaches us, that on the whole the force of
earthquakes is by no means greatest in the vicinity of still
active volcanoes.
As the pent-up force of a volcano acts in shaking the
ground, so does the concussion re-act, in its turn, upon
the volcanic phenomenon. The occurrence of fissures
favours the rise of the cones through which eruptions
take place, and the processes which go on within these
cones in free contact with the atmosphere. A column
of smoke, which had been seen for months rising from
the volcano of Pasto, in South America, disappeared sud
denly on the occurrence of the great earthquake of Kio
l2
226 EARTHQUAKES.
bamba, in the province of Quito, at the distance of 48
geographical miles to the south (Feb. 4, 1797). After
the earth had long continued to tremble in the whole of
Syria, in the Cyclades, and in Cubcea, the convulsions
ceased suddenly upon the eruption of a stream of " red-
hot mud" (lava from a crack) in the Lelantine plain, near
Chalcis (163). The admirable geographer of Amasia, who
has preserved the record of this fact, adds:—" Since the
mouths of Etna have been opened, through which the fire
belches forth, and since, in this way, heated masses and
water can be ejected, the lands by the sea-shore are no
longer so frequently shaken as they were in times before
the separation of Sicily from Lower Italy, when there was
no communication with the surface."
In earthquakes, therefore, we have evidence of a vol
cano-producing force ; but such a force, as universally dif
fused as the internal heat of the globe, and proclaiming
itself everywhere, rarely gets the length of actual eruptive
phenomena; and when it does so, it is only in isolated
and particular places. The formation of extensive veins
or dykes, in other words, the filling up of fissures with
crystalline matter ejected from the interior, such as basalt,
melaphyre, and greenstone, interferes by degrees with the
free escape of vapours; which, confined, become operative,
through their tension, in three ways: concussively; explo
sively, or suddenly up and down; and, as first observed
in a large portion of Sweden, liftingly or continuously,
and only in long periods of time perceptibly altering the
relative level of the sea and land.
Before we quit this great phenomenon, which has been
here considered not so much in its individual as in its
EARTHQUAKES. 227
general physical and geognostical relations, we must
advert to the cause of the indescribable, deep, and
quite peculiar impression which the first earthquake we
experience makes upon us, even when it is accompanied
by no subterranean noises. The impression here is not;
I believe, the consequence of any recollection of destruc
tive catastrophes presented to our imagination by nar
ratives of historical events: what seizes upon us so
wonderfully is the disabuse of that innate faith in the
fixity of the solid and sure-set foundations of the earth.
From early childhood we are habituated to the contrast
between the mobile element, water, and the immobility of
the soil on which we stand. All the evidences of our
senses have confirmed this belief But when suddenly
the ground begins to rock beneath us, the feeling of an
unknown mysterious power in nature coming into action,
and shaking the solid globe, arises in the mind. The
illusion of the whole of our earlier life is annihilated in
an instant. We are undeceived as to the repose of
nature, we feel ourselves transported to the realm, and
made subject to the empire, of destructive unknown powers.
Every sound—the slightest rustle in the air—sets atten
tion on the stretch. We no longer trust the earth upon
which we stand. The unusual in the phenomenon throws
the same anxious unrest and alarm over the lower animals.
Swine and dogs are particularly affected by it ; and the
very crocodiles of the Orinoco, otherwise as dumb as our
little lizards, leave the shaken bed of the stream and run
bellowing into the woods.
To man the earthquake presents itselfas an all-pervading
unlimited something. We can removefrom an active crater ;
228 CHEMICAL CHANGES IN THE EARTH'S CRUST.
from the stream of lava that is pouring down upon our
dwelling we can escape ; with the earthquake we feel that
whithersoever we fly we are still over the hearth of destruc
tion. Such a mental condition, though evoked in our
very innermost nature, is not, however, of long duration.
When a series of slighter shocks occur in a district one
after another, every trace of alarm soon vanishes among
the inhabitants. On the rainless coasts of Peru nothing
is known of hail, nor of explosions of lightning and rolling
thunderin the bosom of the atmosphere. The subterraneous
noise that accompanies the earthquake there comes in lieu
of the thunder of the clouds. Use and wont for a series
of years, and the very prevalent opinion that dangerous
earthquakes are only to be apprehended two or three times
in the course of a century, lead the inhabitants of Lima
scarcely to think more of a slight shock of an earthquake
than is thought of a hail-storm in the temperate zone.
Having now taken a general survey of the activity, and
likewise of the internal life of the globe : in its contained
heat, in its electro-magnetic tension, in its luminous emana
tions at the poles, in its irregularly-recurring phenomenon
of motion, we come to elementary material production,
to chemical changes in the crust of the earth, and in the
composition of the atmosphere, which are in like manner
the consequence of planetary vital activity. From the
ground we see effusions : of watery vapour and of gaseous
carbonic acid, mostly free from all admixture of azote (l64);
of carburetted hydrogen gas (in the Chinese province of
Sse-Tschuan ( l65) for thousands of years, and in the State of
New York, where, in the village of Fredonia, it has lately
EFFUSIONS OF CARBONIC ACID. 229
been employed for economical purposes in heating and
lighting ; of sulphuretted hydrogen gas ; of sulphur fumes,
and more rarely of sulphurous and hydrochloric acid
vapours (166). Such emanations from fissures in the
ground do not only indicate the dominion of volcanoes
long extinct or still burning ; they are farther observed ex
ceptionally in districts in which neither trachyte nor any
other volcanic rock meets the eye exposed upon the sur
face. In the Andes of Quindiu I have seen sulphur
precipitated from hot sulphureous vapours issuing out of
mica slate, at a height of 6410 feet above the level of the
sea (167) ; whilst the same, and, as it used to be regarded,
primitive rock, in the Cerra Cuelo, near Ticsan, South of
Quito, exhibits an enormous bed of sulphur in pure
quartz.
Of all the air-springs which the earth pours forth,
those of carbonic acid gas are still at the present time the
most important both in number and extent. Germany,
in her deeply-cut vallies of the Eifel, in the neighbour
hood of Lake Lach, in the Kesselthal of Wehr, and in
Western Bohemia, as also in the burning hearths of the
primeval world, or their vicinity, shews us these effusions of
carbonic acid as a kind of last effort of volcanic activity.
In former epochs, where, with a higher temperature of the
earth, and the frequency of fissures yet unfilled, the
processes which we are here describing proceeded more
actively, where carbonic acid gas and watery vapours were
mingled with the atmosphere in larger quantities than at
present, the youthful vegetable world, as Adolph Brong-
niart (168) has acutely observed, must have attained almost
everywhere, and independently of geographical position,
830 EFFUSIONS OF SULPHUROUS ACID.
to the most rank luxuriance and evolution of its organs.
In the ever hot, ever moist atmosphere, surcharged with
carbonic acid, vegetables must have found such vital
excitement, such superfluity of nourishment, as enabled
them to supply the material of those beds of coal and
lignite, the exhaustion of which it is difficult to conceive, and
which now serve as foundations for the physical strength
and the welfare of nations. Such beds are principally
contained in basins, and are peculiar to certain parts of
Europe. They are abundant in the British Isles, in
Belgium, in France, on the Nether Rhine, and in Upper
Silesia. In the same primeval times of all-pervading
volcanic action, too, must those enormous quantities of
carbonaceous matterhaveissued from the bowels of the earth
which all the limestone rocks contain, and which, sepa
rated from oxygen, and represented in the solid form,
composes about an eighth part of the absolute bulk of
these great mountain masses (169). The carbonic acid
which the atmosphere still contained, and which was not
absorbed by the alkaline earths, was gradually consumed
by the vegetation of the primeval world, so that the
atmosphere, purified by the processes of vegetable life, by
and by contained no more of the gas than was uninjurious
to the organization of such animals as people the earth at
the present time. Sulphurous or sulphuric acid vapours,
too, occurring more frequently and much more abundantly
then than now, occasioned the destruction of the inhabi
tants of the inland waters—mollusca and numerous genera
of fishes, as well as the formation of the strangely-twisted
beds of gypsum which have often apparently been shaken
by earthquakes.
COLD SPRINGS. 231
Under precisely similar physical relations, there were
further thrown out from the hosom of the ground various
gases and liquids, mud, and, from the eruption-cones of
volcanoes, which are but a species of intermitting springs,
streams of molten earths (170) . All these matters owe their
temperature and the nature of their chemical constitution to
theplace of their origin. The mean temperature of ordinary
springs is lower than that of the atmosphere of the place
where they appear, when the water is derived from high
levels ; their temperature increases with the depth of the
strata with which they come in contact at their origin. The
numerical law of this increase has been stated above.
The mixture of the waters which come from the mountain
elevations and from the depths of the earth, renders the
position of the isogeothermal lines (m), or lines of like
internal heat of the earth, difficult of determination, when
the conclusion has to be come to from the temperature of
springs as they rise. So, at least, did I and my friends
find it in some experiments which we made in Northern
Asia. The temperature of springs, which has been so
constant an object of physical investigation for the last
half century, depends, like the height of the line of per
petual snow, on numerous and highly complex causes.
It is a function of the temperature of the stratum in
which they have their origin, of the capacity for heat of
the ground, and of the quantity and temperature of the
atmospheric or meteoric water that falls (172), which last,
again, according to the mode of its origin, differs in its
temperature from that of the lower strata of the atmos
phere (173).
Cold springs, as they are called, can only give the
232 HOT SPRINGS.
mean temperature of the air if unmixed with water that
is rising from great depths, or that is descending from
considerable heights, and when they have flowed for a
very long way under the surface of the earth—in our
latitudes from 40 to 60 feet, in the equinoctial zone,
according to Boussingault, one foot (174). These depths
are those, in fact, of the stratum of earth in which, in the
temperate and torrid zone respectively, the point of
invariable temperature begins, in which the hourly,
diurnal, or monthly variations in temperature of the air
are no longer perceived.
Hot springs burst out of the most diversified mineral
strata; the hottest of all the permanent springs which
have yet been observed, and which I myself discovered,
flow remote from all volcanoes. I here refer to the Aguas
calientes de las Trincheras, between Puerto Cabello and New
Valencia, and to the Aguas de Comangillas, near Guan-
axuato in Mexico. The first spring, issuing from granite,
indicated 90-3°C.; the second, which breaks from basalt,
shewed 96-4° C. The depth of the source of water of these
temperatures, from what we know of the law of increase
of temperature in the interior of the earth, must probably
be about 6700 feet (more than half a geographical mile).
If the cause of the heat of thermal springs, as well as of
active volcanoes, be the universally diffused heat of the
earth, then would mineral species produce an effect only
through their capacity for, and their- power of conduct
ing heat. The hottest of all the permanent springs,
those, namely, from 95° to 97°C. (204° to 207-6°F.), it is re
markable, are the purest, are those that contain the smallest
quantity of mineral matter in solution. Their tempera
HOT SPRINGS. 233
ture appears on the whole to be less permanent than that
of springs between 50° and 74° C., the invariableness of
which, both in regard to temperature and mineral im
pregnation, has been maintained so wonderfully, within the
confines of Europe at least, during the last fifty or sixty
years, i. e. since accurate thermometrical observations and
chemical analyses were made. Boussingault found that
the thermal springs of las Trincheras had risen in tem
perature in the course of twenty-three years (from 1800,
when my journey was performed, to 1823), from 933° to
97° C. (175). This very smoothly flowing spring is con
sequently at this time 7° C. higher in temperature than the
intermitting Geyser and Strokr, the temperature of which
has been lately very carefuly ascertained by Krug of
Nidda. One of the most remarkable proofs of the origin of
these hot springs being due to the percolation of cold
meteoric water into the interior of the earth, and its con
tact there with a volcanic focus, was presented in the pre
ceding century in connection with the volcano of Jorullo
in Mexico, which was unknown to geography till after my
South American journey. When this mountain sud
denly made its appearance in September, 1759, rising to
a height of 1580 feet above the surrounding level, the
two small streams, Bios de Cuitimba y de San Pedro
disappeared ; but by and by they made their appearance
again, under the dreadful shocks of an earthquake, as hot
springs. In 1803 I found their temperature 658° C.
The springs of Greece still flow apparently in the same
places as they did in the times of Hellenic antiquity.
The source of Erasinos, two leagues south of Argos, on the
declivity of Chaon, is even mentioned by Herodotus. At
234 HOT SPRINGS.
Delphi, the Cassotis, under its name of Stream, of St.
Nicholas, still rises to the south of the Lesche, and flows
under the Temple of Apollo ; the Castalia, too, at the foot of
the Phsedriadae, and the Pirene at Acrocorinth, are there, as
well as the hot baths ofiEdepsum in Cuboea, in which Sulla
bathed at the time of the Mithridatic war (176). I gladly
adduce these particulars, because they forcibly remind us
how, in a country exposed to earthquakes so frequent and so
violent, the interior of our planet has been able to preserve
its fashion for 2000 years at least ; the small, branching,
and open fissures that convey the water of these springs
have not altered. The Fontaine jaillissante of Lillers in
the department of the Pas de Calais, was bored in the year
1126, and ever since then has the water flowed uninter
ruptedly to the same height, and in the same quantity ;
the excellent geographer of the Caramanian coasts,
Captain Beaufort, moreover, observed the same flame, fed
by a stream of inflammable gas, which escapes in the
district of Phaselis, which Pliny (177) describes as the
flame of Chimaera in Lycia.
The observation made by Arago in 1821, that the
deeper Artesian wells are the warmer (178), was the first
means of throwing a great light upon the origin of
thermal springs, and led to the discovery of the law of the
increase of the temperature of the earth according to
the depth. It is remarkable, and only noticed in very
recent times, that St. Patricius (179), probably bishop of
Pertusa, was led to a very correct view of the phenomenon
which presented itself in the appearance of the hot springs
near Carthage at the end of the third century. When
questioned as to the cause of the boiling hot water which
MUD VOLCANOES. 235
poured out from the earth, he answered :—" Fire is nou
rished in the clouds and in the interior of the earth, as
Etna, and another mountain in the neighbourhood of
Naples, inform you. The subterranean waters rise as
through syphons ; and the cause of the heat of hot
springs is this : the waters that are more remote from
the subterraneous fire show themselves colder ; those that
flow in closer proximity to the fire, warmed by it, bring
an insupportable heat to the surface which we inhabit."
As earthquakes are frequently accompanied by eruptions
of water and watery vapour, so do we perceive in the vol
canoes that pour out mud a transition from the alternating
phenomena presented by jets of vapour and thermal
springs to the grand and destructive activity of the moun
tains that vomit lava. If these, as springs of melted
earths, produce volcanic rocks, so do the thermal springs
that are charged with carbonic acid and sulphurous gas [and
earthy matters], produce by incessant precipitation either
horizontal beds of limestone (travertin), or they form
conical hillocks, as in the north of Africa (Algeria), and
the Banos of Caxamarca, on the western declivity of the
Peruvian Andes. In the travertin of Van Dieman's
Land, not far from Hobart Town, there are contained,
according to Mr. Charles Darwin, the remains of an ex
tinct flora. By lava and travertin, two species of rock
the production of which goes on under our eyes, we here
indicate the grand antitheses in geognostical relations.
Mud-volcanoes (Sahen) deserve a greater share of
attention than geologists have hitherto bestowed upon
them. The extent of the phenomenon has been over
236 MUD VOLCANOES.
looked, because in the two states in which it presents
itself to us, the one of repose is that which has been
principally dwelt upon, and in this state of repose mud-
volcanoes often continue for centuries. The production
of mud-volcanoes is accompanied by earthquakes, sub
terranean thunder, the elevation of a whole district of
country, and the eruption of flames, which rise high, but
last only for a short time. When the mud-volcano of
Iskmali made its appearance in the peninsula of Abscheron,
eastward from Baku, on the Caspian Sea (on the 27th of
November, 1827), flames burst forth, and blazed up to an
extraordinary height for a period of three hours ; for the
next succeeding twenty hours they scarcely rose three feet
above the surface of the crater that discharged the mud.
The column of flame mounted to such a height near the
village of Baklichi, westward from Baku, that it was seen
at the distance of six [German] miles. Great blocks of
stone, torn from their foundations beneath, were scattered
widely around, Similar blocks are observed about the now
slumbering mud-volcanoes of Monte Zibio, near Sassuolo,
in the north of Italy. The second state, or that of
activity, has continued for 1500 years in the mud volcano
of Girgenti (Macalubi), in Sicily, which is described by
the ancients. Many conical hillocks of 8, 10, and even
30 feet high, though the height as well as the form of
these varies at different times, are there seen arranged near
one another. From the superior very small basin, which
is full of water, along with periodic escapes of gas, there
are periodic streams of clayey mud discharged. The mud
of these volcanoes is generally cold, but occasionally, as
at Damak, in the province of Samarang, island of Java, it
MUD VOLCANOES. VOLCANOES. 237
is of high temperature, The gases, which escape with a
rushing noise, are also of different kinds—hydrogen gas,
mixed with naphtha, carbonic acid, and, as Parrot and I
ascertained, (in the peninsula of Taman and the South
American Volcancitos de Turbaco), almost pure nitrogen
gas(180).
Mud volcanoes, after the first forcible outburst of flame,
which perhaps is not common to all in the same measure,
present the observer with a picture of an activity of the
interior of the earth that proceeds incessantly but feebly.
The communication with the deep strata in which a high
temperature prevails is speedily interrupted again ; and
the cold discharges of mud volcanoes seem to indicate
that the seat of the phenomenon, in its state of con
tinuance, cannot be very remote from the surface. The
reaction of the interior of the earth upon its outer crust is
exhibited in a very different degree of force in the proper
volcanoes, or burning mountains ; in other words, in
those points of the earth where a permanent communica
tion, or, at all events, a communication that is renewed
from time to time, is established between the surface and
the deep focus of ignition. We must carefully distin
guish between more or less exaggerated volcanic pheno
mena, such as these. Earthquakes, hot springs and jets of
steam, mud volcanoes, the appearance of unopened dome-
shaped trachytic mountains, the opening of these moun
tains, or the upheaval of basaltic beds as craters of
elevation, the final rise of a permanent volcano within the
upheavement crater itself, or amongst the fragments of its
previous constitution. At different times, along with dif
ferent degrees of activity and force, permanent volcanoes
238 VOLCANOES.
throw out jets of aqueous vapour, acids, glowing ashes
and scoriae, and, when the resistance can be overcome,
fiery streams of melted earthy matters.
As a consequence of a great but local manifestation of
force in the interior of our planet, elastic vapours raise
either single parts of the crust of the earth into dome-
shaped, unopened masses of felspathic trachyte and
dolerite (Puy de Dome and Chimborazo) ; or the upheaved
strata are broken through, and inclined outwards in such
wise that upon the opposite inner aspect a steep rocky
edge is produced. This edge then becomes the boundary
of an upheavement crater. When this has risen from
the bottom of the sea, which does not by any means
happen in every case, it then presents the whole of the
characteristic physiognomy of the upheaved island. This
is the origin of the circular form of Palma, which Leopold
von Buch has described so carefully and so ably, as well as
of Nisyros, in theiEgean Sea (181) . Occasionally, one-half
the ring-like edge is destroyed, and in the bay which the
sea that has flowed in then forms, the social coral insects
establish themselves, and produce their cellular dwellings.
Craters of elevation on continents are also frequently
found filled with water, when they contribute to beautify
the landscape in an extraordinary and quite peculiar
manner.
Their origin is not connected with any special moun
tain formations; they break out in basalt, trachyte,
and leucitic porphyry (Somma), or in doleritic mix
tures of augite and labrador. Hence the very dissimilar
natures and external forms of this kind of crater edge.
" No eruptive phenomena take place from such boundaries ;
VOLCANOES. 239
through them there is no permanent channel of communi
cation established with the interior, and it is only very
rarely that traces of still active volcanic power are dis
covered in the precincts or within the circuit of such
craters. The force competent to bring about such impor
tant effects must long have gathered itself together, and
gained strength in the interior, before it could over
come the resistance of the superincumbent masses. On
the formation of new islands, it throws up granular rocky
masses, and conglomerates (layers of tufa full of marine
plants) above the level of the sea. Compressed gases
escape through the crater of elevation ; but a mass of such
magnitude thus upheaved sinks down again, and closes
forthwith the openings which are only formed for such
manifestations of force. No volcano is produced" (182).
A proper volcano only arises where a permanent con
nection is established between the interior of the earth
and the atmosphere. Here the reaction of the interior
upon the exterior proceeds for lengthened periods. It
may, as in the case of Vesuvius (Fisove) 183, be inter
rupted for centuries, and exhibit itself anew with reno
vated vigour. In the time of Nero it was already cus
tomary, in Rome, to rank iEtna among the number
of the gradually-expiring volcanic mountains (184); iElian,
indeed, at a later period, maintained that the seamen
began to see the sinking summit at a less distance on the
high seas than formerly (185). Where the evidence of the
eruption, I might say the old scaffolding, has been per
fectly preserved, the volcano shows itself rising from a
crater of elevation ; there a high rocky wall, a rampart of
greatly-inclined strata, surrounds the isolated cone in the
240 VOLCANOES.
manner of a circus. Sometimes there is not a trace of
this circus-like inclosure visible, and the volcano, not
always conical in figure, then arises as an elongated ridge
immediately from the elevated platform. This is the case
with Pichincha, at the foot of which stands the city
of Quito.
As the nature of mountain masses, in other words, the
combination or grouping of simple minerals into granite,
gneiss, and mica-slate, into trachyte, basalt, and dolerite,
independently of present climates, and under the most dis
similar zones, is still the same ; so do we everywhere
observe the same laws of formation proclaiming themselves
in the realm of inorganic nature, laws according to which
the strata of the crust of the earth stand in a certain
relationship to one another, under the influence of elastic
forces, and break through one another as dykes,. This
recurrence of the same phenomena is particularly striking
in volcanoes. When the navigator, among the islands of
distant seas, finds himselfsurrounded by palms and strange
forms of vegetation, and no longer sees the same stars, in
the individualities of the landscape he still traces Vesuvius,
the dome-shaped summit of Auvergne, the craters of ele
vation of the Canaries and Azores, the fissures of eruption
of Iceland repeated and reflected ; a glance at the attendant
of our planet, the moon, generalizes still farther the analogy
of formation here adverted to. In the maps of the moon,
drawn from the image reflected in powerful telescopes, in
our satellite, without atmosphere and without water, we can
distinguish vast craters of elevation, which surround conical
mountains, or support them on their circular walls : un
questionable effects of the reaction of the interior of the
VOLCANOES. 24 1
moon upon her exterior, aided by the influence of dimi
nished gravity.
If in many languages volcanoes are very properly de
signated Burning Mountains, it would still be a great
mistake to suppose that they were produced by any gradual
accumulation of the streams of lava that have flowed
from them; their origin appears to be much more gene
rally the consequence of a sudden upheaval of tenacious
masses of trachyte or augitic rock, including Labrador spar.
The measure of the upheaving force reveals itself in the
height of the volcano ; and this is so different, that in one
case it is a mere hillock (as in Cosima, one of the
Japanese Kuriles), in another it is a cone that rises to a
clear elevation of 18,000 feet. It has seemed to me as if
the relative height had a great influence upon the fre
quency of the eruptions ; as if these were much more
common in the lower than in the loftier volcanoes. I will
call attention to the following series:—Stromboli (2,175
feet high), Guacamayo, in the province of Quiros, which
thunders almost every day (I have frequently heard it in
Chillo, near Quito, at a distance of 22 miles), Vesuvius
(3,637 feet high), jEtna (10,200 feet high), the Peake of
Teneriffe (11,424 feet high), and Cotopaxi (17,892 feet
high). If the focus of these several volcanoes be at the
same depth below the surface, a greater force will be re
quired to raise the molten masses to a 6 or 8 times higher
level. Whilst the lowly Stromboli (Strongyle) has laboured
restlessly, at least since the times ofthe Homeric traditions,
and serves as a light-house to the Tyrrhenian Sea, guiding
the seaman with its fiery signal on his course, the more
lofty volcanoes are characterized by lengthened periods of
VOL. I. M
242 VOLCANOES.
repose. The eruptions of the greater number of the
colossal volcanoes that crown the Andes, occur at intervals
almost of a century apart : where exceptions to this rule
have been observed,—and I long ago directed attention to
them,—they may probably be connected with the circum
stance, that the communication between the volcanic focus
and the crater of eruption is not, cannot be conceived to
be, equally or permanently free in every volcano at all
times. In the less elevated volcanoes the channel of com
munication may be closed for a season; so that their
eruptions become rarer, without their being, on this
account, any nearer to extinction.
With the consideration of the relation between the
absolute heights of volcanoes and the frequency of their
activity, in so far as this is externally visible, the
place at which the lava flows out is closely connected.
Eruptions from the crater are extremely rare in the case
of many volcanoes; they generally occur from lateral
fissures, (as noticed by the celebrated historian, Bembo,
in the 16th century, whilst yet a youth), at places where
the flanks of the uplifted mountain, in consequence of
their formation and inclination, offer the least amount of
resistance (186). Upon these fissures cones of eruption
are occasionally raised. The larger of these are of such
dimensions that they are often erroneously designated
by the title of new volcanoes ; ranked side by side,
"they show the direction of a fissure which has again
become closed; the smaller ones frequently occur in
groups, thickly set together, and cover whole districts, as it
were with bell-shaped, or bee-hive like, elevations. To
the latter class belong the hornitos of Jorullo (187), and
VOLCANOES. 243
the cone of eruption of Vesuvius of October, 1822, of
the volcano of Awatscha, according to Postels, and of the
lava field near the Baidare mountains,, in the peninsula of
Kamtschatka, according to Erman.
When volcanoes do not rise free and isolated from a
plain, when, on the contrary, they are surrounded by
table-lands from 9 to 12,000 feet high, as in the double
chain of the Andes of Quito, this circumstance may very
well give rise to the fact, that the most violent eruptions,
when red-hot ashes and scoriae are thrown out with deto
nations that are heard for hundreds of miles around, are
never accompanied with streams of lava (188). This is
the case with the volcanoes of Popayan, of the lofty
plains of Los Pastos, and of the Andes of Quito; the single
volcano of Antesana, among the latter, perhaps excepted.
The height of the cone of ashes, and the dimensions
and form of the crater, are the elements in the figure of vol
canoes which more particularly impress upon each of them
an individual character; but both of these elements, both
the cone and the crater, are perfectly independent of the
magnitude of the whole mountain. Vesuvius is not one-
third of the height of the Peake of Teneriffe, yet its cone
of ashes forms one-third of the whole height of the moun
tain, whilst the cone of the Peake is only Vincl of the
entire elevation. In the case of another volcano of much
greater height than the Peake, that of Rucu-Pichincha,
namely, the relations come nearer to those of Vesuvius. Of
all the volcanoes which I have seen in either hemisphere,
Cotopaxi is that of which the conical form is the most
regular and beautiful. A sudden melting of the snow of
244 VOLCANOES.
its ashy cone indicates the proximity of an eruption.
Before there is even any smoke visible in the thin strata
of the atmosphere that surround the summit and the
crater's mouth, the walls of the ashy cone are sometimes
heated through, when the entire mountain presents the
most threatening and ill-omened aspect of inky black.
The crater which, except in very rare cases, occupies
the summit of the volcano, forms a cauldron-like, and
often accessible, valley, whose bottom is subject to inces
sant changes. The greater or less depth of the crater is,
in many volcanoes, an indication of the proximity or
remoteness of an eruption. In the cauldron-like crater
extensive fissures open and close again alternately;
through these vapours of various kinds fiDd vent, or
small rounded fiery throats, filled with molten matters, are
formed upon them. The ground rises and falls, and on it
are piled hillocks of ashes and cones of eruption, which
occasionally rise high above the edges of the crater, and
give the volcano its characteristic physiognomy for years ;
but on the occurrence of fresh eruptions, they sink sud
denly down, and disappear. The openings of these cones
of eruption, which rise from the floor of the crater, must
not, as is too frequently done, be confounded with the
crater itself, which encircles them. When the crater is
inaccessible, from its vast depth, and the perpendicular
inward slope of its sides, as in the case of Rucu-Pichincha
(14,946 feet high), one can still look down from the
edges, upon the summits of the monticules which rise
within the cauldron-like crater, partially filled with
sulphureous vapours. A more wonderful or grander natu
VOLCANOES. 245
ral prospect I have never enjoyed. In the interval
between two eruptions, the crater of a volcano may ex
hibit no luminous phenomenon, but merely open fissures
and jets of watery vapour ; or hillocks of ashes that can
be approached without danger, are found upon its scarcely
heated bottom. These often gratify the wandering geolo
gist, without making him run any risk, by casting out
glowing masses, which fall on the edges of the cone of
scoriee, their appearance being regularly announced by
slight, and entirely local, shocks—earthquakes on a small
scale. Lava occasionally flows from open fissures, or
small fiery gorges, into the crater itself, without burst
ing through its walls, or overflowing its edges. But if it
does break through, the molten spring generally flows
smoothly, and in such a determinate direction, that the
great cauldron-like valley, called the crater, can still be
visited during the period of the eruption. Without a par
ticular description of the conformation, and also of the
normal structure of burning mountains, phenomena cannot
be rightly comprehended which have been distorted by fan
tastical descriptions, and the various significations attached
to the words crater, volcano, and cone; or, rather, to the
indefinite and indeterminate use of these words. The
edges of the crater sometimes show themselves much less
liable to change than might be expected. A comparison
of De Saussure's measurements with my own, yields the
remarkable result, in connection with Vesuvius at least,
that the north-west edge of the volcano, the Rocca del Palo,
may be regarded as having remained for forty-nine years
(1773—1822) almost without change in its elevation above
the level of the sea. Any difference that appears may
246 VOLCANOES.
be looked on as within the possible errors of measure
ment (189).
Volcanoes which lift their summits far above the limits of
eternal snow, like those of the Andes, present a variety
of peculiar features. The sudden melting of the snow in
the course of an eruption, not only occasions destructive
floods, torrents in which heaps of smoking ashes are
floated away on blocks of ice; but the accumulation of
ice and snow goes on producing its influence uninter
ruptedly, and by filtration into the trachytic rocks, even
whilst the volcano is perfectly quiescent. Caverns are
thus gradually produced on the declivities or at the foot
of the burning mountain, and these become subterra
neous reservoirs of water, which communicate in various
ways, and by narrow mouths, with the Alpine rivulets of
Quito. The fishes ofthese Alpine streams multiply greatly,
particularly in the gloom of the caverns ; and then, when
the earthquakes come, which precede all eruptions of
volcanoes in the Andes, and the whole mass of the
mountain is shaken, the subterraneous caverns at once
give way, and pour out a deluge of water, fishes, and
tufaceous mud. This is the singular phenomenon which
the presence of the] Pimelodes Cyclopum(190), the Prefia-
dilla of the inhabitants of the lofty plains of Quito, attests.
When, in the night between the 19th and 20th of June,
1098, the summit of Carguairazo, a burning mountain
18,000 feet high, crumbled together, so that no more than
two enormous rocky horns of the crater's edge remained,
the country for nearly two square miles was desolated with
liquid tuff and argillaceous mud (lodazales) inclosing dead
fishes. So also was the putrid fever of the mountain
VOLCANOES. 247
town, Ibarra, to the north of Quito, which occurred seven
years before, ascribed to an eruption of fish from the
volcano Imbaburu.
Water and mud which, in the volcanoes of the Andes,
do not pour down from the crater itself, but from cavities
in the trachytic mass of the mountain, ought not, conse
quently, in the strict sense of the phrase, to be reckoned
among the number of proper volcanic phenomena.
They are only mediately connected with the activity of
volcanoes, nearly in the same measure as the irregular
meteorological process, which, in my earlier writings, I have
spoken of under the title of the Volcanic storm. The
hot watery vapour which rises from the crater, and
mingles with the atmosphere during the eruption, forms a
cloud as it cools, with which the column of ashes and fire,
many thousand feet in height, is surrounded. So sudden a
condensation of vapour, and the production of a cloud of
enormous superficial dimensions, increase the electrical
tension, as Gay-Lussac has shown. Forked lightnings
dart from the column of ashes, and the rolling thunder
of the volcanic storm is then plainly distinguishable from
the rumbling in the interior of the mountain. This was
well observed towards the end ofthe eruption ofVesuvius in
the month ofOctober, 1 822. The lightning, which proceeded
from the volcanic steam-cloud of the Katlagia burning-
mountain in the Island of Iceland, according to Olaffen's
account, upon one occasion (17th October, 1755), killed
eleven horses and two men.
Having now, in our physical delineation, portrayed the
general structure and dynamic activity ofvolcanoes, we have
248 VOLCANOES.
still to cast a glance at the material diversity of their pro
ducts. The subterraneous forces separate old combina
tions of elements, in order to bring about new combinations;
they farther, and at the same time, put the matters trans
formed or changed into motion, so long as they are
dissolved by heat and moveable. The solidification of
the tenaciously or more limpidly fluid and moveable
mass, under different degrees of pressure, appears to be
the principal cause determining differences in the struc
ture of Plutonic and volcanic rocks or mineral
species. The mineral mass which has flowed in a
liquid state from a volcanic opening—a molten mineral
spring—is called lava. Where several streams of lava
have encountered and severally restrained each other in
their course, they spread out and fill extensive basins,
where they cool into stratified beds. These few points com
prise the whole of the general features in the productive
activity of volcanoes.
Minerals which merely break through a volcano
often remain enclosed in the products of its igneous acti
vity. I have, for instance, seen angular masses of syenite,
rich in felspar, contained in the black augitic lava of the
Mexican volcano Jorullo; but the masses of dolomite
and granular limestone, which contain beautiful druses or
cavities lined with crystallized minerals—vesuviane and
garnets, mejonite, nepheline, and sodalite — are not
ejections of Vesuvius : " they rather belong to a very
extensive formation, tuff-strata, older than the upheaval
of Somma and Vesuvius, and are probably products of
submarine volcanic influences, at great depths below the
surface" (191). Among the products of our present
VOLCANOES. 249
volcanoes there are five metals : iron, copper, lead,
arsenic, and selenium, discovered by Stromeyer in the
crater of Volcano. Through the smoking fumaroles, the
chlorides of iron, copper, lead, and ammonium, are su
blimed ; iron-glance (192), and common salt (the latter
often in large quantities), are seen filling veins in recent
streams of lava, or covering fresh fissures of the crater's
edges.
The mineral composition of lavas differs according to
the nature of the crystalline rock of which the volcano
consists ; according to the height of the point at which
the eruption takes place—as it is near the foot of the
mountain, or in the vicinity of the crater; and accord
ing to the temperature of the interior. Vitreous volcanic
products, obsidian, pearlstone, or pumice, are entirely
wanting in some volcanoes, and in others are only ejected
from the crater itself, or from some considerably elevated
point. These important and complex relations can
only be ascertained by careful crystallographic and che
mical researches. My companion in my Siberian journey,
Gustavus Rose, and after him, Herman Abich, have
begun, with much acumen and success, to throw clear
light upon the compact texture of such a variety of volcanic
minerals.
The greater portion of the vapour that rises is pure
steam or watery vapour. Condensed and flowing away as
a rivulet, it is used by the goatherds of the island of Pan-
tellaria. The stream which was seen flowing from a lateral
fissure in the crater*of Vesuvius on the morning of the 26th
of October, 1822, and was long regarded as hot water, was
found by Monticelli to be dry ashes, which poured forth
m 2
250 VOLCANOES.
like drift-sand ; it was lava ground to dust by attrition.
The appearance of ashes, however, which darken the air
for hours, and even for days, and which, by adhering to
the leaves, become so destructive to vineyards and olive
trees, in their columnar ascent, borne up by vapours,
indicate the termination of every great eruption. This
is the magnificent spectacle which the younger Pliny
describes in the celebrated letter to Cornelius Tacitus, and
which he compares, in point of shape, to a lofty-branched
and shady pine tree. What has been described as flame
in the eruption of ashes, is certainly not, any more than
the light of the glowing red cloud that floats above the
crater, to be ascribed to hydrogen gas on fire. It is rather
the reflection of light from the upheaved molten masses ;
sometimes, too, it may be the light from the depths
of the fiery gorge cast upon the ascending vapours and
reflected by them. But as to what those flames may
be, which have been occasionally seen ever since Strabo's
time during the activity of volcanoes on the coast, and
that have risen from the bosom of the sea immediately
before the upheaval of a volcanic island, I do not pretend
to decide.
If we are asked what it is that burns in volcanoes, what
it is that produces the heat which melts and mixes
the earths and metals, and even imparts an elevated tem
perature, for many years, to streams of lava of great
thickness? (193), there is always the presumption that,
as in the case of the coal fields which catch fire and go on
burning, volcanoes must necessarily' be connected with
the presence of certain substances calculated to support
combustion. According to the various phases of chemical
VOLCANOES. 251
science, we have had bitumen, iron pyrites, the moist
contact of finely divided sulphur and iron, pyrophorio
substances, and the metals of the alkalis and earths,
assigned as the cause of volcanic phenomena in their
highest intensity. The great chemist to whom we are
indebted for our knowledge of the most combustible of
the metallic substances, Sir Humphry Davy, has himself
renounced his bold chemical hypothesis in the last volume
he published—" Consolations in Travel, and the Last
Days of a Philosopher,"— a work that excites painful feel
ings of regret in the mind of the reader. The great
mean density of the earth (5-44), compared with the
specific gravity of potassium (0-865), of sodium (0-972),
and of the metals of the earths (1-2), the absence of hydro
gen in the gaseous emanations of the fissures of volcanoes,
and the streams of lava that have not yet cooled, many
chemical considerations, in a word, rise up in opposition
to the earlier corjjeclures of Davy and Ampere (19i) . Were
hydrogen evolved during eruptions of lava, how enor
mous must its quantity prove in cases where, from the
low level of the point whence the eruption flows, the out
pouring mass spreads over many square miles of surface,
and, dammed up in its course, acquires a thickness of
several hundred feet; as happened in the remarkable
eruption at the foot of the Skaptar-Jokul in Iceland
(11th of June to 3rd of August, 1783), which has been
described by Mackenzie and Soemund Magnussen. The
same difficulties present themselves in connection with the
small quantities of azote that are evolved, when the
atmospheric air is conceived as penetrating by the crater,
or, as such an act has been figuratively expressed, when the
252 VOLCANOES.
earth is imagined as inspiring. So general, so deeply
effective, and, in reference to the interior of the earth, so
extensive an action as that of volcanoes, cannot well have
its source in the chemical affinities, in the contact of indi
vidual and only locally distributed substances. Modern
geognosy prefers seeking for this source in the tempera
ture increasing with the depth under every parallel of
latitude, in the great internal heat of the globe, which
is due to its original consolidation, to its formation in
space, to the spherical contraction of vaporous matter
circulating in an elliptical orbit. Beside positive know
ledge, stand Conjecture and Opinion. A philosophical
science of nature strives to rise beyond the limited re
quirements of a bare description of nature. It consists
not, as we have several times reminded the reader, in the
barren accumulation of isolated facts. The curious, the
inquiring spirit of man, must be suffered to make excur
sions from the present into the past, still to surmise what
cannot be positively known, and to revel in the old, and,
under various shapes, ever recurring myths of geognosy.
If we consider volcanoes as irregular intermitting springs,
which pour out a liquefied mixture of oxidized metals,
alkalis and earths, that flow smoothly, silently enough,
once the mixture, uplifted by the vast force of compressed
vapour, finds a vent, we are involuntarily reminded of
Plato's geognostical phantasies, according to which hot
springs, as well as all the varieties of volcanic fiery
streams, are effusions of Periphlegethon, a cause univer
sally present in the interior of the globe (195).
Volcanoes, in their mode of distribution over the
surface of the earth, independently of all climatic diffe
VOLCANOES. 253
rences, are well and characteristically referred to two
classes, viz. : Central volcanoes, and Linear volcanoes,
" according as a central and common point of eruption
for many foci all around is established, or as several vents
extending in one direction, and at no great distance from
each other, are formed, along the course apparently of a
lengthened fissure. Linear volcanoes, again, are of two
kinds : they either rise as insulated cones from the bottom
of the sea, and are accompanied usually on one side by a
primitive mountain mass running in the same direction,
the foot of which they seem to indicate ; or they stand
upon the crest of the mountain chain, and form its loftiest
summits (196) ." The Peake of Teneriffe, for example, is a
central volcano, the middle point of the volcanic group
to which the outbreaks of Palma and Lancerote belong.
The lengthened chain of the Andes, which runs like a
wall from Southern Chili to the north-west coasts of
America, here singly, there in two and three parallel lines,
connected at intervals by narrow transverse yolks, presents
an instance upon the grandest scale of the occurrence of
linear volcanoes on dry land. The vicinity of active
volcanoes in the line of the Andes is proclaimed by the
sudden appearance of certain species of rocks, such as dole-
rite, melaphyre, trachyte, andesite, and dioritic porphyry,
which separate the so-called primitive rocks, as well as
the schistose and sandstone transition strata and the
tertiary or ficetz formations. A phenomenon of this kind
constantly recurring, begot a persuasion in my mind
at an early period, that these sporadic rocks had been the
seat of volcanic phenomena, and had been determined
by volcanic eruptions. At the foot of the great Tungu
254 VOLCANOES.
ragua, near Penipe, on the banks of the Rio Pnela,
I for the first time, and distinctly, saw a mica schist,
which rested upon granite, broken through by volcanic
rocks.
The linear volcanoes of the New World, where they he
near to one another, are partially in a state of reciprocal
dependence ; it is even obvious that the volcanic activity
has been gradually advancing for centuries in particular
determinate directions,—in the Province of Quito, for ex
ample, from north to south (197.) The hearth or focus
itself lies under the whole of the elevated lands of this
province ; the particular openings by which communica
tions are established with the atmosphere constitute the
mountains which we designate by special names, such
as Pichincha, Cotopaxi or Tunguragua, and which, by
their grouping as well as by their height and form, present
the grandest and most picturesque prospect that is any
where to be seen within a small compass in a volcanic
country. As the outermost members of such groups of
linear volcanoes are connected with one another by sub
terraneous communications, as multiplied experience
shows, this fact reminds us of Seneca's old and truthful
sentence (198), "that the burning mountain is but the
passage to deeper-lying volcanic forces." In the Mexican
highlands, likewise, the volcanoes (Orizaba, Popocatepetl,
Jorullo, Colima,) which I have shown (199) all to he in one
direction, between 18° 59' and 19° 12' N. latitude, appear
to indicate a transverse fissure extending from sea to sea,
and to be mutually dependent. The volcano of Jorullo
broke out on the 29th of September, 1759, exactly in
this direction, upon the same transverse fissure, and rose
VOLCANOES. 255
to a height of 1580 feet above the surrounding level.
This mountain never threw out but one stream of lava ;
precisely like Epomeo in Ischia, in the year 1302.
But if Jorullo, distant as it is some German miles from
every active volcano, be, in the strictest sense of the word,
a new mountain, nevertheless it must not be confounded
with the appearance of the Monte Nuovo near Pozzuolo
(19th September, 1538), which is to be reckoned among
the number of upheavement craters. I have already said
that it were more in conformity with nature to assimilate
the eruption of the newly produced Mexican volcano with
the Upheaval of the hill of Methone (now Methana),
upon the peninsula of Traezene. This upliftment, de
scribed by Strabo and Pausanias, has led one of the most
imaginative of the Roman poets to propound views which
agree in a very remarkable manner with those of modern
geognosy : " A tumulus is seen at Traezene, rugged, and
without wood ; once a level, now a mountain ; the vapours
pent up in dark caverns sought in vain for a crevice
of escape. They swelled the expanding soil under the
force of the compressed vapour like a bladder filled with
air ; it swelled like the skin of a two-horned goat. The
upheavement remains upon the spot; the high, uplifted
hill became hardened in the course of time into a naked
rocky mass." So picturesquely, and also, as analogous
appearances lead us to believe, so truly, does Ovid describe
the grand natural incident which occurred between Trae-
zene and Epidaurus, 282 years before the commencement
of our era, and therefore 45 years before the volcanic
separation of the island of Thera (Santorin) from The-
rasia(200).
256 VOLCANOES.
Of all the islands belonging to the series of linear
volcanoes, Santorin is the most important. " It com
prises in itself the entire history of upheaved islands.
For full two thousand years, so long as history and tradi
tion extend, Nature has not ceased from her attempts to
form a volcano within the oircuit of the crater of eleva
tion"^01). Similar insular upheavements, at almost
regularly recurring intervals of 80 or 90 years, are exhi
bited in the island of St. Michael, one of the group of the
Azores (202) , though here the bottom of the sea has not been
uplifted quite at corresponding points. The island named
Sabrina by Captain Tillard unfortunately appeared at a
time when the political state of the maritime nations of
the west of Europe was little favourable to scientific in
vestigations (30th Jan. 1811); so that this great event
did not attract the same degree of attention as was be
stowed upon the island of Ferdinandea *, which appeared
on the 2nd of July, 1831, but soon fell to pieces again,
between the limestone coast of Sciacca and the purely
volcanic Pantellaria in the Sicilian Sea (203).
The geographical distribution of the volcanoes which
have continued active since the historical epoch, their fre
quent situation by the sea-shore, and on islands, to say
nothing of the recurrence, from time to time, of tempo
rary eruptions from the bottom of the sea, appears at an
early period to have begotten the belief, that volcanic acti
vity was connected with the vicinity of the sea, and could
not continue without it. " iEtna and the CEolian isles,"
* The Graham Island of English geologists ; vide Lyell's admirable
Principles of Geology; vol. ii. p. 266. Sixth edit. Lond. 1840.—Tb.
VOLCANOES 257
says Justin (204), or rather Tragus Pompeius, whom he
copies, " have already been burning for many centuries ;
and how were this long continuance possible, did not the
neighbouring sea supply food for the fire?" To explain
the necessity for the neighbourhood of the sea, this hypo
thesis of the penetration of sea-water to the hearth of
the volcano, i. e. to the deep-lying strata of the earth, has
in recent times been again proposed. If I embrace all that
occurs to me, derived either from personal observation or
from carefully collected facts, it seems to me that every
thing in this difficult inquiry depends upon the way in
which the following questions are answered:—Whether
the undeniably large quantities of watery vapour, which
volcanoes emit, even in their state of repose, be de
rived from sea-water loaded with salts, or from sweet
atmospheric water? Whether, with different depths of the
volcanic hearth (a depth, for example, of 88,000 feet, at
which the expansive force of the vapour of water would
be exerted under a pressure of 2,800 atmospheres), the
expansive force of the vapour engendered would be com
petent to counterbalance the hydrostatic pressure of the
sea, and admit the access of its water to the volcanic
hearth, under certain conditions? (205) Whether the
many metallic chlorides, the appearance indeed of com
mon salt in the fissures of craters, and the admixture of
hydrochloric acid vapours with the watery vapour emitted,
lead necessarily to the conclusion, that the sea must have
access to the volcano ? Whether the repose of the vol
cano, be this temporary only, or final and complete, de
pends on the stoppage of the channels which previously
conducted the sea, or the meteoric water, to the volcanic
258 VOLCANOES.
hearth ? Whether the absence of flame and of hydrogen
gas—for sulphuretted hydrogen belongs to the solfataras
rather than to the active volcanoes—is not rather in open
contradiction with the assumption of any extensive de
composition of water?
The discussion of physical questions of such importance
does not fall within' the scope of a Picture of Nature.
Here we attach ourselves to the narration of phenomena ;
to facts in the geographical distribution of yet active vol
canoes. Now facts inform us, that in the New World,
three of these—Jorullo, Popocatepetl, and La Fragua—
are 20, 33, and 39 geographical miles distant from the
sea-shores, and that in central Asia (and M. Abel-
Bemusat (206) first directed the attention of geologists
to the fact), there is a great volcanic mountain chain,
Thian-schan, or the Celestial Mountains, with the lava-
emitting Pe-schan, the solfatara of Urumtsi, and the
burning mountain ofTurfan (Ho-tscheu), the several mem
bers of which are at nearly equal distances—370 to 382
geographical miles—from the shores of the Icy Sea and of
the Indian ocean. The distance of Pe-schan from the
Caspian sea is also full 340 geographical miles; and from
the great lakes, Issikul and Balkasch, it is 43 and 52
miles (207) . It is farther remarkable, that of the four
great parallel mountain chains—the Altai, the Thian-
schan, the Kuen-luen, and the Himalaya, which cross the
continent ofAsia from east to west—it is not the Himalaya,
or the chain that is nearest the ocean, but the two minor
chains, the Thian-schan and the Kuen-luen, at the dis
tance respectively of 400 and 180 geographical miles
from the sea, that are found vomiting fire like iEtna and
VOLCANOES. 259
Vesuvius, and producing ammonia, like the volcanoes of
Guatimala. The Chinese writers describe, in unmistak
able terms, streams of lava, 1 0 Li long, as occurring in the
eruptions of flame and smoke which took place from
Pe-schan, and spread far and wide, in the 1st and 7th
centuries of our era. " Burning masses of rock," say tbey,
" flowed as thin as melted fat." These few compressed
facts, which have not been sufficiently attended to, make
it probable that the vicinity of the sea, and the access of
sea-water to the burning focus, are not indispensably
necessary to the breaking out of subterranean fires, and
that coasts are only favourable to volcanic eruptions, be
cause they form the sides or edges of the deep sea-basin,
which, covered with strata of water, offers less resistance,
and lies many thousand feet lower, than inland and more
lofty countries.
The volcanoes that are active at the present time, and
that communicate permanently by craters with the
interior of the earth and the atmosphere, became open at
so late an epoch, that the superior cretaceous deposits, and
the whole of the tertiary formations, were already in exist
ence when they arose. This is proclaimed by the trachytes,
and also by the basalts, which frequently form the walls of
the upheavement craters. Melaphyres extend to the
middle tertiary strata; but have already begun to show
themselves under the Jura formations, when they appear
breaking through the variegated sandstone (208) . The active
volcanoes of the present time, communicating with the air
by craters, must not be confounded with those older erup
tions of granite, quartzose-porphyry, and euphotide,
260 VOLCANOES.
through open, but speedily-closed fissures (forming veins),
which occur in the old transition strata.
The extinction of volcanic activity is either partial only,
so that the subterraneous fire finds another vent in the
same mountain chain ; or it is total, as in Auvergne ; later
examples are supplied, in perfectly historical times, by
the volcano Mosychlos (209), on the island dedicated to
Hephoestos, whose " upward flickering fiery glow" was
known to Sophocles, and by the volcano of Medina,
which, according to Burckhardt, threw out a stream of
lava on the 2nd of November, 1276. Each stage of the
volcanic activity, from its first excitement to its extinc
tion, is characterized by peculiar products : first, by fiery
scoriee, by trachytic, pyroxenic, and vitreous lavas in
streams, by scoriee and tuff ashes, accompanied by the evolu
tion of large quantities of generally pure watery vapour ;
at a later period as solfataras, when there is an evolution
of watery vapour mixed with sulphuretted hydrogen and
carbonic acid gases ; lastly, when all has cooled, by exha
lations of carbonic acid gas alone. Whether that singular
class of burning mountains which discharge no lava, but
dreadful devastating streams of hot water (210), loaded
with burning sulphur, and rocks ground down to powder—
such, for instance, as Galunggung, in the island of Java—
present us with what may be called a normal condition,
or only a certain transitory modification of the volcanic
process, will remain a question undecided, until they have
been visited by geologists possessed at the same time of
a knowledge of modern chemistry.
Such is the very general view of volcanoes, so important
GEOGNOSY PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. 261
an element in the life of the earth, which I have
here endeavoured to throw together. It is based, in
part, upon my own observations; in the generality and
comprehensiveness of its outlines, however, upon the
labours of my friend of many years, Leopold von Buch,
the greatest geologist of our age, who was the first to re
cognize the intimate connection of volcanic phenomena,
and their mutual interdependence in regard to their
actions and their relations in space.
The reaction of the interior of a planet upon its outer
crust and surface, as manifested in the phenomena of
volcanoes, was long considered as a mere isolated phenome
non, and peculiar only with reference to the destructive
agency of its dark and subterraneous forces; it is but
very lately, and greatly to the advantage of that geology
which is founded on physical analogies, that the volcanic
forces have begun to be regarded as formative of new
species of rocks, and as transformative of older mineral
masses. Here, indeed, is the point already alluded to,
where a more deeply-grounded doctrine of volcanoes in a
state of activity, and either casting out fire or vapour,
leads us, in our general Picture of Nature, by a double
way, the one to the mineralogical portion of geognosy, or
the doctrine of the structure and succession of the strata
composing the crust of the earth ; the other to the form and
fashion of the continents and groups of islands raised above
the level of the sea, or the doctrine of the geographical
forms and outlines of the several portions of the earth.
Enlarged views of such an enchainment of phenomena
is a consequence of the philosophical direction which the
262 CLASSES OF ROCKS.
serious study of geognosy has now so generally taken.
Greater perfection of the sciences leads, as in the political
improvement of mankind, to connection and agreement,
where there had formerly been separation and distinction.
When we class rocks or mineral masses not according
to differences in the form and arrangement of their con
stituent particles, into stratified and unstratified, schistose
and massy, normal and abnormal rocks, but look at the
phenomena of formation and transformation which are
still going forward under our eyes, we discover a four-fold
process of production in connection with rocks: 1st.
Eruptive rocks, rocks thrown out from the interior of the
earth, in a liquefied, or softened and more or less tenacious
state (volcanic and plutonic rocks) . 2d. Sedimentary rocks,
rocks deposited from fluids in which the particles had been
either dissolved or suspended, but from which they were pre
cipitated and deposited upon the surface of the crust of the
earth.—The greater numberofthefloetz and tertiary groups.
3d. Metamorphic rocks, rocks altered in their intimate
structure and stratification, either through the contact
and vicinity of a plutonic or volcanic (endogenous) (211)
ejected rock, or,—and this is more commonly the case,—
altered by the penetration of the vaporiform sublimed
matters (212) , which accompany the escape of certain molten
ejected masses. 4th. Conglomerates—coarse or fine
grained sandstones, breccias,—rocks made up ofmechani
cally divided masses of the three former species.
These four-fold rock-formations, which still go on
at the present day, through tho effusion of volcanic
masses in the shape of streams of lava, through the
influence of these masses upon rocks consolidated at a
FORMATION OF ROCKS. 263
former period, through mechanical separation or chemical
precipitation from liquids charged with carbonic acid,
finally, through the cementation of fragments often of
totally different kinds of rocks, are phenomena and forma
tive processes which can, however, only be regarded as
weak reflections of what went on under the higher in
tensity of action in the life of the earth during the chaotic
state of the primitive world, and under totally different
conditions of pressure and high temperature, not only of
the whole crust of the earth, but of the atmosphere, sur
charged with moisture and of much greater extent than
it is at the present day. If at the present time, on sur
faces as extensive as Europe, we scarcely find four open
ings (volcanoes) through which eruptions of fire and
molten matters can take place, the firm crust of the earth
was traversed in former periods by vast open fissures,
through which mountain chains were upheaved, or into
which streams of molten rock—granite, porphyry, basalt,
and melaphyre—were injected, and by which they were
variously stopped and filled up. At former epochs, in the
much and variously fissured, thinner, and upwardly
and downwardly fluctuating crust of the earth, there
were almost everywhere passages of communication
between the molten interior and the atmosphere. Gaseous
emanations arising from very dissimilar depths, and there
fore bringing chemically different substances, then ani
mated the Plutonic formative and transformative pro
cesses. The sedimentary formations, too, the precipitations
from liquids, which we designate travertin, and which we
see proceeding in the neighbourhood of Rome as well as
of Hobart Town in Australia, from cold and hot springs
264 FORMATION OF ROCKS.
and river waters, give but a very poor idea of the origination
of the floetz formations. Our seas, in virtue of processes
which have not yet been examined generally enough, or
with sufficient care, gradually form by precipitation, by over
flowing and by cementation, small calcareous banks, which,
at some points, almost approach Carrara marble in hard
ness (213) . This process goes on upon the Sicilian coasts,
the Island of Ascension, and King George's Sound in
Australia. On the coasts of some of the West India
islands these formations of the present ocean now enclose
earthenware vessels and other products of human manu
facturing industry ; and in the Island of Gaudaloupe,
even skeletons of the Carib-race of men. The negroes
of the French colonies characterize this formation as the
" Masonry of God" (Maconne-bon-Dieu) (2U). In the
Island of Lancerote, one of the Canaries, there is a small
oolitic stratum, admitted to be a product of the sea and
of storms, but which, despite its newness, reminds us of the
Jurassic limestone (215).
The compound rocks are determinate associations of
certain simple minerals—felspar, mica, solid silicic acid,
augite, and nepheline. Very similar rocks, i. e. rocks
made up of the same elements, but otherwise grouped, are
produced by volcanic processes under our eyes, at the
present time, just as they were in former epochs of the
world's history. The independence of rocks in respect
of geographical position or relationship, is so great,
that, as we have already observed (2l6), the geologist
sees with amazement, to the north and south of the
equator, in the farthest zones of the earth, the same
familiar appearances in the rocks, the repetition of
FUNDAMENTAL FORMS OF ROCKS. 265
the minutest details in the periodic series of the Silurian
strata, and in the effects of contact with augitic masses,
the products of eruptions.
Ifwe now take a closer view ofthe fourfundamental forms
of rock (the four phases in the formative process) in which
the stratified and unstratified portions of the crust of the
earth present themselves to us, we may designate among
the endogenous or eruptive rocks, (the massive and ab
normal rocks of some modern geologists,) the following
principal groups, as immediate evidences of subterraneous
activity, viz. :—
Granite and Syenite — of very different rela
tive ages, but frequently penetrating both granite
and syenite of more recent formation in veins (217).
Along with these it is also proper to consider the
forcing or upheaving power. " Where granite pro
trades in evenly vaulted ellipsoids, in great masses,
like islands, whether this be in the Harzforest,
or in Mysore, or in Lower Peru, it is always
covered with layers that have become fissured
into blocks. Such a rocky sea probably owes its
origin to a contraction of the upper surface of the
granitic vault, which, on its protrusion, and ori
ginally, must have been very much expanded (218)."
In Northern Asia also(219), in the charming, the
romantic neighbourhood of Lake Kolyvan, on the
north-western declivity of the Altai range, as also on
the slopes of the maritime chain of Caraccas, near Las
Trincheras (220), I observed the granite subdivided
into blocks or piles, in consequence, possibly, of such
VOL. I. N
266 FUNDAMENTAL FORMS OF ROCKS.
contractions, but which in these cases appear to have
extended deeply into the interior. Farther to the
south of Lake Kolyvan, towards the confines of the
Chinese province Ili, between Buchtarminsk and
the river Narym, the characters of the entire mass of
ejected rock, which is here unaccompanied by gneiss,
are more striking than I have observed them in any
other part of the globe. The granite, always scaling
and crumbling on the surface, and splitting up into
tabular masses, rises in the steppes here in low
semi-globular hillocks, not more than six or eight
feet high, there in basalt-like knolls, which run out
at opposite sides, as it were, into thin wall-like effu
sions (221). By the cataracts of the Orinoco, as
well as in the Fichtelgebirge (Seissen), in Gallicia,
and betwixt the Southern Ocean and the lofty plat
forms of Mexico (at Papagallo), I have seen granite
in great depressed globular masses, which, like
basalt, split or scaled off in concentric layers. In
the valley of the Irtisch, between Buchtarminsk and
Ustkamenogorsk, the granite covers the clay-slate
for a mile in length (222), and penetrates the same
strata from above in slender veins, which are nume
rously branched, and wedge-shaped at their extremi
ties. I have adduced these particulars by way ofexam
ples, only that I mayillustrate the individual characters
of an eruptive rock in one of the most widely diffused
of the mineral masses. In the same way as the
granite overlies the schists in Siberia, and in the
Department of Finisterre (Isle de Michau), so does
it cover the Jurassic limestone in the mountains of
FUNDAMENTAL FORMS OF ROCKS. 267
Oisons (Fermonts), and syenite, and chalk with
syenite interposed, near Weinbohla, in Saxony (223).
In the Ural mountains near Mursinsk, the granite
shows drusy cavities, and the druses here, like the
fissures and druses of newer volcanic productions,
are the plutonic seat of numerous beautiful crystals,
particularly of beryl and topaz
Quartzose Porphyry, from its relations of stra
tification, having frequently the character of veins.
The base is generally a finely granular mixture of
the same elements which present themselves to us as
large embedded crystals. In granitic porphyry,
which is very poor in quartz, the felspathic base is
at once granular and foliaceous (224).
Greenstone or Diorite,—granular mixtures of
white albite and blackish-green hornblende, constitut
ing dioritic porphyry, when a base of denser texture is
present in which the crystals lie embedded distinctly.
These greenstones, which, pure in one place, pass
in another into serpentine, from the laminae of
diallage which they include (Fichtelgebirge); are,
occasionally found lying in beds upon the old strati
fication clefts of the green clay slate, and penetrating
them ; butthey more frequentlymake theirway through
the rock in the manner of veins, or they present
themselves as greenstone balls, analogous in all
respects to balls of basalt and porphyry (225).
Hypersthene rock — a granular mixture of
Labrador felspar and hypersthene.
Euphotide and Serpentine, occasionally con
taining crystals of augite and uralite, instead of
268 FUNDAMENTAL FORMS OF ROCKS.
diallage, and thus nearly allied to a more common
rock, and, I might add, one that indicates a still
higher degree of eruptive activity, viz. augitic por
phyry (226).
Melaphyre, Augitic, Uralitic, and Oligoglas-
sic Porphyry. To the last belongs the true verd-
antique, so celebrated as a material employed in
the arts.
Basalt, with olivine and constituents becoming
gelatinous with acids, phonolite (porphyritic slate),
trachyte and dolerite. The second of these rocks
always divides into thin tables ; the first only shows
this structure partially, which, however, gives them
both an appearance of stratification over extensive
districts. According to Girard, mesotype and ne
pheline form important elements in the composition
and intimate texture of basalt. The nepheline of
basalt reminds the geologist of the miascite of the
Ilmengebirge in the Ural chain (227), which fre
quently replaces granite, and occasionally contains
zircon, as well as of the pyroxenic nepheline dis
covered by Gumprecht near Lobau and Chemnitz.
To the second class of fundamental forms, the sedimen -
tary rocks, belongs the greater portion of the formations
which used to be arranged under the old systematic, but
by no means correct, designation of Transition and Floetz,
or secondary and tertiary formations. Had the igneous
rocks exerted nothing of an uplifting, and, with simul
taneous quaking of the earth, of a concussive influence
upon these sedimentary formations, the surface of our
FUNDAMENTAL FORMS OF ROCKS. 269
planet would have consisted of a series of uniform strata
horizontally disposed one upon another. Without moun
tains, on whose acclivities the progressive diminution in
the temperature of the air is picturesquely reflected, not
only in the luxuriance of vegetation, but in the kinds of
plants that are produced, the monotonous surface would
only have been broken here and there by ravines eroded by
watercourses or by small collections of drift, the effect of
masses of fresh water thrown into gentle undulations ; the
several continents from pole to pole, and under every
variety of climate, would have presented the dreary uni
formity of the South American Llanos or of the Northern
Asiatic steppes. As in the greater portion of these, we
should then have seen the vault of heaven resting on the
plain, and the stars rising and setting as if they emerged
from the bosom of the ocean, and dippedinto it again. But
such a state of things even in the primitive world could
never have been of any considerable duration as regards
time, nor of any thing like general prevalence in respect
of space ; the subterraneous powers, at every epoch in the
history of nature, have been at work striving to sbvert
and to change it.
Sedimentary strata are precipitated or deposited from
liquids, according as the matter before the formation was
either held chemically dissolved, as in the case of lime, or
merely suspended and mixed, as in the case of clay-slate,
mica-slate, &c. But even when earthy matters are thrown
down from fluids impregnated with carbonic acid, the
descent of the matter during its precipitation and accu
mulation into strata, must be regarded as a mechanical
element in the process of formation. This view is of some
270 FUNDAMENTAL FORMS OF ROCKS.
importance in connection with the envelopment of organic
bodies in petrifying calcareous tuffs. The oldest sedi
ments of the transition and secondary formations have ap
parently taken place from waters more or less elevated in
temperature, and at a period when the heat of the upper
crust of the earth was still very considerable. In this way,
therefore, a plutonic influence was also at work to a certain
extent in connection with the sedimentary strata, parti
cularly the oldest of them; these strata, however, appear
to have become hardened from the state of mud into the
schistose structure, under great pressure; not like the
rocks that have risen up from the interior (granite, por
phyry, basalt,) to have been consolidated by cooling. As the
primitive waters of the globe cooled by degrees, they became
capable ofholding a larger and larger quantity of carbonic
acid gas in solution, which they may have attracted from
the atmosphere, surcharged with this gas in the earlier
epochs of creation, and so of holding dissolved a larger
quantity of calcareous earth.
The Sedimentary strata, from which we here separate
all the other exogenous purely mechanical precipitates of
sand or fragmentary rocks, are these :—
Schists or Slates of the inferior and superior
transition rocks, consisting of the Silurian and
Devonian formations; from the lower Silurian, or as
they were once designated, Cambrian, strata, to the
uppermost bed of the Old red sandstone or Devonian
formation, where it comes in contact with the Moun
tain limestone ;
Carboniferous deposits,—Coal formation ;
METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS. 271
Limestones, interstratified in the transition and
coal formations ; Zechstein, Muschelkalk, Jura
formation and Chalk, also the portion of the tertiary
formation which does not present itself to us as
sandstone and conglomerate ;
Travertine, fresh-water limestone, the silicious
sinter ofhot springs,—formations that have originated
not under the pressure of great pelagic coverings of
water, but almost in contact with the air in shallow
pools and rivulets ;
Infusorial strata, a geological phenomenon,
the vast significance of which, as proclaiming the
influence of organic activity upon the formation of
the solid constituents of the earth, was discovered in
very recent times, by my intellectually-gifted friend
and fellow-traveller, Ehrenberg.
If in this short but comprehensive survey of the mineral
constituents of the crust of the earth, we do not imme
diately refer to numbers of simple sedimentary rocks,
the various conglomerate and sandstone formations,
partly deposited from liquids, that are so variously inter
mingled with the schists and the limestones both of the
floetz and transition series, this is only because these,
besides fragments of erupted and sedimentary rocks, also
contain pieces of gneiss, mica-schist, and other meta-
morphic masses. The obscure process of transformation
(metamorphosis), and the influence it exerts, must, from this
showing, constitute the third class of fundamental forms.
The endogenous or eruptive rocks, (granite, porphyry,
and melaphyre), exert an influence, as already oftener than
272 METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS.
once observed, not merely of a dynamical kind, shattering
or upheaving, erecting or pushing strata aside ; by their
presence they farther produce changes in the chemical com
position of their constituents, as well as in the nature of their
intimate texture. New species of rocks are produced,
gneiss and mica slate, and granular or saccharoidal lime
stone (Carrara and Parian marble). The old Silurian or
Devonian transition schists, the belemnitic limestone of
Tarantaise, the grey unlustrous macigno or cretaceous
sandstone of the Northern Apennines, with its included
sea-weed, are difficult of recognition after their trans
formation into new and frequently-sparkling textures.
The belief in the metamorphosis, indeed, has only been
confirmed since we have succeeded in following the several
phases of the transformation, step by step, and have come
to the assistance of inductive conclusions with the results
of direct chemical experiments, the employment of different
fusing heats, degrees of pressure, and rates of cooling.
When the study of chemical combinations is extended
under the guidance of leading ideas (228), we find that
from the narrow confines of our laboratories, we can dif
fuse a clear light over the wide field of geology, over
the great subterraneous rock-composing and rock-trans
forming workshop of Nature. The philosophical inquirer
escapes being deceived by seeming analogies, by limited
views of the natural processes, when he keeps steadily in
his eye the complication of circumstances which, in the
intensity, the immeasurableness of their force, were
competent, in the primitive world, to modify the reciprocal
influences of individual substances familiarly known to us
at the present day. The simple or undecomposed bodies
METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS. 273
have unquestionably obeyed the same forces of affinity at
all times; and where contradictions seem to meet us now,
it is my most intimate persuasion, that chemistry will her
self, for the most part, come upon the traces of conditions
not fulfilled in like or due measure, as causes of these
contradictions.
Accurate observations, embracing extensive districts
of mountainous country, satisfy us that the eruptive
rocks do not intervene as any disorderly or lawless power.
In the most distant countries of the world, we frequently
see granite, basalt, or diorite, exerting their transformative
force, in every the most minute particular, alike upon strata
of clay-slate, on thick beds of limestone, and on the grains
of quartz of which sandstone consists. As the same
kind of endogenous rock almost everywhere exerts the
same kind of influence, different kinds of rocks belonging
to the same class of endogenous or eruptive formations,
exhibit, on the contrary, very different characters.
Intense heat, above all, has exerted an influence in the
whole of the phenomena ; but the degree of molten fluidity
attained—perfect mobility of particles, or a more viscid or
glutinous adhesion among them—has been very different
in granite and basalt; in different geological epochs, in
deed (phases in the transformation of the crust of the
earth), along with the eruptions of granite, basalt, porpby-
ritic greenstone or serpentine, various other substances dis
solved in vapours have arisen from the interior laid open.
And this is the place to remind the reader anew, that in
the rational views of modern geology, the metamorphosis
of rocks is not limited to the mere phenomena of con
tact, to the apposition of two different kinds of rock ; but
n 2
274 METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS.
that genetically it comprises all that has accompanied the
protrusion of a particular ejected mass. In situations
where no immediate contact has taken place, the mere vici
nity of such a mass causes modifications in the induration,
the silicification, the granulation, the crystallization of
adjacent rocks.
All eruptive rocks penetrate the sedimentary strata, and
other likewise endogenous masses, as veins; but the
distinction that is apparent between the plutonic rocks
(229)—granite, porphyry, serpentine,—and those which,
in a more restricted sense, are called volcanic (tra
chyte, basalt, lava), is of especial importance. The
rocks which our present volcanoes, as remnants of the
activity of the body of the earth, produce, appear in narrow
streams, which, however, may still form sufficiently-wide
beds when several of them meet in hollows or basins.
Basaltic eruptions, where they have been traced deeply,
have been repeatedly seen to terminate in slender taps.
Flowing from narrow openings, as in the Pftasterkaute,
near Marksuhl, two miles from Eisenach, in the blue knolls,
near Eschwega (banks of the Werra), and at the Druid's-
stone, on the Hollert ridge (Siegen),to cite three examples
indigenous to Germany, the basalt breaks through the red
sand-stone and greywacke schist, and spreads out above,
like the cap of a mushroom, into knolls, which in one place
appear split into columnar groups, in another are thinly
stratified. Not so granite, syenite, quartzose porphyry,
serpentine, and the entire series of unstratified massy rocks,
which, from an attachment to mythological nomenclature,
have been called Plutonic. These, with the exception of
a few veins, have been ejected not in a molten liquefied state,
METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS. 275
but in one merely tenacious and softened, and not from
narrow crevices, but from wide valley-like chasms, and
extensive gorges. They have been forced, they have not
flowed out ; they present themselves not in streams, like
lava, but spread out in immense masses (230) . Among the
dolerites and trachytes, some groups give indications of a
certain basalt-like fluidity ; others, expanded into vast
bell-shaped elevations and craterless domes, appear to
have been merely softened when they were protruded.
Other trachytes, again, those of the Andes among the
number, which I frequently found very closely allied to
the greenstones and syenitic-porphyries, so rich in silver,
and then without quartz, lie in beds like granite and
quartzose-porphyry.
Experiments upon the alterations which the structure
and chemical constitution of rocks undergo through
fire (231), have showed that the volcanic masses, diorite,
augitic porphyry, basalt, and lava from Etna, according
to the degree of pressure under which they were melted,
and the rate of their cooling, were either, when quickly
cooled, brought to the state of a black glass of an even
fracture, or when slowly cooled made to assume the ap
pearance of a stony mass having a granular crystalline
texture. The crystals in such cases were either produced
on the sides and cavities, or embedded in the general
basic mass. The same material—and this consideration
is of great importance as regards the nature of the eruptive
rock, or the transformations it has undergone—yields the
most dissimilar-looking products. Carbonate of lime,
melted under high pressure, does not lose its charge of
carbonic acid; the cooled mass is granular limestone,
276 METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS.
saccharoidal marble. So much for crystallization in
the dry way ; in the moist way, calcareous spar as well
as Aragonite is produced, the former under a moderate,
the latter under a higher, degree of heat (233) . According
to diversities of temperature, the consolidating particles of
crystalsin process of formation arrange themselves variously
and in particular determinate directions; the very form of
the crystals, indeed, varies with the temperature under the
influence of which they are produced (233) . There is, more
over, under certain relations, and without the intervention
of any fluid state, a transposition (234) of the minute
particles of a body, which is proclaimed by optical effects.
The phenomena presented by devitrifaction, by the pro
duction of cemented and cast steel, by the transition of the
fibrous structure of iron into one that is granular, under
the influence of elevated temperature (235), perhaps even of
very insignificant but equable and long-continued concus
sions, all conduce to throw light upon the processes of
geological metamorphosis. Heat can even induce oppo
site effects at the same time upon crystalline bodies ; for
Mitscherlich's beautiful experiments show that calcareous
spar, without altering its state of aggregation, expands in
the direction of one of its axes of crystallization, and
contracts in another (236) .
If from these general considerations we pass on to
particular examples, we first observe schists turned into
black-blue roofing slate by the vicinity of plutonic ejected
rocks. The clefts of stratification are then interrupted by
another system of clefts, which cut the former almost
perpendicularly, and indicate the operation of a later in
fluence (237). By the penetration of silicic acid, clay
METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS. 277
slate, traversed by fragments of quartz, is partially
changed into whetstone slate (Wetzschiefer, whitestone or
Eurite?) and silicious slate (Kieselschiefer, quartzite?),
the latter frequently carboniferous, and then galvanic in
its effects on the nerves. The highest degree of silicifica-
tion of the schists (238), however, is found in a precious
material employed in the arts, ribboned jasper, produced
in the Ural Mountains by the contact of eruptive augi-
tic porphyry (Orsk), dioritic porphyry (Auschkul), or
hypersthene rock (Bogoslowsk) ; in the Island of Elba
(Monte Serrato), according to Fr. Hoffmann, and in
Tuscany, according to Alexander Brongniart, by contact
with euphotide and serpentine.
The contact and plutonic influence of granite cause
clay-slate to become granular, changing it into a granitic-
looking mass—into a mixture of felspar and mica, in
which again larger plates of mica lie embedded (239),—a
fact which Gustavus Rose and I observed within the
fortress of Buchtarminsk (240). "That the whole of the
gneiss lying between the Icy Sea and the Gulph of Fin
land has been formed and transformed by the agency
of granite out of Silurian strata of the transition series,
may now, as Leopold von Buch has said, be assumed as
an hypothesis familiar to all geologists, and accepted by
the greater number as demonstrated. In the Alps of St.
Gothard cretaceous marl is met with transformed by granite,
first into micaceous schist, and then into gneiss" (241).
Similar phenomena in respect of gneiss and mica slate
formations, under the influence of granite, are presented :
in the Oolitic group of Tarantaise (242), where belemnites
have been found in rocks that already lay claim to the
278 METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS.
denomination of mica schist; in the schistose group of
the western portion of the Island of Elba, not far from
Cape Calamata, and in the Fichtelgebirge of Bayreuth,
between Lomitz and Markleiten (243).
Precisely as jaspar, a substance employed in the arts,
which was inaccessible to the ancients in large masses (244),
is the product of volcanic agency upon augitic porphyry,
so is the other artistic material, so variously and so suc
cessfully employed by them, granular marble, to be
regarded as a sedimentary stratum altered by the heat of the
earth and the vicinity of an eruptive rock. Careful ob
servation of phenomena of contact, and the remarkable
experiments of Sir James Hall on the fusion of rocks,
now more than half a century old, in addition to the
diligent study of granitic veins, which contributed so
essentially to the early foundations of our present geology,
warrant such a conclusion. The protruded rock has occa
sionally changed the dense calcareous deposit into granular
limestone to a certain thickness only, or in a certain
zone from the line of contact. We find a partial trans
formation, like a half shadow, at Belfast in Ireland, where
basaltic dykes penetrate the chalk ; in the same way, in the
compact floetz-limestone near the bridge of Boscampo,
and by the waterfall of Canzocoli in the Tyrol, celebrated
by Count Marzari Pencati, the strata have been par
tially bent where they come in contact with a syenitic
granite (245) . Another kind of transformation is that in
which the whole of the beds of compact calcareous rock are
changed into granular limestone through the influence
of granite, syenite, or dioritic porphyry (246).
Let me be allowed to refer particularly in this place to
METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS. 279
the Parian and Carrara marbles, which have become so ne
cessary to the noblest efforts of the sculptor, and which have
served but too long in our geological collections as princi
pal types of primitive limestone. The effects of the
granite here reveal themselves partly under immediate
contact, as in the Pyrenees (247), partly, as in the continent
of Greece and the islands of the iEgean Sea, through
interposed strata of gneiss and mica slate. In both cases
the process of transformation of the calcareous rock is
contemporaneous, but dissimilar. It has been observed at
Cubaea, in Attica, and in the Peloponnesus, " that the rule
is, that the limestone which rests upon mica slate is by
so much the more beautiful and crystalline as the schist
is purer, that is, as it is freer from argillaceous admixture."
Mica slate, as well as gneiss strata, present themselves at
many deep points of Paros and Antiparos (248). If ma
rine productions were discovered [in ancient times] in the
quarries of Syracuse, and the " impression of a small fish"
was seen in the deepest ofthe rocks of Paros, as wemay infer
from a notice in Origen, of the old Eleatic philosopher,
Xenophanes of Colophon (249), who conceived the whole
of the world to have been formerly covered by the sea, we
might believe in the remains of a floetz stratum in this
situation which had not undergone complete metamor
phosis. The marble of Carrara (Luna), which was em
ployed before the Augustan age, and was the principal
source of the material for statues so long as the quarries
of Paros remained closed, is a stratum of the same cre
taceous sandstone (macigno) altered by plutonic agency,
which presents itself in the insulated Alpine height, Apu-
ana, lying between gneiss-like micaceous and talcose
280 METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS.
schists (250) . Whether or not granular limestone, formed
in the interior of the earth, and filling fissures in the
manner of veins (Auerbach on the Bergstrasse), have
ever been forced to the surface by gneiss and syenite (251),
I cannot, through want of personal observation, take it
upon me to decide.
The most remarkable metamorphoses of compact cal
careous strata, however, according to Leopold von Buch's
able observations, are to be seen in the Southern
Tyrol, and among the Italian slopes of the Alps, effected
principally by the intrusion of dolomitic masses. The
metamorphosis of the calcareous rock here proceeds
from fissures, which traverse it in all directions. The
clefts are everywhere covered with rhomboids of mag-
nesian spar; the whole formation indeed, without strati
fication, and without a vestige of the fossils which it
formerly included, then consists exclusively of a granular
aggregation of dolomitic rhomboids. Talc leaves and
transverse fragments of serpentine lie here and there dis
persed through the new-fashioned rock. In Fassathal, the
dolomite rises perpendicularly in the form of smooth walls
of dazzling whiteness to the height of several thousand feet.
It forms pointed conical hills, which stand side by side in
great numbers without touching one another. Their phy
siognomical character brings to mind that sweetly fantastical
mountain-landscape with which Leonardo da Vinci has
ornamented the back-ground of his portrait of Mona Lisa.
The geological features which we are here portraying
excite the imagination as well as reflection ; they are
the work of an augtic porphyry, which has intruded and
produced its effect, by upheaving, shattering, and trans-
METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS. 281
forming (252) . The dolomitizing process is by no means
regarded by the gifted inquirer who first pointed it out as
an imparting of magnesian earth by the black porphyry, but
as a change effected contemporaneously with the protrusion
ofthe injected rock into extensive fissures filled with vapour.
It remains for future inquiries to determine in what way
the transformation is effected when the dolomite occurs
in beds between limestone strata, without contact with the
endogenous rock, where the conduits of plutonic influences
he concealed. But it is not perhaps necessary, even here,
to take refuge in the old Roman saying, according to
which " much that is like in nature has been produced in
totally different ways." If in an extensive district of
country, two phenomena, viz. the protrusion of melaphyre,
and the alteration in crystalline texture and chemical con
stitution of a compact calcareous rock, always go toge
ther, then may we, with some reason, conjecture, that in
cases where the second phenomenon presents itself with
out the first, the seeming contradiction in the non-fulfil
ment is connected with certain conditions accompanying
the occult principal cause. Should we question the volcanic
nature of basalt and its state of liquefaction through fire,
because a few rare instances have been met with in which
dykes of this substance traverse carboniferous sandstone
and cretaeous strata, without the coal being deprived of
its bitumen, the sandstone reduced to the state of frit, or
the chalk being turned into granular marble ? Where we
meet with even a twilight glimmer, with the faintest trace
of a way in the obscure region of mineral formations, we
must not thanklessly reject both, because there is still
much unexplained in the relations of transition from
282 METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS.
one rock to another, and in the isolated interposition of
altered between unaltered strata.
Besides the transformation of compact calcareous car
bonate into granular limestone and into dolomite, there is
a third metamorphosis of the same deposit, which must
here be adverted to, and which is attributable to the vol
canic eruption of sulphuric-acid-vapours in primeval
epochs. This transformation of limestone into gypsum
is connected with the penetration of rock-salt and sul
phur (the latter precipitated from watery vapour charged
with the mineral). In the lofty chain of the Andes of
Quindiu, far from all volcanoes, I have myself observed
this precipitate within fissures in gneiss, whilst the sul
phur, gypsum, and rock-salt of Sicily (Cattolica, near
Girgenti) belong to the newest secondary strata, or to the
chalk formations (253). I have farther seen fissures filled
with rock-salt, in quantities that sometimes tempt the
people to engage in an illicit traffic in the article, in the
edge of the crater of Vesuvius. On both slopes of the
Pyrenees it is impossible to doubt the connection of dioritic
(and pyroxenic?) rock, with the appearance of dolomite,
of gypsum, and of rock-salt (254). Everything in the
phenomena here referred to proclaims the influence of
subterraneous forces upon the sedimentary strata of the
ancient ocean,
The beds of pure quartz of enormous magnitude, which
are so characteristic of the Andes of South America (255),
—and I may here state that I have seen such beds between
V and 8,000 feet in thickness, in the route from Caxa-
marca to Guangamarca, descending towards the southern
ocean,—are of enigmatical origin. They rest in one place
METAMORPHOSES OF ROCKS. 283
upon quartzless porphyry, in another upon dioritic rocks.
Have they been produced from sandstone, as M. Elie de
Beaumont conjectures has been the case in regard to the
quartz strata of the Col de la Poissonniere, to the east of
Briancon ? (256). In the diamond districts of Minas
Geraes and St. Paul, in Brazil, which have been lately so
carefully examined by Clausen, plutonic forces acting
upon dioritic veins have developed in one place common
mica, in another ferruginous mica, in the quartzose itaco-
lumite. The diamonds of Grammagoa are contained in
layers of solid silicic acid ; occasionally they he enveloped
by plates of mica, exactly like the garnets formed in mica-
slate. The most northern of all the diamonds which have
been found since the year 1829, under the 58th parallel of
north latitude, on the European declivity of the Ural
mountains, also stand in geological relation to the black
carboniferous dolomite of Adolfskoi (257), as well as to
augitic porphyry, which have not yet been made the sub
ject of sufficiently accurate observations
Among the most remarkable contact-phenomena, finally,
are comprised the formation of garnets in clay-slate,
under the influence of basalt and dolerite, instances of
which occur in the county of Northumberland and in the
island of Anglesea; and for the production of a great
number of beautiful and very dissimilar crystals—garnets,
Vesuviane, augite, and Ceylanite—which make their ap
pearance upon the contingent surfaces of eruptive and
sedimentary rocks, on the boundary of the syenite of
Monzon with dolomite and compact limestone (258) . In
the island of Elba, the masses of serpentine, which no
where, perhaps, present themselves so conspicuously as
284 METAMORPHOSES OF HOCKS.
eruptive rocks, have caused the sublimation of iron glance
and red iron stone into the fissures of a cretaceous sand
stone (259) . The same iron glance is still seen every day,
sublimed from vapour, upon the edges of open fissures in
the craters of Stromboli, Vesuvius, and iEtna, and in
cracks of the recent lava streams of these volcanoes (260).
As we here perceive the materials of veins produced under
the influence of volcanic forces before our eyes, and where
the neighbouring rock has already attained to a state of
solidity, we conceive how mineral and metallic veins
may have been produced during the earlier revolutions
of the crust of the earth; when the solid, but still thin
shell of the planet, repeatedly shaken by earthquakes,
shattered and rifted by alterations in its volume occa
sioned by cooling, presented numerous communications
with the interior, numerous outlets for vapours laden with
earthy and metallic substances. The stratified arrangement
of the mineral matters parallel with the surfaces bounding
veins, the regular repetition of similar layers on both sides,
on the roofs and on the floors of veins, and the druses or
elongated cavities of their middles, indeed, frequently bear
immediate testimony to a plutonic process of sublimation
in metalliferous veins. As the matter traversing is of
more recent origin than the matter traversed, we learn
from the relations of position of the porphyry to the silver-
ore formations of the Saxon Erzgebirge, that these, in the
mountains which are richer in mineral treasures than any
others in Germany, are at least younger than the trunks
of trees of the coal formation and than the lower new red
sandstone (Rothliegendes)261.
All our geological speculations, in regard to the forma-
ARTIFICIAL PRODUCTION OF SIMPLE MINERALS. 285
tion of the crust of the earth and the metamorphosis of
rocks, have had unexpected light thrown on them, by the
happy idea of assimilating the production of scoriae in
our smelting furnaces, to the formation of natural minerals,
and of reproducing these artificially from their ele
ments (262) . The same affinities, determining chemical
combinations, come into play in all these operations, whe
ther they be conducted in our laboratories or in the bosom
of the earth. The most important simple minerals, cha
racterising the very generally distributed plutonic and
volcanic rocks, as well as those that have suffered meta
morphosis through them, have been found in our arti
ficial mineral formations in the crystalline state, and
like the natural ones in all respects. We distinguish
those that have arisen accidentally in scoriae, from
those that have been produced intentionally by chemists.
To the former belong felspar, mica, augite, olivine,
blende, crystalline oxide of iron (iron glance), octohedral
magnetic iron, and metallic titanium (263) ; to the latter
garnet, idokras, ruby (equal in hardness to the oriental
stone), olivine, and augite (264). The minerals now
named form the principal constituents of granite, gneiss,
and mica schist, of basalt, dolerite, and numerous por
phyries. The artificial production of felspar and mica,
in particular, is of signal geological importance for the
theory of the formation of gneiss by the transformation
of clay slate. This contains the elements of granite,
potash not excepted (265) . It would not, therefore, be any
thing very extraordinary, as an acute geologist, M. von
Dechen, has observed, were we one day to find a piece of
286 CONGLOMERATE HOCKS.
gneiss produced upon the walls of a smelting-furnace
built of clay-slate and grey-wacke.
In these general considerations on the solid crust of the
earth, and after having indicated three original forms ofpro
duction in reference to its mineral masses, viz. Eruptive,
Sedimentary, and Metamorphosed rocks, there still remains
a fourth class, the Conglomerated, or fragmentary, to wit.
This title of itself brings to mind the denudations or de
structions which the surface of the earth has suffered ; but
it also farther reminds us of the process of cementation or
agglutination that has been effected by oxide of iron, and
by argillaceous and calcareous [and silicious] cements,
by which in one case rounded, in another angular, frag
ments have been again united. Conglomerates and
breccias, in the widest sense of these words, reveal the
character of a two-fold mode of origin. The materials
of which they are mechanically composed have not always
been accumulated by the waves of the sea, or by streams
of fresh water in motion ; there are fragmentary rocks in
the production of which the shock or the action of water
has had no part. " When basaltic islands, or trachytic
mountains, arise upon fissures, the friction of the rock as it
ascends against the sides of the assure cause basalt and
trachyte to become surrounded by agglomerates of their
own masses. The grains of which the sandstones of many
formations consist have been more detached by the attrition
of outhreaking volcanic, or plutonic rocks, than produced
by the motion of a neighbouring ocean. The existence
of such attrition-conglomerates, which are encountered in
enormous masses in both divisions of the globe, bear wit
GENERAL CHEMICAL CONSTITUENTS OF ROCKS. 287
ness to the intensity of the force with which the eruptive
masses have been forced to the surface from the interior.
The waters then obtained power over the smaller detached
granules, and spread them out in layers which they them
selves covered" (266). Sandstone formations are found in
tercalated among all the strata, from the lower Silurian
transition series, to this side the chalk in the tertiary
formation. On the edges of the vast plains of the New
World, both within and without the tropics, they are seen
as walls or bulwarks, indicating, as it seems, the coasts
against which the mighty waves of a former ocean once
dashed themselves into foam.
If we venture a glance at the geographical distribution
of rocks, and their relations in point of place in that
portion of the crust of the earth which is accessible to our
observation, we perceive that the most generally distributed
chemical material of all is silicic acid, either in the trans
parent and colourless state, or opaque and variously tinged.
After solid silicic acid comes carbonate of lime ; then follow
in order the compounds of silicic acid with alumina, with
potash and soda, with lime, magnesia, and oxide of iron.
If the masses which we call rocks be definite associa
tions of a small number of minerals, to which a few others,
but also of determinate kinds only, are added as parasites ;
if, in the eruptive rock granite, the association of quartz
(silicic acid), felspar and mica be the essentials, so do
these minerals, either isolated or in pairs, present them
selves in many other strata. With a view of illustrating
by an example how quantitative relations distinguish a
felspatbic rock from another abounding in mica, I here
remind the reader, as Mitscherlich has done, that if three
288 KELATIVE AGE OF STRATA PALEONTOLOGY.
times more alumina, and one-third more silicic acid than
belong to it naturally be added to felspar, we have the
composition of mica. Potash is contained in both, a
substance the existence of which in many mineral masses
reaches far beyond the commencement of everything like
vegetation on the surface of the earth.
The succession, and with this the age of the several
formations, are ascertained or determined by the reciprocal
position of the Sedimentary, Metamorphic, and Conglome
rate strata, by the nature of the formations up to which
the Eruptive masses ascend, but most certainly and safely
by the presence of organic remains and the diversities of
their structure. The application of Botanical and Zoolo
gical knowledge to the determination of the age of rocks,
the chronometry of the crust of the earth, which Hook's
great spirit had already divined (267), marks one of the most
brilliant epochs in the progress of geology, now finally
abstracted, on the Continentat least, from Semitic influences.
Paleeontological studies have, as with a vivifying breath,
given grace and the charms of variety to the doctrine of
the solid materials of the globe.
The fossiliferous strata present us with the entombed
floras and faunas of bygone millenniums. We ascend in
time, whilst, penetrating downwards from layer to layer,
we determine the relations in space of the several forma
tions. An animal and vegetable existence that has passed
away is brought to light. Wide-spread revolutions of the
globe, the upheaval of mighty mountain chains, whose
relative ages we are in a condition to determine, denote
the destruction of old organic forms, the appearance of
PAL^OZOLOGY. 289
new. A few of the older still show themselves for a time
among the newer forms. In the narrowness of our know
ledge of original production, in the figurative language with
which this circumscription ofview is concealed, we designate
as new creations the historical phenomena ofchange in the
organisms, as in the tenancy of the primeval waters, and
of the uplifted dry land. These extinct organic forms are
in one case preserved entire, even to the most minute
details of covering and articulated parts ; in other instances
nothing more remains of them than their footsteps im
printed on the wet sand or mud which they traversed
when alive, or their coprolites (petrified dejections), con
taining the unassimilated portions of the food upon which
they fed. In the lower Jura formation (the Lias of
Lyme Regis), the preservation of the ink-bag of the
sepia (267) is so wonderfully perfect, that the same material
which the animal employed myriads of years before to
preserve itself from its enemies, has been made to serve as
the colour wherewith to paint its likeness. In other strata
there is sometimes nothing more than the faint impression
of a bivalve shell, and yet will this suffice, when brought
by a traveller from a far distant country, if it be a charac
teristic shell (Leitmuschel, a guiding-shell) (268) to inform
us of the mineral formations which there exist, and of the
other organic remains with which it was associated ; it
tells the history of the district whence it came.
The anatomical study of the ancient animal and vege
table life of the globe extends in a two-fold direction. The
one is purely morphological in its bearings, and is espe
cially devoted to the description and physiology of the
organisms; it fills up with extinct forms the gaps encoun-
vol. I. o
290 PALEONTOLOGY.
tered in the series that still exist. The other direction is
geological, and considers fossil organic remains in their
relations to the superposition and relative age of the sedi
mentary formations. The first was long the usual
direction taken, and in its imperfect and superficial com
parisons of petrifactions with living species led off into
erroneous ways, traces of which are still to be discovered in
the extraordinary denominations of certain natural bodies.
There was the constant disposition to recognise a living
in every extinct species ; just as, in the 16th century, false
analogies led naturalists to confound the animals of the
old world with those of the new continent. Camper,
Soemmering, and Blumenbach, had the merit, by the
scientific application of a better comparative anatomy, of
first illustrating the osteological portion of Paleeontology
(the Archeeology of organic life), in so far at least as the
larger fossil vertebrate animals are concerned ; but for the
proper geological consideration of the Science of Petri
factions, for the happy combination of the zoological
character with the age and order of deposition of strata,
we are indebted to the great work of George Cuvier and
Alexander Brongniart.
The oldest sedimentary formations, those to wit of the
transition series, in the organic remains which they in
clude, present a mixture of forms which assume very
different places in the scale of development, gradually
attaining to greater and greater perfection. Of vegetables,
they contain indeed but a few Fuci, Lycopodiaceee which
perhaps were arborescent, Equisetaceee, and tropical Ferns ;
but of animal remains, we find, strangely associated together,
Crustacea (trilobites with reticular eyes, and calymene),
paLjEozoology. 291
Brachiopoda (spirifer, orthis), the elegant Spheronites,
which are nearly allied to the crinoideee (269) and orthocera-
tites from among the Cephalopoda, Stone-corals, and with
these lower organisms, Fishes of singular forms in the
upper Silurian strata. The heavily-armed family of
Cephalaspidans, fragments from whose genus Pterychthys
were long regarded as trilobytes, belong exclusively
to the Devonian, or old red sandstone formation, and
show, as Agassiz says, as peculiar a type in the series
of fishes as Ichthyosauri and Plesiosauri do among the
reptiles (270). The Goniatites, belonging to the group of
Ammonites, likewise begin to show themselves in the
transition limestone and greywacke of the Devonian,
and even in the later members of the Silurian system.
The dependence of physiological gradation upon the
age of the formation, which has hitherto been but little
observed in the position of the invertebrate order of
animals (272), is exhibited in the most regular manner in
connection with the vertebrate series. The oldest of these,
as we have just seen, are the fishes ; and then, following
the series of formations from the inferior to the superior,
we come to reptiles and mammalia. The first reptile
encountered, a saurian or lizard, and, according to Cuvier,
a monitor, which had already attracted the attention of
Leibnitz (273), makes its appearance in the copperslate
floetz of the Zechstein [lower new red, or magnesian lime
stone formation], of Thuringia; and with this, and of the
same age, according to Murchison, the palaeosaurus and the-
codontosaurus ofBristol. The Saurians go on increasing in
numbers in the Muschelkalk, in the Keuper, and in the
Jura formation, in which they attain their maximum.
292 PAL^OZOOLOGY.
Contemporaneously with this formation lived Plesio-
sauri, with long swan-like necks, containing thirty
vertebree; the Megolosaurus, a crocodilian monster, 45
feet long, and with bones of the feet like those of a heavy
mammiferous land animal ; eight species of large-eyed
Ichthyosauri; the Geosaurus or Soemmering's Lacerta
gigantea; finally, seven singularly hideous Pterodac-
tyles (275), or Saurians furnished with membranous wings.
In the chalk, the number of crocodilian Saurians falls off,
yet the epoch which this deposit characterises is distin
guished by the Maastricht crocodile, as it is called, the
Mososaurus of Conybeare, and the colossal, perhaps herbi
vorous, Iguanodon. Other animals that belong to the
present race of crocodiles Cuvier has met with ascending
into the tertiary formations; and Scheuchzer's " Man attest
ing the deluge (homo diluvii testis)", a great salamander,
allied to the axolotl, which I brought with me from the
Mexican lakes, belongs to the newest fresh-water formations
of Oeningen.
The relative ages oforganisms determined by the position
of the rocky strata in which their remains are found, has led
to important conclusions as to therelations that can be traced
between extinct and still existing families and species (the
latter, the species, in very small numbers). Older and
newer observations agree in showing that the floras and
faunas are by so much the more unlike the present forms
of plants and animals, as the sedimentary formations in
which their remains lie buried belong to the inferior ; in
other words, to the older strata. The numerical relations
presented by these grand successive changes in the forms
of organic life, first pointed out by Cuvier, have yielded
PAL^OZOOLOGY. 293
decisive results through the meritorious labours of Deshayes
and Lyell, in connection more especially with the various
groups of the tertiary formations, which contain a con
siderable mass of carefully-studied forms. Agassiz, who
has cognizance of 1 700 species of fossil fishes, and who
estimates the number of living species that have been
described, or that are preserved in museums, at 8000,
speaks out quite decisively, in his master-work. He says :
—"With the single exception of one small fossil fish,
peculiar to the clay-geodes of Greenland, I have found no
animal of this class in all the transition, floetz, and tertiary
strata, which is specifically identical with any fish now
living ;" and he adds the following important observation :
" In the inferior tertiary formations, the coarse limestone
and London clay, for example, one-third of the fossil fishes
even belong to genera that are wholly extinct ; below the
chalk there is not one of the genera of fishes of the present
time to be found, and the extraordinary family of the Sau-
roids (or fishes with scales covered with enamel, which in
structure almost approach reptiles, and ascend from the
coal formation, in which the largest species lie embedded,
to the chalk, where single individuals are still encoun
tered), stand related to the two families Lepidosteus and
Polypterus, which now inhabit the rivers of America and
the Nile, in the same way as our present elephants and
tapirs to the Mastodons and Anaplotheriums of the
primeval world" (277).
The chalk-beds, however, which still contain two of
these sauroid fishes, and gigantic reptiles, and which pre
sent themselves as an entire world of extinct corals and
shells, are composed, according to Ehrenberg's beautiful
294 PAL^OZOOLOGY.
discovery of microscopic Poythalamia, many of which
are still to be found in our seas, particularly in the middle
latitudes of the North Sea and Baltic. The first group of
the tertiary formation lying over the chalk, a group which
it has become customary to designate by the name of the
strata of the Eocene period, would appear by no means
rightly to deserve this title—" inasmuch as the morning
dawn of the nature that still exists with us extends far
more deeply into the history of the earth than was until
lately believed (278)."
As fishes, the oldest of all vertebrate animals already
show themselves in Silurian transition strata, and then
occur without interruption in all subsequent formations up
to the strata of the tertiary epoch ; as we have seen the
Saurians begin with the zechstein or magnesian limestone,
so are the first mammiferous animals, the Thylactotherium,
Prevostii, and T. Bucklandii, which Valenciennes regards
as nearly allied to the Marsupialia, found in the Stones-
field slate, a lower member of the Jura or Oolitic forma--
tion, and the first bird occurs in the older cretaceous
deposits (280) .—These, according to our present know
ledge, are the inferior limits of fishes, saurians, mammalia,
and birds.
But if, among the members of the invertebrate series of
animals, stone corals and serpulites are found making
their appearance in the oldest formations simultaneously
with highly developed cephalopods and Crustacea, the
most different and dissimilar orders being, therefore, asso
ciated without distinction, we, on the other hand, discover
very determinate laws in connection with the distribution
of particular groups of the same orders. Fossil shells of
PAL.EOZOOLOGY. 295
the same kinds, goniatites, trilobites, and nummulites,
compose entire mountains. Where different genera are
mingled, it often happens that not only is there a deter
minate sequence of organisms recognizable, according to
the relations of superposition in the several systems of
strata, but the association of certain genera and species
has also been observed in the subordinate strata of the
same formations. By his happy discovery of the Law of
Estimates (Lobenstellung), Leopold von Buch has been
enabled to distribute the vast multitude of ammonites into
well-characterised families, and shown how the ceratites
belong to the muschelkalk, the arietes to the lias, the
goniatites to the transition limestone and greywacke (281).
Belemnites have their inferior limits in the Keuper which
covers the Jura limestone, their superior limits in the
chalk (282). The waters of countries far remote from one
another were inhabited at the same epochs by testaceous
animals, which partly at least, as is now known for certain,
are identical with those that occur fossilized in Europe.
Leopold von Buch has shown us exogyri and trigonia
from the southern hemisphere (the volcano Maypo, in
Chili), and d'Orbigny ammonites and grypheee from the
Himalaya mountains and the plains of Cutch in India,
which are identical in kind with those left behind by the
old Jurassic sea of France and Germany.
Strata characterised by determinate species of fossils, or
by determinate rolled masses which they inclose, form a
geognostical horizon, by means of which the geologist,
when at a loss, can always ascertain his place, and pur
suing which, he arrives at safe conclusions as to the
identity and relative age of certain formations, the periodical
296 PAL^OZOOLOGY.
recurrence of particular strata, their parallelism, and their
total suppression or failure. If we will thus embrace
the type of the sedimentary formation in its greatest sim
plicity and most general distribution, we find its members
in the following order, proceeding from below upwards :—
1st. The so-called Transition rocks, in the two
divisions of inferior and superior grey-wacke, or
Silurian and Devonian systems, the latter formerly
designated the Old Bed Sandstone formation ;
2d. The inferior Trias (283) —Mountain limestone,
the Coal measures together with the Red-conglome
rate (Todtliegendes), and Zechstein or Magnesian
limestone ;
3d. The superior Trias—Variegated - sandstone,
Muschelkalk and Keuper ;
4th. Jura limestone (Lias and Oolite) ;
5th. Massive sandstone, Inferior and Superior
chalk, as the last of the floetz strata, which begin with
the mountain limestone ;
6th. Tertiary formations, in three divisions, which
are indicated by the Coarse limestone, Brown coal
or Lignite, and Sub-Apennine gravel.
In the alluvium or drift follow the gigantic bones of the
extinct mammalia—the Mastodons, Dinotheriums, Mis-
suriums, Megatheriums, Owen's Sloth-like Mylodon, 11
feet long, &c. With these primeeval genera are associated
the fossilized remains of many animals that still exist—
the elephant, rhinoceros, ox, horse, deer, &c. The plain
near Bogota, filled with the bones of Mastodons (the
PAL.EOPHYTOLOGY. 297
Campo de Gigantes, in which I had some careful digging
performed) (285), lies 8,200 feet above the level of the sea,
and the bones of extinct species of true elephants are found
still higher in the lofty plateaus of Mexico. Like the chain
of the Andes, which has certainly been upheaved at very
different epochs, the advances of the Himalaya, the
Sewalik hills, (which Captain Cautley and Dr. Fal
coner have so carefully examined,) besides the extinct
Mastodon, Sivatherium, and gigantic land tortoise, the
Colossochelys, 12 feet long, and 6 feet high, contain re
mains of genera that still exist—elephants, rhinoceroses,
giraffes; and this, which is very much to be regarded,
within a zone which enjoys the same tropical climate at
the present day which we may be permitted to conjecture
prevailed during the epoch of the Mastodons (286).
After having thus compared the series of inorganic
formations composing the crust of the earth, with the
animal remains which lie buried in them, we have still to
write another chapter in the history of the organic life of
the globe—that, namely, which refers to vegetables ; and
to trace the epochs of vegetation, the floras varying with
the increasing dimensions of the dry land, and the modifi
cations which the atmosphere underwent.
The oldest transition strata, as already remarked, present
us with nothing but cellular-leaved marine plants. It is
in the Devonian strata that a few cryptogamic forms of
vascular vegetables, calamites and lycopodiaceee, are first
encountered (287) . Nothing seems to testify, as, on theore
tical views On the simplicity ofthefirstforms of organic
life, it has been assumed, that vegetable life was awakened
o 2
298 PAL^OPHYTOtOGY.
sooner than animal life, upon the face of the old earth, and
that this was brought about or determined by that. The
existence of races of men in the very northern polar zones,
who subsist on the flesh of fish, and seals and whales, is
enough of itself to assure us of the possibility of living
without vegetable matter of any kind. After the Devonian
strata and the mountain limestone, comes a formation, the
botanical anatomy of which has made such brilliant pro
gress in recent times (288). The Coal Formation com
prises not only fern-like cryptogamic plants, and phanero
gamous monocotyledons,—grasses, yucca-like liliaceous
vegetables and palms; it further contains gynospermic
dicotyledons—coniferee and cycadeee. Nearly 400 species
from the flora of the coal formation are already known. I
here mention only arborescent calamites and lycopodiaceee ;
scaly lepidodendrons ; sigillariee of 60 feet long, and oc
casionally found standing erect and rooted, and distin
guished by a double vascular fasciculate system ; cactus
like stigmariee ; a host of ferns now arborescent, and again
mere fronds, and by their quantity proclaiming the still en
tirely insular character of the dry land (289); cycadeee (290);
and particularly palms (291) in small numbers, asterophyl-
liteswith verticillate leaves, allied to the Najades; araucaria-
like coniferee (292) with slight indications of annual rings.
The diversity in character of a vegetation which flourished
luxuriantly on the uplifted and dry-laid portions of the
old red sandstone, from the vegetable world of the present
time, still continues through the later phytological periods
on to the last layers of the chalk ; but with a great degree
of strangeness in the forms, the flora of the coal forma
tion still exhibits a very remarkable uniformity in the dis
PAL.EOPHYTOLOGY. 299
tribution of the same genera, (if not always of the same
species) over every part of the then surface of the earth ;
in New Holland, Canada, Greenland, and Melville Island,
the genera are still the same.
The vegetation of the former world presents us with
forms the affinities of which with various families of the
present age remind us that with them many intermediate
members in the series of organic developments have
perished. To quote two instances only : the Lepi-
dodendra, according to Lindley, stand between the Co-
niferae and the Lycopoditeee (294); the Araucarita and
Pinita, on the other hand, in the combination of their
vascular fascicles, exhibit something that is foreign and
peculiar. But confining our views to the present order of
things, the discovery of Oycadeoe and Coniferae in the flora
of the old coal measures in juxtaposition with Sagenaria
and Lepidodendra, is still of great significance. The Coni
fer®, to wit, have not only relationships with the Cupuli-
ferae and the Betulineee, by the side of which we encounter
them in the brown-coal formation, but they are further
connected with the Lycopoditeae. The family of the sago
like Cycadeee approaches the Palms in external appear
ance, whilst agreeing essentially with the Conifers in the
structure of the flowers and fruit (295). Where several
series of coal strata lie over one another, the genera and
species are not always mixed ; they are rather and for the
major part generically arranged, so that only Lycopodites
and certain Ferns occur in one series of beds, and Stig-
mariae and Sigillariae in another.
In order to form an idea of the luxuriance of vegeta
tion in the former world, and of the masses of vegetable
300 PAL^EOPHYTOLOGY.
matter accumulated by running water, and which have
very certainly been converted into coal in the humid way
(296), I remind the reader that in the Saarbriick coal
field there are 120 seams of coal lying one over another,
exclusive of a host of smaller seams less than a foot in
thickness ; that there are single seams of coal of 30 and
even of more than 50 feet thick, as at Johnstone in Scot
land, and Creuzot in Burgundy; whilst in the forest
regions of our temperate zone, the carbon which the trees
of a certain superficial extent of ground contain, would
not cover this surface with a layer of much more than half
an inch in thickness (7 lines) in the course of one hundred
years (297). Near the mouth of the Missisippi, and in the
wood hillocks, as they have been called, of the Siberian Icy
Sea, described by Admiral Wrangel, however, there is at the
present time such an accumulation of trunks of trees, such
a quantity of drift wood, washed down by land streams,
and brought together by ocean currents, that the pheno
mena remind us at once of the events which took place in
the inland waters and insulated bays of the primeval world,
and gave occasion to the production of the coal formations
which we now discover hundreds of feet below the surface
of the ground. It is also well to remember that these coal
measures are indebted for no inconsiderable portion of
their materials not to the trunks of mighty trees, but to
small grasses, and to frondiferous and low cryptogamic
vegetables.
The association of palms and cone-bearing trees which
we have just signalized in the coal fields, continues through
almost all the formations onwards to far into the tertiary
period. In the present world they seem rather to fly each
PALvEOPHYTOLOGY. 301
other's vicinity. We have, in fact, although improperly,
habituated ourselves so much to regard the cone-hearers
as northern forms, that I myself, ascending from the shores
of the South Sea towards Chilpansingo and the elevated
valleys of Mexico, was somewhat amazed when I found
myself between Venta de la Moxonera and the Alto de los
Caxones, 3,800 feet above the level of the sea, riding for
a whole day through a dense forest of the Pinus occiden-
talis, in which this cone-bearing tree, so like our Lord
Weymouth's or white pine, was associated with a fan-
leaved palm—the Corypha dulcis, covered with flights of
gay coloured parrots (298). Southern America produces
oaks, but not a single species ofpine ; and the first time that
I again encountered the familiar form of a fir-tree, it met
me in the estranging presence of a palm with its fan-like
leaves. In the north-east end of the Island of Cuba, too,
and so within the tropics, but scarcely raised above the
level of the sea, Christopher Columbus in the course of
his first voyage of discovery observed coniferous trees and
palms associated in their growth (299). This gifted and
all-observing man speaks of the circumstance in his jour
nal as a singularity ; and his friend Anghiera, secretary to
Ferdinand the Catholic, says, with evident astonishment,
that " in the newly discovered country they found palmeta
and pineta growing together." It is of the greatest in
terest in a geological point of view to contrast the present
distribution of plants upon the surface of the earth with
that which the floras of the former world unfold to us.
The temperate zone of the southern hemisphere, abound
ing in water and in islands, and in which tropical forms of
vegetation mingle so strangely with the forms that belong
302 pal^eophytology.
to colder regions of the earth, presents us, according to
Darwin's beautiful, animated description, with the most
instructive examples for both the old and the new, the
past and the present geography of plants (300). The
primeval is in the strictest sense of the word a portion of
the history of phytology.
The Cycadeee, which, to judge by the number of species,
played a much more important part in the world that has
passed away than in that which now exists, accompany the
allied Coniferee from the epoch of the coal formation
upwards. They are almost entirely wanting in the period
of the variegated sandstone, in which Conifers of singular
formation (Voltzia, Haidingera, Albertia) have grown
luxuriantly ; the Cycadeee, however, attain their maximum
in the Keuper strata and the lias, where about twenty
different forms make their appearance. In the chalk the
prevailing forms are those of marine and fresh-water
plants (Fuci andNajades). The cycadean forests of the
Jura formation have by this time been long exhausted,
and even in the older tertiary formations they remain deep
behind the cone-bearing tribes and palms (301).
The lignitic or brown-coal strata, which are present in
every one of the divisions of the tertiary period, amongst
the earliest forms of cryptogamic land plants, exhibit a
few palms, many conifers with distinct annual rings, and
frondiferous trees, of more or less decided tropical
character. In the middle tertiary period we observe the
complete recurrence of the palms and cycadeans, and in
the last members of this epoch, at length, strong resem
blances to our present flora. We come suddenly upon our
pines and firs, our cupuliferous tribes, our planes, and our
PALEOPETROLGGY. 803
poplars. The dicotyledonous stems of the lignite are
frequently distinguished by gigantic thickness and vast
age. A trunk was found near Bonn, in which Noggerath
counted 792 annual rings. In the peat-moss of the
Somme, at Yseux, not far from Abbeville, in the north of
France, oaks have been found that are fourteen feet in
diameter, a size which, in the old hemisphere, is very
remarkable beyond the tropics. Goeppert's excellent
researches, which it is hoped will soon appear illustrated
with plates, inform us, " that all the Baltic amber is de
rived from a coniferous tree, which, as proclaimed by the
extant remains of the wood and bark, were obviously of
different ages, came nearest to ourwhite and red pine timber,
but still constituted a particular species. The amber-tree
of the former world (Pinites succifer) had a richness in
resin with which none of the coniferous tribes of the
present world will bear comparison, inasmuch as great
masses of amber are contained not only within and upon the
bark, but also between the rings of the wood and in the
direction of the medullary rays, which, as well as the cells,
are seen under the microscope to be filled with ambreous
resin of a whiter or yellower colour in different places.
Amongst the vegetable matters inclosed in amber we find
both male and female flowers of indigenous, acicular-leaved,
and cupuliferous trees ; but distinct fragments of Thuja,
Cupressus, Ephedera, and Castania veseu, mingled with
others of Junipers and Firs, indicate a vegetation which
is different from that of the present coasts and plains
of the Baltic Sea,"
In the geological portion of our Representation of
304 PAL.EOPETROLOGY.
Nature, we have now gone over the whole series of forma
tions, from the oldest eruptive rocks, and the oldest sedi
mentary strata, to the newest alluvium, upon which lie the
great erratic blocks, the causes or means of whose distri
bution has long been matter of discussion, but which for
my own part I am less disposed to ascribe to icebergs,
than to the eruption and tumultuous descent of great
masses of pent-up water suddenly let loose by the up
heaval of mountain chains (303). The oldest members of
the transition formation with which we are acquainted, are
the schists and greywacke, which inclose some few re
mains of seaweed from the Silurian, formerly the Cam
brian Sea. Upon what did these oldest rocks, as they are
called, repose, if gneiss and mica-slate are to be regarded
but as metamorphosed sedimentary strata ? Shall we ven
ture a conjecture in regard to that which cannot be the
object of actual geological observation ? According to an
ancient Indian Myth, it is an elephant that supports the
earth ; and the elephant himself, that he may not sink, is
borne by a gigantic tortoise. Whereon the tortoise stands,
it is not allowed to the believing Brahmin to inquire.
We make bold to attempt a problem of the sort, although
prepared for variety of blame in its solution.—On the
first formation of the planets, as we have made it proba
ble in the astronomical portion of our Picture, vapo
rous rings circulating about the sun became aggregated
into spheres, and gradually consolidated from without in
wards. What we call the older Silurian strata are only the
upper portions of the solid crust of the earth. The erup
tive rocks which we see breaking through, pushing aside,
and heaving up these, arise from depths that are inaccessi-
paL.Eogeography. 305
ble to us ; they exist, consequently, under the Silurian
strata, composed of the same association of minerals
which are familiar to us under the name of granite,
augite, and quartz-porphyry, at the points where, by
breaking through, they become visible. Resting on
analogies, we may safely assume that that which at one
and the same time fills extensive fissures in the manner of
veins, and bursts through the sedimentary strata, can only
bo an offset from an inferior bed. The active volcanoes of
the present day carry on their processes at the greatest
depths ; and from the strange fragments which I have found
included in streams of lava in different quarters of the
globe, I also hold it as more than probable that a primo-
genial granitic rock is the foundation of the great systems
of stratification which are filled with such variety of
organic remains (354). If basalts, containing olivine,
first make their appearance in the cretaceous period, and
trachytes show themselves still later, the eruptions of
granite, on the contrary, belong (as metamorphic pro
ductions also assure us) to the epochs of the oldest sedi
mentary strata of the transition series.—Where know
ledge cannot take its rise from the immediate scrutiny of
the senses, it is fairly allowable, even on grounds of pure
induction, as also after a careful comparison of facts, to
advance a conjecture which restores to the olden granite a
portion of its threatened rights, and its distinction of pri-
mordiality.
The late advances of geology, the extended knowledge
of the geological epochs, which are characterised by the
mineralogical diversity of their rocks or mineral masses,
306 PAL.EOGEOGEAPHY.
by the peculiarities and succession of the organic remains
which they contain, by the position, the erection or
the undisturbed horizontal lie of the strata, all these con
siderations lead us, following the intimate causal connec
tion of phenomena, to the division, in respect of space, of
the solid and the fluid, of the continents and the seas
which constitute the surface of our planet. And here we
indicate a point of union between that which is historical
in geology with reference to the earth—cosmographical
geology, and geographical geology, or the general considera
tion of the form and partition of continents. The limi
tation of the Solid by the Fluid, and the relations in
respect of area between the one and the other, have been
very different at different times in the long succession of
geological epochs, according as the sedimentary car
boniferous strata were deposited horizontally on the
upright strata of mountain lime- and old red sand- stone ;
as lias and oolite were laid on banks of keuper and mus-
chelkalk ; and as chalk was accumulated on the acclivities of
the greensand and Jura limestone. If, with M. Elie de
Beaumont, we designate the waters under which the Jura
limestone and the chalk were precipitatedin the shape ofmud
or slime, as the Jurassic and cretaceous seas, then will the
contour of the two formations just mentioned give us the
boundary for two epochs, between the ocean still engaged
in forming rocks and the land already laid dry. The happy
idea has even been conceived of forming maps of these
physical elements of primeval geography ; and these maps
are perhaps more accurate than those which have been
composed in illustration of the wanderings of Io and the
Homeric narratives. The latter give graphic representa
PALEOGEOGRAPHY. 307
tions of opinions and mythical images ; the former exhibit
facts in the positive science of formation.
The result of investigations into the extent of exposed
area, or dry land, is this : that in the earliest times, in the
Silurian or Devonian transition epochs, as also in the
first floetz period, throughout its tripartite division, the
dry land, the surface occupied by land plants, was limited
to separate islands ; that these islands united at later
epochs, and inclosed numerous inland lakes by the sides
of deeply-indented bays of the sea ; that finally, when the
mountain chains of the Pyrenees and Apennines and Car
pathians arose—towards the time of the older tertiary
strata, therefore,—extensive continents, having almost the
dimensions of those of the present day, had appeared. In
the times of the Silurian world, as well as in the epoch of the
highest luxuriance of the Cyeadeae and gigantic Saurians,
the quantity of dry land from pole to pole might very
possibly have been even less than it is in the Pacific and
Indian Oceans at the present time. How this prepon
derating mass of water, in common with other causes,
conduced to elevation of temperature, and to greater
equality of climate, will be subject of consideration by and
by. Here it must only be farther remarked, in considering
the gradual augmentation (agglutination) of the uplifted
dry land, that shortly before the revolutions, which, after
shorter or longer pauses in the diluvial period, occasioned
the sudden extinction of so many gigantic vertebrate
animals, portions of the present continental masses were
still completely separate from one another. In South
America and the Australasian lands, there is a great pre
vailing resemblance between the existing animals and those
308 GENERAL PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY.
that have become extinct. In New Holland, the fossil
remains of kangaroos have been discovered, and in New
Zealand the semifossil bones of a gigantic struthious bird,
Owen's Dinornis, closely allied to the existing Apterix,
but having little affinity to the so lately extinguished
Dronte or Dodo of the island of Rodriguez.
The outline of former continents was perhaps indebted
in principal measure for its elevation above the surround
ing sea-level to the eruption of quartzose porphyry, an
event which so powerfully shook the first great vegetable
covering of the dry land, from which were derived the
materials of the coal measures. What we call plains or
flats (in continents), are no more than the broad backs of
hills and mountains whose feet are at the bottom of the sea.
Each plain, in its submarine relations, is, in fact, a lofty
plateau, or table land, whose inequalities have been con
cealed by new sedimentary depositions in horizontal beds,
as well as by alluviums spread over its surface by floods.
Among the general considerations which belong to a
Picture of Nature, the foremost place must be given to the
quantity of terra firma projecting, uplifting itself above
the level of the sea ; such a determination of continental
areas includes the consideration of their individual forms in
point of horizontal extension (segmentary relations), and
of perpendicular elevation (the hypsometrical relations of
mountain chains). Our planet has two coverings or en
velopes : one general, the Atmosphere, as elastic fluid, and
one particular, only locally distributed, bounding the solid,
and thereby giving it its figure, the Sea. These two cover
ings, the air and the ocean, form a natural whole which
GENERAL PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. 309
gives the surface of the earth its climate, diverse according
to the relative extent of the sea and of the land, of the
division and geographical position of the land, and of the
direction and elevation of its mountain chains.
From this knowledge of the reciprocal influences of the
air, ocean and land, it appears that great meteorological
phenomena, severed from geological considerations, cannot
he understood. Meteorology, like the geography of plants
and animals, first began to make some progress since ob
servers have become persuaded of the mutual interdepen
dence of the phenomena to be investigated. The word
Climate implies in the first instance a specific constitution
of the atmosphere ; but this constitution depends on the
ceaseless reciprocal influences exerted between an ever-
and deeply-agitated ocean, crossed in different directions
by currents of totally dissimilar temperatures, and the
heat-radiating dry land, variously partitioned, elevated,
coloured, naked or covered with lofty trees or lowly herbs.
In the present condition of the surface of our planet,
the area ofthe dry to that of the fluid is as 1 : 2-f ; according
to Rigaud (305), as 100 : 270. The islands form at present
scarcely i/»s of the continental masses. The latter are so
unequally divided, that in the northern hemisphere they
offer a three times greater extent of surface than they
do in the southern hemisphere. The southern hemisphere
is consequently most especially oceanic in its prevailing
character. From 40° S. latitude on towards the antarctic
pole, the crust of the earth is almost entirely covered with
water. Even as predominating, and only broken here and
there by insignificant clusters of islands, is the fluid ele
ment between the east coasts of the old and the west coasts
310 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY THE LAND.
of the new world. The learned hydrographer, Flenrieu, by
way of distinguishing this extensive sea basin from other
seas, has very well entitled it the Great Ocean. Within
the tropics it includes a breadth of as many as 145
degrees of longitude. The southern and western hemis
pheres, beginning the reckoning from the meridian of
Teneriffe, are thus the regions of the earth's surface that
most abound in water.
These are the principal points in the consideration of
the relative quantities of the land and sea, a relation which
exerts so vast an influence upon the distribution of tem
perature ; the variation of atmospheric pressure ; the direc
tion of winds, and the hygrometric state of the air which
particularly and so essentially determines the force of
vegetation. When we think that nearly three-fourths of
the surface of the earth are covered with water (306), we
are less astonished at the imperfect state of meteorology up
to the commencement of the present century,—an epoch
when a considerable mass of accurate observations on the
temperature of the sea, under different parallels of latitude
and at different seasons of the year, was first obtained
and numerically contrasted.
The horizontal figure of the land, in its most general
relations of extension, was already an object of ingenious
consideration at an early period in the history of the
Greek civilization. It was sought to ascertain the greatest
extension from east to west, and Dicearchus, according to
the testimony of Agathemerus, found this to lie in the
latitude of Rhodes in a direction from the Pillars of
Hercules to Thinae. This is the line which was called the
Parallel of the Diaphragm of Dicearchus, the astrono
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE LAND. 311
mical accuracy of whose position (which I have myself
examined in another place), must ever be the subject of
admiration (307) . Strabo, led apparently by Eratosthenes,
appears to have been so thoroughly persuaded that as
this parallel of 36°, the maximum extension of the
world, as known to him, was intimately connected with
the figure of the earth, that he fixes the place of the con
tinent which he prophesied must exist in the northern
hemisphere, between Iberia and the coast of Thinae, as
also falling under the same degree of latitude (308) .
If, as already remarked, considerably more land has been
raised above the level of the sea in the one hemisphere than in
the other,—and this is the case whether the globe be halved
in the line of the equator, or in that of the meridian ofTene-
riffe,—the two great masses of land, true islands surrounded
by the sea on every side, which we designate the Eastern
and Western continents, the Old and Now Worlds, beside
the most striking contrasts in configuration at large, or
rather in the position of their greater axes, still present
many points of resemblance in the details of their confi
guration, particularly in the extent and outline of their
opposite coasts. In the Eastern division, the prevailing
direction or position of the longer axis is from East to
West (more correctly, from South-West to North-East) ;
in the Western continent, however, it is meridional, or from
North to South (more accurately, from South-South-
East to Nor-Nor-West.) Both masses are cut off towards
the North in the line of the same parallel of latitude—
generally in that of 70° ; and to the South they both run
out into pyramidal points, which have mostly a submarine
extension in the shape of islands and shoals. This is
312 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY THE LAND.
proclaimed by the archipelago of Terra del Fuego ; the
Lagullas bank, to the south of the Cape of Good Hope,
and Van Diemen's Land, separated from New Holland by
the Bass Straits. The Northern Asiatic coast exceeds, or
runs up beyond the parallel of 70° mentioned above, about
Cape Taimura (78° 16' N. Lat. according to Kreusenstern),
whilst from about the embouchure of the great Tschou-
kotschja river eastward, in the direction of Behring's
Straits, the north-eastern promontories of Asia (Cook's
East-Cape) do not reach higher than 66° 3' according to
Beechey (309). The Northern shore of the New continent
follows the 70th parallel pretty closely ; as both south and
north of Barrow's Straits, from Boothia-felix and Victoria-
land, all the land consists only of detached islands.
The pyramidal figure of all the southern terminations
of continents belongs to the " Similitudines physicae in
configuratione mundi," to which Bacon had already
directed attention in the Novum Organum, and with
which Cook's companion in his second voyage round the
world, Reinhold Forster, has connected some very acute
and interesting considerations. Proceeding from the
meridian of the Island of Tenerifie eastward, we observe
the southern extremities of three great continents,
namely, ofAfrica (the extreme of the old world,) Australia,
and South America, approaching the south-pole succes
sively nearer and nearer. New Zealand, which is fully
twelve degrees of latitude in length, forms a very regular
intermediate member lying between Australia and South
America, and also ending with an island—New Leinster—
to the south. Another remarkable feature in the configura
tion of our present continents is this : that almost under the
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE LAND. 313
same meridians under which the most southern stretches
of the land are made, the northern coasts also shoot out
and reach the highest latitudes towards the arctic pole.
This appears on comparing the Cape of Good Hope
and the Lagullas-bank with the North Cape, and the
peninsula of Malacca with Cape Taimura in Siberia (310).
Whether the poles are girded with terra firma, or sur
rounded by an ocean covered with horizontal strata of ice
(consolidated water,) we know not. The North-pole has
been approached as high as 82° 55' N. Latitude ; the South-
pole not higher than 78° 1 0' S. Latitude.
In the same way as the great continental masses termi
nate pyramidally towards the south, the like configuration
is variously and almost everywhere repeated on a smaller
scale, not only in the great Indian Ocean (the peninsulas
of Arabia, Hindostan, and Malacca), but also, as ob
served by Eratosthenes and Polybius, in the Mediterra
nean, where the Iberian, Italian, and Hellenic peninsulas
present corresponding sensible configurations (311). Eu
rope, with an area of but one-fifth that of Asia, is in like
manner but a western, many-membered peninsula of the
Asiatic and almost undivided portion of the globe ; and
the climatic peculiarities of Europe also show that it
stands to Asia very much in the same relationship as the
peninsula of Brittany does to the rest of France (312).
The influence which the subdivisions of a continent, the
higher development of its form, exerts at once upon the
manners and whole civilization of a people, is obviously
particularly alluded to by Strabo (313), when he commends
the " greatly diversified form" of our small division of the
globe- as an especial advantage. Africa (3U) and South
VOL. i. p
314 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE LAND.
America, which in other respects exhibit such similarities
in their configuration, are those among the great masses
of land which have the simplest outlines of coast. It
is only the eastern sea-board of Asia, broken in upon by
the currents of the east sea (fractas ex aequore terras),
that shows variety and irregularity of outline(315). Penin
sulas and a succession of islands there alternate from the
equator to 60° of N. Latitude.
Our Atlantic Ocean bears every feature of a great
valley. It is as if floods had directed their shocks suc
cessively to the north-east, then to the north-west, and
then to the north-east again. The parallelism of the
opposite coasts northward from 10° of S. Latitude, their
advancing and retreating angles, the convexity of the
shores of Brazil opposite those of the Gulph of Guinea,
the convexity of Africa under the same parallels of lati
tude as the deep indentation formed by the Gulph of
Mexico, all vouch for this apparently bold view (316) . In
this Atlantic valley, as almost everywhere else in the con
figuration of great masses of land, indented and isle-
studded shore? stand opposite to unindented coasts. It is
long since I directed attention to the circumstance how
remarkable in a geological point of view was the compari
son of the west coasts of Africa and South America
within the tropics. The deep bay-like inward sweep of
the African coast by Fernando Po (4j° N. Lat.), is re
peated on the American continent under 18J° S. Lat. at
the tropical point near Arica, where (between the Valle
de Arica and the Morro de Juan Diaz) the Peruvian coast
suddenly changes its course from south to north into a
north-western direction. This change of direction extends
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY THE LAND. 315
in like measure to the lofty chain of the Andes, which here
proceeds in two parallel connected lines ; and not only to the
lofty plateaus near the coast (317), but also to the eastern
plains, the earliest seat of human civilization in the South
American continent, where the little Alpine lake of Titi-
caca is bounded by the colossal mountains, Sorata and
Illimani. Farther towards the south, from Valdivia and
Chiloe (40° to 42° S. Lat.), through the Archipelago de
los Chonos on to the Terra del Fuego, the curious Fiord-
formation, the complication of narrow, deeply-penetrating
bays or arms of the sea, is repeated, which, in the northern
hemisphere, we find characterising the west coasts of
Norway and of Scotland.
Such are the most general considerations that suggest
themselves on the configuration of continents (the exten
sion of the dry land in a horizontal direction), as a survey
of the surface of our planet offers them at the present
time. We have here placed facts in juxtaposition, analo
gies in form occurring in remote districts of the earth, which,
however, we do not venture to speak of as Laws of Form.
When on the flanks of a still active volcano, of Vesuvius
for example, we observe the not uncommon phenomenon
of partial upheavings of the soil, in which small portions
of the solid earth, either before or in the course of an
eruption, permanently change their level by several feet,
and rise in pent house-like ridges or flat elevations,
we perceive how it must depend on trifling accidents
of intensity in the force of subterraneous vapours, and
in the amount of resistance to be overcome, that the
upheaved parts assume this or that form and direction.
316 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE LAND.
Even so may slight disturbances of the equilibrium in
the interior of our planet have determined the upheaving
elastic forces to operate towards the Northern in a greater
degree than towards the Southern hemisphere ; to throw
up the Eastern hemisphere as a broad continuous mass
with its principal axis running nearly parallel to the
equator, the Western and more oceanic hemisphere, again,
as a narrower band, with its axis nearly in the plane of
the meridian.
On the eetiological connection of such grand incidents
in the production of the dry land, of similarity and contrast
in the configuration of continents, there is little to be
made out empirically. We only know one thing : that
the efficient cause is subterraneous ; that the present
fashion of continents and islands has not been obtained
at once ; but, as has been already observed, that from the
«poch of the Silurian formation (Neptunian separation),
on to that of the tertiary deposits, there have been many
alternate elevations and depressions of the surface, which,
on the whole, has gradually increased in extent, and, from
numerous smaller divisions, has coalesced into the larger
masses which we now behold. The present configuration
is the product of two causes, which exerted their influence
in succession, one after another: firstly, a subterraneous
manifestation of force, whose measure and direction we
call accidental, because we have no means of determining
them ; because, to our understanding, they are abstracted
from the circle of necessity; secondly, powers that are
efficient on the surface, among which, volcanic erup
tions, earthquakes, the upheaval of mountain chains,
and ocean currents, have played the principal part. How
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE LAND. 317
totally different would have been the state of the earth, in
reference to temperature, and, along with this, how dis
similar the state of vegetation, of agriculture, and of
human society, had the principal axis of the new con
tinent lain in the same direction as that of the old,—had
the Andes, instead of being uplifted in the plane of the
meridian, been raised from east to west,—had there been
no extensive tropical land radiating heat to the south of
Europe (Africa),—had the Mediterranean, which once
communicated and made one with the Caspian and Red
seas, and has proved so essential a means in promoting
the civilization of mankind, had no existence,—had its
bottom been raised to the same level as the plains of
Lombardy and Cyrene !
The alterations in the respective levels of the solid and
fluid portions of the earth's surface,—alterations which,
at one and the same time, determine the outlines of con
tinents, and leave dry or overflow districts of low-lying
land, are to be ascribed to a variety of causes operating at
different times. The most powerful have unquestionably -
been :—the force of elastic vapours, which the interior of
the earth encloses ; the sudden change of temperature of
great mountain chains (318) ; the unequal secular loss of
heat by the crust and core of the earth, which has occa
sioned the wrinklings or zigzag foldings conspicuous
on many occasions in the solid surface ; local modifi
cations of the force of gravitation (319), and, as a conse
quence of these, altered curvature of a portion of the fluid
element.
That the elevation of continents has been an actual,
not a seeming one only, attributable to the form of the
surface of the sea, appears to follow from views now
3 1 8 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE LAND.
adopted by geologists generally, and from the long obser
vation of connected facts, as well as from the analogy
of the more important volcanic phenomena. The merit
of this view also belongs to Leopold von Buch, who
announced it in the account of his remarkable travels
through Norway and Sweden, in the years 1806 and 1807,
when it was first introduced to science (320) . Whilst the
whole of the coasts of Sweden and Finland, from the.
Limits of north Scania (Solvitsborg), through Gene, to
Torneo, and from Torneo to Abo, is rising (the rise, in
the course of a century, amounts to four feet), south
Sweden, on the contrary, according to Nilson, is sink
ing (321) . The maximum of the upheaving power appears
to lie in north Lapland. The upheaval falls off gradually
towards the south as far as Calmar and Solvitsborg.
Lines of what were old sea-levels within historical times,
are indicated along the coasts of the whole of Norway,
from Cape Lindesnaes to the extreme north Cape, by beds
of shells of the present ocean (322) , and have lately been
- most accurately measured by Bravais, during the long
winter residence at Bosekop. These shores lie as many
as 600 feet above the present mean sea-level, and, ac
cording to Keilhau and Eugenius Robert, the same thing
extends nor-nor-west to the coasts of Spitzbergen, oppo
site the North-cape. Leopold von Buch, who was the
first to direct attention to the raised bed of shells near
Tromsoe (69° 40' N. Lat.), has, however, shown that the
old upheavals along the line of the North Sea belong to
another class of phenomena than the smooth and gradual
rising of the Swedish coasts of the Gulf of Bothnia. The
last phenomenon, vouched for by sure historical testi
mony, must not, therefore, be confounded with that
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE LAND. 319
alteration in the level of the surface which accompanies
earthquakes, as in the case of the coasts of Chili and of
Cutch. It has very recently given occasion to precisely
similar observations in other countries. To the rising
there occasionally corresponds, as a consequence of the
folding of strata, an obvious sinking, as in West-Green
land (according to Pingel and Graah), in Dalmatia and
in Scania.
If we regard it as extremely probable, that in the
earlier ages of our planet the oscillating movements of
the soil, the alternate elevations and depressions of the
surface, were greater than they are at present, we shall be
less surprised at finding single spots on the face of the
globe, in the interiors of continents, that he deeper than
the present uniform level of the ocean. Examples of
this kind are presented by the Natron lakes, described by
General Andreossy, the small bitter lakes of the Isthmus
of Suez, the Caspian sea, the sea of Tiberias, and, above
all, the Dead Sea (323). The level of the Sea of Tiberias
is 625 feet, and that of the Dead Sea no fewer than 1230
feetlower than that of the Mediterranean mirror. Could the
drift and alluvium that cover the rocky strata in so many
parts of the earth be all at once removed, it would then
be obvious how much of the rocky foundation lies actually
lower than the present sea-level. The periodical, although
irregular, alternate rise and fall in the waters of the Caspian
Sea, of which I have myself seen unquestionable traces in
the northern parts of this basin (324), appear, like the obser
vations of Darwin in the Coral Ocean (325), to proclaim,
that without any proper shock or concussion, the surface of
the earth is still susceptible of the same smooth and pro
320 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE LAND.
gressive undulations which in primeval times, and when
the thickness of the consolidated crust was much less
than it is at present, were much more general [and ex
tensive] than they are now.
The phenomena to which we here direct attention re
mind us of the instability of the present order of things,
in the changes which, at far distant intervals of time, the
outline and configuration of continents have in all proba
bility undergone. Incidents that are scarcely recognizable
to successive generations of men, accumulate in periods of
the length of which the movements of the heavenly bodies
supply the measure. In the course of 8000 years the east
coast of the Scandinavian peninsula has risen to the
extent perhaps of about 320 feet ; after the lapse of 12000,
if the motion prove continous and equable, parts of the
bottom of the ocean that lie near the peninsula, and at the
present day are covered with 100 feet of water, and more,
will have come to the surface, and begun to be laid dry.
But what is the brevity of these intervals compared with
the length of the geological periods, which the succession
of strata in the several formations, and the host of extinct
and totally different organisms which they inclose, reveal
to us! We have here considered the phenomenon of
upheavement only; but we can readily, resting on the
analogies of facts observed, in like measure figure to our
selves the possibility of the sinking or submersion of whole
districts of country. The mean height of the level, or
non-mountainous portions of France is not quite 480
feet. Contrasted with former geological periods, in which
more extensive changes went on in the interior of the
earth, we perceive that no very long period of time were
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE LAND. 32L
requisite to have considerable portions ofthe north-west of
Europe permanently overflowed, and presenting in its
sea-board a very different outline from that which now
distinguishes it.
Risings and fallings of the solid, or of the fluid—in their
several effects so evenly balanced that the rise of the one
occasions the seeming fall of the other—are the cause of
every change in the configuration of continents. In a
general Picture of Nature, in a liberal, not one-sided,
presentment of the phenomena of nature, the possibility at
least of a diminution in the mass of waters, of a true
sinking in the mean sea-level, must therefore be indicated.
That with the former high temperature of the surface of
the earth, with the greater water-engulphing fissuration of
its crust, with a totally different constitution of its sur
rounding atmosphere, great variations in the level of the
sea may have taken place in connection with the increase
or decrease of the liquid element, there is no room left for
doubt. In the actual condition of our planet, however,
we are totally without any direct evidence of an actual
progressive decrease or increase of the sea; we are also
without any proof of change in the mean height of the
barometer at the sea level of the same points of obser
vation. From Daussy's and Antonio Nobile's researches,
it appears that an increase in the height of the baro
meter would of itself be accompanied with a depres
sion of the sea-level. But as the mean pressure of
the atmosphere at the level of the sea, in consequence
of meteorological causes—direction of the wind, moist-
ness of the air—is not the same under every parallel
of latitude, the barometer of itself can supply no certain
P2
322 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE LAND.
evidence of change in the liquid level of our globe. The
remarkable phenomenon which was observed in the be
ginning of the present century, when several harbours of
the Mediterranean were repeatedly left completely dry for
many hours, appears to indicate that alterations in the
direction and strength of currents, without any actual
diminution in the quantity of water, without any general
depression of the level of the ocean, may give rise to local
recessions of its waters, and to permanent exposures of
small portions of its shores. From the knowledge lately
obtained of these complicated phenomena, it seems that
we must be particularly cautious in interpreting them, inas
much as effects may very readily be ascribed to one of the
" old elements," the water, which belong of right, and in
fact, to two others, the earth and the air.
As continents, which we have hitherto delineated in
their horizontal extension, by their configuration, by their
external distribution and their variously indented coasts,
exert a beneficial influence upon climate, commerce, and
the progress of civilization, so is there another kind of in
ternal subdivision effected by perpendicular elevations of
the surface—by mountain chains and lofty table lands—
which have consequences that are not less important. All
that occasions change, variety of form and feature, in the
surface of the planet—the dwelling-place of the human
family—besides mountain chains, great lakes, grassy
steppes, and even deserts surrounded by wooded regions
as by coasts, impresses a peculiar character on communi
ties. Lofty ridges covered with snow interrupt communi
cation, interfere with traffic ; but a mixture of less elevated
Imountain members lying apart (326), and of low lands, such
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY THE LAND. 323
as the West and South of Europe, present in such happy
interchange, occasion variety in the meteorological pro
cesses, as well as in the products of the vegetable king
dom; and further beget wants, as every district even
under the same degree of latitude then falls under the
dominion of a different kind of husbandry, the satisfaction
of which arouses the activity of the inhabitants. Thus
have the dreadful convulsions that have ensued upon
the reactions of the interior against the exterior, upon
Budden upheavals of portions of the oxidized crust of the
earth, upon the elevation of vast mountain chains, still
proved conducive, with tranquillity restored, with the
revival of the slumbering might of the organizing forces,
to cover the dry land of either half of the globe with
a beautiful abundance of individual forms, and to free at
least the greater portion of it from the blank of uni
formity which appears to cramp and impoverish both the
physical and the intellectual powers of man.
To each system (327) of these mountain chains there is,
according to the grand views of Elie de Beaumont, a
relative age to be assigned : the upheaval of the range
must necessarily fall between the times when the erupted
strata were deposited, and those in which the horizontal
beds, that stretch up to the very foot of the mountains,
were laid down. The furrowings of the crust of the
earth, in other words, the erections of strata which are of
like geological age, appear, moreover, to attach themselves
to one and the same direction. The line of strike, or
heaving of the strata, is not always parallel to the axis
of the chain, but sometimes cuts it through ; so that,
according to my views (328), the phenomenon of erection
of strata which is even found repeated in the neighbour
324 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE LAND.
ing level, must be older than the elevation of the chain.
The principal direction of the whole of the dry-land in
Europe (south-west to north-east) is opposed to the great
fissure or valley which runs from north-west to south-east,
from the mouths of the Rhine and the Elbe, through the
Adriatic and Red Sea, across the mountain system of
Puschti-Koh in Luristan, towards the Persian Gulph and
the Indian Ocean. Such a nearly rectangular intersec
tion of geodetical lines has exerted a vast influence on the
commercial relations of Europe with Asia and the north
west of Africa, as well as on the march of civilization
along the once more fortunate shores of the Mediter
ranean Sea(329).
If vast and lofty mountain chains appear to our imagi
nation as evidences of great revolutions undergone by
the surface of the earth, as boundaries of climates, as
dividers and determiners of the courses of rivers, as bearers
of another vegetable world, it is the more necessary, by
accurate numerical estimates of their volumes, to show how
insignificant on the whole is the quantity of the upheaved
masses in contrast with the areas of entire continents. The
mass of the Pyrenees, for example, a chain the mean height
of whose ridges, and the extent of surface of the base
which it covers, have been ascertained by accurate measure
ments, if distributed evenly over the area of Prance, would
raise the surface of that country by no more than about
108 feet. The mass of the eastern and western Alps, spread
in the same way over the area of Europe, would only raise
the land by about 20 feet. By a laborious calculation (330)
which from its nature can only give an extreme superior
limit, in other words, a number which may be less, but
cannot be greater than the truth, I have found that the
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE LAND. 325
centre of gravity of the volume of the countries which
in Europe and North America rise above the level of
the sea, lies at a height of 630 and 702 feet, and in
Asia and South America, at an elevation of 1062 and
1080 feet. These estimates show the slight elevation of
the northern regions: the vast steppes of the Siberian
levels are compensated by the enormous rise of the Asiatic
soil from 28J-0 to 40° N. Lat. between the Himalaya, the
north Thibetic Kuen-luen, and the Thianschan or Celestial
Mountains. We read, to a certain extent, in the numbers
found, where the Plutonic forces of the interior of the
earth have put forth their greatest strength in uplifting
continental masses.
There is nothing to assure us that these plutonic powers
may not in the course of future centuries add new mem
bers to the mountain systems of different ages and having
different directions, which have been enumerated by Elie de
Beaumont. Wherefore should the crust of the earth have
lost the property of folding on itself? Almost the last
of the mountain systems that appeared, the Alps and the
Andes, have reared colossuses in Mont-blanc and Monte
Bosa, in Sorata, Illimani and Chimborazo, that do not
allow us to infer any falling off in the intensity of the
subterranean forces. Geological phenomena of all kinds
indicate alternating periods of activity and repose (331).
The repose we now enjoy is only apparent. The shocks
which the surface experiences under every variety of
climate, and along with every description of rock, Sweden
rising in its level, and the appearance of new eruptive
islands, bear no testimony to quiescence in the internal
life of the globe.
326 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE OCEAN.
The two coverings of the solid crust of our planet,—
the liquid and the gaseous, the ocean and the atmosphere,
besides the contrasts which arise from the great diversities
in their states of aggregation and elasticity,—also present
numerous analogies by reason of the mobility of their
particles, of their currents, and their relations to tempera
ture. The depth of the sea and of the aerial ocean are
both of them unknown to us. In some places under the
tropics no bottom has been found to the sea with 25,300
feet of line (more than a [German] geographical mile) ; and
the atmosphere, supposing it, as Wollaston will have it,
to be limited and so subject to undulations, may be inferred,
from the phenomena of twilight, to have a nine-times
-greater profundity. The aerial ocean rests partly on the
solid earth, whose mountain chains and lofty table-lands,
as already said, rise up like green and wood-crowned
shoals ; partly on the ocean, whose surface forms the fluc
tuating bottom upon which the inferior denser and moister
strata repose.
From the limits of both the atmosphere and the ocean
upwards and downwards, the aerial and liquid strata are
alike subjected to certain laws of decrease of temperature.
In the atmosphere-this decrease is much slower than in
the ocean. Under every zone the tendency of the sea is
to preserve the temperature of its surface in equilibrium
Tvith that of the stratum of air which rests immediately
upon it, inasmuch as the chilled particles [supposing the
temperature of the air to be the lower] sink, [and the
warmer particles, vice versd, keep their place on the
surface]. A vast series of careful observations on tem
perature, teach us that in the usual and mean state of its
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY THE OCEAN. 827
surface, the ocean, from the equator to 48° of north and
south latitude, is somewhat warmer than the stratum of
air that rests immediately upon it(332). On account of
the decrement of temperature with the increasing depth,
fishes and the other inhabitants of the sea, which, by reason
perhaps of the nature of their branchial and cutaneous
respiratory systems, love deep water, are able to find the
lower temperatures, that agree particularly with them in
higher latitudes, under the temperate and colder zones.
This circumstance, analogous to the temperate, even to the
cold alpine atmospheres of the lofty plateaus of the torrid
zone, exerts an essential influence on the migrations and
geographical distribution of many marine animals. The
depths in which fishes live, by the increase of pressure
they occasion, modify in like measure the cutaneous respi
ration and the contents in oxygen and azote of the air in
the swimming bladder.
As fresh and salt water do not attain their maximum
density at the same temperature, and the saline contents
of the sea cause the thermometrical indication of greatest
density to descend, water was obtained from the abyss of the
ocean in the voyages of Kotzebue and Dupetit-Thouars,
which indicated the low degrees of 2-8° and 2-5° C. This
icy temperature of the water also prevails in the depths
of the tropical sea, and its discovery gave the first informa
tion of the existence of inferior polar currents, proceeding
from- either pole towards the equator. Without such under
sea currents, the abyss of the tropical ocean could only
have a temperature equal to the maximum of cold which
the particles of water descending locally from the surface
radiating heat, and cooled by the contact of the atmos
328 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE OCEAN.
phere, could acquire in a tropical region. In the Mediter
ranean Sea, as Arago acutely observes, a corresponding
great depression of temperature in the inferior strata is
only not observed, because the influx of the deep polar
stream by the Straits of Gibraltar, through which the
Atlantic is flowing from west to east, is encountered by
a westward under-current of the Mediterranean towards the
Atlantic.
The fluid-covering of our planet, equalizing and tem
pering climates in general, where it is not intersected by
pelagic currents of colder or warmer water, and far from
the coasts of tropical countries, particularly between 10°
north and 10° south latitude, may be said to exhibit a
truly wonderful equality and steadiness of temperature
over areas that are thousands of square miles in extent(333).
It has, therefore, been said with reason (334), that a long-
continued and careful investigation of the thermal rela
tions of the tropical seas would give us information in the
simplest manner on the grand and much discussed
problem of the constancy of climates, and of the tempera
ture of the earth. Great revolutions in the luminous
disc of the sun, were they of long continuance, would be
simultaneously reflected in the altered mean temperature
of the sea still more certainly than in the mean tempera
ture of the land.
The zones in which the maxima of density (saline con
tents) and temperature lie, do not coincide with the
equator. The two maxima are distinct from one another,
and the warmest water appears to form two not completely
parallel bands to the north and south of the geopraphical
equator. The maximum of saline contents was found by
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE OCEAN. 829
Lenz, in his voyage round the world, in the Pacific, in the
two parallels of 22° north and 1 7° south latitude. The
zone of least density, again, was found to lie a few
degrees to the south of the line. In the region of the
Calms, . the heat of the sun cannot occasion any great
amount of evaporation, because a stratum of air saturated
with saline vapour there sleeps unmoved and unrenewed
upon the surface of the ocean.
The surface of all the seas that communicate one with
another, must be regarded as generally perfectly equal in
respect of mean elevation. Local causes, mostly prevail
ing winds and currents, have, however, in particular ex
tensively land-locked seas—the Eed Sea, for example, pro
duced permanent, though still inconsiderable differences
of level. At the isthmus of Suez the level of the Red
Sea, is from 24 to 36 feet above that of the Mediterranean
at different hours of the day. The form of the canal,
(the Straits of Babelmandel), by which the Indian Ocean
communicates with the Red Sea being such, that the waters
find a readier access than outlet, appears to assist in pro
ducing this remarkable permanent superior elevation of
the surface of the Red Sea, which was already known to
the Ancients (335). The admirable geodetical operations
of Ooraboeuf and Delcros along the chain of the Pyrenees,
have shown that there is no appreciable difference in the
surface of equilibrium, in the sea-level, on the north coast
of Holland and at Marseilles, of the ocean and the Medi
terranean (336).
Disturbances of the Equilibrium and motions of the
mass of waters consequent on these, sometimes irregular
and transient, depending on winds and producing Waves
330 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE OCEAN:
which in the open ocean and far from land mount during
a storm to a height of 35 feet and more; in other in
stances, regular and periodical, occasioned by the position
;and attraction of the sun and moon— the Tides ; in still
other instances, permanent, but of unequal foroe, as
Oceanic currents. The phenomena of ebb and flow, which
extend over every sea with the exception of those that are
very small and much land-locked, in which the tidal wave
is either little or not at all observable, are completely ex
plained by the Newtonian natural philosophy, *. e. re:
ferred to the circle of necessary effects. Each of these
periodically recurring oscillations of the ocean, is some
what longer than half a day. In the open ocean they
scarcely rise to the extent of a few feet ; but in consequence
of the position and configuration of coasts and estuaries
which meet the coming tidal wave they rise in some places
to extraordinary heights,—in St. Malo to 50 feet, and in
Acadia, Nova-Scotia, to from 65 to 70 feet. " Under the
supposition that the depth of the ocean is inconsiderable
when contrasted with the semi-diameter of the earth, the
analysis of the great geometrician Laplace has shown how
the stability in the equilibrium of the ocean requires that
the density of its fluid should be less than the mean den
sity of the earth." And indeed, as we have seen above,
the density of the earth is five-times greater than that of
water. The high lands of the earth, therefore, can never
be overflowed, and the remains of marine animals found
on mountains can by no means have been brought into
such situations by former floods or deluges produced by
the position of the sun and moon (337) . It is no trifling
tribute to analysis, which in the unscientific circles of
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE OCEAN. 331
society is presumptuously held so cheap, that Laplace's
perfected Theory of the Tides has made it possible to pre
dict in our astronomical ephemerides or nautical alma
nacks, the height of the spring-tide to be expected at each
new and full moon, and so to forewarn the inhabitants of
the coasts of the increased danger with which they are
threatened at these seasons, particularly when the moon
is in her perigee.
Oceanic currents, which exercise so considerable an in
fluence on the intercourse of nations and on the climatic
relations of coasts, are almost simultaneously dependent
on a multitude of very dissimilar, now greater, now appa
rently more insignificant causes. To the number of these
belong : the progressive time of appearance of the ebb and
flow of the tidal wave in its course round the world ; the
duration and force of prevailing winds ; the density and
specific gravity of the watery particles modified under dif
ferent parallels of latitude by their temperature and saline
impregnations (338); the horary variations of the atmos
pheric pressure, which proceed successively from east to
west with such regularity within the tropics. The cur
rents of the ocean present this remarkable spectacle : that
they cross it of definite breadths in different directions, in
the manner of rivers, neighbouring unmoved watery strata,
forming the banks, as it were, of these streams. This
distinction between the portion which is moved and that
which is at rest, is most remarkable where large quantities
of sea-weed carried along with the current permit us to
estimate its velocity. We occasionally observe similar
phenomena of limited currents in the inferior strata of the
atmosphere: after tempests that have swept over dense
332 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE OCEAN.
forests, it sometimes happens that the trees are only found
shattered and blown down in the course of narrow strips.
The general motion of the sea between the tropics from
east to west, entitled the equatorial current, is regarded as
a consequence of the advancing times of the tides and of
the trade winds. It alters its direction in consequence of
the resistance of the east coasts of the continents which
it encounters in its progress. The new results which
Daussy has obtained from the motion of bottles thrown
out on purpose by navigators, (10 French sea miles, of
925 toises each, every 24 hours) agrees to within '/, 8th
of the velocity which I had ascertained from a comparison
of earlier data (339). In the log-book of his third voyage,
(the first in which he sought to make the tropics in the
meridian of the Canaries), Christopher Columbus says:
" I hold it as certain that the waters of the sea move with
the heavens, (las aguas van con los cielos) ", that is to
say, from east to west, like the apparent motion of the
sun, moon, and stars (340).
The narrow currents, true oceanic rivers, which take
their way through the sea, run warmer water in higher,
colder water in lower latitudes. To the first class belongs
the celebrated Gulf-stream (341), which was known to
Anghiera (34J) and particularly to Sir Humfrey Gilbert
in the 16th century. The commencement and first im
pulse of this mighty current is to be sought for southward
from the Cape of Good Hope, and it debouches from the
Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico, through the
Straits of Bahama ; running from south-south-west to
north-north-east, getting farther and farther from the
shores of the United States of America, it turns off -
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE OCEAN. 333
eastward by the banks of Newfoundland, crosses the
Atlantic, and frequently throws the seeds of tropical
plants (Mimosa scandens, Guilandina bonduc, Doli-
ohos urens), upon the coasts of Ireland, the Hebrides
and Norway. The north-eastern prolongation of the
gulf-stream contributes to moderate the cold of the
sea-water and also of the climate about the north Cape
of Scandinavia. The warm gulf-stream, after it has
turned eastward from the banks of Newfoundland, at
no great distance from the Azores, sends off a branch
to the south, and it is here that the Sargasso-sea, as it
has been called, the great bank of sea-weed, is met with,
which made so lively an impression on the imagination of
Columbus, and which Oviedo called the sea-weed meadow
(Praderias de Yerva). A host of small marine animals
inhabit this ever-verdant mass of Fueus natans, one of
the most widely diffused of the social plants of the ocean,
which is constantly drifted hither and thither by the tepid
winds that blow across its surface.
In contrast to the Gulf-stream which belongs almost
exclusively to the northern hemisphere of the Atlantic
valley, and runs between America, and Europe and Africa,
is the great current of the Pacific Ocean, the inferior tem
perature of whose waters has an appreciable influence on
the climate of the sea-boards along which it sweeps, as I
first observed in the autumn of 1802. This current, in fact,
brings the colder water of high southern latitudes to the
coast of Chili, runs along the shores of this country and
those of Peru, first from south to north, and then (from
the bay of Arica) from south-south-east to nor.-nor.-west.
In the middle of the tropics at certain seasons of the year
334 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE OCEAN.
the water of this cold ocean stream is not higher than
15°. 6 C. (60° OF.), whilst the motionless water beyond its
limits, is as high as from 27°. 5 to 28°. 7 C. (81°. 5 to 84°. 6
F.). Where the sea-board of South America, southward
from Payta, advances farthest to the west, the stream
turns suddenly in the same direction from off the land, and
takes a course from east to west; so that he who sails
northward [by crossing the stream] comes suddenly from
a colder to a warmer sea.
It is not known to what depth the oceanic currents,
whether hot or cold, extend, how near they run to the bot
tom. The deviation of the South African current produced
by the Lagullas bank, where the water is full 70 or 80
fathoms deep, appears to indicate a considerable extension
in depth. Sand-banks and shoals outside the streams are
mostly recognizable, as the excellent Benjamin Franklin
discovered, by the coldness of the water over them. This
depression of temperature appears to me to he connected
with the circumstance, that with the communication of
motion to the neighbouring ocean, deep cold water is
made to rise over the edges of the banks and to mix with
the upper warmer water. My immortal friend, Sir Hum
phry Davy, on the other hand, ascribed the phenomenon,
from which the seaman can frequently draw practical in
ferences conducive to his safety, to the descent of the
superficial strata of water cooled in the course of the
night: these remain nearer the surface, because the
shoal prevents them from sinking to a greater depth.
The thermometer was turned by Franklin into a plumb-
line; fogs are frequent upon banks and shoals: their
colder water causes precipitation of the vapour that is ,
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY THE OCEAN. 335
dissolved in the sea air. I have observed such fogs
to the south of Jamaica, and also in the Pacific, indicating
the outline of shoals sharply and quite distinctly from
a distance. They present themselves to the eye like air-
pictures, in which the fashion of the sub-maritime bottom
is reflected. A still more remarkable influence of these
cold shallows is this, that they produce an obvious effect
upon the superior strata of the atmosphere, almost in the
same way as low coral or sandy islands. Far from all
land, in the high seas, when the air is elsewhere quite
clear, clouds are frequently seen hovering over the spots
where shoals occur. In Such cases their bearings can be
taken by the compass, precisely as if they were lofty
mountains or isolated peaks.
Without the variety of external forms that characterize
the surface of continents, the ocean when its interior is
narrowly scanned, presents a greater mass of organic life
than is perhaps to be found collected together in any other
portion of the earth's surface. Charles Darwin observes
with justice, in the interesting Journal of his extensive sea
voyage, that our woods on shore do not harbour so many
animals as the woody regions of the ocean, where the sea
weed groves, rooted to the bottom of the shallows, or the
fuci detached by waves and currents, supported by air-
cells and swimming free, unfold their delicate arms and
branches. The use of the microscope increases still farther,
and in the most remarkable manner, the impression of the
universal life of the ocean, the astounding assuranoe
that here sensibility is everywhere diffused and active.
In depths that surpass the height of our most lofty moun
336 PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY—THE OCEAN.
tains, every one of the several superposed strata of waters,
is animated with its own Polygastric worms, Cyclidia,
and Ophrydia. Here swarm, turning each wave into
luminous foam, and attracted to the surface by parti
cular weather-influences, the innumerable host of small
light-flashing Mammaria from the Orders of the Aca-
lephee, Crustacea, Peridinia, and Nereides moving in
circles.
The abundance of these small animals, and of the
animal matter which their rapid destruction supplies, is so
immeasurable, that the sea-water at large becomes a
nutritious fluid for much larger creatures. If this exu
berance of living forms, these myriads of dissimilar
microscopical, and yet in part extremely perfect organisms,
engage and pleasantly excite the fancy, this is appealed
to in a more earnest, I might say a more solemn manner,
by the sense of the Limitless and the Immeasurable,
which every sea-voyage presents to our contemplation.
He who is awakened to spiritual self-activity, and who
delights to build up a world within himself, fills the am
phitheatre of the boundless ocean with the lofty image
of the Infinite and the Endless. His eye is fixed espe
cially by the far horizon, where indefinitely and as in
mist, the ocean and the air meet bounding one another,
in which the stars set and rise anew before the eyes of the
beholder. But still, with the eternal play of this inter
changing scene, as everywhere else with human happi
ness, there comes the breath of sadness, of ungratified
longing, to mix itself with the joy.
A peculiar predilection for the sea, grateful remem
brances of the impressions which the mobile element
THE ATMOSPHERE. 337
between the tropics, in the peace and silence ofthe night, or
roused and at war with the natural forces, has left upon my
mind, could alone have induced me to speak of the indi
vidual enjoyment of the prospect, before referring to the
beneficial influence which contact with the ocean has had
on the development of the intelligence and character of
various nations ; on the multiplication by its means of the
bonds that ought to embrace the whole of the human
family ; on the possibility it has afforded of attaining to
a knowledge of the configuration of the earth and its
parts ; lastly, on the improvement it has led to in astro
nomy, and in the mathematical and natural sciences at
large. A portion of this influence was originally confined
to the waters and the shores of the south-western parts of
Asia; but from the 16th century onwards it has extended
far and wide, and even attained to nations that live in the in
terior ofcontinents remote from the sea. Since Christopher
Columbus was " sent forth to unchain the ocean" (344),
(for so was he addressed in a dream by an unknown voice
whilst he lay on a sick-bed by the river Belem), man, too,
mentally more free, has ventured with greater boldness
into unknown regions.
The second and most external and universally diffused of
the coverings of our globe, the Atmosphere, on whose
depths, or shoals, which are lofty table lands and moun
tains, we live, presents six classes of natural phenomena,
connected in the most intimate manner with one another ;
these are : chemical composition ; alterations in the trans
parency, polarization, and colour ; in the density or
pressure ; in the temperature, humidity, and electricity.
VOL. I. Q
338 THE ATMOSPHERE.
If in its oxygen the air contains the first element
of physical animal life, another excellence, it might
almost be said of a higher order, must he indicated
in its constitution. The air is the " carrier of sound,"
and so also the bearer of speech, the means of commu
nicating ideas, of maintaining social intercourse among
men. The earth, robbed of its atmosphere, like the moon,
presents itself to the imagination as a desert brooded over
by silence.
The relations ofthe substances which belong to the strata
of the atmosphere that are accessible to us, have, since the
beginning of the 19th century, been made the object of re
searches, in which Gay-Lussac and I took an active part ;
it is but very recently, however, through the admirable
labours ofDumas and Boussingault, that the chemical ana
lysis of the atmosphere, pursued in new and trustworthy
ways, has been advanced to a high degree of perfection.
From this analysis dry air appears to contain per volume
28-8 oxygen, and 79 2 azote ; besides from 2 to 5 ten-
thousands of carbonic acid, a still smaller quantity of car-
buretted hydrogen(345), and, from the important experiments
of Saussure and Liebig, traces of ammoniacal vapours (346),
which may supply plants with their azotized constituents.
That the quantity of oxygen may vary in a trifling but
still appreciable degree according to season, situation of a
place—upon the sea or in the interior of a continent—has
been rendered probable by some observations of Lewy.
It is conceivable that changes in the quantity of oxygen
held in solution by water, induced by microscopical
animal organisms, may be followed by changes in the
strata of air that lie in immediate contact with its surface
THE ATMOSPHERE. 339
(347), The air collected by Martins on the Faulhorn at a
height of 8226 feet, did not contain more oxygen than
the air of Paris (348) .
The admixture of carbonate of ammonia in the atmos
phere, may probably be held as older than the existence
of organic beings on the surface of the earth. The
sources of the carbonic acid of the atmosphere are ex
tremely numerous (348) . We may here mention the respi
ration of animals, which receive the carbon they exhale
from the vegetable food they consume, as vegetables
themselves derive it from the atmosphere ; the interior of
the earth in the country of extinct volcanoes and ther
mal springs ; the decomposition of the slight admixture of
carburetted hydrogen contained in the atmosphere, by the
electrical discharges of the clouds, so frequent in intertro
pical countries.
Besides the substances which have just been mentioned,
and which may be held proper to the atmosphere under all
circumstances and in all situations, there are other acci
dental matters associated with it, which occur especially
near the ground, and of which several, designated miasms
and contagions, affect the animal system prejudicially.
The chemical nature of these substances has not yet been
made known by any immediate analysis ; but, consider
ing the putrefactive processes which proceed incessantly on
tho surface of our planet, covered as it is with animal
and vegetable matters, and led as well by combinations
and analogies derived from the domain of pathology, we
may fairly conclude on the existence of such injurious
local admixtures. Ammoniacal and other azotized
vapours, sulphuretted hydrogen, combinations, indeed,
340 THE ATMOSPHERE.
resembling the multibasic, (ternary and quarternary),
compounds of the vegetable kingdom (350), may form
miasmata, which, in a variety of shapes, and by no means
only on naked swampy bottoms, or on sea-coasts strewed
with putrifying molluscs, or covered with under-growths
of mangrove (Rhizophora), and Avicenniae, may produce
fevers of aguish or typhoid types. Fogs which diffuse a
peculiar smell, remind us at certain seasons of the year
of such accidental contaminations of the lower strata of
the atmosphere. Winds and ascending currents of air
occasioned by the heating of the surface, raise even solid,
though of course finely pulverised substances, to con
siderable heights. The dust, which makes the air
misty over a great area, and falls about the Cape de
Verd Islands, to which Darwin has so properly di
rected attention, is found from Ehrenberg's observa
tions to contain an infinity of silicious shelled infusory
animalcules.
As principal features in a general physical picture of the
atmosphere, we may distinguish,—1 st. In the variations of
the air's pressure : the regular, and between the tropics, so
readily appreciable hourly oscillations, a kind of ebb and
flow of the atmosphere, which cannot be ascribed to the
attraction of the mass of the moon (361), and which is so
different according to the latitude, the season of the year,
and the height of the place of observation above the level of
the sea. 2d. In the climatic distribution of heat : the
influence of the relative position of the transparent and
opaque masses—the fluid and solid superficial areas, as well
as of the hypsometrical or perpendicular configuration of
continents, relations which determine the geographical
THE ATMOSPHERE—PRESSURE. 341
position and curvature of the isothermal lines* in the hori
zontal or vertical direction, in the ground-plane, or in the
aerial strata lying one above another. 3d. In the
distribution of the moisture of the atmosphere : the con
sideration of the quantitative relations according to
diversity in the solid and oceanic surfaces, distance from
the equator, and height above the level of the sea ; the
forms inwhich precipitation ofthe watery vapour takes place,
and the connection of this precipitation with the changes of
temperature, and the direction as well as the succession of
the winds. 4th. In the relations of the aerial electricity,
whose primary source, when the air is serene, is still much
disputed : the relation of ascending vapours to the elec
trical charge and the fashion of clouds according to
the time of the day and the season of the year, the
colder or hotter zones of the earth, the lower- or higher-
lying plains; the frequency and rarity of storms; their
periodicity and occurrence in summer and winter ; the
causal connection of electricity with the extremely rare
occurrence of hail-showers by night, as also with water
spouts and sand-spouts, which have been so ably investi
gated by Peltier.
The horary variations of the barometer, in which
within the tropics the instrument is twice in the course
of the day at its highest, viz. at 9 or 9J A. M. and 10 or
lOf p. m., and twice at its lowest, viz. at 4 or 4j p. M.
and 4 a.m., nearly the hottest and coldest hours in the round
of the twenty four, consequently, long formed the subject of
my most careful daily and nightly observations (352) . The
* Lines of equal mean temperature.
342 THE ATMOSPHERE PRESSURE.
regularity of these is so great, that the time, especially in
the day, may be ascertained by the height of the column
of mercury, without an error on the average of more
than from fifteen to seventeen minutes. In the torrid zone
of the new continent, on the coasts as well as on heights
of more than 12000 feet above the level of the sea, where
the mean temperature falls to 7° C. (43°-8 F.), I have
not found the regularity of this ebb and flow of the
atmosphere to be disturbed either by tempests of thunder
or of wind, by rain or by earthquakes. The amount of
the daily fluctuation diminishes from the equator on to
70° N. Latitude (a parallel under which we possess very
accurate observations made byBravais atBosekop (353), )
from 1 -32 line, to 0"18 line. That, much nearer the pole,
the mean height of the barometer is actually less at 10
a. m. than at 4 p. M., so that the times of the maxima
and minima, are severally interchanged, is by no means
to be concluded from Parry's observations at Bowen
Harbour (73° 14' N. Latitude).
The mean height of the barometer, by reason of the
ascending current of air, is somewhat less under the
equator, and especially under the tropics, than in the
temperate zone (354) ; it appears to attain its maximum, in
the West of Europe, in the parallels of 40° and 45°. If,
withKaemtz, we connectthoseplaceswhich present the same
mean differences in their monthly barometrical extremes by
isobarometrical lines, curves are engendered, the geogra-
graphical position and direction of which yield us impor
tant conclusions in regard to the influence of the configu
ration of continents, and the expanse of seas, upon the
oscillations of the atmosphere. Hindostan, with its lofty
THE ATMOSPHERE—PRESSURE. 343
mountain ranges and triangular-shaped peninsula, the East
coasts of the New Continent, at the point where the warm
gulf-stream turns eastward by Newfoundland, show greater
isobarometrical fluctuations than the West India Islands,
and the Western parts of Europe. Prevailing winds exert
the most especial influence on the diminution of the
the atmospheric pressure, and with this, according to
Daussy, as we have already observed, the moan height of
the sea is increased (366) .
As the whole of the most important variations in the
weight or pressure of the atmosphere—whether they occur
regularly at certain hours and seasons, or are accidental
and excessive, when they are often accompanied with
danger (356),—like all the rest of what are called weather
phenomena, have their principal cause in the heating
power of the sun's rays ; so the directions of the wind
(partly on Lambert's proposition) were at an early period
compared with the state of the barometer, with variations
in temperature, and with differences in the hygrometric state
ofthe atmosphere. Tables of the pressure ofthe atmosphere
along with particular winds, designated by the title of
barometrical wind-cards, have given a deep insight into the
connection of meteorological phenomena (357) . With
wonderful acumen, Dove perceived, in the laws of the
rotation of the winds of both hemispheres, which he dis
covered, the cause of many grand variations (processes) in
the atmospheric ocean (358) . The thermal difference be
tween countries lying near the equator and those situated
near the pole, engenders two opposite currents in the
upper regions of the atmosphere and on the surface of the
earth. In consequence of the diversity of the rotatory
344 THE ATM08PHERE.
velocity in the parts lying nearer the pole, or nearer the
equator, the air which is streaming from the pole acquires
an eastern, that which is pouring along from the equator
a western direction. From the struggle between these
-two currents, the place of descent of the higher, the alter
nating displacements of the one by the other, depend the
most important phenomena of atmospheric pressure, of
the heating and cooling of the aerial strata, of the precipi
tation of moisture, and, indeed, as Dove has correctly
shown, of the formation of clouds and their configuration.
The forms of clouds, those all-enlivening ornaments of the
landscape, are faithful indications of what is going on in
the upper regions of the air ; and in calms, and floating
in the warm summer's sky, they are also the " projected
image" of the heat-radiating surface of the ground.
Where the influence ofthe radiation ofheat is conditional
on the relative position of great continental and oceanic sur
faces, as betwixt the East coast of Africa and the West coast
of the peninsula of Hindostan, regular periodical changes
in the direction of the winds accompany the changes in the
declination of the sun, and constitute the Indian Mon
soons (359), the Hippalos of the Greek navigators. These
winds must have been amongst the earliest regular winds
recognised and taken advantage of by mankind. In this
knowledge of the monsoons, which has certainly been
spread over China and Hindostan, the Eastern, Arabian,
and Western Malayan Seas, for thousands of years, as
well as in the still older and more generally diffused ob
servation of the sea and land breeze, lies the hidden germ
of the fast advancing meteorological science of the present
day. The long series of magnetic stations which have
THE ATMOSPHERE—CLIMATE. 345
now been established from Moscow to Pekin, through the
whole of Northern Asia, as they have it also in charge to
observe meteorological phenomena in general, will soon
become of great importance in establishing the Law of
the Winds. The comparison of observations made
simultaneously at places many hundreds of miles apart
will determine whether or not the same east wind blows
from the barren table-lands of Gobi to the interior of
Russia, or whether, and at what point in the line of sta
tions, the direction of the current becomes changed through
a descent of air from the higher regions. We shall then,
in the true sense of the phrase, learn " whence the wind
cometh." If we would base the required result on ob
servations continued for not fewer than twenty years,
Mahlman's careful notifications assure us that in the
middle latitudes of the temperate zone in both continents
the west-south-west is the prevailing wind.
Our knowledge of the distribution of heat in the
atmosphere, has gained, in some respects, in clearness,
since attempts have been made to connect the points that
indicate the mean temperature of the year, of the summer
and of the winter, by different orders of lines. The system
ofIsothermal, Isotheral, and Isochimenal lines, which I first
proposed in 1817, may, perhaps, when it has been gradu
ally perfected by the united efforts of natural philosophers,
be found to supply a general and grand basis for a com
parative Climatology. Terrestrial magnetism first acquired
a scientific shape when scattered partial results were con
nected graphically with one another by lines of equal
variation, of equal dip, and of equal intensity.
The expression Climate, in its most general acceptation,
Q2
346 THE ATMOSPHERE CLIMATE.
indicates every change in the atmosphere which sensibly
affects our organs—temperature, humidity, alteration of
barometrical pressure ; calms or storms of wind from
various quarters ; amount of electrical tension ; purity of
atmosphere, or its contamination with gaseous exhalations
more or less pernicious ; finally, degree of habitual trans
parency and serenity of the sky, which is not merely im
portant in connection with the amount of radiation from
the ground, the organic evolution of plants, and the
•ripening of fruits, but also with the feelings and whole men
tal estate of mankind.
Were the surface of the earth composed of one and the
same homogeneous fluid mass, or of rocky strata of like
colour, like density, like smoothness, like capacity of
absorption for the sun's rays, and like power of radiation
into planetary space, then would the Isothermal, Isotheral,
and Isochimenal lines run parallel to one another, and to
the Equator. In such an hypothetical condition of the
earth's surface, the power of absorbing and of emitting
light and heat would be the same in the same parallel of
latitude all round the globe. And it is, in fact, from such
a mean, and, as it were, primary condition, which neither
excludes the transmission of heat to the interior of
the earth, nor towards the atmosphere involving it, nor
the communication of heat by currents of air, that the
mathematical consideration of climates sets out. All
that alters the absorbing and radiating powers of the sur
face in particular parts lying in the same parallels of
latitude, produces inflections in the Isothermal lines.
The nature of these inflections, the angle under which
the isothermal, isotheral, and isochimenal lines cut the
THE ATMOSPHERE—CLIMATE. 347
parallel circles, the portion of the convexities or concavities
of these lines in respect of the pole of the corresponding
hemisphere, are the effects of calorific or frigorific causes
which show themselves possessed of more or of less power
under different geographical longitudes.
The progress of Climatology has heen favoured in a
remarkable manner by the spread of European civilization
from two opposite sea-boards, by its extension from our
Western European coast to an Eastern coast on the other side
of the great Atlantic valley. When the British, after the
temporary establishments which had proceeded from Ice
land and Greenland, had founded the first permanent
colonies on the shores of the United States of America,
where religious persecution, fanaticism, and love offreedom,
soon swelled the ranks of the settlers, the bold adventurers
must have been amazed at the severity of the winters
which they encountered, from North Carolina and Virginia
to the River St Lawrence, in comparison with those which
prevail under corresponding parallels of latitude in Italy,
France, and Great Britain. Such climatic observations,
however exciting they must have been, still only bore fruits
when they could be based on numerical results of mean
annual temperatures. If, between the parallels of 58° and
30° N. Lat., we compare Nain, on the coast of Labrador,
with Gottenburg, Halifax with Bordeaux, New York with
Naples, St. Augustin in Florida with Cairo, we find the diffe
rences in mean annual temperature between the East of
America and the West of Europe, under similar parallels of
latitude, progressing from north to south, from ll0-5, 7°-7
and 3°,8 to almost 0 Cent. The gradual decrease of diffe
rence in the above series, through 28 degrees of latitude, is
348 THE ATMOSPHERE—CLIMATE.
very remarkable. Still farther to the south, and within
the tropics, the isothermal lines in almost every part of
both divisions of the globe run parallel with the equator.
From the examples here given, it is obvious that the
questions we hear so constantly repeated in our social
circles, as to how many degrees America—and without
any distinction of East or West coast — is colder than
Europe? and how many degrees the mean annual
temperature in Canada and the United States of America
is lower than under corresponding parallels of latitude
in Europe ? when taken as general expressions, are
totally without meaning. The difference under each par
ticular parallel is different from what it is under every other
parallel; and without special comparisons of the winter
and summer temperatures of the opposite coasts, no right
conception can be formed of the several particular climatic
relations in so far as they influence agriculture, trade, and
the feelings of comfort and convenience; or the contrary.
In enumerating the causes that may produce disturbances
in the form ofthe isothermal lines, I distinguish the causes
tending to exalt, and the causes tending to depress tem
perature. To the first class belong : the vicinity of a west
coast in the temperate zone ; the configuration of a con
tinent cut up into numerous peninsulas ; deep bays, and
far-penetrating arms of the sea ; the right position of a
portion of the dry land—i. e. its relations either to an
ocean free from ice which extends beyond the polar circle,
or to another continent of considerable extent which lies
between the same meridional lines under the equator, or, at
all events, in part within the tropics ; farther, the preva
lence of southerly and westerly winds on the western
THE ATMOSPHERE—CLIMATE. 349
confines of a continent in the northern temperate zone ;
mountain chains, which serve as screens against winds
from colder countries ; the rarity of swamps, which con
tinue covered with ice through the spring, and even some
way into summer ; the absence of forests on a dry sandy
soil ; finally, the constant serenity of the heavens in the
summer months, and the neighbourhood of a pelagic stream
of running water of a higher temperature than that of the
surrounding sea.
To the second class of causes, or those that tend to
depress the mean annual temperature by exciting cold, I
enumerate : the elevation of a place above the sea level,
without anything like remarkable elevated plains surround
ing it ; the vicinity of an eastern coast in high and middle
latitudes ; the massive or unbroken outline of a continent
without indentation of its coasts and deep sea bays ; the
wide extension of the land towards the poles up to the region
of eternal ice (without the intervention of a sea open in
winter) ; a geographical position in longitude of such a
kind that the equatorial and tropical regions belong to the
ocean,—in other words, the absence of a heating, radiating
tropical country between the same meridian lines as the
country whose climate is to be determined; mountain
chains whose form and direction are such that they prevent
the access of warmer winds; or the neighbourhood of
isolated summits down whose slopes cold currents of air
descend ; extensive forests, which hinder the sun's rays
from reaching the ground, whose appendicular organs (the
leaves), by their vital activity, throw off large quantities
of watery vapour, and vastly increase the amount of
radiating or cooling superficial surface, and so act in a
threefold manner—by shading, by evaporating, and by
350 THE ATMOSPHERE—CLIMATE.
radiating; great swamps, which, up to the middle of
summer, iu the north, form a kind of subterraneous glacier
in the flats ; a misty or overcast summer sky, which
diminishes the effect of the sun's rays by intercepting them
in their passage to the earth ; finally, a very clear winter's
sky, by which radiation is favoured (360).
The simultaneous activity of disturbing, whether heat
ing or cooling causes, determines as a total effect the in
flexions of the isothermal lines projected upon the surface
of the earth, their course being especially influenced by
the relations of extent and configuration between the
opaque continental and the fluid oceanic masses. The per-
turbating causes engender convex or concave summits
of the isothermalcurves. But there are disturbing causes of
different orders, each of which must first be separately
considered ; subsequently, in order to ascertain the whole
effect upon the motion (direction or local curving) of the
isothermal lines, it must be discovered which of the
several influences in their combinations modify, annul, or
strengthen each other, as happens in the case of other
small oscillations that meet and intersect each other.
Such is the spirit of the method, by which I flatter myself
it will one day become possible to connect immeasurable
series of apparently isolated facts with one another, by
empirical numerically expressed laws, and to demonstrate
the necessity of their mutual dependence.
As we find westerly or west-south-westerly winds in
both temperate zones as the prevailing counter-currents
to the trades or east winds of the tropics, and as these,
to a country with an eastern sea-board, are land winds,
and to a country with a western sea-board again are
sea winds, (i. e. as they blow over a level, which by reason
THE ATMOSPHERE—CLIMATE. 351
of its mass and the descent of the cooled particles of water
is susceptible of no great degree of chilling) ; so comes it
that, where oceanic currents running near the shore do
not influence the temperature, the east coasts of conti
nents are colder than the west coasts. Cook's junior
companion in his second voyage, the gifted George
Forster, whom I have to thank for urging me on to various
extensive undertakings, was the first who directed particu
lar attention to the difference of temperature of the east
and west coasts in both hemispheres, as well as to the
correspondence between the temperature of the west coasts
of North America in the middle latitudes, with that of the
west of Europe within the same parallels (361).
Accurate observations show a striking difference even
in pretty high northern latitudes between the mean annual
temperature of the east and west sea-boards of America.
At Nain in Labrador (57° 10' N. Lat.) this temperature is
30,8 0. [5°"16 F.] under the freezing point of water [i. e.
26°-8 F.] , whilst atNew Archangel on the north-west shore of
Russian America (57° 3' N. Lat.) it is still 6°9 C. [12°-4
F.] above the freezing point [i. e. 44°-4 F.]. At the first
named place the mean summer temperature scarcely reaches
6°-a C. [43°- IF.], whilst at the second it is as high as
13°-8 C. [56°- 5 F.]. The mean winter temperature of
Pekin (39° 54' N. Lat.) is at least 3° C. below the freezing
point ; whilst in the west of Europe, even at Paris (4.8°
50' N. Lat.) it is fully 3°3 C. above this point. The
mean winter cold of Pekin is thus lower by 2° 5 C, than
that of Copenhagen, which lies 17 degrees of latitude
farther to the north.
We have already spoken of the extreme slowness with
352 THE ATMOSPHERE—CLIMATE.
which the great masses of the ocean follow alterations in
the temperature of the air, and how in virtue of this pro
perty the ocean acts as an equalizer of temperature. It
tempers at once the rudeness of the winter's cold and the
fervour of the summer's heat. From hence a second im
portant contrast : the difference between the insular or sea
board climates which all deeply indented continents abound
ing in bays and peninsulas enjoy, and the climates of the
interior of great masses ofterra firma. This remarable con
trast, in the variety of its phenomena, in its influence on
the power of vegetation, and the improvement of agricul
ture, on the transparency of the atmosphere, the radiation
of the earth's surface and the height of the line of per
petual snow, was first fully developed in the writings of
Leopold von Buch. In the interior of the Asiatic conti
nent, Tobolsk, Barnaul on the Obi and Irkutsk, have
summers like those of Berlin, Munster and Cherbourg in
Normandy ; but these summers are followed by winters in
which the coldest month reaches the fearful mean tempe
rature of from—18° to—20° C. [0°-4 to — 4° F.]. In the
summer months, again, the thermometer for weeks together
is seen standing at 30° and 31° 0. [86° and 87°-8 F.].
Such continental climates are therefore well and properly
characterized as excessive by Buffon, who was so well
versed both in mathematics and in physics ; and the inhabi
tants ofthe countries where they prevail, seem doomed, like
the unfortunates in Dante's Purgatory (362),
" a soffrir tormenti caldi e geli*."
[* " From beds of raging fire to starve in ice."
Milton, after Dante,
though the English poet lays the scene in his Hell.—Th.J
THE ATMOSPHERE— CLIMATE. 353
In no quarter of the globe, not even in the Canary
Islands or in Spain, or the South of France, have I met
with more delicious fruit, particularly more beautiful grapes,
than in Astrachan, near the shores of the Caspian Sea
(46° 21' N. Lat.) With a mean annual temperature of
about 9° C. [about 48-4-° F.], the mean summer tempera
ture rises to 21°-2 C. [70°vl F.], equal to that of Bor
deaux ; whilst not only there, but still farther to the south,
at Kislar on the mouth of the Texel, in the latitudes of
Avignon and Rimini, the thermometer in the winter sea
son sinks to— 25° and— 30° C. [— 13° and — 22° F.]
Ireland, Guernsey and Jersey, the Peninsula of Brit
tany, the coasts of Normandy, and the South of England,
in the mildness of their winters and the low temperature
and overcast sky of their summers, present the most re
markable contrasts with the continental climate of the
interior of the East of Europe. In the North-East of
Ireland (54° 56' N. Lat.) under the same parallel as Ko-
nigsberg in Prussia, the myrtle grows as vigorously as it
does in Portugal. The month of August, the tempera
ture of which in Hungary is 21° C. is scarcely 16° C. in
Dublin, which stands on the same isothermal line of 9-^°;
and the mean winter temperature, which sinks in Buda to
— 2°4 C, in Dublin (with its mean annual temperature,
lower by 9° C.) is still 4°3 above the freezing point of
water; i. e. it is 2° C. higher than in Milan, Pavia, Padua,
and the whole of Lombardy, where the mean annual tem
perature is fully 12°-7 C. At Stromnessin the Orkneys,
not half a degree further to the south than Stockholm, the
mean winter temperature is 4° C, higher consequently
than that of Paris, and nearly equal to that of London.
354 THE ATMOSPHERE CLIMATE.
Even in the Faro Islands in 62° N. Latitude, the influence
of the westerly winds and of the ocean is such, that the
water of the inland lakes never freezes. On the pleasant
coasts of Devonshire, where Salcombe, by reason of its
mild climate, has been called the Montpellier of the North,
the Agave Mexicana has been seen flowering in the open
air, and Oranges, trained as espaliers, and scarcely pro
tected for a few weeks with mats, have borne fruit.
There, as well as at Penzance and Gosport, and Cherbourg
on the Norman coast, the mean winter temperature is as
high as 5°-5 C, that is to say, but l°-3 below the tempe
rature of the corresponding season in Montpellier and
Florence (363) . The relations now indicated, show how
important for vegetation, agriculture, the growth of fruit,
and the feeling of climatic comfort, is the distribution of
the same annual mean temperature over the different
seasons of the year.*
The lines which I have entitled isochimenal and isotheral
(lines of like mean winter- and summer-heat), are by no
means parallel with the isothermal lines (lines of like mean
annual heat). If in places where the Myrtle grows un-
tended, and the ground in winter is never permanently
covered with snow, the temperature of the summer and
autumn is still just sufficient,—nay, it might be said, is
barely sufficent to bring the apple to perfect ripeness ; if
the vine, when it yields drinkable wine, flies islands, and
almost all sea-boards, even those with a western exposure ;
[* For a great deal of interesting information on temperature the reader
is referred to an excellent " Thermometrical Table," by Alfred S. Taylor,
published by Willatt, 98, Cbeapside. It is a complete Encyclopedia of
Thermotics.—Te.]
THE ATMOSPHERE—CLIMATE. 355
the cause of this does not alone reside in the lower sum
mer temperature of the coasts, which our thermometer in
the shade proclaims ; it lies in the hitherto so little con
sidered, and yet in other phenomena (such as an explo
sion of a mixture of chlorine and hydrogen gas) so im
portant distinction between direct and diffused light with
a clear or clouded state of the heavens. It is long since
I directed the attention of the observers of natural pheno
mena, and of botanical physiologists, to these distinctions,
as well as to the unestimated heat locally developed in the
vegetable cell under the influence of direct light (364) .
If we descend in the thermal scale of husbandry of dif
ferent kinds (366), beginning with the hottest climates, where
Vanilla, Cacao, the Banana, Plantain and Cocoa- nut Palm,
are successfully cultivated, to the regions in succession of
the Pine-apple, Sugar-cane, Coffee, Date, Cotton-tree,
Citron, Olive, true Chesnut, and Vine yielding drink
able wine, the careful geographical consideration of the
limits of each of these species of culture, respect being had
at once to the plain and to the mountain slope, assures us
that other climatic relations than those connected with the
mean annual temperature here come into play. To take
the single instance of the vine, I remind my reader, that in
order to have palatable wine (366), not only must the mean
annual temperature exceed 9^° C. [49°-55 F.], but that
the mean winter cold must not fall quite to the freezing
point (0°-5 C, 33°-4 F.), and this must be followed by a
mean summer heat of at least 18° C. [64°-4 F.]. At
Bordeaux, in the valley of the Garonne (North Latitude
44° 50') the temperature of the year, of the winter, of the
summer, and of the autumn, are respectively 13°-8 ; 6°-2 ;
356 THE ATMOSPHERE—CLIMATE.
21°-7; and 14°4. In the plains of the Baltic, where
wine is grown that is not palatable, though it is neverthe
less consumed, the corresponding numbers are 8°-6 ; —° 7 ;
17°-6 ; and 8°-6. If it seem strange that the great differ
ences which the cultivation of the vine, favoured or
opposed by climate, exhibits, are not more conspicuously
shown by our thermometrical numbers, this strangeness
will be lessened by the consideration, that a -thermometer
set for observation in the shade, and as effectually as pos
sible protected from the effects of direct insolation and
nocturnal radiation, does not by any means give the true
superficial temperature for every division of the year, under
periodical variations of the heat of the ground, exposed to
the whole amount of insolation [and of radiation.]
In the same way as the milder, more equable climate of
the peninsula of Brittany stands related to the climate of
the rest of the compact continent of France, colder in
winter, hotter in summer, so to a certain extent does the
climate of Europe stand related to that of the general
continent of Asia, to which Europe forms, in fact, a kind
of western peninsula. Europe owes its milder climate : to
the geographical position of Africa, which in its vast ex
tent, favouring the ascending current of air, presents a
solid radiating surface within the tropics, whilst southward
from Asia the equatorial region is mostly oceanic ; to its
partitions and vicinity to the sea—its forming the western
boundary of the northern part of the old world; to the
existence of a sea free from ice, where it extends towards
the north. Europe from this would become colder were
Africa to be overflowed by the sea and to disappear (367) ;
were the MythicalAtlantis to arise and connect Europe with
THE ATMOSPHERE—CLIMATE. 357
North America ; were the gulph-stream to cease from
flowing and pouring its tepid current into the northern
sea, or were another continent, raised by volcanic forces, to
intervene between the Scandinavian peninsula and Spitz-
bergen. If we see the mean annual temperature of Europe
sinking as we proceed along the same parallel of latitude
from the shores of the Atlantic, from France, through
Germany, Poland and Russia, towards the Ural Moun
tains, from west to east, therefore, the principal cause of the
phenomenon is to be sought for in the progressively less
and less subdivided or more compact form of the land as
the longitude increases, in the increasing remoteness of
the tempering ocean, as in the feebler influence of the west
wind. Beyond the Ural chain the west becomes the chill
ing land-wind, for then it is blowing over extensive tracts
of country coveted with ice and snow. The intense cold of
Western Siberia is greatly connected with such relations
of configuration in the land and of currents of air(388),
nowise, as Hippocrates and Trogus Pompeius presumed,
and as distinguished travellers in the 18th century have
gone on fancying, with great elevation of the country
above the level of the sea.
If we pass on from the consideration of diversities of
temperature in the plains, to inequalities in the poly
hedral configuration of the surface of our planet, we con
template the mountains either according to their influence
on the climate of the neighbouring low lands, or according
to the influences which they exert, in consequence of hyp-
sometrical relations, upon their own summits, frequently
spread out into lofty plateaus or table-lands. The group
ing of mountains into chains divides the surface of the
358 THE ATMOSPHERE—CLIMATE.
earth into different basins, sometimes into narrow circular
vallies surrounded by lofty walls—circus-like cauldrons,
which (as in Greece and a portion of Asia Minor) give
individual local characters to the climate in respect of
warmth, dampness, frequency of winds and storms, and
transparency of atmosphere. These circumstanceshave from
time immemorial exerted a powerful influence upon the
nature of the productions of the soil, and on the man
ners, forms of government, and likings and dislikings
of neighbouring races for one another. The character
of the geographical individuality reaches its maximum,
as it were, where the diversities in the configuration
of the surface, both in the vertical and the horizontal di
rection, in the relief and the partitioning of continents, is
the greatest possible. With such relations of the soil are
contrasted the steppes of Northern Asia, the grassy plains,
(Prairies, Savanahs, Llanos and Pampas) of the New
Continent, the heaths or moors of Europe, and the sandy
and rocky deserts of Africa.
The law of the decrement of temperature according to
the height above the sea under different parallels of latitude,
is one of the most important particulars in connection
with the knowledge of meteorological processes, with the
geographical distribution of plants, the theory of terres
trial refraction, and the various hypotheses which bear
upon the determination of the height of the atmosphere.
In the course of the numerous mountain expeditions I
have undertaken, both within and without the tropics,
the determination of this law has always been one of
the principal objects of my observations and experi
ments (369).
THE ATMOSPHERE—CLIMATE. 359
Since the true relations of thermal distribution over the
surface of the earth, i. e., the inflections of the Isothermal
and Isotheral lines, and the unequal distances of these
from each other in the several systems of eastern and
western temperature of Asia, Mid-Europe, and North
America, have been studied and made more generally
known, we must not any longer inquire, even in a general
way, what fractional part of the mean annual or summer
temperature corresponds to a change of one degree of geo
graphical latitude ? In each system of isothermal lines of
like curvature there prevails an intimate and necessary con -
nection between three elements : the decrease of temperature
in the perpendicular direction from below upwards ; the
difference of temperature in changing the place of observa
tion by 1° of latitude ; the equality of the mean tempera
ture of a mountain station, and the polar distance of a
point laid down on the level of the sea.
In the East American system, the mean annual tempera
ture changes from the coasts of Labrador to Boston for
every degree of latitude by 0°,88 C. ; from Boston to
Charleston by 0°95 C. ; from Charleston to the tropic of
Cancer in Cuba onwards, the change, however, becomes
less,—there it is only 0°,66 C. Within the tropics the
change is still smaller, the variation from Havannah to
Cumana, corresponding to a degree of latitude, being no
more than 0°-20 C.
It is quite different in the system of the isotherms of mid-
Europe. Between the parallels of 38° and 71° I find the
decrease of temperature to coincide very accurately with
half a degree (0°-5 C.) for each degree of latitude. But,
as in this country, the fall in temperature is 1° C. for
360 THE ATMOSPHERE —CLIMATE.
every 480, or 522 feet of perpendicular rise, it follows
that here a rise of from 240 to 262 feet above the level of
the sea corresponds, in respect of temperature, to one degree
of latitude. The mean annual temperature of the Convent
on Mount St. Bernard, 7,668 feet above the sea-level, in
latitude 46° 50', would thus be met with again in the
plain, in latitude 75° 50'.
In that part of the chain of the Andes which lies within
the tropics, my observations, which have been carried
out to an elevation of 18,000 feet, indicate a fall of 1° C.
for 96 toises, or 576 feet ; my friend Boussingault, thirty
years later, found 90 toises, or 540 feet, as the mean
corresponding to the same fall. On comparing the places
which stand among the Cordilleras at equal heights above
the sea, whether on the slopes themselves, or on the extensive
plateaus which they form, I found an increase of from
1°-6 to 2°3 C. in mean annual temperature of the latter
over the former. Without the cooling effects of noctur
nal radiation, the difference would be still greater. As
the climates are there stratified, as it were, superposed in
layers from the Cacao groves of the lowlands up to the
line of perpetual snow, and as the temperature in the
tropical zone varies but very slightly in the course of the
whole year, a tolerably fair idea is formed of the relations
in respect of temperature to which the inhabitants of
the great cities of the Andes are exposed, when these
relations are compared with the temperature of particular
months in the plains of France and Italy. Whilst the
temperature of the day on the wooded banks of the
Orinoco is such that it exceeds, by 4° C. that of the
month of August at Palermo, we find when we have as
THE ATMOSPHERE, 361 .
cended the mountains to Popayan (911 toises), that we
are in the temperature of the three summer months at
Marseilles; in Quito, again (1492 toises), the temperature
is that of the end of the month of May at Paris, and when
we have attained the Paramos or mountain wilds, over
grown with dwarf Alpine plants, still hearing large flowers
(1800 toises), we meet with the temperature of the be
ginning of the month of April at Paris.
The acute Peter Martyr de Anghiera, one of the friends
of Christopher Columbus, was the first who perceived (in
the expedition of Rodrigo Enrigue Colmenares, Oct. 1510),
that the snow-line always rises higher the nearer the
equator is approached. I find these words in the beauti
ful work, De Rebus OceaniciS (370)—" The River Gaira
comes from a mountain (in the Sierra Nevada de Santa
Marta), which, from the reports of the companions of
Colmenares, is higher than any mountain yet discovered.
It must undoubtedly be so, if, in a zone which is at most
10° from the equinoctial line, it retains its covering of snow
continually." The inferior limit of the eternal snow in
a given latitude is the summer limit of the snow-line ; that
is, the maximum height to which the snow-line recedes in
the course of the entire year. Prom this summer limit of
the snow-line, three other phenomena must be distin
guished :—Annual fluctuations of the snow-line ; occa
sional or sporadic falls of snow ; and glaciers, which appear
to be peculiar to the temperate and frigid zones, on which
Saussure's immortal work on the Alps, and in later years,
the labours of Venetz, of Charpentier, and of Agassiz,
endowed with perseverance that set danger at nought,
have thrown much interesting and new light.
VOL. I. R
- 362 THE ATMOSPHERE.
We know only the inferior, not the superior, boundary of
the eternal snow ; for the mountains of the earth do not rise
into the ethereal or Olympic empyrean, into the thin dry strata
of the atmosphere, which we may presume with Bouguer
no longer contain any vesicular vapour turned into crystals
of ice, and thus made visible. The lower snow-limit, how
ever, is not merely a function of the geographical latitude,
or the mean annual temperature ; the tropics, even the
equator itself, is not the situation, as was long believed and
taught, where the snow-limit attains its highest elevation
above the level of the sea. The phenomenon which we
here advert to is, in fact, an extremely complicated one,
and depends generally on various relations of temperature,
moisture, and mountain configuration. If these relations
themselves be subjected to a more special analysis, as a
great number of new measurements permit us to do (371),
we discover as coefficient causes determining the snow-line :
Differences in temperature of the different seasons of the
year; direction of the prevailing winds, and their contact
with the sea and land ; the degree of dryness or moistness
of the upper strata of the atmosphere ; the absolute magni
tude or thickness of the deposited and accumulated snow ;
the relation of the snowy summit to the total height of the
mountain ; the relative position of the particular moun
tain considered in the chain ; the steepness of the decli
vities; the vicinity of other mountains likewise capped
with perpetual snow ; the extent, lay, and height of the
plain or level from which the snowy mountain rises
isolated, or as one in a group or chain, and which may
be a sea-coast, or the interior of a continent, covered
with wood, or with a thick short turf, which may be sandy,
THE ATMOSPHERE. 363
barren, and strewn with naked rocks, or a wet mossy
bottom.
While the snow-line in South America reaches a height
under the equator which equals that of the summit of
Mont Blanc, and in the high lands of Mexico, near the
northern tropic, in 19° North Latitude, according to recent
measurements, descends from that by a quantity equal to
about 960 feet, it rises, according to Pentland, in the
southern tropical zone (Lat. 14J° to 18° south), and in the
western or Chilian Andes, not in the eastern chain, to
more than 2500 feet higher than it is under the equator, on
Ohimborazo, Cotopaxi, and Antisana, not far from Quito.
Dr. Gillies states, indeed, that much farther to the south,
namely on the declivity of the volcanic mountain Pen-
guenes (33° S. Lat.), he found the snow-line at an elevation
between 2270 and 2350 toises above the level of the sea.
The evaporation of the snow, in consequence of the radia
tion into an atmosphere which is excessively dry in summer,
into skies which are scarcely obscured by a cloud, is so rapid,
that the volcano of Aconcagua, to the north-east of Val
paraiso (Lat. 32£° south), which was found by the Expedi
tion of the Beagle to be more than 1400 feet higher than
Ohimborazo, was once seen without snow (372) .
In almost the same parallel of North Latitude (30f° to
31°), the snow-limit ofthe southern slopes of the Himalaya
is found nearly at the elevation which various combina
tions and comparisons might lead us to expect, viz. 12,180
feet ; on the northern slopes, however, under the influence
of the lofty table-land of Thibet, the mean height of which
appears to be 1 0,800 feet, the snow-limit is only met with
at an elevation of 15,600 feet. This phenomenon, which
304 THE ATMOSPHERE.
has often been the subject of discussion both in Europe
and in India, on the cause of which I have myself made
known my views in several papers (373), possesses more
than a merely physical interest ; it has had an important
influence upon the state of numerous tribes of mankind.
Meteorological processes fit or unfit extensive districts of
a continent for agriculture or pasturage.
As with the temperature the quantity of vapour con
tained in the atmosphere increases, this, which is so
important an element for the whole of the organic creation,
varies with the hour of the day, the season of the year, the
degree of latitude, and the height above the level of the
sea. The recent experience so generally obtained through
the use of August's Psychrometer, according to the ideas
of Dalton and Daniell, for the determination of the relative
moistness of the air by means of the difference between the
dew-point and the temperature of the air*, has consider
ably increased the extent of our knowledge of the hygro-
metrical relations of the surface of the earth. Tempera
ture, atmospheric pressure, and quarter of the wind, all
stand in most intimate connection with the vivifying
moisture of the air. This vivification, however, is not
so much a consequence of the quantity of vapour held
dissolved under different latitudes, as of the manner and
frequency of its precipitation in the shape of dew, fog,
rain, or snow, which moistens the ground From the de-
[* Now very conveniently obtained by the different readings of two
thermometers, as like each other as possible, one of which has its bulb
dry, the other its bulb wet. The instrument is commonly sold under
the name of Mason's Hygrometer in England.—Tb.]
THE ATMOSPHEEE. 365
duction of the gyratory law of winds by Dove, and the
views of this distinguished philosopher (374), it appears
that in our northern zone ' the elasticity of vapour is
greatest with south-west, least with north-east, winds.
On the west side of the wind-card it diminishes, and on the
contrary it rises on the east side. On the west side, viz.
the colder, heavier, drier current, forces back the warmer,
lighter, much moister air ; whilst on the east side the
former is overcome by the latter. The south-west cur
rent is the penetrating equatorial stream ; the north-east,
the sole prevailing polar current."
The beauty and fresh verdure of many trees which grow
in countries within the tropics, where for five, six, or seven
months together there is never a cloud to be seen on the
face of the heavens, where no visible dew or rain ever falls,
inform us that the appendages of the stem or the leaves
have the power, in virtue of a peculiar vital process, which
perhaps is not one merely producing cold by radiation, of
withdrawing water from the atmosphere. With the parched
levels of Cumana, Coro, and Ceara, in North Brazil, the
deluges of rain which fall in other districts of tropical
countries contrast strongly : for example, in Havana, where
observations carried on for six years by Eamon de la
Sarga show the mean annual fall of rain to amount to
102 Parisian inches—four or five times as much as it is in
Paris or Geneva (375). On the slopes of the Andes, the
quantity of rain that falls, like the temperature, diminishes
with the height (376). It was found by my companion in
my South American journey, M. Caldas, of Santa Fe de
Bogota, not to exceed 37 inches at a height of 8200 feet,
which is but little more than the quantity that falls on
366 THE ATMOSPHERE.
some of the west coasts of Europe. At Quito, when the
temperature was from 12° to 13° 0., Boussingault some
times saw Saussure's hygrometer recede to 26°; and in his
great aerostatic ascent Gay-Lussac saw the same instru
ment at 25°3, his elevation at the time being 6600 feet,
and the temperature of the air 4°-6 C. The greatest degree
of dryness yet observed in a low country was seen by Gus-
tavus Rose, Ehrenberg, and myself, between the valleys of
the Irtisch and Obi, in Northern Asia. In the Platowskaja
Steppe, after the south-west wind had been long blowing
from the interior of the continent, the temperature of the
air being 23°-7, 0. we found the dew-point 4°3 below
the freezing-point. The air only contained 18/i00 of
watery vapour (377) . Several able observers, Kaemtz, Bra-
vais, and Martins, have of late years called in question
the great degree of dryness of the mountain air, which
seemed to follow from Saussure's observations among the
Alps, and my own among the heights of the Cordilleras.
The relative moistness of the air in Zurich was contrasted
with that of the air of the Faulhorn, a mountain which
indeed could only be called high in Europe (378). The
moisture with which the peculiar species of large-flowered,
myrtle-leaved Alpine shrubs are almost perpetually be
dewed in the region of the Paramos of the tropical Andes,
between 11,000 and 12,000 feet above the sea level, and
not far from the line where snow begins to fall, does not,
however, necessarily imply a great absolute moistness of
the air in this region ; like the frequent fogs in the beautiful
plateau of Bogota, it only proclaims the frequency of pre
cipitations. Banks of fog at these heights form ai*d dis
appear several times in the course of an hour when the air
THE ATMOSPHERE. 367
is calm ; such rapid changes characterize the lofty plateaus
and paramos of the Andes.
The electricity of the atmosphere, whether con
sidered in the lower regions or in the cloudy canopy
aloft, viewed problematically in its silent periodical
diurnal progression, or in the brilliant and noisy explo
sions of the thunder-storm, stands in manifold relation
ship with all the phenomena of thermal distribution, of
atmospheric pressure and its disturbances, ofhydrometeors,
and apparently also of the magnetism of the outer crust
of the earth. It exerts a most powerful influence upon
the whole of the animal and vegetable world, and this
not merely through the meteorological processes, preci
pitations of watery vapour, of acids, or of ammoniacal
compounds, which it occasions, but also immediately as
the electrical force, that force which excites the nerves and
occasions or assists the circulation of the juices. This is
not the place to renew the contest in regard to the source
of the electricity of the serene sky, which has at one time
been ascribed to the evaporation of impure fluids, i. e.
fluids loaded with earths and salts (379), at another to the
growth of vegetables (380), or other chemical decomposi
tions proceeding on the surface of the earth, to the unequal
distribution of heat in the different strata of the atmos
phere (381), finally, according to Peltier's able inquiries
(382), to the influence of a constantly negative charge of
the globe. Limited to the results which electrometrical
observations, particularly those which the clever arrange
ment of an electro-magnetical apparatus, first proposed
by Colladon, have given, Physical Cosmography ought
to indicate the unquestionable increase of the general
368 THE ATMOSPHERE.
positive aerial electricity with the height of the station
and freedom from surrounding trees (383), its daily ebb
and flow (according to Clarke's Dublin experiments,
in more intricate periods than Saussure and I had de
tected), and its differences according to season, distance
from the equator, and the continental or oceanic nature
of the surface.
If the electrical equilibrium on the whole be less dis
turbed where the atmosphere is resting on the sea than on
the land, it is the more remarkable to observe how small
clusters of islands surrounded by an extensive ocean act
upon the state of the atmosphere and give occasion to
thunder-storms. In fogs, and at the beginning of falls
of snow, I have in the course of a long series of observa
tions seen the previous permanent vitreous, change sud
denly into the resinous electricity, and these alternate
repeatedly, as well in the plains of the frigid zone as
under the tropics in the Paramos or Alpine wildernesses of
the Cordilleras between 10,000 and 12,000 feet high. The
alternate transition was in all respects similar to that
which the electrometer had shown shortly before during
the continuance of a thunder-storm (384). When the
vesicles of vapour have become aggregated into clouds
with determinate outlines, the electrical tension of the
outer layer or surface (385) upon which the electricity of
the insulated vesicular vapour overflows, increases with the
measure of the condensation. Slate-grey coloured clouds,
according to Peltier's Paris experiments, have resinous,
white, rose, and orange-coloured clouds, have vitreous
electricity. Thunder clouds not only involve the highest
summits of the Andes, (I have myself observed the vitri-
THE ATMOSPHERE. 369
fying effects of lightning on one of the rocky crags which
rise from the crater of the Volcano of Toluca, 14,300
feet high; but storm clouds have been measured, which
were floating over low lands in the temperate zone, at
a vertical height of 25,000 feet (384). Occasionally, how
ever, the thundering and lightning stratum of cloud
descends to an altitude of five, and even of three thousand
feet from the ground.
According to Arago's experiments, the most comprehen
sive we yet possess upon this difficultportion ofmeteorology,
there are discharges of lightning of three kinds : zig-zag or
forked lightnings, sharply defined on their edges ; lightnings
that illuminate whole clouds, which seem to open up at
once ; lightning in the form of fire-balls (387). If the two
first of these scarcely last for the i/iooo °^ a secona, the
globular kind of lightning, on the contrary, moves much
more slowly, and continues visible for several seconds.
Occasionally—and late observations confirm the descrip
tion of the phenomenon already given by Nicholson and
Beccaria—single clouds show themselves high above the
horizon, which, without audible thunder, without any
appearance of a storm, continue steadily luminous for a
long time both in the interior and around the edges ;
hail-stones, drops of rain, and flakes of snow, have also
been observed, which were luminous as they fell, without
any precursory thunder-storm.
In the geographical distribution of storms, the coasts of
Peru, in which it never thunders or lightens, present the
most remarkable contrast with all the rest of the tropical
zones besides, in which at certain seasons of the year, four
or five hours after the culmination of the sun, thunder-
rU,
370 THE ATMOSPHERE.
storms occur almost every day. From the concurring
testimony of northern navigators—Scoreshy, Parry, Eoss,
Franklin—which has been collected by Arago, it is im
possible to doubt that in high northern latitudes, such
as the parallels from 70° to 75°, electrical explosions are
extremely rare (388).
The meteorological portion of our Delineation of Nature,
which we here conclude, shows that all the processes—
absorption of light, evolution of heat, alteration of
elasticity, hygrometrical state and electrical tension, which
the immeasurable atmospheric ocean present, are so
intimately connected, that each individual meteorological
process is simultaneously modified by any one, or by
all the others. These varied disturbances, which in
voluntarily remind us of those that the nearer and
particularly the smaller of the heavenly bodies, the sa
tellites, comets, and shooting stars, experience in their
course through space, render the interpretation of the
complex meteorological processes difficult; they circum
scribe, and, for the most part, make impossible, the predic
tion of atmospherical changes, which for horticulture and
agriculture, for navigation and the enjoyment and plea
sure of existence, would be so important. Those who place
the value of meteorology not in a knowledge of the sub
ject itself, but in such problematical prognostications, are
penetrated with the belief that this portion of natural
science, on account of which so many journeys have been
made into remote mountainous countries of the globe,
cannot boast of any advance for centuries. The confi
dence which they refuse to natural philosophers, they yield
THE ATMOSPHERE. 371
to the changes of the moon, and to certain famous days
in the calendar.
" Great departures from the usual distribution of mean
temperature seldom occur locally ; they are, for the most
part, relatively shared in by extensive districts of country.
The amount of departure is a maximum at one particular
spot, from which it diminishes to the confines around. If
these confines be exceeded, great variations in the opposite
sense are forthwith discovered. Like constitutions of the
weather are more frequently observed from South to North
than from West to East. The maximum cold of the end of
1829, (when I concluded my Siberian travels), occurred
at Berlin, whilst North America enjoyed an unusual mild
ness of season. It is an entirely arbitrary assumption to
suppose that a hot summer follows a cold winter, or that
a mild winter succeeds a cool summer." The states of the
weather in neighbouring lands—two corn and wine-grow
ing countries, for example, often so varied and so opposite,
produce the most beneficial effects in equalizing the prices
of agricultural produce in each. It has been well observed,
that the barometer alone informs us of what is going on
in respect of alterations in the pressure of the whole of
the strata of air above the place of observation, even to
the extreme limits of our atmosphere, whilst the thermo
meter and hygrometer only report upon the local tempera
ture and moistness of the lower stratum in contact with
the surface. We only conclude as to the thermometrical
and hygroscopical modifications of the upper strata, where
immediate observations made on mountains or in aerostatic
journeys are wanting, from hypothetical combinations, so
that the barometer may likewise come to serve both as a ther
372 ORGANIC LIFE.
mometer and hygrometer. Important changes in the state
of the weather are not owing to any merely local cause at the
place of observation itself; they are usually consequences
of a condition which has begun, through perturbation in
the equilibrium of the currents of air, at a vast distance, and,
for the major part, not at the surface of the earth, but in
the highest regions : bringing hither cold or warm, dry or
moist air, impairing or increasing the transparency of the
atmosphere, changing the piled masses of cumulus-clouds
into the light and feathery cirrus. Inaccessibility of
phenomena thus allying itself to multiplicity and com
plexity of perturbations, it has always appeared to me, that
meteorology must seek her welfare and her roots in
the torrid zone ; in that favoured region where the same
winds always blow, where the ebb and flow of the atmos
pheric pressure, the course of hydrometeors, and the
occurrence of electrical explosions, are periodically and
regularly recurrent.
Having now passed through the entire circuit of the
inorganic life of the earth, and delineated our planet with
a few leading touches,—in its configuration, its internal
heat, its electro-magnetical charge, its luminous processes
at either pole, and its internal or volcanic reaction upon the
solid and variously compounded crust; having, finally, con
sidered thephenomena of its double outer covering, the ocean
and the atmosphere,—our Picture of Nature, according to
the older ideas of Physical Geography, might be held as
finished. But when the philosophic view essays to reach
a higher point, the delineation would seem to want its at
tractive features, did it not at the same time present the
ORGANIC LIFE. 373
sphere of Organic Life in the numerous grades of its
typical developments. The idea of animation is so closely
connected with the idea of the existence of the impelling,
ceaselessly active, decompounding, compounding, and fa
shioning natural forces, which inhere in the terrestrial ball,
that in the popular Mythus of the nations of antiquity, the
production of plants and animals was always ascribed to
these forces ; the state of the surface of our planet, when
it was unoccupied by life, was even referred to the chaotic
primeval ages of the conflicting elements. To the empi
rical domain of objective sensuous consideration, to the
delineation of That which has become, or of the actual
state and condition of our planet, the mysterious and
unresolved problem of Things becoming does not right
fully belong.
Our description of the world, abiding soberly by reality,
remains a stranger, not from timidity, but from the
nature of the subject and its limits, to the obscure
history of the beginning of organized things (390) ; the
word history being here taken in its most usual accepta
tion. But in our account of the actual Universe, we may
direct attention to the fact, that in the inorganic crust of
the earth, the same elementary substances are present which
enter into and compose the organic frames of plants and
animals. We may say, that the same powers prevail in
these as in those, which combine and separate bodies, which
give consistency and fluidity in the organic tissues : but,
subjected to conditions which, not yet fathomed, have been
systematically grouped according to analogies more or less
happily imagined, under the very indefinite titles of effects
of the vital force. It is, therefore, felt as a want, in the
374 ORGANIC LIFE.
frame of mind which leads us to look on nature with a
contemplative eye, that we pursue the physical phenomena
which present themselves to us on earth to their very
farthest limits, to the evolution of vegetable forms, and
the discovery of that which in the organisms of animals
is endowed with self-motive force. In this way does the
geographical distribution of things organically-animated,
I. e. plants and animals, connect itself with the delineation
of the inorganic natural phenomena ofthe body of the globe.
Without pretending in this place to discuss the difficult
question of " the self-motive" in animals, *-. e. the difference
between animal and vegetable life, we must first direct atten
tion to the circumstance that, were we 'endowed by nature
with a microscopic eye, and were the integuments of plants
completely transparent, the world of vegetation would not
meet us with that aspect of immobility and repose in which
it now presents itself to our senses. The interiors of the
cellular structures of vegetables are ceaselessly animated by
the most diversified currents, rotatory, rising and falling, di
viding and ramifying, or altering their direction—as ismade
manifest by the movement of the granular sap-corpuscles
in the leaves of several water-plants (Najades, Characeee,
Hydrocharideee), and in the hairs of phanerogamous land-
plants ; there is at the same time seen a confused, mole
cular movement, first observed by the distinguished bota
nist, Robert Brown, but which also occurs among finely
divided particles of matter of all kinds, the phenomenon
not taking place only within organic cells; the circular
movement of the globules of the cambium, in a system of
special vessels (cyclosis) ; lastly, the singular articulated
filiform vessels of the anthers of the Chara and the repro-
ORGANIC LIFE. 375
ductive organs of the liverworts and sea-weeds which have
the faculty of uncoiling themselves, and in which Meyen,
snatched too soon away from science, believed that he
recognized the analogues of the spermatozoa of the animal
creation. If to the multifarious excitements and move
ments we add those that belong to endosmose and the
processes of nutrition and growth, and farther to the pene
tration [and exhalation] of air, we have a picture of the
forces which, almost unknown to us, are active in the silent
life of the vegetable world.
Since I first portrayed the universal life of the surface of
the earth, and the distribution of organic forms, both in
the line of the height and of the depth, in my " Views of
Nature," our knowledge in this direction also has been
surprisingly increased by Ehrenberg's brilliant discoveries,
" on the demeanor of minute life in the ocean as well as
in the ice of the polar lands,"—discoveries made not by the
way of induction, but by that of simple accurate observa
tion. The sphere of vitality, we might almost say the
horizon of life, has extended itself before our eyes. " There
is not only an invisibly small, or microscopical, incessantly
active life in the neighbourhood ofboth poles, where larger
organisms are no longer produced ; but the microscopical
forms of life of the South Polar Sea, collected in the
Antarctic Voyage of Sir James Ross, comprise a wonderful
variety of entirely new and often extremely beautiful forms.
Even in the remains of the liquefied rounded masses of
ice that were picked up swimming about under the latitude
of 78° 10', more than fifty species of silicious-shelled
polygastrica, coscinodisca, with their green ovaries, and
consequently living and successfully struggling with the
876 ORGANIC LIFE.
extreme of sovere cold, were discovered. In the bay of
the Erebus, in from 1242 to 1620 feet of water, sixty-
eight silicious-shelled polygastrica and phytolitharia, and
with them only a single calcareous-shelled polythalamium,
were drawn up by means of the lead.
The oceanic microscopic forms have hitherto been in
vastly preponderating proportion of the silicious-shelled
kinds, although silica does not appear among the consti
tuents of sea-water discovered by analysis, and the earth
can only be well conceived as mixed with or suspended in
the waters. The ocean, however, is not only in particular
spots, and in arms and bays, or near the shore, thickly
peopled with invisible, i. e. by the unassisted eye, unseen
living atoms ; it may be assumed from the samples of
water drawn to the south of the Cape of Good Hope un
der 57° S. latitude, as well as from the middle of the
Atlantic under the tropics, by Schayer, in his return from
Van Diemen's Land, that in its ordinary state, without
showing any particular colour, without being filled with
floating fragments of the silicious-shelled filaments of the
genus Cheetoceros, which so much resemble the Oscillatoria
of our fresh waters, but when perfectly transparent to the
naked eye, the ocean still contains numerous independent
microscopical organisms. Several polygastrica from Cock-
burn Island, mixed with the excrements of Penguins and
sand/ appear to be spread over the whole earth ; others,
again, are common to either pole (391).
From this (and all the more recent observations confirm
the view) it appears that in the eternal night of the depths
of ocean, animal life especially prevails, whilst upon conti
nents, vegetable life, which requires the periodic stimulus
ORGANIC LIFE. 377
of the sun's rays, is the more extensively diffused. Con
sidered with reference to mass, the vegetable far exceeds
the animal world on the face of the globe. What is the
number of great cetaceans and pachydermatous tribes, in
comparison with the bulk of the thick-set trunks of lofty
trees, from eight to twelve feet in diameter, that grow in
the forests of the tropical zone of South America between
the Orinoco, the Amazon's River, and the Rio de Madeira !
Even allowing the character of the several countries
of the earth to depend on the aspect of external phe
nomena at large ; if the outline of mountains, the phy
siognomy of plants and animals, the blue of the sky, the
contour of the clouds, and the transparency of the atmos
phere, produce the general impression, still it is not to be
denied that the principal element in this impression is
the vegetable covering of the surface. The animal king
dom wants mass, and the motions of individuals withdraw
them frequently from our sight. The vegetable world
works upon our imagination by the mere force of quan
tity ; its mass indicates its age ; and in vegetables alone
are age and the expression of inherent power of renovation
associated (392). In the animal kingdom—and this con
sideration is also the result of Ehrenberg's discoveries—
it is precisely the life that we are wont to designate as the
smallest in point of room, which by its subdivision and
rapid increase (393) presents the most remarkable relations
in respect of mass. The smallest of the Infusoria, the
Monadae, only obtain a diameter of i/3000 of a line, yet
do these silicious-shelled organisms, in moist countries,
compose, by their accumulation, subterraneous strata
several fathoms in thickness.
378 ORGANIC LIFE.
The impression of an all-animated nature, so exciting
and so salutary to feeling man, belongs to every zone ; but
it is most powerfully produced towards the equator, in
the peculiar zone of the palms, the bamboos, and the
arborescent ferns,—in regions where, from sea-shores
covered with molluscs and corals, the ground rises in
stages to the line of eternal snow, and the relations of plants
and animals, in respect of local position, embrace almost
every height and every depth. Organic forms even descend
into the interior of the earth, and occur not merely in places
where, through the operations of the miner, great excava
tions have been made; in natural cavities, also, which
have been opened for the first time by blasting, and to
which meteoric water alone could have penetrated through
fissures, I have found the snowy stalactitic walls covered
with the delicate reticulations of an Usnea. Podurellee
penetrate into the icy circles of the glaciers of Monte Eosa,
of the Grindelwald, and the UpperAar. Chionoea arenoides,
described by Dalman, and the microscopic Discerea
nivalis, or Protococcus, as it used to be called, lives among
the snows of the polar regions as well as of our loftier
mountains. The red colour of old snow was known to
Aristotle, and was probably observed by him among the
mountains of Macedonia (394). Whilst upon the lofty
summits of the Swiss Alps, Lecideas, Parmelias, and
Umbilicarias alone, and sparingly, tint the rocks left bare
of snow, in the elevated regions of the tropical Andes, at
the height of 14,000 and 14,400 feet above the level of
the sea, single specimens of beautiful phanerogamous
plants are still encountered,—the tomentose Calcitium
rufescens, Sida Pichinchensis, and SaxifragaBoussingaulti.
ORGANIC LIFE. 379
. Hot springs contain small insects,—Hydroporus thermalis,
Galionelte, Oscillatoria, and Confervee; they even irrigate
the roots of phanerogamous plants. As water, earth, and
air, are peopled by animated beings at the most dissimilar
temperatures, so also is the interior of the most dissimilar
parts in the bodies of animals inhabited. Animated or
ganismshave beenfound in the blood of the frog, salmon,&c.
According to Nordmann, the whole ofthe fluids of the fish's
eye are often filled with a suctorial worm (Diplostomum) ;
and in the gills of the brasse lives that extraordinary
double animal, denominated by the naturalist just men
tioned the Diplozoon paradoxum; a creature consisting,
as it seems, of two perfect animals, grown cross-wise
together, having two heads and two caudal extremities.
Granting the existence of meteoric infusoria, as they have
been called, to be more than doubtful, still the possibility
must not be denied, that as the pollen of the pine-tree has
fallen year after year from the air, so may minute infusory
animalcules be passively raised with the watery vapour,
and floated for a season in the atmosphere (395). This
circumstance deserves to be taken into serious considera
tion, in connection with the old dispute in regard to
spontaneous generation (396), (generatio spontanea) ; all
the more, since Ehrenberg, as already observed above, has
discovered in the kind of dust-rain which navigators fre
quently encounter in the neighbourhood of the Cape de
Verd Islands, at a distance of 380 sea miles from the
coast of Africa, the remains of eighteen species of silicious-
shelled polygastric animalcules.
The exuberance of organisms whose distribution in
space is studied in the geography of plants and animals,
380 ORGANIC LIFE.
is considered either according to the diversity and relative
number of the types of formation, according to the con
figuration of the existing genera and species, or according
to the number of the individuals which each particular
species presents upon a given superficial area. Among
plants, as among animals, it is an important distinction in
their mode of life, whether they are met with singly or
living in company. The species which I have designated
social plants (397) cover large tracts of country with one
unvarying growth. To this class belong many species
of sea-weed in the ocean, Cladoniee and Musci in the
waste levels of Northern Asia, Grasses and tubular look
ing Cactuses, Avicennia and Mangrove in the tropical
world, forests of coniferous trees and birches in the Baltic
and Siberian plains. This kind of geographical distribution
of plants, along with the individual aspect of the species,
their size, the form of their leaves and flowers*, determines
in an especial manner the physiognomical character of a
country. The shifting image of animal life, so varied and
attractive, appealing so immediately to our feelings of liking
or disgust, remains almost wholly foreign, or at least is
much less powerfully felt, in connexion with the members
of the vegetable kingdom. Agricultural nations increase
artificially the domain of various social plants, and so in
crease the aspect ofuniformity presented by nature in several
districts of the temperate and northern zones ; they also
root out and destroy various wild-growing plants, and
unintentionally propagate others that follow man in his
wanderings. The luxuriant zone of the tropical world resists
more powerfully this forcible metamorphosis of creation.
Observers who have perambulated extensive districts
ORGANIC LIFE. 381
of country in short intervals of time, who have ascended
mountain ranges in which the climates lie stratified one
over another, must soon have been awakened to the regular
distribution of vegetable forms. They collected the raw
material of a science whose name was not yet pronounced.
The same zones or regions of plants which Cardinal
Bembo, in the 16th century, when yet a youth, described
as occurring on the slopes of Etna, were found repeated
on Mount Ararat, by Tournefort, who acutely compared
the Alpine floras with the floras of -plains under different
latitudes ; and who first remarked that the elevation of the
ground above the level of the sea in mountainous dis
tricts influences the distribution of plants in the same way
as distance from the pole in plains. Menzel, in an unedited
Flora of Japan, incidentally used the expression, Geogra
phy of Plants. This phrase again recurs in the fantastic
but pleasant " Studies ofNature" ofBemardin de St. Pierre.
But the scientific treatment of the subject commenced
when the distribution of plants was viewed in close connec
tion with the doctrine of the distribution of heat over the
surface ofthe earth ; when plants were arranged into natural
orders, and it was thus made possible to distinguish numeri
cally the particular forms which increase or diminish from
the equator towards the poles, to perceive, in the different
regions of the earth, in what numerical relationship each
family stands to the whole of the mass of phanerogamous
vegetables which are there indigenous. It is one of the
fortunate events in my life, that at the time when I was
giving my attention almost exclusively to botany, my
studies should have been directed to the subject of inquiry
just mentioned, by the spectacle of nature on the grandest
382 ORGANIC LIFE.
scale, and offering the strongest contrasts in respect of
climate.
The geographical distribution of animal forms, upon
which Buffon first advanced general, and, for the major
part, very accurate views, has in recent times had great
assistance from the progress of vegetable geography.
The curvatures of the isothermal, and particularly of the
isochimenal lines, are displayed in the limits which certain
species of plants, and of animals that do not roam far
towards the north or towards the tops of snow-covered
mountains, seldom exceed. The Elk, e. g. lives in the
Peninsula of Scandinavia, almost ten degrees farther to the
north than in the interior of Siberia, where the lines
of like winter temperature are so remarkably concave.
Plants wander or migrate in the egg, in the seed. The
seeds of many species are provided with peculiar organs
for far journeys through the air. Once rooted they are
more dependent on the soil and the temperature of the
atmosphere which surrounds them. Animals widen at
will the circle of their presence from the equator towards
the pole, and particularly in regions where the isotheral
lines arch, out towards the north, where hot summers suc
ceed the severest winters: royal tigers, which do not
differ from those of-India, roam every summer in Northern
Asia to the latitudes of Berlin and Hamburg, as Ehren-
berg and I have shewn in another place (400).
The groups or associations of vegetable species which
we are accustomed to designate Florae (spheres or
domains of vegetation), appear to me, from what I have
seen of the earth, by no means to reveal the prevalence of
individual families to such an extent as authorizes us to
ORGANIC LIFE. 383
establish geographical regions of the Umbellatee, Solida-
gineee, Labiatee, or Scitamineee. My particular views differ
in this respect from those of several of my Mends among
the most distinguished botanists of Germany. The
character of the Floras in the high lands of Mexico, New
Granada, Quito, European Eussia, and Northern Asia,
consists, as I believe, not in the relatively larger number of
species which one or two natural familes exhibit, but
rather in the much more complex relations of the aggre
gate life of many families, and the relative numerical
value of their species. In meadow and steppe districts
Gramineee and Cyperaceee are the prevailing families ; in
our northern woods we meet especially with Conifers?,
Cupuliferee, and Betulineee ; but this prevalence of form
is only apparent, and deceptive by reason of the mass of
the social plants arresting the eye. The north of Europe,
and Siberia in the zone northward from the Altai, no more
deserve the title of a realm of grasses or cone-bearing
trees, than the endless Llanos between the Orinoco and the
mountain chain of Caraccas or the pine forests of Mexico.
In the associate life of the vegetable forms which partly
replace one another, in their relative numbers and group
ing, lies the aggregate impression of richness and variety,
or of poverty and monotony of vegetable nature.
In this brief consideration of the phenomena of
organized beings, I have ascended from the simplest
cell (401), and so, from the first breath of life, to higher
and higher forms. " The aggregation of mucus-granules
into a definitely formed cell-germ, around which a mem
brane in form of a vesicle being developed, it is connected
into a closed cell," is either effected by a pre-existing cell,
384 ORGANIC LIFE.
so that cell arises from cell (402), or the evolution of cells
is involved in the obscurity of a chemical process, as in
the case of the torula cerevisire, or yeast fungus. The
most mysterious subject of Incipiency can only be
lightly touched upon here. The geography of organized
beings—plants and animals—treats of the germs already
developed, of their habitats from migrations effected on pur
pose or accidentally, of their respective relations, and their
aggregate distribution over the surface of the earth.
The general delineation of nature, which I here en
deavour to present, would remain incomplete, were I not to
yield to the disposition I feel, with a few touches, to portray
the human kind in its physical gradations, in the geo
graphical distribution of its simultaneously existing types,
in the influence which it derives from the forces of nature,
and on the contrary, though in a less degree, the influence
which it has exercised on these. Dependent, although not
to the same extent as plants and animals, on the ground
and the meteorological processes of the atmosphere, more
readily escaping from under the dominion of some of the
natural forces through activity of mind, and intelligence
exalted by degrees, as well as through a wonderful pliabi
lity of constitution, which adapts itself to every climate, the
human kind takes an essential part in the whole vitality
of the earth. Through these relations we are brought into
contact with the obscure and much agitated problem of the
possibility of common descent in the circle of ideas which
the physical cosmography embraces. The investigation of
this problem, if I may so express myself, shall, through
ennobled and purely human interests, be made the last aim
of my work. The immeasurable realm of language, in the
ORGANIC LIFE. 385
diverse organizations of which, the capacities of nations
are foreshadowed, as it were, is most intimately connected
with the subject of alliance of race ; and what even slight
diversity of race is competent to produce, is taught us by
the Hellenic world in the bloom of its mental culture.
The most important questions in the history of the pro
gress of society connect themselves with ideas of descent,
community of language, and immutability in an original
direction of the affective and intellectual nature of man.
So long as extremes in diversity of colour and con
figuration were alone considered, and the first liveliness of
sensible impression was yielded to, there might have been
the disposition to consider races, not as mere varieties, but
as originally different kinds of men. The permanency of
certain types (403) even amidst the most inimical operation
of external, particularly climatic influences, appeared to
favour such an assumption, short though the time be
through which historical information has come down to us.
But vouching far more strongly, according to my views,
for the unity of the human race, are the many middle
tints (404) in colour of skin, and grades in form of skull,
which the rapid spread of geographical knowledge in
recent times has made known to us ; the analogy of variety
in other wild and domesticated classes of animals, and the
sure experience which has been collected in regard to the
limits of fruitful hybrids of different kinds (405). The
greater number of the contrasts which in former times were
believed to have been discovered, have been disposed of
by the industrious work of Tiedemann, " On the Brain of
the Negro and the European," and by the anfitomical inqui
ries of Vrolik and of Weber, " On the Form of the Pelvis."
vol. i. 8
386 ORGANIC LIFE.
If we embrace the dark-skinned African nations, on which
Pilchard's admirable work* has thrown so much light, in
their universality, and compare them with the races of the
South Indian and West Australian Archipelagos, with the
Papuas and Alfourous (Haraforans, Endamenans), we see
clearly that black colour of the skin, woolly hair, and
negro-like features, are by no means always conjoined (406).
So long as but a small portion of the world was open to
the western nations, they necessarily came to narrow
or one-sided conclusions. Heat of sun in the tropical
world, and dark colour of skin, seemed inseparable.
" The ^Ethiopians," sings the old tragedian, Theodectes
of Phaselis (407), " are dyed by the near sun-god in his
course, with a dark and sooty lustre ; the sun's heat
crisps and dries up their hair." The expeditions of
Alexander, which Were so influential in exciting ideas of
the physical cosmography, first fanned the dispute on the
uncertain influence of climate upon races of men.
" The races of animals and plants," says one of the
greatest anatomists of the age, Joannes Miiller, in his
very comprehensive " Physiology of Man,"t " undergo
changes during their spread over the surface of the earth,
within the limits prescribed to species and genera. But
they are propagated organically as types of varieties of
species. From the cooperation of different, as well inter
nal as external conditions, not to be specified in individual
[* Researches into the Physical History of Mankind, 3rd and 4th edit.
4 vols. 8vo., 1841—44. The Natural History of Man, 1 vol. 8vo. 1843.
2d Edit. 1845.—Tk.]
[f Ably rendered into English, and copiously commented and illus
trated, by Dr. Wm. Baly, 2 vols. 8vo., Lond. 1842.—Tr.]
ORGANIC LIFE. 387
instances, have the present races of animals proceeded, the
most remarkable varieties of which are met with amongst
those that are capable of the widest distribution over the
face of the earth. All the races of men are forms of a single
species, which are capable of fruitful union and of propa
gation ; they are not different species of one genus ; were
they so, their mixed progeny would prove unfruitful.
Whether the various races of men are descended from se
veral or from a single primitive man, cannot be decided
from experience" (408).
Geographical researches into the ancient seat, the
cradle, as it has been called, of the human race, possess in
fact a purely mythical character. " We know," says
William von Humboldt, in a work yet unpublished, on
the Diversity of Languages and of Nations, " we know,
neither historically, nor by tradition that can be trusted,
of any epoch in which the human race have not been
collected together into tribes or communities. Whether
this condition was the original one, or first arose at a later
period, cannot be decided historically. Isolated traditions
met with in many different places on the earth's surface
negative the first assumption, and derive the whole of the
human race from a single human pair. The wide diffu
sion of this belief has sometimes led to its being assumed
as a primitive recollection among mankind. But this very
circumstance much rather informs us, that nothing tradi
tional, and nothing historical lies at the root of the per
suasion, but merely similarity of the human faculty of
conception which leads to the same explanation of the
same phenomenon ; many similar myths have very certainly
arisen, without historical connection, out of the similarity of
388 ORGANIC LIFE.
man's poetical and speculative constitution. These tradi
tions also bear the entire stamp of human invention in
this, that they explain the phenomenon of the first appear
ance of the human race (a point which lies beyond the
reach of all experience), in a way that accords with the
experience of the day, and proceed to show how, in times
when the human kind must already have existed for thou
sands of years, a desert island, or a sequestered valley, may
have been peopled. It is in vain, however, that reflection
attempts to dive into this problem of original production,
seeing that man is so bound up with his kind and with
time, that an individual without contemporaries, and
without a past, can by no means be conceived in human
existence. Whether, therefore, in this question, which can
neither be decided by the way of reasoning nor of ex
perience, this pretended tradition be the historical truth,
or the human kind from its commencement has pos
sessed the earth in the shape of tribes or communities,
can neither be determined by Philology out of the ele
ments of its science, nor, assuming the decision on other
grounds, can it use the conclusion come to in illustration
of its own propositions."
The distribution of the human kind is no more than a
distribution into varieties, which have been designated by
the somewhat indefinite word races. As in the vegetable
kingdom, and in the natural history of birds and fishes, the
system of grouping into many small families is more cer
tain than that into a few divisions, embracing larger masses,
so does it appear to me preferable, in the determination of
races of men, to arrange them into smaller families. The
old classification of my master, Blumenbach, into five
ORGANIC LIFE. 389
races—the Caucasian, the Mongolian, the American, the
./Ethiopian, and the Malayan, may he followed; or with
Prichard, seven races may he assumed—the Tranian (409),
the Turanian, the American, the Hottentot and Busch-
man, the Negro, the Papuan, and the Alfourousian ; still
is there no typical rigour, no natural principle of classifi
cation, recognizable in such arrangements. The extremes
in reference to configuration and colour are separated,
without reference to the stocks that cannot be connected
with one or other of these, and which have at one time
been entitled Scythian, at another Allophylian races. Tra
nian, in reference to the European nations, is certainly a less
objectionable name than Caucasian ; but it may be main
tained in a general way, that geographical designations as
derivative points of races are very indeterminate, when the
country which is chosen to confer the title on the race,
for example, Turan (Mawerannahr), has at different epochs
been possessed by most dissimilar races,—of Indo-
Germanic and Finnish, but not Mongolian origin.
Languages, as mental creations of man, as closely inter
twined with his spiritual development, inasmuch as they
exhibit national forms, possess high importance in connec
tion with the recognizable similarities and dissimilarities of
races. They have this importance, because community of
descent leads into the mysterious labyrinth in which the
enchainment of physical (bodily) aptitude with mental
power is exhibited in an endless variety of forms. The
brilliant advances which philosophical philology has made
in Germany, especially within the last half century, facili
tate inquiries into the national character of languages, into
that which descent appears to have added to them. As in
390 ORGANIC LIFE.
all other regions of abstract speculation, however, the
danger of being deceived is here set beside the hope of
collecting a rich and assured booty.
Positive ethnographical studies, based upon solid histo
rical knowledge, warn us that the greatest caution is
necessary in all comparisons of nations with the languages
which they have made use of at determinate epochs. Sub
jugation, living long together, the influence of a foreign
religion, and intermixture of races, though often effected
by a relatively small number of more powerful and
more civilized intruders, have produced a phenomenon
which has recurred in like measure, in both continents,
viz. : that totally different families of languages are
met with in use by one and the same race ; that among
nations of very different descent, idioms of the same original
tongue are encountered. Asiatic conquerors have had the
greatest influence upon such phenomena.
Speech, however, is a portion of the natural science of
mind; and if the freedom wherewith the spirit in a
state of happy independence steadily pursues the self-
elected course under totally different physical influences,
strives vigorously to withdraw it from the power of
the earth, still the unfettering is never quite complete.
There ever remains something of that which belongs to
natural aptitude, to descent, to climate, to the bright blue
sky, or to the cloudy atmosphere of the insular world.
And since copiousness and grace in the structure of-a
language are unfolded from thought as from the most
delicate blossom of the soul, so would we not, that in the
intimacy of the bond which unites the two spheres,—that
of the physical nature, and that of the intellect and
ORGANIC LIFE. .391
feelings—our delineation should be without the favourable
light and colouring which it must derive from a considera
tion, here only indicated, it is true, of the relations of
hereditary descent to language.
In maintaining the unity of the human kind, we at the
same time repudiate all the unsatisfactory assumptions of
higher and lower races of men (412). There are races of
men more flexible, more highly polished, through mental
culture more ennobled, but none naturally more noble. All
are in equal measure ordained for liberty ; for liberty which
in ruder conditions of society appertains to the individual,
which in more polished states, in civil life and among men
in the enjoyment of political institutions, is the right of the
community. " If we would signalize an idea which is
conspicuous throughout the entire current of history, and
ever with a wider import, when any one assures us of the
much-discussed, but still more extensively misappre
hended perfectibility of mankind, it is the idea of
Humanity : the effort to cast down the barriers which
prejudice and one-sided views of every kind have hostilely
raised betwixt man and man, and to treat mankind at
large, without reference to religion, to nation, or to
-colour, as one great and nearly related family—as a whole,
that exists for the accomplishment of this single end,
THE FREE DEVELOPMENT OF INTERNAL POWER. This
is the extreme, the ultimate purpose of the social state,
and at the same time it is the tendency infixed in
the nature of man striving after indefinite extension of
his being. He looks upon the ground, as it spreads out
beneath his feet—on the heavens, as they arch over his
head,—on the stars that shed their light upon him, as
392 ORGANIC LIFE.
intimately his own, as given to him for contemplation and
for reality. The very child longs to get beyond the hills,
the lakes that bound his narrow home ; and then, plant
like, he longs to return ; for it is a touching and a beau
tiful element in the nature of man, that all his desires
for things agreeable and for things lost, still approve him
exclusively attached to the moment : firmly rooted in
the inmost nature of man, and at the same time com
manded by his loftiest aspirations, this benevolent, this
humane association of the entire race becomes one of the
grand leading ideas in the history of mankind" (413) .
With these words, which draw their charm from the
depth of the feelings that gave them birth, be it allowed
the Brother to conclude this general representation of the
natural phenomena of the universe. From the farthest
nebulee of heaven, and from revolving double stars, we
have come down to the smallest organisms of the animal
creation that live by sea and land, and to the delicate
vegetable germs that cover the rocks on the flanks of
snow-clad mountain summits. Here we have found that
the phenomena could be arranged according to laws which
are partially known. Laws of another and a mysterious
kind come into play in the higher circles of life in the
organic world ; in those especially that are occupied by
the races of mankind variously conformed, endowed with
creative mental energies, and gifted with the faculty of
inventing language. A physical Delineation of Nature
indicates the boundary where the sphere of intelligence
begins, and the far-piercing glance is lost in another
world. It indicates, but does not pass the boundary.
393
NOTES to PRECEDING SECTION.
1 (p. 90.)—The optical considerations on the differences which a single
luminous point or a disc of measurable angle presents, in which the power
of light remains the same at every distance, may be found discussed by
Arago, Analyse des travaux de Sir William Herschel (Annuaire du Bureau
des Long. 1842, p. 410—412, and 441.)
2 (p. 90.)—" The two Magellanic clouds, Nubecula major and minor, are
highly remarkable objects. The larger cloud is an aggregation of stars, and
consists of clusters of stars of irregular configuration, of globular clusters
and nebulous stars of different sizes and densities. Between these lie
large nebulae which are not resolvable into stars, which apparently are
star dust, and even with the 20-feet telescope present themselves only as a
general luminousness of the field, as a brilliant back-ground, upon which
other objects of very remarkable and incomprehensible configuration are
scattered. In no other- part of the heavens are so many clusters of
nebulae and of stars collected together within so small a compass as in
this cloud. The Nubecula minor is much less beautiful ; it shows a larger
quantity of unresolvable nebular light, and the groups of stars it includes
are fewer in number and smaller." — Letter from Sir John Herschel,
dated Feldhuysen, Cape of Good Hope, June 13, 1836.
3 (p. 91.) — The fine expression, x^PTOS oiipavov, which Hesychius
borrows from an unknown poet, I have rendered as above by the phrase
" garden of heaven ;" x^PT0S may perhaps rather signify an enclosed
place, and would then be better translated : the celestial space. The
connection of the word with the German Garten, English garden,
(Gothic gards, according to Jacob Grimm, from gairdan, cingere, to gird,)
s 2
394 NOTES.
is, however, not to be overlooked, any more than the affinity with the
Sclavonian grad, gorod, and, as remarked by Pott (Etymol. Forsch. Th. i.
S. 144), with the Latin chors, (whence the modern words corte, court, conrs),
a
and the Ossetic khart. The northern gard, gard, a fence, an enclosure, and a
country-seat ; and the Persian gerd, gird, a circle, and also a princely
country-seat, a castle, a town ; as in the old names in Firdusi's Schahna-
meh : Siyawakschgird, Darabgird, &c.
* (p. 94.)—For a Centauri, vide Maclear, in Trans. Astronom. Soc,
vol. xii. p. 370. More probable mean error 0"-0640 : for 61 Cygni, vide
Bessel, in Schum. Jahrbuch, 1839, S. 47—49, and in Schum. Astronom.
Nachr. Bd. 17, S. 401, 402. Mean error 0" 0141. On the relative
distances of stars of different orders, as those of the third magnitude are
probably three times more distant, and as to how we are to imagine the
strata of stars in their bodily configuration, I find in Kepler's Epitome
Astronomiae Copernicanae, 1618, tom. i. lib. i. p. 34—39, a remarkable
passage ;—" Sol hie noster nil aliud est quam una ex fixis, nobis major
et clarior visa, quia propior quam fixa. Pone terram stare ad latus, una
semidiametro viae lacteae, tunc haec via lactea apparebit circulus parvus,
vel ellipsis parva, tota declinans ad latus alteram ; eritque simul uno
intuitu conspicua, quse nunc non potest nisi dimidia conspici quovis mo-
mento. Itaque fixarum sphsera non tantum orbe stellarum, sed etiam
circulo lactis versus nos deorsum est terminata."
6 (p. 97.) — " Si dans les zones abandonnees par l'atmosphere du
soleil il s'est trouve des molecules trop volatiles pour s'unir entre elles ou
aux planetes ; elles doivent en continuant de circuler autour de cet astre
offrir toutes les apparences de la lumiere zodiacale, sans opposer de resis
tance sensible aux divers corps du systeme planttaire, soit a cause de leur
extreme rarete, soit parce que leur mouvement est a fort peu pres le
nieme que celui des planetes qu'elles rencontrent."—Laplace, Exp. du
Syst. du Monde, (5e ed.) p. 415.
6 (p. 97.)—Laplace, loc cit. p. 396 and 414.
' (p. 98.)—Littrow, Astronomie, 1825, Bd. ii. S. 107. Madler,
Astr. 1841, S. 212. (Laplace, loc. cit. p. 210.)
8 (p. 99.)—Kepler on the decreasing density and increasing volume
of the planets, with their distance from the sun, which is described as the
most dense of all bodies ; vide his Epitome Astron. Copern. in vii. libros
digesta, 1618— 1622, p. 420. Leibnitz was also of Kepler's and Otto von
Guericke's opinon, that the planets increase in volume in proportion to
NOTES. 395
their distance from the sun. Vide his Brief an den Magdeburger Biir-
germeister (Mainz, 1671), in Leibnitz, deutschen Schriften, herausg. von
Guhrauer, Th. i. S. 264.
9 (p. S9.)—For a co-ordination of the masses, see Enc'.te, in Schum.
Astr. Nachr. 1843, Nr. 488, S. 114.
10 (p. 102.)—If the semidiameter of the moon, according to Burck-
hardt's determination, be 0-2725, and its volume 1jta-09, its density
would then come out 0-5596 ; nearly s/9. Vide Wilh. Beer und H.
Madler, der Mond, S. 1 und 10, wie Madler, Astr. S. 157. The actual
contents of the moon, according to Hausen, equal '/j„ according to
Madler, 1ji3-a of the material contents of the earth; its mass il8i-7s that
of the earth. In the case of the largest of all Jupiter's satellites, the
third, the relations to the primary in volume are 1/iS370 ; in the mass,
'/nsoo- ^n tne oblateness of Uranus, vide Schum. Astron. Nachr.
1844, Nr. 493.
11 (p. 106.)—Beer und Madler, 1. c. § 185, S. 208, u. § 347, S. 332 ;
also their Phys. Kenntniss der himml. Korper, S. 4 und 69, Tab. i.
12 (p. 108.)—The four oldest comets whose orbits have been calculated
—and this from Chinese observations—are those of the years 24 (under
Gordian III.), 539 (under Justinian), 565 and 837. Whilst the last of
these comets was less than 500,000 miles from the earth, and Louis the
Pious, greatly alarmed, was seeking to avert the presumed danger by
founding various monasteries, the Chinese astronomers were following
quite scientifically the course of the star, whose tail, 60° in length, ap
peared first simple and then divided. The first comet which could be
calculated from European observations alone, is that of 1456, (those of
Halley, which were long but incorrectly regarded as the first accurate
elements). Vide Arago, in Annuaire, 1836, p. 204. See also under
Note 26.
13 (p. 109.)—Arago, in Annuaire, 1832, p. 209—211. In the same
way as the tail of the comet of 1402 was seen in bright sunshine, so was
the last great comet of 1843 seen both in its nucleus and tail between
1 and 3 o'clock on the 28th of February by J. G. Clarke, of Portland,
Maine, U. S. Distances of the extremely dense nucleus from the sun's
edge could be measured with great accuracy. The nucleus and tail pre-
sented themselves as a very pure white cloud ; only between the tail and
the nucleus there was a darker space. —American Journal of Science, vol.
xlv. No. 1, p. 229. (Schum. Astr. Nachr. 1843, Nr. 491, S. 175.
39G NOTES.
" (p. 109.)—Phil. Trans, for 1808, pt. ii. p. 155, and for 1812, pt. i.
p. 118. The diameters of the nuclei found by Herschel were 538 and
428 English miles. For the dimensions of the comets of 1798 and 1805,
vide Arago, in Annuaire pour 1832, p. 203.
15 (p. 111.) — Arago, des changemens physiques de la Comete de
Halley du 15—23 Oct. 1835, in Ann. 1836, p. 218—221. The more
usual direction of the tail or emanation was observed in Nero's time :
—" Comae radios solis effugiunt." Seneca, Nat. Quaest. vii. 20.
16 (p. 111.)—Bessel, in Schum. Astr. Nachr. 1836, Nr. 300—302,
S. 188, 192, 197, 200, 202, und 230. Also in Schum. Jahrb. 1837,
S. 149—168. \V. Herschel also believed that he had observed the rota
tion of the nucleus and tail in his observations on the beautiful comet of
1811. (Philos. Trans. 1812, pt. i. p. 140) ; so also Dunlop in the
third comet of 1825 at Paramatta.
17 (p. 112.)—Bessel, in Astr. Nachr. 1836, Nr. 302, S. 231, (Schum.
Jahrb. 1837, S. 175). Vide also Lehmann iiber Cometenschweife in
Bode's Astron. Jahrb. fur 1826, S. 168.
18 (p. 112.)—Aris/ot. Meteor, i. 8, 11—14 und 19—21 (ed. Ideler
t. i. p. 32—31). Biese, Phil, des Aiistoteles, Bd. ii. S. 86. In the
influence which Aristotle exerted on the whole of the middle ages, it is
infinitely to be lamented that he showed himself so inimically disposed to
the grand views of the structure of the universe espoused by the old Pytha
goreans, and which approached the truth so closely. He declares the
comets to be transient meteors belonging to our atmosphere, in the same
book in which he quotes the opinion of the Pythagoreans to the effect
that comets were planets with long periods of revolution. This doctrine
of the Pythagoreans, which, however, from the testimony of Apollonius
Myndius, appears to be much older, and to have been that of the Chal
deans, passed over to the imitative Romans. The Myndian describes the
orbits of comets as passing far into the upper celestial spaces. Whence
Seneca (Nat. Quaest. vii. 17) : "Cometes non est species falsa, sed
proprium sidus sicut solis et lunse : altiora mundi secat et tunc demum
apparetquuminimumcursumsuivenit;" and (vii. 27): " Cometas seter-
nos esse et sortis ejusdem, cujus csetera (sidera), etiamsi faciem illis non ha-
bent similem." Pliny, too, evidently plays upon Apollonius' words, when he
says, " Sunt qui et bsec sidera perpetua esse credant suoque ambitu ire,
sed non nisi relicta a sole cerni."
19 (p. 112.)—Olbers, in the Astr. Nachr. 1828, S. 157, 184. Arago,
NOTES. 397
de la constitution physique des cometes im Annuaire de 1832, p. 203—
208. The ancients had already seen it as remarkable that we can see
through comets as through a flame. The oldest testimony to stars having
been seen through comets, is that of Democritus (Aristot. Meteorol. i. 6,
11). This statement leads Aristotle to the not unimportant observation,
that he himself had seen the occultation of one of the stars of Gemini by
Jupiter. Seneca very certainly refers to the translucency of the tail only
(Nat. Qusest. vii. 18) : " Non in ea parte qua sidus ipsum est spissi et solidi
ignis, sed qua rarus splendor occurrit et in crines dispergitur. Per inter-
valla ignium, non per ipsos" (vii. 26). The last portion of the remark is
superfluous, as we do positively see through a flame if it be not too thick,
as remarked by Galileo (Lettera a Mons. Cesarini, 1619).
80 (p. 113.)—Bessel in den Astr. Nachr. 1836, Nr. 301, S. 204—206.
Struve im Recueil des Mem. de l'Acad. de St.-Pet. 1836, p. 140—143,
and Astr. Nachr. 1836, Nr. 303.—" For Dorpat, the star during the con
junction, was only 2" -2 from the brightest point of the comet. The star
remained steadily visible, and was not sensibly weakened ; whilst the nu
cleus of the comet appeared to be extinguished beside the brilliancy of the
minute star (9th to the 10th magnitude)."
21 (p. 114.)—The first attempts of Arago to apply polarization to
Comets were made on the 3d July, 1819, the evening of the sudden ap
pearance of the great comet. I was present in the observatory, and along
with M. Mathieu and the late M. Bouvard, was satisfied of the inequality
of the strength of light in the polariscope when it received the light of the
comet. With Capella, which was near the comet, and about the same
altitude, the images were of like intensity. When Halley's comet ap
peared in 1835, the apparatus was so altered that it gave two images of
complementary colours—green and red, according to the discovery by
Arago of chromatic polarization. Annales de Chimie, t. xiii. p. 108. An
nuaire, 1832, p. 216.—" On doit conclure," says Arago, " de l'ensemble
de ces observations que la lumiere de la comete n'etait pas en totalite
composee de rayons doues des proprietes de la lumiere directe, propre ou
assimilee : il s'y trouvait de la lumiere reflcchie speculairement ou pola-
risee, c'est-ii-dire venant du soleil. On ne peut assurer d'une manicre
absolue que les cometes brillent seulement d'un eclat d'emprunt. En
eflet en devenant lumineux par eux-memes, les corps ne perdent pas pour
cela la faculte de rcflechir des lumitres etrangeres."
398 NOTES.
22 (p. 115.)—Arago, in Ann. 1832, p. 217—220. Sir John Herschel,
Astron. $.488.
28 (p. 116.)—Encke, in the Ast. Nachr. 1843, Nr. 489, S. 130—132.
M (p/. 117.)—Laplace, Exp. du Syst. du Monde, p. 216 and 237.
26 (p. 117.)—Littrow, Beschreibende Astr. 1835, S. 274. On the
inner comet lately discovered by M. Faye, of the Parisian Observatory,
whose excentricity is 0-551, periheliac distance 1-690, and apheliac dis
tance 5-832, Schura. Astr. Nachr. 1844, Nr. 495.
26 (p. 119.)—Laugier, dans les Comptes rendus des Seances de I'Acad.
1843, t. xvi. p. 1006.
27 (p. 121.)—Fries, Vorlesungen iiber die Sternkunde 1833, S. 262—
267. A not very fortunate argument for the beneficent nature of comets
occurs in Seneca, who speaks (Nat. Quaest. vii. 17 and 21) of the comet,
" Quera nos Neronis principatu leetissimo vidimus et qui cometis detraxit
infamiam."
59 (p. 124.)—One of my friends, accustomed to trigonometrical surveys,
saw his chamber illuminated by a fire-ball at mid-day, and while the sun
was shining, in the town of Popayan (N. lat. 2° 26' ; 5520 feet above the
sea level). He was standing with his back to the window, and when he
turned round a great portion of the course traversed by the ball was still
most brilliantly lighted. The titles for falling-stars are often extremely
vulgar : the Germans speak of them as star-snuffs : according to the
vulgar idea the lights of heaven want snuffing. In the woody country
of the Orinoco, and on the solitary banks of the Cassiquiare, the shooting
stars were designated by the natives star-urine, and the dew which lay on
the beautiful leaves of the Heliconias like pearls, was star-spittle. The
Lithuanian Mythus gives a more noble and imaginative interpretation
of the nature and significance of falling stars : — " The spinstress
Werpeja begins to spin the thread of the destiny of the new-born child,
and each of these threads ends in a star. And then when death approaches
the man, the thread breaks and the star falls, quenching its light, to the
earth."—Jacob Grimm, deutsche Mythologie, 1843, S. 685.
29 (p. 124.)—From the account of Denison Olmsted, Professor of Yale
College, New Haven, Connecticut, U. S., vide PoggendorfFs Annalen der
Physik, Bd. xxx. S. 194. Kepler, who banishes falling stars from
astronomy, they being, according to him, mere meteors engendered by
emanations from the earth, still expresses himself very cautiously in
NOTES. 399
regard to them. " Stellae cadentes," says he, " sunt materia viscida
inflammata. Earum aliquae inter cadendum absumuntur, aliquse vere in
terram cadunt, pondere suo tracts. Nee est dissimile vero, quasdam
conglobatas esse ex materia foeculenta, in ipsam auram aetheream immixta :
exque aetheris regione, tractu rectiUneo, per aerem trajicere, ecu minutos
cometas, occulta causa motus utrorumque."—Kepler, Epit. Astron.
Copernicanae, t. i. p. 80.
30 (p. 124.)—Relation historique, t. i. p. 80, 213, and 527. If we
distinguish a head or nucleus and a tail in falling stars as in comets,
we are made aware of the greater transparency of the atmosphere in
tropical regions by the greater length and brilliancy of their trains. The
phenomenon need not therefore be more frequent because it is more
readily seen, and remains longer visible. The influence of the state of
the atmosphere also shows itself occasionally in connection with falling
stars even in our temperate zone, and at very short distances. Wartmann
informs us, that on occasion of one of the November phenomena, the
difference between the number of meteors seen at Geneva and at Plan-
chettes, two places very near to one another, was as 1 : 7 (Mem. sur les
Etoiles filantes, p. 17). The train of the falling star, upon which Brandes
has made so many accurate and delicate observations, is by no means to
be ascribed to the continuance of the impression of light upon the retina.
It sometimes continues visible for a whole minute ; in rare' cases even
longer than the light of the head of the falling star. The luminous track
then usually remains motionless (Gilb. Ann. Bd. xiv. S. 251). This cir
cumstance also proclaims the analogy between large shooting stars and
fire-balls. Admiral Krusenstern, in his voyage round the world, saw
the tail of a fire-ball that had long vanished, remain visible for an hour,
with very little apparent motion (Reise, Th. i. S. 58). Sir Alexander
Burnes gives a charming account of the transparency of the dry atmos
phere of Bokhara, (N. lat. 39° 43', 1200 feet above the sea-level,) so
favourable formerly to the study of astronomy: "There is a constant
serenity in its atmosphere, and an admirable clearness in the sky. At
night, the stars have uncommon lustre, and the milky-way shines glo
riously in the firmament. There is also a never-ceasing display of the
most brilliant meteors, which dart like rockets in the sky : ten or twelve
of them are sometimes seen in an hour, assuming every colour ; fiery, red,
blue, pale and faint. It is a noble country for astronomical science, and
great must havg been the advantage enjoyed by the famed observatory of
4.00 NOTES.
Samarkand."—Burnes' Travels into Bokhara, vol. ii. (1834) p. 158.
We must not charge it upon the solitary traveller that he speaks of ten or
twelve falling stars in an hour as many ; it has but lately been discovered,
from careful observation, that eight meteors per hour are the mean num
ber that fall within the circle of vision of an individual (vide Quetelet,
Correspond. Mathem. Nov. 1837, p. 447.) Olbers, the acute observer,
reduces this number to from five to six.—(Sebum. Jahrb. 1838, S. 325.)
31 (p. 126.)—On meteoric dust, vide Arago, in Annuaire pour 1832,
p. 254. I have very lately in another place (Asie centrale, t. i. p. 408)
endeavoured to show how the Scythian myth of the sacred gold that fell
glowing from heaven, and remained the property of the golden hordes
of Paralatse, (Herod, iv. 5—7,) may have been the obscure recollection of
the fall of an Aerolite. The ancients also had their fables (Dio Cassius,
lxxv. 1259) strangely enough of silver that fell from heaven, and with
which attempts were made to plate the copper money under the Emperor
Severus. Metallic iron was nevertheless recognized in meteoric stones
by Pliny (ii. 56). The frequently recurring phrase, lapidibus pluit,
must not be always viewed as referring to aerolites. In Livy (xxv. 7)
it is used in connection with the rejected masses—pumice, rapilli, of the
not quite extinct volcanic Mons Albanus, Monte Cavo : vide Heyne, Opusc.
Acad. t. iii. p. 261, and my own Relation historique, t. i. p. 394. To
another circle of ideas belongs the conflict of Hercules against the Ligyes,
on the way from Caucasus to the Hesperides. It is an attempt mythi
cally to explain the origin of the rounded quartz blocks in the Ligyan
stone-field at the mouth of the Rhone, which Aristotle ascribes to an
earthquake, Posidonius to the action of the waves of an inland sea. But in
the fragments of the Prometheus Unbound of jEschylus, all goes forward
as in a fall of Aerolites : Jupiter draws together a cloud, and " covers the
land with a shower of rounded stones for rain." Posidonius allows him
self to jest at the geological myth of the fragments and blocks. The
Ligyan stone-field for the rest is faithfully described by the ancients. The
country is now called La Crau.—Guerin, Mesures barometriques dans
lesAlpes et Meteorologie d'Avignon, 1829, ch. xii. p. 115.
32 (p. 126.)—The specific gravity of Aerolites varies between 1"9 (Alais)
and 4-3 (Tabor). The more common density is about 3, water being
assumed as 1. What is stated in the text in regard to the actual diameter
of fire-balls, is based on the few satisfactory measurements we possess.
These for the fire-ball of Weston (Connecticut, Dec. 14, 1807) assign
NOTES. 401
500, for the one observed by Le Roi (10th July, 1771) about 1,000, and
for that seen by Sir Charles Blagden (18th Jan. 1783) as many as 2,600
feet in diameter. Brandes (Unterhaltung. Bd. i. S. 42) assigns from 80 to
120 feet to shooting stars ; their luminous tails being from 3 to 4 miles in
length. But there are not wanting optical grounds for believing that the
apparent diameter of fire-balls and shooting stars is greatly over estimated.
The volume of fire-balls is certainly not to be compared with the volume
of Ceres, (even supposing this planet to be no more than 70 English
miles in diameter, as has been estimated) : see the accurate and admirable
treatise, On the Connexion of the Physical Sciences, 1835, p. 411. I
here add in illustration of what has been said at page 121, of the great
Aerolite of the bed of the river Narni, the passage from the Chronicon
Benedicti, monachi Sancti Andreae in Monte Soracte, which has been
referred to by Pertz, a document of the 10th century, and that is preserved
in the Biblioteca Chigi at Rome. The barbarous writing of the time is
preserved unaltered : " Anno—921—temporibus domini Johannis Decimi
pape, in anno pontiiicatus illius 7. visa sunt signa. Nam juxta urbem
Roman lapides plurimi de coelo cadere visi sunt. In civitate quse vocatur
Narnia tarn diri ac tetri, ut nihil aliud credatur, quam de infernalibus
locis deducti essent. Nam ita ex illis lapidibus unus omnium maximus
est, ut decidens in flumen Narnus, ad mensuram unius cubiti super aquas
fluminis usque hodie videretur. Nam et ignitce faculue de coelo plurima;
omnibus in hac civitate Romani populi visae sunt, ita ut pene terra con-
tingeret. Aliae cadentes," &c—(Pertz, Monum. Germ. hist. Scriptores,
t. iii. p. 715.) On the Aerolites of Aegos Potamos, whose fall the
Pariscan Chronicle states to have happened in the 78-l Olympiad (Bockh,
Corp. Inscr. Grsec. t. ii. p. 302, 320, and 340). Aristot. Meteor, i. 7
(Ideler, Comm. t. i. p. 404—407); Stob. Eel. Phys. i. 25 p. 508,
Heeren ; Plut. Lys. c. 12 ; Diog. Laert. ii. 10. (And also under the
Notes 39, 57, 58, and 59). According to a Mongolian tradition, a black
rocky mass, 40 feet in height, is said to have fallen from heaven in a plain
near the sources of the Yellow River in Western China.—Abel-Remusat,
in Lametherie, Journ. de Phys. 1819, Mai, p. 264.
33 (p. 128.)—Biot, Traite d'Astronomie physique, (3"e ed.) 1841 t. i.
p. 149, 177, 238, and 312.—My immortal friend Poisson attempted the
solution of the difficulty of spontaneous combustion occurring in an aero
lite in a region where the density of the atmosphere is almost nil, in a very
peculiar manner. He says, " A une distance de la terre ou la densite de
402 NOTES.
l'atmosphere est tout-a-fait insensible, il serait difficile d'attribuer, comme
on le fait, l'incandescence des aerolithes a un frottement contre les mole
cules de l'air. Ne pourrait-on pas supposer que le fluide electrique a
l'etat neutre forme une sorte d'atmosphere, qui s'e-tend beaucoup au-dela
de la masse d'air ; qui est soumise a l'attraction de la terre, quoique phy-
siquement imponderable ; et qui suit, en consequence, notre globe dans
ses mouvements ? Dans cette hypothese, les corps dont il s'agit, en
entrant dans cette atmosphere imponderable, decomposeraient le fluide
neutre, par leur action inegale sur les deux electricites, et ce serait en
s'electrisant qu'ils s'e-chaufferaient et deviendraient incandescents."—
(Poisson, Recb. sur la Probability des Jugements, 1837, p. 6.)
84 (p. 128.)—Pbilos. Transact, vol. xxix. p. 161—163.
35 (p. 128.)—The first edition of Chladni's important treatise, On the
origin of the masses of Iron discovered by Pallas and others, appeared two
months before the shower of stones fell at Siena, and two years before
Lichtenberg's proposition, " that stones come into our atmosphere from
universal space," in the Gottingen Pocket-Book.— Vide Olbers' Letter to
Benzenberg of Nov. 18th, 1837, and the latter's work on Falling Stars,
p. 186.
36 (p. 129.)—Encke, in Poggend. Annalen, Bd. xxxiii. (1834) S. 213.
Arago, in Ann. pour 1836, p. 291.—Two letters of mine to Benzenberg,
19th May and Oct. 22d, 1837, on the supposed precession of the nodes
in the orbit of the periodic streams of shooting stars (Benzenb. Sternsch.
S. 207 and 209). Olbers, too, subsequently came into this opinion of the
gradual retardation of the November phenomenon (Astron. Nachr. 1838,
No. 372, S. 180). If I venture to connect two of the falls of shooting
stars indicated by the Arabian writers with those discovered by Bogus-
lawski, as having occurred in the 14th century, I obtain the following
more or less accordant elements of the nodal movement :—
In October 902, in the night of the death of King Ibrahim -ben- Ahmed,
there was a great fall of stars, " like a fiery rain." This year was on this
account called the year of the stars.—(Conde, Hist, de la domin. de los
Arabes, p. 346.)
Oct. 19th, 1202.—Stars fell the whole night through; " they fell like
locusts."—(Comptes-rendus, 1837, t. i. p. 294, and Fraehn, in Bull, de
l'Acad. de St. Petersbourg, t. iii. p. 308.)
Oct. 21, old style, 1366, die sequente post festum xi. millia Virginum
ab hora matutina usque ad horam priman visae sunt quasi stellse de ceelo
NOTES. 403
cadere continue), et in tanta multitudine, quod nemo narrare sufficit.—
This remarkable notice, of which more use will be made further on in the
text, was discovered by M. von Boguslawski, Jun. in Benesse (de Horowic)
de Weitmil or Weithmiil's Chronicon Ecclesiae Pragensis, p. 389. This
chronicle is republished in the 2d part of the Scriptores rerum Bohemi-
carum von Pelzel und Dobrowsky, 1784, (Schum. Astr. Nachr. Dec.
1839).
Night of Nov. 9—10, 1787, many shooting stars observed by Hemmer
in South Germany, particularly in Manheim.—(Ksemtz, Meteorol. iii.
237.)
Midnight, Nov. 12, 1799.—The extraordinary fall of stars, which
Bonpland and I have described, and which was observed over the greater
part of the globe.—(Vide Relat. Hist. t. i. p. 519—527.)
Nov. 12—13, 1822, shooting stars mingled with fire-balls, in great
numbers, seen by Kloden, in Potsdam (Gilbert's Annalen, vol. 72, p. 291).
Nov. 13th, 1831, at four a.m., a great fall of stars seen by Captain
Berard on the coast of Spain, near Carthagena del Levante (Annuaire,
1836, p. 297).
Night of Nov. 12—13, 1833.—The remarkable North American pheno
menon so admirably described by Denison Olmsted.
Night of Nov. 13—14, 1834.—The same phenomenon, but not so bril
liant, observed in North America (PoggendorfF, Ann. Bd. xxxiv. S. 129).
Nov. 13th, 1835, a stack was set on fire by a single fire-ball near
Belley, Dep. de l'Ain (Annuaire, 1836).
In the year 1838, the stream of shooting stars showed itself most de
cidedly in the night from the 13th to the 14th November (Astronom.
Nachrichten, 1838, No. 372).
" (p. 130.)—It is not unknown to me that of the 62 shooting- stars
which were simultaneously observed in Silesia, at the instance of Prof,
Brandes, some appeared to have had an elevation of 45'/, 0, of 60 and
even of 100 miles, vide Brandes, Unterhaltungen fur Freunde der Astro-
nomie und Physik, Heft i. S. 48. But Olbers, by reason of the small-
ness of the parallax, regards all determinations above 30 miles in height,
as doubtful.
38 (p. 130.)—The velocity of the planets in their orbits varies greatly ;
for Mercury it is 6-6, for Venus 4-8, and for the Earth 4-1 German miles
per second.
39 (p. 130.)—Chladni discovered that an Italian natural philosopher,
404 NOTES.
Paolo Maria Terzago, 1660, on the occasion of a fall of aerolites at
Milan, in which a monk was killed, was the first who spoke of the possi
bility of aerolites being moon-stones: " Labant philosophorum mentes,"
says he, in his work, Musaeum Septalianum, Manfredi Septalae, Patricii
Mediolanensis, industrioso labore constructum, Tortona, 1664, p. 44,
"sub horum lapidum ponderibus; ni dicere velimus, lnnam terram alteram,
sive mundum esse, ex cujus montibus divisa frustra in inferiorem nostrum
hunc orbem delabantur." Without having any knowledge of this conjec
ture, Olbers was led in the year 1795, after the great fall of stones that
took place at Siena (16th June, 1794), to the inquiry of—how great the
original projectile force must be to send masses from the moon to the
earth ? And a problem of this kind found occupation for such minds as
Laplace, Biot, Brandes, and Poisson, for some ten or twelve years. The
opinion once very generally entertained, but now abandoned, of the exis
tence of active volcanoes in the moon without atmosphere and without
water, favoured in the public mind the confusion of a mathematical possi
bility with a physical probability,—an explanation of a physical fact
preferable to other explanations. Olbers, Brandes, and Chladni, believed
that they had discovered a refutation of the lunar origin of meteoric stones
in the relative velocity of from 4 to 8 miles, with which fire-balls and
shooting stars enter our atmosphere. To reach the earth, according to
Olbers, without bringing the resistance of the air into the reckoning, an
original velocity of 7780 feet per second were requisite; according to
Laplace, the necessary velocity is 7377 feet; according to Biot, 7771
feet; and according to Poisson, 7123 feet. Laplace calls this primary
velocity only from 5 to 6 times greater than that which a cannon-ball
possesses as it leaves the gun ; but Olbers has shown, " that with such a
primary velocity of from 7500 to 8000 feet per second, meteoric stones
would only reach the confines of our atmosphere with a velocity of 35,000
feet " (1-53 German geographical mile). But as the measured velocity of
meteoric stones is in the mean 5 geographical miles, or more than 114,000
feet per second, they must originally have had a centrifugal force in the
moon of 110,000 feet per second, fourteen times greater therefore than
Laplace assumes. (Olbers in Schum. Jahrb. 1837, S. 52—58 und in
Gehler's Nues physik. Worterbuche, Bd. vi. Abth. 3, S. 2129—2136.)
The absence of any resistance from the air would, however, give the pro
jectile force of the lunar volcanoes an advantage beyond the projectile
force of our volcanoes on the earth,—supposing always that volcanic action
NOTES. 405
is conceived as possible in the body of the moon ; but upon the amount
or measure of the power of these lunar volcanoes, we are still without any
information. It is very probable indeed that this amount has been greatly
over estimated. A very accurate observer and measurer of the power of
jEtna, Dr. Peters, has found the greatest velocity of stones cast out from
its crater to be but 1250 feet per second. Observations on the Peak of
Teneriffe in 1798 gave 3000 feet. If Laplace, at the end of his work
(Expos, du Syst. du Monde, 1824, p. 399), says very considerately,—
" que selon toutes les vraisemblances elles viennent des profondeurs de
l'espace celeste ;" we still find him in another place, probably unacquainted
with the amazing, wholly planetary velocity of meteoric stones (Chap. vi.
p. 233), reverting to the selenitic hypothesis with a kind of preference, but
always premising that the stones cast out from the moon " deviennent
des satellites de la terre, decrivant autour d'elle une orbite plus ou moins
allongee, de sorte qu'ils n'atteignent l'atmosphere de la terre qu'aprfes
plusieurs et mime un tres-grand nombre de revolutions." In the same
way as an Italian of Tortona conceived the fancy that aerolites came
from the moon, Greek philosophers had a notion that they came from the
sun. Diogenes Laertius (ii. 9) adverts to such an opinion when treat
ing of the origin of the mass which fell at ^gos Potamoi (vide Note 32
above) ; and Pliny, who registers every thing, mentions the idea, and
ridicules it the more willingly, because with earlier writers (Diog. Laert.
ii. 3 and 5) he excuses Anaxagorus for having predicated a fall of stones
from the sun : " Celebrant Graeci Anaxagoram Clazomenium Olympiadis
septuagesimae octavse secundo anno praedixisse caelestium litterarum
scientia, quibus diebus saxum casurum esse e sole, idque factum interdiu
in Thraciae parte ad Aegos fluinen.—Quod si quis prsedictum credat,
simul fateatur necesse est, majoris miraculi divinitatem Anaxagorse fuisse,
solvique rerum nature intellectual, et confnndi omnia, si aut ipse Sol
lapis esse aut unquam lapidem in eo fuisse credatur; decidere tamen
crebro non erit dubium." Anaxagoras is also said to have foretold the
fall of the stone of smaller dimensions, which was preserved in the Gym
nasium of Abydos. Falls of aerolites during sunshine, and when the
disc of the moon was not visible, probably gave rise to the idea of the
sun as their source. It was also one of the physical dogmas of Anaxa
goras, and which, as in the case of the geologists of these our own times,
exposed him to the persecution of the theologians, that the sun was " a
molten fiery mass (pi/ipos Sidwpos)." In the Phaeton of Euripides the
406 NOTES.
sun, after the same views of the Clazomensean, is called a " golden clod,"
i. e. a fiery-coloured luminous mass of matter ; from which, however, we
are not to conclude that aerolites are "golden sun-stones." Vide Note 31,
above ; as also Valckenaer, Diatribe in Eurip. perd. dram. Reliquias,
1767, p. 30. Diog. Laert. ii. 40. We seem, then, to find four hypo
theses among the Greek natural philosophers : a telluric origin of falling
stars from ascending vapours ; masses of stone raised by tempests, in
Aristotle (Meteorol. lib. i. cap. iv. 2—13, and cap. VII. 9) ; an origin
from the sun ; an origin from celestial space, and as heavenly bodies that
had long remained invisible. On the last view of Diogenes of Apollonia,
which entirely agrees with our own, see the text (p. 140), and Note 58.
It is remarkable that in Syria, as a learned orientalist, my teacher of
Persic, M. Andrea de Nericat, assured me, according to an old popular
belief they are still solicitous about falls of stones from the sky in very
clear moonlight nights. The ancients, on the contrary, were on the
watch for the same event during eclipses of the moon (Plin. xxxvii. 10,
p. 164 ; Solinus, c. 37 ; Salm. Exerc. p. 531) ; and the passages collected
by Ukert, in his Geography of the Greeks and Romans (Th. ii. 1, S. 131,
Note 14). On the improbability that aerolites arise from gases holding
metallic matters dissolved, which, according to Fusinieri, exist in the
upper strata of our atmosphere, and which previously dispersed in infinite
space had suddenly coalesced, as well as on the penetration and miscibility
of gases, see my Relation histor. t. i. p. 525.
40 (p. 131.)—Bessel in Schum. Astr. Nachr. 1839, Nr. 380 und 381,
S. 222 und 346. At the close of the work there is a comparison of the
sun's place in longitude with the epochs of the November phenomenon,
since the first observations in Cumana, 1799.
41 (p. 132.)—Dr. Thomas Forster (The Pocket Encyclop. of Natural
Phenomena, 1827, p. 17) informs us that in Christ Church College,
Cambridge, there is preserved a MS. entitled " Ephemerides rerum natu-
ralium," which is ascribed to a monk of the last century. In this MS.
natural phenomena are noted as having occurred on every day of the year :
the flowering of plants ; the arrival of birds of passage, &c. The 10th
of August is characterized by the word meteorodes. This indication and
the tradition of the fiery tears of St. Lawrenoe, led Dr. Forster to pay
particular attention to the August phenomenon.—Quetelet, Corresp.
mathem., serie in. tom. i. 1837, p. 433.
42 (p. 132.)—Humboldt, Rel. hist. t. i. p. 519—527. Ellicot, in the
NOTES. 407
Transactions of the American Society, 1804, vol. vi. p. 29. Arago says
of the November phenomenon, " Ainsi se confirme de plus en plus a nous
l'existence d'une zone composee de millions de petits corps dont les
orbites rencontrent le plan de l'ecliptique vers le point que la terre va
occuper tous les ans, du 11 au 13 Novembre. C'est un nouveau monde
planetaire qui commence a se reveler a nous."—Annuaire, 1836, p. 296.
43 (p. 133.)—Vide Muschenbroek, Introd. ad Phil. Nat. 1762, t. ii.
p. 1061. Howard, Climate of London, vol. ii. p. 23, Observations of
the Year 1806, therefore, seven years after the earliest observations of
Prof. Brandes (Benzenberg iiber Sternschnuppen, S. 240—244) ; August-
Observations of Thomas Forster, vide Quetelet, loc. cit. 438—453 ; of
Adolph Erman, Boguslawski und Kreil in Schum. Jahrb. 1838, S. 317—
330. On the point in Perseus whence the stream proceeded on the 10th
of August, 1839, see the accurate measurements of Bessel and Erman
(Schum. Astr. Nachr. No. 385, and 428) ; on the 10th of August, 1837,
however, the orbit did not appear to be retrograde ; see Arago, in Comptes
rendus, 1837, tom. ii. p. 183.
44 (p. 133.) — On the 25th of April, 1095, "innumerable eyes in
France saw the stars fall as thick as hail from heaven (ut grando, nisi luce-
rent, pro densitate putaretur; Baldr. p. 88) ; and this incident was regarded
by the Council of Clermont as premonitory of a great movement in
Christendom. (Vide Wilken, Gesch. der Kreuzziige, Bd. i. S. 75.) On
the 22d of April, 1800, a great fall of stars was observed in Virginia and
Massachussets ; it was like a display of rockets that lasted for two hours.
Arago first directed attention to this " trainee d'asteroides" as a recurring
phenomenon (Annuaire, 1836, p. 297). The falls of aerolites in the
beginning of December are also remarkable ; their periodical recurrence
is vouched for by the old observations of Brandes in the night from the
6th to the 7th of December, 1798, when he counted nearly 2000 falling
stars, and perhaps by the extraordinary fall of aerolites of the 11th of
December, 1836, at the village of Macao on the river Assu, Brazil
(Brandes, Unterhalt. fur Freunde der Physik, 1825, Heft i. S. 65, and
Comptes rendus, tom. v. p. 211.) Capocci, from 1809 to 1836, has
found records of twelve actual falls of aerolites between the 27th and the
29th of November; and several others of the 13th of November, 10th
of August, and 16th of July (Comptes rendus, tom. xi. p. 357). It is
curious that in the part of the earth's orbit which corresponds to the
months of January and February, and perhaps March, no periodical fall
408 NOTES.
of shooting stars has yet been noticed ; nevertheless I myself observed a
remarkable number of shooting stars on the 15th of March, 1803, in the
South Pacific Ocean ; and a shower of the same was seen in the city of
Quito shortly before the tremendous earthquake of Riobamba (4th
Feb. 1797). The following epochs deserve the particular attention of
observers :—
22—25 April,
17 July (17—26 July?) ( Quet. Corr. 1837, p. 435),
10 August,
12—14 November,
27—29 November,
6—12 December.
The frequency of these streams, however great the difference between
isolated comets and rings filled with asteroids, ought not to excite astonish
ment when we think of the depths of universal space filled with myriads
of comets.
45 (p. 134.)—Ferd. v. Wrangel, Reise langs der Nordkiiste von Sibirien.
in den Jahren 1820—1824, Th. ii. S. 259. On the return of the thicker
shower of the November asteroids every thirty-four years, vide Olbers in
Jahrb. 1837, S. 280. I was informed in Cumana, that shortly before the
dreadful earthquake of 1766, just thirty-three years therefore before the
great exhibition of shooting-stars of November 11—12, 1799, the same
display had been seen. But the earthquake of 1766 did not occur in
November, but on the 21st of October. It were worth the while of
travellers in Quito to investigate the particular day on which the volcano
Cayambe appeared for an hour as if enveloped in a shower of falling stars,
so that religious processions were set in motion to appease the heavens !
(vide my Relat. histor. t. i. chap. iv. p. 307 ; chap. x. p. 520 and 527.)
46 (p. 135.)—From a letter to me of January 24, 1838. The extraor
dinary display of shooting stars of 1799 was observed almost exclusively
in America, from New Herrnhut, in Greenland, to the Equator. The
phenomena of 1831 and 1832 were only seen in Europe ; those of 1833
and 1834 only in the United States of North America.
47 (p. 136.)—Lettre de Mr. Edouard Biot a Mr. Quetelet sur les
anciennes apparitions d'etoiles filantes en Chine, in Bull, de l'Acad. de
Bruxelles, 1843, t. x. No. 7, p. 8. On the notice from the Chronicon
Ecclesiae Pragensis, vide Boguslawski, Jun., in Poggend. Annalen, Bd.
xlviii. S. 612. To Note 12 should be added, that the orbits of four comets
NOTES. 409
(568, 574, 1337, and 1385,) have been reckoned exclusively from
Chinese data. Vide John Russell Hind, in Schum. Astr. Nachr. 1844,
Nr. 498.
48 (p. 136.)—" Il paraît qu'un nombre, qui semble inépuisable, de
corps trop petits pour être observés, se meuvent dans le ciel, soit autour
du soelil, soit autour des planètes, soit peut-être même autour des satellites.
On suppose que quand ces corps sont recontrés par notre atmosphère, la
différence entre leur vitesse et celle de notre planète est assez grande pour
que le frottement qu'ils éprouvent contre l'air, les échauffe au point de
les rendre incandescents, et quelquefois de les faire éclater.—Si le groups
des étoiles niantes forme un anneau continu autour du soleil, sa vitesse
de circulation pourra être très-différente de celle de la terre ; et ses
déplacements dans le ciel, par suite des actions planétaires, pourrons
encore rendre possible ou impossible, à différentes époques, le phéno
mène de la rencontre dans le plan de l'écliptique."—Poisson, Recherches
sur la probabilité des jugements, p. 306, 307.
49 (p. 139.)—Humboldt, Essai politique sur la Nouv. Espagne, (2e
édit.) t. iii. p. 310.
50 (p. 137.)—Pliny shows himself to have been attentive to the colour
of the crust : colore adusto. The words, lateribus pluisse, also refer to
the burned external appearance of Aerolites (ii. 56 and 58.)
51 (p. 138.)—Humboldt, Rel. hist. t. ii. chap. xx. p. 299—302.
62 (p. 139.)—Gustav Rose, Reise nach dem Ural, Bd. ii. S. 202.
53 (p. 139.)—Fide Poggend. Ann. 1825, Bd. iv. S. 173—192. Ram-
melsberg, Erstes Suppl. zum chem. Handworterbuche der Minéralogie,
1843, s. 102. " It is," says the acute Olbers, " a remarkable though
unnoticed fact, that fossil meteoric stones have been found, like fossil
shells, in secondary and tertiary formations. Shall we thence feel at liberty
to conclude, that before the last and present arrangement ofthe surface of
our earth, meteoric stones had fallen upon it ? Schreibers calculates that
at this time there are about 700 falls of meteoric stones in each year."—
(Olbers, in Schum. Jahrb. 1838, s. 329.) Problematic nickeliferous
masses of native iron have been lately found in North Asia, (Gold-
seiferwerk von Petropawlowsk, 20 miles south-east of Kusnezk,) at a
distance of 31 feet deep, and in the Western Carpathians (Magura,
near Szlanicz.) Both of these masses are extremely like Aerolites,—
Vide Erman, Archiv fur wissenschaftliche Kunde von Russland, Bd. i.
S. 315, and Haidinger's Bericht iiber die Szlaniczer Schiirfe in Ungarn.
VOL. I. T
410 NOTES.
M (p. 139.)—Berzelius, Jahresber. Bd.xv. S. 217 and 231 ; Rammels-
berg, Handworterb. Abth. ii. S. 25—28.
55 (p. 140.)—" Sir Isaac said, he took all the planets to be composed
of the same matter with this earth, viz. earth, water, and stones, but
variously concocted."—Turner, Collections for the Hist, of Grantham,
cont. authentic Memoirs of Sir Isaac Newton, p. 172.
56 (p. 141.)—Adolph Erman, in Poggend. Ann. 1839, Bd. xlviii. S.
582—601. Biot at a previous period, (Comptes rendus, 1836, t. ii. p.
670) raised doubts of the probability of the November phenomenon
appearing again in the beginning of May. Madler has taken the mean
temperature of the three days of May that have been decried for the last
86 years, according to Berlin observations, (Verhandl. des Vereins zur
Beford. des Gartenbaues 1834, s. 377,) and finds the temperature of
the 11th, 12th, and 13th of May to recede l°-22 C. precisely at a
season when the advance in the temperature is the most rapid. It
would be very desirable that this phenomenon of a fall of temperature,
which there has been an obvious disposition to ascribe to the fusion of
masses of ice in the north-east of Europe, were investigated at very
different points of the continent of America, or in the southern hemisphere.
Vide Bull. del'Acad. Imp. de St.-Petersbourg 1843, t. i. No. 4.
i7 (p. 141.)—Plut. Vitae par. in Lysandro, cap. 22. The account of
Damachos (Da-imachos), according to which a fiery cloud was seen for
70 days in succession, and which emitted sparks like falling stars, and
finally sinking down, deposited the stone of Mgoa Potamos, "which was
but an insignificant portion of the cloud," is extremely improbable,
because the course and direction of the fire-ball must then have continued
for many days like that of the earth. The fire-ball of the 19th of July,
1686, described by Halley, performed its visible course in minutes (Philos.
Trans, vol. xxix. p. 163.) Whether Daimachos, the writer, irepi eiaeSeias,
is the same with the Daimachos of Platsea, who was sent by Seleucus to
India to the son of Androkottos, and whom Strabo (p. 70, Casaub.)
characterizes as a "vender of lies," remains uncertain. From another
passage of Plutarch (Compar. Solonis c. Pop. cap. 4), we should almost
be disposed to believe that he was. Vide Note 32.
58 (p. 142.)—Stob. ed. Heeren, i. 25, p. 508, Plut. de plac. Philos.
ii. 13.
59 (p. 142.)—The remarkable passage of Plutarch (De plac. Philos. ii.
13) is the following : " Anaxagoras teaches that the surrounding ether is
NOTES. 411
fiery in respect of its substance ; and through the force of its circumvolu
tion tears away masses of rock from the earth, sets them on fire, and
turns them into stars." The Clazomensean employs the same kind of
force (centrifugal force) for bringing the Nemsean lion from the moon to
the Peloponnesus. (Aelian. xii. 7 ; Plut. de facie in orbe lunae, c. 24 ;
Schol. ex Cod. Paris, in Apoll. Argon, lib. i. p. 498, ed. Schaef. t. ii. p.
40 ; Meineke, Annal. Alex. 1843, p. 85.) We have therefore in this
instance moon animals instead of moon stones. According to Bockh's
acute remark, the old myth of the Neniaean lion of the moon has an astro
nomical origin, and is connected symbolically in chronology with the
intercalary cycles of the lunar year, the worship of the moon at Nemsea,
and the games there celebrated.
60 (p. 144.)—The following important passage, one of the many inspi
rations of Kepler on the radiation of heat by the fixed stars, slow com
bustion and the vital processes, occurs in the Paralipom. in Vitell. Astron.
pars optica, 1604, Propos. xxxii. p. 25 :—" Lucis proprium est calor,
sydera omnia calefaciunt. De syderum luce claritatis ratio testatur,
calorem universorum in minori esse proportione ad calorem unius solis,
quam ut ab homine, cujus est certa caloris mensura, uterque simul percipi
et judicari possit. De cincindularum lucula tenuissima negare non potes,
quin cum calore sit. Vivunt enim et moventur, hoc autem non sine
calefactione perficitur. Sed neque putrescentium lignorum lux suo calore
destituitur ; nam ipsa puetredo quidam lentus ignis est. Inest et stirpibus
suus calor." Vide Kepler, Epit. Astron. Copernicanae, 1618, t. i.
lib. i. p. 35.
61 (p. 147.)—"There is another thing, which I recommend to the ob
servation of mathematical men : which is, that in February, and for a little
before, and a little after that month (as I have observed several years to
gether), about six in the evening, when the Twilight had almost deserted
the horizon, you shall see a plainly discernible way of the Twilight striking
up towards the Pleiades, and seeming almost to touch them. It is so
observed any clear night, but it is best iliac nocte. There is no such way
to be observed at any other time of the year (that I can perceive), nor any
other way at that time to be perceived darting up elsewhere. And I
believe it hath been, and will be constantly visible at that time of the
year. But what the cause of it in nature should be, I cannot yet imagine,
but leave it to further enquiry."—Childrey, Britannia Baconica, 1661,
p. 183. This is the first and simple account of the phenomenon,
412 NOTES.
Cassini, Decouverte de la lumiere celeste qui paroit dans le zodiaque, in
the Mem. de l'Acad. t. viii. 1730, p, 276. Mairan, Traite phys. de
l'Aurore boreale, 1754, p. 16. In the curious book of Childrey, quoted
above, there are very rational views of the epochs of the occurrence of
the maxima and minima in the distribution of the annual heat, as well as
on the course of the daily temperature ; and on the retardation of the ex
treme effects in meteorological processes. Unfortunately the Baconian
philosophising Chaplain to Lord Henry Somerset, like Bernardin de St.
Pierre, teaches that the earth is pointed at the poles. Originally he says
it was globular, but the ceaseless accumulation of ice at the poles altered
the figure of the body of the earth ; and as ice is formed from water, so
does the quantity of water go on decreasing everywhere else.
62 (p. 148.)—Dominic Cassini (Mem. de l'Acad. t. viii. 1730, p. 188),
and Mairan (Aurore bor. p. 16) even maintained that the phenomenon
seen in Persia, in 1668, was the zodiacal light. Delambre (Hist, de
]' Astronomic modernc, t. ii. p. 742), ascribes the discovery of this light
definitively to the traveller Chardin ; but both in his Couronnement de
Soliman and in many passages of his travels (ed. de Langles, t. iv. p. 326 ;
t. x. p. 97) Chardin refers the Persian niazouk (nyzek), ou petite lance, only
to "la grande et fameuse comete qui parut presque par toute la terre en
1668, et dont la tete etoit cachee dans l'occident, de sorte qu'on ne pou-
voit en rien apercevoir sur l'horizon d'Ispahan." (Atlas du Voyage de
Chardin, tab. iv), from observations at Schiraz. But the head or nucleus
of this comet was seen in Brazil and in India (Pingre, Cometographie,
t. ii. p. 22). On the conjectured identity of the last great comet of 1843
with that which Cassini mistook for the zodiacal light, see Sebum.
Astron. Nachr. 1843, No. 476 and 480. In the Persian, the words
nizehi uteschin (fiery spears or lances;, are also used for the beams of the
rising or setting sun ; nayazik, in Freytag's Arabic Lexicon, is interpreted
stellae cadentes. The comparison of comets with lances and spears was,
however, extremely common in all languages in the middle ages. Even
the great comet which was seen from April to June, 1500, is always
spoken of by Italian writers of the time under the title of " il Signor
Astone (vide my Exam. crit. de l'Hist. de la Geographie, t. v. p. 80).
The statement variously made that Descartes (Cassini, p. 230, Mairan,
p. 16) and Kepler (Delambre, t.i. p. 601) were acquainted with the zodiacal
light appears to me altogether untenable. Descartes (Principes, iii. art.
136, 137) speaks in a very obscure manner of the production of comets'
NOTES. 4 I 3
tails:—"Par des rayons obliques qui, tombant sur diverses parties des
orbes planetaires, viennent des parties laterales a notre oeil par une re
fraction extraordinaire ; " also how comets' tails can be seen morning and
evening, " comme une longue poutre," if the sun be placed between
the comet and the earth. This passage refers to the zodiacal light as
little as the one in Kepler, in which he speaks of the existence of an
atmosphere about the sun (limbus circa solem, coma lucida), which in
total eclipses of the sun hinders " that it become entirely night." Still
more uncertain, or rather more erroneous, is the assertion that the " trabes
quas Sokovs vocant " (Plin. ii. 22 and 27) was applied to the ascending
tongue-shaped zodiacal light as Cassini (p. 231) and Mairan (p. 15)
will have it. Everywhere with the ancients the word " trabes " is taken
as synonymous with fire-balls and fiery-meteors generally, and even occa
sionally with streaming comets. On SoKbs, SoKias, SokItijs, vide Schafer,
Schol. Par. ad Apoll. Rhod. 1813, t. ii. p. 206; Pseudo-Aristot. de
Alundo, 2, 9; Comment. Alex., Joh. Philop. et Olymp. in Aristot. Me
teor, lib. i. cap. vii. 3, p. 195, Ideler ; Seneca, Nat. Quaest. i. 1.
63 (p. 148.)—Humboldt, Monumens des peuples indigenes de l'Ame-
rique, t. ii. p. 301. The rare MS. which belonged to the Archbishop of
Rheims, Le Tellier, contains very various extracts from an Aztekian
ritual book, from an astrological calendar, and from historical annals from
1197 to 1549. The last include natural phenomena,—dates of earth
quakes, comets—as of 1490, 1592, and, for Mexican chronology, impor
tant eclipses of the sun. In the MS. Historia de Tlascala of Camargo,
the light which appeared in the east and rose almost to the zenith is
spoken of as " sparkling, and as if thickly sown over with stars." The
account of the 40 days' phenomenon (Prescott, Hist, of the Conquest of
Mexico, vol. i. p. 284) will by no means apply to an eruption of Popo
catepetl which rises close by in the south-east. Later commentators
have confounded this phenomenon, which Montezuma regarded as one
foreboding him misfortune, to the "estrella que humeava" (properly
which sparkled ; Mexican choloa, to leap, to sparkle). On the connec
tion of this vapour with the star Citlal Choloha (Venus) and the starry
mountain (Citaltepetl, the volcano of Orizaba), see my Monumens,
t. ii. p. 303.
64 (p. 148.) — Laplace, Expos, du Syst. du Monde, p. 270; Meca-
nique celeste, t. ii. p. 169 and 171. Schubert, Astr. Bd. Hi. § 206.
65 (p. 149.)—Arago, in Annuaire, 1842, p. 408. See Sir John Herschel's
414 NOTES.
Considerations on the Volume and Light of the Planetary Nebulae, in
Mary Somerville's Connexion of the Physical Sciences, 1835, p. 108.
The opinion that the sun is a nebulous star, whose atmosphere has the
appearance of the zodiacal light, was not advanced by Cassini, but by
Mairan, 1731.—(FitfeTraite de l'Aurorebor. p. 47 and 263. Arago, in
Annuaire, 1842, p. 412). It was a revival of the views of Kepler.
66 (p. 149.)—Cassini, as well as Laplace, Schubert and Poisson after
him, adopted the hypothesis of a detached ring as an explanation of the
figure of the zodiacal light. He says expressly: " Si les orbites de
Mercure et de Venus etoient visibles (materiellement dans toute l'etendue
de leur surface), nous les verrions habituellement de la meme figure et
dans la meme disposition a l'egard du Soleil et aux memes terns de l'annee
que la lumiere zodiacale."—(Mem. de l'Acad. t. viii. 1730, p. 218, and
Biot, in the Comptes rendus, 1836, t. iii. p. 666). Cassini believed that
the vaporiform ring of the zodiacal light was composed of an innumerable
host of small planetary bodies, which revolve about the sun. He was
himself not indisposed to believe that the fall of fire-balls might be con
nected with the passage of the earth through the zodiacal nebulous ring.
Olmsted, and especially Biot (1. c. p. 673), have endeavoured to demon
strate this connection with the November phenomenon ; any such con
nection, however, is doubted by Olbers, (Schum. Jahrb. 1837, p. 281).
On the question whether the plane of the zodiacal light perfectly agrees
with the plane of the sun's equator, vide Houzeau, in Schum. Astr. Nachr.
1843, No. 492, p. 190.
87 (p. 149.)—Sir John Herschel, Astron. § 487.
88 (p. 149.)—Arago im Annuaire, 1832, p. 246.—Many physical facts
appear to indicate that, with a mechanical division of matter into its
minutest particles, when the mass becomes extremely small in comparison
with the surface, the electrical tension may arise to the point of producing
luminous and calorific rays. Experiments with a large concave mirror
have not yet given any decisive indications of the existence of radiating
heat in the zodiacal light.—(Lettre de Mr. Matthiessen a Mr. Arago, in
the Comptes rendus, t. xvi. 1843, Avril, p. 687.)
69 (p. 150.)—" What you tell me of the variations in the light of the
zodiacal light, and their causes within the tropics, has interested me by so
much the more, as I have for a long time every spring given particular
attention to the phenomenon in our northern latitudes. I have myself
always believed that the zodiacal light rotates, but I concluded that it
NOTES. 415
extended with constantly increasing intensity of lustre quite to the sun,
(in opposition to Poisson's view, which you communicate to me). The
luminous ring, which shows itself about the sun under a total eclipse, I
have regarded as constituted by this most brilliant portion of the zodiacal
light. I have persuaded myself that this light is very different in different
years ;—that for several years in succession it is extremely bright and
extensive; in others, again, that it is not even to be seen. I fancy I can
see the first indications of a recognition of the zodiacal light in a letter
from Rothmann to Tycho, when he says, that in the spring, he had found
the sun 24° below the horizon at the end of the evening twilight. Roth-
mann must certainly have confounded the disappearance of the sinking
zodiacal light, in the vapours of the evening horizon, with the actual end
of the evening twilight. I have not myself observed any risings and
fallings, probably by reason of the weakness with which the zodiacal light
appears in our latitudes. But you are assuredly correct when you
ascribe such sudden alterations in the light of the heavenly bodies, which you
observed within the tropics, to our atmosphere, especially to changes in
its higher regions. This is especially shown in the tails of great comets.
One frequently sees, especially in clear weather, pulsations in these tails,
which begin from the head of the comet as the lowest point, and tremble
through the entire length of the tail in 1 or 2 seconds, when the tail
appears to be lengthened and immediately afterwards to be shortened by
several degrees. That those pulsations, to which Hooke and Schroeter and
Chladni paid particular attention, do not take place in the comets tails
themselves, but are produced by our atmosphere, becomes obvious when
we reflect that the several portions of the tail (several millions of miles in
length) lie at very different distances from us, and that its light can only
reach us at intervals of time, several minutes apart from one another.
Whether what you observed on the Orinoco, not at intervals of seconds,
but of minutes, were true corruscations of the zodiacal light, or belonged
wholly and solely to the upper strata of our light-circle, I will not
pretend to determine. Neither do I know how the remarkable luminous-
ness of entire nights, and the anomalous increase and protraction of the
twilight in the year 1831, are to be explained, especially as it was observed
that the brightest parts in these extraordinary twilights did not correspond
with the sun's place below the horizon."—From a letter of Dr. Olbers
to me, dated Bremen, 26th March, 1833.
416 NOTES.
70 (p. 151.)—Biot, Traite d'Astron. physique, 3me ed., 1841, t. i. p.
171, 238, and 312.
71 (p. 152.)—Bessel, in Schura. Jahrb. fur 1839, S. 51 ; probably one
million of miles daily; in relative velocity, 834,000 miles; and therefore
more than twice the velocity of the earth in its orbit round the sun.
72 (p. 154.)—On the Motion of the Solar System, after Bradley, Tobias
Mayer, Lambert, Lalande, and William Herschel, see Arago, in
Annuaire, 1842, p. 388—399 ; Argelander, in Schum. Astron. Nachr.
Nr. 363, 364, 398 ; and in the treatise : Von der eigenen Bewegung des
Sonnensystems, 1837, S. 43, on Perseus as the central constellation of the
entire stratum of stars. See also Otho Struve, in Bull. de l'Acad. de St.-
Petersb. 1842, t. x. No. 9, p. 137—139; according to whom, from a
subsequent combination, the direction of the sun's motion was found to be
261° 23' R. A. + 37° 36' Decl. ; and, as a mean from Argelander's and
his own labours, from a combination of 797 stars, 259° 9' R. A. +
34° 36' Declination.
73 (p. 154.)—Aristot. de Ccelo, iii. 2, p. 301 ; Bekker, Phys. viii. 5,
p. 256.
74 (p. 155.)—Savary, in the Connaissance des Tems, 1830, p. 56 and
163 ; Encke, Berl. Jahrb. 1832, S. 253 ; Arago, in Annuaire, 1834, p.
260, 295 ; John Herschel, in Mem. of the Astronom. Soc. vol. v. p. 171.
75 (p. 156.)—Bessel, Untersuchung des Theils der planetarischen
Storungen, welche aus der Bewegung der Sonne entstehen, in Abh. der
Berl. Akad. der Wissensch. 1824 (Mathem. Classe), S. 2—6. The ques
tion was opened np by Johann Tobias Mayer, in Comment. Soc. Reg.
Gotting. 1804—1808, vol. xvi. p. 31—68.
76 (p. 156.)—Philos. Transact, for 1803, p. 225 ; Arago, in Annuaire,
1842, p. 375. If the reader would form a more tangible idea of the dis
tance of the fixed stars referred to some short way before in the text, let
him suppose the earth to be at the distance of one foot from the sun,
Uranus would then be 19 feet, and Vega in Lyra 34^ German geogra
phical (158'6 English) miles from that luminary.
77 (p. 157.)—Bessel, in Schum. Jahrbuche, 1839, S. 53.
78 (p. 157.)—Madler, Astr. S. 476 ; Derselbe, in Schum. Jahrb. 1839,
S.95.
79 (p. 159.)—Sir William Herschel, in the Philos. Transact, for 1817,
Pt. ii. p. 328.
NOTES. 417
80 (p. 159.)—Arago, in Annuaire, 1842, p. 459.
81 (p. 160.)—Sir John Herschel, in a letter from Feldhuysen of the
13th Jan. 1836 ; Nicholl, Archit. of the Heavens, 1838, p. 22. See also
some observations of Sir William Herschel on the great starless space
which, at a vast distance, separates us from the milky way, in the Philos.
Trans, for 1817, Part ii. p. 328.
82 (p. 160.)—Sir John Herschel, Astron. § 624 ; and farther in Obser
vations on Nebulae and Clusters of Stars (Phil. Trans. 1833, Pt. ii. p. 479,
fig. 25) : " we have here a brother system, bearing a real physical resem
blance and strong analogy of structure to our own."
83 (p. 160.)—Sir William Herschel, in the Transact, for 1785, Pt. 1. p.
257; Sir John Herschel, Astr. § 616 ("the nebulous region of the
heavens forms a nebulous milky way, composed of distinct nebula; as the
other of stars"), and farther in his letter to me of March 1829.
84 (p. 161.)—Sir John Herschel, Astron. § 585.
85 (p. 161.)—Arago, in Annuaire, 1842, p. 282—285, 409—411, and
439—442.
86 (p. 161.) —Olbers on the Transparency of Universal Space, in
Bode's Jahrbuch, 1826, s. 110—121.
87 (p. 162.)—" An opening in the heavens." Sir William Herschel,
in the Transact, for 1785, vol. lxxv. Pt. i. p. 256 ; Le Francais Lalande,
in the Connaissance des tems pour l'an viii. p. 383 ; Arago, in Annuaire,
1842, p. 425.
88 (p. 162.)—Aristot. Meteor, ii. 5, 1 ; Seneca, Natur. Qusest. i. 14,
2 ; " coelum discessisse," in Cic. de Divin. i. 43.
89 (p. 162.)—Arago, in Annuaire, 1842, p. 429.
90 (p. 163.)—In December 1837 Sir John Herschel saw the star
7) Argo, which had hitherto appeared of the second magnitude, and quite
unchanging, increase rapidly to the first magnitude. In January 1838
the intensity of its light was still equal to that of a Centauri. According
to the latest intelligence, Maclear, in March 1843, found the star as bril
liant as Canopus : a Crucis appeared quite misty beside r; Argo.
91 (p. 164.)—" Hence it follows that the rays of light of the remotest
nebulae must have been almost two millions of years on their way, and
that, consequently, so many years ago this object must have had an
existence in the sidereal heaven, in order to send out those rays by which
we now perceive it." William Herschel, in the Transact, for 1802,
2 T
418 NOTES.
p. 498 ; John Herschel, Astr. § 590 ; Arago, in Annuaire, 1842, p. 334,
359, and 382—385.
92 (p. 164.)—From a beautiful sonnet of my brother, Freiheit und
Gesetz (Wilhelm von Humboldt, Gesammelte Werke, Bd. iv. S. 358,
No. 25.)
83 (p. 164.)—Otfried MiiUer, Prolegomena, S. 373.
M (p. 169.)—It is proper to distinguish between the absolute depth to
which man has penetrated in his mining operations, or the depth from the
surface of the earth at the place where the operations are carried on, and
the relative depth, i. e. the depth below the level of the sea. The
greatest relative depth that has been reached is, perhaps, the bore at New-
Salzwerk, Minden, in Prussia. In June 1844 it was exactly 1844J
Parisian feet ; the absolute depth was, however, 2094J Par. feet. The
temperature of the water in the deepest bore was 32-7° C. (90-8° F.) which,
assuming 9-6° C. as the mean temperature of the air, gives a rise of 1-6°
for 29-6 metres (upwards of 97-6 feet English). The Artesian well of
Grenelle, at Paris, >s only 1683 feet in absolute depth. From the accounts
of the missionary Imbert from China, the depth of our Artesian wells is
far surpassed by that of the fire-spring Ho-tsing, which yields inflammable
gas employed in salt boiling. In the Chinese province Szii-tschuan, these
fire-springs are said very commonly to reach a depth of from 1800 to
2000 feet ; and at Tseu-lieu-tsing (place of perpetual flax), a Ho-tsing,
bored with the rod in the year 1812, is reported to extend to the depth of
3000 feet (Humboldt, Asie centrale, t. ii. p. 521 and 525 ; Annales de
l'Association de la Propagation de la Foi, 1829, No. 16, p. 369.) The
relative depth attained at Monte Massi, in Tuscany, sonth from Volterra,
according to Matteucci, is but 1175 feet. The bore at New-Salzwerk
approaches very nearly in relative depth the coal pit at Apendale, New-
castle-under-Lyme (Staffordshire). There the works are carried on 725
yards, or 2045 French feet, under the surface (Th. Smith, The Miner's
Guide, 1836, p. 160). Unfortunately, the height of the ground above the
level of the sea is not accurately ascertained. The relative depth of the
Monkwearmouth pit, near Newcastle-on-Tyne, is only 1404 feet (Phillips,
Philos. Mag. vol. v. 1834, p. 446) ; that of the Esperance pit, at Liege,
1271; and that of the lately-worked pit Marihaye, at Val-St.-Lambert,
is 1157 feet. The greatest absolute depths to which man has penetrated
are in mines, that are either among lofty mountains or in mountain-valleys
NOTES. 419
so much raised above the sea-level that this has either not been reached at
all or has only been surpassed by a very small quantity.
The Eselschacht at Kuttenberg, Bohemia, before it was abandoned, had
reached the enormous depth of 3545 feet (Schmidt, Berggesetze, Bd. i.
S. 32). At St.-Daniel and at Geist, on the Rbhrerbiihel, the works, in
the 16th century, were 2916 feet deep. A drawing of these workings of
the year 1539 is still preserved. Joseph von Sperges, Tyroler Bergwerks-
geschichte, S. 121. See also Humboldt, Gutachten iiber Herantreibung
des Meissner Stollens in die Freiberger Erzrevier, published in Herder
iiber den jetzt begonnenen Erbstollen, 1838, S. 124). It may be ima
gined that information of the extraordinary depth of the workings at
Rorerbuhel had reached England at an early period, for in Gilbert's work,
De Magnete , I find the statement that man had penetrated from 2400 to
3000 feet into the bowels of the earth :—" Exigua videtur terrae portio,
quae unquam hominibus spectanda emerget aut eruitur : cum profundius
in ejus viscera, ultra eflorescentis extremitatis corruptelam, aut propter
aquas in magnis fodinis, tanquam per venas scaturientes, aut propter aeris
salubrioris ad vitam opcrariorum sustinendam necessarii defectum, aut
propter ingentes sumptus ad tantos labores exantlandos, multasque diffi-
cultates, ad profundiores terrae partes penetrare non possumus ; adeo ut
quadringentas aut [quod rarissime] quingentas orgyas in quibusdam metallis
descendisse, stupendus omnibus videatur conatus" (Gulielmi Gilberti,
Colcestrensis, de Magnete Physiologia nova, Lond. 1600, p. 40).
The absolute depth of the mines in the Saxon Erzgebirge are 1824 and
1714 feet ; the relative depths of these respectively are only 626 and- 250
feet. The absolute depth of the rich workings in Joachimsthal, Bohemia,
is 1919 feet ; but taking the height of the surface upon Dechen's estimate
at 2250 feet above the level of the sea, it is obvious that there the sea-
level has not even been attained. In the Harz, the workings in the
Samson pit, at Andreasberg, are carried on at the absolute depth of 2062
feet. In Old Spanish America I know of no deeper mines than those of
Valenciana, near Guanaxuato, Mexico : I found the Planes de San Ber
nard 1582 feet deep ; but this mine does not reach the level of the sea by
5592 feet. If we compare the depth of the old Kuttenberg works (a
depth which exceeds the height of the Brocken, and only falls Bhort of
that of Etna by 200 feet) with the heights of the loftiest buildings that
have been reared by man (the Pyramid of Cheops and the Minster at
Strasburg) , we find that the mines are to these in the proportion of 8 to 1 .
-120 NOTES.
I have thought it important thus to bring together these data in rela
tion to the absolute and relative depths that have been reached by man, a
subject in connection with which many errors have been constantly com
mitted, principally, as it seems, through faulty reductions of the measure
ments from one standard to another. On proceeding eastward from
Jerusalem towards the Dead Sea, a prospect is gained which, according to
our present hypsometrical knowledge, is unparallelled on the face of the
earth : there, on approaching the chasm in which the Jordan flows, we
advance, in open day, along beds of rock which, according to Berton's
and Russegger's barometrical levellings, lie 1300 feet in perpendicular
depth below the level of the Mediterranean Sea (vide Humboldt, Asie
Centrale, t. ii. p. 323).
M (p. 170.)—Bason-shaped curved strata, which dip down on one hand
and rise again at a measurable distance, although not penetrated by mines
or shafts, still suffice to give us accurate information of the constitution of
the crust of the earth at great depths from the surface. I have to thank
the excellent geologist M,. von Dechen for the following. He writes to
me: "The depth of the coal measures at Mont-St.-Gilles, Liege, which,
with our friend M. von Oeyenhausen I have estimated at 3650 feet below
the surface, must lie at thg depth of 3250 feet below the sea-level, inas
much as Mont-St.-Gilles is certainly not 400 feet high ; and the coal-
bason at Mons lies fully 1750 feet deeper. These depressions, however,
are trifling when compared with that of the coal strata of the Saar River
(Saarbriick). After repeated trials, I have found that the lowest coal
' strata known in the country of Duttweiler, near Bettingen, north-eastward
from Saarlouis, dip 19,406 and 20,656 feet under the level of the sea."
This conclusion exceeds by 8000 feet the estimate which I have given in
the text of Cosmos for the bason of Devonian strata. These Belgian coal
measures, therefore, lie as far below the level of the sea as Chimborazo
rises above it, at a depth where the temperature of the earth must be
224° C. (435° F.). From the highest summit of the Himalaya to the
bottom of this bason, containing the vegetable remains of the primeval
world, we have a perpendicular depth of 45,000 feet, i. e. ri^. of the
semi-diameter of the earth.
M (p. 174.)—Plato, Phaedo, p. 97 (Aristot. Metaph. p. 985). See
Hegel, Pbilosophie der Geschichte, 1840, S. 16.
97 (p. 175.)—Bessel, Allgemeine Betrachtungen iiber Gradmessungen
nach astronomisch-geodatischen Arbeiten, at the end of Bessel und
NOTES. 421
Baeyer's : Gradmessung in Ostpreussen, S. 427. On the accumulation of
matter on the side of the moon which is turned to us, see farther,
Laplace, Expos, du Syst. du Monde, p. 308.
98 (p. 175.)—Plin. ii. 68; Seneca, Nat. Quaest. Praef. c. ii. "El
Mundo es poco" (the earth is small) writes Columbus from Jamaica to
Queen Isabella on the 7th of June, 1503 ; not in the philosophical sense
of the two Romans, but because it seemed politic to him to represent the
passage from Spain as no great matter, in the same way that he spoke of
" seeking the east from the west." Vide my Examen crit. de l'hist. de
la Geogr. du 15me siecle, t. i. p. 83, and t. ii. p. 327 ; where I have, at
the same time, shown that the opinion maintained by Delisle, Freret, and
Gosselin, according to which the extraordinary diversity in the estimates
of the earth's perimeter among the Greeks is merely apparent, and depends
on differences of the stadia, was already advanced by Jaime Ferrer, in the
year 1495, in a proposal for the determination of the Papal line of demar
cation.
99 (p. 175.)—Brewster, Life of Sir Isaac Newton, 1831, p. 162 : " The
discovery of the spheroidal form of Jupiter by Cassini had probably di
rected the attention of Newton to the determination of its cause, and,
consequently, to the investigation of the true figure of the earth." Cassini
stated the oblateness of Jupiter at ^ in 1691 (Anc. Mem. de l'Acad. des
Sciences, t. ii. p. 108) ; but we know, through Lalande (Astronom. 3me
6d. t. iii. p. 335), that Maraldi possessed several printed sheets of a
Latin work which Cassini began, " On the Spots of the Planets," from
which it is obvious that Cassini was aware of the oblateness of Jupiter
previous to 1666 ; 21 years, therefore, before the appearance of Newton's
Principia.
100 (p. 177.)—According to Bessel's investigation of ten measurements
of degrees, in which the error in the French measurement discovered by
Puissant was taken into account (vide Schumacher, Aslron. Nachr. 1841,
No. 438, S. 116), the semi-axis major of the elliptical spheroid of rotation
which comes nearest to the irregular figure of the earth is 3272077-14
toises; the semi-axis minor is 3261139-33 toises ; the oblateness,
Viii-iist tne length of the mean degree of the meridian, 57013-109
toises, with an error of + 2-8403 toises ; whence the length of a geogra
phical mile comes out 3807-23 toises. Earlier estimates of measurements of
degrees vary between 3^5 and j^T : thus, Walbeck, de forma et magnitudine
telluris in demensis arcubus meridiani definiendis, makes it '|3,,a.,8in
422 NOTES.
1819 ; Ed. Schmidt (Lehrbuch der mathem. und phys. Geographie, S. 5),
'/so 7-48 m 1829 from seven measurements of degrees. On the influence
of great differences of latitude upon the polar flattening, vide Bibliotheque
universelle, t. xxxiii. p. 181, and t. xxxv. p. 56 ; also, Connaissance des
terns, 1829, p. 290). From the moon's equation alone, Laplace found,
first (Expos, du Syst. p. 229), from the older tables of Burg Vsoi-sS
subsequently, from the lunar observations of Burckhardt and Bouvard
1ls99-i (Mecan. celeste, t. v. p. 13 and 43).
101 (p. 177.)—Pendulum experiments, as general results, have given, after
the great expedition of Sabine (1822 to 1823, from the equator to 80° N.
lat.), '/2 8 8 - 7 ; from Freycinet (excluding the observations of He de France,
Guam, and Mowi), Vase-aS &?ter Foster, 1/289.5; after Duperrey,
1j2ea-i\ after Liitke, 1l2ao-o- Against these we have the observations
between Formentera and Dunkirk (Connais. des terns, 1816), according
to Mathieu, '/298.2 ; and between Formentera andUnst Island, according
to Biot, '/aovo- Vide Baily, Report on Pendulum Experiments, in the
Memoirs of the Royal Astronom. Society, vol. vii. p. 96 ; also, Borenius,
in Bulletin de l'Acad. de St.-Petersbourg, 1843, t. i. p. 25.
The first proposal to apply the length of the pendulum to the determi
nation of mass, and to take the third part of the seconds pendulum as an
universal pes horarius, or standard measure for all nations, occurs in
Huygens' Horologium Oscillatorium, 1673, prop. 25. The same wish
was reiterated anew in a public monument raised under the equator by
La Condamine, Bouguer, and Godin. On the beautiful marble tablet
which I found uninjured in the quondam Jesuits' College at Quito are
these words : " Penduli simplicis aequinoctialis unius minuti secundi arche-
typus, mensurae naturalis exemplar, utinam universalis !" From what La
Condamine says, in his Journal du Voyage a l'Equateur, 1751, p. 163, of
passages unfilled up in the inscription, and a slight difference with
Bouguer concerning the numbers, I expected to have found notable
differences between the inscription of the marble tablet and the statement
published at Paris. On carefully comparing them, however, I only found
two ofany importance—''ex arcu graduum 3j" instead of "ex arcu graduum
plus quam trium," and for 1742 the year 1745. This last statement is
singular, inasmuch as La Condamine returned to Europe in Nov. 1744,
and Bouguer had preceded him in June, and Godin in July. The most
necessary and useful correction in the figures of the inscription would be
that of the astronomical longitude of the town of Quito (vide my Recueil
NOTES. 423
d'Obs. Astron. t. ii. p. 319—354). Nouet's latitudes, cut into the
Egyptian monuments, afford a more recent instance of the danger of all
solemn attempts to perpetuate erroneous or ill-calculated results.
102 (p. 178.)—On the increased intensity of attraction in the volcanic
islands, St. Helena, Ualan, Fernando de Noronha, Isle of France, Guaham,
Mowi, and Galapagos, with the exception of the island of Rawak, perhaps
in consequence of their vicinity to the high land of New Guinea, vide
Mathieu in Delambre, Hist, de 1'Astron. au 18me siecle, p. 701.
103 (p. 178.)—Many observations also show great irregularities in the
length of the pendulum, which are ascribed to local attractions, (ride
Delambre, Mesure de la Meridienne, t. iii. p. 548 ; Biot in the Mem.
de l'Academie des Sciences, t. viii. 1829, p. 18, 23.) When we pro
ceed from west to east in the south of France and Lombardy, we find the
least intensity in the force of gravitation at Bordeaux ; the intensity
increases rapidly in places situated to the east, Figeac, Clermont-Ferrand,
Milan, and Padua, in which last city the maximum force is observed. The
influence of the southern flanks of the Alps is not merely to be ascribed to
the general magnitude of their volume, but as M. Elie de Beaumont
(Recher. sur les Revol. de la surf, du globe, 1830, p. 729,) believes, in
principal part to the melaphyre and serpentine which have raised the
chain. On the flanks of Mount Ararat, which with Caucasus lies as it
were in the centre of gravity of the old world, consisting of Europe, Asia,
and Africa, Fedorow's careful pendulum experiments proclaim not hol
lows, but dense volcanic masses, (Parrot, Reise zum Ararat, Bd. ii.
S. 143). In the geodetic operations of Carlini and Plana in Lombardy,
differences of from 20" to 47".8 were found between the immediate
observations of latitude and the results of these operations. Vide the
examples of Andrate and Mondovi, Milan and Padua, in the Operations
geodes. et astron. pour la mesure d'un arc du parallele moyen, t. ii. p.
347 ; Effemeridi astron, di Milano, 1842, p. 57. Milan estimated by
Berne, as it stands in the French trigonometrical survey, is in latitude
45° 27' 52" ; whilst immediate astronomical observations make it 45° 27'
35". As the perturbations extend far to the south of the Po towards
Parma (Plana, Operat. geodes. t. ii. p. 847), we may conjecture that
even in the constitution of the soil of the plain, there are causes producing
deviations. Struve has met with the same thing in the flattest parts of
the east of Europe, (Schum. Astron. Nachr. No. 164). On the influence
of dense masses which are conceived to lie at a moderate depth, corrcs
424 NOTES.
ponding with the point of mean elevation of the Alps, see the analytical
expressions (after Uossard and Rozet) in Comptes rendns, t. xviii. 1844,
p. 292, which may be compared with Poisson (Traite- de Mecanique, t. i.
p. 282, 2me ed.) The earliest indications of the influence of rocks of
different kinds on the vibrations of the pendulum, are those of Dr. Thomas
Young, (Phil. Trans. 1819, p. 70—96). In the conclusions, from the
length of the pendulum in regard to the curve of the earth, the possibility
is not to be overlooked of the crust of the earth having become consoli
dated before metallic and dense basaltic masses, forced from the interior,
had approached the surface.
104 (p. 178.)—Laplace, Expos, du Syst. du Monde, p. 231.
105 (p. 179.)—La Caille's pendulum experiments at the Cape of Good
Hope, which were calculated with great care by Mathieu (Delambre, Hist,
de l'Astr. 18me siec. p. 479), indicate an oblateness of 1/284.4 ; but from
numerous comparisons of observations under similar parallels of latitude
in both hemispheres (New Holland and the Maldives compared with Bar
celona, New York, and Dunkirk), there are no grounds for estimating the
mean oblateness of the south pole as greater than that of the north pole,
(Biot, in Mem. de l'Acad. des Sciences, t. viii. 1829, p. 39—41).
106 (p. 180.)—The three methods of conducting the observations, give
the following results :—1st. From deflection of the plumb-line in the
neighbourhood of Shehallien in Perthshire, 4-713 by Maskelyne, Hutton,
and Playfair (1774—1776 and 1810) according to a method already pro
posed by Newton ; 2d. From vibrations of the pendulum on mountains,
4-837 (Carlini's observations on Mont Cenis compared with Biot's obser
vation at Bordeaux, Effemer. astr. di Milano, 1824, p. 184) ; 3rd. From
the torsion balance of Cavendish, after an apparatus originally imagined
by Mitchell, 5-48 (from Hutton's revision of the calculation 5-32, and
from Ed. Schmidt's revision 5°52 : Lehrb. des mathem. Geographaphie,
Bd. i. S. 487) ; from the torsion balance of Reich, 5-44. In the calcula
tion of this experiment carried through in a most masterly manner by
Prof. Reich, the original mean result was 5-43 (with a probable error of
but 0-0233) ; a result which, increased by the quantity by which the cen
trifugal force of the earth diminishes the force of gravitation, for the lati
tude of Freiburg (50° 55'), must be changed unto 5-44. The employment
of masses of cast-iron instead of lead gave no difference of result that
might not safely be ascribed to error of observation ; there was no evidence
of magnetic attraction, (Reich, Versuche iiber die mittlere Dichtigkeit der
NOTES. 425
Erde, 1838, S. 60, 62 and 66). By the assumption of too small a degree
of oblateness of the earth, and the uncertain estimate of the density of the
rocks composing its surface, a mean density of the earth was come to, as
in the experiments on mountains, which was by £ too small, viz. 4-761,
(Laplace, Mecan. ceT t. v. p. 46) or 4,785 (Eduard Schmidt, Lehrb. der
math. Geogr. Bd. i. § 387 and418). On the hypothesis of Halley, on the
earth as a hollow sphere—the germ of Franklin's idea of earthquakes, vide
Phil. Transact, for the year 1693, vol. xvii. p. 563. (On the structure of the
internal parts of the earth and the concave habited arch of the shell.)
Halley held it more worthy of the Creator " that the earth, like a house of
several stories, should be inhabited both within and without. For light
in the hollow sphere (p. 576) provision could also be made in a certain
way."
107 (p. 183.)—Here belong the admirable analytical labours of Fourier,
Biot, Laplace, Poisson, Duhamel, and Lame. In his work, Theorie
mathe-matique de la Chaleur, 1835, p. 3, 428—430, 436, and 521—524,
(see also the abstract of La Rive, in the Bibliotheque universelle de Geneve,
t. lx. p. 415), Poisson has developed an hypothesis totally different from
the view advocated by Fourier (Theorie. analyt. de la Chaleur). He
denies the present fluid state of the centre of the earth ; he believes " that
in cooling by radiation to the medium surrounding the earth, the
parts first consolidated on the surface sank downwards, and that by a
double upward and downward current, the great inequality was lessened
which would have taken place in a solid body cooling from the surface."
The great geometrician thinks it more probable that the consolidation
commenced in the parts lying nearer to the centre ; " the phenomenon of
the increase of heat with the depth does not extend to the whole mass of
the earth, and is a mere consequence of the motion of our planet in uni
versal space, the several parts of which, by reason of their stellar heat
(chaleur stellaire) have very different temperatures." The heat of the
water of our Artesian wells, according to Poisson, is therefore heat which
has penetrated the body of the earth from without ; the earth may be
viewed as we should a mass of rock transported from the equator to the
pole in so short a time, that it could not cool completely. The increase
of temperature in this block would not extend completely to its centre.
The physical doubts which may reasonably be raised against this extraor
dinary cosmical hypothesis, (an hypothesis which ascribes to heavenly
space what must much rather belong to matter in its first transition from
426 NOTES.
the gaseous to the solid state) may be found collected in Poggendorff's
Annalen, Bd. xxxix. s. 93— 100.
108 (p. 184.)—See above, pages 28, 45, and 48. The increase in
temperature is found in the Puits de Greneille from 98-4 feet ; in the
bore of New-Salzwerk, Minden, almost 91 feet ; at Pregny, Geneva, also
91 feet, although there the outlet is 1510 feet above the level of the sea.
This agreement of results, from bores that are severally 1683, 2094, and
680 feet in absolute depth, by a method first suggested in 1821 by Arago,
(Annuaire, 1835, p. 234) is very striking. The two points of the
earth at a short perpendicular distance from one another, whose annual
temperature is ascertained with the greatest precision, are probably the
external atmosphere of the Observatory of Paris and of the cellar under
the Observatory. The former is 10°-822, the latter ll°-834 C. ; diffe
rence 1°-012 C. for 86 feet of depth (Poisson, Theorie, &c. p. 415 and
462). In the course of the last 17 years, from causes which have not been
ascertained, the thermometer of the Caves has risen 0°-220 C. If the
penetration of waters from lateral channels into the main bore of Artesian
wells produces some disturbance, it must be admitted that in reference to
mines there are many more perturbing causes at work, and that interfere
with the accuracy of conclusions in reference to their temperature at diffe
rent depths. The general result of Reich's great work on the temperature
of the mines of the Saxon Erzgebirge is the somewhat slow increase of 1° C.
for 128J feet of descent. (Reich, Beob. iiber die Temperature des Ges-
teins in verschiedenen Tiefen, 1834, S. 134.) Yet Phillips (Poggend.
Ann. B. 34, S. 191), in a shaft of the Monkwearmouth coal-pit, found
an increase of 1° C. for 99"/10 feet of descent, exactly what Arago found
in the Puits de Grenelle.
109 (p. 185.)—Boussingault sur la Profondeur a laquelle se trouve la
Couche de Temperature invariable entre les tropiques, in the Annales de
Chimie et de Physique, t. liii. 1833, p. 225—247.
110 (p. 187.)—Laplace, Exp. du Syst. du Monde, p. 229 and 263 ;
Mecanique eel. t. v. p. 18 and 72. It is to be observed that the fraction
*/i7o 0f a centigrade degree of a mercurial thermometer, which is given
in the text as the limit of stability of the heat of the earth since Hippar-
chus's time, rests on the assumption that the dilatation of the materials
of which the body of the earth consists is the same as that of glass =
Viooooo f°r 1° C of heat. Vide on this point Arago, in Annuaire pour
1834, p. 177—190.
NOTES. 427
111 (p. 188.)—William Gilbert, of Colchester, whom Galileo calls " great
to a degree that might excite envy," says,—" Magnus magnes ipse est
globus terrestris." He ridicules the magnetic mountain of Fracastoro,
the great contemporary of Christopher Columbus, as the magnetic pole :
" Rejicienda est vulgaris opinio de montibus magneticis, aut rape aliqua
magnetica, aut polo phantastico a polo mundi distante." He assumes
the variation of the magnetic needle over the surface of the earth as un
changing : " Variatio uniuscujusque loci constans est ;" and explains the
isogonic lines from the configuration of continents and the relative position
of the sea basin, which has a weaker magnetic attractive force than the solid
masses that rise above the ocean (Gilbert de Magnete, ed. 1633, p. 42,
&c.)
1U (p. 188.)— Gauss, Allgemeine Theorie des Erdmagnetismus, in den
Resultaten aus den Beob. des magnet. Vereins im Jahr 1838, § 41. S. 56.
113 (p. 188.)—There are also perturbations which do not extend to any
distance, which are more local, and perhaps have their seat less deeply.
A rare example of such extraordinary perturbations, which are felt in the
Freiburg mines and not in Berlin, was published by me now many years
ago (Lettre de M. de Humboldt a S. A. R. le Due de Sussex sur les
moyens propres a perfectionner la connaissance du Magnetisme terrestre,
in Becquerel's Traite experimental de l'Electricite', t. vii. p. 442). Mag
netic storms that were experienced simultaneously from Sicily to Upsal,
did not extend from Upsal to Altona, (Gauss and Weber, Resultate des
magnet. Vereins, 1839, s. 128 ; Lloyd, in the Comptes rendus de l'Aca-
demie des Sciences, t. xiii. 1843, Sem. ii. p. 725 and 827). Among the
many perturbations which in recent times have been observed simulta
neously over extensive districts of country, and which are collected in
Sabine's important work (Observ. on days of unusual magnetic distur
bance, 1843), one of the most remarkable is that of the 25th September,
1841, which was noticed at Toronto in Canada, at the Cape of Good
Hope, at Prague, and partially in Van Diemen's Land. The English
Sunday, on which it is sinful after Saturday night at 12 o'clock to read
off a scale, and to follow the grand phenomena of nature in their course,
intervening, broke off the observations in Van Diemen's Land, and so
made our information on this remarkable magnetic storm incomplete !
114 (p. 189.)—The application ofthe magnetic inclination to the determi
nation of the latitude along a coast running north and south, and which, like
428 NOTES.
the shores of Chili and Peru, is enveloped in fog (garua) for a portion of the
year, I published in Lametherie's Journal de Physique, 1804, t. lix. p. 449.
The application in the locality indicated is the more important, as, in
consequence of the rapid current from south to north as far as Cape
Parisia, it occasions a great loss of time to the shipping when the coast
has to be first approached northward from the destined port. In the
South Sea, from Callao de Lima harbour to Truxillo, with a difference of
3° 57' of latitude, I have observed a variation of the needle of 9° C. ; and
from Callao to Guayaquil, with a difference of 9° 50' of latitude, a varia
tion of 23-05° (vide my Relat. Hist. t. iii. p. 622). From Guarmey
(10° 4' S. lat.), Huaura (11° 3' S. lat.) to Chancay (11° 32' S. lat.), the
inclinations were 6-80°, 9-00°, and 10-35°. The determination of places
by means of the magnetic inclination had this remarkable feature about it,
that where the ship's course cuts the isoclinal lines almost perpendicu
larly, it is the only one that is independent of all determination of
time, and so of the sight of the sun and other heavenly bodies. I very
lately, and for the first time, discovered proposals to determine the lati
tude by the inclination of the magnetic needle in Gilbert's work, De
Magnete (lib. v. cap. 8, p. 200). This was scarcely 20 years after the
discovery of magnetic inclination by Robert Norman. Gilbert even points
to the method as available " aere caliginoso;" and Wright, in the preface
which he has added to the great work of his teacher, speaks of such a
proposal as " worth much gold." As he, with Gilbert, presumed
erroneously that the isoclinal magnetic lines ran parallel with the
geographical circles of latitude, as also that the magnetic equator coin
cided with the geographical equinoctial line, he did not perceive that the
proposed method was only capable of a local and much more limited
application than that he imagined.
115 (p. 189.)—Gauss and Weber, Resultate des magnetischen Vereins
in J. 1838, § 31, s. 46.
116 (p. 189.)—According to Faraday (London and Edinburgh Philoso
phical Magazine, 1836, vol. viii. p. 178), pure cobalt is totally without
magnetic power. Rose and Wohler, again, do not admit this as absolutely
ascertained. If one of two masses of cobalt (both of which are believed
to be pure) shows itself totally indifferent to magnetism, it seems to me
likely that the other which shows magnetic properties does so in virtue of
some impurity.
NOTES. 429
117 (p. 189.1—Arago, in the Annales de Chimie, tom, xxxii. p. 214 ;
Brewster, Treatise on Magnetism, 1837, p. Ill ; Baumgartner, in the
Zeitschrift fur Phys. und Mathem. Bd. ii. s. 419.
118 (p. 190.)—Humboldt, Examen critique de l'hist. de la Geographie,
tom. iii. p. 36.
119 (p. 190.)—Asie centrale, tom. i. Introduction, p. xxxvii—xlii.
The western nations, the Greeks and the Romans, knew that magnetism
could be communicated for a great length of time to iron—(" sola haec
materia ferri vires a magnete lapide accipit retinelque longo tempore,"
Plin. xxxiv. 14). The great discovery of the terrestrial directive
force therefore depended alone on this, that no one in the west happened
to observe a longish piece of magnetic iron ore or a magnetized iron rod,
floated at liberty upon water by means of a piece of wood, or balanced
and suspended freely in the air by means of a thread.
110 (p. 191.)—A very slow secular progression or a local invariability
of the magnetic declination may be of great consequence in connection
with the boundaries of property : " The whole mass of West India pro
perty," says Sir John Herschel, " has been saved from the bottomless pit
of endless litigation by the invariability of the magnetic declination in
Jamaica and the surrounding archipelago during the whole of the last
century ; all surveys of property there having been conducted solely by
the compass." Vide Robertson, in the Phil. Trans, for 1806, pt. ii.
p. 348, On the Permanency of the Compass in Jamaica since 16C0. In
the parent country (England) the magnetic declination has varied by 14°
in the same period of time.
121 (p. 191.)—I have elsewhere shewn that from the documents which
have come down to us in connection with the voyages of Columbus, we
can with great certainty fix upon three places in the Atlantic line of no
variation for the 13th September, 1492, the 21st May, 1496, and the 16th
August, 1498. This line ran at these dates fron North-East to South-West.
It touched the American continent somewhat to the east of Cape Codera,
whilst at present the conjunction is observed on the north coast of Brazil.
(Humboldt, Examen critique de l'hist. de la Geogr. tom. iii. p. 44—48.)
From Gilbert's Physiologia nova de Magnete, we see plainly (and this fact
is very remarkable) that in the year 1600 the variation was still nil in the
region of the Azores (lib. iv. cap. 1), precisely as in Columbus's time.
I believe that, from documents in my Examen critique (tom. iii. p. 54), I
430 NOTES.
have demonstrated that the celebrated line of demarcation, by means of
which Pope Alexander VI. divided the western hemisphere between Spain
and Portugal, was not drawn through the most western of the Azores,
because Columbus wished to turn a physical division into a political one. He
indeed laid great stress upon the zone (raya), " on which the compass
shewed no variation, where the air and the ocean, the latter covered with
sea-weed, shew themselves differently constituted, where cooling winds
begin to blow, and (for so erroneous observations of the polar star
made him imagine) where the figure (the sphericity) of the earth is no
longer the same."
122 (p. 192.)—It is a question of the highest interest in the problem ofthe
physical cause of the terrestrial magnetism, whether the two oval systems
of isogonal lines, so singularly included each within itself, will continue
to advance for centuries in the same form, or will resolve themselves and
expand. In the eastern Asiatic coil, the variation increases from without
inwards ; in the coil or oval of the South Sea, the opposite holds good ; at
present, indeed, no line without variation is known in the whole Southern
Ocean ; to the east of the meridian of Kamtschatka, no line has less variation
than 2° (Erman, in Poggend. An. b. xxi. s. 129). Yet Cornelius Schouten
appears, on Easter-day of the year 1616, somewhat to the south of Muka-
hiva, in 15° S. Lat. 132° W. Long., in the middle of the present closed
isogonal system, consequently, to have found the variation nil (Hansteen,
Magnetism, der Erde, 1819, S. 28). It must not be forgotten, that in all
these considerations we can only follow the direction of the magnetic lines
in their advances as they are projected upon the surface of the earth.
123 (p. 193.)—Arago, in Annuaire, 1836, p. 284 ; and 1840, p. 330—
338.
124 (p. 193.)—Gauss, Allg. Theorie des Erdmagnetismus, § 31.
125 (p. 193.)—Duperrey.de la configuration de l'equateur magnctique, in
the Annales de Chemie, tom. xlv. p. 371 and 3*9 (see also Morlet, in
Memoires presentus par divers savans a l'Acad. roy. des Sciences, tom,
iii. p. 132.)
126 (p. 194.)—See the remarkable mass of isoclinal lines in the
Atlantic Ocean for the years 1825 and 1837, in Sabine's Contributions to
Terrestrial Magnetism, 1840, p. 139.
127 (p. 195.)—Humboldt, iiber die seculare Veranderung der magnetis-
chen Inclination, in Poggend. Annalen, lid. xv. S. 322.
A
NOTES. 431
1,8 (p. 196.)—Gauss, Resultate der Beob. des magn. Vereins im Jahr
1838, § 21 ; Sabine, Report on the Variations of the Magnetic Intensity,
p. 63.
129 (p. 196.)—The following is the history of the discovery of the law of
the (general) increase of intensity in the magneticforce withmagnetic latitude.
When in 1798 I was anxious to attach myself to the expedition of Captain
Baudin, fitting out for a voyage round the world, I was requested by
Borda, who took a warm interest in my project, in different latitudes
of both hemispheres, to observe the swing of the vertical needle
in the magnetic meridian, with a view to determine whether the
intensity of the force was the same or different in different places. This
investigation I made one of the principal points in the course of my
voyage to the tropical countries of America. I observed that the same
needle which in Paris performed 245, in Havannah 246, in Mexico 242
oscillations, in the course of ten minutes; at San Carlos, Rio Negro (10°
53' N. lat., 80° 40' W. long.) in the same interval of time, performed
216 oscillations; on the magnetic equator, i. e. the line on which the
inclination is = 0, in Peru (7° 1' S. lat., 80° 40' W. long.) it performed
only 211 oscillations; in Lima (12° 2' S. lat.) it again performed 219
oscillations. I found further, from 1799 to 1803, that the whole force
taken at 1,0000 on the magnetic meridian in the Peruvian Andes, between
Micuipampa and Caxamarca, at Paris will be represented by 1,3482 ; in
Mexico by 1,3155 ; in San Carlos by 1,0480 ; in Lima by 1,0773. When
I made known this law of the variable intensity of the terrestrial magnetic
force, and adduced the numerical value of observations made in 104
different places, in illustration of the conclusions, in a paper which was
read before the Parisian Institute at its sitting of the 26th Frimaire, An.
xiii., and of which the mathematical portion belongs to M. Biot, the sub
ject was regarded as entirely new. It was only after the reading of this
paper, as Biot himself says expressly, (Lametherie, Journ. de Physique,
t. lix. p. 446, note 2,) and as I repeat the statement in my Relation
Historique (t. i. p. 262, note 1), that M. de Rossel communicated to M.
Biot his observations on oscillation made six years previously in Van
Dieman's Land, Java, and Amboyna ; from these observations was de
duced the same law of declining intensity in the Indian Archipelago. It
is almost to be supposed that this excellent man, in his own work, was
not aware of the regularity of the increase and decrease of the intensity,
as before tbe reading of my paper he never mentioned this certainly
432 NOTES.
not unimportant physical law to oar common friends La Place, De-
lambre, Prony, and Biot. It was only in 1808, four years after my
return from America, that the observations made by M. de Rossel were
published in the Voyage de l'Entrecasteaux, t. ii. pp. 287, 291, 321,
480, 644. Up to the present time it has still been usual in all the
tables of magnetic intensity that have been published in Germany by
Hansteen, Magnet, der Erde 1819, s. 71 ; Gauss, Beob. des magnet.
Vereins 1838, S. 36—39 ; Erman, Physikal. Beob. 1841, S. 529—579';
in England (Sabine, Report on Magnet. Intensity, 1838, p. 43—62 ;
Contributions to Terrestrial Magnetism, 1843,) and in France (Becquerel,
Traite d'electr. et de magnet, t. vii. p. 354—367), to reduce the oscilla
tions observed in any part of the earth to the measure of the force which
I found on the magnetic equator in North Peru ; so that from the unity
thus arbitrarily assumed, the intensity of the magnetic force at Paris is
always set down at 1,348. Still older than the observations of Admiral
Rossel, however, are those that were made in the unfortunate expedition
ofLa Perouse by Lamanon, during the stay at Teneriffe (1785) and to the
arrival at Macao (1787), and which were sent to the Academy of Sciences.
It is known for certain that these papers were in the hands of Condorcet
in the July of 1787 (Becquerel, t. vii. p. 320). In spite of searching,
however, they have not again been found ; but from the copy of a letter
of Lamanon, now in the possession of Ad. Duperrey, addressed to the then
perpetual secretary of the Academy of Sciences, which has been omitted
in the account of the Voyage of La Perouse, it is stated expressly, " Que
la force attractive de l'aimant est moindre dans les tropiques qu'en avan-
cant vers les poles, et que l'intensite magnetique deduite du nombre des
oscillations de l'aiguille de la boussole d'inclinaison change et augmente
avec la latitude." Had the Academy of Sciences, still anticipating the
return of La Perouse, felt itself at liberty, in the course of 1787, to publish
an account of observations made by three different individuals unknown to
one another, the theory of terrestrial magnetism would have been ex
tended by a new class of observations eighteen years sooner than it
was. This simple statement of facts will perhaps justify the assertion
which the third volume of my Relation historique (p. 615) contains :
' ' Les observations sur les variations du magnetisme terrestre auxquelles
je me suis livre pendant 32 ans, au moyen d'instrumens comparables entre
eux en Amerique, en Europe et en Asie, embrassent, dans les deux
hemispheres, depuis les frontiires de la Dzoungarie chinoise jusque vers
NOTES. 433
l'ouest a la Mer du Sud qui baigne les cotes du Mexique et du Perou, un
espace de 188° de longitude, depuis les 00° de latitude nord jusqu'aux
12° de latitude sud. J'ai regarde la loi du decroissement des forces mag-
netiques, du pole a l'equateur, comine le resultat le plus important de
mon voyage americain." It is not certain, but extremely probable, that
Condorcet read the letter of Lam anon of July 1787 at a meeting of the
Academy of Sciences of Paris ; and such a simple reading I myself
regard as a sufficient act of publication (Annuaire du Bureau des Longit.
1842, p. 463). The first recognition of the law, therefore, belongs indis
putably to the companion of Laperouse; but, long unheeded or forgotten,
I believe that the knowledge of the law of the variation in the intensity
of the magnetic force with the latitude, first acquired a scientific existence
with the publication of my observations from 1798 to 1804. The sub
ject, and the length of this note, will not appear indifferent to him who is
familiar with the recent history of magnetism, and the doubts that have
been started in connection with it, and who from personal experience
knows that we are apt to attach some value to that which has been the
object of our uninterrupted attention for five long years, under the
pressure of tropical climates, and engaged in hazardous mountain
expeditions.
130 (p. 197.) —The maximum intensity for the whole surface of the
earth, according to the observations hitherto collected, appears to be
2,052, the minimum 0,706. Both phenomena belong to the Southern
hemisphere; the first to 73° 47' S. lat., 169° 30' E. long., near Mount
Crozier, West North-West of the South magnetic pole, at a place where
Sir James Ross found the inclination of the needle 87° 11'; (Sabine, Con
tributions to Terrestrial Magnetism, 1843, No. 5, p. 231) ; the second,
observed by Erman under 90° 59' S. lat., 37° 24' W. long., 80 miles
eastward from the coast of the province of Espiritu Santo, Brazil,
(Erman Phys. Beob. 1841, S. 570), at a point where the inclination is
only 7° 55'. The accurate relations of the intensity to one another are
therefore as 1 to 2-906. It was long believed that the greatest intensity
of the magnetic force was only two and a half times as great as the
weakest which the surface of our earth manifests (Sabine, Report on In
tensity, p. 82).
131 (p. 197.)—On Amber (succinum, glessum) Pliny says, xxxvii. 3,
" Genera ejus plura. Attritu digitorum accepta caloris anima trahunt in
se paleas ac folia arida quse levia sunt, ac ut magnes lapis ferri ramenta
VOL. I. V
434 NOTES.
quoque." (Plato, in Timaeo, p. 80 ; Martin, Etudes sur le Timee, t. ii. p.
343—346 ; Strabo, xv. p. 703, Casaub. ; Clemens Alex. Strom, ii. p. 370,
where, strangely enough, rb <roixiov and rh fiK&tpov are distinguished).
When Thales, in Aristot. de anima 1, 2, and Hippias in Diog. Laertio 1,
24, attribute a soul to the magnet and to amber, this animation only refers
to a moving principle.
132 (p. 197.)—"The magnet attacts iron in the same way as amber at
tracts the smallest grains of mustard. It is like a breath of wind which
penetrates through both, and is communicated with the rapidity of an
arrow." These words are Kuopho's, a Chinese orator on the magnet, and
writer of the beginning of the fourth century. (Klaproth, Lettre a M. A.
de Humboldt, sur l'invention de la boussole, 1834, p. 125).
133 (p. 198.)—" The phenomena of periodical variations depend mani
festly on the action of solar heat, operating probably through the medium
of thermoelectric currents induced on the earth's surface. Beyond this
rude guess, however, nothing is as yet known of the physical cause. It
is still a matter of speculation, whether the solar influence be a principal
or only a subordinate cause in the phenomena of terrestrial magnetism."
(Observ. to be made in the Antarctic Exped. 1840, p. 35.)
ui (p. 199.)—Barlow, in the Philos. Transact, for 1822, P. i., p. 117 ;
Sir David Brewster, Treatise on Magnetism, p. 129. Long before Gilbert
and Hooke, it was taught in the Chinese work, Ou-thsa-tsou, that heat
lessened the directive property of the magnet. (Klaproth, Lettre a M.
A. de Humboldt, sur i'invention de la boussole, p. 96).
135 (p. 200.)— Vide the paper on Terrestrial Magnetism in the Quart.
Review, 1840, vol. lxvi. p. 271—312.
136 (a. 200.)—As the first demand for the establishment of these obser
vatories (a net-work of stations provided with similar instruments) took
its rise with me, I dare not cherish the hope that I shall live long enough
to see both hemispheres covered in equal and due measure with magnetical
stations, under the control of able naturalists and astronomers, and es
pecially under the liberal and continued support of the British and Russian
governments. In the years 1806 and 1807 at Berlin, with my friend and
fellow labourer, Oltmnnns, particularly at the times of the solstices and
equinoxes, I frequently observed the movements of the needle from hour
to hour, and even from half hour to half hour, during five or six days and
nights in succession. I had persuaded myself that continuous, uninter
rupted observations of several days and nights were preferable to the
note-s. 435
single observations of many months. The apparatus, a magnetic tele
scope by Prony, suspended in a glass case from a thread without torsion,-
enabled angles of 7 and 8 seconds to be read off upon a finely-divided scale,
fixed at a proper distance and illuminated at night with lamps. Magnetic
perturbations (storms) which occasionally returned on several successive
nights at the same hours, led me even at that time to desire most anxiously
that similar apparatuses should be used to the east and west of Berlin, for
the sake of distinguishing general telluric phenomena from those of a local
nature, and that may depend on perturbations in the unequally heated
body of the earth, or in the cloud-forming atmosphere. My removal to
Paris, and the lengthened political disturbances which spread over the
whole of the west of Europe, prevented my wish from being accomplished
at this time. The light diffused by the great discovery of Orsted (1820),
of the intimate connection between electricity and magnetism, finally
aroused the general interest after its long sleep, in the periodical change of
the electro-magnetic charge of the earth. Arago, who many years before
bad begun the longest unbroken series of hourly observations which we
possess in Europe in the observatory of Paris, with an admirable declina
tion instrument by Gambey, shewed, by means of simultaneous observa
tions of perturbation made at Kasan, what advantages resulted from
corresponding measurements of variation. When I returned to Berlin,
after a residence of eighteen years in France, I had a small magnetic
house erected in the autumn of 1828, not only with a view to carrying
out the work begun in 1806, but especially that simultaneous observations,
at hours previously agreed upon, might be made at Berlin, Paris, and
Freiburg (at a depth of 35 fathoms under the surface). The simulta-
neousness of the perturbations, and the parallelism of the movements for
October and December, 1829, were there graphically represented
(Poggend. Annal. Bd. xix. S. 357, Tab. i.—in.) An expedition into the
North of Russia, undertaken in 1829 by command of the Emperor, gave
me an opportunity of extending my plan upon a great scale. This plan
was unfolded to a committee especially named in one of the imperial
academies of science ; and under the protection of the chief of the
mining corps, Count von Cancrin, and the excellent superintendence of
Prof. Kupffer, magnetic stations were fixed over the whole nf the north
of Asia, from Nicolajeff by Catherinenburg, Barnaul, and Vertschinsit,
to Peking.
480 NOTES.
The year 1832 (vide Gbtting. gelehr. Anzeig. St. 206) marks the great
epoch in which the profound author of anew theory of terrestrial magnetism,
Frederick Gauss, erected apparatus, constructed upon new principles, in
the Gottingen Observatory. In 1834 the magnetic observatory was
finished, and in the same year Gauss spread his instruments and his
method of conducting observations, in which the distinguished natural
philosopher, William Weber, took great interest, over a large portion of
Germany, Sweden, and Italy (Resultate der Beob. des magnetischen
Vereins im Jahr 1838, S. 135, and Poggend. Annalen, Bd. xxxiii. S. 426).
In the magnetical association that was now formed, with Gottingen for its
centre, at four periods of the year, ever since 1836, hourly observations
for an entire day were regularly instituted, but which were not those of the
equinoxes and solstices which I had proposed and followed in 1830. Up
to this time, Great Britain, in possession of the largest commerce in the
world, and with her wide-spread navy, had taken no part in the move
ment, which, since 1828, had begun to afford important results towards
the determination of terrestrial magnetism. I was so fortunate, in a
public appeal from Berlin to the Duke of Sussex, then President of the
Royal Society, by my letter of April 1836, headed—" Lettre de M. de
Humboldt a S. A. R. le Due de Sussex sur les moyens propres a perfec-
tionner la connaissance du magnetisme terrestre par l'etablissement de
stations magnetiques et d'observations eorrespondantes," to excite a lively
interest in the undertaking which had so long been the object of my
warmest wishes. In my letter to the Duke of Sussex I urged the erection
of permanent stations in Canada, St. Helena, the Cape of Good Hope,
the Isle of France, Ceylon, and New Holland, all of which I had, how
ever, pointed out as advantageous positions five years previously. There
was a joint physical and meteorological committee appointed in the Royal
Society, which, besides fixed magnetic observatories in both hemi
spheres, proposed to the government to fit out a naval expedition for
magnetic observations in the Antarctic Seas. I need not here proclaim
all that science owes in this conjuncture to the zeal and activity of Sir John
Herschel, Col. Sabine, Professor Airy, and Mr. Lloyd, as well as the
powerful support that was given by the British Association for the
Advancement of Science assembled at Newcastle in 1838. In June, 1839,
the Antarctic magnetic expedition, under the command of Captain James
Clarke Ross, was resolved on ; and now, since its fortunate return, we enjoy
NOTES. 437
the double fruits of important geographical discoveries, in the neighbour
hood of the South Pole, and a series of simultaneous observations in eight
or ten new magnetic stations.
137 (p. 201.)—Instead of ascribing the internal heat of the earth to the
transition of matter from a state of gaseous fluidity to the solid condition
on the formation of the planets, Ampere has broached what to me appears a
very improbable opinion, viz. that it might be a consequence of an incessant
chemical action of a central mass of earth and alkali-metals upon the
external crust undergoing oxydation. " On ne peut douter," he says, in
his masterly Theorie des phenomenes electro-dynamiques (1826, p. 199),
" qu'il existe dans l'interieur du globe des courants electro-magnetiques, et
que ces courants sont la cause de la chaleur qui lui est propre. lis naissent
d'nn noyau metallique central compose des metaux que Sir Humphry
Davy nous a fait connaitre, agissant sur la couche oxidee qui entoure le
noyau."
138 (p. 201.)—The remarkable connection between the curvature of mag
netic lines and that of my isothermal lines was first observed by Sir David
Brewster (Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, vol. ix. 1821,
p. 318, and Treatise on Magnetism, 1837, p. 42, 44, 47, and 268). This dis
tinguished natural philosopher admits two " poles of maximum cold" in the
northern hemisphere ; one American (73° N. Lat. 102° W.Long., near Cape
Walter) ; another Asiatic (73° N. Lat. 78° E. Long.) ; whence, according
to him, arise two hot and two cold meridians, i. e. meridians of greatest
heat and greatest cold. In the 16th century, however, Acosta (Hist. nat.
de las Indias, 1589, lib. i. cap. 17), resting what he says on the observa
tions of a highly experienced Portuguese pilot, taught that there were
four lines without variation. This view appears, if we may judge from
the controversy of Henry Bond (author of the work—The Longitude
Found, 1676) with Beckborrow,to have had some influence upon Halley's
theory of magnetic poles. Vide my Examen critique de l'hist. de la
Geographie, t. iii. p. 60.
139 (p. 201.)—Halley, in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. xxix. (for
1714—1716, No. 341).
140 (p. 201.)—Dove, in PoggendorfFs Annalen, Bd. xx. S. 341, Bd. xix.
S. 388 : " The dipping needle comports itself very nearly as an atmos
pherical electrometer, whose difference in like manner shows the increased
tension of the electricity before this has risen to such a height that a
spark is elicited. Fide also the excellent observations of Prof. Kaemtz, in
438 NOTES.
his Lehrbach der Meteorologie, Bd. iii. S. 511—519; Sir David Brewster,
Treatise on Magnetism, p. 280. On the magnetic properties of the
galvanic flame or luminous bow from a Bunsen's charcoal and zinc
battery, vide Casselmann's Beob. (Marburg, 1844), S. 56—62.
141 (p. 202.)—Argetander's important observations on the Northern
Lights, embodied in his Vortrage, gehalten in der physikalisch-bkonomU-
chen Gesellschaft zu Konigsberg, Bd. i. 1834, S. 257—264.
142 (p. 203.)—On the results of the observations of Lottin, Bravais,
and Siljerstrom, who passed a winter at Bosekop, on the coast of Lapland
(70° N. Lat.), and in 210 nights saw 160 Aurora: boreales, vide Comptes
rendus de l'Acad. des Sciences, tom. z. p. 289, and Martin's Meteoro
logie, 1843, p. 453. See also Argelander, in his Vortrage, geh. in der
Konigsberg. Gesellschaft, Bd. i. S. 259.
143 (p. 205.)—John Franklin, (Narrative of aJourney to the Shores of the
Polar Sea in the years 1819—1822, p. 552 and 597 ; Thienemann, in
Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, vol. zx. p. 366 ; Farquharson, ib. vol.
vi. p. 392 ; Wrangel, Phys. Beob. S. 59 ; Parry, Journal of a Second
Voyage, performed in 1821—1823, p. 156), saw a great Aurora continue
through the day. Something of the same kind was seen in England, 9th
Sept. 1827. At mid-day a luminous arch, 20° high, and rays shooting
from it, were perceived after rain, in a part of the heavens that had become
clear. Journal of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, 1828, Jan.
p. 429.
144 (p. 205.)—After my return from my American travels, I described
the cirro-cumulus cloud,—when it appears very regularly divided into
rounded masses as if by the agency of repulsive forces—under the name
of polar streaks (bandes polaires), because their perspective point of con
vergence is mostly in the magnetic meridian in the first instance, so that
the parallel rows of cumuli follow the magnetic meridian. One peculiarity
of this enigmatical phenomenon is, the swaying hither and thither of the
point of convergence. Usually the streaks are only completely developed
in one region of the sky, and in their motion they are seen directed first
from south to north, and then gradually veering round from east to west.
I cannot ascribe the advance of the zones to any change in the quarter of the
wind in the superior strata of the atmosphere. They arise when the air
is extremely calm and the heaven is particularly serene, and under the
tropics are far more common than in the temperate and frigid zones. I
have observed the phenomenon among the Andes, when I was at the
NOTES. 439
heigl.t of 14,000 feet above the level of the sea, as well as in Northern
Asia, in the plains of Krasnojarski, southward from liuchtanniusk, and in
both instances so much alike, that the natural process in virtue of which
it takes place must be regarded as one of very extensive prevalence. See
the important observations of Kaemtz (Vorlesungcn iiber Meteoro-
logie, 1840, S. 146) ; also those of later date, or Martins and Bravais'
Meteorologie, 1843, p. 117). In an exhibition of south polar streaks
of very delicate clouds, which Arago observed by day on the 23d of June,
1844, at Paris, dark rays shot upwards from an arch which was directed
from east to west. We have above (p. 203), referred to darker polar
lights—to rays bearing some resemblance to dusky smoke.
148 (p. 206.)—The northern lights are called " the merry dancers" by
the inhabitants of the Shetland Islands. Kendal, in Quarterly Journal
of Science, new series, vol. iv. p. 395.
146 (p. 206.)—See the admirable work of Muncke, in the new edition
of Gehler's Physik. Worterbuch, Bd. vii. 1, S. 113—268, particularly
S. 156.
147 (p. 207.)—Farquharson, in Edinb. Philos. Journal, vol. xvi. p. 304 ;
Philos. Transact, for 1829, p. 113.
148 (p. 209.)—Kamtz, Lehrb. der Meteorologie, Bd. iii. S. 498, 501.
149 (p. 210.)—Arago on the dry fog of 1783 and 1831, which illumi
nated the night, in Annuaire for 1842; and on extraordinary luminous
phenomena in clouds without storms, vide Annuaire for 1838, p. 279.
160 (p. 214.)—Herodotus, iv. 28. The old prejudice (Pliny, ii. 80). that
Egypt never suffers from earthquakes, is answered by the colossal statue
of Memnon, which has been again restored (Letronne, La Statue vocale
de Memnon, 1833) ; but the valley of the Nile does lie without the circle
of concussion of Byzantium, the Archipelago, and Syria (Ideler ad Aristot.
Meteor, p. 584).
161 (p. 214.)—Saint-Martin, in the learned notes to Lebeau, Hist, du
Bas Empire, t. ix. p. 401.
162 (p. 214.)—Humboldt, Asie centrale, t. ii. p. 110—118. On the
difference between concussion of the surface and the strata lying under it,
vide Gay-Lussac, in the Annales de Chimie et de Physique, t. xxii. p. 429.
153 (p. 215.)—Tutissimuni est cum vibrat crispante aedificiorum crepitu ;
et cum intumescit assurgens alternoque motu residet, innoxium et cum
concurrentia tecta contrario ictu arietant; quoniam alter motus alteri
440 NOTES.
renititur. Uudaatis inclinatio et ductus more quaedam Tolutatio infesta
est, aut cum in unara partem totus se motus impellit (Plin. ii. 82).
164 (p. 216.)—Even in Italy they have begun to acknowledge the inde
pendence of earthquakes of the state of the weather, i. e. the appearance
of the heavens immediately before the concussion. F. Hoffmann's nume
rical results accord in all respects with the experience of the Abbe Scina,
of Palermo (Posthum. Works, vol. ii. p. 386—375). I have myself
several times observed reddish clouds on the day of shocks, and shortly
before they happened; on the 4th Nov. 1799, indeed, I experienced two
smart shocks at the moment of a loud clap of thunder (Relat. Hist. liv. iv.
chap. 10). Vasalli Eandi, of Turin, observed Volta's electrometer much
agitated during the protracted earthquake of Pignerol, April 2 to May 17,
1808 (Journ. de Physique, t. lxvii. p. 291). But these signs from clouds,
from altered aerial electricity, and from calms, cannot be regarded as univer
sally significant, as necessarily connected with earthquakes. In Quito, Peru,
and Chili, as well as in Canada and Italy, many earthquakes are observed
along with the clearest skies, with the freshest land and sea-breezes. But
if no meteorological indication present itself on the day of the shock, or
shortly before this occurs, it seems impossible to overlook the influence of
particular seasons (the vernal and the autumnal equinoxes), i e- the com
mencement of the rainy season after long drought within the tropics, and
the change of the monsoons according to popular belief, although we can
not perceive the genetical connection of meteorological processes with
what takes place in the interior of the earth. Numerical inquiries on the
distribution of earthquakes throughout the course of the year, such as
have been instituted with great industry by Von Hoff, Merian, and Fried.
Hoffmann, vouch for their frequency at the epochs of the equinoxes. It
is very remarkable that Pliny designates an earthquake a subterraneous
thunder-storm, not so much by reason of the rolling noise as because he
holds that the elastic concussive forces acting through their tension accu
mulate in the interior of the earth when they are absent in the atmosphere :
Ventos in causa esse non dubium reor. Neque eiiim unquam intremis-
cunt terrae, nisi sopito mari caeloque adeo tranquillo, ut volatus avium
non pendeant, subtract» omni spiritu qui vehit ; nee unquam nisi post
ventos conditos, scilicet in venas et cavernas ejus occulto a/flatu. Neque
aliud est in terra tremor, quam in nube tonitruum ; nee hiatus aliud quam
cum fulmen erumpit, incluso spiritu luctante et ad libertatem exire nitente
NOTES. 411
(Plin. ii. 79 ; in Seneca, Nat. Quaest. vi. 4—31). In these words we see
the germ of all that has since been said soberly, or dreamed on the causes
of earthquakes .
[Mr. Edmonds—Cornwall Journal (?)—has endeavoured to connect
the occurrence of earthquakes with the period of the moon. He shows
that a great number of the most disastrous have occurred the day after
the first quarter.—Ta. ]
145 (p. 216.)—I have given data which shew that the hourly variation
of the barometer is not affected before or after earthquakes, in my Relat.
Hist. t. i. p. 311 and 513.
156 (p. 216.)—Humboldt, Rel. Hist. t. i. p. 515—517.
157 (p. 219.)—On the Bramidos of Guanaxuato, vide my Essai polit.
sur la Nouv. Espagne, t. i. p. 303. The subterraneous noises without
any appreciable movement of the earth in the deep mines or on the surface
(6420 feet above the level of the sea) were not heard in the lofty table
lands in the neighbourhood, but only in the hilly parts of the Sierra, from
the Cuesta de I0s Aguilares, not far from Marsili northward, to Santa
Rosa. And the waves of sound did not reach to particular parts of the
Sierra 6 or 7 miles north-west of Guanaxuato to the other side of Chichi-
mequillo, near the boiling spring of San Jose de Comangillas. Very
severe measures were taken by the magistracy of the mountain town, when
the alarm at the sounds was at its height. " 14th Jan. 1784.—The flight
of a family of wealthy persons shall be punished with a fine of 100 piastres ;
that of poor persons with two months' imprisonment. The militia are em
powered to bring back fugitives." Not the least remarkable point is the
opinion which the gentry (el Cabildo) are to form from their better know
ledge: "The gentry, in their wisdom (en su Sabidura), will know when
there is any danger, and then they may recommend flight ; for the present,
processions are all that are requisite." A famine was the consequence of
the alarm for the truenos ; no one would venture down into the Sierra from
the plateaus where corn abounded.
The ancients were also acquainted with noises without earthquakes
(Arist. Meteor, ii. ; Plin. ii. 80). The strange noise which was heard
from March 1822 to September 1824, in the Dalmatian island Meleda
(4 miles from Ragusa), and on which Partsch has thrown so much light,
was accompanied by shocks from time to time.
158 (p. 221.)—Drake, Nat. and Stat. View of Cincinnati, p. 232—238 ;
Mitchell, in the Transactions of the Lit. and Philos. Soc. of New York,
U 2
442 NOTES.
vol. i. p. 281—308. In the Piedmontese county of Pignerol, glasses of
water which were filled to the brim continued for hours in incessant motion.
150 (p. 222.)—In Spanish they say : " rocas que hacen puente. With
this phenomenon of non-transmission through superior strata, is connected
the remarkable fact that, in the beginning of the present century, shocks
of an earthquake were felt in the deep silver mines of Marienberg, in the
Saxon Erzgebirge, which were not perceived at all on the surface. The
miners rushed up in alarm. Contrariwise, the people at work in the
mines of Falun and Persberg felt nothing of the smart shocks (Nov. 1823)
which threw all the inhabitants above ground into a state of great alarm.
160 (p. 223.)—Sir Alex. Burnes, Travels into Bokhara, vol. i. p. 18 ;
and Wathen, Mem. on the Usbek State, Journal of the Asiatic Soc. of
Bengal, vol. iii. p. 337.
m (p. 224.)—Philos. Transact, vol. xlix. p. 414.
162 (p. 225.)—On the frequency of earthquakes in Cashmir, vide
Troyer's Uebersetzung des alten Radjatarangini, vol. ii. p. 279 ; and
the Reise von Carl v. Hiigel, Bd. ii. S. 184.
163 (p. 226.)—Strabo, lib. i. p. 100, Casaub. That the phrase ir7>A.ou
Stairipov ttotuh&v does not mean mud, but lava, appears plainly from
Strabo, lib. vi. p. 412. Vide Walter uber Abnahme der vulkanischen
Thatigkeit in historischen Zeiten, 1844, S. 25.
1H (p. 228.)—Bischoffs comprehensive work, Warmelehre des inneren
Erdkorpers.
165 (p. 228.)—On the Artesian fire-springs (Ho-tsing) in China, and the
ancient use ofportable gas, in bamboo tubes, in the city of Khiung-tscheu,
vide Klaproth, in my Asie centrale, t. ii. p. 519—530.
166 (p. 229.)—Boussingault (Annales de Chimie, t. Iii. p. 181) observed
no escape of hydrochloric acid in the volcanoes of New Granada, whilst
Monticelli found this acid in enormous quantities during the eruption of
Vesuvius of 1813.
167 (p. 229.)—Humboldt, Recueil d'Observ. astronomiques, t. i. p. 31 1
(Nivellement barometrique de la Cordillere des Andes, No. 206.)
168 (p. 229.)—Adolph Brongniart, in the Annales des Sciences natu-
relles, t. xv. p. 225.
16a (p. 230.)—Bischoff, op. cit. 324, Anm. 2.
"° (p. 231.)—Humboldt, Asie centr. t. i. p. 43.
171 (p. 231.)—On the Theory of the Isothermal lines, see the clever
papers of Kupffer in Poggend. Ann. Bd. xv. S. 184, and Bd. xxxii. S.
NOTES. 443
270 ; in the Voyage dans l'Oural, p. 382—398 ; and in the Edinb. Journ.
of Science, new series, vol. iv. p. 355. See also Kamtz, Lehrb. der
Meteor. Bd. ii. S. 217 ; and on the ascent of the Chthonisothermal lines
in mountainous countries, Bischoff, S. 174—198.
"* (p. 231.)—Leop. v. Buch in Poggend. Ann. Bd xii. S. 405.
173 (p. 231.)—On the temperature of the drops of rain in Cumana,
which falls to 22,3° C. (72-1° F.) when the temperature of the air shortly
before had been 30°—31° C. (86°—87-8 F.), and sinks during the rain to
23-4° C. (75-1° F.), vide my Relat. Hist. t. ii. p. 22. The rain-drops
as they fall change the temperature they had on their production, which
depends on the height of the clouds whence they come, and the heating of
these ontheir upper surface by the sun's rays. After the rain-drops, on
their first formation, by reason of the latent caloric of the vapour becoming
sensible, have acquired a higher temperature than the surrounding medium ,
they still rise somewhat in temperature, whilst, as they fall through lower,
warmer, and moister strata of air, vapour continues to be precipitated
upon them, and they increase in size (Bischoff, Warmelehre, S. 73) ; but
this rise is compensated by evaporation. Cooling of the air by rain is
effected (setting aside what probably belongs to the electrical processes
attending thunder-storms) by the drops, which are themselves of lower
temperature, in consequence of the place of their formation, and farther
bring down a portion of the higher colder air ; and then by moistening
the ground and giving occasion to evaporation. Such are the usnal rela
tions of the phenomenon. When, in rare cases, the rain-drops are warmer
than the lower strata of the atmosphere (Humboldt, Relat. Hist. t. iii. p.
513), the reason may perhaps be sought for in superior warmer currents,
or in a higher temperature acquired by extended and not very dense clouds
exposed to the action of the rays of the suu. How, for the rest, the phe
nomena of supplementary rainbows (explained by the interferences of light)
are connected with the size of the falling drops and their increase, and how
an optical phenomenon, when rightly observed, may enlighten us in regard
to a meteorological process, according to diversity of zone, has been shown
with great acuteness by Arago, in the Annuaire for 1836, p. 300.
"* (p. 232.)—Boussingault's careful experiments satisfy me that in the
tropics the temperature of the ground a very short way below the surface
corresponds exactly with the mean temperature of the air. I have pleasure
in quoting the following table :—
4.U NOTES.
Stations. One foot under
the surface.
Mean tempe
rature of
the air.
Height above the
level of the sea,
in Parisian feet.
Guayaquil . . . 26-0° C. 25-6° C. 0
3231
3770
5564
8969
Anserma uuevo 23-7 238
Zupia .... 21-5 21-5
Popayan 13-2 18-7
Quito .... 155 155
The doubt about the temperature of the earth within the tropics, which
I have perhaps myself contributed to raise by my observations in the Cave
of Caripe (Cueva del Guacharo), are resolved by the consideration that I
compared the presumed mean temperature of the air of the convent
of Caripe (18-5°), not with the temperature of the air of the cavern (18-7°),
but with the temperature of the subterranean stream (16-8) ; I have,
however, said, that it was very possible that mountain water from a great
height might be mixed with the water of the cavern (Relat. hist. t. iii.
146—194).
175 (p. 233.)—Boussingault, in Annales de Chimie, t. Hi. p. 181. The
spring of Chaudes Aigues in Auvergne is only 80° C. It is also to be
observed that, whilst the aguas calientes de las Trincheras burst out from
a granite rock, split into regular blocks, and far from all volcanoes, and
have fully a temperature of 97° C, the whole of the springs that rise on
the flanks of still-active volcanoes, Pasto, Cotopaxi, and Tunguragua, only
show a temperature of from 36° to 54°.
1,0 (p. 234.)—The Cassotis, or spring of St. Nicholas, and the Castalia,
foot of the Phsedriadse (Pausanius, x. 24, 25, and x. 8, 9); the Pirene, Acro-
corinth (in Strabo, p. 379) ; the Erasinos-spring, Mount Chaon, South
from Argos (in Herodotus, vii. 67, and Pausanius, ii. 24, 7); the spring
of Aedepsos, Cubcea, some of which have a temperature of 31°, others one
of from 62° to 75° (in Strabo, p. 60 and 447, Athenaeus, ii. 3, 73) ; the
hot springs of Thermopylse, foot of Oeta, 65° (in Pausan. x. 21, 2) ;—all
from MS. notices by Professor Curtius, the learned companion of Otfried
Miiller.
177 (p. 234.)—Plin. ii. 106; Seneca, Epist. 79, § 3, ed. Ruhkopf.
(Beaufort, Survey of the Coast of Karamania, 1820, Art. Yanar, next
Deliktasch, the ancient Phaselis, p. 24.) See also Ctesias, Fragm. cap.
x. p. 250, ed. Bahr ; Strabo, lib. xiv. p. 665, Casaub.
178 (p. 234.)—Arago, in Annuaire for 1845, p. 234.
NOTES. 445
179 (p. 234.)—Acta S. Patricii, p. 555, ed. Ruinart, t. ii. p. 385,
Mazochi. Dureau de la Malle first directed attention to this remarkable
passage, in his Recherches sur la Topographie de Carthage, 1835, p. 276.
(Vide Seneca, Nat. Quaest. iii. 24.)
180 (p. 237.)—Humboldt, Rel. hist. t. iii. p. 562—567 ; Asie centrale,
t. i. p. 43, t. ii. p. 505—515 ; Vues des Cordilleres, pi. xli. On the
Macalubi (the Arabic Makhlub, cast down), and bow the earth ejected
liquid earth, vide Solinus, cap. v. ; idem ager Agrigentinus eructat limosas
scaturigines, et ut venae fontium sufficiunt rivis subministrandis, ita in
hac Siciliae parte solo nunquam deficiente, aeterna rejectatione terrain terra
evomit.
181 (p. 238.)—See the interesting little map of the island Nisyros, in
Rose, Reise auf den griechischen Inseln, Bd. ii. 1843, S. 69.
182 (p. 239.)—Leopold von Buch, Phys. Beschreibung der Canarischen
Inseln, S. 326 ; and on Erhebungscratere und Vulcane, in Poggend. Ann.
Bd. 37, S. 189. Strabo distinguishes very finely between the two modes
in which islands are produced, when he speaks of the separation of Sicily
from Calabria. " Some islands," he says (lib. vi. p. 258, ed. Casaub.)
"are fragments of the continent; others have arisen from the sea—an
event that still happens at the present day : for the islands of the great
ocean have probably been lifted from its bosom, those that lie off promon
tories have probably been detached from the main land."
183 ( p. 239.)—Ocre Fisove (Mons Vesuvius) in the Umbrian language,
(Lassen, Deutung der Eugabinischen Tafeln, im Rhein. Museum, 1832,
S. 387); the word ocre is probably genuine Umbrian, and means, as Festus
informs us, Mountain. jEtna, if Atrvi) be, as Voss says, an Hellenic
sound, and be connected with atdw and afoivos, may signify a burning and
shining mountain. But this etymological derivation seems doubtful.
The word ./Etna would probably be found a Sicilian word, had we but
any remains of the Sicilian language. The oldest eruption of Etna
spoken of is that referred to in Pindar and jEschylus under Hiero (Olymp.
75, 2.) But it is probable that Hesiod was aware of eruptions of the
mountain before the settlement of the Greek Colony. The word Mtvti in
the text of Hesiod, is of doubtful origin, as I have shown elsewhere.
(Humboldt, Examen. crit. de la Geogr. t. i. p. 168).
184 (p. 239.)—Seneca, Epist. 79.
196 (p. 239.)—Aelian. Var. hist. viii. 11.
1SC (p. 242.)—Petri Bembi Opuscula (Aetna Dialogus), Basil. 1556,
446 NOTES.
p. 63; " Quicquid in Aetnae matris utero coalescit, nunquam exit ex
cratere superiore, quod vel eo incedere gravis materia non queat, Tel, quia
inferius alia spiramenta sunt, non fit opus. Despumant flammis urgenti-
bus ignei rivi pigro fluxu totas delambentes plagas, et in lapidem indu-
rescunt."
187 (p. 242.)—See my drawing of the volcano of Jorullo, of its Homitos
and of the uplifted Malpai/s, in my Vues de Cordilleres, PI. xliii. p. 239.
188 (p. 243.)—Humboldt, Essai sur la Geogr. des plantes et Tableau phys.
des Regions equinoxiales, 1807, p. 130, und Essai geogn. sur le gisement
des Roches, p. 321. But that the total absence of streams of lava, along
with incessant activity of volcanoes, is not connected solely with the con
figuration, position, and absolute height of the mountains, we are assured
by the phenomenon of the greater number of the volcanoes of Java.
( Vide Leop. von Buch, Descr. phys. des lies Canaries, p. 419 ; Reinwardt
and Hoffmann in Poggend. Ann. Bd. xii. S. 607).
189 (p. 246.) —See the bases of my measurements compared with those
of Saussure and Lord Minto, in the Abhandlangen der Academie der Wiss.
zu Berlin aus den J. 1822 and 1823, S. 30.
190 (p. 246.)—Pimelodes Cyclopum s. Humboldt, Recueil d'Observa-
tions de Zoologie et d'Anatomie comparee, t. i. p. 21 —25.
191 (p. 248.)—Leop. von Buch, in Poggend. Ann. Bd. xxxvii. S. 179.
192 (p. 249.)—On the chemical origin of iron glance in volcanic masses,
vide Mitscherlich in Poggend. Ann. Bd. xv. S. 630 ; and on the extrica
tion of hydrochloric acid gas, Gay-Lussac in the Annales de Chemie et de
Phys. t. xxii. p. 423.
193 (p. 259.)—See the beautiful experiments on the refrigeration of
rocky masses in BischofTs Wiirmelehre, S. 384, 443, 500—512.
194 (p. 251.)—Berzelius and Wohler in Poggend. Annalen, Bd. i. S.
221, and Bd. xi. S. 146 ; Gay-Lussac, in the Annales de Chimie, t. xxii.
p. 422 ; Bischoff, Reasons against the Chemical Theory ofVolcanoes, in the
English edition of his Warmelehre, p. 297—309.
195 (p. 252.)—According to Plato's geognostic notions, as they are
exposed in the Phsedo, Periphlegethon, in respect of the activity of vol
canoes, plays nearly the same part which we now ascribe to the increased
heat of the earth with the greater depth, and the melted state of the inter
nal strata of the earth. (Phaedo, ed. Ast. p. 603 and 607, Annot. p.
808 and 817). "Within the earth, all around, there are greater and
smaller caverns. There water flows in abundance ; and also much fire,
NOTES. 447
great fire-streams, and streams of wet mud (here purer, there more filthy)
as in Sicily the streams of mud that are poured out before and along with
the fire-stream itself ; all places are filled with these, according as each of
the streams takes its several way. Periphlegethon flows out into an ex
tensive district burning with fierce fire, where it forms a lake larger than
our sea, boiling with water and mud. From hence it moves in circles
round the earth turbid and muddy." This stream of melted earth and
mud is so much the general cause of volcanic phenomena, that Plato adds :
" Thus is Periphlegethon constituted, from which also the fire-streams
(01 fivaices), inflate small or detached portions wherever these are met with
on the earth (ifirp hv ti5x«<« rvs fVs)- Volcanic scorise and lava streams
are therefore portions of periphlegethon itself, portions of the subterranean
melted and ever-moving mass. That oi pvaices are lava streams, and not,
as Schneider, Passow, and Schleiermacher, will have it, " fire-vomiting
mountains," appears from many passages that have been already collected
by Ukert (Geogr. der Griechen und Romer, Th. ii. 1. S. 200) ; Wo| is
the volcanic phenomenon seized from its most remarkable point of view,
the lava stream . Whence the expression the piaxts of JEtna. Aristot.
Mirab. Ausc. t. ii. p. 833, § 38, Bekker; Thucyd. iii. 116 ; Theophr.
de Lap. 22, p. 427 ; Schneider, Diod. v. 6, and xiv. 59, where the re
markable words: " many places near the sea, not far from ^Ltna, were
destroyed," {no tou ica\ovp.ivov pianos ; Strabo, vi. p. 269, xiii. p. 628,
and of the celebrated glowing mud of the Lelantine plain in Cubaea,
(Strabo, i. p. 58, Casamb.) ; lastly Appian. de bello civili, vi. 114. The
blame which Aristotle throws on the geological fancies of the PhEedo
(Meteor, ii. 2, 19) attaches only to the rivers which flow over the surface
of the earth. The expression, so distinct in reference to the " eruptions
of wet mud in Sicily preceding the glowing (lava) streams " is very
remarkable. Observations on jEtna could not have led to such language,
unless torrents of ashes or pumice mixed with the melted snow and water
of the cone during an eruption, were taken for ejected mud. It seems
more probable that the Aypov irrjAou troTaiioi of Plato, the " moist mud
streams," are an obscure recollection of the mud-volcanoes of Agrigentum,
which I have already referred to (Note 89), which eject mud with loud
noises. The loss of one among the many lost writings of Theophrastus :
Ttpl jiiaicos toO iv 'SiKtylif, of which Diogenes Laertius (v. 39) makes
mention, is much to be regretted in connection with this subject.
196 (p. 253.)—Leopold von Bucb, Physical. Beschreib. der Canarischen
448 NOTES.
Inseln, S. 326—407. I doubt whether we can, with the able Darwin,
(Geological Observations on the Volcanic Islands, 1844, p. 127), regard
Central volcanoes in general as Rank-volcanoes of small compass deve
loped on parallel fissures. Fried. Hoffmann believed that he perceived
in the group of the Lipari islands, which he has so well described, and in
which two eruption-fissures cross each other near Panaria, an intermediate
member between the two principal modes in which volcanoes appear, the
central, and the rank or row-volcanoes of Leopold von Buch, (vide Pog-
gend. Annal. 26, p. 81).
197 (p. 254.)—Humboldt, Geognost. Beob. iiber die Vulkane des Hoch-
landes von Quito, in Poggend. Annalen, Bd. xliv. S. 194.
199 (p. 254.)—Seneca, whilst he speaks very pointedly on the proble
matical lowering of .Etna, says, in his 79th letter : " Potest hoc accidere,
non quia montis altitudo desedit, sed quia ignis evanuit et minus vehemens
ac largus efFertur : ob eandem causam, fumo quoque per diem segniore.
Neutrum autem incredibile est, nee montem qui devoretur quotidie minui,
nee ignem non manere eundem ; quia non ipse ex se est, sed in aliqua
inferna valle conceptus exaestuat et alibi pascitur : in ipso monte non
alimentum habet sed viam." (Ed. Ruhkopfiana, t. iii. p. 32.) The sub
terraneous communications, " by means of galleries," between the volcanoes
of Sicily, Lipari, Pithecuse (Ischia), and Vesuvius, which may be conjec
tured to have been formerly on fire, are fully recognized by Strabo, who
calls the whole country " subigneous." (Lib. i. p. 247, 248.)
199 (p. 254.)—Humboldt, Essai polit. sur la Nouv. Espagne, t. ii.
p. 173—175.
200 (p. 255.)—On the Eruption of Methone, vide Ovid. Metamorphos.
xv. 296—306):
" Est prope Pittheam tumulus Troezena sine ullis
Arduus arboribus, quondam planissima campi
Area, nunc tumulus ; nam—res horrenda relatu—
Vis fera ventorum, caecis inclusa cavernis,
Exspirare aliqua cupiens, luctataque frustra
Liberiore frui coelo, cum carcere rima
Nulla foret toto nee pervia flatibus esset,
Extentam tumefecit humum ; ceu spiritus oris
Tendere vesicam solet, aut direpta bicorni
Terga capro. Tumor ille loci permansit, et alti
Collis habet speciem, longoque induruit aevo."
NOTES. 449
This description of a dome-shaped elevation of the land, so important in a
geological point of view, accords remarkably with what Aristotle says,
(Meteor, ii. 8, 17—19) on the upliftment of an Eruption island. " The
quaking of the earth does not cease until the wind (4«/ioj) whicli
occasions the shocks has made its escape into the crust of the earth. So
did it happen lately at Heraclea in Pontus, and formerly too in Hiera, one
of the /Kolian islands. In this a portion of the earth swelled up and rose
into the shape of a hill with loud noises, until the powerful lifting breath
(irveGiua) found a vent, and threw out sparks and ashes, which covered the
neighbouring town of the Liperians, and even extended to several towns
of Italy." In this description, the vesicular-like distension of the crust
of the earth (a state in which many trachytic mountains have remained) is
very well distinguished from the eruption itself. Strabo, (lib. i. p. 59,
ed. Cas.) likewise describes the phenomenon of Methone : " Near the
town in the Hermionian bay, a flaming eruption took place ; a fiery
mountain was thrown up, seven (?) stadia high, inaccessible during the
day from heat and sulphureous odours, but sweet-smelling (?) in the night,
and so hot that the sea boiled five stadia off, and was turbid full twenty
stadia out, and was also filled full of detached masses of rock." On the
present mineralogical constitution of the peninsula of Methone, vide
Fiedler, Reise durch Griechenland, Th. i. S. 257—263.
201 (p. 256.)—Leop. von Buch, Physik. Beschr. der Canar. Inseln, S.
356—358, particularly the French translation of this excellent work,
p. 402 ; also in Poggendorff's Annalen, Bd. xxxvii. S. 183. A sub
marine island was again in the most recent times formed in the crater of
Santorin. In 1810 this island was still 15 fathoms under the surface of
the sea ; but in 1830 only 3 or 4 fathoms. It rises steeply like a great
cone from the bottom of the sea ; and the persistence of the submarine
activity is proclaimed by the admixture of sulphuric acid vapours with the
sea-water, so that ships which are coppered, lying at anchor in the bay of
Neo-Kammeni, as well as at Wromolimni near Methana, have their bot
toms cleansed and made bright without further trouble. (Vide Virlet in
Bulletin de la Societe geologique de France, t. iii. p. 109, and Fiedler,
Reise durch Griechenland, Th. ii. S. 469 and 584.)
202 (p. 256.)—Appearances of new islands near San Miguel, one of the
Azores: 11th June, 1638, 31st December, 1719, 13th June, 1811.
203 (p. 256.)—Prevost, in Bulletin de la Societe geologique, t. ii. p.
34 ; Friedrich Hoffmann, Hinterlassene Werke, Bd. ii. S. 451—456.
450 NOTES.
*" (p. 257.)—"Accedunt vicini et perpetui Aetnae montis ignes et
insularum Aeolidum, veluti ipsis undis alatur incendium ; neque enim
aliter durare tot seculis tantus ignis potuisset, nisi humoris nutrimentis
aleretur." (Justin, Hist. Philipp. iv. i.) The volcanic theory with which
the physical description of Sicily here begins is extremely intricate. Deep-
lying beds of sulphur and rosin, an extremely thin crust, full of cavities
and readily divided; violent motion of the waves of the sea, which, as
they strike together, draw down air (the wind) for the maintenance of the
fire : such are the elements of the theory of Tragus. As he presents
himself as a physiognomist in Pliny (xi. 52), we may presume that
he did not limit himself to history alone ; but many of his works are lost
to us. The view according to which air was forced into the interior of
the earth, there to influence the volcanic force, is moreover connected
with the notions of the ancients on the influence exerted by the direction of
the wind upon the intensity of the fire which burns in JEtaa, in Hiera and
Stromboli (see the remarkable passage in Strabo, lib. vi. p. 275 and 276).
The mountainous island of Stromboli (Strongyle) was therefore regarded
as the seat of ^Eolus, " the controller of the winds," as the sailors fore
told the weather from the violence of the volcanic eruptions of Stromboli.
Such a connection between the eruptions of a small volcano and the state
of the barometer and the quarter of the wind is still recognised, {vide
Leop. von Buch, Descr. phys. des lies Canaries, p. 334 ; Hoffmann in
Poggend. Ann. Bd. xxvi. S. 8) ; although it must be allowed that all our
present knowledge of volcanic phenomena, and the slight alterations in the
pressure of the air that accompany our winds, do not enable us to offer any
satisfactory explanation of the fact. Bembo, brought up as a youth by
Greek exiles in Sicily, gives a pleasant narrative of his wanderings, and in
his " jEtna Dialogus" (middle of the 16th century) advances the theory
of the penetration of sea water to the focus of the volcano, and of the
necessity of the neighbourhood of the sea. On ascending jEtna the
following question is thrown out : " Explana potius nobis quae petimus, ea
incendia unde oriantur et orta quomodo perdurent ? In omni tellnie
nuspiam majores fistulae aut meatus ampliores sunt quam in locis, quae
vel mari vicina sunt, vel a maii protinus alluuntur : mare erodit ilia fa-
cillime pergitque in viscera terrae. Itaque cum in aliena regna sibi viam
faciat, ventis etiam facit ; ex quo fit, ut loca quaeque maritima maxime
terraemotibus subjecta sint, parum mediterranea. Habes quum in sul-
furis venas venti furentes inciderint, unde incendia oriantur Aetnae tuae.
NOTES. 451
Vides, quae mare in radicibus babeat, quae sulfurea sit, quae cavernosa,
quae a mari aliquando perforata ventos admiserit aestuantes, per quos
idonea flammae materies incenderetur.
205 (p. 257.)—See Gay-Lussac, sur les Volcans, in den Annales de
Cbimie, t. xxii. p. 427 ; and Bischoff, Warmelehre, S. 372.) Reactions of
the volcanic hearth through tensive columns of water, viz. when the ex
pansive force of the vapour surpasses the hydrostatic pressure, are pro
claimed by the erruptions of smoke and aqueous vapour, which are ob
served at different times in Lancerote, Iceland, and the Kurile islands
during the eruptions of neighbouring volcanoes.
206 (p. 258.)—Abel-Remusat, Lettre a Mr. Cordier, in the Annales des
Mines, t. v. p. 137.
w (p. 258.)—Humboldt, Asie centrale, t. ii. p. 30—33, 38—52,
70—80, and 426—428. The existence of active volcanoes in Cordofan,
135 miles from the Red Sea, has lately been denied by Riippell, (Reise
in Nubien, 1829).
208 (p. 259.)—Dufrenoy et Elie de Beaumont, Explication de la Carte
geologique de la France, t. i. p. 89.
209 (p. 260.)—Sophocl. Philoctet. v. 971 and 972. On the conjectural
epoch of the extinction of the Lemnian fire in the time of Alexander, vide
Buttmann in Museum der Alterthumswissenschaft, Bd. i. 1807, S. 295 ;
Dureau de la Malle in Malte-Brun, Annales des Voyages, t. ix. 1809,
p. 5; Ukert in Bertuch, Geogr. Ephemeriden, Bd. xxxix. 1812, S. 361 ;
Rhode, Res Lemnicae, 1829, p. 8. and Walter iiber Abnahme der vulkan.
Thatigkeit in historischen Zeiten, 1844, S. 24. The hydrographical con
ception of Lemnos by Choiseul makes it extremely probable that the
extinct foundations of Moschylos, together with the island Chryse,
Philoctetes' desolate abode, (Otfried Muller, Minyer, S. 300,) have been
long swallowed up by the sea. Reefs and shoals to the North-east of
Lemnos still show the spot where the jEgsean Sea possessed an active
volcano like JEtna, Vesuvius, Stromboli, and that of the Lipari isles.
210 (p. 260.)—Vide Reinwardt and Hoffmann in Poggendorff's Annalen,
Bd. xii. S. 607 ; Leop. von Buch, Descr. des lies Canaries, p. 424, 426.
The argillaceous mud-eruptions of Carguairazo, when the volcano
crumbled together in 1698, the Lodazales of Igualata, and the Moya of
Pelileo, are volcanic appearances of the same nature in the highlands of
Quito.
452 NOTES.
211 (p. 262.)—In a profile of the environs of Tezcnco, Totonilco, and
Moran, (Atlas geographique et physique, PI. vii.) which I originally
(1803) designed for a Pasigrafia geognostica destinada al nso de los
Jovenes del Colegio de Mineria de Mexico, bat which was never pub
lished, I entitled (1832) the plutonic and volcanic eruptive rocks endo
genous, (that which is engendered in the interior,) the sedimentary and
flaetz rocks exogenous, (externally engendered). Pasigraphically the
former were indicated by an arrow directed upwards/ , the latter by an
arrow directed downwards f , signs which had certain pictorial advantages,
and permitted the nature of the rock to be shown without having recourse
to those very unpicturesque and arbitrarily-shaped cones which are gene
rally seen in such profile drawings. The titles endogenous and exogenous
were borrowed from Decandolle, who uses the former in connection with
monocotyledonous, the latter with dicotyledonous plants. But Mohl's
more careful vegetable anatomy has shown, that in the strict sense of the
words the growth of monocotyledonous vegetables does not proceed from
within, nor that of decotyledonous plants from without. ( Vide Link,
Elementa philosophiae botanicae, t. i. 1837, p. 287 ; Endlicher nnd
Unger, Grundziige der Botanik, 1843, S. 89; and Jussieu, Traite de
Botanique, t. i. p. 85). What I call endogenous, Lyell, in his Principles
of Geology, 1833, vol. iii. p. 374, characterises by the expression,
" netherformed" or " hypogene rocks."
212 (p. 262.)— Vide Leop. von Buch iiber Dolomit als Gebirgsart, 1823,
S. 36 ; and farther, Ueberden Gradder Fliissigkeit, welchen man plutonis-
chen Felsarten bei ihrem Heraustreten znschreiben soil, wie iiber Ent-
stehung des Gneuss aus Scbiefern durch Einwirkung des Granits und der
mit seiner Erhebung verbundenen Stone, as well as in the Abhandl. der
Akad. der Wissench. zu Berlin aus dem Jahre 1842, S. 58 und 63, and in
the Jahrb. fur wissenschaftliche Kritik, 1840, S. 195.
213 (p. 264.)—Darwin, Volcanic Islands, 1844, p. 49 and 154.
214 (p. 264.)—Moreau de Jonnes, Hist. phys. des Antilles, t. i. p. 136,
138, and 543; Hnmboldt, Relation historique, t. iii. p. 367.
215 (p. 264.)—AtTeguiza; Leop. von Buch.Canarische Inselna, S. 301.
218 (p. 264.)—Vide above, p. 9.
2" (p. 265.)—Bernhard Cotta, Geognosie, 1839, S. 273.
218 (p. 265.)—Leop. von Buch iiber Granit und Gneuss in den Abbandl.
der Berl. Akad. aus dem J. 1842, S. 60.
NOTES. 453
219 (p. 265.)—In the granite of the Kolivan Lake, which rises like
walls, and is divided into parallel narrow ledges, felspar and albite pre
dominate, titanitic crystals are rare. Humboldt, Asie centrale, t. i. p.
295 ; Gustav Rose, Reise nach dem Ural, Bd. i. S. 524.
220 (p. 265.)—Humboldt, Relation historique, t. ii. p. 99.
221 (p. 266.)—See the drawing of Biri-tau, which I took from the south,
with Kirghish tents pitched, in Rose, Reise, Bd. i. S. 584. On granite
balls scaling off concentrically, vide Humboldt, Rel. hist. t. ii. p. 597 ;
and Essai geogn. sur le Gisement des Roches, p. 78.
222 (p. 266.)—Humboldt, Asie centrale, t. i. p. 299—311, and the
drawings in Rose's Reise, Bd. i. S. 61 1, in which the curves of the granitic
layers pointed out by Leop. von Buch as characteristic, are repeated.
223 (p. 267.)—This remarkable stratification was first described by
Weiss, in Karsten's Archiv fur Bergbau und Hiittenwesen, Bd. xvi.
1827, S. 5.
224 (p. 267.)—Dufrenoy et Elie de Beaumont, Geologie de la France,
t. i. p. 130.
225 (p. 267.)—An important part is played by these substratified dio-
rites near Steben, in the Nailaer Mountain district, a country where I was
engaged in mining work in the last century, and with which some of the
happiest associations of my youth are connected. Vide Friedr. Hoffmann
in PoggendorfFs Annalen, Bd. xvi. S. 558. •
220 (p. 268.)—In the southern and Baschkir-Ural ; vide Rose, Reise,
Bd. ii. S. 171.
w (p. 268.)—G. Rose, Reise nach dem Ural, Bd. ii. S. 47—52. On
the identity of Elaeolite and Nepheline (in the latter the quantity of lime
is somewhat larger), vide Scheerer, in Poggend. Annalen, Bd. xlix.
S. 359—381.
223 (p. 272.)—See the admirable papers of Mitscherlich, in the Abhand-
lungen der Berl. Akad. for the years 1822 and 1823, S. 25—41 ; in Pog-
gendorfTs Annalen, Bd. x. S. 137—152, Bd. xi. S. 323—332, Bd. xli.
S. 213—216 (Gustav Rose iiber Bildung des Kalkspaths und Aragonits
in Poggend. Ann. Bd. xlii. S. 353—366 ; Haidinger, in the Transactions
of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, 1827, p. 148).
229 (p. 229.)—Lyell, Principles of Geology, vol. iii. p. 353 and 359.
230 (p. 275.)—The statements here made of the relations of granite in
reference to stratification, express the general or principal character of the
whole formation. In some places (tide p. 265, and the description of the
454 NOTES.
Narym chain, near the boundary of China, Rose's Reise, Bd. i. S. 599)
granite indeed shows configurations which lead us to conjecture that at the
period of its eruption it was not always without fluidity, just as happens
in the case of Trachyte (Dufrenoy et Elie de Beaumont, Description geo-
logique de la France, t. i. p. 70). As we have in the text mentioned the
narrow fissures through which basalt has generally flowed, I take the op
portunity in this place of referring to the wide chasms which have served
the melaphyres (which must not be confounded with the basalts) as chan
nels of efflux. See the interesting account by Murchison, in his Silurian
System, p. 126, of a chasm 450 feet wide, in the coal-pit at Cornbrook,
Hoar-Edge, through which the melaphyre has made its way.
-11 (p. 275.)—Sir James Hall, in the Edinb. Transact, vol. v. p. 43,
vol. vi. p. 71 ; Gregory Watt, in the Philos. Transactions of the Royal
Society of London, for 1804, pt. ii. p. 279 ; Dartigues and Fleuriau de
Bellevue, in the Journ. de Phys. t. lx. p. 456 ; Bischoff, Warmelehre, S.
313 and 443.
232 (p. 276.)—Gustav Rose, in Poggendorff's Annalen der Physik, Bd.
xlii. S. 364.
2S3 (p. 276.) On the dimorphism of sulphur, vide Mitscherlich,
Lehrbuch der Chemie, § 55—63.
234 (p- 276.) On gypsum as monuaxal crystal, sulphate of magnesia,
oxides of zinc and nickel, vide Mitscherlich, in Poggend. Ann. Bd. xi.
S. 328.
235 (p. 276.)—Coste, Versuche, in Creusot iiber das briichig werden des
Staheisens, in Elie de Beaumont, Mem. geol. t. ii. p. 411.
230 (p. 276.)—Mitscherlich iiber die Ausdehnung der krystallisirten
Korper durch dieWarme in Poggend. Ann. Bd. x. S. 151.
-V (p. 277.)—On double stratifica.ion cleavage, vide Elie de Beaumont,
Geologie de la France, p. 41 ; Credner, Geognosie Thiiringens und des
Harzes, S. 40; Romer, das Rheinische Uebergangsgebirge, 1844, S.
5 und 9.
sas (p, 277.)—With addition of clay, lime, and potash, not silicic
acid simply coloured with oxide of iron ; Rose, Reise, Bd. ii. S. 169, 187,
and 192 ; vide also Bd. i. S. 427, where the porphyry balls are represented
between which the jasper occurs in the calcareous grey wacke mountains
of Bogoslowsk, also as a consequence of the Plutonic effects of Augitic
rock : Rose, Bd. ii. S. 545 ; also Humboldt, Asie centrale, t. i. p. 486.
239 (p. 277.)—Rose, Reise nach dem Ural, Bd. i. S. 586—588.
NOTES. 455
240 (p. 277.)—For the volcanic origin of mica, it is important to re
member that crystals of mica occur in the basalt of the Bohemian Middle
Mountains; in the lava of Vesuvius of 1822 (Monticelli, Storia del Vesu-
vio negli anni 1821 e 1822, § 99); in clay. slate fragments of Hohenfels,
not far from Gerolstein in the Eifel, enveloped in scoriaceous basalt, vide
Mitscherlich, in Leonhard, Basalt-Gebilde, S. 244. On the production of
Felspar in clay slate, through the contact of Porphyry between Urval and
Po-iet (Forez), vide Dufrenoy, in Geol. de la France, t. i. p. 137. A simi
lar contact gives the slate at Paimpol, in Brittany, an amygdaloidal and
cellular character, an appearance which amazed me very much on a geolo
gical journey which I made on foot, in company with Prof. Kunth, through
that interesting country.
241 (p. 277.)— Leopold von Buch in the Abhandlungen der Akad. der
Wissensch. zu Berlin aus dem J. 1842, S. 63 ; and in the Jahrbiicher fur
wissenschaftliche Kritik, Jahrg. 1840, S. 196.
242 (p. 277.) —Elie de Beaumont, in the Annales des Sciences naturelles,
t. xv. p. 362—372 :—" En se rapprochant des masses primitives du Mont
Rose et des montagnes situees a l'ouest de Coni, on voit les couches secon
dares perdre de plus les caracteres inherents a leur mode de depot. Sou-
vent alors elles en prennent qui semblent provenir d'une toute autre cause,
sans perdre pour cela leur stratification, rappelant par cette disposition la
structure physique d'un tison a moitic charbonne dans lequel on peut
suivre les traces des fibres ligneuses, bien au-dela des points qui prt-
sentent encore les caracteres mutuels du bois." Vide also Annales des
Sciences naturelles, t. xiv. p. 118—122 ; and H. von Dechen, Geognosie,
S. 553. Among the most remarkable evidences of the transformation of
rocks under the influence of Plutonic agency, are the belemnites in the
schists of Nuffenen (Alpine valley of Egine and the Gries-glacier), as well
as the belemnites in the so-called primitive limestone, which M. de Char-
pentier discovered on the western fl.nk of the Col de Seigne, betweeen
Enclove de Monjovet and the Alpine-hut de la Lauchette (Ann. de
Chimie, t. xxiii. p. 262), and which he showed me in Bex, in the autumn
of 1822.
243 (p. 278.)—Hoffman, in Poggend. Annalen, Bd. xvi. S. 552. " Strata
of the transition clay slate of the Fichtelgebirge, which can be followed
for four miles, and only at either extremity, where they come into contact
with the granite converted into gneiss. There we can trace the gradual
formation of gneiss, and the internal developement of mica and of felspar
456 NOTES.
amygaloids in clay slate, which indeed contains almost all the elements of
those substances."
244 (p. 278.)—In the works of the ancient Greeks and Romans that
have come down to us we observe the want of jasper columns and large
vessels of jasper, a substance which the Ural mountains almost exclu
sively yield in masses of any magnitude. The stone that is worked as
jasper in the Altai (Ravennaja Sopka, the Rhubarb mountains) is a
magnificent striped porphyry. Theophrastus and Pliny reckon jasper
among the number of non-transparent gems ; and the latter thinks it
incumbent on him to mention a piece of the mineral eleven inches long
which he had seen: " Magnitudinem jaspidis undecim unciarum vidimus,
formatamque inde effigiem Neronis thoracatam." The stone which
Theophrastus calls smaragdor emerald, and from which the great obelisks
were hewn, he regards as an unripe jasper.
245 (p.-278.)—Humboldt, Lettre a M. Brochant de Villiers, in the
Annales de Chimie et de Physique, t. xxiii. p. 261 ; Leop. von Buch,
Geogn. Briefe fiber das siidliche Tyrol, S. 101, 105, and 273.
246 (p. 278.)—On the transformation of compact into granular lime
stone through contact with granite in the Pyrenees (Montagne de Rancie),
vide Dufrenoy, in the Memoires geologiques, t. ii. p. 440 ; and in the
Montagnes de l'Oisans, vide Elie de Beaumont, Mem. geol. t. ii. p.
379—415 ; by Dioritic and Pyrorexic Porphyries, (Ophite; Elie de Beau
mont, Geol. de la France, t. i. p. 72) between Toulouse and St. Sebas
tian, vide Dufrenoy, in Mem. geol. t. ii. p. 130; through Syenite, in the
island of Elba, in which petrefactions still continue visible in the lime
stone, in spite of the changes it has suffered, M. von Dechen, Geognosie,
S. 573. In the metamorphosis of chalk, through contact with basalt, the
dislocation of the minute particles through the production of crystals and
the granulation is the more remarkable, since we have been made aware,
by Ehrenberg's discoveries, of the fact, that these chalk particles pre
viously consisted of articulated rings, (vide PoggendorfFs Annal. Bd.
xxxix. S. 105; and on the rings of Aragonite precipitated from a state of
solution, Gustav Rose, ib. Bd. xlii. S. 354.)
247 (p. 279.)— Beds of granular limestone in granite at Port d'Or and
Mont de Labourd, vide Charpentier, Constitution geologique des Pyre
nees, p. 144, 146.
248 (p. 279)—Leop. von Buch, Descr. des Canaries, p. 394 ; Fielder,
Reise durch das Kiinigreich Griechenland, Th. ii. S. 181, 190, a.nd 516.
NOTES. 457
249 (p. 279.)—I have already referred to the remarkable passage in
Origen's Philosophumena, cap. 14 (Opera ed. Delarue, t. i. p. 893).
From the whole context it is very unlikely that Xenophanes meant " an
impression of laurel," (t&tot; Sä(pvTis,) not an " impression of a fish,"
(rJmoy äivris). Delarue blames Gronovius unfairly, who made the cor
rection that " turned the laurel into an anchovy." The petrified fish is a far
more likely object than the natural image of Silenus, which the quarry-
men insisted they had dugout of the marble quarries of Paros, (the moun
tain Marpessos, Servius ad Virgil, JEa. vi. 471,) Plin. xxxvi. 5.
250 (p. 280.)—On the geological relations of the town of Carrara Luna,
Selene civitas, vide Strabo, lib. v. p. 222 ; Savi, Osservazioni sui terreni
antichi Toscani, in the Nuovo Giornale de' Letterati di Pisa, No. 63 ;
and Hoffmann, in Karsten's Archiv fur Mineralogie, Bd. vi. S. 258—
263, as also his Geogn. Reise durch Italien, S. 214—265.
261 (p. 280.)—According to the view of an excellent and experienced
observer, Karl von Leonhard ; see bis Jahrbuch für Mineralogie, 1834,
S. 329, and Bernhard Cotta, Geognosie, S. 310.
262 (p. 281 .)—Leop. von Buch, Geognostische Briefe an Alex, von Hum
boldt, 1824, S. 36 and 82 ; also in the Annales de Chimie, t. xxiii. p. 276,
and the Abhandl. der Berliner Akad. aus den J. 1822 und 1823, S. 83—
136; H. von Dechen, Geognosie, S. 574—576.
263 (p. 282.)—Hoffmann, Geogn. Reise bearbeitet von H. von Dechen,
S. 113—119, 380—386 ; Poggend. Ann. der Physik, Bd. xxvi.S. 41.
254 (p. 282.)—Dufrenoy, in Memoires gtologiques, t. ii. p. 145 and 179.
265 (p. 282.)—Humboldt, Essai geogn. sur le Gisement des Roches, p.
93 ; Asie centrale, t. iii. p. 532.
256 (p. 283.)—Elie de Beaumont, in Annales des Sciences naturelles, t.
xv. p. 362 ; Murchison, Silurian System, p. 286.
267 (p. 283.)—Rose, Reise nach dem Ural, Bd. i. S. 364 and 367.
258 (p. 283.)—Leop. von Buch, Briefe, S. 109—129. Vide also Elie
de Beaumont on the Contact of Granite with Jurastrata, in Mem. geol.
t. ii. p. 408.
259 (p. 284.)—Hoffmann, Reise, S. 30 and 37.
260 (p. 284.)—On the chemical process in the formation of iron glance,
vide Gay-Lussac in Annales de Chimie, t. xxii. p. 415 ; and Mits-
cherlich in Poggend. Ann. Bd. xv. S. 630. In the cavities of the
Obsidian of the Cerro del Jacal, which I brought with me from Mexico,
crystals of olivine have also been formed (apparently deposited from
VOL. I. X
458 NOTES.
vapour, vide Gustav Rose, in Poggend. Ann. Bd. x. S. 323). Olivine
therefore occurs : in basalt, in lava, in obsidiau, in artificial scoria:, in
meteoric stones, in the syenite of Elfdale, and (as hyalosiderite) in the
W"acke of Kaiserstuhle.
361 (p. 284.)—Constantin von Beust iiber die Porphyrgebilde, 1835,
S. 89—96 ; his Beleuchtung der Werner'schen Gangtheorie, 1840, S. 6 ;
C. Von Weissenbach, Abbildungen merkwiirdiger Gangverhältnisse, 1836,
fig. 12. The band-like structure of the veins is however as little general,
as is the sequence in respect of age of the several members of these masses.
Vide Friesleben iiber die sächsischen Erzgänge, 1843, S. 10—12.
562 (p. 285.)—Mitscherlich iiber die kiinstliche Darstellung der Mine
ralien, in the Abhandlungen der Akademie der Wiss. zu Berlin aus den
Jahren 1822 und 1823, S. 25—41.
263 (p. 285.)—In scorise : crystals of felspar discovered by Heine, after
the extinction of a roasting copper ore furnace, not far from Sangerhausen,
analysed by Kersten, (Poggend. Annalen, Bd. xxxiii. S. 337); of augite
in the scoriae of Sahle, (Mitscherlich in den Abhandl. der Akad. zu
Berlin, 1822 and 1823, S. 40) ; of Olivine (Sefstrbm in Leonhard, Basalt-
Gebilde, Bd. ii. S. 495); of Mica in old scoriae of Schloss Garpen-
berg, (Mitscherlich in Leonhard, loc. cit. S. 506) ; of magnetic iron in
scoriae of Chatillon sur Seine, (Leonhard, S. 441) ; of iron-glance arising
in potter's clay, (Mitscherlich in Leonhard, S. 234).
-M (p. 285.)—Produced on purpose : Idokras and garnet (Mitscherlich
in Poggendorff's Annalen der Physik, Bd. xxxiii. S. 340) ; ruby (Gaudin
in Comptes rendus de l'Academie des Sciences, t. iv. pt. iv. p. 999) ;
olivine and augite (Mitscherlich and Berthier, in Annales de Chimie
et de Physique, t. 24. p. 376). Although, according to Gust. Rose,
augite and hornblende show the greatest similarity in the form of their
crystals, and their chemical composition is almost identical, still horn
blende has never been found by the side of augite in scorise : even as lilllc
have chemists succeeded in their attempts at producing hornblende or
felspar (Mitscherlich in Poggend. Annalen, Bd. xxxiii. S. 310, and Rose,
Reise nach dem Ural, Bd. ii. S. 358 and 3C3). See also Beudant, in
Mim. de l'Acad. des Sciences, t. viii. p. 221, and Becquerel's able inqui
ries, in his Tratte de l'Electricite, t. i. p. 334 ; t. iii. p. 218 ; t. v. 1,
pp. 148 and 185.
885 (p. 285.)—D'Aubuisson, in Journal de Physique, t. lxviii. p. 128.
*" (p. 287.)—Leop. von Buch, Geognost. Briefe, S. 75—82 ; where it
NOTES. 459
is at the same time shown, that the red sandstone (the dead layer of the
Thuringian floetz formations) and the coal formation must be viewed as
products of eruptive porphyritic rocks.
267 (p. 288.)—On Hooke's " hope to raise a chronology" out of the
study of fossil shells, and to state the intervals of the time wherein such
or such catastrophes or mutations have happened, vide Posth_. Works,
Lecture, Feb. 29, 1688.
267 * (p. 289.)—A discovery of Miss Mary Anning, who also first dis
covered the coprolites of fishe3. These, and the excrements of the Ich
thyosaurus, have been found in such quantities at Lyme Regis, that they
seem to lie, according to Buckland's expression, " heaped like potatoes
upon the ground." Vide his Geology with reference to Natural Theology,
vol. i. pp. 188—202, and 305.
268 (p. 289.)—Leop. von Buch, in Abhandlungen der Akad. der Wiss.
zu Berlin aus dem J. 1837, S. 64.
269 (p. 291.)—The same, Gebirgsformationen von Russland, 1840,
S. 24—40.
270 (p. 291.)—Agassiz, Monographie des Poissons fossiles du Vieux Gres
Rouge, p. vi. and 4.
271 (p. 291.)—Leop. von Buch in Abhandl. der Berl. Akad. 1838, S.
149—168 ; Beyrich, Beitr. zur Kenntniss dea Rheinischen Uebergangs-
gebirges, 1837, S. 45.
272 (p. 291.)—Agassiz, Recherches sur les Poissons fossiles, t. i. Introd.
p. xviii. (Davy, Consolations in Travel, Dial, iii.)
273 (p. 291 .)—According to Hermann von Meyer, a protosanrus (Palae-
ologica, S. 229). The rib of a saurian, said to be from the mountain
limestone of Northumberland, is, according to Lyell, extremely doubtful
(Geology, vol. i. p. 148). The discoverer himself ascribes it to alluvial
strata which cover the limestone.
274 (p. 291.)—F. von Alberti, Monographie des Bunten Sandsteins,
Muschelkalks und Keupers, 1834, S. 119 und 314.
275 (p. 292.)—See the acute considerations of H. von Meyer (Palseolo-
gica, S. 228—252) on the organization of the flying reptiles. In the
petrified specimen of Pterodactylus crassirostris, which, as well as the
longer known Pterod. longirostris, was found in the lithographic lime
stone of Solenhofen, Professor Goldfuss has found " traces of the mem
brane which served for flight," as well as " impressions of the curled,
flocky, in some places inch-long hair, which covered the skin."
460 NOTES.
276 (p. 292.)—Cuvier, Recherches sur les Ossemens fossiles, t. i. p. Hi.—
lvii. See also the geological scale of epochs in Phillips's Geology, 1837,
p. 166—185.
<r" (p. 293.)—Agassiz, Poissons fossiles, tom. i. pt. xxx. and torn. iii.
p. 1—52 ; Buckland, Geology, vol. i. p. 273—277.
278 (p. 294.) — Ehrenberg, iiber noch jetzt lebende Thierarten der
KreidebildunginderiAbhandl. der Berliner Akad. ausdem J. 1839, S. 164.
279 (p. 294.)—Valenciennes, in Comptes rendus de l'Acad. des Sciences,
tom. vii. 1838, pt. ii. p. 580.
230 (p. 294.)—The Weald-Clay; Beudant, Geologie, p. 173. The
ornitholites increase in number in the gypsum of the tertiary formation
(Cuvier, Ossemens fossiles, tom. iii. p. 302—328).
231 (p. 295.-)—Leop. von Buch, in Abhandl. der Berl. Akad. aus dem
J. 1830, S. 135—187.
232 (p. 295 )—Quenstedt, Flozgebirge Wttrtembergs, 1843, S. 135.
283 (p. 296.)—Ibid. S. 13.
281 (p. 296.)—Murchison divides the variegated sandstone into two
divisions, the upper of which remains the Trias of Alberti, whilst out of
the lower, to which the Voges-sandstone of Elie de Beaumont belongs, the
Zechstein and the Todtliegendes, he forms his Permian System. With the
upper trias, i. e. with the upper division of our variegated sandstone, he
begins the secondary formations ; the Permian system, the mountain or
carboniferous limestone, the Devonian and Silurian strata, are with him
palseozoic formations. According to these views, chalk and jura are
called the upper, keuper, muschelkalk, and variegated sandstone, the
inferior secondary formations ; the Permian system and the carboniferous
lime are entitled the upper, the devonian and silurian strata together the
inferior palseozoic formations. The basis of this general classification is
developed in the great work in which the unwearied British geologist gives
an account of a great portion of the east of Europe.
283 (p. 297.)—Cuvier, Ossemens fossiles, 1821, tom. i. p. 157, 262,
and 264. Vide Humboldt, iiber die Hochebene von Bogota in der
Deutchen Bierteljahrs-Schrift, 1839, Bd. i. S. 117.
296 (p. 297.)—Journal of the Asiatic Society, No. xv. p. 109.
287 (p. 297.)—Beyrich, in Karsten's Archiv fiir Mineralogie, 1844,
Bd. xviii. S. 218.
238 (p. 298.)—Through the admirable labours of Count Sternberg,
Adolph Brongniart, Goppert, and Lindley.
NOTES. 461
580 (p. 298.)— Vide Robert Brown's Botany of Congo, p. 42, and the
unfortunate d'Urville, in the Memoir : De la distribution des Fougeres
sur la surface du globe terrestre.
290 (p. 298.)—To this belong the Cycadeae of the old coal formation of
Radnitz, Bohemia, discovered by Count Sternberg, and described by
Corda. Two species, Cycadites et Zamites Cordai, vide Goppert, fossile
Cycadeen in den Arbeiten der Schles. Gesellschaft, fur vaterl. Cultur im
J. 1843, S. 33, 40, and 50. In the coal formation of Konigshiitte, Upper
Silesia, a Cycadea (Pterophyllum gonorrhachis, Goep.) has also been
found.
291 (p. 298.)—Lindley, Fossil Flora, No. xv. p. 163.
"* (p. 298.)—Fossil Coniferae, in Buckland, Geology, p. 483—490.
Mr. Witham has the merit of having first detected the existence of coni
fers in the earlier vegetation of the old coal formations. All the stems
of trees discovered in these formations had previously been regarded as
palms. The species of the genus Araucarites, however, is not peculiar
to the coal fields of Great Britain ; they are also met with in Upper
Silesia.
293 (p. 298.)—Adolph Brongniart, Prodrome d'une Hist, des Vegetaux
fossiles, p. 176; Buckland, Geology, p. 479; Endlicher and Unger,
Grundziige der Botanik, 1843, S. 455.
294 (p. 299.) — "By means of Lepidodendron a better passage is
established from Flowering to Flowerless Plants than by either Equisetum
or Cycas, or any other known genus."—Lindley and Hutton, Fossil
Flora, vol. ii. p. 53.
296 (p. 299.)—Kunth, Anordung der Pflanzenfamilien, in his Handb.
der Botanik, S. 307 and 314.
296 (p. 300.)—That fossil coal consists of vegetable fibres carbonized not
through fire, but in the moist way, and under the co-agency of sulphuric
acid, is vouched for particularly by Goppert's able observations, of a piece
of Amber-tree wood converted into coal (vide Karsten, Archiv fur Mine-
rologie, Bd. xviii. S. 530). The coal lies close to the wholly unaltered
amber. On the part which the lower vegetables may have had in the
production of coal, vide Link in the Abhandl. der Berliner Akademie
der Wissenschaften, 1838, S. 38.
297 (p. 300.)—See the excellent paper of Chevandier, in the Comptes
rendus de l'Acad. des Sciences, 1844, tom, xviii. pt. i. p. 285. In order
to compare the half-inch thick layer of carbonaceous matter with the coal
4C2 NOTES.
strata, regard must also be had to the enormous pressure which these
strata have suffered from the superincumbent beds, and which is even
attested by the generally flattened form of the fossil stems of trees that
are dug up. " The wood-hills, as they are called, of the southern shore
of the island of New Siberia, discovered in 1806 by Sirowatskoi, consist,
according to Hedenstrom, of elevations of about 30 fathoms, made up of
horizontal layers of sandstone interchangingly with bituminous trunks of
trees. On the tops of the hillocks the stems stand erect. The stratum
of drift wood is visible for five wersts." Vide Wrangel, Reise langs der
Nordkiiste von Siberien in den Jahren 2120—1824, Th. i. S. 202.
298 (p. 301.)—This corypha is the sopato (zoyatl, Aztekian) or palma
dulce of the natives ; vide Humboldt and Bonpland, Synopsis Plant.
jEquinoct. OrbisNovi, tom. i. p. 302. One deeply versed in the Ameri
can languages, Professor Buschmann, observes that the palma soyate is
also named in Yepe's Vocabulario de la Lengua Othomi, and that the
Aztekian word zoyatl (Molina, Vocabulario) also occurs in the local names
zoyatitlan and zoyapanco near Chiapa.
299 (p. 302.)—Near Baracoa and Cayos de Moa ; vide Tagebuch des
Admirals vom 25 and 27 November, 1492, and Humboldt, Examen
critique de l'Hist. de la Geogr. du Nouveau Continent, tom. ii. p. 252,
and tom. iii. p. 23. Columbus was so observant of all natural objects,
that he distinguished—and was, indeed, the first to do so—Podocarpus
from Pinus. " I find," he says, " en la tierra aspera delCibao pinos que
no llevan pinas [fir-tops or cones], pero por tal orden compuestos por
naturaleza, que (los frutos) parecen azeytunas del Axarafe de Sevilla."
The great botanist, Richard, when he produced his excellent work on the
Cycadese and Coniferse, was not aware that long before L'Heritier, at the
close of the 15th century, Podocarpus had already been distinguished
from the pines,—by a seafaring man, too.
300 (p. 302.)—Charles Darwin, Journal of the Voyages of the Adven
ture and Beagle, 1839, p. 271.
301 (p. 302.)—Goppert describes other three Cycadese (species of Cica-
ditese and Pterophyllum) from the lignitic clay-shists of Altsattel and Com-
motau in Bohemia, perhaps from the Eocene period (Goppert, in the
work quoted in Note 90).
802 (p. 303.)—Buckland, Geology, p. 509.
303 (p. 304.)—Leopold von Buch, in Abhandl. der Akad. der Wiss. zu
Berlin aus den J. 1814—1815, S. 161, and in Poggendorff's Annalen,
NOTES. 463
Bd. ix. S. 575 ; Elie de Beaumont, in Annales des Sciences nat. t. xix.
p. 60.
304 (p. 305.)—Vide Elie de Beaumont, Descr. geol. de la France, t. i.
p. 65; Beudant, Geologie, 1844, p. 209.
305 (p. 309.)—Transactions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society,
vol. vi. pt. 2, 1837, p. 297. According to others, as 100 : 284.
306 (p. 310.)—In the middle ages the prevalent opinion was that the
sea covered but one-seventh of the surface of the globe, an opinion which
Cardinal d'Ailly (Imago Mundi, cap. 8) founded on the Apocryphal 4th
Book of Ezra. Columbus, who always derived much of his cosmological
knowledge from the Cardinal's work, was much interested in upholding
this idea of the smallness of the sea, to which the misunderstood ex
pression of " the ocean stream" contributed not a little. Vide Humboldt,
Examen critique de l'Hist. de la Geographic, t. i. p. 186.
30? (p. 311.)—Agathemeros, in Hudson, Geographi minores, t. ii. p. 4.
Vide Humboldt, Asie centr. t. i. p. 120, 125.
308 (p. 311.)—Strabo, lib. i. p. 65, Casaub. Vide Humboldt, Examen
crit. t. i. p. 152.
309 (p. 312.)—On the mean latitude of the Northern Asiatic shores,
and the true name of Cape Taimura (Cape Siewero—Wostotschuoi), and
Cape North-East (Schalagskoi Mys), vide Humboldt, Asie centrale, t. iii.
p. 35 and 37.
310 (p. 313.)—lb. t. i. p. 198—200. The southern point of America
and the Archipelago, which we call Terra del Puego, lies in the meridian
of the north-western part of Baffin's Bay, and of the great uncircum-
scribed polar land, which perhaps belongs to West Greenland.
311 (p. 313.)—Strabo, lib. ii. p. 92 and 108, Casaub.
*" (p. 313.)—Humboldt, Asie centrale, t. iii. p. 25. I had already, at
an early period of my work, De distributions geographica plantarum
secundum coeli temperiem et altitudinem montium, directed attention to
the important influence of compact or divided continents on climate and
human civilization : ' ' Regiones vel per sinus lunatos in longa cornua por-
rectae, angulosis littorum recessibus quasi membratim discerptae, vel
spatia patentia in immensum, quorum littora nullis incisa angulis ambit
sine anfractu Oceanus" (p. 81 and 182). On the relations of the extent
of coast to the area of a continent (at the same time as a measure of the
accessibility of the interior), vide the Inquiries in Berghaus, Annalen
der Erdkunde, Bd. xii. 1835, S. 490, and Physikal. Atlas, 1839, No. in.
S. 69.
464 NOTES.
311 (p. 313.)—Strabo, lib. ii. p. 92 and 198, Casaub.
314 (p. 313.)—Of Africa, Pliny says (v. 1.)—" Nee alia pars terrarum
pauciores recipit sinus." The small Indian peninsula this side the Ganges,
in its triangular outline, presents another analogous form. In Ancient
Greece there prevailed an opinion of the regular configuration of the dry
land. There were four gulphs or bays, among which the Persian was
placed in opposition to the Hyrcanian (t. e. the Caspian Sea) (Arrian,
vii. 16 ; Plut. in vita Alexandri, cap. 44 ; Dionys. Perieg. v. 48 und 630,
pag. 11 und 38, Bernh.) These four bays and the isthmuses of the land,
according to the optical fancies of Agesianax, were reflected in the moon
(Plut. de Facie in Orbe Lunae, p. 921, 19). On the terra quadrifida, or
four divisions of the dry-land, of which two lay north, two south of the
equator, vide Macrobius, Comm. in Somnium Scipionis, ii. 9. I have
submitted this portion of the geography of the ancients, on which great
confusion prevails, to a new and careful examination, in my Examen crit.
de l'Hist. de la Geogr. t. i. p. 119, 145, 180—185, as also in Asie centr.
t. ii. p. 172—178.
315 (p. 314.)—Fleurieu, in Voyage de Merchand autour du Monde, t. iv.
p. 38—42.
316 (p. 314.)—Humboldt, in thejournalde Physique, t.liii. 1799, p. 33,
and Rel. hist. t. ii. p. 19, t. iii. p. 189 and 198.
317 (p. 315.)—Humboldt, in Poggendorffs Annalen der Physik, Bd. xl.
S. 171. On the remarkable Fiord formation of the south-east end of
America, vide Darwin's Journal (Narrative of the Voyages of the Adven
ture and Beagle, vol. iii.) 1839, p. 266. The parallelism of the two
mountain chains is maintained from 5° North to 5° South latitude. The
change in the direction of the coast at Arica appears to be a consequence
of the altered course of the chasm upon or through which the Andes
have arisen.
318 (p. 317.)—De la Beche, Sections and Views illustrative of Geologi
cal Phenomena, 1830, Tab. 40 ; Charles Babbage, Observations on the
Temple of Serapis at Pozzuoll, near Naples, and on certain causes which
may produce Geological Cycles of great extent, 1834. A bed of sand
stone, five English miles thick, heated to 100° Fahr., would rise on its
surface about 25 feet. Clay strata heated, on the contrary, would occa
sion a contraction or sinking of the ground. See the calculation for the
secular rise of Sweden, on the presumption of a rise by so small a
quantity as 3° Reaum., in a stratum 140,000 feet thick, heated to the melt
ing paint- in Bischoff, Warmelehre deslnnern unseres Erdkorpers, S. 303.
NOTES. 405
319 (p. 317.)—The presumption of the stability—which has hitherto been
so implicit—of the point of gravity, has at all events been shaken to a
certain extent by the gradual rise of large portions of the earth's surface.
Vide Bessel iiber Maass und Gewicht, in Schumacher's Jahrbuch fur
1840, S. 134.
320 (p. 318.)—Th. ii. (1810), S. 389. Vide Hallstrom, in Kongl.
Vetenskaps-Academiens Handlingar (Stockh.), 1823, p. 39; Lyell in the
Philos. Trans, for 1835, p. 1 ; Blom (Amtmann in Budskerud), Stat.
Beschr. von Norwegen, 1843, S. 89—116. If not before Von Buch's
travels through Scandinavia, still before the publication of the account of
them, Playfair, in his Illustrations of the Huttonian Theory, § 393, as
well as Keilhau (Om Landjordens Stigning in Norge in dem Nyt Magazin
for Naturvidenskaberene), and even before Playfair, the Dane Jessen, had
expressed an opinion that it was not the sea which fell in level, but the
firm land of Sweden which rose : these ideas remained wholly unknown to
our great geologist, and exerted no influence on the progress of physical
geography. Jessen, in his work, Kongeriget Norge fremstillet efter nets
naturlige og borgerlige Tilstand, Kjobenb. 1763, sought to explain the
changes in the relative levels of the land and sea, upon the old notions
of Celsius, Kalm, and Dalin. He broaches some confused notions about
the possibility of an internal growth of rocks, but finally declares him
self in favour of an upliftment of the land by earthquakes. " All
along," he observes, " no such rising was apparent immediately after the
earthquake of Egersund ; still, other causes producing such an effect may
have been brought into operation by it."
321 (p. 318.)—Berzelius, Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der phy-
sischen Wiss. No. 18, S. 686. The island Saltholm, over against Copen
hagen, and Bornholm, however, rise but very little—Bornholm scarcely
1 foot in a century ; vide Forchhammer, in Philos. Magazine, 3d Series,
vol. ii. p. 309.
322 (p. 318.)—Keilhau, in Nyt Mag. for Naturvid. 1832, Bd. i. p. 105
—254, Bd. ii. p. 57 ; Bravais, sur les lignes d'ancien niveau de la Mer,
1843, p. 15—10. See also Darwin on the Parallel Roads of Glen-Roy
and Lochaber, in the Philos. Transactions for 1839, p. 60.
K3 (p. 319.) — Humboldt, Asie centrale, t. ii. p. 319-324, t. iii.
p. 549—554. The depression of the Dead Sea has been again and again
determined by the barometrical measurements of Count Bertou, the
more careful ones of Russegger, and the trigonometrical survey of Lieut.
x 2
466 NOTES.
Symond, of the Royal Navy, who specifies 1506 feet as the difference of
level between the surface of the Dead Sea and the highest houses in Jaffa.
Mr. Alderson, who communicated this result to the Geographical Society
of London, in a letter, of the contents of which I was informed by my
friend Captain Washington, Mr. Alderson then imagined (Nov. 28, 1841)
that the Dead Sea lay about 1314 feet under the level of the Mediter
ranean. In another and later communication from Lieut. Symond
(Jameson's Edinburgh New Philosophical Journal, vol. xxxiv. 1843,
p. 178), as a final result, two trigonometrical operations are detailed,
which agree remarkably with each other, and assign 1231 feet (Paris
measure) as the depression of the level of the Dead Sea below that of
the Mediterranean.
324 (p. 319.)—Sur la Mobilite du fond de la Mer Caspienne, in my
Asie centr. t. ii. p. 283—294k At my request, the Imperial Academy of
Sciences of St. Petersburgh had marks indicating the mean sea level at a
definite epoch (1830) cut in different places near Baku, in the peninsula
of Abscheron, by the experienced natural philosopher Lenz. I also, in a
supplement to the instructions which Captain (now Sir James C.) Ross
carried out with him in his Antarctic expedition, requested particularly
that marks should be cut wherever it was possible to do so in the rocks of
the southern hemisphere, similar to those that have been engraved in
Sweden, and on the shores of the Caspian Sea. Had this been done in
the old voyages of Bougainville and Cook, we should now have knowledge
whether the secular relative changes in the level of the sea and land em
braced a general or merely a local natural phenomenon ; whether a law of
direction can be recognized in the points which rise or sink simultaneously.
325 (p. 319.)—On the elevation and depression of the bottom of the
South Sea and the different areas of alternate movements, see Darwin's
Journal, p. 557 and 561—566.
326 (p. 322.)—Humboldt, Rel. hist. t. iii. p. 232—234. See also the
able remarks on Configuration of the earth, and position of prominent
features, in Albrechts von Roon Grundziigen der Erd-Vblker-und Staaten-
kunde, Abth. i. 1837, S. 158, 270 and 276.
327 (p. 323.)—Leop. von Buch iiber die geognostischen Systeme von
Deutschland in his Geogn. Briefen an Alexander von Humboldt, 1824,
S. 265—271 ; Elie de Beaumont, Recherches sur les Revolutions de la
Surface du Globe, 1829, p. 297—307.
328 (p. 323.)—Humboldt, Asie centrale, t. i. p. 277—283 ; see also my
NOTES. 407
Essai sur le Gisement des Roches, 1822, p. 57, and Relat. hist. t. iii.
p. 244—250.
** (p. 324.)—Asie centrale, t. i. p. 284—286.
330 (p. 324.)—De la hauteur moyenne des continents in Asie centrale,
t. i. p. 82—90 and 165—189. The results which I obtained are to be
regarded as bounding numbers (nombres-limites). Laplace estimated the
mean height of continents at 3078 feet ; at least three times too high.
The immortal author of the Mécanique Celeste (t. v. p. 14,) was led to
this conclusion by hypothetical views of the mean depth of the sea. I
have shown (Asie cent. t. i. p. 93) that the old Alexandrian mathema
ticians, on the testimony of Plutarch, (in ^îmilio Paulo, cap. 15) believed
this depth to depend on the height of the mountains. The height of the
centre of gravity of the volume of the continental masses is probably sub
ject to slight variations in the course of thousands of years.
331 (p. 325.)—Zweiter geologischer Brief von Elie de Beaumont an
Alexander von Humboldt in PoggendorfF's Annalen, Bd. xxv. S. 1—59.
332 (p. 327.)—Humboldt, Relation hist. t. iii. chap. xxix. p. 514—530.
333 (p. 328.)—See the series of my observations in the South Sea, from
0° 5' to 13° 16' North latitude, in my Asie centrale, t. iii. p. 234.
334 (p. 328.)—" On pourra (par la température de l'Océan sous les
tropiques) attaquer avec succès une question capitale restée jusqu'ici in
décise, la question de la constance des températures terrestres, sans avoir
à s'inquiéter des influences locales naturellement fort circonscrites, prove
nant du déboisement des plaines et des montagnes, du dessèchement des
lacs et des marais. Chaque siècle, en léguant aux siècles futurs quelques
chiffres bien faciles à obtenir, leur donnera le moyen peut-être le plus
simple, le plus exact et le plus direct de décider si le soleil, aujourd'hui
source première, à peu près exclusive de la chaleur de notre globe, change
de constitution physique et d'éclat, comme la plupart des étoiles, ou si au
contraire cet astre est arrivé à un état permanent."—Arago, in Comptes
rendus des séances de l'Acad. des Sciences, t. xi. p. 2, p. 309.
335 (p. 329.)—Humboldt, Asie centr. t. ii. p. 321 and 327.
336 (p. 329.)—See the numerical results, loc. cit. t. ii. p. 328—333.
From the geodetic levellings which my friend of many years, General
Bolivar, had performed, at my request, by Lloyd and Falmarc, in the years
1828 and 1829, it was ascertained that the level of the South Sea is at least
32/5 feet higher than that of the Gulf of Mexico ; indeed, that at different
hours of the respective times of the ebb and flood, it is now the one sea,
468 NOTES.
now the other that is the higher. If we reflect that in a distance of 16
miles (German miles), and with 933 positions of observation, an error of
half a toise would be very apt to creep in, we may say that in these new
operations we have another assurance of the equilibrium of the water that
is pouring round Cape Horn, [vide Arago, in Annuaire du Bureau des
Longitudes pour 1831, p. 319). I had myself, by means of barometric
measurements performed in 1799 and 1804, come to the conclusion that
if there were any difference between the level of the Pacific and the Atlan
tic (Caribbean Sea,) it could not exceed 3 metres (9 feet 3 inches), vide
my Relat. hist. t. iii. p. 555—557, and Annales de Chimie, t. i. p. 55—
64. The measurements obtained by combining the trigonometrical opera
tions of Delcros and Choppin with those of the Swiss and Austrian engi
neers, by which a high level is assigned to the waters of the Gulf of
Mexico, and of the northern parts of the Adriatic Sea, are open to many
doubts.
Despite the form of the Adriatic, it is improbable that the sea level in
its northern portion should be 26 feet higher than that of the Mediteranean
at Marseilles, and 23-4 feet higher than the Atlantic Ocean. Vide my
Asie centrale, t. ii. p. 332.
337 (p. 330.)—Bessel uber Fluth und Ebbe in Schumacher's Jahrbuch
fur 1838, S. 225.
338 (p. 331.)—The relative density of the particles of water depends
simultaneously on the temperature and the amount of saline impreg
nation—a circumstance that is not sufficiently borne in mind in consider
ing the cause of currents. The submarine current which brings the
cold polar water to the sequatorial regions, would follow a totally different
course, or from the equator towards the poles, did the difference in saline
contents alone prove effective. In this view the geographical distribution
of temperature, and the density of the particles of the water of the ocean
under the different zones of latitude and longitude, are of great importance.
The numerous observations of Lenz (Poggendorff 's Annalen, Bd. xx. 1830,
S. 29), and those of Captain Beechey, collected in his Voyage to the
Pacific, vol. ii. p. 727, deserve particular attention. Vide farther, Hum
boldt, Relat. hist. t. i. p. 74, and Asie centrale, t. iii. p. 356.
339 (p. 332.)—Humboldt, Relat. hist. t. i. p. 64 ; Nouvelles Annales
des Voyages, 1839, p. 255.
m (p. 332.)—Humboldt, Examen crit. de l'hist. de la Geogr. t. iii.
p. 100. Columbus to this soon after adds : (Navarrete, Coleccion de lo
NOTES. 469
viages y descubrimientos de los EspaBoles, t. i. p. 260), " In the
sea of the Antilles the motion is most powerful. And in fact in this
region it is not a current but a sea in motion," as is observed by Rennell
(Investigation of Currents, p. 23).
341 (p. 332.)—Petrus Martyr de Angleria, De Rebus Oceanicis et Orbe
Novo, Bas. 1523, Dec. iii. lib. vi. p. 57. See Humboldt, Examen cri
tique, t. ii. p. 254—257, and t. iii. p. 108.
342 (p. 332.)—Humboldt, Examen crit. t. ii. p. 250 ; Relat. hist. t. i.
p. 66—74.
343 (p. 333.)—Humboldt, Examen crit. t. iii. p. 64—109.
344 (p. 337.)—The voice addressed him in these words : " Maravillo-
samente Dios hizo sonar tu nombre en la tierra ; de los atamientos de la
mar Oceana, que estaban cerrados con cadenas tan fuertes, te did las
Haves." Columbus's dream is related in the letter to the Catholic
monarch of July the 7th, 1503 (Humboldt, Examen critique, t. iii. p.
234).
345 (p. 338.)—Boussingault, Recherches sur la composition de l'Atmos-
phere, in the Annales de Chimie et de Physique, t. lvii. 1834, p. 171—
173; and farther, ib. t. lxxi. 1839, p. 116. According to Boussingault
and Lewy, the contents in carbonic acid of the atmosphere at Andilly,
remote, therefore, from the exhalations of a city, fluctuated between
0-00028 and 0-00031 in volume.
346 (p. 338.)—Liebig, in his important work, Organic Chemistry in its
application to Agriculture, &e. On the Influence of the Atmospheric
Electricity in the production of Nitrate of Ammonia, which, coming into
contact with carbonate of lime is changed into carbonate of ammonia,
vide Boussingault's Rural Economy in its relations with Chemistry,
Physics, and Meteorology, London, 1845.
147 (p. 339.)—Lewy, in Comptes rendus de l'Acad. des Sciences,
t. xvii. Pt. 2, p. 235—248.
348 (p. 339.) —J. Dumas, in Annales de Chimie, 3eme Serie, t. iii.
1841, p. 257.
3411 (p. 339.)—In this enumeration the nightly expiration of carbonic
acid by plants, whilst they inspire oxygen, is not taken into the account,
because the increase of carbonic acid from this source is amply com
pensated by the respiratory process of plants during the day. Vide
Boussingault's Rural Economy.
350 (p. 340.)—Gay-Lussac, in Annales de Chimie, t. liii. p. 120; Payen,
470 NOTES.
Mem. sur la composition chimique des Vegetaux, p. 36 and 42 ; Liebig,
Org. Chimie, S. 299—345 ; Boussingault, Rural Econ. chap. i.
361 (p. 340.)—Bouvard, by the application of the formulse in 1827,
which Laplace had deposited with the Board of Longitude shortly before
his death, found that the portion of the hourly oscillations of the atmos
phere which depends on the attraction of the moon cannot raise the
mercury in the barometer at Paris by more than the I8/I000 of a milli
metre ; whilst 1 1 years' observations at the same place show the mean
barometric oscillation, from 9 A. M. to 3 p. M., to be 0-756 millim., and
from 3 P. M. to 9 p. m. 0 373 millim. Vide Memoires de l'Acad. des
Sciences, t. vii. 1827, p. 267.
352 (p. 341.)—Observations faites pour constater la marche des varia
tions horaires du Barometre sous les Tropiques, in my Relation histo-
rique du Voyage aux Regions Equinoxiales, t. iii. p. 270—313.
353 (p. 342.)—Bravais in Kaemtz et Martins, Meteorologie, p. 263. At
Halle (51° 29' N. lat.) the amount of oscillation is still 0-28. On
mountains in the temperate zone it would seem that a great many obser
vations were required, in order to obtain results that can be trusted in
regard to the times when the turn takes place. See the observations of
hourly variations collected on the Faulhorn in 1832, 1841, and 1842,
in Martins, Meterologie, p. 254.
354 (p. 342.)—Humboldt, Essai sur la Geographie des Plantes, 1807,
p. 90 ; farther in Rel. hist. t. iii. p. 313 ; and on the diminished atmos
pheric pressure in the tropical regions of the Atlantic, in Poggend.
Annalen der Physik, Bd. xxxvii. S. 245—258, and S. 468—486.
355 (p. 343.)—Daussy in Comptes rendus, t. iii. p. 136.
356 (p. 343.)—Dove iiber die Stiirme, in Poggend. Ann. Bd. Iii. S. I.
357 (p. 343.)—Leopold von Buch, barometrische Windrose, in Abhandl.
der Akad. der Wiss. zu Berlin aus den J. 1818—1819, S. 187.
358 (p. 343.)—See Dove, meteorologische Untersuchungen, 1837, S.
99—343 ; and the excellent observations of Kaemtz on the descent of the
west wind of the upper strata of the atmosphere in high latitudes, and the
general phenomenon of the direction of the wind, in his Vorlesungen iiber
Meterologie, 1840, S. 58—66, 196—200, 327—336, 353—364; Kaemtz,
in Schumacher's Jahrbuch fiir 1838, S. 291—302. A very satisfactory
and lively representation of meteorological phenomena is given by Dove,
in his small work entitled Witterungsverhiiltnisse von Berlin, 1842. On
the earlier knowledge of seamen of the rotation of the wind, vide Chur-
NOTES. 471
ruca, Viage la Magellanes, 1793, p. 15; and on a remarkable expression
of Columbus, which his son Don Fernando Colon has presented to us in
his Vida del Almirante, cap. 55, see Humboldt, Examen critique de l'hist.
de la Geographie, t. iv. p. 253.
359 (p. 344.)—Monsun, or monsoon (Malayan musim, the hippalos of
the Greeks), is derived from the Arabic word mausim, set time, season
of the year, season when the pilgrims for Mecca assemble (Laffen, Indische
Alterthumskunde, Bd. i. 1843, S. 211). On the opposite of the fixed or
fluid substratum of the atmosphere, vide Dove, in den Abhandl. der
Akad. der Wiss. zu Berlin aus dem J. 1842, S. 239.
360 (p. 350.)—Humboldt, Recherches sur les causes des Inflexions des
Lignes isothermes in Asie centr. t. iii. p. 103—114, 118, 122, 188.
361 (p. 351.)—Georg Forster, kleine Schriften, Th. iii. 1794, S. 87 ;
Dove, in Schumacher's Jahrbuch fur 1841, S. 289 ; Kamtz, Meteorologie,
Bd. ii. S. 41, 43, 67, and 96 ; Arago, in Comptes rendus, t. i. p. 268.
365 (p. 352.)—Dante, Divina Commedia, Purgatorio, canto iii.
363 (p. 354.)—Humboldt sur les Lignes isothermes, in Memoires de
physique et de chimiede la Societe d'Arcueil, t. iii. Paris, 1817, p. 143—
165 ; Knight, in Transactions of the Horticultural Society of London,
vol. i. p. 32 ; Watson, Remarks on the Geographical Distribution of Bri
tish Plants, 1835, p. 60 ; Trevelyan, in Jameson's New Edinburgh Phil.
Journal, No. 18, p. 154 ; Mahlmann, in his admirable German transla
tion of my Asie centrale, Th. ii. S. 60.
3M (p. 355.)—" Haec de temperie aeris, qui terram late circumfundit,
ac in quo, longe a solo, instrumenta nostra meteorologica suspensa habe-
mus. Sed alia est caloris vis, quem radii solis nullis nubibus velati, in
foliis ipsis et fructibus maturescentibus, magis minusve coloratis, gignunt,
quemque, ut egregia demonstrant experimenta amicissimorum Gay-
Lussacii et Thenardi de combustione chlori et hydrogenis, ope thermometri
metiri nequis. Etenim locis planis et montanis, vento libe spirante, cir-
cumfusi aeris temperies eadem esse potest coelo nudo vel nebuloso ; ideoque
ex observationibus solis thermometricis, nullo adhibito Photometro, haud
cognosces, quam ob causam Galliae septentrionalis tractus Armoricanus et
Nervicus, versus littora, coelo temperato sed sole raro utentia, Vitem
fere non tolerant. Egent enim stirpes non solum caloris stimulo, sed et
lucis, quae magis intensa locis excelsis quam planis, duplici modo plantas
movet, vi sua tum propria, tum calorem in superficie earum excitante."
(Humboldt, De distributione geographica plantarum, 1817, p. 163—164.)
472 NOTES.
305 (p. 355.)—Humboldt, loc cit. p. 156—161 ; Meyen, in his Grun-
driss der Pflanzengeographie, 1836, S. 379—467 ; Boussingault, Rural
Economy.
306 (p. 355.)—The following Table, illustrative of the cultivation of the
vine in Europe, and also of the depreciation of its produce according to
the descent of temperature, is from my Asie centrale, t. iii. p. 159. The
examples quoted in the text for Bordeaux and Potsdam are still, in respect
of numerical relation, applicable to the countries of the Rhine and Maine
(48° 35' to 50° 7' N. lat.) Cherbourg and Dublin show, in the most re
markable manner, how, with thermal relations that do not differ much
from those in the interior of the continent, as estimated by the thermo
meter in the shade, the results are, nevertheless, so different, as regards
the ripeness or unripeness of the fruit of the vine ; a difference which
undoubtedly depends on the vegetation of the plant proceeding under
bright sunny skies, or skies that are habitually obscured by clouds :—
PLACES.
Height
above
the sea.
Temp.
Of Of
Of
Sum- Of Au
tumn.
No. of i
Years of
Observa
tion.
Lat. of
Year. Winter. Spring.
Bordeaux - - - 44°50 4 13° -9 6°-l 13° 4 21°-7 14° -4 10
Strasburg - - - 48°35 75 9° -8 l°-2 10° -o 18°. 1 10°-0 35
Heidelberg - - 49°24 52 9°-7 1°-1 10° 0 17° -9 9° -9 20
Manheim - - - 19 29 47 .10° -3 l°-5 10° -4 19° -5 9° -8 12
Wiirzburg - - 49°48 88 ;10°-1 l°-6 10° -2 18° -7 9° -7 27
Frankfurt a. M. - 50° 7 60 ! 9° -6 0°-8 10° -() 18° -0 9° -7 19
Berlin - - - - 52°31 16 8° -6 -0°-6 8°-l 17° -5 8° -6 22
Cherbourg - - -
(No wine.)
49°39 0 ll°-2
9° -5
5° -2 10° -4 16° -5 12° -5 3
Dublin - - - 53°23 0 4°-6! 80-4'l5°-3
1 i
9° -8 13
The great similarity in the distribution of the annual temperature among
the different seasons presented by the results for the vallies of the Rhine
and Maine, vouches for the accuracy of the meteorological observations
quoted. The months of December, January, and February, are reckoned
as winter. The thermometrical degrees are those of the centigrade scale,
as everywhere else in my Cosmos. When the different qualities of wine
NOTES. 473
produced in Franconia and the countries around the Baltic, are compared
with the mean summer and autumn temperature of Wfirzburg and Berlin,
we are almost surprised to find but 1° or l°-2 of difference ; but the tem
perature of the spring differs by 2° ; and the flowering season of the vine,
amidst late May frosts, and after a winter 2° colder, is almost as important
an element as the late ripening of the grape, and the influence of the
direct, not the diffused, light of the unclouded sun. The difference alluded
to in the text between the true temperature of the surface of the ground
and the indications of a thermometer kept and observed in the shade, is
inferred by Dove, from a consideration of the results of fifty years' obser
vations made at the Chiswick Gardens ; vide Dove, in Bericht fiber die
Verhandl. der Berl. Akad. der Wiss. August, 1844, S. 285.
367 (p. 356.)— Vide my treatise, fiber die Hauptursachen der Tempera-
turverschiedenheit auf der Erdoberflache, in Abhandl. der Akad. der
Wissensch. zu Berlin aus dem Jahre, 1827, S. 311.
363 (p. 357.)—The Siberian soil, from Tobolsk, Tomsk, and Barnaul,
from the Altai mountains to the icy sea, is not so high as that of Manheim
and Dresden ; Jenisei, far in the east, indeed, is some 208 toises, or 1248
feet, lower than Munich.
369 (p. 358.)—Humboldt, Recueil d'Observations astronomiques, t. i.
p. 126—140; Relation historique, t. i. p. 119, 141, and 227; Biot, in
Connaissance des temps pour l'an 1841, p. 90—109.
370 (p. 361.)—Anglerius de Rebus Oceanicis, Dec. 11, lib. ii. p. 140
(ed. Col. 1574). In the Sierra de Santa Marta, the highest point of which
appears to exceed 18,000 feet (vide my Relat. Hist. t. ii. p. 214), there
is a peak that is still called Pico de Gaira.
371 (p. 362.)—See my table of the height of the eternal snow-limit in
both hemispheres, from 71i° N. lat. to 53°-54' S. lat., in my Asie centrale,
t. ii. p. 360.
372 (p. 363.)—Darwin, Journal of the Voyages of the Adventure and
Beagle, p. 297. As the volcano was not in a state of eruption at the time,
we must not ascribe the disappearance of the snow to its melting through
the internal heat of the mountain, as occasionally happens with Cotopaxi
(Gillies, in Journal of Nat. Science, p. 316).
373 (p. 364.)— Vide Second Mcmoire sur les Montagnes de l'lnde, in
Annales de Chimie et de Physique, t. xiv. p. 5—55, and Asie centrale,
t. iii. p. 281—327. Whilst the most learned and experienced travellers
in India—Colebrooke, Webb, Hodgson, Victor Jacquemont, Forbes
474 NOTES.
Royle, C. von HUgel, and Vigne, who are all familiar with the Himalaya,
from personal examination, are agreed as to the higher elevation of the
snow-limit on the Thibetic declivities of the range, the fact is called in
question by Gerard, Mac Clelland (the editor of the Calcutta Journal),
and Lieut. Thomas Hutton (assistant-surveyor of the Agra division).
The appearance of my work on Central Asia excited the controversy on
the subject anew. A number of the (by Mac Clelland and Griffith) Calcutta
Journal of Natural History, vol. iv. 1844, January, however, contains a
very remarkable and decisive notice of the snow-limit of the Himalaya.
Mr. Batten (Bengal service) writes from the camp of Semulka, on the
Cosillah river, in the province of Kumaon, as follows :—" I have only,
but with surprise, heard of the statements of Mr. Thomas Hutton, respect
ing the limits of perpetual snow. I feel the more called upon to contradict
such statements, as Mr. Mac Clelland goes so far as to speak (Hutton,
Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, vol. ix. Calcutta, 1840, p. 575,
578, and 580) of the honour which Mr. Hutton has done himself in
detecting a wide-spread error. It is very erroneously stated, that every
one who ascends the Himalaya must share in Mr. Hutton's doubts. I am
myself one of those who have visited the western portion of our mighty
mountain chain most frequently. I came through the Borendo pass into
the Buspa valley, and the inferior Kunawur-land, returning through the
lofty Rupin pass into the Rewaian mountains of Gurwal. I penetrated
to the springs of the Jumna, as far as Jumnotri, and then turned to the
tributaries of the Ganges of Mundakni and Wischnu-Aluknunda, towards
Kadarnath, and the celebrated snowy summit of Nundidevi. I several
times crossed over the Niti-pass to the highlands of Thibet. I myself
founded the settlement of Bhote-Mehals. My continued residence of six
years among the mountains brought me into contact with many native and
European travellers, from whom I could obtain the most accurate infor
mation concerning the country. From all my experience gathered in this
way, I have arrived at the conclusion, and am ready to maintain it, that in
the Himalaya the limit of eternal snow lies higher on the northern than
on the southern, or Indian, Thibetic declivities. Mr. Hutton alters the
terms of the proposition, when he thinks he disproves Humboldt's general
view of the phenomenon ; he fights against a creation of his own fancy,
when he seeks to prove, that in some single mountains of the Himalaya
the snow lies longer on the northern than on the southern slopes ; a pro
position which we readily grant him :" vide also Note 5 (Notes, p. 45).
NOTES. 475
If the mean height of the Tbibetic high lands be 10,800 feet, they may
then be compared with the delightful and fertile Peruvian plateau of
Caxamarca. But on this estimate still they would be 1200 feet lower than
the plateau of Bolivia, the lake of Titicaca, and the causeway of
the town of Potosi. Ladak, from Vigne's measurement by the boiling
point of water, is 1563 toises high. This is probably also the height of
H'Lassa (Yul-jung), a town of monks, which Chinese writers speak of as
the "realm of pleasure,"and which is surrounded by vineyards. Must not
these lie in deeply cut vallies ?
*!* (p. 365.)— Vide Dove, Meteorologische Vergleichung von Norda-
merikaund Europa,in Schumacher's Jahrbuch fur 1841, and his Meteoro
logische Untersuchungen, S. 140.
375 (p. 365.)—The mean annual quantity of rain that fell at Paris,
according to Arago, from 1805 to 1822, was 19 inches 9 lines ; in London,
according to Howard, from 1812 to 1827, it was 23 inches 8 lines ; in
Geneva, the mean for 32 years is 28 inches 8 lines. On the coasts of Hin
dustan, the rain that falls varies from about 108 to 120 inches ; in the
island of Cuba, in 1821, there fell 133 inches of rain. On the distribu
tion over the different seasons of the rain that falls in Europe, see the
admirable observations of Gasparin (Schouw and Bravais, in the Biblio-
theque universelle, t. xzxviii. pp. 54 and 264 ; Tableau du Climat de
l'ltalie, p. 76), and Martin's Notes to his translation of Kamtz's
Meteorology.
376 (p. 365.)—According to Boussingault (Rural Economy, p. 686), the
rain that fell at Marmatof5°-27'lat., 731 toises high, mean temp. 20°-4C.)
in the years 1833 and 1834, amounted to 60 inches 2 lines on an average
per annum ; whilst in Santa Fe de Bogota (lat. 4°-36', 1358 toises high,
mean temp. 14c-56), the quantity was only 37 inches 1 line.
J77 (p. 366.)—For the details of this observation, see my Asie centrale,
t. iii. pp. 85—89, and 567 ; on the moisture of the air of South America,
my Relat. hist. t. i. pp. 242—248 ; t. ii. pp. 45, 164.
378 (p. 366.) —Vide Kaemtz, Vorlesungen iiber Mcteorologie, S. 117.
379 (p. 367.)—On the conditions of the electricity of evaporation at
high temperatures, vide Peltier, in the Annales de Chimie, t. lxxv.
p. 330.
380 (p. 367.)—Pouillet, in Annales de Chimie, t. xxxv. p. 405.
381 (p. 367.)—De la Rive, in his excellent Essai historique sur l'Elec-
tricite, p. 140.
476 NOTES.
382 (p. 367.)—Peltier, in Comptes rendus de l'Acad. des Sciences, t,
xii. p. 307 ; Becquerel, Traits de l'Electricite' et du Magnetisme, t. iv.
p. 107.
383 (p. 368.)—Duprez sur l'Electricite" de l'air (Bruxelles, 1844), p.
56—61.
884 (p. 368.)—Humboldt, Relation historique, t. iii. p. 318. I only
direct attention to those of my experiments in which the metallic conductor
of the Saussure's electrometer, three feet in length, was neither moved
upwards nor downwards, nor, according to Volta's idea, armed with burn
ing sponge. Those among my readers who are well acquainted with the
points in discussion connected with aerial electricity will understand the
grounds of this limitation. On the formation of storms in the tropics,
see my Rel. hist. t. ii. p. 45, and 202—209.
385 (p. 368.)—Gay-Lussac, in Annales de Chimie et de Physique, t.
viii. p. 167. The discordant views of Lame', Becquerel, and Peltier, make
it difficult to come to a conclusion in regard to the cause of the specific
distribution of electricity in clouds, some of which have positive, others
negative tension. The negative electricity of the air produced in lofty
waterfalls in which the water is scattered in drops, first observed by
Tralles, and which I have repeatedly confirmed in various latitudes, is
very remarkable : the effect is appreciable to sensible electrometers at the
distance of from three to- four hundred feet from the fall.
385 (p. 369.)—Arago, in Annuaire du Bureau des Longitudes pour
1838, p. 246.
W (p. 369.)—Loc. cit. p. 249—266 (see p. 268—279.)
388 (p. 370.)—Loc. cit. p. 388—391. Von Baer, who has done so
much for the meteorology of the north of Asia, has not directed particular
attention to the rarity of thunder-storms in Iceland and Greenland ; he
only says (Bulletin de l'Acad. de St.-Petersbourg, 1839, Mai) : " In
Novaja Sembla and Spitzbergen it is occasionally heard to thunder."
889 (p. 371.)—Kamtz, in Schumacher's Jahrbuch fur 1833, S. 285.
On the opposition in the distribution of heat in Europe and North
America, vide Dove, Repertorium der Physik, Bd. iii. S. 392—395.
390 (p. 373.)—The history of vegetables which Unger and Endlicher
have given in an admirable manner, and with a few touches (Grundziige
der Botanik, 1843, S. 449—468) I myself separated from the geography
of plants half a century ago. In the aphorisms appended to my "Sub
terraneous Flora" I use these words : " Geo-nosia naturam animantem et
xotes. 477
inanimam vol, ut vocabulo minus apto, ex antiquitate saltem hand petito,
utar, corpora organica aeque ac inorganica considerat. Sunt enim tria
quibus absolvitur capita : Geographia oryctologica quam simpliciter Geog-
nosiam vel Geologiam dicunt, virque acutissimus Wernerus egregie diges-
sit ; Geographia zoologica, cujus doctrinae fundamenta Zimmermannus et
Treviranus jecerunt ; et Geographia plantarum quam aequales nostri diu
intactam reliquerunt. Geographia plantarum vincula et cognationem
tradit, quibus omnia vegetabilia inter se connexa sint, terrae tractus quos
teneant, in aerem atmosphaericum quse sit eorum vis ostendit, saxa atque
rupes quibus potissimum algarum primordiis radicibusque destruantur
docet, et quo pacto in telluris superficie humus nascatur, commemorat.
Est itaque quod differat inter Geognosiam et Physiographiam, historia
naturalis perperam nuncupatam, quum Zoognosia, Phytognosia et Oryc-
tognosia, quae quidem omnes in naturae investigatione versantur, non nisi
singulorum animalium, plantarum, rerum metallicarum vel (venia sit verbo)
fossilium formas, anatomen, vires scrutantur. Historia Telluris, Geog-
nosiae magis quam Physiographiae affinis, nemini adhuc tentata, plantarum
animaliunique genera orbem inhabitantia primaevum, migrationes eorum
compluriumque interitum, ortum quem montes, valles, saxorum strata et
venae metalliferae ducunt, aerem, mutatis temporum vicibus, modo purum,
modo vitiatum, terrae superficiem humo plantisque paulatim obtectam,
fluminum inundantium impetu denuo nudatam, iterumque siccatam et
gramine vestitam commemorat. Igitur Historia zoologica, Historia plan
tarum et Historia oryctologica, quae non nisi pristinum orbis terrae statum
indicant, a Geognosia probe distinguendae."—(Humboldt, Flora Friber-
gensis subterranea, cui acoedunt aphorismi ex Physiologia chemica plan
tarum, 1793, p. 9—10. On the self-motive forces, of which lower down
in the text some mention is made, vide Aristotele de Coelo, ii. 2, p. 248,
fiekk. whose distinction between animate and inanimate bodies is based on
the external or internal seat of that which causes movement. From the
" nutrient vegetable soul," says the Stagirite, no motion proceeds, because
vegetables lie in a " deep sleep from which they cannot be aroused"
(Aristot. de generat. animal. vol. i. p. 778, Bekker), "and have no wants
or desires that stimulate them to self-movement" (Aristot. de somno et
vigil. cap. i. p. 455, Bekker).
391 (p. 376.)—Ehrenberg's Abhandlung iiber das kleinste Leben im
Ocean, gelesen in der Akad. der Wiss. zu Berlin am 9 Mai, 1844.
78 NOTES.
sw (p. 377.)—Humboldt, Ansichten der Natur (2te Ausg. 1826) Bd.
ii. S. 21.
393 (p. 377.)—On multiplication through subdivision of the parent body
and the intercalation of new matter, vide Ehrenberg von der jetzt lebenden
Thierarten der Kreidebildung, in den Abhandl. der Berliner Akad. der Wiss.
1839, S. 94. The highest productive power of nature is exhibited in the
vorticellse. Estimates of the greatest possible development of masses may
be found in Ehrenberg's great work, Die Infusionsthierchen als vollkommne
Organismen, 1838, S. xiii. xix. and 224. " The milky way of these
organisms passes through the genera Monas, Vibrio, Bacterium, and
Bodo." The universality of the life of nature is so great, that smaller
infusory animals live as parasites on the larger, and sometimes even the
parasites, in their turn, are the dwelling-places of other parasites (vide
op. cit. p. 124, 211, and 512).
394 (p. 378.)—Aristot. Hist. Animal. v. xix. p. 552, Bekk.
395 (p. 379.)—Ehrenberg, loc. cit. S. xiv. 122, and 493. To the rapid
increase of these minute organisms there is connected in several (flour-eels,
wheel-animals, water-bears or tardigrades) an extraordinary tenacity of
life. Despite of drying in vacuo, along with chloride of calcium and sul
phuric acid, for 28 days, despite of exposures to a heat of 120° C. (248°
F.), some of them have been observed to recover. See the beautiful expe
riments of M. Doyere, in Mem sur les Tardigrades et sur leur proprieté
de revenir a la vie, 1842, p. 119, 129, 131, and 133; and Ehrenberg.
1. c. S. 492-496.
396 (p. 379.)—On the presumed primary transformation of organised
and unorganised matter into plants and animals, compare Ehrenberg, in
Poggendorff's Annalen der Physik, Bd. xxiv. S. 1—48, and his Infu
sionsthierchen, S. 121 and 525, with Joh. Muller, Physiologie des Mens-
chen (4te Anfl. 1844), Bd. i. S. 8—17. It appears to me very remark
able, that St. Augustine, in his question : How or in what way islands
could have again received plants and animals after the deluge ? shows
himself by no means averse to the idea of what has been called spontaneous,
equivocal, or primary generation. " If the angels," says he, " or the
inhabitants of continents given to the chase, did not transport animals to
remote islands, then must they have arisen immediately from the earth ;
upon which the question forthwith presents itself : To what purpose, then,
were all the animals collected into the ark ?" " Si e terrae exortae sunt
NOTES. 479
(bestiae) secundum originem primam, quando dixit Deus : producat terra
animam vivam ! multo clarius apparet, non tarn reparandorum animalium
causa, quam figurandum variarum gentium (?) propter ecclesiae sacra-
mentum in Area fuisse omnia genera, si in insulis, quo transire non possent,
multa animalia terra produxit."—Augustinus de Civitate Dei, lib. xvi.
cap. 7 (Opera ed. Monach. Ordinis S. Benedicti, t. vii. Venet. 1732,
p. 422). But 200 years before the Bishop of Hippo's time, we find Tragus
Pompeius bringing the first drying of the primitive world, and the lofty
plateaus of Asia, and "primary generation," into connection, precisely as
in the " terrace theory of Paradise" of the great Linnseus, and in the
Atlantic dreams of the eighteenth century : " Quodsi omues quondam
terrae submersae profundo fuerunt, profecto editissimam quamque partem
decurrentibus aquis primum detectam ; humillimo autem solo eandem
aquam diutissime immoratam, et quanto prior quaeque pars terrarum
siccata sit, tanto prius animalia generare coepisse. Porro Scythiam adeo
editiorem omnibus terris esse, ut cuncta flumina ibi nata in Maeotim, turn
deinde in Ponticum et Aegyptium mare decurrant."—Justinus, lib. ii.
cap. 1. The mistaken opinion of Scythia forming a lofty table -land is so
ancient, that we find it clearly expressed in Hippocrates, De Aere et Aquis,
cap. 6, § 96, Coray. " Scythia," he says, " forms lofty and naked
plains, which, without being crowned with mountains, rise higher and
higher towards the north."
397 (p. 380.)— Humboldt, Aphorismi ex Physiologia chemica plantarum
in the Flora Fribergensis subterranea, 1793, p. 178.
398 (p. 380.)—TJeber die Physiognomik der Gewachse, in Humboldt,
Ansichten der Natur, Bd. ii. S. 1—125.
399 (p. 381.)—Aetna Dialogus. Opuscula, Basil. 1556, p. 53—54.
Philippi has in modern times given a beautiful vegetable-geography of
Aetna. Vide Linnaa, 1832, S. 733.
400 (p. 382.)—Ehrenberg, in the Annales des Sciences naturelles, t.
xxi. p. 387—412 ; Humboldt, Asie centrale, t. i. p. 339—342, t. iii. p.
96—101.
401 (p. 383.)—Schleiden fiber die Entwicklungsweise der Pflanzenzellen,
in Milller's Archiv fiir Anatomie und Physiologie, 1838, S. 137—176;
also his Grundzfige der wissenschaftlichen Botanik, Th. i. S. 191, Th. ii.
S. 11; Schwann, Mikroskopische Untersuchungen fiber die Ueberein-
stimmung in der Struktur und dem Wachsthum der Thiere und Pflanzen,
480 NOTES.
1839, S. 45 and 220. See likewise Joh. Miiller, Physiologie des Men-
schen, 1840, Th. iii. S. 614.
402 (p. 385.) —Schleiden, Grundzuge der Wissenschaftlichen Botanik,
1842, Th. i. S. 192—197.
403 (p. 385 )—Tacitus, in his speculations on the peopling of Britain
(Agricola, cap. ii.), distinguishes very beautifully between what may
belong to the ultimate influences of the country, and what may pertain to
an old unalterable type in the immigrated race : " Britanniam qui mm tales
initio coluerunt, indigenae an advecti, ut inter barbaros, parum compertum.
Habitus corporis varii, atque ex eo argumenta ; namque rutilae Caledoniam
habitantium comae, magni artus Germanicam originem adseverant. Silu-
rum colorati vultus et torti plerumque crines, et posita contra Hispania,
Iberos veteres trajecisse, easque cedes occupasse fidem faciunt : proximi
Gallis, et similes sunt : seu durante originis vi ; seu, procurrentibus in
divisa terris, positio coeli corporibus habitum dedit." On the persistence
of types of conformation in hot and cold quarters of the earth, or moun
tainous regions of the new continent, vide my Relation historique, t. i.
p. 498—503, t. ii. p. 573—574.
401 (p. 485.)—On the American races in general, see the beautiful work
of Samuel George Morton, Crania Americana, 1839, p. 62—86 ; and an
account of the skulls brought by Pentland from the Highlands of Titicaca,
in the Dublin Journal of Medical and Chemical Science, vol. v. 1834, p.
475 ; also Alcide d'Orbigny, l'homme americain considere sous ses rap
ports physiol. et mor. 1839, p. 221 ; and farther, the work so full of
delicate ethnographical observations, Reise in das Innere von Nordame-
rikaof Prinz Maximilian of Wied, 1839.
405 (p. 386.)—Rudolph Wagner iiber Blendlinge und Bastarderzeugung
in his Anmerkungen zu Prichard, Naturgesch. des Menschengesch-
lechts.Th. i. S. 174—188.
406 (p. 386.)—Prichard, Th.i. S. 431, Th. ii. S. 363—369.
407 (p. 387.)—Onesicritus im Strabo xv. p. 690 and 695, Casaub.—
Melcker (Griechische Tragodien Abth. iii. S. 1078,) believes that the
verse of Theodectes quoted by Strabo is taken from a lost tragedy, the
title of which was perhaps Memnon.
408 (p. 389.)—Joh. Miiller, Physiologie des Menschen, Bd. ii. S. 768,
772—774.
409 (p. 389.)—Prichard, Th. i. S. 295, Th. iii. S. 11.
NOTES. 481
410 (p. 389.)—The late arrival of the Turkish and Mongolian races, as
well on the Oxus as in the Kirghis-steppes, is opposed to the view of
Niebuhr, that the Scythians of Herodotus aud Hippocrates were Mon
golians. It is far more probable that the Scythians (Scolotes) are to be
reckoned as among the Indo-Germanic Massagetse (Alans). The Mon-
goles, probably Tartars, (a title which has lately been erroneously applied
to pure Turkish races in Russia and Siberia,) were then established far in
the east of Asia. Vide my Asie centr. t. i. p, 239 and 400 ; Examen
critique de 1'hist. de la Geogr. t. ii. p. 320. A distinguished philologist,
Prof. Buschman, reminds us that Firdusi. in the Shanahmeh, in his half-
mythical half-historical commencement, " The Feast of the Alans,"
refers to the sea on which Selm, the eldest sou of King Feridun (certainly
two hundred years before Cyrus) wishes to take flight. The Kirghis of
the so-called Scythian steppe are originally a Finnish race : in their three
hordes they probably constitute the most numerous of all the wandering
tribes of men that now exist : in the 6th century they dwelt in the very
steppes where I lately saw them. The Byzantine Menander (p. 380—
382, Ed. Nieb.) relates how the Chakan of the Turks (Thu-Khiu), in the
year 569, presented Zemarchus, ambassador of Justin II., with a Kirghi-
sian slave. He calls her xEPX's> ant' >n Abulgasi (Historia Mongolorum
et Tatarorum) the Kirghis are styled Kirkiz. Similarity of manners,
where the nature of the country plainly gives the impress of these menners,
is a very uncertain evidence of common descent. The kind of life in the
steppes engenders among Turks (Ti, Tukin), Baskirs (Finns), Kirghis,
Torgods and Dsungarians (Mongoles), the same customs of the nomadic
life, the same use of felt-tents, which are moved forward on carriages, and
pitched near the flocks and herds.
411 (p. 389.)—Wilhelm von Humboldt iiber die Verschiedenheit des
menschlichen Sprachbaues, in the great work on the Language of the
Island of Java, Bd. i. S. xxi. xlviii. and ccxiv.
412 (p. 391.)—That most unsatisfactory, and, in later times, frequently
renewed discussion, on the unequal rights of mankind to liberty ; and on
slavery as an institution consonant to nature, may be found, alas! very
systematically developed in Aristotle's Politics, i. 3, 5, 6.
413 (p. 392.)—Wilhelm von Humboldt iiber die Kawi- Sprache, Bd. iii.
S. 426. From the same work I add the following passage : " The
stormy conquests of Alexander, the political forecast of the Romans, the
savage cruelties of the Mexicans, the despotic annexations of lands by
VOL. 1. Y
.182 NOTES.
the Incas, have in both continents had the effect of putting an end to the iso
lated systems of nations, and of connecting them in more extensive alliances-
Great and strong spirits appearing, whole nations acted under the force of
an idea which would otherwise have remained entirely foreign to them.
In the truth of the deep gentleness of minds of this mould Christianity
first found a connected voice, though it could not penetrate otherwise
than very gradually. At an earlier period none but single sounds had
made their way. Later times have better appreciated the import of
civilization, and cherished the want that is fe'.t of extending more widely
the alliances between nation and nation—of spreading the empire of
civilization. Even selfishness begins to be persuaded that in this way it
will push its progress farther than by means of isolation and violence.
Language, more than aught else in man, comprehends the whole of the
human family. Precisely in its nation-severing properties, the inter
changing comprehension of different tongues becomes a means of con
necting individualities, without proving detrimental to their peculiarities.
Op. cit. p. 427.
END OF VOL. I.
WILSON AND OOILVT, 57, SKINNER STREET, LONDON.
