{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1845__newnham___human_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Human Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
HUMAN MAGNETISM
ITS CLAIMS TO
DISPASSIONATE INQUIRY
BEING AN ATTEMPT TO SHOW
THE UTILITY OF ITS APPLICATION
RELIEF OF HUMAN SU
BY
W. NEWNHAM, ESQ.,
AUTHOR OF "THE RECIPROCAL INFLUENCE OF BODY AND MIND," ETC.
Quiconque voudra nier les phenomenes magnetiques, ne doit pas se contentor de
dire: cela est faux ; je ne crois pas cela ; cela ri'est pas possible ; cela n'est pas con-
forme aux lois de la nature. Qu'il descende au fond de sa conscience; qu'il se de-
mande s'il a fait serieusement ce qu'il pouvait faire pour juger sainement, de l'im-
possibilite naturelle de tels et tels fails.
M. L'ABBE', J.B.L.
NEW-YORK:
WILEY AND PUTNAM
1845.
AJ557J)
/
2^W ^ 3£yqy ryU>-3
Power Press of W. Osbobn,
88 WHliara-street.
THE REVEREND THOMAS OSMOND FRY.
My dear young Friend,
To whom can I so properly dedicate the following
pages, as to yourself, who have been the unwitting in-
strument of their production ; —to whom I feel deeply
indebted for all the interest afforded me by this pursuit;
—and to whom I think posterity will be grateful for
having stimulated an inquiry, which I venture to foresee,
will ultimately be productive of relief to some of the sor-
rows of life ? My long acquaintance with your upright
principles and benevolent heart, during a sojourn of some
years in my house, where you formed the secure prop
of my daily comfort,—and my subsequent knowledge of
your history, assure me that nothing will afford you
greater pleasure than to find that your own views on this
subject, have not been borne out by this inquiry, if indeed
the supersession of those views shall remove one thorn
from the pillow of sickness,—or extract the sting from
one page of suffering humanity. And while with such
convictions, I shall never cease to regret your abandon-
ment of a profession, to which you were so eminetly
VI DEDICATION.
calculated to become an ornament, I shall even more
ardently hope for your comfort and success in that sacred
office, upon the duties of which you have so recently
entered;—and that in your daily cottage ministrations
you will find cause to be thankful, for those earlier years
devoted to the relief of physical suffering.
Always believe me to remain,
My dear young friend,
Sincerely and affectionately yours,
W. Newnham.
Farnham,
Dec. 29th, 1844
CONTENTS.
Chap. I. Introductory . - - - - 9
II. Magnetism not satanic agency ; —not supernatural 39
III. Mode of reasoning adopted in treating the subject 48
IV. General Remarks - - - - 55
V. On the opposition of medical men generally to the
doctrines of magnetism - - - 73
VI. Objections to, and difficulties in, the way of mag-
netism - . - . - 77
VII. On the applicability of magnetism to the relief
of medical and surgical disease - - 99
VIII. On the qualifications of magnetizers - - 136
IX. History of the conduct of the Royal Academy of
medicine towards animal magnetism ; and con-
sideration of the question, how far the power of
imagination may be allowed to be a sufficient
cause of its phenomena -
141
X. Sketch of Chardel's views ; thoughts on energia 191
XI. On somnambulism and clairvoyance - - 199
XII. On prevision - . 299
XIII. On phreno-magnetism -
344
XIV. On extase -
378
Appendix -----.387
HUMAN MAGNETISM VINDICATED,
CHAPTER I.
INTRODUCTORY.
To my Readers,
In inviting your attention to the almost forbidden sub-
ject of human magnetism, I feel that some apology is
necessary for thus occupying your time. My apology
will be found, in a sincere desire to promote the honour
and respectability of the professional character, and will
be best explained by a simple statement of facts.
About twelve months since, I was asked by some friends
to write a paper against mesmerism,—and I was furnished
with materials by a highly-esteemed quondam pupil, which
proved incontestably that under some circumstances the
operator might be duped,—that hundreds of enlightened
persons might equally be deceived ; —and certainly went
far to show, that the pretended science was wholly a delu-
sion, a system of fraud and jugglery, by which the imagi-
nations of the credulous were held in thraldom through
the arts of the designing.
Perhaps in an evil hour I assented to the proposi-
tion thus made : —but on reflection, I found that the facts
before me, only led to the direct proof, that certain
phenomena might be counterfeited; —and the existence
of counterfeit coin is rather a proof that there is some*
where, the genuine standard gold to be imitated ;~the
1
10 INTRODUCTORY.
very act of Hypocrisy is a homage done to real virtue,
because it shows that that which is sterling is worth the
trouble and expense of imitation, and gives the sanction
of reality to perhaps an ill-understood and undefined
something,—yet a something possessing such an amount
of truth and value, as, by the proposition shall be worthy
of the pains necessary to produce its semblance.
It is indeed true, that this counterfeit coin, whether
mineral or moral, is issued by bad men, and for their own
private purposes. But then it is to be remembered, that
their first purpose is to seem like good men—and to
present the appearance of genuine fruits : and how is
the detection of this fraud to be accomplished \ —Not
surely by denying that there was any thing just, and good,
and loyal, and true, to imitate,—but by inquiring into the
different and distinguishing marks of authenticity in the
true image, and comparing these most carefully with their
presumed resemblance.
It was with an impression of this kind, that I dared
not undertake to write against the reality of that which
might be simulated because it had been simulated ; and
that I determined on investigating for myself a subject,
which up to that time, had obtained my unqualified con-
tempt. I surrounded myself with the literature of animal
magnetism—at least so far as London and Paris would
enable me to do so—and the result has been the growing,
the complete impossibility of writing against it, —and the
desire of asking you also, to inquire into the premises.
It will be necessary as a preliminary to this investiga-
tion, to take a rapid glance at a few of those causes which
have hitherto prevented a candid examination of magne-
tism by the only competent judges—viz. medicalmen.
1. Medical men have very generally refused to examine
INTRODUCTORY. 11
what they have prejudged to he an outrageous system of
quackery ; and they have branded with the obloquy of
mountebanks, all those who have professed to practise, or
to believe the principles of magnetism. Yet, by so doing,
they have placed themselves in a false position,—for it is
their province to examine phenomena which are brought
before them, and not to deny their existence,—especially
when those phenomena are said to be precisely similar to
others, whose existence as diseased function is acknow-
ledged, and with which are associated the same order, of
unexplained but still undeniable manifestations.
2. Magnetism, in the course of its history, has been
associated with many absurd and false opinions and illu-
sions ; —and, as is almost unversally the case, the doctrine
itself has been confounded with those occult and untenable
systems which have been grafted upon it. This associa-
tion has been fostered, if not produced, by the attempt to
explain what in the present state of our knowledge is in-
explicable ; —and to substitute the vagaries of the learned
for the less brilliant but more useful record of observations,
and registry of facts. The attempt to generalize from a
small number of observations, and to theorize even before
these facts have been thoroughly established, and ade-
quately tested, is almost sure to result in that kind of
fanciful association, which has no basis save Hypothesis,
and is precisely opposed to the conclusions which arise
from the observation and comparison of facts collected
under different circumstances—at distant places—by
various but upright and honest observers—of diversified
calibre of mind, and habits of thought ; whose united ex-
perience being brought together—and its elements being
tested by comparison, and separated by careful analysis,
and classified and arranged, would by-and-by show, in
12 INTRODUCTORY.
what they agreed and in what they differed—what was
inherent in, and essential to their nature, and what was
extrinsic and accidental,—what was genuine, and what
was factitious : and thus separated, and collected and ar-
ranged, would ultimately form a groundwork for inductive
reasoning, upon which a solid theory might be establish-
ed.—Instead of this, the attempt has been made to reason
first, and to make the facts bend to the hypothetical ex-
travagance.
3. Again, Magnetism has been prevented assuming a
proper position in the route of philosophical investiga-
tion, because it has been taken up by many persons, as a
mere matter of amusement,—and because it has been pur-
sued for the sake of curiosity, and for the purpose of de-
veloping startling exhibitions, in order to excite the won-
der of the vulgar, and to satisfy their morbid craving after
novelty, instead of its employment being restricted to its
curative and remedial agency—to be engaged only in the
cause of suffering humanity,—and to be carefully protect-
ed from the unholy contact of those travelling dema-
gogues, whose aim is to fill their own pockets by exciting
the vulgar surprise of their auditors.
4. The progress of magnetism has still further been
retarded, by its having frequently found its supporters
among men of a certain order of theological views,—that
is, among those who saw in man's present condition, his
beginning and his end ; —those who looked upon his ac-
tions as the automatic result of his organization ; —those
who denied the existence of a controlling will, and of a
spiritual principle in man ; who denied his accountabili-
ty,—disbelieved the existence of a future state of rewards
and punishments—were thorough-going materialists—and
in their hearts,—if not avowedly, sceptical on the subject
INTRODUCTORY. 13
of a Moral Governor of the universe, though perhaps
they might admit of ar original creating power.—Thus
magnetism has heen combined with scepticism and infi-
delity, and it is not to be denied that it has been often thus
associated. But it has no necessary connexion with such
errors ; and the conversion of Georget late in life from
materialism to spiritualism, is entirely to be attributed to
his conviction of the truth of magnetic phenomena : —and
the firm belief in their reality, which marked the conduct
and the writings of the philosophical Colquhoun,—of the
enlightened and religious Deleuze,—and of the truly ex-
cellent and pious Townshend, are a sufficient guarantee
that the doctrines and the practice of magnetism are not
inimical to the moralities of scriptural truth ; —while the
weight of mind, of judgment, of morals, and of piety, is
not to be paralleled among its opponents.
5. As the materialism of one set of its defenders, so the
injudicious conduct of another, which kept before the pub-
lic eye, some rare occurrences in magnetism, and made
the production of these occurrences and their consequences
the first great aim of their pursuit,—instead of fixing the
attention upon the simple and curative processes of the
science, has awakened the fears of the good, and has led
them thoughtlessly, and without examination, to attribute
to satanic agency, that which may really be explained by
natural causes,—and to invest the whole doctrine with an
atmosphere of fearfulness and apprehension, which has
served to scare away from the inquiry many simple-minded
and excellent persons, who, while they admired scientific
truth, loved their religion better.
6. A sixth cause which has retarded among ourselves
the progress of magnetism, has been the absence of any
thing like a good Treatise in English upon the subject.
—
14 INTRODUCTORT.
By far the best work on this ill-fated question is by a
barrister ; —but before it can carry weight with it, it must
originate from a medical person—and therefore the Isis
revelata never made much way, and although a third edi-
tion has been lately published, yet its impression has been
almost powerless. The " Facts in Mesmerism" of Mr.
Townshend are liable to the same objection—collected and
observed by a clergyman, whose habits, it will be supposed,
were not such as to lead him scrupulously to examine the
laws of evidence, and who might easily be deceived by the
designing. The same objection exists against Mr. Sand-
by's otherwise valuable little treatise. Nor is this want in
any measure relieved by the miserable translation of Teste,
which has been put forth under better auspices ; for Teste
himself is not the safest authority,—and that authority
has been so impaired by his " second-hand" clothing, as
to make the work altogether undesirable ; —and yet these
are the best books which are accessible to the English
reader ; —inferior ones, whether pamphlets, or compila-
tions, do not relieve the want, and sincere inquirers must
go out of their own country's literature, before they can
form an adequate idea of what is really meant by mag-
netism, or of the uses to which it is justly applied, and
ought to be restricted.
7. And this leads to the development of another cause,
which has prevented the advance of the doctrine—viz.
ignorance as to its history, and misrepresentation as to its
objects, its disciples, and its effects. The general idea
seems to be that magnetism originated with a certain
charlatan of the name of Mesmer—that after a time his
fraud was exposed, and he himself obliged to quit Ger-
many,—that he sought refuge in France, and for a while
found there both disciples and dupes ; —that his doctrines
INTRODUCTORY. 15
and practice were then submitted to a commission of
inquiry appointed by the Royal Academy of Medicine,
whose report was unfavourable and led to the conclusion,
that the effects produced (which were not denied) were
simply resulting from the arts of a designing man making
a certain impression upon the imagination ; —that after a
number of years, a fresh commission was appointed, whose
report confirmed that of the Jirst
;
—that subsequently the
doctrine had fallen into disrepute, and had been practised
only by the designing, and believed only by the duped ;
—that its proceedings had been banned because found
worthless and mischievous, and its pretended cures proved
to be mendacious : —that in our time, it had been support-
ed only by the weak and the wicked, while it has been
opposed by the good, and by all the most talented and
intelligent of philosophic minds ; —that while it has been
fostered and brooded over by chicanery and delusion, it
has been opposed by truth, and candour, and reasoning,
and charity, and benevolence ; —that it has been over and
over again proved wanting in any rational basis ;
—and
finally, that its pretended facts are not to be believed,
while its moral dangers and evils are incalculable.
Now, although we shall ultimately come again upon all
these points in detail, yet it may be as well at the outset
of our undertaking, to observe that a more mistaken and
erroneous statement cannot be made,—that although the
doctrine of magnetism may have been revived by Mesmer,
it did not originate with him, but existed long anteriorly,
in the views of some of the wisest and best of men ;
—
that whatever difference of opinion may exist as to the
character of Mesmer, and even allowing the very worst,
that he did not believe his own statements, (many of which
are admitted to be incomprehensible,) and that he availed
',
16 INTRODUCTORY.
himself of his doctrines only for the purpose of filling
his own coffers, yet this does not impugn the truth oif
doctrines so grievously misapplied ; —that in the first
report of the French commissioners, its hasty conclusions
were drawn without adequate investigation, while the fact
of their attributing the effects produced to another cause,
viz. the agency of imagination, was in itself a proof of the
reality of those effects, and their not being unanimous in
these conclusions afforded primd facie evidence, that the
balance in favor of magnetism or imagination as the pro-
ducing cause, was pretty nearly equipoised ; —that in the
second report made after thirty-six years' interval and six
years of careful inquiry, the commissioners stated the
establishment of certain extraordinary facts, and recom-
mended the subject as worthy of further investigation ;
—
that so far from the doctrine having fallen into disrepute,
it has gradually extended its belief in France, Germany,
Prussia, Russia, Holland, America, &c. ; —has produced
in the two former countries about 1,400 publications;
—
has accumulated its thousands of well-attested cases, and
hundreds of volumes, and has enlisted advocates of the
highest talent and unimpeachable integrity ; —and that
notwithstanding every species of opposition, it has main-
tained its ground—advanced its pretensions more and
more widely—embraced the wise and good among its ad-
herents,—and signalized its progress by innumerable
benefits conferred upon suffering humanity, in its arduous
but untiring march of unpaid benevolence ; —that with
advancing years its objects and processes have become
better defined, and barriers have been placed to those
abuses, which in a greater or less degree attach to every
human institution however good ; —that while it has been
supported by the humane and charitable,
—
even claims for
INTRODUCTORY. 17
its principal motive, the love of beneficence, and has been
almost invariably practised without fee,—and has been
supported by argument, and an appeal to facts, it has
been mainly resisted by the interested, and by the poi-
soned weapons of ridicule and calumny ; —while it has
been based on the results of human testimony, it has been
attempted to be undermined by an unsupported denial of
its facts, by all the acts of Jesuitical sophistry, of menda-
cious representation, of uncandid statement, and of the
suppression and sophistication of truth,—and by all the
sinister artifices to which ignorant hardihood lays claim
when assaulting scientific caution ; —moreover, that its
defenders never have been met in a fair field, but have
been always sought to be overwhelmed by the secret arts
of those who fear the light, and who prefer the triumph
of indiscriminate condemnation to the trouble of investi-
gation ; —and that its facts rest on a foundation which all
but proves its fallacy to be impossible. These may seem
to be extraordinary announcements, yet they are true,
—
and the strangest fact of all, and the strongest in favour
of the reality of magnetism, is, that during more than
sixty years it has survived the conflict of opinion, and
still lives, and thrives, and increases more and more.
Let it be remembered that the foregoing observations
by no means apply to certain curious phenomena, which
have been grafted upon magnetism, but which have no
necessary connexion with it, which some of the best mag-
netisers repudiate, and which at all events require a greater
amount of investigation ; the only object of magnetism
should be the relief or cure of disease, and within this
limit it is to be strictly held : —of this effect, and of some
otehrs, we shall attempt a philosophical explanation as
we proceed, but we must first glance at the fact, that for
1*
18 INTRODUCTORY.
the most part medical men as a body have been opposed
to its doctrines.
Now the explanation of this fact is to be sought chiefly
in the style and constitution of their minds, and in their
habits of thought and action : they are generally practi-
cal men, accustomed to look for what they consider as
demonstrable symptoms indicative of certain maladies,
—
and to call to their aid, the agency of certain remedies in
which habit or experience has taught them to confide, and
whose virtues under such circumstances they also consider
as demonstrated. It is not often they give themselves
the trouble of seeking the rationale of these symptoms,
nor of tracing the varied influence of one morbid action
upon all the complicated machinery of life ; —it is not
often that they set themselves to inquire after the modus
operandi of medicine,—and still less frequently do they
seek to elicit truth from a deeper search into Nature's
arcana,—to extend the boundaries of knowledge by reason
and induction—or to listen to new theories,—and to
examine and to test their applicability to certain modes of
morbid or of curative action : nor will they generally
inquire into the laws which regulate these actions at all,
unless they be such as are capable of demonstration ; but
they rather arrogantly assume that they are acquainted
with these laws, though they are utterly incapable of ex-
plaining them : —they will not at once honestly acknow-
ledge their ignorance, and simply profess their belief in
the existence of such laws, in the same way as all men of
science do to many of the inexplicable agencies of na-
ture,—confessing that her apparent deviations are attribu-
table to our ignorance of first causes ; and that the changes
of the wind,—the varieties of the seasons,—the alternations
of sunshine and cloud,—the endless varieties of weather,
INTRODUCTORY. 19
and many other unfathomable circumstances, all possess
their laws and their principles, (did we but know them,)
as undeviating as those which regulate day and night.
But men of science, do not assume as proven these hidden
agencies, nor appeal to them as demonstrations, nor fear
to trust themselves to further inquiries,—nor refuse to
listen to the unravelling of further discoveries,—nor
pronounce as fallacious, results which have not been
investigated, simply because they do not chime in with
preconceived ideas,—nor contract themselves within a
previously known, and explored but limited domain,
beyond the boundaries of which they are willing to admit
there exists much which is unknown, and which may be
worth knowing.
It must be confessed that this is extraordinary, while so
many facts in their own science remain inexplicable ; take
for instance the mode of the operation of medicine—opi-
um for example. Now we may reason for a longtime on
the effects produced by opium on the nervous and vascu-
lar systems,—and we may ascertain (puzzling admission)
that these effects will vary, not only in degree but in kind,
according to the dose given, and to the circumstances
under which it is administered ; but none of these reasons
will conduct us back to an explanation of how these effects
are produced by the remedy; and after all, we shall not
approach much nearer to the truth, than did the reply of
the candidate for the degree of doctor of medicine, in
Moliere's celebrated comedy of " Le Malade Imaginaire.
Q. " Domandabo causam et rationem quare
" Opium facit d ormire ?
A. " Mihi a docto doctore
" Domandatur causam et rationem quare
" Opium facit dormire ;
—
20 INTRODUCTORY.
" A quoi respondeo
" Quia est in eo
" Virtus dormitiva
" Cujus est natura
" Sensus assoupire."
To which lucid explanation we may advantageously sub-
join the chorus of examiners
—
" Bene, bene, bene, bene respondere
" Dignus, dignus es intrare
" In nostro docto corpore
" Bene, bene respondere."
Another reason which has kept aloof from this investi-
gation, medical men in general, has been its frequent
alliance with quackery and knavery,—and its having been
mixed up with a certain number of exploded hypotheses,
which Jived their little hour upon the stage of public
opinion, and then sank unheeded to that oblivious grave,
in which they remain unknown, except to a few literary
book-worms, to whose tender mercies they are consigned,
till a certain incalculable cycle has been completed ; —and
then again, they are reproduced under some modification
suitable to the age, by some daring aspirant after a niche
in the temple of ^Esculapius—again to run their ephe-
meral race of controversy,—again to be eclipsed by some
newer and more startling hypothesis. In this way, ac-
cording to the view which we hold, the tendency ascribed
to the doctrines of magnetism, has had a considerable
influence on the judgment formed upon them,—and has
probably assisted in obscuring their real character. It
should, however, be remembered, that this is the ordinary
course of scientific hypothesis, if it once go beyond the
safe path of induction, and analogy, and observation, and
experience ; and our own recollections will lead us to this
INTRODUCTORY. 21
proctical conclusion ;—witness, the entire failure, and
decay, and extinction of the doctrines of the humoral
pathology—and the present revival of modified humorism
—now rapidly gaining ground,—and at this day, finding
scarcely an individual risking his reputation for common
sense, or common knowledge—by doubting that the
fluids of the body, especially the blood itself, does play
a most important part in the production of disease.
Then as to the alliance with quackery ;
if it be so, it has
not been gainful quackery,—for with a certain number of
miserable exceptions, (and these permitted to intrude
because medical men stood aloof,) the practice of magnet-
ism has been one of pure benevolence, and not for the
purpose of filling the pocket of the magnetiser: and if
medical men will take it up, as a question of science, and
a portion of the healing art, the whole tribe of unprin-
cipled wonder-mongers will be put down.
Another cause which has operated against magnetism, is
the ridicule which has been so unsparingly heaped upon
the doctrine ; and the hard names of dupes and jugglers,
by which its professors have been assailed. Now ridicule
is a weapon, whose barbed and poisoned point rankles
and festers wherever it alights, and if there be one thing
requiring a greater degree of moral courage than another,
it is to bear to be laughed at, to be pointed to with the
insulting finger of scorn, and to be accounted as easy
dupes. °Let°it be remembered, that this weapon is seldom,
almost never, employed in a good cause, though it is the
common resource of the advocates of a bad one ;
they
are aware of its power, and are perfectly conscious, that
if they can but steep its point in the poisonous compound
of sinister motive, so as to impugn the honest intentions,
as well as the good sense of the opposite party, it is quite
22 INTRODUCTORY.
irresistible. Thus, medical men exist upon opinion ;
to
them reputation is Jife ; and if by one adroit wound, their
reputation for good sense and good principle, can be en-
dangered, few indeed there are, who will not succumb to
such hostility. Truly, there are some who have risen
above these difficulties, whose names will hereafter be
mentioned : but the greater number quail before such
terrors, and retire to their quiet, modest, unobtrusive rou-
tine.
We shall mention but one other cause, and we trust
not very operative, but still one, which to a certain extent
must have its influence. " II faut vivre,"—and true, most
true it is, that in general it is very sorry living ; and that
medical men are engaged in a perpetual and most ar-
duous struggle, to maintain themselves and their families
in their proper station. Now in spite of the most disin-
terested benevolence, the law of self-preservation will be
uppermost, and there must be an inevitable prejudice ex-
cited against every tiling which may decrease the means
of subsistence,—and of this number must be reckoned
human magnetism ; but if so, its friends will be slowly
gained, and generally recruited from those who are not so
dependent for their daily food. It is impossible not to ad-
mit, that this argumeutum ad crumenam must bias the
minds of many against any change which may endanger
the hope of their gains, and tend in any degree to super-
sede their craft, or at all events to endanger its estima-
tion.
It will be observed that all these reasons are operating
not so much against magnetism itself, as against the in-
quiry into its nature, and objects, and efficiency, all which
we presume to be misunderstood. It is for this reason,
that we are anxious to promote investigation, and that we
INTRODUCTORY. 23
shall now refer to some early writers, in order to prove that
this doctrine is not a novelty, but that in some shape or
other, its traces are to be found from the first records ; and
that its phenomena have always existed as the recognized
manifestations of disease.
It would lead me far beyond the reach of my own
powers, or of your patience, to attempt a history of mag-
netism from its earliest period, to the present time ; and
indeed it is difficult, if not impossible, to ascertain its
first traces, or to define its origin, because it exists in the
constitution of nature, and is therefore as old as the
creation : it is occasionally visible as it has been de-
veloped by circumstances or apparent accident, and is
again lost sight of till awakened by some analogous events ;
it has been known, and oftentimes unwittingly practised
in every age of the world ; and its professors for the time
being, have been invested with a sacredness to which they
were not entitled, or they have been accused of dealings
with the Evil one, or they have been branded as impostors.
Yet after all, magnetism may be said to be the medicine
of nature—to consist in the communication of the exube-
rant life of the healthy, to repair and sustain the deficient
vitality of the sick,—and is only legitimately and justly
used, when employed to restore that equilibrium of health,
which has been destroyed by malady. This is a most im-
portant principle, and in various ways will come before
us, in several stages of our future remarks ; but as it is
the key-stone of the arch upon which rests the security
of all future reasoning, it is now especially mentioned,
that at every subsequent page, it may be carried with us
as our guide, through doubtful or intricate passages.
The distinct traces of magnetism are to be found in the
recorded literature (whether written, or sculptured, or
24 INTRODUCTORY.
handed down by tradition,) of India, of the Egyptians,
the Jews, the Persians, the Greeks, and the Romans
;
they are to be descried in the early ages of Christianity,
in the dark and middle ages,—at the revival of letters ;
and they have been resuscitated and explored in modern
times, even to our own day, and to the very year and
month in which I am now writing.
During the earlier periods, magnetism has existed under
various names, yet all designating different shades of the
same things ; by the Greeks it was termed sacred mysteries
—by the Romans secret remedies—by others magic, the
black art, and the occult sciences ; —then again in the
middle ages we find it under the denomination of incan-
tations, then magnetism, then the .medicine of touch,
and finally mesmerism with its modern passes.
Perhaps the best and most succinct bibliographical
history of magnetism is to be found in an anonymous
pamphlet, said to be a translation from Scobardi, a Jesuit,
and purporting to be a confidential report on the subject
to the Grand Master of the Society of Jesus, in which
the liveliest wit and the bitterest irony are brought to
bear upon the opponents of magnetism, by one who affects
to uphold them as the espoused friends of his cause,
and who exposes while he applauds all the Jesuitical and
dishonourable proceedings of its enemies ; this pamphlet
is certainly unequalled for talent and interest, by any
thing which the controversy has produced.
The good effects of magnetism are oftentimes to be
discovered in the histories of those who practised it simply
as the medicine of nature, without theory, without a know-
ledge of its principles, without rules, without art—with a
simple, firm, and heartfelt desire to do good, and with
a confidence of success. In many of these cases no
i
INTRODUCTORY. 25
somnambulism will have been produced ; indeed this
state, though not to be considered as useless, is not indis-
pensable ; and perhaps it would have been better for
mankind that its phenomena should have remained undis-
covered, than that they should have given rise to so much
folly —should have developed such a desire after the
curious rather than the useful—should have led away from
rationality, and oftentimes conducted its subjects into
regions of fancy and ideality, where we can only suppose
that the vagaries of an excited and misdirected brain have
taken the place of that natural somnambulism, which is
useful only while it is natural, and so long as it is con-
fined to the patient's self, and to his own future, and not
very remote history ; but which, with a single exception
hereafter to be noticed, is not to be trusted, when it over-
steps these boundaries ; and which, since it is a pheno-
menon of rare occurrence, to be found only once in
twenty cases, would circumscribe, if it were indispensa-
ble, the circle of magnetic usefulness within very narrow
limits.
Objecting as we do most strenuously, to invest a doc-
trine with the name of one who was not its originator, and
especially of one upon whose motives and conduct must
ever rest the clouds of doubt and of suspicion, we shall
omit altogether the term mesmerism ; we shall henceforth
drop the characteristic adjective human, and speak only
of magnetism, having no reference to mineral magnetism,
or polarities, and so forth, but understanding by the term
simply that which we have defined at p. 24, to consist in
the imparting of exuberant life, to those who were suffer-
ing from impaired vitality. In so doing, we confess that
we have no affection for the term magnetism^and employ
it only till a better shall be substituted.
26 INTRODUTORY.
To return from our retrograde glance into the origin of
magnetism, it must be allowed, that for the sceptic or the
inquirer, the proofs of its existence, and of its efficacy,
are not, and ought not to be, sought for in the facts of
antiquity, but in those of the present day, or those which
have been accumulated in the latter end of the eighteenth
and early half of the nineteenth century, and which every
body may bring to the test of observation.
If these facts present phenomena, which are not to be
comprehended, it is quite just to refuse a blind assent to
the doctrines propounded upon such doubtful premises ;
it is right to reserve what we cannot understand, for far-
ther inquiry, observation, comparison, and reflection, but
to reject at once and without examination, what cannot
be understood, because we cannot understand it, is simply
to proclaim that we will not give ourselves the trouble to
investigate—and not to acquire the right of denying its
truth.
But here we are met by a question which we must settle
before we proceed, viz. the degree of credit which is to be
given to human testimony.
This inquiry is one of vital importance, inasmuch as
the science of magnetism, and especially its application to
medicine and surgery, must be considered entirely as a
science of observation, destitute of those preliminary
grounds of reasoning which insure our assent by a simple
appeal to the interior understanding without the evidence
of the senses ; —and therefore it is, that its truth must be
substantiated by the evidence of those senses, and must
depend for authenticity upon the correctness of their report,
—in fact, upon the results of human testimony.
If this testimony be given by unprejudiced individuals,
or by those whom we esteem as such, and if it relate to
INTRODUCTORY. 27
events or circumstances, which naturally fall within the
scope of our previously acquired knowledge, we have no
hesitation in receiving it ; but the present question is one
which has relation to phenomena of an uncommon and
startling character, with the rationale of which we are
wholly unacquainted. Yet there is so much evidence in
favour of these phenomena, produced similarly under the
recurrence of the same circumstances,—similarly observed
and testified to by a great variety of enlightened and dis-
interested men—diffused over a period of sixty years, and
occurring in every nation of Europe ; —and without the
possibility of concert between these witnesses ; all agreeing
in the same material points, yet differing in those lesser
details, which seem to confirm rather than to impugn, the
honesty, and sincerity, and truth of their own testimony,
to an extent, that we must at least hesitate before we dare
to reject it.
It has been well remarked by that eminent philosopher
Laplace, that we are so far from being acquainted with
all the agents of nature, and their different modes of ope-
ration, that it is thoroughly unphilosophical to deny the
existence of phenomena which we cannot explain in the
present state of our knowledge,—and that precisely and
only because we have not seen them with our own eyes or
may not be able to explain them. We ought, on the con-
trary, to examine the assumed matters of fact, with an
attention more scrupulous, in proportion as they appear
more difficult of adoption ; and here it is, that the estimate
of probabilities becomes indispensable, to determine how
far observations and experiments mast be multiplied in
order to procure in favour of their apparent agents, a
greater amount of probability than is afforded by the a
28 INTRODUCTORY.
priori grounds, which seem to weigh against their existence,
and their power.
Now as to the testimony in favour of alleged facts, it so
happens, that I have possessed the means of inquiring
into, and of ascertaining the indisputable truth of more
than one case as related ; and from this I gather confi-
dence in the truthfulness of the narrator, and in the state-
ment of other cases not materially differing in character,
and wliich may be all classed under the same arrangement.
But there are those who have wanted this opportunity ;
and for these we must argue what degree of testimony is
required in order to secure their belief.
One word with regard to this evidence.—Tt has been
said, that much more testimony is required to establish
facts which are opposed to Nature's ordinances; and there-
fore it has been presumed that more than ordinary evidence
was required in the present instance. But if this proposi-
tion were true, it is inapplicable : for magnetism is the de-
velopment of a law of Nature's, the rationale of which,
in common with many other of her laws, is hidden in
the present defective state of our knowledge, but which
nevertheless exists, and may one day be discovered, when
a sufficient number of observations has been obtained.
Let it be remembered, that most of the phenomena of
magnetism (if not all) have been fou?id in nature,—that
they have been recorded as instances of disordered func-
tion, and not disbelieved : the only new thing is, that
they may be produced at will, and that they may be em-
ployed for the cure of disorder. This however is the
extension and application of one of Nature's laws, not an
interference with her established order, and therefore does
not require that extraordinary evidence, which has been
said to be necessary in order to establish the truth of a
INTRODUCTORY. 29
miracle. But as we have propounded a doubt as to the
necessity for such overwhelming evidence, even in sup-
port of a miraculous fact, it will be well to examine more
closely the value of human testimony, in favour of the
truth of any one recorded fact.
But before we enter upon this celebrated argument, we
will advert for a moment to the character of the witnesses
in favour of magnetism : they have been men of unim-
peached veracity and integrity ; and they have witnessed
the same things in different parts of the world,—at diffe-
rent times, and under varying circumstances, so as to give
the fullest character to faithful testimony, which can be re-
quired.
Here I am met by an insuperable difficulty : I cannot
bring these witnesses before you in order that you may
hear their viva voce testimony ; it is impossible even for
me, to bring before you, their recorded, written, published
attested evidence, on account of its being so voluminous.
And I am obliged to ask your belief to my faithfulness as
a reporter, and to my judgment in the selection of wit-
nesses, and to the absence of credulity, and fanaticism, and
enthusiasm from my character. But I may have been
unfaithful, a monomaniac, or a fanatic ; and here I must
fall back upon your jadgment, appealing only to the facts,
that my inquiry was begun for the purpose of confuting
the doctrines of magnetism ; that I have advanced to the
mature age of fifty-four, and that I can look back upon
the past as devoted to truthfulness and honesty of pur-
pose—as unmarked by credulity—as opposed to fanati-
cism and mystery in every possible shape—as undefaced
by those crotchets which mark the monomanincal tenden-
cy, and as undistinguished by enthusiasm, except it be the
30 INTRODUCTORY.
enthusiasm of advancing professional knowledge, and of
relieving the sufferings of the miserable.
Claiming therefore your belief in the sincerity and
honesty of your reporter, he must just explain to you that
among the many thousand witnesses, he has altogether
thrown aside as worthless all those
—
1. Who are witnesses only of one particular fact, or
series of facts :
2. Who may be supposed to be interested in proving
the truth of their assertions :
3. Who have not verified their assertions by every pos-
sible and prudent means :
4. Who are said to have received advantages from mag-
netism, and therefore whose judgments may have been
warped by imaginary benefits conferred :
5. Who may, from their position, or connexion, or pre-
vious association, have been prejudiced in favour of its
phenomena
:
6. Who from their class in life, early education, and
mental development, or literary or professional habits, do
not appear likely to be free from the taint of easy credence ;
and have not been accustomed to those processes of search-
ing investigation, which for the most part belong to the
philosopher only, and perhaps especially to the medical
philosopher
:
7. Whose character for fidelity was not established,—and
generally all those over whom the breath of suspicioa
could exhale its withering blast, or the clouds of ignorance
or deficient information, could encircle with an atmosphere
of doubtfulness
:
And having done so, your reporter has not withheld his
belief from witnesses who are free from these taints,—from
such men as Berthollet, Curier, Ampere Brogros, Prcvost,
INTRODUCTORY. 31
Dumas, Georget, Puysegur, Petetin, Virey, Montravel,
Deleuze, Bertrand, Bourgery, Bricheteau, Broussais,
Crequi, Fomart, Gibert, Jacquemin, Kergaradec, Leroux,
Patissier, Sabatier, Sanson, Itard, Lherminier, Marc,
D'Eslon, Agassiz, Dupotet, Chardel, Foissac, Frapart,
Wolfart, Kieser, Hufeland,Treviranus, Passevant, Boske,
Wienholt, Teste, Marjolin, Cloquet, Sprengel, Reil, Frank,
Authenrieth, Lavater, Hoffman, Zimmerman, Muratori,
Rostan, Lordat, Orfila, Husson, Ribes, Hecker, Reveille
Parise, Colquhoun, Elliotson, and Chauncy Hare Towns-
hend, with many others not enumerated.
It is also to be observed, that some of the above named
witnesses are cited as affording unwilling testimony to
the truth offacts upon which they had formed prejudiced
opinions, opposed to the reality of those facts : —and more-
over, that this list might have been greatly enlarged with
both classes of witnesses :—the above however is more
than sufficiently numerous, for the reasoning I am about
to ground upon it.
Our present argument rests on the calculation of proba-
bilities, and has been employed as an unanswerable reply
to Hume's celebrated sophistry, with regard to the num-
ber of witnesses necessary to establish the truth of a
miracle, which he affirms to be far greater than the testi-
mony required for the establishment of any natural phe-
nomenon.
It has however been already stated, and in a subsequent
part of this discussion it will be more fully shown, that
the facts of Magnetism are not miraculous ;
that they are
not opposed to, or deviations from, the order of nature
—
but an exposition with which we have been hitherto un-
acquainted, and with which our acquaintance is still very
imperfect.
32 INTRODUCTORY.
If then we show, that the value of human testimony is
so great, that a small number of competent witnesses will
establish the truth of a miracle, which is assumed by the
great sceptic to require a more than ordinary array of
evidence—it will follow a fortiori, that a like number of
competent witnesses will establish the truth of magnetic
phenomena, beyond the possibility of any reasonable
doubt.
In the conduct of this argument, I avail myself of the
calculations of Babbage, well pleased to shelter my own
feeble powers, under the colossal shadow of such a giant
mind.
What number of witnesses, then, may be required to
establish a truth, even which involves a complete subver-
sion of the order of nature 1 There are to be found wit-
nesses, who will speak the truth, and who are not them-
selves deceived
:
—and the probability of a statement made
by two such persons, unknown to, and unconnected with
each other, being false, is as 1 to 10-000: if there are
three such witnesses, the odds are as 999-999 to 1, against
their agreeing in error
;
—and so on, if there be four or
five such witnesses, to a calculation of numbers in favour
of their truthfulness, which greatly exceeds my powers of
numeration.
The inference to be drawn is, a fortiori, that as, " if
independent witnesses can be found who speak truth
more frequently than falsehood, it is always possible to
assign a number of independent witnesses, the improba-
bility of the falsehood of whose concurring testimony
shall be greater than that of the improbability of the
miracle itself: —so, the same number of independent
witnesses will still further establish the testimony as to
a fact, which is distinctly not a miracle,—which is not a
INTRODUCTORY. 33
deviation from the order of nature,—but which is really
found as a natural product.
Have not these conditions been fulfilled 1 And has
not the advance of truth been prevented for the last sixty
years, by obstinately denying the facts of magnetism,
without investigating the evidence or testimony on which
they rest; and by supposing and asserting, that the hun-
dreds and thousands of educated and honourable wit-
nesses, with the fullest opportunities for inquiry, from one
end of Europe to the other, have all been deceived, by
different and unconnected parties, who have all united and
confederated to employ the same means of deception ?
" Whence but from heaven, could men unskilled in arts,
In various ages born, in various parts,
Weave such agreeing tales ? Or how, or why
Should all conspire to cheat us with a lie ?
Unasked their pains, ungrateful their advice,
Starving their gain, and martyrdom their price."
Dryden«
Let the calculation of probability be applied to these
two cases, and the question of testimony may be safely
left to unprejudiced common sense.
Among the hundred pupils who subscribed to Mesmer
for instruction, if magnetism had been a deception, is it
possible to conceive that not one of these should have
detected the delusion ; —that not one should have published
their dupery, especially when invited to do so, by the
opponents of magnetism in high places ; —that not one
wished to make a fortune by the secret, but that all were
desirous the public should benefit ;
—nay further, that
among those who were most exasperated by the private
conduct of Mesmer, not one was to be found, who did not
attest that he had made a useful discovert/ ! !
2
34 INTRODUCTORY.
Again, there exist some thousands of public, written,
published testimonies as to the facts ; and even these do
not constitute a tenth part of those whose evidence has
not been published ; so that after rejecting all the doubt-
ful testimony according to the plan mentioned in a former
paragraph, there remains such amass of unexceptionable,
and Irrefragable proof, as far, very far to surpass the
limits of the calculation of chances as to the possibility of
falsehood.
This is still further supported by the fact, that at Stras-
burgh, a society was formed, which in 1789 consisted of
188 members, many of whom were distinguished for their
rank in life, or for their literary attainments, and others
for their high reputation as medical men ; the transactions
of this society were conducted upon a plan, that avoided
every chance of dupery ; and these were regularly verified,
attested, and published, till political troubles destroyed
the association.
Similar societies were formed at Bordeaux, Lyons, and
many other places.
And when thus analogous facts have been witnessed
in different countries, at distant intervals, and by ob-
servers who had no kind of communication one with
another, there is strong evidence in favour of their truth :
and it behooves us to inquire, whether some parts of the
evidence only, have been asserted by some, aud denied
by others, because in that case it would be necessary to
receive as established evidence, only so much as all are
agreed upon. This, of course, according to the laws of
evidence, does not attach to the silence of some upon par-
ticular points, because it is not to be supposed, (and in the
nature of things it is impossible,) that each observer
should see all the same phenomena, or should be equally
impressed with similar views.
INTRODUCTORY. 35
The proof that certain effects are consequent upon cer-
tain presumed causes, must greatly depend upon the num-
ber of similar facts attested by credible witnesses ; and
even this is apparently a feeble proof for those who have
not witnessed the facts, and who, therefore, without calcu-
lation, always feel entitled to believe, that the witnesses
have been influenced by prejudice, or exaggeration, or
enthusiasm : and if they recognize any misrepresentation
as to subordinate facts, they immediately think themselves
entitled to reject the whole.
It has been already shown, how very narrow, prejudiced,
and untrue a position is the present ; but we conclude by
saying first, that we can afford to throw aside every par-
ticle of doubtful testimony ; and having done so, it is
impossible that the philosophers who remain were all vision-
aries, or that the patients cured, and their medical at-
tendants, and friends, and the attesting witnesses, magis-
trates and learned persons, were all dupes or deceivers ;
and without this, the facts of magnetism ?nust be ad-
mitted.
Secondly, the facts, if not true, must be the result.
a. Of an unperceived jugglery.
b. Of an incomprehensible hazard. Or if true,
c. Of an ill understood faculty.
The first is impossible, because of the precautions
which have been taken, and of the great number of wit-
nesses.
The second is equally impossible, because the chances
of being right (according to the mathematical calculations
of probability) in any considerable number of successive
trials, are so infinitely few, as to authenticate the attested
fact, beyond the possibility of doubt.
The third inference is just, because not being the result
36 INTRODUCTORY.
of dupery, or hazard, and being indisputable, it must
result from a faculty which we do not comprehend.
Nor is this wonderful, since it is the fact, that there is
every where a limit placed to our inquiry ;
that we do not
arrive at first causes, and that our best conducted re-
searches, lead us, in matters of science, only so far as to
this limit, to a certain something, which we, not being
able to pass, call a first cause, but which certain something
has also behind it an original cause, which we do not com-
prehend, and cannot investigate.
Before then that we pass judgment upon a doctrine
opposed to our previous opinions, it is necessary to inquire
into its proofs,—to ascertain the assertions, the facts, or
the reasonings upon which it is grounded ; and at the out-
set of this inquiry, to banish the prejudices of the mind.
The proofs depend upon the number, the character, the
information, the motives of the witnesses ; upon the pro-
bability that they have not been deceived ; upon the agree-
ment of their various testimonies ; and upon the argree-
ment and harmony subsisting between the various parts of
the same evidence.
I ask only the admission of the evidence of irreproach-
able witnesses, and concerning facts, about which they
could not be deceived : —let all the doubtful circumstances
be rejected at once ; let suspicious evidence be counted as
nothing ; allow of none but self-evident consequences ;
and let every principle, and every assumed fact be dis-
missed, which is at variance with any established law of
nature.
But on the other hand, let not examination be refused,
because of the wild extravagances of some enthusiasts ;
let it be remembered, that a fact, though badly supported,
may yet be a fact ; and let it ever be borne in mind, that
INTRODUCTORY. 37
among those who deny magnetism, not one is to he found
who has himself investigated its truth : while, whatever
difference of opinion is to be found among magnetisers,
none whatever exists as to the reality and efficacy of the
agent.
Once again, compare the works for and against mag-
netism ; the former abounding in well attested facts, the
latter in groundless assertion, vague objection, or point-
less ridicule. Even the early commissioners of the Aca-
demy and Royal Society of Medicine do not deny the
effects, which they admit to be extraordinary, but which
they refer to the influence of imagination ; and having
done so fairly, it is impossible not to come to the conclu-
sion, that there is a reality in magnetism ; and that no other
cause could produce the same effects.
If at the present stage of the inquiry, I am asked for
an explanation of phenomena, my reply is, that theory
can only properly result from a large assemblage of facts,
and from the laws which these seem to possess in common ;
that some of the alleged facts may be doubtful ; that
others may not be sufficiently established, and others only
partially true : and therefore that, at the present time,
theory should be given up, and that the only object should
be, to search for facts, to establish or destroy the presumed
truth of magnetism.
Medical men have the best possible opportunities of
testing these truths, because they are brought into imme-
diate contact with malady, because they enjoy the quiet
confidence of their patients, and because they can employ
the magnetic process, without the patient even being
aware of such an intention ; without therefore the possi-
bility of collusion, or of simply acting upon the imagina-
tion : but then, on their parts, it is necessary that they
38 INTRODUCTORY.
should desire to do good, that they should honestly seek
after information, and that they should wait for a large
series of facts, before they begin to reason upon them.
This object is best attained by quiet investigation ;
for
if attempted by a body of medical persons, instead of
seeking after truth, and noticing and comparing the effects
naturally produced, they will be devising a number of
experiments, varied in a thousand different ways, in order
to detect the cause of an assumed illusion, their attention
will be distracted, their will without energy, and imperfect
effects calculated to increase rather than to dissipate
doubt, will be the consequence. Besides, they begin to in-
investigate as sceptics : he who intends and wishes to see
for himself, is in a disposition favourable to honest and
rational belief; but they who assemble to see for others
(the public) throw aside the usual evidence upon which
belief is founded, and ask for an amount of demonstra-
tion, which the nature of the case does not admit.
Thus for instance, assuming that there is a magnetic
influence communicable from one individual to another,
and without here discussing the question of whether this
is, or is not, a fluid, they ask why is this influence com-
municable by the will 1 No answer can be given to
this question beyond the observation of the effects pro-
duced.
For one moment consider how unreasonable is such a
question. As well might be asked an explanation, why
and how, the will is directed to the arm or the leg ; or
how an idea excited in the sensorium, prompts to the
execution of certain movements ; or how are produced
any of the effects dependent upon the inexplicable reci-
procal influence of body and mind ?
39
CHAPTER II.
MAGNETISM NOT SATANIC AGENCY ; —NOT SUPERNATURAL.
Having thus cleared away some of the clouds, which
have rested upon the pathway of the investigation of
magnetism, we are better prepared to enter upon that
inquiry, which should enable us to form an enlightened
opinion, and candid estimate of its merits.
Acknowledging the impossibility of explaining many
of its phenomena, and avowing the wish to do so, only
in proportion, as the route to such explanation seems
obvious, we would, however, seek to establish two negative
principles ;
First, the phenomena of magnetism are not attributable
to satanic agency
:
Secondly, the phenomena of magnetism are not super-
natural in any sense of the word.
I. They are not to be attributed to satanic agency.
It is not intended to assert, that the great enemy of man-
kind, is incapable of exerting an immense influence upon
the bodily system, as well as upon the intellectual mani-
festations ; as a proof of his power we need only look to
all the disorders of society, and all the moral evil, which
has overturned the harmony, and defaced the beauty of
the creation of God ; which has introduced crime and
death into the world, and destroyed its happiness and
40 MAGNETISM NOT SATANIC AGENCY.
its peace, by the infliction of sickness, and a thousand
other physical, mental, and moral evils. But one of
these very evils has been the limiting of man's under-
standing,—and the substitution of unknown fear, and
superstitious awe as principles of action, in the room of
the knowledge and love of truth, and confidence in God.
Hence inexplicable phenomena have been attributed to
direct satanic agency, because they were inexplicable ;
and this only because of the feebleness of man's un-
derstanding, in consequence of his indirect perverting
agency.
It is, however, sufficient to show that this position is
untenable, from the simple tendency of magnetism to
heal disease,—to soften the rigors of suffering,—to com-
fort the afflicted,—to exalt, to brighten, to purify, and to
enlarge the mental manifestations ; —and to develop a
refinement of feeling, which lifts man from the degraded
and impure atmosphere of earth to the purer and serener
air of a nearer approach to heaven. Direct satanic
agency must ever be mischievous in its influence: mag-
netism properly directed is only beneficent, and cannot
therefore be attributable to the operations of Satan.
II. The phenomena of magnetism are not supernatural
in any sense of the term : and they are not so, first, be-
cause they do not contravene any known law of nature
and secondly, because they possess no distinctive charac-
teristic, which has not been shown to exist in nature, in
some form or other. In asserting this, we by no means
wish it to be supposed, that we understand the rationale
of these characteristics; it is enough for our purpose that
they exist—we are not called upon to explain them. If
then these phenomena exist, without infringing any one
of nature's known laws ; still further, if they exist as the
MAGNETISM NOT SUPERNATURAL. 41
exponents of certain physical conditions, and of certain
natural laws, though confessedly above our present com-
prehension, it follows that they cannot be supernatural.
But we must explain these propositions, a little more
in detail. These phenomena then are not supernatural,
because,
First, they do not contravene any known law of nature
;
if they did, the effects would be miraculous. We admit
that the effects produced are extraordinary, but they are
not miraculous, since the order of nature is not changed,
or suspended, or inverted, and without these attributes, no
event, however extraordinary, can be a miracle. Deny or
assert the truth of magnetic phenomena—yet the doctrine
of miracles remains equally unscathed : —the former are
dependent upon human agencies—the latter can only be
effected by Divine Power.
Compare any one of the miracles of our Lord with
any cure of magnetism, however surprising ;
—the one
will be found to consist in the instantaneous accomplish-
ment of a certain object without any, or with very inade-
quate means ; the other will be found to be the result of
the repeated and energetic employment of powerful
means, though we are unacquainted with their nature, or
mode of action: —the effect produced being always gradual
—and never such for instance as the restitution of any
organ whose function was absolutely destroyed by the
alteration of its tissues. If we use the term miracle in a
more extended sense, for any thing we do not understand,
then indeed, we are surrounded by miracles ; our own
existence for a moment is miraculous—and magnetic
phenomena are miraculous. But in that case, we must
employ some other term to designate the alone actings of
2*
42 MAGNETISM NOT SUPERNATURAL.
Divine Power, or we shall confound as one, two things
which are essentially different.
In reality, the admission of the doctrines of magnetism
throws no difficulty in the way of the Christian's belief in
miracles ; because those doctrines possess nothing in
common with the interruption of nature's laws, through
the sole agency of the Divine will ! But it does oppose
the belief of pretended miracles, by proving that facts
which were once considered as miraculous by the unwise,
are shown by magnetism to have been only the result of
a faculty naturally possessed by man ; —thus referring
natural events, to a natural, though inexplicable cause
—
and thus taking away the only basis of support from
enthusiasts, quacks, deceivers, and impostors of every
kind.
Secondly, the phenomena of magnetism exhibit no dis-
tinctive characteristic, which has not been shown to exist
in nature, in some form or other. These may not be all
found associated in any one patient ; but they have been
marked and recorded in the annals of medical literature.
Thus, in the varied forms of hysteria, catalepsy, dreaming,
reverie, natural somnambulism, we find, in some patients,
the magnetic slumber,—the consciousness during that
state,—the cataleptic rigidity of muscle,—the power of
dispensing with the ordinary aid of the senses,—the
perfectly safe guidance of themselves in difficult circum-
stances,—the orderly performance of various difficult
duties,—the selection of certain papers required, from
among a great number of others not wanted,—the capa-
city for reading without the aid of the visual organs,
the transposition of the senses, and the power of hearino-,
seeing, &c, through the epigastric region ; —the power
of seeing and knowing events taking place at distant
MAGNETISM NOT SUPERNATURAL. 43
places,—the faculty of second sight,—the gift of " pre-
vision,"—the power of discerning internal movements,
—
the phenomena of " extase ;"—all these facts together,
with other minor ones not mentioned, but dependent upon
the same state of exaltation of the faculties, are to be found
recorded,—not as produced by magnetic agency, and
produced at will,—but as the spontaneous products of
nature herself in ordinary or natural somnambulism ;
magnetic action, therefore, has only facilitated the mani-
festation of identical faculties, and simply claims the
merit of applying these faculties for the relief of suffering
humanity.
In my own experience, I was called some years since
to witness a phenomena of this kind, in a young lady of
the neighbourhood ; I recognized them as catalepsy in a
very severe form,—tried various remedies which were
useless, and contented myself at last, by deciding that
they were intractable phenomena, with the cause of which
we were thoroughly unacquainted,—and now only regret
that I lost such an opportunity for greater investigation.
Dr. Darwin and others have recorded similar cases, but
perhaps the most remarkable and interesting, because the
best watched, are those published a few years since by
Petetin ; these were seven in number and are assuredly
very remarkable.
But if so, our position is established ; and we may
fairly presume to pursue our inquiry into animal magnet-
ism. Still I find a superstitious dread of this inquiry,
because we cannot explain the rationale of the effects
produced ; —and because it is said to be an invasion of
the prerogative of mind; and as I wish to carry my
reader's judgment and feelings along with me, I must be
permitted to clear away these objections.
44 MAGNETISM NOT SUPERNATURAL.
It is admitted, that we cannot explain the phenomena ;
we can only see the effects, but we cannot trace the links
of causatio/i,—that is we cannot do so, in the present
imperfect state of our knowledge. But is it not the fact,
that during the last few years, many things have been ex-
plained, which were thought to be inexplicable : many
things have had their compound nature demonstrated,
which were previously thought to be simple and un-
compounded ; many things have been done, which were
thought to have been impossible ; many things which
were objects of superstitious fear, are now objects of
scientific and delighted inquiry ;
—many things which
were attributed to the special interference of the gods, and
thought to be proofs of their anger, are now shown to be
perfectly natural,—subject to established laws,—and ad-
mitting of calculation to a perfect nicety ; —and may we
not therefore hope to drive still further back the boundaries
of knowledge, and to find diligent observation rewarded
by scientific discovery.
True indeed it is, that we cannot explain the cause of
magnetic phenomena,—but can we explain the simplest
natural events 1—Can we say why the wind blows to-day
from the west,—why it blew yesterday from the east,
—
or why it will blow to-morrow from the south, and the
next day from the north ? Can we explain why water is
converted into vapour at a certain temperature, or into ice
at a certain other temperature'? And is it not a fact that
there are inhabitants of the world, who are in total igno-
rance of the latter phenomenon, and who would not be-
lieve it, if related to them ? Or can we finally explain
why the bread and meat which we consume at dinner, are
first rendered fit for the process of nutrition by that of di-
gestion—are then converted into chyle—carried into the
MAGNETISM NOT SUPERNATURAL. 45
blood—sent round the system—employed in the formation
of bone and muscle, and ligaments, and nerves, and blood-
vessels, and all the various secretions,—and finally brought
back again to the stomach in the shape of nervous in-
fluence, to enable it to continue its unwearied round of
function 1 we cannot in any one instance ;
—but if so,
what right have we to ask for an explanation of other
natural phenomena, before we have even given our atten-
tion to their investigation?
Again, the processes of magnetism are said to be an
invasion of the prerogatives of mind ;—and many excel-
lent persons are fearful of committing themselves to the
inquiry on this account;—and still more, on account of
the corollary which they attach to this position, that this
is an interference icith the order of Providence. These
fears proceed from confounding mind with its organ,—
and from forgetting the design of magnetism!
The apprehensive idea thus entertained, seems to be,
that by some supernatural agency, such an influence is
obtained upon the mind, as renders it wholly subservient,
—and takes away its power of volition, its freedom of
choice, its distinction between right and wrong, and its
capacity for choosing good and refusing evil.
Now this position is replete with error; for first, the
agency is not supernatural, as has been shown above :
—
is not mental, nor acting through mind, but purely physi-
cal,—and acting through the body upon the brain, so as
to produce a peculiar, but natural though unexplained
condition of that organ ; —during which state indeed, a
high degree of sympathy with the Magnetiser is created,
—a sympathy which like many other good things may be
abused, but which in itself, and left to its own influence,
produces a valuable exaltation of the faculties of the
46 MAGNETISM NOT SUPERNATURAL.
mind,—enlarges its power of discernment,—purifies and
exalts its moral sensibilities,—and defines more strictly,
even than in the waking state, the boundaries between
right and wrong ; —thus augmenting the power of the
organ of a well regulated mind, and therefore in itself
essentially enlarging instead of contracting its preroga-
tives and privileges.
Even this irrefutable argument need not have been
adduced, had it not been for the common habit of con-
founding things so essentially different as animal magne-
tism, and lucid sleep-waking. For without the latter
the former has an independent existence ; and this fact,
as well as its design of usefulness, has been frequently for-
gotten in the inane desire of following out curious inquiries
in Psychology.
It should ever be remembered, that the design of mag-
netism, is to relieve the sufferings of humanity; and this
design remains unaltered, however it may have been
mixed up with the phenomena of Clairvoyance, and thus
associated with truths and errors, which in a subsequent
part of this work, it will be our business to separate.
Enough has been said at the present time to show the
groundlessness of the apprehension of the most timid, and
the most conscientious ; —and to declare, that in the
hands of the good, Magnetism is one of the boons of
Providence,—which though it may be perverted in the
hands of the wicked, is not even then more mischievous
than opium, and some other similar agents.
Admitting however, that it is capable of perversion, is
an argument not for laying aside, but for restricting its
employment, so as that it should be always under the
direction of medical men : —not that we would claim for
medical men an exemption from all evil propensities ; but
MAGNETISM NOT SUPERNATURAL. 47
that we claim for them a superior knowledge of physical
relations, and a better power of discrimination as to the
mode, the degree, the extent, the frequency of administra-
tion of magnetic remedies : —and we believe too that the
remedy is less likely to be misapplied in their hands,
because first, as a body they are as exemplary in their feel-
ings and principles as any other body of men similarly
placed,—and because as they live only by the opinion of
others, reputation is dearer to them than life, and the loss
of that reputation is fatal to their means of subsistence.
Nobody is afraid of trusting in their hands the administra-
tion of poisons ; —nobody is afraid of admitting them into
the bosom of their families : —on the contrary, none but
themselves are so thoroughly acquainted with family his-
tory, or so frequently intrusted with family secrets ; none
therefore so proper to be confided in, with the direction of
magnetism, —the practice of which, we shall by-and-by
see, is so carfully surrounded with barriers, as to render it
all but impossible to overstep the boundaries of propriety.
48
CHAPTER III.
MODE OP REASONING ADOPTED IN TREATING THE SUBJECT.
»
In prosecuting the present inquiry we wish it to be
understood, that though we may occasionally endeavour
to explain some of the phenomena presented to our notice,
and to show their analogy, or even identity with other
natural facts, yet we do not intend to propound any gene-
ral theory of magnetism ; — there are at present so many
features about it which are inexplicable in the existing
state of our knowledge, that the part of the wise philoso-
pher is yet to accumulate his facts, and extend his
observations, and endeavour to classify them as he pro-
ceeds, in order that he may ultimately possess a fund of
reasoning, from which general inferences may be drawn.
It has been said by our opponents, that magnetism
does not in general act upon persons who are in good
health, and that on those whose health is deranged, its
influence is by no means uniform ; that it disturbs some
while it tranquillizes others; that it generally accele-
rates the respiration and circulation, while in other rarer
cases it renders their movements more sluggish ; that
in some it occasions involuntary twitchings of muscular
fibre, while in others it gives rise to a state of cataleptic
rigidity, differing however from ordinary cases of Cata-
lepsy, in that the muscles so fixed, not only retain their
MODE OP REASONING ADOPTED, ETC. 49
position till that position is altered, but admit not of
change, and remain rigid till unmagnetized
:
—and that it
often produces cataleptic slumber, and in a few instances
gives rise to lucid somnambulism.
Granting that these varying conditions may be appa-
rent, do they yet form any objection against magnetism ?
Is it not constantly the case, that the effect of remedies is
influenced by the state of the constitution at the time ?
Is not the same absolute temperature cold at one period
of the year, and hot at another? Does not opium in-
crease the irritability of one, while it diminishes the
excitability of another ? Does it not produce sleep with
one, and unconquerable wakefulness with another ? Do
not precisely the same mental emotions quicken the cir-
culation and the respiration of one, while with another
they drive back the sluggish blood to its citadel the
heart, which has great difficulty in relieving itself from
the oppression ? Is not the nervous system of one
excited, of another depressed, by the same mental
and physical agents ? Is not one cheered and calmed,
another agitated and depressed, by green tea ? Is
not one dismayed and rendered powerless by difficul-
ties which are absolutely necessary to arouse another to
energetic exertion ? Does not every medical man find,
that the agency of his remedies is altered by constitution,
and even by variations of the same constitution at different
periods of life, or under changed circumstances? And
why then are we to ask for uniformity in the effects of
magnetism, when we do not find it any where besides in
nature's ample boundaries ; and especially when it is
allowed on all hands, that agents upon the nervous system,
are less within our power of observation,—and are more
subjected to variations, and are less within the scope of
our knowledge, than any other influence ?
50 MODE OF REASONING ADOPTED
But this does not forbid our researches, though it may
render them more difficult. In attempting to classify the
results which may come before us, it is obvious that we
should endeavor to select those cases, which possess the
greatest amount of affinity. Now the points on which
these cases all agree may be obvious, and our task is then
easy: —but they may be the very opposite,—they may be
denied by some and affirmed by others, and then our
task becomes exceedingly difficult, to trace out and define
the properties or circumstances in which they all agree,
from others in which there may be great variety of approxi-
mation to this agreement, —or from those in which they
absol utely and widely differ.
In conducting this process, such is the imperfection
of the human mind, and such its love for anticipation,
that the inquirer is almost sure of fixing beforehand upon
some one point of fancied agreement, and setting out
upon the investigation of the cases, with this prejudice in
his mind : the effect will obviously be, that the direction of
his search receives its bias from this one phenomenon ;
that he no longer looks at the whole of the circumstances,
but searches after this phantom of his own creation,
and seeks to make the phenomena bend to his precon-
ceived opinions, and thence comes the disposition to
hasty conclusions,—to generalization upon insufficient
data,—and to hazardous inferences from the supposed
known (the true offspring of prejudice) to the really un-
known. It cannot but be seen at once, how injuriously
this must operate upon any attempt to extend the boun-
daries of knowledge, because it takes up a conjectural
position within them, and from this point, seeks to draw
inferences for circumstances, and events, and properties,
and influences, which are far removed beyond those boun-
daries.
IN TREATING THIS SUBJECT. 51
It is true, that so great is the uniformity of nature's
operations, as to create a strong tendency, and a most
fascinating temptation to believe, that the truths actually
before us, may represent the shadows or images of truths
completely hidden from our view; and therefore an
almost irresistible leaning to draw inferences from agen-
cies before our eyes, to those which are beyond the reach
of sensible experience. Admitting this temptation how-
ever, we must ask if we are quite sure, that we are really
acquainted with the causes of the phenomena before us?
and even if we can answer this question in the affirma-
tive, are we quite sure, that we are so acquainted with
the unknown properties and circumstances, as that we
shall be enabled to detect their coincidences,—their analo-
gies,—their differences,—their varieties,—and their degree
of uniformity 1
But if not, how dare we venture upon conclusions, with-
out a more extended acquaintance with the source of the
phenomena before us ? The inability to do so, in no
degree diminishes our conviction, that some real analogy
does exist, though we may have failed to discover it,—
and that generally, from our too great precipitancy ;—it is
a proof only of the feebleness of our own powers,—or of
the mis-direction of our researches :—the certainty that
there is a right path, is not diminished by our having
taken a torong one ;—and our own perplexity arising from
the dense fog which obscures us, only adds to our anxiety
to trace out that right path :—the only effect upon a truly
philosophic mind will be to excite a more diligent search
after those characteristic circumstances, which may indi-
cate the real points of comparison, and from which, by
the guidance of analogy, we may securely reason from the
known to the unknown.
52 MODE OF REASONING ADOPTED
While, however, we claim for the present reasoning, that
it is of an inductive character, we are bound to admit,
that writers on this subject, have frequently forgotten the
sober paths of investigation, and have occasionally diverged
into speculations of the most extravagant character, which
they have sought to obtrude upon the credulity of man-
kind, as genuine magnetic histories and theories. Yet, in
what branch of physiological, and especially of psycholo-
gical learning, shall we find the absence of similar vaga-
ries, the production of enthusiastic imaginations, unsub-
dued by the modesty, uncharacterized by the caution, and
untempered by the judgment of true Science.
The present inquiry, however, is not limited to the bare
investigation of facts, as if it were incapable of rising
above that sphere of knowledge, which is distinctly within
the reach of the senses : —for it is manifest, that the study
of the causes which precede and produce the physical
phenomena, involves also the highest degree of abstrac-
tion, and the exercise of intellectual associations, the
most widely remote from the evidence of sense : —and
requires a great degree of tact to discover, and of sober
judgment to combine, so as to form a ground-work for
safe induction.
This principle which is common to all unexplored
sciences, except to those of the exact character, is more
particularly operative in researches on magnetism, because
of the apparently capricious nature of results, which, ac-
cording to our preconceived views, ought to be uniform ;
—and because of the uncertainty of their reproduction,
arising it may be, from our ignorance of the little circum-
stances which may interrupt the harmony of the sequences.
And yet, events apparently anomalous, and seeming like
absolute interruptions of the uniformity of Nature' may
IN TREATING THE SUBJECT. 53
be so only, because of the obliquity which has been given
them by passing through our imperfect organs,—or be-
cause we have not yet reached a sufficiently extended view
of the entire system to which these apparently disjointed
facts are really attached as essential and harmonious, and
indispensable adjuncts.
We freely admit, and we deplore deeply, that the powers
of the human mind are limited ; —and that in nature,
there will ever remain mysteries unsolved, which will
baffle the diligence of the best-directed inquiry : —but we
contend, that such admission is not to operate as a barrier
against, but as a stimulus to, further investigation; that
it by no means assumes that we have reached the ultimate
point of research ; —and still further, that we have no
right to affirm that we have ever reached that point,
because that which is impossible to ourselves, may be
possible to others ; —and even that which is to-day imprac-
ticable to any effort of human Genius, or human industry,.
may be practicable to-morrow,—either from a renewed or
increased effort,—or from new rays of light having broken
in upon us, by accident or association.
It is for the indolent, the prejudiced, and the narrow-
minded only, to assume, that they have ever reached the
boundary of knowledge ; —the man of science and research
on the other hand, while he laments the feebleness of his
intellect and the frequency of his failure, will recollect
that nature has conferred no knowledge on her votaries,
without much labour,—and he will be stimulated by mis-
carriage to greater efforts. It is the province of self-satis-
fied ignorance alone, to enshrine itself within its present
pale, and to reject any new doctrine, simply because it is
new, and distasteful to the great thoughtless mass which
moves around us ; —and that simply, because it requires
54 MODE OP REASONING ADOPTED, ETC.
attentive consideration,—and perhaps even the surrender
of long established and deeply and fondly cherished opi-
nions.
It has been said that too curious inquiries into the
secrets of nature, are impious, and a direct interference
with the agency of Providence, and of the Great First
Cause. If such were really true, we would drop our in-
quiries at once,—be humbly, be rejoicingly content with
the limits placed by Divine power to our researches,—and
profoundly admire that wisdom, which has given -such an
amount of intellectual power to man, as to enable him to
extend his researches to the present state of his know-
ledge and no further. But inasmuch as the natural
history of man proves incontestably, that he is created for
successive intellectual developments ; —and inasmuch as
the highest rewards are promised to those who have best
employed their talents to the glory of God : and further,
as the investigation and discovery of second causes, only
carries us one step backward in the obscure history of
causation, and still always leaves beyond it, a Great First
Cause;—and still further, as the glory of Divine Provi-
dence is shown fully as much in sustaining, in their pro-
per order and method, the successive links in the chain of
Causation,—so far from our inquiries being impious, the
further we can extend our knowledge of second causes
;
the more we can enlarge the circle of physical agency, the
more thoroughly do we establish and acknowledge the
Divine sovereignty ;
—and the more do we discover in
every physical agent, the simple but efficient traces of
His delegated authority.
55
CHAPTER IV.
GENERAL REMARKS.
Many years have rolled away, since my attention was
first directed to the subject of Human Magnetism, by a
highly valued clergyman then resident in my own neigh-
bourhood, who with much secrecy and many a caution,
placed in my hands a little treatise which had been given
him by an emigrant priest together with some MSS.
details of his own experiments on two clairvoyant patients.
I read these papers with interest, but under the influ-
ence of prejudice,—a prejudice fostered by my valued
friend's caution, and evident belief that these truths could
not be intrusted to ordinary hands without fear;—and I
satisfied my own ignorance, by assuming that lie had been
deceived ; for intentionally to deceive others, was to his
mind utterly impossible.
And to this very hour, I ask myself, why this caution,
—this secrecy,—this nervous apprehension of inquiry
into a subject, which if true, involves a very curious
branch of natural history,—a development of psycholo-
gical phenomena which nought else can give,—and a
therapeutic agent of no common power, under circum-
stances where other medicinal remedies have failed ; —and
which if untrue, requires thorough investigation, that its
56 GENERAL REMARKS.
fallacies may be proved, and its worthlessness exposed,—
and its pretensions cast aside for ever.
Even supposing that it may be misapplied, and abused ;
yet to become acquainted with its power, is to furnish the
means of protection against its mischievous agency ;
and
to study its claims as a science, is to place it in the hands
of scientific and good men, who will cultivate the power
for the benefit of their fellow creatures,—will gradually
define its limits and its laws,— and ultimately furnish
those restrictions for its employment, which shall preserve
it within the circle of the wise and good. But it will
be observed, that this proceeds upon the supposition of its
being studied as a science, and as a branch of the healing
art,—and not for the purpose of exhibition, or amusement)
or gainful experiment.
Human magnetism has been aspersed, as the enemy of
religion,—the offspring of impiety,—and the decided op-
ponent of medicine.—So far from there being any truth
in these positions, its unperverted tendency is to establish
and confirm both, by enlarging the bases on which they
rest, and consolidating their united resources in the relief
of suffering humanity. In carrying out these views, how-
ever, we are immediately met by this difficulty,—that
having fully been considered as an error by some, and
as an imposture by others, the mind is unprepared to re.
ceive its doctrines as true, and it becomes very difficult to
exhibit its genuine aspect.
Doubtless it behooves those who deny magnetism as a
fact, and disbelieve its doctrines, to investigate in order
that they may become acquainted with the former and the
latter, before they venture upon continuing their scepti-
cism, or to range themselves with those who deny what-
ever goes beyond the limits of their knowledge. If they
GENERAL REMARKS. 57
will do so ; —if they will examine the recorded evidence ;
—if they will take the trouble to scrutinize the alleged
facts—to sift the sincere from the simulated—and to esti-
mate the mass of truth which remains unscathed, after the
most searching investigation, we predict their adhesion to
the doctrines of magnetism.
But if they will not inquire ; —if they determine upon
shutting themselves up within the circle of their own pre-
judices and passions;—even then, we will not despair,
but we will earnestly strive to bring before them such
glimpses of reality as may perchance awaken iome slum-
bering sparks of the love of truth in their bosom, and
gently lead them back to the employment of their reason-
ing powers.
It has been said that the collision of public opinion
discovers truth,—and there may be truth in this remark as
an ultimate result, but it is often a very long and devious
course which it previously pursues ; —it is often long be-
fore the storms of passion are hushed, and the clouds of
prejudice are rolled away, and the clear shining of the
sun of truth proclaims the day of unclouded intelligence.
For when a great question agitates the public mind, it is
not easy to procure for it an impartial examination ; and
the philosopher even, finds it difficult to escape from the
trammels of prejudice which surround and enchain him ;
and should he himself be able to preserve the necessary
unclouded vision, it will be almost impossible to secure the
attention of impartial judgment in others.
Fully persuaded, however, that the records of magne-
tism contain an array of proof which no candid mind can
refuse to admit ;
—and that even the writings of antago-
nists indirectly support this proof, I am only anxious that
3
58 GENERAL REMARKS.
each fact, and each doctrine may be thoroughly weighed,
and estimated as it deserves.
There is an acknowledged difficulty in the onward pro-
gress of magnetism on account of its having been asso-
ciated with untruth,—and with so much error, folly, and
enthusiasm ; inasmuch as absolute truths, which have for
a time been opposed, because of their being thus encum-
bered, become more difficult of reception than those which
have been previously altogether unknown. It is easy to
see that in the first case, the pursuit is one of discooery
where the mind is open to receive impressions and the
knowledge to be derived from them ; and that in the
other, it is a warfare, at the outset of which the, mind is
bristled in opposition,—expecting to meet at every turn
an enemy,—and that the fairest appearances may serve
to decoy the unwary, into some impassable defile or some
carefully concealed ambuscade, or some destructive mine
ready to explode beneath the feet.
Thus the cause of magnetism has been prejudiced by
those early histories, in which real phenomena were said
to have been accompanied by so many incredible circum-
stances,—and were assumed to depend upon principles so
opposed to the established laws of science, that the unreal
and adventitious adjuncts only were remembered,—the
sober realities were forgotten, and men of learning with-
drew from the study, under a nervous apprehension, that
their reputation would be compromised, and that they
would be confounded with the phantoms thus created.
Then again, in some instances, the sick were reported
cured when they were not cured ; others described them-
selves as cured, who had never had any thing but ima-
ginary malady ; —and some magnetisers promised effects
which they could not produce, and then asserted that they
GENERAL REMARKS. 59
had been produced,—perhaps sometimes with the intention
of deceiving others,—oftener, however, they themselves
being deceived, and led away by the ardor and enthusiasm
of the moment. All these things threw discredit on the
pursuit ; it was asserted, that the cures, if established,
were no proof that they were consequent upon the treat-
ment : and the public seeing only various extraordinary
phenomena, thought and spake of them alone,—and alto-
gether forgot the primary—the really exclusive object of
magnetism, viz., the relief of malady.
But the curative object of magnetism being forgotten,
there arose perhaps very naturally this inference, that since
no good was to be effected by these very extraordinary
processes, they could only be put forward with some sinister
design, and then the shortest method for disposing of the
question, was to represent the whole as a system of fraud.
Yet the supposition, that magnetisers as a body have had
the intention to deceive, is so utterly at variance with all
probability, that it need not be seriously contradicted.
The only support which can be obtained for such a sup-
position^ to be found in some scantily-furnished negative
truths. It is, however, always to be recollected, that a
great number of negative proofs are insufficient to destroy
or even to undermine one well-established positive fact I
In reality, magnetism in its origin, is guiltless of any
moral injury to society ; its only evil has been that of
slightly deranging the tendency of the age, whose great
leaning has been towards materialism ; and of interfering
with the pretensions of some selfish pseudo-philosophers
who claimed to have reached the utmost boundaries of
science, and therefore could not tolerate the supposed
existence of valuable knowledge beyond their own acquire-
ments. We have cautiously restricted this to magnetism
60 GENERAL REMARKS.
in its origin, and we have not included the extravagances
of enthusiastic men, or the excrescences which have been
grafted upon, and confounded with it.
Among the iinpugners of magnetic agency, there are
those who assert that nothing exists which is not cog-
nizable to the senses, which cannot be tasted, touched,
seen, heard, or felt, and therefore sagely conclude that
magnetism cannot exist because they have never seen,
nor heard, nor tasted, nor touched, nor felt it ; as if this
were not the veriest piece of illogical sophistry ; as if
there were not many physical and vital agents, whose
presence could not be told by the senses immediately,—
but only mediately through their effects ; as if the pre-
sence and action of the nervous influence in the simplest
act of volition, could be demonstrated to the senses,—as
if the weight of the atmosphere had been ever proven ex-
cept by its effects, which no one sense can perceive, and
yet of which, all experience at the same time proves the
existence.
While we regret that such arguments have ever been
employed, Ave do not object against the opponents of mag-
netism, provided they will carry on their warfare in a
philosophic manner, and without the use of unhallowed
weapons. So far from it, we consider it as indispensable
to listen to, and to weigh well the opinions of those who
have contended against magnetism, before admitting
the principles and the proofs, the truth of which they
have been unable to shake. We should indeed wander
far from the truth if we blindly trusted to its defenders ;
but we venture to affirm, that he who will peruse without
prejudice all which has been written on this subject, re-
jecting whatever is manifestly untrue or doubtful, or ex-
travagant, will inevitably be convinced of its power to
relieve many and to cure some maladies.
GENERAL REMARKS. 61
We restrict this estimate of the worth of the opponents
of magnetism to its sincere and honest adversaries ; and
we exclude from such estimate, all those whose general
conduct has been to treat the theory of magnetism as ab-
surd, —to refuse to examine the facts and testimony upon
which it is founded,—and to brand its disciples as dupes
and impostors. There is no argument,—no sincerity in
this process, though the astonishing influence of self-love
has blinded their eyes as to the real motives of their con-
duct ; and its palpable injustice has probably been con-
cealed from themselves by that meteor light of ridicule
which they have called up for the purpose of extinguishing,
or at least silencing its sincere believers. Few can bear
up against its withering influence ; they cower in appre-
hension from its fearful glare ; and fewer still can dare
to avow their belief in the thing thus ridiculed.
Many observers may agree upon the facts submitted to
their notice ; but when inferences are to be drawn from
these facts, they will widely differ, because each one rea-
sons according to his peculiar style of temperament
—
according to his early opinions—his prejudices—his
habits—his hopes—his fears—his associations—and his
natural calibre of mind.
Perhaps nothing in recent history will better exemplify
this position, than the cures said to have been effected
at the tomb of the Diacre Paris, or the Convulsionnaires
of St. Medard ; the facts were generally admitted—but
the mode by which they were accomplished, occasioned
a great difference of opinion,—one class of persons con-
tending for them as miraculous,—another placing them
to the score of a heated imagination ; —one giving them
a religious, and another a diabolical origin, together with
every intermediate shade of opinion.
62 GENERAL REMARKS.
It may be very probable that these cures would not
have been obtained in so short a time by the ordinary
methods of treatment ;
yet there is no proof that the
disease had overstepped the resources of nature and ac-
knowledged art ; so that there is no room for supposing the
necessity for supernatural agency. And at this distance
of time, when the heat of controversy is passed, there is
no longer any question about its being miraculous. In
all these instances, we shall find proofs of a lively faith
and strong confidence, in those who recommended, and
in those who employed this treatment. These are essen-
tials also in the magnetic cures;—and if we admit the
reality of the existence of magnetism, what has been put
forth as an objection, will actually become an argument
in its support : it will be not unfairly surmised, that the
similar phenomena, are due to a similar agent ; and this
will be still further confirmed, by comparing the means
employed, and the effects produced in both cases.
Wise men, therefore, ought not to stand aloof from
verifying phenomena, which do not contradict any known
law of nature, and only suppose an extension of those
laws, or the development of an interior seuse, of which the
nerves are the organ. Alas ! how different has been their
ordinary conduct !
—they have first rejected an opinion as
absurd, and then they have refused to investigate its
claims because of this prejudiced rejection.
The redoubted, because the most philosophic champion
of magnetism, Deleuze, tells us that he has been con-
sidered as too cautious ; nor does he regret this caution
—
for although admitting and believing in the existence of
the higher and more extraordinary phenomena, he is
quite careless as to their reception or rejection by others ;
and is very anxious that they should not be curiously
GENERAL REMARKS. 63
sought after : he is desirous to divest magnetisers of their
imaginative flights, and of their love of the marvellous ;
to define the limits of magnetism as a science of observa-
tion and experiment ; and to limit these within the boun-
daries of nature's own agencies,—to second her efforts,
—to listen to her still small voice, while she unfolds her
own workings ; and then deeply and candidly to reflect
on her works.
It is important that magnetism should be investigated
as other sciences ; that acknowledging the existence of the
agent, the modes of its action should be ascertained,
—
and that the inquiry should be conducted by men whose
scientific habits will enable them to collect—to weigh
—
to discuss—to estimate,—to discriminate testimony, and
to adopt or reject it, according to its intrinsic merits. It
is, however, to be remembered, that even here is a con-
cealed evil which must be guarded against. While scien-
tific men are generally considered to be free from vulgar
prejudice, it is a fact that they are liable, in no small
degree, to a class of prejudices peculiarly their own, and
marked where they do exist, by an intensity and perti-
nacity which are wanting in feebler and inferior minds.
—
Prejudice in the vulgar and uneducated, or partially
educated, commonly assumes the form of all-devouring
and immeasurable belief,—and a yielding up of them-
selves to the influence of feeling. With the learned, on
the contrary, the very antipodes to the former class, pre-
judice assumes the shape of scepticism,—a doubt as to
every thing which is not proven to demonstration,—or
which appeals in any way directly, or indirectly, to the
voice of feeling or passion, or to the influence of imagina-
tion ; it is reason alone which is to be attended to,—and
an amount of proof is asked for, which is incompatible
64 GENERAL REMARKS.
with the imperfect state of our knowledge, and faculties ;
of our acquired stores of wisdom, and of our powers for
further acquisitions.
It is one of the prejudices of great minds (for great
minds are quite compatible with many littlenesses) to
dislike novelty, because it is new,—and that perhaps
precisely in the same proportion as this characteristic is
attractive to little minds: and therefore since the pheno-
mena of produced and lucid somnambulism are rare, they
ln.Vi! been invested with more than usual doubt. Hence,
the very great importance, in order to arrive at clear re-
sults, to distinguish between the two, from the beginning,
and not to confound magnetism, whose existence is shown
by incontestable proofs, with somnambulism, whose fea-
tures are of a more questionable and protean character,
and is a state oftentimes independent of, but occasionally
developed by, magnetism.
The truth is, that in tracing the history of the relation of
facts to their causes, and between themselves, observers
have often been mistaken, in their degree and mode of
relation, either from their being mere reasoners, and from
their determination to reason before they inquired, or that
they had not the required amount of knowledge, to enable
them to judge accurately ; —or that they were carried away
by their feelings.
In order to avoid all these errors, it is necessary first
to aim after impartiality,—to scrutinize the narrative of
facts,—to test what is doubtful,—to separate the true from
the false,—and to endeavor to arrange the residual pro-
duct under some known physiological laws,—always ta-
king care not to confound the cause and the effect as one,—
and thus to argue in a very limited, but never-ending cir-
cle of truism. The facts should be compared with other
GENERAL REMARKS. Oo
facts, —judged of, and reasoned upon ; but the reasonings
must not precede the careful record and observation of
facts.
It may be asked, perhaps, what is a fact ? This ques-
tion will be answered by the ignorant, as every thing which
their credulity can believe ; and by the learned, it will be
defined to be any thing within the limit of their jjrevious
knowledge. Both answers are fatal to improvement; yet
there is more hope that the ignorance of the vulgar may
be cleared away, than that the intolerance of the learned
should be healed ; the former may perchance be accessi-
ble to instruction, but the learned invest themselves with
the supercilious panoply of their own pride, and despise
and condemn every thing beyond the reach of their ordi-
nary views.
There is one other guide, which should be invoked in
the pursuit of magnetic truth, even a spirit of piety and
benevolence. For as the faculty of magnetising, or of
doing good to our fellow creatures by the influence of the
will, and by the communication of the principle of life
•
and health to those who need them,—is essentially a gift
of God to man, this employment of magnetism should be
considered as a religious duty, which requires to be under-
taken with consideration and reflection—with an inherent
purity of intention,—with a desire to serve God and to
benefit those who bear his image.
Hence it follows, that it is a kind of profanation to
magnetise for amusement,—or for curiosity,—or from the
desire of exhibiting astounding results. Hence the im-
portance or restricting its employment to medical men,
and of thus obtaining a guarantee against such errors ;
—
and an assurance that they will know sufficiently, how to
respect themselves, their art, their patient,—to preserve
3*
66 GENERAL REMARKS,
their own dignity,—and to resist every attempt to deviate
from the straight path of usefulness and henevolence.
Hence also, it follows, that it is useless and mischievous
to magnetise individuals in good health, because first, it
is employing a remedy where none is required ; —because
it may in such cases disturb the balance of health ; —and
because it is an experiment without a good object, and as
such is not to be encouraged.
If we wish only to arrive at truth, we shall willingly
adopt this restriction, and bring to the investigation, a
deep conviction of its importance : we shall not come with
predetermined opinions, and an imagination armed at all
points against the reception of evidence ; but we shall
earnestly wish, that the philosophical inquiry, shall be
carried on in the candid spirit of philosophy, and with the
desire of receiving truth, from whatever source it may be
derived.
Again, it is quite possible to oppose as well as to favour
the discovery of magnetic truth, and in order to secure
the latter effect, it is necessary that the parties concerned
in the investigation, should stand in such mutual relation-
ship—not as being each engaged in a curious but ridicu-
lous pastime ;
—but as the magnetiser ardently desirous
of relieving suffering,—and as the magnetised equally de-
sirous of being relieved.
It is, however, the part of puling credulity alone, to
believe every thing which may seem to be, even under such
favourable circumstances : —and it is the part of half-in-
formed scepticism to deny apparent facts, when we are
so ignorant of the resources of nature,—and when she has
so many ways, to us perfectly unknown, in which may
be concealed the truth, for which we are professing to
inquire.
GENERAL REMARKS. 67
To escape from this ignorance on the one hand and pre-
sumption on the other, it is right to withhold our opinion
till we have dispassionately inquired into the facts and
circumstances, as well as into the reasonings upon them,
of those who have preceded us : —and until we have done
so, though we may prudently array ourselves in scientific
doubt,—we shall, if guided by the same principle, take
care to avoid that amount of incredulity, which though it
be productive of less injury to science, than its antagonist
principle of a too easy belief in the marvellous, is still so
serious an error, as to demand our utmost care to escape
from its entangling meshes. The result of the judicious
balancing of these principles, will be the development and
establishment of general laws, which can only be drawn
from the observation and accumulation offsets, sufficiently
numerous, and adequately observed.
But it will be said by an objector, that to believe in
an extraordinary fact at once, is only the part of weakness
and enthusiasm ; —that in proportion as a fact is extraor-
dinary, so will be the probability of error, or falsehood
on the part of the witness ; that a greater amount of tes-
timony is required to substantiate a suspension of Nature's
laws, or any extraordinary development of her previously
unknown resources ; moreover, the very things which add
to the strength of belief in unenlightened minds, are pre-
cisely those which detract from it in the minds of the well
informed,—the one being greedy after the marvellous, the
other always suspicious of its reality ; —and that therefore
it is impossible to sacrifice our common sense, and the
general report of ages, at the gratuitous bidding of a few
magnetisers.
We rejoice to reply to an objection thus candidly stated.
We admit that the exhibition of too easy credence, is the
68 GENERAL REMARKS.
mark of an enthusiastic and a feeble mind,—but we fear-
lessly assert, that obstinate unbelief without examination
is the evidence of an unsound mind. We have before
shown, that such is the character of the witnesses as to
the facts, and such their agreeing testimony, as to render
error to the last degree improbable, and falsehood impos-
sible ;—we have shown, that an over-abundant array of
testimony in favor of the facts of magnetism, cau be
found,—even if these facts were miraculous, and involved
a suspension of the laws of Nature : —but we have still
further shown, and shall hereafter more distinctly prove,
that they do not involve such deviation or suspension ; but
that on the contrary the facts are deeply laid in the hidden
things of Nature,—that they are recorded as natural and
spontaneous products, and newly exist in the shape of
magnetic facts, only as the development at will of their
hidden resources, with the laws of which we are still igno-
rant. Moreover, we contend that the facts are not mira-
culous, though at present they may be inexplicable : —and
finally, we do not ask of any one the sacrifice of common
sense, but only the adaptation of that common sense, with-
out prejudice or prevention to the sober investigation of
the facts.
Tn the practical inquiry into these facts, it is not suffi-
cient to employ the magnetic processes : —for as the results
may be nothing, or useful, or hurtful according to the
individuals operated upon, or according to those conduct-
ing these processes, and according to other circumstances
and things, which cannot always be foreseen, because our
acquaintance with the physiology of the nervous system is
yet in its infancy, it is quite clear that the inquiry should
be directed exclusively to legitimate objects on the one
hand, and to those experimenters on the other, who have
GENERAL REMARKS. 69
the judgment to discriminate, and the probity which will
enable them to be firm to principle. Such sincere investi-
gators will always be rewarded for patient attention ;
but
the curious spectator, will never be convinced by the exhi-
bition of phenomena, which contradict his preconceived
opinions :—and even the philosopher " convinced against
his will," remains " of the same opinion still."
There is no good, without its corresponding evil; and
the characteristic of the age in which we have rejoiced,
and do rejoice, viz. that of seeking after facts, has also
tended to limit our researches after knowledge,—and an
enlarged acquaintance with the boundaries of scientific
truth." For these facts as they are called, are really the
effects of some one or more concurring cause ; —and the
minds of men which have discovered phenomena, the
cause and nature of which extended beyond the boundary
of their former notions, have been too frequently satisfied
with throwing them aside as unworthy of further investi-
gation, or as having already reached the utmost bounds
of knowledge. And yet however much this might be
allowed of phenomena, with which we presume to be suf-
ficiently acquainted, it is to the last degree unphilosophi-
cal and intolerable with regard to those of which we are
confessedly more or less ignorant.
As yet with respect to magnetism, there is much to
learn ;—and it presents so many apparent anomalies,
whose causation seems to be entirely beyond the reach of
any of the known laws of nature, that they who have
studied it most assiduously, are still not safe from the ap-
prehension of mistake. Nor is this wonderful :
nor does
it derogate one atom from the character of the pursuit, or
of those who investigate.
Medical men, above all others, should be the last to
70 GENERAL REMARKS.
avail themselves of this undefined and uncertain state of
things ; —for let them fall back upon their own peculiar
science, and let them say, if they can explain all the facts
which present themselves to their notice. In truth, we
must be thoroughly acquainted with all the mysteries of
creation, before we can dare to pronounce on the possi-
bility of one fact, and the impossibility of another ;
—we
cannot even generally trace the causation between an
organ and its function, although we may presume to be
tolerably well acquainted with both : —and even if we were
able to do so, with regard to one organ and function, we
should have no means of judging, how far, under other
circumstances, these may have some direct or relative in-
fluence upon some other organ or function in its sound
or morbid condition. How then shall they unblushingly
ask for a greater amount of certainty in the sequences, and
of perfection in our acquaintance with the comparatively
unexplored phenomena of magnetism 1
No wonder therefore that the converts to magnetism are
among those who have tvitnessed its power, while its most
virulent opponents are those who have never seen its
effects, who have obstinately refused to investigate them,
and as obstinately denied their truth because they were
unable to explain them. This proceeding involves to the
thinking mind, a truly humiliating consideration,—first,
as it manifests the limitation of intellectual power,—and
next, as it too loudly proclaims the perversion of the
moral sense,—and as such, exhibits the grievously wasting
effects, which have been wrought upon God's work, and
upon that which lie pronounced to be very good.
One thing is certain, that when different persons, at
different times, and in distant places, have arrived at the
same results—and these results are supported by natural
GENERAL REMARKS. 71
analogies, that there must be some truth in these novel
doctrines,—some things positive and intangible, notwith-
standing the mass of error with which they are associated,
may be so considerable, as to render it difficult to distin-
guish truth from falsehood, especially if the investigation
be abandoned by the wise, and prudent, and well-inform-
ed,—and be left to the ignorant, the prejudiced, and the
unthinking.
Thus in days which are passed, and especially during
the middle ages, miracles (so called) were of frequent
occurrence, which might easily be accounted for on natu-
ral principles. Now, we no longer speak of miracles ;
but if any thing extraordinary occurs, we seek to examine
first the truth of the facts stated,—and then proceed to
explain if we can, the peculiarity of the attendant circum-
stances.
Notwithstanding the progress of medicine, and its de-
pendent sciences of late years, none can deny, how utterly
powerless are our remedies against a multitude of disor-
ders, especially against those which affect nervous struc-
ture and function ; and for this best possible reason, that
our acquaintance with both is so limited, so undefined,
and so uncertain, that we are unable to form any thing
like rational indications, for the relief of their disordered
conditions. The knowledge of a disease is more than
half its cure ;—but if we have almost no knowledge, it is
certain that our power of administering relief will be very
limited.
Yet the highest object of medicine, is to cure : —and if
under such circumstances of acknowledged failure, any
new remedy can be proposed, we should not disavow its
assumed curative agency, and its consequent assistance in
prosecuting this object, till we have proved its faithless-
72 GENERAL REMARKS.
ness, merely because we are unacquainted with its modus
operandi upon that very structure and function, with whose
primal condition we are ignorant. Nor is there any rea-
son, why we should refuse to investigate, because among
the facts alleged by magnetisers, there are those which
exceed the possibility of belief, among many others which
are undoubted and undeniable : that error may be mixed
with truth is a grand motive for inquiry, but no palliation
of unbelief.
Laying aside, therefore, all these subtleties and follies,
let us betake ourselves in the future stages of investigation,
to that prudence and wisdom, which when united to mo-
desty, and benevolence, and singleness of purpose, will
safely guide us through the darkest route ; let us learu
diffidence and caution from a remembrance of our igno-
rance: —let us be animated with gratitude to God, if he
has enabled us to obtain the means of affording relief;
let us be anxious to proclaim His power and not our own,
and our dependence upon Him, and upon His strength
and wisdom vouchsafed to us ; —and while we take upon
ourselves to interpret His laws, let us implore His blessing
upon our undertaking, and cordially ascribe unto Him, all
the Glory, Honor, and Praise.
•73
CHAPTER V.
ON THE OPPOSITION OF MEDICAL MEN GENERALLY TO THE
DOCTRINES OF MAGNETISM.
It is much to be lamented that medical men in general
have rejected the facts of magnetism without investigation,
and have absolutely repudiated its phenomena as impos-
sible, because they were contrary to established doctrines.
It is, however, unphilosophical to deny a fact, because it is
not supported by antecedent experience, especially when
it is countenanced by analogous facts to be found in na-
ture, although in what we presume to call without know-
ing why, an abnormal condition of her functions. Philo-
sophical doubt is a valuable safeguard to the explorer
;
but to refuse investigation,—to refuse to attempt to clear
up this doubt, is both dishonest and unjust.
And since magnetism in the hands of the ignorant or
the designing, may be so employed as to compromise the
health of individuals,—or the integrity and well-being of
the social compact, it is manifest that its practice should be
confined to medical men, because of the responsibility
of their position in society, and that unsullied character
is indispensable to their existence, and therefore affords
the best guarantee for its honourable employment. At
the same time, their science will insure its application to
74 ON THE OPPOSITION OP MEDICAL MEN
certain distinctive cases only, and not as a sovereign pana-
cea for every imaginable ill.
By such conduct medical men might destroy the hold
which is possessed upon the public mind by unprincipled
charlatans ; and in the end, doubt and eternally recur-
ring discussion might be dissipated : —but by rejecting
the injury, they draw upon themselves the merited re-
proach of having wilfully neglected the paths which lead
to the discovery of truth ; or of having omitted to follow
those paths, notwithstanding the consciousness of their
truthful tendencies.
Magnetism rests on a great number of real, or at the
least of probable facts : —but its adversaries have generally
avoided the real question, and have preferred wasting
their strength upon speculations as to the nature, rather
than as to the phenomena and effects of magnetic pro-
cesses. When, however, men of learning, of character, of
honour, of high probity, and professional standing ; —men
who have no interest to deceive, and every thing to lose
by dishonesty : when men of such character attest the
same facts from one end of Europe to the other,—when
they describe the same circumstances, and detail similar
phenomena, how is it possible to throw the light of wil-
ful doubt upon their assertions 1 how is it, that medical
men generally, do so tacitly asperse their own fraternity,
as they necessarily must do by refusing to inquire ? True
it is that a great surgeon once said in disparagement of
medical authority,
—
medical facts ! medical lies ! !
But John Hunter was not a man well calculated to form
a just estimate of professional testimony ; the doctrines he
propounded were not at first sight admitted,—and his
unhappily irascible temperament was easily ruffled and
irritated by opposition, audit was in one of these moments
TO THE DOCTRINES OF MAGNETISM. 75
that he uttered the bitter and unjust sarcasm above detailed.
But were it as true, as it is unquestionably an exaggera-
tion, it would not give to the medical men of the present
day, a locus penitential for their treatment of the question
of magnetism, since this also rests its truth on the testi-
mony of the simple-hearted, unlearned, unprejudiced,
and unsophisticated observer, as well as on the finer
drawn observations and reasonings of professional and
other learned persons.
It is then the paramount duty of the medical inquirer,
to allow nothing to escape his notice, which may add to
the perfection of his art, extend his means of relief, or
contribute to the solace of suffering humanity. Upon
this general principle we take our stand : —we assert, that
by many credible witnesses, magnetism is announced as
such a means, capable of producing, under some circum-
stances, the most beneficial results : —and granting for
one moment for the sake of argument, that all these wit-
nesses may have been deceived, and that the whole mis-
called science is a delusion, yet even this supposition does
not warrant our indifference or rejection ; because it may
be only that the facts have not been observed with suffi-
cient accuracy : —and the fact assumed, that many wit-
nesses have been deceived, affords the strongest evidence
that the circumstances observed, have, at least, so much
the semblance of truth, as accurately to represent its
features to many inquirers : and if so, what is it which
gives that resemblance ? Is it not most probable, that the
system thus observed does possess some, though possibly
exaggerated truth? In such a position, to search after
and to ascertain this modicum of truth, is the part of wis-
dom, and of honesty of purpose.
The forgetfulness of this great principle, has generally
76 ON THE OPPOSITION OF MEDICAL MEN, ETC.
led medical men to avow their disbelief of magnetism,
although they had not studied its phenomena ; and their
being highly esteemed as men of science, has not pre-
served them from falling into vulgar error : —and curiously
enough, has reduced them to present in their own persons
some of the higher phenomena of magnetism, while in
the very act of denouncing them, for they have fallen into
a state of waking slumber, and have become blind and
deaf, and inaccessible to the several subjects involved in
the inquiry.
This apathy—this cataleptic state of the intellect has
been most extraordinary, especially when contrasted with
the ordinary proceedings of medical men :
—under common
circumstances, they do not hesitate to employ the most
heroic experimental treatment,—and to administer poison
in every shape ; but they dare not conscientiously place
their hands upon their patient with the intention of curing
his maladies, and with a fervent and sincere desire to do
so.—And yet according to the father of medicine Hippo-
crates, nothing should be omitted in an art which in-
terests the whole world,—which may be beneficial to suf-
fering humanity—and which does not risk human life or
comfort.
/ /
CHAPTER VI.
OBJECTIONS TO, AND DIFFICULTIES IN, THE WAY OF
MAGNETISM.
It will be well to consider before we advance farther,
some of the difficulties, which have impeded the advance
of the doctrines of magnetism ; and among these we shall
notice first, that of making others share the conviction of
the reality of phenomena which they have not attended
to—which they have neither seen —nor followed—nor
studied. The facts are so extraordinary, as to be beyond
the reach of ordinary credence : and although we shall
presently show that they are not miraculous—yet it is
admitteu, that they are beyond the bounds of our present
knowledge, and therefore do not obtain that reception, to
which they are intrinsically entitled ; for if we reject every
thing which exceeds our present comprehension, we reject
many of the established facts of nature, and we put an
end at once, to every attempt at enlarging the boundaries
of knowledge. Admitting that the facts are extraordinary
we admit them as facts, and we are therefore bound to
investigate, in order that we may seek to advance science,
instead of extinguishing any effort to enlarge the bounda-
ries of knowledge.
The failure of experimenters to produce the required
phenomena upon certain occasions, when those pheno-
mena were to be produced before witnesses, has been
78 OBJECTIONS TO, AND DIFFICULTIES IN,
another obstacle to the progress of magnetism ;—but very
unjustly. All we ask is, that the same measure of justice
shall be dealt to magnetism, which has been afforded to
other scientific questions and pursuits. We are not in
the habit of denying the truth of the doctrines of elec-
tricity because of the failure of the lecturer to produce the
experiments in illustration and proof of those doctrines.
We all know that in a certain condition of the atmos-
phere, and in a crowded room, the air of which is ren-
J
dered damp by the respiration of the auditors, it is often
j
impossible to succeed :
—yet we do not deny the truth a
of the doctrine, or doubt the honesty and skill of the
lecturer.
Who is there, who has ever watched the workings of
his own consciousness, and has not discovered that at cer-
tain periods he has an aptitude for certain pursuits, he
knows not why, and at certain others, an inaptitude which
renders such pursuit fruitless and impossible, and yet for
this reason does he doubt his own capacity, or the honesty
of his purpose 1
What literary individual is there who has not occa-
sionally felt that in his choicest hours of inspiration
—
when all his energies were best attuned to the pursuit of
the object before him, there has been, despite his own
will, and in contravention of his own desires, some dis-
turbing idea developed as an involuntary point of con-
sciousness, and this disturbing cause has been so utterly
discordant, and alien from the previous object of his de-
lighted inquiry, as thoroughly to destroy the cohesion of
his thoughts, and utterly incapacitate him, for the time,
for further prosperous study.
Who is there who has looked back upon the history of
his own life—who has looked abroad into society—who
THE WAY OP MAGNETISM. 79
has philosophically reasoned upon its elements—or who
has watched the history of nations, and of the world, who
has not seen that his own best-digested plans and best-
calculated efforts have been rendered fruitless by the in-
tervention of discordant causes over which he had no
control : _who has not perceived that the best institutions
of society have been rendered nugatory—that the bonds
of the social compact have been weakened—that the
wealth, and the power, and the prosperity, and the peace
of nations have been subverted ; and that the happiness
and comfort, and worth of the whole family of man have
been annihilated by the agency of discordant principles
over which they had no efficient control? It is then a
principle in the very constitution of man's existence, that
there will every where be found the operation of discordant
and antagonizing agencies which will introduce discre-
pancy into his best calculated plans of agency :—and the
operation of this principle is universal.
Returning from this digression, we apply our principle
to magnetism. The inconstancy of its phenomena de-
pendent upon certain conditions of the nervous system,—
liable to be impaired or altered by causes far less than
those which render the atmosphere unfit for the success
of electrical experiments,—many of which we cannot
estimate, but some of which we can appreciate—and es-
pecially those which develop mental emotion,—is not sur-
prising ,—ought to have been expected in the nature of
things—and certainly ought not to be alleged as a real dif-
ficulty in the way of our belief in its truth.—There are
individuals whom it is impossible to magnetise, because
they want the required susceptibility,—]\is\. as there are
those who are not susceptible of infectious malady,—but
who though they may not be so to-day, may become so
80 OBJECTIONS TO, AND DIFFICULTIES IN,
to-morrow. There are individuals in whom a powerful will
will prevent magnetic agency ; and there are others who
may be magnetised despite this opposing will : —there
are individuals in whom fear, or anxiety, or desire, or the
effect of suspicion, or the accusation of imposture, will
prevent the success of magnetic experiments ; —there
are others who can be magnetised in private, but not
before a public company ; —and there are individuals in
whom some states of disorder may defeat the best-ar-
ranged experiments. Besides, the operator is not always
the same ; his nervous system is liable to change, and to
be operated upon by bodily and mental causes ; so that
with magnetiser, and magnetised, there are abundant in-
fluences, to render the results inconstant. And is not this
a characteristic of all that we know of the nervous system ?
and why therefore should we most unnaturally and un-
scientifically allege this want of uniformity as a proof of
decepton 1 It may be here remarked, as a general rule,
that the constitution with the highest order of intelligence
and in the best health, is the least susceptible of magnetic
influence,—while the feebler nervous systems, and those
in inferior health, are the most susceptible ; and this is
perfectly consistent with our supposition, that magnetism
is the medicine of nature, and consists in imparting the
exuberant life of the healthy, to relieve the feeble life of
the disordered :— while the strong and healthy not re-
quiring the agency of such medicine, are not susceptible
to its impression.
We should draw from this argument the conclusion,
that experiments in magnetism should never be conducted
for the sake of curiosity,—that they should never be car-
ried on before large companies,—and that they will be
most successful, when confined strictly to their legitimate
THE WAY OF MAGNETISM. 81
object—viz., the relief of disorder ; and when conducted
in the presence of the operator, the patient, and one friend,
who in the present state of our knowledge, but especially
in the present state of the science, as regards the obloquy
which has been cast upon it, should invariably be in at-
tendance.
If this direction were kept always in view, it would
greatly obviate another cause of the little progress of
magnetism, that is, a want of perseverance in sincere in-
quirers, who wish to convince themselves by personal
experiments, but who not succeeding at their first efforts,
abandon the whole, as having no foundation in truth.
But again how pusillanimous—how unphilosophical, is
it to be daunted by early failure from carrying on scientific
pursuits ! And we venture to believe that the cause would
not thus be abandoned by investigators, if they did not
compromise their character in public by continuing to
inquire patiently after an El Dorado non-entity :
—and if
the pursuit could be then quietly carried on, under the
shade of friendly privacy.
An extension of the same principle would operate bene-
ficially in another sense, upon an investigator, who is de-
terred from public inquiry, because the phenomena of
magnetism rest on unknown principles, and its manifes-
tations appear to be so eccentric from commonly received
ideas, that it requires a high degree of moral courage to
avow belief in effects which he may not be able to pro-
duce, and is then counted for a fool ;
—or which if he
succeed in producing, he is immediately characterised as
an impostor. This unhappy choice of character—knave
or fool, dependent upon the avowal of a belief in the truth
of certain effects absolutely before his eyes, is enough to
4
82 OBJECTIONS TO, AND DIFFICULTIES IN,
make him shrink from the avowal, and shut his eyes
rather than be convinced.
The fact that the greater number of magnetisers and
of magnetised are to be found among unscientific and
ignorant persons, whose appetite for belief is generally
in proportion to their profound absence of knowledge ;
and who have exhibited these characteristics by the ab-
surdity of their publications, and by their close alliance
with all kinds of quackery, has also formed a ground of
objection against magnetism. It will be easily seen how
naturally this arises from the foregoing considerations
;
while that portion of the objection which relates to the
magnetiser, will be immediately obviated, if scientific
men will only occupy a position, from which their refusal
to inquire, has been usurped by the ignorant and the de-
signing.
A very serious injury has been done to the cause of
magnetism, by inviting the attention to magnetic exhi-
bitions of persons, who are not previously possessed of
some principles to guide their inquiries, and to preserve
them from the suggestions of ignorance or the illusions
of prejudice, or perhaps also the deceptions of the wicked
and designing. This is merely to observe, without the
possibility of judging: —and an opinion is formed with-
out reason, which when once formed, is defended by self-
love,—and persevered in by habit,—and adopted as truth,
notwithstanding that it is in fact, the product of prejudice,
and erroneous conclusion.
These exhibitions which are thus false in principle be-
come even less satisfactory, from their frequent failure,
arising from various causes, as, for instauce, from the
close atmosphere,—from the blood being imperfectly oxy-
genated,—and the energy of the brain impaired, and
THE WAY OF MAGNETISM. 83
thought distracted,—and vitality exhausted ; added to
which will be the distracting agency of many witnesses
—
of unquiet—of noise—of lights—of expressed incredulity
and dissatisfaction,—of the confusion, and preoccupied
attention,—and many other easily understood evils.
We notice next, the evil arising, from the mixing up of
magnetic phenomena with supernatural agency,—and the
ascription of the miracles of Moses, of our blessed Lord,
and of his apostles, to the agency of magnetism. We
have already shown the folly of ascribing magnetism to
satanic agency : this is a grave departure from truth, on
the part of its enemies ; but it is far outweighed by the
grievous heresy of some of its pretended friends, in thus
confounding things human and divine, as if they had one
common origin.
It is difficult to say, whether we should rather pity the
ignorance, or abhor the wickedness and atheism, which
can alone account for this departure from philosophic
truth, and christian doctrine. That it is a departure from
philosophic truth, is shown by the absence of all analogy
between the objects so compared. The one is an inter-
ference with the laws of nature,—the other is a develop-
ment of those laws :
—
the one is the result of a divine, or a
divinely-commissioned agent,
—
the other, the consequence
of means (though ill understood) adequate to the effects
produced :
—
the one is instantaneous, the other gradual :
—
the one is exerted upon animal or spiritual laesions, or
absolute organic changes, over which the other has no
control, while the influence of the latter is confined to
functional disorder:
—
the one is accomplished simply by
the will without any material intervention,—"the other
only employing the will to set in action, and give energy
to the means employed : —in the one the cure is certain
84 OBJECTIONS TO, AND DIFFICULTIES IN,
and perfect,—in the other it is uncertain—often imperfect,
often not at all :—the one is marked by the exercise of
extraordinary Divine Power, while the other is the mere
product of animal nervous energy, directed to a particu-
lar object.
To confound causes and effects so diametrically op-
posite, as possessing one common origin, is so thoroughly
unphilosophical, that it can only be found, where the
mind has been perverted from the truth of the christian
religion, and left to wander in the darkness of infidelity.
For thus to account for the miracles of Christ is either
to deprive their author of his divine character, and to de-
grade Him to a mere human being practising magnetism :
—or it is to deprive the christian religion of the evidence
of miracles in favour of its truth ; —and in both cases to
give up the efficacy of Christ's sacrifice, as the Redeemer
of mankind
—
his authority as the moral Governor of the
universe,—and all hope of a blessed immortality : —in
fact, to reduce man to a mere animal, whose life is but a
vapour,—whose actions are dependent on his organization,
and whose responsibility and ultimate existence, are co-
eval only with his animal life.
Enough has been written to prove the folly and the
wickedness of these assertions ; —and it is only necessary to
add, that although they may have been made and held by
some magnetiscrs, yet that they are not the doctrines of
magnetism, and that these, as well as the facts which
support them, are not opposed to the belief of miracles,
because they have nothing in common ; while, on the
other hand, they afford the strongest possible argument
against pretended miracles of later days, by showing
that the facts which weretmce considered as miracles by
the unwise, were not such in reality, and that they were
THE WAY OP MAGNETISM. 85
only the result of the development of a natural faculty ;
—
since in all the effects produced there is nothing opposed
to nature's laws ; and thus sweep away by an effort all
the supports of enthusiasm and imposture.
On the question of imposture, we have already said
enough to show that the supposition, that magnetisers in
general have conspired to deceive, is perfectly untenable :
but it may be asked whether this reasoning is equally
applicable to the magnetised, and whether they may not
have been the impostors, and their magnetisers the dupes.
It is indeed true, that credulity is to he found at both
ends of the scale of intellect : but it is a little too great
an outrage upon common sense to suppose, that the
array of enemies which we have before mentioned,—men
accustomed to the detection of fallacy in every shape, and
whose lives in many instances have been devoted to de-
cyphering the subtleties of human invention, should all
have been deceived, should all have prostrated their in-
tellects at the feet of ignorant imposture.
It has been acknowledged that these phenomena have
been simulated, and the admission involves the power of
simulation ; but it by no means allows that the
practice of simulation has been general, or that the
phenomena which have been thus produced are identical
with the genuine phenomena of magnetism. As well
might it be said, that all the current coin of our realm
was counterfeit, because some few smashers lived upon
the proceeds of their iniquity. There would even then
be this difference in favour of magnetism, that while the
coiner courts the utmost obscurity of retirement, the
magnetiser asks for investigation, and submits the result
of his agency to the observation of the world.
It is true, that examples have been quoted, and doubt-
86 OBJECTIONS TO, AND DIFFICULTIES IN,
less exist, of persons who have designedly deceived : but
this does not even shake—much less invalidate the
truth of the solemn testimony of witnesses, who had no
interest to serve,—no object to gain in deceiving ; —of
hundreds and thousands, who had never heard and never
read of magnetism,—who knew nothing of its existence,
or of its phenomena,—of little children who were too young
to deceive, or to be instructed in deception ; —also of
many respectable men, with a character for uprightness,
and probity, and sincerity to support : of many mothers
of families, and of ladies old and young, upon whom the
viperous breath of calumny dare not light. Surely
against testimony of this description, no idea of collusion
can be entertained ; —and if by the greatest perversion of
common sense, it could be suggested for a moment, the
impossibility of collusion would be proved, by the calcu-
lation of probabilities to which we have before alluded.
This perhaps would be a convenient time for noticing
the assertion, which has ascribed magnetic phenomena to
the power of imitation. One can scarcely comprehend
how sober-minded persons can have advanced this ob-
jection, which is so easily answered by the fact, that mag-
netic effects are generally found best, and most perfect in
solitude, where the principle cannot operate ; —and that
the best practical magnetisers, under the direction of
their medical friends, will be always found in the several
relationships of the same family,—which again excludes
the assumed principle of imitation : —and still further,
that the effects being produced upon those who never
saw, or heard of magnetism, if they were the result of
imitation, it would follow that the individual imitates,
having no prototype to imitate, which is equal to saying,
that he does what is impossible to be done. To such a
THE WAY OF MAGNETISM. 87
state of wretched imbecility of casuistry are even wise
men led by tbe disastrous influence of prejudice—and the
excitement of controversy—and the desire of victory—
recti si possis, scd quocumquc moclo.
Again, it has been said, and that too by a medical op-
ponent, that magnetism ought not to be employed, be-
cause its very processes produce cerebral disease, closely
allied with catalepsy. Of what avail is this argument ?
The only question to be decided is, can it be employed
usefully;—and the answer to this question will be given
when we come to treat of its curative agency. But leav-
ing the practical decision of the question, let me ask this
medical casuist, if he is not in the constant habit of
employing counter-irritants, as a mode of relief, and
whether the principle upon which he does so, is not that
of substituting the agency of one analogous irritation,
which he has within his own command, to supersede a
more important irritation, which but for these means
might escape his control 1 Let me ask, whether the
greater number of his remedies do not produce effects
analogous with some other diseases ? Let me ask, if he
would refuse to vaccinate, because the disease produced
is analogous, if not identical, with small-pox, whose de-
structive agency it is intended to supersede 1 Let me
ask, if he would really sacrifice the lives of thousands a
year for the sake of supporting this medical subtlety ?
And still further let me ask him to take an example from
another class of remedies, and to say whether he would
refuse to employ opium because the effect produced was
analogous with sensorial torpor,—or simple congestion of
the brain—or still further with decided apoplexy, and
other forms of cerebral malady 1
It is willingly admitted—though this too has been
88 OBJECTIONS TO, AND DIFFICULTIES IN,
urged as an objection, that magnetism may aggravate
disorder if employed improperly, or under ckcumstances
which do not require its curative influence. But has an
objection been thus advanced against magnetism, which
is not equally applicable to every other remedy 1 Is there
any curative agency, which will not do harm, if employed
under the circumstances, which are distinctly opposed to
its beneficial influence, in which reason would expect it to
be useful 1 It is clear that this objection applies, not to
the remedy, but to the mode of its employment ;
—and
only shows the indispensable necessity of engaging medi-
cal tact and discrimination in order usefully to direct, and
apply the relief thus offered.
It is quite true, that magnetism may produce injury,
if continued too long, and the individual becomes
fatigued: the very natural consequence will be that of
irritability and feebleness, instead of tranquillity, and a
gradual restoration to health. Precisely in the same
way as if certain tonics are administered to a patient not
in a fit state to receive them, or in doses which are inap-
propriate, the invariable effect is to quicken action and
exhaust power—that is, to increase irritability, and aug-
ment feebleness. This would be more fatally experienced,
if the sole legitimate design of magnetism be lost sight of,
and the love of experiment, and the curious desire to
produce remarkable phenomena, supersede that only justi-
fiable design. Success will no longer attend the means ;
curiosity has been substituted for the higher motive ;
—
intellectual gratification has swallowed up in its omni-
vorous impulse, all benevolent purpose and moral devo-
tion ; and then nothing but evil can result from the too
great exhaustion of the patient's nervous system. This,
however, is not magnetism, but a monster and an evil
parasite grafted upon it.
THE WAY OP MAGNETISM. 89
Perhaps the present will he a suitable opportunity for
noticing the indirect testimony of Lafond Gouzi, whose
treatise was openly and professedly written against ani-
mal magnetism, but which is eminently characterised by
the assertion of falsehood, by the suppression of truth,
and by hypothetical and inconsequent reasoning upon
these fallacious data. The advocates and friends of
magnetism need desire no greater good than the multipli-
cation of such enemies.
We propose to consider the admissions of this writer,
which it must be confessed, are considerable, as, for in-
stance, first, that during certain states assumed to be
magnetic, the exercise of the senses is suspended,—that
there is talking during sleep,—that external objects are
recognized by unaccustomed and unheard of means,
—
that the patients become capable of exhibiting phenomena
which appear to be an exception to the general laws of
nature,—that they are insensible to pain,—that they see
and hear without the help of the ordinary senses ;
—that
they foresee futurity,—and that they are able to de-
scribe remedies for the treatment of their own maladies,
and for the maladies of those with whom they are
placed " en rapport.''''
As this is the first occasion on which we have used
this term, we wish to explain, that it is intended to express
the establishment of magnetic relationship betwen indivi-
duals ; and this relationship must be established, before
the phenomena can be developed, in the same way, as
there must be a connecting wire between an electrical
machine, and the body which is subjected to its influence,
or which is employed for the exhibition of the pheno-
mena.
Admission 2d.—Nevertheless, when the facts on both
4*
90 OBJECTIONS TO, AND DIFFICULTIES IN,
sides are coolly examined, and the disputes to which they
have given rise are duly weighed, it is impossible to dis-
semble the great variety of motives, which might prompt
us to wish for an extension of the inquiry ;—or to deny
the consistency and authority of some medical men, who
support, and even practice Animal magnetism.
Admission 8d.—The acknowledgment of his own per-
sonal knowledge of some remarkable palliations obtained
through repeated magnetisations, on certain nervous and
invalid patients, whom their medical friends had given
up as incurable : they were not cured—but they were
much improved.
Admission 4th.—A still greater wonder attested by
many examples, is the power of producing magnetic sleep,
—and of so deadening sensibility, as to admit of the per-
formance of surgical operations, without pain to, and
without the knowledge of, the patients.
Admission 5th.—The expression of regret, the Cuvier,
and La Place, and other similar men, should be found
among the favourers of magnetism.
Admission 6th.—It is allowed that similar phenomena
accompany natural somnambulism ; thus admitting that
real phenomena, previously known and acknowledged, do
actually result from animal magnetism.
And yet this so candid writer admitting the transpo-
sition of the senses,—the necessity for further inquiry,
—
the character of those who support magnetism,—its utility
as a palliative in many cases, where other means had
failed,—its applicability to the performance of surgical
operations without pain,—the value of extrinsic, learned,
and professional testimony in support of its doctrines
—
and the reality of magnetic conditions, still unblush-
THE WAY OP MAGNETISM. 91
in fly ventures to deny its truth, and has the hardihood
to infer,
1. That medical men, who employ magnetic remedies,
inoculate and produce these natural and frightful
maladies ! !
2. That the effects of magnetism are nothing, except
upon some nervous maladies,—and then only acting
through the medium of the imagination.
So that after all, these "frightful maladies" so wick-
edly produced are nothing /—and the suspension of ordi-
nary sense, which allows surgical operations to be per-
formed without the cognizance of the nervous system of
the patient, is nothing but an effort produced by the
imagination. A new, but a very happy influence of this
restfess faculty !—The question of the agency of the imagi-
nation in the production of magnetic phenomena, will
presently come before us. Here we shall only say, that
we care not if the effect be produced by the imagination,
if it be so, it is an admission, that the effect is produced,
and that it is produced by magnetism : and that through
its agency, there is a development of a new attribute of
that faculty, for assuredly, however it may hitherto have
heightened suffering, it never has been before employed,
and employed by the will of another; in the diminution
of suffering, and the alleviation of disorder ! ! !
"We have not yet quite done with this author ;
for we
must notice his inconsistency,—his suppression of truth,
—his assertion of falsehood.
1. His inconsistency in accusing the practitioners of
magnetism of exhibiting to the public gaze, these extra-
ordinary and monstrous infirmities, which ought always
to be concealed by the veil of benevolence and humanity.
We are more than decidedly opposed to public exhibi-
92 OBJECTIONS TO, AND DIFFICULTIES IN,
tions : but it is absurd for our author to complain of
publicly exhibiting, when he asserts there is nothing to
exhibit; for either there is something or nothing ; if the
former, he dares not give up so valuable a therapeutic
agent : if the latter, he has no cause for complaint.
2. The suppression of truth. —We shall only mention
the case of Mademoiselle Pigeaire, who was clairvoyant,
and whom he represents as having been withdrawn by her
father from the trial on the successful issue of which
depended a douceur of three thousand francs, and that
this withdrawal was occasioned by the fact, that the pro-
posed bandage for her eyes was objected to, on the ground
of the assertion, that it had in it perforations through
which she could see—thus insinuating her imposture.
Now every body has a right to form his own opinion of
circumstances, and ought not to quarrel with Lafond
Gouzi for thus asserting all that is bad of Mademoiselle
Pigeaire, and admiring the tact of her opponents—although
we, on the contrary, should see the straightforward con-
duct of the former, and should consider the latter as the
most miserable picture of shuffling, and chicanery, and
dishonesty, that ever afflicted and disgraced the annals of
humanity. Yet we quarrel not with him for this differ-
ence of opinion, free as the passing breeze, but for the
suppression of the fact that the friends of the somnambu-
list, offered a prize of thirty thousand francs, for any
one, who not in the state of magnetic sleep, should with
their ordinary senses, be able to read through Mademoi-
selle Pigeairc''s bandage,—a challenge that was not even
attempted to be responded to. Alas ! Alas !
—that poor
human nature, should be so readily turned aside from
truth, by the warmth of controversy !
3. False assertions.—First, that the facts have never
THE WAY OP MAGNETISM. 93
been attested by witnesses worthy of credit ; —that they
bear the impress of being clandestine,—of credulity,—of
intrigue,—of charlatanism,—of imposture ; —all attributes,
which cannot be tolerated by reason, by science, by medi-
cine, and all this from a witness who has just been con-
victed of the suppression of truth.
And then in order to throw an air of extravagance upon
the doctrines, he asserts it as being maintained by magne-
tisers, that the magnetised are beings superior to the rest
of the human race, as requiring neither senses—nor
study—nor science—nor instruction, to be in themselves
superior to the most scientific medical men,—to say the
least, a most cruel and heartless caricature !
And yet this is a sample of the justice and the reason-
ing with which the oppononts of magnetism have pro-
ceeded ; and with which they really appear to have acted
contrary to the light of their own conscience,—to have
wilfully suppressed the force of evidence,—to have stifled
the influence of moral principle,—to have assumed a hos-
tile ground, and to have kept it obstinately, notwithstanding
every argument brought against them; —to have auda-
ciously shut themselves out from every proof and every
remonstrance ; —to have voluntarily closed their eyes to
the truth, and to have wilfully suppressed their convic-
tions ; —to have revived over and over again, every calumny
however false, every argument however frequently refuted,
which could serve for a rallying point, for their scattered
and discomfited supporters : so that they might but pro-
tract and maintain the unequal struggle,—and give the
shape and the colouring of plausibility to their systematic,
but unscientific, and unvirtuous opposition.
But perhaps it will be asked, how it is that so impor-
tant a discovery, sustained by so many proofs, and sup-
94 OBJECTIONS TO, AND DIFFICULTIES IN,
ported by so many estimable witnesses, sbould not before
this, have obtained an established character for truth 1
To this it may be answered, because its assertions wore of-
tentimes the aspect of ancient and exploded error ; and
therefore these assertions were too hastily and indiscrimi-
nately placed under this class, by men of science and medical
men, without sufficient investigation. Prejudiced by this
idea, they have neglected personal investigation, and they
have only looked upon the reviver (falsely called inventor)
of magnetism, as a charlatan—an impostor—an invader
of their rightful sovereignty.
Does not experience and history show us, that thus it
has been with all great truths, and all discoveries which
do not belong to the exact sciences, and admit of physical
demonstration, from the beginning of time : —and that
while error has gained an easy access to the mind of man,
—and often has even won for itself easy and golden opi-
nions, the march of truth has been always slow, and
tedious, and toilsome. The present leaning of the human
understanding is towards error ; and therefore, whatever
partakes of error, finds in it a congenial soil ; but pre-
cisely the opposite condition exists in respect of truth.
The question so early propounded, what is truth, is a fair
sample of the influence of truth upon the human mind :
—
and the difficulties, which are thrown in the way of the
propagation of the Christian Religion are only an example
of the same principle, which has been at work, ever since,
in opposing all great and valuable truths which have been
discovered for the benefit of mankind. The truths of
astronomical science,—the benefits of small-pox inocula-
tion—of education—the abolition of slavery—and the
researches of geology—will afford a few examples of the
same fact.
THE WAY OP MAGNETISM. 95
But again, other persons have been deterred from pro-
secuting magnetic inquiries, by the exaggerated colouring
which has been often thrown over its truths, and made
them wear the semblance of falsehood ; —besides that men
have sometimes been so led away by their enthusiasm, as
really to mistake such semblance for reality. This is un-
fortunate, and has been often employed to the disadvantage
of magnetism by persons who either cannot, or will not
be at the trouble of drawing conclusions from large pre-
mises. And yet, although one fact,—isolated and detached
from a series proves nothing, this one fact has been proudly
subpoenaed as evidence to overturn the many established
and entire series of facts. Whereas if the little influence
of this one fact could be multiplied an hundredfold,—still
after a hundred similar sequences justly appreciated, it
would after all be found inevitable to confess, that there is
a magnetic agency,—that this agency is salutary,—and
that under certain circumstances, and with certain precau-
tions, it would be found as a valuable addition to the list
of therapeutic agents.
If the supporters of magnetism will speak of its effects
as miraculous ; if they will discover prophets in som-
nambulists ; —if they will employ magnetism otherwise
than for the cure of disorder ; —if they will associate its
truths with magical philosophy, the men of science and
information will be scared away from the inquiry, and
will not devote their attention to it : it will then be handed
over to men of ardent and frothy imaginations ; —and
thus diverted from its only legitimate objects, its conse-
quences will be nugatory or mischievous.
Much evil has arisen to the cause of magnetism, from
hastily publishing miraculous cures;—and this evil has
been two-fold—first, assuming a false position for mag-
96 OBJECTIONS TO, AND DIFFICULTIES IN,
netism with regard to miracles ; and secondly, that the
cures, so far from being perfect, have turned out to be no
cures at all. Experience has had its usual effect in aug-
menting the wisdom of mankind : —but formerly it was
not sufficiently known or appreciated, that magnetism
sometimes relieves at once dangerous symptoms, and pro-
duces so great an improvement, that the patient thinks
himself cured, although the essential cause of malady
remains behind, and is only palliated in virtue of the aug-
mented vitality of the sick, in consequence of magnetic
communication : —and when this vitality so given has been
exhausted, the patient becomes worse than before from
the natural progress of the disorder. Nothing, can be
more natural,—more certain,—more easily explicable ;
but the opponents exclaim with their characteristic attri-
butes of truthfulness and philosophy,—if cured, it has
been by imagination, and there was no real disease to
cure ; if not relieved, there is nothing in magnetism : —if
afterwards the patient dies, magnetism destroyed hi?n.
Admirable casuistry ; —a cause which has no existence
produces his destruction ! !
Surely, surely, it is not necessary to excite the imagina-
tion,—nor to astonish by wonders, in order to fix the atten-
tion of the candid upon a discovery whose results not
only offer fresh resources to medicine ; but also being
shown to be within the laws of nature, the miscalled pro-
digies which have formed the groundwork of superstition,
dissolve into thin air, like the morning ghost, and that
before the light of the science of magnetism.
We ought not then to accuse of folly, or madness, or
.jugglery, those who have observed phenomena which are
inexplicable without the clue of magnetism, and therefore
ascribed them to that cause. It is a matter of unfeigned
THE WAY OP MAGNETISM. 97
astonishment, that philosophers have not shown a greater
anxiety to examine a doctrine which is not opposed to
any known physical principle, but which classifies, ex-
plains, and replaces in a natural order, phenomena which
have usually been considered as beyond the boundaries of
ordinary science.
It is not difficult to understand the prejudice which was
excited among medical men, at its revival by Mesmer,
associated, as it then was, with many extraneous adjuncts
and effects, which manifestly led to disorder ; and as it
was placed in the same cadre with the convulsionnaries of
St. Medard, and intimately commingled with the extraor-
dinary, and sometimes apocryphal phenomena of som-
nambulism. By these circumstances, the minds of medi-
cal men were estranged from observing legitimate results,
and they have as a body set themselves in array against
these effects, and endeavored to prove them false, instead
of attending to their simple and curative agency. It must
be said, in justice to the so-prejudiced medical persons,
that by nature and position, they live and should live in
the sphere of medicine,—the sphere of their usefulness,
—
and that they are but partially acquainted with collateral
sciences ; and therefore become very sceptical as to the
relation of facts, which, in their very nature, do not admit
of a comparison with the objects of their every-day ac-
quaintance, intertwined as these ought to be with all the
best affections of a benevolent heart.
But magnetic action and somnambulism are both
admitted as facts : and these actually do possess similar
and corresponding facts within the range of their own
science : —and therefore the novelty being solely their
production under the influence of the will, the inquiry is
not made for facts, analogous facts : —since the object is
98 OBJECTIONS AND DIFFICULTIES, ETC.
to prove the utility, and applicability of these facts in the
curative treatment of disease,—and to become acquainted
with all the various ways in which they may be employed
;
—the principles are admitted, but the consequences must
be proved, which leads us to consider in detail this essen-
tial particular.
99
CHAPTER VII.
ON THE APPLICABILITY OP MAGNETISM TO THE RELIEF
OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE.
This division of our subject, will lead us to consider,
first, the susceptibility of different individuals to be
affected by magnetism, for it is obvious that this property
must limit and define its agency;—secondly, its more
ordinary effects upon the physical system ; and thirdly,
its employment as a curative agent in medical and surgi-
cal treatment.
In considering the susceptibility of different individuals,
we may I think establish one general principle, that it is
in proportion to the irritability of the nervous system,
—
its easy mobility, rather than its liability to impression :
*and this is particularly shown, by the augmented suscep-
tibility of persons whose health is weakly. Among those
who are the least susceptible are men in strong health, in
the prime of life, and with cultivated intellects, in whom
of course we have a large development of the antagonist
principle to irritability.
Thus, women are more susceptible than men, because
of the much greater mobility of their nervous system;
—
they are more so at the period of adolescence and of pu-
berty from the very natural accumulation of irritability at
a period of considerable action, before the powers of the
100 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
constitution have heen thoroughly developed and estab-
lished ;—they are still more so, if at this period, there
happens any disturbance of the constitutional functions,
which throws disorder over the whole system, and in-
creases irritability,—and they are even still more suscep-
tible, if they should have been attacked by hysteria, or
any other of the numerous class of nervous affections. It
should be remarked, however, that persons so easily affect-
ed, do not always become lucid somnambulists ; —this is
a comparatively rare phenomenon, and seems only to be
found in certain peculiar constitutions, which doubtless
under favourable circumstances for such disordered func-
tion, would become the subjects of catalepsy, natural
somnambulism, &c. ;
—so that we should say, the suscepti-
bility to magnetic impression depends chiefly upon the
irritability of the nervous system : while the develop-
ment of lucid somnambulism depends upon its predis-
position to catalepsy, or other similar disorder.
This receives corroborative evidence from the fact, that
children are not readily susceptible ; —that is, not in any
thing like the same proportion of cases, and for this plain
and obvious reason, that their nerves, though susceptible
to impression, have not become irritable.
Another fact in proof of this position is, that the sus-
ceptibility is greatly increased in emaciated persons, who
have been enfeebled and exhausted by chronic disease.
Although it is possible that the susceptibility may be greater
in all thin persons, because of the nerves being more
thoroughly exposed, yet it is manifest that the principal
agency is upon the sick,—and obviously, because their
nervous irritability is increased by exhaustion,—and
because they are requiring a supply of that vitality which
it is the object of magnetism to communicate.
RELIEF OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 101
This susceptibility to impression and increase of sensi-
bility is accompanied, during the state of clairvoyance,
with a very remarkable exaltation and augmentation of
power in the faculties of the mind, and thus leads to the
development of phenomena which are puzzling, and in
the present state of our knowledge inexplicable. The
more or less complete abstraction from the realities of life,
depends upon the more or less complete subjugation of the
faculties to the agency of magnetism.
Although the phenomena of magnetism may be pro-
duced in the presence of many, and of large assemblies,
yet it is not here we are to look for its choicest develop-
ments ; —a certain degree of distraction is produced by
the presence of many persons, and the mind is not so
easily, nor so completely isolated from real life, and from
surrounding objects, as when few persons are present.
Besides this state of spiritual development is one which
is easily impaired ; the most susceptible to impression is
easily led astray, for the faculties developed by magnetism,
are not supernatural—are not perfect :
—the wisdom and
the knowledge of the somnambulist are not superhuman ;
they are under the fearful agency of the imperfection,
which impresses every thing human, and they are easily
disturbed ; nothing can be more rational, and yet this
imperfection has been absurdly put forth as a test by
erring mortals, by which to try the truth and validity of
magnetic phenomena. As well might it be put forth as a
test of organic life, that every function should be carried
on perfectly,— or of spiritual life, that no imperfection
should attend any one of the manifestations of mind.
As all individuals are not alike susceptible to the im-
pressions of magnetism, so also, all are not capable of
producing them. And this is dependent upon a difference
102 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
of physical power,—the greater or less prevalence of exu-
berant vitality :
—and also upon the moral condition of
the magnetiser, in whom the chief requisites over and
above that of sound health, are an active desire to do good,
—a firm belief in the power of conferring it,—and an
entire confidence in the possession of that power : —added
to which their should be patience inexhaustible, and un-
tiring perseverance.
The power of communicating this exuberant life has
been denied and derided by many, as if there were really
any thing extraordinary in it. It has been admitted even
by contagionists, that actual contact is not necessary for
the communication of disease, provided the healthy indi-
vidual be susceptible, and be placed within a certain
sphere of approximation, so as to receive the emanations
from the sick ; and why should not the same law be ap-
plicable to the emanations given off by the healthy, with
the full purpose and intention of succouring the diseased.
Besides the susceptibility of impression, which we have
noticed as being necessary in the subjects of magnetism,
there should also be one principal condition, viz., want
of health, and a passive submission to magnetic agency.
It is not necessary, that he should be an enthusiastic be-
liever in its influence ; —it is not necessary, that his im-
agination should be highly exalted ; —but it is necessary
that he should not resist, and be hostile to the magnetic
agency ; —all that is really required, is passive submission.
A slight state of disordered function is not desirable, and
sometimes it exerts a disturbing influence ; —it is best,
that the powers of life should have been impaired and
broken by disease : and if this were the case, a little
incredulity would be no great harm ; —it would, however,
present in the healthy, a serious obstacle to the influence
RELIEF OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 103
of magnetism.—And this too, is often alleged against the
reality of magnetic phenomena ; —as if these phenomena
were universal,—and as if they could he found apart from
the conditions necessary to their existence.
It has been objected, that those only are predisposed to
the exhibition of magnetic phenomena, who possess a live-
ly imagination, great nervous excitability, and tendency
to cerebral disorder in some shape or other. But what
then 1—It is not contended that magnetism is a uni-
versal panacea : but it is asserted that there must be, as
in every other deviation from the ordinary course of
nature, proximate, predisposing, and exciting causes.
The contention is not as to the nature, the extent, or the
existence of those causes ; —the question is not as to
the perfection of the science,—or as to whether error may
not be mixed up with truth : —but the question is one of
fact, as to whether the alleged facts are worthy of inves-
tigation,—as to their asserted applicability to any forms
of malady,—and if so, as to the precise forms of disorder
to which the remedy is applicable.
Before concluding this section, we ought to say that
the agency of magnetism is not unlimited. There are
some organizations which appear entirely insensible to its
effects ; —and we find in this avowal, only a parallel ob-
servation with that which is recorded by medical observers,
viz., that while there are some constitutions morbidly
susceptible to the agency of particular remedies, there are
others, in which the same remedy has no power, and this
may exist at one period, and not at another ; —for a re-
medy which has agreed admirably, and produced its ex-
pected effects at one time, will at another altogether
disappoint expectation.
As it is with medicine, so also with magnetism, some
104 APPLICABILITY OP MAGNETISM TO THE
disorders are cured without the intervention of their re-
spective agency, by the simple, unknown, unaided pro-
cesses of nature. And this should be an established
axiom :—there is in nature a conservative power, which
ever seeks the restoration of disordered function ; —and
remedial agents, whether medicine, or magnetism, are re-
quired only for cases, in which the resources of nature
prove inadequate. Instead of this being an objection, it
is, in point of fact, the very position on which magnetism
rests, for there can be no necessity to impart life, where
the quota already possessed is adequate to maintain its
own equilibrium.
The agency of magnetism will always be limited by
circumstances, if medical men refuse to take it up as a
study,—or to employ it as a means of cure, in those cases
in which their discriminative judgment shall point out its
applicability : —nor can it be anticipated, that the scatter-
ed facts of magnetism will be woven into a system, or
made really available, till they have been assorted and
consolidated by medical investigators ; and till they have
brought to the investigation, their knowledge, their perse-
rance, and their unprejudiced observation ; —till in fact
they have brought to bear upon this question their general
character for unbiassed inquiry.
We shall now notice some of the general effects of mag-
netism, and its alleged injurious consequences, before we
consider its application to the treatment of surgical or me-
dical disorder. It would, however, be right to acknow-
ledge, that some patients effectually magnetised have
seemed to derive no benefit from the process : —others
have experienced a relief more or less marked ;
—others
have obtained a diminution of pain, or a restoration of
strength without any permanent benefit ;
—in others, the
RELIEF OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 105
paroxysms of epilepsy have been singularly retarded,
but not cured ; —and in others, there has been complete
restoration, even in cases of which the primary aspect,
and projected result, has been inauspicious.
In this general sketch we have the history of medi
cine and an epitome of medical experience. None but
quacks speak or think of universal agents, and universal
success ; —our position is precisely that which is appli-
cable to all other medicine : —it has a remedial agency
—
and if justly and properly applied, it will have precisely
the same results as above described, which might have
been taken from the case-book of any intelligent physician,
as to any one of his remedies,—or even to all of them.
It has been asserted by Bertrand, Fouquier, and others^
that magnetised water will arrest vomiting : —but this too
has its limits, since it is inapplicable to every kind of
vomiting. There can be no question, that in the mag-
netic state, magnetised water is distinguishable from com-
mon water ; —if so, it must be by its having become a
magnetic agent,—and then, in those cases, when the
vomiting depended upon feebleness of the stomach—upon
deficient vitality—upon too great irritability, it is easy to
understand how magnetised water should be useful ;
—
but if the vomiting arise from an oppressed, or non-di-
gesting stomach, or from the presence of offending food,
or bilious accumulation, then it will be inapplicable. The
same reasoning and experience apply to magnetic pro-
cesses, as to magnetised water.
Sometimes the effect of magnetism is incomplete, and
it does not succeed in producing quiet sleep:—this, how-
ever, seems indispensable to its doing good, for without
this, there is no real recruiting of animal life ; the im-
perfect sleep is distressing—there is often dreaming, and
5
106 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
a. greater amount of fatigue and exhaustion, than if the
remedy had not been applied. This again affords ano-
ther parallel with medicine : obtain a perfect effect from
opium, and the patient is benefitted,—let it be imperfect,
and the patient is shattered. Exhibit tonics when the
patient is feeble—if there be no point of local inflam-
mation, strength will be increased : but if there be some
point of local irritation not dependent upon relaxation,
not removeable by tonics, strength will be lost every day.
So in a case not suitable to magnetic agency, and where
that agency is imperfect, the fatigue and exhaustion will
often terminate in convulsions, or disordered muscular
movements ; —that is, the nervous system has not been
soothed ; it has been irritated, and irritative notices are
sent to the locomotive muscles, which contract irregularly,
and despite the will, and afford a beautiful illustration of a
well-known law.
As to the magnetization of food, of trees, &c, these as-
sertions would involve curious researches which, in our
practical work, we really dare not stop to investigate.
—
In the treatment of many persons together, the magneti-
zation of trees, or other inanimate substances, may be
useful : and the facts are not inconsistent with the general
laws of magnetism. If we were to go into the inquiry,
the question of a magnetic fluid, and of the peculiar cha-
racter of that fluid, must come before us, and must occupy
more time than we can spare ;
—all we should now say,
is that the one sole object of all these processes is the
greater convenience of transmitting the benefits of mag-
netism, which have been said to consist in renovating
life—invigorating the constitution—restoring tone to a
weakened, but not disorganized viscus,—and impressing
upon the blood, and other fluids of the constitution, such
RELIEF OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 107
a salutary movement as shall give harmony and energy to
every department.
A remarkable effect of magnetism, is the recollection
of circumstances, and the revival of impressions long-
since past, the images of which had been completely lost
to ordinary memory, and which were not recoverable in
the ordinary state of the brain. All the sensations which
we have ever experienced, have left behind them traces in
the brain so slight as to be intangible and imperceptible
under ordinary circumstances ; and while new impressions
are constantly received and superadded to the former
store ; and these are again developed and presented to the
recollection, when the brain has become isolated from
exterior circumstances and impressions, and retires into
itself. The same thing is often experienced in dreaming ;
reminiscences of realities long since past and forgotten, are
renewed in the state of sleep, and even the images of for-
mer dreams, of which the association with reality, if exist-
ing, is so feeble as not to be traceable, are renovated in
dreams with a vigour and correctness which are astound-
ing, and oftentimes with a consciousness of their dreamy
original. The same phenomenon has presented itself in
a patient now under my care, who has suffered for years
from attacks of an epileptiform character, and who during
certain stages of his malady has experienced in a most
remarkable manner, this recollection of circumstances,
and revival of impressions long since past.
It has been said that vomiting has been produced by
simple water exhibited to a patient under the influence of
magnetism, simply by giving the patient to understand
that he was taking emetic tartar. This effect, though
common, is not peculiar to magnetism, for the same con-
dition will be produced in the ordinary state, and doubtless
108 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
is occasioned by an effect upon the nerves of the stomach,
conveyed through the channel of the imagination. We
should be very careful to separate effects which are com-
mon to magnetism and other states, from those which
are the simple and unique result of the former exclu-
sively.
So also by the same influence individuals placed in a
magnetic circle will seem to enter into somnambulism,
but not so really, for they will awaken at the slightest
noise, showing that they are not isolated from exterior im-
pressions, but sensible to them ; in fact, that this too is a
product of imagination. This, however, gives an oppor-
tunity of distinguishing magnetic from ordinary slumber,
and affords the strongest evidence against the ascription of
magnetic phenomena to imagination as their cause, which
we shall presently have to consider.
Other symptoms, as spasms, convulsions, (fee, may be
fairly ascribed to the peculiar irritability of the nervous
system of some individuals, and are not to be considered
as the general, or legitimate result of magnetic treatment.
Disbelief of the patient in the reality of the effects to
be produced is always an obstacle to successful magneti-
zation ;
precisely in the same way, as want of confidence
in a medical man, or distrust in the value of the remedies
exhibited, is an obstacle to successful treatment ; and for
the same reason : —two impressions are necessarily made
upon the nervous system, the one salutary, or medicinal
—
the other distrustful, fearful, sceptical :
—to say the least,
the one neutralizes the other : more frequently the one
supersedes the other, and the disorder continues, or in-
creases. Thus the zealous believer will be cured, while
the unbeliever will not be relieved : —not because the ef-
fect produced was through the imagination, and imaginary
RELIEF OP MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 109
in its nature, but precisely because the one is susceptible,
while the other is opposed to magnetic treatment. It is
also to be further remarked, as an unfavourable circum-
stance, if the patient very earnestly desires to experience
the effects of magnetism ; —for this pre-occupation of the
mind will often prove a hinderance to the reception and
development of magnetic processes ;
—just as the existence
of one morbid state is oftentimes a hinderance to the
development of a more important morbid condition, till it
has run its course ; —an ordinary example of the well-
established medical doctrine, that two maladies cannot
run their course at the same time, in the same system.
Hence it is desirable that the patient should not too
curiously look into his own sensations, or try to fathom
the process to which he is submitted ; but that he should
passively yield himself to the agency, without opposing
the wish or distracting the attention of the magnetizer,
—
or even exciting his own.
Ricard has found in a very few cases, which must be
considered as quite exceptions to the general rule, that
the faculties instead of being brightened by magnetism,
have seemed to become more stolid, and less susceptible
to impression, so that memory, judgment, reason, seemed
annihilated ; —in fact, that the intelligence of the in-
dividuals was gone,—and that as an expression of life,
they retained nothing but a physical passiveness. It is
not difficult to explain these phenomena, first by the
original stolidity of the subjects,—and by their position
not being over suitable to magnetic agency ; viz., they
wanted the irritability of the nervous system, which is
indispensable,—and their physical health was unbroken
—
so that they were not suitable patients ; and the effects of
a medicine exhibited a contre temps, produced none of
110 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
those effects which it would have done under suitable cir-
cumstances.
Thus then we conclude that magnetism is a remedy,
which God has given to man to assist him in curing him-
self and others when suffering from malady ; —that it con-
sists in- the communication of the vital power of one man
whose vital forces are energetic, to another in whom they
are deficient ; and that its efficacy depends upon regu-
lating, directing, and energizing the resources of nature.
It is to be employed as an auxiliary to medicine,—not as
a sovereign remedy applicable in every case—not as an
exclusive agent—not as superseding ordinary treatment,
but in aid of such treatment :
—at the same time, it is to
be allowed, that there are cases, where the ordinary
resources of medicine have failed, and which have been
relieved in an extraordinary manner, and even cured by
magnetism. On the other hand, magnetism will some-
times fail altogether ; it will not cure every malady ; abun-
dant experience has evinced the contrary, and the reason
has been shown ; the relief which it does give seems to
be to aid the general conservative resources of nature,
—
and not to consist in any specific agency upon the pecu-
liar state of disorder.
It is time that we now paid some attention to the
alleged evils of magnetism. And first, we attack at once
the most serious charge which has been brought against
it, viz., that the magnetized becomes so attached to their
magnetizer,—so completely subjected to his influence,
—
so thoroughly obedient to his will, that the remedy may
be very mischievously employed towards the more suscep-
tible sex ; —and that it may be so employed to the most
diabolical of all purposes.
So grave a charge must be seriously met. In the first
RELIEF OP MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. Ill
place it must be allowed to be possible ; but in the same
breath it must be asked, what perfect thing is there under
the sun ? What good thing is there which does not ad-
mit of abuse, and which has not been repeatedly abused ?
Can we fairly argue against the use of any agent from
its abuse ? And is there any one of God's gifts to man,
which if improperly employed, does not produce evil, and
ultimately involve him in ruin? Who would argue
against intelligence, because the excitement of genius has
produced insanity ? Who would undervalue religion, be-
cause exclusive views on the subject have overturned the
integrity of the brain ? Who would declare the light
and warmth of the sun to be an evil, because it had
occasioned in some few instances the coup de soleil?
Who would pronounce against the merciful and benefi-
cial agency of a thunderstorm because it had destroyed
trees, cattle, human life ? Who would forswear the
comforts of a fire in January, because fire did every day
destroy comfort, habitation,
—
life? Who would pro-
nounce against food and wine, because both, if impro-
perly taken, produced the most serious moral and physi-
cal disorders ? So neither must we pronounce against
magnetism, because, though a good in itself, it admits of
perversion.
But again, magnetism confers no power of mischief,
in this particular respect, which was not previously at-
tainable by other means, in the hands of wicked persons,
and especially through the instrumentality of opium ;
—
and who ever thought of opposing the exhibition of
opium by medical men, for the cure of disease
1
? There-
fore, on this account, we are not called upon to oppose
magnetic processes employed for the cure of disease by
medical persons, and we ask no more.
112 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
Still further, we have considered the evil application
of magnetism as admitted without reservation
:
—we did
so for the sake of argument ; but we must now envisage
the practical truth. In order to the production of this
evil influence, we must have the concurrence of two
wicked persons. Perhaps this is scarcely likely to hap-
pen ;—and admitting that the magnetized is not previously
depraved, the influence of magnetism is such as to exalt
every virtuous sentiment, to an extent that the slightest
attempt to undermine the delicacy of its tact, is met by
opposition,—instantaneously breaks the charm of the
magnetizer,—and his influence is gone for ever. There
are instances on record, where this exalted sensibility has
been the means of recalling to the paths of virtue, those
who had deviated from them ; —and there are abundant
proofs, that in magnetic somnambulism, the slightest ap-
proach to indecorum, has been met, and resisted, and
resented as it deserved. In fact, there can be no doubt,
but that the legitimate influence of magnetism is to exalt
the sentiment of virtue, and to afford the best possible
guarantee against its improper application.
Admitting, however, that such were not the case ; and
that magnetism endangered its easy misapplication, and
that the chances were in favour of such misapplication,
—
do we not possess the means of preventing such irregu-
larities,—and in point of fact, are they not particularly
prevented 1 These consist,
First, in the restriction of the practice to medical men ;
—not that we presume to claim for them a greater
share of moral propriety naturally, that belongs to others
of the same educated classes;—but that it is indispensable
to their success in life, that they should be of unspotted
character, and unsullied reputation.—Take away these
RELIEF OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 113
attributes, and where are they ?—No longer admitted as
the friends of families,—those who are the depositaries
of family secrets more than any other men,—no longer
considered worthy of trust,—no longer received into family
confidence,—their means of subsistence annihilated,—and
themselves outcasts from society : —so that if magnetic
processes were confined to medical men, there is the best
possible warranty for their moral as well as their judicious
application.
Secondly, it is a standing rule with medical men, that
whenever any delicate inquiries are to be made into the
health of the female economy, the presence of a female
friend is requested, not surely as a guarantee from im-
propriety, but as a homage due to delicacy of feeling,
and to the sacred bonds of society : —therefore in the
processes of magnetism, which admit of abuse, the same
prudent medical men would invariably require the pre-
sence of some friend of the patient, male or female as
might be most convenient or agreeable—some portion ofthe
same family—father, mother, brother, sister, and so forth.
Thirdly, still further, though magnetic processes should
always be under the direction of a medical man, there is
no reason why such medical person should be the rnag-
netizer, and there are many reasons why he should not,
especially as it would occupy too much of his time, and
limit his usefulness. And under his instructions, the
actual practical application of magnetism, may be as well
carried out by any of the above-mentioned relatives, or
by any friend of the patient.
And thus ends the dreaded moral evil, which we have
thought it necessary to combat thus in detail, because it is
one of the most favourable weapons employed by the
enemies of magnetism :—we turn now to their evils.
5*
114 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
It has been asserted that the manipulations employed
are not sufficiently decorous,—and that the magnetic
processes are a violation of decency, to which no pure
mind, will, or ought to submit ! How pitiable a view does
this objection give us of poor human nature ! —That any
persons under the influence of prejudice, as to give up
truth, and virtue, honour, and character, to bring them-
selves to make an assertion so utterly false ; the fact being,
that no manipulations are required ; and that a few
passes with the hand, without touching the person, will be
sufficient.
A more serious objection has been urged against mag-
netism, as arising from the reports of those spiritual
somnambulists, who not only hold communion with their
guardian angels, but are admitted to the immediate
presence of their Saviour, and of the Holy Virgin Mary,
and receive from each of them especial gifts of grace :
—
who almost in the same breath, bring reports of the vary-
ing condition of the blessed, the accursed, and of those
occupying the intermediate place of purgatory, and are
undergoing its expiatory trials.—The absurdity, and folly,
and falsehood of such reports, are at once acknowledged ;
and the fact of their being made by somnambulists is ac-
knowledged. But what then ? The attempted inference
is, that all the reports of somnambulists must be ground-
less, because these are so. But is there any thing reason-
able in such an inference ? Does the existence of a
morbid excrescence upon the human form, prove that
there is no perfect form in nature ? Does the presence
of insanity, show that there are no just manifestations of
mind ?—Does the existence of a lie, prove that there is
710 such thing as truth ? Does the caricature prove that
there was no original to be defaced ? On the contrary,
RELIEF OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 115
as these very evils prove the existence of the good upon
which they were grafted:—so also does these absurd and
untrue representations, prove only that the brain, so sub-
jected to analysis, is for the time being in an unsound
state : —and that the results are not simply those of
magnetism,—but of magnetism distorted by passing
through an unsound brain.
But there is another valuable fact which this proves,
—
or rather a two-fold fact ;
—first, that the brain when dis-
turbed under the magnetic process,—and led away by
curious inquiries from its only legitimate object,—viz.
the restoration or improvement of health, is conducted
into a wild region of conjecture, where its productions
are valueless as dreams :
—and secondly, that in this con-
dition, the brain is only conversant with portions of
knowledge which it has acquired previously,—and which
are now re-produced, with a fantastic grouping perhaps,
—
but still produced from the store-house of memory ; as for
instance, the reports above alluded to, would not have ori-
ginated from a Protestant mind,—unless under peculiar
circumstances to be hereafter considered.
Jt has been said, that magnetism improperly directed, is
capable of producing much mischief;—and that it might
even occasion death itself, if employed to paralyze, or
more properly to fix in cataleptic rigidity the muscles of
respiration ; or that it might develope insanity. And who
doubts it ? Who doubts that a remedy improperly used,
may be productive of much evil 1 Is there any valuable
remedial agent to which the same rule does not apply ? If,
however, this be admitted, the consequence follows, that it
is an agent of considerable power,—and not a system of
jugglery as has been stated;—and also, that if being
badly directed it may occasion so much evil,—so being
116 APPLICABILITY OF MEGNETISM TO THE
judiciously applied, it may give rise to much good: al-
ways being employed as a therapeutic agent, and pre-
served from the unholy contact of absurd and unwarrant-
able experiment. Hence therefore the great importance
of its being confined to medical men,—and men of
character and judgment.
There are, however, some real dangers in the practice
of magnetism,—and in this respect it bears an exact
analogy with the other goods of Providence ; it must be
employed with moderation, with wisdom, and only when
required. We have not yet probably arrived at the solu-
tion of the questions involved by these considerations, for
hitherto medical men have too much regarded magnetism
as a chimera ; —and they have not tried its curative agency
—nor studied its phenomena, which perchance might lead
them to its cause,—and also teach the limits for its ap-
plication. The agency of magnetism being to soothe
irritability, and to build up a feeble system, it will neces-
sarily follow, that its effects must be injurious, where the
system is already too excitable, and where the tonicity of
action ought to be enfeebled.—It would seem also, that
if the magnetizer were unieell, and notwithstanding con-
tinued to magnetize, much evil would result to both par-
ties, because the one must part with the energy of life
which was important to his conservation,—and the other
would possibly partake of the disordered morbid impression
It is confessed also, that much evil has arisen from the
anxiety to produce what are called the higher phenomena
of magnetism, rather than its curative effect. How many
experiments of this kind have been made ; and to what
have they led ? To nothing- absolutely beyond the asto-
nishment of weak-minded persons, and the frequent dis-
credit of the real curative agent.
RELIEF OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 117
When Mesmer revived the practice of magnetism, it was
on the ground of its curative agency, that he asked for
the confidence of others ; he sought to appreciate its
medical and physiological effects ; and though he sur-
rounded it with much mummery, and the paraphernalia
of quackery,—it was on its merits as a curative agent,
that it was referred to the first commission ; —and it is by
this test, that it must ultimately be tried :
—the public
cannot decide its merits : they are utterly unacquainted
with the means of judging, and with the grounds upon
which the decision must be made. Public exhibitions
therefore should be discouraged ; since, however good
may be the intention, the effect, is only to throw back the
advances of magnetism,—to give an apparent sanction to
calumny and falsehood—and to degrade science, by exhi-
biting its inexplicable arcana, before a curious, and an
ignorant multitude.
3. We next consider its curative agency, and we must
do so at some length. It is not now a question, as it was
in 1784, whether there is a reality in magnetic effects:
—
these are incontestable ;
—but whether the effects produced
admit of a therapeutic agency;—whether they may be
useful in medicine and surgery, and to what extent they
may become so. The result of the magnetic strife in its
earlier days was not advantageous to the science ; —the
enthusiasm of its votaries, and the dogged scepticism
of its opponents, were equal obstacles to its progress :
—
*
the former attempted to prove too much, viz. t* '
^:agne-
tism was a panacea for every human physical \, je, and
thus actually failed of proving anything; while the oppo-
site party answered this absurd proposition with disdain,
and turned their heads another way, when they were asked
to investigate the phenomena with their own eyes. The
118 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
two parties found themselves in the position of divided
adherents,—the one worshipping the sun as the origin
of life, and the source of every good,—the other closing
their eyes, lest the light of day should fall upon them,
—
and lest seeing with their own eyes they should be con-
verted and convinced, and obliged to confess their irra-
tional and unphilosophical obstinacy.
There is certainly something very revolting to the pride
of the present generation, to admit that magnetism, the
simple medicine of nature, can do what science and art
cannot effect ;
—to give up many favourite theories and
plans of treatment,—to lay aside the haughtiness of esta-
blished doctrines,—and to yield them before the simplicity
of a curative action, which each has the power to impart,
though each has not the skill to direct
;
—and to revive
the practice of thousands of by-gone years,—years which
are only dimly seen through the long vista of pity for
the ignorance and barbarism with which they are marked ;
—and then to allow the practical value of these long-
forgotten processes as superior to the present results of
science, by re-adopting them.—These are difficulties
which require no small degree of moral courage to sur-
mount.
TJut still, if there be truth in this apparent retrograda-
tior ; if it be the result of sound judgment, and deliberate
refection, and profound conviction, and in very many in-
stances, of conviction forced upon the inquirer, in spite of
all h ; -" ing-established prejudices,—and in spite of his
de 'S'^HTtion to find the dogmas of magnetism untrue;
—
it i 'lows, that it is a duty to investigate on the one hand,
and to avow honourable conviction on the other.
Tue proofs of the curative agency of magnetism, may
be tested by the following presumed case:—suppose cir-
RELIEF OP MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 119
cumstances of chronic inflammation of the stomach, which
has long resisted the agency of medicine, and which is
not improving. If under these circumstances, magnetism
can give that power to the system which shall enable it to
become obedient to medicinal remedies, and to make a
successful eflbrt,—and to restore itself to health,—surely
none can deny the value of such a remedy. Yet such is
the reputation we claim for magnetism.
We cannot here fail to notice the numerous cases of
cure by magnetic treatment as published by Dr. Elliotson.
The doctor is no friend or favourite of ours ; we differ
from him most essentially in many of his views ; but no
one who knows his history can at all doubt the truthful-
ness of his report,—his cases afford prima facie" evidence
of sincerity and truth ; —and making all due allowance
for the enthusiasm of his character,—and allowing a libe-
ral discount for this infirmity, there yet remains behind
unquestioned and indisputable facts, which are as much
entitled to credence as any other fact,—and which if dis-
believed for want of sufficient evidence, must sap the foun-
dation of all human testimony. We have also had the
opportunity of ascertaining from the best possible quar-
ters, viz. those which were prejudiced against him, that
more than one of his reported cures, are substantially
true : and if so, he is entitled to our belief for the reft.
In these cases, the disorder was evidently in portions
of the nervous system ; —it was functional only,—and it
was connected with debility ; —these were therefore pre-
cisely the cases likely to be benefitted by this com dca-
tion of vitality. But what recks it? That magnei m is
capable of curing any disorders,—that it is a valuable
remedy in some cases is all we ask for. We lo not
contend, that it is a universal remedy : we assert that it is
120 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
not so; all we require is, that it be admitted as an addi-
tion to our Materia Medica,—and that it be employed
when the appropriate indications for its use, present them-
selves.
But it is said, that it is only applicable to nervous dis-
order. Only indeed ! —but if confined to nervous disorder,
it extends to a class of most intractable maladies. But
we have shown that it is not confined to nervous disorder
only primarily—for it is impossible to separate secondarily
nervous influence from any form of morbid action. Taking
up the idea of nervous disorder only, it is a fact, that in
the very large majority of these cases, even though there
be a considerable amount of irritation, yet debility is the
principal characteristic : —for debility commonly occasions
morbid affectability,—not only morbid excess of movement
or action,—but morbid excess of sensation,—in other
words, pain in various parts of the body arising from an
excess of disordered sensibility.
In some nervous disorders, there is more or less of
general fulness,—or of local congestion,—or of inflam-
matory action,—or of intermittent or remittent and uncer-
tain irritation, requiring at first, more or less—but gene-
rally very moderate depleting measures. The nervous
symptoms may be more or less diminished by acting upon
the particular indications presented by each individual
case ; and it will be found, that although there may be
some general features of resemblance, yet that almost
every case requires some modification of treatment. It
may, however, be taken as a general rule (not without
exceptions) that after very moderate depletion, a certain
degree of upholding is required. Admitting this general
rule, it will be found notwithstanding, that adaptations of
the rule are required to almost each variety. Thus it will
RELIEF OP MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 121
appear that preparations of iron are useful in St. Vitus's
dance—but that they are useless in hysterical and epileptic
cases. Now these are equally diseases of the nervous
system ; but it will be seen at once from a consideration
of their phenomena, that they are of a very different
order : —and practical experience will have taught us, that
while the one was almost certainly controlled by treat-
ment,—yet that in the other, in cases of epilepsy, &c,
medicine is of very little, very uncertain, very questionable,
and only of secondary utility.
Again, we notice another peculiarity in the agency of
remedy upon nervous disorder. Thus, quinine and arsenic
have been found of signal utility in ague, and other forms
of intermittent neuralgia, when the preparations of iron
have been utterly useless. Thus, where there are general
features of resemblance, there are also peculiarities which
minutely subdivide classes into genera, species, individuals,
varieties : and, which is very curious, it will sometimes be
seen, that these after a time lapse from one to another.
Thus, in one of Dr. Elliotson's cases, the disorder which
had existed in a portion of the system devoted to sensibi-
lity, and had occasioned so much exquisite pain, was
afterwards transferred to a portion of the nervous system
devoted to the motory function, and existed as a condition
of imperfect epilepsy.
There can be no question, but that these are most
untractable forms of malady, rarely yielding to ordinary
treatment ; and there can be no further question but that
magnetism has an extraordinary and greater power, over
that peculiar and ill-understood state of the system, which
occasions these, and many other nervous diseases. And
if we are asked why ?—we answer, that we ground this
assertion on experience,—and on our belief of the real
122 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
affinity which exists between the disease and its remedy,
although we are not prepared with an explanation of the
method of its operation.
If we were to hazard an opinion which might approach
towards a solution of this difficulty, it would be only this
—viz., that magnetism being the action of voluntary and
benevolent intelligence upon the conservative powers of
life, was curative in its effects, in proportion as it commu-
nicated to these powers such an amount of energy, as
enabled them to restore the equilibrium of health : —but
after all, this only teaches the essential character of mag-
netic agency,—and the functions upon which the agent
exerts its power—and leaves us still ignorant as to the
mode in which magnetism becomes this agent.
The utility of magnetic unconsciousness for the per-
formance of surgical operations is one of considerable
importance in this part of our inquiry. The fact has
been established beyond the possibility of any reasonable
doubt,—not only with regard to the minor operations,—
extraction of teeth, &c. &c. ; but also with respect to some
of the more important surgical mutilations, as the removal
of a breast,—the removal of a limb, &c. We are quite
aware that these things have been denied—and it costs
very little to deny that which we have never seen ; —but
we would suggest to those self-willed sceptics, whether it
is consistent with the laws of evidence—to say nothing of
gentlemanlike feeling, or moral principle, to deny the
existence of that which we have never seen, simply
because we have never seen it? It would be a new, and
for the escape of the guilty, an invaluable feature in legal
evidence, if an alibi might be proved by the testimony of
witnesses who had never seen him in a given place, although
they themselves were not there to see. In fact, to doubt
RELIEF OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 123
the veracity of many credible and respectable witnesses,
augurs only extreme ignorance, or an insufficient estimate
of the value of moral truth. Should we highly estimate
the character of an inhabitant of the tropics, who ventured
to give the lie to our assertion, that water became solidified
under certain circumstances ;
—and still further, that in
doing so it became lighter, and occupied a larger space,
and so strong as to bear enormous weights—and so expan-
sive as to burst the vessels which contained it 1 Yet the
cases are parallel—and we ought not to charge the one
with untruth, unless we are prepared to justify the other.
Both are examples of natural phenomena, with which
certain persons are unacquainted : the existence of simi-
lar phenomena, might be arranged in an extended cata-
logue ; —and even over and above this classification, to
say that nature has not an extension of her domain beyond
the limits of our knowledge, or of the knowledge of any
living being, is unspeakably absurd :
—and therefore to
deny what we have not seen, is to proclaim our ignorance,
and to incur moral guilt.
But there is a class of objectors, who will not deny the
fact, or impugn the intended veraciousness of the ob-
servers : they only say, that they have been deceived—
rendered dupes by the deceit of the patient, and the
wicked design of some one, who has instructed that pa-
tient to subdue, to conceal, and not to express his feel-
ings. Now to an unprejudiced mind, we would ask what
conceivable motive could there be for all this treason ;
and is there really any probability—any vraisemblance
in such a tale 1 —We can easily admit that some patients
express very little suffering comparatively with others,
—
that some have a much less susceptible nervous system,
while others are endowed with much finer and firmer
124 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
moral qualities to enable them to bear the same amount of
suffering.
On this subject we will cite the testimony of Cloquet,
because a very high authority in science, and excellent
in moral character—and gentlemanly uprightness. Now
Cloquet distinctly asserts with regard to the case of Ma-
dame Plantin, whose breast was removed by him, while
she was in the state of magnetic slumber, that although
he had seen some of his surgical patients, who during an
operation had not said one word,—uttered one cry,—or
made one single complaint ;
yet in all these cases, their
countenances, their movements, their gestures, their com-
pressed lips,—their firm grasp of their own hand, or of
some other body, their suspended inspiration, the rigi-
dity of the muscular system, or some other expression,
showed the intense effort of determinativeness which was
sent to the will,—in order to control the expression of
their suffering ; all of which told an eloquent tale of their
agonized feelings and mental firmness. Not one of
these expressions were traceable in Madame Plantin
;
on the contrary, there was a perfect calm,—a perfect in-
difference—an absence of all expression, even during the
division and (intentional) bruising of the nerves, as if she
had nothing to do with what was going on. And all this
too, occurring in a most excitable patient, whose nerves
were of the most impressible order. And she was after-
wards unconscious of all that had taken place. There
are similar cases on record in our own country, to which
I have not referred, from a desire not to interfere with Jiv-
ing names and neighbours, but which are, notwithstanding,
of undoubted veracity.
An objection has been taken on other grounds to the
absence of pain. It is strange, indeed, to observe the
\c
RELIEF OP MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 125
miserable perversities to which prejudice will conduct its
votaries ; —to which the desire of victory, rather than of
truth, will decoy its doughty champions. Talk, indeed,
of the dupes, and the self-deceived of magnetism ! Even
admitting their existence, they would be outweighed, and
outnumbered by the philosophic dupes of their own de-
ceptive sophistry ;
—for in the one case, there is the sem-
blance of truth,—in the other there is not even its faintest
shadow. The dogma, for it is unsupported by proof,
is, that pain during an operation is necessary to its suc-
cess : —the system must be apprized of what is going
forward in order to assist its curative actions : there are
no facts, no reasonings to support this dogma, while both
may be adduced for its refutation. There is the fact of
operations for trephining being almost invariably per-
formed during a state of unconsciousness; these arc the
facts of success attendant upon operations performed
during magnetic sleep :
—there is the fact that all opera-
tions are ceeteris paribus successful in proportion to the
smallness of the shock which the nervous system re-
ceives ; —there is the fact, that after any considerable
operation, opium is always given, in order to allay pain
and diminish this shock ; and there is the reasoning, that
the danger of an operation must depend upon the amount
of constitutional irritation which follows it ; that the cu-
rative process succeeds best, in proportion as the consti-
tutional irritation is small ; and therefore that the only
way of securing the former, and diminishing the latter,
is by keeping the nerves quiet, and by saving them as
far as possible from painful impression. Surely after this
simple statement, we shall hear no more of the advan-
tages to be derived from the pain attendant upon surgical
operations
!
126 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
In the application of magnetism to the treatment of
disease, it is, however, admitted that there has been
much exaggeration as to the extent of its efficacy—not
that the facts may have been falsely stated,—but that
in the glow of enthusiasm, extraordinary histories, and
unlikely and singular cases have been given, which in
partially instructed minds would lead to the conclusion
that somnambulism was a feature of every-day occurrence,
—and that magnetism was a remedy for every malady
:
whereas in reality, the former is rare, and the latter
limited.
It may be right to state here, although it is anticipat-
ing a subsequent part of our discussion, that in magnetic
sleep, the patient should not be questioned after his sensa-
tions, because the question itself may suggest, and may
therefore lead to the reply :
—the patient should be en-
couraged to express his own feelings in his own words.
And then it is to be employed as an auxiliary to medicine
—not discarding the latter,—and always seeking the
direction of a medical person, who will have previously
had the candour to examine the subject, and to have sat-
isfied himself of its justice and propriety. Then, its
principal application will be found in equalizing the circu-
lation of the blood, and in restoring the feeble and ex-
hausted nervous energy. In this respect it is like all other
remedies—useful when applicable—exceedingly useful in
rheumatism, sciatica, and other neuralgic conditions,
—
in all functional disorder dependant upon atonic action,
—
congestion, chronic inflammation, and exhaustion;—but
not applicable to the higher states of acute inflammation,
nor to that amount of organic laesion, which has already
led to the destruction of function, and the disorganization
of tissue.
^d
RELIEF OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 127
In cases of organic malady, over which it exerts no
final control, it will, however, furnish some palliative
agency, and relieve for a time.
It must not be omitted to be mentioned, that the con-
fidence which the patient feels, is one great means of
sustaining vital power, and giving efficacy to the treat-
ment. This fact is admitted by medical men in their
exhibition of remedies,—and it is still greater in the
practice of magnetism, because a greater amount of reli-
ance is developed in the patient towards his magnetizer,
—
and that chiefly because the latter is radiant with benevo-
lence,—because he finds the pleasure of doing good, and
of succouring the wretched, superior to every other consi-
deration ; his heart has no room for any other sentiment
than love to his fellow-creatures, and gratitude to almighty
God : —and thus purified and exalted, the heart becomes
in the good man, the seat of every virtuous affection ; and
hence the practice of magnetism is universally fvourable
to the development of moral truth.
In estimating the recorded histories of magnetic cures,
in order to arrive at the full extent of its agency, it is
necessary to rely only upon relations which have been
given by medical men ; —not that we would discard as
untrue, cases related by others,—but we would let them
pass, and not take them into the account, because medical
men, if unprejudiced, axe alone capable of judging the
real character of the disorder,—the intensity of the symp-
toms,—and the progress towards cure—as well as to sepa-
rate how much of alleged improvement is fairly attributable
to magnetism, and how much to other causes, and other
remedial agents.
And since there is still to be found so much uncer-
tainty in medicine, which has existed as a science for
128 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
upwards of two thousand years ; and of which the prin-
ciples founded upon the accumulation of innumerable
observations have been unceasingly tested and rectified
by new and enlarged, and more enlightened experience :
how much greater uncertainty ought there to be in mag-
netism, which though it may have been empirically prac-
tised from the very highest antiquity, has been so prac-
tised only fitfully and occasionally,—has attempted to
form a peculiar doctrine for itself, only in these later
days;—and rests upon a comparatively small number of
observations, collected for the most part by nonmedical
persons, and therefore more likely to be led away by ap-
pearances,—to be hurried by their own feelings, into
erroneous belief—and to have been deceived in the nature
of disease—and in the effects said to have been produced ;
to all which catalogue of evils producing uncertainty of
conclusion, may be added yet this one, viz. that of re-
cording only the successful, and passing by unnoticed, the
unsuccessful cases.
But as we have already stated ; we can afford to throw
aside all this doubtful testimony,—and to appeal only to
the indisputable facts, in proof of a curative agency
which is very great, which, however, be it remembered,
has a limit that cannot be overstepped, viz., that it has
no bower over organic lesion,—and that however great
may be in such cases the temporary improvement, the
sick will ultimately fall back, and sink under their mala-
dies, over which magnetism has no ultimate control. It
is however something gained, to get time,—to arrest the
rapidity of the downward path,—to renovate strength for
a while,—to induce sleep where narcotics fail,—to tran-
quillize the nerves,—frequently to discard pain, and gene-
rally to diminish suffering ; and such effects we claim for
human magnetism.
Va
RELIEF OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 129
Before we close this section, we must notice the indi-
rect testimony afforded to the efficacy of magnetism, by a
writer who in perfect simplicity,—and in entire uncon-
sciousness of the remedy he was employing, wrote a few
years since a history of its beneficial agency ; we allude
to " Power's New Principles of Midwifery." This is not
the place to go into those principles, except in so far as
they relate to our present subject. His grand position is
that the pain of parturition may be much mitigated by
friction :
—and under certain circumstances, the whole
process maybe accomplished without pain, if that friction
be properly applied.
We must allow him to speak for himself. " Friction
" is, without doubt, beneficial, by exciting warmth in the
" part rubbed, and also in affording it pressure and sup-
" port ; it is probable also, that it possesses a peculiar
" ratio operandi, dependent upon a stimulating action
" produced among the nervous rami of the muscular
"fibres,—by their consequent agitation or concussion,
" and by which the local or innate irritability (vis insita)
" may become so far exhausted, or changed in its quan-
" tity, or in its susceptibility of receiving nervous im-
" pressions, as to give rise to diminished action or qui-
" escence of the moving fibres, with correspondent cessa-
" tion, or diminution of painful sensation. The nervous
" energy being thus prevented from being expended upon
" the part affected metastatically—is determined to the
" proper seat of its action, the uterine muscles." It was
necessary to quote thus much in order to show, that this
writer was in perfect ignorance of the agent he was em-
ploying.
The effect of the treatment is thus described. —" The
" length of time required to produce the desired effect,
—
6
130 APPLICABILITY OF MEGNETISM TO THE
'will be found different in different cases, according to
•
the nature of the exciting causes : —in some the im-
'
proper action will be removed almost instantly, and
'
as it were, by a miracle, so that« case which has been
• protracted for the greater part of a week, under the
1
most intense suffering without the least progress, has
' been happily terminated in fifteen or twenty minutes
1
from the first commencement of the friction."
Again, " it is a feature of no small importance in the
' effects of friction, that those patients in whom it has
1
been used have in almost every instance recovered with
4
remarkable celerity, although in previous parturitions,
' where it was not employed, they had sustained much
• subsequent illness, and very protracted recoveries."
Lastly, " experience has proved, that it (friction) is
1
not so efficacious when applied with the palm or flat
'part of the hand
:
—the better mode of applying it is,
• with the ends of the pingers, applied together, so
• as to form the segment of a circle, and moved over the
' part to be rubbed, in much the same way as the sound
' is elicited from a tambourine."
Here then we observe, first the author's ignorance of
the remedial agent he was employing ;
—secondly, his
testimony to the immediate effect upon the process of
parturition ; —thirdly, his evidence to the remarkably rapid
recoveries of his patients ;
—fourthly, his beautifully de-
fined method of employing human magnetism, not with
the palm of the hand, which would really be the best
frictional agent,— but with the tips of the fingers
which form the best medium of transmitting magnetic
emanations : —and fifthly, the independent and irrefraga-
ble evidence thus afforded to the power of magnetism, by
One who has no idea of the thing—who fancies he has
RELIEF OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 131
made a new discovery, and reasons as if the whole process
and result, were dependent upon friction. Here too at
least, there could have heen no agency of imagination.
It has been suggested to me, that if this application of
magnetism be true, it must operate materially against the
subject in all right-minded persons, and must give great
weight to the objection which has been raised against it of
being identified with satanic agency, because of its inter-
fering with the original punishment of woman. " I will
greatly multiply thy sorrow : —in sorrow shalt thou bring
forth children."
This is not the place to enter into a question which
would require a reference to anatomical details inexplica-
ble to the general reader,—and yet with the desire which
I have to carry with me, the right-minded though scrupu-
lous, I feel that I should be wrong in leaving behind me
the objection unnoticed.
Let it be remarked then that the original curse, by no
means defines the amount of sorrow to be sustained by
woman, and that magnetism by no means proposes to
obviate that sorrow altogether, but only to mitigate its in-
tensity ; — that is, it is a means placed by God in the hands
of man for diminishing the sufferings which have resulted
from the fall, and as such, it is to be placed on a level with
the science of medicine, and with other remedial agents,
which are employed for the relief of suffering humanity.
It may perhaps be said that this is not a disordered,
but a natural process. To which we answer, first, by the
proposition it has been shown to be a disordered process,
disordered by, and the punishment of, sin. And second-
ly, though we cannot explain these details, we do fearless-
ly assert, that the contrivances of nature to diminish the
amount of this suffering are exquisite, and the most beau-
132 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
tiful proofs of the goodness, and compassion, as well as
of the wisdom of the Almighty ;—and that according to
the existing constitution of nature, the suffering is dimi-
nished, as far as is compatible, with the upright female
form. Surely, then, we shall not be wrong, if while we
adore and admire these contrivances of infinite wisdom
and love, we do humbly, and at immeasurable distance,
strive to imitate the example of compassion thus given us
and endeavour also, to employ the talents vouchsafed
us for that purpose, to the glory of God in the mitigation
even of these sufferings.
While this sheet was passing through the press, I have
received communications from several quarters bearing
upon the subject of this chapter, from which, however, I
shall select only two. The first is from a well-known
literary lady, who has for years been greatly suffering,
and who has been relieved by magnetism. " As for my
own case," she writes, " nothing that you have heard can
" be too favourable ;—I am for the practical purposes of
" my quiet life, welV I forbear to quote more at large,
because there is good reason to hope, that the whole case,
and some very interesting details connected with it, will
be one day given to the public.
The onlv other communication I shall notice is from
Dr. Inglis of Halifax, to whom I beg to offer this testimo-
ny of gratitude for kindness and courtesy, which I could
not have expected. Omitting details of a more personal
nature, I proceed" to extract from his letter.
" I had an exceedingly good case some nine or ten
" months since of an epileptic girl of eleven years of age.
" She had been attended for the two years immediately
" preceding, by two of the medical men of our town, one
" of whom brought her to me, to see what could be ef-
Vi
RELIEF OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 133
"fectedby mesmerism, as he had most judiciously em-
" ployed all the usual remedies, without producing the
" slightest alleviation. Her parents also, seeing their
" child gradually getting worse, and her intellect evidently
" getting weaker, instead of strengthening with her years,
" gladly consented to the suggested trial. Mr. Spencer
" Hall happened to be in Halifax at that time, and before
" a committee of medical men, he commenced the expe-
" riment. The girl did not appear to be affected, but on
" arriving at her home, she said she felt exceedingly
" sleepy, and was soon after seized with a most violent
" epileptic fit, more severe than her parents had witnessed
" before : —she then sunk into a deep sleep, and remained
" so till morning—an event unknown to her before. I
" next day mesmerized the child, and succeeded in produ-
" cing the desired effect in about half an hour. She was
" allowed quietly to sleep for about an hour, and then
" awakened, when she expressed herself as much re-
" freshed. Suffice it, this child came to me every day for
" three weeks, and I seldom kept her asleep for a shorter
11
period than than that of two hours,—sometimes four
" hours, leaving her during her somnolent state in the
" immediate supervision of some member of my house-
*«
hold. During the first week, she had only two fits,
" whereas formerly she had had as many every day, and
" from the second week till the present hour, she has conti-
" nued exempt from any attack. As her bodily vigour in-
" creases, so progresses the mental power ; and many
" blessings and grateful thanks have I had from the pa-
" rents of this child, who had been reproached by officious
" neighbours, and preached against by their minister, for
" allowing the agency of Satan to be effecting a cure
" upon their girl. The case was altogether most inter-
134 APPLICABILITY OF MAGNETISM TO THE
" esting, and an approving conscience gave me my re-
" ward."
" At the last I could induce sleep in about two minutes :
" but after allowing her to sleep for some time, and then
" awakening her, and re-mesmerizing her, I did not suc-
" ceed ever, under five minutes—once or twice not at all.
" As I wished only the quieting or sedative effects upon
" the nervous system, nothing else was tried in this case,
" save the proving the genuineness of the sleep itself by
" various tests."
1 have quoted this case with peculiar pleasure, because
it exhibits so simply, and so soundly, the curative agency
of magnetism. Surely such an agent is not to be de-
spised.
I had also another reason for detailing this case
:
it is one of those, in which the parents were upbraided
with calling in the agency of Satan to relieve the child's
maladies. Now independent of the agency of Satan in
producing indirectly every form of human suffering, it
has been supposed by very many persons, that epilepsy
was the " possession'''' of the scriptures. By no means
participating this idea, yet we take it up for the sake of
argument, and illustration. Let us resort to the scripture
narrative. We find that our blessed Lord had been cast-
ing out a devil, and was accused of having done so by
the power of Beelzebub, the prince of the devils. But
lie knew their thoughts, and said unto them, " Every
kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation ;
aud every city or house divided against itself shall not
stand." " And if Satan rise up against himself and be
divided, he cannot stand but hath an end."
We forbear to follow out the argument : its application
is too obvious ; and we fear to desecrate an authority so
RELIEF OP MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DISEASE. 135
sacred, by descanting upon it in the pages of a literary
inquiry. AVe believe that in every mind not closed against
conviction, it cannot fail to be conclusive.
A similar case reached me a few days since, from a
clergyman : —and it is not many weeks since a lady was
describing to me the agonies of her baby, and its cries for
three hours, which nothing would pacify till she stripped
it and herself, and laid it upon her stomach, when in a
few minutes it was relieved, and sank into a peaceful
slumber. Here again was a case of unconscious magnet-
ism—and no possibility of the intervention of imagination.
We may then consider as established, the beneficial
agency of magnetism, in the treatment of medical and
surgical disorders : —the extent to which this is true,
—
and the varieties of its scientific application must still re-
main to be determined by the experience of upright and
unprejudiced medical men.
136
CHAPTER VIII.
ON THE QUALIFICATIONS OF MAGNETIZERS.
Before we proceed further, we would very briefly no-
tice the proper characteristics of a good magnetizer ;
—
understanding by this term, not the medical person who
superintends the treatment, hut the individual who, under
his direction, conducts the magnetic processes.
The most important and fundamental characteristic of
a good magnetizer, is on his part the possession of sound
thought, and of a firm will; he must not employ his
processes in a thoughtless or careless manner, or they
will be unsuccessful ; but he must really throw his mind
into the duty—must be attentive to what he is about,
must wish to do good,—not allowing himself to wander
into distant or discrepant scenes—but concentrating his
will upon the object before him.
Such must be the qualifications of his head ; —but
those of his heart are not less important—and they com-
prise,
—
1. Benevolence of disposition. The object of mag-
netism, is to restore health and comfort to the invalid,
—
and to effect this requires oftentimes much patience and
perseverance, and self-denial—even the devotion of many
tedious and unrecompensed hours to succouring the
wretched,—and these sacrifices of personal comfort will
ON THE QUALIFICATIONS OF MAGNETIZERS. 137
only be made by the kind-hearted. Yet the effects of mag-
netism will be thoroughly happy, only in proportion as it
is accompanied by an earnest desire after this object,—
and will possess a value corresponding to the amount of
real charity and benevolence employed : —and on the con-
trary, for very obvious reasons, the results will be almost
nothing, where selfishness and indifference form the pro-
minent traits of character.
2. Since, then, magnetism should only be employed
to relieve the sick, and where necessity requires its aid,
the entire will should be thrown into this action, for it is
the volition of the magnetizer, which determines and
directs his conduct, and gives a character of intellect and
truth to all he does : —-an essential condition of a good
magnetizer, therefore, is to will, which however a very
little reflection will show is not so necessary to produce, as
to direct, and regulate, and individualize, and govern the
actions of magnetism.
3. The exercise of this will produces attention; and
when once united, these become inseparable:—volition
gives the first impulse to attention : —attention reacts
upon, sustains, and augments the influence of the will
and especially prevents its distraction from the one sole
and exclusive end of magnetism—viz. the cure of the
patient, or at least the relief of his sufferings.
4. The existence of these properties pre-supposes, that
the operator has carefully reflected upon his object, and
has been so far satisfied with his thoughts, as to possess
confidence in the efficacy of his means ; a property which
is a very important motive to action, and doubles its
intensity ; —while if he distrust himself,—if he doubt the
energy of his means,—if he hesitate, the attention and
the will become palsied, and the results are stricken with
6*
138 ON THE QUALIFICATIONS
the blight of inefficacy, and come to nothing, because
the means of pursuing them have not been confidently
employed.
5. Indomitable perseverance is another characteristic
of a successful magnetizer : it is not enough for him to be
animated by benevolence towards his patient,—to believe
in the efficiency of his means,—and to feel a confidence
in his power of relieving the individual—but he must fur-
ther be possessed of untiring patience—and of an amount
of moral courage and fortitude to meet with and to bear
difficulties,—and of stedfastness of purpose, which shall
enable him to persevere till every obstacle is removed, and
his object is accomplished.
6. Lastly, he must be reflective. A review in his own
mind of what has taken place during each magnetic sit-
ting, should always follow such sitting. As with the ordi-
nary physician, so with the magnetizing physician ; if he
dismisses all thought of his patient, as he quits the threshold
of his door, he will not be a successful practitioner : it is
only by individual reflection and observation that he can
hope to discover, to aid—to direct—to govern—or to sus-
tain the agency of nature.
There are some other qualities, not so directly bearing
upon the practice of magnetism, which however the mag-
netizer should possess, in order to insure that steady reli-
ance upon his character, which is so necessary for the
satisfaction of friends,—and for his safe admission into
the unarmed bosom of the domestic circle.
1. He should be a man of established moral character,
of a virtuous, and well-regulated life,
—
rigid towards
himself, but liberal towards the feelings and opinions of
others ;
—and one who entertains a high respect for all
which the order of nature, the established rules of so*
OF MAGNETIZERS. 139
ciety, or the laws of God, require to be recognized and
observed.
2. He should be exempt from personal vanity and
enthusiasm, lest by his inconsiderate and unreflecting
zeal, be should be betrayed into all sorts of follies, and
lest in the development of startling phenomena, he should
forget the only real object of magnetism as a curative
agent.
3. He should be free from impertinent curiosity—
a
capital moral blemish in ordinary life, but still more so in
magnetic pursuits, because the good of the patient is for-
gotten—the attention of the magnetizer is distracted—and
fixed upon any object rather than the establishment of the
patient's health : in such cases no satisfactory results can
be expected.
4. He should be calm, and in order to his being so, he
should be disinterested ; and with these two properties,
though he cannot cure, he will almost certainly succeed in
solacing his patient.
5. After what has been said, it is scarcely necessary to
insist upon delicacy of manner in conducting his manoeu-
vres—especially since he has no excuse for being other-
wise : and if he be forgetful on this point, it can only be
from not possessing the qualifications above enumerated.
It is right to add, though without being able to explain
the law which governs the arrangement, that different
magnetizers possess very different powers over distinct
forms of malady,—and also of producing the different
phases of magnetic phenomena. This is only to be ex-
plained by the peculiarities of the several nervous systems,
and their respective affinities. That these peculiarities
exist, is matter of every-day observation, from the very
varying effect of the same physical agents, upon different
140 ON THE QUALIFICATIONS OF MAGNETIZERS.
nervous systems, and from the ever diversified manifesta-
tions of mind of individuals. These relative affinities are
also matter of observation in common life ; for nothing is
more frequent, than to find an acknowledgment of the
secret mysterious influence exercised by one person over
another ; while change the persons, and the one becomes
powerless to produce influence, and the other no longer
susceptible to impression,—another proof that the laws of
magnetism are in fact the laws of nature, which we are
called upon to admire, to enforce, and to adore, though
we cannot comprehend.
Finally, the best magnetizers will be found in those,
who to a strong body and unbroken health, unite a tran-
quil and abiding character,—a benevolent disposition
—
lively emotions subordinated to a cool and steady judg-
ment,—a persevering but not enthusiastic will,—activity
united to patience,—the power of abstracting the mind,
and of easily concentrating the attention—so that in mag-
netizing they shall think only of the object before them.
In quitting this part of our subject, it may be as well
to mention, that with very many magnetizers, after a
sceance, there is experienced a good deal of exhaustion,
and a feeling of weariness and fatigue. And this fact
powerfully elucidates one of our important positions, for
how is this weariness occasioned ] Simply that there is
a diminished vitality from its too rapid expenditure : —the
magnetizer has lived in two individuals at the same time,
and has imparted of his own vital power to sustain that
of the invalid,—and thus experiences the necessary con-
sequence of having parted with what he has the power to
recruit, in order to succour the deficient vitality of one
whose power to recruit has been lost by sickness.
141
CHAPTER IX.
HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF
MEDICINE TOWARDS ANIMAL MAGNETISM; AND CON-
SIDERATION OF THE QUESTION, HOW FAR THE POWER OF
IMAGINATION MAY BE ALLOWED TO BE A SUFFICIENT
CAUSE OF ITS PHENOMENA.
A more pitiable instance of the bane of prejudice does
not exist, than is involved in the details of that history
which we are about to present. Before entering upon the
conduct of the academy, it may be as well to glance at
the testimony of some early opinions, which bear more or
less upon the subsequent history.
In the year 1517, Pomponace, in a work on the causes
of natural, yet marvellous facts, after admitting the inde-
pendent truth of miracles performed through the power of
God for the establishment of religious truth, rejects all other
miracles, and treats them as deceptive,—or as effects pro-
duced by some natural, but hitherto undiscovered or unex-
plained cause. He considers certain persons as gifted with
the faculty of curing certain diseases,in virtue of an emana-
tion from themselves, which by the power of the will and
the imagination, they are enabled to direct to the sick : and
in order to the full realization of this benefit, the indivi-
dual so operating should possess much faith,—a strong
142 HISTORY OP THE CONB^CT
imagination,—and an earnest will to cure the sickness
—
qualities which he considers as not easily found in combi-
nation.
Bacon also says that this fascination is the power and
action of the imagination of one man, directed to the body
of another, thus admitting the principle of magnetism,
though clothing it in different language, and believing it
to be a mental agency from the one, influencing the body
of another,—he being clearly ignorant of the magnetic
exhalations which are so readily communicable from one
strong to another feeble body.
It would be scarcely right to pass altogether without
notice, the history of Greatrakes, who is said by George
Rust, then Dean of Connor, and afterwards Bishop of
Dromore, (in 1666,) to have been a simple, amiable,
pious man—a perfect stranger to fraud, and intensely
attached to the Anglican Protestant Church. On the
same authority, we find, that by the application of his
hand, he drove away pain, and drew it away from the
extremities. He performed some astonishing cures, but
did not attribute them to supernatural agency, nor to
miracle, nor to special divine interposition. These cures
were sometimes slow, and effected by reiterated touch-
ings, and some cases were not relieved at all. In the
successful cases, he directed those who were cured to
thank God, not himself. In some instances we find that
acute pain was immediately relieved by his touch. At
another time he is said to have drawn the pain from one
spot—the shoulder for instance ; and if these curative
tractions were arrested before they reached the extremi-
tises, so was the pain. These facts are here given as
being independent of magnetic theories, and as being
Jong antecedent to the birth of mesmerism,
OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 143
The reality of these facts is still further attested by the
celebrated Robert Boyle, who was at that time President
of the Royal Society. That some of the sick so relieved,
relapsed after an apparent cure, and again had recourse
to Greatrakes, and that some were not cured at all, is no
proof against his method of treatment, but strongly sup-
ports the position, that the effects were not considered
as divine, nor attributed to miraculous agency. It was
clearly magnetism with its active will towards good,
—
with the firm belief of the magnetizer of his power to
relieve,—and his entire confidence in the efficacy of the
means, while his method of manipulating, was that of
applying his hand upon the part, and employing slight
frictions from above downwards.
Now these are facts, which, existing before the heat
developed by the late controversy since the days of
Mesmer, are sufficient in themselves to make a wise man
stop to inquire. And when superadded to the many
subsequent facts, it is difficult to understand how the
inferences from them can be resisted. Even Virey, one
of the most redoubted enemies of magnetism, because
one of the most learned and most candid, after taking
a review of the earlier writers on this subject, freely ad-
mits its existence, because he defines animal magnetism
to be a term employed for the purpose of designating a
reciprocal influence, which is occasionally, but not inva-
riably, produced between two individuals, according to a
certain unknown and incalculable harmony of relation-
ship, either by the will, or by the imagination, or by a
development ofphysical sensibility.
Admitting this first great principle, we can but admire
the ingenuity, the perversion of common sense, by which
he endeavours to bring the weight of bis great talents in
144 HISTORY OF THE CONDUQT
opposition to magnetic truth. He admits that the mag-
netizers of the present day by no means cling to the
theory of Mesmer ; —on the contrary, there exists a great
diversity of opinion among them as to the cause of the
effects,—all admitting, however, that the effects are in-
contestable. Admitting, therefore, that the facts are in-
contestable, of what avail is it to level argument against
the fallacious reasonings of the supporters of magnetism ;
the facts are true, say they—the reasonings are false ;
therefore the doctrines are erroneous. How absurd the
conclusion ; —when it ought to be,—the facts are true
—
the reasonings are false ; but the facts only affect the doc-
trines, while the false reasonings apply simply to the
miserable casuists, and prove only that our knowledge is
not yet sufficiently advanced to enable us to establish any
thing like principles of science.
Here, however, it may be asked, as indeed it has been
asked by our learned opponent, if animal magnetism were
altogether untrue, how is it that sixty years of discussion
and experience,—of sarcasm and contempt, and contro-
versy, have not thoroughly put it down 1 But if, on the
contrary, it be an important truth, how is it, that after
so many trials, and so many apparent successes, it should
still rest under a cloud, and be rejected, and even branded
with imposture, by a great number of the most enlightened
individuals ?
Will not the history of the world furnish a solution to
these questions ; —and is it not the fact, that it is useless
to combat with prejudice—and that a man convinced
against his will, remains of the same opinion still 1 True
indeed it is, that if magnetism were untrue, it could not
have survived the storms which it has endured, in the last
sixty years ; —and the fact of its having ridden, not only
OP THE ROYAL ACADEMY OP MEDICINE. 145
mscathed, but proudly as well as safely, ridden through
hese storms, without the aid of science to direct its
:ourse, and simply through the persevering energy of
ruth and simplicity of purpose, does prove that it is sea-
worthy, and does excite our admiration, at the untiring
brtitude of those who have continued their course through
uch trials, and holding on the even tenor of their way
nly the more firmly because of their augmenting diffi-
culties.
The answer to the second question is no less apparent.
fo speak of things which are admitted to be incompre-
lensible, is to excite a prejudice against their reception
n man's proud understanding :
—to ask him for the
rouble of thought, is a great grief to his indolent dis-
>osition ; —to tell him there is any thing to know, which
ie did not know before, is, if it relate to himself, certain
>f producing a recoil against it ;
—but to ask him to be-
ieve that which is subversive of his previous notions, and
ells him of a power of which he can form no adequate
sonception, is at once to turn him aside from the inquiry
;
—and thus prejudiced, if he find himself supported by
>thers taking the same views; if he find that unsparing
:alumny and the severest ridicule have been heaped upon
hose who have entertained these doctrines ; and that some
nstances of fraud have been detected, and that these have
leen employed to sprinkle the whole series of facts with
he mildew of imposture;—and if he find, that medical
nen in general have stood aloof from these processes, is
t wonderful that, without investigation, he should at once
eject the whole, as a tissue of fraud and falsehood, of ex-
iggeration and collusion 1
Yet the world's history shows that this has been the
;ase with many discoveries, which having passed their
146 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
ordeal, have now established themselves as undeniable
truths. We will only witness astronomy, and geology, as
exhibiting these conclusions in a remarkable manner—and
as founded on facts now established, but which at an
earlier period were branded with all sorts of hard names,
and particularly insisted upon as untrue, because of their
anti-christian apparent testimony.
We cannot resist quoting in this place from the pao-es
of the Quarterly Review, which has just come before us,
long since this passage was originally written, but which
bears so conclusively upon our present line of argument,
and upon the conduct of the French Academy.
" Scepticism," says the reviewer, " is as great a foe to
" profitable knowledge as credulity ; if investigation is
" troublesome or disagreeable, or goes against our re-
" ceived opinions, we then are very apt to take refuge in
" a flat denial, and thus to discharge ourselves from the
" responsibility of inquiry, and the still greater trouble of
" having our preconceived opinions disturbed."
" To no portion of the marvellous legends related by
" our ancient chroniclers are such observations more ap-
" plicable, than to those relating to the aspect of the
" heavens. It is scarcely sixty years since, when tales of
" stones falling from the clouds, were ranked with the
" ghost story ; and the tourist (we quote from memory,
" but we believe it was Arthur Young) who, in the church
" of Ensisheim, beheld the metallic mass recorded to
" have dropped from the sphere above, anticipated with
" delight, as he described it in his note-book, the univer-
" sal applause which would be excited by deriding the
" dreams of monkish superstition. A stone has fallen
" from the clouds, at Luce, in Maine, is the intelligence
"received (1768) by the Academy of Sciences at Paris.
OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 147
" Can any one believe such a fable? No, say the acade-
" micians it must not be believed. So they despatch a
" commission, M. Lavoisier, M. Fougeroux, and M.
" Cadet,—to dispel the delusion. The three savans pro-
" ceed to the spot. There is the stone. What is the tes-
" tirnony of the witnesses ? A loud noise has been heard
" in the air ; they look up, and behold an opaque body
" descending in a curve, which falls on the soft turf, the
" lisitre dividing the field in which they are at work reap-
" ing the harvest, from the road. They hasten to the
" spot, and find the stone half buried in the earth, but so
" hot that it could not be touched. Away they flee ; but
" returning, when their panic wr
as diminished, they find
" the mass where they had left it, and cool. Now what
" was the verdict of the three savans, M. Lavoisier, M.
" Fougeroux, and M. Cadet ? Why, simply, that inas-
" much as facts oppose theory, therefore theory must pre-
" vail over facts : —and the academy decrees that this
" stone, having been merely uncovered by the electric
" flash, had been pre-existent in the ground. Matters
" thus continued in the creed of science. No one was
" called to assent to the existence of an aerolithe until
" the 13th of December 1795, when the one meteoric
" stone which fell in Yorkshire, within three fields' dis-
" tance of Major Topham's mansion, at once compelled
" belief. Now the aerolithe excites no more surprise than
" the hailstorm ; and the meteoric iron deposited in the
" Museum, demands nothing beyond the passing glance."
—Quarterly Rev., Oct. 1844.
Apologizing for this long quotation, so aptly illustrative
of the conduct of learned bodies and their commissions,
with regard to the discovery of new facts, apparently ir-
reconcilable with preconceived opinions,—and affording
I
148 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
so admirable a parallel to the conduct of the Royal Aca-
demy of Medicine, with regard to the facts of magnetism,
we now turn to the history of this science in France, and
to the treatment it has received from the scientific bodies.
After the attention had been awakened in Paris, to the
cures effected by the magnetic treatment of Mesmer, and
more especially by that of his disciple D'Eslon, a com-
mission was appointed in 1784 by Louis XVI., to inquire
into its merits, and to report thereon. This report was
unfavorable to the cause : but it was not unanimously
adopted by the commission, for a private report was made
at the same time by Jussieu, one of its members, which,
however favourable, was extinguished 'by the more im-
posing aspect of the general report. Now it is confessed
by all parties, that Jussieu had been one of the most
assiduous and attentive investigators : and he fairly states
that he had observed some facts which admitted of physio-
logical explanation,
—
others which seemed to militate
against animal magnetism,
—
a. third series of facts, which
he attributed to the imagination, and lastly, those which
could lead to no other conclusion, than that of admitting a
particular agent in their production. The candour of
this report at the outset of the inquiry is worthy of imi-
tation.
Not such the conduct of the commissioners generally ;
for they refused to make the experiments necessary to
acquaint themselves with the subject before them : they
magnetized themselves—and as they set out in the spirit
of incredulity,—and as a certain amount of belief, or
openness to conviction is necessary to the discovery of
truth, it was impossible that their pseudo-inquiries should
be successful : their opinions were prejudiced—and there-
fore from the experiments they did make, they inferred
OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 149
consequences to which those experiments did not legiti-
mately lead. They set out upon their research, with eyes
blindfolded by a pre-determination to put down magnetism,
and therefore the experiments were framed and made, not
with the view of discovering truth, but of annihilating
this new heresy. And yet, after all, the prejudiced results
thus obtained, demonstrated the existence of some un-
known agent,—an agent of which they voluntarily re-
mained profoundly ignorant—declared it without reason
not to be magnetic, and attributed to the influence of
imagination :— so true is it, that prejudice, esprit de corps,
and the desire of victory for opinions, however hastily em-
braced, crudely assimilated, and eagerly and obstinately
clung to, exactly in proportion to the inconsiderateness
with which they were originally formed ; —so true is it,
that there are motives sufficiently powerful, to lead astray
men of enlightened minds, and we trust of otherwise up-
right intentions.
The subsequent conduct of the Royal Society of Medi-
cine in erasing from their number the names of certain
medical men who had adopted magnetic views,—and the
unpalliated precipitation with which this erasure was
effected, proves even more than the report itself, the feeble-
ness of that cause which could resort to such measures of
retaliation and persecution, as were altogether unwarrant-
able and without excuse ;—while it at the same time
proves the honest conviction of those who would suffer
this degradation, rather than deny what they believed to
be truth. But party feeling was excited : and here we
see exemplified the important fact, that in democratic
assemblies, rendered tumultuous by the first wave of dis-
contented emotion, the loudest and the most prejudiced
declaimers obtain the greatest ascendancy ;
the powers
150 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
of imitation and of the imagination bias the most en-
lightened,—deflect their judgment from the sober paths
of uprightness and decision,—induce them to listen to the
syren voice of passion, and to cower beneath the storm of
prejudice,—and lead even men of great merit and charac-
ter beyond the boundary of justice, under the false but
fascinating pretence of supporting the cause of truth and
public good,—and of undeceiving and disenthralling that
public mind by the influence of their example, however
absolute and despotic.
Strange to say, this death-dealing report, and this per-
secuting agency upon the supposed prostrate foe, did not
destroy magnetism, which, in spite of its fiery trial, arose
from the crucible, purified perhaps from some of its char-
latanic alloy,—and having received a more sterling
impression ;
particularly as it had been dissociated from
the magnetic tub, and the convulsive crisis ;
—and as it
was almost immediately allied to magnetic somnambulism.
Whether this state was known to Mesmer, does not
appear ; it has been contended for that it was,—and that
he withheld this knowledge, under the impression, that
too many wonders would operate against the success of
his doctrines. My own opinion and belief is, that it was
unknown to the reviver of magnetism. Be this as it may,
it was accidentally discovered, as it has been frequently
since, by the Comte de Puysegur, who had no pecuniary
interest to serve,—but whose benevolent heart led him to
devote his time, his talents, his fortune, to the relief of
suffering humanity.
We have said that this was discovered accidentally, and
that it has been so by others ; —a remarkable instance of
this kind has recently come within my own knowledge.
A young clergyman who was quite sceptical on the subject
OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 151
of magnetism, said one day lately to his sister in a mere
joke—" O nonsense,—sit down in that chair, and I will
magnetize you just as well as a professor." He had ne-
ver seen any magnetic processes, but had heard and read
something of the mode of operation, and proceeded to
make some passes, when after a short time, to his great
astonishment and alarm, his sister fell asleep, and conti-
nued so for five hours in spite of all his endeavours to awake
her. During this sleep, she manifested some of the usual
phenomena—could only hear him—got up when he got
up, &c. &c. Having heard it stated that persons under
magnetic slumber, could distinguish articles touched by
their magnetizer, he drew his hands several times over a
couple of envelopes previously marked, and then gave
them to her among fifty others : she immediately selected
the two, and rejected the others. Being alarmed at the
long continuance of sleep, he at last bethought himself of
asking her, whether she should awake naturally and
when ;—to which she replied affirmatively, and " in half
an hour ;" and this took place accordingly and exactly.
Now here is a case of genuine unsophisticated magnetism
with clairvoyance, and prevision, produced unexpectedly
—without design—without the possibility of arrangement
—and one which of course converted the sceptic into
a believer. What argument can be brought against
such a case"? None, but to deny the fact: —and yet
disbelieve this fact, and there remains nothing to be be-
lieved.
Nor is it a remarkable circumstance, that with some
remaining portions of common sense, and the recurrence
of similar facts, magnetism persists in spite of the strug-
gle it has been called upon to maintain with the learning
and the casuistry of the sceptic, and the redicule, and the
152 HISTORY OP THE CONDUCT
sarcasm of the ignorant and the vulgar ;
and that it has
ranked among its numbers, men of the first water—men
who would retain their convictions, for facts only, and
would yield to those facts. In truth, give up all the rea-
soning in favour of magnetism, and there remains the
power of producing magnetic phenomena; and of curing
malady by these means ; and so long as these strong-
holds exist, the cause may be fairly left, and notwithstand-
ing every contumely, it must ultimately triumph.
It must be confessed that the first idea of magnetism
did not originate in the mind of its reviver Mesmer, from
actual observations of the phenomena produced by certain
relationships and influences established between man and
man, but from an absurd hypothesis of magnetic emana-
tions. But although Mesmer, like many others, com-
menced the pursuit of truth, from a wrong starting place ;
—and although he overlooked much of the powerful
agency of the nervous system in certain circumstances, in
order to give prominence to what can possess at best, but
a very secondary consideration : yet in spite of this error,
—and even during the existence of phenomena, which are
now considered as adventitious, and unsound;—still there
can be no question, that even in this unfavourable position,
there was produced such a profound impression upon the
system of the patient, as oftentimes to effect the relief, or
cure of a certain order of malady. Experience has aug-
mented our knowledge ; and we now know that the same
curative effects may be produced without risking the same
ebranlement of the constitution, and without all those ex-
terior pretensions, which so greatly lead to the ideas of
jugglery and imposture.
It is to be remarked that the result of the first commis-
sion of inquiry at Paris, though unfavourable, was still
OP THE ROYAL ACADEMY OP MEDICINE. 153
such as to admit the production of magnetism, of certain
agencies upon the nervous system, which however were
denied to be peculiar, and were ascribed to imagination
as their prim um mobile, only acting through exterior
means. The agency then was allowed,—the only differ-
ence of opinion, was as to the agent, and this peculiar
or efficient influence of the imagination we shall presently
consider.
The absorbing events of the French revolution super-
seded for the most part inquiries into animal magnetism.
Meantime, the unfavourable report of the Royal Commis-
sioners had been printed, and most widely disseminated.
In the year 1S25, however, a discussion was provoked, at
some of the sittings of the Royal Academy of Medicine
;
—some contending for a new commission of inquiry, on
the ground that in animal magnetism, as in all other
matters, which are submitted to the judgment of erring
humanity, new light may be thrown upon the subject by
time, and experience, and dispassionate investigation :
—
and that it is always right to review the opinions of our
ancestors, and to test them afresh, whether for confirma-
tion or abnegation, by a new and more rigorous examina-
tion.
On the opposite side, it was urged, that the investiga-
tion, if proper, was a subject for private inquiry; and
that the opinion of the Academy should not be asked for,
till the truth of the facts, and the soundness of the doc-
trines had been tested by a great number of experiments
and trials conducted in a private manner ; that it was at
best, one of those doubtful results, on which physiologists
might and ought to occupy themselves,—and in doing so,
to discard first those ideas of the marvellous, which un-
7
154 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
happily had been so thoroughly interwoven both with
magnetic doctrine and practice.
The result of this long and animated discussion was,
that the subject should be submitted to a new investi-
gation : and the commission appointed in consequence,
was composed of MM. Bourdois, Double, Fouquier, Itard,
Gueneau de Mussy, Guersent, Laennec,Leroux,Majendie,
Marc, and Thillaye, to whom was afterwards added M.
Husson, in exchange for M. Laennec. Of this commis-
sion M. Husson was appointed reporter: the inquiry was
protracted through six years, and the report was finally
made in 1831.
It is clear that in such a report, we have a right to expect
something like deliberate opinion, though perhaps we could
scarcely anticipate unanimity. Accordingly, there was
also in this case, a private report made by M. Double of
his own, views on the subject, in the same way as, in the
former report, a private statement had been made by
Jussieu. Although the character of these two reporters
was very different, and although we should consider the
weight of the one as incalculably overbalancing that of
the other ;
yet, for argument's sake, we are willing to
place them on the same scale, to give to each the same
amount of value, and to reject the testimony of both as
adventitious,—and to let the respective public documents
agreed upon by the majority, stand on their own inde-
pendent merits.
In this second report, then, the commissioners announce
that they have sought only to be exact observers—anxious,
intelligent, and cautious inquirers. It would occupy far
too large a space in our pages to give the entire report,
with its facts and reasoning, which otherwise we should
have been pleased to do : as it is, we can only make room
OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 155
for the conclusions, and add, that the report is distin-
guished by great talent and impartiality : it does not
profess to explain—but merely to narrate and to deve-
lope : and it avers that the phenomena before them are
not more inexplicable than many other physiological and
psychological phenomena, or the action of medicine, or
very many other facts included within the circle of nature's
domain.
We subjoin the conclusions of the commission of the
Academy of Medicine appointed to inquire into the mag-
netic processes.
1. The contact of the thumbs or of the hands, fric-
tions, or certain gestures which are made at a small dis-
tance from the body and are called passes, are the means
employed to transmit the action of the magnetizer to the
magnetized.
2. These exterior and visible means are not always
necessary ; since on certain occasions, the will alone, or a
mere look, are sufficient to produce magnetic phenomena,
even against the will of the magnetized.
8. Magnetism acts upon persons of different sex, and
age.
4. The time required to transmit and produce magnetic
action, has varied from half a minute to a minute.
5. Magnetism does not in general act upon persons in
good health ; nor does it act upon all persons who are
sick.
6. During the process of magnetism, there arise some
slight and transient effects which are not attributable to
magnetism alone ; such as a slight degree of oppression
—
a sense of heat or cold, and some other nervous phenome-
na, which admit of explanation, without the intervention
156 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
of any peculiar agent—such as through the influence of
hope, or fear,—of prejudice,—of the expectation of some
new and unknown thing—the ennui which results from
the monotonous impression of the passes—the silence and
quiet which are observed during the experiments—and
finally of the imagination, which exercises so great an in-
fluence upon certain minds, and certain organizations.
7. Some of the effects observed have appeared to depend
upon magnetism only, and have not been reproduced with-
out its agency : and these form well-established physiolo-
gical and remedial phenomena.
8. The real effects produced by magnetism are variable ;
it agitates some persons and calms others :
—generally it
occasions a temporary quickening of the breath, and of
the circulation,—some very transient convulsive twitches
of muscular fibre resembling slight electric shocks,—
a
greater or less degree of oppression,—sensorial torpor
—
even sleep,—and in a small number of cases, what is
called somnambulism.
9. The existence of an unique character, by which to
test in every instance, the reality of the state of somnam-
bulism, has not been established.
10. Nevertheless this state may safely be concluded as
existing, when it gives rise to the development of new
faculties which have been designated by the terms clair-
voyance, intuition, interior prevision ; —or when it pro-
duces great changes in the physiological condition of
the patient, such as insensibility on the one hand, or a
sudden and considerable increase of power on the other,
—and when this state cannot be ascribed to any other
cause.
11. Since among the effects attributed to somnambu-
lism, there are those which may be simulated ; so also
OP THE ROYAL ACADEMY OP MEDICINE. 157
may somnambulism itself be sometimes simulated, and
furnish the means of deception to impostors :
Also in the observation of such phenomena as present
themselves only as isolated facts, which cannot be attached
to any rational theory, it is only by the most attentive exa-
mination, by the most scrutinizing precaution, and by
many and varied trials, that the observer can feel secure
of escaping from illusion.
12. The sleep produced with more or less facility, and
established with a greater or less degree of soundness, is a
real, but not an invariable effect of magnetism.
13. It has been demonstrated to us, that this effect has
been produced under circumstances, in which the magnet-
ized could not see, and were wholly ignorant of the means
employed for its production.
14. When once a person has been thrown into the
magnetic sleep, it is not always necessary to have recourse
to magnetic processes, in order to reproduce the same
condition. A look of the magnetizer—even his will solely
will occasion the same influence. In these cases, it is
possible, not only to act upon the magnetized, but also to
produce complete somnambulism, and also to dissipate
that phenomena, when out of the patient's sight—and even
removed to some distance—and from another room, with
the doors closed between.
15. There occur generally some remarkable changes in
the perceptions and faculties of individuals, who fall into
somnambulism, through the influence of magnetism.
A. Some, in the midst of the hum of confused conver-
sation, hear only the voice of their magnetizer :
—many
answer very precisely the questions addressed to them by
himself, or by others with whom he is en rapport ;
—others
will hold conversation with all the persons which surround
158 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
them :
—but it is rare that they hear what passes around
them. For the most part, they are completely insensible
to exterior and unexpected sounds, such as the noise of a
gong loudly struck close to their ear,—the falling down
of a piece of furniture, «fec
B. The eyes are closed—the eyelids yield with diffi-
culty to efforts made to open them with the hand. This
process, which is not effected without pain, discovers the
hall of the eye convulsed and turned upwards, and even
sometimes downwards into the orbit.
C. Sometimes the sense of smell appears annihilated.
Muriatic acid or ammonia may be snuffed up the nose
without producing inconvenience, and even without being
discovered : —the contrary, however, takes place in certain
cases, and these become sensible to odors.
D. The greater number of somnambulists which we
have seen, were completely insensible ; their feet might
be tickled—their nostrils might be irritated by the approach
of a feather ; the skin might be pinched to an extent which
would occasion bruises ;
pins might be thrust unexpectedly
under their nails, and to a very considerable depth, without
their being perceived. Finally we have seen an individual
insensible to one of the most painful operations of surgery,
and in whom, neither the expression of the countenance,
nor the pulse, nor the respiration, could have betrayed the
slightest emotion.
16. Magnetism possesses the same degree of intensity,
and is as promptly felt at the distance of six feet as of
six inches ; and the phenomena which it developes are
the same in both cases.
17. Magnetic action at a distance does not seem to be
successful, except upon individuals who have been pre-
viously submitted to its influence.
^
OP THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 159
IS. We have only seen one individual fall into the state
of somnambulism, during the first employment of mag-
netism. Sometimes this state has not been fully declared
before the eighth or tenth sitting.
19. We have frequently seen ordinary sleep, which is
the repose of the organs of sense, of the intellectual facul-
ties, and of the voluntary movements, both precede and
terminate the state of magnetic somnambulism.
20. During their state of somnambulism, the magnet-
ized individuals whom we have observed, retain the
exercise of faculties which they possessed in their waking
condition. Their memory seems even more fruitful and
more extended, since they remember all that has passed
durino- the time of their somnambulism, however fre-
quently this state may have been experienced.
21. On awakening, they report an entire forgetfulness
of all the circumstances of their somnambulistic state
;
and on this subject it is impossible to obtain any other
guarantee than their own testimony.
22. The muscular powers of somnambulists are some-
times oppressed and paralyzed ; —at others, the move-
ments are only constrained, and the somnambulists stag-
ger like drunken men, sometimes avoiding, but at others
encountering the obstacles which have been placed in
their way. There are some somnambulists who preserve
entire the free exercise of their movements,—and others
who are stronger, and more active than in their waking
state.
23. We have seen two somnambulists distinguish (their
eyes being closed) objects placed before them ;
they have
told, without touching them, the number and the colour
of cards : they have read words traced out in the hand,
or some lines of a book opened at a chance page ;
and
160 HISTORY OP THE CONDUCT
this phenomenon has occurred when the eyelids were
exactly closed by the fingers.
24. We have met, in two somnambulists, with the
faculty of foreseeing acts of the organism, more or less dis-
tant,—more or less complicated.
One of them announced some days, or even months
beforehand, the day, the hour, and the minute of the
attack and return of epileptic paroxysms ; while the other
indicated the period of his cure : both their previsions
were realized with remarkable punctuality. They ap-
peared to us to apply themselves only to the acts or laesions
of their own organism.
25. We have only met with one somnambulist, who
pointed out the symptoms of illness of those pex*sons
with whom he had been placed en rapport ;
yet we have
made on this point a number of researches upon different
individuals.
26. Justly to establish the relationship subsisting be-
tween magnetism and the healing art, it is necessary to
have observed its effects upon a great number of indi-
viduals, and to have conducted every day, and for a long
time, experiments upon the same sick persons. This not
having been the case, the commission has confined itself
to reporting what it has seen in too small a number of
cases to venture upon any general conclusion.
27. Some of the sick who were magnetized experi-
enced no good result ;
—others felt more or less of very
marked relief, i. e. one, the suspension of constant pain
—
another, the return of strength,—a third, a respite of many
months from the recurrence of epileptic attacks,—and a
fourth, the entire cure of a severe, and long-standing
paralysis.
28. Considered as a physiological phenomenon, or as a
OP THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 161
therapeutic agent, magnetism should he assigned a place
in the list of medical knowledge ; and therefore medical
men alone should practise it, or superintend its employ-
ment, as is actually the case in the north of Europe.
29. The commission has been unable to verify the exis-
tence of other faculties, which have been announced by
magnetisers, to exist with somnambulists, because they
have not met with those faculties. But they have col-
lected, and now communicate facts of sufficient importance
as to lead them to think that the Academy ought to en-
courage researches on magnetism, as a very curious branch
of psychology and natural history.
Arrived at the termination of their labours, before clos-
ing this report, the commission has asked itself, if in the
precautions which it has multiplied around itself, in order
to escape from all manner of surprise ; if in the feeling
of constant distrust with which it has proceeded ; —if in
the examination of phenomena which it has observed, it
has scrupulously fulfilled your instructions. What other
line of inquiry, have we said, could we have followed %
What means more accurate could we have taken ? With
what more decided and discreet self-diffidence could we
have been actuated? Our conscience, gentlemen, has
loudly replied that you could not expect from us any thing
which we have done. Again, have we been honest, exact,
faithful observers 1 It is for you who are acquainted with
us, for many a long year, whether it be in the world, or in
our frequent scientific meetings, to answer this question.
Your answer, gentlemen, we anticipate from the an-
cient friendship of some among you, and from the esteem
of all.
We do not, indeed, flatter ourselves that you will en-
tirely partake our conviction of the reality of pheno-
7#
162 HISTORY OP THE CONDUCT
mena which we have observed, but which you have
neither seen, nor pursued, nor studied, with any among
us.
We do not ask from you a blind assent to all which
we have reported. We can conceive that a great number
of these facts are so extraordinary, that you cannot yield
to us your belief: —perhaps, indeed, we ourselves should
have dared to refuse you our assent, if, having changed
places, you should have announced to us this day, from
this chair, these very facts which we had never seen, never
observed, never studied, never pursued.
We ask only that you would judge us as we would
judge you, that is to say, that you would feel thoroughly
convinced, that neither the love of the marvellous, nor the
desire of celebrity, nor any personal interest, has influenced
our labours. We have been animated by higher and
worthier motives, by the love of science, and by the desire
to justify the hopes which the Academy had formed of our
zeal, and our devotedness.
Who can rise from the perusal of this document, and
can dare to assert that the second commission of inquiry
of the Royal Academy condemned magnetism ?
Who can justly escape from its perusal, without ad-
miring its candour, and its truthful honesty ; without
feeling that its subject is entitled to further investigation ?
The reporters divide the results of their observations
under the four following heads, viz.,
1. Cases in which the effects of magnetism are no-
thing, as with persons in health, and with some inva-
lids ;
2. Cases, and there are many, in which the effects are
very trifling
;
OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 163
3. Cases in which the results may be fairly attributed
to ennui—to monotony—to the legitimate influence of
surrounding circumstances, or to the imagination ; and
4. Cases in which, independently of all these causes,
the effects are produced by the influence of magnetism
alone.
Among other conclusions thus drawn, there is stated
the different effects of the same processes on different in-
dividuals,—thus proving the reality of these effects, mo-
dified according to the different nervous system in which
they occur, and according to the reciprocity of the two
systems of magnetizer and magnetized. If the effects
had been always the same, there might have been some
ground for supposing them to be the effect of imitation,
or collusive foreknowledge—an evil conclusion which is
entirely dissipated by the individual manifestations, ac-
cording to temperament, health, disorder, good temper,
and other mental and bodily changes.
With laudable candour the commissioners distinctly
state that the effects may be simulated. They aver their
belief in the establishment of the general principles of
animal magnetism : and
They aver their conviction, that magnetism should be
placed among the curative agents, and as such exclu-
sively placed under the management of medical men.
In concluding their Report, the commissioners appeal
powerfully to their auditors;—they ask if they have
taken every necessary precaution to investigate truth,
—
and to prevent error and deception ; —they ask if they
could have done otherwise than they have done;—if they
could have been more guarded than they have been, and
they conclude by conscientiously answering in the nega-
tive ; and by averring, that nothing could have been ex-
164 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
pected of them which they had omitted. For the
honesty, and sincerity, and trustworthiness of their re-
port, they appeal to those who for years had known them
in all the circumstances of life. They do not ask for a
blind belief in all which they have asserted ;
—they con-
sider that many of the facts are of a nature too extraor-
dinary to admit of easy credence from those who had not
seen them ; finally, they ask only for impartial judgment,
convinced that neither the love of the marvellous, nor the
desire of fame, nor any other sinister motive, had guided
their opinions :
—but that they had been actuated by the
desire to discover truth, by the love of science, and by
the sincere wish to justify the good opinion of those who
had intrusted them with their office. This Report is
signed by Bourdois de Lamotte, Fouquier, Gueneau
de Mussy, Guersent, Itard, I. J. Leroux, Marc, Thillaye,
and Husson, all men standing high, far above the possi-
bility of deception.
Which Report, then, is chiefly deserving of credit under
such circumstances ? that of men who got to the inquiry
with predetermined opinions and prejudiced results,
—
or that of those, who attentive, and scrupulous, and
exact, know how to throw aside their own prejudices,
and the prejudices of their friends—to rise superior to
the calumny and obloquy attached to their pursuit,
to despise the aspersions of falsehood which have been
so prodigally heaped upon them ; —to brave the ridicule
of the many ; —to cast away the power and influence of
great names—and to avow the honest convictions of their
own minds.
If magnetic phenomena are true ; —ay, even if they
possess the semblance of truth, then are they deserving
of accurate investigation ; and their want of truth must
OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF IffEDICINE. 165
be demonstrated before the brand of falsehood is affixed
upon them : —if they be extraordinary—if they be inex-
plicable,—and almost exceeding our belief,
—
then is it
the more necessary to inquire,—to expose their want of
cohsesion if they be inconsequent,—or to extract from
them the good, which may possibly be mixed up with
much evil and folly.
Above all, the medical men of our own country ought
not to stand aloof from this subject, so as to be placed
in the rear of the medical men of France, and of the
north of Europe. True indeed is it that in our cool
calculating temperaments, we are not disposed so much
as others to embrace without proof: —yet when we find
such men as Hufeland begin as the enemies of magne-
tism, and yet afterwards courageously avow their conver-
sion, and deliberately record their belief in its truth ;
—
when the first medical men of Berlin, Frankfort, Vienna,
Groningen, <fcc, have declared themselves its partisans,
surely we ought thoroughly to investigate, before we avow
our disbelief, of what they have believed ; or attaint their
fair characters, with the blight of falsehood, or the canker
of imbecility.
What then was the conduct of the Academy on re-
ceiving this Report of its commissioners 1 Was it as an
act of justice, to adopt its conclusions, and to give them
at least the same extent of circulation, which had been
given to the first Report in ] 784 1 No ! quite the con-
trary ; after a long discussion its conclusions were not
adopted ; it was not printed ; —it might be autographed ;
—but it was buried among the archives of the Academy.
As this is an important example of the manner in which
magnetic investigations have been treated, and crushed,
and stifled by men of science, it will be well to place in
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
166 HIS^RY OF THE CONDUCT
juxtaposition the respective merits of the two different cir-
cumstances.
1st Report.
The first Report was
hastily drawn up without
any fair examination of
facts.
The first Report was
remarkable for its want of
science, and for its incon-
sequential conclusions.
The first Report bears
upon its statements, the
aspect of prejudice, and the
desire of victory.
The first Report admits
facts,—denies magnetism to
be their cause, and without
proof ascribes these facts to
another cause, viz. imagi-
nation.
The first Report was
2d Report.
The second Report was
the result of six years of
candid investigation, and
abounded in facts, which
could not be gainsayed.
The second Report a-
bounds in erudition, bears
upon it the stamp of scien-
tific research,—abounds in
solid reasoning, and is re-
markable for the beauty and
harmony of its consequen-
tial conclusions.
The second Report is
characterized by its appear-
ance of truthfulness and jus-
tice; for its desire to give
only their real weight to cir-
cumstances and reasonings,
and to arrive at conclusions
warranted by the premises.
The second Report gives
a just value to the operation
of imagination and other
causes ; but shows, that af-
ter all there remains such
effects, as can only be refer-
red to some other cause.
The second Report was
OP THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 167
adopted, and most exten- not adopted
—
not printed
—
sively circulated. discouraged—and mortifi-
cation was heaped upon the
reporter.
Can any conduct exhibit more clearly the well-known
tendencies of a bad cause,—of a cause which shuns the
light, which is fearful of discussion, and struggles to sup-
press the truth %
A subsequent investigation took place by Roux, Bouil-
laud, Hyppolite Cloquet, Emery, Pelletier, Caventou,
Cornac, Oudet, and Dubois (D'Amicns)—and their Re-
port was presented on the 7th of August, 1837. In this
commission are included great names, though it must be
recollected, that it was composed of the majority of
declared enemies of magnetism ; —of persons, therefore,
whose opinions were already formed, and whose judg-
ment was antecedently made up. The Report is princi-
pally remarkable from its being a perfect contrast with its
predecessor. It sets out with an attempt to deceive, first,
by assuming that the commission had been composed
of impartial persons, and fairly arranged from both sides
of the question ; and next it seeks to impose Hyppolite
Cloquet upon the world, as if he had been his brother
Jules Cloquet, to whose character we have already borne
a just testimony, and under the sanction of whose great
name, the commissioners, and especially the unprincipled
reporter was aware that he should make a good case.
Two such falsehoods on the threshold, are quite enough
to sink the Report to the lowest depths of scientific in-
famy.
But we look to the body of the Report :
—instead of
abounding in facts, it possesses none, but gives sophis-
168 HISTORY OP THE CONDUCT
tications ; instead of the air of candour and impartiality,
it breathes throughout the spirit of the prejudiced parti-
san :—instead of being a calm and dispassionate inves-
tigation into truth, it is a contest for victory ; —instead
of legitimate conclusions, it neither affirms nor denies, but
seeks to destroy, by abounding in negative, and malevo-
lent insinuations and inuendoes from the beginning to the
end. Setting aside the talent of which Heaven knows
there might be little enough, and yet an abundance of
honesty and integrity, it is markedly deficient in truth-
loving observation, in candour of reasoning, and legiti-
mate argumentation : —and for these serious faults it was
impugned first by Dr. Berna, who openly denounces it, as
having misrepresented some facts,—as having suppressed
others of the first importance, and as having given a false
colouring to the whole proceeding.
This view of the subject was supported by the opinion
of M. Husson, elaborately delivered to the Academy of
Medicine at their sitting of the 22d of August. M. Hus-
son commences by showing that the commission had
overstepped the province assigned to them ;
—asserts
that it had been composed originally without a due re-
gard to impartiality,—that five qf the commissioners
were the avowed opponents of magnetism, and that four
were indifferent to its interests, there being not one who
was likely to inquire zealously in its favour; —that the
commission therefore had prejudged the question, espe-
cially as their chosen reporter Dubois, had already pub-
lished a work on the subject, full of irony and sarcasm,
—could not therefore have the courage to retract even if
convinced, and would of course give the tinge of his pre-
viously declared opinions to his mode of drawing up the
proces verbaux, which further were not reduced to wri-
OP THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 109
ting at the time of the sceance, and submitted to the dif-
ferent members for their observations, and signed at the
time, but were subsequently thrown together from me-
mory, and under the selection of the said prejudiced
Dubois. M. Husson then fairly charges upon the Report,
and proves, beyond the shadow of a doubt, its suppression
of the truth, and its various and studied processes to
deceive.
M. Husson next demolishes the inferences to be drawn
from the Report of 1784—as if indeed science were to
stand still for half a century ;
—and as if during that
period, many of the truths of one year, had not been
falsified by the discoveries of the next, or of some sub-
sequent year ; —and destroys also the value of the early
Report, even as a document exhibiting the state of
science fifty years before, by showing the mode of its
composition,—by exhibiting the manner of proceeding
of the commissioners with patients,—and the adoption of
the conclusions of the said commissioners without dis-
cussion, by the several bodies concerned : —so that it was
any thing hut just in its origin,
—
honest in its proceedings,
—or impartial or judicious in its conclusions.
Again, M. Husson shows that this Report of 1837,
passes entirely over the investigation carried on from
1826 to 1S31, and the consequent Report,—absolutely
forgets, or purposely evades to controvert the opinions of
living men, and combats boldly and strenuously with
men of straw of supposed existence fifty-three years be-
fore, whose opinions were confessedly crude, undeveloped,
perhaps erroneous, and certainly undefined. He then
shows that the Report before them is logically inconse-
quent, because it has drawn general inferences, from a
small number of particular premises ; and that it was
170 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
strongly marked by the passions and the weaknesses of
perverted human nature,—and by the avowed hostility
of the judge who presided, and summed up the imperfect
evidence before them ; thus reducing the value of the
Report to be estimated, by its gross historical omissions,
by its culpable sophistication of facts,—by its reitera-
tion of old experiments which prove nothing,—by its
illogical conclusions,—and by its passionate and unsci-
entific style. Nothing can be more complete or satisfac-
tory, than the triumph of M. Husson over his adversary,
whose wretched position during this castigation was
visible to every one present, and who ventured not a
word in reply. The attempt to impose upon the public
by substituting one Cloquet for another was avowed to
be for the purpose of making a better case. Does truth
require such support ? Does simplicity of intention
demand the aid of subterfuge and knavery ? Rather
does she not indignantly throw away such unholy props,—
.
and does she not hurl them back in proud defiance upon
the heads of their base employers 1
Subsequently to this expose, Dr. Berna published a
detailed refutation of the Report of Dubois, which al-
though it is characterized by a greater amount of wounded
feeling than is advisable, or even allowable in a scientific
discussion, is yet valuable for its own truthfulness—from
the bad faith, which it so thoroughly exposes,—and from
the distinct, and we presume undeniable because undented
charges of falsehood and dishonesty which it brings
forward.
Subsequently to this period, in the year 1838, M.
Figeaire, a medical man of Montpelier, addressed a letter
to the Academy of Medicine, offered to produce his
daughter, who, in the state of magnetic somnambulism,
OP THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 171
could read an enlightened page, without the assistance of
her eyes. This communication was referred to MM.
Gueneau de Mussy and Bousquet, and their Report is a
valuable document, because it affords strong evidence,
drawn from most reluctant, but upright witnesses,—and
yet terminating in the decided favour of M. Pigeaire-
Arrangements were made for submitting the young
lady to the proposed trial ; and a commission was in
consequence appointed to report upon this individual case.
In looking over the history of this event, it is pitiable to
observe the miserable shifts and evasions to which they
were reduced, in order to avoid meeting the truth honestly
and openly*. Nothing can be more clear and simple than
the facts stated ;—nothing more certain, than that they
are important, and may become of utility to science ;
—and
nothing more logical than this inference, that they deserve
from scientific inquirers a candid attention,—demanding
that they divest themselves of prejudice when proceeding
to investigate, since in no other possible way, can a just
judgment° be formed,—and since in no possible way can
mankind be benefited by the entertainment of prejudiced
opinions.
We have already stated the result of this pretended
investigation, viz. that M. Pigeaire, disgusted with the
tergiversation and bad faith of the would-be judges, with-
drew his daughter from the trial ;—that it was then stated
this withdrawal arose from the detection of certain perfo-
rations in Mademoiselle Pigeaire's bandage, which, though
nobody else could see through them, it was sagely con-
cluded that habit had enabled hertodoso,thoughevery body
knows how impossible it is to see through the superciliary
rioVe which must have been the case upon this supposi-
tion Upon this, therefore, M. Pigeaire and his friends
172 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
offered a prize of thirty thousand francs, to any one, who,
not himself in the state of magnetic sleep, could see to
read through Madlle. Pigeaire's bandage. It is needless
to say, the challenge was not accepted.
We feel it to be due to onr readers to give them some
portions of the history of this singular child, on account
of its notoriety, and on account of its affording some very
interesting details, which cannot otherwise be adequately
exhibited. The following extracts are from the father's
statement.
" I pass on to some other facts of clairvoyance. We
" have already said that the little girl in the state of som-
" nambulism, had described certain objects enclosed in
" snuff-boxes ; —had announced the arrival of persons be-
" fore they entered her room, and had told who they were ;
" and that she had read, while her eyes were so bandaged,
" as to prevent the access of the rays of light to those or-
" gans. I had omitted to say, that she had often told the
" hour and the minute, marked by a watch, whose form
" does not resemble the watches of our ordinary use, but
" in which the face is completely shut up, so as to form a
" little globe."
" The Professor Lallemand, an old friend, wished to
" see my little girl in her magnetic state, and especially to
" convince himself of her power to read without the help
" of ordinary vision. One evening we went to his house,
" where were assembled his father, his wife, and Mile.
" Eliza Lallemand, and these only. The professor having
" been unexpectedly detained, we proposed to return
" home ; but Madlle. Lallemand entreated Madame Pi-
" geaire to put her little girl to sleep, and to cause her to
" read. Madlle. Eliza herself bandaged the eyes of the
" child, who being thrown into magnetic sleep, read with
OP THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 173
" facility, and even better than she could have done in her
" natural state, an entire page from a book in the pro-
" fessor's library. After this, the little girl declaring that
" she did not feel fatigued, Madlle. Lallemand went to her
" desk to take out of it a letter. Scarcely had she taken it
" in her hand, and before she could possibly have looked at
" the signature, when the little somnambulist exclaimed,
" '
That letter is from Ernest' (a little nephew of the pro-
cessor:) Madlle. Eliza was thunder-struck. The little
" girl then read the letter, as well as she had done the
" book. A family picture was brought to her, and after
" having applied her fingers to the glass, and passed them
" rapidly over it, she told one after the other all the por-
" traits which composed this picture, and which she had
" never seen.
" M. Lallemand came next day to my house, and saw
" the little invalid, who was suffering from cerebral irri-
" tatiou, —probably in consequence of the too great, and
" too prolonged excitement of the previous evening.
" Some time afterwards, while carrying on some mag-
" netic experiments on two or three of the patients in the
" hospital St. Eloi, I was induced, more by curiosity than
" by any other motive, to let one of them consult the little
" somnambulist. In one of the wards of the hospital,
" being magnetized by her mother in the presence of M.
" Lallemand, of M. de Saint Crieq, of two or three phy-
" sicians, and of several medical students, the eyes being
" thoroughly bandaged, she read in a book, which had
'•
been brought by one of those present, who was an un-
" believer in the phenomenon. Another spectator fetched
" two pictures, which were given to the child one after an-
" other. After having placed her fingers on the glass of
" the first, she said, '
It is an old man—not very old, but of
174 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
" considerable age :—I do not know him :'—It was the por-
" trait of Professor Broussonet. To the second picture
" she said, '
This I know, it is M. Lallemand.'
" Placed en rapport with one of the patients whom I
" had magnetized, she announced that his limbs were
" paralyzed, that he would never obtain sleep from mag-
" netism, which would notwithstanding be useful to him,
" but would not cure him completely.
" M. Eustache, house-surgeon of the hospital St.
" Eloi, and one of the most intelligent pupils of the class
" of Montpelier, who was present on this occasion, said,
" 'Notwithstanding what I have seen and heard, I shall
" not believe in magnetism, till I have myself experienced
" its effects, and I am ready to submit to its agency.'
" Next day, M. Eustache, accompanied by M Dumas,
" senior pupil at St. Eloi, came to my house, and Madame
" Pigearie magnetized him. At the first magnetization,
" he felt some muscular twitchings in the arm and in the
" neck, and afterwards some heaviness in the head re-
" mained all the day. On the day following, M. Eustache
" experienced so severe an attack of convulsive movement,
" that he beat his head against the wall behind the sofa
" on which he sat, so that we were obliged to draw it
" away. His arms and legs also moved convulsively.'
"More time was required to calm than to produce this
"convulsive agitation. M. Eustache, desirous of further
" information, was courageous enough to submit himself
" to further experiment. It seemed to him, that he should
" oppose to the magnetic action, the still stronger action
" of his own will ; but it was an unequal struggle. If
" the passes had not been made with much prudence and
" moderation, he would have been completely knocked
" down as by an electric shock. On one occasion, he
OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 175
" was magnetized in the presence of M. Lallemand, de
" Saint Crieq, Vialars, Aubert, &c.—The hand being
" passed before his forehead, at the distance of three feet,
" occasioned him to feel a violent shock. ' How is it,' said
" M. Vialars to him, ' that a man like you, cannot look upon
" the hand of a woman without trembling, and without ner-
". vous movements!' '
No, sir; I should like to see you
" do so yourself: —the more I strengthen myself against
" the agency, the stronger become the convulsions ; I am
" obliged to cry for mercy."
" Somnambulism is produced in M. Eustache by very
" moderate passes : —but when once produced he is be-
" come so sensitive to impression, that if talking is carried
" on in a very low tone, or if even a chair be moved,
" irregular muscular movements are immediately excited :
" —he is also perfectly aware of the precise lapse of time.
" When awakened, there is an entire forgetfulness of all
" that he has said or felt.
" But I return to my own little somnambulist. M.
" Kuhnholtz, librarian to the faculty of medicine at
" Montpelier, who pursues magnetic inquiries with zeal
" and knowledge, and who has had some cases of recovery
" under magnetic treatment, wished to see my little girl
"read, while asleep. We first deeply covered the eyes
" with cotton, and then accurately adjusted a bandage
" upon them. A book brought by M. Kuhnholtz was
" given her, and after some moments of hesitation, she
" read easily, always, however with the apparent help of
" the fingers. The Doctor Fongoski, who was present
" at this sitting, took down a picture,—the portrait of
" M. Trelat. After having applied her fingers to the
" glass, she read with rapidity the sentence engraved at
" the foot of the picture.
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
176 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
" Next day, although she was in her natural state, it
" was impossible for her to fix her eyes upon this picture ;
" nor could she do so for three or four days afterwards
" without experiencing a degree of discomfort.
"Exceedingly sensitive in the magnetic state, she told
" us while in somnambulism, that the contact of the
" cotton applied upon her eyelids gave her head-ache.
" It is right to remark here, that the eyes of magnetized
" persons are agitated during their magnetic state, with
" an oscillatory motion, which is even perceptible through
" the closed eyelids. This purely organic movement,
"may, if the eye be compressed, become painful, or at
" all events, irksome to the somnambulist, and become a
" source of confusion of ideas, and prevent his reading,
" or even accurately detailing his own unwonted sensa-
" tions.
" For this bandage, therefore, we substituted at the
" next sitting, a mask, after having closed the eyes with
" black velvet folded four times. Although the mask
" seemed to make a disagreeable impression upon the
" child, and that she requested us several times to wait
" till she was got accustomed to it, yet she read with
" accuracy through this apparatus, in a new book which
" M. Kuhnholtz had brought. After this reading, M.
" Pongoski produced a new book, and asked the little
" creature, if she could read in it without opening it.
" You perceive, gentlemen, that with regard to magnetic
" trials, if one is not satisfied with having witnessed an
" extraordinary fact, it is always necessary to ask after
" one still more extraordinary. The little creature, after
" having rubbed the cover of the book with her fingers
" said '
I cannot read—I only perceive that this book is
" in verse.' The binding being raised, and the unprinted
OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 177
" leaf beneath it, still remaining over the title-page, she
" passed her finger over this page and read Fables de
" La Fontaine. While left to repose, some one rang the
" house-bell. I went to open the door—and the little
" creature said, it was M. Eustachc who rang. We were
11
the more surprised at this, because one of the friends
" assembled had said that M. Eustache was in the country,
" and would not come.
" In the following experiments we substituted for the
" mask which concealed the child's face, a kind of spec-
" tacles without opening in them, surrounded on their
" inner surface, with a raised border, which would exactly
" fit the hollow of the arch of the eye-brow, and having
" the lower edge finished off with a fringe of court-plaster,
" which was nicely fastened to the irregular angle formed
" by the nose and the cheeks. This contrivance being
" very light, and perfectly impermeable to the light, an-
" swered the purpose of placing the eyes in complete
" darkness, without fatiguing the patient. It was in this
" way, that we twice demonstrated the clairvoyance
" through the help of the fingers, to MM. Lordat and
" D'Amador, professors of the faculty of medicine of
" Montpelier, and that we propose to repeat this experi-
" ment, before those who occupy their thoughts with
" physiological or medical pursuits.
" Are there any among you, gentlemen, who can sus-
" pect the reality of the facts, which I have the honour of
" bringing before you 1 Can they suppose that a father or
" a mother, who believe themselves actuated by genuine
" principles, would educate their child in deceit and false-
" hood, and would make her play a part which would be
" as dispicable as without object, and so difficult to be
" maintained ; —or on the other hand, that could remain
6
178 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
" for ten months, in a state of complete illusion upon so
" many phenomena observed by different persons ; —or
" that we could occasion this illusion to be participated by
" a great number of others, who were previously in a
" state of scepticism with regard to the possible existence
" of such phenomena 1
" The facts which I have brought before you, gentle-
" men, are true : they are important ;
—they may throw
" light upon many dark or unknown points of physiology ;
" they are therefore deserving of observation by those who
" devote their attention to the science, and to those who
" are not prejudiced against phenomena, they have never
" witnessed ; for a sound judgment is incompatible with a
" prejudiced understanding."
We shall here insert the Report of two magnetic sittings
of this somnambule, drawn up by M. Lordat—a gentle-
man whom not to know and not to admire, involves only
the ignorance or the envy of those who are on the nega-
tive side of the question.
" On Sunday, the 1st of October, 1837, at three o'clock
" in the afternoon, I went to the house of M. Pigeaire to
" be present at a magnetic sitting which had been ap-
" pointed for M. d'Amador and myself. I saw there two
"young ladies, of whom, the younger, the subject of the
" following observation, might be from ten to eleven years
" of age. She has a delicate complexion, and is but just
" recovering from an illness, which has occasioned a sus-
" pension of the magnetic experiments for a fortnight.
" An apparatus of black silk was placed in my hands,
" which was intended so perfectly to cover the eyes, that
" no ray of light could penetrate the orbit. We tried it
" upon ourselves, and we were convinced that it completely
" answered its purpose. In the furrows which exist be-
OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE. 179
" tween the nose and the cheeks, an extension of this
" machinery had been made, which was very thick, and
" coated with plaster, so as to intercept every ray.
" The little lady placed herself in an arm-chair, as
" soon as she was requested to do so, and the magneti-
" zation by M. Pigeaire commenced. Not more than
" two minutes elapsed before she was asleep. Her
" mamma asked her if she wished to be magnetized
" longer, to which she replied in the affirmative. After
" a few more passes, she said, ' that is enough.' An
" instant afterwards Madame applied the above bandage,
" and every thing was done with the greatest possible ex-
" actitude."
" Thirty-five minutes elapsed before she pronounced
" herself able to satisfy us. She took the book, but
" could not read the first line, biographie, printed in or-
" namental letters, and obscured by numerous flourishes,
" but she read des medecins Francais, as if she spelled
" to herself, and hesitated considerably. Each word
" which she tried and gave without exactitude displeased
" her ; she returned to her examination, and appeared
" much delighted when she was right, and her reading
" was approved. I remarked that the finger traced only
» the-commencement of a word, and that the rest was
" completed without touching the remaining letters.
" She continued her reading, vivant—and the rest very
" fluently. But on arriving at the words officiers de
» Santi, written in italics, she stopped and said, Voitd
« une icriture coucUe (here is some slanting writing)—
« she addressed herself to the study of this writing, by
« tracing the words with her finger, and pronounced them
" perfectly.
" After this trial, a printed leaf was given to the little
180 HISTORY OF THE CONDUCT
" girl, which apparently had formed part of some scien-
" tific journal, the subject of which appeared to belong to
" physical geography ; —and the printed character a little
" superior to that which is called cicero. A glass was
" placed above it, and the somnambulist was pleased.
" She then read through the glass, several lines easily.
" She required several trials before she succeeded with
" the words geologic, and fossiles. As all this fatigued
" her, she was told that she should not go beyond the end
" of a line which had been fixed upon. She was much
" pleased when she had accomplished her task. She
" said that she perspired : and as she perceived that she
" had displeased her mamma, she overwhelmed her with
" kisses. The bandage was removed : she requested to
" sleep on : the eyes were half open ; there was some
" difficulty in awakening her ; and she appeared much
" fatigued and surprised.
" Somnambulism gave to this little girl a countenance
" and manner very different from that which belonged to
" her when she was awake.
" After the trial of the second reading the little creature
" exclaimed with triumph—' Well—will they now still say
" that there has been here any collusion, any secret under-
" standing between the parties V
" On the 3rd of October, I paid a visit of thanks to the
" little girl. I asked her mother, if she required light,
" to which she replied in the affirmative ; —she can read
" in a degree of light, which would be insufficient for
" persons in general, but this slight degree of light is
" indispensable to her.
" On the 9th of October, at three o'clock in the after-
" noon, I was present at another sitting : several doctors
" were present, and among others, MM. Vailher, Lafosse,
OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OP MEDICINE. 181
" Pourche, Bertrand, Quissac—also Colonel du Barret,
" &c. ; every thing went on as before, except the following
" circumstances ; —1st, the little girl sometimes employed
" the index finger of the right hand : —2ndly, she read
" immediately after passing into somnambulism. The
" greater number of those present, were strangers to the
" facts, as well as to the proceedings of magnetism.
" Many of them were not convinced ; they exclaimed
" especially, because the bandage which was constructed
" for a child ten years of age, did not adapt itself exactly
" to their noses, and their eyes. For myself, I saw only
" that which I had seen previously.
" On Sunday, the 17th of December, I wished to see
" again the same trial, in order to justify the confidence
" of M. Pariset. The sitting was for some ladies, friends
" of Madame Pigeaire, and for a young officer. The
" little creature was already in her magnetic sleep. I
" found near to the somnambulist, the Doctor Jean-Jean,
" who had come there as a sceptic. He had brought a
" book with him, and he was in the greatest astonishment,
" because Mademoiselle Pigeaire had read in it fluently.
" The bandage for the eyes had been tightened : —the
" lower edge was furnished with a border covered with
" sticking-plaster, which was applied to the nose, and to
" the prominences and inequalities of the cheeks, so that
" when the bandage was taken oft, a border of plaster still
"remained upon the above mentioned spots. The little
" creature was unable to read writing, because as she said,
" the ink was too pale. The same sentence being written
" with a pencil of a much darker colour, she read with
" ease ; she was not puzzled, except by some letters, with
" whose form she was not familiar.
" A little while afterwards, and she requested to be
" awakened, and her mamma yielded to her wishes."
S~
182 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION
11
1 asked if Mademoiselle could read through an opaque
"body, which should be interposed between the hands
" and the eye :—Madame Pigeaire replied in the nega-
" tive. I asked if Mademoiselle could read if she carried
" her hands behind her back : here also the reply was in
" the nogative."
"(Signed) Lordat.
" Montpelier, the 23rd December, 1837."
In reviewing the history of the conduct of the Academy
towards M. Pigeaire, one scarcely knows whether more
to weep over the weaknesses and frailty of mankind ;
—
or to feel the indignant risings of scorn over the wicked-
ness of the parties. We leave them to their bed of thorns,
and proceed to consider seriatim how far the imagination
may be a sufficient cause of phenomena, apparently
magnetic.
Doubtless the imagination is a most powerful agent in
the production of many sensations of pleasure and of
pain :
—doubtless it is capable of producing mimotic
morbid action, as painful to the patient,—as difficult to
be borne—and perhaps as destructive, as the real condition
which it resembles ; —doubtless it may be employed in
the wilful simulation of disorder : —and no doubt but it
has a most extensive field as a curative agent, as may be
seen almost every day, and is recorded in almost every
page of medical history. Doubtless, therefore, in circum-
stances, which more particularly influence the nervous
system, it may often prove the source of phenomena,
whether for good, or for ill
;
—and in the latter case, as
regards the wicked and designing, no doubt this faculty is
largely called upon, in the production of the feigned con-
dition. But our business is to inquire, whether it is the
NO THE PRODUCTION OF MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 183
sole agent in magnetic processes,—and whether the pro-
cesses themselves would he unavailing, were it not for the
influence of the imagination.
We might be contented with answering, that so long as
their influence could be produced on children,—and on
grown persons who had never heard of magnetism,—who
knew nothing of its processes, or of their expected results
;
—-and who were utterly ignorant that any action was
carrying on upon them,—or that any result was expected ;
—so long would it be impossible that imagination could
be the sole cause of the phenomena, because in all these
cases, there could be no possible opportunity for the exci-
tation of the faculty. But the argument has been and
still is too much relied upon to be so summarily dismissed,
and we must consider the question more in detail.
It has been already stated, that a firm will,—an earnest
desire to do good,—a perfect conviction of right, and an
expectation of relieving the patient, are all necessary to
the success of magnetism. But volition, benevolence,
conscience, hope, desire, are all mental conditions which
involve for their manifestation, a peculiar excitement of
the brain : —and it is asserted, that by that inexplicable
sympathy which links man with man,—and forms the
unseen chain of action that enables one nervous system to
produce an effect upon another nervous system ; —this
excitement of the brain is communicable from the strong
and healthy, to the feeble and unhealthy, and is capable
of producing in them, a healing or curative influence.
Thus therefore in the magnetizer there is a peculiar excite-
ment of the brain : and this is communicable to, and acts
favourably upon, the brain of the magnetized, which by
the supposition is susceptible of, and predisposed to such
action : —and the latter cannot exist without the former,
—
184 INFLUENCE OP THE IMAGINATION
and does not require for its production, any intermediate
agent, such as imagination.
But magnetic effects have been attributed to imagina-
tion. By this term, however, is not intended that brilliant •
poetical faculty which traces invisible and intangible
objects, with a pencil and a colouring far more vivid than
reality ; —which does not, strictly speaking, create new
objects, but which in its own ideal world, discovers rela- |
tionships between different things, which are unperceived j
by the general sense of dull mortality,—and traces inge-
nious combinations,—and invests them with a hue of bright-
ness and cheerfulness on the one hand,—or of sombre
dulness, and of shadowy futurity, on the other. This is
certainly a mental condition, though of course, its mani-
festation is dependent upon brain. But in the sense in
which imagination has been employed as the agent in pro-
ducing magnetic phenomena, the idea involves a peculiar
feebleness of the nervous system, which renders it unduly
susceptible to all kinds of impression.
Even in this low and corporeal exercise of the faculty,
it is not imagination which produces magnetic effects,
though it is allowed that this condition may render the
brain more susceptible to their influence, because it is the
very state, which it is intended to remove by its healing
agency. We consider, therefore, that magnetism in its
origin and its effects, involves a. peculiar condition of the
nervous system ; —and that it is as such, that it ought to
be considered and studied. And yet admitting so much,
wc must contend for it, as being a question of secondary
importance : —the primary question is, has the relief been
obtained ? —the secondary questiou only, in what way has
it been effected 1
In attempting to explain surprising cases by the influ-
ON THE PRODUCTION OF MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 185
i
ence of imagination, the advocates of this cause, in their
haste to extinguish magnetism, forget that the influence
of the former, is not a whit less difficult to trace up
to its cause, or through all the labyrinths of its agency,
than is the latter. The term itself is undefined ; and
even in the limited sense in which we have employed it
above, for the sake of simplifying the argument, we are
left to the conclusion, that it is a something invested with
extraordinary powers, in a certain condition of that body :
—but what that something is, we are still left to ascertain.
Therefore, the advocates of imagination, who do not deny
the effects produced, but simply refer them to another
cause, have only shifted the difficulty, from an ill-under-
stood, to a less understood original.
We have said that the effects are admitted ; —and we
must be allowed to ask, how it happens, that a simple
magnetizer, possessing the properties above mentioned—
who makes no ostentatious pretensions,—who promises
nothing,—who merely places his hand upon the stomach,
or makes some slight frictions, of the design of all which
the patient is unconscious, and has never heard or read :
—how it happens, that he yet produces a more decidedly
curative effect, than all the remedies of some physician
of high eminence and renown,—on whom the patient's
hopes and expectations have been centered,—whose visit
has been most anxiously expected,—in whose judgment
and intelligence, the surest reliance has been placed,
—
and whose medicines have been duly taken—and all his
plans most religiously adhered to, with an unshaken confi-
dence of deriving benefit from them. Here the imagina-
tion has been excited to the utmost,—and yet the effect
has not been comparable with the former influence,—and
this, to make the case still stronger, even when that influ-
8*
186 INFLUENCE OP THE IMAGINATION
ence has been exerted upon persons, who were not even
neutral,—but who were very doubtful as to the utility of
magnetism. This argument proceeds upon the supposed
admission of the facts : —if these are denied, then there is
no truth in the world,—and there is an end of argument
:
—if allowed, the cause of cure must be sought in some
other agent than imagination.
The term imagination has here been a convenient one,
employed for the simple purpose of alleging a cause other
than magnetism, for effects which are indisputable : and
of concealing ignorance of that cause, of which we really
know nothing. It is an attempt to explain that which is
inexplicable ; —and to substitute one term whose qualities
are unknown, for another whose qualities are equally
unknown. And what is gained 1 The facts are esta-
blished by the supposition ; the mode of accounting for
them is changed,—but changed without a shadow of
philosophical truth. What is still worse, is, that the par-
ties so employing this term, know not and have never
even considered its meaning, or its applicability. And to
take only the lowest ground, it is surely impossible to
explain by this supposed cause, effects produced upon pa-
tients who had no cognizance—not even a suspicion, that
any thing was going forward in their particular case, and
who were entirely ignorant of the whole doctrine. If the
assertion be then persisted in, we accept it with all joy,
because it proves too much ; —inasmuch as, if imagination
has been excited under such circumstances, it must have
been so excited by some unknown cause ; and as magnet-
ism is the only recognized agent, the probability comes
out, that it must have been so excited by magnetism, thus
giving up the point in dispute :—for if this cause be
magnetism, opposition is at once destroyed :
—if it be
ON THE PRODUCTION OF MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 187
any other cause, this cause requires and demands inves-
tigation.
It does not however appear to us, that the imagination
of the magnetized, does contribute in any way to the mag-
netic effects, as such. It is not therefore denied, that
imagination may exercise a considerable influence on
magnetic phenomena :
—but then it is the imagination of
the magnetizcr, not of the magnetized,—a fact, which
proves the power, rather than impugns the reality of
magnetism.
It is however readily allowed, that this faculty, thus
exercised, may produce untrue results by influencing the
clairvoyant individual to perceive things through the
medium of their excited organs. Perhaps this is the best
method of explaining the reports of somnambulists, who
have departed from the simple soundness of truth, and
have wandered without rudder or compass into regions of
ideality, and have given reports which are deprived even
of vraisemblance.
This idea is supported by the fact, that during clair-
voyance, no knowledge is elicited, no opinion given, not
previously possessed by the magnetizer or magnetized,
—
at least in its germ, if not in its development. For
instance, a Turkish somnambulist will never give chris-
tian views or opinions, unless the magnetizer be a Chris-
tian.
It is then admitted that certain phenomena are the
consequence of the exaltation of the imaginative faculty :
—but then it is to be recollected that it is magnetism
which has occasioned this exaltation ; a state which may,
under different circumstances, exist naturally, or be pro-
duced by a variety of other causes.
In this way, however, a state of extatic delirium may
188 INFLUENCE OF THE IMAGINATION
arise,—in which a chimerical idea once introduced into
the brain, may prove the idee mc~re of many illusions and
reveries of an unreal character. In this state the imagi-
nation is unnaturally exalted, and the patient is not to be
trusted. It is quite possible to become the dupe of these
reveries ; but the danger will become less in proportion
as investigation advances,—and will be entirely dissipated,
when wise medical men shall superintend and direct the
treatment ; and when advancing knowledge on psycholo-
gical subjects shall have enabled us to contrast and to
compare these extraordinary phenomena, with the more
simple laws of the human understanding.
Finally, admitting that those who were cured, were so
cured, through the medium of their imagination ; —still,
they who have discovered this method of so exciting the
imagination, as to render such excitement curative of any
intractable malady, have done much; —and must be
entitled to at least equal credit with those who had con-
ducted the unsuccessful treatment, or even with those who
might carry on the treatment to a successful issue, by
means more hurtful to the constitution.
We may not quit this part of our subject without
noticing very briefly the influence of the imagination upon
our opponents. It has very lately occurred to me, to wit-
ness what was called "an indignant denunciation of mes-
meric fallacies and frauds," from a gentleman, whose
mental manifestations would be perfect, if the reflective
faculties, and their consequent judgment, were equal to
his powers of acquisition, and to his facility of communi-
cation. There is no one who would more indignantly
denounce mesmeric fallacies and frauds, than the writer
of the present Vindication of Human Magnetism : but the
aforesaid gentleman, in his zeal to demolish magnetism,
ON THE PRODUCTION OP MAGNETIC PHENOMENA. 189
has allowed his imagination to run riot in his opinions,
and has permitted that busy faculty to confound the falla-
cies and frauds of mesmerism, with the truths of mag-
netism,—to discover that almost all the alleged truths were
false ; —that the tendency of those truths was dangerous
in the extreme ; —that medical men, so far from being
blamable for refusing investigation, were to be praised
for their steady perseverance in such resistance ; that the
supporters of magnetism were almost all jugglers and dis-
honest, while all the opponents acted on good principle ;
—
that there was no fair literary evidence in its support ;
—
and that the evidence in favour of witchcraft was equally
convincing. Now we uphold the contrary of all these
propositions ;
—we assert that they are all the growth of
perverted imagination ; and we challenge him to the proof
of his propositions.
A highly-valued friend of mine, in discussing this sub-
ject lately, remarked that any process of ratiocination
upon facts which have preceded would be insufficient,—
and that new and more evidence was required in order to
substantiate the facts.
With all due deference for this opinion, we reply, that
a sufficient amount of evidence is already before us, to
reason upon the truth of the phenomeua, and to deduce
the inference, that more investigation is required to ex-
plain the phenomena, which in the present state of our
knowledge, are inexplicable. But our reasoning goes
not beyond this inference. Thus, with regard to the
new and more evidence, it is obvious that the new evi-
dence can only be a repetition of the old ; and while it
may serve to convince one individual beholder, it will
leave the subject exactly where it found it, as regards in-
dividuals not present, because the repetition of a fact
190 INFLUENCE OP THE IMAGINATION, ETC.
for the ten thousand and first time, will not convince those
who deny the results of the ten thousand previous cases.
And with regard to the more evidence, this reasoning also
applies to the cumulative influence of bygone facts, if the
aggregation of cases be intended; but if it be evidence of
a different kind, the case does not admit such evidence,
and therefore the position utterly fails.
If the phenomena of magnetism be to be produced in
a certain state of the brain ; —they are not to be ob-
tained or expected, when that condition is wanting ;—
when, although it may have existed previously, it has
now become exhausted ; —or when from repeated excite-
ment the brain has become irritable ; and the ideas it
presents have lapsed into uncontrollable images,—the pro-
duce of overgoaded brain, but not of simple and undis-
turbed action.
Let this be applied to natural sleep : —we do not an-
ticipate the ordinary manifestations of mind unless the
brain is waking; we do not expect them in full vigour,
when the brain has been wearied by intense application
or by some extraordinary and powerful excitation ; —and
when midnight study " retires to feverish rest," we may
not expect quiet sleep; but dreams, nightmares, and
uneasy visions, express both its irritability, and the fact
of its having escaped the control of the judgment, till such
an amount of sleep has been obtained, as to sooth its irri-
tability,—and then it can sleep on, and finally waken
refreshed,—and renew its healthy manifestations of mind.
Let, then, this process of reasoning be charitably applied
to the higher phenomena of somnambulism.
191
CHAPTER X.
SKETCH OP CHARDEL'S VIEWS ; THOUGHTS ON ENERGIA.
It is time that we took a rapid glance at some of the
original views of Chardel, as they bear upon the present
subject, though while we admire their beauty, we are far
from advocating their truth : and, moreover, we are not
quite sure, that in the present state of our inquiry, they
will aid the advancement of knowledge, because we con-
sider the desire to establish principles, when we possess
so very imperfect an acquaintance with facts, infinitely
retards the progress of science, by placing the barrier of
prejudice in its way, to be overcome before it can continue
its onward march.
The foundation of all Chardel's views, is that light is
the principle of life ; —that the brain appropriates its
rays brought to it by the arterial blood, which has re-
ceived those leys in passing through the lungs ; —where
the blood from the right side of the heart, coming in con-
tact with the atmosphere, parts with its carbon, and
receives in exchange the principle of light and heat
(energia 1) ; —and by an admirable elaboration, of the
stages and processes of which we are utterly ignorant,
converts it into the nervous structure, and renders it well
fitted for the dovelopment and preservation of the vital
phenomena.
192 sketch of chardel's views;
Chardel contends, that it is ignorance of the modifica-
tions of the living principle within, and of the modes in
which we employ its agency, which have unjustly thrown
an air of the marvellous upon magnetic phenomena,
which he predicts will disappear before the light of more
extended inquiry. But on the opposite side of the ques-
tion, it is but right to consider, that the actual memory of
facts is enfeebled by the lapse of time—while the strange-
ness of these facts seems to increase in the same propor-
tion : and so, finally, we arrive at the conclusion of being
undeceived in exact proportion as each day leads us to
conceive less and less vividly of that which had at first
commanded our admiration ; and this will help us to ex-
plain the incredulity of many, as well as to furnish the
best apology for those who were pre-determined to dislike
every thing which deviated from their established notions.
Thus enthusiasts contemplate these phenomena with ad-
miration, while they lead the incredulous to susj)ect the
honesty and simplicity of the experimenters,—calumnia-
ting them, and ridiculing their listeners.
In the present state of our knowledge, it is wise to
examine, and to test facts, before declaring them to
be impossible, cr to be simulated ;—for if a phenome-
non be once established as true, the cause of which
remains unknown, the fault consists in the resources of
science,—and not in the absence of testimony ;—in the
feebleness of our reasoning powers, and not in the want
of truthfulness in the witnesses.
Now it is obvious, that whenever there is any great
point of irritation in the system, which disturbs the mo-
tion of the blood through the lungs ;—whenever that
blood is loaded with morbific particles ;—whenever there
is a deficiency of its red particles ;—whenever the stomach
THOUGHTS ON ENERGIA. 193
has ceased to digest properly, or the liver aud the chylo-
poietic organs have refused to give their due support to
the process of elaboration ; —whenever the lacteal system
has been disordered,—the chyliferous tubes irritated,—or
the mesenteric and absorbent system disturbed ; whenever
there shall have been alack of energy in the performances
of any one,—or of harmony and consent, between the
whole of their associated functions ; then the blood will
be attenuated as it passes through the lungs, and deficient
in its red particles ;
—or it will be loaded with the debris
of the constitution ;
—or it will be very imperfectly ani-
malized : —in all these, and in many other instances, the
calorific process will go on badly,—the vitality of the
blood will be diminished,—the life giving particles will be
imperfectly appropriated,—the brain will be badly nour-
ished,—the nervous energy will be diminished,—sand the
principle of life as emanating from light will be wasted-
To supply the waste of this principle is the object of
magnetism, viz. to succour with the imparted life of the
magnetizer, the drooping and exhausted life of the suf-
ferer. If wisely employed, this remedy may be useful in
many forms of malady, where the essential character is
failing power ; and even in the course of all maladies,
there may be times, when its resources would be advan-
tageously put in requisition,—as towards the close of ex-
hausting disease, even though it should have been inad-
missible in its early stages. Then it is to be recollected,
that it is not applicable in some forms of malady, charac-
terized by high action and undiminished power ; —more-
over it can never legitimately stand in the room of other
remedies : and its influence, like that of every other re-
medial agent, but too frequently fails : and for the best
possible reason ; —since it is a remedy only to be wisely
194 sketch of chardel's views ;
and prudently employed, but it is for the blessing of God
to say, whether or not its design shall prosper.
" The breath of heaven must swell the sail,
Or all the toil be lost."
As an extension of these views, Chardel considers that
during the state of magnetic somnambulism, the individ-
ual imagines that he hears or sees by the great plexus of
nerves of organic life. But this is a mistake ; —and the
error consists in confounding the echo of sensation, with
sensation itself. The movements of the soul or spiritual
principle, are communicated to the spiritualized life, with
which it is enveloped,—and are then reflected upon, and
communicated to the great plexus of organic life. It
is not for us to discuss this collateral subject :
—for al-
though it is matter of high interest, it is not essential to
the subject of magnetism ; —it must be admitted to be a
very talented view ; and it is the more remarkabe in con-
nexion with the recent discoveries on the subject of energie.
We allude to the late researches of Robert Hunt, and
we shall not quote largely from his own words in order
to bring the subject more tboroughly before our readers.
" I cannot (he remarks) resist calling attention to the
" great number of instances now adduced in which we
" give distinct evidence of chemical change produced by
" the sun's rays. We have distinct evidence, that a suu-
" beam cannot fall upon any solid body without leaving
" permanent traces of its action."
By a series of experiments with the spectrum, and
with organic objects, he considers it as decidedly proved,
that all cases of chemical action are quickened or retard-
ed by the solar influence : —and that these effects are to
be referred, neither to light, heat, nor electricity, but to a
THOUGHT- ON ENERGIA. 195
fourth imponderable element. It appears to be proved,
that '.i :<> as the power of developing polari-
ty is a delicate point to establish, and requires
fgation.
pro nat photographic power is undoubtcd-
from either light or heat ; and subsequently to
tion of the volume before me, he has succeeded
in ; . otographic resemblances, without their in-
ter^ d by the simple aid of this new element,
which he chooses to designate as energia, thus intending
xpress that power in the sun's rays, which produces
mical change. Hence it is to be considered as forming
a new chemical element.
" Energut is that power which effects all the changes
" whether chemical or molecular, which are constantly
'*
in progress : —it is that agent which is for ever quick-
" eniug all he processes of growth, and maintaining the
" conditions of a healthful vitality :
—and it is no less
" energetic- iy employed in the processes of corruption,
" which indeed are no other than the necessary changes
" of matter in its progress from one state of organization
" to another.
Further, he considers that the advance of knowledge
may possibly resolve, some or all of these imponderable
elements, into a superior one, in which case he thinks
they may, some of them, turn out to be modifications of
energia.
It is proved that in hot climates, Daguerreotypes are
taken with more difficulty, and require a longer time than
is necessary for the same process in London ; —half an
hour is not too long to produce effects, which here would
be obtained in one minute. This can only be explained
on the supposition, that intensity of light and heat retards,
196 SKETCH OP CHARDE1 VTK' J
and interferes wiih the actio* r the other principle. It
proves that light and heat ar^ not li.< il qualities
which produce the resemblance,— or the effort would be
more striking in proportion to their h
that these qualities existing in excess int<
process ;
—and to complete the circle of
the subsequent confection of Daguerreoty, tl the
rays of light and heat have been excluded, it the
effect is really to be ascribed to the remaining - l<
energia.
Again he adds, "It is now established, if tin i
" rays cannot fall upon any body, with
" molecular disturbance, or chemical cha.igc ; wli.
" a shadow falls, a picture is impressed."
"It will not be denied by any one, that the sun's
" have a quickening and almost life-kindling p<
" The fable of Prometheus, says Lavoisier, was the ex-
" pression of a philosophical truth. To which of I
" principles, then, which we have detected in the
" beam, are we to ascribe this almost life-kindling
" fluence 1 Is it to light, to heat, or to energia, or w
" ever else we may call it, that we are to attribute
" the great phenomena of creation, which are depcr
" on solar emanations ? The evidence would sec
" show, that all the changes we have been considt
" are the results of the last mysterious and most enc
"power ; —that to it, almost every phenomenon com
" with the growth of plants is to be traced ; that t
" mal kingdom is most powerfully influenced by i
" that all these chemical changes, which have been attri-
" buted to light, are really due to energia."
" There are several questions of the greatest impor-
" tance to be considered and resolved,—such as these :
THOUGHTS ON ENERGIA. 197
" Is energia absorbed by material bodies 1 Does it in-
" fluence their constitution 1 Is it connected with the pro-
" duction of the phenomena of electricity 1"
It is manifest, that we cannot go at any length, into
these very curious and interesting investigations : —but
so far as they bear upon our present inquiry, we arc bound
to trace their agency. And they do seem to carry out so
boldly and at the same time so philosophically, Chardel's
views, that we are induced to approximate them. Both
consider, that the elements of growth are modelled, and
the conditions of a healthful vitality are maintained by
a principle separated from light,—the one considering it
as abstracted from the rays of the sun in passing through
the lungs—admirably elaborated during the process of
aspiration,—through the medium of the arterial blood
mveyed to the brain, and beautifully appropriated by
that organ,—the other considering that the sun's rays
have a quickening and life-kindling power, and that this
power resides in a distinct principle, which he denomi-
i .tes energia.
Now the positive proofs of the existence and influence
of energia as a principle unconnected with, and separa-
I e from, light and heat,—is only a step in advance of our
knowledge, and demonstrates the existence of a peculiar
principle, in combination with light and heat, of which
we had no previous knowledge ; which hitherto, and even
by Chardel, was considered as the life-giving principle,
residing in the sun's ordinary rays of light and heat, but
which by the present inquiry, is ascertained to be a distinct
principle, and is termed energia.
Nothing can be more interesting than the effects of
this principle in producing the magnetic phenomena ;
—
a principle which has been shown to be transmissible
198 SKETCH OF CHARDEL'S VIEWS, ETC.
from body to body, and thus in a great measure super-
seding the sneer which has been so unsparingly thrown
upon the idea, of communicating the exuberant life
(energia) of one individual to supply the deficient life of
the sufferer. Nothing\more easy or philosophical, than
the transmission of energia in this way ; and nothing can
more beautifully show the folly of scornfully rejecting
what we do not understand now, because we do not un-
derstand ; when perhaps the very next day, the lamp of
philosophic discovery may show that it is precisely true,
which we have stigmatized as outrageous and absurd, and
a thousand other hard epithets.
We would just throw out the hint,—whether through
this principle,—through the rays of communicated ener-
gia, falling upon, and producing an effort upon the mole-
cular arrangement of the brain, we may not obtain some
knoivledge, or some enlightenment of our ideas on the
subject of clairvoyance. But I leave this as a mere hint
thrown out for future inquirers.
P. S. It is right to add, that at the late meeting of the
British Association, Mr. Hunt remarked, that in deference
to Sir John Herschel, Dr. Daubeny and others, he should
abandon the term energia, and when he wished to express
this principle as distinguished from light, he should adopt
the term actinism, as not involving the principle of a sub-
stantial element, and leaving that question still open for
investigation.
It is obvious that the change of term will exert no influ-
ence upon the foregoing reasoning.
199
CHAPTER XL
ON SOMNAMBULISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
It has been admirably remarked by the judicious and
learned Hecker, in his history of the Epidemics of the
middle ages, with regard to the dancing mania, that the
power to simulate the malady, and the fact of its simula-
tion, no more disprove the reality of its existence, than the
oft-repeated detection of imposition, has been able in
modern times to banish magnetic sleep from the circle of
natural phenomena, though such detection has on its side
rendered more rare, the incontestable effects of animal
magnetism. It is some of these more remarkable effects
which we now propose to follow.
It is rather remarkable that the phenomena of somnam-
bulism are precisely those, which, as a magnetic result,
have occasioned the greatest amount of contention, and
thrown the largest amount of discredit on all the processes :
while these very results are perhaps more than others
supported by the strongest natural analogies. And yet
this consequence is to be accounted for, first, by these
effects being the greatest deviation from our usual habits
of thought ;
—from their having wrung from us a most
unwilling assent as the symptoms of disease ; —from our
repugnance to believe, that such morbid state can be pro-
200 ON SOMNAMBULISM
duced at will;—and from the acknowledgment that such
conditions admit of simulation.
Still the admitted fact of these phenomena exceeding
the present range of our intellectual power to explain, is
a proof only of the limited extent of that power ;
—the
difficulty with which we have yielded assent to the facts of
natural somnumbulism is only a proof of their overwhel-
ming power and truth being so great as to overcome our
prejudices, and our ignorance ; —their existence as symp-
toms of disease, and their production by the will, is only
a proof that we know not the meaning of the terms which
we employ, and cannot define wherein consists in its ori-
gin, either disorder or the will
:
—and the fact of simula-
tion is, as we have already stated, only a proof that there
is a reality to imitate, and that it is worthy the trouble of
imitation.
The fact, however, remains, that there exist upon record
many cases of natural somnambulism, in which the phe-
nomena are precisely the same, with those of the super-
induced condition,—such as, the complete isolation of the
senses from the exterior world,—the augmentation of
cerebral energy, and its concentration upon one object,
—the possibility of dispensing with the ordinary senses,
and arriving at the usual results produced by their agency,
yet without their intervention,—such for instance as
reading and writing, composing and correcting, without
the assistance of the eyes,—holding conversations with
certain individuals, and yet being deaf to the voice of all
others,—the hunting after and selecting a document con-
tained in a box along with many others—and the entire
forgetfulness of all which had passed during the state of
somnambulism.
M. Petetin, who was a decided opponent of magnetism,
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 201
relates a case of natural somnambulism, in which there
occurred transposition of the senses,—and in which,
though the faculties of the eye and ear were suspended,
the patient could hear perfectly when spoken to upon the
stomach ; —so also could distinguish other sounds, and
could read ; and he attributes these effects to electricity :
how, or in what way, it is difficult to conceive. These
effects being similar to those produced in magnetic som-
nambulism, it is fair to infer, that they own a similar
cause, whatever that cause may be. After simply exhi-
biting an incomprehensible phenomenon, attempted to be
explained by an insufficient theory, M. Petetin declaims
against the credulity and superstition of magnetizers, with-
out apparently perceiving, that it is not more credulous or
superstitious to attribute these effects to magnetism, than
to electricity : for
1. We know not the cause of the one or the other
:
2. We know not that they may not originate in the
same cause
:
3. Magnetic effects have been ascribed to electrical
influence,—and nervous agency has also been ascribed to
electricity : —there can be nothing inconceivable there-
fore in the origin of magnetism and electricity being iden-
tical :
—
4. And since we know not the first cause, nor the nature
of either, there can be nothing credulous or superstitious
in adopting interchangeably either hypothesis.
All we really infer, is the establishment of the same
facts existing in nature, as under the operation of magne-
tism.
Some new facts presented themselves to M. Petetin in
the after course of his life ; and the history of eight cata-
leptics was published as a posthumous work from MSS.
9
202 ON SOMNAMBULISM
memoirs very carefully kept and preserved, under the
title of Animal Electricity. The identity of these effects
with those produced by magnetism, none can doubt:—
but though in his last days, M. Petetin no longer denied
the reality of magnetism, yet in conformity with nature's
established tyranny of prejudice, he still held to his opin-
ions of electricity : —on which question a great deal more
has been very sensibly and plausibly, though not to my
mind convincingly, written by himself and others.
At a later period MM. de la Tour and Guerisant pub-
lished the history of a case presenting precisely the same
phenomena with those reported by M. Petetin. This also
was a natural disordered product, without the intervention
of macnetism : and the predictions which the patient ut-
tered contained a detail of the principal events which
should happen to her, in the course of the following year
—of the maladies to which she would be subjected,—of
the remedies which would be necessary,—of the effect of
those remedies,—of the crises which she would expe-
rience,—and of the precise period of her cure ; —all of
which were substantially correct, and accomplished. We
acknowledge, that perhaps she had the means of realizing
her own predictions,—and we only employ the case to
prove the existence of the same conditions in natural as in
magnetic somnambulism.
Thus, the phenomena of somnambulism are established
and recognised by the antagonists of magnetism. In fact
the knowledge of somnambulism rescues many of these
natural phenomena, from the alleged dominion of sorcery
and of the black art, under which they have been classed
by the ignorant and the short-sighted, and restores them
to their proper position as the natural effects of natural
causes.
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 203
As the fact of the prediction of future events lias been
just mentioned, it may be as well to observe in this place,
that because a somnambulist has predicted some event soon
to happen and relating to himself, and depending upon
causes which are known only to himself, he is not to be
relied upon for his more distant predictions, especially if
these should be unconnected with himself. Moreover
his predictions are never to be received as infallible.
His predictions are not prophecies : they are not in-
spired : they are not spiritual but corporeal: they
consist in some physical foresight of physical changes
resulting to himself, which we may not be able to explain,
but which are not supernatural. If once we admit the
predictions to be infallible, even with this limited appli-
cation, we shall admit consequences as dangerous in
morals, as they are absurd in physics : —since we must
then suppose, that events are governed by inevitable
destiny or necessity,—and we should be at once sur-
rounded by the darkness, and the intricacy of fatal-
ism.
Again, this foresight may be more or less complete
and distinctive ; —so that the general phenomena may be
true, but the particular circumstances, such as to afford
only a partial verification. We are very anxious to show
this distinction between the perfect gift of prophecy, or
revelation from the 3Iost High, and that most imperfect
faculty of foresight, which now engages our attention.
We may be deceived by the eyes of our understanding, or
of the mind, as well as of the body. God alone is infal-
lible, because infinite mind alone can grasp the past, the
present, and the future, and at one glance can comprehend
the whole, and all the parts of which it is composed.
We shall subjoin a case illustrative of this magnetic
204 ON SOMNAMBULISM
foresight, in juxta-position with a similar remarkable case
of natural foresight, in the chapter of prevision, We shall
here request the attention of our readers to a case of mag-
netic somnambulism authenticated in the second report
of the French commissioners.
" The magnetizer, M. Dupotet, having announced that
"this somnambulist would distinguish from among a
" dozen pieces of money, those which he had held in his
" hand,—the reporter placed there a five-franc piece of
" the year XIV. and mixed it with a dozen others, which
" he placed in a circular order on the table. M. Petit
" pointed out one of the pieces—but it was one marked
" with the year 1812. A watch was then presented to
" him, of which the hands had been purposely altered
" from the right time, and on two successive trials M.
" Petit was wrong in naming the time indicated. These
" miscarriages were attempted to be explained on the
" ground that M. Petit's lucidity was lessened, in propor-
" tion to the infrequency of its being called into action ;
" —and yet notwithstanding in the same sitting the re-
" porter played with him a game of piquet, in which he
" tried to deceive him, by announcing another card for
" the genuine one, and yet this deceit of the reporter did
" not prevent M. Petit from playing right, and from
" knowing the colour of his adversary's cards. We ought
" to add, that whenever any body, as a sheet of paper,
" or pasteboard, was interposed between the eyes and the
" object to be declared, M. Petit was unable to distinguish
" any thing.
" If these experiments had been the only ones in which
" we had sought to recognise this clairvoyance, we should
" have concluded that the somnambulist did not possess
" this faculty ; but in the following trial, it appeared in
AND CLAIRYOYANCE. 205
" all its perfection, and this time the success was fully equal
" to M. Dupotet's announcements.
" M. Petit was magnetized by him, on the 13th of
" March, 1826, at half-past eight in the'evening, and was
" asleep in less than a minute. The president of the
" commission, M. Bourdois, ascertained that the number
" of pulsations was diminished in this state, by twenty-
" two in the minute, and also, that there was some ir-
" regularity in the action of the heart—M. Dupotet
" having bandaged the eyes of the somnambulist, directed
" towards him several times the tips of his fingers, at
" about two feet distant. Immediately there appeared in
"his hands, and in the arms- towards which this action
" was directed, a violent contraction. M. Dupotet having
" placed his feet near to those of M. Petit, but without
" touching them, the latter hastily withdrew his feet. He
" complained of much pain, and of a burning sensation,
" in the limbs upon which this action was carried on. M.
" Bourdois attempted to produce the same effects ; he did
" so, but to a less extent, and requiring a greater time for
" their development.
" This point established, we sought to inquire into the
t;
clairvoyance of the somnambulist. As he declared that
" he could not see with the bandage, it was withdrawn ;
" but then every attention was paid to ascertain that the
" eyelids were perfectly and exactly closed. With this
" view, during the experiment, a strong light was almost
" constantly held before his eyes, at the distance of from
" one to two inches ; and several persons had their eyes
" almost constantly fixed upon his eyes. Nobody could
" detect the slightest separation of the lids. M. Ribes
" even called our attention to the fact, that the edges of
" the lids were so closely placed one upon the other, that
" the eye-lashes were intermingled.
206 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" The condition of the eyes was also examined ; —they
" were forcibly opened in awakening the somnambulist,
" and it was remarked, that the pupil was directed down-
" wards, and towards the great angle of the eye.
" After these preliminary observations we proceeded to
" verify the phenomena of sight with the eyes closed.
" M. Ribes, member of the Academy, presented a
" Catalogue which he drew from his pocket. The sora-
" nambulist, after some efforts which seemed to fatigue
" him, read very distinctly these words :
—
Lavater, it
" is very difficult to knozv men. These last words were
" printed in a very small type. A passport was placed
" before his eyes ; he recognized it, and described it under
" the term of pass-man. Some minutes afterwards, a
" license to carry arms was substituted for the passport,
" to which it has the greatest possible resemblance, and it
" was presented to him, by its blank surface. M. Petit
" could only distinguish that it was a framed document,
" and very like to the former :—but on the other side
" being turned to him, after some moments of attention
" he read distinctly these words, de par le roi—and on
" the left, port d'armes. An open letter was then shown
" him, which he said he could not read, not understanding
" English ; it was, in fact, a letter in English.
" M. Bourdois drew from his pocket a snuff-box, on
" which was a cameo set in gold. The somnambulist
" could not at first see it distinctly ; he said that the
"gold case blinded his eyes. When the gold setting
" was covered with the fingers, he said he perceived the
" emblem of fidelity. Being urged to say what was that
" emblem, he added, I see a dog ;—he is as if prepared
" for a sacrifice before the altar :—this was, in fact, the
" figure represented.
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 207
" A sealed letter was shown him : he could discover
" nothing of its contents. He merely followed the direc-
" tion of the lines with his finger :
—but he read easily
" the address, although it contained a very difficult name :
" A. M. de Rockenstroth.
" All these trials fatigued M. Petit extremely. He was
" left to rest for a short time : —then, as he was very fond
" of play, it was proposed to him, in order to relieve him
" to take a hand at cards. In proportion as these expe-
" riments of pure curiosity, seemed to have annoyed and
" fatigued him,—so did he accomplish with ease and dex-
" terity, that which gave him pleasure, and to which he
" was led by his own inclination.
" One of the party, M. Raynal, formerly inspector of
" the university, played a game at piquet with M. Petit,
" and lost. The latter played his cards with the greatest
•• ease and without ever being wrong. Many times we
" uselessly tried to put him out in his play by subtracting
" or changing the cards,—he counted with surprising faci-
" lity the number of points marked on the cards of his
" adversary, which he had to play to.
" During all this time, we had not ceased to examine
" the eyes, and to hold a candle close to them ; they were
" always accurately closed ; —but we remarked that the
" globe of the eye seemed nevertheless to be in motion
" under the eye-lids, and also to follow the different move-
" ments of the hands. At length M. Bourdois declared,
" that according to all human probabilities, and as far as
" it was possible to judge by the senses, the eye-lids were
" perfectly closed.
" While M. Petit was playing a second game at
" piquet, M. Dupotet, invited by M. Ribes, directed from
" behind his hand towards the elbow of M. Petit ; the
208 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" muscular contraction, which had been before observed,
" again took place; then by the proposal of M. Bourdois,
" M. Dupotet magnetized him from behind, and with the
" intention of awakening him. The enthusiasm which
" the somnambulist threw into his game, fought against
" this action, which rendered him uncomfortable and
'•'
annoyed, but did not awaken him. He several times
" carried his hand to the back part of his head, as if in
" pain. He then fell into a state of slumber, which ap-
" peared to resemble any light, natural sleep, and some
" one having spoken to him in this state, he awoke
" agitated. Shortly afterwards, M. Dupotet, always
" placed near to, but not in immediate contact with him,
" again threw him into the magnetic sleep, and the ex-
" periments recommenced.—M. Dupotet, desirous that
" not a shadow of doubt should rest on the nature of the
" physical action, thus exercised at will upon the som-
" nambulist, proposed to place upon M. Petit as many
" bandages as were thought desirable—and then to act
" upon him. They covered, in fact, the upper part of his
" face to the nostrils, with several cravats : they stuffed
" gloves into the cavities formed by the prominence of
" the nose, and covered the whole with a black neck-
" kerchief, descending as far as the neck, in the form of
" a veil. Then began again, and varied in every possible
" manner, the trials with regard to action at a distance,
" and constantly the same movements were manifested in
" the parts towards which the hands or the feet were
" directed.
" After these new trials, M. Dupotet having removed
" the bandages, took a hand at ecarte with him in order
" to relieve him. He played with the same ease as be-
" fore, and again won. He threw so much zeal into his
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 209
" game, that he was insensible to the influence of M.
" Bourdois, who tried in vain, while he was engaged at
" play, to act upon him from behind, and to produce in
" him some involuntary movement.
" After his game, the somnambulist rose, walked across
" the room, setting aside the chairs which interrupted his
" route, and went to sit down by himself, in order to gain
" some time for quiet, apart from the curious, and the ex-
" perimenters, who had fatigued him. There M. Dupotet
" awakened him, at some feet distance ; but this awaken-
" ing did not appear to be complete ; for a little time
" afterwards he fell asleep again, and new efforts were re-
" quired in order to arouse him completely.
" Thoroughly awakened, he retained no remembrance
" of what had occurred during his sleep. Assuredly, if,
" as M. Bourdois has committed to paper on the proces-
" verbal of this sitting, the constant immobility of the
" eye-lids, and their edges placed one over the other, so
" that the eye-lashes appeared to have crossed each other,
" are sufficient guarantee of the clairvoyance of this som-
" nambulist, through the substance of the eye-lids, it is
" impossible to refuse, if not one's belief, at least one^s
" astonishment, at all which has passed at this sitting,—
" and not to desire to witness further experiments, in order
" to fix one
,
s opinion on the existence and the value of
" animal magnetism.
" The wish thus expressed by our president was soon
" destined to receive its consummation on the persons of
" three somnambulists, who, in addition to the clairvoy-
" ance observed in the preceding individual, presented
" also some remarkable proofs of intuition and prevision,
" both as regarded themselves and others.
" Here the sphere of observation seemed to be en-
9*
210 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" larged ; it was no longer an object to satisfy a simple
" curiosity,—to seek after an infallible sign, by which to
" determine whether somnambulism is real or simulated ;
" if a somnambulist can read with his eyes closed ; if he
" can, during his sleep, carry on a game at cards, requj,-
" ring more or less complicated combinations ;
—questions
" which are curious, interesting—whose solution, espe-
" cially that of the latter, is in itself a very extraordinary
" phenomenon ; —but which in real interest, and above all
" in the hope of advantage which may thereby accrue to
" medical science, are infinitely beneath those to which the
" commission are now about to invite your attention.
" There is no one among you, gentlemen, who in what
" has been related to him concerning magnetism, has
" not heard of that faculty possessed by certain somnam-
" bulists, not only to determine the kind of malady with
" which they themselves are affected, and the duration,
" and the final issue of those maladies ; —but also, the
" kind, the duration, and the issue of the maladies of
" persons with Avhom they are placed en rapport. The
" following observations have appeared to us so impor-
" tant, that we have thought right to bring them before
" you entire, as presenting very remarkable examples of
" that intuition,—and of that provision : you will find
" at the same time, the reunion of several phenomena
" which have not been observed upon the other magne-
" tized persons.
" Paul Villagrand, student at law, born at Magnac-
" Laval, the 18th of May, 1803, was attacked on the
" 25th Dec, 1823, with apoplexy, accompanied with
" paralysis of the left side. After seventeen months
" of treatment by various remedies—by acupuncture, by
" seton in the neck,—by twelve moxas along the spine,
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 211
'* —a treatment which was pursued partly at his own home
" —partly at a public dispensary—and partly at the
" Hospice de Perfectionnement, and in the course of
" which he had, twelve successive attacks, was admitted
" on the 8th of April, 1827, into the H6pital de la
" Charite. Although he had experienced a certain
" amount of decided relief from the means employed be-
" fore his entering that hospital, still he walked with
" crutches, without the power of bearing any weight on the
" left foot. The arm of the same side, performed some
" movements pretty well, but could not be carried towards
" the head. He scarcely saw at all with the right eye, and
" was very deaf with both ears. In this condition, he
" came under the care of our colleague, M. Fouquier,
" who, in addition to the manifest paralysis discovered also
" symptoms of hypertrophy of the heart.
" During five months he gave him strychnine, had him
" bled from time to time, exhibited cathartics, and applied
" blisters. The left arm recovered a little power,—the
" headaches to which he was subject became more distant,
" and his condition then became stationary, till the 29th
" of August, 1827, when he was magnetized by M. Fois-
" sac, under the direction of M. Fouquier. On the first
" occasion, he experienced a sensation of general warmth,
" and of some catchings in the tendons. He was sur-
" prised by feeling creeping upon him, an unwonted de-
" sire for sleep ; he rubbed his eyes to arouse himself,
—
" made fruitless and visible efforts to keep his eyes open,
—
" and at length his head fell forward upon his chest,—and
" he was asleep. From this hour, his deafness and his
" headache disappeared. It was not until the ninth sitting,
" that his sleep became profound ; nor till the tenth, that
" he answered by inarticulate sounds to the questions
212 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" which were put to him : —still later, he announced, that
" he could only be cured by the help of magnetism, and
" prescribed for himself the use of sinapisms, of the baths
" of Bareges, and a continuance of the strychnine pills.
" On the 23d of September, the commission went to the
" H6pital de la Charitc, had the invalid undressed, and
" found that the lower left limb was manifestly smaller
" than the right ;
—that the left hand was much more feeble
" than the right,—that the tongue when protruded from the
" mouth was inclined to the right side,—and that in the
" act of blowing from the mouth, the right cheek was
" much fuller than the left.
" Paul was then megnetized, and soon entered into
" the state of somnambulism. He recapitulated all
" which related to his previous treatment, and prescribed
" that on that very day, they should apply a sinapism
" upon each leg for an hour and a half;—that the next
" day he should take a bath of Bareges water,—and
" that on his coming out of the bath they should apply
" sinapisms for twelve hours without interruption,—some-
" times upon one part, and sometimes upon another; that
" two days afterwards, after having taken a second bath
" of Bareges, six ounces of blood should be drawn from
" the right arm. Then he added that in following this
" treatment, on the 28th, that is to say, three days after-
" wards, he should walk without crutches from the sitting,
" or that it would be necessary to magnetize him again.
" The treatment he had directed was followed ; —and
" on the day fixed, the 28th of September, the commis-
" sion went again to La Charite. Paul walked, leaning
" on his crutches, to the room in which the commission
" sat, where he was magnetized, and thrown into som-
" nambulism as before. In this state, he assured us,
AND CLAIRVOYANCE, 213
" that he should return to his bed without his crutches,
" without support of any kind. On awakening he asked
" for his crutches, but was told that he no longer wanted
" them. In reality, he arose, supported his weight on the
" paralyzed limb, made his way through the crowd which
" followed him,—went down the step of the committee-
" room, crossed the second court of La Charite, went up
" two steps, and having arrived at the foot of the stairs,
" sat down. Having rested for two minutes, he ascended
" with the assistance of the balustrade, the twenty-four
" steps of the staircase, which led to the ward in which
" he slept :
—he walked to his bed without help,—sat
" down again for an instant, and then took another
" walk in the ward, to the great astonishment of its inmates,
" who up to that period, had always seen him confined
" to his bed. From this day Paul never resumed his
" crutches.
" The commission met again on the 11th of October,
" at the HOpital de la Charite. He was then mag-
" netized, and announced that he should be completely
" well by the end of the year, if a seton were made for
" him, two inches below the region of the heart. At
"this sitting he was pinched several times, and a pin
" was pushed to a considerable depth into the eye-brow,
" and the wrist, without his giving any sign of feeling.
" On the 16th of October, M. Fouquier received a let-
" ter from the Council-General of Charitable Houses,
" which begged of him to suspend the magnetic experi-
" ments which he had commenced at La Charite. It was
" then necessary to abandon the use of magnetism, of
" which, however, the sick man said, he could not suffi-
" ciently extol the efficacy. Upon this, M. Foissac made
" him leave the hospital, and placed him in a private lodg-
214 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" ing, at No. 18, Rue des petits Augustins, and there con-
" tinued his magnetic treatment."
" On the 20th of the same month, the commission
" met at his lodging to ascertain the progress he had
"made; but before magnetizing him, they noticed that
" he walked without crutches, and with more confi-
" dence in himself, than at the former sitting :
—they
" then made him try his strength by the dynamo-
" meter. Pressed down with the right hand, the in-
" dex marked 30 kilogrammes, with the left hand only
" 12,—with the two hands united 31. He was then
" magnetized :
—in four minutes he was in somnambulism,
" and Paul assured us that he should be thoroughly cured
" by the first of January. He now tried his powers
:
" the right hand made the index of the dynamometer rise
" to 29, (one less than before he fell asleep), the left, or
" paralyzed hand, indicated 26 kilogrammes (14 more
" than before he fell asleep), and the two hands united
'* raised the index to 45—again 14 more than before.
" During somnambulism he got up to walk—and
" crossed the room rapidly ; he leaped with one foot, upon
" the left foot ; he knelt upon the right knee ; he rose
" again, supporting himself by the left hand on one of the
" commission, and allowing the whole weight of his body
" to be borne on the left knee. He lifted up M. Thillaye
" from the ground, turned him round, and sat down with
" him upon his knees. Being invited by us, to go down
" stairs, he quickly left his chair, took the arm of M.
" Foissac, which however he quitted at the door, and
" went down and returned up stairs—two and two—three
" and three steps at a time, with a convulsive rapidity,
" which however he moderated when he was told to take
" only one step at once. As soon as he was awakened,
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 215
" this extraordinary augmentation of power was lost; the
" dynamometer marked even less than at first ; his walk
" became slow, but firm ; he could not bear the weight of
" his body oq the left or paralyzed leg, and he vainly tried
" to raise M. Foissac from the ground.
" We ought to observe, gentlemen, that a few days be-
" fore this last trial, the patient had lost two pounds and
" a half of blood,—that he then had two blisters on his
" legs, a seton in the neck, and one in the side ;
—you
" will therefore perceive with ourselves, the prodigious
" increase of power, which was developed by magnetism,
" in the enfeebled organs, that of the sound organs re-
" maining the same.
" At length Paul abandoned all medical treatment, and
" wished to be treated only by magnetism. Towards the
" end of the year, as he expressed a desire to be placed
" in somnambulism, and kept so for eight days, in order
" that his cure might be complete by the first of January,
" he was magnetized on the 23d of December, and re-
" mained in this state till the 1st of Janaury.
" During this time, at varying intervals, he was
" awakened altogether about twelve hours, and in these
" short moments of waking, they made him think that
" he had been asleep only for a few hours. During this
" long sleep the digestive functions were carried on with
" an increase of activity.
" He had been asleep for three days, when, accom-
" panied by M. Foissac, he went on foot, on the 28th
" December, from the rue de Mondovi, in search of M.
" Fouquier, at the Hopital de la Charite, where he ar-
" rived at nine o'clock : he recognized there some old
" patients, near whom he had slept before he left the hos-
" pital,—also the pupils who were dressers in the ward,
216 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" and read with closed eyes, (a finger being applied upon
" each eye-lid,) some words which were presented to him
" by M. Fouquier.
" All that we had witnessed appeared so wonderful,
" that the commission, wished to follow this somnambu-
" list to the close of his history, and therefore reassembled
" on the 1st of January, at M Foissac's house, where
" they found Paul asleep since the 23rd of December.
" A fortnight before, the setons had been withdrawn, and
" he had had an issue made in the left arm, which was
" to be kept open during the remainder of his life. He
" asserted that he was cured, that if he was not guilty of
" any imprudence, he should live to an advanced age, and
" should then die from apoplexy. Being awakened, he
" went out of M. Foissac's house, and walked and ran in
" the street, with a firm and confident step. On return-
" ing, he carried with great ease a person present, whom he
" could have only lifted with great difficulty during his
" waking state.
" On the 12th of January the commission reassembled
" at the house of M. Foissac, where were already M.
" Em. de las Cases : —M. le Comte de Rumigny, first
" aide-de-camp of the king, and M. Stgalas, member of
" the Academy. M. Foissac told us, that he was about to
" somnambulize Paul, and that in that state, with a finger
" placed upon each closed eye, he would, notwithstanding
" the complete occlusion of the eye-lids, distinguish the
" colour of cards,—read the title of a book, and even
" some words or lines taken by chance from the body of
" the work itself. After two minutes of magnetic passes,
" Paul was asleep. The eye-'ids being held firmly closed,'
»« constantly and alternately, by MM. Fouquier, Itard,'
»• Marc, and the reporter, a pack of new cards, of which
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 217
' the stamped envelope was torn at the moment, was
'
presented to him : they were shuffled, and Paul recog-
' nised easily and successively the king of spades, the ace
'
of clubs the queen of spades, the nine of clubs, the seven
'
of diamonds, the queen of diamonds, and the eight of
'
diamonds.
" The eyes being still firmly closed, but now by M.
' Segalas, a volume with which the reporter was furnish-
'
ed, was presented to him. He read on the title-page,
' Histoire de France. He could not read the two next
'
lines, but then read the name Anquetil, which was pre-
'
ceded by the preposition par. The book was opened
' at page 89, and he read in the first line le nombrc de
'
ses —; he passed over the word troupes, and continued,
'
au moment oil on le croyait la plus occup'e des plaisirs
'
du carnaval.—He read also the running title Louis, but
'
could not read the Roman figures which followed. A
'
paper was given him on which had been written the
'
words agglutination, and magnetisme animal : he spelt
'
the first, and pronounced the other two. Finally they
'
presented to him the proces-verbal of this sitting ; he
'
read distinctly the date, and some words more eligi-
•
bly written than the rest. In all these trials the fin-
'
gers had been applied, over the whole of the opening
'
of both eyes, pressing the upper downwards upon the
'
lower eye-lid ; and we remarked that the globe of the
'
eye had been in a constant movement of rotation, and
'
seemed to be directed towards the object of vision.
" On the 2nd of February, Paul was magnetized at the
'
house of MM. Scribe et Bremard, merchants, No. 29
'
Rue St. Honore. The reporter was the only member
'
of the commission present at this meeting. The eye-
•
lids were closed as on the former occasion, and Paul read
218 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" in a work entitled the mille et un units, the title—the
" word preface, and the first line of this preface with the
" exception of the word pere. He was shown a book
" entitled Lettres dc deux amies by Madame Campari.
" He distinguished upon the stamp the figure of Napo-
" leon ; —he pointed out his boots, and said that he also
" saw two females ; —then he read fluently the four first
" lines of the third page, with the exception of the word
" raviver ; then he recognized without touching them four
" cards which were successively presented to him—two
" at a time : these were the king of spades and the eight
" of hearts,—the queen and the king of clubs.
" At another sitting which took place on the 13th of
" the following March, Paul tried in vain to distinguish
" different cards which were placed upon his stomach,
" but he still read with his eyes shut, in a book opened
" at hazard, and on this occasion it was M. Jules Cloquet
" who closed the eye-lids. The reporter wrote on a slip
" of paper Maximilicn Robespierre, which he read per-
" fectly well.
" The conclusions to be drawn from this long and cu-
" rious case are obvious ; they flow naturally from the
" simple exposition of the mcts which we have reported,
" and we arrange them in the following manner :
—
" 1. A patient, whom ordinary and rational medication
" conducted by one of the most distinguished practitioners
" of the capital, had failed to cure of paralysis, was cured
" by the processes of magnetism, and by exactly follow-
" ing the treatment which he had prescribed while in a
" state of somnambulism.
u
" 2. In this state his muscular powers were manifestly
" augmented :
" 3. He gave us the most irrefutable proofs, of being able
" to read, while his eyes were perfectly closed.
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 219
" 4. He foresaw the period of his cure, and this cure
" accordingly took place."
It does not appear that this foresight results, as has been
asserted, from a separation of the soul from its material
organ ; neither have these physical presentations which
arise from the delicacy of the organ, and the exalted sen-
sibility of its mode of existence, any thing in common
with metaphysical, or reasoning foresight. But let us be
cautious in drawing conclusions ; for the history of som-
nambulism offers many examples of error, into which the
wisest have been led by too hasty generalization ; —by in-
dulging in conjectures rather than resting upon fact; and
by constructing a theory upon a small number of circum-
stances, without thinkingof the grounds on which it may
be opposed or impugned.
We have then established the fact, that there is nothing
supernatural in somnambulism; that it does absolutely
belong to the economy of human nature, in some of its
infinitely varied modifications ; —that it is a combined
condition of the mental organ and its function,—in
which the powers of perception and combination, aided
by enlarged memory, are in some mysterious way, brought
to bear upon the sources of information, in such manner,
that the extent of our knowledge is enhanced.
It is indeed true that many of the descriptions given of
somnambulism, in itself sufficiently astounding and incon-
ceivable, present details which are altogether incredible :
but we may not on that account reject the whole ; we
must first ascertain the reality of the condition, and then
discriminate so much of its history as may be received,
or must be rejected.
Somnambulists may be more or less clairvoyans,
—
more or less perfect—and may offer very varying pheno-
220 ON SOMNAMBULISM
mena : but the almost invariable attributes of this state
are the faculties of seeing with their eyes closed,—their
intimate connexion with the magnetizer,—their develop-
ment of their intellectual faculties, —the insight into their
own structure,—and the foresight of their approaching
maladies.
In some of the recitals given, very doubtful and even
absolutely false circumstances have been narrated, which
evince both the enthusiasm and the ignorance of those
by whom they are reported : —but the errors which must
be rejected, do not falsify the established facts, any more
than the dishonesty of some somnambulists, prevents there
being any real somnambulists ; or than the existence of
quackery precludes the existence of medicine, as a verita-
ble science. We have admitted that many of the pheno-
mena are incomprehensible, but are they therefore false ?
Before we can admit this, the phenomena must be shown
to be opposed to the laws of nature : —and they arc not
so : we are acquainted with these laws only by experience
and observation ; —and experience and observation have
shown, that in all ages, similar phenomena have existed,
as the natural production of a condition, which we in our
ignorance term morbid.
But supposing that this corroborative testimony were
absent, are we even then entitled to reject the pheno-
mena, because they are incomprehensible ? Clearly not
;
—there are many natural phenomena, which are to us
incomprehensible : the union of mind with body is in-
comprehensible : —sight by the optic nerve is as incom-
prehensible to us, as sight without the aid of eyes : the
sense of taste through the gustatory nerve is as incom-
prehensible to us, as is that sensation impressed upon
the somnambulist through the organs of his magnetizer
:
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 221
—and the highest, and dearest, and most venerated ob-
jects of our belief are perfectly incomprehensible : —such
as the existence of the Deity,—His omnipresence,—His
omnipotence,—His infinite grasp of the whole world, yet
His attention to its minutest atoms : His power and
wisdom displayed in every kind of natural birth and
growth,—and in that sustaining influence, by which He
upholds all things by the word of His power :
—all these
things, and many more, which are taught us by the
evidence of natural religion, are to us incomprehensible,
yet we do not reject them. Much less do we reject the
manifestations, which He has been pleased to reveal of
Himself as the moral governor of the universe. To us
these are still more incomprehensible : —but we receive
them as objects of faith : —therefore the incomprehensi-
bility of magnetic phenomena, does not entitle them to
rejection.
There is nothing really revolting to our understanding
in these phenomena. For instance, writing—a look
—
the sound of the voice—a gesture,—the expression of the
countenance, are so many means by which the mind
expresses, and renders manifest, the affections, and pas.
sions, and sentiments which animate and occupy its inte-
rior recesses. So also, the mind, intimately united to the
body, and especially to the nervous system, impresses upon
that system, by a powerful but inexplicable process, all
the thoughts which are produced. These thoughts, it is
true, may originate with the mind itself, yet the more
deeply they spring, the more intimately are they attached
to the individual man ; but they are impressed upon the
brain, as the medium of communication, to the entire
nervous system, and to the organs dependent on it,
—
or
which mayi from some incomprehensible modification of
222 ON SOMNAMBULISM
vitality, be placed in a certain relationship with it : and
this too, although these organs may belong to another in-
dividualpossessing also a rational mind, and by means of
which incomprehensible modification the two minds are
thus placed in a state of extraordinary inter-communication.
But admitting thus much, which is incontestable, we have
not arrived at the first cause of this mysterious union,
which like many other mental and even simpler processes,
remains perfectly hidden.
Seeing then that we dare not reject the facts because
they are incomprehensible ; we must admit, that the most
positive—the best attested, and the most irrefutable facts
support all the phenomena of magnetic sleep:—and prove
that under certain circumstances, the clairvoyance of som-
nambulists, may be of use in determining the nature of dis-
order, but especially the degree of organic disease.
Nevertheless, it is freely admitted, that with regard to
the authority of the somnambulist, and the belief of his
visions, many difficulties present themselves ; as for in-
stance, has the lucidity of the individual been sufficiently
tested ? Can his good faith be relied upon 1 May he
not be guided by the motive of gain, or by the ambition
of notoriety ? Is he honest enough to avow it, when his
clairvoyance fails him 1 or when having been present it
has become exhausted 1 May there not be a great num-
ber,—perhaps a majority of imperfect and ill-informed
somnambulists,—of those who pretend rather than expe-
rience—or of those who are absolutely dishonest, over
those whose good faith may be relied upon ? And even
admitting the affirmative of all these propositions, perhaps
the magnetizer himself is incapable and untrustworthy.
Now these difficulties require great caution in their so-
lution: for it is clear, that the existence of clairvoyance is
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 223
not to be taken upon trust,—and the very means employed
to test its existence, will be calculated to destroy it, by ex-
hausting the brain, and rendering it irritable. It is quite
certain that the results are only to be trusted when they are
natural and spontaneous products ; and that all their worth
may be perverted by disturbing the brain, with a variety of
questions not bearing upon the one exclusive object of
somnambulists, their own health.
Here therefore, is the difficulty ; to receive the faculty
without evidence of its existence is unphilosophical : yet
the inquiries after such evidence tend to disturb and to
destroy, and they should be prosecuted with great caution,
judgment, and prudence. Again, there can be no ques-
tion, but that this faculty may exist to day,—and be ab-
sent to-morrow,—that it may become entirely worn out,
—
and that it is very generally less perfect, in proportion as
the health of the individual is restored.
Most frankly do we also admit, that this faculty may
be simulated, for sordid purposes altogether :
—and that
when it has been really excited in men of corrupt minds,
who may hope to make a gain of their intuition, or to add
a blazonry to a representation of the most obscure cha-
racter, it may and often does degenerate into the mere
vagaries of interested imagination : —and that where the
brain has been too far excited, the ideal creations which
it presents have no sort of existence beyond the vaporous
region, in which they have been created : —and also that
when the energy, or exalted sensibility of the organ, have
been lost by frequent, and curious, and extraneous trials,
or from any other cause, the integrity of the faculty is not
to be trusted. All these things, however, prove the neces-
sity of watching over its actions, and do not make against
its existence or its usefulness, any more, than does the
224 ON SOMNAMBULISM
quickened and uncertain action of an enfeebled heart
militate against its existence or its office.
How different is the conduct here advised from that
which has been followed frequently, by half-informed
magnetizers, who having witnessed some of the extraor-
dinary phenomena of somnambulism, have with reckless
impudence imagined, that the apparently increased cere-
bral power of the somnambulist had no limit; and that
they could say, or see, or foresee, and predict every thing.
But where this has been the case, credxdity has usurped
the place of science : —for after all, somnambulism must be
considered as a morbid condition of brain ;
—and the
magnetizer is not to yield himself to be controlled by this
disordered state, but should rather direct and relieve it.
And in default of this wise and prudent caution, he yields
to the power he has himself evoked, and receives as truths,
ideas the most absurd,—and the more dangerous in pro-
portion as they seem to be based on some species of
reasoning.
All this would have been avoided if magnetizers had
not invested somnambulists with the character of superior
beings :
—and if, on the contrary, they had considered them
as being in a feeble, morbid state, possessed of ordinary
faculties, although with a temporary and extraordinary
concentration of those faculties upon one particular point
:
—and if, moreover, they had been careful to adhere to the
first general principle, viz., the curative agency of mag-
netism ; —to recollect that somnambulism, in itself com-
paratively rare, is not necessary to this end ; —and that
when it does exist, the thoughts of the somnambulist are
not to be directed, but that he must be left to himself and
listened to : for that if he be prompted,—if his thoughts
be led and biassed,—if he be aided in developing and
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 225
explaining them, the results are no longer the actings of
the mind of the somnambulist, but the suggestions of the
magnetizer.
Let it ever be kept in view that the somnambulist knows
nothing beyond what he knew before in his natural con-
dition ;—but the exaltation of his memory, and powers of
comparison, produces intellectual combination which ren-
der his manifestations of mind superior to themselves in
his ordinary state. This very superiority is oftentimes
shown by the individual checking the curiosity of the
magnetizer :—the latter perhaps is seeking after curious
inquiries ;—the former puts a stop to such investigation by
the expression of the simple wish to attend to the matters
which relate to himself: and this expression is enough to
awaken to duty and common sense, any man of good feel-
ing, and honourable motive.
But, it is time for us to consider in detail some of the
particular phenomena of somnambulism. And first of the
conversion, or transportation of the senses :—that is when
the patient does not experience sensation through the or-
dinary channels,—but when he sees, feels, tastes, hears,
touches and reads by the stomach, by the hands or feet,
or by some other portion of the body. That these states
exist as natural phenomena, the history of medical science
declares,—that they have also existed as the phenomena
of magnetic somnambulism, there can be no reasonable
doubt ; but we must be contented to state the fact, with-
out being able to offer any reasonable ground of expla-
We shall, however, here introduce a few examples of
•magnetic, and of natural somnambulism, in order that
our readers may perceive the coincidence of the two states,
and may the more thoroughly appreciate the reasoning
10
005 OF SOMNAMBULISM
which follows :—and in so doing, we shall depart from
our general rule by taking one case from home and con-
temporaneous sources.
" Calixte, being magnetized, a card was applied over
" the region of the heart, and he pronounced it to be,
" without any hesitation, the ace of spades. The eyes
" being plugged with cotton, and then covered with a thick
" bandage, he played with perfectly new cards, several
" games at ecarte, with some of the most sceptical, and
*«
that without being once wrong. If his adversary an-
" nounced a card different from the one which he had ac-
" tually played, the somnambulist was displeased, com-
•« plained of the bad faith, and generally added :—Why do
" you wish to deceive me 1 I see better than you do, and
" in order to prove it, there still remain in your hand,
" such and such cards.
" One of the players, being extremely distrustful, having
" raised the bandage of the magnetized, in order to con-
" vince himself, that no ray of light could possibly reach
" the visual organ, received from the somnambulist a
" violent apostrophe in rather unmeasured language, and
" owed his own conversion to magnetism to the following
" experiment.
" '
You think, then, that I can see by my eyes, do you V
" said the somnambulist. '
You, yourself, then, are blind
" enough not to understand, that my eyelids being com-
u pressed by the plugs and bandage which are horribly
" uncomfortable to me, it is perfectly impossible for me to
" perceive any thing by my ordinary senses. Well then
" go into the next room—fasten against the wall with a
" white wafer, any card of your own choice, and you will
" then know, whether I can recognize it or not.' Calixte
" in a short time announced the king of diamonds, which
" was the fact.
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 227
" Twelve pieces of ribbon, of different colors or shades,
" were next presented to him, and he distinguished each
" in the most precise manner.
" A watch <
en savonnette,' that is in the form of a
« globe, was shown to him, the hands having been pre-
" viously misplaced ; and this being placed over the region
" of the heart, he told the precise hour which it indicated.
"'Gentlemen,' said M. Ricard, on another occasion,
" 'we intend to try to make Calixte execute certain move-
" ments which you will indicate to me—and without any
" ordinary communication with him ; as soon as the card
" shall be given me, on which the movements to be exe-
" cuted have been described, I will speak to him no more—
" and will remain without movement. ' Calixte,' said he,
" placing himself before his somnambulist, who was seated,
11
'I am about to give you some directions—attend to me,
" and do what I tell you.' At this moment, M. L— took
" one of the cards, and presented it to M. Ricard, who,
" after having read it, dropped both his arms,—looked
" stedfastly at Calixte, and remained, himself, immoveable.
« After some minutes waiting, the somnambulist said, I
» know not what to do,' and the first experiment failed.
" The second and the third failed equally.
" '
Gentlemen,' said he then, 4
negative facts, however
M numerous, cannot invalidate positive facts : —thus, should
M all the experiments which I am about to institute fad,
" vision, notwithstanding the closure of the eyes by a
" thick bandage, would not be in any measure unproven.
" Moreover, we are perhaps too numerous, and I should
« not be surprised if the clairvoyance of the patient were
M exhausted for to-day : nevertheless we will continue the
" trial.' Consequently a fourth, and then a fifth experi-
" ment was tried, and partially succeeded—but only par-
228 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" tially, for it was necessary to prompt the somnambulist
" a little. A sixth experiment was then tried, which I
" will describe, because its success was complete.
" Calixte, his eyes bandaged as before, sat with his face
" turned towards the wall :
—three paces behind him were
" M. Ricard, and M. Teste, and at twenty paces, there
" stood an organ. All was quiet, the sound of the organ
" began, and at the same time Calixte beat time ; but
" after some minutes, and immediately after a sign which
" M. Teste made with the hand to M. Ricard, the som-
" nambulist ceased beating the time, although the mag-
" netizer said nothing, and although the sound of the
" organ continued.
" Such was the sixth experiment, and I will now relate
" the last, which also was attended by complete success.
" As soon as the attention of the somnambulist was
" thoroughly gained by his magnetizer, M. L. gave him
" one of the hundred little cards, of which I have before
" spoken :
—then Calixte, his eyes being still bandaged,
" arose from his seat, advanced some steps towards his mag-
" netizer,—stopped for an instant,—returned,—stopped
" again—got up into a chair,—stamped his feet impa-
" tiently,—then finally placed his heels upon one corner
" of the chair—closely applied his arms to the whole
" length of his body—became stiffened all over—then
" inclined himself backward—and finally fell in a heap
" into the arms of M. Ricard, who had purposely come
" and placed himself behind him.
" The card was now given to us, and contained the
" following sentence :
—' Make the somnambulist get up
" into a chair, and then make him fall backwards into the
" arms of his magnetizer.'
" Thus terminated our sitting, the most interesting, and
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 229
" perhaps the most complete, which has ever taken place
" in Paris. I have thanked M. Ricard for it, as for a
" great benefit which he has conferred upon me. What
" could I do without facts of this kind 1 —and I have not
" the time to produce them.
" I am now about to estimate the value of the experi-
" ments which I have described ; and I shall distinguish
" them thus—that of the cards—that of the music—that
" of the chair.
" First, let us lay down certain principles : when one
" observes with the eyes, for the first time, a fact denied
" by all, and inaccessible to the understanding of all, one
" must say to oneself:
—
" This fact, which appears to me incontestable, is the
" result either of a jugglery which I do not perceive,—or
" of a hazard which I do not understand, or of a faculty
" with which I am not acquainted. Thus, it is necessary
" to examine the fact from three successive points of view,
" and to arrive only at the third conclusion, by the exclu-
" sion of the other two. Let us try these experiments by
" this test.
" First experiment—that of the cards :
" 1 . This experiment, is it the result of trickery T
" In every thing one is seldom certain—certain beyond
" the possibility of doubt, that one has not been selected
" as a dupe. Nevertheless, when the fact, like the pre-
" sent, is easy of verification, and that besides one has
"taken all the precautions suggested by distrust, and
" inspired by previous experience, one does indulge the
" belief of being safe from the influence of fraud.
"Again, have we always been sufficiently upon our
" guard, and have we scrutinized—inquired into,—ana-
» lyzed every thing 1 Thus, for example, had the bandage
230 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" any imperceptible perforations ? No ! for it was com-
" posed of two handsful of carded cotton, and a silk cov-
" ering, and was applied by highly talented and experi-
" enced sceptics.
" Was the bandage so applied, that the somnambulist
" could not see below it ? Yes ! —for besides the cotton
" placed upon the eyes before the silk covering, some had
" been also introduced under the bandage from beneath it,
" so that the cotton formed a salient border.
" Were the cards marked, or prepared in any other
" way "? No :
—for all the envelopes of the cards era-
"ployed still bore upon them the untouched government
" stamp.
"Did not the somnambulist recognise the cards by
" touching them 1—No : for he named the cards of his
" adversary without touching them.
" Had notthe magnetizer some means of communicating
" with his somnambulist, in order to give him a knowledge
" of the cards 1—No : for the magnetizer spoke not,
—
" moved not,—touched not Calixte, and did not look at
" the cards.
" Finally, might not some one, by some means or other,
" indicate to Calixte, what ought to be his own play—and
" what was the play of his adversary 1 —No : for each
" one was perfectly silent, in an expectation which was
" not without inquietude, but to which very soon succeed-
" ed, astonishment or admiration.
" Thus, whether we consider the bandage,—the cards,
" —the somnambulist,—the magnetizer,—the persons pre-
" sent,—even the presence of an adversary, we are with
" regard to each, as certain as it is possible to be, that we
" have not been deceived.
"2. Has this experiment been the result of hazard 1
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 231
" To settle this question, we must beforehand inquire
" into, what characteristics a fact should possess, in order
" that it may not be attributed to chance.
" A fact ought to be, or at all events may be, attributed
" to hazard, when there is an equality between the chance
" of its affirmation and negation, as betweeneven and odd.
" But in proportion as this equality diminishes, that is to
" say, in proportion as the affirmative is repeated without
"interruption, the amount of hazard diminishes exactly
" in the same proportion ; and at last there arrives a term
" at which the mind stops, and says No, there is no
" longer any doubt on the subject.
" This principle established, I can now say,—among
" the facts of a nature similar to those which now engage
" our attention, such an one proves nothing, and is proba-
" bly the effect of chance, because the chances of its affir-
" mation or negation are equal. There is another fact
" which proves much, and which consequently, is proba-
" bly not the effect of hazard, because the chances of its
" affirmation and negation are very unequal. Lastly,
" there is another fact which proves very much, and which
" consequently, is certainly not the effect of hazard, be-
" cause the chances of its affirmation and negation, are
" immensely unequal.
" I will exemplify my ideas by three suppositions.
" First kind offacts. If, for example, a somnambulist
" pretended to discover the sex of an infant before it was
" born, in order to believe that this fact is not the result
" of hazard, I must have it confirmed by successful result
" for thirty following times,—since there is here for each
" trial, taken by itself, but the chance of one against
" one that the somnambulist will be in error : but upon
" two consecutive trials, there are three to one against
232 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" him ; —upon three trials, there are seven ; upon four
" there are fifteen : —and so on in such way, that in the
11
whole thirty trials, there are one billion, seventy-three
" millions, seven hundred and forty-one thousands, eight
" hundred and twenty-five, to one, against the somnam-
" bulist being right in every one instance^ there are one
" billion, seventy-three millions, seven hundred and forty
-
" one thousands, seven hundred and ninety-four, against
" thirty, that he will be in error at least twice : there are
" one billion, seventy-three millions, seven hundred and
l(
forty-one thousands, three hundred and eighty-nine, to
M four hundred and thirty-five, that he will be wrong at
" least three times. Once more, and not to carry down
M the calculation further, there are one billion, seventy
-
" three millions, seven hundred and thirty-three thousands,
" seven hundred and sixty-four, against four thousand and
" sixty, that he will be wrong at least four times.
" Second kind of facts. If, for example, a somnambu-
*' list assumed to be able to read by the back of his neck,
" and at each sitting one letter of the alphabet only, in
" order to be convinced, I should require many sittings,
" but not thirty, because if for each trial taken separately,
" there are only twenty-four to one, against the somnam-
" bulist being right :
—at two successive trials, there are
*' six hundred and twenty-four to one against him : —at
" three successive trials, there are fifteen thousands six
" hundred and twenty-four against him : —and at seven
" successive trials, there are four billions, five hundred and
" forty millions, one hundred and thirteen thousands, six
" hundred and twenty-four, to one, against the soranam-
'* bulist never being in error.
" Third species of facts. Lastly, if a somnambulist
»' assumed to be able to read by the back of the neck, and
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 233
" in order to convince me offered to read one word at each
" sitting, I should require only two or three sittings, (or
" two or three words at one sitting,) since there are for
" each experiment taken separately, at least forty thousand
" to one against the somnambulist being right : upon two
" trials the chances against him have increased to one
" billion and six hundred millions ; —while upon three suc-
" cessive trials, the chances of his being wrong in at least
" one of the three, are as sixty-four trillions to one ;
—
" abundantly enough, to satisfy common sense, that collu-
" sive guessing was absolutely impossible ; or one must
" admit, that in tossing at one time, and pell-mell from
" the top of Notre Dame, all the type from the printing-
" office of Didot, it would be possible, that at their arrival
" on the ground, the letters would of their own accord,
" arrange themselves, so as to form the Iliad, or the iEneid j
" or the Bible.
"After this dissertation, if any stupid genius, should
" again ask me,—was not the experiment of the cards>
" the result of chance ?—I should answer, No,—and I
" should give the reasons for my answer, by adding,—No
!
" because if on presenting the first card to the somnam-
bulist, there were only thirty-one, out of thirty-two
" chances against his being right,—by the time the fourth
" card was presented, there would be several millions,—at
" the tenth it would be impossible, and still further the
" calculation would stretch into infinitude. But in the
" present instance, there were a hundred at least, without
" one mistake. Judge then, my dear Sir, yield, and sub-
" mit ; hazard must in this case be counted for nothing,
—
" absolutely nothing.
" 3. Was then this trial the result of a faculty 1
" Faithful to the method of exclusion, which I had
10*
234 ON SOMNAMBULISM
"imposed upon myself in the first instance, I should
" answer, Yes !—and I should ground my reply on this
« reasoning, that having demonstrated that the fact was
" not the result of chance or collusion, and yet that it was
« indisputable, it must necessarily be the result of some
" faculty, the existence of which we should thus establish
" though we did not comprehend it :
—or in other words,
" it is the result of some property inherent in the in-
" dividual, in whom the fact has been observed. That is
" enough.
" Assuredly I might say much more on this occasion :
" but it would be to enter upon uncertain ground, and
" to incur the danger of talking till death, without uuder-
" standing myself, or being understood by others. And,
" forgive me the expression, I am not fond of walking in
" muddy water.
" Second experiment,—that of the music. This trial
" is of a very different kind from the former. That of
" which we have just spoken proves the power of vision,
" notwithstanding the mechanical occlusion of the eyes :
—
,(
that of which I am now about to speak proves the trans-
" mission of the will, without any appreciable sign to the
" most attentive observer.
" In the present stage of our argument, I should
" equally examine, if this trial also could be the result of
" juggl ery
—
or chance—or of a faculty; and consequently
" I ought to reproduce all the reasoning above mentioned.
" But in the present case, these three questions do not
?;
appear to admit of the same answers, for the following
• reasons
:
" On the question of fraud ? Strictly speaking, may
" not the subtle casuist assume, that M. Teste, who made
u the sign to M. Ricard when to stop, had a secret un-
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 235
• demanding with him as to the number of measures he
« should beat, and that on his part, M. Ricard had a col-
"lusive understanding with his somnambulist? Cer-
« tainly all this might have been a most unworthy ar-
« ran/ement, as well as a most difficult task:-but it is
« enough for me, that it was possible, to induce me not
« to place any value upon this fact. The experiment
« would have been much more conclusive, if tins hazard
« had been selected to point out, not only the individual
« out of sixty others, who was to make the sign to the
.. magnetizer, when the somnambulist was to cease beat-
m ino the time ;-but still more, if chance had also pointed
« out the air to be played, and the number of measures
" to beat. .
,. ,
» With regard to chance 1—The experiment of the
« music, supposing it to have been faithfully executed,
« as in point of fact it was, and with all the precautions
u which I have mentioned, would be still far from present-
« ino- the same degree of evidence as the experiment with
« the cards, because the organ having played, I suppose
'«
only perhaps 500 notes, there could only be a chance of
« 499 to 1 against Calixte being right.
« And indeed, although the difference between 499
« and 1 appears considerable, for my own part, when the
.. matter in hand is the defence of a fact against the
« Academies, I should wish it to be considerably greater :
, even three nines more on the right or left of these
« fibres, would not be sufficient for me. But as I have
« already stated, this immeasurable difference is to be easily
« obtained, by the two or threefold repetition of the fact
« to be established. In order, therefore, to render thcrex-
« periment of the music absolutely doubtless, it would be
« necessary to repeat it at least once.
236 OS SOMNAMBULISM
" Third experiment,—that of the chair.
" This experiment is of the same nature with that of
" the music, and leads to the same conclusion : the trans-
" mission of the will without the aid of signs—and con-
" sequently by that medium only which we call thought.
" All that I have said on the subject of the music, is
" applicable to the fact of the chair, both with respect to
" fraud, and with respect to chance. Thus, have I taken
" away every possibility of fraud ? No ! —and no one
" can have acquired the logical right—observe that I say
" logical right—to affirm, that M. L., selecting and giving
" the little cards, had not a secret understanding with
" M. Ricard ; —and moreover abandoning with disgust
" this charge of connivance, had I left open no possible
" door to successful hazard 1 Here too it must be ad-
" mitted that as only one trial of this kind had completely
" succeeded, the difference between these numbers is too
" small to be conclusive. Therefore it is necessary to.
" repeat the experiment.
" This, my friend, is the estimate which I have thought
" it necessary to make of the magnetic phenomena which
" M. Ricard produced at my house, last Sunday, in the
" presence of sixty persons, who all went away much as-
" tonished, with the exception of two medical men, who
" found nothing to reply to the appeal which I addressed
" to them as they went away—Well, Gentlemen, what do
" you think 1 With such facts should we inquire further,
" or should we abandon inquiry? As to Dr. Teste—the
" modern apostate ! in his fervid proselytism, he said to
" me—For fifty years the Academies have been leagued
" against us : —it is now our turn to combine against them,
" and to exclaim, Long live the league !
u Doubtless, my friend, you will accuse me, of having
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 237
" formed too severe a judgment at the expense of the
« cause of magnetism : but from the view which I take
" of that which is rational and just, I could not act differ-
" ently, because logical truth is inexorable,—and because
"justice requires severity towards oneself and one's
" friends, in the same proportion as towards those who do
" not stand in the same relation.
" Adieu, my friend,
" Frapart, D. M. P."
In close juxta-position with the above narrative and
reasoning, I shall place a case of natural somnambulism,
extracted from the interesting work of Mr. Sandby.
" Dear Sir,
" It is perfectly true, that our poor friend who has now
" been some months with us, presents one of those singu-
a lar and almost incredible cases of hysterical or nervous
" affection, which are at distant intervals, witnessed under
" the dispensation of the Almighty.
« The overthrow of the regular functions of the nervous
" system, was occasioned by the almost sudden death of
« her father, to whom she was most fondly attached, who
« was seized with illness, during her absence from him,
« and died in a few hours after she returned to her home.
« I cannot enter into any longer details of the case,
» which has been attended with all those varieties, which
" have long characterized the complaint, among medi-
« cal men as the Protean disorder. The extraordinary
"powers communicated to the other senses by the
" temporary suspension of one or two of them, are be-
« yond credibility to all those who do not witness it
:
" and I really seldom enter into any of the detads, be-
238 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" cause it would be but reasonable, that those who have
" not seen, should doubt the reality of them. All colours
" she can distinguish with the greatest correctness by
" night or by day, whether presented to her on cloth,
" silk, muslin, wax, or even glass—and this I may
" safely say, as easily on any part of the body as with
" the hands, although of course, the ordinary routine of
" such an exhibition of power, takes place with the
" hands,—the other being that of mere curiosity. Her
" delicacy of mind, and high tone of religious feeling, are
" such, that she has the greatest objection to make that
" which she regards in the light of a heavy affliction
" from God, a matter of show, or curiosity to others,
" although to ourselves, of course, all these unusual ex-
" travagances of nervous sensibility, are manifest, for at
" least twelve out of every fwenty-four hours. She
" can not only read with the greatest rapidity any wri-
" ting that is legible to us, music, &c, with the mere
" passing of her fingers over it, whether in a dark or
" light room, (for her sight is for the most part suspended,
" when under the influence of the attack, or paroxysm,
" although she is pefectly sensible,—nay, more acute
" and clever than in her natural state:) but within this
" month past, she has been able to collect the contents
" of any printing or MS., by merely laying her hand on
" the page, without tracing the lines or letters ; —and I
" saw her last night only, declare the contents of a note
"just brought into the room, in this way, (when I could
" not decypher it myself without a candle,) and with a
" rapidity with which I could not have read it by day-
" light. I have seen her develope hand-writing by the
" application of a note to the back of her hand, neck, or
" foot ; and she can do it at any time. There is no-
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 239
" thiDg uNnatural in this, for of course the nervous sus-
" ceptibility extends all over the surface of the body, but
" use and habit cause us to limit its power more to the
" fingers. Many, even medical men, take upon them-
u. selves to declare, that we are all (her medical atten-
" dants as well) under a mere delusion. We ask none
" to believe any thing, if they prefer not to do so, and
" only reply—The case is equally marvellous either way ;
" —either that this our poor patient should be thus af-
" flicted, or that eighteen or nineteen persons of my family
" and friends, in the daily habit of seeing her, should fancy
" she is for every twelve hours out of the twenty-four,
" doing at intervals, that which she is not doing. There
" are many exhibitions of extravagant powers which she
" possesses, that we talk of to no one ; for finding it
" difficult to acquire credit for lesser things, we do not
" venture on the greater. Her power ceases the moment
" the attack passes off. A considerable swelling has at
" times been visible at the back of the head, which has
" yielded to the treatment.
" It is certainly a case which would be an instructive one,
" in the consideration of the physiology of the human
" frame : but she, poor thing ! is most averse to experi-
" ments being purposely made on her ; —but in her every
'•'day life among us, we have no lack of proof for all we
" believe and know.
" Between the attacks, she is as perfectly in a natural
" state, as ever she was in her life. There is but one
"paradox in her state ; and that is, that she can at such
" times, hear some sounds and not others, though very
" much louder,—and see some things, and not others,
" though placed before her. She could hear a tunc
M whistled, when she could not hear a gun fired close to
240 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" her. It is certainly the absorption or absence of mind
" that occasions this ; absent to some things, though
"present to others, like any absent man ; and thus Dr.
" Y accounts for it.
"In making this communication to you, in part to vin-
" dicate the testimony of my friend, Mr. M , I have
" really exceeded my usual custom and resolution ; for I
" do not think it fair to the poor sufferer herself, to make
" her too much the talk of others. Very few believe what
" we tell them,—and therefore, we are in no degree
" anxious to open our lips on the subject. All I know is,
" that I should not have believed it myself, had I been
" only told it. I must beg, therefore, that you will not
" make any undue use of this communication, by handing
" my letter about to any one. The friend for whom you
" ask the information is perfectly welcome to read it, or I
" should not have written it. If the case were my own,
" the world should be welcome to it ; but a young female
" of much sensibility might be much embarrassed by find-
"ingthe world at large in possession of all the particu-
" Jars of her recovery, should God so please to permit.
"I am, &c, &c."
Such then is a state of natural somnambulism; its
identity with that produced by magnetic action is obvious :
in both, it may be remarked, that there is an inexplicable
analogy between their conditions, and the vivid impression
of light which belongs to dreaming. In many instances
of this kind, the images are most distinct. In both
cases of the dreamer, and the somnambulist, each receives
the impression, or sensation ofsight,—that is, sees through
the medium of his brain, whether that brain has received
its impression through the optic nerve, or from any other
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 241
agency ; —and perhaps we are not more at a loss to explain
the real nature, or primary cause of this agency, than of
the cause of sight by the optic nerve,—although being
familiar with the phenomena of the one, and not of the
other, the former is assumed as proven, while the latter
is admitted as doubtful—and perhaps more than ques-
tionable.
It is, however, clearly an error to suppose, that the
patient sees or hears, by the actual intervention of the
solar or cardiac plexus of nerves ; —in fact, such sensibi-
lity cannot be thus transmitted from without,—since spe-
cial organs are not created for this purpose, and the im-
pinging rays of light, or the phonic impulses of the atmos-
phere, are not perceptible without such organ. It is very
easy to mistake an echo for an original sound—and thus
it is in the present instance ; —the plexus of nerves of
organic life only re-echo the movements of spiritual life,
which have been transmitted to them by the brain, under
peculiar circumstances.
The isolation of the somnambulist is another pheno-
menon requiring attention. During the magnetic sleep,
the individual has become an isolated being : —the ordi-
nary functions of relation are suspended, and the somnam-
bulist very generally perceives no sensation except those
which come to him directly from his magnetizer. And
here comes the question, whether this isolation and sus-
pension of the functions of relation, may not, if established,
explain some, if not all of the phenomena of clairvoyance.
The individual sees not in his own person, or through his
own senses, but through the senses of his magnetizer.
The possibility of accounting for clairvoyance by the
lucid individual, thinking the same thoughts, and seeing
the same things, as one with whom he is placed en rap-
242 ON SOMNAMBULISM
port, or in a certain state of mysterious relationship, it is
not difficut to imagine, though we may not be able to
trace the links of causation. Ordinary sympathy, or that
undefinable something which connects two individuals in
thought and feeling and action, so that they shall seem
to have but one life ; —and this sympathy, not the growth
of ages,—not the product of knowledge, nor the result of
estimate of character ; —but developed at once, and before
the common sources of esteem and regard and friendship
can have been brought into operation,—is evidently a
state which is dependent upon certain peculiarities of the
nervous system : —so that the affinities between two such
systems are at once developed. Enlarge the sphere of this
common sympathy by placing two such nervous systems,
possessing such affinities, in a still closer bond of relation-
ship, and you have a probable conjecture as to one form
of clairvoyance. The nerves of each become the mutual
carriers of the system, and what is known and felt by the
one is experienced by the other.
But, admitting this glimpse at truth in one particular
state, the difficulty remains of how to account for similar
effects, when the individuals are not en rapport. How
explain the facts of lucid individuals seeing things, and
detailing circumstances, of which they could have had no
previous knowledge,—and in localities with which there
seems to have been no possibility of forming an acquain-
tance. We confess ourselves unable to offer a rational
conjecture : but for the information of our readers, we
subjoin some remarkable instances of this extraordinary
faculty.
" Calixte being in the state of Extase (to be hereafter
" described) reproached himself severely for the levity of
" his habitual conduct. He spoke to himself, as if ad-
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 243
« dressing another, and discoursed with a tone and a faci-
" lity which would have been worthy of one of the doctors
" of the Sorbonne.
« Being brought back to the state of simple somnam-
" bulism^Calixte obeyed the orders which were mentally
« given him by his maguetizer. The latter, among many
" other convincing proofs, tacitly commanded him, on the
" suggestion which had been made to him by a third per-
" son, to go to a certain table, and take from it a glass full
" of water, and to place it upon a little box containing
" phosphorus, which had been placed, with several other
"things, upon the chimney-piece. Then walking very
"fast, the somnambulist went to take up the glass full of
" water, carried it,, and placed it rapidly upon the said
» little receptacle, where it rested with perfect security, to
"the great astonishment of those present, who having
" afterwards tried to do the same thing could never find
" the perfect equilibrium.
" M. S., a solicitor, then wished to be placed on rapport
« with the somnambulist, and to induce him to explore the
" house.
" '
Will you see my house, and tell me the arrangement
" of the ground floor V
" '
Most willingly. I am there. I enter by a door with
« two leaves into a large hall ; I see two doors on the
" right, two doors on the left, a great staircase at the
" bottom, and a little to the left ;—and near to, and on
" the right of the staircase, a little door which opens into
" the court.'
" <
Very well ;
go up stairs to the first floor, and into
" the first room on the left.'
" < I am there. It is your library. I see every where
) « books and papers. I will go round the room beginning
244 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" on the right side and will tell you what it contains.
" Come then—follow me. Here near to the door, is your
" book-case, occupying the whole side : there are four
" chairs, there is a chimney-piece, on which stands a
" bronze dial ; there are also two candles,—a book open
" and some papers : further on a writing-table : —there,
" opposite to the book-case, two windows,—between the
" two, there is nothing except a sofa. The window
" blinds are of blue silk—and the curtains are white and
" embroidered: —there, opposite to the chimney are four
" easy chairs. In the middle of the room is a large library
" table furnished with a covering of green cloth, orna-
" mented with yellow fringe ; upon it there are only some
" papers, an inkstand, and and abox, the top of which
" is painted, and represents a landscape.'
" ' All that you have said is perfectly correct, except in
" one particular ; that is the last which you have men-
" tioned, there is no box on my usual study table.'
"'There is no box, do you say? you are wron"-: I
" am certain that there is a box there, I see it distinctly
" still. Look now, there, at the place where you write.
" Do you not see it? That is astonishing, for it is of
" considerable size.'
" '
I assure you, my friend, it is you who are wrong and
" not I :—but enough of this, besides I am quite satisfied
" with you, and I thank you.'
" The somnambulist appeared much disconcerted rela-
" tive to the box, and besides he was fatigued : the mag-
" netizer awakened him, and sent him to breathe the fresh
" air.
Then several persons inquired of M. S—, if he was
"quite sure, that there was no box upon his table; he
" again affirmed that there was nothing of the kind, and
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 245
" added :
" I possess indeed a box answering to the de-
" scription which the somnambulist has given of the one
" he affirmed to see, but it is invariably kept in my bed -
" room.' This avowal of M. S— that he possessed a
" box greatly resembling the one described by Calixte, in-
" duced the magnetizer to ask M. S— to make himself
" quite sure when he retui-ned home with regard to the
" fact in doubt. M. S— then proposed to several per
" sons, and to the magnetizer himself, to accompany him
" home, in order to verify the error, which according to
" his belief the somnambulist had committed. This was
" agreed upon, and on entering the library of M. S —
" every one immediately recognized that the lucidity of
" Calixte had not been at fault, but the memory of M.
" S— ; for there stood the box in the identical place
"pointed out by the magnetized. M. S—, thoroughly
" satisfied by the sight, now recollected, that in the morn-
" ing he had had occasion to open the box, and that his
" mind being preoccupied with other business, he must
' have brought it in, and left it in its unwonted position.
" M. the doctor Clauzure desiring to ascertain what
" truth there really was in the assumed fact of the power
" of sight at a distance in the somnambulistic state, and
" through opaque bodies, asked M. Ricard to place him
" en rapport with Calixte when magnetized : —and this
" being done, addressing himself to the somnambulist, he
" said, '
Will you go home with me V
" '
Willingly ; which way shall we go V
" 'By the Place du Palais ; we are going to St. Peter's
" church : are you there V
" '
I am there ; I see your house ; there is an iron
" railing which separates the street from your garden,
246 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" through which we must go in order to arrive at the
" house.'
" ' That is true. Go on to the entrance door.'
" * I am there ; I enter a kind of hall ; on my right is
" the staircase ; on my left a door.'
" 'That is true. Open the door and go in. "What is
" the use of this room V
" ' It is a drawing-room. I see in it only chairs, easy
" chairs, sofas, a table covered with china, and a piece of
" furniture which I do not know.'
" ' Examine that piece of furniture. What is it V
" '
Ah ! now I have it ; it is a piano.'
" ' Very right. Do you see a chimney-piece in this
" parlour
!'
" Yes, there it is, on the right of the door on coming
" into the room."
" • What do you see on the chimney-piece V
" ' Two candles, two vases filled with natural flowers,
" and some other little objects.'
" ' Do you not see a dial upon the chimney-piece V
" ' No, no, there is not one, but in the place usually
" occupied by the dial, there is a carafe.'
" ' Is the carafe empty V
" • No,—there is something in it, but I do not clearly
" distinguish what.'
" ' Come, try and find out—tell us now.'
" ' I do not know—it fatigues me—it is—it is—it re-
" presents the tomb of Napoleon.'
" ' That is quite right. I thank you : —that is quite
" sufficient.'
" Madame Lacroix, accoucheuse, and risiding at Pointe-
AND CLATRYOYANCE. 247
" a-Pitre, being lately at Toulouse, begged to be placed
" en rapporte with Calixte in his magnetic state.
" '
Will you,' said this lady to him, * that we should
" take a long voyage together V
" '
Willingly ; whither shall we go V
" '
First to Bordeaux. When there, Ave shall go on
" board ship, and shall sail across the sea, in order to ar-
" rive at Pointe-a-Pitre. Are you there V
« «
No—not yet ; it is a very long distance, but we ap-
" proach it—for I perceive a number of buildings together:
«< —See—see there the land—we are arrived.'
" '
Well let us go into the town. Let us follow this great
"street, and let us go together into the churchyard.'
" (An expression of discomfort on the part of the som-
" nambulist.)
" ' Are you there V
" '
Yes, 1 am—ah ! I am.'
" '
How is the door made V
" '
It is a grated door—the grating is of wood.'
" '
Go in, and follow the path which is before you.
" ' What do you see V
" '
I see a house—down quite at the bottom.'
" '
You are mistaken—there is no house.'
" '
Nevertheless, I distinctly see a house.'
it «
No—I tell you—it is a church.'
" «
That may be—but to look at its exterior from this
" side one would believe it to be a house.'
" «
That is true, it resembles a house.' Return now, if
" you please, to the middle of the churchyard, and tell me
" what you observe.'
" '
I see a tree.'
" '
A small tree, is it not V
» •
On the contrary, it is a very large tree.'
248 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" '
That is true. Now look to your left, and fix your
" attention on the third grave. There, are you there V
" '
I see it :
—it is a grave.'
" '
Is it the one which I wish you to see V
" '
Yes, it is the same.'
" '
Then tell me, if you please, what is the colour of the
" marble stone which covers it V
" '
You wish to deceive me ; there is no marble :
—
" Monsieur Ricard de-mesmerize me.'
" Madame Lacroix told us that the whole of this was
" exact.
" This sitting was held at the house of M. Toussaint,
" in the presence of MM. Fournier, Toussaint, Romestens,
" and several others."
This case seems to exemplify that species of clairvoy-
ance, which results from seeing objects through the pre-
viously informed brain of the magnetizer, or of others,
with whom the somnambulist is en rapport :
—and it
elucidates that delicacy of moral feeling which we have
announced as existing : —since no sooner did Calixte
discover the wish to deceive him, than he requested to be
un-magnetized.
The fact that individuals in general, who in somnam-
bulism read through some other medium than their eyes,
do not usually do so in complete darkness, but only in
such an amount of light as may enable the magnetizer,
or some other individual with whom the magnetized is
en rapport, to read, goes far to support the conclusion
that, under such circumstances, the reading is accom-
plished through the established sympathy and inter-com-
munication of the two nervous systems, viz. that of the
magnetizer and magnetized.
Nevertheless, the fact, that some somnambulists have
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 249
read in perfect darkness, and without the possible mental
intervention of the magnetizer, shows that this explana-
tion will not apply as a general principle—and that, after
all, we must admit as the cause of this clairvoyance in the
greater number of instances, such a development of sen-
sibility on the part of other nerves, as to enable them to
become messengers to the sensorium, of an unwonted
kind. Admitting that this is very extraordinary and in-
explicable—it is not more so, than that the optic nerve
conveys its intimations to the brain in the ordinary way
—and above all, that it gives the idea of an upright
reality from an inverted spectrum. We can give no
reason for this—only that experience has convinced us of
the reality—and this so frequently, that we admit the
belief without a doubt. In the other case, our experi-
ence has not been sufficient to remove doubt : but take
away the influence of experience, and the two cases
would be precisely parallel,—as far as regards the im-
pression upon the nerves,—of course we can see in the
one instance'that the beautiful arrangement of the eye,
and expansion of the optic nerves, are fitted for making
it the organ of vision generally ; but we cannot tell why
the optic nerve conveys its pictures to the brain, any
more than we can tell, why the same thing appears
under certain circumstances to be accomplished by the
nerves of touch.
Further, individuals in somnambulism, possess such a
concentration of self in the interior of organic life, that
they seem to become cognizant of what is passing there,
so as to give very accurate information of the existing
state of things,—and to describe with very great, (though
not with anatomical) precision, the form and situation of
various organs. As it has been observed, these descrip-
11
250 ON SOMNAMBULISM
tions will not be given with anatomical correctness, if the
somnambulist be ignorant of anatomy : but they will be of
more value, because more suitable to the existing state oi
their own knowledge, and will therefore possess the charac-
ter of truthfulness enstamped upon them.
Now the possibility of this fact, though in circum-
stances comparatively rare, and the power of directing
remedies, and regimen, and plans which might be useful
to relieve or cure existing maladies, is undeniable. And
ought we to have any difficulty in receiving it 1 Is it not
to be considered as a species of medical instinct? Do
we not constantly and daily experience the effects of this
instinct, in the stomach''s choice of food—taking some and
rejecting others, —receiving with pleasure, or refusing with
loathing, so as to have acquired for that organ the epithet
of the conscience of the body ? Do we not see the de-
velopment of this instinct as given to dogs and cats, so as
that they select their own remedies, and as, we believe,
the best suited to their peculiar maladies 1 And can we
believe that this same property is denied to man under
circumstances peculiarly favourable to its development t
Always assuming, that the limits of this form of know-
ledge are very narrow, it is impossible to discard it wholly,
and therefore the only part of wise men is to inquire more
thoroughly. We feel it to be right to subjoin a few ex-
amples of this peculiarity.
CASE OP THE CHILD DAIJBAS, OF EOCHEFORT.
" M. Daubas having exhausted the ordinary resources
" of medicine, without being able to obtain relief, for a
" long-standing deafness of his eldest son, aged thirteen
" years—determined upon giving a trial to magnetism.
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 251
" He brought his child to me, during a public sitting,
" and by my advice he consented that the young patient
" should be magnetized at once. Five minutes sufficed
" to obtain the state of somnambulism, with some proof
" of clairvoyance. The little somnambulist announced
" that five or six magnetizations would be enough to cure
" him, and this announcement was admirably realized.
" After a few seances, the young Daubas obtained
M an extraordinary degree of lucidity. He had never
" travelled out of Rochefort :
—I conducted him mentally
" to Paris ; he described to me exactly the Tuileries, the
" Louvre, the Palais Royal, the Stock Exchange, &e.
" I made him see Anvers, which he described to me
" exactly ; —his exploration of the citadel of that place
" was extremely minute ; for after having told me that a
M river washed the walls of one side ;
—that at one point
" there was a breach—and again at another, and another,
" he pointed out to me the situation of the large mortar,
" which I did not myself think of at the moment. Con-
" ducted to the Exchange of that city, he said that it was
" very different from that of Paris, and gave me an exact
" description of it. One day we wis! d to try if he
" could read, and I asked him if he could bear without
" annoyance the application of a bandage. '
Why a ban-
" dageT he replied. ' In order that nobody may imagine
" that you see in the same way as every one else does.'
" ' Ah ! well,' said he, ' nothing is easier to prove,—apply
" the book to the middle of my back.' We did so
—
" and he read. '
Place writing beneath my foot, upon my
" head, or where you please, and I will read.' We tried
" him, and he read. M. le Docteur S ,
physician to
" the Navy, being still doubtful as to the transposition
" of the sense of sight, or as to the power of vision, not-
252 ON SOMNAMBULISM
withstanding the occlusion of the eyes, proposed a se-
vere trial :
—a note written in secret by himself, and
sealed by himself, was also by himself placed under
the foot of the somnambule, who read the contents
fluently, and with great facility.
" Another day we wished to try if he would understand
what was said to him in a foreign language. (We were
aware that his education had been confined to learning
to read and write, and cypher a little.) M. S spoke
to him in English ; he answesed him very properly, but
in French. I put to him first in Latin, and then in
Spanish, several questions, to which he replied with
accuracy. I begged him to translate for me a Latin
phrase, which I pronounced slowly and distinctly,—he
gave me the sense, but not a literal translation. Then I
repeated to him a passage from Virgil, which he could
not translate, because, said he, I myself had not thought
of the general meaning of the passage. However, he
recognized that it was poetry ;
—for he exclaimed in
these terms, ' How do you think I can comprehend
this poetry, when you sing it, without thinking of its
meaning V
" Daubas, in common with many other of my somnam-
bulists, understood perfectly, orders which were given
him mentally, whether by his magnetizer, or by persons
with whom he was en rapport ! It was not therefore
surprising that he should understand the thought which
was manifested to him by any means, which were enough
to waken, and excite his attention : —thus it was not the
verbal phraseology which he understood, but the spirit
of the sentence.
" Some trustworthy magnetizers,—good observers,—
" and very little given to enthusiasm, have assured me, that
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 253
" they had seen somnambulists, who could answer in
" languages, with which they were unacquainted in their
" waking state. Thus, if spoken to in Greek or Latin,
" they would have replied in the same way as Demos-
" thenes or Cicero; if in German or English, their reply
" would have befitted Schiller or Byron. But, indeed,
" according to my views, this is the ne plus ultra of som-
" nambulism, and I honestly avow, that although the
" character of the persons who have witnessed these things,
M and who have told me of them, is so perfectly irre-
" proachable, that I dare not entertain a doubt of their
" veracity,—yet I do earnestly desire, to see with my own
" eyes,—to hear with my own ears, for hitherto I have
" never met with any parallel case !"
CASE OF MADAME BUSSIEUE.
" Sir John Herschell remarks that the first care of him
" who is commencing the study of a science, should be
" the preparation of mind to receive the truth, by the
" abandonment of all imperfect and hastily adopted no-
" tions, concerning those objects which he is about to
" examine,—notions which could only tend to embarrass
" him, or induce him to wander from the straight path.
" Madame Bussiere, wife of a sub-lieutenant of the
" customs residing at Bordeaux, No. 38, Rite du Quai
" Bourgeois, had been in bad health for some months :
" she had pains in the chest, and had lost both her ap-
" petite and her sleep, and consequently had grown
" alarmingly thin.
"Being accidentally, on the 16th of April, 1836, at her
" brother-in-law's, when I was magnetizing, her husband
" asked me to try magnetism upon her, which I did di-
254 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" rectly. At the third pass she shut her eyes and went
" to sleep :—at the fifth, she was already in somnambu-
" lism.
" Having asked her how she did, I could obtain no
" answer, for her jaws were in a state of cataleptic rigi-
" dity.
" I tried by all the means known among magnetizers
" to restore her speech ; but all in vain : I was there-
" fore obliged to content myself with the answers which
" she could make me by signs.
" '
Do you hear me V I asked her. She made an as-
" senting sign. '
In how many days will you speak ?' She
" counted the number fourteen upon her fingers.
" From this day till the 30th, she continued (in her
" sleep) to inform me in the same way, the number of
«' minutes that she wished to sleep, and when that time
" was expired, she made signs to me to awaken her, with-
" out giving me the trouble of thinking about it.
" On the 30th, the day which she had announced as
" the one on which she should speak, she kept her word
" indeed—but she spoke with difficulty, and her ideas
" were without cohesion ; she begged of me not to ques-
" tion her at that time, for that she required repose.
" Before awaking her, I put to her the following ques-
" tions :
'
In what part of the body do you suffer V In
" the chest. '
Do you see your malady V No ! I see it
" all confused. '
When shall you see it V The first or
" the second time that you will put me to sleep.'''
" On the first of May, after having put her to sleep : ' Do
"you now see your malady V Yes: I have a collection
" of blood on the chest ; it suffocates me ; the more it ac-
*'
cumulates, the greater my suffering : when you magnet-
" ize me, you stir up this blood,—it is distributed, and I
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 255
" obtain relief. '
Do you see any drink, or any other
" thing which might assist the effects of magnetism in
" order to hasten your cure V No, nothing will do me
" good except magnetism. ' And magnetized water V
" No, it will be useless. '
How is it that this blood
" makes you HIV The more it increases, the greater the
" weight upon the heart, and the more I walk, the more is
" my complaint exasperated. '
Is your heart itself still
" suffering V JS/o, I see it, it is healthy. '
Do you see
" your lungs !' Yes. '
How are they V Well, but if I
" had not been magnetized, theyioould have been attacked
" on the first day. * At a certain period of the month,
" will this collection of blood which you have upon the
" chest, be dissipated V Yes, partly, but the remainder
" will not disappear till the next month.
" May 2nd. Madame Bussiere being magnetized, told
" me that she should be much better in twelve days.
" She prescribed for herself a salad of water cresses, and
" a tisan of chien-deut, for eight days.
" May 9th. During her sleep, she said To-morrow,
" at seven o'clock in the evening, a constitutional change
"will take place. A part of the fulness of blood upon
" my chest will be relieved, but the remainder will not be
" removed till the next constitutional change.
" May 11th. Mons. Bussiere informed me that the
" change announced by his wife two days since, had
" taken place as predicted last evening at seven o'clock.
" Having placed her in sleep, she informed me that she
" suffered much—but that as soon as one half of the
" blood upon the chest was removed, she would be better,
" though not well, till the next constitutional change.
" May 14th. Madame Bussiere, being magnetized at
" eleven o'clock in the morning, told me that she was
256 ON SOMNAMBULISM
« better—but that she could not think about herself—hav-
ing something upon her mind, which distracted her
" thoughts ; and not being able to see the cause of this
" presentiment, she asked me to assist her. I did so by
" the means usually employed under such circumstances.
" She retired within herself :—an instant afterwards she
" burst into tears, and said to me, Isee my brother-in-law,
" who is at Libourne : he has inflammation of the lungs ;
" his wife wrote to me yesterday to inform me of this
" event, and the letter will arrive this evening
:
—she rt-
" quests me to go to Libourne. After a minute's silence ;
" lam unwell, and Ifear that this letter, when it arrives,
" will make me worse. I beg of you, on my awaking, to
" inform me of this, but with caution; especially tell me,
" that I dare not be absent at the most more than twelve
11
days, because I shall require to be magnetized from
" that period until the next constitutional crisis, which
" will be the last. I cannot tell you on what day it will
*'
happen; I cannot see this till the evening before.
" Having awakened her, I did as she had directed me,
" insisting strongly on the necessity of her returning on
" the 26th, on account of her health.
" In the evening her husband sent me the letter an-
" nounced during her sleep ; its contents were precisely
" those which Madame Bussicre had told me.
" The invalid went to Libourne. She returned on the
"26th, and I magnetized her. Being in somnambulism,
5* she told me that if I had not magnetized her on that
" day, her cure would have been retarded for a month.
" I continued to magnetize her from the 26th of May
" to the 8th of June ; on that day, she told me that at
" eleven o'clock at night, her last periodical crisis would
" take place.
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 257
" June 9th. As she had informed me, so had been the
" event. She perceives the remainder of the blood con-
" gested on her chest slowly departing, and affirms that it
" will be entirely dissipated :—she adds, that on the 11th
" she shall be quite well.
"June 10th. Madame Bussiere reiterated what she
" had said the evening before ; but in order that her cure
" should be complete, it is necessary that she should
" take in the morning fasting, for three consecutive
" days, a glass of magnetized water;—and fearing that
" in her waking state she should be unable to drink it,
" she gave me a gold amulet that I might magnetize it
" for her, in the hope of conquering her repugnance.
"When I had magnetized the amulet and the water,
" Madame Bussiere told me that she was cured ; —she
" thanked me in expressive terms, for all the trouble I
" had taken in conducting her treatment. She told me
" weeping, that I could no longer throw her into somnam-
" bulism, at least, added she, unless I sJiould become
" again ill, in which case you could renew this condition, s
" as easily as it teas at first produced.
" I asked her if she had nothing more to beg of me,
" concerning her malady, and on receiving a negative re-
" ply, I awakened her.
" Two days afterwards, and on two other occasions
" since, I magnetized her, but could produce only somno-
" leuce, and not even that, until after a long-continued
" action.
" For the last fifteen months since Madame Bussiere
" was cured by magnetism, she has enjoyed perfect health.
" It is with her consent, and that of her husband, that I
" have published her treatment. O that all persons who
" were indebted for the restoration of their health, to the
11*
258 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" magnetic agent, would act as this lady, and authorize
u the publication of their treatment ! These would afford
*' arguments less piquante, perhaps, but more conclusive,
"than the facetious report of M. Dubois (d'Amiens.) I
" have not thought it necessary to publish the letter men-
" tioned above, nor to the permission which was given me
" by M. Bussi&re.
" Besides that which Madame Bussiere told me con-
" cerning her malady, during its treatment, she also exhi-
*' bited some very curious phenomena. I think it useful
" to relate the following, which may possess some interest
" for those who are devoted to researches after, and to the
" defence of, the same truths with myself.
" Four seconds only were required to place her in som-
" nambulism ; and while she was in that state, I was un-
" der the necessity of retiring some distance from her,
" since as soon as I touched her, that portion of my body
" which thus came in contact with her was immediately
" stricken with catalepsy:—towards the close of her ma-
s' lady, this magnetic power had become so considerable,
" that it was no longer necessary for me to touch her, in or-
" der to experience its effects ; for, notwithstanding all the
" resistance which I compelled myself to employ against
" this agency, yet she acted mentally upon my brain, and
" the desire for sleep immediately crept upon me. What
" was very extraordinary, was, that oftentimes this action
" was independent of her will, since she herself was really
" grieved at it; and pointed out to me a method of protect-
" ing myself from its influence : this was to carry about
" with me a piece of glass which had been magnetized by
" some other somnambulist. This plan succeeded, as she
«* had foreseen.
" One day that I had forgotten my talisman, I again
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 259
"felt the effects of sleep. Wishing to keep myself
" awake, I took upon my finger, automatically, a tame
" dove which was walking about the room ; but scarcely
" was she seated there, when she closed her eyes and
" fell asleep. Madame Bussiere, who was remarkably
" attached to this bird, immediately perceived it, and was
11
much agitated by seeing her in this state :—she begged
" of me to put her down, which I did at once, in order to
" terminate the state of painful emotion, which this expe-
" riment had occasioned to her mistress.
" One day, having desired her to touch one of her
" friends who was unwell, she refused to do so, alleging
" that, instead of affording her relief by so doing, she
" should only do her harm. She made the same answer
" with respect to her husband, who was suffering from
" indigestion, and whom I wished her to touch. I deter-
" mined on relating these circumstances, because they are
" opposed to the instinct of somnambulists in general,
" which leads them to offer their attention and care to the
" suffering persons around them."
—
Communicated by M.
Mtlllicr, of Bordeaux.
The present series of illustrations would be incomplete
without one instance of a person in somnambulism pre-
scribing for others, and I purposely select this case from
the second Report of the Academical Commission in 1831,
because it is introduced in the body of that Report, and
vouched for by nine honourable men. Not that this is
sufficient to preserve it from the aspersion of falsehood.
For we observed not very long since in an English publi-
cation, that the case of Madame Plantin, vouched for on
the same indisputable authority, was absolutely denied,
and held up to the detestation of the good, as an impudent
260 ON SOMNAMBULISM
fabrication. When we see the testimony of honourable
men thus assailed by the anonymous or the obscure, we
are compelled to pity the unenviable desolation of that
heart, which can think so badly of others ; and to believe
that possessing no higher standard of right, than the
dreariness of his own defective head, or unprincipled
heart, he has fancied that others must be like himself, and
are prepared to sacrifice as much, for the momentary
eclat of victory over truth ! But we turn to our case.
" We," say the commissioners, " have just given you,
" in the two preceding observations, as many remarkable
" examples of intuition, of that faculty developed during
" somnambulism, by which two magnetized individuals
" perceived the maladies with which they were attacked,
" defined the treatment by which these ought to be com-
" bated—aunounced their termination, and foresaw the
" attacks : the fact of which we are about to present you
" the analysis, possesses a different kind of interest.
" Here the magnetized individual, during somnambulism,
" determines the malady of persons with whom she is
" placed en rapport, describes its nature, and points out its
" remedy.
" Mademoselle Celine was placed in somnambulism
" in the presence of the commission on the 18th and
" 21st of April,—on the 17th of June, the 9th of Au-
" gust, the 23d of December, 1826,—on the 13th and
" 17th of January, and the 24th of February, 1827. In
" passing from her usual state to that of somnambulism,
" she has felt a cooling down of the temperature
" of the body, several degrees, appreciable by the ther-
" mometer ; her tongue became dry and rough in-
" stead of moist and yielding, which it was before ; her
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 261
" breath, which was sweet before, became foul r«nd repul-
" sive.
" Her sensibility was almost gone during the continu-
" ance of her sleep, for she made six inspirations, having
" close under her nose a bottle filled with hydrochloric
" acid, and yet she did not exhibit the slightest feeling
" M. Marc pinched her wrist ; an acupuncture needle
" was passed to the depth of three lines into the left
" thigh, and another two lines into the right wrist. These
" two needles were united by a galvanic conductor ; very
" marked convulsive movements were produced in the
" hand, and yet Mademoiselle Celine appeared to have
" no cognizance of aught that was done to her. She
" heard those persons who spoke to her closely, and at
" the same time touched her ; —but she did not hear the
" noise of two plates which were suddenly broken by he
" side.
" It was while she was plunged into this state of som-
" nambulism, that the commission thrice recognized in
" her the power or faculty of discovering the maladies of
" persons whom she touched, and of pointing out suitable
" remedies for their relief.
" The commission found among its own members, one
" who would submit himself to the exploration of this
" somnambule : this was M. Marc. Mademoiselle Celine
" was requested to examine attentively the state of health
" of our colleague. She applied her hand over the re-
" gion of the heart, and upon the head, and after three
" minutes she said that there was a determination of blood
" to the head ; that M. Marc had positive pain on the left
" side of that cavity; that he often felt oppressed, espe-
" cially after eating ; —that he would be liable to a little
" cough ; that the lower portion of the lungs was loaded
262 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" with blood ; that something rendered difficult the pas-
" sage of the food ; that that part (and she pointed to the
" region of the ensiform cartilage) was drawn inwards ;
—
" that in order to cure M. Marc, he should be largely
" bled,—should have poultices of hemlock applied upon
" him ; and that he should be rubbed with laudanum upon
" the lower part of the chest ;
—that he should drink
" lemonade and gum-water,—that he should eat little and
" often,—and that he should not take exercise imme-
" diately after a meal.
" We were not long in learning that M. Marc expe-
" rienced all which the somnambule had announced ;
—
" he told us, that in point of fact, he was always oppressed,
" if he took walking exercise on rising from the table,
—
" that he often had cough,—and that before the trial of
" that day, he had had pain on the left side of the head ;
" but that he did not feel any uneasiness in the passage of
" the food.
" We were struck with the analogy between the feel-
" ings of the man, and the announcement of the somnam-
" bulist: we very carefully noted them down, and we
" waited another opportunity of again testing this singular
" faculty. This opportunity was afforded to the reporter,
" without his having sought for it, by the mother of a
" young lady, who for a very short time had been under
" Ins care.
" Mademoiselle de W , daughter of M. Le
" Marquis de N , a peer of France, aged from
" twenty-three to twenty-five, had been suffering for the
" last two years from abdominal dropsy, accompanied
" with several internal tumours—some of which were of
" the size of an egg— others as large as the fist,—and
" some, even as large as a baby's head, and were princi-
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 263
" pally situated on the left side. The exterior of the ab-
" domen was unequal, and irregularly prominent, and
" these inequalities corresponded with the tumours, which
" were situated in the abdominal cavity. M. Dupuytren
" had already performed the operation of tapping this in-
" valid ten or twelve times, and had always withdrawn a
" large quantity of clear albuminous fluid, which was per-
" fectly inodorous, and free from any mixture. These
" means were always followed by a certain amount of
" relief.
"The reporter had been thrice present at this opera-
" tion ; and it was easy for himself and M. Dupuytren to
" satisfy themselves of the size and hardness of the
" tumours, and consequently to feel their own inability
" to cure this disease. Nevertheless they prescribed some
" remedies, and they attached considerable importance
" to the plan of Mademoiselle de N , employing
" goats' milk of an animal which had been subjected to
" mercurial frictions.
" On the 21st of February, 1827, the reporter went in
" quest of M. Foissac and Mademoiselle Celine, and he
" conducted them to a house situated in a street of the
" faubourg du Roule, without telling them either the
" names, or the residence, or the nature of the malady
" of the young lady whom he wished to submit to the
" examination of the somnambulist.
" The invalid did not make her appearance in the room
" until M. Foissac had put Mademoiselle Celine into the
" magnetic slumber:—and then, after having placed one
" of her hands within hers, she examined her for eight
" minutes, not as a medical man would examine her, by
" pressure upon the abdomen, by percussion,—in fact, by
" calling in the aid of all his senses ; but simply by very
264 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" slightly applying the hand upon the stomach, the chest,
" the back, and the head.
" Being interrogated as to what she had observed with
" regard to Mademoiselle de N , she answered,
" that all the abdominal interior was diseased ; that there
" was a schirrous tumour, and a large quantity of water
" in the vicinity of the spleen ;
—that the bowels were
" much disturbed,—that there were little pouches which
"contained worms; that there were some swellings of
" the size of an egg, which contained matter, and that
" these swellings must be painful ; that there was at the
" bottom of the stomach, an enlarged gland—as large
" as three of her fingers ; that this gland was in the sto-
" mach, and must impair digestion ;
—that the disease
"was of long standing ; and finally, that Mademoiselle
" N would be subject to head-aches. She advised
" a tisan of borage and dogs' tooth mercury, with nitre,
" and five ounces of the sugar of pellitory taken every
" morning,—and a very small quantity of mercury taken
" in milk ;
—she added that the milk of a goat, which
" had been rubbed with mercurial ointment half an hour
" before she was milked, would be the best method of
" exhibiting the remedy. Besides, she prescribed cata-
" plasms of elder flowers to be constantly applied upon
" the abdomen, and frictions over this cavity with the oil
" of laurel, or in its absence, with the juice of that shrub
" united to the oil of sweet almonds ; —and a lavement
" of the decoction of bark, diluted with any emollient
" decoction. The diet should consist of white meats, milk
"in various forms, farinaceous matters, but no citron.
' ;
She was to be allowed very little wine,—a small
" quantity of rum flavoured with orange flowers and
" water,—or peppermint water. This treatment was not
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 265
" followed, and had it been, it would not have saved the
" patient. She died a year afterwards,—and an inspec-
" tion of the body not having been made, it was impos-
" sible to verify, in all its details, what the somnambulist
" had declared.
" In another case in which some very clever medical
" men had been consulted, of whom several were members
" of the Academy, and had advised a mercurial treatment,
" for some enlarged glands in the neck ; —the family of
" the invalid who was submitted to this treatment, per-
" ceiving it to be followed by alarming consequences,
" wished to have the opinion of a somnambulist. The
" reporter was requested to be present at this consultation,
" and he did not hesitate to profit by this new opportunity
" of adding to the information which the commission had
" already acquired.
" He found a young lady, Madame la Comtesse de
" L. F., having the right side of her neck deeply swollen,
" with a quantity of enlarged glands agglomerated toge-
" ther ; one of which had suppurated.
" Mademoiselle Celine, whom M. Foissac had mag-
" netized in the presence of the reporter, was placed en
" rapport with the sick lady, and said that the stomach
"had been irritated by some substance, as if it were a
"poison ; that the bowels had been slightly inflamed ;
" that there existed at the upper part of the rigbt side of
" the neck a scrofulous malady, which might become
" worse than it now was ; but which would be improved
" in a fortnight or three weeks, by pursuing the plan
" about to be directed. This treatment consisted in
" eight leeches to the pit of the stomach,—a few grains
" of magnesia, some decoctions of gruel, a saline pur-
" gative every week, two lavements every day, the one
266 ON SOMNAMBULISM
" of the decoction of quina, and immediately afterwards
" one of the root of marshmallow ; frictions with aether
" upon the limhs, a hatli every week ; and for nourish-
" ment, a milk diet, light meats, and entire abstinence
" from wine.
" This treatment was followed for a time, and with a
" very marked improvement. But the impatience of the
" invalid, who did not find her restoration to health
" sufficiently rapid, determined the family upon calling
" a new re-union of medical men. It was then decided
" that the sufferer should be subjected to a new mercurial
" plan. The reporter then ceased to see her ; but
" learned that in consequence of the administration of
" mercury, the stomach suffered severely, and that symp-
" toms arose from this cause which conducted her to the
" tomb after two months of severe suffering. A proces-
" verbal of the autopsy, signed by MM. Fouquier, Marjo-
" lin, Cruveilhier, and Foissac, stated that there existed
" scrofulous enlargement of the glands of the neck,—two
" small suppurating cavities at the summit of each lung,
" these resulting from the softening of tubercles there ex-
" istitig ; the mucous membrane lining the larger arc of
" the stomach was almost entirely destroyed ; —no other
" malady, or traces of other malady, were perceptible.
" From these observations it follows, first, that Made-
" moiselle Celine, in her state of somnambulism, did point
" out the disorders of three persons with whom she was
" placed en rapport ;
—2ndly, that the declaration of the
" first, the examination which was made of the second
" after three tappings, and the inspection after death of
" the third, did in each instance, confirm the award of the
" somnambulist; —3rdly, that the several remedies which
" she prescribed were not beyond that circle of remedies
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 267
" with which she might easily be acquainted, nor a depart-
" ure from that order of things which she might rationally
" recommend ; —and 4thly, that she applied these remedies
" with a certain amount of discernment."
With regard to the sense of taste, as developed in som-
nambulists, this again is a phenomenon of the same order,
and is to be similarly explained. The individual in the
state of lucid somnambulism, tastes whatever is tasted by
the magnetizer. Thus wormwood has been given to a
patient in this state, and has been thought to be cake, be-
cause the magnetizer had eaten cake ; —or without actu-
ally putting any thing into the mouth, the action of
apparent mastication has taken place, and it has been
pronounced to be precisely what was eaten by the magne-
tizer ; —and yet when awakened from this state after the
former trial, the patient has nearly vomited, and exclaim-
ed that something most horrid had been given him,
although a few minutes before he had chewed the worm-
wood, and that for a considerable time, with evident satis-
faction and pleasure ; thus showing that the ordinary
sense of taste was suspended, and that a new order of
sensation had been developed.
A similar though somewhat different phenomenon has
been produced by the somnambulist receiving into the
mouth, something very nasty, and yet pronouncing it to
be very agreeable, under the impression that it was some-
thing nice conveyed by a very dear friend, and yet being
excessively angry when awakened at the imposition which
had been practised upon him. This affords a fine illus-
tration of the workings of prejudice upon judgment in the
waking state : —for then effects almost as inconceivable,
are brought about by the agency of imagination, and excite
our astonishment ; here the prejudice is created only upon
268 ON SOMNAMBULISM
an organ of sense, and does not enlist the mind in any
process of ratiocination ; —while there, the mind with all
its powers, and all its privileges, is carried away captive
by a phantom. Nevertheless there can be no doubt, but
that the force of imagination and feeling is greatly en-
hanced in the state of magnetic sleep.
This increased development of sensibility is oftentimes
very great. Thus I have seen patients distinguish, time
after time, and unerringly, magnetized from plain water.
To myself there was no perceptible difference, but by the
patient, the one was instantly distinguished from the
other. But I once witnessed a very remarkable, and I
confess inexplicable phenomenon. There were together
two lucid patients placed in the magnetic sleep by the
same magnetizer ; each distinguished the magnetized from
the plain water, and turned with disgust from the one or
the other ; but the remarkable fact was, that the one re-
coiled with disgust from the plain water, and revelled in
that which had been magnetized ; while the other exhibi-
ted precisely the contrary disposition. It is true, that
these two were originally of very different constitutions :
—
the one was sensitive, intelligent, and active,—the other
was dull,—of limited intelligence, and prone to torpor.
How far there might have been two opposite magnetic
conditions, resembling negative and positive electricity,
rendering them impressible by magnetism, but in precise-
ly opposite directions, I am not prepared to say : —but this
is at present the only explication which presents itself to
my mind, of a very curious phenomenon, and one which,
so far as I am aware, has not been particularly specified
—much less explained.
The taste of wine, beer, milk and other fluids, and also
of some other substances, has been equally revealed
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 269
through the energetically exercised brain of the magne-
tizer. This also seems to have been sometimes effected
without the concurrence of his own senses, and merely
through the exercise of his will. Thus without tasting,
he has wished that such and such an impression, should
be conveyed to the taste of the somnambulist, and it has
been conveyed ; —and in the same way, the unexpressed
thought of the one, wishing that such an action might be
produced in the other, has actually developed such action.
These are purely mental proofs, of mental affinity,—of
that kind of mental relationship which exists in conse-
quence of the two organs of mind having entered into
that condition of approximate sympathy which is expres-
sed by the terms " en rapport."
We hesitate to adopt the position which has been ad-
vanced, that this development of the senses, is a rise in
man's nature ; —and we do so, first, from the rarity of
clairvoyance, which, however it may seem to be developed
by very repeated magnetization, is notwithstanding a rare
phenomenon, as compared with the frequency of magnetic
slumber ; —and secondly, from our belief in its dependence
upon a peculiar state of excitement of the brain, which
tends to its exhaustion, and to the impairment of its vital
energy,—which is, in point of fact, an unnatural,—
a
morbid condition, and if so, cannot be considered, as a
perfection, or as a nearer approach to perfection.
We believe in the existence of sight, without the aid of
the eyes in the magnetic condition ; —but the measure
of this belief is not the same as that which we possess in
consequence of seeing with our own eyes. And the rea-
son is obvious. First, if we doubt about the report of
our eyes, and before lengthened habit has taught us to
trust in their accuracy, we test that accuracy by the aid
270 ON SOMNAMBULISM
of some of the other senses, as touch, taste, &c. :—wit-
ness the attainment of knowledge by infants : and clair-
voyance should be considered somewhat in the same light.
Then, again, long habit has taught us to trust in the re-
port of the eyes : —and for the same reason, we seem to
understand that report : while, on the other hand, though
we admit the facts, they do so manifestly transcend our
present understanding, that although not more inexplicable
than ordinary sight, sixty years after the creation, now
seem to be so, on account of the difference of associated
circumstances.
With this apology, we can only state the fact,—that
somnambulists do distinguish with their eyes closed the
objects placed before them ; they have told the number and
the colour of cards without touching them, and the hour
marked on a watch : they have read some lines of books
opened by mere chance, and distinguished through
opaque substances, many other things invisible to the
ordinary methods of sight : these facts are incontestable.
Analogous facts exist in nature ; but it is curious that
in both these cases, somnambulists seem to use their
eyes, however closed, in order to see :
—that is, that the
muscles of the eye seem to direct it towards the object of
sight. Is this dependent upon the long-established habit,
by which we know such direction would take place as
an involuntary act ;
—or is it really a matter of neces-
sity? If it be the latter, how is this to be reconciled
with the opinion we have previously given, that the som-
nambulist is guided by the mind of his magnetizer;
—
that he knows and executes that which passes in his
mind, even though no word has escaped him:—and
although he himself is scarcely conscious of thought,
—
much less of will 1 Firmly believing, that the cerebral
AND CLA.IRYOYANCE. 271
act of the magnetizer has a corresponding cerebral move-
ment in the magnetized, or that it is at least participated,
—we do thoroughly abandon the necessity for this appli-
cation of the eye of the somnambulist, which appears
wholly useless so long as it is perfectly closed : —and we
do believe that such action is solely dependent upon the
associated habits of ordinary vision.
With regard to the supposed knowledge of languages,
much has been said and written on the subject, and much
that is untrue ; for it will be found, that all that is true,
resolves itself into the rationale of the above-mentioned
processes. Thus, for instance, during somnambulism,
the knowledge of no new language is acquired ; the indi-
vidual does not now speak and comprehend in a lan-
guage which he had not previously known. It is quite
possible, that he may utter sounds in a language which
he had never studied, and does not now understand. In
point of fact, the magnetized individual does not under-
stand a question put to him, in a language of which he
was previously ignorant,
—
if the person putting the ques-
tion does not himself understand and think of the mean-
ing : a proof that this phenomenon is merely an exten-
sion of the perception of the thoughts of the magnetizer,
—and not an intuitive acquaintance with the words
which he articulated ; these latter possessing no value,
except as they are understood and thought of by the in-
dividual who pronounces them. In all this there is no-
thing miraculous,—no pretension to a revelation, or to a
gift of tongues.
One word more on this very singular faculty, with
which only a small number of somnambulists are endued,
—that of penetrating into the thoughts of those persons
with whom they are en rapport, before those thoughts
272 ON SOMNAMBULISM
shall have assumed a sensible form, or be clothed in lan-
guage at all,—the proof of this is to be found, in that
they see, think, feel, act, under the influence, and iso-
chronously with the brain of the magnetizer;—or with
the brain of those others, with whom they have been first
placed in relationship, by an immediate and direct pro-
cess: —this preliminary is indispensable.
And then, they know what passes at a distance from
them, and recognize persons and places, whom and which,
they have never seen ; —but only, through the organs of
those with whom they are en rapport, and who are them-
selves acquainted with such persons and places.
The somnambulist also partakes the ideas of his mag-
netizer, so that in his answers, you obtain a transcript of
the mind of the latter, rather than of the former. This
has been shown in a most marked manner by individuals
who have been successively magnetized by very different
characters : —in either case, the tinge of thought, and
reasoning, and conduct, has assumed the prevailing hue
of the magnetizer.
This is further shown by the fact, that the magnetizer
may be pre-occupied with one thought,—and yet may act
in some way, independent of such pre-occupation ; and
then it is always the thought, and not the act, which is
always followed by the somnambulist.
It is a curious fact, that the ignorant and illiterate, gen-
erally attain the highest degree of lucidity, rather than
the more talented, and the better informed. And yet
this is only curious for want of investigation : for it is ob-
vious that the unbroken, maiden-ground, which has not
been pre-occupied and tilled, and stimulated into previous
activity, must be much more alive to impression—much
more likely to reach at once the state of exalted sensi-
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 273
bility, than if it had been previously sophisticated by com-
merce with the world and its intricacies, and excited to
great intellectual action, and driven away from the sim-
plicity of truth.
We employ this term in its large moral sense, and by
no means wish to claim freedom from error as an attri-
bute of somnambulism. On the contrary, we hold the
somnambulist to be very liable to error,—apparently from
slight causes : and this because we believe the faculty
when existing, to be very easily disturbed, in proportion to
the exaltation, and attenuated condition of the machinery
employed. We always find in physics, that the most deli-
cate instrument, the most nicely and accurately graduated
to a particular end, is the most easily disturbed, and the
most liable to error in consequence :
—so also, the brain
of the highest order of manifestation, is the most suscep-
tible of morbid action,—the feeblest, the most liable to ir-
ritation and perversion.
Thus, natural magnetism, when confined to the relief
or cure of disease, is, if properly directed, always more
or less useful;—but we cannot thus calculate upon spiri-
tual magnetism, in which the somnambulist is encouraged
to wander into airy and imaginative regions ; —which for-
gets its primary object ;
—becomes rather a pursuit of
curiosity,—and is employed for the production of extra-
ordinary phenomena, rather than of benevolent, and
health-giving agency. And thus it is, especially after the
brain has been much excited, and the somnambulist has
related, what he has put forth as prophecies,—or has told
what has happened in the upper or the lower world, or in
any supposed intermediate state, or in the moon, that he
has clean swerved from truth ; and has related simply the
creations of his own brain—the visions of his own fancy
12
274 ON SOMNAMBULISM
—the nightmares of his wayward, excited and uncon-
trolled imagination ; —and all this has arisen from illu-
sion and self-deception—not from any design to deceive
others, or to participate in that jugglery, which we know
has sometimes been carried on, by wicked and designing
individuals.
It is manifest, that errors of this kind might arise from
the somnambulist not detecting the designs of the unprin-
cipled magnetizer, thus becoming the dupe of the wicked,
and not himself participating in the dupery : —and that
because, being under the will of his magnetizer, he yields
his own will and thoughts to the directing ascendancy of
him who thus controls (within certain limits) the entire
moral and intellectual being of the individual thus placed
under his motive influence :
—provided always, that such
influence does not infringe upon his religieus principles,
—
upon his previously acquired knowledge of the right and
wrong,—upon the decencies and proprieties of society
—
or upon any of the great established principles of con-
duct.
And we say this advisedly : for magnetic sleep-waking
is a rise in man's moral nature, not a degradation
:
—
separated from the usual action of the senses, the mind
seems to have obtained juster notions,—to have possessed
a new sense of spiritual things, and a more sensitive ap-
prehension of evil ;
—to be lifted up nearer to the foun-
tain of all good, and all knowledge, and all truth ; to
possess an augmented and intuitive horror of falsehood
—
to be more averse from folly and vulgarity,—and to have
a quicker perception of refined taste, and delicacy of
thought and feeling, than it before possessed. We admit,
however, that this must in a measure depend upon the
character of the magnetizer.
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 275
In speaking of the moral properties of somnambulists,
it must always be with reference to their original charac-
ters : —there is no conversion of original tendencies,
—
there is no engrafting of new character, but a develop-
ment and exaltation of the former condition ; so that
making allowance for original differences, the somnambu-
lists acquire more delicacy of conscience,—greater accu-
racy of foresight—more tact at discovering intended evil
—
and further, obtain a greater supply of the means, and of
the power of resistance.
As the contrary has been asserted by the opponents of
magnetism, it is necessary distinctly and unequivocally
to state, that during the condition of somnambulism, the
love of order will become more accurate and prononcee ;
—the interior feelings will be more lively ; —the develop-
ment of intelligence will be more acute and profound, in
proportion as the mind is detached from earthly interests
and passions, and as it is consequently more enlightened.
This exaltation of mental phenomena, does not apply to
those things, which have been revealed to man, or in
which he has been instructed : —on these subjects, we
meet upon the same ground,—and if there be an attempt
to make them reason upon mysteries, their imagination
will be excited, and they will be led into all kinds of
error. We shall no longer possess the instinctive per-
ceptions of an unsophisticated brain, under the peculiar
circumstances of clairvoyance, but we shall obtain as a
substitute for these perceptions, the prejudices of infancy,
surrounded by the clouds of imagination,—or some hy-
pothetical glimpses at truth : —in fact, an ideal world,
in which reality and illusion will blend an inextricable
confusion,—a confusion which can no longer be disen-
tangled, but by the aid of reason and experience ; for
276 ON SOMNAMBULISM
even admitting that the somnambulist could see in this
ideal world, things hidden from ordinary perception, he
could no more communicate those things, than he could
convey light to the born blind, or give him ideas with
regard to the phenomena of vision.
Now granting the facts which have been alleged, (and
it is impossible to deny them,) it follows, that some
change in the normal conditions of the constitution is
produced by magnetism. We have not professed to de-
fine wherein that change consists ; we do not attempt an
explanation of its phenomena ; —we only contend for its
existence,—and for its having been produced by mag-
netic processes. But if so, it follows that it is impos-
sible to deny, that magnetism does produce some action ;
and this admitted, it is absurd, and most unphilosophical
to conclude a priori, that such, action never can be use-
ful. For if an action be produced, and we know not the
terms of that action, how can we ever reason upon it,
that it cannot be useful ? How can we even attempt to
deny that it may be of the very highest utility ? How
shall we say that the system shall not be invigorated by
its direct agency ? How deny, that the repose to the
brain and nervous system, insured by the magnetic
sleep, shall not arrest the downward wear and tear of that
system, and give it precisely that degree of harmony, and
energy, and vitality which it requires ?
Moreover, as there is no phenomenon in nature, which,
in order to its production, does not require a particular
concurrence of circumstances, without which it does not
and cannot take place,—so also with regard to magnet-
ism, we cannot expect its effects, except under favour-*
ble circumstances ;—and these circumstances not having
been thoroughly investigated and known, we can neither
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 277
deny nor affirm, that such and such apparent effects are
necessary and undeniable consequences.
There are, however, certain incontestable results of
simple magnetic action,—losing sight for a moment of
all which are doubtful or wonderful ; and these are to
accelerate the languid circulation,— to augment the
warmth,—and to give to vital poioer a greater degree of
activity. Surely these results would be amply sufficient
to account for its beneficial influence in that large class
of diseases, in which prevails a deficiency of vital power.
And to these we must add the relief of pain —the sooth-
ing nervous irritability—and the benefits arising from
sleep.
The mode of communicating this energy (the fact is in-
disputable) has not been decided : and we arc ready to
give up our own ideas, as soon as a better explanation can
be given. We are fully sensible, ay, perhaps morbidly
alive to the pain inflicted by ridicule : —but we do console
ourselves with the reflection, that many a person has been
laughed at, who has ultimately proved the benefactor of
his race : —we cannot help reflecting, that they who scorn-
fully deride our position, have no better explanation to
offer,—and no reason to give for their derision, but that
the thing is absurd, because inconsistent with their previous
knowledge and prejudices ! ! And such is the force of the
association of ideas, that we cannot help being reminded,
of the later Greek physicians, who for four hundred years,
paid no attention to the small-pox, because they could find
no description of it in the immortal works of Galen : —
there was the fact—but it was not worthy of notice, be-
cause it had not been previously mentioned by their oracle !
Admirable reasoning truly !
The dependence of magnetism on nervous influence is
278 ON SOMNAMBULISM
undoubted : the similarity of nervous with electrical and
galvanic agency incontestable : —the power of develop-
ing the former with friction, and the latter by metallic com-
binations under favourable circumstances ; —and of com-
municating both the one and the other, unseen, unknown,
to other inanimate bodies,—and of producing the most
extraordinary effects through their agency : —the power of
receiving the impression of both, has been felt by most
persons : the fact that this power has been communicated
to the dead, and that by it articulation has been produced,
—that the face has been distorted by rage,—the hand
clenched in pugnacious action,—or the leg projected in
defiance : —and still more recently, the detection of ener-
gia, as distinct from light and heat, and the power of its
communication, do all prove that invisible and analogous
agents are transmissible,—that these are as subtle, per-
haps as powerful as the nervous influence ; and why
then are we to deride the communication of nervous
energy 1
But our opponents, driven from this stronghold, say,
it is not the communication of nervous energy which they
deny, and which they well know is communicated to dif-
ferent parts of his own body, by every individual, at
different times, and under varying circumstances; but
the communication of the exuberant life of one indivi
dual to supply the deficient life of another. Now, he
must be a bold casuist, who will in the present state of
our knowledge, attempt to separate animal life from its
first and inalienable phenomenon, nervous energy ; we
profess not to say, that they are identical :
—but this we
do say, that he who communicates nervous energy, will
communicate life,—and that if the power to give the one
be accorded, the power. to communicate the other cannot
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 279
be withheld. And if it were, the contention becomes a
mere war of words ; because we shall be satisfied by say-
ing, that such an amount of nervous energy is communi-
cated, as to produce the effects required : and thus the
question is set at rest, by stopping short, at one of the
first phenomena of life, upon which all the others are de-
pendent, and without the continuance of which, life is im-
mediately extinct.
There is not then any thing so superlatively ridiculous
in this idea of the transplantation of life, especially since
it has been explained as above ; and since, as it has been
remarked by the judicious Hecker, " it is a fundamental
"principle of all life, that it propagates itself in conge-
" nial soils.
,
'
>
As we are drawing towards the conclusion of what we
have to remark on the subject of somnambulism, and be-
fore mentioning a case which has fallen under our notice,
we think it right to introduce the observations of Georget
on his own patients : and we do so the rather, because
Georget had denied, and derided the phenomenon in his
earlier days ; but like other wise men, had been convinced
by examination ; —and like other good men, had had the
honesty to avow his newly-obtained convictions,—although
the extent to which those convictions had operated a
change in his moral and intellectual character, was not
fully known till after his decease.
Georget found that his somnambulists became insensi-
ble to the loudest noises, yet heard the lowest whisper of
those with whom they were en rapport ;
—that they sym-
pathized with the state of health of such individuals ; that
they described their own maladies accurately,—especially
in one case of inflammation of the lungs, in which the
patient (unlearned in anatomy) gave a pretty accurate de-
280 ON SOMNAMBULISM
scription of those organs—of the heart and its vessels
—
and of the pericardium—not of course in anatomical
terms—but in language such as a common intelligent
observer would employ,—and of all which information
she was perfectly ignorant under common circumstances,
that is, when not in the magnetic state ; that they became
subject to the will of their magnetizer—not however to
the extinction of their own liberty of action, and power of
opposition, and of choice ; —that the memory of what had
occurred in previous states of somnambulism was most
accurate, though it had been totally obliterated in the
waking state ; —that the remedies they prescribed were
sue! is they were ordinarily acquainted with ; —that they
sed a distinct foresight of physiological and patho-
I acts of the economy, which were to happen at a
31" a shorter interval ;
—that some sang well, who
ot sing when awake ; that in others the muscles
. me cataleptic ; —that in order to the success of these
nomena, the attention of the magnetizer must be seri-
ously given to the subject before him,—and that every ap-
proach to levity, was as fatal to the regular production of
the phenomena, as a damp atmosphere to the success of
electrical experiments; that the influence of the magnetic
sleep in diminishing or superseding attacks of hysteria and
epilepsy was great
;
—and in conclusion, M. Georget ap-
peals from all reasonings to these and similar facts ; and
while admitting that some may be dupes, and others
rogues, contends notwithstanding for the reality of the
phenomena,—not attempting to explain them any more
than the phenomena of electricity and galvanism, pro-
duced by placing certain substances en rapport with each
other,—but inferring that if such may be the case in these
departments of natural philosophy, (and insisting that
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 281
it is the case,) that a fortiori much more may it be from,
two nervous systems so placed en rapport, and producing
such a change in the ordinary mode of existence of
these systems, as shall lead, and does lead, to the most
astounding: consequences, and not the less so, because they
are inexplicable.
There are a few cautions to be observed in conducting
magnetic processes, which ought perhaps to be intro-
duced in this place. In the changed state of the organ and
function, which exists in somnambulism, and particularly
in the manner of receiving and transmitting sensation ;
—
and in the highly exalted state of the nervous sensibility,
it is necessary to guard against unwarily augmenting that
exaltation, because it is the extremity of the career which
Nature has traced out for herself, and within the limits
of which, she is able to preserve the harmony of the facul-
ties, and the supremacy of reason,—and beyond it, there
is a large field open to imagination, and having passed its
boundary, illusion usurps the place of truth.
a. Never therefore attempt to produce somnambulism as
such, but let it come naturally and unsolicited, in order to
derive benefit from its phenomena.
b. Have but one iutention,
—
form but one wish—that
of facilitating the cure of your patient, and of allowing
Nature to employ advantageously to herself, that super-
abundance of power, which she has in her bounty allotted
to you.
c. Never permit to yourself any exercise of curiosity
—
any experiment to prove the lucidity of your somnambu-
list ; speak only of his own disorders,—and fix his atten-
tion on the means to be employed for his relief. His
cure is your essential object,—your principal aim ; never
lose sight of it for one moment. In doing this it is quite
12*
282 OP SOMNAMBULISM
possible to blend moral with physical agency, and to con-
vey lessons of the utmost importance, without deviating
from the strictness of the above rule, viz. that of simply
relieving physical and moral evil.
It is very desirable that the magnetizer should be alone
with his patient,—and where this would be indecorous, or
might occasion the appearance, or even the possible
suspicion of evil, with only one witness—who is really
interested in the welfare of the sufferer. When this
caution has not been attended to, the attention is apt to
become distracted,—the power of relief proportionally
diminished, and the treatment is less successful. There
is, too, a probable agency exerted upon the magnetized
by the presence of indifferent persons, arising from their
great increase of sensibility, which makes them keenly
alive to the influence of those who are around them : and
this influence arises probably, not only from physical or
magnetic emanations, but also from the thoughts and
feelings developed towards themselves. It is manifest, that
in whatever way produced, this extraneous influence must
be opposed to, and detract from, the simple curative,
straightforward agency of the magnetizer.
If the state of somnambulism continued beyond a certain
moderate period ; —or if it were renewed spontaneously,
without any repeated external agency, it would become a
malady in itself; a sufficient proof of the close affinity,
if not identity, of the natural and magnetic somnambu-
lism.
From the insensibility to pain of some patients during
the state of somnambulism, it has been inferred, that
surgical operations might be performed in this state, with-
out occasioning the sense of pain, provided that the patient
•e susceptible of complete somnambulism. Doubtless
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 283
this is true in some cases, and it has been acted upon,
with perfect success, most uuquestionably ; but it requires
further experience, and investigation, before it can be
adopted and recommended as a general rule, because it
may admit of question, whether the condition itself be
not always the result of an overcharged brain : and then
comes the question, whether this can be safely employed
upon a large scale ; —whether it can be employed with
impunity in a brain predisposed to congestion ; and whe-
ther, on the contrary, the brain itself, or its remote depen-
dencies in interior organic life, may not suffer from this
partial over-excitement. Admitting the full force of this
caution, the only inference to be drawn, is that it is not
universally applicable, and that it behooves us to investigate
and distinguish between cases in which it may be advan-
tageously employed, and those in which it will be better
omitted altogether.
In the employment of magnetism, and in the direction
of somnambulism, it is indispensable to keep in mind,
a foregoing axiom—that one end only, is to be sought
after and obtained, viz., to render service to the sick, in-
volving as this does the most entire self-denial—complete
abstraction from all personal considerations—and freedom
from all personal vanity, and curiosity ; in fact, to merge
self altogether in this office of pure beneficence. It is
confessed that this is the beau ideal of a character not
very easily obtained ; for where selfishness so largely pre-
dominates, as it does in the human breast, it is difficult to
find the individual, where the simple love of doing good,
shall be the sole, and at the same time sufficient motive for
unrequited exertion.
Somnambulists sometimes foresee malady which shall
hereafter happen to themselves,—and will indicate the
284 ON SOMNAMBULISM
precautions necessary to avert such malady, as well as the
remedies hest suited to remove it: —this too has oc-
curred within the range of my own knowledge ; —they
see also the moral state of those with whom they are en
rapport : —they penetrate their most secret thoughts, and
give counsel accordingly. But these instances arc very
rare : and even they who have given evidence of surpri-
sing lucidity, do not retain it for ever, and do not equally
possess it at evert/ hour, nor with respect to all objects.
Thus they will see things, which no man in this world
can see by his ordinary senses ; and on the contrary, they
do not perhaps see, what a medical man would discover
at first sight. Nor is this wonderful : they cannot be
expected to see, what is beyond their sphere of vision ;
and even allowing that it shall be within that sphere,
there are aptitudes to the vision of the somnambulist,
and of the medical man, which cannot be common to
each—and therefore both the one and the other are oc-
cupied with their respective associations. So is it with any
ordinary men, and any ordinary landscape : —the attention
of one is arrested by its general beauty,—of another by
some particular point of beauty,—of a third by its general
fertility,—of a fourth by its floral productions,—of a fifth
by its water,—of a sixth by its habitations, &c. : —it is
therefore only an ordinary law of nature, by which the
somnambulist perceives this, and overlooks that. The
inference is this : be contented with their knowledge such
as it is ; —let them not wander into regions of fancy,
religion, or politics; be it ours to guard the approaches
to the former by the sentinel of reason,—to guide our way
through the mazes of the latter, by obedience to the laws,
and unlimited beneficence to man ; and as for the second,
be it ours devoutly to believe all which God has revealed
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 285
to us, and to repress the indiscreet curiosity of seeking
after a greater amount of wisdom, than that which is
written for our instruction.
In reviewing the foregoing history of the somnambulist,
we find, that he sees and hears those only with whom he
is en rapport :
—that he perceives only that which he
looks at,—and looks only at that to which his attention is
directed :
—
He submits to the will of his magnetizer so long as
such submission does not injure himself. —does not inter-
fere with his ideas of right and wrong,—of justice and
truth, —of benevolence to man, or of obedience to the
Majesty of Heaven :
—
He perceives the interior of his own body,—but gene-
rally observes those parts only, which are in a state of
morbid action, or intimately connected with other parts
which are so :
He has pre-sensations, which, however, are limited in
their extent, and under many circumstances may prove
erroneous :
—
He speaks with extraordinary facility and command of
language from the excitement of the brain ; —thus if ac-
customed only to a provincial patois, he will speak elegantly
and grammatically, because he will recall the language
which he has thus heard spoken, and will appropriate it,
as better suited to the exalted state of his faculties : but
undoubtedly he will never speak a language which he has
not previously heard and understood :
—
He has generally a good deal of vanity, and the in-
fluence of this frailty, as naturally arising from his own
exalted conceptions, should be guarded against :
—
He has all the faculties of the waking man ; but these
faculties are of freer exercise, greater extent, and greater
286 ON SOMNAMBULISM
delicacy ; and precisely in proportion to their wider range,
and attenuated sensibility, are they more easily led astray,
if once the somnambulist oversteps the limits which ought
to place a boundary to the subject for his opinions and
his judgments, and which ought to make us distrust both
the former and the latter, as often as they overstep things
which relate to himself, and which are consequently dis-
tinctly within the sphere of his mental vision.
It has been objected that the phenomena of somnambu-
lism are not" always the same. Granted : but they are
always of a similar character, and may ultimately be
classed together. And, is it any reason against the ordi-
nary phenomena of spring, and summer, and autumn, and
winter, that they are not always the same 1—in fact, that
they almost invariably differ in every succeeding year?
Or is the declination of the needle denied, because it is
liable to variation, and because we know neither the
cause which produces, nor the laws which regulate such
variation ?
With regard to the vanity of somnambulists, which has
been adverted to above,
—
if too much reliance is appa-
rently placed upon their reports;
—
if they are asked diffi-
cult questions, and their answers seem to produce wonder,
on account of their correctness, and perspicuity, they are
too apt to be invaded by the desire of astonishing,—and
then, abandoning themselves to imagination, to give utte-
rance to all sorts of groundless reveries.
This is an unquestioned evil, and perhaps scarcely to
be compensated by any good which has arisen from som-
nambulism : —for had its phenomena remained unknown,
and men, persuaded of their power to do good, had prac-
tised magnetism, with the simple exclusive desire of
curing the sick, and not of producing extraordinary phe-
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 287
nomena, no evil would have arisen from their ignorance
or unbelief of these higher manifestations : —on the con-
trary, they would have succeeded equally in succouring
the wretched, and relieving disease, by continuing to mag-
netize with patience, attention, and benevolence.
An objection is here started, that the phenomena of
somnambulism tend to support extravagant hypotheses,
and are themselves supported by such hypotheses.
It is indeed allowed, that these phenomena have been
associated with all sorts of opinions, by those who pre-
viously held such opinions ; just in the same way, as phy-
sical facts upon which all the world are agreed, have been
employed to support the most absurd systems, and have
been attempted to be explained by those systems.
Again, it is objected that somnambulists have uttered
the most absurd extravagances. Admitting that they
have done so ; —that their state renders them peculiarly
susceptible ;
—and that if they are wantonly transported
by their magnetizer into a train of illusions, their exalted
imaginations lead them into all kinds of baseless reveries ;
yet those who have been left to their own natural resources,
and still further, who have not been induced to wander
from these truths, have always shown much good sense,
intelligence, and reason.
Again, it is said that somnambulists, directed by illumi-
nati, have sustained the theories of their magnetizers,
—
have formed predictions,—seen spirits,—been transported
into other worlds, &c. &c. : and that such extravagances
show them to be either dupes or impostors.
We reply, that imposture of this kind, is far more rare
than might have been expected—but errors and illusions
are not uncommon. If the question were to prove the
truth of the visions of somnambulists, doubtless any
288 ON SOMNAMBULISM
manifest errors would invalidate that truth : but this is
a point which does not admit of doubt,—the real ques-
tion being to determine, whether there be not, produced
by magnetism, a etate which differs from the natural
condition,—and which is sometimes met with, as sponta-
neously arising in the course of other maladies. Now
it is fully admitted as above, that some somnambulists may
be thrown into such a state of exaltation, as to utter any
extravagance almost maniacal : —in fact, for the time being,
they are maniacs, who relate the dreams of delirium and
insanity, with an easy, and brilliant enunciation.
Dr. Wurtz states, that he could find in Strasburgh,
many well-known examples, in which somnambulists had
been grievously wrong in their predictions,—had been
singularly contradictory in their opinions,—and had some-
times directed in the treatment of malady, obviously hurtful
remedies. But what does all this prove beyond the imper-
fection, which necessarily attaches to every thing human :
and shows only that the predictions of somnambulists
are liable to error,—that is, that they are not inspired, and
that they are likely to be controlled by circumstances :
—
that in these respects they resemble the best judgments
of the wisest physicians : —and that their senses and
their reasoning powers however exalted are still limited
—
their knowledge still bounded by the circumstances of
mortality.
The error consists in those who have absurdly attributed
supernatural powers to the attributes of the somnambulists,
—whereas they are but men—and in plain truth, their ideas
do not appear justly to go beyond the boundaries of natural
objects : they only are absurd, erroneous dupes, who look
for such knowledge. Thus somnambulists speak the Ian-
guage they have heard in their waking state : and they
AED CLAIRVOYAECE. 289
have the same order of sensations,—but they have fewer
combinations, in proportion to their more limited range of
acquired ideas.
Taking up this position, it follows, that the only ques-
tions asked of the patient in somnambulism, should be
such as relate to his own health, or to the health of others
with whom he is en rapport,—or generally, that which
forwards the welfare of humanity : it is useless, and rash,
and dishonest, and unphilosophical, and unchristian, to
ask after the events of dim futurity, or as to the lot of
others in a different state of existence. Doubtless, the
somnambulist may judge better of the future, from the
experience of the past ; he may possibly perceive the na-
tural course of events,—but he must ever remain ignorant
of the first cause which controls this natural course,—and
of the agency exerted upon secondary causes by the ar-
rangements of Providence.
That which is called the crisis of somnambulists—the
period of their greatest exaltation, always possesses its
analogous condition in the natural disposition of the
mind or soul which experiences it,—in the character and
the mode of thought and action ; in the extent and
variety of knowledge,—and in the original stock of ideas,
—all of which constantly influence the amount of appa-
rent knowledge, which is really always in exact propor-
tion to the amount of intellectual light possessed during
the waking hours :
—as, for instance, he who has no pre-
vious ideas of religion, will not have acquired them in
somnambulism, and will not therefore manifest any such
ideas, as if they were, or could be, the offspring of inspira-
tion.
With regard to the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, to
which some ultra-zealous defenders of magnetism have
290 ON SOMNAMBULISM
attributed the visions of somnambulism, we must say-
that nothing but ignorance, or a near approach to idiocy,
could ever have found a parallel between the two. We
are free to admit, that some weak-minded somnambulist,
may have really mistaken for revelation, that which his
own mind has discovered, or felt, or perceived : —and
that the creations of the brain have been invested with
such a dreamy reality, as to impose themselves as truths
upon the individual so exalted. We doubt not, but that
the imperfect knowledge which the somnambulist has
possessed of his own mind,—and perhaps the prejudices
of education,—and certainly, the absence of the power
of comparison of certain conditions, with certain others,
during the state of magnetic sleep;—and finally, the
want of this habit, and of the power of controlling the
imagination, has led to the persuasion in his own mind,
and to his own assurances towards others, that his base-
less visions were actual and veritable revelations. Is
there any thing extraordinary in this assumption 1 Has
it not been common in every age, as the product of en-
thusiasm, and of a heated imagination? But have we
doubted the truth of the Christian revelation, because of
these pseudo-cummunings with the Almighty 1 Have
we not only always attributed them justly to disordered
brain 1 And ought we not in justice, so to attribute these
wanderings in the somnambulist, and not to impugn the
truths of magnetism on account of the errors and follies of
some of its votaries "?
Abandoning, therefore, all these subtleties,—all these
absurd and supernatural pretensions, let only simple and
right-minded persons fearlessly wish to do good ; let
them have an unshaken will to effect it ; let them employ
somnambulism for the only object for which Providence
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 291
has designed it—viz., the relief of malady ; let them re-
press their own curiosity ; let them dismiss the spirit of
proselytism,—and strenously oppose the mania of ex-
periment : —and, on the contrary, let the principles of
benevolence and of a compassionate charity towards
others—and of a well-grounded confidence in their own
powers as directed for the good of man—as given by the
Almighty, and consecrated to his service, be the sole
motives of their conduct,—and they will have nothing to
fear.
True, indeed, that many of the recorded phenomena of
somnambulism are rare—not frequently seen, and often
imperfect. Yet they ought not on this account to be re-
jected ; the majority of them are real, though they have
often been attributed to collusion, or to chimerical origin,
—and although erroneous consequences have been de-
rived from them. Hence, we do not infer the legitimate
rejection of the facts,—but the necessary caution to distin-
guish the facts themselves, from the colouring with which
they have been invested by enthusiastic or credulous nar-
rators.
Even with somnambulists themselves, it requires much
attention and wisdom to discern accurately in their re-
ports, between that which originates from the exaltation
of their senses,—from their nervous susceptibility, —from
the influence of previously acquired associations,—and
from the errors of their imagination ; —from the manifes-
tations and development of that real faculty, whose exist-
ence cannot be doubted by the dispassionate inquirer,
—
and whose phenomena are entirely different from any
which we possess in our usual condition of being.
I do not feel that I should be quite doing justice to my
292 ON SOMNAMBULISM
readers, if I did not present them with a sketch of my
own observations on the subject of the foregoing chapter,
on a clairvoyant somnambulist, for which I am indebted
to her master, Mr. Poulton, of the Alton paper mills,
whose kindness on these occasions I beg particularly to
acknowledge.
The power of clairvoyance in this girl, was discovered
accidentally ; and I shall narrate only that which took
place at the two private seances which were arranged for
myself and my family only ; —honestly avowing that
there were occasional failures, sufficient to prove the im-
perfection of the faculty, or of the individual who pos-
sessed it.
The whole demeanour of the girl was sufficient to
prove to any unprejudiced person that she was not acting
a part, which she had got up ; the approach of sleep—the
quivering of the eye—the immediately altered counte-
nance—the changed manner—the entirely new expression
of the voice—and the altered tone, were inimitably ex-
pressive of that changed state of being which she had un-
dergone. The individual who doubted these things bein<r
present, must be the one, over the sanity or honesty of
whose mental manifestations, doubt must originate 4 S
to any idea of collusion between the gentleman who mag-
netized, and the poor girl, this is so utterly absurd, that
we should not have ventured to have placed a manifesto
of his integrity upon paper, for any other subject than that
of magnetism—in which it is the common weapon of
opponents, who cannot deny the facts, to impugn the
honesty of the parties.
The first circumstance which especially fixed my atten-
tion, was the extreme ease with which any limb could be
placed in a state of cataleptic rigidity. A single pass, or
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 293
at the most two or three passes, sufficed to render the
muscles perfectly rigid, and in that condition, she sup-
ported a chair and other heavy weights, on the extremities
of the extended limbs, and on trial, it was found impossi-
ble to bend them. All the other limbs, not subjected to
this magnetic agency, could be moved in an ordinary
manner; and one or two counter-passes, which it was
impossible for her to have distinguished by any ordinary
sense, were sufficient to dissipate this rigidity, and restore
the limb so catalepsed to its normal condition.
When left to herself during her mesmerized state, she
immediately rose from her chair, and followed all the
movements of her magnetizer with ludicrous accuracy,
pursuing his footsteps around the room at a little dis-
tance, standing the same length of time wherever he had
stood, and making a variety of gyrations according to the
devious course which he had purposely adopted.
During these perambulations, whenever she passed the
spot, in which any one of the spectators was seated, she
shuddered, and withdrew herself as far as possible fronj
their contact
:
—and if a silk, handkerchief were dropped
in her path, she became immoveable, and declared she saw
a fire, which she could not pass. The colour of the
handkerchief was unimportant; and the person who
dropped it was equally unimportant :
—these were tested
by different individuals dropping a handkerchief, as if by
accident, and out of the sphere of any ordinary vision.
The following was perhaps one of the most curious
instances of her following the movements of her mag-
netizer. During the progress of some other experiment,
one of the usual domestics came to the parlour door, with
a message to her master, who left his patient for the pur-
pose of speaking to her, and having received from her
294 ON SOMNAMBULISM
some money and a parcel, threw the one, and placed the
other on the table. On returning to the mesmerized girl,
she instantly rose—walked to the door—opened it,—mut-
tered as if speaking to some one,—and then appearing to
receive something into her hand, walked to the table,
and exactly imitated the motions of throwing andplacing
something upon that table.
At another time, she followed the mesmerizer up stairs,
and altered her manner of walking, or rather running,
precisely as he did his—that is, according to its rapidity
—
or taking two steps at a time instead of one, &c. : during
all this time her eyes being most perfectly closed, and
the eye-lashes entre-crois'tes. On his making a few passes
over one step, she paused, and declared that she could go
no farther. In this way, her progress was several times
arrested : and till the unperceived impediment was removed
by counter-passes, the strongest man of the party found it
impossible to lift her from the floor.
In a similar manner, but during her waking state, her
Jiand, in its progress along a table, became arrested and
fixed upon a part, where the magnetizer had, unseen, un-
known to her, previously placed his hand ; —and then
any effort to move it, evidently caused her so much pain,
that it could not have been forced away, without severe
suffering, and much violence.
Different objects being held behind her head, while her
eyes remained firmly closed, she named each object cor-
rectly. On one of these occasions, a gentleman of the
party, quietly removed a flower from the hand of the
magnetizer, and substituted his penknife, on which she
immediately exclaimed, " That is not the flower, that's
the gentleman's knife.'''' If any doubt could have arisen
as to her being actually asleep during the course of these
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 295
experiments, which from her manner, her mode of breath-
ing, and many other slight, but unmistakeable signs, was
really impossible, it would have been removed by our ob-
serving on gently raising the eye-lid, the pupil was as in
ordinary states of unconsciousness, (and from awell known
law,) turned upwards into the orbit, so as to be all but in-
visible ; —the eye too was in a slightly convulsed, unset-
tled, and evidently unnatural state.
During her magnetic state, she distinguished accurately
different substances which the magnetizer tasted, imagin-
ing herself to be eating and drinking, and imitating all the
movements of mastication and deglutition.
Several porsons of the party left the room, and de-
posited small articles in their possession, on a table on the
outside of that room, this being done without the possible
knowledge of ownership, either to magnetizer or mag-
netized. On these being brought into the room, she de-
livered, after some hesitation, each article to its right
owner. Two or three hands were held out to her to re-
ceive each article, but she most pertinaciously refused to*
deliver any one, except to its rightful owner. On one oc-
casion a lady's pencil-case was thus deposited. If she had
refused to deliver it to a gentleman, it might have been
said, she distinguished it to be a lady's by its size and
lightness, and other characteristics. There were however
two ladies in the room, and she most obstinately persisted
in not giving up the pencil-case, except to the right lady.
After these and other experiments had been repeatedly
tried with different changes, and not always with success-
ful results, because sometimes the somnambulist would not
do as she was requested, and would not try ; it was re-
solved to make an attempt to discover whether she had
any knowledge of distant places : and it was proposed
296 ON SOMNAMBULISM
that she should be asked to go to Farnham, to my house,
distant about nine miles, and a house which neither she
nor her magnetizer had ever entered : indeed the poor girl
had never been in the town of Farnham.
The magnetizer himself was thoroughly incredulous,
as to the possibility of such faculty existing on the part
of magnetized persons, and therefore did not enter into
this experiment with zeal, or even with expectation of
success : he was however, persuaded to ask her a few
questions.
He began by asking her to take a drive with him, to
which she assented with great pleasure,—ordered, "George
to put the ponies to,"—made motions as if getting up
into a carriage, and began pointing out different objects
which she said she saw upon the road : among others she
said there were three ducks on Bently pond. This, of
course, could not be verified, at that particular moment,
but an hour before there certainly had been ducks, and
three ducks, on this pond. In a short time, she announced
herself as having arrived at the end of her journey, and
desired her companion to help her out of the chaise, and
knock at the door. She then said, it was opened, and
she entered a wide passage with four doors in it ;
—she
was then told to walk along the passage—turn to the
left, and enter a room, which was my library. With
these injunctions, she mentally complied, and announcing
that she was there, turned her head in different directions
as though examining the furniture. She then said there
were two tables—one a round one; and was then asked,
if there was one window or more'? She turned her head
round to that side of the room, and then said there were
two—that they looked out into a garden where were trees,
and beautiful flowers growing close to the windows;—and
AND CLAIRVOYANCE. 297
with these she was so much delighted, as to be difficultly-
persuaded to turn her attention to any thing besides.
On being asked if there were any pictures in the room,
she replied three, which we at first considered as incorrect
till we recollected that besides two large ones, there was a
third very small one, over the mantel-piece.
One of these pictures she was then desired to describe,
and she immediately said she saw a horse and cart, and
also a road and trees, at the same time turning her head
in the direction of the wall on which it was suspended.
Being asked if there was another, she again turned her
head—said she saw one, and appeared in perfect extacies
with the beauty of the frame, which actually is a very
handsome gilt frame. She pronounced the subject.. to be
a portrait, but whether of a man or woman she could not
tell ; it looked like a man, but was dressed like a woman.
It was in fact a portrait of the Bishop of Winchester in
his robes, as Prelate of the Order of the Garter. We
were anxious she should be asked further questions ; but
as the magnetizer was as ignorant as herself of the con-
tents of the room, it was not easy for him to know what
to ask—and he appeared to wish to close this exhibition,
and told her she must now return home, with which desire
she very reluctantly complied. She again went through
the events of her supposed journey, and on her arrival at
home, the magnetizer proceeded to ask some other ques-
tions, when she peremptorily declared that she would do
nothing else, till she had talked of what she had seen, and
she immediately began a recapitulation of all she had pre-
viously seen.
It must be mentioned, that all her statements were per-
fectly correct, and her testimony the more unimpeachable
as she had never been in the town in her life. On a sub-
13
298 ON SOMNAMBULISM, ETC
sequent occasion, while in the magnetic sleep some
months after the first seance, she was asked li she re-
collected her visit to Farnham, when she at once related
every particular which she had previously noticed. As
soon as she was awakened, she had no recollection of
what had passed during the somnambulism, and says
she has never been to Farnham, or seen the house in
question.
Such is a sketch of the history of two sittings winch 1
did not think it just to my readers to suppress ;
though
I must again ask myself the question of cui bono ? and
again discountenance all such proceedings, as deviating
from the strict line of the curative agency of magnetism,
...^tubr! am persuaded is the only safe and efficient
method of conducting future inquiries into magnetism, in
order to arrive simply at practical results.
299
CHAPTER XL
ON PREVISION.
We must now consider, for a short time, this remarka-
ble faculty, as detached from the ordinary phenomena
of somnambulism, of which, indeed, it is but a rare ac-
companiment. We retain the French term prevision,
because we wish to distinguish it from ordinary foresight,
on the one hand, and from a spirit of proph ecy on the
other. It is not ordinary foresight, because it does not
exist in the waking state,—and because it is not the
sum and result of that prudential calculation of probabi-
lities under given circumstances, founded upon our ex-
perience of che past, and our expectations of a similar
futurity. Neither is it the spirit cf prophecy, for there
is no communication from a superior intelligence,—no
completeness in its knowledge—no certainty as to the
fulfilment of its predictions. It is, therefore, only a
peculiar and rare faculty, by which the patient is able to
foresee things which are to happen to himself—not with
unerring certainty, but provided nothing shall occur to
interrupt the expected series, for, as we have remarked, the
"acuity is incomplete and imperfect, and does not provide
foi contingencies—that is, perceives only a certain series
of orgt, ->ic movements consequent one upon the other, but
makes no provision for those counter series which are the
300 ON PREVISION.
arrangements of Providence, and which therefore to him
are unforeseen.
Now we are quite aware, that there is much reason in
the objection that has been urged against the truth of
this faculty—that it has a tendency to fulfil its own pre-
dictions, and that therefore it is merely the expression of
the will of the individual. We admit that this solution
might be capable of explaining some of the apparent con-
sequences, but not all : as, for instance, the succession of
a series of epileptic paroxysms, and which would be the
last : or the precise hour and minute when the state of
magnetic sleep would terminate, it being an established
fact, that the somnambulist has no power of awakening
himself when he pleases.
In the second report of the French Academy, which
has been so often quoted (we would fain hope by those
who had never read it) as destructive to all the pretensions
of magnetism, it is stated that two somnambulists had
the power of foreseeing acts of the organism more
or less distant, more or less complicated, over which
the)' had no controlling power, such as the return of
epileptic fits —the means of relief—and their final cessa-
tion.
"VVe shall here introduce, in illustration, the two cases
of magnetic, and natural prevision, to which we have
alluded in a former part of this book ; and first, the
case of magnetic prevision, which is given in the report of
the Commission of the Royal Academy of Medicine, in
1831, and vouched for by them.
The following case will exhibit this provision even
more fully developed in a thoroughly ignorant poor man,
who assuredly had never heard of magnetism in his life.
" Pierre Cazot, twenty years of age, a working hatter,
ON PREVISION. 301
" bom of an epileptic mother, has been subject from ten
" years of age, to attacks of epilepsy, which have recurred
" five or six times a week up to the time when he entered
" the HSpital de la Charite in the early part of the month
" of August, 1827. He was at once magnetized by M.
" Foissac, was placed in the magnetic sleep at the third
" sitting, and became somnambulist at the tenth, which
" took place on the 19th of August. It was on that day,
" at nine o'clock in the morning, that he announced, that
" on the same day, at four o'clock in the afternoon, he
" should have an attack of epilepsy ; but that it might be
" prevented, if he was magnetized a little before that pe-
" riod. The verification of his prediction was preferred,
" —and therefore no precaution was taken to prevent the
" paroxysm ; we contented ourselves with observing him,
" without his having any suspicion that we were so doing.
" At one o'clock he was seized with a violent headache ;
—
" at three he was obliged to go to bed,—and at four
" o'clock precisely the paroxysm attacked him, and lasted
" about five minutes. Two days afterwards, Cazot being
" in somnambulism, M. Fouquier suddenly thrust a pin
" of an inch long, between the thumb and the forefinger of
" the right hand ; with the same pin, he also pierced the
" lobe of the ear;—and the eyelids being separated, the
" white of the eye itself was repeatedly struck with the
" head of the pin without occasioning the smallest indi-
" cation of sensibility.
" The commission met at the Hopital de la Charite on
" the 24th of August, at nine in the morning, in order to
" observe the experiments which M. Fouquier, one of its
" members, proposed continuing upon this invalid.
" At this seance M. Fouquier took bis station about
" six feet in front of Cazot : he looked at him firmly
—
302 ON PREVISION.
" made use of no passes with the hands,—observed the
11
most perfect silence, and Cazot was asleep in eight
" minutes. At three different times, a bottle of ammonia
" was held under his nose—the countenance became
" flushed—the breathing quickened, but he did not awa-
" ken. M. Fouquier thrust a pin an inch long into the
" fore-arm ; afterwards, another pin was thrust to the
" depth of two lines, obliquely under the chest ;
—a third
" was similarly inserted into the pit of the stomach ; and
" a fourth was thrust perpendicularly into the sole of the
" foot. M. Guersent pinched him in the fore-arm so se-
" verely as to leave a bruise mark ; —and M. Itard leaned
" the whole weight of his body upon his thigh.
" We endeavoured to tickle him by lightly passing a
" little piece of paper under the nose, upon the lips, upon
" the eyebrows—the eyelashes—the neck, and the soles
" of the feet—but nothing could awaken him. We then
" urged him with questions. '
How many more attacks
" will you have V « During a year.' '
Do you know
"whether these attacks will be near to each other?'
" ' No.' * Will you have one this month V '
I shall have
" a fit on Monday the 27th, at twenty minutes before tnree
" o'clock.' ' Will it bn a strong one V '
It will not be
" half so strong as the last.' 4
On what other day will
" you have an attack V After an expression of impatience,
" he answered,—' A fortnight hence, that is to say, on the
" 7th of September.' '
At what hour V 'At ten minutes
" before six in the morning.'
" The illness of one of his children obliged Cazot to
" leave la Charito on that very day, the 24th of August.
" But it was agreed that he should return on Monday the
" 27th early in the morning, in order that the fit which he
" had declared to be impending in the afternoon of that
ON PREVISION. 303
" day, at twenty minutes before three, might be accurately
" observed.
" The steward, having refused to take him in when he
" presented himself for admittance, Cazot repaired to the
" house of M. Foissac in order to complain of this refusal.
" M. Foissac, as he afterwards told us, preferred dissi-
" pating this attack by magnetism, to beiug a solitary
" witness to the occurrence,—and consequently we were
" unable to establish the exactitude of this prevision.
"But it still remained for us to observe the paroxysm
" which he had announced for the 7th of September*
" M. Fouquier having caused Cazot to re-enter the hos-
" pital on the 6th under the pretext of paying him some
" attentions, which he could not pay out of that establish-
" ment, had him magnetized in the course of the day of
" the 6th by M. Foissac, who put him to sleep by the
" simple act of his will, and by stedfastly looking at him.
" In this sleep, Cazot repeated, that the next day he
" should have an attack at ten minutes before six in the
" morning, and that it might be prevented if he was mag-
" netized a little before. At a signal agreed upon, and
" given by M. Fouquier, M. Foissac, of whose presence
" Cazot was ignorant, awakened him in the same way as
" he had put him to sleep, by the sole act of his will, not-
" withstanding the questions which were addressed to the
" somnambulist, and which had no other object, than to
" conceal from him the moment in which he ought to
" waken.
" In order to be witnesses of this second attack, the
" commission met on the 7th of September, at a quarter
" before six in the morning, in the ward St. Michel, at la
" Charite. There they were informed, that the evening
" before, at eight o'clock, Cazot had been seized with
304 ON PREVISION.
" headache, which had tormented him all night,—that this
" pain had occasioned the sensation of beating in his head,
11
and that he had had some darting sensations in his
" ears. Ten minutes before six o'clock we witnessed the
" epileptic attack, characterized by contraction and stiff-
" ness of the limbs,—by the repeated and forcible tossing
" of the head backwards,—by the convulsive closing of
" the eyelids,—by the retraction of the globe of the eye
" towards the roof of the orbit,—by sighs,—by screams,
" —by insensibility to severe pinching,—and by the biting
" of the tongue between the teeth. This set of symptoms
•" lasted for about five minutes, during which, he had two
" remissions of some seconds each, and then a painful
" relaxation of the limbs, and sense of general exhaustion.
" On the 10th of September, at ten o'clock at night,
" the commission met again at the house of M. Itard, in
" order to continue its inquiries upon Cazot:—the latter
" was in the library, where conversation had been carried
" on with him till half-past seven, at which time, M.
" Foissac, who had arrived since Cazot, and had waited
" in an ante-chamber separated from the library by two
" closed doors, and a distance of twelve feet, began to
" magnetize him. Three minutes afterwards Cazot said,
" i" think that M. Foissac is there, for I feel myself
" oppressed and enfeebled. At the expiration of eight
" minutes he was completely asleep. He was again ques-
" tioned, and assured us, that in three weeks from that
" day, that is, on the 1st of October, he should have an
" epileptic paroxysm at ten minutes before noon.
" It was desirable to observe with equal care, as on the
" 7th of September, the epileptic attack which he had
" predicted for the 1st of October. With this view, the
'*
commission met together on that day at half-past
ON PREVISION. 305
'•
eleven, at the house of M. Georges, manufacturer of
" hats, No. 17, Rue des Menetriers, where Cazot lived
" and worked. We learned from M. Georges, that he
" was a very regular workman, whose conduct was excel-
" lent,—and that he was both by the simplicity of his
" mind, and by his moral principles, absolutely incapable
"of lending himself to any deception ; that he had had
" no attack of epilepsy since the one which the commis-
" sion had witnessed at la Charite ; —that not feeling
" himself well that morning, he had remained in his own
" chamber, and was not at work ; —that at this moment,
" there was with him an intelligent man, whose veracity
" and discretion might be relied upon ; that this man had
" not told him he had predicted an attack for that
" day ; —that it appeared that since the 7th of Sep-
" tember, M. Foissac had had some communication
" with Cazot, but without permitting the inference,
" that he had in any way recalled to him his pre-
" diction, since, on the contrary, M. Foissac attached
" the highest importance to the circumstance, that no
" one should speak to the patient on the subject of what
" he had announced. At five minutes before twelve, M.
1
Georges went up into a room situated immediately nn-
" derneath that occupied by Cazot, and in one minute
" afterwards he came to inform us that the attack had
" supervened. We hastily ran to the sixth story, that is,
" MM. Guersent, Thiliaye, Marc, Gueneau de Mussy,
" Itard, and the Reporter, where, on our arrival, the
" watch pointed at one minute to twelve by the true
" time. Assembled around the bed of Cazot, we distin-
" guished the epileptic paroxysm characterized by the
" following symptoms: tetanic stiffness of the body and
" of the limbs,—tossing of the head, and occasionally
13*
306 ON PREVISION.
" of the trunk of the body backwards,—a convulsive re-
" traction, and up-turning of the eye, so that the white
" of the eye only is visible,—a very remarkable fulness
" of the face and neck,—contraction of the jaws,—par-
" tial convulsive movements of the fibres of the muscles
" of the right arm and fore-arm ; —soon afterwards so
" decided a tetanic attack, that the trunk of the body
" was so raised as to form the segment of a circle, of
" which the only bases were formed by the head and the
" feet ; which movements terminated by a sudden collapse.
li
A few moments after this attack, that is, after one minute
" of relaxation, a new paroxysm, similar to the preceding
" one, took place ; there were uttered inarticulate sounds,
" —his respiration very frequent and interrupted,—the
" larynx being rapidly and violently raised and depressed ;
" and the pulse beating from 132 to 160 in a minute :
—
" there was no frothing at the mouth, nor contraction of
" the thumbs to the inside of the palm of the hand.
" At the end of six minutes, the paroxysm terminated by
" deep sighs, by relaxation of the limbs, and opening of
" the eyelids.
" The invalid fixed an astonished look upon the per-
" sons present, and complained of being painfully stiff,
" especially in the right arm.
" Although the commission could not doubt the verita-
" ble action produced by magnetism upon Cazot, even
" without his knowledge, and at a certain distance from
" him, yet they desired to acquire a new proof of this
" state ; —and as it had been proved at the last seance,
" that M. Foissac had had some communication with
" him, and therefore might have told him that he had
" announced an attack for the 1st of October, the com-
" mission were also desirous, while submitting Cazot to
ON PREVISION. 307
" some new trials, to lead M. Foissac himself into error
" as to the day on which his epileptic should have an-
" nounced as the next for the return of the paroxysm.
" By this plan we should shelter ourselves from every
" species of connivance, even supposing that a man whom
" we had always seen honest and upright, could possibly
" have any secret or collusive understanding with a man
" without education, without intelligence,—and that in
" order to deceive us. We will confess that we did not
" ourselves do this injustice even in thought to either the
" one or the other ; and we feel bound to render the
" same testimony to MM. Dupotet and Chapelain, of
" whom we have more than once had occasion to speak
" to you.
" The commission met again on the 6th of October at
" noon, in the library of M. Bourdois, at which hour Ca-
" zot arrived there with his child, M. Foissac having been
" invited to come at half-past twelve : he was exact to his
" appointment, and remained in the ante-room, without
" the cognizance of Cazot, and without any communica-
" tion with us. We sent to inform him, however, by a
" side door, that Cazot was seated on a sofa, placed ten
" feet from the door, which was closed, and that the com-
" mission requested he would magnetize, and awaken him
" also at that distance, he, M. Foissac, remaining in the
" ante-room, and Cazot in the library.
" At twenty-three minutes before one, while Cazot was
" occupied with the conversation which we carried on
" among ourselves, or examining the pictures which adorn
" the library, M. Foissac, placed in the next room, be-
" o<jn to magnetize him : we remarked that in four min-
" utes Cazot began slightly to droop the eyelids—that
" he had a restless unquiet air—and that in nine minutes
308 ON PREVISION.
" he was asleep. M. Guersent, who had attended him
" for his epileptic attacks at the HSpital des Enfants,
" asked him if he remembered him : —he answered affir-
" matively. M. Itard inquired, when he should have a
" paroxysm. He replied that it would be this day four
" weeks, (the 3rd of November,) at five minutes after
" four in the afternoon. He was then asked when he
" should have another, to which he answered, after ap-
" parent reflection and hesitation, that it would be five
" weeks after the one which he had just indicated
—
" the 9th of December, at half past nine in the morning.
" The proces verbal of this seance having been read in
" the presence of M. Foissac, in order that he might sign
" it with us, we wished, as it has been above remarked,
" to lead him into error : and in reading it to him, before
" presenting it for signature to the members of the com-
" mission, the reporter read, that the first attack of Cazot
" would take place on Sunday the 4th of November,
" whereas the somnambulist had fixed Saturday the 3rd.
" He practised the same deceit with regard to the second;
" and M. Foissac took a memorandum of these erroneous
" indications as if they had been exact ; but having some
" days afterwards put Cazot into somnambulism, as he
" was accustomed to do, in order to dispel his headaches,
" he learned from him, that it was the 3rd and not the 4th
" of November, that he ought to have a return of the fit,
" and he informed M. Itard of this on the 1st of Novem-
" ber, believing that there had been an error in the proces
" verbal, of which, nevertheless, M. Itard maintained the
" assumed correctness.
" The commission again took all the necessary pre-
" cautions to enable them to observe the attack of
" the 3rd of November ;
—they met at four o'clock in
ON PREVISION. 309
" the afternoon at the house of M. Georges ; they learned
" from him,—from his wife,—and from one of the work-
" people, that Cazot had gone through his customary
" labour all the morning, till two o'clock in the after-
" noon, and that during his dinner, he had complained
" of headache ; that nevertheless he had returned to his
" work, but that the headache increasing, and having felt
" giddy, he had retired to his own room—had gone to
" bed, and to sleep. MM. Bourdois, Fouquier, and the
" reporter, preceded by M. Georges, then went up stairs
" to Cazot's room : M. Georges alone went in, and found
" him in a profound sleep, which he begged of us to ob-
" serve through the door, which was partially open to the
" staircase. M. Georges spoke loudly to him—shook
" him rather rudely, pulled him by the arm without
" awakening him. Cazot was then seized with the pain-
" ful symptoms which constitute an attack of epilepsy,
" and precisely similar to that which we had formerly ob-
" served upon him.
" The second attack announced at the seance of the
" 6th of October, for the 9th of December, that is, two
" months beforehand, took place at half past nine, or a
"quarter of an hour later than had been predicted, and
" was characterized by the same precursory phenomena,
" and by the same symptoms as those of the 7th of Sep-
" tember, 1st of October, and the 3rd of November.
" Lastly, on the I lth of February, 1828, Cazot fixed
" the period of a new attack for the 22nd of the following
" April, at five minutes before noon : and this announce-
" ment, like the preceding ones, was verified within five
" minutes, that is, at ten minutes before twelve. This
" attack was remarkable for its violence, for the species
" of madness with which Cazot bit his hand and fore-
310 ON PREVISION.
" arm,—for the violent and repeated shocks with which
" the body was distorted, and for its having lasted thirty-
" five minutes, when M. Foissac, who was present, mag-
" netized him. Very soon, this convulsive state yielded
" to the state of magnetic somnambulism, during which
" Cazot got out of bed, sat down upon a chair, and said
" that he was very much fatigued ; —that he should have
" two more attacks, one of which should be nine weeks
"from to-morrow (June 23rd) at three minutes after
" six. He would not fix the second attack, because he
" must think of what would take place beforehand, (at
" this moment he sent away his wife, who was present,)
" and added, that in about three weeks after the attack
" of the 23rd of June., he should go mad ; —that his
" madness would last three days, during which he should
" be so mischievous, that he should attack every body ;
—
" that he should even ill-treat his wife and his child ;
" that he ought not to be left alone with them ; —and that
" he did not know, that he should not kill an individual
" without intending it. It would be necessary to bleed
" him from both feet ;
' then,'' said he, '
I shall be wellfor
" the month of August ; and once cured, the disorder will
" not return, whatever circumstances may happen to mc
" afterwardsS
" It was on the 22nd of April, that all these previ-
" sions were announced to us, and two days afterwards,
"the 24th, Cazot wishing to stop a runaway horse
" which had got the bit between his teeth, was violently
" thrown down against the wheel of a cabriolet, which
" occasioned a fracture of the left supra-orbitary ridge,
" and bruised him horribly. He was conveyed to the
" H6pital Beaujon, where he died on the 13th of May.
" On inspecting the body, and opening the head, there
ON PROVISION. 311
" were found traces of recent membranous inflammation,
" —purulent collections under the integuments of the
" skull, and at the extremity of the choroid plexus, a
" substance externally white, but yellowish internally, and
" which contained some small hydatids.
" We see in this history a young man, subject for
" years to attacks of epilepsy, for which he had been
" treated successively at the H6pital des Enfants, and
" at Saint Louis, and in consequence of which he had
" been exempted from military service. Magnetism acted
" upon him, although he was perfectly ignorant of what
" was going on,—and he became somnambulist. The
" symptoms of his disorder were ameliorated ; the
" paroxysms diminished in frequency ; —his headaches,
" his oppression disappeared under the influence of mag-
" netism ; —he prescribed for himself a treatment appro-
" priate to the nature of his malady, and from which he
"promised his restoration. Magnetized without his
" knowledge, and from a distance, he fell into somnam-
" bulism, and was aroused from it with the same promp-
" titude, as if he had been magnetized close at hand.
" Finally, he indicated with extraordinary precision, one
" or two months beforehand, the day and the hour of the
" return of the epileptic attack. Yet notwithstanding he
" was thus endowed with prevision for attacks at so great
" a distance of time, and even for attacks tohich would
" never take place, he did not foresee, that in two days he
" should meet with a fatal accident.
" Without attempting to reconcile, all which at first
" sicht is apparently contradictory in such a history, the
" commission would draw your attention to the fact that the
" previsions of Cazot related only to his attacks ; —that
" they are reducible to the knowledge of organic modifi-
3L2 ON PREVISION.
" cations in himself, which were preparing, and which
" would arrive as the necessary result of the interior
"functions; that these previsions, although of greater
" extent, are really precisely similar to those of certain
" other epileptics, who recognize by divers premonitory
" symptoms, such as headache, giddiness, irritability,
" the aura epileptica, that they shall soon have an attack.
" ]s it then surprising, that these somnambulists, whose
" sensations, as you have seen, are extremely acute,
" should be able to foresee their attacks a long time pre-
" viously, according to some symptoms, or interior im-
" pressions, which escape the notice of waking men ? It
" is in this way, gentlemen, that we may understand the
" prevision attested by Aretseus in two parts of his iin-
" mortal works,—by Sauvages, who also records an
" example,—and by Cabanis. Let us also add, that the
" prevision of Cazot, was not absolute, and unalterable,
" but conditional ; since in predicting an attack, he an-
" nounced that it would not take place, if he was magnet-
" ized, and that in point of fact, it did not take place :
—
" the prevision is wholly organic, wholly interior. Thus
" we easily understand, why he did not foresee an event
" wholly exterior,—that is to say, that accident led him to
" meet a runaway horse,—that he was imprudent enough
" to try to stop him, and that he received a mortal injury.
" Thus he might forsee an attack which was not to
" happen. It is the hand of a watch, which in a given
" time, ought to pass over a certain portion of its facial
" circle, and which does not describe that portion, because
" the watch is broken."
It would be surprising, if indeed any thing could sur-
prise us in the conduct of tho enemies of magnetism,
that this case, which so beautifully illustrates the distinc-
ON PREVISION. 313
tion between prevision and prophecy,—which shows that
it is wholly organic—an anticipated consciousness of
organic movement,-—and that it has no cognizance of
those exterior and providential causes which would ope-
rate changes upon those movements, or extinguish them
entirely ; —that this case should have been quoted as
proving the fallacy of previson, because Cazot did not
foresee an accident which was to render impossible the
fulfilment of his previsions !
!
The following remarkable prediction of Cazotte* is
taken from the posthumous works of La Harpe, (4 vols.
8vo., Paris, 1S06,) vol. i. p. 62.
" It appears but as yesterday, and yet, nevertheless,
«« it was at the beginning of the year 1788. We were
" dining with one of our brethren at the Academy,—
a
" man of considerable wealth and genius. The company
« was numerous and diversified :—courtiers, lawyers,
" academicians, &c. ; and, according to custom, there
" had been a magnificent dinner. At dessert, the wines
" of Malvoisin and Constantia added to the gayety of the
" guests, that sort of liberty which is sometimes forgetful
" of bon ton : —we had arrived in the world, just at that
" time when any thing was permitted that would raise a
" laugh. Chamfort had read to us some of his impious
" and libertine tales, and even the great ladies had listened
" without having recourse to their fans. From this arose
" a deluge of jests against religion. One quoted a tirade
" from the Pucclle ; another recalled the philosophic lines
" of Diderot,
* It is scarcely necessary to say that the Cazotie of the present history,
and the Cazot whose history we have lately detailed, are two distinct per-
sonages.
314 ON PREVISION.
" ' Et des boyaux du dernier pretre,
I:
Serree le cou du dernier roi,'
" for the sake of applauding them. A third rose, and
" holding his glass in his hand, exclaimed, 'Yes, gentle-
" men, I am as sure that there is no God, as lam sure that
" Homer is a fool
;
—and, in truth, he was as sure of the
" one as of the other. The conversation became more se-
" rious ; much admiration was expressed on the revolution
" which Voltaire had effected, and it was agreed that it
" was his first claim to the reputation he enjoyed : —he
" had given the prevailing tone to his age, and had been
" read in the antechamber as well as in the drawing-room.
" One of the guests told us, while bursting with laughter,
" that his hairdresser, while powdering his hair, had said
" to him,—' Do you observe, sir, that although I am but
" apoor miserable barber, I have no more religion than
" any other V We concluded that the revolution must
"soon be consummated,—that it was indispensable that
" superstition and fanaticism should give place to philo-
" sophy, and we began to calculate the probability of
" the period when this should be, and which of the present
" company should live to see the reign of reason. The
" oldest complained that they could scarcely flatter them-
" selves with the hope ; the younger rejoiced that they
" might entertain this very probable expectation ; —and
u and they congratulated the Academy especially for
" having prepared this great work, and for having been
" the great rallying point, the centre, and the prime mover
" of (he liberty of thought.
" One only of the guests had not taken part in all the
" joyousness of this conversation, and had even gently
" and cheerfully checked our splendid enthusiasm. This
" was Cazotte, an amiable and original man, but unhap-
ON PREVISION. 315
" pily infatuated with the reveries of the illuminati. He
" spoke, and with the most serious tone. '
Gentlemen,'
" said he, ' be satisfied ; you will all see this great and
" sublime revolution, which you so much desire. You
" know that I am a little inclined to prophesy ; I repeat,
" you will see it." He was answered by the common
" rejoinder, ' one need not be a conjuror to sec that.''
" '
Be it so ; but perhaps one must be a little more than
" conjuror, for what remains for me to tell you. Do
" you know what will be the consequence of this revolu-
" tion,—what will be the consequence to all of you, and
" what will be the immediate result,—the well-established
" effect,—the thoroughly recognized consequence to all
" of you who are here present?' '
Ah !' said Condorcet,
" with his insolent, and half-suppressed smile, '
let us
" hear,—a philosopher is not sorry to encounter a prophet.'
" 'You, Monsieur de Condorcet, you will yield up your
" last breath on the floor of a dungeon ;
—you will die
" from poison, which you will have taken, in order to
" escape from execution,—from poison which the happi-
" ness of that time, will oblige you to carry about your
" person.'
" At first astonishment was most marked ; but it was
" soon recollected, that the good Cazotte is liable to
" dreaming, though apparently wide awake, and a hearty
" laugh is the consequence. ' Monsieur Cazotte, the
" relation which you give us, is not so agreeable as your
" Diable Amoureux,—(a novel of Cazotte's).
" '
But what diable has put into your head, this prison,
" and this poison, and these executioners 1 What can
" all these have in common with philosophy and the reign
" of reason?' '
This is exactly what I say to you ; it is in
" the name of philosophy,—of humanity,—of liberty ; it
316 ON PREVISION.
"is under the reign of reason, that it will happen to you
" thus, to end your career ; and it will indeed be the reign
" of reason ; for then she will have her temples, and
" indeed, at that time, there will be no other temples in
" France than the temples of reason.' '
By my truth,'
" said Chamfort, with a sarcastic smile, ' you will not be
" one of the priests of those temples.' 'I do not hope it
;
" but you, Monsieur de Chamfort, who will be one, and
" most worthy to be so, you will open your veins with
" twenty-two cuts of a razor, and yet you will not die till
" some months afterwards.' They looked at each other,
" and laughed again. '
You, Monsieur Vicq d'Azir, you
" will not open your own veins, but you will cause your-
" self to be bled, six times in one day, during a paroxysm
" of the gout, in order to make more sure of your end,
" and you will die in the night. You, Monsieur de Nicolai,
"you will die upon the scaffold ;
—you, M. Bailly, on the
" scaffold ;
—you, Monsieur de Malesherbes, on the scaf-
" fold.' 'Ah ! God be thanked,' exclaimed Roucher, '
it
" seems that Monsieur has no eye but for the Academy
;
—
" of it he has just made a terrible execution, and I, thank
" heaven ' ' You ! you also, will die upon the
" scaffold.' '
Oh, what an admirable guesser,' was uttered
" on all sides ;
'
he has sworn to exterminate us all.' '
No,
" it is not I who have sworn it.' '
But shall we then be
" conquered by the Turks or the Tartars 1 Yet again . .
.'
" '
Not at all, I have already told you, you will then be
" governed only by philosophy,—only by reason. They
" who will thus treat you, will be all philosophers,—will
•* always have upon their lips the self-same phrases, which
" you have been putting forth for the last hour, —will rc-
" peat all your maxims,—and will quote, as you have done,
" the verses of Diderot, and from La Pucelle.' They then
ON PREVISION. 317
" whispered among themselves ;
—
c
You see that he is gone
" mad ;' for he preserved all this time the most serious
" and solemn manner. * Do you not see that he is joking,
" and you know that, in the character of his jokes, there is
" always much of the marvellous.' '
Yes,' replied Cham-
" fort, '
but his marvelousness is not cheerful ;
—it savours
" too much of the gibbet,—and when will all this hap-
" pen V ' Six years will not pass over, before all that I
" have said to you, shall be accomplished."
'• '
Here are some astonishing miracles, (and this time,
" it was I myself who spoke,) but you have not included
" me in your list.' *
But you will be there, as an equally
" extraordinary miracle ;
you will then be a Christian.'
" Vehement exclamations on all sides. ' Ah,' replied
" Chamfort, '
I am comforted, if we shall perish only
" when Lu Harpe shall be a Christian, we are immortal.'
" '
As for that,' then observed Madame la Duchesse de
" Grammont, '
we women, we are happy to be counted
" for nothing in these revolutions:—when I say for no-
" thing, it is not that we do not always mix ourselves
" up with them a little, but it is a received maxim, that
" they take no notice of us, and of our sex.' '
Your sex,
" ladies, will not protect you this time; and you had far
" better meddle with nothing, for you will be treated en-
' :
tirely as men, without any difference whatever.' ' But
" what then, are you really telling us of, Monsieur
" Cazotte 1 —You are preaching to us the end of the
" world.'—' I know nothing on this subject:—but what I
" do know is, that you, Madame la Duchesse, will be
" conducted to the scaffold, you and many other ladies
" with you, in the cart of the executioner, and with your
" hands tied behind your backs.' '
Ah ! I hope that in that
" case, I shall at least have a carriage hung in black.'
318 ON PREVISION.
' '
No, madame, higher ladies than yourself, will go like
'
you in the common car, with their hands tied behind
'them.' 'Higher ladies! what! the princesses of the
'blood?' 'Still more exalted personages.'—Here a
'
sensible emotion pervaded the whole company, and the
'
countenance of the host was dark and lowering :
—they
'
began to feel that the joke was become too serious.
" Madame de Grammont,in order to dissipate the cloud,
'
took no notice of the reply, and contented herself with
'
saying in a careless tone :
—' You sec that he will not
• leave me even a confessor.'' '
No, madame, you will
'
not have one, neither you, nor any one besides. The
'last victim to whom this favour will be afforded, will
'be '
He stopped for a moment. ' Well ! who
'
then will be the happy mortal, to whom this prerogative
' will be given?' '
'Tis the only one which he will have
4
then retained—and that will be the king of France.'
" The master of the house rose hastily, and every one
' with him. He walked up to M. Crzotte, and addressed
'
him with a tone of deep emotion :
'
My dear Monsieur
1
Cazotte, this mournful joke has lasted long enough.
'You carry it too far,—even so far as to derogate from
'
the society in which you are, ard from your own cha-
'
racter.' Cazotte answered not a word, and was pre-
'
paring to leave, when Madame de Grammont, who
'
always sought to dissipate serious thought, and to
' restore the lost gayety of the party, approached him,
'
saying, Monsieur the prophet, who has foretold us of
'
our good fortune, you have told us nothing of your
'
own.' He remained silent for some time, with down-
'
cast eyes. '
Madame, have you ever read the siege of
'
Jerusalem in Josephus V—' Yes ! who has not read
' that ! But answer as if I had never read it.' • Well
ON PREVISION. 319
" then, madame, during the siege, a man for seven days
" in succession, went round the ramparts of the city, in
" sight of the besiegers and besieged, crying unceasingly
" with an ominous and thundering voice, Wo to Jerusa-
" lem, and the seventh time he cried, Wo to Jerusalem,
" wo to myself—and at that moment an enormous stcne
" projected from one of the machines of the besieging
" army, and struck him, and destroyed him."
" And after this reply, M. Cazotte made his bow and
" retired.
" When, for the first time, I read this astonishing pre-
" diction, I thought that it was only a fiction of La Harpe's,
" and that that celebrated critic, wished to depict the asto-
" nishment which would have seized persons distinguished
" for their rank, their talents, and their fortune, if, several
"years before the revolution, one could have brought
" before them, the causes which were preparing, and the
" frightful consequences which would follow. The in-
" quiries which I have since made, and the information
" I have gained, have induced me to change my opinion.
" M. le Comte A. de Montesquieu, having assured me,
" that Madame de Genlis had repeatedly told him, that
" she had often heard this prediction related by M. de La
**
Harpe, I begged of him to have the goodness to solicit
" from that lady more ample details. This is her reply :
'"November, 1825.
" '
I think I have somewhere placed amongmy souvenirs,
" the anecdote of M. Cazotte, but I am not sure. I have
" heard it related a hundred times by M. de La Harpe,
" before the revolution, and always in the same form as I
" have met with it in print, and as he himself has caused it
320 ON PREVISION.
" to be printed. This is all that I can say, or certify, or
" authenticate by my signature.
" ' CoMTESSE DE GENLIS.
" '
I have also seen the son of M. Cazotte, who assured
" me that his father was gifted in a most remarkable man-
" ner, with a faculty of prevision, of which he had num.
" berless proofs ; one of the most remarkable of which,
" was, that on returning home on the day on which his
" daughter had succeeded in delivering him from the hands
" of the wretches who were conducting him to the scaf-
" fold ; instead of partaking the joy of his surrounding
" family, he declared that in three days he should be again
" arrested, and that he should then undergo his fate :
—and
" in truth he perished on the 25th of Sept. 1792, at the age
" of 72.'*
" In reference to the above narrative, M. Cazotte, jun.
" would not undertake to affirm that the relation of La
" Harpe was exact in all it expressions, but had not the
" smallest doubt as to the reality of the facts.
" I ought to add, that a friend of Vicq d'Azir, an
" inhabitant of Reimes, told me, that that celebrated
" physician, having travelled into Brittany some years
" before the revolution, had related to him, before his
" family, the prophecy of Cazotte. It seemed that not-
" withstanding his scepticism, Vicq d'Azir was uneasy
" about this prediction.
" Letter on this subject addressed to M. Mialle by M.
" le baron Delamothe Langon.
" '
You inquire of me, my dear friend, what I know
u concerning the famous prediction of Cazotte mentioned
" by La Harpe. I have only on this subject, to assure
* See Appendix, B.
ON PREVISION. 321
" you upon my honour that I have heard Madame le
" Comtesse de Beauharnais many times assert that she
" was present at this very singular historical fact. She
"related it always in the same way, and with the accent
" of truth :
—her evidence fully corroborated that of La
" Harpe. She spoke thus, before all the persons of the
" society in which she moved, many of whom still live,
" and could equally attest this assertion.
« « You may make what use you please of this com-
" munication.
'«
'Adieu, my good old friend.' I remain with invio-
" lable attachment, yours,
" Baron Dklamothe Lanqon.
"'Paris, Dec. 18^,1833.'"
A very remarkable case of magnetic prevision, (though
by no means equal to the foregoing narrative,) occurred
in the foreseen, foretold illness, and all but death of
Madame Teste,—an illness of a sudden character, pro-
duced at the predicted moment, by circumstances of which
she had no possible knowledge, and over which she had
no possible control—no possible power of arrangement.
Yet in this case, it may be said, the circumstances never hap-
pened : and the illness was the result of mental impression,
produced by anticipation,—and receiving its awfully se-
vere character from the intensity of the impression,—and
from the absence of all useful remedies ;—for confessedly,
the remedies employed were utterly worthless to remove a
morbid condition of such destructive energy, whatever
may have been its origin,—and whether its effects were
borne principally by the nervous or the sanguiferous
system.
There is, however, a still rarer phenomenon attached
14
?,22 ON PREVISION.
to this prevision, in which the patient does not confine his
predictions to his own organism ; but can predict events,
with which his own existence will be commingled,—but
which are exterior to himself, and foreign from, and have
no relation to, his organic life. We confess ourselves
thoroughly at a loss for any solution of this problem :
—
can it be through the knowledge of some other party with
whom he is " en rapport V
It is proven, that somnambulists have a conscious-
ness of that which will take place in the organic system of
individuals brought en rapport with themselves, as of that
which passes within themselves;—therefore the pheno-
mena of external prevision ought not to occasion us more
astonishment, than that of internal prevision, so long as
the object of both is confined to organic life ; but the
doubtful fact, is, of events which have no apparent rela-
tion to the organic life of either party.
And we honestly avow our conviction, that upon these
subjects, many have allowed their imaginations, unjust and
untenable scope, when they have asserted that somnam-
bulists knew and prescribed, according as the precise
occasion required, all the possible remedies for the case,
—even those, whose very names they were ignorant of,
in their waking state. But except in so far as this know-
ledge is attainable through the individuals, with whom
they are en rapport, we cannot give it this extent and per-
fectness, but must restrict it within the boundaries before
mentioned.
It has been already shown in this volume, that if the
patient can speak in the magnetic state, and there shall
occur any difficulty in waking him, it is best to prevail
upon him to state, the most certain means for accomplish-
ing this object. It may perhaps seem to be a fanciful
ON PREVISION. 323
method ; still, (and this probably through the influence
of imagination.) experience shows that it will oftentimes
succeed, when all other methods seem fruitless. The
sleep of magnetism is so peculiar, and so wonderful,
—
so made up of the general torpidity of the senses, and
intellect, and feelings ; —and yet so characterized by the
partial activity of the whole, and perhaps even the develop-
ment of new sensibilities,—while the susceptibility to
impression through the imagination is so decidedly
heightened ; —that in such a bizarre condition, reasoning
would coincide with the fact, that the strangest method
may awaken from apparently the deepest sleep, which no
noise, nor mechanical means can disturb ; —and even this
means, useful on the present occasion, may lose its efficacy
at another time, and there is no resource, but to ask the
patient to indicate some other method.
It is quite impossible to analyze the nature, or trace the
steps of this extraordinary faculty : —we can only catch a
transient glimpse of its nature and agency ; —and this
gleam is so transient, that it has passed before we can have
time to consider it ;
—and though we are perfectly con-
scious of having obtained this glimpse, it has been so ra-
pid that we have been unable to detain it, —and it has
seemed to mock in defiance of our descriptive powers, and
to hold in derision our infantine attempts to explain the
nature and agency of the sunbeam, which plays upon the
cradle of our early knowledge.
This faculty seems to result in some mysterious way'
from the unaided combinations of the intelligent mind,
reasoning within its own unexplored confines, upon its
own interior sensations, guided and modified by past ex-
perience ; for unquestionably, the somnambulist judges
of the future from the past, and discovers the actual con-
324 ON PREVISION.
nexion of events, through an exalted condition of the
faculties, which in our ordinary state, it is beyond our
power to comprehend, or to explain.
Yet when a matter of belief has been common to many
nations,—and has been handed down as such from gene-
ration to generation,—and has been adopted by many en-
lightened men,—and has outlived the attacks directed
against it, and the vicissitudes of opinion, and the convul-
sions of society,—and more than all, the indifference of
age, it follows that it must either be based on facts which
are undeniable, or that it must possess some extraordinary
affinity with the human mind.
It is more than probable that an opinion so contro-
verted, and so inexplicable, at once so beyond the reach of
the highest intellect, and yet, as to its facts, so level with
the lowest grade of intelligence, that an opinion which
seems to rest upon the confines of the two worlds of flesh
and spirit, —and to be more allied to the creations of in-
sanity, than to the sober results of wisdom ; and which is
scoffed at by one set of inquirers, as much as it exceeds
the powers of another set to investigate, should be mixed
up with much that is erroneous. But truth without ad-
mixture of error, is only to be found in the divine mind,
or in the revelations of divinity ;
—and therefore, its com-
bination with error, affords no sufficient ground for reject-
ing its facts or its principles, till they have been weighed
in the balance, and found wanting.
. . .
A wise man does not first inquire, whether an opinion
is conformable with his previous notions, but whether it
is founded upon facts
;
—whether it is true, not whether
it is probable or improbable ; —and lie acts most unphilo-
sophically, and does most injury to science, who rejects as
illusory, facts of a different order and complexion from
ON PREVISION. 325
those which he has been in the habit of explaining by
physical reasonings, with the entire ultimate basis of
which he is wholly unacquainted ; and only guesses at
final causes, by extracting from the narrow field of his re-
miniscences some analogous facts, which in his opinion,
seem to explain or elucidate, that which is really dark and
unfathomable.
During the last sixty years, the phenomena of prevision
have been so frequently found among somnambulists, that
it is impossible to deny their existence, without involving
the honour and integrity of many witnesses, fully equal
in honesty of purpose and uprightness of intention, with
those who groundlessly attempt to deny their testimony,
—
in fact, to set up their own counter statements against the
facts of the former witnesses,—the only difference being
that the latter have no counter facts to allege. Now to
deny the testimony of those who have seen, without one
particle of testimony on the opposite side, except of a
negative character, from those who have not seen;—and
to reject and hold as worthless, the evidence of many
men of different countries, who without concert, and adopt-
ing different theories of explanation, have yet all agreed
on the facts ; —I say, to reject such testimony upon such
grounds, is contrary to the laws of evidence,—is unphilo-
sophical,—and savours more of ignorance and prejudice,
than of learning, and science, and a simple seeking after
truth.
With regard to the operations of mind, it should be
recollected that we can perceive objects and their modifi-
cations, only in so far as they are presented to the senses ;
but we believe that many other objects exist, of which we
can form no definite conception ; —and many modifica-
tions of known objects, which are quite inaccessible to
326 ON PREVISION.
our senses ; and still further, that objects thus inappre-
ciable at one period, may become obvious to our senses at
another. The very light by which I am now writing will
afford an illustration of the preceding remark ; it is a
modification of coal, which a few years since we should
have smiled at in incredulity, because not obvious to our
senses,—but which has since become a most valuable
addition to our comforts, and has been rendered perfectly
cognizable to our senses.
Now the essential characteristic of somnambulism, is
the development of new senses (or rather modes of sensa-
tion) and faculties, of which one of the most remarkable
is that under our present consideration.
This faculty is attached to, and forms part of, the hu-
man mind,—which is not manifest under ordinary circum-
stances, but which is susceptible of development, and is
actually manifested under peculiar and appropriate cir-
cumstances ; and is capable of conveying information,
which it is impossible to obtain through any other channel
or faculty.
To attempt to deny the existence of this faculty, is to
affirm, that we have adequately explored, and are tho-
roughly acquainted with the dominion of mind ; —that we
have searched its most hidden recesses ; —that not a single
nook has escaped our penetrating gaze,—and that our own
powers have been fully equal to grasp the length and
breadth and depth of the inquiry,—and to lay open all
the arcana of nature,—and yet that after having thus em-
ployed all diligence, and having accomplished a most per-
fect search, we declare that it is not to be found 1 A most-
untenable position, as we well know, and most un-
true ! That we have not found it, may be admitted ; but
that we could not do so with more diligence and more
ON PREVISION. 327
knowledge, is to assume that wc are omniscient :
—is, for
feeble finite man to claim the attribute of infinity,—and
in his blind, mistaken zeal for the honour of good sense,
to sacrifice it, and every principle of right and wrong,
—
and to impugn the wisdom of the Creator ; —and all this
to sustain a groundless prejudice of his own.
Now attentive obsei-vation, that is, the due and full
employment of our known faculties will enable us to dis-
cover the reality of a fact,—but not the mode of its con-
nexion with other departments of knowledge : this con-
nexion may not be explicable by the known laws of na-
ture, which however proves only, that we are not ac-
quainted with all her laws, or at all events, with their
ultimate extension and applicability.
It is probable, that this faculty of internal prevision al-
ways exists, but we perceive its quiet indications only
during the silence and absence of other familiar sensa-
tions ;
just as starlight, although always existing, is invisi-
ble during the day, and is distinctly visible only during
the silence of the night ;
just as even then it is deprived
of all its minor lights by the pale splendour of the moon,
and is altogether obscured by a slight film of vapour.
Yet who would be hardy enough to proclaim in the bright
sunshine, that there wp^ no stars because they were invi-
sible ; or still more analogously, that the light of all these
stars, had been collected into the sun's rays, so as to
make one unique, and only source of light and heat?
Yet such is the reasoning of those who say, that all the
faculties of man's gigantic and immortal mind, are con-
centrated in the puny manifestations of intelligence,
which are the result of every day's observation.
In this discussion, it should ever be remembered, that
the manifestations of mind are of a totally different order
328 ON PREVISION.
from those of a mere bodily function, and that to endea-
vour to explain the one by the other, is to reason falsely.
Man avails himself of this explanation, in consequence
of the poverty of language, and of his possessing no
means of really describing the operations of mind. And
how thoroughly poor and inadequate is this attempt
!
Take only one example—the word contrition! Every
body knows what it means, because many ages have
sanctified a particular application, which is generally
acknowledged. But not so they, who first employed the
term to explain a certain state of mind. Now the idea
conveyed to the classical understanding, is that of rub-
bing together, and so breaking down, and softening the
asperities of the two bodies placed in contact, and kept
moving from side to side in close apposition. And can
any thing be more poor—more miserably inadequate to
express the mental and moral condition? But this is
only one example of many which might be adduced
—
from which we may conclude that we cannot explain
mental phenomena by physical resemblances.
It is then assumed that magnetism is one of those
agents which exerts a peculiar influence upon the mani-
festations of mind ; —that it awakens dormant faculties,
and separates mental operations from the control of the
senses and of exterior matter. During ordinary sleep,
and in the act of dreaming, the imagination acquires such
a degree of activity, that it is no longer within its cus-
tomary waking range : and having escaped from the con-
trol of reason and experience, and of the powers arising
from the comparison of objects, time and space appear
to be annihilated ;
—years of time, and hundreds and
thousands of miles of sea and land are passed over in a
second of time :
—secure from the dull trammels of ordi-
ON PREVISION. 329
nary causation, aud gradual transition from one period,
or one place, to another, day and night, summer and
winter, all are confounded, by an activity of mental
agency which seems to be, and actually is, impossible in
any ordinary condition. What then, may we ask, might
not be the effect upon the rapidity and extent of mental
impression, if from any inexplicable cause the faculties of
the mind should acquire a degree of development far
greater than they now possess ; —and if they should cease
to be conformable to the known movements of material
beings, with which nevertheless they remain indissolubly
associated, in a most intimate, though confessedly a hith-
erto, and even still ill-understood relationship 1
Now the reality of provision is attested by the evi-
dence of our senses ; but we cannot explain or compre-
hend its processes, by any knoion laws of universal na-
ture : therefore, we should humbly admire this astonish-
ing power,—and at least, seek to throw the light of in-
vestigation upon its obscure history. But we should do
even this with humility, with a consciousness of our ina-
bility to follow mind into its own region of pure and
sethereal abstraction ; and of the impossibility of placing
limits to the agency of that mind, when dismembered of
its material organ.
The results of pr6vision must be always uncertain,
First, because of the infinite complication of the parts
of that machinery, of which we cannot see the entire
movements ;
Secondly, because of the products of our natural and
ordinary experience, which will mingle themselves with,
and confuse the indications of provision ; —and,
Thirdly, because among the causes which determine
future events, there are those which subordinately de-
14*
330 ON PREVISION.
pend upon the will of man, of the extent, and guidance,
and direction of which, it is impossible to judge with cer-
tainty.
Hence, credit may be given to the truth of the faculty
generally, though it must not be tested by individual
results ; —and indeed the failure of any prediction will
not prove its falsehood. Much of error may be mixed
up with truth ; and while we must guard against yield-
ing a blind confidence in the prediction, we must equally
avoid the conclusion, that we never can be enlightened
by it.
One great source of fallacy in the estimate which has
been formed of prevision, has been expecting too much
from its reports. The power of predictiug future events
of the organism, has been confounded with the divine
power of omniscience. If an event is predicted by the
Almighty, or by a person divinely inspired and commis-
sioned, that event will inevitably take place, because om-
niscience is acquainted with all the opposing circum-
stances, and omnipotence controls these circumstances, so
as that they shall fulfil His will: and therefore the truth
of a prophecy may be fairly tested by its fulfilment. Not
so the predictions of the somnambulist, which are not pro-
phecies, which are not inspired communications,—but a
simple, natural, organic foreseeing of events likely to
occur, through a certain exalted, or newly developed state
of the faculties,—but possessing no power to control
opposing circumstances, and therefore liable to be thwar-
ted at any moment by the waywardness of man. To
test the truth of prevision, therefore, by the fulfilment of
its predictions, is to employ a test which is perfectly ap-
plicable in one case, for another case to which it is totally
inapplicable. Our opponents, therefore, are not entitled
ON PREVISION. 331
to put forth an argument which attaches only to infinite
knowledge, against the truth of a state which involves
\ only finite knowledge, and which may be contravened
by finite opposing wills, and unforseen circumstances and
events.
On the other hand, it is of great importance for those
who admit, and most firmly believe in the truth of pro-
vision, to employ the precaution of accepting that only
as legitimate, which has been produced naturally ; that
also which relates to the somnambulist himself, rather
than to others ; and again, that which has respect to
early realization, rather than that which refers to a more
distant period.
The admission of this faculty of prevision, as attaching
itself naturally to the human mind and its organ, under
certain circumstances, in no degree invalidates the in-
spiration of this faculty by the Holy Spirit, as in the
prophecies of the Scriptures :
—
on the contrary,—in
the one case the faculty exists, but is bounded by certain
limits, and is liable to error ; —but when commissioned
by the Holy Spirit, that is, when inspired, its influence
is illimitable,—its certainty unerring. The same may be
noticed with regard to other mental faculties.
The great uncertainty which attends the notices ofpro-
vision, arises from our not possessing the means of judg-
ing, whether the faculty has been exercised freely, wil-
lingly, and independently of extraneous influences, or
whether it has been called into existence under circum-
stances of cerebral excitation, which are unjustifiable and
fatal to its truth. It may be assumed as a fact not to be
questioned, that somnambulists will give only their wild
reveries, and unsubdued conjectures, if interrogated upon
that which is not naturally and spontaneously presented to
332 ON PREVISION.
them, and upon subjects with which they are wholly un-
acquainted.
By recognising the existence of this faculty as belong-
ing to the human mind, though in the greater number of
instances undetected and undeveloped, we should at once
supersede many of the strongholds of superstition, and
should explain by simple and natural processes many of
the histories of second-sight, witchcraft, divination, &c.
:
—and we should allay the opposition which has been
called up against its existence, by proving that it is not
inimical to the doctrines of religion, or the precepts of
philosophy : —and that the only real opposition to the
one or the other, was to be met with in those, who assert
as untrue, and unworthy of belief, all that is above their
reason, and beyond the limits of their past experience ;
—
and who are disposed to treat as prejudices and untruths,
facts which they cannot explain,—however well they may
be attested and established.
All the faculties of man, which are natural to him, and
in which the mind is passive or the recipient, as percep-
tion, memory, <&c, will not be aided,—perhaps even will
be led into error, by too heedlessly yieldiug to the pre-
judices excited by this faculty : —it is the active faculty
of reason which alone can combine and judge, that dis-
tinguishes man, and the human mind, from all the men-
tal manifestations of the inferior animals ; —which does
not allow us to reject what we do not understand, but
only invites us to a more rigorous examination of results
—to investigate fully, and discover truth from falsehood,
—the probable from the improbable,—facts from the
circumstances with which they are enwrapped and ob-
scured,—to examine carefully and justly both sides of
the question before we venture to decide upon its merits
ON PREVISION. 333
or to pronounce an opinion upon its bearing :
—and
therefore, after admitting the reality of prevision, the
ideas which it gives or combines must be submitted to
our reason ; and thus it will be constituted and installed
in its just position, as one further aid to our understand-
ing.
My readers will be refreshed after this somewhat meta-
physical discussion by introducing a few passages from
the life of Joan of Arc, whose remarkable previsions have
formed the subject of undoubted history.
" On the 12th of February, 1428, on which the dis-
astrous battle of Rouvray-Saint-Denis was fought, Joan
said to M. Robert de Baudricourt, Governor of Vaucou-
leurs, that the king had suffered great losses before Or-
leans, and would experience further losses unless she were
sent to him. The exactitude of this announcement deter-
mined Baudricourt to send her.
" The next day, on her departure, many persons asked
Joan how she could possibly undertake this journey, since
the whole country was overrun with soldiers : she answered
that she should find the way clear. No accident happened
to her, nor to those who accompanied her, and even very
few difficulties during the whole journey, which lasted
eleven days, through an enemy's country, at the close of
winter, over a distance of one hundred and fifty leagues,
and intersected by several deep rivers."
" On the 27th of February, when she was about to be
presented to the king, a man on horseback who saw her
passing, employed some blasphemous expressions. Joan
heard him, and turning her head, said, " Ha, dost thou
blaspheme the name of God, and yet so near to death V
In about an hour afterwards, this man fell into the water,
and was drowned."
334 ON PREVISION.
The following month Joan informed the doctors, who
were commissioned to examine her at Poictiers,
—
1. That the English would be beaten ; that they would
raise the siege of Orleans ; and that this city would be de-
livered from the said English ;
2. That the king would be consecrated at Reims
;
3. That the city of Paris would be restored to its
loyalty ;
4. That the Duke of Orleans would return from Eng-
land.
" The king in council, having determined to send Joan
to Orleans, they commissioned her to conduct a convoy
of provisions of which the place stood in the greatest need."
" It was observed to her, that it would be a difficult enter-
" prise, considering its fortifications, and the English be-
" siegers who were strong and powerful. '
By the help
" of my God,' answered she, '
we will put them into Or-
" leans easily, and without any attempt to prevent us ou
" the part of the English.'
"
" The generals of Charles VII., not daring to take the
route which Joan had pointed out to the them, the convoy
was obliged to halt at some leagues from Orleans, from
the want of water, and from adverse winds. Every body
was confounded and in grief; but Joan announced that
the wind would soon change, and that the provisions
would be easily thrown into the town, in spite of the
English: all which was completely verified.
" The English retained one of the heralds whom Joan
had sent to summon them to surrender ; —they even wished
to burn him alive ; —and they wrote to the university of
Paris to consult upon the subject : Joan assured them,
that they would do him no harm.
" When Joan appeared on the redoubt called the
ON PREVISION. 335
boulevard de la Belle-Croix, to summon them to raise the
siege, these loaded her with abuse, especially one of the
officers, to whom Joan replied, '
that he spoke falsely,
' and in spite of them all, they would soon depart ; but
1
that he would never see it, and that many of his people
'
would be killed.' In fact, when the fort of Tournelles
was taken this officer wished to make his escape by the
bridge which separated the fort from the suhurbs ; but an
arch gave way beneath his feet, and he, with all his men,
were drowned.
" Having introduced the convoy of provisions and am-
munition into Orleans, Joan foretold to the inhabitants, that
in five days not an Englishman would remain before their
walls.
" On the 6th of May Joan informed her confessor, that
on the next day, she should be wounded above the bosom,
while before the fort at the end of the bridge. And in
fact she received a lance between the neck and the
shoulder, which passed out nearly half a foot behind the
neck.
" On the morning of the 7th, her host having invited
her to partake of some fish which had been brought him,
she desired him to keep it till night, because she would
then bring him a stranger who would do his part in eating
it. She added, that after having taken the Tournelles,
she would repass the bridge,—a promise which seemed
impossible to any body—but which nevertheless was ful-
filled, like all the other impossibilities.
" The irresolution of the king was the greatest punish-
ment to Joan :
—'I shall only continue for a year, and a
•
very little more,' said she, '
I must try to employ that
' year well.'
" The Duchesse d'Alen^n was greatly alarmed, on
336 ON PREVISION.
seeing her husband at the head of the army, which was
about to enforce the coronation of the king at Reims.
Joan told her to fear nothing,—that she would bring him
back safe and sound, and in a better condition than he
was at that moment.
" At the attack of Jargean, the Due d'Alenc,on was
attentively reconnoitring the outworks of the town, when
Joan told him to remove from the spot on which he was
standing, or that he would be killed by some warlike mis-
sile. The duke removed, and almost immediately after-
wards, a gentleman of Anjou, by the name of M. de
Lade, was struck in the very place, which the duke had
just left.
" The English generals, Talbot, Searles, and Falstaff,
having arrived with four thousand men to the relief of the
Castle of Beaugenie, in order to raise the siege of that
place, Joan predicted that the English would not defend
themselves —would be conquered, and that this triumph
would be almost bloodless on the part of the royal army
—
and that there would be very few—not quite to say no one,
killed of the French combatants. In truth, they lost but
one man, and almost all the English were killed or taken.
" Joan had told the king not to fear any want of troops
for the expedition to Reims,—for that there would be
plenty of persons—and many would follow him ; in truth,
the army increased visibly from day to day, and numbered
twelve thousand men by the end of June, 1429."
" When the army had arrived before Troyes, that city
shut its gates, and refused to yield. After five days
waiting, and useless efforts of capitulation, the majority of
the council advised to return to Gien ; but Joan declared
that in less than three days, she would introduce the king
into the city by favour or by force. The chancellor said
ON PREVISION. 337
that they would even wait six days, if they could be sure
of the truth of her promises. '
Doubt nothing,' said she,
—'you will be master of the city to-morrow? Imme-
diately preparations were made for the projected assault,
which so alarmed the inhabitants and their garrison, that
they capitulated next day."
Charles feared that the city of Reims would oppose a
long resistance to his arms, and that it would be difficult
to make himself master of it, because he was deficient in
artillery. " Have no doubt," said Joan, " for the citizens
of the town of Reims will anticipate you. Before you
are close to the city, the inhabitants will surrender." On
the 16th of July the principal inhabitants of the city laid
its keys at the feet of the king.
During her captivity, Joan made the following predic-
tions on the 1st of March, 1430, in the presence of fifty-
nine witnesses, whose names are given faithfully by M.
le Brun de Charmettes. " Before seven years are past,
the English will abandon a larger prize than they have
done before Orleans, and will lose every thing in France.
" They will experience the severest loss they have ever
felt in France ; —and this will be by a great victory which
God will bestow upon the French."
" Paris was actually retaken by the French under the
command of the Marshal de Richemont, and the Count de
Dunois on the 14th of April, 1436."
As to the great victory which should prove so fatal to
the English, M. le Brun thinks may be understood, either
the battle of Tormigny, gained by the French in 1450,
and which resulted in the conquest of Normandy,—or
the battle of Castillon fought in 1452, in which the re-
nowned General Talbot perished, and which completed
the submission of la Guienne to France.
338 ON PREVISION.
" In order to explain the expression, will lose every thing
in France, the same author recalls the fact, that the people
in general, restricted the terra France to what had origi-
nally composed the immediate dominion of Hugo Capet
and his successors, as PIsle de France, l'Orlcannais, le
Berri, la Touraine, &c. Thus Joan of Arc, born at Dom-
remy, at the extremity of la Champagne, said that Saint
Michel had ordered her to go into France."
Thirteen years before the revolution, were recorded
with fearful interest, these prophetic words with which
the pere Beauregard (a learned divine) made the roofs of
Notre Dame to resound in a moment of inspiration. " Yes,
" thy temples, O Lord, will be stripped and destroyed
—
" thy worship abolished—thy name blasphemed—thy fes-
tivals proscribed. But what do I hear
1
? Great God!
" what do I see 1 To the sacred things which have made
" these hallowed roofs re-echo to thine honour, will suc-
" ceed profane and indecorous songs ; —and thou, infamous
" divinity of Paganism, immodest Venus ! thou wilt come
" audaciously to take the place of the living God,—to
" seat thyself on the throne of the Holy of holies,—and to
" receive the unhallowed incense of thy new worshippers."
In his Lent sermons, preached before the court in 1789,
he announced, as a second Jeremiah, the evils with which
France was threatened, and created a very powerful sen-
sation.
Bist we must return to our discussion. If any of my
readers would like to follow out the examples of this most
interesting subject, he will find a considerable assemblage
of most remarkable cases in the appendix to Deleuze,
Memoire sur la Facultc de Prevision.
ON PREVISION. 339
On reviewing the subject, we shall infer that previsions
are uniformly the result of mental combinations ; that is,
of mind, reasoning according to the impressions which it
has received,—and not from that mind having become in-
dependent of its material organ,—and acting according to
the nature of purely spiritual being. All these views,
however, we must recollect, are not demonstrated, but are
still open to inquiry, and discussion.
Let it, however, be always kept in mind, that the faculty
of prevision does not give the power of looking into futu-
rity,—nor of prophesying future events, any further than
as these are combinations of effects which will probably
result from the agency of present events, and their conse-
quences.
The prevision of events dependent upon moral causes,
would be useless, if not impossible,—since in order to
foresee with any thing like an approach to certainty, it
must be, that the events in question must necessarily,
take place. But that they may possess this attribute,
their nature must be physical,—since if their cause m
be
moral, that cause may admit of a thousand variations
in endless succession : —if the cause be mixed, and moral
agency may have an influence upon its future bearing, in
so far as this may be the case, the result is rendered un-
certain : and therefore we shall see that under any circum-
stances, the fulfilment of events predicted, may be pre-
vented, by calling in the agency of moral causes to effect
that change. And if the predicted events, may thus,
under given circumstances, be prevented by yourself,
others also may possess tins power of prevention, and thus
the sources of fallacy are endlessly multiplied ; and it is
therefore the extreme of folly, to rely upon these predic-
tions on the one hand,—or to cry out against the existence
340 ON PREVISION.
of the faculty on the other, because the predicted events
have not been realized.
While then every genuine observer and truthful reporter
of magnetic phenomena will allow, that under certain
circumstances, there is developed an interior sense, which
confers the faculty of foreseeing certain events ; there is
also, another manifestation of this same faculty, which
we dare not pass without a transient notice, viz., the
power of perceiving events now taking place in distant
situations,—perhaps the most extraordinary of all the
wonderful phenomena we have yet considered.
The published writings of historians, philosophers, and
physicians, mention many similar instances ;
—and however
we may be disposed to doubt some of these circumstances
from their evidence being defective ; —or to reject some
of their inferences and explanations as untenable,—yet
after making these large deductions, there remains such a
residuum of truth, that with any thing like candid atten-
tion to the weight of testimony, we cannot pronounce the
presumed facts to be false. In many of these instances
we have to depend upon fallible witnesses,—and that net
always of very enlightened persons. Let it be remembered
that the greatest talents will not enable their possessor
to explain the hidden recesses of nature : —and among
those who do not possess such talents, we cannot expect
to find reasonings, which the progress of science, and the
perfection of instruments, have rendered available to the
more gifted : —and yet so far as regards faithful observa-
tion, the testimony of such witnesses is not to be lightly
esteemed :
—even the very errors of their reasoning, con-
firm the veracity of their observation, by showing the
points upon which their argumentation has rested,—those
points being so many facts actually observed.
ON PREVISION. 341
According to changing times, and prevailing theories,
and his own peculiar, and constitutional bias, each philo-
sopher lias sought to explain the phenomena observed,
according to the philosophical notions of his day,—or ac-
cording to the philosophical system he has adopted, and
with which he has linked in his destiny. But not one of
these expounders of nature has had the slightest doubt of
the reality of the facts : and the testimony of such men,
both as observers and reasoners, as Aristotle, Hippocrates,
Galen, Aretoeus, Xenophon, <fcc, is not to be despised, or
lightly esteemed:—they were not men of prejudice,—they
were not carried away by foolish imaginations :
—they ob-
served and reasoned as naturalists, philosophers, and
physicians, and they were all agreed on the main features
of the quality.
Since the revival of letters, similar testimony is borne
by many, as to the existence of phenomena, analogous to
those which are apparently produced by magnetism.
These admit that the sick forsee for many days the events
which they are to experience, and the remedies which
would prove suitable and advantageous under the given
emergency. And they do not consider this as a super-
natural revelation, but as a new combination of the ideas
acquired by the senses, and preserved by the memory, and
these associated by an intelligent, but undescribed, and as
yet unknown clue of connexion. This state is sometimes
attributed to an organic derangement of the brain ; —and
is certainly not to be found, except in intimate association
with disorders of that organ : —and moreover, it is de-
clared to be very seldom found in a state of health, and of
wakefulness.
Yet that it does exist under both these conditions is cer-
tain ; —for however it may be variously explained, yet the
342 ON PREVISION.
existence of second sight in the Highlands of Scotland is
so well known ; —and that
" Coming events cast their shadows before,"
is a fact so well attested, by so many authors, worthy of
credit, that notwithstanding its marveliousness, it is im-
possible to doubt the fact. With regard to this attribute
of marveliousness, it is to be considered that it is contem-
poraneous, and co-extensive with ignorance ; —that it is
to be found largely developed in men of limited under-
standing, with whom every thing beyond their acquisition
is to them marvellous ; —that its power and influence are
circumscribed by the extension of knowledge ; —that the
light of science dispels every day the mists of wonder ;
—
that that which is marvellous to-day, may cease to be so to-
morrow ; —and that therefore its indication is, the igno-
rance of inquirers,—and not the want of stability, or truth-
fulness of the facts.
We scarcely know how to confine this faculty of pre-
vision within limits which may be assigned, or within the
reach of any combination of known causes ;
—and as
being a development of the conservative instinct with which
nature has provided mankind. But because we are thus
unable to trace the steps of this reasoning, and to refer
events, with their manifold results, to one special series of
causes, there is no reason why this chain of interwoven
causation may not exist ; and if its existence could be dis-
proved, there is no reason why it should not explain all the
terms of the other series of causes. In all future investi-
gations let us be candid and just, as well as searching in
our inquiry, and as opposing ourselves to prejudice and
credulity : —and let us at once declare, that under these
ON PREVISION. 343
circumstances, the nerves have acquired an irritability,
which renders them peculiarly sensible to impressions, and
to which they would not be alive in their ordinary state.
We are not prepared to say that the ** sunset of life" is
peculiarly favourable to the development of this form of
" mystical lore," but this we do affirm, that the condition
is not supernatural.
344
CHAPTER XIII.
OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
We cannot pass over the pretensions ofphreno-magnet-
ism. As the very term implies, there would seem to be
some sort of connexion between phrenology and magnet-
ism. Then how comes it that some decided and thorough-
going phrenologists are decidedly opposed to magnetism,
—and some entire believers in magnetism are opposed to
phrenology "? At first sight this would seem to be an
irreconcilable anomaly, though upon a little close exami-
nation it will be seen that the difference of opinion rests
upon the vexata quaestio, of the brain being a single or a
plural organ. It is well known, that without having any
very positive opinion on the subject,—fully allowing that
the brain is the simple organ of mind,—and not con-
sidering it as a matter of great importance, whether it be
assumed to be a single organ with its variety of function,
or whether we adopt the compartmcntal hypothesis, yet
that upon a view of the whole question, we have ranged
ourselves with those who withhold their belief from the
multiplicity of its organic subdivisions.
Some of the ultra friends of this subdivision have dis-
covered, not only that the human mind has no fewer dis-
tinct though relative cerebral organs, than it has impulses
to obey, and offices to perform ; but that it is also furnished
OP PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 345
with antagonist organs for all these impulses and offices,
—
that these are immediately approximate ; and that this
equitable arrangement extends throughout the whole
cerebral system : —and on Mr. Sunderland's list, we find
no fewer than one hundred and fifty ! But surely when
we come to this minute subdivision, of an apparently in-
divisible pultaceous mass, are we not proving too much,
and in very fact, reducing the brain to its one organ, with
its great variety of function 1 And is not this simple,
natural arrangement, far more conceivable and rational,
than the infinite variety of distant, yet relative, and de-
pendent cerebral organs, which we possess no means of
demonstrating, or believing, except through the eye of a
most lively imagination 1
But let us listen to the experiments of Dr. Elliotson,
who says that he has succeeded in magnetizing one half
of the nervous system only—or even a small fractional
part of that system ; and also of awakening into activity,
through magnetic agency, distinct organs on different
sides of the body :
—so that on one side the manifestations
of mind shall be affectionate, and on the other side repul-
sive : —on one side joyful, and on the other miserable :
—
and so on, to an inconceivable number of antagonist prin-
ciples—the positive reality of which would seem to prove
that there was no one presiding principle of action,—or
that for the time being the brain was abstracted from its
governance.
We must allow, that this state, if it be true, is a very
extraordinary one ; and we may even earnestly wish that
it had been introduced to notice by persons of less lively
imagination, and more sober judgment than Drs. Elliotson
and Engledue :
—for although we entertain the highest
respect for their talents, we cannot say that we equally
15
346 OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
highly appreciate their judgment ; and we confess that
we think their imaginations too liable to be captivated by
the charms of novelty,—and therefore more easily led
astray by some brilliant and unreal phantom.
It is very certain, that if we admit the facts and con-
clusions to which they necessarily lead, we must give up
the ideas of personal identity and moral responsibility ;
for an individual who can thus act differently on two sides
of the body, according to the application of certain stimuli,
and to the excitement of certain portions of the brain, can
never possess a controlling will,—can never be conscious
of being one undivided individual, but must always be
divided between contending impulses, without the power
of deciding on what is i-ight : —and if this power be taken
away, so is his responsibility, for he cannot be accountable
for conduct which arises out of circumstances concerning
which he has no definite means of deciding between right
and wrong.
It has indeed been justly said that we have no fear
of the moral consequences of any thing which is true ;
—
but it may be said with equal justice, that nothing which
is true can lead to immoral consequences ; and therefore
it may oftentimes be fairly argued, ex requali in a retro-
grade order, that certain dogmas cannot be true, because
they lead to evil ; and we would claim this privilege in
the present instance.
But let us hear what Dr. Elliotson has experimented,
so far, at least, as these relate essentially to magnetism.
Dr. E. points to one eye only,
—
the right : both eyes
equally became nearly closed. When he spoke, the pa-
tient answered that he was neither asleep nor awake
;
that he could not hear or see with his right side,—that
is,
—
his right half was asleep. One arm being raised,
CN PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 347
it dropped, for it was asleep, and never was cataleptic
:
the other being raised, it was sustained by volition, for it
was awake. When Dr. E. raised the eyelids, he saw
some of the cornea of the left eye; the right being asleep
was turned upwards into the orbit,—a beautiful fact, and
in perfect harmony with the reality of all the other facts.
When Dr. E. pointed to both eyes, the patient suddenly
sank—and breathed hard, as in a deep sleep.
Now the existence of ^reno-magnetism as such has
been denied, and the phenomena which have given a
semblance of truth to their presence, have been thus ex-
plained :
1. The will is the grand agent in the production of mag-
netic phenomena :
2. The patient is placed by magnetism, under the ar-
bitrary control of the magnetizer, and is entirely directed
by his will, provided that the will does not overleap the
barriers of moral rectitude :
3. So intimate is this peculiar " rapport," that the som-
nambulist penetrates the most secret thoughts of his mag-
netizer, and is submissively obedient, even to the unuttered
and unexpressed dictates of his will
:
4. The will of the magnetizer influences the determi-
nations of the somnambulist ; and even the thoughts and
feelings of the former are involuntarily transmitted to his
patient
:
5. According to the Romish ritual, patients are not
permitted to be subjected to the solemnity of exorcism,
unless previously found to possess the faculty of penetrat-
ing even the unexpressed, and unperceived thoughts of
the magnetizer :
6. Thus, this much-vaunted phreno-magnetism is ex-
plained by the well-established law of clairvoyance, by
f
348 ON PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
which the magnetized thinks and feels with the brain of
the magnetizer.
In the history of the Convulsionnaires by M. Carre de
Montgeron, that which is " still more surprising, it often
" happens at certain periods of their extacies, that they
" will understand whatever is addressed to them, in what-
" ever language it may be spoken, and will reply to the
" whole in a perfectly correct manner: of this state there
" have been many witnesses." The same thing has been
spoken of by Bertrand.
Now how is this to be explained, except by the fore-
going principles ? It is the thought, not the language
which they comprehend ; for this state does not convey
a gift of language, or a gift of tongues, so that the parties
speak by inspiration : since, as we have before stated,
they do not acquire in somnambulism, knowledge which
they did not previously possess, though their knowledge
is perfected, and rendered brighter, and more accurate
—
as well as more capable of adaptation by the exaltation of
their faculties.
This dynamical combination of two separate nervous
systems has been called " ncurogamia:" and we should
not object to the terra, were it employed only by scientific
men, in a scientific sense ; but we fear its ordinary em-
ployment, lest ideas become attached to it, which ought
never to exist ; which ought to be suppressed ; —and which
would be injurious not only to the cause, but also to the
subjects of magnetism. We may be thought fastidious
upon this subject ; but we become daily more jealous of
the moral character, and moral tendencies of magnetism,
—of all which belongs to it, —and even of the terms which
designate its phenomena.
Hence then has been the error of the phreno-magnet-
^
OP PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 349
ists ; they have found that they have produced certain
specific effects by magnetizing one portion of the brain,
whereas it is really, that there has been a correspondence
—a co-identity in the feelings, the thoughts, and the
opinions of the magnetizer and his patient, for the latter
answers a question put by the former according to his
precise knowledge and opinion ; therefore phrenological
somnambulists become expert phrenologists.
In this race of error Dr. Engledue has occupied a very
conspicicuous position ; and if we regret that his great
talents should be so misapplied, we shall at least offer him
the meed of perfect honesty and sincerity : for he fearless-
ly avows his principles and insists on the importance, that
every future exposition of " our doctrines," should be pre-
ceded by the inculcation of materialism as their basis.
He avows that we have no evidence of the existence of an
essence, and organized matter is all that is necessary to
produce the manifestations of human and of brute cerebra-
tion.
We must cease speaking of" the mind ;" we must dis-
continue enlisting in our investigations, a spiritual essence,
—and confine ourselves to the consideration of organized
matter,—its forms—its changes—and its aberrations from
fiormal structure.
According to Dr. Engledue, mind has but an imaginary
existence : we have to consider matter only. What is or-
ganized matter 1 A collection of atoms possessing certain
properties, and assuming different and determinate forms.
What is brain 1 Merely one variety of organized matter ?
What is cerebration 1 The function of the brain,—one of
the manifestations of animal life,—and resulting from a
peculiar combination of matter. Its varied changes of
form give rise to the numerous manifestations of cerebra-
350 OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
tion, in the different tribes of beings,—and the varied
changes of cerebration in the same being, originate in
molecular attractions.
Does any one doubt the power of matter to produce
the phenomena of thought and feeling? To such we
would say, let us first find out, all that matter can do, be-
fore we venture to assert what it cannot do.
Again, Dr. Engledue remarks, that we have to do simply
and exclusively with matter.
"I simply applied my finger to the organ to be excited,
and willed that it should become so excited ; and in the
majority of cases, the excitation was instantaneous, always
remembering that the patient has been first placed in the
magnetic trance."
Again, all the actions and all the thoughts of man, are
the product of material changes : let no cerebral physio-
logist speak of " the mind" of man, for he cannot bring
forward a single fact to support his position.
Again, the actions of the human race, necessarily re-
sult from its organic constitution : and further,
The human race has the power of modelling its organi-
zation,—so as to produce by a series of combinations, a
high moral and intellectual character, or decidedly the
reverse.
Again, man has been weighed down by a spiritual phi-
losophy ; —he has been taught and still believes that he
possesses " a mind ;"—that this presiding principle sug-
gests and proposes modes of action : —in fact, that he is
a being of a higher order,—in possession of something
beyond his organization, which is the cause of his supe-
riority.
Further, man's thoughts and actions are the necessary
result of the activity of his cerebral organism : and the
OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 351
cause of the peculiar form of that cerebral organism, and
the resulting thoughts and actions, is to be sought for
in the laws of hereditary descent.
Once more, diseased individuals are punished for ac-
tions, the necessary result of the activity of an imperfect
organism, transmitted to them by their parents.
Again, vengeance can destroy the being, but will never
reform him : it can destroy the vitality of cerebral matter,
but it will never prevent certain actions resulting from
certain combinations. The rulers of this country have
yet to be taught, that a man's conduct is the inevitable
result of his cerebral organism, modified by the circum-
stances which surround him at stated periods.
And finally, Dr. Engledue emphatically asks, " Is it
optional with the criminal, think you, to be, or not to be
guilty of a crime ?
He adds, that " the same principles apply to criminal
" legislation, and to the trial of insane persons. The
" criminal is insane for the time. We ought to look on
" both parties, as objects deserving our protection and
" our pity ; as beings incapable of protecting themselves,
" because of their natural formation, and therefore claiming
" the fulfilment of a natural right,—the right of being
" protected, and of being treated on the principles of rea-
" son, benevolence, and justice."
Now we have somewhat to say in reply to these as-
sertions : but as Dr. Elliotson adopts them as his own,
by speaking of this address as poioerful, truly philoso-
phical, benevolent, and noble ; and as he adds a com-
munication illustrative of the subject, and published as a
kind of appendix to it, we shall prefer placing some of
Dr. Elliotson's views also before our readers, and after-
wards exhibiting our own views of the errors of these two
352 OP PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
great men, whose cerebral organism seems to have been
cast into the same mould :
—pity is it, that we are not
acquainted with the cerebral organisms of their immediate
progenitors.
Dr. Elliotson observes, that placing the point of a
finger on the right organ of attachment on one of his
patients, she strongly squeezed my fingers of the other
hand, placed in her right hand, and fancied I was her
favourite sister : —removing it to the organ of self-esteem,
she let go my fingers,—repelled my hand,—mistook me
for a person she disliked, and talked in the haughtiest
manner. Replacing my finger on attachment, she again
spoke affectionately. Removing the finger to destructive-
ness, she repelled my hand,—mistook me for some one she
disliked,—and fell into a passion. The finger upon
benevolence, silenced her instantly, and made har amia-
ble, but not attached. And this state of the organs on
one side, gives evidence of itself, on only one half of the
system.
Every animal is matter ; and has a portion of itself
named nervous, which executes the functions of feeling
and consciousness, desire and will.
To describe the properties of the brain to a spirit, or
something distinct from matter, is as childish as it would
be to ascribe the properties of gravitation,—the phenomena
of light, heat, electricity, &c, to something distinct from
matter.
All criminals think, and have a consciousness of per-
sonality.
Excitement of cerebral faculties singly, and in various
combinations, in the mesmeric state, may be the result of
mere suggestion : thus a patient may fancy an organ ex-
cited, and so cause its excitement.
OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 353
By misinforming us on the seat of an organ, combativc-
ness may be excited by touching benevolence.
An association being established in a patient's thoughts,
a faculty may be excited by touching a distant part :
—no
" wonder, therefore, that some fancy they have discovered
" two hundred organs."
" I can effect," observes Dr. Elliotson, " any thing
" in her by imagination. By merely saying—when I
" touch the point of my chin twice,—I wish you to fall
" asleep, she does actually fall into the sleep-waking
" state."
" The operator should will nothing : he should, if pos-
sible, not know to what cerebral organs he is pointing, that
the will may be prevented from acting. But how is this
possible 1 —can he avoid thought 1 and if not, the mesmer-
ized reads his thoughts.
In the same strain, Dr. Davey remarks, " the organ
of destructiveness, for instance, may be diseased, and its
natural functions be so increased, that the sufferer is the
mere instrument of such an unhappy physical condition.
He becomes to all intents and purposes a mere machine.
He would, but he cannot oppose the force of his passions ;
he is the slave of his impulses.
Delusion constitutes only a prominent symptom of cere-
bral disease ; —a mere feature of the general moral per-
version of his nature.
Ricard relates the case of a somnambulist who was
perfectly deaf to all ordinary sounds, but could hear any
thing addressed to him through the intervention of musi-
cal sounds.
Now to all this we reply first, that we rejoice in the
honest avowal of the principles here inculcated, and of the
15*
354 OP PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
consequences to which they lead. Indeed we should be
inclined to give to our opponents greater credit than they
would be disposed to take to themselves : for we, forget-
ting the utter shamelessness which results from the entire
abandonment of moral principle, (dissociated from cere-
bral fibre, and the offspring of spiritual existence) should
have attributed to them a measure of candour and
honesty, and self-sacrifice to the cause of what they
believed to be truth, in the thorough-going avowal of
views, which to the great majority of the thinking part of
mankind must be obnoxious,—and therefore which must
excite against them some feeling of apprehension, and of
distaste,—if not of disapprobation. But our benevolent
and charitable feelings towards these voluntary martyrs,
have been checked by the fact that they themselves eschew
any such motives, since they have only acted up to the
impulses of their own organism, and have been the mere
creatures of their own brain. And since it appears that
they differ largely from their fellows in their general views,
—and, moreover, that they think those fellows who are
believers in the existence of mind, so childish as to be
beyond the pale of reason : —with these strong attri-
butes of insanity, there is reason to fear that they
are some of those diseased individuals, whom they have
so feelingly described as demanding our pity,—not our
reprobation,—and as requiring all our efforts to cure, and
not to punish.
Under this conviction, and under the influence of the
benevolent feelings which flow from it ; and truly feeling
that if we " hang a man for going mad,"
"Then farewell—British freedom !"
we have hesitated long, whether it would be right to
OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 355
attempt the exposure of their hallucinations to the public
gaze; —and we have been only satisfied in doing so, by
the recollection, that before they can be admitted into the
asylums which they project, there must be certificates of
insanity, and proofs before a competent court, that they
are incapable of managing their own affairs with advan-
tage to themselves, and without injury to others.
It is said that we have no evidence of the existence of
an essence ; and that organized matter is all that is ne-
cessary to produce the phenomena of mind. We shall
not stop to quibble about terms ; —but we shall fearlessly
assert, that we have as much evidence in favour of a
principle superadded to matter, called mind,—as we have
in proof, that organized matter is " all that is necessary
" to produce the phenomena of mind." Neither the one
proposition nor the other is susceptible of proof by the
ordinary rules of evidence. We can trace back this func-
tion of " celebration" a certain distance,—but we can go
no farther :
—we can see that the brain is the organ as-
signed by nature for the manifestations of mind : —but in
what way is this accomplished ? Why is it, that the
same organ varies so essentially in every individual?
What evidence have we to prove, that the cerebral mass
exercises the function of thought, and that thought is de-
pendent upon the movement of its molecules?
Besides, we have no proof, that what we term mind
is not material, only of a finer quality than that which is
detectable by our senses. What know we of matter
itself? Can we define its form and structure ? Can we
confine its existence to our own present limited know-
ledge ? Is it not even now a question not solved, as to
whether certain phenomena result from matter, in the
form of a quality of that matter,—or whether they are in
356 OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
themselves absolutely and undoubtedly material? In a
great number of instances, do not things which we be-
lieve to be material escape the evidence of our senses, and
therefore exist beyond the reach of proof? Perhaps no
one doubts the existence of a nervous fluid ; and yet what
proof have we of its existence? It is vain to talk of the
non-existence of mind, because we cannot demonstrate its
composition ; and we have precisely the same evidence
for its existence, as we have for the moving cerebral
molecules which perform the higher phenomena of
thought, and feeling, and reflection, comparison, judg-
ment, and resulting moral action.
But it seems we are to cease speaking of mind, and
confine ourselves to the forms, and changes, and devia-
tions from the healthy structure of matter. And where
shall we then be ? Who will first tell us, the form, and
shape, and length, and breadth, and tenuity, and elas-
ticity, and cohesion, and colour, and quality of the ultimate
cerebral fibrile,—and of the infinitesimal molecules of
which it is composed ? Yet without this previous know-
ledge, how shall we be able to compare, the unhealthy
and deficient, with this most perfect condition ? How
shall we ascertain the deviations from normal structure, if
we are previously unacquainted with that structure ?
And what philosopher will detect the ultimate cerebral
fibrile of the human from the brute brain ? We speak
not of the entire brain, nor of its developments, and su-
peradded arrangements, but of the ultimate fibril ; for
here it is must commence our knowledge of healthy and
capable cerebral structure, from the unhealthy and inca-
pable. In plain reality, the assumption is beyond the
truth:—we have no evidence of the performance of men-
tal operation by the brain : nor can we in any way detect
OP PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 357
the moral, and social, and intellectual brain, from the im-
moral, and anti-social, and most stupid brain, if the two
are placed before us, separated from their bony envelopes :
we mention this, because we have no wish to moot the
questions of phrenology in the present place.
It is said, that mind has only an imaginary existence,
and that we have to consider matter only : but we have
already proved, that the existence of the one is as imaginary
as that of the other ; for that mind may be, and probably
is, an arrangement of finer matter of which we know
nothing : so that this first position will in no wise help
the materialist out of his difficulties : we challenge him
to the proof of the non-existence of mind ; —and we assert
that to deny its existence is to involve the subject in a
greater amount of difficulty than to retain it. But, as we
shall presently see, the great object of this denial is to get
quit of moral responsibility.
A second proposition is, that the matter being organ-
ized is a a collection of certain atoms possessing certain
properties, and assuming different and determinate forms.
Now we presume that it is intended by organized
matter, to distinguish that which is endued with the
principle of life, and therefore we will not quarrel with
the term, which notwithstanding is so vague and inde-
finite, as to be applicable to any kind of matter, all of
which has an organization of its own. But waving this,
we might ask, if we are thoroughly acquainted with
what is life ; —we might ask what number of atoms is
necessary to constitute organized matter ; —we might ask
what are the properties which distinguish the atoms of
organized matter ; and we might further ask, what are
the different and determinate forms with which these
atoms are invested 1 Now to all these inquiries, not one
358 OP PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
reasonable answer can be given : —we must plead our
entire ignorance of the origin, progress, arrangement,
forms, and properties of organized matter : —we must
further plead ignorance of the influence which life may
exert upon the molecules ;
—and being ignorant of the
meaning of the very terms we employ,—and being in
utter ignorance of the influence, which the agency of life
produces upon organization, it is worse than folly to
attempt to reason a priori, upon the functions of such
organization ; —and it is most unphilosophical in such a
state of extreme ignorance to deny, that these molecules
may not be governed by a certain other principle, co-ex-
istent with life,—and which ice call mind,—the respon-
sible moi, which chooses good or evil, and guides, governs,
and directs all the actions of the cerebral organism,—in fact,
that which constitutes man the moral being, and forms the
essential connecting link between himself and his Creator.
What then, asks our author, is brain ? Merely one va-
riety of organized matter. This assertion is readily ad-
mitted : —it is a variety of organized matter, in so far as
it is endued with, and composed of nerves, and blood-vessels,
and structure, and is subjected to the physiological pro-
cesses of growth, maturity, and decay,—is capable of more
or less perfect function,—and is liable to the pathological
conditions of disorder, disease, and death.
As such, then, the brain forms a portion of the organ-
ism of the human body. But our author remarks, that
this organ has a function,—and that this function is
cerebration,—one of the manifestations of animal life,
—
and resulting from a peculiar combination of matter.
Now we admit, that this organ has a function ; —but
asserting that that function is the manifestation of mind,
over and above what is connected with mere organic life,
OP PHRENOMAGNETISM. 359
we have a right to ask whether this is the function in-
tended by the coinage of the word cerebration ? We
may answer that this is not the design of the author ; but
that the word is intended to dissever the actions of the
brain, from any thing like a spiritual principle to guide
those actions. Cerebration, therefore, is employed to
convey tlie idea of the actions of brain, in the same way,
as locomotion is intended to express the function of mus-
cles. In plain truth it is equivalent to the idea of the
movement of certain molecules of cerebral substance ;
—
but it goes no further,—it explains nothing ;
—it gives no
knowledge of the most trifling degree, of wherein these
movements consist ;
—or of the connecting links, by which
they are associated with the higher intellectual and moral
manifestations of the being. There is, we are well aware,
a reason for this : but its absence is sufficient ground for
asserting, that the term does not in any way explain, or
define the function, which it is intended to describe. It
is assumed, that there are certain intellectual manifesta-
tions ; —it is assumed, that the brain is for the purpose of
exhibiting these manifestations ; —and the mode of this
function is for convenience, termed cerebration. But in-
asmuch as this term defines nothing, explains nothing,
proves nothing, we are at liberty to deny the use of the
term to our opponents till they have shown sufficient cause
for its employment. We should not have objected to the
term, had it been employed to express the manifestations
of mind, through its organ, the brain : —but the very op-
posite is the fact :
—it is intended to cast mind and its
actions into oblivion, —and to retain nothing of accounta-
ble man, but a few organized molecules, over which he
has no control, but which by their wild impulses control
him, and degrade him from his high moral accountable
state to the level of thejbeasts which perish.
?60 OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
We fully allow, that the function of the brain is de-
pending upon a peculiar combination of matter,—that
matter being subjected to the will of man,—that will
emanating from, and governed by, the mind,—and that
mind emanating from the First Great Cause of light and
life, whose inscrutable wisdom has conferred upon this
arrangement of organic molecules, that function by which
in the inferior animals their circle of actions is com-
pleted,—and by which in man, his more extended circle
of intellectual and moral functions is performed. In him,
however, a new life is developed—even moral life, in
consequence of which he becomes accountable for his
conduct here;—which makes him master of himself
through obedience to divine laws ; —which teaches him to
control the impulses of his organization;—which teaches
him to prefer virtue to vice for its own loveliness ;
—which
teaches him to choose social virtue for its influence upon
present happiness , —and which teaches him to live in the
love, and in the fear of God, in the pursuit of goodness
in obedience to the laws of the moral Governor of the
universe. But then we insist, that the brain is the servant
of mind,—that man is not the slave of his organization ;
—
but is bound to execute the laws of the Most High,—and
in so doing, so to restrain, and modify, and govern his
organic suggestions, as will keep himself in the paths of
rectitude, and protect all others within the social circle,
from injury.
The corollary drawn from the argumentation of our
opponents, is, that the varied changes of form give rise
to the different manifestations of " cerebration" in each
tribe of being :
—
and that the various changes of " cere-
bration'''' in the same being, originate in molecular altera-
tions. Having proved the reasoning to be unsound, the
OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 361
corollary of course falls to the ground. But it will be as
well to show the semblance of truth, with which error has
been invested.
Thus, for instance, the form of the brain differs accord-
ing to the position of animal life, which it is intended to
sustain ; and is more or less developed according to the
position in which the Almighty has placed it ; not that
its very limited (not even yet locomotive) actions, are the
result of its scarcely developed nervous system,—but
that that undeveloped nervous system has been given it
because its destiny was limited. And so on, as we reach
upwards in the scale of locomotive, and still more largely
capacitated animal, and still more especially in gregarious
life, the brain is developed according to the requirements
of the animal position : —and therefore, in man, whose
destiny reaches still higher, into social, family, political
life,—into moral conduct—into responsibility to himself
and to society, and to his Creator, for every portion of
such moral conduct ;
—and to his final responsibility, and
future existence in happiness or misery, for ever and ever ;
—who possesses a superadded spiritual principle, ac-
countable for the actions of the body, and destined to
govern them, and to constitute man a religious animal ;
—
it is this higher destiny, which has occasioned him the
gift from omniscient mind, of a more largely developed
brain,—suited to his future position, and obedient to this
new principle of spiritual life. It is not therefore true,
that molecular alterations occasion the various changes
of "cerebration;" but that the various forms of ac-
countable being, give laws to these molecules, and employ
them as servants to execute the will of the individual,
—
to control the impulses of passion,—to soothe or silence
the cravings of organization,—and so to direct and govern
362 OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
them, as that they shall be in unison with the design of
the Creator, and moral Governor, and lawgiver of the
universe. The error will be thus seen to consist, in
maintaining that the function is inherent in the fibre,
—
and that there is no ultimate cause which sets in motion
that function, and those fibres ! Cheerless and most
unphilosophical doctrine, and absolutely contrary to ex-
perience and sound reasoning, to say nothing of revelation,
which our opponents must admit in argument, and if so
yield their point at once ; or else eschew revelation, and
become infidels—avowed infidels : " utrum horum mavis
accipe."
Our opponents desire us first to find out all that
matter can do, before we venture to assert what it cannot
do ; —and affirm that we have to do, simply and exclu-
sively with matter. But we reply, let them, before we
comply with their requisition,—let them first of all define
what matter is, and what it is not :
—and let them show,
if they can, that the principle which we call mind, and
which sets in motion and gives laws to their organized
molecules, is not, cannot be, a new, an unknown form
of highly attenuated matter ;
—let them recollect, that
beyond their visible causation, there may be, and almost
always is, an unknown first cause :
—and let them
prove that in the present case, its existence is impos-
sible : —else they are beaten upon their own ground,
and have no standing-place. We admit that we have
to deal simply and exclusively with matter, because we
cannot trace back the agency further,—but it is with
matter as set in motion by mind, characterized by mind,
directed by mind, governed by mind, or left by mind
to its own ungoverned waywardness,—to the unbridled
licentiousness of animal passion and desire, to the domi-
OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 363
nion ofunmingled selfishness, to the desolation of that
dreary society, fro?n which the influence of God and of
goodness, and of moral motive and sanction has been
obliterated.
Our opponents, with an air of triumphant defiance, de-
sire that henceforward, no cerebral physiologist speak of
the " mind" of man, for he cannot bring forward a single
fact to support his position. We deny this assertion ;
and
we aver that facts, experience, reason, and revelation are
all on our side ; —while we challenge them to bring for-
ward a single proof, that the pultaceous mass before us,
can of itself, think, reason, reflect, compare, judge,
and be superior to the motives of selfishness—and be
guided by pure benevolence, and by the principle of
preferring the welfare and the happiness of friends, and
relations,—of the community at large, to purely selfish
present gratification. But if it cannot do so, (and it is
impossible,) let them not thus haughtily fulminate defiance,
to others. And let us consider some of the results to
which they would lead us, in order that we may see if
they have reason, and happiness, and virtue on their side,
—or on the contrary, unreason,—misery,—and vice.
First, then, the actions of the human race necessarily
result from its organic constitution. Man, therefore, has
no choice in his actions ; he is a creature of impulse ;
—
he obeys necessarily and implicitly the suggestions of
his organism. And verily if this cheerless creed were
true, how degrading is the position, that man with all his
fine intellectual endowments,—with all his honorable feel-
ings,—with all his high principles,—with all his supe-
riority over ether animals, is no better than they,—is not
governed by these principles of conduct ;
—but simply
obeys,—headlong and heedlessly, ay, necessarily obeys
364 OP PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
the suggestions of his organism ! We shall presently see
that he is not to be blamed for this blind obedience to pas-
sion : —but here we remark,
Secondly, that the human race has the power of model-
ling its organism, so as to produce, by a series of com-
binations, a high moral and intellectual character, or
decidedly the reverse. We have here a new principle for
the guidance of future generations. Marriages are not
henceforward to be contracted between parties arising
under proper circumstances, and in well-regulated minds,
from the development of affinities which are supposed to
form the elements of happiness in family life : —in fact,
they are not to be arranged from the choice of individuals,
(often bad enough it is confessed,) but from a certain
selection of some other, who shall decide this momentous
arrangement, not according to the manifestations of sound
mind, but according to certain organic peculiarities or
presumed organic peculiarities, so as to equalize the
deficiencies of one, by the redundancies of the other.
True, that this would be of very little importance, where
every one necessarily follows his own organic suggestions,
and where marriage can be only a " liaison de convenance,"
with no obligation beyond the organic suggestion of the
hour. But let us imagine what would be its effect on
society as it actually is : —one individual, for instance, in
whom destructiveness is marked, is to be married to one
in whom benevolence is super-eminent : where acquisi-
tiveness is prominent, it is to be united to surpassing con-
scientiousness !
—Contemplate for a moment, the wretch-
edness thus inflicted upon immediate society, by such an
incongruous aggregation of molecules. And after all,
who is to say what shall be the effect upon offspring 1 who
shall say that the children of such a marriage, shall not be
%5
OP PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
especially marked by the preponderance of *** ™£
cules 1 And if not, who shall say, in defiance of all cxpe
t;, that the influence of the unhappy - * ^
not immediately apparent, .hall not re-appearrm th n x
generation, after skipping over the present 1 And vvlo shall
L that this influence can be exerted at all in the p ic-
't eneration, in defiance of the acknowledged £**
the children of the same parents are constantly marked by
the most diverse, and even opposite characteristics j-that
Ihere shall not be even a family likeness between them,
but that they shall be as dissimilar as it is possible for op-
posites to become 1 Surely there never was a wilder hy-
pothesis, or more contrary to fact !
Surely there never
was a clearer case of disordered organism, than has been
shown against our talented opponents !
But man has been « weighed down by a spiritual philo-
sophy," he has been taught and still believes that he pos-
sesses
" a mind" which suggests and proposes modes ot
action ;
_in fact, that he is in possession of something 6c-
y<m</hisorganism,-the cause of his superiority. Ofcourse
as our opponents eschew everything which is not material
this weighing down must have respect to some material
weight, which is capable of appreciation,—as well as its
precise mode and amount of action and impression upon
his material organism. But strange to say, that very weight
with which he is weighed down, is a spiritual philosophy,
—an d by their own showing a nonenity, and therefore
without weight. It is not matter, but spirit, which has
weighed him down ; and yet the existence of spirit is de-
nied : there is nothing but matter. To such strange in-
consistencies does the love of hypothesis, and the instinctive
aversion to moral legislation, lead the votaries of infidelity.
It may perhaps be said, that this is merely playing upon
366 OP PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
the words " weighed down"—and that it is hard measure
to charge upon our adversaries the employment of a term
to which they have been unwillingly driven by the poverty
of language. Grant that it may be so : —but then we on
our parts must claim the same privilege, and must not be
held bound by the use of terms which the poverty of lan-
guage has compelled us to employ ; —and this conceded,
our opponents would lose much of their semblance of
truth.
But altogether waiving the question of material weight,
which we have employed only for the sake of illustration,
and taking up the position that man has been disparaged
in his intellectual and degraded in his moral aspirations by
this " spiritual philosophy :"—this is a point on which
we must appeal to argument and fact. Is it possible that
man will be weighed down, and oppressed, and degraded
by being taught his own superiority,—by being taught,
that his position is superior to the beasts, because he is
formed to live in society, to form the happiness, and seek
the good of that society,—to live for others,—to cultivate
his powers for their benefit,—to seek the good of his
fellow creatures here,—to consecrate his talents to the
glory of God,—and that having finished his course of
usefulness on earth, he has been prepared for a never-
ending immortality ? Is tliis calculated to degrade him ?
Do we not know that the readiest way to produce good
actions here from inferior motives, is to give individuals
a good opinion of themselves,—to give them a character
to support, and a reputation to substantiate 1 and is it
not enough to stamp them with the recklessness of infamy,
—to place upon them the seal of degradation,—to give
them no object worth struggling for,—to place them on the
degraded level of the lowest part of mankind,—and
OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 367
finally, to tell them, that each may console himself with
being precisely what he has been made by his organism.
Blessed commnnity of interests ! Alas ! that truth should
be thus perverted, as to admit of an application so in-
jurious.
But we appeal to facts : —among whom have existed
the degraded of mankind?—among those who have be-
lieved in their spiritual existence, or among those who
have believed themselves the creatures of their organism,
and irresponsible for their actions?—among those who
believe that they have a " mind," or those who are assured
that they have only bodies 1—among those who believe
that when they ore unclothed of this material vehicle, they
shall be clothed with immortality, or among those who
fully believe with life ends their being,— " that their joys
" and their hopes will expire with to-day 1" It would be
invidious to answer these questions by an array of names ;
but the common sense of mankind has already answered
them : —reason has already answered them ;—conscience
has already answered them ; —the pillow of sickness and
the bed of death has already answered them ; —and the
last great day of account will finally and irrevocably an-
swer them.
After all this pity wasted upon those unhappy beings
who possess minds, or who have been taught to think they
possess them,—and who have been weighed down by this
spiritual philosophy ; let us turn our attention for a
moment upon those who have been taught, and who
believe that they possess brains,—that their actions are
the necessary result of the movements of the molecules of
those brains,—and of the peculiar form of their cerebral
organism ; and that this, as well as the resulting thoughts
and actions, are to be sought for in the laws of hereditary
1
368 OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
descent
;
—and who, in the belief of this doctrine, have
been taught, that therein consists their seperiority over
their surrounding fellow mortals. Truly this is a source
of exaltation of character, and of unbounded self-gratula-
tion, to find on the one hand, that all one's best qualities,
as well as one's worst, are to be traced to our progenitors;
—upon them rests all the blame of our erroneous con-
formations, and of our vicious impulses and conduct.
The love of our fellow creatures,—and the superior love
of their worldly possessions, are both traced to the same
source, and we have no credit in cultivating the one more
than the other.—Inspiring thought ! that we are thus the
slaves of our organism—the creatures of impulse
—
blindly
and necessarily acting according to an impression made
upon our organism, several generations beforehand per-
chance, and at all events, such as we are, such will be
our offspring. How debasing—and how fearful a thought
!
The only good which appears capable of extraction
from such a tissue of evil, is, that if evil has been thus im-
pressed upon men by hereditary descent,—we of necessity
trace the origin of evil to our first parents, and thus de-
rive an argument in favour of the scriptural narrative of
the fall, by the impression made upon the organism of
their posterity, by our first parents' transgression, and
which has been lineally handed down to us, their degene-
rate successors.
We must next examine the bearing of this doctrine
upon the social compact. If man's thoughts and actions
are the necessary result of his organism, it follows that
they are not perpetrated with his will, but only by the
blind impulse of passion, in which the voice of will is
thoroughly passive : then he cannot be held responsible
for these thoughts and actions,—his organic suggestions
OP PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 3G9
govern him,—and he is not accountable for his deeds or
words.
Then it is said that there are diseased individuals, who
ought not to be puuished for conduct, over which they
have no control, and which is the necessary result of the
activity of an imperfect organism transmitted to them by
their parents. This is rather an important question, and
must be examined a little in detail, because if man is the
slave of his organism, he ought not to be punished for
that which he cannot avoid ; —and if he ought not to be
punished, this will extend as a principle to every kind and
degree of punishment, as well as to the extreme penalty
of the law.
Now we confess ourselves adverse to the frequent pun-
ishment of crime, by the death of the criminal : but the
subject is one which requires more elucidation. We con-
sider, that the preservation of society, and its well-being,
are the great objects of criminal legislation ; and we do
fearlessly avow our belief, that the punishment of those
who voluntarily infringe its laws,—who break its bonds,
—
and make inroads upon its well being, is indispensable to
the maintenance of its integrity. Let man be left to him-
self; —let him be amenable to no other restraint than his
own selfish inclination, or the blind impulse of his own
passions ; and we could easily conceive what must be the
effect of such lawlessness, had not experience taught us,
that the wildest disorder and confusion, and crimes innu-
merable, and wholesale murder, and robbery, and rapine,
and vice in every hideous form, would certainly stalk
abroad uncontrolled, and by their withering blast, destroy
the happiness of the social compact. Reason and
experience, therefore, combine to teach us, the neces-
sity there exists for the punishment of crime, in order that
16
370 OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
individuals may be deterred from its commission, where
moral principle is inadequate to this effect. But reason
and experience do not teil us, of the necessity for punish-
ing1
those members of society, who have fallen ill from na-
tural causes,—or from their own imprudence,—or who
have become disordered in their senses. These are objects
of pity, and for them we build hospitals, and endow
asylums, and erect penitentiaries, and employ all the
means of restoration which active benevolence can devise.
There is then a difference, and distinction between the
criminal and the invalid ; —and to confound them together
as one, can only be the result of a wilful perversion of
intellect, or of a grievous fault in the organism.
It is then admitted, that while the invalid is to be pro-
tected, the criminal is to be punished, according to the
nature of his crime, and the degree in which this renders
him an obnoxious member of society. This is oftentimes
a difficulty in legislation,—but it is, we think, pretty ge-
nerally allowed, that the punishment allotted should be
such, as that it should invariably follow the proof of the
crime, and enlist men's sympathies with its justice,—and
not be so great as to excite all men's sympathies and com-
passion against the law, and for the criminal ;
—so that
they look out for litde modes of escape for him, instead of
rejoicing to fulfil one great duty of society—to punish its
offending members, and in so doing, to protect those
other members, who in their righteous virtue form the
strength of the social union.
Hence the importance of restricting within a very
narrow compass, the punishment of death, because this is
a punishment so full of horror, that it awakens all the
feelings on the wrong side,—i. e., against the majesty of
the law, and in favour of the depravity of the criminal.
OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 371
But ought the punishment of death to be wholly abolished?
In every society—and even in those not endued with the
power of national legislation,—a code of bye-laws exists
for their government—if not as a lex scripta, yet as forming
part of that unwritten Jaw, which in its invariable practice,
is as important, as that which is entered upon the statute
book. In every one of these social institutions, there is
reserved the power of formal or actual expulsion from its
ranks, against its offending members. Thus, it seems to
be a general principle of society, that they who offend
against its integrity, should be expelled from its ranks
;
and this too, for those minor breaches of propriety, which
involve no serious danger to the individual members.
And if principle of expulsion from society, for trivial
offences be allowed, there is no law in nature, why the same
principle should not be extended to the higher and more
atrocious criminals. And, whereas, in the one case, the
law is apparently magnified by the removal of an offending
member from his peculiar coterie ; —if the crime be a
great one, and involve the protection of society at large,
then the law will require a heavier sanction, in order to
maintain its justice. The same character of expulsion
must be attended with more decided and more extensive
power, and therefore transportation comes in as the
punishment of the more grievous offenders against the
person, or the property of its members. But we go on :
the criminal has been guilty of offences of a yet deeper
die; he is careless of human life, and in order to gratify
his passion or his avarice, he sheds the blood of his com-
peers : he is therefore dangerous to be at large in society
any where,—the law is not vindicated and magnified by
transplanting such an one from a portion of refined to
another portion of penal society ; —and yet expulsion from
372 OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
society is necessary ; and it is in this case especially, where
it would seem that the punishment of death was a punish-
ment of social principle,—and was called for not as an act
of vengeance, but of justice, and of vindication to the
insulted and broken laws of society.
But this should be restricted to a small number of cases,
and should inevitably follow the proof of coming under
one of those cases. It is useless to say that men will not
be deterred from crime by such a punishment. There
are those who are not to be reached by moral principle,
—
who have thrown off the sanction of every law human
and divine, but to whom life has great attractions, and
who would not peril their social existence, but for the
hope of escape, which is now so constantly held out to
criminals, by what we consider an awful offence against
society,—by the perversion of judicial talents, and by the
perjury of juries. It is true, that of late years, our crimi-
nal code has been much diminished in rigour, and the
number of crimes to which the punishment of death is
affixed, has been greatly curtailed, to the obvious impunity
of criminals,—but not to the lessening of their number,
or to the advantage of society. For let any one compare
(if he has lived long enough) the multitude of crimes
committed against the person, of stabbings, of murders,
&c. &c, committed within the last few years, and before
these mitigations of severity had taken place, and he
must be constrained to allow, that they have awfully
increased, and that obviously, because the punishment is
less severe, and more frequently escaped from ; and there-
fore, the hope of some clever escape is always prompting
the criminal to pursue his own passionate course. There
can be no doubt of the fact, and there can be no other
mode of explanation, than by supposing that the lenity
OP PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 373
of the law has fostered the disease which is said to be the
cause of crime, which is about tantamount to asserting
any most flagrant contradiction, and even if it were correct,
would involve necessarily this truth,
—
that a greater se-
verity in the laios wimld operate in repressing the tendency
to disorder. •
But we must consider the question of physical disorder
as involved in this argument. If we yield the acknow-
ledgment that man has no knowledge of good and evil,
—
no power to choose the one, or to refuse the other,—no
principle to guide,—no motive to influence,—no moral
sensations to direct his conduct, which is always the
inevitable result of his cerebral organism, modified by
the circumstances, which surround him at any stated
period ; and that, it is not optional to the criminal to
be, or not to be, guilty of a crime ; —that in fact man
has no power to help himself,—and that he is irre-
sistibly governed by his cerebral organism, why of course
we yield the point of punishment ; —man is not to be
blamed for that which he cannot help ; he cannot be
held guilty for an evil which is inevitable,—and of course
ought not to be punished for consequences which he could
not have prevented. But if so, the principle will apply to
every other form of punishment as well as to the penal
extinction of life ; —for what is unjust in principle must
be equally unjust in every variety of application : —and as
without laws of some kind, the fabric of society must be
dissolved, we only pronounce the social compact to be an
evil,—or at all events, a good not worth preserving,—and
not for a moment to be placed in competition with the un-
controlled freedom of the robber and the murderer! !
If this were indeed the case, well might we ask what
man's intellectual and moral powers and faculties are to
374 OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
effect :
—we had well nigh inquired what they were given
him to effect, forgetting that these gentlemen cannot
possibly admit of a moral and a righteous Governor of
the universe or of obedience to his laws'? Absolutely
nothing : —for the only cure held out for the moral evils
of society, is to take such care of future matrimonial
alliances, as to secure well-conditioned configurations-
Now it is admitted that man possesses reason, and reflec-
tion—the power of comparison,—judgment,—choice,
—
will :
—it is admitted that he possesses the principles of
benevolence,—the love of his fellow-creatures, and more
especially of those placed in relationship with him ; it is
admitted that he possesses a principle of conscience to
guide him,—to upbraid him for evil, and to smile be-
nignantly upon his self-denying exertions, and yet that
all his moral economy is useless—and that it is all sacri-
ficed at the bidding of a few molecules of cerebral sub-
stance.
It is, however, said that all this, is for the harmony
and beauty of society, where all its individual members
are healthy : —and that all they who deviate from the
strict perfection of this economy are unhealthy individuals,
—not criminals to be punished, but sick to be pitied—
to be cherished, to be cured. It is a little extraordinary,
in the first place, that almost all mankind, possessed dis-
eased cerebral molecules, for scarcely one is to be found
who has not, more or less, some moral or intellectual per-
version ; and we might fairly ask if nature has established
such a law in the other tribes of animals, so that no one
of them is fitted for the performance of the functions for
Avhich it was created?—Surely not!
Admitting the principle, however,—admitting that we
are to treat social delinquents not as criminals, but as
OF PHRENO-MAGNETjlSM. 375
disordered individuals ; and not to punish them, but to
place them in hospitals for their recovery, let us see the
effect. First, we are to place them in hospitals : this
proceeds upon the supposition that they will not volunta-
rily seek those asylums* ;
—and if we oiace them there
against their will, we deprive them of liberty—that is, we
punish chetn. But it has been shown, that we must not
punish them for their inevitable disorders ; and that we
must not indulge the vengeance of justice, for the sake of
avenging society.
"Waiving this objection, let us proceed. Right or
wrong, we have placed them in hospitals (Anglicb pri-
sons) for their cure. Now come the questions in what
way are they to be cured. Is their treatment to be con-
ducted by medical men, or clergymen, or instructors
trained on purpose 1 Is their treatment to be purely physi-
cal, in order to restore their disarranged molecules; —oris
it to be a combination of physical and moral means ?
What is to be the duration of the treatment, and who are
to be the certificating judges of their cure? Is their do-
micile in the hospital to be a solitary cell,—or a lounge
for diseased individuals aggregated together for the pur-
pose of improving each other by the cohesion of their
discordant molecules 1 And if the patient should grow
weary of his treatment, is he to be at liberty to eschew that
treatment on his own responsibility 1 In these hospitals,
is any discipline to be observed,—are any rules to be kept,
—any work to be done,—any medicine to be attended to?
—If so, and these are distasteful to the patient, it will fol-
low that he rejects them all, or is obliged to attend to them.
But if so,—if he must observe disagreeable rules,—and if
he can only leave the hospital by permission, he is de-
prived of his freedom,
—
he is punished, which by the pro-
376 OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM.
position he is not to be, because this must render uncom-
fortable some of those cerebral molecules, which we are
bound so sedulously to guard, and to preserve in harmo-
nious continuity.
Again, we must have a word with regard to the extreme
case,—to the individual who by his crimes (which how-
ever he could not help, and is not responsible for) has
become dangerous to his fellow men ; —and therefore,
and for their sakes, is to be transferred as an incurable
to a hospital, from whose cells he has no mode of escape
—no prospect of liberation, but in too tardy death,—say
the madman. According to this hypothesis, such an one
is to be transferred to an asylum, where his every want
is to be supplied,—but where he is to be kept as a dan-
gerous lunatic, without the hope of a termination of his
imprisonment, because his insanity is a monomania, and
the organization of his cerebral molecules is such, that
although he may not act murder in the hospital, he would
do so when drifted abroad in society, so soon as the
requisite modification of his cerebral organism shall be
obtained, through the circumstances which may surround
him, that is, so soon as any individual shall offend
him. Well then, he is to be confined to hospital diet and
supervision for the rest of life, either in solitary confine-
ment, or in hospital society. If the former, the absence of
freedom, and of the power to go hither and thither at
will, is an imprisonment,
—
is a punishment, however it
may be sophisticated by fair terms ; —and as such, is
za punishment, which ought not to be inflicted upon one
who commits wrong irresistibly, and has no power to
preserve him from wrong. Still further, if bis confine-
ment be solitary, he is committed to the most horrible
and intolerable of all punishments,—ten-fold worse than
OF PHRENO-MAGNETISM. 377
death itself, and a thousand-fold more intolerable,—while
the vengeance of the law assumes in this form the un-
tamed and untiring malignity of the disorder occasioned
in the will of the judge, by the disturbed cerebral mole-
cules, which have been irritated by the circumstances that
surround him. Alas ! alas ! to what folly and absurdity,
and irrationalism, will men be led by indulging an hypo-
thesis, newly fledged for the purpose of suiting their own
preconceived notions
!
We have perhaps exhausted too much time on this
discussion ; but at its close, we trust we may say, that to
ascribe all the manifestations of mind,—of thought,
—
feeling, desire,—will,—and all the evils o\ mankind, to
the motion of a few cerebral molecules, is as childish as
it would be for a grown person to believe, that the reflec-
tion of himself in a mirror arose from another individual
placed behind that mirror, and has actually no better
ground for its support. W-, take leave of oi->' opponents
therefore with the earnest hope, chat they may " never
» have to claim the fulfilment of that natural right,—the
" right of being protected, and of being treated on the
" principles of reason, benevolence, and justice."
16*
378
CHAPTER XIV.
ON EXTASE.
A few words on this very remarkable state, will com-
plete our design ; and in treating of this peculiar condi-
tion, we shall claim the privilege of retaining the French
term above employed to describe it, because we have no
English correlative, and because the term ecstacy is ut-
terly inadequate to represent extase.
This state, which involves an incomprehensible degree
of intuitive contemplation, as well as an augmented capa-
city, and exaltation of the faculties, has been employed
as the stock upon which enthusiasm and folly on the one
hand, and designing chicanery on the other, have grafted
much which is absurd and untenable. Thus, for in-
stance, it has been attempted to prove by it, the identity
with itself, of sorcery and demonology ; —it has been
attempted to show that through its influence, flowers and
shrubs will decay or flourish at the will of the indivi-
dual:—and that the weather may be so influenced as
that it may rain at one point, and not rain at another,
—
and that these peculiarities shall be under the influence of
the magnetizer. Now all these, and many such like follies,
are utterly repudiated :
—they are excrescences which are
maintaining a parasitic existence upon the foster-parent
ON EXTASE. 379
plant, but which have no legitimate connexion with the
original stock.
Again, it has been asserted, that sometimes somnambu-
lism lapses into a state of mystical extase, in which the
soul retiring within itself is admitted to the contemplation
of the Eternal,—exults in its glory,—converses with the
angels,—and delights in the unspeakable accents of the
seraphim. Here again is such an amount of exaggeration
of the truth, that it has almost lost its original semblance ;
and it has become so mixed up with error, that it should
remain as an example of how far honest intention may be
perverted, and become amalgamated with untruth and dis-
honesty.
But leaving these perversions, let us simply state what
we mean by this absolute condition, from which every
tino-e of hyper-exaltation and enthusiasm has vanished ;
—
a peculiar state which it is necessary to inquire into, and
that more particularly, because it has been mistaken and
misrepresented.
In this extraordinary state, the supremacy and pre-
eminence of religious ideas is mainly remarkable ; the
mind seems to be abstracted from the low and grovelling
relations of humanity, and to expand in a heavenly atmo-
sphere;—hence the absurdities and perversions to which
we have above alluded. In truth, the devotion of man's
present to his future state, and the agency of a superin-
tending Providence in all that concerns him, are strongly
marked in the thoughts and feelings ; —life appears only
as a voyage of preparation for eternity, during which will
be fixed the future position there of the individual :
—the
earth and all attaching to it, has in consequence of his
distance from it in spirit, dwindled into a mere speck :
—
every connexion with it appears dissolved,—and the whole
380 ON EXTASE.
system seems spiritualized. In this state the independence
and immortality of the soul, and the liberty of man, as a
free agent, appear self-evident; and the extatique is con-
vinced that God regards him,—and that prayer is the
communication between him and his creatures ; —the
only means of obtaining his aid,—of averting menacing
evils, and of converting apparent misfortunes into bles-
sings.
Now it is quite possible in this state, that tbe prodi-
gious difference, which he perceives in his new method
of envisaging objects, from that of his ordinary waking
state, the new light which shines upon him,—the novel
faculties with which he finds himself endued,—and the
immensity of the horizon which opens before his eyes,
may lead him to the idea of being inspired, and of his
words being dictated by an interior voice, and that this
idea may conduct him to error : —such, alas ! is the im-
perfection of poor human nature. This, however, is not
the natural state of extase ; —but occurring in conse-
quence of the exaltation of the senses, under the influ.
ence of which the extatique with his wider range of uu-
comprehended views : contemplates himself as the organ
of some superior intelligence, and extracts from all this,
food for his own vanity. It is then, that he is not to be
trusted: for nothing but the firmness of original unbend-
ing principle will prevent him from misapplying this state
of enlarged vision, and palming upon his auditors, his own
forced imaginings for the natural and legitimate result of
his new contemplative condition.
If, then, this very rare phenomenon be discovered as a
natural product in somnambulism, the great object is to
suffer it to remain in its natural state,— to listen attentive-
ly to what is spontaneously said, but to ask no questions ;
ON EXTASE. 381
for from the moment you attempt to direct the thoughts,
from that moment you remove the extatique from his own
peculiar sphere of intro-version ; you direct his faculties
from the object for which they were destined, and you
transport him into the vast, and boundless, and trackless
region of illusion.
It is confessed, then, that this state borders on error
:
and in this respect, it only follows one natural law, that
the extreme of truth is divided by a very narrow and in-
definable line from untruth : —in some instances, there
may be found the most grotesque illusions, withotit any
real or substantial foundation : —at other times there will
be observed a mixture of superstitious credulity, with the
most astonishing prevision ; under other circumstances
will prevail metaphysical language, and incoherent
images, with descriptions of things, from which we are
obliged to infer, that the mind has lost its balance, while
insanity has usurped its sway : and on this state a very
different judgment has been passed, according to the
impression made upon each individual observer, that
is, according as he may have chiefly noticed, that which
was luminous and true, or that which was cloudy and
illusory.
Yet it is our firm belief, that nothing of this admixture
of truth and error, would have taken place, if the som-
nambulist had not been led astray by the ignorance, or the
vanity, or the curiosity of his magnetizer ; —and if the
natural association of his ideas, had not been interrupted,
to occupy time with objects, which were either unreal, or
to which he was absolutely a stranger.
We insert the following case in illustration of this sin-
gular property.
" M. Ricard placed in somnambulism, Madame Naude,
382 ON EXTASE.
" who announced that she felt herself much better since
" she had been magnetized. '
For four years,' said she,
" 4
1 have consulted medical men ; —I have placed myself
" under the care of very skilful men,—men who enjoyed
" a high reputation,—and yet they have in vain tried all
" the resources of their art, without procuring for me, the
" slightest alleviation of suffering, and without even pre-
" venting the aggravation of my maladies. I possess at
" home, more than three hundred prescriptions, and I
" know not how much medicine ; —I have religiously fol-
" lowed all the plans enjoined upon me, and I have obtained
" no relief: but I do feel the certainty, that in a little time,
" I shall acquire the most" perfect health by the aid of
" magnetic processes.'
" Madame Naude then asked M. Ricard to send her
" to sleep, (this somnambule calls sleep, that state of e%-
" tase in which she had been placed for several days, in
" consequence of her own direction, and she distinguishes
" her state of somnambulism as magnetic waking :) her
" magnetizer acted accordingly, and in one minute she
" was in a state of perfect extase, in which her insensi-
" bility was absolute—her isolation complete ; in which
" she no longer heard her magnetizer, and her immobility
"was perfect. After about five minutes, she returned to
" the state of somnambulism. The following diala^ue
" then took place between herself and M. Ricard :
" ' Have you seen any thing in the state from which
" you have just emerged, which may contribute to your
t;
cure V
" ' No—nothing except magnetism.'
" '
Can you describe what is this state V
« ' Yes—it is a state of blessedness.'
" ' Did you think in that state V
ON EXTASE. 383
11
« Doubtless.'
" ' What are the thoughts that occupied you V
" ' I cannot express them : —besides, if my mouth
" could give them utterance, you would not understand
" them.'
" • But again, tell me as nearly as you can, what has
" passed in your mind—and what you felt.'
" '
I have already told yon : I was perfectly happy.
11
But as for further explanation, I repeat, that if I pos-
" sessed the power of finding expressions in which to
" clothe my thoughts, you could not comprehend me ;
" you do not possess the organ necessary for its percep-
" tion : —those who are born deaf and dumb, can never
11
appreciate the distinctness of sounds,''
" • Why did you not answer me when I spoke to you V
" '
Have you indeed spoken to me 1 I heard nothing.'
" ' Whence comes that V
" ' What, is it you, a magnetizer, who addresses me
" this question 1 Truly, I cannot think that you require
" any answer in order to settle your opinions.'
" '
I know what I think of this state in which you were
"just now ; —nevertheless I shall be obliged to you, to tell
" me why you did not hear me.'
" *
Ah ! truly the house was here, but the tenant was
" removed. It is absolutely as if I placed my garments
" upon the sofa, but as if I myself had walked away from
"them.'
" Thus finished the conversation. And M. Ricard
" having allowed his patient some minutes of repose, re-
" stored her to her usual waking state."
Reader ! my task is concluded ! Confined within nar-
row limits, I have been obliged to pass over very lightly,
many most important points of view. My object has
384 ON EXTASE.
been to bring you acquainted in some degree, with what
is really magnetism : and if I have succeeded, I cannot
fail to have impressed you with the desire of knowing
more of this very curious department of science : —I must
have impressed you with a feeling of respect towards
those who do not withhold their assent from magnetic
processes, and with an earnest desire after further dispas-
sionate inquiry.
In order to deepen this impression, I would quote from
a sermon of the late Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, the following
passage :
" And in our own times, the phenomena of animal mag-
" netism have lately received an attestation which in my
"judgment establishes the fact beyond question ; —while
" certainly as far as mere strangeness is concerned, and
" departure from the known laws of nature, they are
" perhaps more extraordinary than some things which
<;
we might call miracles. I mention this, because I am
" inclined to think that there exists a lurkino fc^r of
" these phenomena,
—
as if they miqhl shake our faith in
"true miracles; and therefore men are inclined to dis-
" believe them in spite of testimony ; —a habit far more
" unreasonable, and far more dangerous to our chiistian
" faith, than any belief in the tacts of the magnetizer.
" For these facts are mere wonders in our present state
" of knowledge; at a future period, perhaps, they may
" become the principles of a new science, but they neither
" are nor will be miracles : they contain no certain sign
" of the hand of God."
And finally, if there be any individual, who after having
perused these pages, is still incredulous as to the facts,
I take leave of him with the utmost regard for the
sincerity of his opinions, in the translated words of my
epigraph.
ON EXTASE. 385
" Whosoever would deny the phenomena of mag-
" netism, ought not to satisfy himself with saying
—
that
" is untrue ; I do not believe this;—that is impossible ;
—
" that is not conformable with the known laws of nature.
" Let him retire to the inmost recesses of his conscience ;
" let him ask himself, if he has seriously done all that he
" could do in order to form a sound judgment on the na-
" tural impossibility of such and such facts."
?f>
APPENDIX.
The following extracts are from Miss Martineau's ac-
count of her own case, which has heen previously referred
to at the close of the seventh chapter.
Miss Martineau thus describes her situatioa previously
to mesmeric treatment.
" During these five years, I never felt wholly at ease for one
"single hour. 1 seldom had severe pain : but never entire com-
" fort. A besetting sickness, almost disabling me from taking
" food for two years, brought me very low ; and, together with
" other evils, it confined me to a condition of almost entire still-
" ness,—to a life passed between my bed and my sofa. It was
" not till after many attempts at gentle exercise that my friends
" agreed with me that the cost was too great for any advantage
" gained : and at length it was clear that even going down one
" flight of stairs was imprudent. From that time, I lay still ; and
" by means of this undisturbed quiet, and such an increase of
" opiates as kept down my most urgent discomforts, I passed the
" last two years with less suffering than the three preceding.
" There was, however, no favourable change in the disease.
" Every thing was done for me that the best medical skill and
" science coujd suggest, and the most indefatigable humanity
" and family affection devise ; but nothing could avail beyond
" mere alleviation. My dependence on opiates was desperate.
" My kind and vigilant medical friend,—the most sanguine man
" I know, and the most bent upon keeping his patients hopeful,
—
" avowed to me last Christmas, and twice afterwards, that he
"found himself compelled to give up all hope of affecting the
" diseaoe, —of doing more than keeping me up, in collateral re-
" spects, to the highest practicable point. This was no surprise
" to me ; for when any specific medicine is taken for above two
488 APPENDIX.
" years without affecting the disease, there is no more ground
" for hope in reason than in feeling. In June last, I suffered
" more than usual, and new measures of alleviation were resorted
" to. As to all the essential points of the disease, I was never
' :
lower than immediately before I made trial of mesmerism.
' :
If, at any time during my illness, I had been asked, with
" serious purpose, whether I believed there was no resource for
" me, I should have replied that mesmerism might perhaps give
" me partial relief. I thought it right—and still think it was
" right—to wear out all other means first. It was not, hewever,
" for the reason that the testimony might be thus rendered wholly
" unquestionable,—though I now feel my years of suffering but
" a light cost for such a result ;
—it was for a more personal rea-
" son that I waited. Surrounded as I was by relations and
" friends, who, knowing nothing of mesmerism, regarded it as a
" delusion or an imposture,—tenderly guarded and cared for as
" I was by those who so thought, and who went even further
" than myself in deference to the ordinary medical science and
" practice, it was morally impossible for me to entertain the
" idea of trying mesmerism while any hope was cherished
" from other means."
The effect of mesmeric treatment is then given.
" At the end of four months I was, as far as my own feelings
" could be any warrant, quite well. My mesmerist and I are not
" so precipitate as to conclude my disease yet extirpated, and my
" health established beyond all danger of relapse ; because time
" only can prove such facts. We have not yet discontinued the
" mesmeric treatment, and I have not yet re-entered upon the
" hurry and bustle of the world. The case is thus not complete
" enough for a professional statement. But, as I am aware of no
" ailment, and am restored to the full enjoyment of active days
" and nights of rest, to the full use of my powers of body and
" mind ; and as many invalids, still languishing in such illness as
" I have recovered from, are looking to me for guidance in the
" pursuit of health by the same means, I think it right not to
" delay giving a precise statement of my own mesmeric experi-
" ence, and of my observation of some different manifestations in
APPENDIX. 389
" the instance of another patient in the same house. A further
" reason against delay is, that it would be a pity to omit the
" record of some of the fresh feelings and immature ideas which
"attend an early experience of mesmeric influence, and which
" it may be an aid and comfort to novices to recognize from my
<:
record. And again, as there is no saying in regard to a sub-
" ject so obscure, what is trivial and what is not, the fullest de-
" tail is likely to be the wisest ; and the earlierthe narrative the
" fuller, while better knowledge will teach us hereafter what are
" the non-essentials that may be dismissed.
"Nothing is to me more unquestionable and more striking
" aboutthis influence than the absenceof all reaction. Its highest
" exhilaration is followed, not by depression or exhaustion, but by
" a further renovation. From the first hour to the present, I have
" never fallen back a single step. Every point gained has been
" steadily held. Improved composure of nerve and spirits, has
" followed upon every mesmeric exhilaration. I have been spared
" all the weaknesses of convalescence, and carried through all the
" usually formidable enterprises of return from deep disease to
" health, with a steadiness and tranquillity astonishing to all wit-
" nesses. At this time, before venturing to speak of my health
" as established, I believe myself more firm in nerve, more calm
" and steady in mind and spirits than at any time of my life be-
" fore. So much on consideration of the natural and common
" fear of the mesmeric influences as pernicious excitement,—as
" a kind of intoxication.
" On four days scattered throughout six weeks, our seance
" was prevented by visitors or other accidents. On these four
" days the old distress and pain recurred ; but never on the days
" when I was mesmerized.
" From the middle of August, (after I had discontinued all
" medicines but opiates,) the departure of the worst pains and
" oppressions of my disease, made me suspect that the complaint
" itself,—the incurable hopeless disease of so many years,—was
" reached : and now I first began to glance towards the thought
" of recovery. In two or three weeks more, it became certain
«* that I was not deceived ; and the radical amendment has since
" gone on without intermission."
390 APPENDIX.
At this juncture it appeared necessary to secure for
Miss Martineau a mesmerist of higher power than her own
servant, and this was found in the person of a benevolent
lady, the widow of a clergyman, who very zealously under-
took her treatment. Miss Martineau thus continues her
history.
" Under her hands the visual appearance and other immediate
" sensations were much the same as before ;
but the experience
" of recovery was more rapid. I can describe it only by saying,
" that I felt as if my life were fed from day to day. The vital
" force infused or induced was as clear and certain as the strength
" given by food to those who are faint from hunger. I am careful
" to avoid theorizing at present on a subject which has not yet
" furnished me with a sufficiency of facts ; but it can hardly be
" called theorizing to say (while silent as to the nature of the
" agency) that the principle of life itself—that principle which is
" antagonistic to disease—appears to be fortified by the mesmeric
" influence; and thus far we may account for mesmerism being
" no specific, but successful through the widest range of diseases
" that are not hereditary, and have not caused disorganization.
" No mistake about mesmerism is more prevalent than the sup-
position that it can avail only in nervous diseases. The nume-
" rous cases recorded of cure of rheumatism, dropsy, cancer and
" the whole class of tumours—cases as distinct, and almost as
" numerous as those of cure of paralysis, epilepsy, and other dis-
" eases of the brain and nerves—must make any inquirer cautious
" of limiting his anticipations and experiments by any theory of
" exclusive action on the nervous rystem. Whether mesmerism
" and, indeed, any influence whatever, acts exclusively through
" the nervous system, is another question."
The ability to dispense with opiates through this fortify-
ing influence, is thus described.
" The same fortifying influence carried me through the great-
" est effort of all—the final severance from opiates. What that
" struggle is, can be conceived only by those who have experi-
APPENDIX. 391
" enced, or watched it with solicitude in a case of desperate de-
" pendence on them for years. No previous reduction can bridge
" over the chasm which separates an opiated from the natural
" state. I see in my own experience a consoling promise for the
" diseased, and also for the intemperate, who may desire to re-
" gain a natural condition, but might fail through bodily suffer-
" ing. Where the mesmeric sleep can be induced, the transition
" may be made comparatively easy. It appears, however, that
" opiates are a great hinderanco to the production of the sleep ;
" but even so, the mesmeric influence is an inestimable help, as
" I can testify, I gave all my opiates to my mesmerist, desiring
" her not to let me have any on any entreaty ; and during the
" day I scarcely felt the want of them."
We must insert the entire conclusion of Miss Martineau's
personal history.
" Before leaving the narrative of my own case for that of ano-
" ther, widely different, I put in a claim for my experiment being
" considered rational. It surely was so, not only on account of
" my previous knowledge of facts, and of my hopelessness from
" any other resource, but on grounds which other sufferers may
" share with me ; —on the ground that though the science of
" medicine may be exhausted in any particular case, it does not
" follow that curative means are exhausted ; —on the ground of
" the ignorance of all men of the nature and extent of the repara-
" tive power which lies under our hand, and which is vaguely
" indicated by the term ' Nature ;'
—on the ground of the igno-
" ranee of all men regarding the very structure, and much more,
" the functions of the nervous system ; —and on the broad ulti-
" mate ground of our total ignorance of the principle of life,—of
" what it is, and where it resides, and whether it can be reached
" and in any way beneficially affected by a voluntary application
" of human energy.
" It seemed to me rational to seek a way to refreshment first,
" and then to health, amidst this wilderness of ignorance, rather
" than to lie perishing in their depths. The event seems to prove
" it so. The story appears to me to speak for itself If it does
" not assart itself to all, —if any should, as is common in cases of
392 APPENDIX.
" restoration by mesmerism,—try to account for the result by any
" means but those which are obvious, supposing a host of moral
" impossibilities rather than admit a plain new fact, I have no
" concern with such objectors or objections.
" In a case of blindness cured, once upon a time, and cavilled
" at and denied, from hostility to the means, an answer was given
" which we are wont to consider sufficiently satisfactory ;
' One
"thing I know, that whereas I was blind, now I see.' Those
" who could dispute the fact after this must be left to their
" doubts. They could, it is true, cast out their restored brother ;
" but they could not impair his joy in his new blessing, nor de-
" spoil him of his far higher privileges of belief in and allegiance to
" his Benefactor. Thus, whenever, under the Providence which
" leads on our race to knowledge and power, any new blessing
" of healing arises, it is little to one who enjoys it what disputes
" are caused among observers. To him, the privilege is clear
" and substantial. Physically, having been diseased, he is now
'•
well. Intellectually, having been blind, he now sees. For
''
the wisest this is enough. And for those of a somewhat lower
" order, who have a restless craving for human sympathy in their
" recovered relish of life, there is almost a certainty that some-
" where near them there exist hearts susceptible of simple faith
" in the unexplored powers of nature, and minds capable of an
" ingenuous recognition of plain facts, though they be new, and
"must wait for a theoretical solution.
" Harriet Martineatj."
It is unnecessary for our purpose, and it would be un-
just to Miss Martineau, to detach portions of her deeply
interesting history of her young somnambule, from the
context : we shall only beg to refer our readers to it, as
combining a very simple and beautiful, unpretending and
unadorned story of clairvoyance,
B.
The following extracts from the Histoire de la Revo-
lution Francaise, de Lacretelle, tome 3eme
p. 330 et seq.
relative to Cazotte, whose extraordinary case of natural
APPENDIX. 393
prevision has been detailed in the chapter on that subject
cannot fail to give to that relation, the weight of contem-
poraneous history, and at the same time convey a very
interesting exhibition of female devotion, in the person of
his daughter: —the reader is particularly requested to
compare his own previsions with the precise circumstances
of his death.
" Mesdernoiselles de Sombreuil et Cazotte avaient egalement
"suivi leur pure en prison, et rejete lafaveur qui leur avait ete
" accordee de sortir la veille du massacre. M. de Cazotte, auteur
" de plusieurs agreables productions, cheri dans la socitte pour
" la loyaute de son caraclere, et la tournure piquante de son es-
" prit, s'etait livre, dans sa veillesse, a une exaltation religieuse
" si ardente, qu'il croyait recevoir des revelations celestes. Les
"horreurs d'une revolution etaient presentes a son esprit, Men
" avant qu'il eclatat. Plusieurs philosophes, si l'on en croit au
-"singulier recit de La Harpe, purenl se souvenir de Cazotte, au
"moment de leur morl; car il avait ete jusqu'a predire quelle
« devait ttre leur fin a chacun d'eux, et il se predisait a lui-raeme
"une fin funeste. Devoue a la cause royale, il la servait avec
" une zele qui ne lui perraettait pas de consulter la prudence.
" II etait gravement compromis dans les papiers saisis chez M.
" de la Porte. Conduit en prison, il etonnait ses compagnons
"d'infortune par son inalterable serenite. Maillard l'a fait
"comparaitre devant son tribunal. En vain ceux qui Tentrai-
««
nent veulent-ils, ecarter paries menaces, par les coups, Made-
» moiselle Elizabeth Cazotte, agee de 17 ans :—la piete filiale l'a
"douee d'une force surnaturelle. On ne sait comment resister
" a seslarmes ; les assassins s'etonnent a l'aspect d'un veillard
««
presque octogenaire qu'un ange semble proteger. Cazotte ne
"supplie point, Cazotte ne songe point a se defendre ;
il semble
" condamne d'avance par son terrible ecrou. Mais la fille plaide
•«
pour lui avec tout le pouvoir, de la jeunesse, de la beaute,
« de la vertu. Chaque fois que la hache est levee pour le frap-
" per, elle s'elance au devant du coup :—Frappez moi la pre.-
17
394 APPENDIX.
" miere, s'ecrie-t'elle. Que j'obtienne de vous la grace de mounr
" avant mon pere : preservez moi de l'horreur de voir couler son
" sang. Les spectateurs les plus feroces, ne peuvent tenir a ce
" spectacle. Les cris de grace retentissent du dedans et du de-
hors ; enfin Cazotte est absous, et rendu a sa fille aux cris de
••
vive la nation.
" Le tribunal du 17 Aout continuait a frapper les victimes qui
" avaient echappeaux assassins du 2 Septembre, et memecelles
" qui en avaient eprouve la clemence. Aprcs neuf jours de lib-
" erte, Cazotte fut amene devant ce tribunal, qui semblaitse
" charger avec joie, d'achever le carnage ; —la fille renouvela
"aupresdes juges, les efforts qu'elle avait tentes devant des
"bourreaux;—ils t'urent gourds a ces cris. La serenite de ce
" veillard ne s'etait pas dementie. Apres son interrogatoire qui
" l'avait un peu fatigue, il s'endormit prcfondement, et Tun des
"juges, paspant devant lui, eut l'atrocite de dire : Dors, dors;
t(
lu dormiras blenlol du somrneil elernel Cazotte fut condamne.
"Aux pieds de l'tchafaud, il s'ecria : Je meurs come J'ai vt-cu,
" —Jidele a mon Dieu, et a mon roi."
c.
On the intercommunication of nervous influence.
Much has been said in this work on the analogy be-
tween nervous influence, magnetism, galvanism, and elec-
tricity ; and this view is supported by the following obser-
vations.
The celebrated Beclard has often mentioned the curious
experiments which he made on the subject of the analogy
between the nervous influence and electricity. After hav-
ing exposed a nerve of a living animal, he has often produ-
ced a considerable deviation in the magnetic needle, by
placing it en rapport with this nerve.
M. Prevost, of Geneva, in a letter addressed to the
Academy of Sciences at Paris, announces that he has
succeeded in magnetizing steel needles by placing them
APPENDIX. 395
near and perpendicularly to its direction : the magnetiza-
tion takes place at the moment when muscular contraction
is produced by irritating the spinal marrow.
By the help of the galvanometer, M. Donne has discov-
ered in the living body (and Matteucci is certain that it is
never the case with the corpse) electric currents from the
skin, to the other mucous tissues,—from the liver to the
stomach, &c.
We cannot doubt the fact of electric currents in the
organism after the experiments of Donne, Matteucci,
Pfaff, Condret, Dutrochet, &c. ; and this has lately re-
ceived confirmation from the following experiments of
Matteucci.
Jn the lower extremities of frogs, the nerves being laid
bare, and eight or ten of them arranged in a series, and
placed at right angles to each other, and in contact, so as
to form an unbroken circle of action,—the toe of the frog
at one end of the series, being applied to the crural nerve
of the other end of the series, a galvanic current is pro-
duced.
D.
Continuation of the history of the epileptic case reported
by Dr. 'Inglis, towards the close of the seventh chapter.
On the 9th of December Dr. Inglis thus writes
:
" The little girl Sarah Ann Walker was, alter an interval of
" several months, viz., from the time that I first mesmerized her
" again seized with the epileptic attacks about a fortnight since.
" They were exceedingly severe—and attacked her twice in
" the day for several days successively. Her father brought her
" to me. I tried in my usual way to induce sleep ; but whether
"from any change in myself from late illness, —or from the
"greatly improved state of the girl's own health and appear-
" ance, I cannot tell, but I could produce no effect. I therefore
" ordered repeated trial to be made by another person upon her ;
396 APPENDIX.
" and at last success crowned the effort. The mother of the
"child, can now herself induce the sleep : —again, 1 am happy
" to say, the attacks are being overcome, and their progress and
"severity can be arrested, by throwing her into the somnolent
"state at the commencement of the fit.
" 1 thought it only due to you and the truth, to state to you
" the facts regarding the return of the epileptic attacks ; but
"during the interval, the progress the child has made in intel-
" lectual pursuits is most wonderful,—and this, together with the
"altered condition of her body, leave no room for regret that
" the mesmeric course was pursued with her. A steady con-
" tinuance of this course will now for some weeks be persevered
" in, and from present appearances and effects, a permanent
"cure will, I have no hesitation in saying, be effected."
Dec. 2.
" I have only this afternoon been able to make a call of in-
quiry at the house of the little epileptic patient, and am hap-
" py indeed to be able to report favourably. I mentioned to you
" that her mother had succeeded in mesmerizing her, and had
"several times, by inducing sleep, arrested the regular progress
"of an attack. Notwithstandingthis, the attacks still continued
"in frequency, although lessened in severity, I therefore recom-
" mended that the times of sleep should be lengthened to three
"or four hours. This was accordingly attended to, and the re-
" suit has been that from the 8th of December to the present
"date, there has been no return of the fits, and when I saw her
" to-day, she seemed again in health, and indeed I may say
"well. In such cases, 1 think good is to be done more by a
"continuance of the sedative effect of magnetism at one time,
" than by frequent repetition for shorter periods.
"There are two other very interesting cases of paralysis of
"longstanding relieved, if not cured, by magnetism, but I shall
" mention them hereafter.
"Believe me always faithfully yours,
"James Inglis,"
Dec. 26.
THE END.
iB81®
